
			ROXBURGH.                          135

so distant as to prevent attendance at the parish school; but at-
tendance is given at the parish schools of Maxton and Ancrum,
which are much nearer. There has occasionally been a private
school in this part of the parish, and an additional school here
would be beneficial.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid varies from 25 to 30. The average sum
allotted to each is 2s. 1d. per week in summer, and 2s. 1 1/2d. in
winter. The annual amount of expenditure varies from L. 140 to
L. 18O, and arises chiefly from assessment levied, one-half from the
heritors, and the other half from the tenants. This has been the
regular mode of providing for the poor since the year 1737, and
has been found to prove successful, and, under proper manage-
ment, in the absence of residiing heritors, appears to be by far the
most just and equitable method of provision. No doubt, the feel-
ing of reluctance and degradation at receiving parochial aid is dimi-
nished by assessment, and also the disposition on the part of the
people to contribute to church collections; but these evils may be
counterbalanced by proper management; and the opposite evils of
want, and unequal distribution, are more formidable.
    Fairs.-There is an annual fair held in the parish, on St James'
Green, on the 5th of August, for the purposes of merchandize,
hiring shearers, and horse and cattle-dealing. Considerable sales
of wool are made at this fair, by the farmers in the surrounding
districts. The wool is generally disposed of to English buyers.
    Alehouses.-There are three alehouses in the parish. Two of
them are in the village of Hieton, for the benefit of those passing
on the turnpike road leading from Kelso to Jedburgh, Hawick, &c.
The other is near the village of Roxburgh, at the ferry over the
Tiviot.
    Fuel.-The ordinary fuel is coal, which is procured from Nor-
thumberland; the distance is about eighteen or twenty miles. To
the tenants and others having carts and horses, the expense of a
single cart load at the coal-hill is from 6s. to 7s. (tolls inclusive)
for sixteen cwt. Others, not having the same means of carting,
obtain them for 11s. 6d. There is also abundance of peat in the
western part of the parish.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
    The most striking variation betwixt the present and former
state of the parish is in consequence of the introduction of the
turnip system of husbandry already noticed. A further improve-


