			NIGG.                             205

	Mr James Ferguson, proprietor of Altens, (which proper-
ty he purchased only two years ago,) has improved sixty acres of
waste lands, and built new dwelling-houses, covered with slate, and
new steadings to his tenants.
	Similar improvements have also of late years been made on
South Loirston.
	Planting.--There are about fifty or sixty acres of planting in
the parish. The trees planted are chiefly Scotch firs, pines,
larch, oak, beech, elms, lanes, alders, &c. In favourable situa-
tions, where they are sheltered from the sea, they thrive tolerably
well: in exposed situations, they fail.
	Rent.--The averafe rent of arable land per acre in the parish is
about L.4 or L.4, 10s. per acre,--as on the lands of Tullos and
Middleton, and in other places in the parish, which are cultivated
by crofters, possessing from five to twelve acres each, the rent of
which they principally pay by selling milk; many of whom also have
other means of livelihood, such as quarrying, and driving stones
to Aberdeen. Some, in the upper part of the parish, cast and drive
peats from the mosses to Aberdeen for sale.
	Some of the subtenants are poor, and unable to do much in
improving their small patches of ground. But the other farmers
in the parish, particularly on the river side, and on the sea-coast,
are substantial, and some of them opulent, managing their farms
in the most improved style. They follow a five rotation course of
cropping.
	Mr Menzies's principal farm in this parish, (Torry farm,) which
is mostly enclosed with substantial stone dikes, and in a high state
of cultivation, is managed by an overseer; as are also the lands of
Balnagask and North Kirkhill, in the proprietor's own possession.
Some of these lands are let annually in crop for potatoes, at the
rate of from L.10 to L.14 per acre. And some of them are let,
on a short lease, at the rate of L.5, 5s. per acre.
	From the system pursued on these farms, little attention is paid
to the rearing and improvement of cattle. The horses employed
in agriculture by the substantial farmers are of the best kind. Fifty
or sixty years ago, sheep were in great abundance in this parish;
but the new mode of agriculture has reduced their number. As
the climate is mild, and snow seldom continues long on the ground,
some shepherds come every winter from Strathdon and Perthshire,
with flocks of sheep, which feed on the hills during winter, and re-
turn home in the beginning of the lambing season.


