
366				ARGYLESHIRE

years ago, and situated near the shore of Lochfine, three miles
north from the church ; Otter House, the residence of Mrs Ann
Campbell of Otter, about half a mile below the church on the
bay of Kilfinan ; and Ardmarnock House, belonging to John
M'lver, Esq. of Ardmamock, near lochfine, about four miles
south-west from Kilfinan. These are all commodious and com-
fcvrtable houses, having been erected (with the exception of Otter
Houre) within the last twenty-five y6ars. The church of Kilfi.
nan, which is presently in a very uncomfortable state, is a plain
building, long, low, and narrow, according tolthe ancient mode of
constructing churches. It is in no respect an ornament to the pa.
rish. An additional church, neat, comfortable, and commodious,
has been erected within the last two years, in the south end of the
pansh, on the property of LamonL This church is eight miles
distant from the church of Kilfinan. It was built by private sub-
scriptions from heritors and others connected with the parish; by
contributions from. friends to the cause of Church Extension in
Rothesay, Greenock, Glasgow, and Paisley; and by a grant of
I-174, 10s. from the General Assembly's Church Extension
Committee. It contains 830 sittings, and its erection has, cost up,
wards of L.600, For some years past, a missionary has been em-
ployed to labour in, that populous district of the parish 'I and this
-arrangement. together with the comfortable accommodation pro-
vided for public worship in the new church, promises, by the bles-
'Sing of God, to be highly beneficial to the best interests of the
population. In the parish there are three corn mills. The only
manufactory is that of gunpowder. During the course of last
year, a com, pany in Glasgow erected suitable buildings and ma-
chin-ery for this purpose, at a place about six miles south frotn Kil-
finan, not far from the Kyles of Ilute. The manufacter-y lias been
in full operation since the end of the year 1839.
              III.-POPULATION.
     It appears that the population of this parish in 1755 was 1793

         1793,    1417
	1821,	1839

	1831.	2004
	18u,1816
         No register has hitherto been kept of deaths in the parish.
         Number of persons of'both sexes under 7 years of age,      428
         under 12,                                                  687
         families in the parish,                                   880
         Proprietors of land of the yearly value of L.50 and upwards 10

Gaeli is the language generally spoken, though it may be


