
820			  PERTHSHIRE.

it was deemed advisable not only to bind the tenant to purchase
a certain quantity of manure for the green crop sold, but likewise,
except on clay soils, to stipulate that the farm shall be cultivated
on a six-shift rotation, viz. 1st, green crop or fallow; 2d, wheat or
barley; 3d, grass; 4th, grass; 5th, oats; 6th, oats; or on a seven
shift rotation,-two years in green crop; two in white crop; two in
grass, to be pastured the second year; and one in oats after pastures.
   These rotations were much objected to at first, but the tenants
are now finding them more productive than the former severe me-
thod of cropping, so much so, that they are followed by others in
the neigbbourbood who are not bound to adopt them; and the
proprietor of Moncrieffe affords every facility for his tenants doing
so, by supplying them with wood, which is cut up at his saw-mill,
for fencing the unenclosed lands, though it is arranged that they
drive the carriages and erect the paling. On the greater part of
the lands in the parish the following six-shift rotation is practised,
viz. 1st, fallow or potatoes; 2d, wheat; 3d, beans or turnips; 4th,
barley; 5th, grass; 6th, oats.

           Number of acres in the parish,              3236
           Of these there are under wood,               419
           Total under culture,                        2640
           In waste, roads, water, &c.                  177

  Pasturage has become more common than formerly, as farmers
find it conducive to their own interest to practise it, both because
less manure is thus required, and the value of subsequent crops
is thereby increased. The ground is pastured chiefly by cattle,
few of the tenants having as yet introduced sheep to their farms.
Some, however, are beginning to use sheep for eating off their
turnips.
  In most of the farms of this parish potatoes, and those chiefly
of the Perthshire red, are planted. They are exported chiefly to
the London market; and, generally speaking, the cultivation of
the potato remunerates the farmer more than any other crop, on
all those farms, where the soil is adapted to the culture of this
root. When the last Statistical Account of this parish was writ-
ten, not two acres of potatoes were cultivated in any of the largest
farms, whereas now, on a farm of fifteen acres, two acres are oc-
cupied by their growth. About 6000 bolls are annually exported
from the Earn to London and Newcastle.
  Turnips as well as potatoes are cultivated to a much greater
extent than formerly, and are consumed principally by the cattle
reared on the farms. A few cattle are fattened in this parish, but


