
     Statistical Account

portions to the sheep of this parish and neighbourhood than
to those in most other places, where the land lies lower, bet-
ter sheltered, and the climate warmer.  It was formerly an
error of the store-masters to overstock their farms.  This now
begins to be rectified, though in some degree it still
prevails.  It also begins to be the practice of some of these
masters to wash their sheep before shearing; but it is a pro-
blem not yet solved, whether the additional price which they
receive for wool made lighter by washing, will be equivalent
or more than what they were accustomed to receive for wool
unwashed and full of salve.  The average prices of sheep may
be thus stated.  Three year old wedders fell, from L. 11 to L. 12
per score.  Heavy ewes, which generally go off in the spring to
the vicinity of Edinburgh to be fattened for the market, from
L. 8 to L. 9 per score.  And when they are kept to the latter
end of the season; viz. about Michaelmass, from L. 6 to L. 7
per score.  Lambs from L. 4: 10 to L. 5 per do.  The medi-
um price of wool, for some years past, may be stated at L. 3: 5 s.
per pack; 6, 7, or 8 sleeces go to the stone, and if wash d 8
or 9*.

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*As the place of provisions, especially of grain, meal and potatoes, depends
in a great measure, upon the plenty and scarcity of these articles, they are not
fixed by any particular standard.  The price of meal is from???  6d. to 2s. per
stone Of batley from 2 s. 4 d to 3 s. Winchester bushel.  Oats from 2s to 2s.
6d per do.  Beef and mutton, in the beginning of the season 4 d afterwards
3 d and 3 d. per lib.  Hens from 6 d. to 8 d a piece; eggs from 2 1/2 d. to 3 1/2 d
per dozen.  A beef cow from L. 6 to L. 7 The piece varies in proportion to
the fatness and weight-The wages of men-servants about the year 1760
were L. 2: 10 s. per annum, and L. 3 was the maximum.  The wages of male
servants about the same period were L. 1 15 s, and L. 1 10s per annum.  Now
the former are from L. 7 to L. 8 and L. 9; the latter from L 3 to L. 4 per annum an-
num.  The wages of handy craftsmen, of every description, are likewise in-
creased in the same proportion.  If the wages of servants ought to keep pace

</UNREADABLE>


