
16                            AYRSHIRE.

it is well known, has arisen as to whether the par be the young of
the salmon, or a distinct species by itself.
	Botany,--Forest Trees.--In the immediate vicinity of the sea, it
is difficult, or perhaps in some cases impossible, to get forest trees
to thrive, as the sea air has a blasting influence on most of them.
There are some, however, which it does not much affect, such as wil-
lows and poplars, and both of these sometimes grow to a great size,
when all other kinds become dwarfish and stunted. Those, there-
fore, who prefer fixing their residence near the beach, and at the
same time court the ornament and shelter of plantations, can only
hope to have their wishes gratified in this respect, by planting
closely at first, and thinning out afterwards, as the trees advance
in size; and more particularly by forming an edging of the hardy
plants above-mentioned, for protection on the sides most exposed
to the obnoxious sea-breezes. By following this mode, a great
many clumps of wooded enclosures have been reared, beside
mansions and villas that fringe the coast to the west of the town,
which tend much to adorn its environs, and contribute both to
the shelter and fertility of the grounds over which they are in-
terspersed. A little more inland, trees are found to thrive with
great luxuriance, as the plantations which surround Belle-isle, Ro-
zelle, and Mount Charles will bear ample testimony. In these,
are to be seen as tall and handsomely formed beeches as can be
met with anywhere else perhaps in the county. Though a con-
siderable part of the parish is well wooded, yet there are no woods
in it of any great extent. They consist of small belts or clumps
intersecting or enclosing cultivated fields, and surrounding gardens
and pleasure grounds in the vicinity of gentlemen's seats. None
of the landed proprietors think of cultivating timber for profit or
sale, but only for shelter and ornament, and hence it would not be
easy to ascertain what extent of the surface of the parish alto-
gether is under wood. The ground which it occupies, however,
must be considerable.
	Shrubs and Plants.--With respect to shrubs there are some pecu-
liarly fine and thriving ones, resembling small bushy trees, to be seen
in the domains we have already mentioned, and also about Doon-
holm, Castlehill, and Burns's monument. At the last named place,
there is no person who has a taste for horticulture but must be gra-
tified with the richness and luxuriance of the collection, and the taste
with which they are dressed and set out. We are not aware of any
plants that are peculiar to the parish, with the exception of the follow-


