
			WEST KILBRIDE.                         269

wide and open channel, with a southern aspect, the beach is finely
shelving and accessible; whilst all along, steep and picturesque
banks give complete protection from the north and east. Facility
of conveyance alone seems awanting to give to this locality every
possible superiority over all places lying higher up in the narrow
portions of the Frith, where of course it is impossible but that the
marine influence must be greatly less efficacious. This disadvan-
tage of intercourse will probably soon be obviated. By the com-
pletion of the Ardrossan and Glasgow railway, already in part exe-
cuted, the most ample means of access will be obtained. The
distance in all is little more than thirty miles, and by adopting the
locomotive engine, may, with the greatest safety, be accomplished
in about an hour and a half, and at a very small expense. The
benefit of such an improvement would not be confined to this
neighbourhood; but would in an almost equal degree extend to
the opposite coast of Arran, the romantic shores of which, by
means of steam-boats from Ardrossan, might then be reached from
the city of Glasgow in perhaps less than three hours and a half!
Such are the capabilities of improvement which this country every-
where presents, tending to the further comfort and convenience
of its great population; and it is impossible to set limits to what
may yet be effected under circumstances favourable to the de-
velopement of its boundless and varied resources.

		ISLAND OF LITTLE CUMBRAY.
	The Island of Little or Lesser Cumbray lies about midway be-
twixt the southern part of the island of Bute and the promontory of
Portincross, in this parish, distant from either about two and a half
miles. It is, however, attached to the parish of Kilbride only quoad
sacra; civilly and politically, it forms part of the shire of Bute, the
juridical seat of which is the burgh of Rothesay. It lies in length
nearly north and south, and, according to a parish atlas of Cun-
inghame, published at Beith in 1829, contains 1 1/4 square mile in
superficial extent, equal to nearly 700 acres; where highest, it may
be from 500 to 600 feet above the level of the sea. It is the
Property of the Earl of Eglinton, whose family has long posses-
sed it.
	This island is composed entirely of secondary trap, but which
appears to rest on the brown sandstone of the opposite coast,
which comes into view along the water's edge at the landing
place on the east side, and very probably is continued throughout.


