
570                          EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   The rapid decrease, as here shown, has been owing to the state,
of the collieries, which are not wrought to the same extent as for-
merly. The Sheriffhall colliery, belonging to the Duke of Buc-
cleuch, is nearly wrought out; and in that of Edmonstone, belong-
ing to John Wauchope, Esq., a few years will suffice to exhaust all
that can be wrought by levels from the present engines. The field,
however, is far from being exhausted, and by a powerful engine
farther to the dip than the present, a large winning of very valu-
able coal may be obtained, * which would maintain the population
to as great an amount as it has ever reached, otherwise there must
be a very great diminution indeed at no distant period.
   The whole of the collier population, and artisans connected
with the collieries, may be considered as living in villages, and
amounts to 1074. To this there must be added the population
of Edmonstone and Woolmet, (which may be regarded as form-
ing one village,) amounting to 145.
<TABLE>
	     The yearly average of births for last seven years is 58 5/7
                                of marriages,  .     .     .      19 3/7
                                of deaths,     .     .     .      61 6/7
             Number of persons under 15 years of age,      .     701
                               betwixt 15 and 30,          .     408
                                       30 and 50,          .     385
                                       50 and 70,          .     210
                                above 70,          .              33

   John Wauchope, Esq. of Edmonstone is the only individual of
independent fortune resident in the parish, and he is also the
principal proprietor, having five-eighths of the valued rent. After
him comes the Earl of Wemyss, two-eighths, and the Duke of
Buccleuch one-eighth. Sir John Hope of Pinkie is also possess-
ed of a property of greater yearly value than L. 50, but enjoying
it free from all public burdens, he is not rated as an heritor.
<TABLE>
        Number of unmarried men above 50, .     .     .     3
                            females above 45, .     .      20
        Average number of children in each family,   .  .   3 3/5

   There are two fatuous persons belonging to the parish, but none insane, blind,
deaf, or dumb.
   The collier population is subject to a peculiar disease which is

<FOOTNOTE>This is now (1845) in the course of being done. Sir John Hope has taken a
lease of the Edmonstone Colliery; has erected one of the most powerful engines in
the country, which was constructed in Cornwall on the model of those employed in the
mines there, and is engaged in sinking an engine pit at the depth of about 100 fathoms,
and at the lowest dip, so that all the remaining jewel coal and seams above it may be
won, and will probably give employment to the collier population for half a century.
     This average has been raised by the deaths of 1832, which amounted to 117, owing
to the prevalence of cholera, there having been 267 cases, of which 67 proved fatal.
Were them deducted the number for that year would be 50, and the average for the
7 years be reduced to 52 1/2.


