
                                GLENSHEIL.                             205

        A few of the former are kept by the farmers for their milk; but
        being less saleable, and requiring more pasture and provender than
        the native kind, tbey are not in general favour.  The indigenous
        breed have long been celebrated for their symmetry and hardiness.
        A good many are still kept by the farmers on their low-lying, lands;
        they are a source of considerable profit; but there is not much
        attention bestowed on the preservation or improvement of the
        breed.
           Husbandry.-The tillage of the land is chiefly in the ha" of
        the lotters and cottars.  Each lot consists of from one to two acres
        of hanging ground, a great proportion of which is generally rock
        or bogs.  A part of this patch is always planted with potatoes, and
        the rest sown with barley or oats. The manure used for potatoes
        is always sea-ware, the dung being reserved for the barley.  The
        tillage is chiefly accomplished with the "crooked spade," an imple-
        ment well adapted for the cultivation of steep and stoney land.  The
        manure is generally carried out, in creels on the back of a horse,
        On the large farms, implements of improved construction are used,
        viz. ploughs, carts, and harrows. The great obstacles to improve-
        ment in this branch of husbandry, are the wetness of the climate,
        the want of leases, and of encouragement on the part of the pro-
        prietors.  The lotters holding their lands only from year to year,
        having no meliorations allowed them, and having learnt by expe-
        rience that to improve their houses or lots, instead of producing
        any permanent advantage to themselves, is only holding out an in
        ducement to others to offer a few shillings of additional rent, and
        to deprive them of the fruit of their labour, are discouraged from
        attempting improvements which would add materially to their com-
        forts.  On the large. farms, the leases are also shorter th" they
        ought to be, to encourage the improvement of stock.  This is in part
        occasioned by the late violent flucluations in the value ofform pro-
        duce, by which tenants are deterred from coming under permanent
        engagements, which a fall of prices might disable them from ful-
        filling, and in part also, by the present unsettled state of the owner-
        ship of the lands.
           Herring Fishery.-The principals fishery is that of the herring.
        About twenty years since, the quantities of this fish caught in the
        loch were very considerable.  Six and eight barrels in a night were
        then no uncommon capture for a boat equipped with four barrels
        of nets (of 36 fathoms length by 5 deep); but, of late years, the
        fishery has fallen off very much,-a single barrel of fish being now
        considered an excellent night's fishing.  During the present sea-


