
176                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

branches of three rivers, running in three different directions, take
their rise in the north part of this parish, not far from each
other.  One of them flows eastward towards the Ugie, passing Old.
Deer, and entering the German -Ocean north of Peterhead.
Another flows westward, and joins a stream that falls into the De-
veron, which empties itself into the Moray Frith at Banff.  A
third flows south-westward, and joins the Ythan near Gight, which
falls into the German Ocean at the Newburgh.  All these three
are but small streams.
   Though New Deer is in the centre of a circle seventeen or eight-
een miles distant from the sea on three sides, yet from its elevation
the climate is cold: the snow lies long, and often delays the opera-
tions of husbandry.  The south and west winds are most prevalent;
they are more violent than the east or north.  But though the cli-
mate is cold, it is dry and healthy, and the inhabitants live to a
great age, many exceeding eighty or ninety years.
   The prevailing distempers are inflammatory complaints, arising
probably from the people using too much oatmeal.  Scrofula, too,
is very common, as also are consumptions and gravellish complaints.
   Soil.-The soil in general, with few exceptions, is light and shal-
low.  It would answer well for agriculture if it were not for the cli-
mate and the subsoil.  A great proportion of the parish rests on a
hard rocky pan of from 6 inches to 2 feet thick, which prevents
the surface water from sinking into the earth, and keeps the soil
wet till the sun evaporates the moisture.  This pan prevents trees
from thriving and coming to any size.  Attempts have been made,
and in some cases successfully, to break up this pan, and give the
surface water a passage into the earth.
   In some parts the subsoil is moss on coarse clay, on others it is
mixed with a coarse granite.  Lime of indifferent quality is found in
the land of Barrack.  The farmers quarry it for themselves, and
burn it either for building or for putting on the land.
   There is plenty, of moss in the parish, though it is wearing away
apace, either by improvement, or by consumption as fuel.  The part
of it that has been cultivated, produces excellent crops when mixed
with shell sand from the sea side.  The country appears to have been
once covered with wood, from the remains of trees that are dug out
of the mosses, though, it is, somewhat remarkable that none of
these trees, are fir.

			II. CIVIL HISTORY.
   The materials for the history of this parish are very scanty.  The


