
632                           LANARKSHIRE.

nearly 44 acres, and as to surface value, is worth L. 1 per acre.
Four acres are under wood.  The glebe lands contain two seams
of coal, viz. the parrot or splint, and the smithy.  From these
seams coal was wrought to a greater or less extent by my pre-
decessors during the last thirty-six years.  The subject of the glebe
minerals was first brought before the presbytery of Hamilton in
the year 1802 by Mr Hamilton, the then incumbent of Shotts.
He represented to the presbytery that he bad workbd coals in his
glebe sufficient for his family in the season, and had sold as much
as defrayed the expenses of the working.  He farther stated, that
certain stone or other durable fences for the improvement of the
glebe would be of permanent advantage to the minister of the pa-
rish, and that these objects might be obtained by authorizing him
to continue the working the coal and selling the same for a time,
the profits of which to be applied in making the above ameliora-
tion.
   Upon this representation by Mr Hamilton, the presbyters autho-
rized him to continue the working and sale of the coal.  Such was
the commencement of the sale of the coal in the glebe of Shotts,
which has been continued till within these few years.  Some time
ago, his Grace the Duke of Hamilton sunk a coal-pit in the im-
mediate vicinity of the glebe, upon which he erected an engine, and
by means of which the whole coal of the glebe could easily be
wrought.  Finding, it is believed, this to be the case, an offer was
made on behalf of the Duke of Hamilton to purchase the coal and
other minerals within the glebe.  Doubts and difficulties having
been started as to the legality of a sale, the transaction has not as
yet been carried into effect.
   The abstract question, as to the power of an absolute sale, seems
not to have been hitherto expressly decided, yet, by analogy to
other decided cases, it does not appear to be a question attended
with any serious difficulty.  Could the heritors and presbytery be
convinced of this, a considerable increase might be obtained to
the value of the living.
   The stipend is 16 chalders of grain, and L. 25, 16s. 5d. in
money.
   There is one, Seceding chapel in the parish, belonging to the
Associate Syned, which was built in the year 1771.  The stipend
of the minister amounts to L.120 per annum.  With regard to
this congregation (which  owed its existence to the violent intru-
sion of Mr. Wells) I may remark, that, although still in a state of


