
588                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

meet each other in any other way, than by again having recourse to
all assessment, which, in the very few years that have since elapsed,
has risen to between three and four hundred pounds per annum.
Liberal contributors to the church collections have either been
removed by death or have left the parish, and been replaced by
others who worship elsewhere, and consequently contribute no-
thing, while some have withdrawn to join other communions, among
whom is the only resident proprietor. On the other hand, the
collieries having come to be wrought on a diminished scale, many
of the families removed elsewhere, leaving the aged and infirm
behind, many of whom soon came to be a burden on the funds
when thus so little able to bear it. Last of all came Lord Ashley's
bill excluding female labour from the collieries, which, however
beneficial may be its operation in the long run, has proved inju-
rious to many who were thereby deprived of their only means of
subsistence. Now many must become chargeable that would
not have been so before, and where widows are left with young
families, they are not only deprived of the produce of their
own labour, (7s. weekly,) but that of the daughters, who, on the
old footing, would have assisted, and who are now themselves a
burden till they call get other employment, which they cannot do
so early. Considering also that all the families had suffered less
or more from the operation of this measure by the diminution of
their income, and consequently were less able to assist their rela-
tives than formerly, the heritors and kirk-session have increased
the former allowances, so that in no case is less than 1s.6d. of
weekly aliment given, while there are several families who have
to the amount of 5s., which are the extremes between which the
allowances vary according to circumstances. By all this, the ex-
penditure has reached upwards of L.7 weekly, including the cases
of those females, who having been partially disabled by accidents
and disease, and being somewhat advanced in years, have very
humanely had an aliment conceded to them on the part of the
heritors.
   The aforesaid bill has also fallen with peculiar severity upon un-
married females somewhat advanced in life, who are unfit for be-
coming domestic servants, and who, from their being unaccustomed
to any other labour than that of carrying coals on their backs, find
difficulty in obtaining employment, however willing and able to
work. Ultimate good, may, however, be expected to result from
what has thus been cause of hardship and suffering. Besides


