
158                          FIFESHIRE.

er than small beer. This is certainly to be regretted, as good malt
liquor is a more wholesome beverage than whisky, which is now so
common, and the cause of so much wretchedness and crime. The
high price of wheaten bread gave rise, a number of years, ago to the
establishment of two Societies, by which the inhabitants might be
supplied with that important article of life at a cheaper rate than by the
regular bakers. In so far as the cheapness of the bread is concerned,
these societies have answered the purpose intended; but if it be the
case, as some allege, that they have been the means of depreciating
the quality of bread throughout the community (the regular trader
being unable to compete on equal terms with a joint stock company)
it is not so evident how far they ought to be encouraged, or whether
in one way they have not done as much harm as they have done
good in another. There is also a meal Society on a similar plan,
which is of advantage to the public, by affording a ready supply of
meal at all times, and generally at a reasonable price.
  In the conducting of the different public works in this parish, there
is nothing particular claiming to be noticed. The usual hours of la-
bour at all of them are ten, excepting the spinning-mills, where
twelve hours are common. All the people employed at the diffe-
rent works receive a fair remuneration for their labour, and, if care-
ful, live comfortably, and frequently rear large families. The wages
of certain operatives, however, have of late years been much re-
duced. An ordinary weaver, for instance, on the best paid fabrics,
wil not receive above an average of 8s. per week for his own labour.
None of the public works here are considered prejudicial to the health
of those employed in them; the linen manufacture in all its branch-
es being more wholesome than that of cotton, from the absence of
any artificial beat or damp. Although it cannot be denied that the
congregating together of so many young people of both sexes at
spinning-mills and other public works, naturally tends to a corrup-
tion and depravity of morals, yet it can hardly be said that the mo-
rals of those so employed are worse than the morals of the aggre-
gate number of others in the same grade of society in the parish.
This may be owing to the steady-principle of the gentlemen to
whom the works belong, and the good discipline introduced by
them in to all the difierent departments of the business. The in-
crease of commerce and manufactures in this parish and neighbour-
hood gave rise, in the year 1825, to a Society known by the name
of the Kirkaldy Chamber of Commerce, the intention of which
was to unite the. influence of the merchants and manufactures, and.


