
378                                FIFESHIRE.

luable genealogical notices of almost every family of note in this
part of the country," has been generally ascribed to a Mr John
Lamont, proprietor of Easter Newton in this parish. The work
was first published in 1810, by the late Mr Constable, under the
title of 11 The Chronicle of Fife." Another edition was printed
at Edinburgh in 1830, under the title of " The Diary of Mr John
Lamont of Newton." In the prefatory notice to this second edi-
tion, doubts are expressed as to whether the author of the Diary
64 possessed the small property of Newton, in the parish of Ken-
noway," as Mr Constable bad stated, and as has generally been
supposed : and we are sorry to say, as detracting from the little li-
terary fame, to which the parish, through this channel, might be
conceived to be entitled, that, on instituting an inquiry into the
matter, by a careful perusal of the kirk-session records, and by re-
ference, to the Inventory of the titles of Easter Newton, now the
property of Miss Balfour of Kingsdale, the doubts that have been
entertained are too well founded. *
Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, Mrs D. BethIffle,
of Balfour, who is proprietor of the lands of Kennoway and Trea-
toil; Miss Lundin, proprietor of Auchtermairnie and Gallowhill;
General Balfour of Balbirnle, proprietor of Lalathan and Dal-
guinch ; Miss Balfour, proprietor of Kingsdale ; C. M. Christie,
Esq. of Durie, proprietor of Drummaird; Miss Wallace, proprie-
tor of Newton Hall; J. B. Fernie, Esq. proprietor of Kilinux;
Mrs Paston of Barnslee, proprietor of the lands of Brunton ; Mr
Through tile kindness of Messrs Stevenson and Yule, W. S. Edinburgh, a
friend to whom we applied was permitted to itispect the inventory ofthe titles-of East-
er Newton; and we learn from him, that the first wait in this inventory is a charter
of Adjudication and Novodamu% by James Law of Brunton (the superior of Easter
Newton) of those lands, to John Lamont, skifper in Largo, who took infeftment
thereon, and recorded the same in the general Record, I st October and 26th Novel-
ber 1695. This was evidently the first proprietor of Easter Newton of the name of
Lamont, as the former owner of the lands was Euphemi. Durie, widow of the Rev.
Robert Mereer, minister of Kennoway. The next proprietor after the said John
Lamont, in the course of the progress, is James Lamont, his eldest son.
N-ow that John Lamont. who thus first became proprietor of Easter Newton in
169 and was succeeded in the property by his son, James Lamont, could not be the
author of a Diary which had commenced, if not earlier, at least in 1649, is evident
from the particulars which follow. In the register of marriages and births of this
parish ' the marriage of John Lamont of Newton to Maly Lundin is recorded ill
1697 ; and again the marriage of John Lamont of Newton Easter to Margaret Wat-
son. is recorded in 1698; bubsequently, the baptisms of eight children, the fruit of
this secoud marriage, are recorded, the youngest named Robert being baptised 0
the loth J .... ry 1715 ; and so late as in 1733, a silver communion cup, as the in-
sorption on it bears, was presented to the parish of Scoonie, by Mr John Lamont of
Newton.
A com .parison of the dates must satisfy every one that John Lamont, auth r o t
Diary, coald not be the person of the same name who was proprietor of Easter New-
ton in this parish.


