
                         EDINBURGH.                           703

bution of which had not produced all the beneficial effects that,
had been anticipated from it. Such were the nature and amount
of the funds placed within the control of the commissioners.
   The first meeting, of the Board was held on the 20th July 1727,
when the commissioners proceeded to carry into effect the provi-
sions of the act of Parliament. They held out encouragement
for the manufacture of coarse wool, by pecuniary aid, by prizes,
and other means. They instituted regulations for the encourage-
ment of the fisheries, appointed officers to superintend them, and
to give practical instructions for the proper curing of the fish; and
awarded bounties to the vessels engaged, and for the discovery of
herring shoals and cod banks. By these means, they gradually fos-
tered into existence those fisheries which have since been carried
to such a scale of importance; and for the regulation and superin-
tendence of which they afterwards instituted a special board.
The Commissioners also brought over a number of weavers from
Picardy in France, for the introduction of cambric weaving, and
purchased ground for their establishment in the immediate pre-
cincts of the city of Edinburgh, where Picardy Place now stands.
They encouraged the manufacture of linen by bounties and other-
wise, until they brought it to so high a state of prosperity, that in
1822, 36,268,530 yards were manufactured, valued in the books
of the stentmasters at L. 1,396,295 Sterling.
   But, in the following year, an act was passed doing away with
the law requiring linen to be inspected and stamped by public of-
ficers; the whole of whom were consequently set aside, with small
pensions, according to their services. The Board, however, still
went on giving a small encouragement to the linen manufacturer
until the year 1832,-when all their exertions in this particular were
terminated.
   So farback as the year 1760, the Board saw the important in-
fluence which a school for teaching drawing and design would pro-
duce on the improvement of manufactures; and it was in that year,
that the commissioners appointed their first master for that pur-
pose. This appointment, and the gradual accumulation which
the Board afterwards made of casts, ancient statues, aud frag-
ments of ancient architecture for the use of students, together with
the necessity of providing apartments for the meetings of the
Board, induced the Commissioners to come to the resolution of
erecting the building now called the Royal Institution. They
accordingly procured a warrant from His Majesty George IV.,


