
     Statistical Account

of their cows, mixed with pease-meal, they use in feeding
their plough horses, which they find does very well, and is a
great saving of oats.  In the spring, they plant as many
young trees, as they can well overtake, to raise shelter for
their high lands.  The plan mentioned in the note, has been fol-
lowed on a very extensive farm, which was cultivated at great
expence, being only in the infancy of its improvement.  The
same method is, in some measure, adopted by several
farmers in the neighbourhood.  It must, however, be ob-
served, in regard to grass farms in general in the higher
parts of the parish, that, to this day, some are managed
as they were centuries ago; and yet, that, from the ad-
vance in the prices of cattle, calves, butter, cheese, etc.
one of their little cows will bring them about 4 L. or
4 L. 10 s. per aun.  In the high grounds, therefore, it may
he supposed, that they have more profit by keeping their
grounds in grass, than by cultivating oats, etc.  But though
their grain is of a bad quality, and seldom yields more than
two thirds in meal; yet, in order to prevent rushes, in the
wet soils, they are obliged to plough every 3 d and 4th year:
And, where the soil is drier, they find it necessary to plough
every 5th or 6th year, to prevent it from running into heath.
In regard to the rent of the parish, it has nearly doubled
within these last 30 years; some say more than doubled;
especially in those places, which are most favourably situated,
in point of soil and climate.

<FOOTNOTE>

mit of it.  In sowing grass, they lay-dung on the surface, with lime above it;
then sow and roll.  When their dung is exhausted, they harrow in the lime
with the seed.  They endeavour to raise cabbages, carrots, turnips and pota-
toes, for winter feeding; yet they say, they prefer the potatoes to the turnips,
after a fair trial of both.  Such parts of their fallow, as they may be prevented
from sowing before the end of August, by the wetness of the season, they
throw into drills of 4 feet, and allow to remain till the ensuing spring.


