
594                    ARGYLESHIRE.

him by David I., A D. 1135, and was created High Steward of
Scotland by Malcolm IV.; and it farther appears as if he had ob-
tained the lordship of Cowal, not by royal charter in the first in-
stance, but by marriage with an heiress of the Lamont clan.
And while the events of Scottish history which first placed
the Stewart dynasty on the throne, form so important a portion of
that history in general, it is pretty obvious that those events were
the means of extending over the greater part at least of the district
of Cowal the sway of the ancestors of the house of Argyle,-the
Campbells of Lochawe, who were among the first and the most
active supporters of "Robert the Steward." Their services were
requited by grants: and while it may be considered capable of his-
torical demonstration that the first royal grants affecting the supe-
riority or lordship of Cowal did not immediately tend to the up-
rooting of the more ancient possessors, the Lamonts, the same
cannot be said of the superiority acquired by the Campbells. Va-
rious portions of the district of Cowal and of this united parish
are traced, in times almost immediately subsequent, into the p(>s-
session of individuals and families of the name of Campbell, the
allies and the relatives of the house of Lochawe and Argyle.
This later subdivision of the territory of the greater portion of
Cowal under the sway of the Campbells has continued, partially,
down to present times. And in times, more strictly speaking, re-
cent, the tenure of property in this united parish has undergone
more of transference than perhaps has occurred, within the like
period, in any other portion 'of the Highlands,-issuing into the
subsisting result, from aggregate causes, of landed property in this
parish commanding as high a market price as in, any district of
Scotland at large. And modern improvements, liberally con-
ducted, promise, with the operation of the same causes, to main-
tain the value of land at the same rate. The revolution may be
said, here, to be completed, of the age and times commonly called
feudal having passed away, and the commercial age, bringing its
own benefits doubtless, having lwen established in its stead.
   Antiquities.-Commencing the brief notices of these which our
assigned limits permit, it is felt due to the memory of a period
unknown, -or at least not fully ascertained, to notice the frequency
of what are commonly called, "stone coffins," which are found
generally not far from the sea shore. No striking rude obe-
lisks or pillars anywhere in the parish mark the scenes of bat-
tles and slaughters, and the fall of leaders and chiefs. But the


