
     of Maryton.

only be of singular advantage to both these towns, but like-
wise to all the adjacent country*.

   Maryton-Law.-Maryton-Law is a small eminence si-
tuated upon a rock upon the top of one of the hills for-
merly mentioned.  It is evidently artificial and probably
in former times has been either an alarm post, as it com-
mands a great extent of country, or a place where the
great family of Montrose distributed justice to their vassals.
From the top of it is one of the most beautiful prospects in
Scotland.  To the north, (close under the eye), is the rich
and fertile country extending from Brechin to Montrose, on
both sides of the river Southesk, where are interspersed a num-
ber of elegant gentlemens seats; a fine view of both towns,
with the bason and harbour of Montrose, and in the back
ground are the Grampian hills.  To the east is the well cul-
tivated parish of Craig, with a great expanse of the Ger-

<FOOTNOTE>

   *Fisheries.-In the river Southesk, which is the northern boundary of
this parish, there is great plenty of fish salmon, grilse, sea-trout, sinnocks,
and a variety of river-trout.  In the month of May, a prodigious quantity
of beautiful clear small trouts, called smouts, make their appearance.
They are evidently the salmon-fry that were spawned in the autumn be-
fore, and are then going down the river to the sea, where they arrive at
maturity, A vast variety of aquatic birds frequent the bason, or, as it is
commonly called, the back sands of Montrose, especially in the winter
season; such as wild geese, ducks of various sorts, and in amazing num-
bers; a variety of gulls, cermorants, sea-magpies, golden-eyes, curlieus, he-
rons, etc. etc.  The wild geese arrive in great flocks about the end of
October, and generally remain till March.  They frequent the fields in
the low grounds through the day, where they seed upon the wheat-stub-
ble in autumn, and the green wheat in winter: They always return to
the bason at night.  The ducks, on the contrary, remain in the bason
through the day; but when the night falls, they go to the land, and feed
upon the barley-stubble fields.  Both the geese and ducks are very fine
birds for eating.  In severe storms, of long continuance, there are likewise
some swans in the bason, but they do not remain long.  There are great
plenty of partridges in this parish, and some quails, but they are rare:
Hares are scarce, there being little covers.


