
     Of Jura and Colonsay.

no place for a bell, and was never seated,  The manse was
built about 18 years ago; till then there was no manse in the
parish.  New office-houses were built, and the manse was re-
paired about 4 years ago, but so insufficiently, that it needs
new repairs.  The stipend is 2000 merks, out of which the
minister pays, in terms of the decreet of augmentation, 800
merks to his assistant in Colonsay.  The manse and glebe
may be worth about 10 L.  The allowance for communion
elements is 2 L. 10 s.  This sum is exceedingly small, and not
at all adequate to the purpose.  It is a peculiar hardship to
the minister of Jura to be tied down to pay such a large pro-
portion out of his benefice to an assistant-preacher, while he
must, at the same time, incur the expense and danger of cross-
ing broad perilous ferries to marry and baptize in the other
islands.  It is believed that there can be very few instances
produced in Scotland, where the minister is not allowed to
stipulate with his assistant, but obliged to take his chance of
payments himself, and regularly pay his assistant a sum equal
to 2-5ths of his stipend.-There are no funds for the poor
except the weekly collections, and the casualties from fines
and marriage-money.  These different items may amount to
10 L. a-year.  The poor in this parish are not much in the
habits of going about and begging; they are generally assist-
ted by their relations, and very few of them have their sole
dependence on the parish box.-There are 3 schools; a parish
school, and 2 charity schools.  The parish school is in Jura;
the salary is 7 L.  One of the charity schools is in Colonsay,
and the other in Jura.  The salary of each of these is 15 L.
These schools are of prodigious service towards enlightening
the understanding, and improving the heart of a generation,
that otherwise would be neglected.  So many instances can
be produced from the history of mankind, and from the noble
exertions of the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
     T t 2 


