
	               STEVENSTON.                           439

plants unknown in the present day, many of them 420 feet beneath
the surface of the earth, but which must once have flourished un-
der the smiling sun in luxuriant vegetation. We are lost in won-
der when we think of these things; and one end which the con-
templation of themselves, is to convince us that we are supreme-
ly ignorant.
	Coal Mines.--As the coal mines furnish a rich source of emolu-
ment arid employment to so many in the parish, it is necessary to give
some account of them in former times, and also in the present day.
The working of coal as an article of commerce appears to have com-
menced in Britain about the end of the twelfth century. The first
charter giving liberty to the inhabitants of Newcastle to dig for
coal was in 1239; and in 1291, a charter was given for the same
purpose to the Abbey and Convent of Dunfermline. Even in
1579, however, coal seems to have been so little known on the
continent, that we find Abraham Ortel, in his "Theatrum orbis
terrarum," saying, "En la region de Fife, se tire grand nombre de
pierres noires hors de terre, fort propre a faire feu." When they
began in this parish to dig up those "black stones" for fuel, we
do not know. Though we have no written record, there is a tra-
dition, supported by the remains of considerable heaps of ashes in
the neighbourhood of the present town of Saltcoats, that salt was
manufactured there at a very early period. It was then made, it
is said, in their little pans or kettles, by poor people who lived in
cots on the shore, and who at very small expense digged up the
coal near the surface of the ground, to carry on their manufacture.
	In 1656, the whole parish was purchased by Sir Robert Cuning-
hame; and after his death in 1678, his estate came into the pos-
session of his nephew of the same name, who soon began to carry
on the public works with a degree of spirit till that time unknown
in the parish. He began his operations at what is called the
deep shank, in the little holm to the east of Stevenston kirk and
Burn; and erected a water-wheel to draw the water out of that
Pit. He also, with great spirit and judgment and perseverance,
Put down several shafts or pits in the coal-field, at considerable
distances from each other, to ascertain the thickness, quality, and
declivity of the various strata, as well as the position of the chief
troubles; and the papers which he left to his successors shewed
the surprising exactness of the knowledge he had thus obtained,
and proved of great service to them in their operations. On the
west side, too, of the parish, he drove a level mine, for a mile and


