
                  WHITSOME AND HILTON.                   179

at the same time the most industrious, orderly, and loyal sub-
jects. This remark is the result of personal and daily obser-
vation.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-In 1775, the legal assessment for
the poor was L. 13. It varied little till 1800, when, owing to
the deficiency of crop, and the consequent rise in the price of
provisions, it was L. 78 12s. Before the shock of that year had
subsided, the pressure of 1816 commenced, and another rise in
the assessment ensued, which in 1818 was L. 201, 6s. From
that date it gradually diminished, and in the present year, ending
at Martinmas 1833, it is L. 115, 19s. Out of this sum various
expenses. including an item of L. 8 for enabling a pauper to emi-
grate to Canada, are paid, so that the gross amount remaining
for the poor regularly on the roll is L. 88, 12s. The number of
persons now receiving parochial aid is 18; and therefore the ave-
rage sum allotted to each, L. 4, 18s. 5 1/4d. annually, or 1s. 10 3/4d.
weekly. The church collections furnish yearly about L, 6, which
by courtesy are left at the disposal of the minister and session
for the relief of incident cases. The poor here enjoy the advan-
tage of a soup-kitchen maintained at Allanton by the liberality of
Mrs Boswall, who also distributes amongst them every winter a
quantity of coal and clothing. Nor should we omit to mention,
that in 1829 the sum of L. 20 was left by the late Mrs Hogarth
of Hilton, the interest of which, agreeably to the wishes of the
donor, is expended in the purchase of Bibles for children, whose
parents are in necessitous circumstances. The heritors, in their
collective capacity, kindly allow five per cent for the principal.
It is, moreover, worthy of being recorded, that, on the occurrence
of casual distress in families, arising out of loss of property or do-
mestic bereavements, all eldest in the parish are distinguished for
the cordial sympathy. which they evince, and the liberal benefac-
tions which they make, in behalf of the sufferers. And this, too,
seems to be done in approval, and for the nurture, of that inde-
pendent feeling which operates almost universally as a preventive
to their applying for parochial aid. Where ignorance and habits.
subversive of economy prevail, recourse is had to any available
quarter for pecuniary means; but with us the disposition to refrain
from seeking relief in the sources provided by law, is strong as it
is honourable. But often, when old age or unavoidable infirmities
generate the necessity of securing a regular and continued suste-
nance, an application is reluctantly made.


