
72                             PEEBLES-SHIRE.

of it through the lower part ;  its depth varies from one foot to three
or four, with occasionally deep pools.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks consist of a vary hard grey-
wacke (whinstone,) having many veins of quartz ;  of which latter there
are also detached masses frequently met with.  There is a rock of
compact and very white limestone, on the side of a hill on the east
side of the Tweed, and another similarly situated on the west side,
exactly opposite each other ;  and no other lime is to be found
nearer than twelve miles.  The stratum in both, ranges from west to
east.  Neither of these, however, are wrought, owing to the distance
from coal.  There is abundance of slate in the hills, but none
wrought at present, as there is an excellent quarry at Stobo, ca-
pable of supplying all the neighborhood.  Although the mountains
are of transition formation, no organic remains have hitherto been
found in them.  The soil is generally sharp ;  the haughs consist
of rich alluvial deposits ;  the land is in general excessively stony ;
and the stones are of the same kind as those which compose the
neighbouring rocks.  There is no sandstones, and very little clay
in the parish.
   Botany.--The common heaths and natural grasses prevail on
the mountains, and form excellent sheep-pasture.  The hills are
well fitted for bearing Scots firs and larch ;  ash, plane and elm,
thrive well on the lower grounds, and much of the hills might be
planted with great advantage.  But the planting of trees is expen-
sive here, as very sufficint fences are necessary to preserve them
from the sheep.
   There are upwards of 400 imperial acres of wood in the parish,
part of which is on the property of each of the heritors, but chiefly
on the estate of Dawick, the property of Sir John M. Nasmyth,
Bart. of Posso.  He has already planted 360 acres, besides old
wood in the park, single trees and shrubberies, and he is about to
plant still more extensively.  Some of the finest wood in Scotland
has been raised on this estate ;  the horse chesnuts are not only
ascertained to be the first introduced into Scotland, but are among
the largest.  The oaks and sycamores are also very large, and the
larches the largest in Scotland, introduced into the country in 1725,
by the grandfather of the present proprietor, one of the earliest
and most spirited improvers in Scotland.  One larch is about twenty
feet in circumference at the bottom.  There are about eleven im-
perial acres of natural wood.


