
     220                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

     a short notice of the antiquity of this illustrious house, whose head
     has been Scotland's Premier Earl, for some generations.  There is
     ample written evidence of Lords and Earls of Sutherland, in the early
     part of the thirteenth century; and there is every probability in
     the supposition that they were of a far more ancient standing, when
     we find the first written notices of them in deeds, by which
     they conveyed large tracks of country from their patrimonial estates,
     as gifts for behoof of the church.  From this early period, the li-
     neal descent of the succeeding Earls rests on the most undoubted
     evidence that can be afforded by crown charters, marriage-contracts,
     and the services of heirs.
        There is written evidence that Hugo Freskyn was proprietor of
     Sutherland between the year 1186 and 1214.  Without arguing
     here the probability that this person held the title of Comes or
     Earl, there is undeniable proof that his son, "Willielmus Dominus
     de Sutherlandia, filius et haeres quondam Hugonis Freskyn," died
     Earl of Sutherland about the year 1248.  He was succeeded by
     his son, William the second Earl, who held the title for seventy-seven
     years, and died in 1325.  He signed the letter from the nobility
     of Scotland to the Pope in 1320, and was with the Scottish army
     at Bannockburn, and at, Brigland, in Yorkshire, in 1322.  The
     third Earl was Kenneth, son of the last Earl, and he fell at the
     battle of Hallidon Hill, 22d July 1333.  He was succeeded by
     his eldest son, William, the fourth Earl, who married the Lady
     Margaret Bruce, second daughter of King Robert the Bruce, by
     whom he had two sons, John, who died in England while detained
     a hostage for the ransom of his uncle, David II., and William,
     who succeeded his father; and as all the subsequent Earls of Su-
     therland are directly descended from him, they are also lineally
     descended maternally from the royal family of Scotland,  before
     the accession of the Stuarts to the Throne.  This Earl was a
     very powerful Noble, and held lands in the shires of Aberdeen
     and Inverness, which he gifted, before the death of his son, the
     hostage, to several potent persons, (viri potentes, as they are called),
     in order to secure their support to his son's title to the Crown,
     who had been selected by King David to succeed him. Thus he
     conveyed 1he lands of Bonne, Enzie, Kincardine, Tomortine, Kin-
     tore, Kilcairne, Fetternairn, Dunnotter Castle, Enzie, Boyne,
     Cluny, Dunbeath, Downy, Aboyne, and the Barony of Urquhart, to
     the Hays, Sinclairs, Frasers, Ogilvies, and Gordons.  William, the
     fifth Earl, the son of Earl William and Lady Margaret Bruce, was at


