	               		BARR.                           411

	Live-Stock.--The universal breed of sheep is the black-faced.
Considerable attention is paid to their improvement; and it is
doubtful if much more can be done to insure this end. White-
faced, to any considerable extent, are found not to answer. The
cattle reared are of the Galloway breed. A few Highlanders are
bought in, kept a year, and sold out again with advantage. A few
dairy establishments of the Ayrshire breed of cows have been re-
cently introduced, and are expected to succeed.
	Husbandry.--The system of husbandry pursued in the dry
holming-ground is the four-shift. On the upland ground, two or
three successive crops of oats are taken with good liming. The
land is then sown down, and pastured four, five, or six years,
sometimes to the end of the lease. Surface-draining has been
carried to a great extent, and with good effects; and march-fences,
in several instances, have been erected; but little, more has been
done, from a conviction that the tenant cannot be repaid. The
leaser are generally for nineteen years.
	Farm-Buildings.--The farm-buildings are very indifferent;
the dwelling-houses not suitable, except in a few cases of recent
erection; and the offices inconvenient, and often dirty. Much
might be done both for the comfort and benefit of the tenant,
and ultimately for the advantage of the landlord; but one great and
serious obstacle is, that the bulk of the land is entailed, and the
proprietor naturally looks only to present returns, Whilst the far-
mer submits to inconveniences, and wishes to gain as much as he
can, or, as often happens in present times, escape by losing as
little as possible during his lease. There may be also, in some
instances, a want of intelligence to perceive, and a want of enter-
prise on the part of the farmer to pursue, his own real interest,
when attended with an immediate outlay, and only a prospective
gain.

<TABLE>
	Produce.--The average amount of raw produce in this extensive
parish is as follows:--

	Grain of all kinds, 400 acres, at L. 5 per acre,		L. 2000
	Potatoes, 150 acres, at L. 10 per acre,				   1500
	Hay of all kinds,						   2000
	Flax,							             30
	Land in pasture, 1125 score of sheep, at L. 4 per score,	   4500
	1060 cattle grazing, at L. 1, 5s. a head,			   1325
									 ------
		Total yearly value of raw produce,		       L. 11,355
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markdt-Town.--The nearest market-town is Girvan, seven miles


