
624                          FIFESHIRE.

six acres of town's common, which is occupied in summer as pas-
turage for. horses and cows belonging to the inhabitants, at the
rate of 1s. 8d. of grass-mail for each beast per night.  Owing to
the smallness of the population, it is one of those, burghs which
have not, as 'yet, been affected by the late Reform Bill. The
municipal authorities still continue to be appointed accoratng to
the old systemi under: which, notwithstanding all its alleged cor-
ruption and abuse, the corporation lands have been preserved
entire; not an acre having been alienated since the issuing of
royal grant in its favour, upwards of 250 years ago.
   The population of the burgh is almost co-extensive with that of
the parish. There cannot be above thirty or forty people in,tbe
country.  At one, time, a considerable trade appears to have flou-
rished in Austruther Wester. But from the causes already alluded
to, it has entirely disappeared. No vessels or even fisbing-boats
belong to the place,-the only business of any kind carried on
being that which is necessary to supply the wants of the limited
population. No regular police is required ; there are, however,
twelve constables who may be called out on any emergency. For-
tunately, their services are seldom needed.   In the foriner Statit-
tical Account, it is stated, that since the battle of Kilsyth the
people, have a strong aversion to a military life,- that in the course
of twenty-one years, only one instance of a person enlisting had
occurred-that there had not been a suspicion of murder for fifty
years-that one instance of suicide had taken place about the year
1744-and that no person had been tried before a criminal court
since 1732.  The writer is unable to say whether the same started
of things continues; but he has  reason to believe, that,  notwith-
standing the altered circumstances of the country, instances similar
to the foreagoing are still extremely rare.
   Market. Town.-The burgh itself is not a market-town but
weekly mark, is held every Saturday in Anstruther Easter, which
is united to it by a handsome bridge over the Dreel Burn.
   Means of Communication.-The post-office is also placed in
Anstruther Easter.  Letters arrive and depart daily, though, from
the frequent change which have latelv taken place, the hours arm
very uncertain.  The length of the turnpike roads in the parish is
only about half a mile, alongst which the Balcarres coach to Edin-
burgh runs thrice a week, returning on the alternate days.  An
omnibus also leaves every morning for Largo, and returns on the
arrival of the steam-boat from Newhaven.  Carriers travel regu-


