
                        PARISH OF RATHO.

      PRESBYTERY OF EDINBURGH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

               THE REV. JAMES CLASON, A. M. MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-THE parish of Ratho is so called, according to Chalmers
     in his Caledonia, from the ancient baronial residence of that name,
     which was within its bounds. According to the same authority,
     the name is of British origin, being derived from the word Rhath,
     Plural Rathau,* signifying a cleared spot, a bared place or plain;
     which derivation, although not consistent with the features of the
     parish as a whole, is yet in accordance with that part of it upon
     which the present mansion, like its predecessor, stands. It may
     be farther remarked, that the Celtic Rath, which has the same pri-
     mary meaning with the British term already mentioned, signifies
     secondarily, a fort or artificial mount; so that possibly the name of
     Ratho may have been conferred upon the place, not more on ac-
     count of its natural situation than the artificial works by which it
     was defended.
         Extent, Boundaries, &c.-This parish is 4 miles long by 2 1/2
     broad at an average; and contains about 10 square miles of sur-
     face. It is bounded on the north, by the parishes of Kirkliston
     and Corstorphine; on the east, by Corstorphine and Currie; on
     the south, by Currie; and on the west, by Kirknewton and Kirk-
     liston.
         Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the parish
     is one of considerable beauty from the delightful mixture of hill
     and dale, of highly cultivated fields and thriving plantations.
     From the eastern boundary to the centre the ground is of a
     slightly undulating character, but rather flat than otherwise. On
     the west side, there runs from north to south-west, for about

     <FOOTNOTE>In ancient charters, the name of the parish is written in the different forms of
     Rathew, Ratheu, Rathow. On two communion cups, which bear the date 1684, it
     is spelt Rutha and Rotha. The orthography is the same as at present on other two
     church utensils, which bear date only a year later.




