
410                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

broken to pieces, used to be pointed out as impressed with the
print of the Virgin Mary's foot, on occasion of one of her descents
to visit this favoured sanctuary.*
  The extensive forests already mentioned, as extending between
Wedale and Lauderdale, were held in right of common pasturage
by the Lords of the adjoining manors, among whose herdsmen, as
might be expected in those rude times, many disputes arose. "In
1184," says Chalmers, (Vol. ii. 153,) "was settled by William the
Lion, assisted by his bishops and barons, a pertinacious contro-
versy which had long existed between the monks of Melrose, and
the men of Wedale upon the Gala Water, with regard to two ob-
jects of great importance in that age, pannage and pasturage under
the several proprietors.  This settlement was emphatically called
the peace of Wedale."  This peace, however, appears to have been
often violated and sometimes in circumstances, and to an extent,
that even the ferocity of the age would scarcely have led us to an-
ticipate.  At no distant period, the monks of Melrose, including
the abbot himself, appear to have taken a very savage part in these
ever-recurring contests.  Violating the peace of Wedale, they at-
tacked some house of the Bishop of St Andrews there, and mur-
dered one ecclesiastic, and wounded many others. In consequence
of this, the abbot, John of Ederham, and many of his conventuals,
were excommunicated by a provincial council which sat at Perth
in 1269.
   The importance of the church of Wedale is fartber indicated
by the fact, that in the ancient taxatio, it is rated at seventy marks,
while that of Borthwick is forty, and the rectory of Gala, before
its junction with Soltra or Soutra, is L.6, 13s. 4d.  The privilege
of sanctuary also, was confirmed by charter to the church of We-
dale by King Malcolm IV.  In August 1296, Edward, vicar of
this church, swore fealty to Edward II., and obtained the restitu-
tion of his rights in return.+
   Church Records.--The minutes of the kirk-session of Stow go

<FOOTNOTE>Among the curiosities shown at Abbotsford, and illustrative of the text, is an
old hat, with this inscription.  "Hat worn by the burgesses of Stowe at their instal-
ment, a village beloved by King Arthur." Upon inquiry about this relique of by
gone and better days, I am told that it came into Sir Walter's possession about
twenty years ago.  It had been originally a cocked hat, abd used to be kept in a tri-
angular box, which my informant tells me was sold along with some furniture of the
last custodier, whose negligence regarding so interesting a deposit must excite our
surprise.  It is well that it reached its present destination, as otherwise it must
ere now have irrecoverably disappeared.
     See authorities in Chalmers, Vol. ii. 826.


