
                            LOGIERAIT.                             687

in the district north of the Tulmel, as you ascend the slope, the
soil is apt to be cold and spouty, as they call it, or abounding in
springs, with a subsoil of retentive clay.
   Mineralogy.- Useful quarries, for common purpose, are occa-
sionally opened on almost every estate ; but, except some strata of
limestone, whibh cross the parish in one or two places, there are
as I am given to understand, no mineralogical phenomena of which
it is worth while to give a detail.
   Botany.-The plants are such as are common to the other lo-
calities, of which the haughs stretch, along the banks of the Tay,
and Tummel.  The mountain district of the parish on the north
of Tummel is, in its character, identical with the other elevated
parts of Athole, full lists of whose natural productions, in the de-
partment of Botany, occur in the articles of Blair-Athole and
Moulin, already contributed to this work.  The trees, to the
growth of which the soil and climate are most propitious,are, the
larch, with the different varieties of fir cultivated in Scotland, the
oak, the ash, the elm, the beech, the poplar, and the plane.  In
some situations, the alder seems, at one time, to have grown very
plentifully. In pleasure grounds and gardens, tree's and plants of
considerable delicacy are found in a thriving state.  There are
many specimens of the Acacia.  Walnuts frequently ripen ; and
a vine, on the southern wall of one of the residences in Strathtay,
has been known to yield ripe fruit. There is a remrkable ash-
tree in the innkeeper's garden, near the village of Logierait. It
measures at the ground 53 1/2 feet in circumference, at three
from the ground 40 feet, and `t eleven feet from the ground 22
feet.  The height is 60 feet ; but the upper part of the stem ap-
pears to have been carried away. The height is said to have
been, at one time, nearly 90 feet. The trunk is hollow from the
base, and can contain a large party. This venerable stem is sur-
mounted by a profusion of foliage, which, even in the advanced
age of the tree, attracts the eye at a distance to its uncommon
Proportions. An old man of the age of one hundred is at pre-
sent in the habit of taking his seat daily within the hollow formed
by its three surviving sides,-no unsuitable companion to the ve-
getable relic!
   Zoology.- The animals are such as are common to the neigh-
bourhood. Squirrels are extremely numerous in the woods and
plantations.


