
276                         FIFESHIRE.

and a juvenile collection, chiefly of religious publications, is con-
nected with the Sabbath school. There is also a mechanics' in-
stitution, with a respectable library belonging to it.
  Friendly Societies.--There have been several Friendly Societies
in this parish; but these institutions, though excellent as a means
of promoting a spirit of independence, frugality, and forethought
among the people, have been subject to great insecurity and insta-
bility from various causes, but chiefly from errors in calculation
on their first establishment, so that few of the old ones now re-
main. A Weaver's Society flourished here for nearly fifty years
and was long in a prosperous state; but, owing to a greater num-
ber of widows, than they had calculated upon, coming upon their
roll, their funds were latterly reduced to L. 120, which, about two
years ago, was divided among, its members, and the society was
broken up . There are at present in Leven, the Gardeners' So-
ciety, with 130 members; the Apron Society, with 160; and the
Society of Odd Fellows, with 50; and as all these have taken advan-
tage of the Friendly Society Act, passed in 1829, it is to be hop-
ed that, by judicious management, they will be more permanent,
and productive of the important benefits which they contemplate.
A savings' bank was instituted here in 1816; but it received so
little encouragement from those for whose benefit it was intend-
ed, that it was soon after discontinued. A Government Annuity
Society has been for some time in contemplation. The prelimi-
naries are  now finall arranged, and it is hoped that it will be in
operation in a few weeks.
  Poor's Funds.--The average number of paupers upon the
regular roll for the last three years is 15; but none are placed
there unless those who, from age and infirmity, appear altogether
incapacitated from ever earning a maintenance for themselves.
A much greater number of poor receive occasional assistance dur-
ing a temporary illness, or in winter, when there is no out-door
work. This is given at the discretion of the minister, or elder of
the district, which has the effect of stimulating their own exer-
tions, and tends in some measure to keep alive a spirit of independ-
ence which, I fear, is fast fading from our population.
  The average annual disbursements made by the kirk-session for
the last three years amounted to L. 219, 14s. 1d.; to regular and
occasional paupers, L. 161, 15s. 5d.; to pauper lunatics, L. 42,
19s. 4d., and to sessional expenses, L. 14, 19s. 4d. Of this sum
the church door collections amounted to L. 62, 17s. 7d., and sun-


