
352			LANARKSHIRE.

nected with the Sabbath school is a small library but lately begun;
and this is the only one in the place; but the want is in some measure
supplied by the vicinity of Biggar, where there are several very good
libraries, and where books of all kinds may easily be found.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--At present, there are five regular
paupers on the roll. Of these two are very old women; two wi-
dows with families, and one an old man with a family. They re-
ceive on an average L. 4, 10s. a-year, a sum which would be in-
adequate for their support were they totally incapacitated for la-
bour; but all of them can de something for themselves.--Besides
these, there are several others who receive occasional help from
the session, in the form of house-rents, coals, and small donations
of money. To meet this outlay, there are the church collections,
which average for the last seven years L. 32 a-year, with L. 4, 4s.
of yearly interest upon L. 105, the only lying fund belonging
to Che Poor. Hitherto these sources have yielded a sufficient sup-
ply without either assessments or extraordinary collections of any
kind. But how long this state of things may continue is uncer-
tain, as the reluctance to receive assistance from the public fund,
though slowly, is perceptibly on the decrease.
	Bequests for the Education of the Poor.--The session have under
their management the following sums, the interest of which goes
to thei education of poor children. 1. L. 18, understood to have
been mortified by the Rev. Anthony Murray, previously mention-
ed. 2. L. 40, mortified by William Nisbet, saltman in Biggar,
who died in 1820. 3. L. 100 mortified by the late David Sim.
Esq. of Cultermains, who died at London in 1834. This latter
bequest is for "the education and clothing of a boy or girl in the
parish of Culter, of poor and industrious parents."
	Inns.--We have no public-house nor inn of any kind. The
heritors, seeing that nothing of the kind is needed, do not allow any
to be kept, by which wise resolution, whilst they do no injury to
the community at large, they lay this parish under very great ob-
ligations.
	Fuel.--Almost the only fuel is coal, driven from Douglas,
a distance of eleven miles, and costing 7s. 6d. per cart of four loads,
each load consisting of about three ewt.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	It appears from the last Statistical Account, that this parish was
in a forward state as far back as 1793. The writer of that account
tells us, that in the lowland part of the parish "the ground was
mostly either well enclosed with hedge and ditch, or covered with







