
                           KINTORE.                          661

<TABLE>
          Under wood,    .     .      .      .         1892
                                                       ----
          Total number of acres, (imperial measure),   8430

   Scotch firs, larches, and spruce firs are the only trees founD in
any quantity within the parish, except on the estate of Thainston,
where (if put together) there may be a few acres of hard-wood.
The firs are regularly thinned out, and their lower or dead branches
pruned off.  The hard-wood is pruned on the foreshortening system.
For some years back, Lord Kintore has inclosed and planted up-
wards of 250 acres annually in this parish.  The planting is done
by contract with a nurseryman from Aberdeen, at the rate of about
10s. 10d. per acre.  The planter is taken bound to fill up the ground
regularly for three years.  And great care is at the same time
taken to cut down any broom or whins that might endanger the
growth of the plants.
   The average rent of arable land in the parish is L.1, 1s. 11 3/4d.
per acre.
   A few grass fields are let annually by public roup; and on an
average each full-grown ox or cow put on them may cost for the
season L.2, 2s.  No sheep are summer-pastured in the parish.
In winter, in former years, there have sometimes been upwards of
2000 sheep brought to the Kintore moors; but this practice is
nearly at an end, in consequence of the extensive planting now
going on.
   There are very few sheep kept by the farmers in the parish.
The larger cattle are mostly of the Aberdeenshire breed.  Much
attention is paid to have them of a good figure, and free from
horns.  The system of husbandry is nearly the same with that
which is in general practice throughout the country.  The leases
generally bind the tenants to a seventh course shift; but the rota-
tion of five shifts is followed on tho better soils.
   During the last thirty years, 300 acres at least have been
thoroughly improved, by trenching, draining, and enclosing, en-
tirely by the tenants.  Of late, Lord Kintore has trenched a good
deal of moorland ground, and let it in small crofts at a very low
rate,  In such cases the tenant builds thd houses, and the land-
lord affords the wood.  Uts Lordship also trenches ground to his
tenants who already hold land, on condition of their paying the
interest of the outlay; or the amount is sometimes divided into
equal portions, according to the remaining years of the lease, and
added by such instalments to the old rent.  There are several
embankments on the river Don.  The principal one is that which


