
408                         FORFARSHIRE.

Kinnell's mills, erected in 1819, and ten smaller ones over the
Gighty and smaller streams. *
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church stands in the southern part of
the parish, and a few families on the estate of Rinmure may be
three and a half miles distant. It was repaired, or rather was al-
most rebuilt in 1766. The additional masoury and the roof was
furnished by the heritors, and the tenants and kirk-session fitted
up the seats; the former, far fewer sittings than could conveni-
ently accommodate their families, and the latter, whatever other
sittings were necessary tn complete the work. Hence, about a
third of the sittings, erected at an expense of about L.27, became
the property of the session, and brought immediately L.2, 17s., and
latterly L.7, 10s. annually for the behoof of the poor. The church
was covered with new slates in 1836, and is in a state of good repair.
But it is damp and dark, and, as may be supposed from the date
of the rebuilding, it is not in accordance with the comfortable ac-
commodation which the proprietors have provided for the pa-
rishioners at home. In consequence of the peculiar circumstances
of the parishes of Kirkdeu and Inverkeilor, the demand for sittings
was too great to allow of any of them being free. But, by the
erection of the church of Friockheim, the sittings of the church
of Kinnell are now all available to the accommodation of the pa-
rishioners; and the young, whom the extra parochial worshippers
formerly excluded to a considerable extent, are now coming up in
greater numbers to public worship. It necessarily happens, also,
that, as there is now no competition from extra-parochial worship-
pers, the rents of the kirk-session's seats, low as they were, can-
not be kept up; and the parishioners are disposed to claim what
they consider the privileges of an establishment,--free sittings in
the parochial church.
   The manse and offices were rebuilt in 1814.
   The glebe, including the yards, the site of the buildings, the
arable glebe, and the allowance for grass, is about seven acres;
and the ground which was allotted to the minister in compensation
of his right to feal and divot in Monthrewmont moor, and which
is now in cultivation, three acres: in all, about ten Scotch acres.
The moorish part has hitherto borne good crops, in consequence
of the fallowing, dunging, and liming that it had previously un-

<FOOTNOTE>In 1841, was made a turnpike road, which passes through this parish for about
two miles.


