
16                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

years of age; 3dly, a Life Assurance fund for affording a sum on
the death of members.
   A Female Society has been for a long time in use, to visit and
afford pecuniary relief to the sick and aged poor, and to minister
to their instruction and comfort by reading the Scriptures, and giv-
ing them suitable tracts.
   There is also a Dispensary for supplying flannel clothing, wine,
and porter, as cases certified by a medical attendant require, ac-
cording to the number or amount of subscriptions of 10s. 6d. or-
dered by the subscriber.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Paupers are maintained by legal as-
sessment on the valued rent of the landward heritors; the town of
Haddington paying a stipulated proportion out of its own funds or
patrimony. Besides weekly collections at the church doors, which,
now that an assessment is established, do little more than pay the
salaries of the session-clerk, presentor, beadles, and other inci-
dents,-the session have L. 300 of mortified money under their
management, for behoof of the poor.
   The late David Gourlay, Esq. bequeathed a field of four acres,
with L. 450, and L. 840, 3s. 2d. stock, the rent and interest of
which he directed to be applied by the parochial ministers, as they
might deem fit, to aid the industrious poor; but by no means to
relieve the heritors from their legal obligations. The average
amount of church collections for the poor is between L. 50 and
L. 60 a-year;-of assessments, about L. 800; of legacies, L. 300.
   Banks.-There are two banks,-branches of the Bank of Scot-
land and of the British Linen Company.
   Savings Bank.-It 1815 a savings bank was established. Those
who avail themselves of the benefit of this institution am general-
ly mechanics, day-labourers, and servants. At last settlement
with the treasurer in March 1833, there were 133 depositors, and
about L. 1000 in deposit. The amount yearly invested is L. 205:
withdrawn, L. 175.
   Libraries.-There are several valuable libraries worthy of notice,
as the Presbytery library for the use of that Reverend body; a gift
from a society of pious individuals in London more than a century
ago; a library bequeathed to the town of Haddington, by the Rev.
John Gray, Episcopal minister at Aberlady, with 5O merks a year, to
add to it from time to time by the purchase of new books; a Parish
library established from the funds of the late Mr Andrew Begbie,
farmer in Barneymains, and a respectable member of session; a


