
                                     CROMARTY.				11

        out of the bank; and with pure air, exercise, and early rising for
        its auxiliaries, it continues to work cures.

                                 III.-POPULATION.
           Ancient Inhabitants and early Trade of the Parish.-Thougb,
        from the older names of places in the parish, it is evident its ori-
        ginal population, like that of the neighbouring districts, was Cel-
        tic, the inhabitants about a century ago were so exclusively low-
        land that there was no Gaelic service performed in its church.
        The character of the people, too, their dress, personal appearance,
        habits, and the sirnames common among them, identified them
        with the their country folks of the south. They were the descendants,
        we may infer, of some such lowland colony as James VI. planted                                                                         planted
        in the Isle of Lewis with the intention of civilizing the wild natives;
        and the facilities for trading afforded by the admirable harbour of
        the place would, it is probable, have directed their choice.  The
        Scotch seem at a very early period to have been a seafaring
        people.  We learn from Heron, that, prior to the reign of Robert
        the Bruce, they exported wool and salmon from the southern ports
        of the kingdom into Flanders and France; and in charters of lands
        bordering on the sea the spoils of stranded vessels were either
        granted or reserved with much care,-a proof that shipwrecks were
        no unfrequent occurrences. Inverness and Cromarty, which seem
        to have been united by charter, appear to have shared at a remote
        period in the trade of the south. In the museum of the Northern
        Institution, there is an ancient custom-house seal or cocket of the
        united burghr of Invirnis et d Chrombhte, supposed to belong to the
        reign of Robert II.  There were laid open, in trenching a piece of
        ground in the eastern part of the town about ninety years ago, se-
        veral ranges of vaults, apparently intended for store places, which
        must have belonged to our earlier merchants; and of a collection
        of little pieces of copper coin which were dug up at different times
        in our fields and gardens, I have found that two-thirds were Scotch,
        and the remaining third French. And it seems improbable that
        the north country trader of the obscure period to which these re-
        mains belong, could be of other than lowland extraction;-his, con-
        temporary, the Highlander, was only conversant with the dirk.
        Cromarty seems to have sunk almost entirely during the seven-
        teenth century; a dark era of distress and depression to Scotland;
        but it rose, almost immediately after the Revolution; and early in
        the reign of Queen Anne, when it drove an extensive trade in her
        rings, there were five large vessels connected with it, as the pro-




