
   359                 KILBARCHAN.

place. The stratified rocks from Ayrshire crop out one this trap,
while the stratified rocks on the west of this parish, and on the
east of Lochwinnoch, without any alteration of their dip, run up
nearly to the trap and terminate. The trap is not in the form
a dike, but is merely an elevation of the great mass of trap on
which the coal strata are superimposed.
Coal has been wrought to a considerable extent. Formerly, it
was wrought in mines; partly in the Barrhill, and partly, on
Craigends' estate, along the Locher and Gryfe. These riiines
were driven into the hills, or the steep banks of the rivers, in the.
plane of the strata, which, in these cases, lay near the 'surface, but
are now almost entirely discontinued. But several pits are now
in operation on the same lands; the coal lying generally at the
depth of from ten to twenty fathoms. Coalbog is the appropriate,
ly descriptive name of a farm on the lands of Craigends, stretchy
ing along the Gryfe ; and in the conterminous lands of Kaimbill,
a trouble (in the language of the miners) throws up the strata nine.
fathoms. It is composed of slate-clay, and runs in a direction from.
cast to west. The sales from all the pits in operation at present,
probably do not reach the sum of L. 2000 per annum, as the vile
laga and parish generally have their principal supply from the pits
at Quarreltoti, in the Abbey parish, near Johnstone, with which there
is communication by bridges over the river Cart to the number of
four, in the cotirse of little more than one mile. The dip of thq
strata of the coal formation appears to be nearly east, subject, how-
ever, to much variation. The angle at which they dip, is not great,
The secondary rocks in the higher parts of the parish are not strati-
fied. Limestonelswroughtatthesamepitsasthecoalwhichitoverr.
lies, and in burning it a considerable quantity of the coal is con-,
sumed. The lime though not, perhaps, of first quality, is in fair
demand, both for building and manure. It abounds in Entrocbil
&c. and the slate clay which overlies it contains a great number of
bivalve shells.
In the Barrhill quarry, i the neighbourhood of the village, and,
from which a considerable part of it has been built within.the met
mory of some still living here, stratified greenstone is found ove
lying freestone belonging to the coal strata; an arrangement, by,
nor means common. The quality of the latter is excellent; but in
order to work it now, so great a quantity of greenstone must he
removed that the value of the freestone is in consequene very
considerably diminished.


