
184 			    KINCARDINESHIRE.

2 1/2d. an hour, summer and winter. In time of harvest, they have
victuals over and above.
	The cultivation of waste lands is proceeding as rapidly as could
be expected; but much still remains in a state of nature, and it
would be extremely difficult to ascertain the extent of cultivated
and uncultivated land.
	Fisheries.--There are only four salmon-fishing of any import-
ance on the river Dee, in its course through this parish,--two be-
longing to Mr Menzies of Pitfodels, one to Mr Thomson of Ban-
chory, and one to Mr Watson of Ardo. In point of value, they
have suffered great fluctuation, and are at present very low, from
the great and unaccount`ble scarcity of fish in the river, for these
twelve or thirteen years back.
	There are three white-fishing stations in the parish, Findon,
Portlethen, and Downies. In these, the ordinary number of boats
employed is eighteen, manned with from four to five hands each.
They never go far out to sea: but since the herring fishery in the
Moray Frith became an object of attention, the men have fitted
out thirteen herring-boats with nets, at a very considerable expense,
and pass about six weeks every summer on that coast, more pro-
fitably than they could at home.
			  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town--Means of Communication.--Aberdeen is nur
nearest market-town, and is only about two miles from the lowest
extremity of the parish. Stonehaven, the county town of the Kin-
cardineshire district, is about seven miles from those parts of it
which are contiguous to the parish of Fetteresso on the south.
The great turnpike road from Edinburgh to Aberdeen passes
through the parish from Bourtrybush, near the sixth, to the tenth
milestone from Stonehaven, where it enters the parish of Nigg;
and upon the north side of the Dee, the Deeside turnpike passes
brough that division of the parish, leaving the parish of Old Ma-
char, a little short of the second milestone, and entering that of
Peterculter about the fifth. We have also the benefit of a good
commutation road along the south side of the river, which enters
third parish from the great south turnpike, between the second and
third milestone from Aberdeen, and leaves it between the fifth and
sixth, where it enters the parish of Maryculter.
	A suspension bridge for foot-passengers has been erected over
the Dee about half a mile above the church, by the present in-
cumbent, for the accommodation of the parish. The span between


