
480			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

master found qualified by the Presbytery of Penpont, and certified
to be so, to instruct in the principles of the Christian religion, to
teach to read and write well, to cast accounts, to sing psalms at
church and in private families, and also to teach any other parts
of learning as shall be thought proper, and to be elected to his of-
fice by the minister and elders for the time being, and the heritors
residing in the parish. The Presbytery examines the school an-
nually, upon their certificate of the schoolmaster's due elec-
tion, diligence, and faithfulness in the discharge of his duty, he
draws the salary above specified. The remaining L. 13, by the
will of the donor, is appointed to be distributed annually by the
kirk-session among twelve poor, sober, and industrious per-
sons residing in the parish; the value of L. 6 to be given them in
flax, adjudging the value of 10s. to each, accompanied with 10s. in
cash,--the last 20s. being still kept in the hands of the treasurer for
the poor till the yarn spun from thee flax is inspected by proper
judges, at which time it is adjudged in different proportions to four
or five of the best spinners among the twelve. This donation has
an excellent effect in encouraging industry among the poorer class,
at the same time that it greatly tends to relieve their wants. A
strict attention has been paid hitherto in acting up to the will of
the donor both in the letter and spirit.  And every thing at pre-
sent, both in respect of the school and the gift to the poor, is upon
the best and most agreeable footing. A very commodious house
of two stories in height, in pursuance of the suggestions of the do-
nor, was raised in the year 1765, in the near neighbourhood of the
parish church, by the late Duke of Queensberry, and another pub-
lic-spirited heritor. One large apartment is used for the school-
room, and the rest of the house appointed for the accommodation
of the teacher." The school-room of the donation school here
alluded to has been added to the dwelling-house of the teacher;
and a large and excellent school-room has been built partly by the
heritors, and partly by public subscription. It was evidently the
intention of the benevolent founder of this school, that the salary
should not only be equal but superior to that of any of the apro-
chial schools,--which it certainly was at the time of its foundation;
but as the salaries of the parochial schools have been several times
augmented since that period, they now exceed that of the schools
in question. It is therefore to be hoped that the Society for Pro-
pagating Christian Knowledge will, at no very distant period, see
the propriety of granting a suitable augmentation. The manse
			       3


