
			  HUNTLY.                           1045

of certain trustees, part of his property, to be employed in erect-
ing and endowing a house in Huntly for the maintenance of aged
and indigent natives, and a farther sum of money for the establish-
ment of a bursary of L. 20 annually to a student in divinity of the
Established Church. The former endowment is still in abeyance,
as Dr Scott's widow liferents the whole property, and, on this ac-
count, the ultimate value of this legacy cannot, at present, be ac-
curately ascertained; but the latter has been in operation now for
six or eight years.
	There is Dispensary in the town, maintained by subscription, for
supplying the poor gratuitously with medicines; and in connection
with this, the regular practitioners, of whom there are four, visit
and prescribe for the poor at their own houses.
	The Huntly Savings Bank for this and a few of the surround-
ing parishes is in a very flourishing condition. The total amount
of deposits at the last general statement, a month or two ago, was
L. 3644, 15s. 5d.; the number of depositors,-tradesmen, servants,
and the poorer classes, is 318; and, during the years 1840, 41,
and 42, the increase on the deposits has successively been L. 361,
L. 416, and L. 511, and that, too, notwithstanding the double draw-
back of the dulness of trade and the springing up of similar insti-
tutions in the surrounding districts.  The interest allowed on the
deposits is 3 1/2 per cent.
         Friendly Societies.-Formerly, there were several Friendly Socie-
ties in the parish; but these have all become extinct, as the meet-
ings of their managers had degenerated into mere scenes of dissi-
pation. One, however, has been recently instituted by a branch
of the Total Abstinence Society.
         Poor's Funds.-The number of paupers in the parish is greatly
increased by individuals, when disabled by age or otherwise from
country work, or cast out of their small farms, repairing to the town
from the neighbouring parishes, and there contriving to support
themselves from various sources, till they acquire a legal residence
in this parish. The number of paupers on the poor's roll is ac-
cordingly 160, and the average sum allotted to each is about
L. 1, 6s. per annum; but a few, who are bedridden, receive to the
extent of L.2, 10s. and L. 5 per annum. There is at present one
pauper lunatic who is maintained at an expense of from L. 12 to
L. 15.
   	Formerly, the poor's funds were made up of the ordinary and
other collections in the parish church, amounting annually to up-


