
	146                            ORKNEY.

	ten ware has been found an excellent manure for turnip.  Since
	the general use of turnip, our black-cattle have improved in qua-
	lity ; and farmers have also discovered, that it is better to have an
	under than an over stock, formerly the great error in this country.
	   The sea-ware was usually carried to the land in baskets, (term-
	ed creels) on the backs of horses, to the great injury of the health
	of this noble animal.  These creels, pressing on the ribs of the
	horse, created internal and incurable disorders.  It was liable also
	to objection in point of economy, as a great number of small
	horses was required ; but the general use of carts has nearly abo-
	lished the practice.
	   Until very lately the longest period for which even large farms were
	let, was nineteen years; but the greater number of farmers in our pa-
	rish are, at this moment, tenants at will.  While this narrow policy
	prevails, there can be no lasting substantial improvement.  For
	what individual, removed a single step from insanity, will risk his
	capital on improvements from which he has no certainty of profit ?
	It is pleasing, however, to reflect that one heritor has lately granted
	several leases of nineteen years ; and there is every reason to hope,
	that the practice will become general.
	   What is termed steelbow once existed ; but the practice is fast
	wearing out.  It may be thus described : A certain value in horses,
	ploughs, carts, harrows, and other farming utensils is delivered to
	the tenant, who must, at the end of his lease, leave on the farm the
	same value.  The dwelling-houses, cottages, and parks, are also
	valued by men mutually chosen ;--the tenant is paid for all
	ameliorations, and is charged for all deteriorations.  The term
	of entry is Martinmas, and the whole crop, (fodder, seed, and ser-
	vant's bolls excepted,) is the property of the outgoing tenant.
	The incoming tenant is bound, not only to thrash the whole crop,
	with the exceptions already stated, to the outgoing tenant, but
	also to dry his oats, and convert them into meal.  This practice,
	founded on wisdom and justice, is beneficial to both parties.
	Were it abolished, the incoming tenant could not lay down the
	crop for want of fodder, nor could the outgoing tenant convert his
	crop into meal, without barn, kiln, and other conveniences in the
	possession of the incoming tenant.
	   It has been supposed that steelbow is pernicious, by inducing
	men of no capital to take farms.  In an early period, steelbow
	might have been equal, or nearly equal to the value of stocking
	required for the farm.  But money has been so much depreciat-


