
420                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the rooms with water two feet deep, occasioning no small damage
to the furniture. The family were obliged to make a hasty retreat,
and to seek shelter in the neighbourhood, during the night.
   Lakes.-In this parish, there are several lakes of various sizes.
Lochericht is the principal one. It is supposed to be upwards of
twenty miles in length, and somewhat less than two miles in breadth.
Its north end is near Dalwhinnie; its southern extremity termi-
nates in the braes of Rannoch, and forms one of the reservoirs of   I
the river Tay. This splendid slieet of water runs in a straight
line in a southern directhon from Dalwhinnie; and in its course
divides the ancient forest of Drimachtor on the east, from that of
Benalder oil the west side. About one-third of this lake belongs
to, and lies within the territory of the parish of Fortingal, as it
leaves the boundaries of this parish before it has run above two-
thirds of its course to its southern termination. In the autumn of
1746, the Pretender spent two weeks in a place of concealment
near the banks of Lochericht. Here, he had the pleasure of
meeting Lochiel and Cluny, and other companions in tribulation,
who took shelter in this sequestered place, after their defeat at
Culloden. At the side of Locliericht, the Prince enjoyed an asy-
lum as inaccessible to the Duke of Cumberland's troops, as the
tracks of the Highlanders were to his troops. Here he recruited
his strength and spirits; and it was from this spot, that he set
out to embark in the ship that conveyed him to France.
   Next to Locherichtis Loeblaggan.  It is reckoned eight miles
long, and about one broad. All the lakes are stored with fish.  To
Lochlaggau, the best spawning ground perhaps in existence, the
salmon has no access. The sum of about L.50 in all probability
would remove the only obstacles-a rock in the river Spean, about
eight miles from the west end of the lake. It is reported that the
Marquess of Abercorn, who has a shooting lodge on the banks of
Lochlaggan, Cluny Macpherson, and other gentlemen, are about
to get this obstacle removed.
   Soil and Climate.-The soil in the lower valleys is alluvial,
and is in some places from ten to twelve feet deep. In favourable
seasons, it yields splendid crops of oats, bear, potatoes, sown and
natural grasses. Towards the end of July, these have a most lux-
uriant appearance. But the climate, although generally healthy,
is any thing but favourable to agriculture. Frost, snow, and rain
during winter and spring, retard the labours of the field; sowing,


