
214                     BERWICKSHIRE.

   Prisons.-There is a lock-up-house in the town, in which the
baron baillie has power to confine for a short time persons who
have been guilty of small offences, and where those charged with
greater crimes are kept previous to their being sent to the countyjail.
   Inns, &c.-The number of inns, public-houses, and shops where
spirits are sold in the parish is thirty-two,-which certainly far ex-
ceeds what is requisite, and is by no means favourable to the morals
of the people, especially under the present very low price of whisky.
   Fuel.-Coal is the only kind of fuel used in the parish, of which
it was calculated, when a railway was proposed between Kelso and
Berwick, that 5667 tons are annually consumed. It is brought
from the English collieries, which are distant from seven to ten
miles, and costs about 6d. per cwt.

		 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   It may be remarked in general, that the system of agriculture
pursued in this parish is not inferior to that of the best districts of
Scotland, and that, if farm produce brought a remunerating price,
which of late years it has not done, the present spirited tenantry
would be enabled to carry on draining and liming to a greater ex-
tent: and improvements would be greatly facilitated, were the rail-
way executed, which was projected a few years ago between Ber-
wick and Kelso.
   Three things seem requisite for promoting the happiness and
morals of the people: 1st, A complete change in the excise laws,
regarding the price of whisky, whereby the duty may be equa-
lized in Scotland and England: 2d, A change in the present
system of game laws, by which a check may be put to poaching:
3d, A change in the law of marriage in Scotland; for, as the law
at present stands, a declaration of the parties before two witnesses,
constitutes a marriage. Hence persons in England, where marriage
is regarded as a religious ceremony, which must be performed by
a clergyman of the Established church, very frequently come to
Coldstream and other border parishes, and are married by persons
of the lowest and most worthless character, who, it is said, perform
a religious ceremony in mockery of every thing sacred, and give
the parties a certificate that they had declared themselves married
persons. This led to the custom of persons in Scotland getting
themselves married in the same irregular way; and although few
comparatively-belonging to Coldstream are now guilty of this
breach of church law, yet many from other parishes are married at
Coldstream bridge.
  August 1834.


