
			NEW ABBEY.                             247


lumnar. But a better example is observed in a small united
group near the top of Drumburn, on Criffell. 3rd, Around the edge
of Lochkindar a siliceous sand is driven ashore from the lake, and
is supposed to be a detritus from Criffell. tho sand,when pulver-
ized, is valuable for the purpose of sharpening, scytbes.
	On the farm of Craigend, there is rocking-stone, estimated to
weigh about fifteen tons, and yet a child may put it in motion. It
was first discovered, about fifteen years ago, by two little girls,
sisters, who, while playing about it, noticed its vibrations, and with
astonishment reported them to their parents. Ht is a block sy-
enite: its position is on a piece of hard land surrounded by mossy
or swampy ground: it is quite insulated.
	Soil.--The arable land of the greatest and best part of the pa-
rish is a mixture of loam and gravel. There is, however, in this
or south-east districts a portion of alluvial clay; and the north end
of the parish is composed of clay, or moss upon a till bottom.
This is wet, and not easily drained, as the tenacious subsoil does
not allow the springs to discharge their water by filtration into the
drains at even a few yards distance, but forces it to the surface
in their immediate neighbourhood, so that, unless the drain cut
the spring, it is inefficient. In various parts of the parish, symp-
toms of coal have been reported; but either no efforts have been
made to trace them, or they have proved abortive, as is said to have,
been the case on the estate of Kinharvey and Corbelly.
	Fish.--A few salmon wandering from the Nith have, about
spawning time, in October, November, and December, been
found in the Pow; and vast quantities of flounders have been
caught on the sand-banks of the Nith, the eastern boundary of the
parish for about two miles.
	Woods.--The plantation and natural timber in the parish ex-
tends to about 600 acres, of which 350 belong to Mr Stewart of
Shambelly, who commenced planting at a very early period of life,
nearly sdventy years agos and has lived to reap the fruits of his
improvements, by drawing nearly L.100 per acre from land, which,
in its natural state, afforded nothing but a scanty coarse herbage,
browsed by goats and not worth 2s. 6d. per acre. The planta-
tions consist of Scotch fir, larch, beech, oak, and ash, which all
thrivd well. *
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Events.--In 1300, Edward I. encamped in the neigh-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Stewart died lately, aged 94.


