
122                         HADDINGTONSHIRE.

the following century, John de St Clair, who was then possessor of
the lands of Herdmanston, erected a chapel on his estate, with
the permission of the canons of Dryburgh, to whom he granted
two acres of land, with an indemnity "that his chapel should not in-
jure the mother church of Salton." * The monks of Dryburgh con-
tinued, until the Reformation, to enjoy these ecclesiastical posses-
sions. During the agitations of that eventful period, when personal
aggrandizement was so often sheltered under the pretence of pub-
lic principle, the ecclesiastical revenues of Salton, there is reason to
believe, fell a prey to the greed of some one or other of the local aris-
tocracy; and not until beyond the commencement of the seventeenth
century, was even a scanty portion of them restored to their original
sacred objects. In 1633, when, on the temporary establishment of
Episcopacy, the Bishopric of Edinburgh was erected, we find that
the church of Salton, with all its civil and ecclesiastical rights, was
transferred to the metropolitan see. In 1643, when Sir Andrew
Fletcher acquired the property, it is probable that the presentation
to the living was also conveyed. The right does not, however, ap-
pear to have been exercised by any of his successors till 1760;
since which period it has continued to be enjoyed by the family of
Fletcher.  +
   The situation of the present parish church is extremely advan-
tageous, being in the very centre of the parish, and in the most
populous village it contains. No individual is thus more distant
than two miles from the place of public worship, while nearly four-
fifths of the inhabitants are within a mile. The period of the ori-
ginal erection of the church is unknown. In 1805, it underwent such
extensive repairs that the present building may be considered as
almost entirely new; part of the interior only of the former walls
remains, and has been newly faced with neatly wrought ruble stone.
The figure of the church is that of the cathedral cross; the tower
and spire rising from the choir, and the pulpit, which is just in the
centre of the cross, looking down the nave. The whole of the in-
terior is painted, and has an air of great neatness and comfort.
The style of architecture of the present building may be described
as the mixed, or modern Gothic. At the period of the repair al-
ready mentioned, the external aspect of the church was beautified

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers' Caledonia, ii. 529-30.
           In 1646, the first vacancy after Sir Andrew's purchase of the property, he did not
present. In regard to the next vacancy in 1659, there is no Presbyterial record. In
1665, the Crown presented. In 1696 the induction proceeded on a call by "the
laird of Salton, the other heritors, and whole elders."


