
66                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

always been found in the sandstone. Fishes and marine shells,
though rarer, have been found in the limestone.
   Calcareous spar is found among the limestone, but neither per-
fect nor in great abundance.
   A great part of the alluvial deposit may be said to be hard clay,
varying in depth from six to sixty feet; a small part is loamy,
sandy, or peat, and a great proportion, gravel, with rounded blocks,
in some places at a depth of sixty feet and upwards, and bearing
indications of having been transported. Marine shells are frequent.
This depth, however, is only found in the lower ground; towards
the hill, the covering is generally thinner.
   Soil.-There is a great variety of soil in this parish. In the
valley which lies in the north-west quarter, and which conceals,
till a near approach, the church, the village, and the family man-
sion of the Marquis of Lothian, the soil consists of a rich loam, in
some places four feet deep, and has every appearance of being al-
luvial. As it lies upon a stratum of sharp gravel, the surface is
soon dried, and hence the air is more salubrious than might be
expected from its low position.
   On the north and west sides of the hill, the soil grows worse as
one ascends from the river towards the camp, shifting from a loam
to a strong clay, and then to a wet whitish sandy earth, which,
nevertheless, when properly cultivated, produces average crops.
On the southeastern slope of the camp, there was formerly a large
tract of ground, marshy and barren, but, for several years past, it
has been drained, and is now not only in a state of cultivation, but
exceedingly productive. On the south-west declivity, what was a
few years ago a mere waste, and consequently of little value, is
now, with the exception of a few acres, either covered with thriv-
ing plantations, or brought under cultivation.
   Zoology.-In regard to zoology there is nothing peculiar to this
parish deserving of particular notice. I may, however, mention
an insect, known here by the name of the American bug, which,
for some years past, has infested the finer kinds of the apple-trees.
It makes its appearance in the months of July and August, princi-
pally upon the branches that had been infected the year before,
and is found in clusters, covered with a white down, on wall trees
betwixt the branches and the wall. This insect is particularly in-
jurious to the young shoots. On the places which it infests, there
soon appears a protuberance, resembling a knot, extremely hard.
Sometimes the whole inside of the young shoot is covered with


