
86                        CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

ly few  sheep can be kept by them, which, both in respect to food and
clothing is most disadvantageous. Instances of longevity are very
frequent,-several persons now living are nearly 100 years of age,
and one man has completed his 105th year, and is still in possession
of all his-, faculties. As formerly stated, the Moray Frith forms
the boundary of this parish on the south-east. It varies in breadth
from 50 to 60 miles, possesses fine fishing-ground; but in stormy
weat ' her the sea is easilv raised into what sailors call a short tumb-
ling swell, which frequently proves fatal to fishing boats. The
tides are of considerable rapidity, and may bi6 about two hour& and
tbree-quarters beford Leitb. Perennial springs abound throughout
the parish, and the temperature of such as have been tried was
found, some of the more copious at 540, and the less so at 561 and
58\b. Many of them are much impregnated with iron. There are
three rivers in the parish, viz. Dunbeath, Berriedale and Langwell,
which abound with trout and salmon. They have their source
from twelve to sixteen miles from the sea, but are very small in
summer, though much swollen in winter, and very rapid. The
only lakes are Rangay'and Stempster, in both of which there,is plen-
ty of trout and eels. On the east side of the former, there are the
remains of a small fortification, which war; evidently surrounded by
the water of the lake by means of a ditch; and contiguous to the
latter are the ruins of a Dr uidical temple and the Arch.-Druid's
house.
  Geology.-The geological features of this parish are totally dif-
ferent from. those of the rest of the county, and inerit more notice
than the prescribed limits of this Account admit of. The greater
part of Caithness is what is called a secondary formation, consist-
ing chiefly of clay flagstone, having more or less calcareous matteri
with 6. few instances of the red sandstone, elevated into lofty bead-
larids at Dunnet ancl Duncansbay. On approaching the northern
boundary of the parish, betwixt Ulbster and Bruan, a great change
is observable in the physical character of the country. Beyond
this point, the southern portion of thcreounty, embracing this parish,
along the eastern coast is hilly and much diversified. A number
of streams intersect it, swelling in the winter to a great size. The
elevated portion of this district rises from the knotty promontory
of Clyth-ness, and forms several irregular terraces, occupying the
north part of the parish. The lowest of these dip 25&deg; to 30&deg; in-
land, while the higher and more rotund incline only 80&deg; or 10&deg;".


