
                  	STRACHAN.                              241

minister preaches in the former to the inhabitants of the district
once a-month. From 50 to 70 ordinarily attend.
   The average number of communicants is 520, nearly 100 of
whom are from the adjoining parishes. Average annual collec-
tions at church door, L.27. There is a weekly meeting, on Wed-
nesday evening, for religious instruction and prayer, conducted by
the minister; also a parochial religious association, in aid of the
General Assembly's schemes, which contributes from L.6 to L.7
annually to these, and occasionally other religious objects.
   Education.--The parochial school is very efficiently taught, by
Mr M'Connachie, on the intellectual system. The course of in-
struction comprehends the ordinary branches of a good education,
viz. Latin, Greek, geography, grammar, mathematies, book-keep-
ing, and a little of natural history and botany, with reading, writ-
ing, and arithmetic. The salary is the maximum. The school-
house is a neat and comfortable building, considerably larger than
the legal size; and the school-room was amply enlarged in autumn
1841, at an expense of L.80, and is most commodiously fitted up
for the business of education. There is also a weekly school at
Glendye, in winter, partially endowed, and frequently one in an-
other district of the parish, on the teacher's own adventure. In
these, only reading, spelling, and writing, with a little of arith-
metic, are taught. The attendance at these and the parochial
school, winter 1839--40, numbered 195.
   There are in summer two, and in winter four Sabbath schools,
in convenient localities, conducted by seven teachers, and super-
intended by the minister; also a class for the religious instruction
of young persons above fifteen years of age, on the Sabbath morn-
ings, during winter, taught by the minister. Amount of attendance:
on these, winter 1839--40, was 220.
   The parishioners highly appreciate the advantages of the week-
day and Sabbath schools, the best proof of which is found in the
number of children attending them, in proportion to the number
of the population, being about one in five. This proportion,
however, applies only to the six months in winter. Parents and
others have remarked, that these schools have bad a decidedly
beneficial influence on the morals of the children. Swearing
quarrelling, falsehood and Sabbath profanation are, it is hoped,
on the decrease among the young. The children love, the school,
and are often reluctant to remain at home when ill health or in-
clement weather renders it necessary.
	KINCARDINE.                            Q


