
	560                       ARGYLESHIRE.

   The earliest date in the register of baptisms and marriages is
1747; but the record is very imperfect down to 1774. From the
latter date to 1819, there is no record of baptisms and marriages
extant. From 1819 to the present time, it has been regularly
kept.
   Antiquities.--Along the valley of Kilmartin, and in some other
parts of the parish, there are a number of large circular cairns of
stones. Some of them have been explored and found to contain
stone coffins about four feet long by two broad, so that the body
must have been doubled up or burned, and the bones and ashes
deposited in them. The latter supposition is the more likdly, as
urns or earthen vases rudely ornamented, and containing a small
quantity of red ashes, are generally found at the one end of the
coffin, and human bones of a larger size than such as are now com-
monly met with, are deposited in the centre. A few silver coins,
and one in particular, bearing the name of Ethelred, has been
found in one of those stone coffins ; and in another a spear bead
about ten inches long, composed of a mixture of brass and iron;
as also a polished stone shaped somewhat like a battle-axe, which
seem to indicate that some of the persons whose remains have been
there deposited, were men whose "trade was war." Contiguos
to these cairns are occasionally to be found open circles of stones
placed on end, and large single pillars of stone standing upright,
from nine to twelve, and a few to the height of seventeen or eight-
een feet above ground.
   Various opinions are entertained regarding the origin of these
rude monuments of antiquity, which, like the Egyptian pyramids,
have outlived the names and events they were doubtless designed
to commemorate. Some think that they have been the work of
the Druids; while others, with more probability, believe that this
extensive plain must it some distant period have been the scene
of a succession of bloody contests between the natives and some
invading tribes, and that these monuments were raised by the
survivors, to the memory of those who had fallen in battle. The
name of the district, too, of which the valley of Kilmartin is
nearly the centre, viz. Aragaidheal,--i. e., the battle-,field, or
slaughter of the Gael,--seems to favour the latter supposition.
   At Ardafure, near Duntroon, there is a remarkable ancient
circular building, enclosing a considerable space of open ground
within. The wall is of great thickness, having one narrow entrance,
and apparently a covered way in the centre. It is supposed to
                             3


