
31		LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

Fishery.-The only fishery is at tire mouth of the Linn-mill
Burn, where very extensive stake-nets are erected for the capture
of salmon. This station was once tolerably productive, at least
in the latter months of the fishing season; but of late years, the
quantity taken has diminished materially. The lessee holds the
right of fishing from the proprietors of a great extent of coast.
The rent paid to proprietors within the parish is about L. 60
yearly. During several months, nearly thirty men are employed.

<TABLE>
   Amount of Raw Produce.-The following is an approximation
to the gross amount of raw produce yearly raised:-
Produce of grain of all kinds,         L. 1,015 0       0
	potatoes, turnips, &c.		  2,000	0	0
	bay,				  2,000	0	0
	land in pasture,		  7,000	0	0
          annual thinning of wood,          100 0       0
        fishery, (say)                      200 0       0
	quarries and mines, 		    900	0	0

        Total annual value of raw produce, L. 22,700    0
The annual rent of real property, as assessed in 1815, was L. 7722.
The burning of lime is the only branch of manufacture, with
the exception of the ordinary country artisanship. There are
two corn-mills driven by water, and a saw-mill lately erected, by
the Earl of Hopetoun, on the Nethermill Burn, the prospective
utility of which is very apparent, from the great extent of the
plantations, and the quantity of full-grown timber.
		V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Means of Communication.-The nearest market-towns are,
South Queensferry, distant three and a-half miles, and Linlithgow,
about six miles from the church of Abercorn. The former is the
most accessible post-town to the great bulk of the inhabitants'; com-
munication by, a private runner takes place twice a-day. There is
neither medical practitioner, general merchant, baker, nor butcher
within the parish; the villages of Newton Society, and Philpstoun
being mere harmlets, and furnishing merely a few retail shops for
groceries. The cluster of houses near the church cannot be cal-
led a village. The turnpike road from Queensferry to Linlithgow
traverses the parish for nearly four and a-half miles, all the others
are statute-labour roads. These, together with the bridges across
the rivulets and canal, kept in good repair. Stone and lime
walls are frequent, but the most prevalent fences are bedges and
dry stone dikes, which are efficient maintained. The Union
Canal passes through the south part of the parish, near its
boundary, affording the most accessible means of public con-


