
728			AYRSHIRE.

Dreghorn, on the south; Irvine and Kilwinning, on the west; and
Dunlop, on the north-west and north. Its greatest length is
nearly ten miles from east to west; its breadth from south to north
varies from four to three miles; it contains about twenty square
miles.
	Topographical Appearances.--The surface of the parish is beau-
tifully diversified with fine sloping grounds and gentle eminences,
and gradually rises from south-west to north-east, till it ends in
the boundary line with Renfrewshire, where the lands are of some
height, and diversified with hills; from several of which, many ex-
tensive views gratify the admirer of the wonders and beauties of
nature. The eye comprehends, in one sweep of the horizon, Ben-
lomond, on the north; Jura, Arran, Ailsa, and faintly in the dis-
tance Ireland, on the west; the Mull of Galloway, the boundary
hills of Kirkcudbright, and Dumfries-shire, on the south. North-
east winds prevail in the west of Scotland 104 days, north-west
40, south-east 47, and south-west 174. Westerly winds prevail
during July and August, north-east during January, March, May,
and June, north-west from November till March, the north-east
less frequent during February, July, September, and December,
and the north-west during September and October, than in other
months.
	Hydrography.--The parish possesses one mineral spring of little
celebrity as yet, called Bloak Well, first discovered, nearly thirty
years ago, by pigeons resorting to it from the neighbouring parishes.
A neat and handsome house is built over it by the proprietor, Mr
Cuninghame of Lainshaw. This was done in 1833, when he ap-
pointed a keeper to take care of it.
	The parish is watered throughout its whole extent by streams
of considerable size, the Annock, the Swinsey, and the Corsehill
and East Burns, and the Glazart. The whole of these streams,
with the exception of the Glazart, unite with the Annock at the
town of Stewarton. The Glazart joins the Annock at Water-
meetings, four miles below. The Annock flows from the White
Loch, in Mearns parish, six miles east of Stewarton. Some of
them run in not very deep channels.
	Geology.--Whinstone is the mineral chiefly met with, and is
found mostly above the town, and towards Renfrewshire on the
north and east. Freestone adapted to building is abundant. Lime-
stone abounds on the east of the town, and lies near the surface,


