
     of Inveresk.

that are called Oliver's Mounts, and are supported to have
been batteries of Cromwell's, one to command the bridge,
and the other to defend his magazine which was in the
village of Inveresk.  Lord HAILES used to alledge that
they were of greater antiquity than Cromwell, and might
have been ramparts of a Roman camp; but the circum-
stance mentioned in the note afforts a strong presumption
of the contrary.

   The stipend, from 1650 till 1781, was 1 chalder of wheat,
1 of barley, and 1 of oats; and L. 66, 1 o s. in money.  In
1781, the present incumbent obtained an augmentation,
and the stipend is now 2 chalders of wheat, 3 of barley,
and 3 of oats, paid in money, at the fiars of Mid-Lothian,
and L. 62 in money, including communion elements.  There
is likewise a glebe of 5 1/2 acres inclosed by the present in-
cumbent, together with a house and garden, and a field be-
fore the house, making in all acre, which were given by
the town of Musselburgh to the minister of the parish, when
the manse was built in 1681; for an addition to which field,
made in 1758, he pays 1 s. yearly of feu-duty.  Since
1702 there has been an assistant probationer, for whom there
is a very slender support, out of certain funds allotted for
that purpose.  The Duke of Buccleugh is patron of the parish.

   Burgh.-Musselburgh is a very ancient burgh of Rega-
lity*, and was once called Musselburgh-shire.  The mill,
 
     VOL. XV1. D

<FOOTNOTE>

dug, as deep as 7 feet below the surface of the church-yard, and 11 be-
low the top of the mount, there were found many human bones in full
preservation, which seems to furnish proof that the ramparts had been
erected since the fields was inclosed for a church-yard.

*Before the Reformation, it was an ecclesiastical burgh belonging.
inter alia, to the abbacy of Dunfermline. It was disjoined by King
James VI. from that abbacy, and given in donation to one of the family
of Lauderdale: and when the whole abbacy was given to Queen Ann
of Denmark, the reclaimed the regality of Musselburgh, as compreheded


