
 598                              ARGYLESHIRE.


   The small portions of the walls still exposed do not indicate a
period earlier than the fourteenth or fifteenth century. The castle
shared in the tumultuary events of its country's history. It was be-
sieged and taken by Baliol in 1333, and again retaken by ''Robert
the Steward" in 1334, and it may be supposed to have been first raised
to the rank of a palace when he ascended the throne. The royal
charter already quoted proves the Argyle family to have acquired
the lordship of it in 1472, as they most probably did indeed a consi-
derable time before that date, both of this castle and of most of the
lands in the district, denominated ''King's Cowal," or '' Steward's
Cowal," excluding, it is believed, the district of Kerry (now the
parish of Kilfinan), and Stralachlan and Strachur. The castle
was again besieged by the Earl of Lennox, in his descent on the
west of Scotland in 1554, when the Earl of Argyle was obliged
to abandon it with considerable loss. Most probably, the more
modern masonry, which portions of the walls disclose, may have
been Aexecuted subsequently to that event by the Argyle family,
and previously to 1563, when it was visited by Queen Mary.
Charters are extant, granted by Queen Mary, on occasion of this
visit. It appears to have continued to be a residence of the Ar-
gyle family, till the earlier part of the seventeenth century. The
political convulsions of that period, in which that noble family
shared and suffered so deeply, appear to have caused, with other
effects to them, their ceasing to reside in Dunoon Castle ; and the
last public event connected with its history occurred in connection
with their interests in 1646, when deeds of barbarous atrocity were

mology and its origin, is a usage of the district and of its dialect, now almost for-
gotten. The inhabitants of the village of Dunoon, as it formerly existed, and of a
certain space around it, were styled by their neighbours in Cowal, M-r-lannoich, i.e
the men or the race of the M-r-lann, the castle " pertinents," - the term being used
as a kind of jocose taunt, implying against them some reproach of vassalage or ser-
vility. And however groundlessly applied in more modern times, the inhabitants of
this particular locality being equal in all respects of good fame to their neighbours
using the taunt, yet its application indicated the origin of the appellative. And
though this may appear to some but slender foundation for a historical theory, yet,
when considered with the ordinary local usage and speech, the term, in its compo-
nent parts, being foreign to the native dialects, and manifestly Irish, together with the
popular idea attached to it, amounts, in our apprehension, to no mean historical evi-
dence, that this castle had its remote period of Irish, or rather Dalrindic sway;
and that that colony very probably were the strangers after all, who gave to Dunoon
its present existing name. The real signification of the term M-r-lannaich appears,
more recently at least, to have become unknown to those employing it, while still it'
usage continued to prevail, showing both the antiquity and the foreignness of its
origin. It is indeed but natural to suppose, that a conquering colony would have
their attention directed to such a spot, and that one of their first measures would be
to put it in proper defensive condition; and hence, most probably, it had become a
place of importance in the district, several centuries previous to the period when we
find it gifted to the, High Steward of Scotland.


