
	304                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	timber thrive well when duly fenced and properly preserved.  An
	ash has been observed to grow nearly four feet in the course of
	one season.  Of all the indigenous timbers, the sail seems most
	congenial to ash, birch, and hazel.  Apples, pears, cherries, goose-
	berries, and currants thrive well, and are found in all the gardens,
	It is evident that the pine must have, at some remote period, been
	a native of the parish, as the trunks of fir trees of considerable
	size are found deeply imbedded in the moss in different parts of it.

				II-CIVIL HISTORY.
	  This parish is known to have been, as far back as the year 1354,
	the family property of the Mackinnons, who took a prominent part
	in the turbulent proceedings of that period, as well as in the more
	recent disturbances of 1715 and 1745.  The Mackinnon of that
	day, who espoused the cause of the Pretender, was arrested and
	taken to London to stand his trial for high treason; and, after
	being confined for nearly twelve months in Tilbury Fort, the Go-
	vernment, in consideration of his advanced age, and seeing that
	he had been involved in these revolts rather from a spirit of chi-
	valry than of rebellion, set him at large, with liberty to return
	home.  Being reminded by Sir Dudley Ryder, then Attorney-
	General, of the debt of gratitude which be owed to his sovereign
	for this act of clemency, when, by rebellion, he had forfeited both
	his life and property, Mackinnon quaintly replied, "Had I the
	King in my power, as I am in his, I would return him the com-
	pliment, by sending him back to his own country."  William
	Alexander Mackinnon, Esq. M. P. for Lymington, and author of
	a work of great merit on Public Opinion, now represents the an-
	cient family of Mackinnon.  The late Colonel Mackinnon of the
	Coldstream Guards, so well known for the elegance of his man-
	ners and for his extraordinary feats of strength and agility, as
	well as for his distinguished bravery during the peninsular war,
	and in the ever memorable battle of Waterloo, was brother to
	the present chief.  General Henry Mackinnon, so frequently and
	honourably mentioned in the Duke of Wellington's Despatches,
	and who fell at Cuidad Roderigo, after having in the most gallant
	style secured possession of that fortress, was his uncle.
	  Land-owners.-The only heritors in the parish are Lord Mac-
	donald and Mr Macalister of Strathaird.  This parish, originally
	the property of Mackinnon, was purchased about eighty years ago
	the Trustees of the great and good Sir James Macdonald, then
	a minor, from, the Trustees of Mackinnon of Mackinnon, when a


