
680                        LANARKSHIRE.

the influence of Duplessis Mornay, * Whose friendship he enjoyed
till his death, that he was removed from Vertuille to that univer-
sity.  In October 1614, having been appointed by King James
to preside over the University of Glasgow, he left Saumure, along
with a French lady, whom he had married but a short time before.
They came to England by Dieppe, and, after spending a few
days in London, proceeded to Scotland. +  At his installation, as
Principal of the University of Glasgow, Boyd stipulated that he
should be allowed to make a trial of his office for one year; that
be should not be called upon to undertake all that the Principal
was required to do by the foundation charter, which he did not
think any one man could perform; and that he should be excused
from correcting the students ++ with his own hands, and from taking

<FOOTNOTE>" Mornay,-----
            Servit egalement son eglise et la France
            Censeur des courtisans, mais a la cour aime;
            Fier enemi de Rome, et de Rome estime."
  La Henriade, chant premier, vers 151. " Duplessis Mornay le plus vertueux et
le plus grand homme du parti Protestant naquit a Buy le 5 Novembre 1549. Il sa-
vait le Latin et le Grec parfaitement, et l'Hebreu autant qu'on le peut savoir: ce
qui etait un prodige alors dans un gentilhomme. Il servit sa religion et son maitre
de sa plume et de son epec."-Note de I'Editeur.
          The following extracts from Wodrow's Life of Boyd may be gratifying to poli-
tical and domestic economists:  " He agreed with a coachman at London, and gave
him L. 24 Sterling for his coach and four horses to take him and his family to Edin-
burgh, the coachman paying for the horses by the way.  They parted from London,
November 24, and arrived at Edinburgh in seventeen days, upon the 10th of De-
cember, and were generally speaking, 10s. a-day for their own and the coachman's
meat.  From Edinburgh they came to Glasgow upon Thursday, December 3ist, and
lodged with Sir George Elphinstown of Blythswood [who was married to a daughter
of Lord Boyd,] till January 27, 1615." (p, 68.) " He observes, that when he came
to Glasgow, he gave Mr Taylour, for coming to his wife an hour everv day, and
teaching her to read English, for about three months, an angelot, value 10 merks."
(P. 71.)  The items next mentioned, will startle, I have no doubt, the modern
comptrollers of some presbytery clubs.  " He ate, save when abroad, every month
at the presbytery, and they paid 6d. a-piece for their dinner, and sometimes 8d. a-
piece when they called for wine.  I find him very charitable, and giving largely to
poor objects, and particularly to some Flemish and other foreigners in straits.  No
small branch of his outgings is for books." (p.74.) "He gives sometimes nineteen
merks, sometimes eighteen, for a carcass of beef."  Ibid.  The contrast between the
former and the present state of Glasgow will appear strange to some, when they find
that he procured " most of his furniture from Edinburgh and London,-his clothes
for himself and his lady their pouther [pewter?] their chairs, and all kinds of spices
and drugs, and what they needed in psychic, and all his candle.  It seems he could
not be provided inthose in Glasgow."  for a horse to Govan, " be gave 8d., and,
at lowest half a merk ; to Paisley, 1s. 6d."  Wodrow, who died in 1734, thinks
these charges quite exorbitant.  He ir therefore disposed to think they must have
included a charge for an additional horse for the servant of the Principal.  Ibid.
          Wodrow's Life of Boyd, p. 70.  He made a similar stipulation in the presence
of the magistrates and council, before he entered upon the duties of his office as
Principal of the University of Edinburgh.  He was of opinion, that to have things
well ordered, and good manners duly maintained and observed, "personal castigation
of the students was necessary."  But for him to inflict this, besides being repugnant
to his nature, and at variance with his former practice, he thought would be incon-
sistent with his sacred character.  He admitted that his predecessor at Glasgow, Mr
Patrick Sharp, was not of this mind.  But then, said he, Mr Sharp merely conti-


