
140                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

have been reared in the parish, to which branch of rural economy
much attention is now paid.  Colts reared in the parish resemble
the Lanark or Clydesdale breed, but have less bone.  The colours
preferred are black or dark bay.
   " The cattle are generally a mixture of the Angus and Aber-
deen breeds, but nearer the Aberdeenshire; the colour black and
polled; they have the deep and broad chest of the Aberdeen ox,
and are not so long in the spine `s the Angus breed.  Great at-
tention is paid to the rearing of black-cattle; and great bare taken
in selecting the animals to breed from.  Part are generally sold in
the autumn, when rising three years old, for the road, i. e. for the
English market, and part fed in winter and sold for the Glasgow
market, where they fetch the highest prices." (Some of the best
animals have lately been sent, by the Aberdeen and Dundee steam
vessels, and more lately by the Montrose steamer, to London, where
they find a ready sale, and generally bring a remunerating price.)
   "No sheep are'reared in the parish, and very few are grazed
or fed.
Husbandry.-" The convertible system of husbandry is universally
followed and as the soil is best adapted for the grass and turnip hus-
bandry, what is called the shift course is generally adopted.      The
four-shift course is followed where the soil is a deep loam, and even
in interior soils near Laurencekirk, where there is a command of
manure.  Where manure is at a distance, a seven-shift course has
been tried b some farmers, two successive white crops being taken
after the land has been in grass for three years; but this course
is by no means common.  The drill husbandry, as applicable to.
the cultivation of green crops, is universally followed; but after
some slight trials, this mode of sowing white crops has been aban-
doned.  Lime has has until lately been applied to fallow land; but as
the prices obtained for produce are now 'peace' prices, while the
rents paid are still 'war' rents, the quantity of lime applied is di-
minishing yearly, and, it is to be feared, that a diminution of the
produce must be the consequence-
   "The usual duration of lease4 is nineteen years, and the con-
ditions of lease are those now generally introduced over Sc -otland.
Although the tenant is bound to a certain retation'of cropping, yet
this is seldom strictly attended to, and he is generally -left free to
exercise his -own judgment, and to follow what course may seem
to himself most advantageous.
   "Of the farm-houses many are of two stories and slated, but they


