                         GLENCROSS.                          317

   The session records bear also that collections were sometimes
made by order of acts of Privy-Council for the erection of diffe-
rent works in various places in Scotland, such as bridges, harbours,
&c. and for the relief of persons in slavery in Algiers.
   The session records are chiefly filled with accounts of money
given to the poor and church-officers, and with the administration
of church discipline, to those guilty of immoral conduct, in all
ranks of life, such as drunkenness, scolding, swearing, fighting,
stealing, &c. and which far exceeded in minuteness and severity
the discipline of the present day.
   It seems to have been the practice for parties giving in their
names for proclamation of banns, to deposit a sum of money ge-
nerally a crown piece or dollar, in the session-clerk's hand, and
some person became caution for another crown in behalf of the
other party, "which money is to be disposed upon for the use of
the poor, in case of miscarriage betwixt the parties."
   Antiquities.--There are distinct vestiges of two camps in this
parish, one at Castlelaw, and the other on a rising piece of ground,
which forms part of the base of Turhouse hill. There were, a few
years ago, the very perfect remains of a Druidical temple on an
eminence on Mr M'Niel's property, close upon the high road,
near Marchwell. It formed a circle of large stones, placed near
each other, forty feet in diameter. Lately, however, they have
been heedlessly broken and removed, to build a wall which now
runs through tbe middle of it.
   A few years ago, a number of stone-coffins were discovered,
when digging for gravel in a field close to the church-road near
Glencorse gate, in which bones, much decomposed, were found.
The coffins were of a very rude construction, formed of flat stones
of various sizes. They lay quite close to and parallel with one
another, and were about three feet from the surface. To what pe-
riod they are to be referred, it is impossible to determine, and there
is no tradition on the subject.
   Modern Buildings.--The chief modern buildings are the man-
sion-houses of Bush, Glencorse, Loganbank, and Bellwood.
   The old mansion-house of Greenlaw was converted into a French
prison at the breaking out of the war, after the short peace in 1803,
and was for a number of years the only French prison in Scotland.
Afterwards in 1813, Government having  purchased the grounds
there, a spacious depot was erected, calculated to contain 7000
men, with suitable barracks for the accommodation of soldiers.
The war, however, having come to a termination before the build-


