
                            EDDERTOUN.                         453

	being Tain. The mail-gig, which ruus betwixt that town and
	Bonar Bridge, passes here at 8 A. M. going to Kincardine, and at
 	6 P. M. on its return to Tain.
	   There is a good harbour at Ardmore, capable of accommodating
  	vessels of 150 tons burthen; and during the summer season, a
	considerable number of schooners and smacks, and sometimes a
	brig, arrive there, with cargoes of coals, lime, &c.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated about a mile
	and a half from the eastern extremity of the parish, and eight
	from the western extremity towards Kincardine, (which is marked
	by an immense rock of grey whinstone, extending from the public
	road to the sea, at a place called Ardcronie.) It is exactly a mile
	from the manse, and is very inconveniently situated for the inhabitants,
  	on account of the distance the greater part of them have
	to come. There are two dates on the church, "1743," being that
	on the west, and "1794," that on the east gable; the former is
	the date of its original erection, and the other of the last repair
	of any consequence which it received. Its length is 55
	feet, breadth 18, and height of ceiling 7 feet from gallery, and
	under gallery, 6 feet 3 inches,-tbe walls being only 10 1/2 feet high
	outside, and passages and floor sunk two feet. All the seats, excepting
	about half-a-dozen, are too narrow from back to front,
	many being Only 21 inches, while the legal minimum width is 27
	inches. The roof and galleries are much decayed, the west one
	being supported by props, the front gallery so ill constructed as
	to be but seven feet from the pulpit, and there are several rents in
	the back wall. In conclusion, the church is ill righted and venti.
	lated, and is situated in such a low damp place, that the floor is
	frequently flooded; so that, on the whole, it is perhaps the worst
	constructed, and most uncomfortable place of worship in the
	county.
	   The church seats are all free, and have never been divided by
	the heritors of the parish. They accommodate from 400 to
	500 persons, though, if the legal seat-room were exacted, the
	number would not exceed 300,-very inadequate accommodation
	for the population.
	   The manse, which was originally close to the church, and had
	to be removed on account of a destructive inundation of the river,
	was built in its present situation in the year 1799; and received
        a considerable repair in 1838,-several small additions which contribute
	much to the comfort of the house, being then erected. A
	new set of offices was also built at that time.


