
                         EDINBURGH.                             643

the first story of every tenement of land, from the hoor of five in
the evening till ten.
From an order of the town-council in the year 1635 for: assess-
ing the inhabitants in 12,000 merks yearly, towards paying the
ministers' stipends, we find that the total number of houses within
the city was 5071, and the annual rental L. 192,118 Scots.
Edinburgh was first protected by a wall in the reign of James II.,
who, in 1 50, granted a charter to the citizens for the purpose, as
also a power of assessing money to build one. This first wall only
enclosed the town on part of the western and eastern ends, and
southern side, for the houses on the west side of Leith Wynd served
instead of a wall in that place, as did the North. Loch on the
north, which was made to save the expense of a wall on that
side, by erecting a dam across the bottom at the foot,of Halker-
stone's Wynd.
After this period the town having extended considerably, and
the street of the Cowgate having been built without the first wall,
it was found necessary for the farther protection of the city, espe-
cially after the alarm at the defeat of Vlodden, to rebuild and ex-,
tend a considerable portion of the walls. This extended wall
commenced at the south-eastern edge of the Castle rock, and de-,
scended the hill intersected by the West Port. It again ascended
part of the High-rigs Hill, run along the gardens of Herioes Hos.
pital, and passed through Greyfriars churchyard to Bristo Port.,
From this it passed eastward intersected by Potterrow Port, then
by the south side of the College and Infirmary to the Pleasance,
thence to the Cowgate Porto and ascending St Mary's Wynd, it
joined the other wall a little below the Netherbow.
In 1560 it was farther extended from Leith Wynd to the east-
ern end of the North Loch. There were nine gates or ports in
this wall, viz. the West Port, Bristo Port, Potterrow Porto. COw-
gate Port, Netherbow Port, Hospital Postern Gate, College
Church Postern, that of Halkerstone's Wynd, and the. Dung Fort
in Leith Wynd.
There were few leading streets: in the old city, but the houses
were carried along in narrow closes and wynds. In imitation of
the Parisian architecture of the period, the houses were also build
very high, consisting of from twelve to thirteen stories.  These
structures are called lands: or tenements; each flat or story con-
stituted a distinct dwelling, and frequently formed a distinct free-
hold, the access to each being by a stair common to the whole.


