
156                             AYRSHIRE.

 	                 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Market-Towns--Means of Communication.--There are two vil-
lages in the parish, Muirkirk and Glenbuck. The latter village
was an appendage to the iron-works erected at that place, and car-
ried on for some time by an English company. These works were
given up many years ago, and the village has since fallen into de-
cay. Muirkirk is a thriving village, and is also indebted for its pre-
sent extent to the iron-works already mentioned, erected in its
neighbourhood. The nearest market-town is Strathaven, situated
at a distance of thirteen miles, to which there is an excellent road.
The road from Edinburgh by Douglas-mill to Ayr passes through
it; and there is a good road to Mauchline, which is distant fourteen
miles. Some of the parish roads have been lately repaired out of
the statute-labour collected from the inhabitants, and it is expect-
ed that the remaining roads will be made and repaired ere long out
of the same fund. There is a post-office. There are several
bridges in the parish, particularly on the line of the Edinburgh
road, in tolerable repair. The canals and rail-roads are connect-
ed with the ironworks, and limited in their extent.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated near the
centre of the parish, and is as convenient as it possibly can be for
the greater part of the inhabitants. It will be between four and five
miles from the extremities. It was built about twenty years ago, and
has lately undergone a thorough repair, and is capable of accommo-
dating 1000 sitters. The manse has been repaired within the last
four years, and is at present comfortable. The glebe extends to
about 14 acres, has been greatly improved, and is now capable
of raising almost any crop. The stipend amounts to L. 150 per
annum.
	There is only one meeting-house in the parish, belonging to the
Burgher persuasion. It has been only occasionally preached in for
the last three years. The number of families attending the Esta-
blished Church is 380, and the number attending the meeting-
house 45. Divine service is well attended, and the number of com-
municants 400.
	Education.--There are four schools in the parish. The parish
schoolmaster receives a salary of L. 28 per annum, with free house
and garddn. About 70 scholars attend. Altogether his emolu-
ments, exclusive of house and garden, may amount to L. 80. The
branches taught are Greek, Latin, English, writing, arithmetic, and


