
                  DOLLAR.                               117

consisting of eight connected with the Relief Synod; and one
family of six, who give out that they are Baptists.
   Divine service is generally well attended in the Established
Church; and we believe also in the meeting-house ; making allow-
ance for the small number of Dissenters.
   The average number of communicants in the Established Church
is about 350. There are no societies for religious purposes es-
tablisbed in the parish, except a ladies missionary sotiety, lately
formed. The average amount of collections yearly for the As-
sembly's different schemes, including an annual public collection
for the poor, may be about L. 15.
   Education.-The schools in the parish are three: 1st, the pa-
rochial school; 2d, Macnab's school; 3d, a girl's school. The
branches of education taught in the parochial school are, reading,
writing, and arithmetic. None of the higher branches,--such as
Latin and mathematics,--are taught: indeed, the parish school is
almost superseded by Macnab's school. The parochial school-
master's salary is L.25, 17s. 91/4d: he receives besides, L. 3 as ses-
sion-clerk; and about L. 1, 6s. as interest on mortified money,
which varies with the rate of interest. His school fees, at an aver-
age, amount annually to L. 11 or L. 12;--say L. 11. The fol-
lowing branches of education are taught at Macnab's school or
Dollar Institution, under separate masters, viz. 1. English and.
English grammar; 2. writing and arithmetic; 3. Latin, Greek,
and oriental languages; 4. modern languages; 5. mathematics;
6. drawing; 7. geography. There is also a numerous infant school
in connection with this establishment.
   The amount of salaries of the masters in Macnab's school was,
at one time, made partly dependent on the number of their pupils;
but, of late, the minimum of salary to each master has been fixed at
L. 140 per annum, with a large house and garden. No fees are
paid by the pupils attending Macnab's school to the master, but are
paid quarterly to the treasurer of the institution. The fees former-
ly amounted yearly to about L. 100; but, in consequenceoftbeirbeing
lately lowered, they now average about L. 80 yearly. Boarders
pay '10s. per annum for library and other school dues, and 5s. per
quarter for each class they attend; consequently, if they attend three
classes, the yearly expense will be L. 3, 2s. 6d.; if four classes,
the yearly expense will be L. 4. The children of residenters who
have been three years in the parish, and are supposed to be in
good circumstances, pay 2s. per quarter for library, &c. and 5s. per
quarter,foreach class they attend; consequently, if they attend three
classes, the yearly expense will be L.2, 19s. 6d.; if four classes, the


