
<APPENDIX>

xvii

Indians themselves, devouring the friend of their bosom, or tearing the flesh
off their bodies in the pangs of hunger and famine.  'Read this, my coun
trymen and friends, read it and tremble; reflect within yourselves, if this
was your situation, if you could support it; and if you would wish to pre-
serve yourselves, your relations, and friends, from infamy and disgrace, do
not attempt to leave your so much beloved native country, which will soon
grow clamant for your continuance in it; and believe him who always
wished for your safety in his youth, and will always pray for it in his old
age.

     I am yours, etc.
     JULIUS CAESAR.

     EDINBURGH,
     October 9, 1769.

<APPENDIX>

B.

     First Circular Letter to the Clergy of the Church of Scotland.

     SIR,

   I TAKE the liberty of transmitting the inclosed Queries to you, in hopes
that a plan, which has been fortunate enough to meet with the appro
bation of some of the most respectable and distinguished characters in these
kingdoms, will be favoured with your assistance.
   To procure information with regard to the real political situation of a
country, is what wife Statesmen in every age have thought desirable, but
which in these enlightened times in justly held of the most essential public
importance*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The ancients frequently inculcated this idea: "Ad consilium de re-
"publica dandum, caput est, nosse rempublicam."  Cicero de Orotore,
lib. 2.  "In republica cognoscenda, multam, maguamque curam habui,
"uti quantum armis, viris, opulentia, ea posset; cognitum haberem."  Sal-
lust. ad Caesar. de Republ. ordin. Epist. seu Orat. 2. cap. 1. And M. de
Hertsberg, the Prime Minister of Prussia, very justly remarks, "Qu'on re-
"connoit de plus en plus, que la grunde politique, ne consiste pas dans le
"mystere dont les gouvernmens se couvroient jadis, mais que ceux qui a-
"gissent a decouvert avee publicite et franchise, gagnent beaucoup plus la
"confiance, des fujets, et des voisins."  Dissertation fur la Population des
Etats en general, et sur celle des Etats Prussiens en particulier.  An. 1785.


