                      DALKEITH                        487

  Cromwell entered Scotland with his army on the 22nd July
1650. The gloom that clouded the commencement of his enter-
prise was dissipated by the eventful battle of Dunbar, fought on
the 3d September following. Charles II. quickly placed himself
at the head of his troops, and boldly determined to advance into 
England; but he was closely followed by Cromwell; and his de-
feat at Worcester, on the 3d September 1651, placed both coun-
tries at the nod of the conqueror. In the meantime, General 
Monk had been left in Scotland to reduce or overawe the rest of
the country; and eight commissioners, appointed by the parliament
for the management of Scottish affairs, occupied the castle of Dal-
keith, and held a convention of the representatives of countries and
burghs, for the purpose of incorporating England and Scotland:
The dissolution of the parliament on the 20th April 1653, put a
stop to these proceedings, and on the 16th December following,
Cromwell was proclaimed Protector of England.*
  In 1653, Monk had been appointed to the command of the
English fleet, and the opportunity was embraced  of making an-
other effort in favour of Charles II.; but, in 1654, Monk was
reinstated in his command of the troops in Scotland, and, by his
decision and mildness, soon succeeded in restoring tranquillity.
  The presence of this general in Scotland being considered
necessary to maintain the peace of the country, he fixed his head-
quarters at the Palace of Dalkeith, in 1654, a lease of which for five 
years he obtained from the guardians of Mary, the youthful Countess
of Buccleuch. Here he lived in comparative retirement, and, by a
happy union of rural pursuits, with the most unremitting attention
to his official duties, his residence at Dalkeith was a source of
happiness to himself and advantage to his country. During his 
stay at Dalkeith, his family was afflicted by the death of one of
his sons, who was buried in the chancel of the parish church; and
the poignant but manly grief which the general manifested on his
sad occasion is spoken of in terms of the highest commendation by 
his biographers.+
   On the death of the Protector, 3d September 1658, measures
were originated for the restoration of Charles. We are told by
his biographer,++ that, while the general was residing at Dal-  

<FOOTNOTE>
 * See Lingard's History of England, Vol. x. page 374, London, 1839.
 + Gumble's Life of General Monk. London 1671, page 475. Dr Gumble was
one Monks chaplains, and an eye-witness of the transactions which he records,
from 1655 and downwards.
++ Skinner's Life of General Monk, edited by Webster. London, 1724, page 99.
