
                          ABERCROMBIE.                         339

north-west, almost in a dead level, to the extremity of the parish.
There are, however, undulations of the surface which give beauty
and variety to the landscape, now greatly improved by the thriving
and well disposed plantations of Sir Ralph A. Anstruther.
The climate is mild and salubrious. In winter and early spring
there are occasionally violent gales from the south-east, of several
days continuance. The effect of these is the detaching and bring-
ing ashore an immense quantity of sea-weed, which the farmers
on Sir Wyndham Anstruther's estates secure with great alacrity,
as making excellent manure.
Hydrography-In striking contrast to our southern boundary,
the majestic Forth, we have, as our boundary on the west and
north-west, the small stream anciently called Inweary, rising in
adjacent marshes in Kilconquhar parish, and, after a course of two
miles, falling into the Forth close by the old church of St Monan's.
On the north-east we have the burn of Dreel, arising in the
heights of Baldutho, and after a course of five or six miles, with
Carnbee and West Anstrutber parishes on the left bank, and Aber-
crombie and Pittenweem on the right, falling into the - Forth at
West Anstruther.
There are several perennial springs in the parish, the water
excellent, and well adapted for all domestic purposes. The mm-
ing connected with the coal is said to have drained some of the
principal wells. There is a spring within high-water-mark, and
supposed to be of a ferruginous quality.
Geology.-The position of the rocks along the sea shore is
much diversified, and their stratification very varied. The geo-!
logical history and character, or probable origin of the rocks, in
their various dips and bearings, the present incumbent does not
pretend to give in scientific phrase. But if there be a feature es-
pecially prominent in the rocks which bristle upon our formidably
shore, it is, that, consisting of sandstone, limestone, and till, -they
run out from. the land in parallel ridges, of different eleva tions. ,
The direction of these ridges is from N. E. to S. W., and their
dip to the S. E. in various angles to the horizon.
A wider opening than occurs in general betwixt these ridge.%
(about 200 feet) presents an obvious and natural harbour, oppo-
site to the middle of the village. The sides of this inlet, in
stead of dipping like consecutive ridges in one directions-er-pand
and mutually, fall back, forming a spacious entrance, of which due


