
1090                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

preserved in her Majesty's Exchequer, has been published by Sir
Francis Palgrave:
         "24 Ed. 1.-Submmision and fealty of Sir John de Malvill.
	"A touz ceux qui cestes lettres verront ou orront Johan de
Malevill Chevaler saluz. Pur ce q je venu a la foi t a la volunte du
tres noble Prince mon chier Seigneur Edward par la gace de Dieu
Roy d Engletre Seigneur d Irland t Ducs d Aquitain: je pmet
pur moy t pur mes heirs, &c. Donees a Lunfanan le vintime pri-
mer jour de Juyl lan du regne nostre Seigneur le Roy d Engletre
avant dit: vintisme quart.
        "(Indorsed-A Lunfanan, xxi die Jul. Lra Dni Johis. de Ma-
levile p qua. Ide Stowe quesivit ecciam de Glenberuy.-Lun-
fanan, xxi. Jul.-Seal lost.")*
	It can hardly be doubted that the Peel Bog which, with the
exception of the Bass at Inverury, was then the most important
wooden fortress in the county of Aberdeen, was the scene of the
submission of Sir John de Malevill to the English monarch.
	In 1487, the lands of Halton, Pitmorchie, and Craigamore in
Lumphynhanan, were granted by James III. to Thomas Charteris
of Kinfauns.+ In 1546, Thomas Charteris of Kinfauns was
served heir to his grandfather Thomas in the barony of Lun-
fanan, lying within the barony of O'Neil.++ In 1655, Patrick Ir-
vine was served heir to his grandfather, John Irvine, in the lands
of Halton, Pitimurchie, and Craigton of Lumphanan, lying within
the barony of Lumphana. The trials for witchcraft published by
the Spalding Club, show that John Irvine of Pitmurchie was a per-
son of no little consequence, as he was appointed chancellor of
an assize held on 25th April 1597, of which John Ross of Auch-
lossin, Alexander Chalmer of Balnacraig, and John Forbes of
Camphill were members.||
	A building formed a part of the Peel Bog within the memory of
the present generation. That there existed on the top of the
mound, before the year 1782, the ruins of an ancient structure
fronting the east; that the northern gable was close to the path
which winds from the draw-bridge; that the walls and the south-
ern gable, though decayed and defaced, were distinctly visible;

<FOOTNOTE>Documents and records illustrating the history of Scotland, preserved in thetreasury of her Majesty's Exchequer. Collected and edited by Sir Francis Pal-
grave, K.H. 1837. Vol. i. p. 177.
         Nisbet's Heraldry, Appendix, p. 140.
         Inquis. Retorn. Abbrev.
         Retours published by Record Commissioners, Aberdeen, 325.
         Miscellany of Spaiding Club, Vol. i. p. 183.


