
			DUNDONALD.                              669

6 feet; and 2 1/2 fathoms higher still is one of 2 feet 8 inches. At
the Shewalton work, the depth of the shaft is 35 fathoms, com-
prising two seams of common coal, the lower of which is 34 inches
thick, and the other, 16 feet above, 43 inches, including 1 foot of
hard black till, which divides it into two unequal parts. The two
works are in other respects very closely assimilated, the dip and rise
in both averaging about one in sixteen. The roofs in many places
are bad, being composed of a hardish clay, which quickly dissolves
on exposure to the atmosphere. In the blind-coal seam, fire-damp
is of very frequent occurrence, and demands of the workmen the
strictest attention to the use of the safety-lamp.
	The strata, in many places, are very much deranged by the in-
tervention of greenstone dikes, and a stone called by the workmen
alchemy, which cross each other in all directions. Of the former
of these substances, the Clavin hills are composed, and, in the
words of a reverend geologist, "are but a greenstone dike on a
large scale," forced by old Titan bolt up through the surround-
ing beds. This is the only part in the neighbourhood where it
appears on the surface, except on the coast, at the point of Troon,
and the Black rock a mile to the south, at which places it is of a
much coarser quality, and very much resembles dark granite in
appearance. At the former place, there is a small bed of fire-clay;
but, in point of utility, it is not considered of much importance.
All along the higher ground, the soil is chiefly clayey. On the
low flat land, again, it is principally composed of pure moss or
sand, and appears in many places, for some miles inland, to have
been, at some distant period, washed by the sea.
	Zoology.--In addition to the domestic animals, which are in no
respect different from those in the neighbourhood, the parish
abounds in all sorts of game, such as hares, partridges snipe,
blackcock and pheasants. Woodcock also, in considerable num-
bers, frequently make their appearance in their regular seasons.
As for rabbits, owing chiefly to a large warren along the shore,
belonging to the Duke of Portland, which is but imperfectly en-
closed, they were till within a year or two, as locusts in, the district,
and devoured every green thing. So numerous were they from the
sandy nature of the soil, and the strict protection which they enjoyed,
that the proprietors were obliged, for their own interest, to proceed
against them with a war of extermination. They are still very nu-
merous, notwithstanding, in some parts of th parish, and to many
a subject of grievous complaint. A few years ago, there was a well-


