
216                   STIRLINGSHIRE.


cholera, which made great ravages in the neighbouring districts,
never spread itself in this parish.
   Hydrography.--The Frilth of Forth, which bounds the parish
on the south, is navigable for vessels of considerable burden as far
as Stirling, at high tide, forming one Of the most important
means of inland water communication in the kingdom, The water
is thick and muddy, the banks low, slimy, and covered with reeds
and sedges.
   The Devon and the Allan, which bound the parish on the east
and west respectively, have been rendered classic streams by Burns
and Scott. The Devon, near its source among the Ochils, is a
very romantic stream. Its course is peculiarly circuitous and
winding. After having made the circuit of the whole range of
the Ochils, it falls. into the Forth at Cambus, in the parish of
Alloa, almost directly opposite the spot where it rises on the op-
posite side of the hills. The parish is well watered by numerous
mountain streams, and springs of the finest water.
   The only piece of standing water is a beautiful little artificial
lake in Airthrey Park.
   Airthrey Mineral Spring.--The mineral spring now so celebrat-
ed, and so much resorted to by invalids, rises on the estate of
Airthrey, on the high grounds above the village of Bridge of Allan.
It was discovered in the course of working the Airthrey copper
mine, from the sole of which it springs. The miners, conceiving
it to be a common salt spring, made use of it for culinary purposes,
and gave it a decided preference to all other water. There are
four springs in all, though Dr Thomson of Glasgow, owing to
some mistake, which I have not heard accounted for, has given
analyses of six distinct springs. "Of these four springs, num-
hers 1 and 2, (commonly called the Weak Water,) are conveyed
into the same reservoir and used together; No. 3, the Strong
Water, is used alone; and No. 4, which issues from the rock on
the western wall of the mine, is not used. It is a scanty spring,
termed the Black Spring, in consequence of its depositing, in the
natural basin, into which it is received, a black substance, which
has not. been examined." (Forrest's Report.) The following is a
copy of the results of Dr Thomson's analysis, as published in the
Airthrey Table in the pump-room:
   " Springs, No. 1 and 2; specific gravity, 1.00714. 1000 grains
contain,
                              3


