
     Statistical Account

and much about the same length; and where there are 93 in,
habitants.  This detached part of the parish is believed to have
been formerly grazing places for the tenants on the sea-coast
of the lands of Aberdour, of which barony it is still a part.
The face of the country is very uneven, and the soil of very
different qualities: the soil of the corn-fields on the sea-coast
is partly clay, or red loam, but mostly of a light black, or
gravelly quality; and in the moors, the soil is light black, cold
and watery.  In the W. side of the parish are 3 deep hollows,
with a rivulet in each, called the den of Aberdour, the den of
Auchmedden, and the den of Troup.  Each of these dens, as
they advance from the sea-coast, branch out on each side into
many other lesser ones, till they end at last in mosses and
moors, about 2 or 3 miles from the sea.  On each side of
these dens (as they are called), for about a mile, or little more,
from the sea, the ground is mostly arable, and, in general, of
kindly soil, producing pretty good crops of grain, when pro-
perly managed; but the high ground, or ridge between them,
is a wretchedly poor heath, incapable of any improvement
for the most part, but at an expense far beyond what it could
ever repay, unless situated in the neighbourhood of a great
town.  The burn in the westmost of these dens is the boun-
dary between the parishes of Aberdour and Gamery.  The
E. side of the parish is more level, and consists of corn-fields;
some of a pretty good soil, others very poor, interspersed
with heath, and near the sea, with large tracks of ground,
producing a coarse kind of grass, called by the country peo-
ple reesk.  In the S. part of the parish is the den of Glasby,
in which runs also a burn, the head of the N. branch of the
river Ugie, into which it discharges itself at Rora, in the pa-
rish of Longside, passing by the church of Strichen in its way.
On the N. side of this den, and facing the S., are pretty large
corn-fields, but the greater part of this side of the parish con-

     4


