
				DUNSCORE.                     343

not improbable that it formed the upper boundary of the estate of
Dalgoner, which actually lies in a sort of natural basin or low
ground, in which there is a peat-moss. And a tr`dition also ob-
tains that there was a loch in this very neilhbourbood in ancient
times. In point of fact, Dalgoner and Killilago form the extreme
upper boundary of the church lands of Dunscore-which, accord-
ing to a decree of valuation of the parish, dated 21st March 1634,
are designed "the thirty pound land of the Monkland of Melrose,"
and comprehend the following, "Dalgoner, Killilago, Bessiewalla,
Laggan, Edgarton, M'Cheynston, M"Cubbington, Milliganton,
Kilroy, Fardingwell, Dempsterton, Newton, Poundland, Sweir,
Portrack, Friars' Carse, and Allisland." These lands, as Chalmers
farther informs us, were gifted to the monks of Melrose by Affrica,
daughter of Edgar, son of Dunevald, and grandson of Dunegal
of Stranith (the strath or valley of Nith.) And, according to the
same author, this Edgar possessed the lands of Dunscore under Wil-
liam the Lion, and was succeeded in them by his said daugther, Af-
frica, who gifted so large a portion of them to the church. It ap-
pears, however, that the church itself, or benefice of Dunscore, be-
longed to the monks of Holywood, betwixt whom and the monks
of Melrose a dispute arose concerning the right to it. But this
controversy was settled in 1257 at Kirkmahoe by William, Bishop
of Glasgow, who decided that the Church belonged to the monks
of Holywood, but that the Abbot of Melrose had a right to the
tithes of their own lands which they had acquired from Affrica.
In Catholic times, the cure was served by a vicar, and in Bagimont's
roll the vicarage of Dunscore, in the deanery of Nith, was taxed
at L. 4. The vicar enjoyed a manse and glebe.
	On 12th August 1566, the church lands of Dunscore were dis-
poned by John Welch, (the last) vicar of Dunscore, with consent
of the commendator of the monastery of Holywood, to Cuthbert
Grierson of Layth, and this conveyance was confirmed by a char-
ter of James VI., of date 12th November 1574.
	Heritors.--There are no fewer than 47 proprietors of land in
this parish at present; but many of the properties, of course, are
small.
			    III.--POPULATION.
	It is stated in the former Statistical Account, that in 1791 the
population of this parish was 1033; and that, by Dr Webster's re-
port, about forty years prior to, that date, it amounted to 651. But
in 1730 it amounted to 75O, so that if Dr Webster's report be cor-


