
             COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                   295

   The secondary rocks, as already said, are confined almost en-
tirely to the lower division of the parish; consisting of alternate
beds or strata of sandstone, a kind of shale, thick beds of indura-
ted marl, irregular deposits of clay ironstone, and coarse deposits
of conglomerate, generally occurring near the surface. Of these
rocks, the sandstone is by far the most abundant, forming in many
places, especially on the coast and on the sides of Dunglass Dean,
very lofty and striking precipices. This sandstone appears to be of
two different descriptions or formations: 1. The old red sandstone,
extending for some miles along the coast, and resting immediate-
ly on the greywacke; and 2. The sandstone of the coal formation
resting on the old red sandstone, and passing under the moun-
tain limestone a few miles westward in the parish of Innerwick.
The immediate junction of the old red sandstone with the
greywacke is distinctly observable in various places; and in all
of these, it is remarkable, that the direction and dip of the strata
of both rocks, as well as the cliaracters of the rocks themselves,
are precisely and in all respects similar, though the situations
where we observe this junction are considerably distant from one
another. * One of these situations is the Tower Dean,-a deep and
wooded glen in the centre of the parish, in the bottom of which,
that is, in the bed of the little stream which flows through it, we
observe this junction in several places. But the most striking
situation is the Siccar Point, the natural scenery of which we have
already described under a former head. The geological appear-
ances at this latter point are so very remarkable as to strike at
once even those who are the least acquainted with geology as a sci-
ence. And no wonder, therefore, that they were thought of suffi-
cient importance to attract at one time three of the most eminent
men of their day; we mean Dr Hutton, Professor Playfair, and
a name not less distinguished in the history of geology, the late
Sir James Hall, Bart. of Dunglass.
   An excursion, undertaken by such gifted individuals, and with
such objects in view, could not fail to be one of interest; and, as it
has been recorded in very elegant language by one of the distin-
guished party themselves, we shall beg leave to quote his admired
description: "The ridge of the Lammermuir Hills, in the south

<FOOTNOTE>from top to bottom of the cliffs, their curvature being alternately concave and con-
vex upwards."
   i. e. The greywacke is arranged in vertical strata ranging from west to east, or
nearly so, and the sandstone, which at the immediate junction is a conglomerate of
fragments, generally speaking of the older rocks, dips towards the north at an angle of
nearly 28ø, with the horizon, the junction being strikingly unconformable.


