
		        PARISH OF DALZIEL.

          PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

	         THE REV. JAMES CLASON, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name and Extent.--The parish of Dalziel is situated in the
middle ward of Lanarkshire, 13 miles from Glasgow, 14 from La-
nark, and I from the town of Hamilton. It is bounded on the
cast by the parish of Cambusnethan; on the west by the parish of
Hamilton and the river Calder; on the south by the parish of Ha-
milton and the river Clyde; and on the north by the river Calder
and the parish of Hamilton. At the north-west corner, four pa-
rishes meet,--Bothwell, Shotts, Cambusnethan, and Dalziel, the
two former lying on the north side of the river Calder, and the two
latter on the south side of that river. The origin and meaning of
the name have been differently explained. In the charters of the
thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries, the name appears in
the form of Dalyell. Some have therefore thought that it is of
Celtic origin, and denotes White Meadow, this being the meaning
of the word Dalgheal in that language, and that it has been so cal-
led on account of a white scurf, or a large white gowan (Chrysan-
themum Leucanthemum) which covered the ground before it was
improved by cultivation. Others have supposed that it got its
name from the Dalzells, afterwards Earls of Carnwath, who for-
merly possessed the barony of Dalziel. But it is more likely that
it had previously received its name, and that they adopted it as their
surname. The books of heraldry give the following account of
the origin and meaning of the word Dalziel:--"A favourite and near
kinsman of King Kenneth II. was taken by the Picts and hang-
ed upon a gibbet. The King, urged by grief at the disgraceful
treatment of his friend, proffered a large reward for the rescue of
the body, which, as a forlorn hope, was for some time unavailing,
until at length a valiant gentleman said to the King, in the old
Scottish language, 'Dal Zell I dare,' and having successfully per-


