
448			AYRSHIRE.

inhabited by the hermit-crab; and he supposes that it feeds on the
crab's leavings. It makes requital, however, by enlarging with its
body, and a horny substance which it secretes, the hermit's cell,
and forms a better nest for the eggs than the simple shell would
do. The colouring of the Actinia is very brilliant. We are not
aware that it has been observed by British naturalists. We found
lately a magnificent Medusa on the shore, which seemed to corre-
spond to the description given of Rhizostoma undulata, found on
the shores of Cornwall. It was more than a yard in diameter.
   Zoophyta.--The following corallines and other zoophytes have
been picked up on the shore; and we doubt not that in this, as in
the other departments, by more careful inspection, the list might
be greatly enlarged: Corallina officinalis; Alcyonium e when the
Halichondria suberica; Grantia compressa; Millepora polymor-
pha; Discopora verrucaria; Flustra truncata F. membranacea;
F. pilosa; Cellularia reptans; Crisia eburnea Notamia loricula-
ta; Sertularia polyzonias; S. rugosa; Dynamena abietina; D.
argentea; D. pumila; D. operculata; Campanularia geniculata;
C. dichotoma; C. volubilis; Plumularia pluma; Jania rubens;
Cellepora pumicosa.  *
   And here we may notice those phosphorescent medusae which
often give such brilliancy by night to the agitated waves of our west-
ern sea.
   Conchology.--There is seldom shell-fish of any kind in such
abundance on our shore, as to be worth collecting for the market.
But if we cannot boast of delicious oysters, and mussels, and cockles
to gratify the gourmand, we can hold out to our scientific friends
a "feast of shells," which many of them will be disposed to
think still more delectable. As that distinguished naturalist, Pro-
fessor Fleming of Aberdeen, (to whose kindness we have been
indebted for much of our molluscal lore,) says that our concholo-
gical stores make some approach to those of the coast of Devon-
shire, we shall, along with some of our land and fresh water Mol-
luscae, insert a list of the rarer shells picked up by us on the shore
of this parish, chiefly betwixt SaItcoats harbour and Stevenston
burn-foot; employing the nomenclature of Dr Fleming in his va-
luable and well-known work, "The British Animals." Several of
them, we suspect, are new to Scotland; and two of them, we believe,
are non-descripts, and have not before been found.

<FOOTNOTE>Some specimens of foreign corals and shells have been found on the shore.


