
536                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

shrew (Sorex araneus) is common; (S. fodiens) more rare.  The
mole is abundantly common.  The common or short-eared bat
(Vespertilio murinus) is seen, but not very numerous.  Before
concluding the Mammalia, it may be worth mentioning, that, about
ten years ago, Sir Charles Forbes sent two varieties of the Zebu
(Bos Indicus) to Edinglassie.  The first were extremely diminu-
tive, appeared to suffer much from the severity of the climate, and
did not breed.  The other was a larger variety, and bred readily
with the common bull of the country.  Two half-bred bulls were
kept that grew to great size and weight. They became so furious
that it was found necessary to destroy them.  Both these and the
next generation retained the distinctive hump, or excrescence, on
the shoulders.  A good many of their progeny were to be met with
five or six years ago, but they were invariable rejected by the
cattle-dealer, and hence unprofitable to the farmer.
   Two kangaroos were also sent.  They seemed to experience no
inconvenience from the rigour bf the climate, and fed readily on
grass and vegetables in surnmer, and on bay with occasional-green
food in winter.  Unfortunately they were both of the same sex.
It would have been interesting to have ascertained whether they
had been so far naturalized as to have bred in the head of Aber-
deenshire.
   Birds.-There is, in the slocks of Glencarvy, an old eyrie, but
no eagle has occupied it for many years.  It would appear, how-
ever, eagles had formerly been much more numerous, as pits are
still pointed out in the hills that were made for the purpose of
destroying them.  Two different species are said still to be seen
on the northwest extremity of the parish.  Hawks of different
species are numerous.  The buzzard (F. Buteo) is very common.
The kite (Milvus vulgaris) * is more rare.  The hen-harrier
(Circus cyaneus, here called blue-sleeves,) breeds in the parish.
The sparrow-hawk (F. nisus) is very common.  The kestril's nest
(F. Tinnunculus) was found last season; and the merlin (F. AEsalon)
is occasionally seen.  The barn-owl (Alucoflammeus), the horn-
owl (Otus vulgaris), and the tawny-owl (Strix stridula), are all met
with, but are rare.  The raven (C. corax) breeds annually in the
slocks of Glencarvy.  The carrion-crow (C. cornix) ; the hood-
ed-crow (C. corone) ; the magpie (C. pica), and the jack-daw (C.

<FOOTNOTE>Sir Charles Forbes'S keeper reports having frequently seen the goshawk (F-
Palumbarius) in Glenernan.  A fine-specimen was shot this winter in a neighbouring
parish, and is now in the possession of Lord Aberdeen's keeper at Deskry Lodge.


