
     Statistical Account

   Manners.-There has been no great influx of strangers in-
to this parish, for these forty years past, till within these five
years, when a considerable number of sober and industrious
farmers, tempted with the dryness of the soil, and, as they
thought, the cheapness of the ground, came from the other
parts of the country, and settled here.  The native inhabitants
have, from the beginning of the above period, in general, main-
tained a character of great plainness and simplicity of man-
ners, a strong attachment to the established religion of the
country, and an uniform and decent regard to the ordinances
thereof, both at home and in the neighbouring parishes.  No
doubt, that refinement in the manner of living and dress,
which has taken place throughout the country, prevails also
here.  Owing, perhaps, to the prevalence of smuggling, this
took place here earlier than in the neighbouring parishes.
Persons engaged in that trade, found it necessary to go abroad,
and enter into business with foreign merchants; and by deal-
ing in tea, spirits, and silks, brought home to their families
and friends, the means of greater luxury and finery, and at
the cheapest rate.  Persons of this description, being also ob-
liged to enter much into society, in their own country, there-
by acquired a turn for hospitality and entertainment at home.
The other parts of the parish, from the improved state of
their farms, were both desirous and able, in some degree, to
follow the example of their neighbours.  But amidst all this,
they have preserved the sobriety of manners, and the decency
of the Christian character; for during the whole of the above

<FOOTNOTE>

use of sugar and tea, which are now mostly in every farmers fa-
mily.  Inoculation has in the same period taken place, and now
almost universally prevails.  Though the frosts are not very long
or severe, yet it has been observed, that three or four weeks frost
have been followed with pleurisies, which have attacked the aged,
and have been generally mortal.


