
                           MINTO.                            363

of the lands by Turnbull as his nephew, and they would appear to
have been faithful companions in the daring adventures of those
troubled times, for in the year 1400 they made a fierce irruption
together into England, in the account of which Turnbull is styled
"Out with the Sword,"-a surname expressive of his heady and war-
like temper. Still long after the grant just referred to, notice repeat-
edly occurs both of the Stewards and Turnbulls of Minto,-a cir-
cumstance which is, however, satisfactorily explained in the fol-
lowing curious extract from the "Genealogy of the Stewarts re-
futed:-"
   "In the charter chest of Lord Minto is a notarial instrument,
dated April 23, 1429, purporting that, on that day at Minto, it
was attempted, by virtue of a precept of seisin, to invest Sir Wil-
liam Stewart of Dalswintoun in the lands of Minto, and that those
proceedings were interrupted by Walter Turnbull, who declared
the hereditary seisin then granted to Sir William Stewart null and
void, as he himself was the true heir and legal baron of Minto.-
From another notarial instrument in the same charter-chest, dated
1425, we learn that Walter Turnbull had prepared himself for
this event a few years before. An inquiry at his instance had been
instituted relative to John TurnbulL his father, who had made
grant of Minto in 1390. A jury, nominated for the occasion, de.
clared that he laboured under the effects of a leprosy at the time
when the deed was executed,-a circumstances which, according to
the laws of Scotland, as they then stood, rendered the proceedings
void. The inquest into the validity of the charter of the lands of
Minto seems to have been in consequence of an account received
in Scotland of the fall of Walter's father, Sir John Turnbull, at
the battle of Cravant, in 1423. After much dissension between
the claimants, it appears that, by a brief of perambulation by King
James II. addressed to Sir Archibald Douglas of Cavers, Sheriff
of Teviotdale, that officer made a partition of the estate of Minto
between Sir William Stewart and Walter Turnbull, in certain:
proportions; according to which the posterity of both continued to
hold them."
   Family of Minto.-After long remaining in the possession of

<FOOTNOTE>The Genealogy of the Stewgkrts refuted, pp. 46, 47.
          In the Criminal Trials, there is an entry, Octobw 18, 1856 with respect to
Robert Stewart of Mynto, for his being with uwquhile John Earl of Lennox in the
field of Linlithgow; and from Lesley's History of Scotland, we learn that, seventeen
years afterwards, in the battle of Glasgow Moor, fought 154A the "Laird of Minto,
who was on the part of Lennox and Provost of Glasgow, was evil burt." upwards


