
			  LAUDER.                               5

Esq. of Chapel, Hugh Scott, Esq of Harden, Alexander Allan,
Esq. of Muircleugh, and the community of Lauder.
   Parochial Registers.-Of the state of the parochial registers no
satisfactory account can be given.  The register narrating the pro-
gress of discipline and church censures commenced in 1677, and
was regularly continued till the 27th August 1688: then it has a
chasm till April 1707, when it is again filled up f6r nearly two
years, after which it exhibits another blank till May 1733, since
which period the proceedings of the session are regularly recorded.
The register of births and baptisms is equally defective, for in some
years the entries are numerous, in some they are very few, and in
others they are entirely omitted.  This, though it now contain a
complete list of the children baptised to members of the Established
church, is still imperfect, in consequence of the general neglect or
refusal of dissenters to insert in it the names of their children.
Hitherto there has been no register of burials, but it is resolved
that this shall be the case no longer. The register of marriages
has been well kept for a considerable number of years.
   Antiquities.-Under this head is to be noticed a Roman road,
the line of which has been distinctly traced through a considerable
part of the parish, and is in various places still perceptible. It
passes a little to the west of the town of Lauder, and proceeds
towards the manse of Channelkirk.-Near this ancient road, on
Lauder hill, are the remains of a military station, and about two
miles north from this, on an elevated spot at Blackeliester, are the
vestiges of an oval camp, having one entrance on the east and
another on the west, and fortified by two ditches and mounds of
earth.-A camp of similar-form and of larger dimensions is traced
on Tollis or Tullius hill, in the northern extremity of the parish.
Spanish, Scottish, and English coins have been dug up, some of
which Dr Ford, the former minister, had in his possession, as well
as several Roman coins inscribed with the names of Julius Caesar,
Lucius Flaminius, and others.-Many tumuli are to be seen on
Lauder moor, near the old road to Melrose, where battles had pro-
bably been fought, as fragments of swords, bows, and arrows have
there been found.  The arrows were pointed with flint stone, ta-
pering from the juncture, about an inch long.  In the vicinity of
Lauder, on the banks of the Leader, stands Thirlstalne Castle, for-
merly styled Lauder Fort. According to tradition, it was origi-
nally erected by Edward I. during his invasion of Scotland; cer-
tain it is that it was built or rebuilt by Chancellor Maitland, and


