
168                        FIFESHIRE.

  Hard wood costs 2s. per cubic foot; fir, 1s. per ditto ; flax, 10s.
per stone; cheese, 28s. per cwt.; butter, L. 4 per ditto; mason
work, L. 1, 10s. per rood.
  Husbandry.-The Fife breed of black cattle, which is an excel-
lent one, is kept up here, but not with the care which it requires,
in cultivating the true breed, and keeping it separate from bad
varieties. For droving and feeding for the home market we are
well provided; but there is no system observed in breeding for the
dairy, and our milch cows are inferior. Our draught horses are
of a good kind, neither too light nor too heavy. We breed no
sheep. The kind of mixed farming, which is practised here, be-
twixt the arable and pasture, requires a greater proportion of
green crops, especially of turnip, than we yet have; but the space
allotted to turnips and potatoes is increasing; and draining, so ge-
nerally practised, will prove the best means of procuring an addi-
tional quantity of dry ground for these crops. In under drain-
ing, we put into the trench a mass of stones, two feet in depth, hav-
ing a siver. The depth of the trench is commonly three or four
feet; but this varies with circumstances. The stones are not brought
nearer the surface than a foot. In some districts, the stones are
thrown into the opening without any order, and without a siver.
This is said to hinder vermin from getting in; but it requires a
far greater quantity of stones than the other practice, which we pre-
fer. Wedge-draining is as yet but little practised. While drain-
age is universally practised, embanking and irrigation are but little
used. There has just been finished a small embankment upon the
Ore; and at another place, the bed of the river has been straighted.
Leases are generally for nineteen  years. Our farms are in size
from 50 to 300 Scotch acres. Enclosures are universal over the
parish; and where good stone can easily be procured, as here, this
method of enclosing, though not so pleasing to the eye, is more
substantial and cheaper, and more quickly got up than hedge-
rows. From 80 to 90 years ago, Mr Sinclair of Balgregie enclos-
ed his home farm with substantial trap or Galloway dikes; and
this kind of enclosure has been generally followed since, as best
suited to this district. Our farm-steads have been much improved;
and those on the property of Captain Wemyss and Mr Ferguson
of Raith are the best, and perhaps as good as the farms call for.
  The late Lord Minto introduced over his whole property an im-
proved state of husbandry, from Roxburghshire, about twenty years
ago. David Weinyss, Esq. of Pitkenny, when he became posses-
                               4


