
			REDGORTON.                        173

stances of his death. Now in the time of the Romans the land
was not parcelled out amongst a number of small proprietors as at
present, but was held in great districts by a few nobles or petty
princes. In this way, by putting together the different circum-
stances in our possession, and comparing them with the ancient
state of society in our country, we arrive, almost with certainty, at
the conclusion, that the principal cairn in this place, of which an
admeasurement is given at the foot of the page, * is the burial-place
of a great landed proprietor, or British Chief, who perished in bat-
tle, in defence of his country, most probably against the Romans.
   Battle of Luncarty.- Not much inferior in interest to the site of
the Roman station of Orrea, is the scene of the battle of Luncarty,
so extraordinary and almost romantic in its circumstances, and so
important in its results.  The field on which this battle was fought
lies on the banks of the Tay, about two miles above the mouth of
the Almond, and within the period of the incumbency of the last
minister, which extended to forty years, was covered with small
tumuli; but there is now no other memorial of the contest but two
upright stones, one of which, about four feet high, retains the name
of Denmark. Although this battle is mentioned by all our his-
torians, by Boetius, Fordun, and Buchanan, the precise year in
which it was fought is not accurately known; but it took place un-
der the reign of Kenneth III. about the year 990, or somewhat
earlier, Kenneth having been assassinated by Fenella in 994.
   The Danes had landed in great force at the mouth of the river
Esk; + and having taken the town of Montrose, they levelled both
the town and its castle with the ground, massacring all the inha-
bitants without distinction of age or sex.  They then marched
across the whole province of Angus, laying the country waste in
their progresr till they reached the Tay, where they encamped on
one of the hills in the vicinity of Perth. The King was at Stir-
ling when intelligence of these occurrences was brought him; from
whence he immediately marched with all the strength he could
muster, to watch the motions of the enemy; having written to
those nobles who were not at hand, to follow him as soon as pos-
sible, with all their forces.  He speedily arrived at Moncrieff Hill,

<FOOTNOTE>This extraordinary cairn is situated on the top of a circular Mound, the summit
of which it entirely occupies. The cairn is raised to the height of 13 feet perpendi-
cular above the mound, and has a diameter of 100 feet, thus occupying a space of 872
square yards.
    Traducta classe ad Eskae fluminis ostium-oppidum proximum diripiunt: in di-
reptum ferro et igne saevunt; arcem solo: cives sine discrimine occidunt:
nulli vel sexui, vel aetati parcunt.-Buch. Lib. 6, 5. 31.


