
     of Kilmadock or Doune.

short, the advantage of inclosures for cattle can only be rec-
koned by experience.  The strongest proof of their excel-
lence is this circumstance, that no grazier who once knows
their value will ever after rent open uninclosed fields.
   8. Rotation of Crops.-There being few inclosures in
Kilmadock parish, rotation of crops has made very little
progress.  In the district above the Teith, the absurd prac-
tice of having infield and outfield still prevails.  This prac-
tice is the strongest mark of the imperfect state of husban-
dry in former times.  When wheel-carriages were little
used, and dung was the only manure, the farmers constant-
ly spread it out upon the fields near the dwelling-house, and
these fields were, on that account, commonly in tillage
every year.  The fields at a distance received no ma-
nure at all, except the produce of the pasturing cattle,
and these were inclosed in temporary folds, in the middle
of the day and during the night, erected on the arable out-
fields, and moved (or, in the more emphatic term of the
farmers, flitted) at the end of every week.  These fields,
when thus manured, were ploughed the next year, and one
or two crops more taken, and then allowed to fward for
grass.  Here, in a peculiar manner, was felt the loss of sown
grass.  Independent of the want of a crop of hay, the field,
from the dreary stubble, required two or three years to ren-
der the grass of any use for pasture.  The cattle were ex-
tremely fond of the infant grass, and constantly poached and
destroyed its growth; and thus the farmer generally lost the
use of his grass fields for at least 2 years in every 8 or 10.
How very different their situation under the new hsuban-
dry.  By taking a hay crop, the farmer reaps more profit
than from having the field in corn; and, during the growth
of the hay, the roots of the grass spread and cover the sur-
face with a strong coat, capable of supporting the feet of
the cattle the following year, when the pasture is rich, fresh,


