
                          DENNY.                       117

various tenures by these appellations, as the lands happen
to lie on the north or south side of the parochial ridge. The
reason of these appellations is unknown. If true, as the editor
of the second edition of Nimmo's History of Stirlingshire states,
page 739, that Herbertshire was the name of a parish, * Denny
might have been part of that parish, and have thus got its natural
divisions characterized. The surface of the parish is diversified
by heights and hollows, blended together by varied and beautiful
undulations. The only hill within it, is Myothill, the property of
John Graham, Esq. It is in the upper division of the parish, which
is called Temple Denny. It is comparatively small, but beauti-
ful, of a conical shape, and lies at the base of Darrach Hill, justi-
fying, from its general, lateral, and summit smoothness, its name
of Myot, which is conjectured by the editor already mentioned to
signify smooth or soft. Myothill-House stands at the bottom of the
hill, embosomed in trees, and forms the most prominent parochial
object to the traveller westward from Falkirk. The turretted
antique grandeur of Herbertshire, the house of the lady of
the late William Forbes, Esq. of Callendar, and mother of the
present William Forbes, Esq. of Callendar, late Member of Par-
liament for the county of Stirling, first, indeed, attracts notice,
from its fine elevated position on the northern bank of Carron, in
a lawn adorned with ancient trees; but, although the fourth part
of the parish of Denny belongs to its proprietor, Herbertshire is
in the parish of Dunipace. The undulations of the surface for a
mile about Denny, and more especially to the eastward, are no-
ticed as varied and attractive, and by strangers particularly admir-
ed for their beauty. The rush of the diluvial waters from Darrach
Hill to the Forth, sweeping before them the softer mould, seems
to have occasioned the tasteful knolls in this direction, which adorn
the lower fields of the parish.
  Hydrography.--Springsabound in the parish, but none of them are
remarkable for peculiar properties. Castlerankine (conjectured to
mean Castle of the headland point) burn is the largest rivulet that runs
through the parish. It forms the boundary between Temple Denny,
and North and South Herbertshire, marking off that portion of the
parish--a third part, perhaps, of the whole--which, it is said, once
belonged to the Knights Templars. It rises in the south-west, at a
little distance from the base of Darrach Hill, and falls into Car-

<FOOTNOTE>It is mentioned as a barony in a Charter of Robert I. Nimmo's Hist. p. 575.


