
				LOCHMABEN.                      381

thin lamina of mica slate, through which the brain is visible. This
particular mark proves it to be as yet a distinct and an undescrib-
ed species. Nothing is ever found visible to the naked eye in
the stomach of the vendace. They are extremely delicate, and
are allowed to be the most pleasing to the taste of all fish. The
general mode of taking them is with a net, as there is no instance
known of their having been caught either with bait or the artifi-
cial fly. The pike, with which this lake abounds, is their great-
est enemy, as he is seldom taken in the neighbourhood of the
particular places which they frequent without being found gorged
with them. *
	The salmon was found formerly in great abundance in the An-
nan and its tributaries, but since the stake-nets were erected at
the mouth of the river, they have greatly decreased. In addition,
the salmon fry has many enemies, particularly the carrion crow,
the water-ouzel, and the heron. The moment a bed of spawn
is seen to spring up by any of these birds, not one of them is left.
The sea-trout and the herring (Salmo albus) are both found in
considerable numbers. They ascend the river sometimes so early
as June, if the season has been wet and the river swollen. The
par, about which so many disputes have arisen, is plentiful in all
the rivers which communicate with the Annan. +
	Reptiles.--The most dreaded is the adder ( Vipera communis,)
which is very common, and generally seen in dry mosses and around
the bottom of old turf dikes. The water newt, or eft, the com-
mon eft, (which is found in cellars and damp houses,) the frog
and the toad are also common. The Lacerta agilis is frequently
seen running with all its speed among dry mosses and heathery
moors.
	Birds.--The common species are all found in the parish.
Among the more rare, I may mention the white owl (Strix flam-

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Knox, Lecturer upon Anatomy in Edinburgh, states that he has not only
discovered the food of the vendace, but actually exhibited it some months ago before the
members of the Royal Society, and offers suggestions for the stocking of the various
lakes in Britain with this exquisite fish, pointing out first the necessity of locating
its natural food, without which it cannot live. Allowing, however, that the space of
some neighbouring lake could be covered with some of these invisible and " incredibly
minute entomostraceous animals, which," the learned lecturer says, " constitute their
food," we should still find a difficulty to transfer the fish, as every attempt to do so
hitherto, though conducted with the greatest possible care and nicety, has failed.
          It has been stated as a fact, that the par is always found in rivers which salmon
frequent. While in Morayshire last autumn, we made particular inquiry at the fish-
ermen upon the Spey if they had ever seen the par; to our astonishment, each of
them declared he never had. This must be considered as a very strong evidence that
the par is a distinct species.


