
348                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

recumbent at his feet.  And, on the architrave, which connects the
apprentice's pillar with the corresponding pilaster on the south
wall, is seen the following inscription in Old English or Saxon
characters, on the west side: "Forte est vinum, fortior est rex,
fortiores sunt mulieres; super omnia vincit veritas.  I. Exd. Chap.
3, ver. 10-12."
   There is a tradition relating to the apprentice's pillar, which has
prevailed for ages in the family of Rosilyn: The model of it was
sent from Rome, but the master-mason, distrusting his own capa-
city to finish it, without inspecting the original pillar from which
it was taken, went to Rome to examine it.  In his absence, one
of his apprentices undertook the task, and completely succeeded,
which so enraged the master on his return, that he lifted a ham-
mer and killed him on the spot.  The three heads at the west end
of the chapel are understood to be commemorative of this tragedy.
Nearly half-way up the transept wall, in the south-west corner of
the body of the chapel, is a head, with a cut above the right eye,
which is said to represent the head of the apprentice, who finished
the remarkable pillar.  In a line with it, and above the second pil-
lar of the south aisle, from the west, is the head of a woman weep-
ing, intended for the mother of the apprentice lamenting the un-
timely death of her son.  And, in the north-west corner, is the head
of an old man frowning, representing the head of the master-
mason.
   Sacristy or Vestry.--In the south-east corner of the chapel, and
below the place where the elevated altar stood, is a subterraneous
staircase of twenty-four steps, conducting, through an arch, to a
smaller chapel, which was used as a sacristy or vestry.  This was
erected by the first lady of William, the founder of the great cha-
pel, Dame Elizabetb Douglas, formerly Countess of Buchan, and
daughter of Archibald, the second Earl of Buchan of that name.
Though the passage to this sacristy or vestry is subterraneous, it-
self is above ground, and rests on the edge of the bank; its height
is 5 feet 2 inches, its length 36 feet, and its breadth 14 feet.  It
has one large arched window in the east wall, where once stood
an altar dedicated to the Virgin Mary.  Looking towards the win-
dow, on the right hand, is a pedestal for a statue, with an escut-
cheon having the arms of Caithness, Douglas, and St Clair.  In a
direct line on the opposite side of the window, is a similar pedes-
tal, with an engrailed cross on a shield, probably intended for a
statue of Resslyn.  This sacristy or vestry once had, in the south


