
     Statistical Account

ed by King James VI.  From the date of this charter to the
Revolution 1698, the inhabitants were an industrious, en-
terprising and thriving people; several opulent families
now flourishing in the country, derive their distinction
from the industry of ancestors who were merchants and
guild brethren of Inverness.  The principal source of their
wealth was a commerce in corn and skins.  The corn
and malting trade was brought to a considerable height.
The greater part of the town consisted of kilns and gra-
naries.  The export trade was carried on chiefly with
France, the northern countries, and Holland.  All the
home consumption likewise in malt was supplied by them,
that is of Inverness-shire, Ross-shire, Sutherland, Caithness,
the Western Isles, and the Orkneys; for the art of malt ma-
king in these days was understood in this country chiefly by
the corn-merchants of Inverness.  The skin-trade, during the
period under consideration, was singly of itself a source of
great wealth: The people of all the extensive countries
and Isles now mentioned resorted to Inverness, as the only
or the most convenient market they then knew any thing
of.  In exchange for skins, they were supplied, some with
meal, others malt; and all of them with dye-stuffs, salt,
coarse linen and iron.  From the Revolution to the year
1746, the burgh of Inverness suffered a gradual decline:
So that at that time and several years after the town ap-
peared little better than the ruins of what it formerly was.
In the centre of the town there were many ruinous houses,
and in all the other parts of it, every second space, and that
by far the larger, exhibited the ruin of a kiln, a granary or
other building.  The causes of the failure of the corn trade,

<FOOTNOTE>

from the town, there is a place called Pollfaire, that is 'The Watch
Town; a hill, Tomnafaire, 'The Watch Hill;' and a large stone, Clach-
nafaire, 'The Watch Stone.'  Near this noted stone is a
village, which is called by its name.


