
<APPENDIX>

xxxvi

   You will perceive, that the inclosed accounts are systematically arran-
ged, from the answers which were sent me.  It is, however, unnecessary
for the Clergy to give themselves that trouble.  If the queries which have
been already sent, are answered with minuteness and accuracy, a complete
account can easily be made from those answers; nevertheless, if any clergy-
man has sufficient leisure to draw up a complete and systematical descrip-
tion of his parish, it cannot be the less acceptable.
   Some districts, such as the parish of Hounam, furnish little room for sta-
tistical investigation.  In that case, the state of population, and facts con-
nected with the political circumstances of the country, are all that is ne-
cessary.  Full accounts are desirable; but, at the same time, no minister
ought to hesitate about sending a short one, when there are not means of
supplying more important materials.
   In the queries formerly sent, some particulars were omitted, of which I
should be glad to be informed, even from those gentlemen who have alrea-
dy favoured me with their answers: as,

   1. What is the state of the schools in the parish; the salary and per-
      quisites of the schoolmaster; and the number of his scholars?
   2. What is the number of alehouses, inns, &c.; and what effect have
      they on the morals of the people?
   3. What is the number of new houses or cottages which have been
      built within those ten years past; and how many old ones have
      been pulled down, or have become uninhabitable?
   4. What has been the effect of employing cottagers in agriculture, or
      of working by hired servants in their stead? and,
   5. What has been the number of prisoners in any jail in the district,
      in the course of the year 1790; and for what causes were they im-
      prisoned?

   Tables of births, marriages, and deaths, kept in any particular parish
would be very desirable.  Nor can the information respecting all points
connected with the population of the country, be too accurate and mi-   
nute. 
   On the whole, I flatter myself, by your assistance, and that of your bre-
thren, that it will be in my power to bring a work to perfection, which
will do more credit to the Clergy of the Church of Scotland, as a learned,
able, and useful body, than perhaps has ever fallen to the lot of any other
description of men.
   I have the honour to be, with great regard and esteem, Sir, your most
obedient, and very humble servant,

     JOHN SINCLAIR.

     EDINBURGH,
     Jan. 25, 1791.


