
     of Dunfermline.

found from experience to be most hostile to industry a-
mong the lower ranks, and to have the most permicious
influence on their morals.  One thing however is certain,
that whatever may be for the public good, it must be for
the interest of heritors to contribute voluntarily, in order
to prevent kirk-sessions from being obliged to exhault the 
funds in their hands, and recourse being had to assesments.
Where there are no poors rates established, non-residing 
heritors may easily perceive, that it is but reasonable that 
they should contribute voluntarily, in proportion to the va-
lue of their estates.  Kirk-sessions, it is well known, have 
a good deal of trouble, but derive no pecuniary advantage
from the poors funds entrusted to their management*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Charitable Institutions.-The most ancient of these is St Leonard's
Hospital.  It is not certainly known who was the original founder.  The 
account-books respecting the management of the hospital from 1594 to
the present time, are still extant.  The object of the institution is the 
maintenance of 8 widows.  Each widow is entitled to 4 bolls of meal,
4 bolls of malt, 8 loads of coal, 14 loads of tuif, 8 lippies of fine wheat,
8 lippies of groats yearly, and a chamber in the hospital, with a small
garden; and to some of them 2 s. silver yearly for pin money.  The a-
bove provision for 8 widows is payable out of 64 acres of land, lying
near Dunfermline, and immediately adjacent to the place where the ho-
spital once stood; the houses in the vicinity are called the Spittal.  The 
patronage of this hospital has long been exercised by the Marquis of 
Tweeddale.

   Pitreavie's Hospital.-In the year 1676 Sir Henry Wardlaw of Pit-
reavie, "for implement and fulfilling of several vows, promises and en-
gagements made by him before God, after great mercies received, and
for certain other good causes, motives and considerations." instituted an
hospital at Mastertown in favour of 4 widows, "women of honest same,
relicts of honest men who live in the ground of Pitrieavie, or other land 
belonging to him and his successors," who are declared to be patrons;
failing widows of the above description, such other honest women as the 

     VOL. XIII. 3 K


