
     of Preston-pans.

<UNREADABLE>

   Fisheries.-The chief fishery is that of oysters.  There are
at present 10 oyster boats belonging to the parish.  Each boat
requires 5 men; but the profits are divided into 6 shares,
one share being applied for upholding the boat.  There
are not, however, above 23 regular fishermen; all the others
work occasionally on land or sea, as they find most for their
advantage.  A boat seldom returns with more than 400 or
500, often with sewer*.  The present price is 15 d. per
hundred.  A hundred, as fold by the fishers, contains 33
warp, equal to six???  and twelve.  The retail hundred.
contains only 30 warp.  Four oysters make a warp.  Three
or four times in a season, a boat sails with a cargo of them,

</UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 20 years ago, the scalps were so productive that
6000 oysters and upwards were frequently dragged by one boat
in a day.  The price at that time was 6 d. per hundred.  Be-
sides the consumption in the neighbourhood, they were export-
ed to Newcastle, Hull and London.  A merchant at Leith, in
the year 1773, contracted to ship oysters on commission for
London.  He purchased for 10 different companies, and for 10
years paid 2500 L. Sterling per annum for oysters.  The value
of the home consumption was estimated to be still greater.  For-
ty boats were then employed, of which 16 belonged to Coc-
kenzie in the parish of Tranent; 16 to Preston-pans, Cuttle, and
West Pans; and 8 to Fisherrow.  The oysters for the London
market were packed in barrels.  Twelve vessels were employed
in the trade, from the middle of January to the middle of May.
Each vessel carried, at a medium, 320 barrels; each baird was
supposed to contain 1200 sizeable oysters.  A pattern was given
to every boat, with injunctions to barrel none of a smaller size;
but there injunctions were far from being strictly observed.
Thirty cargoes have been shipped in a season.  The oysters
were drops in bays at the mouth of the Thames and Medway,
and other grounds, to satten until the fall, when they were
gredged and sent to market.  This trade was given up in the.
year 1786, owing to the scarcity and advanced prices of oysters,
the price having risen from 4 s. 6 d. to 7 s. and 8 s. per barrel.
During some of the last years in which it was carried on, part
of the cargoes were made up of oysters from Newhaven.  The
scalps were greatly exhausted by this trade.


