
                           ELLON.                            911

the two breeds should be kept as distinct and pure as possible,
and no intermixture allowed beyond a first cross.
  Sheep-farming is but little pursued in this district of country,
and in the parish of Ellon is altogether unknown.
  Husbandry.-The rotation of cropping now generally followed
is what is called the seven-shift course.  According to this rota-
tion, the distribution of crops stands thus.  First year, green crop,
chiefly turnips; second year, oats or barley, generally the for-
mer; third, fourth, and fifth years, pasture; hay is raised but
in small quantities.  Sixth and seventh years, oats; in some rare
instances, the seventh crop, or second crop after lea, is barley,
  The cultivation of barley, that is, speaking more accurately, of
bear or big,-for the latter is the variety generally grown in this
part of the country,-although extensive in coast-side districts, is
much more limited in the inland parishes.  Here, the farmers find
upon the whole, that oats is their most profitable crop; and it is,
accordingly, to the cultivation of this species of grain that their at-
tention is chiefly directed.  About thirty years ago, the cultivation
of wheat was introduced to some extent, but it was soon found,
that unless in particularly favourable seasons, a wheat crop did not
attain to maturity in our climate.  A field of wheat on any of our
farms would be now held to indicate a culpable disregard of the
lessons of experience.  Pease were formerly grown on some farms
in this neighbourhood as a variety of green crop; but, owing to
the adoption of an improved system of agriculture, and particular-
ly to the impetus given to turnip husbandry by the facilities which
steam-navigation affords to the farmer for exporting his fat cattle
to the London market, the cultivation of this species of crop
is now almost universally abandoned.  From the great extent
to which the cultivation of turnips has of late years been car-
ried, and from the greatly enhanced value, in consequence of
the circumstances already adverted to, of the turnip crop to
the farmer, be is now seldom disposed to depend for its pro-
duction, exclusively on the duncg prepared on his farm.  Hap-
pily, the extra quantity of manure thus rendered necessary has
been supplied by the important addition which has been recent-
ly made in the article of bone-dust, to the various species of ma-
nures formerly known.  The quantity of bone-dust which, even
in this immediate neighbourhood, is now applied every season as
manure for land, is so great as almost to exceed belief.  In addi-
tion to the large quantities of the article in question imported into


