
326                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

forts, is very general; nay is, in some instances, carried to excess.
The men, even in the humblest rank, are for the most part well
and substantially clothed--having a holiday, as well as a working
day suit.  The dress of the females is in all cases neat; that of
female servants (in particular) showy to an extent that might be
advantageously abated.  Women of all classes, down to the scul-
lion and the beggar, wear bonnets in the open air.  The ordi-
nary food of the peasantry is chiefly of meal, milk, and potatoes,--
little butcher-meat being used except pork, and no fish except
herrings.  The bread employed is, in manv instances, wheaten; but
more usually, a mixture of pease and barley meal.  If the fare of
the working classes in the town is in many cases better than this,
it is also in many cases worse; it being in the narrow lanes of the
town that the most numerous instances of squalid penury and
wretchedness occur.
  General Character.--The moral character of a population of 5000
souls is, like their physical habits, necessarily various.  But as
a whole, the people are sober and industrious, amiable in the re-
lations of life, and attentive to their religious duties.  They are
more polished in manners and respectful to all above them than
persons of the same station in manufacturing towns, though per-
haps somewhat inferior in acuteness of mind and extent of general
information.  Irregular marriages, * the bane of the working-classes,
are believed to be on the decrease ; so also is the proportion of
illegitimate births : whilst the increase of benefit clubs and of
savings-bank deposits indicates that, along with the abandon-
ment of a worse, there is a return, on the part of the com-
mon people, to a better course of feelin and conduct.  Among
the most marked characteristics of all classes, especially the high-
er, may be specified, beneficence to the poor, a large spirit,
hospitality, and a strong feeling of local attachment.  This last
mentioned quality, in particular, seems quite indigenous.  It is
difficult to persuade a native, that there is any town prettier than

<FOOTNOTE>Coldstream-bridge is the place where these marriages are generally performed
The perso who officiates on these occasions is at present a bankrupt tradesman.
His predecessor, Peter Mudie, was in the habit of granting the parties who appear-
ed before him a certificate, bearing that they were "legally and lawfully married"
by him; and further containing his own signature with the addendum of V.D.M.
It was at one time the practice in some of the border parishes, for the kirk-session,
before absolving defaulters in this way, to require them to be proclaimed and re-mar-
ried.  The usual practice now is to make them acknowledge their marriage and irre-
gularity in presence of the session, and, on evidence of their penitence, to restore them
to privileges.  Proclamation dues, however, are still in all such cases, exacted by the
session clerk.


