
120                        LANARKSHIRE.

led a public meeting, when resolutions were entered into to sup-
port the Government. A corps of 1000 rank and file, afterwards
the 83d Regiment of Foot, was raised at an expense of about
L.10,000. * To give countenance to recruiting, and to show their
determination to oppose the Americans, above 500 of the princi-
pal inhabitants formed, as it were, a recruiting party. Mr John
Wardrop, a Virginia merchant, beat a drum; Mr James Finlay,
father to Mr Kirkman Finlay of Castle Toward, played the bagpipe;
while other eminent merchants and citizens performed the duty of
fifers, or carried broad swords, colours, or other warlike ensigns. Mr
Cunningham of Lainshaw, Mr Speirs of Elderslie, and others,
hired their ships as transports; but Mr Glassford of Dugaldston,
disapproving of the warlike preparations, laid up his ships in Port-
Glasgow harbour.
	In 1787, the cotton manufacturers proposed to reduce the price
of weaving, on which a number of weavers stopt work, and, after
parading the streets on 3d September, burned and destroyed a
number of webs in the Drygate and Calton. Provost Riddell cal-
led out the military, under the command of Colonel Kellet, when
the riot act was read; the mob refusing to disperse, three men
were killed near the Hangman's Brae, (north end of Barrack Street,)
and several wounded.
	The revolutionary principles of France had made such rapid
progress in this country during 1793-4, that an Act of Parliament
was passed, authorizing his Majesty to accept the military services
of such of his loyal subjects, as chose to enrol themselves as volun-
teers, for defence of our inestimable constitution. The necessary
arrangements had no sooner been made, than a number of the ci-
tizens of Glasgow offered their services to Government, which were
immediately accepted. During the war there were thirteen vo-
lunteer corps raised, and when these were disbanded, there were
five regiments of local militia formed.
	In 1799 and 1800, the failure of the crops was so great, that
provisions could not be got through the usual channels. The cor-
poration, and a number of benevolent individuals, entered into a
subscription, and purchased grain for the supply of the working-
classes. The purchases amounted to, L. 117,500. On the re-
turn of plenty the concern was wound up, which showed a loss of

<FOOTNOTE>The TradesHouse, the fourteen incorporated trades, and individual members,
subscribed L. 5025 towards the expenses of the regiment. The corporation of the
city voted an address to his Majesty, containing the tender of a regiment; and the
London Gazette, January 19,1778, states. that the Hon. Robert Donald Lord Pro-
vost, and Duncan Niven; Esq, Convener of the Trades-House, who presented the ad-
dres, were most graciously received, had the honour to kiss his Majesty's hand.


