
26                          PERTHSHIRE.

standing by and holding a platter to receive the head.  On the re-
verse, he is represented enshrined, surrounded by a number of priests.
Around both sides, the legend is " S. communitatis ville Sancti
Johannis Baptiste de Berth." The seal used since the Reforma-
tion bears a golden eagle displayed, viz. an eagle of the double or
imperial kind-the two heads looking opposite ways.  A red es-
cutcheon charged with the holy lamb passant, carrying the ban-
ner of St Andrew, with a silver double tressure, surmounts the
breast of the eagle. The legend at the bottom, "pro lege, rege,
et grege."
   Antiquity of the Town.-But Perth must have been a place of con-
siderable note long before the period when existing history refers to it.
Near to the east end, and on the south side of the High Street, there
is a house having on its front a marble stone, bearing the arms of
the family of Aldie, with this inscription, " Here stood the house of
the Green." This house of the Green, which was removed by Co-
lonel Mercer of Aldie about fifty years ago, for the erection of the
present one, stood on what had been for ages reckoned the site of
an old British temple, which, when Hollinshed wrote his history,
1571, was believed to have been built bx the son of Regan, second
daughter of Lear, who governed Britain long before the birth of
our Saviour, and dedicated by him to Mars.  The belief of this
rests on the authority of Geoffrey, who wrote his history in the be-
ginning of the twelfth century and in the reign of Henry I. In
connection with this tradition, it may not be out of place to state,
that the workmen, when they had dug about three feet below the
level of the street, to find a proper foundation for the present build-
ing, discovered two parallel arches.  Under each of these, they found
an apartment 26 feet long and 14 broad.  The walls were 3 1/2 feet
thick, and strongly cemented. In the one there was a door to the
south, and in the other one to the north.   In digging some time
since in the grounds of Mud Hall, about fourteen miles from Perth,
in the parish of Bendochy, several similar subterraneous buildings
were discovered, which, When cleared of the ashes and earth with
which they were filled, were found to be about 40 feet long, and 6
feet wide, and 5 feet deep.  Such buildings answer to the description
which Tacitus gives of those of the Germans, De Mor. German.
c. 16.  See Dr Easton's Statistical Account of Kirriemuir, p. 177,
for similar appearances in that parish.
   It is a generally received opinion that Perth was built and forti-
fied by Agricola. This opinion is founded on a passage in the
  " Description of Britain by Richard de Circenster," an historian


