
                       WALSTON.                         865

the amount of school fees from L. 10 to L. 11.  He has the legal
accommodations, with the exception of a garden, in lieu of which
he receives L. 2, 2s. annually.  The teacher of the Elsrickle
school has attended college one session ; and his emoluments
may be valued at about L. 30 yearly.  The fees at both schools
for reading, writing, and arithmetic conjoined, are 3s. per
quarter.  All between the ages of six and fifteen can read and
write, or are learning to do both.  The people are in general
very much alive to the benefits of education ; the best proof of
which is the existence of a school at Elsrickle, where the children
of the south side of the parish are nearly half-educated before
they reach the age when they could attend, especially in winter,
at Walston, not from the distance, but from the necessity of cros-
sing the hill in that inclement season.  Both schools are well
taught.
   Library.-A parochial library was commenced in 1814; and
at present consists of 500 volumes, which have been carefully se-
lected, and, as their appearance indicates, read with much assiduity.
   Friendly Society.-There is a Friendly Society, which was in-
stituted in 1808, and is not confined to parishioners.  It is in a
flourishing condition, and must have been beneficial in its effects,
promoting economy, and cherishing the feeling of independence
in the district.
   Savings' Bank.-A Savings' Bank was instituted at Biggar in
1832, in which a few of the parishioners of Walston have from
time to time invested small sums.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The amount of collections in
church on an average of the last ten years is L. 6, Os. 8 1/2d. yearly.
A trifling addition is annually made to this sum by money re-
ceived for the use of a mortcloth, and a small charge on procla-
mations of banns.  The only other fund available forAhe relief
of the poor is the interest of two thousand merks, mortified by
the Baillies, the former proprietors of the parish ; and for which
there is an heritable bond, of date 15th January 1720, granted
by George Lockhart of Carnwath to the minister and kirk-session,
and sasine thereon, registered at Edinburgh 20th February 1720,
in the 115th Book of the New General Register of Sasines, pp.
221, &c.  What further is required for the relief of the poor is
made up by voluntary contributions from the heritors according to
their valued rents.  In general, 4d. per pound of valued rent
amounting to L 20, 10s. 11 5/4d., has been found more than suffi-


