
378              ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   Means of Communication.-The Bridge thrown over the Conan,
at the village called by that name, in 1810, consisting of five arches,
is a handsome solid fabric. It is built of durable freestones, and the
cost of erection was L. 6000 Sterling. Between it and the Beauly
Bridge, subsequently built, a communication is opened by an excel-
lent turnpike road, along which the mail runs. Another road leads
from Conan Bridge, across the Maolbine, to the Kessock, sending
off a branch about half-way, in the direction of Fortrose and the fer-
ry of Fort George. These roads are kept in excellent repair;
but the smaller branches which intersect thd parish are not at all
attended to as they ought, being often in a very insufficient state.
   The frith is not of sufficient depth, so far up as as this parish, to
admit of the approach of vessels of considerable burden. A good
deal of trade goes on, however, by means of sloops, which come
into a quay erected a few years ago, at a place called Alcaig.
They bring us coals, lime, &C.; and receive in return props for
coal-pits, and timber of larger size for other purposes.
   Ecclesiasitical State.-The parish church is a plain capacious
house, situated near the sea-shore, as nearly as possible in the
middle of the parish. It was built in 1795, and is in a good state
of repair. The number of sitters intended to be accommodat-
ed is 1200; but from 1500 to 1800 persons have often been
crammed within its walls. The manse was built in 1777, and is
still in good condition. It underwent, of course, repairs several
times,-the last in 1837, when a complete square of offices was
erected, one of the best in the county. It was stated in the for-
mer Statistical Account, that two glebes were attached to the
church, each of which was at a considerable distance from the
manse. To obviate this inconvenience, the present incumbent,
soon after his admission, got both excambed for lands contiguous
to the manse, and received in lieu of them-arable, 15 acres, and
moor ground 18 acrds. Of the latter, he has since reclaimed to
the extent of 8 acres; so that the arable now consists of 23 acres.
In regard to value, it is equal to the average of the land through-
out the parish.-The stipend, since the last augmentation in 1834,
is 18 chalders, Linlithgow measure, half meal, half barley.
   For many years, no fewer than three catechists ware employed
in this parish by the kirk-session; at present there is only one. To
compensate, however, for that apparent diminution in the agency
for communicating religious instruction, it is proper to observe, that
several Sabbath evening schools (to the number of six,) have been

StAS.2.14.38.P.Ross_and_Cromarty.Kirkmichael_and_Cullicudden>

38               ROSS AND CROMARTY.

Chuddinn or Chuddegin, signifying the Cuddie Creek,-that spe-
cies of fish being formerly, though not now, caught in great abund-
ance in a small creek on the shore of Cullicudden, and a little to
the west of the old church. It is probable, however, that St Martin's,
or Kirk Martin, and not Cullicudden, was the name originally of
this small but ancient parish. It is still called by the natives
Sgire' a' Mhartinn, or the parish of St Martin's; and at the place
of St Martin's, a small farm near its western extremity, the founda-
tion of a church, surrounded by a burying-ground not now occu-
pied, may still be seen. The probabilhty is, therefore, that the
parish church, dedicated to St Martin of Tours, was originally at
the place of St Martin's; butthe church being afterwards removed to
the more centrical place of Cullicudden, the parish from this circum-
stance came to be so called. The union of the parishes of Kirkmichael
and Cullicudden must have taken place subsequent to the esta-
blishment of Presbyterianism in Scotland in 1688; for, about the
middle or rather towards the beginning of the seventeenth cen-
tury, and during the sway of Scottish Episcopacy; the three ad-
jacent cures or parishes of Cullicudden, Kirkmichael, and Cro-
marty were served by three Episcopal clergymen, viz. Mr Robert
Williamson, curate of Cullicudden; Mr Charles Pope, curate of
Kirkmichael; and Mr Gilbert Anderson, curate of Cromarty;
each of these curacies being in the gift of the Urquharts of Cro-
marty as patrons. The united parish of Kirkmichael and Culli-
cudden, though still so called in old deeds and in the records of
presbytery, is better known by its more modern name of Resolis,
(Ri-sboluis, i. e. the field or ridge of light,) and the united parish
got this name from the circumstance, that the manse first, and a
few years afterwards the church, was built,-and the grebe desig-
nated by excambion at the place of Resolis, as the most centrical
for the convenience of the parishioners about the year 1667. Pre-
vious to that period, the minister had his residence at Cullicud-
den, while be preached every Sabbath alternately at the churches
of Kirkmichael and Cullicudden. After the present church was
built, the two old churches were suffered to fall, into decay. The
gables of both are still standing. That of Kirkmichael contains
the old bell, which is occasionally tolled at funerals.
   Situation, Extent, &c.-The united parish lies partly, in the
county of Ross, and partly in the county of Cromarty, within
the district called an Oilean Dubh, or the Black Isle, on the
south side of the Cromarty Frith. It extends in length, from east
to west, about 8 miles, and between 3 and 4  miles in breadth. It


