
			FETTERESSO.                           247

introduction into it of the families of Fraser and Keith. It would
appear that, for a long time, these families possessed the whole pro-
perty of the parish.
   Family of Fraser.--Tbe first person of any note of the name of
Fraser, mentioned in Scottish annals, is Simon Fraser, who married
the eldest daughter of Walter, the first great steward of Scotland,
grandson of Banquo, Thane of Lochaber, and the paternal ancestor
of the royal family of Stuart. In the reign of David I., a Simon
Fraser, who seems to have been a person of much consequence, left
a grand-daughter, and heir, who was married to " Herveus, filius
Philippi Mariscalli," father of Sir John de Keith, and the ances-
tor of the Earls Marischal. For many years, the family held high
offices in church and state. In the reign of Alexander Ill., we
find a Fraser " Viscomes de Traquair."
   The first of the race connected with this parish of whom notice
is taken in the history of the country, is Sir Alexander Fraser,
who was nearly related to King Robert Bruce, (Archdeacon Bar-
ber says, the King and Sir Alexander were cousins in a near de-
gree), and was married to his sister the Lady Mary. He was one
of the principal instruments of settling the Bruce on the throne.
He opposed with great success the powerful Cummines, reduced
the north to obedience, and was signalized by his bravery at the
battle of Bannockburn. In reward for his services, he obtained
from that great Prince many gifts of lands in different counties,
particularly in the shires of Aberdeen and Kincardine, some of
them no doubt upon his own resignation, since it would appear
that long before this period he had great influence in those dis-
tricts of the country. Among these gifts, were the lands and fo-
rest of Craigie, in the thanedom of Cowie, and afterwards, it
would appear, the whole thanedom, with many other lands. Sir
Alexander held the office of Lord Chamberlain from 1325 to
1329. He was slain in the battle of Duplin, on the 12th August
1332; and was succeeded by his eldest son John, who, it is said,
left no issue but one daughter, who was wedded to Sir William de
Keith the marischal. Robert, the son of William de Keith and
Margaret Fraser, obtained from King Robert II. on 27th Decem-
ber 1376, a charter of the forest of Colly (Cowie), and the forest
called the Forest del Month, with the lands of Ferachy, Glasto-
lach, Cragy, and Clochensheill, which, of old, was part of the
thanedom of Colly, and was resigned into the King's hands by
William de Keith. (Reg. Mag. Sigilli, p. iii.)  Another portion
of the thanedom was inherited, it is said, by Sir William Fraser,


