
       184                 ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       rience of its efficacy.  There is no medical practitioner resident in
       the parish, the duties of that profession thus devolving on the
       minister. *
         The prognostications of the weather usually referred to by the
       Highlanders, are entitled to little regard, being certain days of the
       week or month,-which they consider, on the authority of tradition
       alone, as types of the subsequent season.  They ascribe certain in-
       fluences to the phases of the moon, equally unworthy of attention;
       supposing that an increasing moon communicates a growing quali-
       ty to all substances, and a decreasing moon the contrary,-on which
       account they will not fell timber, cast peats, or cut hay, while the
       moon is on the increase, believing that they will not season proper-
       ly,-nor kill meat during the decrease, from an idea that doing so
       would occasion its shrinking. It is also a prevalent opinion that
       every moon imparts a peculiar character to the weather during its
       continuance, so that should it be new moon about the end of
       April or of October, the month of May, in the former case, will pos-
       sess the character of spring; and in the latter, that of November
       will resemble autumn.
         Hydrography.- The arm of the sea which bounds the parish on
       the north, is closed in, on the west, by the eastern extremity of the
       Isle of Skye, with the exception of the straits of Kyle-rea and Kyle-
       akin, by which the loch communicates with the ocean, on either -
       side of that island.  This inlet consists of three distinct portions,
       the largest of which, called Lochalsh, divides the western end of
       Glensheil from the parish of that name.  This piece of water,
       which runs east and west, is about 10 miles long, by 3 miles wide
       at its broadest part.  It is divided into two parts by the low island
       of Glass Ellan, i. e. Green Island, which is about thirty acres in ex-
       tent, with flat sandy sbores extending so far on every side, as to
       leave only a narrow passage between it and either land.  About four
       miles to the east of this island, the inlet divides into two unequal

       <FOOTNOTE>Under the present head, may be mentioned an extraordinary instance of absti-
       nence,which occurred about the close of the last century.  A female of this parish, of
       the name of Isabella Macrae, of weak intellect, and a beggar, had left Glenmoristone,
       where she had been soliciting alms, at the beginning of a fall of snow, which lay upon
       the ground for the unusually long period of six weeks.  During the greater part of
       this time, the poor woman was not missed, her friends in this parish believing that she
       was waitinq in Glenmoristone for the disappearance of the snow. It was at last ascer-
       tained that she had left that country, on her way home; but it was only at the end of
       the period above-mentioned, that she was discovered, under a wreath of snow alive,
       after eating all the heather within her reach.  She was known to have bad a small
       quantity of oatmeal in her possession, which, with the heather, composed the whole of
       her sustenance, during the time that she remained under the snow.  Though she lived
       some years afterwards, she never recovered an erect posture, and it is also recorded,
       that when found, her chest bore the impression of her kness, in consequence of her
       having been so long in a sitting and stooping posture.


