
     of Dunlop.

the best houses of the kind till of late, when some have
been built in the neighbouring parishes on a larger scale,
and in better situations.  This is a circumstance that reflects

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

tial letters were intended I imagine to represent, that it was built by
James Lord Viscount Clandeboyes ; for so Mr Hamilton's eldest son is
designed in an inscription on the school house, as we shall show in its pro-
per place  It is upon the whole a piece of fine workmanship, and a tri-
bute to the memory of worthy parents, which must have been very ex-
pensive to their pious son.  But through length of time, and great ne-
glect. It has been much injured, and as there are none who think them-
selves immediately concerned to keep it in repair, it will soon become
reinous.  For none will impute to the present age, what was said at the Pha-
risees, that they "build the tombs of the prophets and gainith the sepul-
chres of the righteous." I am not in possession of further information about
Mr Hamilton's family, and therefore shall only add, that it is not a little
for the credit at Dunlop, that besides those who may be said to belong to
it, it has given birth to persons of such emmence and distinction as they
certainly were  Mr Hanis Hamilton was great grandfatherd to Mr Wil-
liam Carstars, Principal of the University of Edmburgh, and to Mr
William Dunlop, Principal of the University of Glasgow, and Historio-
grapher for scotland.  In Crawford's History of Renfrewshire, published
in 1710. Mr Hamilton's eldest son James, is styled Earl of Clanbrysal in
the kingdom of Ireland; but whether Hamilton, the present Earl of Clan-
brysal, he a descendent of his, I know not.  From that period little is
known of the ministers of this parish, till the Revolution, when Mr Ga-
brial Cuninghame was appointed to the charge.  He had been one of the
indulged ministers, was a man of considerable abilities, and greatly re-
spected by the people.  To him succeeded Mr Jamieson, in whom simpli-
city and godly sincerity were very conspicuous, and who therefore had,
what he was well entitled to, the love and affection of his stock.  When
dying, he left his two sons, who were then only boys, to the care of one
Anderson of Graighead, a plain countryman, who undertook the charge,
and executed it with great fidelity.  The one he bred a merchant and the
other a clergyman, without impairing in the least the little patrimony
which was left them, Mr William Jamieson, the clergyman, was minister
of Rarick, and author of an essay on Virtue and Happiness, which may
be considered as an ingenious attempt to reconcive what is irreconcilable,
the different accounts of moral obligation.  After Mr Jamieson was Mr

</UNREADABLE>


