
                         BERVIE.			     7

it may it is related by those who were among the volunteers on
that occasion, that no sooner were they seen marching to the
heights near the castle, than the ship-of-war put up all sail, and
hastened out of sight.
	Plans and surveys of this parish are in the possession of the
proprietors, or their factors and surveyors.
        Land-owners.--The chief landowners are, the Viscount of Ar-
buthnott, and James Farquhar, Esq.
        Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers, which are in a
state of ood, preservation, have no earlier entries than in 1742 in
the Book of Discipline, and 1766 in the Cash-book. There were
lately found among some old papers, session records with entries
in 1657, but they are so mutilated as scarcely to be legible. The
books which contain the present records of the session are two
volumes,--the one with the cash entries and distributions for be-
hoof of the poor, and the other containing the minutes connected
with the usual business of the session, and the registers of mar-
riages and baptisms. These books are very accurately kept by
Mr Paterson, the schoolmaster of the parish, who is session -clerk.
	Antiquities.--There is a market-cross in the burgh near the
town-house. It consists of a column of stone about 14 feet high,
with a ball on the top of it, and it is surrounded at the base by a
flight of steps. It is apparently of considerable antiquity. There
had formerly been a religious house here, belonging to a body of
friars, as there are in the possession of the feuars, charters, with
such words as Friars Dubbs, &c.
	The discovery of graves by the workmen employed, when the
turnpike road was in making, is a further evidence of the existence
of such an establishment, for it was near the place still known by
the name of Friars Dubbs; and it is conjectured that these graves
mark the spot where the friars had their burying-ground.
        There are on the top of a hill, in this parish, three circles of
earth and stone near one another, which are evidently of antiquity.
It would be vain to speculate about the purpose for which they
may have been originally formed. It may have been for religious
ceremonies, or, what is more likely, these circles may be the ves-
tiges of a Roman camp.
        The old Castle of Hallgreen is situated at the southmost point
of the Parliamentary boundary of the burgh, on an eminence near
the sea, and is a large building. A date appears on the west front
of it, considerably effaced, but supposed to be 1376. Its walls are


