
			ROSENEATH.                               123

ship; besides, it merits notice, that many have family worship
daily, and are readers of the Scriptures, while occasionally there
have been remarkable examples among them of the transforming
power of the truth of God. The periodical influx of strangers for
the summer months, although in some temporal respects an advan-
tage, is not to be regarded without serious apprehensions in its
moral and religious bearings. Occasionally very estimable persons
are met with among this fluctuating population, whose temporary
residence is even a blessing to our secluded community; but there
has alwavs hitherto been a leaven of ungodly scorners among our
summer visitants. Incapable of laying aside habits intrinsically
criminal, they aggravate their guilt by transferring them where they
are more obtrusively offensive. As if long accustomed to think
that "man made the town," they seem to conclude that he "made
the country" also; and it ought to be known through such a me-
dium as a statistical survey of the parish, that there are many persons
of respectable stations in life from the commercial districts, so lost
to all sense of decorum, as systematically to disturb the devotions
of a peaceful people, by retiring during the service, should Conti-
nuance to its close unexpectedly interfere with the projected relaxa.
tions and amusements of the day. Some bolder, or more hard-
ened in their desecration, attempt no such compromise with their                                     such compromise with their
conscience, as to attend any portion of the service; but while
others are reverently occupied, may occasionally be seen prowling
around the walls of the church, or along its contiguous avenues,
contemptuous of the worship of the God whose works they pre-
tend to admire.
   Only one illegitimate birth occurred in the parish in the course
of the last three years.

                	IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The parish consists of 6140
acres, of which about 3000 are uncultivated moorland, although
of these it is calculated 500 are capable of profitable culture, 520
are under valuable wood plantations of various ages, and 720 of
old and natural copse, which leave about 1900 acres of ground
cultivated, or occasionally in tillage.
   In the grounds of the Castle, and the environs of the church,
and the site of the ancient House of Campsail, are chiefly found
the trees of any considerable age and magnitude, and these are
of all varieties; ash, elm, beech, plane, Iime, oak, vew, horse chest-


