
			PETTINAIN.                         539

1689, and for a considerable period of time, down to 1780, the
transactions of the heritors and kirk-session appear to have been
pretty regularly recorded; but between that year and 1803, much
less attention has been paid, and the consequence is that they are
very defective. The different registers of births, marriages, and
deaths, are now kept with the greatest accuracy.
        Antiquities.-It is unnecessary to make any remarks on the en-
campment, so well described in the former Statistical Account,
except to state that the traces of it are gradually disappearing; * and
likewise to observe, that there is now no vestige of the long stone
or cross, of which mention is also made in the former Account of
the parish.
        Mansion-Houses.-The only mansion-house deserving of notice
is that of Westraw, belonging to Sir Windham Carmichael An-
struther, Bart. It appears to have been originally a small house,
but, with the additions which have been made from time to time, it
now affords a good deal of accommodation. It was here that the
late Earl of Hyndford, at whose death the title became extinct,
chiefly resided, although he had a splendid residence at Mauldslie,

<FOOTNOTE>In the confines of the parish on the south, and on the high moorish ground
formerly mentioned, the vestiges of a large camp, or fortified station, are still very
visible. It contains about 6 acres, which form an irregular figure, approaching to
that of a circular area. The walls seem to have been very thick and high, and to
have been composed chiefly of coarse stones, many of them a kind of flag, collected,
probably, from the adjoining grounds; but there is no appearance of mortar or ce-
ment. It is situated upon side of a deep moss, within which, at a little distance,
are the remains of a small fort, scarcely including a rood of ground, which has evi-
dently been connected with the large one by a passage made through the moss. The
figure of this small fortification is likewise round, axid the wall, of it has been built
with the same kind of stones. The large camp includes several springs of excellent
water. Some urns were found, under the ruins of the wall, a great many years ago,
by some people that were digging out the larger stones for the purpose of building.
They were each of them enclosed within four coarse flag stones, set on edge, and co-
vered with one laid flat. The space included by these flags was filled to a conside-
rable depth with fine whitish sand, among which the urn was standing in an in-
verted position. Upon removing the urn, something of a soft slimy nature was
found upon the sand, which probably might be the ashes of human bones. A large
urn, surrounded with fine small ones, was found in the bottom of a cairn of stones,
about a quarter of a mile distant, and enclosed in a similar manner. This large camp
has two smaller ones in its view; one of them to the north westward, upon the high-
est top of the hill, and the other to the south-eastward, on the top of a little hill
in Covington parish, each about the distance of half a mile. The first of these appears
to have been surrounded with two walls, between which there has been deep ditch.
The walls have been built of large rough stones, such as are found upon the hill. A
vast number of them still remain upon the place. This fortification has likewise
been of a roundish figure.
	"On the top of a little rising ground, about, half a mile west from the villages,
there has stood one of those long stones which are known by the name of Crosses.
It still lies near the place, and a socket of stone remains in which it is said to have
been fixed. From this place, which is connected with the plantation of Westraw,
there is a delightful view of the house and enclosures of Carstairs, on the opposite
side of the river."-Old Stat. Account, Vol. xii. p. 39.


