
636                          LANARKSHIRE.

commercial emporium of the west, the city of Glasgow.  "A
stranger," says the Rev. Mr Bower in the last Statistical Report,
" is struck with the view of this parish.  It has the appearance of
an immense garden."  The old parish constitutes by far the lowest,
richest, and most interesting portion of the Monklands, and hence
the remark of the same authority, "the monks, who usually fixed
upon a pleasant situation, had a residence here."  Perhaps their
superior skill in agriculture and gardening rendered the places
they fixed upon at once more pleasant and valuable; but, had that
able and diligent minister of the gospel lived to the present day, he
would have been constrained to admit, that the monks were for
once deceived in their choice, for, although the surface of Old
Monkland is the most valuable, still a very large proportion of the
mineral stores which supply her furnaces and other public works
are brought from the New Monkland.  The true value of the re-
spective districts at the present day is therefore much on the side
of the east parish.
   From Monkland House in the south-east, to Clyde Iron-works
in the north-west, the parish of Old Monkland is about 10 miles
in length.  The widest place, from the bridge over the Calder at
Carnbroe to the lodge near Glenboig in the Haggmuir, is about
4 1/2 miles.  Between Calder Iron-works and the lands of Rochsil-
loch the distance is only about 4 furlongs, while in other places
the parish varies in breadth from 2 to 3 miles.  Old Monkland is
bounded on the north by the parishes of New Monkland, Cadder,
and barony of Glasgow; on the east, by part of the parishes of
New Monkland and Bothwell; on the south, by Bothwell; and
on the west, by the river Clyde, which seaparates it from Cambus-
lang and Rutherglen.
   Meteorology.-The average ranges of the thermometer and ba-
rometer in this district of the country are pretty well known from
its vicinity to Glasgow, where registers are regularly kept.  But
perhaps, the following statement of facts, relating to the prevailing
winds, and certain other changes and peculiarities of the weather,
may be not less new than interesting.  The particulars have been
carefully selected and arranged from a general journal of the
weather, kept by the late William Mack, Esq. of Fruitfield, and
submitted to the authors inspection by Mr Mack's son, John
Mack, Esq. of Bellefield.  The observations are daily, and the
period included is from January 1799 to June 1826-a period of
about twenty-seven years.
    The following is an account of the prevailing winds from January


