
                         ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                     257

       tion.  In the year 1528, great disturbances arose in this and the
       adjoining parishes of Troternish, in consequence of a feud between
       the Clann D•nuill and the Macleods of Harris.  The office of
       Balliary of all Troternish was granted by royal charter to Alex-
       ander Macleod of Dunvegan, while, a few weeks afterwards, the
       same office was similarly granted to Torquil Macleod of Lewis.
       Under these circumstances, Donull Gruamach mac Dhonuill
       Ghallaich of Sleat assembled his forces, and was successful in ex-
       pelling Macleod of Dunvegan and his clan from the barony of Tro-
       ternish.  After the death of Donull Gruamach, Dunvegan renew-
       ed hostilities, and resolved by every possible means to regain pos-
       session of Troternish.  Donull Gorm, the son and successor of
       Donull Gru...mach, entered Troternish in May 1539, and, with a
       strong body of his adherents, laid waste the country with fire and
       sword.  There are still traditions of the hardships and calamities
       to which the inhabitants of this parish were then exposed.  Some
       days subsequent to this invasion, Donull G•rm passed over from
       Troternish to Kintail, with a view to be revenged on Mackenzie,
       on account of his hostility to his pretensions.  In an attempt to
       take Mackenzie's castle at Elandonnan by surprise, Donull G•rm
       lost his life, by an arrow directed against him from the battlements
       of the fortress. *
         The excesses to which these disastrous feuds Were carried ar-
       rested the attention of James V. ; and, with a determination to check
       them in future, not only in this part of Skye, but in all the Western
       Isles, he resolved to appear in person before the various chieftains of
       the Isles.  For this purpose, his Majesty, with a considerable fleet,
       left the Forth in May 1540, and, sailing round the north of Scot-
       land, called at Lewis, where be took on board Macleod of that
       island, whence, passing over to Skye, he took along with him Mac-
       leod of Dunvegan, and then directing his course eastward, visited
       Troternish, still bearing marks of its late desolation.  Tradition
       says, that his Majesty minutely inspected and greatly admired the
       fortress of Duntulm, the residence in this parish, for many cen-
       turies, of the noble Clann Donuill.  Here he was met by a num-
       ber of chieftains, who claimed relationship to the Lords of the Isles.+

       <FOOTNOTE>Elandonnan fortress, at the time, had but few men in garrison, and Mackenzie being
       absent, it is very probable that it would have been taken, were it not that Donuall
       G•rm received a wound in the thigh, from a barbed arrow which he pulled out
       with such violence as to sever the main artery.  The blood, of course, flowed copi-
       ously, and all the means which were used to cbeck its effusion proved ineffectual.  He
       was hastily conveyed! to a little island at some distance, where he had been but &
       short period whean he died.
         After his Majesty had taken on board Ruairidh Macleod, and his kinsmens at


