
732                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

mirably fitted in point of quietness and ventilation for an hospital
of that description. This useful institution was for some time given
up for want of funds; but has again been established under the
denomination of the Maternity Hospital, now situated in St John
Street. Besides this hospital there are three or four other Insti-
tutions where medical assistance is afforded, and clothes and pecu-
niary aid given to poor lying-in females.
   Lunatic Asylum.-When the Infirmary was first instituted, a
ward was set apart there for lunatics; but it was soon found that
the contiguity of these with the other patients was most inconve-
nient for both classes. The pauper lunatics of the city were ac-
commodated in a very inconvenient hospital attached to the Charity
Workhouse; but a public hospital for the insane of the community
was greatly wanted. In 1792 an effort was made by Dr Duncan,
an active and benevolent physician, to raise subscriptions; but a
sufficient sum could not be procured, till, in 1807, through the
exertions of Sir John Sinclair and the Hon. H. Erskine, a Go-
vernment grant of L. 2000 was obtained. In 1810, the asylum at
Morningside was accordingly commenced, and in 1813 opened for
the reception of patients. The lowest annual charge was L. 50,
so that, of course, the poorer classes of patients were excluded.
In 1839, another effort was made to enlarge the accommoda-
tion at this institution, and to build new premises which would be
capable of receiving all the insane poor of the city. By the ac-
tive exertions of several zealous individuals, aided by the liberality
of the public, nearly the requisite funds were soon raised, the ad-
ditional buildings were forthwith commenced, and in 1842 com-
pleted, and rendered fit for the reception of patients. In August
of that year, it was opened under the patronage of the Queen,
and with the title of the Royal Edinburgh Asylum. The expense
of new buildings, and additions and repairs of the old, amounted to
L. 27,734 Sterling. Contributors of L. 10 or upwards have the
privilege of recommending one pauper lunatic, who will be main-
tained at the rate of L. 15 per year; and contributors of L. 40
have a perpetual right of such recommendation. The active ma-
nagement is vested in twelve ordinary directors. The medical
board consists of five physicians, including the presidents of the
Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons pro tempore. There is also
a resident physician, a chaplain, two matrons, a house steward,
and clerk.
   In adjusting the plans of the new establishment, it was suggested


