
                                       TONGUE.                       175

        abled to form a throng session of elders, who, considering their
        station in society, were ornaments in the church.  Likewise under
        his fostering care, several young men were reared for the minis-
        try, all of whom, with scarce an exception, he had the pleasure of
        seeing the instruments of extensive usefulness.
          This honoured servant of the Lord laboured for sixty-five years
        among a devotedly attached people, being able to preach and ad-
        minister the sacraments to the very last.  He died in 1834, at the
        advanced age of ninety-six.  His people commonly spoke of him
        as " the great minister," and testified their esteem and affection
        by erecting a handsome monument to his memory.
          Parochial Register.-- There was no register kept, previous to
        the year 1775.  From that period till 1797 there was a record of
        births and marriages regularly made up; but the person who was ses-
	sion-clerk at that time became deranged, which was never suspect-
        ed till it was incontestibly proved, by his being found one morning
        busily employed in the churchyard distributing papers on the grave-
        stones, with the sanguine hope of raising an army from the dead.
        On examination, these papers were discovered to be the parish
        register, so torn as to be completely useless.  From 1797 mar-
        riages and births were registered, but not in a permanent form,
        and many of the loose sheets have been lost through the careless-
        ness of clerks.  However, since 1816, a correct register has been
        regularly kept.
          Antiquities.-- The most striking ruin is Castle Varrich, stand-
        ing on the promontory already mentioned, bearing the same name.
        It is a square building, which originally consisted of two stories,
        the first arched with stone, the second covered with wood.  Its
        dimensions inside are not great; the walls are thick, and still of a
        considerable height.  Tradition is silent as to its history, on which
        subject its name has given rise to various conjectures; but most
        probably the name is merely derived from a Gaelic word signifying
        the castle on the eminence.  The remains of several circular towers
        are to be seen, extending from the coast to the interior, which, from
        the circumstance of one being always in sight of another, are sup-
        posed to have been erected for the purpose of conveying telegra-
        phic information when an enemy threatened to invade the country.--
        Several subterranean caves have been found in the parish, long and
        narrow in their construction, with a small entrance.  From various
        circumstances they appear to be artificial, and were probably occu-


