
     Statistical Account

some other burial ground; and all we can conjecture about
them is, that they have been placed in the wall when the
church was first built, or afterwards when the wall might
have been repaired.  Not far from the church, is a farm cal-
led Spear-mill, which is said to have derived its name from a
battle having been fought there with spears*.  The story re
lated of the battle is this.  The North-Esk by a great flood
had swept away the mill of Canterland at Kinnardie.  The
proprietor of Canterland and Balmaleedie, not knowing where
to build another, requested of the proprietor of Aberluthnet,
that he would allow him to carry the mill-dam, taken from
the North-Esk, and the Burn of Aberluthnet, after turning
his mill a little farther towards the east, until both in one
current reached his property.  This the proprietor of Aber-
luthnet absolutely refused, and the other strenuously insisted
that it should be done by force, if he would not consent to it.
In a night or two after, the proprietor of Canterland caused
a strong oxen-plough draw a line from the Burn and mill-
dam, in the direction he wished the water to run; and after
this, forthwith set his people to work, to complete what he
had already begun.  The proprietor of Aberluthnet being in-
formed of this, speedily assembled his vassals and depend-
ents, and with great violence attacked his opponent, who
was well prepared to receive him, near the place where the
mill now stands.  Both sides joined battle; they sought with
spears, and after a bloody conflict, the proprietor of Aber-
luthnet was defeated, the mill-dam extended, and the mill
itself built where it presently is.  After the battle, it is said,

<FOOTNOTE>

*On different parts of this farm, several stone coffins, and the bones of
dead bodies have been found; and it is supposed, the stones in the church
wall might have been taken from thence; and that the stone most orna-
mented, might belong to some leader or commander that fell in battle.


