
			BLAIRGOWRIE.                        901

to the Hunter Hill of Glammis on the east,-shut in on the south
by the picturesque range of the Sidlaw Hills. This noble valley,
so richly cultivated, and so diversified in its scenery, forms one of
the most magificent panoramic views that can be conceived. The
river Ericht, debouching from the narrow defile on the left, sweeps
rapidly past the village towards the hollow of the Strath, forming
a fine reach of a mile in length, before it turns to the eastward, and
disclosing occasional glimpses of its waters in the distance, as it
tranquilly winds onwards in a devious course to its junction with
the Isla.
  About three miles to the nortb of Blairgowrie (on the estate of
Craighall, belonging to R. C. Rattray, Esq.), the course of the
Ericht, for the space of nearly two miles, lies through a deep
chasm or ravine, the sides of which are of great height, consisting
in some places of perpendicular precipices rising sheer 300 feet
from the bed of the river; in others, of steep banks clothed with
thick underwood of oak and hazel, interspersed with clusters of
tall and graceful trees, disposed in the most picturesque and taste-
ful manner. One of the most remarkable of these precipices is to
be seen on the west or Blairgowrie side of the river, and is called
Craig Liach or "the Eagle's Craig." It is a huge rock about 300
feet in height, presenting a vast gray front, so uniform and un-
broken in its surface as to resemble a work of masonry, and it is
fringed on either side and along the summit with forest trees, and
underwood. In this rock, at the base, there is a cave or fissure,
which seems to have been formed by the violent breaking, off and
detaching of huge masses from the solid rock. It is low in,
the roof, and extends only about 30 feet underneath the rock.
Immediately beyond this precipice, at a sudden bend of the
river, the scenery is indescribably grand and savage; the rocks
on either side are lofty and imposing, most bizarre and eccentric-
in their shape, and overhanging a deep and gloomy chasm, at
the bottom of which the river forms a deep and sullen pool,
black as night, and apparently of great depth. Nor is the myste-
rious legend befitting such a scene wanting to heighten its romantic
interest. Upon an angle of the rock, and on the very verge of
the precipice, are still to be traced the ruins of a circular tower,
once of great height and strength, still known by the name of
Lady Lindsay's Castle, in which, some centuries ago (so runs the
legend) a daughter of the noble house of Crawford was confined
fvr life in obedience to a fiat of the Pope, to expiate, by a dreary.


