
                             RATHO                           103

and partly by fees; the other by fees entirely. The number of
children attending each is 22; the fee per quarter, 2s. 6d.
     Besides the week day-schools, there are also 3 Sabbath schools
in operation in the different parts of the parish, attended in all by
about 100 children. One of these is in Ratho, another in Long
Dalmahoy, and a third in Bonnington. The latter two have been
instituted but lately, and promise to be of considerable advantage
in the diffusion of religious knowledge and pious feeling.
     From the statement made of the numbers attending the schools
in the parish, that number being about 129, it may be thought that
there is a considerable deficiency in this respect, considering the
population under fifteen years of age. In explanation of this,
however, it must be mentioned, that not a few in the out-
skirts of the parish attend private schools in the adjoining pa-
rishes, which are more contiguous to their respective residences.
The only part of the parish that is at all inconveniently situated, as
regards either school or church, is Long Dalmahoy, but the amount
of the population is too small to warrant any separate erection. The
distance, besides, is not extreme, being about two miles and a half
by the nearest way of access.
     The people, on the whole, in common with the inhabitants of
Scotland, seem to be duly alive to the benefits of education, and
many of them struggle hard in order to secure it for their children.
With the wages of a labouring population, however, the difficulty
is great, and many of them are compelled to rest satisfied with a
much smaller amount of it than their sense of its importance
would dictate. It is much to be desired that a more ample re-
muneration were allotted to the schoolmasters in the shape of sa-
lary, and that the fees, low as they are, were lower still.
     Four pounds per annum are, according to the existing arrangement,
allowed b the heritors for the education of eight poor children.
     Library.---There is a library in the parish, consisting of between
300 and 400 small volumes, under the management of the kirk-
session and a committee of the inhabitants. The books were pur-
chased four years ago with money raised by subscription chiefly
among the heritors. At its first formation, it was intended for the
benefit of the Sabbath scholars, and for a time confined to them;
afterwards, however, it was considered advisable to make it paro-
chial, and it is now open to the whole parish. The subscription is
1s. for children, and 2s. for adults in the year. The advantages
which it offers have hitherto been made use of chiefly by the chil-



