
         846                          FIFESHIRE.

         Mr A. Mercer, author of " Dunfermline Abbey," a poem, with
         historical illustrations, published in 1819, of a collection of verses
         in 1838, and of some fugitive pieces which appeared in the "North
         British Magazine" in 1804, of which he was for the short period
         of fourteen months editor, and in other periodicals, and who died
         in Dunfermline only last July 1842; a man whose abilities, edu-
         cation, and literary taste, had they been steadily directed to one
         definite object of pursuit in,fife, might, with his inoffensiveness of
         disposition, have secured for him a higher estimation, and better
         fortune than unhappily distinguished his latter days.
              There was published also in his name, a large, "Historical and
         Chronological Table of the ancient town of Dunfermline, from
         1064 to 1834," on a large sheet, which is an abridgement of an
         elaborate, valuable, and beautifully written MS. quarto volume,
         pp. 422, entitled, 11 Annals of Dunfermline from the earliest Re-
         cords to 1833," and which was kindly prepared for his benefit by
         the author, E. Henderson, LL.D., F. R. A. S.
              In the Advocates' Library are preserved twelve vols. 4to,
         bound, of the MS. collections of the late Lieutenant-General
         Henry Hutton of the Royal Artillery, who for many years was en-
         gaged in obtaining materials for a Monasticon Scotia, an account
         of all the monastic institutions in this country, but who died (June
         1827) before executing his purpose.
              The earliest map of the parish, of which I am aware, is con-
         tained in a map of the sheriffdome of Fyffe, by Mr James Gordon,
         parson Rothiemay,published in l645. This was prepared from
         the papers of the famous geographer, Mr Timothy Pont, who
         took the bearings of the county, and executed draughts not only
         of it, but of most of the parts of North Britain and its isles. The
         papers, after his death, came into the possession of Mr Gordon's
         father, the learned Sir Robert Gordon of Straloch, through Sir
         John Scot of Scotstarvet, who not only recovered them, when 
73 
         nearly lost or destroyed through carelessness, but supplied their
         defects. The map is part of " Bleau's Atlas of Scotland."
               A Plan of the town of Dunfermline was published in 1823,
         from an actual survey by J. Wood, Edinburgh; and a map of the
         parish included, in a very large and excellent one of the counties
         of Fife and Kinross, was published in 1828, by Messrs Sharp,
         Greenwood, and Fouler, London, which was republished with
         improvements in 1841 by Mr Frazer Cupar Fife.


