
     of Strathdon.

March, and finished about Whitsunday.  Harvest is begun 
towards the end of August, and is generally over by the 
middle of October.  In the upper parts of the parish, the 
seasons, both for sowing and reaping, are rather later, on 
account of the difference both of soil and climate.  These 
the ground is more chilled by the longer continuance of 
snow in the spring, and by more frequent showers in sum-
mer.  The tenants in those parts, however, endeavour to 
obviate these local disadvantages, by sowing their bear im- 
mediately after their oats, without any interval; and by 
using a species of oats, called birley.  This grain, (which 
is also white), is distinguished from the common white 
oats, in its appearance, chiefly by its shortness:  It does 
not produce quite so good meal, nor so much fodder; nei- 
ther is it so hardy in bearing stress of weather; it has also 
a greater tendency to impoverish the ground; but it is con- 
siderably earlier, and ripens nearly as soon in the higher 
parts of the country, as the common white oats does far- 
ther down, where both the soil and climate are more fa- 
vourable.  Besides the above crops of grain, a good many 
potatoes are raised.  Turnips are generally sown by the 
proprietors, and answer well.  They also lay out their 
fields with artificial grasses, from which excellent crops are 
produce, both for hay and pasture.  The tenants are not 
insensible of the advantages of cleaning and meliorating 
their fields by green crops, but are prevented from trying 
it by their inability to lay out the necessary expense, by 
the want of enclosures, and of long leases.  Another bar 
on improvements in farming, is a number of services 
which the tenants are obliged to perform to the proprietors, 
such as casting, winning, and leading their peats and turfs 
in summer; barrowing in seed-time; reaping in harvest; 
long carriages from Aberdeen and other places.  Some of 
the heritors indeed have converted these services into mo-


