
			PORTPATRICK.                         141

rests of Portpatrick, of which he was the principal heritor, but
contributed much to its improvement and prosperity. His son,
Colonel James Hunter Blair, for a considerable time Member of
Parliament for Wigtonshire, was a man of many personal accom-
plishments, highly esteemed and influential in the affairs of the
county, and devoted to his parliamentary duties, to which it is be-
lieved that he sacrificed his health and his life. His brother and
successor in the estate of Dunskey, the late Forbes Hunter Blair,
Esq. was induced, by the solicitation of a great number of the most
respectable citizens of Edinburgh, to become a candidate, on the
Conservative interest, for the parliamentary representation of that
city, in the first election after the passing of the Reform Bill. The
personal fatigue which he underwent in this election hastened his
death, which happened soon after, to the deep regret of men of all
parties in politics to whom he was known. Active and intelligent,
disinterested, sternly conscientious and high-minded, yet most ge-
nerous, and devoted to the promotion nf the welfare of the poorest,
his residence in the parish of Portpatrick was productive of much
good to it in many ways, and his name merits a prominent place in
a statistical account of it. To write the character of his excellent
successor, while living, would not be consistent with delicacy. The
late minister, the Rev. John Mackenzie, D. D., one of his Majesty's
Chaplains for Scotland, who died in 1836, in the ninety-third year of
his age, and sixty-third of his ministry, and was understood to be the
oldest minister then in the Church of Scotland, was long admitted
to a prominent place in the debates of the General Assembly. He
was an early, and to the last the intimate friend and correspondent
of Dr Gillies, the historian, and he has left an octavo volume of
sermons, and a smaller volume of poetry, entitled "Ocean, Stella,
and other Poems," which reached a second edition in 1830.
	Parochial Registers.--The only parochial registers are those
kept by the session-clerk, in which, however, there are several mi-
nutes of the meetings of heritor and kirk-session. Besides the vo-
lume now in use, the records of the kirk-session consist of four vo-
lumes; the first extending from 7th May 1727 to 23d Novem-
ber 1766, has been regularly kept: 341 small quarto pages are de-
voted to the kirk-session, and 88 to the registry of minutes of
marriages and births. On the last page is an oath of purgation
from the sin of fornication, entitled "A copy of the Long Oath,"
the language of which is almost too horrible to be uttered. It ap-
pears from these minutes that much attention was paid by the


