
				KINCLAVEN.                             1131

			    IT.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	   Land-owners.-At no very distant period, there were several
	resident proprietors in the parish.  Their mansion houses have
	now disappeared ; but the situation of these houses is still strongly
	marked out by the fine old yews, and other large trees, which then
	surrounded their dwellings.  At present all the proprietors are non-
	resident, and taken in the order of their valued rent, they are as
	follows: viz.  The Earl of Mansfield, L. 1296, 8s.  Id.; Major
	Richardson, L. I I oo; Sir William D. Stewart, Bart., L. 840;
	Baroness Keith and Nairn, L. 466, 6s.  Id.; Duke of Athol,
	L. 299, 5s. 10d. ; total, L. 4002 Scots.
	   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, consisting of six
	volumes, commence in 1725, and do not appear to have been kept
	with sufficient care,-several of the volumes being a good deal
	torn, and the writing defaced.   It is to be regretted that parents
	are not sufficiently sensible of the importance of registering the
	births and baptisms of their children.  Among the Dissenters, es-
        pecially, great negligence in this respect still prevails ; although,
	to induce them to do so, it has been the practice, during several
	years, to exact no fees for such registrations.
	   Antiquities.-The royal castle of Kinclaven, now in ruins, is
	the only object interesting to the antiquarian in this parish. It
	stands in a beautiful and picturesque situation, on an eminence
	above the Tay, and immediately opposite to the mouth of the Isla.
	It is said to have been built by Malcolm Canmore, and continued
	to be occasionally occupied by the royal family during several cen-
	turies, after it was erected.  Various charters granted by the Scot-
	tish kings are still in existence, that are dated from this royal resi-
	dence.
	   One of the chapters in the well-known metrical history of Sir
	William Wallace is partly devoted to a description of the manner
	in which " he won Kinclaven." It is related by Holinshed that,
	during the wars arising out of the rival claims betwixt Bruce and
	Baliol for the Scottish throne, this castle was occupied by an Eng-
	lish garrison, who, proving troublesome neighbours to the Highland
	barons, were surprised by them, while off their guard ; and the cas-
	tle having been taken, was dismantled so far as that it could no
	longer be occupied as a place of strength.   The Duke of Athol
	possesses the title of keeper and constable of the royal castle of
	Kinclaven, and as such receives a small sum annually from Baro-


