
710                         LANARKSHIRE.

1687, the execution of the laws against non-conformity, the Pres-
byterian clergy, who, during the late period of persecution, had
been imprisoned, driven into exile, or silenced, proceeded to re-
construct their presbyteries, or where their numbers had been re-
duced by death, to form these ecclesiastical courts out of the rem-
nants of former adjoining presbyteries. The first meeting of the
united presbyteries of the synod of Glasgow and Ayr was hold in
Glasgow, on the 30th of August in that year. *  On the 15th of
September, " the brethren of the united presbyteries," having re-
ceived a petition from the parish of Gnvan for supply, appointed
Mr John Pettigrew to preach there the next Lord's day.  Mr James
Wodrow received on the same day a similar appointment.  Mr
Pettigrew was ordained, January 5th, 1688. + 13. Mr Charles
Coatts.  In consequence of the resignation of Mr Pettigrew, who
was allowed to retain, during his lifetime, the manse and glebe,
with L. 400 Scots of the stipend, Mr Coatts was nominated and
called to the parish by " the session with the heritors and many
masters of families," on the 20th of December 1711, and ordain-
ed on the 2d of May 1712.  He seems to have been with the
King's army at Stirling, in the capacity of chaplain, during the Re-
bellion in 1715. ++ He died December 31st 1745.  14. Mr Wil-
liam Thom. S  There was strong opposition to his settlement on
the part of the parish.  He received his presentation on the 26th
of May 1746, but was not ordained till the 25th of February 1748.
The presbyters refused to sustain the call of Mr Thom, " ne-
mine contradicente," on the ground of its having but few signa-
tures attached to it.  After his case had gone to the General As-
sembly, however, he was inducted by a committee of the synod

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow's Hist. of Ch. of Scot. Vol. iv. p. 434. About two years before this,
at Polmadie, a party of soldiers from Glasgow, under the command of Major Balfour,
shot three men in cold blood, because they wotld not pray in express terms for King
James VII. (Id. p. 250.) " After the libertie in July 1687, by the appointment
of the genrll meting at Edinr, in August in ye Year forsd, the presbyteries of Glas -
gow, Paisley, and Dumbartone, did join together and made up ane presbyterie,
by reason of the paucitie of miners, which continued wntill Decr of ye sd year."
Records of Presbytery of Paisley.
          Glasgow Presbytery Records.
          Govan Kirk Session Records.
          The facetiae of Mr Pettigrew and Mr Thom, trough both much famed for their
caustic wit and humour, have not yet found their way, that I am aware of, into any
published collection of memorable and wilty sayings. The satirical vein of Mr Thom,
however, may be seen in a small volume of his, consisting of sermons, tracts, letters,
&c. printed at Glasgow, 1799.
          The case of Mr Thom was not quite correctly reported by Robert Whigham,
Esq. Advocate, when giving his evidence before the Select Committee of the House of
Commons, appointed to consider the past and present state ofthe Law of Church Pa-
tronage in Scotland. He appears to have thought (Minutes of Evidences, pp. 427,


