
                          ST NINIANS.                        327

covered with furze and heath. It is now enclosed and cultivated.
The plantations, whether in clumps or belts, add greatly to the
beauty of the country, afford shelter, and meliorate the climate.
But the great means of improvement have been,--clearing the
land of stones, and the introduction of the system of thorough
draining, and subsoil ploughing. Both of these have been well
described, as well as practised, by Mr Smith of Deanston, the
inventor.
   To illustrate the benefits resulting from this improved mode of
culture, a few facts may be stated from a farm in the immediate
vicinity of St Ninians. This farm consists of 100 Scotch acres,
whereof 38 are allotted to grain crops; and though it was pre-
viously cultivated according to tbe most improved system then in
existence, even in the most favourable seasons, it produced only
from 24 to 26 stacks. Since 1836, the whole farm, with the ex-
ception of 12 acres, has been thoroughly drained, and the num-
ber of the stacks in the barn-yard last year, 1840, was 42. The
change, however, is still greater, when thorough draining has
been introduced on land accounted nearly irreclaimable. A field
which, previous to 1836, never yielded more than from 10s. to
15s. per acre, was, in winter 1835-36, thoroughly drained, and
immediately after was placed under green crop. The produce of
one acre of potatoes was measured. It amounted to 93 bolls,
which, at 5s. the boll, gives L. 23, 5s. : deduct 1. 13 for seed,
working, and manure, and there remains L. 10, 5s. for tbe farmer.
In 1837, the same field was sown with barley, and produced 10
bolls per acre. After deducting expenses, the farmer had for his
share L. 10, 19s. 8d. In the third year it was in hay, of which it
produced 2 1/2 tons per acre, besides the aftermath. The value
of the hay alone, at the average price of the season, was L. 11, 5s.
per acre. It may be added, that this farm has nothing peculiarly
favourable either in its soil, climate, or exposure.
   In the carses, the system of farming is different from that fol-
lowed in the dryfield. The rotation of crops in the former is, 1.
fallow; 2. wheat; 3. beans; 4. barley; 5. grass; 6. oats. In
the latter, 1. oats; 2. turnips, potatoes, or fallow; 3. wheat or
barley; 4. clover; 5. and 6. pasture. There are few stones, and
no springs of water in the carses, and very little wood. One great
object is to carry off all stagnant water, and keep the land dry.
To accomplish this, not only large and clear ditches are neces-
sary, but wedge or ridge draining is very extensively practised,
and has been found most beneficial.


