
     of Dunlop.

large detached stone in the field above, and there to per-
form part of them, is somewhat doubtful.  The stone has
been called, time immemorial, Thugirtstane, for the reason
just now hinted, say the people, but more probably for its
being found by itself, Thugirtstane being a corruption or
an abbreviation of The girt or great stone.  Hard by the
church was a spring, which still continues, and from which
issues a stream of the finest water, and in such abundance
as to fill a bore of 2 inches diameter.  It is styled in all
the old writings, which shows, that it was dedicated to
her ; and that the stepping stones in the burn, over which
the people passed in their way thither, were called the
Lady's Steps, for the same reason ; which name the place
still retains, although there be now a bridge at it.  From
what remains of it, appears to have been a small house,
but large enough, it may e presumed, to accommodate the
inhabitants, which, probably it did till the Reformation,
when it was either deserted or destroyed.  In a different and
more elevated situation, stands the present church ; but
having been rebuilt about 27 years ago, the date of its
first foundation, if there was one, has not been preserved.
It is pretty certain, however, from an inscription on the
gravestone of Mr Hamilton, who died in the year 1608,
and who is said to have served the cure here 45 years, that
it was built at the Reformation, or soon after it*.  The
     Vol. IX.      3 Z

<FOOTNOTE>

*Having mentioned Mr Hamilton, I am naturally led to take notice
of the tomb in which he and his wife are buried.  It is built or hewed
stone, and covered with a stone roof in the inside ; it is arched and pla-
stered, and bears evident marks of having been painted and ornamented.
In the floor, on a flat stone, is the following circumscription. "Heir lyis
Hanis Hamiltone Vicar of Dunlope. quha deceisit Ye 30 of Maii 1608,
Ye aige of 72 zens, and of Janet Denbame his spous."  At the east end,
under a marble arch, with two marble pillars of the Composite order in


