
                          HOLME AND PAPLAY.                         227

    site of the church of Holme is far from being centrical.  It is from
    four to five miles distant from the west end of the parish, where the
    population is equally dense as in the other quarters of it.  It was re-
    built in I818, and affords sufficient accommodation.  It is kept in
    good repair.  No seat rents have ever been exacted.  The average
    number of communicants is from 100 to 110. A new manse and, of-
    fices were built in 1804, all in the most substantial manner, and
    on the most convenient plan, and are kept in good repair.  The
    glebe consists of about seven acres.  The soil is good; but the shores
    were the most valuable part of it, so long as there was a market for
    kelp, as they yielded annually about four tons of kelp, which sold at
    an average of L. 7 per ton; but, for some years past, the expense
    of making it would exceed any price that could be obtained for it.
    Up to 1815, the stipend, in common with that of six other pa.
    rishes in the synod, was on avery anomalous footing.  It consisted
    of certain portions of malt and grease butter, paid out of the cu-
    mulo revenues of the bishopric.  The allotment out of these re-
    venues for the stipend of Holme, consisted of 86 meils of malt
    weighed on the malt pundler, (the meil being equal to 12 stone
    Dutch) and six barrels of grease butter.  The vicarages or small
    teinds drawn in kind also formed part of the stipend.  The vi-
    carage teind butter was weighed in merks on the Bismer.*
       But when the act of Parliament was passed for augmenting the
    small stipends, in all cases where the parochial teinds were inade-
    quate, it became necessary to place these stipends on the same foot-
    ing with others, and for this purpose, to institute in tbe respective
    parishes a process of valuation of teinds.  The teinds of this pa-
    rish being found deficient for raising the stipend to L.156, 6s. 8d.
    by about L.60, this sum is accordingly paid from the Exchequer,
    half-yearly, at Whitsunday and Michaelmas.
       The United Associate Seceders have a chapel on the north-east
    corner of the parish, where it borders on the parish of St Andrews.
       The Earl of Zetland is patron of the parish.
       A school in a more centrical situation than the parochial school
    is much required.

<FOOTNOTE>
        For a particular account of these ancient weighing instruments, the Pundler and
    Bismer, see Dr Barry's History of the Orkney Islands, Book ii. ch. v. 211.
       January 1842.

                            ----------------------
                            PRINTED BY JOHN STARK,
                       OLD ASSEMBLY CLOSE, EDINBURGH.


