
358			 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and the Linhouse waters.  On entering this parish on the west,
these streams are distant from each other about a mile and a-half;
but they all meet together at the northern extremity of the village,
by the two last mingling their waters with the Almond.  In pas-
sing through the parish, these streams are increased, in their pro-
gress, by many small tributaries, flowing from innumerable springs
in the higher grounds.  Besides the three waters above-mentioned,
there is another, which takes its rise in the upper and southern
district of the parish, called the Wester Burn, which, after pro-
ceeding eastward, assumes the name of Leith-Head Water, or
Water-of-Leith, intersecting the parish in the same direction from
west to east.
   The springs in this parish are very numerous, and many of them
consist of pure, soft, and excellent water; but there are others in
which the water is so much impregnated with iron, that its quality
may be easily distinguished, both by the taste and smell.  On be-
ing exposed, however, for a few minutes to the air, these pecu-
liarities can scarcely be perceived.  It then becomes agreeable to
the taste, and fit for all culinary purposes.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--This parish is intersected by three
great public roads; the northern line running between Edinburgh
and Glasgow; the middle line between Edinburgh and Ayr; and
the southern line between Edinburgh and Lanark by Carnwath;
the two former passing through the village of Mid-Calder.  From
the Almond northward to the parish of Uphall, the ground has a
southern exposure; but from the river to the summit of the Cairn
hills, which form the boundary between this and the parish of Lin-
ton, the aspect of the ground is to the north.  The land upon the
banks of this river and all its tributary streams, as may be supposed
is, in general, the most fertile, and some of it consists of a rich, dry,
and productive loam; but, on retiring from the banks to a more
elevated situation, the ground generally becomes less fertile, and
at length terminates in a thin, barren clay, upon a hard, cold, and
dark-blue till or shale.  But even this naturally sterile soil has
been rendered productive in some places by thorough draining,
and the liberal application of lime and other kinds of manure.  It
way be observed, that in the upper district of the parish there is
a large, portion of naturally unproductive land, which, by proper
draining, spade-culture, heeing, and other modern improvements,
might be sufficient to support a numerous population.
   Abundance of excellent rock of various kinds, such as freestone,


