
                                  DULL.                      767

 connected with the monastery, as was frequently the case in those
 times, is now entirely a matter of conjecture. The name of the
 locality tends to confirm the latter supposition, being still called
 Ach an Toll-b-th, or the " tolbooth's field."
    Dull had, and still has, what was then considered indispensable
 to all places of importance, a market-cross. It is a tall time-
 worn stone, placed in a large round socket of the like material,
 and stands in the centre of the village. The most remarkable
 privilege attached to the monastery was, perhaps, connected with
 the erection of this obelisk or cross. A considerable part of the
 surrounding ground was constituted into a sanctuary, or sort of
 holy-rood, where debtors and offenders of all sorts were secured
 from molestation on fleeing to the above cross or its inviolable
 precincts, which were pointed out by three crosses of a somewhat
 similar description,-a large and two smaller ones,-running for
 half a mile in a direct line from south-west to north-east. The
 largest of these crosses was erected in the intermediate space be-
 twixt the other two, and the place where it is situated is still called
 Druimdiamhain, which is evidently a corruption of Druim an dion,
 " the centre of defence or safety." These ancient land-marks
 were, not many years ago, sacrilegiously removed, and, with a
 Goth-and-Vandal-like taste, erected to grace a neighbouring
 gateway; and now the only remaining evidence of the abbey's
 fallen greatness is the " Cross of Dull."
    Moat-hills.-Towards the west end of the vale of Appin, and
 within half a mile of the junction of the Tay and Lyon, there
 are three apparently artificial mounds of earth, of a flattish conical
 shape, situated within a short distance of each other, and forming
 a quadrant of a circle. They are now covered with tall stately
 beech trees, which must have been planted long after the original
 purpose ceased for which the mounds were raised.
    Barrows or Tumuli.-It is recorded in ancient Scottish history,
 that in the eleventh or twelfth century, a keen contest took place
 betwixt the Fingalians and Picts, at the bridge of Keltnie in
 this parish, the former fiercely but vainly defendhng that pass
 against the inroads of the latter, by whom the last of Fingal's race
 was shortly afterwards killed. At the pass of Keltnie according-
 ly quite close to the present bridge, and on the south-east
 side thereof, there is a mound or hillock, now covered with
 birch and other indigenous trees, which, on the west side, has all
 the appearance of being artificial, and which still bears the traces


