
     of Stronsay and Eday.

   Minerals.-A vein of lead was discovered, many years ago,
on the estate of Huip.  (John Balfour, Esq; present member
of Parliament for Orkney, is landholder.)  By order of Mr
Thomas Balfour deceased, the late proprietor; and uncle to
the foresaid John Balfour, specimens of ore from this vein
were dug up, and sent to be examined by people of skill; but
the report seems not to have been of a flattering nature, for
no attempts have hitherto been made to work it.

   A mineral Spring, (or rather three adjacent springs of Chaly-
beate water, all of different degrees of strength,) is to be
found among the rocks, on the East coast of the island of
Stronsay.  The water, clear as chrystal, not unpleasant, is
full of fixed air, as may be easily discovered by any who drink
some glasses of it; for they will soon find themselves affected
in the same way, as if they had drank some fine brisk bottled
small bear*.

     VOL. XV. 3 H

<FOOTNOTE>

*This spring is called the Well of Kildinguie.  Tradition says, that it was
held in such high repute when the Orkney islands belonged to the Crown of Den-
mark, (above three hundred years ago,) that people of the first rank, came from
Denmark and Norway to drink the waters.  Towards the south east, at about two
miles distance, the greatest part of the way consists of a flat sand along the sea
shore; there is a place called Guiyidn, on the rocks of which, that species of sea-
weed called dulse, is to be found in abundance; which weed, is considered by
many to be a delicious and wholesome morsel.  The drinking of these waters, the
moderate exercise of walking over two miles of dry level ground, gathering and
eating dulse on the rocks, they being exposed to a wholesome sharp sea
breeze, from whatever quarter the wind could blow; this happy combination
of circumstances was found such a sovereign remedy for the numberless com-
plaints of those, who in ancient times resorted to this famous watering place,
that it gave rise to a proverb which is still retained in this island, viz.  "The
well of Kildinguie, and the dulse of Guiyidn, can cure all maladies except
black death."-That is, can cure all maladies which are not absolutely incu-
rable.


