
	   316                     BANFFSHIRE.

   reached Tochieneal farm, has become a stream of considerable
   magnitude.  Thence taking a north-westerly direction, it supplies
   the machinery of several works with water-power, and receives
   some additions in its progress, until it enters the policies of Cullen
   House, of which it forms a highly ornamental feature.  Sweeping
   the base of the perpendicular rock on which the mansion
   stands, it flows directly north for nearly a mile, and then enters
   the bay of Cullen. In the whole of its course, it has a very considerable
   velocity, and, by the time it has reached Cullen House,
   has `cquired a breadth, within its banks, of twenty feet. The
   water is clear and pure, and has long been used for the purposes
   of bleaching, &c. There are no remarkable springs in the parish,
   with the exception of one at the farm of Tochieneal, which
   is strongly impregnated with sulphurated hydrogen. Its temperature,
   February 22, 1842, was 40&deg;.  The other fountains, rising
   within the parish, are all used for culinary and domestic purposes.
     Geology and Mineralogy.-This parish exhibits no remarkable
   geological features. In length and breadth, it reposes on a single
   bed of stratified quartz, standing at an angle of from 50 degree to 80 degree',
   and which, again, reposes on a thick bed of compact graywacke,
   in a conformable position. The direction of the strata is from
   north-east to south-west, the dip being north-west and south-east.
   Adjacent to the harbour, the greywacke has assumed the slaty
   structure, and alternates with the quartz. In the flat sandy bay
   of Cullen, (situated in the quoad sacra district of the parish),
   there are three remarkable masses of insulated rock, called the
   "Three Kings." The first, or most dasterly, is formed of quartz,
   in small angular fraglents, which, in some places, are loose, and
   in others, appear cemented together by a ferruginous paste.  The
   other two are composed of pudding-stone, or old red sandstone,
   which appears'to have been protruded through the surrounding
   strata. These masses of rock are of considerable height, and of
   different shapes, and being, moreover, formed of different materials,
   have a very striking appearance on the flat surface of the
   plain on which they stand. The old red sandstone appears no,

   <FOOTNOTE>The  reason assigned for the above name, is the legendary tale, that a Danish,
   A Scotch, and Norwegian King, met at this spot, in order to settle their feuds by
   personal combat. Two were to figth, and the third was to be arbiter of the contest.
   It is said that the Danish King fell, that the Scotch King came off victorious.
   History, however, is silent on the subject.


