
          DUNOON AND KILMUN.                            573

into view of the highly interesting and wild scenery of Loch Striv-
en, an arm of the sea running inland, in the parish of Invercbao-
lain. It is a glen of less interest in its features than any of the three
formerly mentioned, but sufficiently alpine in its general, character.
The three valleys last enumerated may be said to meet, and to
blend themselves unitedly into the smoother and extended surface
surronding the Holy Loch at its inland extremity, forming there,
with the surrounding mountain ranges, when viewed from any spot
of the level, a eoup d'oeil which may be termed magnificent ; the
agricultural improvements now for some years in progress here, nn,
the estate of Hafton, embracing a large portion of this level terri-.
tory, and bringing, into pleasing contrast and connection the native
ruggedness of these mountain ranges with the cultivated and cheer-
ful aspect of fields, plantations, and comfortable homesteads at
their base. The fifth leading valley in the parish is at its western
extremity, where bounded to the westward by the parish of Inver-
chaolain. Commencing at the embouchure of the stream of Ar-
dyne, to the westward of Castle Toward, bounded on the eastern
side by the gentle and well-wooded acclivities of Buachaill-ithean,
and on the western side by the lower and well cultivated and
wooded bills of Ardyne and Knockdow, in the parish of Inverebao-
lain, it assumes a north-western direction, narrowing almost into a
gorge about two miles from the coast, when it again opens up into
a wide alpine valley, stretching across northward, and presenting
mao,nificent mountain scenery, especially on the eastern side, till,
after a continuation of fully three miles in extent, it is intercepted
by the bills of Glenlean.
     The general aspect of the lower or sea-coast range is compara-
tively smooth, presenting more or less acclivity throughout the
greater portion of the coast line along the parish. This lower
range is generally well wooded, showing either the variegated
shades of natural copse, in which thd oak prevails, or the richer
appearance of planting and enclosures, with well cultivated fields.
The acclivity from the coast-line is, in general, more steep along
the coast of Kilmun parish, corresponding with the facts usually-
presented in similar geological territories. Those along the coast
of Dunoon parish are of a gentler slope. Considerable spaces,
however, comparatively level, occur at the commencement, *f the
several valleys mentioned, near the point of Toward, at the extre-
mity, inland, of the Holy Loch, and in the vicinity of Dunoon.
This general appearance is increased in interest, and contrasting
more strongly with the higher inland and more alpine territory, by


