
104                         SHETLAND.

the east side of Selivoe,) and on the west side of Bixter voe.  The
predominating rocks, in a line from Reawick, along the west bank
of Selivoe to the west bank of Bixter voe, are red granite, which
comprehends all Sandsting to the west.  It contains veins of
quartz, and, of course, very red felspar.
   The quartz rock of Aithsting is of a bluish grey colour, and
presents something of a wedge-like shape.  The two bounding
lines diverging from a point in the island of Papa Little, are con-
tinued in a direction of south 60&deg; west, to the westward; whilst
the other extends in a straight line south 32&deg; west, to the head of
Bixter-voe, when it first comes in contact with the granite of Sand-
sting.  The quartz admits into its composition so much felspar,
that in decomposed specimens, where this ingredient is particular-
ly demonstrated, it is sufficiently distinguished from the sandstone
of newer formations, which it otherwise resembles.  Siliceous mat-
ter is, however, the prevalent substance.  In the vicinity of Aiths-
ness, it contains small sparing portions of clayslate, by which it
becomes the grauwacke of some authors.  At Papa Little, Aiths-
ness, Clousta-voe, Nunsburgh, and West Burrafirth, the rock is,
in several places, varied by the presence of small angular portions
of red felspar, and passes into felspar porphyry.  At Aithsness, it
contains greenstone as well as limestone, in the form of thin beds
or veins.  It is also impregnated with much ferruginous, in the
shape of an oxide.  In some places, are to be observed veins of
sparry iron-ore.
   The quartz rock generally consists of minute grains firmly unit-
ed together, and possessing semicrystalline forms.  In this respect
it differs from a particular variety of sandstone found on the east
side of the island, where the texture is much looser, and where
the grains show numerous marks of attrition.  South of the hill of
Aithsness, and at a few other places, the particles of quartz di-
minish so much in size, that the rock appears of a compact struc-
ture.
    The stratification of the quartz rock seems remarkably connect-
ed with the partial occurrence of mica, whilst its line of direction
does not follow that of other mountain masses of Shetland, which
have been represented as stretching from south by west, to north
by east.   On the contrary, it extends from south 60&deg; east, to
north 60&deg; west, from east to west, and from south 70&deg; west, to
north 70&deg; east.  The dip is at various points of the compass, while
the angle of inclination is, as appears in an horizontal section,


