
1014			ABERDEENSHIRE.

where travellers and the public can enjoy every necessary comfort.
Besides these, there are numerous ale-houses and spirit-shops,
which, to a certain extent, may be convenient, though several of
them might with great propriety be suppressed, as affording an
undue facility to tippling.
	Courts,--One of the Sheriff-substitutes of the county holds a
quarterly small-debt court here, for sums not exceeding L. 8, 6s.
8d.; and from the number of cases brought up for judgment, it
may be supposed the establishment of this court has been found
advantageous to the lieges. The justices of the peace and lieu-
tenancy of the district also meet in Turriff when necessary; and
this being the Presbytery seat, the ordinary meetings of that body
are held here.
	Police, &c.--One of the most crying evils, and which was
sensibly felt by the inhabitants, was the overwhelming concourse
of vagrants and travelling mendicants, to whom a well-meaning
but mistaken liberality afforded a temptation to make this place a
favourite haunt. Since the institution of a rural police and the
acthvity of the district constable, with the terror which his baton
and uniform inspire, this annoyance has been much lessened; and,
notwithstanding that the town is a great thoroughfare, there is not
one for ten of the visitants that formerly infested it, and diverted
the charity of the parishioners from known and deserving objects
at home. In this locality, therefore, though a feeling of opposi-
tion has been manisfested in some quarters to what is something
like a gens d'armes, the general desire is, that the force may be
kept up in all its efficiency.
	Prison.--The only place of confinement is a lock-up-house,
consisting of two very small apartments, in which criminals may
be lodged for a single night preparatory to their being sent to the
County jail, or in in modum pance of those smaller offences which oc-
casionally occur, particularly at the feeing markets.
	Fuel.--There is very little moss in the parish.  Turf in some
places is to be got; but English coals are commonly used as fuel.

	November 1842.


