
     Statistical Account

drought, or rains in summer, are very prolific; and perhaps
there is no place in Scotland more distinguished for luxuriant
crops of wheat, grass and peace, than Eccles.  The surface,
being, in general, low and flat, is apt to be injured in spring
and autumn by excessive rains; and consequently the rising
grounds are the best, because not exposed to the pernicious
influence of stagnant water.  The whole of the parish is arable.
The farms are all enclosed in the very best modern manner;
and on many estates, the hedge rows, which are all in a thriv-
ing state, when seen at a distance by the traveller, exhibit the
appearance of a highly cultivated garden.  Of late years,
great improvements have been made in agriculture, through
the whole county of Berwick; but in no parish have they
been carried on with greater rapidity, and to greater advan-
tage, than in this.  Notwithstanding the distance from lime,
which is above 14 English miles, the carts and horses of al-
most every farmer in the parish drive 6 days in the week,
during the summer months; first for lime to the turnips, and
afterwards for the fallow.  In consequence of this industry,
the farmers in general are wealthy and opulent, and live in a
stile and manner very different from their fathers+.

<FOOTNOTE>

+The writer of this article is old enough to remember, that butcher meat
was seldom seen on a farmer's table, except on a Sunday.  But how is the scene
changed!  No person now entertains better than the farmer, nor is there more
neatness or elegance any where to be found, than in their houses; and as all
this is the effect of industry, they have an unquestionable title to enjoy the
fruits of their honest labour.  Formerly, iu this county, estates were made only
by gentlemen in the law department.  But the case is now entirely altered.
There are, in the county of Berwick, above a dozen farmers, who, by their in-
genuity and industry, have acquired very considerable estates; and there is
every reason to believe, that many more will soon be in the same independent
situation.  The price of labour has kept pace with the progress of improvement.
Twenty years ago, domestic men servants have been had for 4 L. and 5 L.


