
76                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

gussie to Inverness and Perth by this road also,--which in sum-
mer is very much frequented by travellers, being the most direct
communication between the northern Highland counties and the
south of Scotland. It crosses the Spey four miles above the
village of Kingussie, by a large bridge, which is in excellent
repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church stands in the village of
Kingussie, on a beautiful wooded eminence, about a mile and a-half
from the eastern verge of the parish. Its situation is by no means
centrical,--though, on the whole, convenient enough for the great
body of the population.  Although built so late as the year 1792,
it is now in such a state as to require a thorough repair and ad-
dition: or rather perhaps a new one should be built. In its pre-
sent form, it is by far too small for the population, affordlng ac-
commodation only for between 600 and 700 persons. The church
seats follow the farms upon the several estates, and the villagers pay
for their seats to the. tenantry who have any to spare. There is no
manse in the parish, but an annual sum is allowed by the heritors
in lieu of one.  The glebe contains upwards of forty acres, and is very
capable of being improved; and when the improvements which are
now going on shall have been completed, it will be worth about L. 50
per annum. The present incumbent has planted upwards of 3000
young trees upon it, and got the whole enclosed. The stipend by
a late augmentation is sixteen chalders, half meal, half barley, pay-
able in money, with L. 10 for communion element money. There
are no missionaries, no chapels of case, and no Dissenting chapels
of any kind, except a Baptist meeting-house; and the Government
church at Insh, formerly connected with this parish, has been late-
ly converted into a parish church, and the charge, as already re-
marked, rendered, quoad sacra, separate and independent. There
being no Dissenters of any kind, with the exception of a few Bap-
tists, and one Roman Catholic family, there is in consequence a
full attendance at the Established church. The average number
of communicants is upwards of 200.
   Several years ago, a Bible and School Society was established
by the parishes of Kingussie, and Insh, and Laggan; the contri-
butions of which are given to those religious institutions, which
furnish Bibles at a cheap rate to the country, and aid in the esta-
blishment of schools. To this society, the parish of Kingussie con-
tributes at an average, from L. 22 to L. 23 per annum. There


