
		NEW KILPATRICK.	                          41

passage we have the common varieties of the swallow kind; the
king-fisher, the goatsucker, the fieldfare, and redwing.  The
missel-thrush has of late years taken up his abode with us; the
starling and water-ouzel are found, though not numerous.  The
goldfinch and golden-crested wren, the least and most beautiful
of our Scottish birds,shall end our enumeration of the feathery race,
for we need not notice those species that are everywhere to be
found.  There are foxes in the upper part of the parish; but the
fewer, that we have no fox-hunter.  Of the weasel tribe we have
the polecat, the otter, the stoat, and the common weasel.  The
pine-martin has been shot in the woods of Balvie; and the brown
squirrel has been seen at Garscube; but each of them only in a
single instance.  The black-rat, as elsewhere throughout Scot-
land, has disappeared before the large brown rat of Norway.
                      II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Date of Erection.--As a separate parish, New Kilpatrick is of
comparatively modern date, having been disjoined from Old Kil-
patrick in 1649. The disjunction is quoad omnia.
   Registers.--The parochial registers are imperfect, part of them
having been destroyed in 1797, at the first ballotting for militia.
On that occasion a considerable mob assembled, which was not
dispersed till troops arrived from Glasgow, by whom several pri-
soners were made. *  Some of the mob having entered the school-
master's house, seized on the register of baptisms, and tore out a
number of the leaves, that they might not be evidence against
them of their liability to serve.  The date of the earliest entry is
6th January 1691; and from the 8th December 1755 the series is
complete.  There are two volumes of records besides those now
in progress.
   Ministers.--The first minister of the parish, Mr Walter Rollock,
was inducted in December 1650, and died only a month after.
He was succeeded by Mr Robert Law, who is known as the author
of " Memorialls, or the memorable things that fell out within this
island of Brittain from 1638 to 1684."  Of these memorable things
the chief, in Mr Law's estimation, seem to have been deeds of
witchcraft, portentous appearances, and prophetic warnings; with
the narration of wbich a great part of his volume is occupied.  It
appears from the records of the presbytery of Dumbarton, that
Mr Law was called to be minister of the parish in 1652; but was
refused induction by the presbytery,on the ground of his not being

    <FOOTNOTE>This affair is known by the name of the Battle of Garscube.


