
                      ARROCHAN                           99

   Navigation.-No vessels of larger size belong to the inhabi-
tants than small fishing-boats. A steam-boat regularly plies from
Glasgow to Arrochar, during the summer months, and vessels with
coals and lime from Glasgow and Ireland come to Loch Long
Head; and wool is frequently forwarded from this to the Liverpool
market.
              V.-PAROCIIIAL EcoNomy.
  Market-Towns.-No market-town in the parish. The nearest
market-towns are Helensburgh and Dumbarton,-the one seven-
teen miles and a quarter, and the other twenty-two miles distant.
There are two small villages or clachans.
Means ofCommunication.-There are a daily post, and two car-
riers weekly. Steam -boats ply regularly, both on Loch Lomond and
Loch Long during the summer months, commencing towards the
middle of May, and ceasing about the middle or end of October.
There are no mail or heavy coaches. But a coach runs for about
three months in summer, every lawful day, from Inverary in the
morning to Tarbet, and from Tarbet in the afternoon to Inver-
ary. Chaises, gigs, and carts can at all seasons be readily pro-
cured at Tarbet or Arrochar inns.
The roads, with the exception of two miles on Loch Long side,
are excellent. The roads on Loch Lomond side are about fif-
teen miles in length, and present singularly beautiful an& splendid
scenery. Bridges, with one exception, are in good repair.
Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated rather at a corner
of the parish; but the great body of the parishioners are at no'
great distance ; some families are at the distance, however, of
ten or twelve miles. The church was built in 1733, and will soon
require a general repair. It is seated for about 300. The sittings
are all free. The manse was built in 1837, and is an excellent
house. The grebe contains about nineteen acres; but, with the ex-
ception of little more than three acres, is all hill ground, and of in-
ferior quality. It is not worth more than L. 9 annually. The
stipend is L. 231, with 12 bolls meal. This also includes com-
munion elements. The teinds are exhausted. There are no' go..
vernment churches;, no chapels of ease, no catechists, no Dissent-
lug chapels, and no Dissenters within the parish.
Divine service is exceedingly well attended. In summer, the
church is generally crowded to overflowing, and is felt then to be
much too small; and, in' the winter, when the weather is favour,
able, it is filled. Probable average of communicants, 216. No



