
                              COULL.                   ???

it belonged to the " monks and friars."  The castle or fortal
of Corse was erected in 1581 by William Forbes, father of Bishop
Patrick Forbes of Corse.  The walls of the castle still remain, but
in a ruinous condition.  Upon a rocky eminence in the vicinity
of the church may still be seen the remains or rubbish of the
Castle of Coull.  It appears to have been a fortification of con-
siderable extent and great strength, of square form, with large
hexagonal towers at its angles.  The fosse may still be dis-
tinctly seen.  It was the seat of the Durwards,-a family once
of great influence in this district.  It is a common saying still,
that the church bell of Coull rings of its own accord when a Durward
dies.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
         Amount of population in 1801,       .        679
                                 1811,       .        721
                                 1821,       .        701
                                 1831,       .        767

   The population, by census 1841, is 744.  Of this number,
284 reside upon the lands of Corse, and, quoad sacra, are attached
to the parish of Leochel.  The population of Coull, quoad sacra,
is therefore 460,-being, by the late census, the smallest parochial
charge in this county.  There is no town, and scarcely any as-
semblage of cottages deserving the name of a village.

                              IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The number of arable acres is about 2300 ; of uncultivated pas-
ture upwards of 5000; of land that might profitably be added to
the cultivated land from 80 to 100; and about 320 acres are un-
der wood, scarcely any of which exceeds the age of twenty years.
The highest rent per acre is about L.2 ; the average rent about
L.1, 2s. ; and the real rental of the parish nearly L.2500.
   Within the last twenty years, the agriculture has undergone
great improvement.  Much land has been brought into cultiva-
tion.  Draining, enclosing, regular rotations of cropping, turnip
husbandry, artificial grasses, are universally adopted.  The seventh
shift (three of grass) is generally followed, although the more in-
telligent farmers consider the sixth, with only one oat crop, as a
preferable rotation.  The property of Corse has, within the last
twenty-five years, been greatly improved.  Colonel Arthur For-
bes commenced these improvements, while acting as commissioner
for his nephew, then in India.  Plantations of considerable extent
were very tastefully laid out.  Sir John Forbes, on his return to
his paternal estates, carried forward the improvements on Corse


