
488 	                    INVERNNESS-SHIRE.

pinnacles of a neat Roman Catholic Chapel, erected a few years
ago by Lord Lovat at a considerable expense. Half-a-mile to
the east of the chapel, the elegant mansion of Eskadale appears
amid plantations and cultivated fields, and commands an extensive
view of the Strath. On the opposite side of the river, and under
the brow of a wooded hill, is the house of Aigas, a property
which has lately been acquired by purchase and added to the other
possessions of the family of Chisholm of Chisholm. Immediately
below this, the river is divided into two streams, which, again unit-
ing a little further down, enclose a very romantic piece of ground
called the Island of Aigas. On this island, which is beautifully
wooded with a profusion of oaks and weeping-birches, there has
been lately erected, at the expense of the Right Honorable Lord
Lovat, a very elegant mansion of the Elizabethan style of architec-
ture ; in which Messrs Hay Allan Stuart, said to be the only de-
scendants of the unfortunate Prince Charles Edward, at present
reside. These gentlemen have fitted it up in imitation of the style
in which Highland chieftains were wont to decorate their rooms in
times of yore.

     "Their spacious rooms are hung around with pikes and guns and bows,
     And swords and bucklers, which have stood against old Scotland's foes,
     And there in state they move about in kilt and tartan hose ;
     They quaff their quaichs of usquebaugh, and give poor men their brose,
     Like true-bred Highland gentlemen, who love the olden time."

   Eilean Aigas, as this island is generally called, is about three-
quarters of a mile in length, and its banks rise abruptly to a pretty
considerable height from the rocky channel of the river, which,
at the lower end, forms a set of small but beautiful cascades.
This place forms the eastern confines of the valley of Strathglass;
and the river, now dashing along in an impetuous torrent, is wide-
ly different in its aspect from the sluggish stream it appeared
above. It plunges through a rocky channel at the bottom of a
deep ravine, called the Dream or Druidhm, a place much famed
for its romantic scenery. In some places, rocks ascend to a consi-
derable elevation from the middle of the channel, and one of them,
owing to its conical figure, is called the Sugar Loaf. In other
places, the river subsides into deep dark linns, while the rocks give
way to green banks, small parts of which have been cultivated :
on both sides, the mountains are very steep and rugged, but their
harshness is much redeemed by woods of birch and fir, with which
they are clothed. The breadth or the valley is scarcely a quarter
of a mile, and the roads on either side are at a very considerable
height above the bed of the river, which is fringed all along with
oak, weeping birches, and alders. The road on the north, or Kil-


