
214                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

and  the annual donations of a few charitable individuals among
the  non-resident heritors, have hitherto been sufficient for the
support of the poor. The funds are divided quarterly, and the
industrious poor receive on an average 8s. 6d. each. Besides the
industrious poor, there are at present one pauper entirely supported
out of the poor's funds, at the rate of L.7 per annum, and anotber
supported  by the heritors, at the rate of L.1O per annum.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the former Statistical Account was written, the parish has
undergone considerable changes. Zeal for agricultural improve-
ments has greatly increased, new implements of husbandry have
been introduced, and better kinds of grain cultivated. Drainage
has likewise been extensively practised, the system of turnip hus-
bandry generally adopted, and greatly extended by the application
of bone manure, and the land improved by the turnips being fed
off with sheep. Plantations, by which the country is sheltered
and adorned, have been greatly extended, the farm-houses have
been rebuilt or enlarged, and are now neat and commodious and
the office-houses substantial and extensive. The comforts which
the farmers enjoy, and their modes of living, have changed greatly
for the better.  The cottages and their inhabitants have also
shared in the general improvement.
	The increase of population, though not rapid, has been pro-
gressive. This increase is chiefly confined. to the village of Pal-
nackie, which, in 1808, contained only 7 houses and 29 inhabi-
tants. It now contains 29 houses and 190 inhabitants.
	Roads have been greatly improved within the lasf thirty years.
New lines have been opened, and the old lines in many places
altered, so as to avoid acclivities, and conduct them in a more
level and convenient direction. Besides the turnpike roads pass-
ing through the parish, there are eighteen miles of parish roads
kept in repair, from the Conversion money in lieu of Statute La-
bour. This amounts, at the maximum assessment, to L.51, 18s.
3d. Many of the most important of these roads were lade at a
great expense by heritors, through whose lands they passed, ad-
vancing, money without interest, to be repaid when the road funds
of the parish would admit. Twenty years ago, the debt thus
created amounted to L.549. It has now been reduced to L.136,
principally by the heritors having for many years assessed them-
selves with an extra sum of L.17, 6s. 1d. annually.
	Drawn up November 1836.
	Revised February 1844.


