			LESMAHAGO.                       35

the parish. A cottage or two was attached to every farm-house,
for the accommodation of the necessary labourers; along with whom
the small proprietors and farmers shared in the toils of the day;
joined at the same table in their meals; and, by the side of the
kitchen fire, enjoyed the song or gossip of the evening,--conclud-
ing the day with family-prayer. A fire in the better apartment,
except on the visit of a friend, or on some gala day, was never
thought of. Their dress was composed of home-made stuff, ex-
cepting a suit of black, which was generally of English cloth,
and carefully preserved for funeral and sacramental occasions.

			IV. -- INDUSTRY.
	As before stated, this parish contains about 34,000 Scotch acres;
of which, probably, 11,000 never have been under cultivation.
About 1000 acres may yet be brought to carry grain occasionally,
if the spirit of improvement, now so general, be not checked.
1200 acres are planted; 450 are in coppice-wood, and 50 in vil-
lage gardens and orchards. 21,300 acres thus appear to be now,
or occasionally, in cultivation.
	Planting in general has been carried on within these forty years
to a considerable extent in Lesmahago, which before that period
was naked and bare. Now, however, it has a very different ap-
pearance, and almost everywhere the eye of the traveller may
rest on useful stripes or clumps. In these the Scotch fir predo-
minates, though that plant seems very much degenerated; wher-
ever it is mixed with the larch, the latter takes the lead; and
in damp soils it is also far behind the spruce. Were we to hazard
an opinion on the cause of this degeneracy of Scotch fir, we
would say it might be found in the careless way in which the nur-
serymen procure the seed, which, when collected from the nearest
young and stunted trees, produces feeble plants. Another circum-
stance tending much to prevent the proper growth, is the want of
thinning in proper time. Few people who plant, like the idea of
cutting.
	Rent of Land.--The quality of land varies very much: some of
it is very rich, but unfortunately the poorer soil predominates. The
average rent of the whole, may be stated at L. 1 per acre Scotch,
--while the waste lands may be estimated at 2s. 6d.,--giving a ren-
tal for the parish, exclusive of and orchards, of L. 22,675.
	The inclosed lands around gentlemen's houses are generally let
for pasture during the summer, yielding a rent of about L. 3 for
every cow or ox weighing from 4OO to 5OO lbs. weight. In the com-


