
312                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

ciples, that Kelso, though in the very centre of the agitation, re-
maine an indifferent spectator.  In the famous petition (and ad-
herence) to the General Assembly "anent grievances" there are
numerous signatures from all the adjoining parishes, * but not one
from this.  Nay, what would seem still more indicative of apathy
in reference to matters then deemed so important, the appoint-
ment of a minister to the parish was, in the only instance in which
anything like a contested election occurred, referred uncondition-
ally to the disposal of the synod.  The heritors and elders hav-
ing been unable to unite in the choice of the same individual, it
was unanimously resolved to submit a blank call, properly signed,
to the synod, and to ask that judicatory to fill it up with the name
of a qualified minister: nor do either the patrons or the parish-
ioners seem to have offered any resistance, or taken any offence,
when the presbytery, instead of obtempering the instructions of
the synod, proceeded to settle a minister of their own nomination.
  Towards the middle of the last century, there is reason to
think that a more lively interest in the principles and institu-
tions of religion was induced.  This amelioration, tradition re-
fers to the period of the celebrated Mr Ramsay',s incumbency;
--an account which is corroborated to some extent by the parish
records of the time, which bear ample testimony to the vigour
with which the Presbyterian discipline was maintained, and, there-
fore, leave room for the inference, that public opinion had then
come to be in its favour.  Conjecture is converted into cer-
tainty by the fact, that, about the year 1750, a Secession meeting
was opened in the town: for, as the Secession judicatories were not
in the habit of providing ordinances, except wbere a demand for
them existed, or of breaking up the fallow ground, where they had
it in their power to divide and appropriate the ripening barvest;
the fact of their planting a congregation in Kelso Seems necessari-
ly to presuppose the prior existence, in the parish, of a strong feel-
ing in favour both of orthodox doctrine and of presbyterial rule.
But, to whatever date the commencement of the favourable change
may be referred, there is a happily no doubt that it continued steadily
and progressively to advance, up to the end of the century.  Nor need
we withold from the Seceders, the price of materially promoting

<FOOTNOTE>The number of signatures attached to this curious document, from some of the
other parishes in the same synod with Kelso, are as follows;-- Maxton, 17; Lillies-
leaf, 58, Jedburgh, 69; Eekford, 90; Dunse, 12; Galashiels, 66; Earlstoun, 22;
Westruther, 16; Stow, 65; Mertoun, 16; Selkirk, 24; Yarrow, 50; Hounam, 21.


