
                         FYVIE.                            339

of a small sum now in course of liquidation.  The Church
Extension Committee of the General Assembly transmitted a
grant of L.70 towards this object.  Millbrex is a mission sta-
tion of the Committee for managing the Royal Bounty in Scot-
land.  The present emoluments of the minister consist of an
allowance of L.20 per annum from that Committee, the seat rents
of the church, amounting an average to L.40 per annum, with
his manse and glebe.  He is ordained, and performs the pastoral
duties within the district assigned to him, and the establishment
forms a valuable addition to the ecclesiastical provision for this
parish.  It is to be hoped that, through the favorable interfe-
rence of Government in behalf of the new churches, the Presbytery
of Turriff may soon be enabled to perfect the status of the mi-
nister of Milibrex, by recognizing him in every way as a parish
minister.  Of the two Episcopalian chapels in the parish, one is
situated at Woodhead, about one mile and a-half north-east of
the parish church, the other at Meiklefolla, within a few yards of
the southern boundary of the parish.  The former has but a small
congregation connected with it; the latter is one of the largest
country congregations in connection with the Episcopal commu-
nion in this county.  It is supplied from the neighbouring parishes
of the district of Garioch, together with the western division of
this parish and the adjoining parish of Aucterless.  From notes
taken at the visitation already referred to in 1836, the respective
numbers of the different religious denominations were found to be:
Established Church, 2838; Episcopalians, 430; Associate Sy-
nod, 34; Roman Catholics, 3.  The number of male heads of
families upon the communion roll of the parish, as made up at
the dispensation of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper in Au-
gust last, was 276; this exclusive of the Millbrex portion of the
parishioners.  In noticing the state, of religion in this quarter,
while there are many grounds of discouragement, I am of opi-
nion, on the whole, that the spiritual standard of the community
is rising.  There is an improved observance of the Sabbath; the prac-
tice of family worship, once so pleasing a feature in the social con-
dition of Scotland, is gradually being introduced again.  May the
Lord hasten the time when the incense of a pure offering shall
ascend unto him, as of old, from the family altars, throughout
the length and breadth of the land.
   Education.-The total number of schools in the parish is 8;
one of them is endowed, the parish school, situated a little


