
1072                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

scription are known to exist. On the slope of the high grounds,
where the soil is untransported, it is generally of a good depth and
fertile quality. On the low grounds, where it is transported, it is
mostly shallow, and of a sandy or peaty nature.
         Wood.-With the exception of a few patches of dwarfish alder,
no indigenous wood exists in the parish; but roots and fragments
of oak, fir, hazel, &c. of a large size are frequently dug up in the
mossy ground. From 800 to 900 acres have, at different times,
been planted by the different heritors, principally with fir and larch,
to which sorts of timber the soil appears most congenial, or at least
that part of the soil which has been set apart for plantation.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	In a volume recently published by the Spalding Club, there
appear a few letters written by one of the beritors of the parish of
Logie, (Gordon of Blelack), who espoused the cause of the Stu-
art family in the Rebellion of 1745; and also an account of the
trial of some inhabitants of the parish accused of the crime of
witchcraft.
         Antiquities.-Two different farms in the parish have received
the name of Cairnmore, from the existence of large cairns or piles
of stone within their boundaries. One of these cairns, situated
about half a mile north of the manse of Coldstone, must have ori-
ginally been of remarkable size; for though it has, according to
the report of the inhabitants, furnished materials for the erection
of several enclosures in the neighbourhood, it still stands conspi-
cuous. As the remains of several smaller cairns appear on a piece
of moor ground, a little west from the large one, there is reason
to think, that a fierce battle, of which, however, there is no tradi-
tion, must have been fought upon the spot.
	Upon the farm of Parks of Coldstone, and on a spot of ground
which, though now drained and improved, has evidently been a
morass, there is still to be seen a deep and wide moat, surround-
ing a slightly elevated area of about an acre.
	In the gable-wall of a house, which forms part of the farm-of-
fices at Mill of Newton, may be seen a sculptured stone, which
formerly stnod on a rising ground a little to the west, which still
bears the name of Tomachar (Gaelic Tom-chathair, "hillock of
the chair.") Drawings of the stone are said to have been taken
and forwarded to antiquaries; but no satisfactory explanation of
the figures delineated upon it has been given.
During the last season, the tenant of Cairnmore of Blelack,
                          4


