
310                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

by the landlord, (whose interests in, the property are permanent),
and a moderate per centage merely charged upon them, he would
have had freely in hand, to lay out in improving and enriching his
farm.  In other words, the practice, while straitening to the tenant
from the very outset, appears to be favourable in the end neither to
him nor to the landlord; and here, without doubt, the entail sys-
tem operates in a way that is by no means favourable to the march
of improvement.
   Enclosures.-Notwithstanding the extensive improvements which
have taken lace in cultivation, there is still much wanted in the
way both of plantation and enclosures.  Belts of the former more
generally interspersed, and hedges, with ditches, would be both or-
namental, and would increase greatly both convenience and shel-
ter; and were due encouragement given by proprietors to this end,
much would undoubtedly be done, and many corners now lying
waste would be profitably and ornamentally occupied.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market-town nor village in this pa-
rish.  The nearest town, and that on which the inhabitants are
mostly dependent both for post and market, is Huntly, which is
four miles distant from the church, but considerably nearer to the
great bulk of the parishioners.  There is no post or regular course
of conveyance from the post-office in Huntly to this parish, if we
may except an individual who passes on foot once a-week to Forgue,
carrying letters and newspapers to those in his immediate line of
road at a moderate charge.
   Means of Communication.-A regular post conveyance or run-
ner from Huntly to Turriff, with receiving-houses at different
stages, would be a vast convenience to the inhabitants of that large
and in many respects important inland district, a great part of
which is it present very badly situate in this respect.  Letters
from this to Turriff and neighbourhood, a distance of twelve miles,
put in at Huntly, usually go round all the way by Aberdeen, (above
seventy miles), before they reach their destination.  The other
towns with which this parish maintains considerable communica-
tion, are Banff, Macduff, and Portsoy, eighteen and nineteen
miles distant, and Inverury, which is about twenty.  These,
particularly the two first, are the towns to which the grain is
chiefly carried for export.  There is considerable extent of turn-
pike road within this parish, say ten miles, six of which consist of


