
392                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

on at present are, crystal and glass earthen-ware, tiles and bricks,
a small iron foundery, and a manufactory of hats; a chemical work,
the making of paper, all of which are in active operation, and af-
ford constant employment to a large portion of the working-classes
in Portobello. Salt is still prepared at Joppa Pans. Clearburn
was, till within the last sixty years, the site of a thriving village, cele-
brated for its breweries; but no vestige of its former state remains.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town, &c.-There are no regular markets held in this pa-
rish; but provisions of all kinds, and of good quality, can be purchased
at Portobello, which is in the immediate neighbourhood of all the vil-
lages in the parish. The first house erected in Portobello was a small
cottage, still standing, and pointed out as a curiosity, in the centre
of the town, on the south side of the main street. It was built by a
retired sailor, who bad been with Admiral Vernon in his South
American expedition, and therefore named it Portobello, in com-
memoration of the capture of that town in 1739. The increase
of population was much accelerated by the establishment of brick
and tile-works, and, soon after, by an earthenware manufactory
&C. Besides becoming the residence of the workmen employed
at these manufactories, Portobello, from the salubrity of the air,
and its delightful situation, very soon became a place of great re-
sort for sea bathing quarterst not only for families from Edinburgh,
but also from the surrounding country, and thus increased in size
every year. At this time, no regularity or uniformity was observed
in building the houses, farther than suited the taste or fortune of
the proprietor, so that we now find it a town of villas, large and
small. Many of these were built of brick, and bad small shrub-
beries in front, and were well adapted for the residences of single
families. Of late years, much greater regularity has been ob-
served in laying out the streets and in building the houses, in
consequence of their being reared on speculation by builders; and
in a short time Portobello will be one of the handsomest towns of
its size in Britain. At present, it consists of a long principal street,
extending from one end of it to the other, lining the London and
Edinburgh road, with a number of streets diverging to the north
and south. The houses are now built of freestone of a good qua-
lity, procured at a short distance, in the style of those in the New
Town of Edinburgh. Hot and cold-baths were erected upon an
improved plan in 1805, and, within the last few years, a neat and
commodious suit of markets. On the sands of Portobello, in 1822,
his late Majesty, George IV., reviewed several residents and corps


