
58	                 BUTESHIRE.

mand of vessels, and many of them latterly become themselves
owners.
	In few parishes is there a greater respect paid to religion, or a
more regular and devoted observance of its ordinances. A com-
petent and correct knowledge of the peculiar and fundamental
doctrines of the gospel is very generally. possessed, and among
them are to be found not a few spiritually-minded, lively, and in-
telligent Christians, adorning the gospel they profess, by a walk
and conversation conformed to its precepts. After the revival
which took place in the parish under the ministry of the late Rev.
Neil Macbride, in 1812, there was scarcely a family in which the
worship of God was not maintained morning and evening, but, we
regret to say, that now it is by no means so common.
        Many of the games, profane customs, and superstitions * pecu-
liar to the Highlands, formerly prevailed in the parish, but these,
together with the vices of drinking, swearing, &c. in a great mea-
sure perished in the revival. We regret to say, that, among the
rising generation, who give little promise of walking in the foot-
steps of their fathers, the latter seem to be again reviving. Both

<FOOTNOTE>The following extract from the session-recordS of Kilmorie will illustrate one
of the superstitions customs of the Highlands. It was by no means peculiar to this
island:
	"Session at Clachim, September 4,1709.-Janet Hunter being formally summon-
ed, sod called, compeared, And being Questioned anent the report that was given forth
on her, that she used a charm for the discovery of theft, by turning the riddle, she
plainly confessed that she did use it; and being farther interrogate what words she
used, she replied that she used no words; and being asked if she did not say, by
Peter, by Pal, it was such a person," she replied that she did use these words,	and
none else; and being farther Interroliate, if the riddle did turn at the naming of any
of these persons suspected, she replied that it did actually turn at the naming	one;
and being interrogate farther who employed her, she replied it was Barbara M'Marchie
in the same town, who employed her; and she being farther interrogate, if she had
say other body with her at the suid exoroite, she being replied that there was one Florence
M'Donald, servitrix to Hector M'Alister here, who was holding, the side of the
share with her. It being farther interrogate, if she thought there was any fault or
sin in it, she replied that she thought there was none in it, seeing she used no bad
words; and she being farther interrogate if she knew who it was that turned the
riddle, she answered that she did not know; but declared that it was not, nor
the either who had it with her, so far as she knew ; and it being told her that if
neither of them two turned it, that it behoved to be either God or the devil that
turned it, to which she replied that she did not think it was God, and she hoped
it was not the devil; wherefore the minister laboured to convince her of the burried
sin of the helliah art, and the heinousness of it, and how she had gone to the devil to
the desire talking her confession into consideration, which the hatefulness of the
wicked practice. And after deliberation, having the advice of the Presbytery,
on the like affair, they do unanimously appoint her to make her comperance before
the terror of other that use such nots, they refer her to the civil magister, to be
purnished as shall be thought fit by hi,, either corporally or pecunially ; and she beging
called in again this was intimate into her."


