
690                     FORFARSHIRE.

   Within the last twenty-five years great improvements have taken
place with respect to reclaiming waste land, draining, liming,&c. In
some cases the extent of arable land has been nearly doubled.
Originally the leases were all liferents; a few of these still re-
main. The rest are for nineteen years, and are considered most
favourable to the occupier. The farm-buildings are in a very in-
different state, but the enclosures are good, and mostly of stone.
   The principal disadvantages of the place arise from the rugged
and uneven nature of the roads, and its distance from market-
towns, the nearest, Brechin, being eight miles distant, and the
road lying over a steep hill.
   For the encouragement of his tenants in this and the two neigh-
bouring parishes of Edzell and Lochlee, Lord Panmure, the prin-
cipal proprietor, with his usual regard to their interests, several
years ago, instituted an annual exhibition of sheep and cattle, when
premiums are given by his Lordship for the best specimens of each
kind.

                      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONNMX.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church was rebuilt in 1827; it is in
good repair; affords accommodation for about 250; all sitting
free. The manse was built about thirty years ago. The stipend
amounts to L. 158, 6s. 11d. The annual value of the glebe is
about L. 20.
   Education.--There are two schools in the parish, the parochial
school, and anotber about five miles distant, supported partly by a
small mortification, and partly by individual subscription, and
taught only during the winter season. The salary of parochial
schoolmaster is the maximum. School fees average about L. 7
per annum: he has the legal accommodations,
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--Average number of persons receiv-
ing parochial aid, 7. Average sum allotted to each per week,
1s 6d. Besides a few others who receive occasional aid, varying
according to their circumstances. The annual amount of contri-
butions for their relief, arising from church collections, about L. 14;
from other funds, L.20.
   These is a general disposition among the poor to refrain from
seeking parochial aid, so long as they are at all able to procure
the means of subsistence, either by their own industry or by the
help of their friends.
   Fuel.-- The fuel used is chiefly peat and turf procured from the
neighbouring hills, and coals from Montrose.

   May 1843.


