
482                          FORFARSHIRE.

of cultivation. By the skill and capital of the tenantry, all the
waste land has been reclaimed. The crops of barley and oats are
not inferior in point of produce or quality to any grown in the
county-and from the great attention bestowed by the farmers in
picking and cleansing their seed corn, considerable quantities both
of barley and potato oats are annually sent from the united pa-
rishes to other parts of Scotland for seed. In general the farm-
buildings are of the first rate description, most of them having been
erected by the proprietors on the most approved and extended
plans. The average extent of the farms is 200 acres, and the
average rent about L. 1, 10s. per imperial acre.
        Live-Stock.-Ten years ago, the only breed of cattle reared
was that indigenous to the country,-the Angus breed, and great
and increasing care has been successfully bestowed in bringing
thel to perfection. There is also the short-horned breed, and a
cross between them and the Angus. It has been found that the
first cross between the Angus and the short-horned bull produces
a very superior animal, increasing the natural disposition of the
Angus breed to grow and fatten, and still possessing sufficient bar-
dihood of constitution to acquire great weight and maturity at two
years old under the common treatment. In the last Statistical
Account it is said "sheep are entirely banishod." In this respect,
there is now a great change. Many flocks of Highland ewes are
kept to improve the pasture in summer,-the lambs being a cross
between them and the Leicester tup. In autumn, many hundreds
of Highland wedders are fed on turnips for the double purpose of
manuring the land and reaping a profit.
	The leases are for nineteen years, and the rents are regulated
by the fiars prices, subject to a maximum of L.3, 15s. It is now,
however, understood, that, as the leases fall, the proprietors are to
discontinue the present practice of letting the farms by the fiars;
One farm on Lord Wharncliffe's property was last year let at a
fixed money rent.
        Wages.-Ploughmen have from L.9 to L.14 a year, with six
and a half bolls of meal, and two quarts of new milk per day,
Married men have a house, for which there is a deduction of 1.1,
10s. to L.2.from wages, and, if they keep a cow, they pay from
L.4 to L.6 for the keep. The average rate of labourer's wages
varies from 1s. 4d.to 2s. per day, and during winter from ls. 3d.
to ls. 6d.
        The ploughmen live in bothy,-a system of which Cobbett


