
l36                       CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


all along preached once a month on the Sabbath-evenings, for the
benefit of those of his people in that district who either cannot,
or will not, come four miles to the parish church.
   At the village of Westfield, on the estate of the Earl of Zet-
land, there are a schoolmaster's house, school-house, &c. sup-
ported and maintained in a manner similar to those at the Devon
Iron-Works. Here, too, much good is doing by the impart-
ing of general knowledge, and by the inculcation of Christian prin-
ciples.
   At Forest Mill, a hamlet about three miles and a-half north-
east from Clackmannan, there are a schoolmaster's house and
school-room, and some ground, to insure, if possible, the perma-
nent residence of a teacher. That part of the parish, however,
being, thinly inhabited, it has been found impossible to give to a
good teacher anything like an adequate remuneration. There has
been accordingly a succession of young men, who have merely
alighted there, on their way to some higher region. In 1766,
Michael Bruce, the author of "Lochleven" and other poems, was
the teacher at Forest Mill. In the days of other years, his poe-
try was very popular, but it has fallen into the shade; and the
opinion of Sir Walter Scott, as quoted by Lockhart in his Life of
the " Great Minstre]," will not tend to revive its celebrity.
  In the populous village of Newton-Shaw there are a school-
room and garden, and a few pounds a year, given by the Earl of
Mansfield, to assist in the maintenance of a teacher for the bene-
fit,of the children of his Lordship's feuars. The Newton-Shaw
school has been, for some years, well taught and well attended.
The only remaining day-school in the parish is in the neighbour-
hood of Clackmannan. The teacher is altogether dependent on
his own exertions. He has, in common, a pretty numerously at-
tended school. At the seven day-schools which have been men-
tioned, there are on an average about 500 scholars, being very
nearly one-tentb of the entire population of the parish. The wri-
ter is decidedly of opinion, that in the town of Clackmannan a
well,conducted infant-school would be the means of doing very
much good.
 In the town of Clackmannan, there are two libraries.-the one
intended for the more wealthy portion of the community, and the
other for the common people. But a desire for knowledge, and a
thirst for reading, do not appear to be: by any means prevalent.


