
     1270                       PERTHSHIRE.

     18 feet in length, measured 5 feet 4 inches in circumference,
     The solid contents of this tree were 361 feet 1 inch.  As there
     was only a part of the trunk found, the height of the original stem
     must have been about 60 feet.  In Blair Drummond House, there
     are some beautiful pieces of furniture, which were made of an oak
     of great size, which was dug out of the bank and bed of the Forth
     in 1826.
       These trees cannot have died naturally, otherwise the roots
     could not have retained their strength and consistency so long.
     Nor can they have fallen before a hurricane, otherwise they
     would have broken at various heights from the ground, or been
     torn up by the roots, which has not been the case, as they are
     cut about two and a-half feet from the ground, being the part
     where the tree is easiest cut, and where the greatest strength of
     the person cutting can be applied.    The general opinion is, that
     they were cut down by the Romans, as the marks of the size of
     a Roman axe have been seen on some of them.  As the roots
     and trunks are found together they must have been cut, not for
     the value of the timber, but for clearing the plains and dislodging
     the natives.  This is confirmed by history, because from the time
     of Agricola, the Roman soldiers and the provinciated Britons were
     employed to cut down the woods or make openings in them, and
     to make roads through the marshes for the passage of their ar-
     mies.  In proof of this, various Roman antiquities have been
     found upon the clay under the moss, to which reference has been
     formerly made.  Thus we find that they attempted to secure the
     northern frontier of the province, by cutting down part of the exten-
     sive forests which covered the level country along the banks of the
     Forth and Teith, and by establishing a regular chain of posts in
     the direction of Kincardine moss, the pass of Leny, and the sta-
     tion at Ardoch where the forests formerly stood.
       Tacitus mentions the chain of posts between the Forth and
     Clyde as the work of Agricola in his fourth campaign, which co-
     incides with the year 81 of our era.    About firty years thereafter
     the wall of Antoninus was built nearly in the same line.  From
     these references, therefore, the age of the moss of Kincardine
     must be about 1760 years.
       In 1766, Lord Kames having become connected with the es-
     tate of Blair-Drummond, by the succession of his lady, applied his
     intelligent and comprehensive mind to theimprovement of this
     moss, and, during his lifetime, was pretty sucesful, but still the


