
     Statistical Account

funds for the relief of their members, amounting to se-
veral hundred individuals.  The increasing number of 
poor may be accounted for, from various causes; the
want of industry or economy, and a culpable reliance, in
the sorelight of want, upon that fund, which is appro-
priated to the aid only of the industrious, although un-
fortunate, members of the community; the circumstance
of young persons entering so early into the married state,
as is the custom here, without any rational prospect of
subsistence; and then not exerting their industry in pro-
portion to their increased expense.  Perhaps the small
scale of so many farms may tend to increase the number
of the list; as they cannot be supposed to afford bread to 
the families that nestle upon them, did the possessors even
hold the land in free simple*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices, Wages, Fuel.- Provisions, in some articles, vary in price with
the seasone.  At Martinmas, beef and mutton may be purchased at 2 1/2 d.
and the best at 3 d. the l b.  In the spring, or beginning of summer, good
beef or mutton is sold at 4 d.  The price of lamb is from 2 1/2 d. to 6 d.
the l b.; of veal and pork from 2 1/2 d. to 4 d.; fattened 2 s. and 2 s.
6 d.; ducks, 6 d. and 7 d.; 7 d. and 8 d.; chickens, 2 d. 2 1/4 d. and
3 d.; butter at 6 d.; and belt cheese, of cow or ewe milk, at 3d . and
4 d. the l b.  Dutch weight.  Wheat is fold from 25 s. to 1 l. 3 s. the Car-
lisle bushel, equal to 3 Winchester; oats, from 5 s. to 9 s., and barley
from 8 s. to 14 s. Carlisle bushel, the measure used in this parish.
Oat meal, according to the state of crops, is fold from 1 f. 8 d. to 2 s. 8 d.
the stone.  Excepting victual, which of late years has been advancing 
in price, the other articles have stood much at the same rate during the
writer's incombency.

   Labourers in husbandry, and other work, receive 1 s. a day; when
employed in mowing 1 s. 6 d.  Carpenters, bricklayers, and masons, 1 s.
6 d.; tailors, when victuals are afforded .  The wages of male
servants one from 6 l to 10 l. ; of female servants, from 2 l. 10 s. to 4l.
10 a year.  A labourer's earnings through the year may amount to 
16 l.  The coalliers; it is said, may earn from 10 s. to 20 s. a week.
Their expenses must depend upon their mode of living, and turn for

</UNREADABLE>


