
108                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

it contains about 8 square miles. It is bounded on the north-
west, by the parishes of Corstorphine and St Cuthberts; on the
north-east, by the parishes of Morningside (a new parish, quoad
sacra, separated from St Cuthberts,) and Liberton ; on the south-
east, by the parishes of Lasswade and Glencorse ; and on the south-
west, by those of Penicuik and Currie.
    Topographical Appearances.-The appearance of the parish is
beautifully diversified. The northern range of the Pentland Hills
which is its south-east boundary, rising 1600 feet above the level
of the sea, forms a fine Alpine back-ground from which the land
falls in various undulations towards the flats of Corstorphine.
The descent is arrested towards the northeast by the romantic
rising-grounds of the fir hill and Craig-Lockhart hill ; while a
little farther down, it is intersected for nearly three miles, by the
dell in which the interesting Water of Leith flows. The whole
scene is beautified by hedge-rows, by the trees which surround
the houses of heritors and others, and by the denser masses of
plantation on the lands of Hailes, Colinton House, Redhall,
Craig-Lockhart, and Dreghorn. There, ever-greens and deci-
duos trees are  blended together, whose :various forms and foli-
age, whether viewed in spring, when their fresh and contrasted
yerdure clothe anew the naked groves, or in autumn, when their
changing hues sympathize with the yellow fields, and render that
season the most attractive in the year, throw a richness and va-
riety over, a landscape scarcely equalled in the vicinity -of Edin-
burgh. Beyond the bounds of the parish are, seen the capital of
Scotland, with its spires and romaintic Castle ; the Frith of Forth
and the fertile coast of Fife,-the more distant Ochils, and the
bold Grampians towards the north-west closing the view.
   The arable lands in the parish lie from 250 feet to 600 feet above
the level of the sea lands lie lately been subjected to
the plough on the farm of Swentson, lying at the east end of the
Pentland hills, which are perhaps 100 feet higher. The church
at Colinton stands 300 feet above the level of the sea;  Colinton
House, 386; Bonally, 482; Dreghorn Castle, 489; Hunter's
Tryst, 517; Swenston, 616; Caerketan (vulgo, Kirkyetton) hill,
1565; and Allermuir hill, 1616.
   Hydrography.- The principal steam in the parish, the Water of
Leith, flows through the lower part of it for nearly three miles,
and though it has no great breadth, being only about 50 feet
from bank to banl opposite to the manse, it is an important


