
                        COUNTY OF KINROSS.                   73                          73

Leven is from eight to nine miles in circumference, and covers
about 4000 acres; though inferior in magnitude and picturesque
beauty to some of the Highland lochs, it is still a noble expanse of
water. Trout, pike, perch, and eel, are found here in abundance. It
is of an irregular oval figure, possessing several islets, of which only
two are worth noticing,-the one, extending to about five acres, is
situated within a short distance of the shore at Kinross, and here
are the remains of the castle, once the prison of the unfortunate
Mary Queen of Scots; the other, called St Serf's Isle, having a
flat, bare appearance, is near the south-east extremity of the loch.
On the latter island there was a priory dedicated to St Serf or Ser-
vanus, which must have been placed here upwards of 1000 years
ago, but no vestige of it is now to be seen. A considerable
number of cattle and sheep are pastured upon this island, which,
since the draining of the loch, immediately about to be noticed, ex-
tends to upwards of 100 acres. On the other island, containing
the castle, the main tower of which, it may be observed, appears
to be about the same size as the border towers, a fortlet was first
built by Congal, a valiant Pictish King, who reigned towards the
end of the fifth century. At what period the castle itself was erect-
ed we are not informed, but it makes an early appearance in our
history. In the year 1335 it was defended by Alan de Vipont, a
Scottish royalist, against a John de Strivilin, apparently a Scottish-
man, but who acted in behalf of Baliol. A fort was erected in the
churchyard of Kinross, oil a neighbouring promontory, and at the
lower end of the lake, where the waterissues from it, an embankment
was thrown across with the view of laying the island and castle under
water, and thereby compelling the besieged to surrender. Vipont
took the opportunity of the English General being absent on some
pious duty at Dunfermline, and broke through this barrier to the
utter confusion and discomfiture of the English. Such is the story
told by Buchanan, but it does not appear probable; for an embank-
ment such as would inconvenience the besieged, must, from the
nature of the ground, have also annoyed the blockading party on the
shore at Kinross. And when we consider the magnitude of the
operations required-the strength of the works necessary-and the
time requisite for accumulating the water, we are inclined to
place little reliance in the tale, considering that it happened in the
time of war and slender resources. It appears to us, however, that
the termination of the lake formerly must have been at the east end
of the level carse through which the stream of the Leven flows.
KINROSS.                                F


