
             PARISH OF KENNOWAY.
       PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.
           THE REV. DAVID BELL, MINISTER.

I.-ToPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HiSTCRY.
Name, &c.- THE village of Kennoway, which in all probability
gave its name originally to the parish so called, is built along the
top of a ridge which forms the head of a very sweet little glen, or
den, as it is commonly called. Of this situation, the name Kenno-
way, as derived from the Gaelic language, is said to be exactly de-
scriptive: Kean-nan-uiagh, signifying 11 the head of the den."
  The parish of Kennoway is figure, nearly an oblong ; ex-
tending about 3 miles from east to west; and upwards of 2 from
south to north. It is bounded on the south and west, by the parish
of Markinch; on the north, by that of Kettle; and on the east, by
that of Scoonie.
  Topographical Appearmices.-In its general aspect, the parish
of Kennoway is a sloping bank, ascending from south to north :
having the surface abundantly and beautifully diversified, however,
bv irregular and gently rising heights, and. corresponding declivi-
ties. The prospect from almost every part," as is accurately re-
'marked in the former Statistical Account of t1fe parish, "is exten-
sive and beautiful ; commanding a distinct view of the Island of
May, of the Bass Rock, of Inchkelth, of the shipping on the Forth,
of the coast south ofthe Forth, from Dunbar to the west of Edin-
burgh, Including the Lammermoor hills," and part of the Pentlands.
"From the north part of the parish, which reaches the top of the
bank, there is one of the most extensive views imaginable, taking in
not only the fore-mentioned prospect to the south, but compre-
hending almost all Fife, and a great part of the counties of Angus,
Perth, and Stirling, and of the Grampian mountains." In the cot-
house of Lalathan, situated on nearly the most elevated point of
the ridge, is said to be the highest hearth-stone in the county.
 Meteorology. -The mean temperature of the atmosphere, takeu
at ten o'clock, A.m. for six successive years, is as under:-


