
430                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

is not much cultivated, the turnip husbandry, with oats and bear,
hay, and pasture, is generally followed, under the various rota-
tions of five, seven and six years.  Of these, the last may be con-
sidered the best, for keeping the ground both rich and clean, and
also producing most luxuriant crops; having three-sixths of the
whole possession in grass, two-sixths in grain, and one-sixth in
turnips, which are uniformly drilled and hoed.  The manure
chiefly employed is animal dung, with the addition of bone dust
when required; and it is now very customary to give the outfield
lands a top-dressing, (with a compost of earth and lime, or earth
and duing,) on the pasture grass, before ploughing it for a crop of
oats.
   The farm-houses are plain substantial buildings, mostly of one
floor and thatch-roofed; but a few of them lately erected have
two floors and slate roofs, and as there are slate quarries in the
neighbouring parish, it may be hoped that both the dwelling-
houses and offices hereafter built on the principal farms will be
slated.  Very few of the fields are enclosed, either with hedges
or dikes; from the difficulty of watering the enclosures sufficiently
for grazing cattle, and of procuring good stones for dikes at a
moderate distance and expense.  The only uncultivated ground
likely to repay the cost of improvement, is the area of the moss
that has been exhausted of peat, and which, on being dried and
tilled, bears luxuriant crops in ordinary seasons; and of this kind of
ground lying along the sides of the moss 400 acres have been
brought into cultivation since the beginning of the present century
adding so much to the dimensions and value of the respective estates.
   Produce.-It is not easy to give a correct statement of the
amount or value of the whole yearly produce, as that of many
small possessions is in great part consumed by the occupiers and
their, families, and no account thereof regularly kept.  But, com-
puting the annual returns of oats and bear (big) to be 6 1/2 quar-
ters from each acre of infield land in crop, and 4 quarters from
each acre of outfield in crop, (which are fair estimates for ordi-
nary seasons,) the gross yearly produce of these crops is 10470
quarters, yielding at the average of L.1 each, L.10,470 Sterling;
cattle reared and sold from the parish, viz. oxen of three and four
years old, 400 at L.10, L.400; butter, cheese, and eggs, &c.
sold L.1500; total, L.15,97O.  Of the corn produced, there
are required yearly for seed, 1800 quarters; for food to 1500 per-
sons, 30 stones of meal to each, 3200 quarters; leaving for
                       4


