
                                        PERTH.                       53

              Methven. He was born in 1577 or 1578. When about eleven
              years old be succeeded his elder brother James, who died a minor
              in 158&.* He was carefully instructed in the doctrines ot the
              .Protestant religion.  He was educated at the grainmar-school of
              Perth.  While attending the university of Edinburgh, and "in non,-
              age, be was elected Provost of Perth (his fathers, grandfather, and
              great-grandfather, and elder brother had all been in that office.
              In 1594, he went abroad to prosecute his studies.  The town-coun-
              cil, as a testimony of their respect for the Rutbven family, and of
              the good hopes which they entertained of him, bound themselves,
              and their successors in office, by a written obligation, to choose
              him annually as their Provost, till he should return to his native
              country.  He returned in February 1600 (in the twenty-second
              year of his age) to the great joy of his friends. The reverse of
              satisfaction was remarked in the King's speaking of him and to him.
              In the month of August, a few months after his return, he and
              his brother Alexander were murdered in his palace at Perth.
              There is a mystery connected with this atrocious transaction, which
              no historian has yet been able to unravel.  The scrutiny which
              has been made into the circumstances of the case, leaves an im-
              pression unfavourable to his Majesty, which the ingenuity of his
              most powerful advocates has not been able to remove. His Ma-
              jesty volunteered to give the city a very full and kindly expressed
              charter of confirmation of rights and privileges. This, it has been
              believed, was intended by him to weaken the pelople's hostility to
              him, occasioned by the catastrophe. To the same cause is ascribed
              his entering his name on the guildry-book as a burgess.+

              <FOOTNOTE>"James, second Earl of Gowrie, was buried in the north-east nook of the kirk
              of Perth, 1588, aged 14."
                 The following papers have been published on this subject:-
                 1. In 1600,  "A discourse of the unnatural Conspiracy attempted against his Ma-
              jesty's person at St Johnstone, upon the 5th of August 1600. "This is reputed to
              be the King's own account of the matter.
                 2. In 1601.  "Ruvenorum Conjuratio," suspected to be the production of Mr P.
              Galloway one of James, chaplains.
                 3. In 1713,  "An historical account of, the Conspiracies of Gowrie and Robert Lo-
              gan of Restalrig, against King James VI." written by George Earl of Cromarty.
                 4. In 1774, "Gowrie's Coonspiracy." This paper is introduced in the appendix of
              Mr Cant's edition of Adamson's "Muses Threnodie," and is believed to have been
              written by Lord Hailes.
                 5. In 1785, "The traditional account of the Town of Perth, concerning the death
              of John Earl of Gowrie and his brother, Alexander Ruthven, in the year 1660, by
              the Rev. Mr Duff of Tibermore.
                 6. In 1798, "An historical Dissertation on Gowrie's Conspiracy, by 3. Pinker-
              ton, Esq."
                 7. In 1812, "A Treatise on the Gowrie COnspiracy by Mr W. Panton."
                 8. In 1818, "History of the Life and Death of John Earl of Gowrie, by the Rev.
              Mr James Scott, senior minister of Perth."


