
                   KIRKCALDY.                             753

benefit of the town and country that a heckler of lint be esta-
blished, they, therefore, unanimously resolve to make application
to the trustees that a heckler be settled here with such a salary,
and under such regulations, as the trustees judge proper."  About
the same time advantages were held out to bleachers, and encou-
ragement was given them to settle in the neigbbourhood.  The
goods manufactured at this time consisted chiefly of linen checks
of inferior quality, which were commonly sold to Glasgow mer-
chants for exportation ; and linen handkerchiefs, checks, and a
coarse description of ticks not now manufactured ; all for the home
trade.  The goods were conveyed by the manufacturers on horse-
back to the various townsin Scotland, and were mostly sold at
fairs.
   Towards the end of the last century, a great stimulus was given
to the linen trade of Kirkcaldy by tbe judgment and energy of Mr
James Fergus,-a name justly associated with the extension and
prosperity of the trade of the town.  He set himself to produce
ticking for the home-trade in England.  After he bad discovered
the tweel, and had provided materials for making this fabric of the
first quality, be was unable to find weavers who could give the
cloth the requisite stiffness and smoothness.  The difficulty was
at last overcome by a weaver discovering the effect of what is still
denominated " the open stroke."  The effect of this stroke in the
weaving upon the cloth is, in the language of a workman, to make
it as smooth as a " buik leaf."  This opened up a new trade, and
ticking is still the staple article in the manufactures of Kirkcaldy.
Mixed cotton and linen-checks were made for the same market;
they were produced in large quantities, and continued to be sold
with profit till they were superseded by the cheaper and more
showy article of cotton.  Besides ticks, there are now manufac-
tured in the town, drills, dowlas, sheetings, ducks, and sail-cloth.
   It was difficult at one time for manufacturers to extend their
business, in consequence of being obliged to provide houses for
their weavers.  Their trade was proportionate to the number of
weavers they could accommodate.  This practice is not yet alto-
gether done away, but weavers now generally find houses for them-
selves, and seek after manufacturers who are willing to employ
them.  Females began to weave here between forty and fifty years
ago: and they now form a considerable proportion of the number
employed.
   The trade is carried on chiefly by eight manufacturing houses
FIFE.                                     3 B


