
   		    KILWINNING.                               823


	15.  Archibald Blair Campbell was admitted in 1831.
	Masonry.--The art of executing very large and magnificent
buildings in timber frame-work was carried to high perfection in
the northern countries of Europe during the tenth, eleventh, and
twelfth centuries. Owing, however, to the perishable nature of the
materials, and to accidents by fire, these buildings were frequently
either destroyed, or reduced to a state of extreme decay; so that
the ruinous state of the ecclesiastical edifices in the northern parts
of Europe became a serious subject of inquiry at Rome, and mea-
sures were taken to obviate the grievance. The Pope created se-
veral corporations of Roman and Italian architects and artisans,
with high and exclusive privileges, especially with a power of set-
tling the rates and prices of their labour by their own authority,
and without being controlled by the municipal laws of the country
where they worked. To the various northern countries, where
the churches had fallen into a state of decay, were these artists
deputed. In consequence of the exclusive privileges conferred
upon them, they assumed to themselves the name of Free Masons,
and under this title became famous throughout Europe. These
corporations, from their first origin, posessed the power of taking
apprentices, and admitting into their body such masons as they
approved of in the countries were their works were carried on.*
A party of these foreign artisans, aided by such workmen as they
found in Scotland qualified to join them, are said to have con-
structed the monastery of Kilwinning. The architect or master
mason, who superintended and carried on the work, was chosen
master mason of the meetings of the brethren all over Scotland.
He gave rules for their conduct at these meetings, and decided
finally in appeals from all the other lodges in the kingdom. From
this period, down to the fifteenth century, little is known of the
history of masonry. It is acknowledged that Kilwinning continued
to be the head-quarters of the order. In the notes to a French
poem, La Maconnerie, published at Paris in 1820, p.151, it is
said, that "Jacques Lord Stewart recus dans sa loge a Kilwin en
Ecosse, en 1286, les Comtes de Glocester et Ulster, l'un Anglois,
l'autre Irlandois." King James I. of Scotland, eminently distin-
guished for his knowledge and taste in polite literature and in the
fine arts, not long after his return from England, patronized the
mother lodge of Kilwinning, and presided as grand master, till

<FOOTNOTE>P.F. Tytler's Hist. of Scotland, Vol. ii, pp.395,396.


