
			CARSTAIR.                              549

hands, the inviting appearance which the village wore at a distance,
was miserably mocked on entering it, by the peat-stacks and dung-
hills which obtruded on the view. The generous superior has, at
his own expense, removed these nuisances; and in their room are
now to be seen neatly enclosed gardens, tastefully laid out, and
decorated with ornamental plants and culinary vegetables, which
regale the eye of the passenger, and afford profit to the tenant.
	Meteorology.--Although variable, like other parishes in the up-
per ward, the climate is by no means insalubrious, or unfavourable
to vegetation. From the sandy nAture of the soil in most spots,
snow disappears more rapidly than in the parishes to the east and
south, and the effects of continued rain are proportionally unfelt,
while continued drought is proportionally severe. It adds, of course,
to the early maturity of the crops, that the soil drys rapidly, and
is easily warmed. Nowhere, perhaps, do fewer diseases prevail,
which may be the effect of climate, or any local peculiarity; and
though in some places a few more remarkable instances of longevity
occur, yet in none does a greater proportion of the population
reach the ordinary limits of human life. Several individuals are
in the enjoyment of good health at the age of eighty and eighty-
five; and one has attained the advanced age of ninety-nine. As
climate is a good deal dependent on the local situation, the mossy
spots in the parish must necessarily be somewhat both cold and
moist, considering that its computed altitude is from 600 to 700
feet above the level of the sea.
	Hydrography.--There are only two rivers of any note, in the
parish, the Clyde, which forms the southern boundary, and the
Mouse, which traverses the centre of the parish, flowing westward.
During their connection with this parish, both rivers flow on in a
smooth and placid course--the Clyde through rich holm lands,
the Mouse through mossy flats; this last forming in many places
deep sluggish pools. The course of both is changed on entering
the parish of Lanark; the Clyde coming to a rocky bed, which
terminates in the Falls of Bonnington and Gorra Linn; and the
Mouse entering between the dark, rugged, and precipitious crags,
called the Cartlane Crags, which are the astonishment and terror
of every beholder. During the lapse of ages the Clyde has often
changed its course in this neighbourhood. A former channel of
no very recent date is still to be seen upon the property of West-
bank. This channel at present has the apperance of a winding
lake, so overgrown in some parts with reed and marshy grase,
	LANARK.					N n


