
                              ANCRUM.                         249

The stipend consists of 16 chalders of victual, and L. 8, 6s. 8d.
for communion elements.
     There are 284 families in the parish, and of these there are, on
an average, 160 families who attend the parish church.  The re-
mainder belong to one or other of the Dissenting meeting-houses
in the neighbourhood.  The average number of communicants in
connection with the parish church is 470, and among these are to
be found almost all the constant inhabitants of the parish, and the
great majority of the tenants, so that the Dissenters consist princi-
pally of the fluctuating population of hinds and other farm-servants,
a great proportion of whom change every year, and of whom, there-
fore, an accurate return cannot well be obtained.  Upon the whole,
however, it may be stated, that while there is no addition to the
inhabitants of the parish, the number of its communicants in con-
nection with the establishment is annually increasing.
     The parish church is the only place of worship, and though it
is generally well attended, yet it is much to be regretted that there
are not a few of the parishioners whose attendance upon the pub-
lic ordinances of religion is rare and irregular.
     There are no Bible or Missionary Societies in the parish, but
there is an annual collection in the church for missionary or other
religious purposes, which yields on an average about L. 6.
     Education.--There are three schools in the parish, the paro-
chial, and two others.  Of the latter, there is one which is endow-
ed; having been formerly the parish, school of Longnewton, where
it is situated, and still retaining the provision which it had previous-
ly to the annexation of the parish of that name to the parish of
Ancrum.  Its endowment consists of L. 11 per annum, with a good
house and garden, for the accommodation of the teacher; and its
patronage is vested in the proprietor of the barony of Longnewton.
     In all these schools the ordinary branches of education are
taught, viz. English, English grammar, writing, and arithmetic; in
addition to which, in the parish school, instruction is given in Greek,
Latin, French, geography and practical mathematics.  For these
latter branches, however, the demand is very limited.
     The parish schoolmaster has the maximum salary, the legal
quantity of garden ground, and a good house, consisting of four
apartments.  He also receives the annual interest arising from a
sum of L. 50, which was left by a former resident in Ancrum, for
behoof of the parish teacher, on the condition that he gives in-
     ROXBURGH.                     R


