
		592                      PERTHSHIRE.

  sonal influence of Ralph Erskine is said  to have originated it.
	The established pulpit was not very efficiently supplied at the time,
	and the obligation on the minister to leave the parish church va-
	cant onbd a month by going to Dundurn, occasioned a deficiency in
  the ministrations of the national church, which it was most desir-
	able and commendable to supply.  The necessity of conducting
	public worship in two languages gave a farther opening to the Se-
	cession, by leaving the increasing English portion of the congrega-
	tion with onlx one-half of the ordinary Sabbath ministrations.  For.
	a time the Secession provided sermon only on the fourth Sabbath,
  when the parish church was vacant.  The minister has a house
	and garden, and is said to receive a stipend of L. 90.
	  About half a dozen individuals occasionally attend the Episco-
	palian chapel at Muthill.  The Roman Catholics, since the last
	Statistical Account, have completely disappeared from this parish.
  According to the best information that could be procured, when re-
  plies were returned to the statistical queries of the Royal Commmis-
	sioners and General Assembly, there were of persons of all ages
  belonging to the Established Church 2357, and of persons belong-
	ing to other denominations 317; of communicants belonging to
	the Established Church 1195, and to other denominations 157.
    Education.--According to the report sent to the General As-
	sembly for 1836, there were seven schools in this parish, besides
	four Sabbath and three week-day evening schnnls, viz. one paro-
	chial school; two schools on teachers' own adventure; three sup-
	ported in part by individual subscription; and one by subscription
	of the inhabitants of the district.  The winter attendance at the
  seven day schools amounted to one in every five of the popu-
	lation.  Besides the common branches taught in all the schools,
	the parish teacher instructs in Greek, French, and mathema-
	tics. The modern improvements of the Normal and Sessional
  School of Edinburgh, and the training school of Glasgow, have
	been introduced with success.    The salaries amount to about
	L. 71, and the probable amount of fees per annum to L. 90, be-
  sides the value of the legal accommodations of an excellent house
	and garden provided to the parochial teacher, and of three houses
	and of land for three cows, provided for three other teachers.  The
	fees in all the schools are, per quarter, 2s. for English; 2s. 6d. for
	English and writing; 3s. for English, writing, and arithmetic; and
	5s. for Latin, inclusive of every other branch.  There are none
	between six and fifteen years of age who cannot read or write; and,


