
                          AYTON.                                145

middle passage, but seldom required. The pews are the property
of the heritors for themselves, their tenants, and servants. A few
seats were given by the heritors to the kirk-session, to be let for
the benefit of the poor; but for these little or no rent is received.
The feuars and others who have no legal accommodation would,
no doubt, obtain liberty to erect a gallery for themselves in the
west end of the church, but they have hitherto preferred being in-
debted to the indulgence of such seat-holders as have spare room,
or they occupy the seats of such tenants and farm-servants as at-
tend the meeting-houses.
   The manse was rebuilt nearly forty years ago, and is agree-
ably situated on the banks of the Eye. It has since at intervals
undergone a few repairs, by the last of which, further accommo-
dation has been secured, by dividing the attic story into apart-
ments, which had been left unfinished at the time of building.
Good new offices were lately erected of sufficient extent for the
present incumbent, who has no farming operations. They would
have been further enlarged if required. The garden and grounds
were laid out with great taste by the former incumbent, and water
has been brought into the house by the present.
   The glebe contains 11 1/2 acres, and has been let, till lately, at
a yearly rent of L. 38.-The stipend consists of sixteen chalders,
half meal and half barley, convertible at the fiars prices of the
county, which, as a matter of equity, ought to be struck twice in
the year, instead of once. On an average of the last seven years
it has amounted to L. 241, 4s. 10d. There are also L. 10 for
communion elements, and a small fish tithe; the latter Is ill paid,
owing to the alleged poverty of the fishermen, who are otherwise
an unusually respectable body of men, partly belonging to the Es-
tablished church and partly Dissenters, and both in their dress and
domestic equipments, betraying no symptoms of poverty.
   The dissenting chapels were formerly Burgher and Antiburgher,
but are now in the New Associate communion. Their ministers'
stipends arise from the seat rents. Neither of them are said to
exceed L. 100. The ministers have also a free house and garden.
The number of families attending the Established church is 180;
of families in the parish attending the chapels of Dissenters and
Seceders, 145. The average number of communicants in the Es-
tablished church is 360. The yearly average of the ordinary
church collections is upwards of L. 20. The average of occasional
church collections for religious purposes is between L. 3 and L. 4,
perhaps once or twice in the year.
   BERWICK.                         K


