
284                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

lately, and even as yet it is practised in some rare instances. It
is executed as follows: A feniale makes choice of some convenient
station out of doors, if possible, where a flat stone of considerable
surface can be obtained.  To this place she carries some stooks
of corn, for the purpose of parching the grain, and preparing it
for grinding.  She commences by taking up in her left hand part
of a sheaf; then, setting the ears on fire, they are allowed to burn
until the grain, thus dried and extricated from the stalks, fall on
the flat stone or pavement underneath. In her other hand she
has a stick, with which she keeps constantly beating at the blazing
straw, to shake off the grain which does not fall when the husks
are consumed. When all the sheaves are in this manner exposed
to the flames, the grain is collected, and fanned, and thus made
ready for the mill. This process is called gradan, and the meal
prepared by it makes wholesome and palatable bread. By these
simple means, corn has been frequently shorn, dried, dressed,
ground, baked, and eaten, in less time than an hour. About
twelve or fifteen years ago, a person, by going in a calm winter
morning to some little eminence, might at one glance observe
fires blazing, and columns of smoke rising aloft in various hamlets
at the same time, in each of which the parching process was going
on. This practice, as may be understood, is attended with a great
loss of straw, which is, to all appearance, the cause of its being al-
most entirely discontinued. The natives, however, from their
fondness of meal thus prepared, have since come to practise more
generally another ancient method of drying corn, by which meal,
similar in quality with that of the gradan, is produced, and all the
straw saved. This method is called uirearadh. A large fire is pre-
pared, in the centre of which is placed the most capacious pot in
the dwelling. A considerable quantity of grain is put into it, and
a female, with a broad piece of wood, is in attendance, who con-
stantly stirs the grain to prevent it from burning by the heated
metal. In a few minutes it becomes sufficiently parched, when it
is taken out, and another supply put in its place, and so on, until
the whole quantity of grain intended to be converted into meal is
similarly treated.
   There is every reason to suppose that the parched corn men-
tioned in the sacred Scriptures was prepared in some manner si-
milar to the Celtic customs just described.
   Old men manufacture snuff from common twist tobacco, by a
process which they also call gradan. They untwist the leaf, dry
                                4


