
264                     RENFREWSHIRE.

linen manufactures amounted only to L. 15,000.  From the ac-
counts transmitted annually by the stamp-masters to the Board of
Trustees in Edinburgh for the encouragement of Manufactures, it
appears that the linen manufacture in Paisley attained its highest
point in 1783-4, when the number of yards stamped was within
a trifle of two millions, and the number of looms 2000. *  About
the same period, the silk-gauze trade gave employment to 5000
looms, a very large proportion of which were in the country villages
around, and produced L. 350,000 worth of silk goods.  The manu-
facture of ribbons, and of some other silk fabrics, was introduced
in 1772, and was for some time carried on to a considerable ex-
tent. +
   Shawl Manufacture.-The rise of the shawl trade forms an im-
portant era in the history of Paisley.  Imitations of India shawls had
been produced in the city of Norwich, and the town of Stockport,
near the close of the 18th century.  Much about the same time also,
a lady in Edinburgh had attempted something of the kind, but not
on such effective principles as the English manufacturers.  These
imitations were chiefly of soft silk.  Some of the were sent to Paisley
and submitted to two or three manufacturers.  The muslin trade being
then good, while shawls, it was considered, would be quite a fancy
article, very few adopted this branch, and consequently little pro-
gress was made for some time.  One manufacturer, however, of
considerable ingenuity and great perseverance, embarked in the
trade, and was eminently successful; ++ others followed and with
various success.  In those days, the erection of a shawl-loom was
an expensive concern.  The manufacturer had to advance a great
proportion of the money required.  This, along with the risk of a
fancy article, when so much outlay was necessary, deterred many
from taking up the trade.  By the exertions of several ingenious
weavers who had made a little money, conjoined with the well-
known intelligence and persevering industry of the operatives whom
they engaged for the work, many obstacles were overcome.  At
length the shawl trade became of more importance than the muslin
branch.  The working classes were greatly benefited by the change,

<FOOTNOTE>Wilson's Survey of Renfrewshire, p. 241.           Ibid p. 243-4.
          This was Mr James Paterson, Orchard Street.  The first inventors or importers
of arts, are often in the end unsuccessful, in reaping the gains- of their perseverance
and industry, and this was the case with Mr P., while J. M. the weaver whom he em-
ployed to make the first imitation shawl in Paisley, is at present begging his bread!
The family of Mr. P. seem to have possessed a native genius for drawing-patterns,;
and several members of it, both in LOndon and Paisley, are still distinguished in that
line.


