
     Statistical Account

minister of Innerleithen have a profitable occupancy?  No.
The land he possesses will not enable him to employ his
man and horses half the time they ought to be employed.
Ground cannot be laboured without two horses.  Two he
must keep, for the hiring of his ploughing he cannot obtain.
One horse he ought to keep for parish duty; and when this
requires one horse, the other is thrown idle as to the tilling
the ground, and many other farming purposes.  Should he,
Apostle like, abjure the use of horses for his own accom-
modation, he may then drive in his fuel, and have his
little farm cultivated in proper season; but every year he
must go to market for fodder to maintain his horses; and
this the late incumbent considered as an average expence
of L. 5 per annum; which, added to the wages and mainte-
nance of a ploughman, renders the glebe a loss rather than
profit to any incumbent, Without a cow, no family can
be comfortable in the country; the glebe, as yielding this
benefit, is, with all its pecuniary disadvantages, highly use-
ful.  Could the minister of Innerleithen find people to hire,
for driving his coals and tilling his land, and be, by these
means, under no necessity of keeping a man-servant and a
pair of horses, he might then not be under any difficulty of
providing fodder for two cows, and a horse for parish duty,
and by that means his glebe would turn out profitable.
As circumstances stand, this cannot be obtained.  Accom-
modation, therefore, and not profit, is all that can be looked
for.  Twenty acres of farm, at a reasonable rent, would
render the clergyman's situation comfortable, and the pos-
session of the glebe profitable.  Such is the outline of an
answer to the question, as it relates to this parish.  The
writer of this report speaks not from theoretical speculation,
but from dear bought experience; and what is true in the
one case is fully applicable in the other.  Both manse and
church are in a good state of repair.  The manse was built


