
1082                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

         Historical Notices.-Macbeth was killed and buried in Lum-
phanan. It is necessary to record the evidence of this fact, fur-
nished by history and tradition, as Shakspeare has represented
Dunsinane in Perthshire as the scene of his slaughter.
	"Macbeth, the son of Finleg, reigned seventeen years; he was
slain at Lunfanan by Malcolm, the son of Duncan;"-is the brief
notice of the event in the register of St Andrews. *
	"Macbeth seeing his own forces," says Fordun, "daily dimi-
nishing, and those of his adversary increasing, suddenly left the
southern parts of the kingdom, and fled to the north, in whose
narrow passes, and in the depths of wliose forests, he hoped to find
safety. Malcolm, however, quickly followed him across the moun-
tains to Lunfanan, where he slew him, in a skirmish, with his
few followers, on the 5tb December 1056." +
         A similar testimony is borne by Wyntown:-
                " He wes rycht w..., and tuk the flycht:
                And owre the Mownth thai ch...st hym than
                Til the Wode of Lunfanan.
                This Makduff wes there m...st felle,
                And on that ch...s than m\a3st crwele.
                Bot a Knycbt, that in that ch...s
                Til this Makbeth than nerest was,
                Makbeth turnyd him agayue,
                And sayd, 'Lurdane, thow prykys in wayne,
 		For thow way noucht be he, I trowe,
                That to dede sall sl... me nowe.
		That man is nowcht borne of Wyf
		Of powere to rewe me my lyfe.'

		"The Knycht said, 'I wes nevyr borne;
		 But of my Modyr W...me wes schorne.
		Now sall thi Tresowne here tak end.'

		" Thus Makbeth siwe that tharr
  	        In-to the Wode of Lunfanan;
		And his Hewyd thai strak off thare;
		And that wyth thame fr... thine thai bare
		Til Kynkardyne, quhare the Kyng
		Tyll thare gayne-come made byding.
		Of that slawchter are thire wets
		In Latyne wrythyne to rehers;

		"Rex Macabeda decem Scotiae septemque fit annis,
		In cujus regno fertile tempus erat:
		Hunc in Lunfanan truncavit morte crudeli
                  Duncani natus, nornine Malcolimus." ++

facts recorded in this article, the writer is indebted to Joseph Robertson, Esq. author
of the Book of Bon-Accord,-a gentleman who possesses an extensive acquaintance
with the antiquities of Aberdeenshire. See his Collections for a History of Aberdeen-
shire, pp. 6, 13, 14.

<FOOTNOTE>Regist. Sei. Andr, apud Johnstone's Antiq. Celt. Norm, p. 148.
          Forduni Swtichronicon, lib. v. c. vii.
          Wyntownis Cronykil, Book vi. cap. xviii. 1. p. 382-410.


