
     Statistical Account

beginning of this century, the west head or pier, had been so
far carried cut.  Before that period, it is said, vessels were
loaded and unloaded at low water, by means of a causeway,
run out into the mud.  The east head was begun in the me-
mory of old people yet alive; and had not been built above
one third of its present length, when an increase of trade oc-
casioned an Application to parliament, for an impost of two
pennies Scots on the pint of ale and beer brought into, or
brewed in the town, for repairing and enlarging the harbour.
This was obtained in 1744, for 25 years, and was renewed
for 25 years longer, in 1767, and extended over the parish;
and again, in 1794, continued for 21 years, with the addi-
tion of an anchorage duty of 1 d 1/2 per ton, on every ship enter-
ing the harbour.  These duties, are under the management
of 15 Trustees, elected from the merchants and ship-masters,
who have been enabled, from time to time, to make great
improvements on the harbour.  One of great importance, a
bason for cleaning the harbour, was executed about 30 years
ago, by the late Robert M'Kell, Engineer.  A double wall,
moated in the heart, was run across between the two piers,
inclosing about one fourth of the harbour, on the land side,
and having 4 fluices.  During spring tides, these fluices are
regularly opened, and shut at full sea, when a great body of
water is retained.  At low water, the fluices are opened
emptying the bason with so rapid a current, that in the course
of a few years from the erection, a great increase to the depth
of water in the harbour, was made, and continues to be
maintained at a very small expence.  This bason-wall, being
of similar breadth with the two piers, has given great accom-
modation to trade; and from it also, a middle pier has been
built, parallel to the other two.  The addition just now fi-
nished of 160 feet t the east pier, not only gives more room
for shipping, but closes in the harbour so completely, from

     I


