
268                       BERWICKSHIRE.

ceed twenty or thirty feet in thickness, as at Puttenmill, Kimmerg-
hame, Greenknows. All the strata dip to the south-east, at a small
angle of inclination, except at the west end of the parish, where they
have been upraised by a trap dike. A good section of these rocks,
as affected by this cause may be seen at the junction with the
Whittadder, of the small burn which runs past Cumledge, about a
mile below Preston bridge. The strata are there elevated at an
angle of about 50ø. The basis or lowermost beds of the Berwick-
shire marl strata may be seen at the turn of the Whitadder, above
the point last described. Beyond this point, the strata consist
entirely of red sandstones resting on a conglomerate, which some
geologists have described as belonging to the old red sandstone
group.
   The only fossils discovered among the rocks of this parish, and
contemporaneous with their formation, are vegetables. The re-
mains of neither shells nor animals have yet been found. The ve-
getable fossils are very much the same as found in the Mid-Lothian
and Northumberland coal fields, consisting of impressions of Equi-
setae, &c. But besides these, an extensive deposit of fossil or
petrified trees has lately been discovered, which, upon a botani-
cal examination of their structure, seem to belong to the Coni-
ferae. The water-worn appearance of the trunks, and the total ab-
sence of branches and leaves, lead to the opinion that they have
been transported to their present situation by the force of running
water. It is no small confirmation of this opinion, that these fos-
sils are found imbedded in a thick deposit of blue clay, which was
most probably thrown down by water in a state of mud. The
bark which envelopes these ancient trees has been converted into
a black coal, probably from the original bark having been deprived
of its bituminous matter.
   There are in this district, the strongest proofs of the effects of
the deluge, that vast flood by which our mountains were submerged,
and the plains strewed with the records of its violence. Immense
boulders or erratic blocks may be seen in the alluvial soil that is
cut through by the river courses, which cannot have been derived
except from hills at a great distance. Among these boulders, there
are some of mica-slate, a rock which does not occur nearer than
Cumberland, from the mountains of which these rolled masses
were probably torn and transported. The direction in which, as
thus indicated, the waters of the deluge flowed, viz. from south-
			     3


