
	             PARISH OF SCOONIE.

	   PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE

	     THE REV. GEORGE BREWSTER, MINISTER.

                  I.--TOPOGRAHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name.--IN the old parochial Records, the name of this parish is
written Scuny; and must be of considerable antiquity, as we learn
from Chalmers's Caledonia, that the church of Scuny was granted
by Malduin, Bishop of St Andrew's, to the Culdees of Loch Le-
ven, about the end of the eleventh century.
   Extent, &c.--This parish extends about 4 miles in length from
N. to S., and nearly 2 in breadth, and forms the figure of a cone,
with its base upon the Frith of Forth. The river Leven washes
its western boundary, and separates it from the parish of Wemyss,
and a detached part of the parish of Markinch. Kennoway, Ket-
tle, and Cults bound it on the north, and Largo on the east; and "at
the north-cast extremity, the three parishes of Scoonie, Largo, and
Ceres, and the three presbyteries of Kirkaldy, St Andrews, and
Cupar meet in one point." The ground rises from S. to N., with
a gentle slope, and, at the highest point is about 700 feet above the
level of the sea. There are no hills, but several swells or risings of
the ground, which command a very extensive and beautiful prospect
of the Forth and its southern shore. The coast, above one mile in
length, is flat and sandy, without a rock in its whole extent, and
forms part of Largo bay.
   The climate is in general mild and temperate, especially on the
coast, except when the sea breeze sets in during the spring months,
and then the atmosphere is loaded with moisture, and the wind
cold and penetrating.
   Hydrography.--There are few springs of good water in the pa-
rish, and only one deserving of notice. It rises in a sandy flat,
not far from the sea beach, and has received the name of ''the
boiling well," from its bubbling appearance as it issues through
the sand. The discharge from this spring is copious, and the
water of the purest quality, but its distance from the town renders


