
	                 MONTROSE.                           277


In the year 1648, the town was visited by the plague, as appears
from the following entry in the session record. "Because of ane
fearfull prevailing pestilence entered into the city, enlarging and
spreading itself, dailie destroying and cutting down many, which
occasioned ane scattering and outgoing of all the members of ses-
sion to landward, for their refuge and saiftie, therefore there was
no session nor collection in this our church of Montrose betwixt
the last of May 1648, and the 1st of Februarii 1649."
	In Februarx 0716, James, the first pretender, sailed from Mon-
trose, a vessel having been prepared to carry him off, and the prin-
cipal part of his chieftains. At eight o'clock at night, having
ordered his horse to the door of the house where he lodged, with
all his guards mounted in the usual manner, he went from his lodg-
ings by a back door to those of the Earl of Mar, and thence, in
company with the Earl and one domestic, by a private footpath, to
the water side, where a boat was in waiting, which carried them
aboard the Maria Teresa of St Maloes.
	Montrose was the only town in Scotland, so late as the com-
mencement of the eighteenth century, where a person could be

sall happen us to be for ye time, ye secund day of November nixt to cum, gif it be
lauchful, and failzeing yairof, ye nixt lauchful yairafter following, in the houre of
cause, with continuacione or dais, to answere to us upon the committing of saidis
spulzie, oppressionis, & injuris contenit in ye saidis billis, upon our leiges inhabitant
of our said burgh, baith of old and new, and upon ye contempcione done to our au.
torite riall yerthrow: And in it yat we sall mak be said to yern yairfore in our name
at yair coming; and to answere at ye instance of the alderman, bailzeis, burgesses, &
communite of our said burgh, for the wranguiss destruccione of yair saidis cornis, dx,
tending to xvi bollis of aitis, with ye foder, price viii merkis; ande spoilzeing and
withholding of ye saidis claithis fra ye saidis fycharis, yair wyffis, and servandis, ex-
tending to ye avale of v libri, and ane mast of a schip, with the tow & takle of ye sa-
myn, spoilzeit fra yairn out of ye havin of ye saide burgh by ye saidis Johne & Johne;
price xx merkis; and for ye costis, dampnage, & scaitht sustenit by yaim throw ye
saidis oppressionis & injuris: and foryer, to answere to us and to ye party, in sa far
as law will, making intimation to ye saidis personis, yat, quheyer yai compere or
nocht ye saidis day & place with continuaccione of dais, we will proceed and minister
justice in the saide mater, in sa far as we may of law; and attour yat ye summonde
Thomas Scote, John Scote, Nycole Malcolme, Thomas Wowar, & Alexander Lid-
dale, to compere before us and our counsale ye saidis day & place, with continuacione
of dais, to bear lele and suythfast witnessing, in sa far as yai know or sal be sperit at
yaim in ye said mater, under el pane and charge yat efter may follow: and attour
yat ye pass & tak sikken sourte and lawborrows of ye saidis personis & yair complicis
yat sall be given to you in bill, yat ye saidis alderman, bailzies, burgessess, or comu-
nite, will mak faitht before you yat thai dreid bodily harm of, yat is to s`i, of ye saide
John Erskin, elder, under ye pain of five hundredth pundis, & of ilk ane of his saidis
sonis, je. libri; and ye remmant ilk gentilman landit, je libri; ilk gentilman unlandit,
jc. merkis; & ilk zeman, xi- libri, yat ye saidis aldermanumn, haiizeis, burgesses & com.
munite of our said burgh, sal be harmless & scaithless of yaim, and all yat ye ma lett
but fraude, orgil, uyerwais yan ye common course of law will, and yis ye do as ye
will answere to us hereupon. The quhilke to do we committ to zou, cunjunctlie &
severallie, oure full power by yir letteris, delivering yaim be you duely execute & en-
dorsite agen ye oyth berar.
	" Given under our Segnete at Stirueling, ye ferde day of October, & of oure regne
ye sext zere.
	"Per S. D. N. Regem in persona propria cum avisamento concillii. (Signed)
	"J- CHEPMANE."


