
     of Dunoon.

century, it has been the resort of a few trades people, and of
such farmers in the neighbourhood as have failed, with poor
widows, who find here, more readily than elsewhere, a house,
with a little ground for grain, suited to their circumstances.
This, the tenants in the neighbourhood plough, and the plow-
ed ridge, or rood, is let at the rate of 7 merks, or 30s an acre,
with 4 merks for a cow's grass.  This is the only grazing for
milch-cows, let by itself, it is believed, in the parish, and
has stood at the same rent for these 50 years.  Such cattle as
are grazed for fattening or keeping, pay, as in other places,
from 5 s. to 6 s. for the young, and from 20 s to 21 s. for older
cattle, during the summer half year.

   There is no creek, or shelter of any consequence, or safety,
even for boats, at or near this village, which has probably con-
tributed to its want of improvement.  An attempt was made,
once and again, to build a pier upon its shore; but from its o-
penness to the south, and the severity of the storms of winter,
the last attempt, about 15 years ago, was rendered abortive.
-There was also an attempt to establish an Osnaburgh ma-
nufacture; but, after having been pushed for several years, it
also failed.-The people then took to the distilling of whisky,
which, after being carried on to some extent, was at once sup-
pressed, by the harsh regulations of the Excise.  It was a mi-
serable trade; but, at the same time, the poor people seem
to have been too harshly dealt with, since they were at once
deprived of the only means of their customary support, and of
their whole stock and income, without any compensation, or
putting any other means of gaining a livelihood in their power.

   In former times, the ferry at Dunoon was the principal
inlet from the low country to Argyleshire.  This made it more
a place of resort.  But a great road being carried by Lochlo-
mond, round the head of Lochlong, and through Glencroe to
Inverary, this has contributed to diminish the population of 

     VOL. II. 3 C


