
300                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

  The inns and alehouses in the town amount to16; in the rest of
the parish to 3.  Here, as everywhere else, there have been com-
plaints of the pernicious effects of the large number of these houses
upon public morals; and accordingly, they have been of late con-
siderably restricted by the functionaries.
Fuel.-That generally used, except by those persons in the
parish who reside near the peat mosses, is English coal, at the
rate of about 1s. 8d. per barrel; (the herring barrel is the mea-
sure still employed.) It is found cheaper than peat used alone,
though of it, too, a large quantity is almost daily brought into the
town, for sale, in small carts, chiefly from the neighbouring parish
of Edderton, and is purchased to be used along with the staple
fuel.  A coal storehouse is at present in the course of erection.

          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
In comparing the present state of the parish with that which
existed at the time of the last Statistical Account, a very striking
advance in almost every department may be perceived.  The most
important change, however, seems to be that of language.  That
from the peculiar situation of the Highlands of Scotland, the
change is a necessary one, and that by it the avenues of knowledge
are being opened up, and the power of doing good proportionally
increased, may readily be allowed; but no Highlander watching
the process in its immediate effects can look on it without regret.
The stream of traditionary wisdom descending from our forefathers
has been interrupted in its flow; the feelings and the sentiments
of a race, distinguished for high feeling, and noble sentiment, will -not
transfuse themselves into a foreign tongue; and the link of connec-
tion between the present and the past generations has been snapped.
The prejudices and superstitions of the Highlander are indeed pe-
rishing along with his better characteristics; but even this will not
be contemplated with unmixed satisfaction, by those who believe
that there are prejudices that elevate, more than they darken the
mind.  Before now, the Gael was debarred, from fame, because he
could speak bnly an uncultivated, though copious and nervous
tongue; now, he may chance as effectually to be debarre, because
the fountain of Highland prejudice and Highland enthusiasm has
been checked and rendered turbid at its source, and it may be long
ere its inspiring waters renew their ancient flow. Still the change,
we have said, is a necessary, and will in the end be a beneficial
one; and the sooner, therefore, it be accomplished now, perhaps
the better.
   August 1837.


