
678                        FIFESHIRE.

the church was carried into effect, and its government maintained
throughout the most trying and stormy periods of its history.
  From these records it appears, that collections for the poor were
regularly made on Sundays, and on occasions of baptisms and mar-
riages. The sums thus collected were statedly distributed to the
regular poor on the roll, while incidental cases of want or of more
urgent distress were liberally relieved on the application of the ne-
cessitous. The names of the principal proprietors in the parish
appear as the collectors and the distributors of the poor's funds,
as patrolling in turn the streets of the village during the hours-of
Divine service, delating offences against social order and good mo-
rals, and enforcing the salutar discipline of the church against
graver delinquencies. Among other respectable members of the
kirk-session up to the Reformation, we find the names of Sir Da-
vid Achmuttie of that Ilk, and of the Lairds of Balbirnie, Bandon,
Bruntoun, Coul, Carristoun, and Kirkforthar,-names related to the
first families in the kingdom, and who disdained not to exert the in-
fluence which their rank and wealth conferred in promoting the in-
terests of religion and morality. In addition to the usual immorali-
ties cognizable by the session, and which were then punished by
fine and by rebuke in the face of the congregation, we find not a
few delated for pursuing their ordinary avocations on the Sabbath,
for absenting themselves from church and from the administration
of ordinances, for slandering neighbours, for profane swearing, for
drunkenness, and frequenting houses of public entertainment dur-
ing the hours of Divine service. In 1643, Mr Frederick Carmi-
chael is admitted minister of the parish, the " ministrie of the
Presbyterie" having met at the kirk of Markinch for that effect.
His predecessor would seem to have been deposed as "ane enemie
to ye Covenant," notwithstanding the testimony borne in face
of the kirk-session by the Laird of Bruntoun in his behalf, that "he
was als honest a minister, als faithful a minister, and als conscien-
tious a minister as any minister in Fyffe." It appears, however,
that the great majority of the elders and people were heartily en-
gaged on the side of the common cause. Numbers of. the pa-
rishioners flocked to the national standard, with arms in their hands,
while contributions in money were not wanting to attest the gene-


<FOOTNOTE>Besides the objects for which the liberality of the gregation was appealed to, as
stated in the text, it appears from the records that collections were occasionally made
for suffering churches abroad; and at home, for building bridges, and for similar pub-
lic improvements locally distant, and which nothing but enlarged views of nations,
utility could have prompted at a time when  money was so sparingly held, and the
means of acquiring it so few and unproductive in this parish.


