
     Statistical Account

clay, and produces barley, oats, pease, turnip, and good crops
of hay.  Little wheat is sown in the parish, not so much as
there was about 12 years ago, owing to the backward late
rainy seasons.  The southern parts of the parish, which are
called Foudland, are mostly in a state of nature, and covered
with heath.  There are a few farms on the extremities of it,
of a light black soil.  In several parts of the parish, hedges
have been planted with success.  When they receive proper
care and attention, they thrive amazingly.  There is a quarry
of limestone at Pitfancy, which affords a considerable, though
not a sufficient quantity for the parishioners and this neigh-
bourhood.  The surplus grain of this parish which is very
considerable, is sold to merchants in Portsoy and Banff, who
export the barley, oats, and meal, annually by sea, to the
other parts of the island*.

   Hills.-The most remarkable, hill is called Foreman+, a part
of which is in the parish; it affords an extensive, beautiful
prospect to those who visit the top of it.  Along the S. E.
exposure of this hill, stands the house Cobairdy, the pro-
perty of Sir Ernest Gordon of Park, Bart. surrounded with

<FOOTNOTE>

*I mentioned above, two streams or rivulets, the one called the Burn of
Frendraught, near which is situated, the seat of Alexander Morison, Esq. of
Bognie, beautiful by nature, but no less so by the elegant and judicious taste
of the intelligent proprietor.  The other, the Burn of Forgue, resembling a
strath, nearly 2 miles in length, beautifully covered with alder, ash, burch, and
various kinds of trees.  There rivulets meet a little below where the church
stands, running on near by the house of Haddo in this parish.  After a variety of
beautiful windings delighting the eye, the compound stream discharges itself
into the Dovern near the church of Inverkeithing.  To the traveller and man
of taste, these rivulets, both before and after they meet, afford many beautiful
and picturesque scenes.
+Its Gaelic name is For-mon, and its perpendicular height from the Do-
vern 1000 feet.


