
                  	       AYR.                               77

have been divided into five districts, each taking the charge of one
of these in rotation for a year. Cow-pox inoculation is perform-
ed at all times at the dispensary-house; and such of thd patients
as cannot attend there are waited on at their own houses by the
surgeon of their district. It is in contemplation to add to it a
medical hospital, and a considerable sum has been subscribed for
thin purpose. It is hoped that, ere long, this intention may be
realized.
	Smith's Institution.--This is another of the very useful chari-
table establishments of the town. The following is shortly its his-
tory. About twenty years ago, a school was instituted for the edu-
cation of poor children, according to the system of Bell and Lan-
caster, and a list of annual contributors was obtained for its sup-
port. A teacher was accordingly appointed, and the seminary
throve as well as could have been expected. This, however,
was superseded a few years ago by the bequest of a Captain
Smith of this place, who, after leaving certain legacies, de-
voted the residue of a small fortune, which he had acquired as a,
mariner, to the humane purpose of benefiting the poor of Ayr, by
affording them the means of education to their children. As the
provisions of his will to this effect embraced exactly the objects
which the subscribers had in view by the Lancasterian school, the
proceeds of the bequest, amounting to about L. 2000, were dedi-
cated to the support of said school under anew name, viz. Smith's
Institution, and the former subscriptions were discontinued. The ma-
ghstrates and ministers are appointed trustees; and they meet once
a quarter to inspect the school, and transact any business that may
occur connected with it. The number of those constantly attending
the seminary amounts to from 150 to 200, and of those who receive
instruction in it in the course of the year, to about 250. Such as
are unable to pay are admitted gratis. The rest pay at the rate
of a penny a-week. The school, as we have said, is taught in the
poor's-house; but it is in contemplation to erect a separate build-
ing in some convenient situation, for a teaching-room.
	 There is also a School of Industry, for teaching young girls sew-
ing and other simple qualifications, for fitting them to become use-
ftit domestic servants. About 50 of the poorer class are instruct-
ed in this manner, many of whom are receiving their education at,
the same time at Smith's Institution; and, we believe, the pro-
duce of their work is sufficient to support the school.
	Savings Bank.--In 1815 a Savings Bank was instituted by a


