
  		          KELTON.  		         153

years they have been regularly kept; but from 1794 down to
1839 no regular records appear to have been kept, and the regis-
ter of births has been quite neglected. The transaction of the
session are now regularly minuted; but so inveterate has become
the habit of neglecting the register that not one parent in ten can
be persuaded to record the births of his children.
	Antiquities.--This parish exhibits traces of all the nations who
have successively occupied Galloway. 1. On the farm of Torrs
there is an imperfect circle of upright stones, the remains of a
Druidical temple, in the neighbourhood of which there is a copious
spring of excellent water. In such places, the pagan aborigines and
their descendants, the Selgovae, performed their superstitious wor-
ship and impious rites of divination. 2. Of the numerous remains
of the hill forts of that ancient people vhich are found in this
district, the most remarkable is situated upon the hill of Dun-
gyle, near the ruins of gelston kirk. It is of the usual circu-
lar form, and surrounded with three ramparts of stones mixed
with earth. At a little distance there is a smaller one, fortified
in the same way. The former is 117, and the latter 68 paces in
diameter. 3. On opening a sepulchral tumulus near Gelston,
which is not far from the route of Agricola's army through Gal-
loway, there was found a stone coffin, seven feet long, and three
feet wide, which contained human bones of unusual length and
thickness. These appear to have been the relics of some ancient
warrior, as there was also discovered in the same coffin, a brass or
copper helmet, with several inmplements of war, that were greatly
corroded. There was also found in the neighbourhood "a nicely
carved urn," full of reddish coloured ashes. The figure of the
urn, however, is all that would lead us to refer this relic to the
Romans, as cremation was not peculiar to that people, but prac-
tised also by the British; and it was the custom of both to inhume
the urns of the dead, without any pious cairn to mark the place of
their repose. 4. A few years ago, A Roman tripod, in a good
state of preservation, was turned up by the plough in the farm of
Mid Kelton: it is now in the possesion of Mr Train, Castle
Douglas. 5. A Mummer's head mask, made of fine copper, rich-
ly ornamented, and having two long horns turning backwards like
those of a goat, was found in morass in the farm of Torrs, about
the year 1820. Masquerades were a favourite amusement of the
nobility in the middle ages, and this mask had probably belonged
to a Mummer of the neighbouring castle of Thrieve. It was pre-


