
682                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ties, made by these zealous cultivators of natural science, a was, ac-
cording to Dr Walker, of considerable importance, and equal to
any then existing in Europe; but for want of a succession of men
of similar tastes, it gradually fell to decay, so that at the period-
of Dr Walker's appointment to the chair of natural history, only
a remnant of the specimens, in very bad condition, remained.  On
the accession of the present professor to the chair, he zealously
set about the re-formation of a museum; and was fortunately aid-
ed soon afterwards by a munificent bequest of valuable minerals
and fossils, by Dr Thomson of Naples, together with a sum of
L.1500 towards the maintenance of the museum.  Still, how-
over, the circumscribed space in the old buildings prevented the
extension of the museum; and it was not till the spacious halls of
the new building were completed, that the collection began to
assule that importance which it now has acquired.  About this
time Dufresne's collection of birds was purchased in Paris for the
museum; as also some part of Bullock's collection, in London;
the whole amounting to L.3000.  This purchase was made by
means of money advanced on the faith of General Reid's legacy
falling to the university.  In consequence of an application to
Government, duplicates of specimens in natural history, procured
in the different voyages of discovery, were also presented, free of
expense, to the museum, and many contributions from abroad were
sent by friends to the institution, and former pupils of the univer-
sity.  The collection of birds alone amounts to upwards of 3000
specimens.  And many specimens of insects and other articles are
still in the repository of the museum unpacked, for want of addi-
tional room.  Amongst these is the celebrated Dr Hutton's col-
lection of specimens of rocks, illustrative of his theory of the earth,
presented by the Royal Society.
   The upper and principal room of the museum is a spacious
apartment lighted from the roof, with a gallery running along both
sides, 90 feet in length.  The lower room is 50 feet in length.
Students attending the lectures on natural history have free admit-
tance to the museum once a-week.  The public are admitted on
payment of 1s., the proceeds of which admissions go towards
maintaining the museum.  The admirable arrangement of this
great collection is the work of the present distinguished Professor
of Natural History.
   The Anatomical Museum of the university was formed by Drs
Morn, Primus and Secundus, and has since been considerably in-
creased.  It forms an extensive collection for the use of students


