
998                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

obtained, they are driven by water. Since their first introduction
into this quarter, a variety of improvements in their construction
have been progressively made by native mechanics,-all tending
to simplify the labour, and to augment the quantity of the work
performed.  The different processes of thrashing, shaking, and
winnowing bythe same machinery, are now all at once performed,
and the corn immediately prepared for the public market. The
quantity of grain thrashed in a given time must of course depend
on its quality, the length of the straw, and the power by which
the machine is wrought; but a thrashing-machine was a few years
ago erected by Mr William Murray, Slap, a very skilful practical
farmer in this parish, which will easily thrash and clean in an hour
from eicbteen to twenty quarters of oats.
   The fanners, which at no remote period were unknown, the
grain having been separated from the chaff by the action of the
wind between the two doors of a barn, are now in common use.
Harrows and rollers, drilling and sowing-machines, and wheel-car-
riages, have been much improved, and from the increnuity and
skill of the mechanics, have tended, in no small degree, to dimi-
nish the labour, and render the land more productive. Ploughs,
both of iron and wood, though more generally of iron, have been
brought to a great degree of perfection by the artisans of the dis-
trict. A simple, but exceedingly beneficial improvement on the
common plough has been made by Mr Rae of Ardmiddle, and,
as it may be easily adopted, his own account of it is subjoined in
a note. *
   Manures.-Lime, as an extraneous stimulant, has long been
extensively employed. It has sometimes been injudiciously ap-
plied, and, by an overdose, the land in some places has been lite-
rally burned. Now, however, its power and qualities are better

<FOOTNOTE>"It occurred to me a few years ago, that an improvement might be made on
our common plough, for the purpose of stirring up the bottom of the furrow, where
in many soils, there was a considerable depth of good mould that had lain for ages
unproductive; and from the action of the sole of the plough, when ploughed in a
damp state, it is skimmed over, and thus rertdered more impervious to air and mois-
ture. With a view to get a sort of second coulter attached behind the heel of tile
plough, by straightening the beam a little, so as to admit of a similar bore to that in
which the foreroost coulter is fixed, and by a knee upon it, it is made to work in the
middle of the bottom of the furrow to the depth of from four to six inches, as may
be necessary. Latterly, I have improved on it, by having what may be called a shoe
or feather of steel attached to the end of it, about two inches wide at the back, ta-
pering to a point, wbich now stirs up the whole breadth of the furrow. When in-
verted to the depth of about five inches to make her work steady, a wheel is attached,
which being removable at pleasure, as well as the additional coulter, she then becomes
a common plough again."


