
630                       PERTHSHIRE.

ble, and calculating. In their worldy callings they are indus-
trious; in their mode of life, frugal and provident; in their gene-
ral conduct, sober and orderly, just and upright. They, as their
fathers for generations past have been, are distinguished for their
regularity and decorum in attending on divine ordinances, an ob-
vious consequence of which is to be seen in their comparative ex-
emption from flagrant immoralities.

                           IV. INDUSTRY.

  Agriculture.- The parish, as previously stated, contains 1152 1/3
acres standard Imperial measure, the whole of which, with the
exception of 33 acres under wood, are arable. About 60 acres
are laid out in permanent pasture, the relaining 1059 are regu-
larly cultivated.
  Rents.- The rents are fixed in grain, (with a very trivial excep-
tion),paid at the rate of the highest fiars' prices of the county.
They average about 3 1/4 bolls per Scots acre, in equal portions of
wheat, barley, and oats. The average price by the highest fh`rs
for the county for the last seven years for the 3 bolls (i.c. 4
bushels of wheat, 6 bushels of barley, and 6 bushels of oats), is
L.3, 2s., making the average rent per Scots acre L.3, 7s. 2d., or
L.2, 13s. 8d. per acre Imperial. As to Wages, Live-Stock, and
Husbandry, the remarks made in the account of the parish of
Errol are entirely applicable to this parish, and therefore it is un-
necessary to do more than refer to these remarks.
  Draining.- The system of wedge or furrow-draining first in-
troduced to this district sixteen years ago, and first practised on
the farm of Pitfour Mains by Mr R. W. Rannie, has been adopt-
ed to a considerable extent by all the tenants in the parish; the
result has been a great improvement, especially in the more re-
tentive clays. Different materials have been used in the forma-
tion of these drains. When they were first introduced, turf was very
generally used, but was found not to endure many years, particular-
ly in clays much impregnated with ferruginous matter. Wood cut
into boards four and a half hnches broad by one inbh or three quar-
ters of an inch thick, was then adopted and found to answer well
in tenacious clay; in more friable soils, stones broken to the size
of road metal were preferred. Within the last five years, tiles have
come into very general use for draining, but have nnt till the pre-
sent year been introduced to this parish. The Spirited proprietor,
Sir John S. Richardson, having lately erected at a considerable
expense an extensive range of buildings, consisting of drying sheds,


