
130                        RENFREWSHIRE

torial * tithes, and other revenues connected with the church and
parish of Inchinnan, and had the cure served by vicars of their ap-
pointment.  At the dissolution of the monastic orders, in conse-
quence of the Reformation, the last preceptor of Torphichen pur-
chased + the united estates of the Templars and Hospitallers from the
Crown, and, dropping his official title of Lord St John, was created
Lord Torphichen.  Thus the tithes, temple-lands, and patronage
of the church of Inchinnan, came to be vested in the first Baron
of Torphichen.  The temple-lands of Renfrewshire were subse-
quently acquired by Semple of Beltrees, and those of Inchinnan
have been distributed amongst a variety of proprietors for generations.
   The patronage of the church of Inchinnan having subsequently
at one time or other belonged respectively to the Crown and the
Dukes of Lennox and Montrose, is now vested in Archibald Camp-
bell, Esq. of Blythswood, whose forefathers acquired it from the
Duke of Montrose in the year 1737.
   With regard to the incumbents of Inchinnan since the Refor-
mation, it appears from the register of ministers, exhorters and
readers, that William Jackson was reader (at Inchecynane) in 1567,
and Thomas Knox was exhorter in 1569.  Gabriel Maxwell, ap-
pointed in 1602, is supposed to have been the first Protestant cler-
gyman in full orders.  Thomas Law succeeded him in 1626.  James
Wallace became incumbent in 1649.  In 1664, he was suspended
for absenting himself from synods and disobedience to the presby-
tery, and ousted from his living, and confined to the parish for not
conforming to Episcopacy.-Wodrow's Church History, Vol. iii.
Mr Wallace was alive at the Revolution, and although his name
does not appear in the sederunts of Presbytery, he was undoubted-
ly restored to his living, for it is stated in the records of 30th July
1689, that "Mr Patrick Symsone went to Mr James Wallace about
that collection, (viz. in behalf of some Irish Protestants) who pro-
mised to intimate it on the Sabbath, and gather it on the Monday."
We may conclude that Mr Wallace's infirmities prevented him
from attending the meeting of Presbytery; and as the first notice

<FOOTNOTE>Rectorial Tithes.-The following notice is from the Abstract formerly referred to.
" The Kyrk of Inchynnan has been in use to pay but xx. lib. allenarly, but it is bet-
ter an it were out of the hand of the Laird of Cruickstone."  From the same source
it appears that Ludovic Duke of Lennox obtained a tack of the teind sheaves of In-
chinnan, in 1591.
    The terms on which the purchase was effected were the payment of an annual
feu-duty of 500 merks, besides the sum of 10,000 crowns.  The Lord of St John
seems to have had difficulty in raising the latter amount.  It was borrowed from
Timothy Curneoli, an Italian gentleman of the Preceptor's acquaintance at Genoa
and a banker of the house of Bonvizi, resident at the time in Scotland.-See Note to
Hay's Vindication of Elizabeth More (Queen of Robert II.) and her children, print-
ed in Scotia Rediviva, p. 69.


