
     of Avoch.

been as well attended to, and kept in as good repairs as in
any part of Scotland, where turnpikes are not established.
At most places, where highways meet or intersect each o-
ther, direction-posts have been fixed and kept up.  In a
country, where many of the inhabitants cannot speak to a
stranger in English, the importance of these is obvious.  Part
of one road here, 'twixt the Seatown of Avoch and Fortrose,
being liable to frequent incroachments of the sea, proves ex-
ceedingly troublesome and expensive.  A substantial repair
to that, and a few small bridges, are the principal things of
this nature now wanted in the district.  The county of Ross,
last years, established a commutation of the statute labour
within their bounds, with a view, no doubt, to improve those
matters of police still farther, by hiring able hands with the mo-
ney and keeping steady surveyors over them.  The rates
charged are 1 s. 6 d. yearly from each man, liable to the statute
work; and 2 s. 6 d. more from the tenants, for the strength
of each plough.  These rates may be thought hard by some
poor people, who have little ready money to command, and
would rather give their work in the moderate way it used to
be exacted.  But every judicious farmer, or well employed
mechanic, who considers the importance of a long summer
day for carrying on his own work or improvements at home,

<FOOTNOTE>

tity of hemp.  Even the aged and infirm employ themselves as busily as they
can at making and baiting hooks, and mending nets, so that, except for a
few days about Christmas, or on the occasion of a fisher's wedding, there are
none but little children idle in the whole Seatown.  And this their industry
turns out to good account; for they bring up and provide for their families
decently in their sphere.  They pay honestly all the debts they contract in
the country, and, considering the number of widows, and fatherless, and of
infirm and aged persons among them, very few of this village, except in
cases of great emergency, are found to solicit the assistance of either public or
private charity.


