
                   EDINBURGH.                            655

   Public Monuments.-Nelson's Monument is the oldest and most
conspicuous erection on the highest point of this hill. It does
not, however, exhibit that classical taste in design which afterwards
characterized the architectural monuments of this city.
  The National Monument was first suggested at a meeting of the
Highland Society of Scotland in 1816. The proposed object was
to erect by public subscription a monument, comprising a church
and public cemetery, in commemoration of the battle of Waterloo,
and of the warriors who fell there. About L. 6000 were immedi-
ately subscribed. It was resolved that the model of the proposed
building should be the Parthenon at Athens, and in 1822 the sub-
scribers were incorporated by act of Parliament, and were em-
powered to raise a sum of money not exceeding L. 50,000, in shares
of L. 25 each. On the occasion of the visit of His Majesty George
IV. to Edinburgh in 1822, the foundation stone of the build-
ing was laid with great pomp and, procession by commissioner
appointed by that monarch, the Duke of Hamilton, as Grand
Master Mason of Scotland, officiating. It was found, however, that,
as had happened in similar cases before with the citizens of Edin-
burgh, the design was by far too expensive for the means. In two
years the whole funds did not amount to more than about L. 13,500;
and after mature deliberation it was resolved to go on with the build-
ing in the meantime, to the extent of this sum. The parallelogram
of the foundation ground was inclosed, and, from the plan of Mr
Playfair, architect, thirteen of the splendid columns were com-
pleted, built of the beautiful and compact sandstone of Craigleith
quarry. In this unfinished state the building now remains.
   Monuments to the late Professors Playfair and Dugald Stewart
also adorn the bill.
   Burns' Monument.-A circular building desigmed by Hamilton,
and containing inside a bust of the poet by Flaxman, is situated on
the edge of the Calton Hill, opposite the High School.
   Melville Monument.-This elegant pillar, a copy of Trajan's
column at Rome, was erected in St Andrew's Square in 1821,
to the memory of Lord Melville, first Lord of the Admiralty.
The sum for its erection, about L. 6000, was raised by subcrip-
tion, chiefly by gentlemen connected with the navy. The height of
the column is 136 feet, the diameter at the base 12 feet. A status
14 feet high surmounts is the pillar.
   Statues.-A bronze statue of George IV., and a similar statue of
Pitt, both by Chantry, are situated in George Street; and a statue


