
          208                        INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          Augustus, the second King of Poland: but how it found its way to
          this distant corners is not easily understood unless we suppose that
          it belonged to some person on board of a Dutch ship which was
          wrecked on this coast, when on her way to Batavia, about the be-
          ginning of the last century, when every person on board was lost,
          including several people of rank.  As the bodies of these men were
          washed ashore, it is more than probable that this medal was found
          upon one of them.
            Modern Buildings.-The mansion-house of Barray at Eoligary,
          built by the late proprietor, is a most commodious building, situat-
          ed in a sheltered place, and surrounded by fields of fine improve-
          able lands, not inferior in quality or appearance to any in the
          Western Isles.  The manse, which is very commodious, was built
          in 1816, but stands now in need of some repairs. A church was
          built a few years since, and can accommodate 250 sitters in the
          ground area, and is fitted for galleries to accommodate 200 more,
          if necessary. There are three other excellent farm-houses slated,
          and in good condition. A mill has lately been erected for grind-
          ing of corn, on a better construction than any that bad been there
          before. There is likewise an extensive soda manufactory, which
          has been working for several years, but, it was found at last neces-
          sary to discontinue it, after it had involved the proprietor in such
          expenses as obliged him to sequestrate his whole property for behoof
          of his creditors, and now to advertise it for sale. Of late, a most
          splendid lighthouse has, been erected on the island of Berneray or
          Barray-head, the farthest south of all tbe Barry isles, with that
          beautiful granite found upon the island itself. The roof of it, as
          well, as the houses built for the keepers, are all covered with sheet-
          lead.

                                   <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
          According to the church records the population of the parish in 1760 was 1285
                      Dr Webster's return,     -       -       -          1755     1150
                      Dr Walker's return,      -       -       -          1771     1395
                      Sir John Sinclair's Account,     -       -          1791     1604
                      Government census,       -       -       -          1801     1925
                         Do.       Do.         -       -       -          1811     1969
                         Do.       Do.         -       -       -          1821     2303
                         Do.       Do.         -       -       -          1831     2097                     The iliezease in the population would have been very grea4 *w-


             The increase in the population would have been very great, ow-
           ing to early marriages, and the reluctance of the people to leave
           the country for work in the south,-had not emigration to Cape
           Briton and Nova Scotia carried off the island great many almost
           every year.  In some years several hundreds leave it for those places.
           At present, there are 278 families who possess lands, and 93 fami-


