
     Statistical Account

plowing; and from the great quantity of dung left on the
surface, insures a luxuriant crop of grain and hay in the fol-
lowing years.  When the turnips are brought home for feeding
cattle in the stall, they likewise become a useful and a valua-
ble crop, not only from the immediate profit which arises
from them, but also from the great return of manure which
they afford for succeeding crops.  From the favourable na-
ture of the soil, the turnip-husbandry is conducted on an
extensive, scale in this, and many of the neighbouring parishes.
And as great attention is paid to the cultivation, so great
improvements have of late been made in the construction of
the utensils for sowing and for facilitating the operations
the husbandman, in rearing this useful plant.  The greatest
enemy to the culture of turnips, is a small infect, which
size and shape very much resembles the flea.  It commonly
attacks the plants at a very early period, immediately after
they begin to vegetate; and in home seasons makes such
dreadful havock among them, as not only to injure, but fre-
quently totally to destroy the crop.  The best remedy against
this evil is to sow them early and very thick; 4 lib. at least
or 5 lib of feed to the English acre.  This seems a method
well calculated to insure a crop of turnips.  The fly seldom
remains many days on the ground, and when such a quanti-
ty of seed is sown, though the first growth may be destroyed,
yet as every succeeding shower, or even dewy night, for a con-
siderable time, occasions a fresh vegetation of feed that has
been buried deeper in the ground; it is next to a certainty
that some one of these growths will escape the ravages of the
fly, and produce a sufficiently plentiful crop.  Many have
been the instances of the propriety of this theory, in this pa-
rish within these few years.  In their more advanced state,
turnips are in home seasons attacked by a caterpillar.  Though
the injury which they receive from it is frequently considera-


