
<APPENDIX>

ever, does not, in every instance, pay the expence attending the celebration.
The amount will be separately stated, when information sufficiently accurate
can be obtained.
   The price of the grain will vary, in the different counties, according to the
quality commonly raised in each.
   Col. 9th. Scotland has long been celebrated for the attention paid to
the education of its inhabitants, and it is believed to be the only kingdom in
Europe, where a school is established by law in every parish, and where, for
a very inconsiderable sum, the children of the poorest cottager may be
taught to read and write, and even some of the higher branches of educa-
tion.-The effects of this on society will be an important subject of inqui-
ry.-It was judged extremely desirable, therefore, to ascertain the number
of Scholars in each district.-Where no returns were made, an asterisk is
prefixed, and the number was computed, according to the population of the
district, in proportion to that of other parishes, where the returns were com-
plete.
   Col. 10th. In the next column, there is an estimate of the legal Salaries
paid to the Parochial Schoolmasters.-Where no return has been made, an 
asterisk is placed, and the blank is filled up, according to the average of the
other parished.  In addition to the legal salaries, the schoolmaster have
certain emoluments of a casual nature, ehich will be separately estima-
ted; but altogether, they form an inadequate compensation, for so useful a
body of men.
   Col. 11th. The Number of the Poor in each parish is stated in this co-
lumn.  Where no return was made, an asterisk is also prefixed, and a com-
putation is made, according to the average number of the poor, and of the
population, in other parishes, whence returns have been transmitted.  This
column includes the occasional, as well as the enrolled permanent poor, as
the Clergy have rarely made a distinction between them.
   Col. 12th. The management of the poor in Scotland, is one of the most
curious and important particulars, connected with the Statistical History of
that country.-They are not only, in general, maintained by the voluntary
contributions of the more opulent part of the inhabitants, but, from the care
and frugality with which their funds have been managed, considerable sums,
compared to the money received, have been accumulated.-It was thought
advisable to give a general view of the fund thus created, which does so
much credit, both to the charitable disposition of the people, and to the pru-
dent management of those who have had the conduct of it.
   Col. 13th. This column contains the annual voluntary Collections, at
the church doors of the different parishes, for the maintenance of the Poor.
In some districts in the south of Scotland, the baneful system of assess-
ments has been introduced.-Where that is the case, that circumstance will


