
		   ISLAND OF SKYE-PORTREE.                    225

   thereafter. It was resumed five years from that date. From a va-
   riety of causes which could not be prevented, it has hitherto
   been irregularly kept.
	Mansion-House.-In Rasay, there is a very splendid modern
   house, of the most elegant architecture,-built by the late proprie-
   tor. The front of the house has a very superb appearance, and
   is constructed of freestone found in the place. There is also a
   large and commodious church in the village of Portree, which
   was erected about sixteen years ago, and is now in excellent repair.
		   III.-POPULATION.
   	In the absence of all written record, our information regarding
   the ancient state of the population must be limited, and depend
   on vague and uncertain tradition. From this source, however, it
   appears that the people were very thinly spread over the whole ex.-
   tent of the parish; and though they lived in a rude, and almost
   savage state, they seldom suffered under the pressure of famine or
   destitution. Situate in localities remote from one another, each
   family had a sufficient extent of land to support a number of sheep
   and cattle. At the period to which we allude, the parish abounded
   with game of all sorts. In the rivers and estuaries, there was, sal-
   mon in abundance; and, being free from the restraints of the
   present game laws, the people may be said to have had a sufficiency
   of flesh, fish, milk, and, venison. They cultivated small portions
   of the best part of the land, which yielded them some weal It
   is, therefore, certain, that in old times, the people were more
   abundantly supplied with the necessaries and comforts of life than
   they are at present.

   <TABLE>

         In the year 1811 the amount of population was 2729
                      1821                             3174
                      1831                             3441
   By an enumeration since taken,                      4000

   This number is diminished by from 500 to 600 souls, who
   emigrated to North America in the course of this and last sum-
   mer. The immense increase that has taken place in the number
   of the people, may be ascribed to the, introduction of vaccine ino-
   culation-the subdivision of lands among the crofter-tents,
   by which two or three families occupy one lot, and sometimes one
   house.
   	Character of the People.--They are powerfully under the influ-
   ence of moral principle, so much so, indeed, that heinous crimes
   are seldom or ever seen or heard of among them. They are attach-


