
48                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

        Education.-There are two schools in the parish, one parochial
and the other on chance. In the parochial school, are taught,
English reading, writing, arithmetic, English grammar, Latin, and
mensuration. In the other, are taught, English reading, writing,
and arithmetic. The parochial schoolmasters salary is L. 31, with
allowance for garden, L.2, 2s. His fees are, for reading, 2s. 6d.;
writing, 3s. 6d.; arithmetic, 4s.; English grammar, 5s.; Latin,
5s.; and may amount annually to L. 20.  He is also session-clerk
at a salary of L. 2; and his perquisites for proclamations, &c. may
be about L. 3. He has just the legal accommodation of two apart-
ments, and a separate school-room; has hitherto been a popular
teacher, and musters between 50 and 60 at his public examina-
tions by the presbytery, several of whom are from neighbouring
parishes. The parochial school is pretty centrical,-about half a
mile north from the church, and, from its elevated situation,
serves for a sea-mark. The other school is at the most dis-
tant point of the parish, so that neither interferes with the other.
The people in general are quite alive to the benefits of education,
and send their children to school at an early age. It is believed
that there is not one in the parish above shx years of age who can-
not read.
        Savings Bank.-A bank for savings, for the benefit of servants,
labourers, and mechanics, was opened by the minister January
28th 1831, who remits the deposits to the Dundee Union Bank
branch Montrose, and draws when required, at his own risk. Any
sum from ls. to L. 10 is taken in, and interest paid yearly at
March 31st. But the deposits have not yet reached far above
L. 100. This is owing to two causes. First, the low rate of in-
terest, only 3 per cent. Secondly, the improvident habits of young
unmarried persons, who seldom think of saving a penny of tbeir
wages. The consequence is, that they begin their house-keeping
and a life of poverty at the same time; whereas, were they careful
to lay up in the savings bank, a small sum at every term, they
would then, with the blessing of. Providence on their future indus-
try, be prepared to begin their house-keeping in full prospect of
comparative comfort and happiness. However, several females have
done well. A little girl who began, four years ago, with 5s. has now
L. 5; a second has L. 17; and a third has L. 35. The different
balances have been as follows:-

<TABLE>

         Year.          Bal.       Year.        Bal.      Year.           Bal.
         1831,         L. 58       1889,       L. 90      1835,        L. 106
         1832,            76       1834,         127      1836,           112, 5s.

        Library.-A parish library was instituted in June 1835, which


