
                          LATHERON.                               113

generally manifest a strong disinclination to seek relief from the
poor's funds.  There is a degree of virtuous pride, as well as
strong natural affection very prevalent, which induces the children
to support their aged. and infirm parents to the utmost of their abi-
lity; and when applications are made for parochial relief, the
cases are usually found to be very necessitous.  This feeling is
always encouraged, and its opposite discountenanced by the kirk-
session, by every possible means.  Hence, in ordinary seasons,
very few indeed apply for certificates of poverty; and it is truly as-
tonisbing amo- ng such a large population, almost solely composed
of the poorer classes, how very, few are to be met with, asking eba-
rity.  The numbers of this description from the south are very
great, and generally of very indifferent character;  but resolutions
bave recently been entered into by the county gentlemen, with a
view of checking this great grievance, which, it is hoped, will have
the desired effect.  No year passes without many gross, deceptions
being practised upon the unsuspecting inhabitants, by designi '
persons of this description.
   Fairs.-There are four fairs held in the parish for general par-
poses, two\at Dunbeath and two at Lybster, during the year.
   Inns.-There are not fewer than 26 public-bouses9 for retail.-
ing spirits, &c. in the parish, when six would have been quite
sufficient for every'necessary purpose
   Fuel.-Almost all the fuel used consists-of peats.  The ex-
pense attending its manufacture and carriage makes it ultimately
very little cheaper than coal    only, it is more- convenient, being
always at band.

October 1840.


                           ADDENDA.
  The following is a list of the Ministers of the parish :-1637,
Gilbert Anderson; - Mr Munro; 1652, John Ross, trauslat-
ed to Inverness iu 1663; 1667, Niel Beaton died 1715; 1717.
Andrew Sutherland, died .1732; 1734, James,Brodle died 1773
1775, Robert Gun, died 1819; 1820, George Daxidsion.
   There are no Crown teinds in Latheron; but there are unap-
propriated teinds belonging to otber persons, which amount to
nearly L.400.
  CAITHWERS.                 H


