
     Of Linlithgow.

there are repeated instances in the council books of inti-
mation made, according to the original contract.
   By act of parliament, the Linlithgow firlot is the stand-
and for dry measure, as the Stirling jug is for liquid.  The
firlot, by which oats and barley are measured, contains 31
Scotch pints: That used with regard to wheat and pease,
is limited to 21.  After the Union, by order of Queen
Anne, several Winchester bushels of brass were sent to
Linlithgow to be distributed among the other boroughs.
As, however, they did not all apply, some of them still
remain in the town-house.  That attempt failed, like o-
thers since made to introduce an equality of weights and
measures.-The town, by repeated grants, have a right of
levying custom for all cattle that pass the bridge, or any
part of the Avon.  The established rate for a score of
nolt is about 13 d.; for a score of swine not less than 4 s.
5 d.  The revenue of the town, which arises chiefly from
the mills and customs, amounts to about 400 l. a-year*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The magistrates and other members of the town council, with the
corporations and fraternities, make an annual procession on horseback,
in the month of June.  This is termed, Riding their marches.  Two stand-
ards, with the town arms painted on white silk, are born on that occa-
sion, by the treasurer and deacon convener of the trades.  They go first
to Linlithgrow bridge, and afterwards to Blackness, where a cold collation
is provided.  They return in the same form; and, dividing themselves
into different parties, pass the evening in festivity and harmony.-The
seal of the town has on one side the figure of Michael, the archangel,
with wings expanded, treading on the belly of a serpent, and piercing
its head with his spear.  Around the figure of the bitch, tied to the treo
on the Cross-well, is the following inscription: "My fruit is fidelity, to
God and the King."-Several houses in the town formerly belonged to
the Knights of Jerusalem, and passed with their other tenements in
Scotland, to the head of the ancient family of Sandilands; who, upon
the dissolution of that order, exchanged his spiritual, jurisdiction; as
prior, for the temporal dignity and emoluments of Lord St. John and


