
628                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no, market held within the parish:
the nearest market-town is Old Meldrum, which lies towards the
north, but much the greatest intercourse is with Inverury, though
rather more distant to the south-west.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is near the centre of the pa-
rish : it was built in 1806, is in tolerable repair, and contains
about 300 sittings.  There is no other place of worship.  The
Dissenters are, Episcopalians, 2; Quakers, 2; Seeeders, 14 ; total,
18 *  All the others attend church with commendable punctuality;
the average number of communicants is 210.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish;
it is well attended, for the people are universally alive to the benefits
of a sound, cheap, and religious education.  All come to years can
read and write, and there are scarcely any, even among the peasan-
try, who have not made some progress in accounting.  The work
of education is begun at the age of four or five, and children are
sent to school for the first time, from that period of life to six or
seven, according to their distance from school.  About one-
eleventh part of the population are in attendance during winter.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
is seven; the sum allotted to each varies from 1s. to 1s. 4d. per
week, and averages nearly L.3 a-year.  The annual collections
amount to about L.20; we have besides L.7 or L.8 of interest
on stock created chiefly by savings. made in properous times.  These
sums are quite sufficient for all our wants.  There is a creditable
spirit of independence among the people.  I am not aware that
any one has ever directly applied for parochial aid; while, on the
other hand, there are not a few cases in which it has been declin-
ed when offered.  " Not that I would refuse it, Sir," have they,
said on such occasions, " if I were in want; but I, ought not to
take it, until that comes: and I have yet something remaining, or
am yet able to do. such and such work."

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The inhabitants are a sober-minded, industrious, frugal, and
temperate people, and readily contribute according to their means,
to advance any well-digested scheme of benevolence, whether at
home or abroad.  Several are reckoned very skilful farmers, and

<FOOTNOTE>This, according to my recollection, is the precise number of Dissenters given in
the Report 1797, but the Episcopalians were then most numerous.


