
     Statistical Accounts

particular, has been the result of some experiments.  An
introduction of the English breed seemed to promise a
species, valuable for wool, and of a large size.  However,
a pasture which affords but harsh grass and scauty shelter,
was found ill suited to such sheep.  The small Fife sheep,
weighing 32 pounds, unites in some measure the advantages
of a profitable sleece and a pretty durable constitution, and
at present appears best adapted to the soil.  It were desi-
rable, if a breed affording a greater weight of wool could
be obtained.  Not less than 12 sleeces, at an average, pro-
duce 1 stone of wool.  Of the wool, which is generally sold
at 1 s. the pound, is manufactured almost every kind of cloth
worn in the parish; hodden, which is mostly used for herds
cloaks, and is sold at 1 s 8 d. the yard; plaiding, which is
sometimes shaped into a coarse kind of hose, and is sold at
2 s. the yard; fey, the common cloth for mens apparel,
sold, when dyed, at 5 s. the yard; timming, camblet for
womens gowns, when in colours, are respectively sold at
3 s. and 2 s. 10 d. the yard; blankets sold at 12 s. the pair,
consisting of 4 yards; Sabbath day plaids for women, when
dyed of 2 or 3 various colour, and containing about 4
yards, at 16 s. a-piece.-The scab, from accident, and
the rot, from the nature of some of the sheep-walks, are a-
mong the number of the diseases to which the sheep are li-
able.  The prescription of Dr Anderson (tobacco oil) has
been applied with some success in the former disease.  An-
other malady, against which no remedy has yet been de-
vised, preys on the sheep here.  Among the shepherds, it
is called the Brucks.  The autumn is the season of its at-
tack.  The most lustly, and apparently vigorous of the flock,
are singled out as its victims.  It kills in 2 hours from the
time it is at first observed.  From the description which
the writer has received, excess of blood appears to be the
probable cause of the disorder.  The dead carcase is re-


