
     of Dornock.

to L. 300 a year, within the bounds of this parish.  It is to cal-
led, from the lower part of the net rising and floating upon
the water with the flowing tide, and setting down with the
ebb.  This is also called lake-fishing, from the nets being al-
ways set in lakes, or hollow parts of the tide-way, and never
either in the channel of the river, or on the plain sand.  The
stakes or stours used for these nets, are in general, 10 or 12
feet long, and fixed in a row, across a lake, or hollow, at
about 5 or 6 feet distance.  After these are strongly fastened to
the bottom, by being driven pretty deep into the sand, a
strong rope is passed along, and fixed to the head of each stour;
to this rope is fixed a net of about 9 or 10 feet deep, bound al-
so at the bottom with a strong rope, but not fastened to the
stours below.  In the middle between every two stours, is
fastened to the upper rope, a small stick about the size of those
used by coopers for hoops to large vessels, and about 12 feet
long.  The other end of these sticks are fastened to the foot
rope of the net which keeps it quite-tight, the lower end
of course, rises with the net, and floats on the water with the
flowing tide : but, when the tide begins to turn, these sticks
are pressed down to the bottom by the returning or back-
going stream, and to take the net along with them, and pre-
vent any fish getting down the lake, till the tide is spent or
gone out, when the fishermen, or the persons to whom the
nets belong, come every 12 hours to see what is left.  But if
the lake does not ebb quite dry, they have to draw the lake
with a draught-net, to take out the fish.  In this manner, great
quantities of salmon, sea-trout, herrings, cod, flounders,
sturgeon, etc. are sometimes taken.

   The fish caught here are instantly sold, and almost, always
for ready money.  Fish carriers are constantly waiting at the
drawing of the nets, in order to buy and carry away the fish,
as soon as they are taken.  They carry them to the large manu-

     VOL. II. C


