
226                      FIFESHIRE.

are nine proprietors who at present farm their own property, and
the rents of the farms in lease vary every year, as they are paid
by the fiars.
   The Clydesdale horse is most in use here, and the Teeswater
breed of cattle, crossed with the Fife, is in greatest repute. We
have every variety of slice,--Leicester, Cheviot, and Highland.
The last are fed with turnip in winter, for the butcher. The two
first are kept for lambing in spring.
   Produce.--The average amobnt and value of gross produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as
follows:
<TABLE>
Produce of grain from 63000/2 acres at L.7 per acre,        L.22000
           potatoes and turnips at L.7 per acre,               6000
            hay at 7d per stone,                               4000
            pasture land, good and bad,                        6000
            fisheries, &c.                                      300
                                                            _______
                                                            L.37300

   Little flax or hay is raised for the market.
   Manufactures.--Besides the employment of about 30 families as
masons, carpenters, smiths, tailors, shoemakers in this parish, there
are a great many engaged in weaving. Independent of the wea-
vers who are employed in towelling and sheeting for home con-
sumption, there are about two-thirds who work coarse linens, chief-
ly Dowlas, Osnaburghs, and Silesias for the Cupar and Dundee
manufacturers, who export them for America and the West In-
dies. Many of our young females take to the loom during the
winter months, but in summer they prefer out-door work. Since
the introduction of machinery, hand-spinning has almost ceased to
be a branch of industry. A spindle of yarn will occupy a woman
three days and a-half, for which she will earn 1s.; a spindle of
shirting yarn will yield double that sum. The number of looms
altogether in this parish may be estimated at about 130. Our
weavers are most industrious, working many of them ten hours,
sometimes even more. Before the salutary change which the weav-
ing interest has lately, experienced, the gain per day at the loom,
with the deduction of 4d. for expenses, did not exceed 8d. Now,
however, provisions being moderate, their labour commands a fair
remuneration.
   An extensive distillery was erected at Seggie, upon the river
Eden, twenty-six years ago and has, with the exception of this year,
been all along in successful operation, distilling about 100 quar-
ters of grain per day, during the cool season. Several scores of


