
496                                  AYRSHIRE.

the bridge of Kirkmichael, which is like to become ruinous, and
the next two Sabbath collections that there is sermon here, is to
be applyed for that use." Several bridges in the neighbourhood
were built by the same means.
     A. D. 1711.  Sermon on week days commonly once a fortnight,
"except in plough time and harvest."
     "Session, September 28, 1712.--Also the minister proposed
that there should be a diet for prayer appointed, which was accord-
ingly done, to be observed at the manse Saturday next."  From the
session books, it appears that such diets were appointed from time
to time. There was, very frequently, one observed on the Mon-
day before the sacrament.
     "Session, January 26, 1725.--This day David Armour con-
tracted with the session to build the bridge over the Doon at
Dalrymple for the sum of L. 76, 1s. Sterling."
     "Session, April 24, 1726.--The session having considered Sa-
rah M'Kie's case (adultery), agree that she appear in sackcloth;
and that none guilty of that sin shall be dispensed with as to the
use of sackcloth in time coming." For this offence she appeared
eight times before the congregation, besides being as often ad-
monished privately and examined by the session on the principles
of religion, on the nature of repentance, &c.
     Antiquities.--There are traces of five British or Danish fortlets
in this parish, two in the farm of Guiltreehill, one in Keonston,
one in Cassanton, and another in Castle Downans.*/f They are all
circular, and are supposed to belong to the early period of the
fourteenth century. They are about 100 yards in diameter, with
a ditch of near 15 feet wide; on being ploughed up, fragments of
pitchers, spears, horns, ashes, &c. are everywhere discovered.
     The ruins of an old Romish chapel lately existed on the farm
of Linsayston, opposite to the new house of Tannock Park. The
last of the stones were taken, a few years ago, to fill drains. It
is said to have been in connection with the Abbey of Crossragruel.
The well is still known by the name of the Chapel-well, and was
contiguous to the building.
     In the troublous times of 1685, Gilbert M'Adam was taken

<FOOTNOTE> The Cassillis Downans are five beautiful green little hills, about half a mile south
from the house of Cassillis. They are mentioned in the first stanza of Burns' Hal-
loween.
  		       Upon that night when fairies light
		        On Cassillis' Downans dance,
		       Or owre the lays, in splendid blaze,
	                On sprightly coursers dance.
				    3


