
 778                          PERTHSHIRME.

 tas et integras terras de Carse, Carsmucky, et Pitvassie, cum dimi-
 dietate totius montis de Craigdull; una cum dimidietate terrarum
 de Achtavie, decimis garbalibus earundem inclusis, et cum toftis,
 croftis, et singulis suis pertinen. jacen. in regalitatem Sancti An-
 dreae, et infra vicecomitatum de Perth, &c. excipien. toto, et integro
 manson-ro cum hortis, toftis, et croftis eidem adjacen. nune occupat,
 per Magistrum Duncanum Maclaggane, una cum domo vocat. Mac-
 kilties house, et alio domo vocal. lie Clerkis house, cum libera
 pastura ad sex summas animalium, cum animalibus dict. Alexandri
 et Isabellae, haeredumque suorum, respective subscript in terris
 nostris proedictis, cum cespitibus, lie peattis, feal, et divot, in terris
 praedict pro reparatione domorum et aedificiorum praefatorum."  *
    Such were the alienations suffered by, and the immunities re-
 served to, the benefice of Dull in 1561 ; and when an excambion
 had taken place during the incumbency of Mr Campbell in 1758,
 the same privileges were confirmed to the living by the deed of
 excambion betwixt the then Sir Robert Menzies of that Ilk and
 the presbytery. Accordingly, the minister still enjoys the privi-
 lege of casting peats, feal, and divot, and pasturing twelve soums
 of sheep or cattle over the church lands, in addition to the manse
 and glebe. The glebe contains about 11 1/2 acres, including site of
 manse, offices, and garden, and is capable of being much improv-
 ed. Within the last two years, the writer hereof has laid upwards
 of L.60 out in the way of draining and clearing it of stones, and
 when these improvements, which are still going on, and which will
 take L.80 or L.100 more to carry them into effect, are eventually
 completed, its yearly value, including the above immunities, may
 then be estimated at about L.40. The stipend consists of sixteen
 chalders of victual, half meal and half barley, payable in money,
 according to the highest fiar prices of the county, with L.8, 6s. 8d.
 for furnishing communion elements out of the teinds of the parish,
 together with 5 bolls of bear, and 18 bolls of black oats out of the
 teinds of the priory of St Andrews, conform to ure and wont, and,
 in the aggregate, may have amounted to L.250 on an average of
 the last seven years. The benefice is in the gift of the Crown,
 and, according to the Royal Commissioners' Report of 1836,
 there are L.70, 18s. of unappropriated teinds.
   The following is a list of the different ministers who served in
 the cure since the Reformation, with the date of their incumben-

<FOOTNOTE> The above qoutations are from the title-deeds of the family of Menzies of that
  Ilk.
                                         4


