

                      ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.               273

ment. The only preventive remedy is to reduce the population by
a Government system of emigration.
     The proprietor and managers of this estate, fully sensible of
the truth of these statements, have, already made a bold stand to
arrest the progress of the evils complained of. The subdivision
of lots and crofts has been prevented. The possessor of a few
acres of land is not permitted, as formerly, to cut them up in
shreds and patches, to afford a, new and separate dwelling for each
of his sons and daughters who resolve to get married. The yearly
average of marriages is therefore not one-fourth of what it was
some years ago. Measures are therefore prudently adopted to en-
large the possessions of the tenant, by adding the lands of such as
emigrate to the adjoining allotments.   Even this year (1840), a
good deal has been accomplished in this	way, as about 700 souls
have emigrated to America from this and the adjoining parishes,
by means of assistance which was benevolently afforded them by
the Noble proprietor and the Edinburgh Destitution Committee.
But much remains to be yet effected, were Government to see the
propriety of removing the redundant population, so as to give am-
ple scope to the working of the salutary system now introduced.
   Character of the People.- The character of the people is great-
ly influenced by the effects of a redundancy of their number.
These effects, however are so obvious, that they need not here be
specified.
   Notwithstanding the many unfavourable circumstances under
which the natives are placed, they are peaceable, orderly, and dis-
tinguished for general good. conduct. In no place can a popula-
tion be found more hospitably inclined in their own humble way,
or more kind and attentive to strangers. They are naturally
shrewd and sensible, and possess considerable acuteness and viva-
city of intellect. They are certainly a temperate people, and taint-
ed with few vices.
   The language both spoken and preached is the Gaelic. The
higher orders, of course, speak English, and most of the young
men partially understand it. Although the Gaelic has perhaps lost
no ground for half a century back, yet it has suffered materially in
purity. As the young men resort annually to the south country
in questof employment, they invariably acquire a smattering of
English,many words of which, they unfortunately intermix, by a
sort of pride, with their own emphatic and venerable language.
   The Highland dress is now worn by none in the parish. Owing


