
                        EDINBURGH.	                    683

of anatomy.  Of the fee payable on graduation in medicine, L. 1.
1s. is appropriated to the support of this museum.
   The Agricultural Museum has been formed by the present dis-
tinguished professor of agriculture Mr Low, aided by a grant from
Government; and consists of models of implements of husban-
dry, specimens of grain and grasses, and drawings of the most
approved breeds of cattle and horses.
   High School.-So early as the year 1519 a grammar school,
countenanced by the town-council, appears to have existed.  In
1578, the magistrates, having been frustrated in their attempts
to establish a university, erectdd a high school on ground granted
to them by Queen Mary, which had formerly belonged to the
monastery of Black Friars.  Two teachers were appointed to this
school, but their salaries and fees were at first so small that they
threatened to leave it, if these were not increased.  Upon this
remonstrance, the children of freemen of the city, who hitherto
had been taught gratis, were ordered to pay as a quarterly fee,
three shillings Scots (equal to 3d. Sterling) to the master, and
two shillings to the fisher.  Subsequently, the teachers were in-
creased to four, and the fees were considerably raised,  In 1777
the number of pupils had so much increased that a new building
was found necessary.  Accordingly a building was commenced
immediately to the east of the old one, which building now towns
the surgical hospital attached to the infirmary.  In consequence
of the extension of the town to the north, this situation was found
to be inconvenient, and in 1825 the foundation of the present High
School was laid, on a spot of ground cleared out from the sloping
side of the Calton Hill.  This is an elegant Grecian building of
the Doric order, after the design of the temple of The seus at
Athens.  It consists of a centre, two wings, and two lodges, ex-
tending in frout to the length of 400 feet.  The entrance is by
a raised portico supported by columns, and a corridor with bolumns
on each side.  There is a large hall, library, museum, and apart-
ments for the different classes.  The play-ground, which is railed
in, includes a space of two acres.  The expense was about
L.30,000.  The teachers are a rector and four classical masters, a
teacher of French, one of arithmetic, one, of mathematics, and
a writing master And assistants.
   The junior class enters with one of the classical master who
carries it on for four years, where they are grounded in the ele-
ments of Latin, Greek, and ancient and modern geography. In the
the fifth year the class is the handed over the rector, when the


