
    330                        PERTHSHIRE.

    chalders of gr`hn; the one-half meal, and the other barley; with
    the allowance of L. 10 for communion elements.
       Besides the parish church, there is in the village a neat build-
    ing, where the Episcopalians of Strathearn assemble on the Sab-
    bath, and other days.
       The population of Muthill, exclusive of Ardoch district, is,
    2472 ; and of these about 44 are Episcopalians, and 9 others,
    Dissenters.
       Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on
    the roll is 80; and the average sum given to each of them annual-
    ly is L. 2, or L. 160 in all.  This sum is made up from the church
    collections, L. 52; from Ardoch collection, L. 3, 1Os.; and from a
    voluntary assessment, on the part of the heritors.  And it would
    be ungrateful not to mention the meal-list of Lady Willoughby,
    on which there are commonly 60 poor persons, and who have also
    from the same Lady, their rents paid, and an allowance of fuel
    and clothing.
       Societies.-A Bible and Missionary Society has for some years
    been established, in this parish, and is supported by collections on
    Mondays after the dispensation of the sacrament, which is once
    in the four months, or three times in the year.   The sum raised in
    this way, hitherto, has been about L. 26 per annum, which, with
    some other occarhonal contributions, prove that the people are some-
    what alive to the spiritual wants of their fellow men.  And this
    Christian feeling, we would hope, is on the increase amongst us,
    for during the last half-year, we have collected L. 49 for the Ge-
    neral Assembly's four schemes.
       Savings Bank.-A savings bank has been in operation for more
    than two years, and promises to do well.  At present the amount
    of its funds is L. 270.
       Education.-On Muthill side there are eight schools, whereof
    the parish school is the most important, and by far the most nume-
    rously attended.  The salary is the maximum, viz.  L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2.
    which, together with a commodious house and garden, value L. 10,
    salaries of kirk-session and heritors' clerk, &c.  L. 12, 10s. and
    school fees, L. 16, 10s. make the situation of the schoolmaster
    somewhat comfortable, althougb not so much so as it should be.
    The number of scholars attending the parish school has of late
    years been aboat 100, but it is likely that the number will soon be
    increased, as at present a very spacious and elegant school-house
    is building, which will contain many more than the former, and be


