
530                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

land, on that side of the river, called Barnkirk hill, which is dle-
vated about 45 feet above the tide at high water mark. The em-
bankment of this field was begun in the year 1819, and finished
the following year, at an expense of L.3000, by the proprietor.
It is formed by the soil taken from the inside of the embankment,
consisting of sandy loam, and is on an average about 12 feet high,
with a slope toward the tideway, of from 5 to 2 feet, to 1 foot in
perpendicular height, according to the nature of the exposure to
wind and currents. The slope in the inside is more erect.  The
front, or outward side of the embankment, is covered with green
swarded turf, as well as the top, and the land side is sown with na-
tural grass seeds, which have grown most luxuriantly from the
richness of the soil. At the lower end or angle of this embank-
ment, which runs across from the poft or place where the ship-
ping anchor, to the bottom of a hill or rising ground to the east-
ward, there have been erected two jetties, measuring 140 yards
in length, for conveying passengers, goods and live-stock to the
steamers, plying between Liverpool, Annan, Waterfoot, and Port
Carlisle. The jetties were erected a few years ago by the
owners of the steam-vessels whose register of tonnage are, the
Solway, 192, City of Carlisle, 300, Newcastle, 396, and Vic-
toria, 450, in all 1338 tons burthen. Here, they call regularly on
their passage to and from Livdrpool, to take in cattle, sheep, horses,
grain, merchant goods and passengers, once a week during winter,
and oftener in summer, and make the passage, a distance of 120
miles, in twelve hours, or one tide.  From the burgh to the jetties,
about four years ago, an excellent road was formed, being forty
feet in breadth, through the centre of the field, for the convenience
of the public. It was made by a public subscription, and cost
L.640. A commodious inn, with stabling attached, has been
erected near the jetties, within the embankment, several feet be-
low high Water-mark. The intercourse along this road is kept up
by a public coach from Dumfries to Annan, on every day the
steamers arrive, and by private carriages of all descriptions, con-
veying, passengers, merchant goods, and the stock of all kinds to
and from the burgh, as they arrive for the purpose of transporta-
tion. The embankment and road were planned by, and executed
under the superintendence of, Mr G. D. Roume, land-surveyor and
civil engineer in this parish.
	                       V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Bridges.--As this burgh has now become a general thorough-


