
                    DALRY.                                 227

cultivation, although on no farm is there a uniform rotation pursued.
Summer-fallowing is practised by only a few individuals. About
thirty-five imperial acres were under fallow last season, which was
rather an unusual quantity. The cultivation of wheat has increas-
ed during the last fifteen years. In 1819 there were 18 Scotch
acres of wheat; last year there were 250 imperial acres under this
crop. The principal green crop is potatoes. The inhabitants of
the town usually take as much ground from the neighbouring far-
mers as the ashes, &e. they collect through the year can manure.
The farmer performs all the carting, ploughing, and horse-hoeing.
The town's people plant and dig the potatoes, while the hand-hoe-
ing and weedinq is a pleasant recreation to them, during the sum-
mer evenings. The rent is from 6d. to 10d. per fall, and the pro-
duce from eight to sixteen imperial stones per fall. This mode of
procedure is beneficial to both parties. The farmer receives from
L. 4, 10s. to L. 6, 10s. of rent per acre, and has, besides, his land
manured at the rate of thirty or forty tons per acre; and the town's
people have an abundant supply of a valuable article of food for
less than one penny per stone, exclusive, of course, of the manure.
Owing to the manure'being mostly required for potatoes or beans,
turnips have been little cultivated, although they are now sown in
greater quantities than formerly. The crops are usually very
heavy; and, including leaves, ninety-seven tons have been raised
from one Scotch acre. The number of stock fed on turnips is li-
mited, and consuming them on the field with sheep is unknown.
Bone manure has only been tried by two individuals, but not with
much success, owing to the loaminess of the soil. On the lighter
soils no attempt has hitherto been made to prove its efficacy, but
one farmer intends this year to give it a trial.
The rye-grass is allowed to ripen for seed, and after being mown,
it is tied and stooked in the same manner as corn.  When it -has
stood a sufficient tile to allow the seed to harden, it is thrashed,
and the seed sold to dealers, who export it to the English markets,
from whence, under the name of English seed, it often returns the
succeeding sdring to other parts of the country. The produce va-
ries from twelve to thirty bushels per acre, and the price froth 5s.
to 12s. per four bushels. The natural juices of the bay being ab-
sorbed before it is cut, renders it bard and dry, and greatly injures
its quality; and if the hay be annual or a heavy crop, the land,
instead of the verdure of a grass field, presents rather the appear-
ance of corn 'Stubble. The harvest often proving wet, in order to

