
      152                   SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

         The true secondary strata of Sutherland Occupy an extent of
      six or seven miles, filling up a sort of basin between the transition
      hills in the neigbbourbood of Dunrobin, and those in the parish
      of Lotb.  The upper stratum is a sandstone of different degrees
      of hardness, and composed of silicious sand, cemented by silicious
      matter.  Below this, occurs an aluminous shale, containing pyri-
      tous matter, carbonaceous matter, the remains of marine animals,
      and of land vegetables.  Beneath this shale, or ratber alternating
      with it, a stratum occurs, containing, in some of its parts, calcare-
      ous matter, and passing into limestone; but in general consisting
      of a silicious sand, agglutinated by calcareous cement.  The coal
      measures occupy the lowest part of this secondary district which
      has been explored."
         Coal bad been worked near the mouth of the River Brora so
      far back as 1573, in the time of Lady Jane Gordon, Countess of
      Sutherland, and at various subsequent periods; but that work
      was abandoned many years ago.  The late Duke of Sutherland,
      with the munificence which characterized all his improvements,
      expended L.16,000 in sinking a new pit, and for the necessary
      buildings, on the north side of the river, half a mile above the
      bridge, where a seam was found from 3 feet 2 inches to 3 feet 8
      inches thick, at a depth of 250 feet from the surface.  The coal was
      conveyed to the harbour on a railway 800 yards in length.  Four
      large salt-pans were also erected, which cost L.3327, and the salt
      produced proved of very superior quality.
         Limestone is found in small detached portions in various places
      on the banks of the River Brora, from the barbour upwards.  It
      contains no magnesian earth, and is adulterated only with alumi-
      nous and silicious earths, and oxide of iron.  A specimen of it
      was examined by Sir Humphry Davy, from a rock about 100
      yards above the Weir: 20 grains contained 17.3 grains of carbo-
      nate of lime.*
         Zoology.-The animals of this parish are common to most other
      parts of the county.  They are, the red-deer, roe, fox, wild-cat,
      polecat, martin, and the stoat or weasel, which becomes white in
      winter, the lesser brown stoat, the brown otter, mole, common
      mouse, field-mouse, lesser field-mouse, Alpine bare, common bare,
      common gray rabbit, Muscovy rat.  At no distant period it was the
      general belief that rats could not exist in the county, and Suther-

      <FOOTNOTE>We understand more detailed accounts of the geology of this parish than that
      given above have been laid before the Wernerian society by. Professor Jameson, and
      by Mesuea Murchison and Sedgwick before the Geological Society.
                                             4


