
                            DENNY.                           131


takes place about two miles east from Denny,) were driven, until
within these few years, by Carron water alone. The supply of Car-
ron, however, from agricultural improvements going on in the high
grounds through which the river flows, was unsteady; and, within
th‚se five or six years, the proprietors of the mills upon its banks,
in order to obtain a fuller supply of water-power, were induced to
form themselves into a society, and, by subscription, produced
funds to erect an embankment for a reservoir upon the Earl's-burn,
about nine miles above Denny. The artificial lake thus erected,
covers an extent of nearly 60 acres. The embankment is 22 feet
in height. The cost of the whole has fallen little short of L.2000,
and was borne by a few individuals. On the 24th of October 1839,
after a great fall of rain, the embankment gave way. Much in-
jury was done, by the resistless torrent, to property along the whole
course of the Carron downwards.

                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.--Denny is not a market-town. Arrangements
were made, some twenty years ago, to have it erected into a mar-
ket-town, by the Honourable Charles Elphinstone Fleming, of Cum-
bernauld. But the different dealers were not friendly to the propo-
sal, and preferred petitioning for a baron bailie, before wbom they
might prosecute for payment of their accounts. The bailie was
obtained, and has power to give judgment, and enforce payment
to the extent of L.2.
   Some idea of the business done in Denny, may be formed from
the following statement, made from actual enumeration :--There
are 21 houses and grocery shops licensed to sell, beside gro-
ceries, ale and spirits,--of these 19 sell spirits over the counter,
the remaining 2 are common whisky-shops; 3 stationers ; 4 bak-
ers; 1 pastry-shop ; 4 butchers ; 2 excise-officers ; 7 wrights ;
3 smithies ; 4 medical practitioners; 4 schoolmasters; 1 writer;
2 ministers of the Gospel; 4 haberdashers and cloth sbops; 10
shoemakers; 1 tinsmith ; 1 gas manufactory ; 2 coopers; 5 tailors,
two of whom are clothiers; 1 messenger; 1 dame's school.
  An intelligent member of the Total Abstinence Society has hand-
ed me a note, which shows what becomes of a great part of the
wages of labourers in this parish : "In Denny village, and that part
of Denny on the north of Carron, and between Denny and
Fankerton, from October 1835 to October 1836, there were
sold by the retailers of spirits, 10,600 gallons of spirits, at a cost


