
     Statistical Account

is paid out of the town's funds, 10 l. by session seats, and the
rest by an annual contribution among the inhabitants.  The
minister's stipend, till 1785, was 7 chalders of victual, chief-
ly meal, and near 100 l. Scots.  At that time he obtained an
augmentation of 400 l. Scots.  The glebe, originally about
one acre and an half, has received an addition of six acres
and an half.  Irvine is the seat of the presbytery, which con-
sists of 18 ministers, and belongs to the synod of Glasgow
and Ayr.  This synod meets at Irvine once every third year.
There were many learned, grave, and pious ministers, (says
Mr Warner, in his preface to Nisbet's Exposition on Ecclesi-
astes), who, in suffering times, being put from their own
charges, came and resided in this place, especially during the
times of Messrs Hutchison's and Stirling's ministry here.  In
the year 1662, Mr George Hutchison was silenced by the
Parliament for not giving obedience to his bishop.  By a
subsequent act of the same year, he was banished from Edin-
burgh; and, upon passing the act of indulgence, he was ap-
pointed by the privy council to preach and exercise the other
functions of the ministry at Irvine in 1669, where he died.
He is the author of an Exposition on the book of Job, and
on some of the minor prophets.  They are works of consi-
derable merit.  Mr Dickson's works are well known:  He
was also a minister in Irvine.  They were both of them men
of eminent learning and abilities at that time, as was also
their cotemporary Mr Nisbet, as appears from the honour-
able testimony which they and others have borne of him,
and from his Exposition of Ecclesiastes, and the two Epistles
of Peter.  His epitaph, as wrote by one of his brethren, is
in these words:  'Grande aliquid vultu nituit, gressuque de-
'coro, grandius in magni dotibus ingemi.'  His grandson, Mr
Alexander Nisbet, is still living in Irvine, a bachelor, and
enjoys great health and spirits at the advanced age of 83.


