
     Statistical Account

rish, and the remaining 562 are in the town.  The
males amount to 588; the females to 663:  Thus it ap-
pears, that the females exceed the males by 75 in num-
ber.  Nature, upon the whole, seems to have made the
number of males and females nearly equal; and the dis-
proportion, in the present instance, probably arises from
this fact, that many of our youths go abroad into other
parts of the country to find employment, where trade and
manufactures prevail.
   By comparing my enumeration of the people in this
town, with that which was made by an ingenious me-
chanick*, about 25 years ago, it appears, that the popu-
lation thereof has been upon the decline.  Several new
houses have of late been built, indeed, but many old ones
have also fallen into decay:  However, the chief cause of
the diminution seems to be the influence which trade and
commerce have in carrying off our young men to other
parts of the country, where engaging prospects of
wealth are held out to them+.
   This district of the country must be considered as very
favourable to health.  There is no disease which is pecu-
liarly incident to the people; and there are several per-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mr. David Burn, clock and watchmaker, Mid-Calder.
+During the last 3 years, there have been 23 marriages, and 97 bap-
tisms, as appears by the register books belonging to this church.  The
number of births has, without doubt, exceeded that which I have men-
tioned, as several children did not live long enough to be baptised; and
as those of dissenters are not included, excepting such as chose to have
them entered in the parish records, with a view to preserve more per-
manently the mean of ascertaining, at any future peroid, the time of
their birth, and the family from which they sprung.  The number of
deaths cannot be condescended on, for many who breathe their last
in this parish, are carried out of the bounds of it, and buried where
their ancestors, or some of their kindred have been laid before them; and
not a few are brought from other parishes to this churchyard, that they
may rest with their fathers.


