
                   DUNKELD AND DOWALLY                          973

from the clans.   Although no vestige of this edifice remains, its
site is still called "he Castle Close." In 1508, a wing was built
to the palace, and adjoining to it a handsome private chapel. Bi-
shop Brown furnished the palace in 1509, and left the furniture
to his successors in office.
   In 1469, Bishop Lauder built the chapter-house, and also the
steeple or greater tower of the cathedral. The height of that
tower is about 96 feet, and its base 24 feet each side.  It was at
one time mounted with small cannon, and occupied, in 1689, by
the Cameronians in their defence of the town. There is, on the
west side of the tower, a singular zig-zag rent from the top to the
bottom, which seems to have been caused by the insufficient foun-
d`tion of the north-west corner. In the upper flat of this tower
is the town clock and six music bells,--the property of the Atholl
family. The morning and evening bells, to begin, and to return
from, labour, are rung,--the former at six o'clock, and the latter at
eight o'clock.
   It has often been a matter of surprise how any religious insti-
tuition could have existed I3OO years ago in such a spot as Dun-
keld, and that it should, through so many ages of trouble and
changes of character, have continued to the present day.  So far
as is known, the early clergy experienced little or no annoyance
from the uncultivated clans within the diocese; but when the be-
nefice grew in wealth and importance under the Romish hierarchy,
the clergy were fearfully harassed. It is pretty well established,
that, at that period, the clans suddenly, through want of educa.
tion, became more attached to the possessions of the bishops, than
to their religious instructions. Many of the influential barons
seized such portions as lay near to their own estates, and forced
the bishops to grant them feudal rights, which they were glad to
give as the price of peace. At the same time, it is amusing to
find that, over the superstitious and half-instructed minds of some
of the savage chieftains, the terrors of the church would  occasion-
ally assdrt their way. After they had attacked the prelate and
his vassals with sword and buckler, or stolen his cattle, or burned
his stack-yard, they would come to the altar in sackcloth, and at
once implore the forgiveness of Heaven and of his Lordship.
Once forgiven, they held themselves free to sin again. From
Dean Mill, we learn that neither the sacred office of bisbop, nor
the sanctity of the church, deterred the clans from attacking the
prelate in his palace, or within the walls of the cathedral. In


