
302                         KINCARDINESHIRE.

tiquity,-it is this summer undergoing extensive repairs, by which
it will be much beautified and improved.
	The mansion-house of Kirktonhill has been rebuilt since the
date of the last report. It is a handsome building, and, from its
commanding situation, forms a prominent object in the district.
	The mansion-house of B`lmakewan has also been rebuilt since
the date of the former report. It stands on a rising ground near
the North Esk, and is a neat and commodious structure surround-
ed and sheltered by thriving and highly ornamental plantations.
	Inglismaldie, one of the seats of the Earl of Kintore, is an old
house, in a castellated form. It has not been occupied for some
time, but is in tolerable repair.
	Thornton Castle, the property of Alexander Crombie, Esq. of
Phesdo, is an ancient building, in the style of the Scotch castellat-
ed mansion house; part of it bears date 1531. It had been allow-
ed to get into a ruinous state, but was repaired by the late Mr
Crombie of Phesdo, about twenty years ago, with much taste and
at considerable expense. In making these repairs the style and
character of the old castle was strictly attended to-it is now a
comfortable residence, and is occupied by a tenant.
	The House of Hatton, the property of the Honourable Ge-
neral Hugh Arbuthnott, is neither large nor'commodious. It is
however, in tolerable repair, and occupied by the tenant of the farm.
	The parish church, built in 1806, may also be noticed. It is
a neat, though plain, building, and is capable of containing about
700 sitters. It occupies a site near the centre of the village, dif-
ferent from that of the old one, which stood in the middle of thd
church-yard.
  Spinnnig-Mill.-There is only one spinning-mill in the parish,
at Caldhame. Flax is there manufactured; the mill is driven by
the Luther.
	All the buildings are of freestone, obtained generally from the
quarries of Hatton, Balmakewan, Balmanno, in this parish, and
also from Brechin and Laurieston-; chiefly from the last.

                       III.-POPULATILON.

	According to Dr Webster's list, of inhabitants, the population of
this parish amounted in 1755 to 1280.  According to Mr Garden's
account, it amounted in 1774 to 1080.  In 1793, the population
seems to have been 1481.  Since that date the population has in-
creased rapidly. By the census of 1821, it amounted to 1839;
of 1831, to 2032. By a census taken in 1836, to 2200, and by


