
142				WIGTONSHIRE.

kirk-session during the period to which they refer, to the restrain-
ing and correction of Sabbath-breakers. The second volume (a
folio) consists of 270 pages, of which 56 are occupied with mi-
nutes of kirk-session, extending from 31st October 1773 to 20th
November 1791. The remainder of the volume is occtpied with
the registrations of marriages, births, and a few burials. The
third volume (a folio) has 52 pages near the middle devoted to mi-
nutes of kirk-session from 29th October 1797 to 10th May 1818.
The remainder of it is occupied with registry of marriages, births,
and the sale of burying-ground in the church-yard. The fourth
volume (a folio) has 29 pages onward in the volume devoted to
minutes of kirk-session, and of heritors and kirk-session from 8th
November 1818 to 28th April 1833. The remaining pages are
devoted to the registry of marriages and births, and are at present
in use only for this purpose.
	Antiquities.--Around the summit of the hill Cairnpat, at the dis-
tance of about seventy and eighty yards, the ruins of two circularstone
walls may be seen, which in late years have been greatly reduced,
for the sake of the stones, to be used in erecting fences in the
neighbouring farms. These walls beyong a doubt must have been
erected for the purposes of fortification. An urn, well-formed of
baked clay, was dug out of a cairn on the farm of Craigoch, about
twenty-five years ago, and it is now in the mansion house of Dunskey.
Circular pieces, from two to three inches diameter, cut out of a black
slate not found in the parish, are frequently dug up in the church-
yard, along with rings, out of which these pieces seem to have been
cut. Both of these are supposed by the people here to have been
used at one time as money. An old kiln, such as those formerly
used in Galloway for drying grain, may be seen near the farm-
house of Low Auchenrue. No trace now remains of the mansion-
house of the Adairs of Kilhilt, but its site is well known to have
been where the line of Colfin Glen would meet the present turn-
pike road. A chapel, dedicated to St Patrick, formerly stood
either on the site of the present church or near to it, and was cal-
led Chapel Patrick. Two views of Old Dunskey Castle, exhi-
biting very nearly its present state, are given in the recond volume
of Grose's Antiquities, accompanied with a brief description. That
antiquarian was probably mistaken when he concluded from the
style of the building that it was not older than the middle of the
sisteenth century. The suspicion which he intimates as to the
accuracy of Simpson's account, that it belonged to the Lords of
				3



