
                        LERWICK.                              3

contain about 14,000 merks land; and, it will be noticed$ that,
however much the ancient enclosed land be increased by addition..6
al improvements, the number of merks ought to be and are station-
ary.  The valued rent, divided according to the merks )and, would
make -a merk land in Zetland equal to L.2 Scots of valued rent.
The parish contains 253 merks land.  Lerwick is built on the
commonty or scattold of Sound.     The real rent of the country pa-
rish is believed to exceed L. 500.    The real rent of the town is
about L.,3700-
Mansion-Houses.-Excluding the town of Lerwick, the only
house in the parish that can be properly termed a mansion-house
is that of Gremista, the occasional residence of Sir Arthur Nicol-
son.  There are, however, several houses 'in the neighbourhood
of Lerwick, the summer. residences of gentlemen residing in the
town, which have been built within these few years, and have
greatly it-nprDved the appearanceof the-neighbourhood.
,4iztiquities.-The only antiquities iVortli noticing are the rc-
mains of a Pictish burgh or castle, on a small island in alake
close to Lerwick. It is fast hastening to decay.     There are, or
at least were lately, the remains of several chapels at Gulberwick.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>

                 III.-POPULATION.

   The population of the town of Lerwick, in 1837, was    3068
   of places immediately adjCENT,                           52
   of the country part of the parish, in 1831,             444

The numberof illegitimate births within the last three years
in this parish, was 5.

                  IV.-INDUSTRY.
The real rent of the parish is L. 4200.
The only improvements that have been made within the last
fifty years are in the neighbourhood of Lerwick.  That town was
originally built on the commonty of Sound, and was surrounded
by deep moss.  The increase of the inhabitants has gradually caused
the cutting up and consumption of this moss for fuel, until them
immediate neighbourhood has mostly come to consist of extremely
bare, stony, or rather rocky ground.  Within the last twenty years, a
common, surrounding the town, of about 40 acres, has been en-
closed and divided into 31 parks, which are now mostly cultivated
and laid down to'grAss.  They yield a rental of about L.80, from
which the ministers stipend, failing on, the town, and other ex-
penses, are in part defrayed. Several gentlemen have also, at
much expense, brought under cultivation ground in the neigh-
bourhood of the town.. And the summer residences of Mr Hay,


