                                                         
                 LONGFORMACUS AND ELLIM.                        97

consequence of this, the cross roads are left in a wretched state,
and thus a formidable bar lies in the way of improvements.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is conveniently enough
situated, considering the extreme irregularity of the boundaries of
the parish. In this neighbourhood one parish so shoots into an-
other, that the congregations are often found to be composed of the
inhabitants of several parishes. The church was built upwards of
a century ago. It has been lately repaired, and is in good order.
It is seated for 200 persons; the sittings are appropriated to the
different properties, so that there are no free sittings; the feuars
in the village occupy the sittings which are unemployed, merely
through tolerance. The manse was built sixteen years ago. It is
three quarters of a mile distant from the church. The glebe con-
sists of fully eleven acres of good land; it is perhaps the best land
in the parish, and may be valued at not less than L. 2 an acre. A
right of pasturage has been assigned to the minister in place of a
glebe for the old parish of Ellim. This right gives the minister
the privilege of pasturing forty sheep on the farm adjoining the old
church of Ellim. It has of late years, by agreement between the
minister and tenant, been commuted into the annual payment of
L. 10. The stipend was modified for crop 1831 at fifteen chalders,
half meal and half barley, converted at the highest fiar prices of
Berwickshire; and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   Out of 81 families, 16 are Dissenters, and attend meeting-houses
chiefly at Dunse.
   The church is usually well attended. The number of commu-
nicants is about 135.
   A branch association in connection with the Dunse Auxiliary
Bible Society was lately established.
   Education.-There is one parish school, where the usual branches
of education are taught. The schoolmaster's salary is the maxi-
mum. He has the legal accommodations. The amount of school
fees received by him may be L. 10 a-year. The means of educa-
tion are accessible to all, and there are none of a proper age who
cannot read. The minister meets such children as may be sent by
their parents, at the church on Sundays, before and after the usual
services, and the number of those who then regularly attend upon
his instruction exceeds 30.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The funds provided for the poor are
derived from the collections at the church doors, the interest of L. 100
mortified, and, when these fail, from assessments. Owing to the non-
   BERWICK.                               G


