
     of Auchterderran.

gion, and on the deeper doctrines of Christianity. They
likewise read, occasionally, a variety of other books uncon-
nected with such subjects.  The parochial schools are by no
means supplied with such enlightened teachers as those that
were formerly instrumental in diffusing this knowledge.  No
one of good education and ability now accepts of this redu-
ced pittance, where the situation is not favourable for procu-
ring lucrative scholars:  And the village teacher, brought in 
by the subscription of needy people, is a still more unquali-
fied person.  In such cases, the people do not propose seek-
ing out the best, but the cheapest.  The consequence will be,
that the poorer districts of the country, and the poor classes of
the people, must become more ignorant.  Although the pa-
rish consists wholly of the poorer ranks of society, newspapers
are very generally read and attended to:  The desire of them
increases; and the reading of them seems to be attended with
advantage.  With regard to the intellectual character of the
people:  They are deficient in imagination, vivacity, humour,
etc.; their apprehension an judgment are very good, and
they make a decent figure in the common professions of
life.  With respect to their moral and religious character,
they have all profession of religion; but, in the points
where their situation more immediately leads to temptation,
they too frequently and even habitually contradict their
profession.  Their civil character is excellent:  They seem
in some degree capable of reflecting on the adventages
of government; and they obey it peaceably, and on prin-
ciple.  They could, however, be easily stirred up to se-
dition in matters of religion.  There is one Burgher meet-
ing in this parish.  The religious toleration granted seems
to answer, in this district, the full ends of good govern-
ment and public utility:  It could hardly stand on a bet-
ter footing.  Secession now begins to diminish; and the 

     VOL. I. 3 M


