
                             BEDRULE.                       283

avenue to the mansion-house affords perhaps the most magnificent
speciments of the lime to be found in this country.
     Hills.--The highest hill in the parish is the Dunian, at  the
south-east extremity of the parish, where it joins the parish of
Jedburgh.  It is a round flattish-topped hill, containing about 300
acres.   It is 1031 feet above the level of the sea, and is seen at
a great distance, especially towards the north-east ; and as there is
no intervening height between it and the sea, it is seen from the
utmost boundary of the coast in that direction, and at sea serves
as a land-mark for mariners.  The name is of Gaelic origin, and
signifies the hill of John, or St John's hill.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Antiquities.--There are the distinct vestiges of an encampment
on the farm of Newton, not far from the high-road between Jed-
burgh and Hawick.  It lies on a sloping piece of ground in New-
ton moor, surrounded, on all sides but one, with running water.
It is of a peculiar form, neither round nor square, but a kind of
oval; and must have been very secure.  The fossa on the north
side is pretty entire, about 12 feet in height, and seemingly as wide
at the top, narroWing toward the bottom.  I am rather inclined to
think.It is Roman, especially as there was, till lately, a Roman en-
campment about a mile distant, in a field called Stirk-rigg, which
is now totally defaced with the plough.  The circumference of the
one first mentioned is supposed to be 200 paces, the diameter 68
paces.  A pendicle with the ditch continued on the south side,
and joined to the west, but a little disjoined to the east, was found
to be 127 paces round.  This pendiele, when united with the larger,
gives the form of an oblong square to the whole.
     There is, almost a quarter of a mile northward from this camp,
a pond, commonly called Newton pond, now used as a dam for col-
lecting water from the neighbouring heights ; from which it  is
conducted to Newton farm, to drive a thrashing-mill.  It is, how-
ever, chiefly supplied from a perennial spring of excellent water,
which issues from a sandy bottom in several small jets, on the south
margin of the pond.  This well is called Lady's well, or Our Lady's
well.  The dike is strongly built, and bears marks of antiquity ;
and the tradition in the country, that it was constructed by the
monks of Jedburgh, as a fish pond, intimates a  fact that Seems
to be highly probable.
     The only remains of the old castle of the Turnbulls of Bedrule


