
     of Glenholm.

ground.  The patron is the Duke of Queensberry.  There
are 8 heritors, of whom 3 reside.-The salary of the school-
master is 100 merks Scots, which is the minimum ap-
pointed by law.  Fees for teaching, are 1 s. the quarter for
reading, and 2 s. 6 d. for writing and arithmetic.  The
number of scholars has been between 20 and 30.  The
salary and emoluments do not amount to the value of a la-
bouring servant's wages and board; and hence the present
schoolmaster, finding his income quite insufficient for the
support of his family, has had recourse to shopkeeping, and
this has created a prejudice against the school, and made
several averse from sending their children to it, apprehend-
ing that the course of teaching will be much interrupted by
the business of the shop, which has greatly reduced the
number of scholars, whereby the education of the youth in
this place sustains a loss that is to be regretted.-The num-
ber of the poor has been sometimes 4, sometimes 3, or 2, at
present there is only one who is supplied regularly once a-
week, and other two who receive occasionally.  The an-
nual average of the collections is about L. 6, 10 s.  It is a
loss to the poor funds here, that the most opulent of the he-
ritors do not reside.  And though indeed the law makes a
provision by assessments, in the case of the collections he-
coming deficient; yet the residenters in the parish would
reckon it a hardship to be equally involved in an assessment
with the non-residing heritors, notwithstanding they con-
tribute by their weekly collections.  At the same time it
must be owned, to the honour of both residing and non-re-
siding heritors, that in winter 1782 and 1783,  when there
was extraordinary occasion of attending to the poor, they
very generously contributed a sum to purchase meal.

   Prices, Wages, and Fuel.-The price of provisions is
nearly the same with that of Edinburgh market.-The
wages of labourers in husbandry are generally 8 d. a-day
     VOL. IV. 3 I


