
208                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

rie, whose attempt upon King James VI., 5th August 1600
terminated in his death and forfeiture. It appears that Dirleton
was the bribe which he held out to the cupidity of Logan of Restal-
rig to engage his assistance in that affair. Logan in one of his let-
ters says, "I care not for all the other land I have in the kingdom,
if I may grip of Dirleton, for I esteem it the pleasantest dwelling
in Scotland."  On the forfeiture of Gowrie, Dirleton was grant-
ed to Sir Thomas Erskine, one of the first who came to the assist-
ance, of the King, and who killed with his own hand Alexander
Ruthven while struggling with James. He was created Lord Dirle-
ton in 1603, and Viscount Fenton on the 18th March 1606, from
a property in this parish,-this be in the first instance of that titles
Scotland. He was in 1619 created Earl of Kellie. These titles
are now held by the present Earl of Marr. Dirleton appears to
have passed by purchase from that family to Sir John Maxwell of
Innerwick, who is known to have had a royal charter of Dirleton,
Fenton, &c. in June 1631. In 1646 he was created Earl of Dirle-
ton and Lord Elbottle, both titles being taken from this parish.
These became extinct on his death before 1653, as he left no male
issue. His two daughters were, Elizabeth Duchess of Hamilton, and
Diana Viscountess Cranburn, mother of the third Earl of Salisbury.
  Family of Nisbet of Dirleton.-Dirleton was purchased in
1663, by Sir John Nisbet, then the most eminent lawyer at the
Scottish Bar, afterwards Lord of Session and King's Advocate.
He was second son of Sir Patrick Nisbet of East Bank, Lord of
Session, was born in 1610, and died in 1688. His only surviving
child, Joanna Nisbet, was married first to Sir William Scott of
Harden, Knight; and second to Sir William Scott of Thirlestane,
Bart. Having no issue he settled his great estates on his nephew,
William Nisbet of Craigintinny, Member for the county of Had-
dington in the last Parliament of Scotland, and in the first of
Great Britain. From him descended the late William Hamilton
Nisbet, Esq. of Beil and Dirleton, also Member for the same
county, whose daughter and heiress is married to Robert Fer-
guson, Esq. of Raith, the present Member for Haddingtonshire
for which he was returned in 1835.
   The castle of Dirleton, which as a ruin is still in good preser-
vation, was built by the family of Vaux or De Vallibus, about the
twelfth century, and from its present appearance must have been
a large and strong place. In June 1298, when Edward I. invad-
ed Scotland by the eastern border, no place resisted him except
the castle of Dirleton. During the siege, about the beginning of


