
26                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

   Antiquities.-The Roman wall, or "Vallum Antonini," con-
necting the Friths of Forth and Clyde, has been styled by some
writers the wall of Abercorn; it is, however, matter of dispute
whether that line of defence extended so far east. Sir Robert Sib-
bald, indeed, writing from his own observation, and Pent's former
survey, says, that the wall passed Abercorn, and terminated at the
"laird of Maner's windmill," which occupied an abrupt eminence
at the commencement of the eastern approach to Hopetoun
House, where traces of escarpment are still visible. * Bede, how-
ever, states that the wall terminated at Peanfahel or Penneltum,
distant about two Roman miles from the monastery of Aebercur-
nig.+ This language would apparently determine Blackness as
the Peanfahel or "head of the wall." A prolongation or outwork
may have been at some period continued along the coast as far as
the "windmill knowe." No light has been thrown on the subject by
the discovery of monuments or inscriptions. The remains of the
monastery have wholly disappeared; some foundations of buildings
and a mass of deep black loam, of limited exent, in the vicinity of
the church, are the only traces hitherto found. The site of the
castle of Abercorn is marked by a green mound, the ruins having
been carefully removed at the dictate of the taste prevailing when
the Hopetoun pleasure-grounds were first laid out. The situation
was singularly strong, accessible from the east by a narrow neck of
high ground, but surrounded on all other sides with steep banks.
The socket of an ancient cross, occupying its original position, was
exhumed last year, in altering the west end of the church; and by
the removal of an out-building, the shaft was exposed, mutilated,
and converted into an obscure window lintel. The two sides visi-
ble are elaborately carved with arabesque tracery in relief, resem-
bling the crosses at Iona. Midhope House, a building of consi-
derable age, Is in tolerable preservation. It consists of a square
turretted tower, with a cumbrous addition attached to the east
sides. The old doorway bears above it a coronet, and the letters
J. L. in cipher, the initials of the then Livingstone Earl of Lin-
lithgow. An oak stair, of massive workmanship, still gives access
to the upper stories of the house, inhabited by labourers.
   Mansion-Houses.-Binns House, an irregular mass of build-
ing garnished with-turrets and embrasures, is beautifully placed on
the Western slope of Binns hill. It was built in 1623 and enlarged
by the late proprietor. The park around is highly picturesque;

<FOOTNOTE>Sibbald's Historical Inquiries, p. 31. + Beda Hist. i. 12.


