
                              TORBOLTON.                            757

	Burns.--Robert Burns spent the happiest of his days and wrote
the best of his poems at Lochlee, in the upper part of this parish,
Many of the localities around are alluded to in his writing. Young
men of the parish were the members of the Debating Club which
he established at Torbolton, and his "dear brothers of the mys-
tic tye."  Daughters of the small farmers, and servant girls of the
neighbourhood, were the beauties whose charms be has immorta-
lized.
	Thom.--A thatched cottage, about a mile from Lochlee is the
birth-place of the most successful of all the illustrators of Burns,
the self-taught artist Thom,  whose Tam o' Shanter and Souter
Johnny form a new era in the history of sculpture.
	Mansion-houses.--Coilsfield- House, the property of the Earl of
Eglinton, is an elegant modern mansion, beautifully situate on the
southern bank of the Fail rivulet, and embosomed among rich
woods.
            " There summer first unfaulds her robes,
              And there they langest tarry."

It is mentioned by Burns under the name of "The Castle of
Montgomerie," in his beautiful song of "Highland Mary," and
was a favourite resort of the poet during the time of his residence
at Lochlee. Mary Campbell, the heroine of the song, and the
person addressed in his pathetic stanzas beginning with
             "Thou lingering star with lessening ray,
              That lovest to greet the early morn," &c.

was one of the domestic servants at Coilsfied, and the object o
one of his warmest attachments.
	The other residences in the parish are, Enterkine, Smithston
House, Drumley, and Afton Lodge.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, The Right Honour-
able the Earl of Eglinton; John Bell of Enterkine, Esq.; His
Grace the Duke of Portland; Samuel Cooper of Smithston, Esq.;
Hugh Hamilton of Halrig, Esq.; Colonel Thomas Hunter Blair of
Brownhill; Colonel S. Neill of Barnweill; James Oswald of Auch-
eneruive, Esq.; William Paterson of Ladykirk, Esq.; A. M'Haffie
of Overton, Esq.; Thomas Davidson of Drumley, Esq.; William
Cooper of Temple Bog Wood, Esq.; James Campbell of Craigie,
Esq.; William Patrick of Gillhead, Esq.; Mrs Paterson, of Smith-
field; William Ronald of Bennels, Esq.; Robert Pettigrew of
Tarshaw, Esq.; Hay Boyde of Law, Esq.; Alason Cuninghame
of Afton, Esq.; Mrs Hume of Spittleside; John Lees of Mill-
burn, Esq.


