
168                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-As Megget approaches the confines of England
and Scotland, it may be supposed that when the two kingdoms
were governed by different sovereigns, its inhabitants would expe-
rience the disturbance, and be distinguished by the character and
habits, which were then so prevalent among the borderers. There
are in it the remains of two old towers, which were probably de-
signed for security and for defence against hostile aggressions, and
also as watch towers, from which signals might be perceived and
given when unexpected incursions were made.-At Henderland there
are the vestiges of a chapel and burying-ground, and a tombstone
of Cockburn of Henderland, a noted freebooter, with an inscription
which is still legible.-About a quarter of a mile west from Lyne
church is a Roman camp, which, notwithstanding the time that has
elapsed since its formation, and the operations to which it has been
exposed, still presents a very distinct appearance. Its situation
indicates the military prudence which characterized the conquerors
of the world. A road leading to it is still visible. Its interior has,
often been subjected to culture, and Roman coins are said to
have frequently been discovered in it; but what these were, or
whither they were conveyed, it would now be difficult to ascertain.
   The church at Lyne is a solid and ancient edifice. It call scarcely
be doubted that it had been built before the Reformation of reli-
gion in Scotland. On an oaken seat the year 1644 is marked.
The pulpit, which is of the same material, seems to be of a simi-
lar age. About thirty years ago a chapel was built in Megget for
public worship, with an apartment in it designed for a school-room.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners, none of whom reside in the
parish, are, the Earl of Wemyss, Mr William Murray of Hender-
land, and Mr William Purdie, proprietor of Lyne Town Head.
   Parochial Registers.-A register was begun in January 1649,
in which were concisely stated the acts of the session, purposes of
marriage, baptisms, weekly collections and disbursements for the
poor. But there have been at times long blanks in the record, or
large portions of it must have been lost. In the course of time it
seems to have been almost confined to receipts and expenditure in
behalf of the indigent. But for a number of years past this regis-
ter has been more carefully and regularly kept. There has hitherto
been no register of deaths, and that of births is not quite complete,
as some parents, especially dissenters, often neglect to record in it,


