
     of Alford.

sell by a random shot, in the pursuit, near a large stone on
the field of battles which is still pointed out by the country
people.  About 50 years ago, some men, in casting peats, dug
up the body of a man on horseback and in complete armour,
who had been drowned either in the pursuit, or flight from
this engagement; and formerly, the country people were in
use, when casting peats, to find ball, and pieces of money*,
which had, probably, dropped from the flying, and escaped
the search of the victors.  Upon the top of a little hill, there
is an immense cairn, from which a small property in this pa-
rish takes the name of Carneveran, though the import of that
word is not known.  This cairn is 120 yards in circumfer-
ence, and of a proportionable height.  Of this great monu-
ment, there is no very distinct tradition, though some think
that it marks the burial place of a brother of one of the
Kings of Scotland.  No more certain accounts can be given
of a pretty large cairn, which lately stood at a place called
Cairnballoch; but, when it was removed some years ago,
there was found near the bottoms a fort of chest composed
of thin flat stones, containing an earthen vessel filled with
ashes, which mouldered away upon being exposed to the air.
In the parish, there is an eminence called the Gallow Hill,
which had been anciently a place of execution; and nails,
and other pieces of rusty iron, are turned over by the plough,
near the summit, where the gallows had been erected.  Many

     3 P

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some of the coins are in the custody of Mr Farquharson of Haughton;
and as it may gratify a curious reader to know the coins which appear to
have been then current, two of them shall he described.  They are silver;
and the first is a two florin piece of Maximilian, Count Palatine, etc. having,
on one side, his arms, surrounded by the Poison d'or, and, on the reverse, the
the Patroness of Bavaria, with the same legend which is still used.  The
other is a dollar of Phil. 4, of Spain, having on one side the arms of Spain
and Austria, and the collar of the Golden Fleece, and on the reverse, a
a cross fleuri.


