
554                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Lethane, minister at Currie, 1568-76, to be payit as follows, his
stipend, jc li. with the kirkland of Curry: And. Robeson, reidare
at Curry, his stipend, xx lb., but (without) kirkland."-In the se-
venteenth century, Matthew Lichtone, nephew of the celebrated
Archbishop of that name, was curate of Currie during the esta-
blishment of Episcopacy, and was one of the few, if not the only
one of his order in this part of the country, not turned out of his
living at the Revolution, an exemption from the consequences of
that crisis which he owed to the strong attachment of the people,
to whom he had endeared himself. He died at an advanced
age, and a monument was erected to his memory, which still forms
a prominent object of interest in the village churchyard.
   The present church was built about 60 years ago on the site of
the former, and is capable of accommodating about 800 people.
   In the document already referred to it is said, "as to the right
of patronage quhome to the samyen apperteinit, quhither to the
King or to the Paip. It is unknawin to ws speciallie seing the
samyen kirk appertenit to the Archedeane of Louthiane, quha
wes ane speciall beneficed man of dignitie in this realme, quha
wes cheiff of the chapter of the Archbischoperick of Sanctandrois,
and quha had mony perogratives in the kirk of Scotland of auld,
and speciallie in that poynt of patronage, as all the appellatiounes
from the commissariatis and officiall seattis of Scotland wes to the
officiall of Louthiane, quha was deputt to him in the said office."
   The patronage of Currie seems to have been at an early pe-
riod after the Reformation exercised by the Town-Council of
Edinburgh, having been conferred on that body probably by a
grant from the Crown. Their right was, however, towards the
middle of last century, called in question by Alexander Ander-
son, farmer, Easter Currie, and also baron bailie on the estate of
Riccarton. The parish having become suddenly vacant by the
death of the incumbent, Mr Spark, who was drowned on his way
from Edinburgh in attempting to ford the water at Slateford, then
much swollen by a flood, the people were thrown into a state of
great ferment, and by the exertions of the above-mentioned baron
bailie, succeeded in obtaining their choice of a minister, when
they called Mr Mowbray, a very able and popular preacher, who,
in a few years, was translated to Libberton. The Town-Council
of Edinburgh afterwards had their rights confirmed by law, and
have exercised them ever since.
   The stipend of Currie, in the beginning of the seventeenth cen-


