
			   LEGERWOOD.                            353

ed in the former Statistical Account, two only, those at Corsbie and
Whitslaid, are now standing. The tower of Morriston has been pul-
led down, and has been nearly altogether removed in the course of
agricultural improvements. Neither of the towers still standing bear
any date or inscription; but they are supposed to have been erect-
ed in the reign of James II. Upon the arched roof of Whitslaid
tower, there is a fine sycamore tree growing. It is of considerable
size, and appears to be perfectly healthy. The traces of two British
camps, one on the top of Legerwood Hill, and the other on the hill
of Birkenside, are still discernible, but they have been inuah de-
faced by the plough; and on the farm of Boon, in the barony of
Corsbie, there is a stone which is called the " Dodds Corse Stane."
It is a shaft of sandstone sunk into a square block of the same ma-
terial, and is said to have been the place where a market was at one
time held for the vicinity.

<TABLE=Population>                III.-POPULATION.

The population of this parish amounted in 1755, to	-	398
					  1791,		-	422
 					  1801,		-	495
					  1811,		-	560
					  1821,		-	476
					  1831,		-	565
   The apparent deficiency in the number of inhabitants in 1821,
was owing to the census having been taken immediately upon the
term of Whitsunday, after several house and farm-servants had
removed, and before many of those had arrived who were en-
gaged to supply their places. The inhabitants, therefore, until
1811, seem to have increased with the demands, first of an advancing,
and then of a nibre perfect agriculture. Since that period, the
present system of husbandry is understood to have been followed.
There has, however, been a trifling increase of the agricultural
population; for in the year 1811, there were 14,families support-
ed by trade and handicraft, and now there are only 10,-the heads
of two of these being millers, who each rent a small piece of land.
Indeed, the inhabitants may be said to be limited to a number
barely sufficient to cultivate the soil and to tend the stock,-the
deficiency which would otherwise be experienced in autumn being
supplied by Irish labourers, who come in great numbers at that
season.
   There is no town in the parish, and scarcely such a collection of
houses as to deserve the name ofa village. On every farm there
is a hamlet, where the hinds or farm-servants reside,-every hind
   BERWICK.                               Z


