
     of Kilmarnock.

letting their grounds, which, in a great measure, prevents the
tenants from making use of any rotation.  In their leases,
they bind the farmer to plow only three years, and then to keep
the ground for six years in grass.  The leases are in general
for 19 years, so that a farmer has it only in his power, during
that term to have two breaks of his farm, together with what he
can plow in the last year of his lease.  This plan is attend-
ed with great disadvantages to the proprietor, to the tenant,
and to the public.  Under such a restriction, the whole ef-
forts of the tenant to meliorate his ground, are confined to
the first break.  Then he limes and dungs to the utmost of his
power; and, more especially, endeavours to lay down his fields
as richly as possible, in order that he may have good returns
during the course of the second break, without being at farther
expense for manure, at a period of the lease when he cannot
receive the full benefit of it.  The consequence of this is, that
the greater part of the grounds are reduced to a very poor state,
before the end of the lease.  The tenant again, when he has
brought his grounds to a state in which they could more easi-
ly than first be rendered more productive, is restrained in his
exertions, because he cannot reap the full benefit arising from
them, but must probably leave it to another, or pay a higher
rent for it himself, than he would otherwise have done, and
thus his interest is materially hurt:  while the public suffers
likewise, as more grain would undoubtedly have been raised, 
had the farmer had equal encouragement, to exert himself as
much, in the latter part of the lease, as he found it for his in-
terest to do in the former.  Besides, the term of tillage is too
short to allow any proper rotation of crops.  The ground is 
sown with oats when first broke up, and every one knows that
the second year after breaking up, affords the best crop of oats.
These two years, therefore, the ground must be sown with
the same species of grain, to enable the farmer to pay his rent,


