
26                       LANARKSHIRE.

	The glebe is four acres in extent and is worth about L. 16 per
annum. The amount of the stipend is 19 chalders, half barley, half
meal, with L. 20 for communion elements.
	There is no chapel of ease attached to the Established church,
although one is much needed, especially at New Lanark.
	The dissenters have three places of worship in the town,--one
Relief, the others belonging to the Burghers.  One of the dissent-
ing clergymen is promised L. 120, another L. l00, and the third
L. 60 per annum.
	As many families and persons frequent the Established church
as can procure seats; and here and at the Relief Chapel divine
service is well attended. The average number of communicants
at the Established church is 1100.
	Religious Societies.--There is a Bible society and a ladies' Bible
association in the parish. Previously to 1827, they were accus-
tomed to send their funds to the British and Foreign Bible Society.
But since that period they have deemed it more proper to employ
them otherwise; and to different institutions and societies for the
spread of the gospel, they have contributed the following sums:--
In 1827, L. 100; in 1828, L. 70; in 1829, L. 80; in 1830, L. 40;
in 1831, L, 20; in 1832, L. 20.
	There is likewise a missionary society; but neither this nor any
other institution of the kind is now prospering as it ought, and what
they have been able to effect has been in consequence of handsome
legacies left them by a benevolent lady. Formerly, the private
subscriptions and collections at the church door for religious and
charitable purposes were wont to be liberal, but of late years they
have unhappily very much decreased.
	Education.--The number of schools in the parish is 12, none
of which is parochial. One is endowed, and one is supported by a
society.
	The grammar-school once enjoyed high celebrity as a seminary
of education. The rector's salary amounts to L. 40; that of the assist-
ant is L. 20. The wages are 4s. per quarter for Latin; and 2s. 6d. for
English, writing and arithmetic 1s. more. Connected with this school
there are twenty-eight bursaries; nine of them were endowed in
1648 by Mr John Carmichael, commissary of Lanark, who mort-
gaged the lands of Batiesmains for the purpose. The rest were
endowed by one of the Earls of Hyndford, by the family of Maulds-
lie, and by a former chamberlain of the name of Thomson. The
patronage of these bursaries is in the hands of the magistrates.
                         3


