
                       PARISH OF TOROSAY.

	      PRESBYTERY OF MULL, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

                THE REV. DUNCAN CLERK, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The derivation of Torosay, or, as it is sometimes writ-
ten, Torasay, cannot be given with any certainty.  Perhaps it is
compounded of these three Gaelic words Tor, agus, (contracted a's,)
and a.  Tor signifies a hill or mountain of a conical form, Agus
or a's is the copulative conjunction, and a is an obsolete word sig-
nifying water. *  Torosay in this view may signify a district diver-
sified with hills of a conical form, and lakes,  either of fresh or salt
water.  This diversification is certainly a characteristic feature of
the parish at Iarge, for the hills, which are numerous, almost all
acuminate at different elevations to as many peaks; and, besides
the picturesque indentation of the country by several arms of the
sea, it is studded with many fresh water lakes, forming the sources
of some considerable streams.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The length of the parish from south-
east to north-west, is 20 miles; and its breadth from north-east
to south-west, is 12 miles.  It contains about 16o square miles of
dry land.
   It is bounded oil the north, on the east, and on the south, by
the Sound of Mull; an the west, by the parish of Kilfinichen; and
on the north-west, by the parish of Kilninian.
   Topographical Appearances.-It is of an oblong figure, having
its sides in some places projecting in to headlands of various shapes,
some rounded, some acutely angular, and in other places as irre-
gularly indented.
   A chain of peaked mountains runs along its whole length, hav-
ing a  common base, with the exception of Benmore, (the great
mountain,) and Bentealluidh, (Prospect mountains) which rise se-
verally from very low ground, and are of considerable height.  Ben-
more, the highest mountain in the island, is about 3000 feet above

<FOOTNOTE>See the Higbland Society's Gaelic Dictionary, p. 2.


