
   206                              ELGINSHIRE.

   prior to 1699, but since that period, minute-book, marriage and
   baptism registers have been regularly kept, and there has also
   been a register of deaths kept since 1st January 1826.
      Mansion-houses.-The only resident heritor is Major Grant
   Peterkin. Grangeball, his seat, already alluded to, is an elegant,
   commodious, and substantial mansion., of a quadrangular shape,
   built in the modern style of architecture. The lobby is'exceed-
   ingly spacious and handsome, and all the rooms correspond in size
   and comfort. Seapark, the residence of John Dunbar, Esq., has
   lately bad great improvements made on it, by additions, enclosures,
   and planting, and the arrangements, both inside and outside, dis-
   play gireat Judgment and taste.
      Antiquities-Of these the ruins of the Abbey alone are impor-
    tant or interesting. It was founded by King David I., December
    19th 1150, and confirmed by a papal bull 1174. It was liberally
   endowed. Shaw, in his history of Moray, mentions, that in 1561
   the revenues were L.1152, 1s. Scots-47 chalders, 11 bolls, 1
   firlot, 3 pecks, bear and meal; 10 bolls 3 firlots, oats; 34 wed-
   ders, 41 geese, 60 capons 125 poultry. The fragments that re-
   main, of 1be church, with its aisles, and thb chapter-house, as well
   as the monastery , clearly shew that the buildings must have been
   originally splendid and extensive. . Edward I. resided here for
   six weeks in the autumn of the year 1303, and a detachment of his
   army remained for a longer period. Little, however, is now. to be
   seen of the former magnificence and grandeur of the edifice. In
   the year 1652, the walls were broken down and the stones sold to
   Cromwell's soldiers to build the citadel of Inverness. Since then,
   violent hands have committed depredations on it at various times,
   and in fact, it has formed a quarry for almost all the old houses and
   granaries in the neighbourbood. Still, notwithstanding these at-
   tacks,'tbe side and gable walls of the abbacy stood entire until
   they were within these few years past recklessly levelled to the
   ground, and disposed of for building dikes. Not one stone
   would have been left on anotb er to mark the spot, bad not
   the trustee on the estate, a gentleman of antiquarian taste and at-
   tainments, interdicted - the spoliation, and caused the east gable,
   that narrowly escaped destruction, to be propped by a buttress of
   mason-work; and there it stands, the sad and solitary fragment
   of a mansion, wherein the mitred abbot once held his sumptuous
   banquets, and evein princes were his guests.


