

                            DURNESS.                               93

      der of the Commissioners for the Northern Lights: and a map of the
      parish on a large scale, by Mr Burnet, land-surveyor, is preparing
      for publication, under the patronage of the Duke of Sutherland,
      who is now sole proprietor.
         Eminent Men.-Among the most eminent characters who were
      natives Of this parish are the following:-Ist, General Mackay,
      who distinguished himself in the civil wars in the reign of King
      Charles II.  His father, who was a branch of the Reay family,
      resided for some time in Borley, but afterwards had his prin-
      cipal residenbe at Scowrie, in Edderachillis.  2d, Robert Donn
      or Calder, or, as be is sometimes called, Mackay, the celebrat-
      ed Reay country bard, was also a native of the parish.  His
      lyrics, satires, and songs, are much admired and sung by the na-
      tives, and have rendered our mountains and glens classic ground.
      A volume of these was published in 1829 by Dr Mackay of Dunoon;
      to which is prefixed a memoir of his life.
         Parochial Register.-The earliest date of the Parochial register
      is 4th November 1764.  It does not contain any register of deaths.
         Antiquities.-Among these, the first that claim attention are
      the circular Duns, which appear to have been very numerous
      in the Highlands. The ruins of ten of these Duns are to be
      seen in this parish.  They appear to have been the residences
      of some native chieftain; they are often built in low and fer-
      tile spots, and, in some places, they are surrounded by seve-
      ral circles of from 12 to 20 feet diameter, which in all pro-
      bability have been the foundations of the circular booths of the
      chieftain's dependents.  The form of these Duns is the simplest
      mode of structure that would occur to a rude people.  There
      is a tradition among the natives, that they were built to defend the
      inmates from the incursions of the wolves.  The only remains
      from which we can judge of the form and structure of these Duns
      are-a segment of one in Strathmore, about sixteen feet high, near
      the South base of Ben Hope.  It is called "D-n Dornigill,"  i. e.
      Dornadilla's Tower.  The tradition is, that it was built by the
      Scottish king of that name, and used as a hunting residence.  The
      outer circumference is about fifty paces in extent, and consists of
      two concentric walls, connected by large flags, which served the pur-
      pose of strengthening each other, and forming a pathway to the top.
      The triangular stone which forms the lintel is still seen in the
      building.  The slaty stones of which it is built, bear no marks of


