
178                         RENFREWSHIRE.

and removal of these boys, others are to be in their places, by
the baillies and council, and the same payment made.  The, sub-
jects conveyed and, confirmed are erected into one, body (corpus)
to be called "the King's Foundation of the Grammar School of
Paisley."  (Fundationem nostram scolae grammaticalis de Paisley
nuncupandam.")  Among the witnesses to, this charter appears
"our familiar councillor Mr George Buquhanane, pensioner of
Corsraguel, keeper of our privy seal"
   Royal visits to Paisley.- "8th July 1507.  The quhilk day the
said Baillies and Councell understanding perfytli, that the queene's
M. is to be shortlie in the place of Paslay, and in respect thereof,
for decoration of the kirk and portis of the said burgh, in sic sort
as may be gudlie done for the present, they haf concluded, that
thare be ane pyntour sent for to Glasgow, for drawing of sum
drauchts in the kirk, as salbe thocht maisi necessar for the pre-
sent: Secundlie, that ane wricht be concludit wt for bigging and
mending and repairing of the portis of the said burgh."  It is to
bei supposed that this visit of the Royal consort of James cost the
town more money in the way of "pintours" and "wrichts," to say
nothing of entertainments, than the funds could well afford, for
we find that when, in 1917, the King himself on his return from
England to visit his ancient kingdom, came to the same "place of
Paslay," no preparations are made by the council for his welcome
to the burgh, and there remains no proof that James ever crossed
the Cart, or passed through the brig port.  Tradition says, that
he was petitioned not to come nearer than "the place," inasmuch
as the town could not entertain him so sumptuously as might be fit-
ting.  He did come to the mansion of the "Noble Abercorn,"
where, in the great hall, "lane oratioun" was addressed to him in
name of the community and inhabitants of Paisley and its neigh-
bourhood, by "a prettie boy of nine years of age, the son of Sir
James Semple of Beltrees, at that time sheriff of the county."
The "address is printed in the Muse's Welcome;" a well known,
collection of similar "oratiounes" and poems, commemorative of
the King's visit at this time, to "digested according to the order of
His Majestie's progresse," by J. A. (John Adamson.)  The ad-
dres is also inserted in the Paisley Magazine, p.577. It is in-
geninous. but it will scarcely bear to be tried by modern, usages *

<FOOTNOTE>The "little boy" swears by "the Black Book of Paisley" "that his Majesty is most
dearly welcome," and immediately adds these inimitable lines:
              "Thus have I said, Sir, and thus have I sworne,
               Performance tak from noble Abercorne!"
       The "grand schoolmaster" is then compared to  Phaebus," "that eye by whic


