
     Statistical Account

that the Edinburgh market has, of late years, been supplied
with the first early lambs; one farmer having sent to it annu-
ally 100, at a guinea each.  The ewes from which they are
obtained are of the Cowley breed.  They are kept till they
are old, and are well fed through the year.  By a similar ma-
nagement, lambs may be had as early as they are wanted, and,
perhaps, from any breed of sheep; but it will be necessary, for
that purpose, that the ewes and lambs be kept as warm as pos-
sible in a house or shed, the ewes being fed with turnips
and with oats daily, at the rate of a peck to 20 of them.
This method of obtaining early lambs is reckoned preferable
to that which, it is said, is followed in the south of Scotland, of
heating the ewes in a barn, or any inclosed place.
   Only 3 farmers in this parish are subjected, by their leases,
to pay kain-fowls.  Thirlage carriages and kain were in use
16 years ago:  but the present tenants, when offering for their
farms, insisted for an exemption from them; and, as they al-
lowed more in their proposals than an equivalent for it, the al-
teration has been attended with no loss to the proprietors, and
allows the tenants to proceed in their operations without being
exposed to the hurtful consequences arising from capricious or
ill-timed interruptions.
   So late as the year 1770, a farm of the rent of L. 70 was
reckoned a large one; now, one at the rent of L. 100 is not
deemed sufficient for a farmer to live upon.  From L. 300
to L. 500 of rent, is reckoned a moderate size.  Should this
speculation be progressive, of which there is great appearance
at present, the consequences are perhaps not uncertain.  It
cannot be hurtful to the condition of the lowest class of people,
or, consequently, to population; and proprietors will receive
a great encrease of rent, while the farmers, who have skill and
spirit for such increased undertakings, will be as amply re-
warded.  But, by this melioration of their estates, for such


