
284                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   Heritors.--The principal heritors are, 1. the Duke of Buc-
cleuch and Queensberry, who is patron of the parish; 2. the
Earl of Wemyss and March; 3. Sir John Hope, Bart. of Craig-
hall, proprietor of the barony of Pinkie, and also of that of Monk-
ton; 4. John Fullarton, Esq. of Carberry; 5. William Aitchison,
Esq. of Walliford, formerly possessed by the Binnings, a family
of note; 6. Sir Charles Dalrymple Fergusson, Bart. who suc-
ceeded to the estate of New Hailes, formerly possessed by Miss
Dalrymple, daughter of Lord Hailes; 7. John Wauchope, Esq.
of Edmonstone; 8.the Town of Musselburgh, the property be-
longing to which is held of the Duke of Buccleuch.
   Eminent Men.--It is a curious circumstance that William Wal-
ker, one of the most eminent portrait engravers in London, and
Burnet, the most distinguished of all the historical picture en-
gravers of this kingdom,--himself an eminent historical painter
and writer on art,--should both have been born in this parish.  The
rare art of sculpture can also claim from it the names of Alex-
ander and John Ritchie, the latter of whom modelled the Glas-
gow statue of Sir Walter Scott, and the much admired group of
"the Flood;" and the former of whom, the favourite pupil of
Thorwaldsen at Rome, has not disappointed those hopes of fu-
ture excellence which that great artist formed regarding him ; he
has executed innumerable first rate busts, as well as many statues,
monuments, and other works of art of the highest merits, amongst
which may be mentioned the fine statue at Coldstream and the
Selkirkshire monument to the author of Waverley.  Among those
distinguished in arts or arms, who, although not natives of the pa-
rish, have honoured it by choosing it as a place of residence, we may
mention Sir David Dalrymple Lord Hailes, one of the foremost
Scottish historians and antiquaries; Professor Stuart, and his son
Gilbert, the eminent historical essayist; the great Lord Clive, and
Sir Ralph Abercrombie, each of whom for a season were occupants
of Loretto, Major-General James Stirling, the captor of the stand-
ard of the Invincibles, who was domiciled in the parish since the
termination of the war; and Admiral Sir David Milne, whose
gallant conduct at the capture of the La Pique frigate is lastingly
recorded in our naval annals, and who was second in command at
the bombardment of Algiers.  Logan, the poet, was educated at
the grammar school of Musselburgh, as was also Lieutenant
Drummond, the framer of the Reform Bill, and the inventor of
"the Drummond lights."


