	
	972                     FIFESHIRE

	long undissolved, and from the extent to which draining has of late
	been carried, the climate may be represented as dry and healthy.
	The diseases are such as are common to the district, and in
	the town of Cellardyke, where there is a great population closely
	crowded together, fever is often prevalent.
	   Geology.-The strata laid open along the shore exhibit the
	common coal formations of sandstone, limestone. clay ironstone,
	sbale, and coal, and contain many interesting fossil remains.
	The direction and dip of the strata vary much. The usual dip
	is from 20' to 250. About the west end of the parish, the direc-
	tion in which the strata are found is towards the south, while, as
	you proceed eastward, it inclines towards the southeast. Along
	the shore are found clay ironstone balls with coprolites, and many
	specimens of the Variolaria Ficoides of Sternberg; and toward tbe,
	east end of the parish, considerably within high water mark, are
	found in the sandstone strata, a number of fossil trees, projecting
	upwards at an angle of 70\d to the height of several feet, and
	placed at distances from each other, as if growing in a forest.
	   In the limestone quarry at Cornceres, about half a mile inland,
	the dip of the stratum was found in the working to be almost per-
	pendicular, while at other times it inclined to the northeast. This
	limestone resembles that of Burdiehotise, in the neighbourhood
	of Edinburgh, with similar fossil remains, such as fresh-water fish,
	plants, &c. In reference to this quarry, the Rev. Dr Anderson of
	Newburgh, who has long paid great attention to the subject of geo-
	logy, thus writes in his Geological Account of Fife, published along
	with Swan's Views of Fife: "While these pages have been passing
	through the press, I have been successful in finding the fresh wa-
	ter, or bituminous limestone, in the south-eastern extremity of
	the county. I first met with it in the parish of Kilrenn on the
	shore, and likewise to the eastward about a mile, in the parish of
	Crail. It is wrought inland in both parishes, at Cornceres and
	at Sypsies. Here it lies in mall trough-shaped basins, and is
	much disturbed by underlying dikes, which traverse in every di-
	rection the whole of this district Along the t;hore the deposit is
	about six feet thick, and dips to the south-east at an angle of 20'.
	It rests upon a thin bed of coal of about one foot and a half in
	thickness"
           "Scales, coprolites and vegetable impressions are in the
	greatest profusion, and no doubt can be entertained, from its mi
        neralogical characters as well as its organic contents, of its being


