
336                          KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

<TABLE>
                                    Age.            No.
                              Under 50,            1680
                                    60,            1807
                                    70,            1933
                                    80,            1996
                                    90,            2036 Total.

   The population has increased considerably since 1831, in con-
sequence of the Liverpool Dock Company having, opened a very
large granite quarry in this parish, at which they have from 60 to
450 men occasionally employed. From this statement it must
appear that the population has been very fluctuating since the
commencement of the quarry. In 1834, when the greatest num-
her of workmen was employed, the population was as high as 2300.
   Character, &c. of the People.-In general the people of this
parish are industrious, intelligent, and sober. Many of them very
correct in their morals and sound in their religious principles.
The inhabitants are healthy and peaceable, and, as a proof of their
sobriety, it may be mentioned that there is a Tee Total Society
in Creetown with upwards of 300 members.
   Poaching and smuggling were at one time but too common.
The former is now little followed, and the latter is entirely un-
known.


                         IV.-lNDUSTRY.
<TABLE>
   Agricullture.-
       Number of acres imperial that have been cultivated, about     5300
                                of meadow, about                      900
       Land that has never been cultivated, quantity unknown.

   These quantities are partly conjectural, the whole parish never
having been accurately measured, so far as I know. With regard
to the number of acres that might, with a profitable application of
capital, be added to the cultivated land of the parish, there may
be a considerable difference of opinion. But I have no doubt, by
the use of bone-dust upon the steep and dry land, and the intro-
duction of tile-draining into the mossy and wet land, 1000 acres
might be reclaimed with advantage. The practice of the Duke
of Portland, in draining the land for his tenants, and charging them
a certain percentage upon the money expended, would prodigiously
improve the appearance and fdrtility of Galloway, and it would be
good for the tenants in this parish if the practice of the Earl of
Selkirk, in giving lime, were followed by our landlords.
   There is no land in this parish in a state of undivided common.
There are about 1000 acres under wood, two-thirds of which may
be natural, and one-third planted. Oak, ash, hazel, alder, and
thorn, are indigenous; and the trees that have been planted are
in general a few of the most common varieties of the fir and oak,
beech, sycamore, chestnut, and elm.



