
80                         ORKNEY.

water at tbree-quarters of an hour after nine o'clock, when the moon
is new and full. It has from four to six fathom water, over a bot-
tom of bard clay covered with sand. On the west side of it, is a
fine beach, with abundance of excellent fresh water ; and as it opens
to the south-west, it is extremely convenient for ships bound, to the
southwar d. In ancient times, it seems to have been called Elidar-
wick; for we are in formed by an Icelandic manuscript, t bat Hace,
King of Norway, 1263, lay with his fleet in a harbour of that name,
near Kirkwall, in his way to the Hebrides or west of Scotland.
He had planned an expedition against Alexander Ill., King of
Scotland, and after be bad lain in this barbour till St Olave's Wake,
be sailed south before the Mull of Ronaldsba, with all his navy.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-These are the following: No- I of mar-
riages and baptisms; marriages from 13th November 1632, to
21st July 1702; baptisms from 3d November 1632, to 19th No-
vember 1669. No. 2, of marriages and baptisms; marriages from
Ist Novembe'r 1758, to 6th August 1793; baptisms from Ist No-
vember 1758, to 12th August 1793. No. 3, of marriages, bap-
tisms, and deaths, from 12tb September 1793, to the present pe-
riod. All regularly kept.
Land-owners.-These are, Ca tain William Balfour of Elwick;
valuation, L. 325, 7s. 10d. Samuel Laing, Esq. of Papdale; va-
luation, L. 2J7 5S. 9 5 d. Crown, (part of the- Bishoprick of Ork-
ney), valuation L. 1594, 6s. Id.
Mansion-Houses.-Cliffdale, the property of Captain Balfour of
Elwick; How, an old ruinous building, the property of S. Laing,
Esq. of Papdale.
Antiquities.-In Elbardbolm, a place belonging to this parishl
there are the remains of a small chapel, which does not call for
any particular notice. On the highest ground, and near the cen-
tre of the parish, there is, as in most of the otber islands, a wart or
ward hill, which commands an accurate and extensive view, not
only of this, but of fifteen surrounding parlsbes. To me this ap-
pears plainly to be artificial, and.1hough one of the largest, it is
,&qrtainly one of those tumuli which are so frequently to be met
with A'n these islands. To the eastward of this little wart or ward.
hillock about an English mile, is a high stone, called the Stan
21# Stone of Shapinshay. Above the level of the ground it is 12
feet high, a nd perhaps 5 or 6 below it - its breadth is between

<FOOTNOTE>fOld Statistical Account.


