
614                        LANARKSHIRE.

the Bishop of Glasgow. And it continued to belong to the Pre-
lates of that see, as a mensal church, till the Reformation; and
in after times, while Episcopacy continued to exist, the cure was
served by a vicar.
	At the Reformation, Sir James Hamilton had a lease from the
Archbishop of Glasgow, of the parsonage tithes of Cambusnethan
for a small rent. After the Reformation, the tithes and the pa-
tronage of the church followed the fate of the spiritual property of
the Archbishop of Glasgow.
	In Acta Parliamentorum, v. 598, there is a ratification in favour
of the Duke of Lennox of the church lands of Cambusnethan.
And in 1696, there is also a ratification in favour of Anne Duchess
of Hamilton, of the whole rectory and vicarage tithes of the pa-
rish church of Cambusnethan, to be held in blench-farm for the
payment of one penny Scots yearly, and also paying the minister
of that parish the yearly stipend, as modified, from the parochial
tithes.
	The patronage of the church was afterwards granted to the pro-
prietor of the barony of Cambusnethan; and it now belongs to
Robert Lockhart, Esq. of Castlehill, who holds that barony.
	At or within the manor house of Cambusnethan, was a chapel,
dedicated to St Michael, to which certain lands in the vicinity
were mortified.
	The old church of Cambusnethan stood in a most romantic spot
at the south-west point of the whole parish, very near the river
Clyde. It had certainly been built there for the accommodation
of the Baron of Cambusnethan, so near his mansion house, and
probably at his sole expense, there being no other heritor in the
parish then but himself. The date of its erection is unknown;
but it was long before the barony was separated, and long before
Thomas Lord Somerville gave to Lord Yester his first interest in
the parish. It had a choir, and from the remains of it still vi-
sible, must have been a much more magnificent structure than the
present one. It was, however, inconveniently situated for the pa-
rish at large, many of the parishioners, particularly those beyond
Redmyre, having to travel from six to twelve miles to attend it.
	This church having stood nearly two centuries, was, after an in-
spection in presence, and by appointment of the presbytery of Ha-
milton, declare, 17th Mardh 1837, by two respectable architects,
upon oath, to be in a ruinous and dangerous condition; and the
minister was, by order of the presbytery, prohibited from preach-


