
256                        FORFARSHIRE.

July. The haddock is good all the year, except the months of
March and April.
	During the summer season, there may be frequently seen at Fer-
ryden fifteen or sixteen boats, after an absence of twelve or four-
teen hours, coming ashore in one day, with 1000 haddocks in each,
which are currently sold in the Montrose market, or to retailers
through the country, at Iittle more than a farthing per lb. Fish-
cadgers from the, adjoining parishes, and from the towns of Forfar,
Cupar-Angus, Perth, and Dundee, come at all times of the year
to Ferryden for fresh fish; and in the summer season, more than
a dozen of these carts, loaded chiefly with haddocks, may be seen
leaving the village in one day.
   The greater proportion of the cod and ling are sold ta fish-cu-
rers in Montrose; and not less than 46,000 have been supplied in
one year from the two fishing villages. Several boats also go to
the herring-fishing at Fraserburgh, Peterhead, &c.; and, at an
average, they bring in 2000 crans or barrels in a season.
    The following list of fish has been given by one of our most in-
telligent fishermen, as seen by himself on this coast in the course
of his labours:
    The black whale, white whale, baffert whale, bottle-nose, and
porpoise; the shark, seal, and dog-fish; the blind-eye, so called
from a membrane passing over its eyes when caught; cod, ling,
haddock, halibut, turbot; commond skate, snack-skate, whap-skate,
thornback-skate, and King James's-skate; the white-flounder, sole-
flounder, spotted-flounder, dab-flounder, Craig-flounder, and maid-
en flounder; the wolf, hog, cat, hawk, cole, and lied-fish; herring,
mackerel, pilchard, whiting; miller-thumb, golden-fish, banstickle,
pirling; conger-eel, ramper-eel, fresh-water-eel, sand-eel; horse-
mogral, camper-fish, gray-fish, stone-fish, and maiden-fish; sun-
fish, goupney-fish, sea-mouse, sea-louse; toad-fish, corie-fish, and
star-fish; goose-tongue, anchor-fish, scaup, and clip-fish, which
stick to rocky bottoms. The shell-fish are, lobsters, partens, crabs,
fling-crab, hedge-hog, clampit, oyster, cockle, sea-buckie, river-
buckie, black and white-wilks, rock and maiden-limpets, common
mussel, horse-mussel, and spout-fish among the sand." The Ac-
tinia, sea anemone or sea marigold, is found in great abundance
adhering to the rocks at St Skay, and is generally of a dark blood-
red colour.
     Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish:
			            4


