

2                       CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

  The parish consists of a town and a landward district, and ex-
tends about 4 miles from east to west, by about 2 miles from north
to south, and may contain 7 1/4 square miles.
  It is bounded on the north by Alva and part of Clackmannan;
on the south, by the river Forth; on the east, by Clackmannan
and the Black Devon; and, on the west, by the river Devon and
parish of Logie. The town of Alloa is situated about a mile
from the eastern extremity of the parish, in 56&deg;7 of north lati-
tude, and 3&deg; 46' of west longitude from Greenwich. In the
river, which is here 500 yards broad, and separates into two
branches, there are two low islands called inches, one of which
nearest, there town, is a valuable farm of 80 acres.
  Topographical Appearances.-The figure of the parish is ex-
ceedingly irregular, a section of Clackmannan parish penetrating
it on the north side; and the sinuosities of the Forth extend it, on
the south side, to five and a-half miles in length. The low grounds,
lying on the banks of the river, are of a fine fertile carse soil.
The subsoil of part of it is a strong clay, fit for making bricks
and tiles.  The banks that arise from the carse, are mostly com-
posed of gravel, with a fine loam near the surface. On the higher
grounds, towards the north, the soil is thin, on a cold till bottom;
but by draining, of late years, it has been greatly improved.
This parish contains no mountains or high hills; but its finely
diversified surface, its little hills and fertile valleys, form a richly
varied landscape. From any of the eminences near the town,
scenery, is presented to the eye, almost unrivalled for picturesque
beauty, if not for magnificence. To the eastward, embosomed
in trees, is seen the ancient Tower of Alloa, from the summit of
which, although situated on flat ground, part of nine counties can
be discerned. About a furlong north-east of the Tower, on a
gentle elevation, is the new and elegant mansion of the Earl of
Mar and Kellie. Beyond Alloa Wood, Clackmannan Tower
crowns the summit of the next rising ground; while, on either
side of the expanding Firth, innumerable beauties arrest the at-
tention in the rich vale below. On turning to the north and west,
a panorama of no ordinary splendour meets the eye: on one side
the lofty Ochils, bounding the view, and covered with verdure to
their summits; on the other, the numerous windings of the river;
Stirling, with its finely elevated castle; and beyond, in the blue
distance, the gigantic Benledi and Benlomond, with others of
our Scottish Alps.
                              6


