
164               		 ARGYLESHIRE.

which King Robert Bruce bad, in acknowledgment of more disin-
terested allegiance, conferred on his father, Angus Og, of the Isles,
we find among other lands disponed, " Insulam de Mulle, Insu-
lam de Skye, Insulam de Lewis, Terram de Ken-Albdun," which
latter term appears from the subsequent parts of this and the tenor
of other deeds, not only to have included, but to have specially re-
ferred to the district now in question.  Even at that remote pe-
riod, however, the term Morvern, as it is sometimes written, Mor-
marne, is more frequently used.  Several etymotogies of this term
have been suggested.  With deference, the following is submitted.
   It appears that one of the provinces into which Scotland was
anciently divided, was Garmoran or Garbh-Mor Earrain, in other
words, the rugged mainland or continent.  Of this province, as
originally marked out, Morvern formed a part, and was then in-
cluded as a portion of the district still known as the " Garbh-
chriochan," or the rugged bounds.  A second province of Garmo-
ran was, at a much later period, marked out of more limited ex-
tent.  From this second province Morvern was excluded.  It
seems, however, to have still in part retained the name Mhor Ear-
rain, the mainland or continents,-a distinctive appellation which
its insular-character and appearance rendered the more requisite,
and of similar import with Morar or Mor-Thir, still applied to
other parts of the ancient principality of the Isles in the northern
district of the parish of Ardnamureban.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is situated in the northern
district of the county of Argyle.  Its greatest length, taken from
east to west, has been computed at 20 miles, and its greatest
breadth at 1.5 miles.  It contains about 85,369 acres, or 133
square miles, and presents, (exclusive of the two islands of Oran-
say and Carna, annexed to it,) a sea coast little short of 100 miles
in extent.  From the above statement it will appear that the pa-
rish is on three sides bounded by water.  The eastern or land
boundary is only 12 miles in length.
   Towards the centre of the parish a second peninsula is formed
by the approximation of Lochalin from the south, and Loch Tea-
gus, which branches off from Loch Sunart on the north.  These
lochs approximate within about six miles of each other, while of
this intervening space, upwards of two miles are occupied by the
fresh water lakes of Airi Innis and Daoire, nam-mart,-these also
connected by a considerable stream; and discharging their waters
into Lochatin.
   Islands.-The only inhabited islands forming part of the parish


