
		               MAYBOLE.                        357

of Melchisedec, as bearing on the sacrifice of the mass, prefigur-
ed, according to the Papists, by his offering of bread and wine.
There was, however, notwithstanding the learning and acuteness
displayed on both sides, a good deal nf quibbling and tedious
altercation; and after the dispute had been prolonged for three
days, without ever embracing any of the great points between the
contending parties, the noblemen and gentry, cooped up in a small
apartment, and ill-supplied with suitable entertaininent and ac-
commodation, withdrew, and the dispute never was resumed.
But although the meeting brought out nothing new touching
the matter in dispute, it was not without its influence in forward-
ing the great work of the Reformation. Public attention could
not fail to be directed by such a conference to the enlightened
views and the holy purposes of Knox; and a lively sense of the
services which he did to their forefathers, has descended to their
children of the present day. The inhabitants of Maybole have
instituted a "Knox Club," which holds a triennial festival, at which
men of all parties meet, to testify their gratitude for their deliver-
ance from the domination of Rome, and their secure enjoyment
of Protestant principles, achieved for them by Knox and his coad-
jutors. *
	But while Popery was thus shaken by the weapons of reason
and of truth, there were many altogether indifferent to the Pro-
testant cause, who were yet ready to join in the attack on the fal-
ling fabric of the church, for the purpose of seizing on' its revenues,
and power; and I have next to relate, as an instance of this, one
of the most remarkable scenes recorded in provincial history.
Quentin Kennedy was succeeded in  his office of Abbot of Cross-
raguel by Allan Stewart, and the barbarous treatment to which he
was subJected, to wring from him the titles of his property, forms
a striking part of the "History of the Kennedys."The most
graphic account, however, of the transaction is given by Richard
Bannatyne in his "Memoriales," which is quoted by Mr Pitcairn
in his excellent notes; and it may also be added, that every part
of Bannatyne's narrative is distinctly confirmed by the abbot's own
statements in his "bill of supplication to the Lords of Privy-Coun-
cil." Gilbert, fourth Earl of Cassilis, appears to have been a man
of most rapacious and unscrupulous character. He had already,
by forgery and murder, possessed himself of the abbacy of Glen-


<FOOTNOTE>See the reprint of the original work of Knox referred to, and Dr M'Cries Life
of the Reformer, whdre a very distinct account of the disputation is to be found.


