
                         HOBKIRK.                           209

mile in breadth.  On each side, the ground rises with a conside-
rable acclivity, to the eastern and western borders of the parish.
   On approaching Hobkirk either from the east, west, or south,
the temperature feels obviously augmented as we descend into the
valley of the Rule; but it must be confessed, that the borders of
the parish in these directions are particularly exposed; and this
circumstance, doubtless, renders the change more perceptible, and
more grateful to the traveller.  Upon the mountain range to the
south, clouds condense and precipitate themselves in copious rains.
These sometimes fall so heavy as to resemble water-spouts. The
inhabitants of this parish, as well as of the neighbouring town of
Hawick, preserve the remembrance of a water-spout which broke
upon Windbrugh, some seventy years ago, and unexpectedly swelled
the streams of Rule and Slitterick to a tremendous height.  In the
traditions of the good town, this event is still celebrated under the
appellation of Hawick flood, and several anecdotes connected with
it may be found in Wilson's History of Hawick.  An allusion to
the same event occurs in Leyden's Scenes of Infancy, where, with
poetic license, the poet ascribes the sudden inundation to the ven-
geance of the affronted nymph of Windbrugh Lake.
   The climate is upon the whole damp, the heights swampy, and often
overhung with moist fogs, vernacularly termed drows, or Liddes-
dale drows.
   Hydrography.--In the upper part of the parish, there are
numerous salubrious springs flowing from the greywacke formation;
in the lower parts, where the sandstone prevails, there are com-
paratively fewer.   Several Marshes or bogs occur, but nothing
which can properly be called a lake; that which is so termed and
is celebrated by Leyden, on the top of Windbrugh, is in reality a
peat moss.   There is but one stream of any consequence in
the parish, viz. the Rule,--which, rising from the range of hills
on the south, flows nearly due north throughout the whole length
of the parish, and, about two miles beyond its northern extremity,
falls into the river Teviot.   Its whole course, therefore, must be
about thirteen miles.  Like all mountain torrents, its declivity
is considerable, and its velocity proportionally great.   From this
circumstance, combined with the extensive drainage of the hills,
its swellings and subsidings are extremely sudden.  About a mile,
south from the church, the name is first applied to the union, of
three branches, which gather their waters from the alpine range
above-mentioned.  Two or three small burns join it farther down,
    ROXBURGH.                           O


