
140                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

gality; but it was made a burgh of baron when the Jurisdiction
Act was repealed: and it is governed by a bailie appointed by
the Duke of Hamilton. Bo'ness is a post-town, having two arrivals
and two departures of the mail daily. A weekly market is held on
Monday. There is an annual fair in July, which is observed now
chiefly by the colliers and carters, who then choose the office-
bearers of their friendly societies, and ride in procession, gayly
decorated with ribbons, feathers, and flags.
   Harbour.-The harbouris formed by two piers carried out into
the Frith. The western pier, which was first erected, has its ex-
tremity bent towards the east. The eastern pier extends as far as
the other; so that the harbour is completely protected from
storms, and is one of the safest and most accessible in the Frith.
A double wall, forming a broad road, has been run across the har-
hour, between the two piers, so as to form a basin on the land side
of the harbour. This basin is allowed to fill with the flowing tide,
and at low water it is emptied by opening four sluices, through
which the water flows with a rapid current, so as to clean and
deepen the harbour with very little trouble or expense. A small
jetty has been run out from the middle of this wall, and parallel
with the piers, which increases the accommodation of the harbour;
and at the west end of the wall is a gateway, (the gate or lock
has lately been removed,) through which vessels are admitted to a
patent slip, which has been laid down at the west side of the ba-
sin. The breadth of the harbour, or the length of the basin wall
and dock-gate between the two piers, is 240 feet; the length of
the west pier from this wall is 568 feet. A part of the east pier,
386 feet long, was built in 1733; and an addition, 180 feet long,
was made in 1787. The depth of water in the Harbour at spring
tides may he from 16 to 18, or even 20 feet.
   The improvements of the harbour have been effected chiefly
by an impost on ale and beer, and on anchorage duty le-
vied by an Act of Parliament, which has been repeatedly renew-
ed. By the last act, (of 1816, for twenty-five years,) an assess-
ment of 1s. per pound is levied on all buildings within town,
along with the old impost of 2 1/2d. Scots on the pint of ale or beer,
and an anchorage duty of 2 1/2d. on coasters, and 3 1/2d. on foreign
vessels.
   The impost, duty, and assessment of the town and harbour are
under the management of fifteen trustees, elected from, the mer-
chants and shipmasters.


