
     Of Kilfinan.

   Instances of Longevity.-Few instances of longevity
are recorded in this parish; but this cannot be attribut-
ed to the climate, which is abundantly wholesome.  It
requires no great penetration, however, to find out, at
least a very supposable cause, which is, that the last ge-
neration have been exceedingly addicted to drinking,
owing to their having carried on a ruinous contraband
trade with the Isle of Man, to an astonishing extent; the
bad effects of which are discoverable in the parish to
this day.  It was only in the southern district of the pa-
rish, viz. the Kerry, that this trade was carried on, and
consequently they were then more wealthy, in general,
than their neighbours in the northern division; but

     G g 2

<FOOTNOTE>

multiplying his misfortunes, they become more cautious in approaching
any contagion which seems to them to be connected with danger.
In the course of 40 years back, epidemical stiches made their appear-
ance 3 several times in the parish, and carried off a great number of
people.  The second visit of this disorder, was about the year 1772, and
was very general and deadly over the whole country.  The last was in
the year 1784, when the disorder entered at the north end of the parish;
and being very mortal, continued its progress through almost every farm
of that division, called Otter, but did not cross the water at Kilfinan.  By
all accounts, the disorder was exactly the same at both these last periods,
and was so very violent, that, in general, the patient was either carried
off, or recovered within 48 hours, after his being seized.  People of a
plethoric habit, and especially young people, were most frequently at-
tached.
The blessed disovery of inoculation has been early practised in this pa-
rish, and, at all times, with great success; yet, it is much to be regret-
ted, that few of the lower ranks can be persuaded to take the benefit of
it.  From 3 to 7 years is generally the longest interval between the visits
of the measles in this parish.  The last was in the year 1789, when a
very remarkable circumstance attended it; upwards of 30 adult people,
males and females, from 20 to 60 years of age, have been seized with the
disorder, while the greatest number of the young children have escaped,
some of them even in the very houses, and lying in the bosom of their
parents when confined.


