
     Statistical Account

inclosed their farms; and, by putting them into a rotation of
fallow, corn, and green crops, give a laudable example in
agriculture to their tenants.  They use the English plough
with two horses, without a driver, with most of the other
instruments of husbandry used in the Lothians.  The tenants,
however, have not yet surmounted their prejudices in favour of
old customs, and are satisfied with following the mode used
by their grand-fires, except in the culture of potatoes, which
has taken place only within the last 30 years.  The lands are
still open; nor do they shew any desire to have them inclo-
sed.  They use a plough peculiar to the country, drawn for
the most part by six small oxen, or by two horses and four
oxen.  Almost every kind of carriage is performed with
carts*.  The wheels are timber tumblers, bought at about 2 s.
the pair, on which are placed frames for the different pur-
poses, made by the tenants themselves Horses are the on-

<FOOTNOTE>

other place in the north of Scotland.  The reason is, that it
abounds with licenced stills, which consume the barley.  It is
the nearest corn country to a large extent of the west coast and
Mid Highlands.  The Highlanders are supplied from thence
with oat-meal and whisky:  Hence considerable quantities of
barley and oat-meal are imported by the Friths of Dingwall
and Beauty to a sure and ready market Home-made barley
of crops 1789 and 1790 sold at 18 s. per boll.  At the same
time, barley sold in Murray at 16 s. and 16 s. 6d.  Oat-meal
of there crops sold at from 16 s. to 18 s. 9 stones barley of
crop 1791, sells at from 18 s. 6 d. to 20 s. per boll.  Potatoes
generally sell at from 6 d. to 8 d. a peck; beef, from 2 d. to 4 d. a
pound; mutton and pork at 2 1/2.; a hen at 6d.; chickens at
2 d. each; eggs at 1 1/2 d. per dozen; a, wedder of the country
breed at 6 s.

*The great number of cottagers affords labourers, who are
employed by the proprietors in improving their farms.  The
common hire is 6 d. a day.  In harvest, men and women earn
6 d. and, in some places, their maintenance.  Common men-
servants are hired at 3 L. a year, women at 1 L. 10 s.  Several
young people of both sexes, and some married men, go to the
south country to earn harvest wages, and return the beginning
of winter.


