
636                      ARGYLESHIRE.

the place of execution, where he suffered a cruel and ignominious
death. The Lord of the Isles, to mark his approbation of the
promptitude and bravery which his vassal displayed in capturing
and carrying back the fugitive from punishment, gave him, as tra-
dition asserts, a charter of the lands of Kilmabunaig in the follow-
ing words, which indicate that he was no admirer of prolixity in
conveyancing:-
              "Mise Dombnul nan Dombnul
               A'm shuidh air D£ Dombnul
              'Toirt c•ir do Mhae Aoidh air Kilmahunaig
               O'n duigh gus am m...ireach
              'S gu l... bhr...th mar sin."

i.e.-I, Donald, chieftain of the Clan-donald, sitting on Dundo-
nald, give a right to Mackay to Kilmahunaig, from this day till
to-morrow, and so on for ever.
   Forts.--On a small green hill near the mansion-house of Ard-
nackaig, there are some remains of a fort or watch- tower. It is
about fifty yards in circumference, and the remains of the surround-
ing wall are twelve feet in thickness. About two miles to the
south-east, on the hill of Barmore, there is another watch-tower
of the same form and dimensions. And on a hill near the church
of Tayvallich, there are the remains of a fortification called D£n
a bh‚allich, or the fort of the pass. This fort was probably intend-
ed to secure the pass leading from the bay of Carsaig to the bay
of Tayvillieh. There are several others in this parish, all in ele-
vated and conspicuous situations. But by far the most interesting
monument of antiquity in the parish is Castle Swen, which stands
on a rock close to the sea, and commands a very extensive view of
the surrounding country. The date of its erection is not known;
but it is evidently the work of different ages. The walls display
great strength of masonry. They are about 7 feet in thickness,
35 feet in height, and, including Macmillan's tower, 105 feet in
length. Probably Macmillan's tower was built much later, as its
walls are considerably thinner. In Macmillan's chamber there are
traces of windows, and two vents. Immemorial tradition bears
that the castle was built by Suine Mac righ Lochlan,-Swein or
Sweno, Prince of Denmark,-towards the beginning of the eleventh
century; and if this be correct, it must have been the residence
of successive races of warrior chiefs, during the eventful struggles
between the Scandinavians and the Scots, and the not less bloody
conflicts between the Scottish Kings and, the Lords of the Isles.
This fortress commanded the entrance to Lochswen, and was re-
                             1


