
				DIRLETON.		       207

in further corroboration of this opinion, there is to be found be-
neath the sand, a clay soil, in which old ridges are to be dis-
tinctly traced.
  In Aberlady parish, to the west of this, a similar catastrophe has
taken place; a few years ago, whole fields were laid bare of the
sand, beneath which were discovered crooked old-fashioned ridges
in a fine clayey loam. But at whatever period the blowing of the
sand commenced, (and the probability is that it was about the
beginning of the seventeenth century,) it must have originated in
the removal of the brushwood, and binding plants which covered
the hill. The mischief is still increasing, and instead of any mea-
sures being taken to prevent it, a portion of the hill is annually
ploughed.
   Botany.-From the highly cultivated state of the parish, the
situation is not favourable for the botanist. It is only on the sandy
common on the coast, that a few of the rarer plants have been
found. In the cultivated fields, there are found abundantly, the
Silene noctiflora, Sherardia arvensis, Centaurea Scabiosa, and oc-
casionally Alopecurus agrestis, Silene conica, S. Anylica, Saxifiraga
tridactylites, and Fedia dentata. Campanula hybrids has also been
discovered this summer (1836,) in the neighbourhood of the vil-
lage. In the summer of 1835, a continental species of Alyssum
was discovered in an uncultivated field a mile and a half from the
sea. The species is the calycinum of Linnaeus. This, it is believed,
the first British station in which the plant has been found.
Gulane links, in this parish, are well known to botanists as the sta-
tion for Utricularia vulgaris, Inula dysenterica, Samolus vale-
randi, and Limosella aquatica. The other vegetable productions
are those found on light sandy shores.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Ancient Family of Vaux, &c.-The Anglo-Norman family of
Vaux or De Vallibus obtained in the twelfth century a part of
the manor of Golyn and Dirleton, with part of the lands of Fell-
ton. The daughter and heiress of William De Vallibus, Lord
of Dirleton, brought these estates to her husband, Sir John Haly-
burton, about 1340. Their grandson, Sir Walter Halyburton
of Dirleton, High-Treasurer of Scotland, or his son, Sir John
Halyburton, was created a peer before 2d January, 1447-8. Pa-
trick, sixth Lord Halyburton of Dirleton, died 1506, being suc-
ceeded in his title and estate by his eldest daughter Janet, mar-
ried to William second Lord Ruthven. Their son, Patrick Lord
Ruthven and Dirleton, was grandfather of John Earl of Gow-



