
18                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

death of Sir Thomas Roslyne, who had fallen in an attack on the
town the year before. *  The town was within a few years rebuilt,
and seems at this time to have received the designation of New
Aberdeen;-not in contradistinction to the Kirktown of Seaton,
which is now called Old Aberdeen, but simply because it was
then a new built town.  It seems certain that Aberdeen was a
town of some note long before Old Aberdeen was any thing more
than a hamlet with a church.
   Subsequent to this time Aberdeen was repeatedly honoured by
the visits or the prolonged residence of the Scottish King, and a
mint was established in the town, from which coinages were issued
both by David and Robert III.
   The records of the town council now extant commence in the
year 1398, but nothing requiring notice in this summary occurs
for a good many years.  During the captivity of James I. and the
minority of James II., the troubled state of the country obliged
the inhabitants of each town to provide for their own security, and
the citizens of Aberdeen were ordered to arm, the town was pro-
tected with walls, the gates being carefully shut at night, and an
armed patrole of thirty citizens was daily selected as a guard
against surprise.
   In, 1411, Donald, Lord of the Isles, made an inroad on the
country to the west of Aberdeen, and advanced with the purpose
of pillaging the town; but the Earl of Mar having collected forces
in the low country, opposed his progress, and on the 24th of July a
battle was fought at Harlaw, a place about twenty miles from
Aberdeen, in which both parties, sustained considerable loss, and
neither could claim the victory. +  Among those who fell on the
side of the Earl of Mar was Sir Robert Davidson, the provost of

<FOOTNOTE>to him without reason, as in the present instance; Mr Thom in his History of Aber-
deen, says, "Hector Boece mentions that Edward II. sent ships to Aberdeen, anno
1883 from which party landed and burnt the town for six days; but this must be
a mistake :" there is, however, no mention of this expedition in boece's history.  Con-
siderable confusion prevails in the statements an this subject, some alleging (apparent-
ly on the authority of an incorrect expression in Froissart, 1. i. p. 1, c. 57, where be
says that, in 1333 Edward entered Scotland " qu'il foula gravement toute la plaine
d'Escosse, et ardit et exillat moult de villes privees de fosses et de palis;-et coururent
ses gens tout le pays jusques a Saint Jehanstone et jusques a Abredane;") that the
town was burnt in 1333 as well as in 1336; and that on one or the other of these oc-
casions, (for it is differently stated) the fire raged for six days.  There does not seem,
however, to be any evidence for more than one burning; and it is by no means
likely, that the town was then of such extent as to require six days for its consump-
tion, though possibly the work of destruction by Edward's soldiers may have been
carried on for that length of time.  Vide Boet. Hist. Scot. 1 xv. fol., 332.  Fordun,
l.  xiii. c. 37.
          Wyntown's Chronicle. b. viii ch. 31.
          Boet. l. xvi. fol. 354.-Majoris Hist. l. vi. c. 10.-Fordun, l. xv. c.21.


