
     Statistical Account

28 bolls of meal; and L. 37: 10 sterling, in money; with a
glebe of between 8 and 9 acres.
   One of the poorest, though not surely the least useful man
in the parish, is the schoolmaster:-to maintain a young
rising family, the amount of all he can make, as schoolmaster
and session-clerk, is between L. 11 and L. 12 sterling yearly.
Many of his brethren in the country are in the same miserable
situation; and cannot better their circumstances, but by fol-
lowing some business, inconsistent with proper attention to
their schools*.
   Seldom above 3 or 4 are on the poor's roll.  The permanent
fund for their support is but L. 50 sterling.  The interest of that
sum, however, with the weekly collections, has been found hither-
to sufficient for the stated distributions, and also for occasional cha-
rities, sometimes well bestowed on honest industrious persons,
who have been reduced by distress or unavoidable misfortunes,
to enable them to proceed on their usual occupations.

   General Character.-The different orders of people in this
place are in general sober, honest, and industrious; and as
their external circumstances, so their natural genius and tem-
per, are favourable to tranquility and contentment of mind.

<FOOTNOTE>

*If the prosperity of the state depends much on the piety and virtue
of the commonality, and this again on early education, public spirited men
should surely exert themselves to meliorate the condition of parochial school-
masters, to enable them to give their whole attention to the education of
youth.  Many who know and feel for their extreme poverty, so pernicious to
the general interest of education in the country, were sorry to hear of councils
and deliberations solemnly held by gentlemen of landed property, in different
parts of Scotland, as upon business of the last importance, only to bassle the
petition of the poor schoolmasters for such an addition of their salaries as
might enable them to live, without having recourse to any business foreign
to their prosession.


