
			      STEWARTON.                        735

is found to be of great advantage for the dairy stock, is increasing
yearly. A great part of the lands, especially in the upper part of
the parish, being loose and friable, is well suited for raising green
crops, particularly potatoes for seed. There are few parishes in
Scotland better adapted for dairy husbandry than this. Draining
has been, for several years past, very common, and is now become
general. Generally two-thirds or three-fourths of the farms are
kept in grass, and the remainder cropped with two or three white
crops, mostly oats, and laid down in grass, which is cut for rye-
grass-hay, the year following the grain crop, and then allowed to
remain in grass for five or eight years. The soil is so good, that,
if allowed to lie in grass for any length of time, it becomes richer,
or "in better heart," as the farmers teim it, and does not grow
wild, like poor soils. Were the lind better cleaned, and sown
down with good grass, it would graze more cattle, and materially
benefit the dairy. There is a considerable want of shelter in the
upper part of the parish, which, if judiciously planted in belts and
clumps, would benefit the soil considerably, and increase its pro-
ductiveness. The farms have been suitably subdivided and well en-
closed since the beginning of this century. The quantity of land
under cultivation and otherwise is understood to be nearly as
follows:-

<TABLE>
         In tillage, about              2000 Scotch acres.
         Cultivated grass lands,        5500
         Natural pasture,               1000
         Moss land,                     1500
         Woods, gardens, and roads, *  150

	Rent of Land.--Arable land rents from L. 1 to L.3, 1Os. per
acre; average L. 2. The rent of grazing a milch cow is about
L. 4, 10s., or L. 5. In many instances one Scotch acre grazes
one cow.  Glenouther or Hairshaw moor, extending to 600 acres,
is now in common between two heritors. 600 or more acres of the
same kind lie contiguous in the parishes of Mearns and Fenwick,
where sportsmen from neigbbouring quarters congregate on the,
]2th of August. From its elevated situation, it might be greatly
improved by draining, and were it properly sheltered, it would be
good moor pasture, and in some instances might be profitably
cropped. Higher lands in the neighbouring parish of Mearns yield
good pasture, and are also often cropped.
	Enclosing with stone and lime costs L. 1, 10s. per rood. Few
dry-stone fences are used here. Hedge fences are very com-

<FOOTNOTE>There are 45 stone bridges besides several wooden ones, all kept in good repair.


