
382                           AYRSHIRE.

and a chapel. Very fine water is found on the rock, and near its
summit. There is little pasture on it. Numberless flocks of birds
frequent it, and particularly gannets or solan geese. It is chiefly
from their feathers that the rent of the island is derived; and it is
only during the time that the birds are sought for on account of
their feathers, that any one resides upon it. There was recently
a plan in agitation for making Ailsa a fishing-station, for the sup-
ply of Glasgow and Liverpool, by means of the steam-boats which
pass it regularly. Some buildings were commenced for the pur-
pose, but the plan has not been carried into effect.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The parish abounds in some of the
most useful minerals, as coal, limestone, and sandstone (freestone.)
	The form or shape of the coal-field is that of a long elliptical
basin, extending about six miles in a north-east and south-west
line of bearing through the parish. Its breadth is about 600 yards.
Eminent engineers consider it as forming part of the great coal
field which stretches across the island from the neighbourhood of
Edinburgh, in a south-westerly direction, into Ayrshire. The coal-
field here consists of five workable seams of coal, varying in thick-
ness from four to fourteen feet, and cropping out to the surface on
both sides of the basin, at right angles to the line of bearing, with
different declivities, from forty-five degrees, from one in one to one
in three. The seams are all of good quality, but are subject to various
dislocations, ashitches, slips, and are traversed by greenstone or whin-
stone dikes,&c. The roofs are generally good, either shale,fire-clay,
or hard sandstone. The coal is worked to considerable extent on the
estates of Bargany and Dalquharran. Steam-engines have been em-
ployed at both collieries for a number of years. The sales are prin-
cipally for home consumption; but coals are also shipped from these
collieries to Ireland and elsewhere. The gas which is used at Ayr
is obtained from the Dalquharran parrot coal. The sales may
amount annually to 20,000 tons. The cost of a ton at the pit head
is about 4s. 8d. or 5s. A ton weighs 24 cwt., and there are eight
creels in a ton. It is singular that no coal has as yet been disco-
vered to the west or south of this parish. There are twn lime-works
in the parish; the one near the northwest extremity at Craighead,
on the estate of Bargany; the other near the south-east extremity,
at Blairbill, on the estate of Kilkerran. Craighead is a vast un-
broken mass of limestone, the dimensions of which are imperfectly
known. Blairhill is a regularly stratified rock, lying betwixt beds
of hard sandstone, with a moderate declivity from the surface. The


