
                         ULVA                                 349

found, including the oyster and clam, lobsters, crabs spoutfish,
limpets, welks, &c. Skate, flounder, lythe, plaice, soles, turbot,
seath, perch, mackerel, and dog-fish, &c. are abundant; herring,
cod, ling, girnot, &c. and large quantities of salmon, have be-en
found in Soribi, and the Ulva North Loch. There are also otters,
seals, porpoises, and most of the sea-fowl that are common on the
west of Scotland, whether as natives of this district, or birds of
passage, such as cormorants, scarts, teals, scale drakes, ducks of
various kinds, &e. ; and the migratory are swans, swallows, cuc-
koos, lapwings, woodcocks, solan geese, curlews, wigeons, &c. Be-
sides these, eagles, hawks, kites, and gdese, wild pigeons, ptarmi-
gau. Blackcock, grouse, plover, and snipes are to be found, and
rabbits and, liares are abundant. Were Government to restore
the bounty formerly allowed, ling, cod, and herrings would be fish-
ed to much profit, and Ulva, from its, centrality and good, har-
bours, would become a station where a fishery, might be advantages.
ously planted.
When the celebrated Dr Johnson visited this island, no plan-
tations were to be seen. Wood, young trees, and planting are.
now making great progress, and the room where the Doctor spent
the night in Ulva, indulging his bile against the then  unclothed
appearance of the landscape, is yet to be seen in the old Mac-
quarie mansion house.
At Kilviceuen, the ordinary burying-ground of the island, which,
as the name imports, was a place of worship during.the domina-
tion of the Roman Church, there were, some years ago, found
in the ruins, the bell of the chapel. In Glackingdaline Bay, and
upon a high and steep rock are the ruins of Glackicgdaline Castle,
but whether of Norwegian or Danish origin cannot be determined.
The outward works are yet very entire, and the mounds andwalls
on the summit, although covered with a rich sward of grass can
be plainly traced. At high water, the sea surrounds the rock;
but at low tide, it canbe reached on foot from the Ulv ' a shore, where
the remains of a pieror caureway, leading from the castle to ulvai
are distinctly visible.Several large stones, supposed to be relics
of Druidism, are to be seen, in the island, two at Crakaig, and
others at Aebacharra.
 The only mansion-house in the parish is the seat of, Mr Clark,
in the island of Ulva. It is a large modern building, and placed,
in an extensive park, about 400 yards distant from the "old man-
                                  3


