
                 PARISH OF RUTHWELL.

		    PRESBYTERY OF ANNAN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

       THE REV.  HENRY DUNCAN, D. D. MINISTER.

		  I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c--" THE parish of Ruthwell," says Chal-
mers, * "derived its name from the Anglo-Saxon Rith, a rivulet, and
Weald, a woody place, as we learn from Somner. The Kirkton, +
which was a baronial burgh, stands on a rivulet which falls into
the Solway Frith about a mile below. The remains of the ancient
woods, whence a part of the name is derived, still exist. In vul-
gar rpeech, and dven in the chartularies, the name of Rithwald, or
Ruthwell, has been abbreviated into Ryval or Rival."
	Other derivations of the name have been conjectured; but
whatever may be thought of the etymology of the first syllable,
that of the second seems to be confirmed by the nearly corre-
sponding terminations of the adjoining parishes of Mousew`ld,
Torthorwald, and Tinwald, all extending along the morass of
Lochar,--a morass which runs into each of these parishes as well
as into Ruthwell, and which the numerous remains of imbedded
trees amply prove to have been at some distant period a continuous
forest.
	The parish is bounded on the south by the Solway Frith, and
by the rivet Lochar, which stream divides it from Caerlaverock
both in this direction and on the west; on the north-west by
Mousewald; on the north by Dalton; and on the east by Cum-
mertrees. It is about five miles and a-half long, by two miles and
a-half broad, containing somewhat less than fourteen square miles.
	Topographical Appearances, &c.--In its surface the parish is

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonia, Vol. iii. p. 191.
	  There is, properly speaking, no Kirkton. The village in question stands half a
mile nearer the Solway than the church, but the rivulet passes them both. Chal-
mers speaks erroneously of the woods as " still existing along the bank of the rivu-
let." They are, in fact, a mile distant from it; but they may have been at one time
contiguous.


