
                  FOSSOWAY AND TULLIEBOLE.                 1021

Rent.-The average rent of arable land in the parish is L. 1. per
acre Scotch.  The real rental of all the land in the parish amounts
to about L. 9700.  The average of grazing is about L.3, for
each cow, and 4s. 6d. for each sheep per annum.
  The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
  The farm-houses, with very few exception, are good and com-
fortable dwellings.  The fences are generally stone dikes; the
thorn hedge is also partly used.  The wire fence, with wooden
posts, has of late been introduced to a considerable extent on the
estate of Fossoway.
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market- Towns.- Thd nearest market and post-town to the east
end of the parish is Kinross, and to the west end, Dollar.  The
former is six miles from the parish church, and the latter about five.
The principal villages are Blairngone and Crook of Devon.
These, as stated in the former Account, are boroughs of barony.
There is also a small village at Easter Cxartwhynean.
   Means qf Communication.-The turnpike road from Dunferm-
line to Crieff intersects the parish from south to north, and that
from Kinross to Alloa from east to west, passing near the parish
church.  Parallel with the latter, and about two miles to the north,
another turnpike passes through the parish, being the road from
Stirling to the eastern district of Fife.  The turnpike road to
Dunning also passes through a part of the parish. At one time a
public coach from Perth to Glasgow, and another from Crieff to
Edinburgh, travelled through the parish.  But for some years, there
has been no public conveyance to be bad nearer than Kinross,
Dunfermline, or Alloa.  The parish does not thus enjoy great fa-
cility of communication with other parts of the country.  The
want of a post-office is felt to be a great inconvenience.
   Bridges.-Tbere are six bridges on the Devon connected with
this parish.  Of these four belong to turnpike roads, and two to,
County roads.  All of them are kept in good condition.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Till the opening of the Extension church
this Blairngone, about five years ago, the church was the
only place of public worship within the parish. Though it could
not have been placed in a more central situation, yet it is above
five miles from some of the extremities of the parish.  It was built
in 1806, and is commodious and in good repair. It affords ac-
accomodation for 525 persons, allowing is inches to each.  The
manse was built in 1781, repaired and  a little enlarged in 1827.


