
                        CUMBERNAULD.                       137


occasionally fair crops. The climate, however, seems not to be
adapted for orchards, the finer kinds being liable to blight, and all
sorts to canker and rust. The frosts and cold east winds in April
and May often destroy the blossom, and render fruit in this place
but a very precarious crop.
  Zoology.-- Grouse and black-cock breed in the moor of Fanny-
side, and duck and teal in the loch of that name. Pheasants, par-
tridges, plovers, snipe, woodcock, &c. frequent the woods and low
grounds. Some years ago the jumbe rouge, or red-legged par-
tridge, was introduced here by the Honourable Admiral Fleming,
but it is supposed that the climate was too cold, as none of them
are now to be seen. Swallows and martins, &c.; cuckoos visit us
annually. The other small birds are such as are found all over the
country, blackbirds, thrushes, linnets, and finches larks, &c.-
Among birds of prey, and these are not numerous, are the glede,
the sparrowhawk, and the owl. There are three well-stocked
rookeries in the parish. Crows, doubtless, are intended by the Crea-
tor to serve a useful purpose; but in spring and autumn, where they
are numerous, they do very considerable damage to both the grain
and potato crops.
  In spring, the roebuck is to be found in the woods of Cumber-
nauld and Castlecary, where are also a few squirrels. The other
wild animals are, the fox, polecat, weasel, club-tailed weasel, or
ermine, and the otter. Two wild cats were lately shot. The skin
of one of them was nearly as large as that of a fox. I believe that
no badgers are now found here.
   Climate.--The parish having an elevation of 230 or 240 feet
above sea level, the air is sharp; but though sharp it is not unhealthy.
The prevailing winds are west and south-west, which, loaded with
the vapours of the Atlantic, render the climate soft and rainy.
   Hydrography.-From its elevated situation, this parish has no
rivers,-the Kelvin, which divides it from Kilsyth, and the Luggie,
which separates it from New Monkland, being here inconsiderable
streams. Fish formerly abounded, it is said, in both, and in their
tributary rivulets; now, however, a few trout are only to be found.
This decrease is ascribed to the quantity of lime now 'laid upon
the ground, and the flax steeped in the waters.
    With the exception of Fannyside Loch, in the moor of the same
name, there is no fresh water lake in the parish. Formerly, there
were others, which have been drained and turned into arable land.
Fannyside Loch is but a few feet deep; it covers about 60 acres
of land, has a few pike and perch, but no trout. In its bottom and


