
                        UNITED PARISHES OF

                        CROY AND DALCROSS.

               PRESBYTERY OF NAIRNE, SYNOD OF MORAY.

            THE REV. ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, A.M. MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-The precise signification of Croy cannot be deter-
mined. The name is found in Holland, Belgium, and Brit-
tany; and in these countries, the etymon may be ascertained.
The word most analogous to it in the Celtic language is cruadh
(hard),-which is descriptive of its physical features, these consist-
ing of a long continuous ridge of hard mortar, covered with dry
stinted heath, extending through its whole length, and from its
summit level, at about 300 feet above the level of the sea, slightly
declining to the east. Dalcross, Dealganross, is from the Gaelic
words Dal aig ceann Rois, signifying "the dale at the end of the
ravine,"-which is accurately descriptive of the locality. The date
of the union is uncertain; but from charters in the family of Inches,
it must have taken place between the year 1446 and 1500. Dal-
cross of old formed a part of the Lordship of Lovat, and is all si-
tuated in the county of Inverness; Croy is partly situated in the
county of Inverness and partly in Nairne; but so confused and
commingled are the boundaries, that they are not to be easily de-
termined.
  Boundaries.-These are so irregular, that, without a diagram,
no correct idea of them can be conveyed. From five miles to the
east of the church, the form resembles an irregular parallelogram,
with offsets to the south of the River Nairne, its natural boundary.
From two miles west from the church, the parish stretches to the south
for about nine miles, where it meets the northern summit of the
Strathdearn mountains; whence it gradually descends, forming
every imaginable angle and sinuosity in a south-west direction,
where it meets the River Nairne nearly opposite the church of
Daviot. About five miles to the west from the parish church and


