
               ARDCHATTAN.                                483

auk (Alca Torda); guillemot (Uria Troile); puffin (Fratercula
arctica); tern (Sterna hirundo). There are also several kinds
of gulls.
  Ichthyology.-The following varieties of fishes are to be found;
some of them in abundance in our seas, lakes, and rivers. Cod
(Morrhua vulgaris); ling (Molva vulgaris); whiting (Mer-
langu vulgaris); rock cod or red cod; mackerel (Scomber
vulgaris); dog-fish (Spinax Acanthius); gurnard (Trigla gur-
nardus); flounder (Platessa flesus) sole-fish (Solea vulgaris); tur-
bot (Pleuronectes maximus); skate (Raia batis); haddock, rare,
(Morrhua Aeglefinus); sand-eel (Ammodytes Tobianus); cat-
fish (Anarrkickas lupus); John Doree (Zeus Faber), minnow
(Leuciscus phoxinus); stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus);
common burn-trout (Sciltno fario) in all our rivers. There is a
large species of trout peculiar to Loch-awe, which sometimes
wehghs thirty pounds `nd upwards.  Pike is also found there.
  There are varieties of shell-fish on the shores of Loch-creran,
and in Loch-etive, below Connell. Oysters are to be found in
Loch-creran, but in no great numbers; and there are crabs (Can-
cer pagurus); lobsters (Cancer grammarus); shrimps (Cancer
crangon); mussels (Mytilus edulus); clams (Pecten oprcularis);
spout-fisli (Salen siliqua); lady-fish; limpets (Patella vulgata);
periwinkles (Turbo littoralis); cockles (Cardium edule).  The
seal (Phoca vitulina) and welks frequent both our lochs; and the
grampus and porpoise are sometimes seen.
  Of the reptile tribe, we have the lizard (Lacerta agilis); and
the common viper or adder (Vipera communis). The glow-worm
is not uncommon.
  Botany.-Our parish forms a wide, and, it is believed, an in-
teresting field for the botanist to explore, especially as regards
some of the rarer mountain plants. The following are pretty ge-
neral:-

Hypericum montanum	Geranium molle		Saxifraga tridactylites
---------pulchrum	Drosera rotundifolia	------------Hirculus
Jasione montanum	Parnasria palustris	Trollius Europaeus
Saponaria officinalis	Lysimachia memorum
Veronica fruticulosa	Saxifraga hyypnoides

  The fresh water lakes produce Nymphae alba, N. lutea, and
other aquaties; and the Silene maritima, and Verbascum virqatum
are found `long our beaches.
  Woods and Plantations.-The clim`te is particularly congenial
to the growth of trees in all situations where there is depth of


