
96                         BANFFSHIRE.

appears among the surrounding hills like an oasis in the desert,
has been frequently visited and admired by persons of taste from
various parts of the kingdom.  Near the manse, there is a very
curious little hill called "the Riggin," from its resemblance to the
ridge of a house.  It is about 500 yards in length, and about 40
feet in beight.  It has evidently been formed by the action of wa-
ter, as it contains large masses of water sand, and an immense
quantity of smooth and rounded stones.  It is not unlikely that,
in the course of ages, this singularly curious formation may have
been raised by irruptions of the Bogie, in conjunction with torrents
from the hills produced by sudden thaws after great falls of snow
or long continued falls of rain.  The climate of the parish is rather
cold, which way be accounted for partly from its high latitude, and
partly from its particular situation among the hills, which are quite
destitute of wood; indeed, there is scarcely any wood in the parish
except on the banks of the Bogie, which are covered with alder-
a beautiful birch wood at the glen of Tillyminuet and three or four
small young plantations.  The numerous instances of longevity in
the parish, however, afford ample evidence that the climate, though
cold, is healthy.
   Springs, &c.-The parish abounds with perennial springs of excel-
lent soft water, and also with numerous very fine chalybeate springs.
The Bogie takes its rise in Auchindoir, and after winding its course
of about 14 miles, through the parishes of Rhynie and Gartly,
unites with the Deveron a little below Huntly, and finds its way
into the sea at Banff.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-In regard to minerals, this parish
has little to boast, with the exception of slate. Granite, a little lime-
stone and schistus, or clayslate, are here and there met with, suf-
ficient for the purposes of building houses and stone fences ; but the
limestone is so small in quantity, and so deeply seated, that no quar-
ries have been opened, `s the farmers can obtain lime from the quar-
ries of Ardonald in the neighbouring parish of Cairnie, at a cheap-
er rate.  Several of the hills, however, abound with excellent slate,
and many quarries have been opened, which not only yield con-
siderable rent to the proprietor, but afford employment to a num-
ber of industrious, labourers, who frequently obtain good wages from
the tacksmen.  Tbe soils are various.  In the Braes, and on the
haughs along the Bogie, the soil is, in general, a sharp loam with a
considerable portion of sand, and the subsoil either sand or clay. In
                                  3


