
        KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                    325

and chapels in Galloway, with large estates annexed, and granted
them to the canons of Holyrood House.
 The first Papal Legate visited Scotland in 1126; but it does
not appear that any material change in the institution Of Iona
took place until 1203, down to which period tfiere continued to be
monks and abbots. But in that year Ceallach built in Iona tt
monastery, " in opposition to the learned of the place," which was
afterwards demolished ind suppressed by a synod of the Irish
clergy.
 The power and influence of Iona appears to have declined after
the last Danish invasion, when the island came tinder the domi-
nion of these conquerors; and this event must have been accele-
ratdd by the loss of its extensive revenues in Galloway, which were
taken away and granted to the canons of Holyrood Houre, as be-
fore noticed.
 During the time of the  Norwegian reign, which lasted near
two hundred years, the bishops were chosen without respect to
country, for we find French, Norwegian, Encrlish, and Scotch
among the prelates. After the cession of the Hebrides by Mag-
ntis to Scotland, the patronage of the Bishoprick of Iona was, ac-
cording to Sir David Dalrymple's Annals, reserved bv treaty to
the Archbishop of Drontheim.
 While the Hebrides were under the Norwegian domination,
they divided these islands into two districts, called Nordureys and
Stiderevs, the first embracing all the islands to the north, and the
other ail those which lie to the south of the promontory of Ard-
namurchan. But the whole two divisions of islands belonged to
the diocese of the Bishop of Ebude, and his cathedral and resi-
dence being in the Island of Man, one of the Sudereys, he was
from thence styled Episcoptis Sodorensis; hence the origin of the
title Sodor ; . and when the Isle of Man was, in the reign of Ed-
ward I. of England, reduced under the English Government, the
bishoprick of Sodor was preserved, but its limits being circum-
scribed to that single island, its bishops assumed and bore the
united title of Sodor and Man. All the other Western Islands
remaining under the Government of Scotland, were then erected
into a separate diocese, c`lled the Bishoprick of the Isles. The

<FOOTNOTE>If space permitted, vve might here give excerpts from the Irish annals of
tigherac, Innisfallen, Buellan, and Ulster, relative to Iona, commencing with the
birth of Columba, and ending with the twelfth century.


