
370                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

which are necessary even to the poorest and rudest nations. It
contained no workmen bred to mining, to working in metals, to
making of woollen cloth, of linen, of leather, to the production of
grain and cattle in a great way, and no capital nor capitalists to pay
the wages of such workmen, to pay for the formation of young
workmen, and to sell the produce of their work. To say that the
country was without mechanical artists and without capital, is to
say that it contained no manufactures, for artists and capitalists are
the constituent parts of a manufactory.

(and afterwards when they wanted to sell their horses they could find no buyers.)
The kynge (Robert) was in the wylde Scottysh, (i. c. the Highlands)...Then came
the kynge Robert of Scotland; he had a payre of red bleered eyen. They looked
like sendal, which is a red stuff of silk, (i. e. he had a retroversion of the eyelids,-
an infirmity to which old age is subject,) and it seemed right well by him that he was
no valiant man in armes: it seemed he had rather lye still than to ryde: he had 9
sons, and they loved well armes...The kynge was not in good point to ryde a warfare
... And the kyng (of England, Richard II.) came and lodged in Edinborrow, and
there tarryed fyve dayes, and at his departing it was set afyre, and brent up clene,

<FOOTNOTE>The houses in Edinburgh, about 1380, were probably, in great part, constructed
of wood, and the roofs covered with branches of trees, with turfs and with straw,
some perhaps with fissile sandstone, called in Scotland grey slate. Even in those
buildings which form what is now called the Old Town of Edinburgh, many of
the fronts of the houses are of wood.
  In 1544, Edinburgh was again burnt by the English, and there is an old drawing
of a view of Edinburgh, supposed to have been made just before that burning. This
drawing is amongst the Cotton MSS. in the British Museum; and an exact copy of
it is engraved and published in the Bannatyne Miscellany, Edinburgh, 1827. In
this drawing, the roofs in the Canongate are all coloured grav to represent thatch.
The roofs in the town are coloured red. This the draftsman may have done; be-
cause in many of the towns in England, with which he may have been familiar, the
roofs have long been covered with flat tile. But it is probable that tile was not used
in Scotland in 1544, and that the roofs were usually covered with straw thatch, and
some of the better sort of them with thin flags of fissile sandstone. The church of the
Abbey of Holyrood had some lead as a covering to the roof. It was the custom for-
merly to inscribe upon the house the number denoting the year in which it was built.
Amongst the dates so inscribed on the houses of the old town of Edinburgh, there
are not many or none older than about 1591. There was one in the Old Bank
Close, south side of the Lawnmarket, a well-built mansion, with the date of 1591
on it.
  Edinburgh, altogether, is not an ancient town. It is probably little more than 1000
years since the first fortress was built on the castle rock, and the first dwellings pitch-
ed on the adjacent ground. No inscriptions, coins, or other relics of the Romans
are found, which shows that on the site which the town now covers, there was
no Roman station, and probably no collection of dwelling places of any kind
about 450, when the Romans had finally left and given up all connection with
Britain. The only relic of the Romans, which might be supposed to belong to Edin-
burgh, is a pair of heads in has relief, built in the front of a house in the Nether Bow.
But tbese heads have probably been brought from some Roman station in the adja-
cent country. They may have belonged at one time to a church or monastery, for
they have been set up as if to represent Adam and Eve, the inscription placed between
them being the doom pronounced on the first man and all his descendants, "in sudore
vultus tui vesceria pane tuo," in letters of the black letter form, of perhaps about
1400. Some antiquaries consider the heads to be portraits of the Emperor Alexan-
der Severus and his consort.

<FOOTNOTE>Tile-making, brick-making, and pottery were scarcely, I should think, amongst
the smah number of the mechanical arts practised in Scotland in 1544.


