
                        MID-CALDER.                      373

that period. Near to this seat, when the church was lately un-
dergoing a slight repair, several coins were found of the reign of
Charles I.
 Tumuli. -The tumuli or cairns in Scotland are also known by
the name of laws or barrows. Several of these are to be seen all
along the banks of the Almond, not only as it runs through this
parish, but through all its course, till it unites with the Frith of
Forth at Cramond. On its south bank, about two miles west of
the village, there may be seen four barrows or turnuli, near which,
according to common tradition, a great battle was fought, in early
times, between the Picts and Scots; or at another period, when
Constantine IV. attacked Malcolm, the Scottish general. Many
turnuli or mounds of this kind are to be found where dead bodies
have been deposited. At an early period of our history, the
water of Almond is said to have been a very important pass,
which may, in some degree, account for the great number of
these barrows and stone coffins, which are everywhere to be found
along its banks.
 Several other artificial mounds are to be seen not far from the
banks of the Almond. One of the most remarkable of these is
the Cunnigar, which signifies the guard or keeper of the conies
of rabbits. It lies between the Almond and the village; and it
is said that upon this mound were burnt many of those unhappy,
wretched creatures, called witches. In those days of superstition,
Calder was considered one of the most noted places of their ren-
dezvous. The writer has conversed with people in this place,
who, in their youth, have known persons that were actually em-
ployed to guard those who were suspected of witchcraft.*

                   III.-POPULATION.
  In 1755, according to Dr Webster's report, the amount of the
population of this parish was 760; and, in 1793, Dr Wilson, states
it, in his Statistical Account of that date, to be 1251, of whom 588
were males, and 663 femalds, the latter thus exceeding the former by
75. Of these, 689 belonged to the country part of the parish, and
the remaining 562 were inhabitants of the town. He represents
the population as having been for a few years previous to this date
rather upon the decline. In 1831, the population was 1412 ; in
1836, it was 1404; and in 1841, 1456.
 For several years, it may be said that there have been no resi-
dent heritors in the parish, excepting two, very small, proprietors.

<FOOTNOTE>The records of the kirk-session furnish some interesting notices on this subject.


