
   220                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   Rona, and other small islands belonging to Macleod of Rasay, from
   the great body of the parish.  This arm of the sea runs along the
   whole length of the parish, and is of various breadth and depth.
   It has, at all times, a sufficient depth of water to make it navigable
   to a first-rate ship of war.
      From the immense quantity of fresh water discharged into it
   from the adjacent bills of Rasay and Portree, together with the
   great admixture of soil carried into it by the rapid streams rushing
   from the neigbbouring high-grounds with which it is surrounded,
   the water frequently, and more especially near the shore, acquires
   a dark and reddish colour; but in the summer season, and when
   the weather has been for any length of time dry, the water along
   the coast is perfectly clear, and transparent as crystal.
      Near the shore, those arms of the sea, which in various places
   intersect the parish, are quite shallow, but as they recede from high-
   water mark, they acquire great depth, and a much greater degree of
   saltness; but this latter quality is much less nearer the shore, from
   the immense quantity of fresh water which is discharged from the
   rivers and lakes which abound in the parish, and in its immediate
   vicinity.  In this same channel, which divides Rasay and its ap-
   pending small isles from the main, body of the parish, and more
   especially in spring tides, the current is most rapid in the nar-
   rows, and so much so that it greatly impedes, and sometimes alto-
   gether suspends, the progress of vessels sailing in a contrary direc-
   tion.
      Springs of greater number, and more salubrious water, are not
   to be seen in, any quarter, than in this parish.  In every season of
   the year, they discharge inexhaustible streams of the purest, the
   sweetest, and most wholesome water.  Indeed, in the driest
   summer season, scarcely any of them is found to fail in furnish-
   ng an abundant supply both for the use of animals and of the
   human species.  Though none ofthe springs is of any great mag-
   nitude, their immense number amply compensates for this def-
   ciency.  They are found on the very summits of high hills,-
   they are seen on plain and level ground,-they frequently issue
   from the sides of hills,-they make their passage for the most part
   through a vast extent of gravelly soil, which is the soil most pre-
   valent in this parish-and they are seen sometimes to spout from
   the fissures of black and flinty rocks.  There are six fresh-water
   lakes in this parish,-the whole of them of different dimensions,


