

       178                INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          Produce.-The following is an estimate of the average amount
       of raw produce:

       500 small tenants, 4 cows each, or 2000 at an averse of 15s. per
            cow,                                               L.1500    0    0
         Tacksmen have in all about 300 cows, at L.3 each,        900    0    0
         3000 bolls of grain, at 16s.                            2400    0    0
         Potatoes, &c, 50,400, at 2s.,                           5040    0    0
         Sheep, including all kinds,                              400    0    0
         Hay,                                                     200    0    0
                                                             -------------------
                                                               L. 10,440 0    0

          Kelp Manufacture.-The only branch of general manufacture
       carried on, is that of kelp. At an average, there are 400 fami-
       lies employed in this, from the beginning of June to the Ist of
       August.  In wet weather, no progress can be made in it; and dur-
       ing the dry weather they work hard, sometimes fifteen hours. The
       amount earned by each individual, during that period, is small. Yet,
       as all the family work toggetber, the sum becomes considerable, ave-
       raging about L.4 to each family.  This work enables the class of te-
       nants to exisL With small possessions, without fisheries, with few
       cattle, and these of little value, if deprived of this resource, they
       are unable to meet their rents.
          Navigation.-There are eleven decked-vessels, varying from
       twenty to sixty tons each.  The largest and some of the smaller
       were built in the parish.  With the exception of the Packet, they
       are all employed in the local and coasting trade.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
          There is no market-town in this parish, and the nearest for ge.-
       ral beneficial purposes are those of Greenock and Glasgow, distant
       by sea about 200 miles. With the latter the principal intercourse
       is held, for supplying this part of the country with almost all the
       goods and groceries imported; while the exports to these places
       to meet them are so scanty, as to be hardly worth mentioning, with
       the exception, indeed, of kelp, which is wholly for the benefit of
       the proprietor.  Were a direct communication opened by means
       of steam, the case would be far otherwise, as I shall show before
       concluding.
          At Lochmaddy there was, for many years, a post-office, under
       the name of Carinish: it is now converted into a sub-office to Dun-
       vegan.  It is difficult to assign any good reason for this.  From
       Lochmaddy a packet of sixty tons burthen sails, when the weather
       permits, twice a week to Dunvegan, the nearest safe harbour in
       Skye.  Letters and papers are received in this place, in the surpris-
       ingly short time of four days from Edinburgh. This packet is


