
                              MAYBOLE.                351

	Geology and Mineralogy.--The sea coast affords a very distinct
view of the geological structure of the parish, which may be ge-
nerally described as composed of slightly inclined beds of red
sandstone, traversed at frequent intervals by trap, sometimes in
the form of dikes, and at other times of masses rising into hills.
This structure, though simple in itself, is yet possessed of much
interest, from recent speculations respecting the types to which
the sandstones of the opposite coast of Arran should be re-
ferred.
	Mr Murchison and Professor Sedgwick have published their
views of the Arran strata in the Geological Transactions. The
sandstone at Glen-Sannox is referred by them to the old red sand-
stone and conglomerate; and there can be little doubt of the ac-
curacy of this conclusion, because there is a distinct point or axis
from which the red sandstone dips in opposite directions, in each
of which it is surmounted by a carboniferous series, which is, how-
ever, towards the south, obscurely developed. Towards the north,
this series is covered by an upper red sandstone and conglomerate,
which, at the time of examination, they were inclined to rank as
the equivalents of the new red sandstone of England; although
Professor Jameson, we unddrstand, maintained that they were mem-
hers of the coal formation. Professor Sedgwick, on reconsidering
the subject, seems now disposed to view them as a great develop-
ment of the carboniferous red sandstone.
	For the determining of these points, an accurate examination of
the corresponding strata of the Ayrshire coast has been much de-
sired; and in the hope that the Statistical Accounts of the several
parishes may contain descriptions of the portions they embrace, I
have thought it proper to give the following brief notices of the
appearances of the strata in this parish.
	From the banks of the Doon to the Heads of Ayr, we find thin
beds of sandstone, limestone, ironstone, and shale, dipping at an
angle of from ten to fifteen degrees to the north-east under the
Ayr coal field, and obviously belonging to the carboniferous series.
These are frequently cut by trap dikes; and at Greenan Castle, the
trap is observed overlying the sandstone. The Heads of Ayr consist
of a black earthy tufaceous trap, rising to about 200 feet, traversed at
one part by a thick, hard, basaltic vein. To the south of the Heads
we find strata of red sandstone and conglomerate, dipping, like those
formerly noticed, towards the north-east, and traversed also by dikes


