
196                    RENFREWSHIRE.

this house is an old garden, from the foundation of whose wall,
about thirty years ago, a stone was dug, bearing the following in.
scription cut in Roman letters, "W. W. W. CHRIST IS ONLY MY
REDEEMER." The stone was taken to Elderslie house, the seat of
Alexander Speirs, Esq. M. P. where it still remains.
   Near "Wallace's House," the name by which the above-men-
tioned mansion is known, but on the north side of the turnpike
road, stands the very celebrated tree called "Wallace's Oak"
Many are the years that must have rolled away since this tree
sprung from the acorn.  About eight or ten years ago, its trunk
measured 20 f6et in circumference. Now, it, measures only 14
feet and 2 inches.  It was 60 feet in height, and its branches ex-
tended to the east 45 feet, to the west 36, and to the north 25,
covering altogether a space of 19 English poles.  It derives its name
from having, as tradition affirms, afforded shelter to Wallace and
a party of his followers, when pursued by their enemies, in the
same way as the Boscobel oak afterwards did to Charles II.
   It is also worthy of notice, that, in the garden of Wallace's house,
there is to be seen a fine specimen of our Scottish yew, said to be
coeval with, some say older than, the celebrated oak.  But be this
as it may, it is certainly of ancient date, and tradition has assigned
to it the name of "Wallace's Yew."
   The names of several places in the vicinity of Elderslie con-
firm the opinion of that village having been the birth-place, or at
least the dwelling-place, of the Scottish hero.
   On the subject of antiquities, we would mention that, at a very
little distance to the north-west of Stanelie Castle, there was till
lately a small wood, near which was a Danish stone, according to
Semple, but more probably a Popish cross, "between 4 and 5 feet
high, standing on a pedestal, the cross-piece on the top broken
off." It had wreathed work on its edges, and on one side near the
base, figures of two lions, with those of two boars above. *
   At Auldbar, a mile or so to the southward of Hawkhead, there
was another of a similar description called "the Stead stone Cross"
"It is now," says "Semple, about 4 1/2 feet long, 1,6 inches broad,
and, 8 inches thick standing upon a pedestal about 1 1/2 foot high,
4 1/2 feet long, and 3 feet broad: which stone with its foundation
had been lying in a gravel pit for some years, and was lately erect-
ed by Mr Charles Ross of Greenlaw.  He remembers, within these

<FOOTNOTE>Semple's Renfrewshire, pfart 2, p. 264.


