
                    THURSO.                                    11

salaries of the Society teachers are L.15 and L.12. The promised
salary of the Assembly teacher to be appointed is L. 20.  With
the exception of the parish school and two or three others, the
amount of fees is very small.  The parochial teacher possesses
the legal accommodations.
   The general expense of education for the year in the parish
school, is 10s. for beginners, increasing to L.1, 10s. or L.2 for the
more  Iadvanced.   In inferior schools, the expense for beginners is
about 6s. a-year, and 10s. for the more advanced.  In female
schools, in which  the higher branches are taught, the expense is
considerably greater than in the parish school.
   About 200 children between six and fifteen years of age cannot
read; about 600 cannot write.  The whole number of children
between six and fifteen is about 950.  The number of persons
above fifteen who cannot read is about 120.
  The people in general are alive to the benefits of education,
and are anxious to have their children educated.
  After the Assembly school is opened, there will be no part of
the parish so distant from school as to prevent attendance, nor
will there be any additional schools required; but some of the
schools in existence are in a very precarious state from the want
of any endowment.
  Literature.-There are two circulating libraries in the parish,
and two reading-rooms.
  Charitable and other Institulions.-There is no almshouse, hospital,
dispensary, or asylum.  There are 5 Friendly Societies, the
oldest of which has existed about forty years, and the latest about
twenty.  Their design and tendency are manifestly good, but they
are not by any means in a.flo-urisbing state.  There is no Savings
Bank.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 160.  The average sum allotted to each
is 5s.  The annual amofint contributed for their relief is about
L. 112, of which there is collected at the church door L.80 ; L.25
is voluntarily subscribed by the heritors for the support of two lunatics ;
and L. 6, 18s. is the interest of two sums left as legacies.
With a few exceptions the poor do not consider it degrading to
apply for parochial relief
  Prisons.-The county jail is in Wick.  There is merely a
lock-up-house in   Thurso, where criminals are confined till  they
be sent to Wick.  Within the last year there were five persons



