
   308                       BANFFSHIRE.

   part is allotted as free sittings. The manse is a neat cottage of
   one storey, consisting of seven apartments.
     There is a Roman Catholic chapel also in the village. It is a
   very substantial and capacious building, and includes the priest's
   dwelling-house, which consists of eleven apartments. It was
   built in 1838, and is sufficient to accommodate 464 persons on
   the ground area, besides space for galleries to accommodate 300
   more. The sittings at present fitted up are for 368 individuals.
   The expenses of the building were defrayed by private subscriptions
   over the three kingdoms. These are stated as exceeding
   L.1200; but the exact amount, or how much has been expended
   on the building, is not known. The bishop resides at Presshome,
   in the Enzie, near Foctiabers. The priest is paid by the seat rents
   of the chapel, which are let at from 2s. to 4s. each sitting.
   He has also the interest of L.400, bequeathed by a native of this
   parish to the priest at Tomintoul, besides the annual allowance
   of about L.9 from the fund for the maintenance of the Roman
   Catholic clergy. The number of families attending the parish
   church is 115, and the individuals, 614. The number attending
   the church at Tomintoul is 148 families, and 623 individuals,
   Total attending both the Established churches, 263 families, and
   1237 individuals. The number attending the Roman Catholic
   chapel is 99 families, and 485 individuals; and as the chapel is
   sufficient to accommodate 764 persons, it appears that the munificence
   of the supporters of Popery has, as in this instance, furnished
   accommodation for 279 individuals more than the whole congregation,
   young and old, attending it consists of.  Divine service at
   the Established Church is generally well attended. A great improvement
   has taken place in this respect of late years, although
   there are a few nominal adherents of the Church of Scotland,
   who still retain the pernicious habit of going to church only occasionally,
   or not at all.
     The average number of communicants in the church at Tomintoul.
   is 150, and in the parish church, 143: total, 293.
   There are occasional collections and subscriptions raised for the
   General Assembly's schemes for religious purposes, for the Bible
   Society, and for the infirmary at Aberdeen. These collections
   and subscriptions amount annually to about L.10.
      Education.-There are three permanent schools in the parish,
   l. the parish school, near the parish church. It is attended by


