
234                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

ral alive to the benefits of education, and it is believed that there
are none in the parish above six years of age wbo cannot read.
There is also a boarding-scbool for young ladies in this parish;
and the number that at present attend it amounts to upwards of
20.  Here, they are instructed in all the usual branches of educa-
tion, and to their moral and religious welfare every attention is
paid.  The establishment is kept by Misses Park and Spence,
Upper Wooden.  A Sabbath-school also exists in the parish, which,
under the superintendence of the minister, is taught by the teacher
of the first parish school, and several other well-disposed persons
in the district.
  Library.--In the parish, there are two branches of an itinerat-
ing library,--the one at Eckford, and the other at Caverton-mill.
They are placed under the care of the parish teachers, and the
books are lent to the people on their payment of a small sum
quarterly.  It is proposed, as soon as circumstances will permit, to
establish a stationary library in the district.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--Regular assessments in behalf of
the poor have existed for many years in the parisb, and these are
levied in equal proportions on the proprietors and tenants.  There
are at present on the roll the names of 30 paupers and these re-
ceive at an average about 2s. per week.   Besides these, there are
4 who obtain interim supply, and who are not regarded as regular
paupers.  There is no mortified money; and the collections at
the church doors, as is almost always the case where assessments
have been established, are exceedingly small.  In this district, an
aversion among the poor to seek parochial aid still, to a certain
extent, exists.  No sooner, however, is an application for charity
made by an indigent individual before a meeting of the heritors
and kirk-session, than the circumstances in which he is placed
are at once made known to his neighbours, and the consequence
is, tbat the sense of shame with which he once contemplated the
idea of his wants, being exposed, soon comes for the most part to
be diminished if not altogether effaced.  Now surely it were advis-
able as far as possible, to remedy this evil; and how can this more
effectually be done, than by distributing, in as delicate a way as may
be, a little aid to such needy individuals, as may shrink at the
thought of being regarded as regular paupers.  With the concur-
rence of all parties, this assistance might easily be afforded out of a
fund placed as the disposal of some responsible persons in the dis-
trict, named by hentors and kirk-sessions for that purpose.  The ad-
vantages arising from this system are so very palpable, indeed, that


