
			    RATTRAY.                          239

Strathmore, landlords and tenants have concurred in advancing the
art by all the known and approved methods. The latest improve-
ment is the application of bones for manure, which was introdu-
ced by a farmer here, and generally adopted. It is pretty well
known in Scotland, that the farmers in Strathmore are amongst
the most intelligent and enterprising of their profession.
   Great improvements have also been made in building gentle-
men's seats, and tenants' houses, and the parish now presents a
highly cultivated and pleasing aspect.

   Drawn up 1833-Revised May 1837.


	     PARISH OF RATTRAY.

   PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

       THE REV.  WILLIAM HERDMAN, MINISTER.


	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of Rattray seems to have belonged alike
to the parish, and to the principal family that dwelt in it, and pro-
bably was transferred from the one to the other. It is said that
there are records which bear the name of Rattray of Craighall
and Rattray, as early as 1066. No account is given of the etymo-
logy of the name.
   Boundaries, &c.-Rattray is the westmost parish in Strathmore,
the district adjoining in that quarter beinG the Stormont. It is
bounded by the river Ericht, which runs along the west and south
side, the whole extent of the parish, and separates it from Blairgow-
rie. On the east, it is bounded by the parish of Bendochy, and
farther north by the parish of Alyth. The breadth of the parish,
from west to east, is about 2 miles; the length from north to
south is 5; besides the detached portion of Easter Bleaton.
   Topographical Appearances.-The whole surface of the parish
inclines by a very considerable declivity from north to south. The
southern part, washed by Ericht, is flat; but the ground soon be-
gins to rise towards the village, a short way behind which, perhaps
not more than a quarter of a mile, these hills commence, which
continue to increase in elevation and ruggedness till they termi-
nate in the Grampian mountains; though at the distance of many


