
100	                   BUTESHIRE.

in the town are built, and the slate-quarry near Kames, which is
little Wrought at present.
        Zoology.-In Lochfad and Ascogloch are found abundance of pike
and perch, and in Greenan loch excellent trout. The sea coast yields
plenty of salmon, cod, haddocks whitings, &c. with which Rothe-
say market is well and constantly supplied. It is believed that, if
our fishers were more enterprising than they are, our shores might
be rendered much more productive of gain to them, than the are
at present.
        Botany.-This parish is an excellent field for botanists, and is
often visited by them, on account of the many rare plants which
are found in it.
	Among the less common plants in the parish of Rothesay may
be mentioned:-
Pinguicula Lusitanica     Nymphaes alba              Anagallis tenella
Cotyledon umbiliculus     Subularia aquatica         Osmunda regalis
Saxifraga alzoides        Lycopus Europaeus          Scolopendrium vulgare
Hypericum Androsaemum     Scutellaria galericulata   Lycopodium selago.
Lobella Dortmanna         Bidens tripartita

	There are various plantation of fir, larch, oak, ash, elm, beech, &c.
which are all thriving. In the court of the Castle of Rothesay, there is
a remarkable thorn tree of great height, and which, at the distance
of three feet from the ground, measures 6 feet 3 inches in circumfe-
rence. Last year it fell from its own weight, and now lies pros-
trate with half, of its roots uncovered, but still vigorous in growth.
	There are two remarkable ash trees, half-way between the town
and the parish church, one on either side of the road, with their
branches touching each other. They are commonly of adam and
Eve, and are venerable for their age, their numerous branches, some
of which are broken off, and for the mass of wood which they con-
tain. One of them girths 16 1/2 feet, three feet from the ground, and
the other II feet at the same distance. An oak of great size grow near
the cottage of the late Edmund Kean, the tragedian, on the banks
of Lochfad, under which he often expressed a wish that he might
ground, and has beautifully clean straight bole 16 1/2 feet hight to
the first branch, where the commference is 10 feet. Its finely
balance and conically shape top spreads over an area 65 feet
in diameter, covering acre. There is a magnificent plane tree on the farm
of Shalent, near the north extremity of the parish. It grows on
the margin of a deep ravine, and divides into two limbs near the
ground. One of the there measure 12 feet, and the other 11 feet in


