
                           ELLON.                              923

neglected.  They are now, for the most part, in a state of good
repair, and, in several instances, new lines have been opened up,
by which the progress of improvement has been much facilitated.
The road money is applied, in every case, with great judgment
and economy; and where the sums allocated by the trustees are
found to be insufficient for the execution of improvements seen to
be necessary, the proprietors, much to their credit, have, in many
cases, made temporary advances, without interest, of the amount
required, from their own funds.  Something, indeed, still remains
to be done to put the commutation roads into such a state of im-
provement as may bring out fully the resources of the parish; but
much has been already accomplished, and both proprietors and
tenants are now animated by such a sense of the importance of
the work as affords the best guarantee that it will not be left in an
unfinished state.-The Aberdeen Bank, the Town and County
Bank of Aberdeen, and the North of Scotland Bank, which also
has its head office in Aberdeen, have each a branch in the village
of Ellon.  It is understood that a considerable amount of business is
transacted at these branches,-a circumstance not to be wondered
at when it is kept in mind, that the village constitutes the principal
market place of an extensive district of rich country.-The parish
is rich in the medical profession, there being three surgeons in the
village, and a fourth in the immediate neighbourbood.  There
are two merchant tailors in the village, each of whom gives regu-
lar employment to a considerable number of workmen, two bakers,
and several general merchants for groceries, seeds, cloth, &c.
some of whom carry on a very extensive business.  The number
of persons who have licenses to sell spirits is greater than is desir-
able.  It must be remembered, however, that the well frequented
roads which pass through the village, render houses of enter-
tainment for different ranks of travellers, matter of absolute ne-
cessity.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which is a very plain
erection, quite in the usual style of Scotch country churches, was
built in 1777. Although it can boast, however, of no archi-
tectural beauty, it is a commodious and comfortable place of wor-
ship, having undergone, about twelve or thirteen years ago, a
thorough and substantial repair.  It is seated for nearly 1200 per-
sons, allowing to each sitter the legal admeasurement; but it can
accommodate without much inconvenience a congregation consi-


