
                          DUNSE.                           259

among those who have a claim. It is a very remarkable circum-
stance, that during the year ending in December 1830, only one per-
son died who had a claim on the fund, and that, from May 1830
to July 1831, no pauper died, though their ages averaged sixty-
one years.
   Dr Abraham Robertson, LL. D., mentioned among the distin-
guished natives of this town, whose moral worth was equal to his
scientific attainments, settled annuities of L. 10 on five poor fe-
male cousins in the humble rank of life from which he sprung,
and whose infirmities, arising from old age, reduced them to the
necessity of receiving supply from the poo'rs fund; for which an-
nuities he paid L. 450.
   In the year 1826, Alexander Christie, Esq. of Grueldykes, a
native of, and a liberal benefactor to, the town of Dunse, bequeath-
ed to the poor on the roll of the parish of Dunse, a sum equal to
the sum to which they should be entitled from the roll for two years
after his decease. His intention evidently was to prevent the in-
terference of the heritors of the parish with his bequest,-the dispo-
sal of which, however, would be attended with this evident con-
sequence, that, if the poor should receive double aliment for two
years, they would feel their privations, and be consequently more
discontented after it was withdrawn, than if they had never received
that benefit. Some of the heritors suggested the plan of re-
ducing the aliment on the roll to one-half during these two years,
and taking the other half from the legacy. But Mr Christie's
heirs declared their determination to reject that proposal, though
it would have saved them one-half of the legacy, because they
thought that such a plan would evade the intention of the testator.
Another mode, however, was contrived and carried into effect,-by
which the whole poor on the roll having claims, on condition of re-
ceiving a certain sum in hand, disposed to George Peat, Esq.
Sheriff-substitute, and James Bell, Esq. Sheriff-clerk of Berwick-
shire, William Cunningham, Esq. bailie of Dunse, the Rev. George
Cunningham, minister, and James Watson, Esq. writer, the whole
remaining sum, to which, when accumulated, they might have claim,
-that sum amounting to above L. 700: and the interest was to be
divided annually among the survivors at the beginning of each suc-
cessive year: no one to receive more than L. 10 per annum. As,
however, no provision is made for the disposal of the above L. 700,
when those having claims may have died out; and as it is not stated
whether the trustees act in their official or their individual capa-


