
	                 LARBERT.	                    347

  Mosses in Pasture.--That species of moss, called by botanists
Hypnum squarrosum, and some other species of Hypnum, all which
mosses are named fog in this part of the country, are very frequent
in our pastures. They abound on dry sandy soils, as well as on
moist ground. These mosses are not nutritive to cattle. It is
said that black-cattle and sheep, when they have taken a mouthful
of grass mixed with moss, reject the moss, and throw it out of
their mouth, and swallow the grass and other nutritious plants only.
The seeds of these hypna are very small grains, which have the
appearance of a fine dust or powder. These seeds are shed and
widely diffused by the wind. They fall everywhere, and spring up
into mosses in every field.
  The mosses increase in quantity as the pasture gets older, and
after some years have elapsed, the quantity of moss in the pasture
is greater in weight than the quantity of grasses and other nutri-
tive plants. The pasture now contains little grass, and is unfit for
feeding cattle advantageously.
  To destroy the moss, and bring the field again into good pasture,
the ground must be ploughed and subjected to a rotation of crops
for five or six years, and at the end of that time again laid down in
grass. It thus happens, that in our climate old pastures are unfit
for feeding cattle advantageously, being overgrown with mosses, and
containing little grass, whilst in different parts of England, some
degrees farther south than our parallel, the warmth, and other cir-
cumstances, being less favourable to the propagation of'mokses,
and more favourable to the growth of grass, an old pasture is com-
posed of spontaneous grasses and other nutritive plants, affording
abundant food for cattle. With us, the spontaneous plants in an
old pasture are chiefly mosses, and the pasture affords little food.
There the spontaneous plants are grasses and other nutritive spe-
cies, affording abundance of food. In Holland, also, in parallels
3 1/2 and 4 degrees south of our parallel of 56&deg; 1', the old pastures
give abundance of food fit for fattening cattle.
  Forest Trees.--The district, of which Larbert forms a part, is
not considered to be highly favourable to the growth of timber.
On the table-land of the parish, there is a young wood of some 40
acres, and some smaller plantations. The fir seldom attains sixty
years on that soil, and there are no trees of a large size. In the
lower part of the parish, are some trees of a very large size, in the
Park of Kinnaird. Near the House, are some oaks of a large
girth, and a fine avenue of limes. Near the House of Carron


