
788                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

times happen; but no case of injury to life or property from the
electric fluid has occurred for many years.
   Springs.-Abundance of common springs of water are found in
all parts of the parish.  A few chalybeates exist in it, though none
of them are of much eminence.  One of them, resembling in some
measure, when analyzed, the Moffat waters, was discovered a few
years ago, near the suspension-bridge of Aboyne over the Dee,
and was frequented for some time by the neigbbouring invalids
with apparent benefit; but its celebrity seems now on the wane.
   Geology.-The chief mineral productions found in the parish
are, blue heathen stone, as it is commonly called, granite, and
limestone.  A fine variety of red porphyry is also to be seen on
the borders of the parish, in the bed of the river Dee, near the
bridge of Potarch.  The granite is found in large blocks, near the
surface of the soil, throughout the whole extent of the parish;
and, as these serve all the purposes of building, quarries have not
been opened.  Traces of such, however, are seen in various places
as the superincumbent strata are washed away by the mountain
torrents.  The limestone also abounds, and is usually found with-
in a few feet of the surface, lying under a deposit of gravel and
small stones.  It is used by the farmers in the district for agricul-
tural purposes; but, from the great admixture of sand which it
contains, the difficulty of burning it, and the distance from coal,
none of the quarries will bear the expense of being worked for the
general market.
   The soil of the parish is a light loam, approaching in many
places to gravel.  It chiefly consists of decomposed granite, sand,
and a proportion of clay,-the latter in defective quantity.  For
this reason, the soil is loose and friable, ill adapted for raising
wheat or heavy crops, of oats, but better calculated for, barley and
turnip husbandry.  The plants that seem peculiarly attached to
the soil are broom, furze, juniper, and birch and fir trees.
Wherever the ground is protected from the pasturage of sbeep
and cattle, these quickly begin to appear.  Among the hills the
monotony of the heath is relieved by the blaeberry, the crowberry;
and the cranberry plants; which last is found in great quantities,
and affords a considerable source of employment and profit to the
children of the cottagers and small farmers in the neighbourhood,
who collect the berries, and take them to the Aberdeen market.
   Zoology.-The rarer species of animals found in the parish are,
the fox, badger, hedgehog, wild-cat, polecat, weasel, otter, com-


