
642 			 FORFARSHIRE.

all the hills, together with the least productive portion of the low
grounds, are planted with wood of various kinds, chiefly larch and
pine. The late Lord D. G. Hallyburton, by planting and other
improvements, very much enhanced the value of his estate, and
beautified nnt the parish only, but the scenery of the surrounding
district. In many places, a strong red clay or mortar prevails, and
in some it is wet and spongy. The greater part of the parish,
however, is tolerably fertile, the soil consisting of a friable black
mould or silicious loam, generally resting on a subsoil of loose red-
dish till or earthy gravel. When this till is close and retentive,
the land is wet. The underlying rocks are the old red or grey
sandstone, (as is generally the case in Strathmore,) except on the
southern part of the parish, towards the ridge of the Sidlaw hills,
where the trap rocks shoot up and intermix with the sandstone.
There are quarries of this sandstone in several places in the pa-
rish. The stone is very durable, and makes excellent building-
stone, but in some of the Pitcur quarries it is hard and difficult
to cut. No fossils of fishes or other organic remains have been
observed in any of these quarries, such as have been found at
Clashbinnie and Den of Balruddrie, on the south of the Sidlaws.
The coarse conglomerate or base of the red sandstone-formation
in Strathmore lies along the southern base of the Grampians, and
generlly reclines on greywacke, or on the schists and gneiss of
these primary mountains, composing some of the smaller hills next
the strath. Where this conglomerate is cut by rivers, ht generally
forms grand and picturesque scenery, from the perpendicularity of
its cliffs and chasms, as at Craighall, Airlie Castle, Cortachy,
Gannochy Bridge, Fordun, and other places. The finer rock of
the formation extends southwards, and is covered by the coal-fields
of Fife, with their accompanying yellow and white calciferous sand-
stone, shale, &c.:-the trap-rock of the Sidlaw and Ochill hills,
and others of less eminence interrupting the strata in various places,
and giving them different dips. *
   Botany.-Besides the common plants, many of the more
rare and less common are to be found in the parish and neighbour-
hood.
   The following may be stated:

<FOOTNOTE>See Hugh Miller's excellent book on the Old Red Sandstone and Geology of
fife and the Lothians by Charles Maclaren, Esq., F. R. S. E.


