
390                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

day of Broadholm, who keeps an extensive dairy. He prefers the
Ayrshire breed, as affording a larger quantity of milk. In point of
symmetry they are very inferior to the Galloway breed, their should-
ers being thin and the fore quarters light. There is also another
dairy at Broad  Chapel.
	Farm horses able for their work can be purchased from L. 18
to L. 30; the best bring L. 35, and sometimes L. 45. The colour
is generally black, brown, or gray. A few years ago, gray was
the favourite colour. A considerable number is bred and reared
in the parish. They are of a good size, and bring high prices ;
hence many good judges prefer them to the finest of the Clydes-
dale breed.
	Feeding of pigs is carried on to a great extent in this parish.
Many of the farmers send to market every season from thirty to
forty carcases, averaging fifteen stones each. The price varie from
4s. to 5s 6d. per stone. This is a great source of revenue to the
neighbourhood, and as all the sales are effected for ready money,
it enables many of the smaller tenants to pay their rents. Forty
years ago, business in pork was done in Annandale to the amount
of L. 10,000; and the quantity reared and fed in the parish last year
brought the large sum of L. 3411 at 4s. per stone. Every cottager
keeps a couple of pigs, the price of which enables him to obtain in
moderation the common luxuries of life during the winter season.
	Improvements in Agriculture.--All the modern improvements
have been introduced into this district, such as the improvements of
waste lands by draining and fencing, the use of bone dust and rape
cake for the raising nf turnips, and eating them off upon the fields
by sheep; also the cutting or pairing of peat-moss, and burning
it upon the ground, after which good crops of oats are raised, or
the land is converted into meadow by irrigation. No doubt, for
some years past, the low price received for land produce has damp-
ed the spirit of improvement--but the lowering of the rents by
most of the great landed proprietors has tended much to induce
the farmer to persevere in his improvements, in the hope of better
times.

				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets, Roads.--By the activity of the present magistrates, and
a few other respectable inhabitants, markets have again been regu-
larly instituted. There are two principal fairs in the year for hir-
ing farm-servants, which are numerously attended, the neighbouring
farmers giving them their support. During the winter season there
				    4


