
236                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS


view by the extensive cuttings for the new road which passes
through Strathfillan. The dip of the strata at the head of Loch
Lomond is generally S.E., and the course of the valleys by which
the mountain ranges are intersected affect an easterly direction.  The
principal of these are Glenfroon, Glenfinlass, Glen-du-glass, &c.
   In some places the mica-slate passes into talc-slate.  This
is especially the case between Tarbet and Luss, where mica-slate
and talc-slate occur, with intersecting beds of greenstone and
felspar porphyry. Asingular dike of greenstone may also be ob-
served at Knockderry, on the shore of Loch Long. The rock in
which this intruded mass occurs is for some distance completely
altered, so as to assume the appearance of chlorite slate.
   Besides the mica-slate, this district is also intersected by a clay-
slate formation, in a direction south-west and north-east, constitut-
ing a part of that great clay-slate formation skirting the Highlands,
and found in so many localities. It is wrought in this county, in the
well-known quarries of Luss and Camstradden. These slates are
frequently traversed by veins of quartz, and abound with iron py-
rites, which, in the clay-slate, is always found in crystals, which ge-
nerally assume the form of cubes. It is particularly worthy of re-
mark, that the islands at the south end of Loch Lomond, where they
are only to be found, are in the direction of the clay-slate, and softer
transition strata. These islands themselves are formed of the
more durable varieties of rocks, while the clay-slate and softer rocks
have been washed away, leaving the islets entire, affording a strong
presumption that their present appearance is the result of exten-
sive denudation. The lake itself is in fact only a great cavity in mi-
ca-slate, &c. at a low level, and consequently filled with water.  The
probability, therefore, is, that the whole of this remarkable cavity
must have been filled up at some prior period by one great mass
or line of strata, which, being of a softer structure, and more liable
to the wasting effects of air and water, has been gradually broken
or worn into its present shape.
   The slates in this district may be generally termed quartzy
mica, and these constitute the greater portion of the primary dis-
trict; clay-slate also abounds, and is found lying on the mica-
slate.  These rocks frequently pass into talc-slate, as already
stated, and also into a sort of porphyritic mica-slate, thickly stud-
ded with crystals of quartz, and also in some cases, there occurs
a slate so much mixed with lime that it may be safely termed a
limestone slate.


