
	400                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	be leaving his farm, and has not the requisite establisliment of ser-
	vants.  In that case, it is generally let at about 9s. per Scotch acre,
	for cutting and stooking.
	   The 1200 acres of plantations on Lord Moray's estates may be
	divided as follows:--About 200 acres of about the age of sixty
	years ; 250, thirty-two years; 500, from fifteen to twenty years;
	150 to 200, from one to ten years : including about twenty
	acres of oak coppice, managed in the most approved manner.
	The cutting of wood on the estate extends little beyond what
	is required for thinning, and the supply of timber requisite for
	local purposes, such as in fences and the erection of farm-build-
	ings.  A vessel landing coals may occasionally obtain a cargo of
        props or deals. *
	   The only instance of sawing by a steam-engine ever seen in this
	district, took place in the manufacture of part of the woods of Cul-
	loden into staves, by that enterprising gentleman, J. Inglis Nicol,
	Esq. M. D., Inverness.  So soon as the fir-wood on Lord Moray's
	estate is sufficiently cleared, oak is planted in its stead.  Major
	Fraser has surrounded Flemington with a flourishing belting of fir,
	larch, and spruce.
	   The parish is not remarkable for any particular breed of cattle,
	as attention is only paid to feeding and agriculture.  Since few, if
	any, of the farmers have an outrun of pasture, the system pursued
	is to purchase at the Moor of Ord and Bogbain trysts, stots for
	winterers, and sheep to eat off turnips.  The dryness of the soil is
	favourable " to the feeding off" of sheep; but this system is ob-
	viously regulated by the fertility of the season in the produce of
	straw and turnip.  Some of the tenants, occasionally, let the run of
	their farms and a proportion of their turnips to sheep-farmers for
	the winter; but no yearly average per head or per acre can well
	be stated.  So seldom are fields let for grazing, or cattle received
	for this purpose, that it is almost impossible to state any average
	per head or per acre.  The Aberdeen or Buchan black and pol-
	led breed of cows is preferred to the Ayrshire.  Some of the
	farmers select for winterers the short-horned species, or crosses
	from that breed.  But, in general, the stots are either of the High-
	land or Buchan breed.
	   No leases under nineteen years are ever offered or taken.  The
	landlords sometimes build all the offices, and, at other times, leave

<FOOTNOTE> *The wood on Lord Cowdor's property was only in process of planting, and that
	on the Culloden property had just been sold when this Account was written.
                                             4

