 
                        MOONZIE.                           791

most splendidly in his castle at Finhaven, and was ever afterwards
a faithful and obedient subject. He did not long survive his
reconciliation with the King. In about six months after, he
was seized with a fever, which carried him off in a few days.
He died in 1454, and was buried in the Grayfriars' Church of
Dundee.
     Another distinguished individual belonging to the parish was
Sir William Ramsay of Colluthie. He lived in the reign of David
II., King of Scotland, and was renowned both for his wisdom and
bravery. He was present at the fatal battle of Durham in 1346,
in which the Scottish army was totally routed, and, along with many
of the nobility and gentry, was unfortunately taken prisoner.
After his liberation from captivity, he, with a great number of his
countrymen, entered into the service of the King of France, and
fought against the English, who were then threatening the subju-
gation of that country. At the celebrated battle of Poictiers in
1356, where the Scottish auxiliaries behaved with the utmost bra-
very, and suffered most severely, he had again the misfortune to be
taken prisoner. On the evening after the battle, he displayed great
address and sagacity in accomplishing the deliverance of Archibald
Douglas, a man of high rank, and an eminent Scottish warrior, who
had fallen into the hands of the English. When the prisoners were
assembled, Douglas was found arrayed in armour of the most splen-
did description, and it was concluded by his conquerors that he
was a man of noble birth, and a most valuable prize. Ramsay, who,
was present, declared in the most positive terms that Douglas, in-
stead of being a nobleman, was a mean fellow; some servant who
had either stolen the armour of his master, or taken it from his
body. He abused him in the grossest terms; commanded him to
pull off his boots, and beat him with one of them most unmerci-
fully. To all this injurious treatment, Douglas, who saw his de-
sign, submitted without murmur or reply. Ramsay having thus
lulled the supicions of the English asleep, paid forty shillings for
his ransom, and thus enabled him to escape from captivity, and
perhaps from death. Sir William Ramsay was connected with
some of the first families in Scotland. In consequence of marry-
ing Isabel Countess of Fife, daughter of Duncan, last Earl of
Fife, he was invested with the Earldom by King David II. It has
been asserted, that he had a right to this title by blood; but this
account is not established by satisfactory evidence. He received


