
         	    DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                   971

yet been discovered by antiquarians. * By this act of Kenneth,
St Columba became the patron saint of Dunkeld and its church. +
   In 1127, the monastery of Dunkeld was converted by David I.
into a regular episcopate. It has been thought that he expelled
the Culdees to make room for a bishop. On the contrary, he
guaranteed to them during life the rights and possessions which
had formerly belonged to their abbey. The Culdees continued
to nominate their superior, but a short time, when they were super-
seded in their elections by the canons regular.
   In 1318, Bishop Sinclair, better known as Robert the Bruce's
own bishop, built the choir on the site of part of the old monastery,
--the old abbey church, built by Kenneth, serving as the place
of worship until the new edifice was finished.  As a memorial of
his having built the choir, he placed on the top of the eastern
gable a cross ingraill‚, part of the arms of his family, where it re-
mained, much dilapidated, until the repairs of 1817, when it was
renewed.SS In the middle of the gable are to be seen several red-
dish stones, which formed part of the wall of the monastery.  Bi-
shop Peblis, in 1380, glazed the eastern window of the choir, and
adorned it with several figures painted on fine glass.
   Bishop Cardney, on the 27th April 1406, founded the nave of
the church, and raised it as far as the second row of arches com-
monly called the "blind storjis." Bishop Ralston, who assumed
the mitre in 1447, finished the nave, and began the aisles of the
cathedral. Dean Mill says, this bishop "had this work so much
at heart, that he and one or two people of high rank who staid
with him had a custom of carrying every day out of the quarry of
Burnbane several burdens of stones." The stones for building
the choir and cathedral were all of a small size, as they had to be

<FOOTNOTE>From the preceding foot-note, it vould appear that the remains of St Columba
had been disturbed by some of the early Roman Catholic bisbops.--Chalmers's Cale-
donia, Vol. i. p. 426.
   The armorial bearings of the town of Dunkeld have been blazoned, with a view
to the dedication of its church to St Columba, "Sable, a dove argent, holding in its
beak an olive branch proper; the shield is surrounded with a ribbon, or, whereon is
written Caledonia, and in the bottom part ofthe shield is a thistle proper; the whole
il encircled with two pain, branches vert."--MS. Cumin. Chal. Caled.  Vol. i. p. 435.
   Dean Mill says, "erexit in Cathedralem Eeclestain. It is questioned whether the
expression involves a physical or other meaning. It would seem to imply a change
of physical structure.
  S In the centre of the choir the bishop made a burial place for himself, near to the
entrance of the chapter house. There was a marble monument over his tomb, and
a handsome statue of him in alabaster. The statue was either mutilated by the mob
in 1550, or by the soldiery in 1689. The tomb was lost sight of in the various
changes which the interior has undergone.


