
                             DULL.                           775

  of wood is cut, and prepared for country use, as well as for
  barrel-staves and other cooper purposes ; and at the latter, besides
  wheel-making being carried on, quantities of bobbins are manu-
  factured ; and both bobbins and staves are regularly sent to the
  Dundee market, and other manufacturing towns.
    In addition to these, there is, at Aberfeldy, in this parish, a
  dye-mill, with carding and spinning machines. The woollen yarn
  here spun gives employment to a number of weavers, and the webs
  are afterwards dyed and milled, and then exposed for sale at the
  country fairs to the natives for wearing apparel.
    At the time of the former Statistical Account, linen yarn was
  spun to an extent more than sufficient to pay the rents; but now
  this is almost wholly superseded by the manufacturing establish-
  ments of the south, so that scarcely any flax is either raised or
  spun, certainly not sufficient to meet the demands of home con-
  sumption.
    Distilleries. -Within the last fifteen years, there were three dis-
  tilleries in the district of Appin alone. The buildings were erect-
  ed, and all the necessary utensils and apparatus furnished and
  kept in repair, by Sir Niel Menzies, entirely at his own expense,
  for the sole accommodation of his tenants; but, owing to some
  mismanagement, they were not successfull, and after a few years' ope-
  ration the buildings were either pulled down or converted to some
  other purpose. There are still two distilleries in active operation,
  and although not locally within the parish, they are yet intimately
  connected with it; in as much as more than two-thirds of the
  shareholders are parishioners of Dull. The one is situated at
  Blackhill, in the parish of Logierait, and the other at Pitilie
  Burn, in the parish of Weem. The former distills upwards of
  14,000 gallons of whisky, and pays about L.3080 of duty annual-
  ly; and there are in the same space of time upwards of 6000 gal-
  lons distilled, and about L.1320 of duty paid by the latter. The
  spirit manufactured at these respective distilleries is universally
  prized for its fine flavour and superior quality, and is readily dis-
  posed of at the highest market price.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Towns.-The nearest market-towns, properly speaking,
  are Dunkeld, Perth, and Crieff, at the respective distance of
  nineteen, thirty-four, and twenty-six miles from the parish church.
  But all the necessaries and even some of the luxuries of life can
  be easily and moderately obtained by most of the parishoners at the


