
     Of Govan.

dious, and in good condition.  It was rebuilt in 1762,
and completely seated very soon after.  Its situation is
the most convenient for the parishioners at large that
could have been fixed upon.  It stands 126 yards from 
the Clyde, and about the same distance from the road
between Glasgow and Greenock.  The spire, which
was part of the original plan, was from some accidental
occurrence, left unfinished, and still remains in the same
state.  To the repairs, however, now making upon the
entry and church-yard wall, to prevent the burying-
ground from being indecently used, as hicherto, like a
common thorough fare, and place of diversion, it is in-
tended by the heritors to add this very becoming orna-
ment to the house they have appropriated for the wor-
ship of the Most High:  And while it will be a great ad-
dition to the beauty of the place, and an agreeable object
to the eye of a traveller, it will at this time (Novem-
ber 1793) be a most grateful testimony from them, as

<FOOTNOTE>

"of the chapter of the fee of Glasgow.  In whom the right of presenting the
"person of Govan was vested, before the Reformation, does not clearly ap-
"pear though it is probable, that it belonged to the archbishop and his chap-
"ter.  After the Reformation, the right of presenting was exercised by the
"Crown.  James Beaton was archbishop of Glasgow at the time of the Re
"formation.  In consequence of its establishment, he left the country with
"the French fleet, in July 1560; and the Queen, on 3rd October 1561, pre-
"sented Mr. Stephen Beaton to the patronage of Govan, jure corona.  Upon
"the decease of Mr. Stephen Beaton, the Crown presented.  His Majesty
"James VI., patron of the benefice, 13th July 1577, granted a charter, un-
"der the great feal of the College of Glasgow, by which he conveyed "totaon
"et integrans rectorian et vicarian ecelefix parochialis de Govan, cuin om-
"nibus decimis fructibus, deditibus proficius emolumentis divoriis manfis
"gleba, terris ecclesuasticis ejufdem, et fuis pertinen.  jacem.  infra diocesim
"Gafguen et viceconitatum nostrum de Renfreu."  And this charter con-
"tains an order to be archbishop, or, in his absence, to any minister within
"the diocese, to give institution and possession of the benefice to the college."


