
     Statistical Account

   2. It is well known that the High Party of the Church of Scotland,
and the Seceders, are of the same sentiments, as to doctrine, discipline
and church government; and that whatever was thought defective or
blameable in the Established Church by the latter, was also thought de-
fective or blameable in it by the former; though not in so high a degree,
as to justify a separation or secession.  It might therefore have been ex-
pected, than the Seceders would have entertained the same opinion with
the high party concerning the work at Cambuslang; and this would
probably have been the case, if this work had happened a few years ear-
lier, and while they were members of the Established Church.  But cir-
cumstances were now greatly altered.  The Seceders had left the Esta-
blished Church, and formed themselves into a separate community under
the name of the Associate Presbytery; they had published a testimony a-
gainst the corruptions and defections of the Established Church; disown-
ing her authority, and declaring her judicatories to be ill constituted and
unlawful courts.  They could not therefore believe, that God would
countenance so corrupt a church, as they had represented it, by such a
gracious outpouring of the Holy Spirit.  But as the work at Cambus-
lang was extraordinary in itself, and as they could not believe it pro-
ceeded from the Holy Spirit; so they concluded it must proceed from
the devil.  These sentiments they openly avowed, by preaching and wri-
ting against it; and especially by an act, dated Dunfermline, 15th July
1742, appointing the 4th of August following to be observed in all their
congregations, as a day of fasting and humiliation; one of the principal
grounds of which was, "The delusions of Satan, attending the present
"awful work upon the bodies of men, going on at Cambuslang,"
When this act was published, their ancient friends, who, for many years
successively, had exerted their whole influence to bring them back to
the bosom of the church, were filled with indignation, and even with
horror.  To ascribe the Cambuslang work to the influence of the devil,
appeared to them, a sin little inferior in guilt, to that of blasphemy against
the Holy Ghost, Mr Robe affirmed, "that this act of the Associate
"Presbytery was the most heaven-daring paper, which had been publish-
"ed by any set of men in Britain for a century past."  A paper war
ensued, in which the parties treated each other with abundance of free-
dom; but at the same time, with many prosessions of Christian love and
charity.

   3. That the work at Cambuslang ought to be ascribed neither to the
influence of the Holy Spirit, nor to the influence of the devil, but to the
influence of fear and hope, of sympathy and example, aided by peculiar      
    

