
			GLENBERVIE.                         167

13; the average number of births about 34. Illegitimate births
within the last three years, 14. There are 18 men upwards of
50 years of age unmarried, and 76 unmarried women upwards
of 45.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The number of imperial acres cultivated is 5000;
hill, moor, and waste 8000; planted 185; and there are many acres
in a wild state, but capable of cultivation. A considerable pro-
portion of these may probably continue as they are, for a longer
period than the progress of improvement elsewhere would lead us to
infer.
	Husbandry.--The system of husbandry adopted here, with few
exceptions, is what is called the six-course shift, viz. 1. oats; 2.
oats; 3. turnips and potatoes; 4. bear or barley, with sown out
grasses; 5. hay; 6. two years old grass in pasture. On some
farms, a second year's crop of barley is taken, after preparing the
ground with a half dunging, but this deviation seems more a mea-
sure of expediency, than a plan of preference in the range of the
course.
	Wages.--Ploughmen's wages L.12 a year with victuals; labour-
er's do. from L.8 to L.14 with victuals; mason's do. 15s. a week
in summer without victuals, do. in winter 12s.; wrights do. 12s.
a week in summer without victuals; do. in winter 10s.
	Produce.--The average quantity of oats, bear, and barley raised
in the parish is 6800 quarters; 670 acres are under green crop;
less under hay.
		      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town--Means of Communication.--The nearest market-
town is Stonehaven, about six or seven miles distant, to which there
are excellent roads. The only village in the parish is Drumlithie,
inhabited chiefly by weavers. Other handicrafts are not more nu-
merous than the wants of the place require. There are two stage-
coaches which pass every lawful day from Edinburgh to Aberdeen,
also, a regular daily post throughout the week, Wednesdays ex-
cepted.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, built twelve years ago to
contain 700 sitters, is very neat and substantial, conveniently situ,
ated for the generality of the population. A considerable propor-
tion of the seats is left free, so that the poorest have it in their
power to be accommodated. The manse was built about forty
years ago, and has been repaired and enlarged. The extent of the


