
              2                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

              ed bay) to the windings and indentations of its shores.  It is
              surrounded by a highly picturesque country; and is rich in pros-
              pects which combine the softer beauties of the lowlands with the
              bolder graces peculiar to an alpine district.
                 Climate.-In climate, the parish differs considerably from most
              of the adjacent country.-The entrance of the Frith is guarded
              by two lofty headlands about a mile apart; and duriDg the warm-
              er months, there sets in at noon a cool sea-breeze, which some-
              times hardly ruffles the water for more than half a mile beyond
              the opening, and rarely extends for more than five miles within.
              It seems occasioned by the rarefaction of the warmer air in the
              interior, and the compression of the denser current,-rushing in
              to restore the equilibrium,-in the narrow entrance of the Frith.
              The average heat of summer is, in consequence, lower than in most
              of the neighbouring parishes.  I have observed that the acorn
              rarely attains the ordinary size, and almost never ripens. But the
              winters are moderate; it is no uncommon occurrence to find our
              gooseberry bushes in full blossom at Christmas; and in no part
              of Scotland do trees flourish nearer the sea.  The parish is rare-
              ly visited in the summer months by fever-an effect, it is probable,
              of the cool ventilating breeze; and though the keen damp air is
              found to bear heavy on persons affected by pulmonary complaints
              or rheumatism, the inhabitants in general are a robust healthy
              raee, and many of them attain to extreme old age.  There is at
              present residing in the town, a woman who was employed in tend-
              ing a flock of sheep on the day of Culloden, and who still retains
              a vivid recollection of her terror on hearing the cannon; and there
              died in it in one season, about seventeen years ago, three old men,
              the first Of whom had completed his ninetieth, the second his hun-
              dredth, and the third his hundredth and first year.
                 Bays, Springs, Cascades-The bay of Cromarty was deemed one
              of the finest in, the world, at a time when the world was very imper-
              fectly known, and modern discovery seems to have done nothing to
              lower its character. Almost all the black-letter historians dwell
              upon it in; their quaint and impressive language, as the very para-
              gen of harbours.  Stow in his Chronicles characterizes it as " an
              exceeding quiet and; saue haven."  Beece eulogizes it in. his preli-
              minary book as the hail (health) of seamen; and it has been de-
              scribed by Buchanan in elegant and graphic'Latin, (showing us
              that the poet was not wholly sunk in the historian,) as 11 formed by
              the waters of the German Ocean, opening a way through the stu-
              pendous cliffs of the most lofty precipices, and' expanding within


