
                        PARISH OF LOGIERAIT. *

          PRESBYTERY OF WEEM, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                THE REV. SAMUEL CAMERON, MINISTER.


     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-This parish is never spoken of by the Gaelic inhabit-
ants but by the name of Laggan. Hn old authors, we find "Logie
in Athole" mentioned. It would appear, therefore, that Rait is a
modern affix to Laggan or Logie,-the name b which the parish
or district was originally known, and which means a hollow. Per-
haps Rait was added to distinguish it from the parish of Laggan
in Baddnoch, which was anciently within the same regality, under
the 'Lords of Badenoch and Athole," who were princes of the
Royal family of Scotland.  Rait is supposed to be the same word
with reite, which means arbitration or settlement of differences.
Logierait is, therefore, the hollow of arbitration,-very descriptive
of its situation and character as the seat of a court of regality.
It must, however, be observed, that, according to the usual un-
certainty of Gaelic etymology, Rait is a syllable to which several
different meanings may be given.
   Extent, Boundaries, Appearance, &c.-The figure and locality
of the parish are both very irregular, on account of its occasional
dispersion, by detached and sometimes distant parts, into other pa-
rishes.  On the north side of the river Tummel it has for its east-
ern, northern, and western boundaries the parishes of Dunkeld,
Kirkmichael and Moulin,-the first and last of which, however,
insert themselves into it respectively, in considerable portions, at
some distance from the boundaries. Its southern boundary is
the Tay until it crosses that river near Aberfeldy and introduces
itself in a detached fragment between the parishes of Dulland
Fortingall. The portion of it which lies between the Tay and the
Tummel has for its eastern boundary these two rivers at their
junction, and is bounded on the west by Moulin, Dull, and Wesm.
This part of the parish receives two different insertions from the

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Thomas Buchanan, now Minister of Methven.


