
			BALDERNOCK.                        173


two years. Draining is a good deal practised, especially where
the proprietor occupies the land. In this, a few spirited landlords
assist their tenants; and the drains are generally deep narrow
casts filled with stones, and running into a main drain substantially
built. Still much remains to be done in this way.
  Leases.--Leases are generally for nineteen years, and are consi-
dered favourable for the farmer. The common Scotch iron plough
is used; but frequent cropping, and fine, not deep, furrows, render
it highly probable, that the old custom of having three or four
horses yoked in the plough, instead of two, will be adopted, especial-
ly in the upper and tilly parts of the parish, as the crops are by no
means so heavy as in former years. In the lower grounds, less
manure and labour are necessary. Great crops are there always
certain, and fallow has been known to produce twenty bolls of
wheat per acre. Before the embankment of the Kelvin, all this
was greatly counterbalanced by inundations, the flood-mark in
the Balmore Haughs being 245 acres; but this is now greatly re-
medied by a substantial embankment and a tunnel on the mouth
of a small rivulet running into the Kelvin from the heights,
and, like the Kelvin, during very heavy and constant rains, or a
rapid 'thaw, descending with great impetuosity, and occasioning
great damage to the banks, or often breaking them. Plough-
ing begins early in February, and a Ploughing Society, institut-
ed some years ago, has produced some good effects from compe-
tition. Upon the whole, however, the condition of farmers and
their farms is worse than it was fifteen years ago; since which time
farming has gradually deteriorated.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Glasgow, the nearest market-town, is seven or eight miles dis-
tant, from and to which, there is neither coach, post, nor carrier,
which is against the diffusion of useful knowledge and information:
letters, books, newspapers, and other communications being either
not received at all, or read at an immense trouble and expense. A
new line of road, leading from the Balfron line to Glasgow, through
the west end of the parish, has long been talked of, is surveyed,
and is soon likely to be formed.
  There will then be two good turnpike roads, one running the
length of the parish from west to east, the other the breadth of
it, leading from Balfron road north, to Allander toll south-west,
and thence to Glasgow. Owing to the diversified surface of the
parish, many other roads are necessary, so many that it is impos-


