
356                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

house as to render attendance impossible; but we have a promise
of a school in this locality from the Assembly's Education Com-
mittee. Still, there are three additional schools required, in order
to render it easy for all the children to attend	.
   Poor and Parockial Funds.-There are 100 persons who rank
as ordinary paupers, besides from 40 to 50 who receive occasional
relief. The sum annually contributed for their support is a mere
trifle. During the last year they got L.10 as a legacy; L.14 as
donations from two individuals connected with the parish; L.10 from
two of the heritors; and L.7 from church door collections; mak-
ing a total of L.41. Those who received the highest allowance
did not get more than 10s. The sum annually collected at the
church door, does not amount to more than L.10, and there is no
regular provision whatever made for the poor. They beg from
place to place, and are always liberally assisted both by the tacks-
men and by the crafters, who have anything at all to spare. But,
at the same time, the condition of those who are bed-rid is a very
wretched one; while some of those who go about, though they re-
ceive food, are miserably ill off in regard to clothing. Some time
ago, it was thought degrading to apply for aid from the poor's
funds; but this is not so by any means now, and there are many
applying for relief who have no title to it.
   Fairs.-There is one fair annually held at a place called Fairy
Bridge, wbich is three miles from Dunvegan. It is held for the
purpose of disposing of black-cattle, but very few are sold there.
   Inns.-There are two inns and three dram-houses or ale-houses,
as they are sometimes called, in the parish. The principal inn,
wbich is at Dunvegan, is remarkably well kept; and it is always
        found, that where the inn-keeper is a man of right principle, there
are few excesses committed in his house. Two of the other houses
are entirely supernumerary, yet, much to the credit of the people,
there is no great quantity drunk in them. The people generally
are remarkably sober.
   Fuel.-The only fuel used by the common people is peats.

                 MISCELLANEOTTS OBSERVATIONS.
Very great changes have taken place in the parish, both in re-
gard to the aspect of the country, and to the babits of the people,
since the last Statistical Account was published.
   The formation of reads and bridges may be first adverted to.
Twenty-five years ago, there was only one bridge in the parish,
and not a mile of carriage road. Now, there are lines of excellent


