
                            PARISH OF COMRIE.

          PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH & STIRLING.

                THE REV.  WILLIAM MACKENZIE, MINISTER.

                  I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     THE ancient parishes of Comrie, Dundurn, and Tullichetal, to-
gether with parts of Monivaird, Strowan, and Muthill, are contain-
ed in the present parish of Comrie.
     Name.-The name Comrie, signifying in Gaelic confluence, is
derived from the site of the parish church, at the confluence of
the rivers Earn, Ruchill, and Lednock. A dun of fortified hill at
the east end of Loch Earn gave name to Dundurn or Dun-d-earn.
Tullichetal signifies "the plain of sleep," referring, it is thought,
to the burying-ground where the dead sleep around the ruins of
a very ancient church. The date of the conjunction of the
three original parishes is unknown. It was in 1702 that the Com-
mission of Teinds, at the request of the General Assembly, made
the additions, quoad sacra, from the parishes of Monivaird, Strowan,
and Muthill.
     Extent, &c.-The united parish is about 13 miles long and 10
broad, and if a district two miles long at the west end of Lochearn,
which in 1702 was annexed, quoad sacra, to Balquhidder, be
reckoned, the parish of Comrie, quoad civilia, is 13 miles long
throughout its entire breadth, and contains about 130 square
miles. This parish, lying at the head of Strathearn, is bounded
by high mountains on three sides, the east opening on the valley
of Strathearn. The principal range of mountains is the Gram-
pians, running from south-west to north-east. Benhonzie is
2900 feet above the level of the sea, and Ben Vorlich, the high-
est, is 3300, and may be seen from Perth, Edinburgh, and Ayr-
shire. There is very little low or flat land in the parish; the
principal valleys Glenartney, Glen Lednock, and the banks of
the Earn are from 200 to 350 feet above the level of the sea,
and they open upon the village of Comrie.
     In a portion of country like this parish, whose surface is so di-



