
	                    DUNDEE.                         15

guished himself during a mutiny in the British navy, and ob-
tained a famous victory over the Dutch fleet at Camperdown in
1797; upon which account he was created Viscount Duncan of
Camperdown and Lundie. His son is the present Earl of Cam-
perdown.
	Sir James Ivory is a native of Dundee, now F. R. S. L. and
E., and of Goettingen, and lately one of the professors in the
Military College at Sandhurst,--a gentleman well versed in
every branch of mathematical science, and not excelled in that
department by any philosopher of Europe, and upon whom his
Majesty William IV. has conferred the honour of Knight-
hood.
	Last, though not least, is to be ranked the late Reverend Dr
Small, who was for many years parish minister, and author of the
former Statistical Account of Dundee; a man of a sound under-
standing, of considerable literary attainments, and an able prdabher
of the Gospel. He was distinguished also for his philosophical
researches, was the intimate friend of the late celebrated Professor
Playfair, and himself the author of a profound work in astronomy
entitled Kepler's Discoveries.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are the Heirs of the late
Alexander Guthrie of Craigie; Lord Douglas of the lands of Clay-
pots, Milton, and West Ferry; William Stirling Graham of Dun-
truin; David Blair of Craighill; George Kirkaldy of Baldouie;
Patrick Kerr of Drumgeills; John Alison of Montpelier; Mungo
Dick of Pitkerro; William Brown Constable of the Wallace
Craigie; James Lorimer of Kellyfield; David Rankine of Dudhope;
David Arklay of Clepington; the Heirs of Alexander Thoms of
Wester Clepington; David Hunter of Blackness. But this last
estate, as well as those of Logie and Balgay, are said to lie in this
parish only quoad sacra. None of these, except the lands of Dun-
truin and those on the Douglas estates, have been above 100 years
in possession of the family of its present proprietor.
	Parochial Registers.--The register of births and baptisms, and
that of marriages, both began in 1645, and are continued, without
interruption, till the present time. The former occupies six vo-
lumes, the latter four volumes. The records of the kirk-session
begin in 1682, and come down also to the prerent time. These
registers are regularly and distinctly kept.
	Antiquities.--A prominent object in the natural history of Dun-
dee is the law or high hill, which rises about a mile towards the


