
			KILWINNING.                            813

In the town and neighbourhood, an ample supply of the finest
spring-water is obtained, as is almost invariably the case, through-
out Scotland, around the sites of ancient monasterie, or other re-
ligious houses.
	Geology and Mineralogy.*--The coal formation extends through-
out the whole of this parish. The strata dip to the south, forming
an angle with the horizon of from eight to twelve degrees. They
are intersected by a number of whinstone dikes, running from
east to west, and varying in thickness from five to twenty feet.
Thesw dikes cut the strata, without altering their general inclina-
tion, except when accompanied by slips, which is sometimes the
casd. Where there are no dikes, slips also frequently occur,
breaking the continuity of the strata, while the different beds re-
tain their relative positions, at different levels, and continue their
course with the same inclination which they had before meeting
with the slips. These slips vary in height from a few inches to
ninety feet, and almost always run in an easterly and westerly di-
rection. The outburst of the main coal, which is the lowest in
the series of coals above the limestone, passes from west to east,
nearly through the centre of the parish. It is four feet thick, and
of good quality. Above this are seven other workable seams, in
the following ascending order, viz. the stone-coal, 2 1/4 feet; ell
coal, 2 1/2; Ladyha coal, 2 1/4; little coal, 2 1/6; turf-coal, 3; parrot-
coal, 3 1/2; and five-quarter coal, 4 feet thick. They are situate
at the respective distances from the main coal, and from each
other, of 5, 10, 7 1/2, 48, 3, 2 1/2, and 11 fathoms. All are of good
quality. The seams, at present wrought at the different collieries,
are the following, viz. at Doura, the ell and stone-coals; at Fer-
gushill, the stone and main coals; at Redstone, the stone-coal;
and, at Eglinton colliery, the Ladyha, ell, stone, and main coals.
It is worthy of notice, that, on the western side, the bed of main
coal is longitudinally split by a layer of shale, a few inches thick;
but, to the east of Fergusbill, and all through the lands of Doura, -
this layer increases in thickness to some fathoms, dividing the
main coal into two distinct seams, of about two feet in thickness
each, and, on this account, unworkable. Throughout the whole
extent of Doura lands, and part of Fergushill, the four upper
seams of coal have been but partially excavated, and are not
wrought at present. A seam of coal, of rather inferiors quality.

<FOOTNOTE>The information under this head has been kindly furnished by Mr A. Kennett.
tacksman of the Eglinton colliery.


