
534                   FIFESHIRE.

   The Motray takes its rise from the different side of Norman's
Law; from eat of these, a small stream proceeds, and they unite
before they enter the parish at Starr. Its course is through the
lowlands of Starr, Murdo-Cairnie, and Mountquhanie; it bounds
the back fields of Rathillet and Newbigging, where it is not seen
from than public road; it, again appears flowing through Kilmany-
den, crosses the high road at the mill, and continues its course to
the Eden by Kilwany church and the two Kinnears. In summer,
it is a, small stream not ten feet broad, and one deep; but in win-
ter, it of top assurnes a threatening appearance. It then not only
fills but overflows its banks, and affords to the Eden a great mass
of water. It turns in this parish three corn mills, one thrashing
mill and one saw mill.
  There is another small stream, which lias its source to the east
of Rathillet, school. Its name is Cluthie or Colluthie. It joins
the Motray below the church. Its whole course is little more
than a mile. The water of it is pure and excellent, and it does
not become dry during the hottest summers. It is the boundary
betwixt Kilmany and the estate of Forret, in Logie parish There
are two other small burns, one of which passes through Lochma-
lonie, and Rathillet and the other, which is the south boundary of
the parish below Myre-Cairnie, does not fall into the Motray.
The parish, from these streams, is admirably adapted for grazing.
   Climate.-The climate of Kilmany, from its situation, is mild
and pleasant. The heat in summer, in the morning, and fore-
noon, Is sometimes oppressive; but not often so; and by the af-
ternoon, the wind goes round to the east, and gives us a cooling
breeze from tbe German Ocean. The cold in winter is seldom intense;
but the one, from the commencement of January 1838, is an excep-
tion from this remark. The thermometer on the ergening of the
14th of February stood at 6 of Fahrenheit. It must have been
lower than this during the night; and at nine next morning, it was at
9. I have kept the thernometer regularly.for the, last sev a years;
-but during that period there has been no cold so intense as that
which I have new mentioned. To give a fair idea of the pres-
sure, and the temperature of the atmospbere, I send an average of
the one, and the other, for the  months of 1835 and I 1896.  It is
accurately drawn up by my friend, Mr. M'Gillivray, parochial teach-
er, from a record of the weather, daily and regularly kept by my-
self. The barometer is marked at nine morning and eleven at night
the thermometer at nine morning, twelve at noon, and eleven at night.


