
                           GLENBUCKET.                                  437

   Zoology.-The breeds of cattle, horses, and sheep, have been
much improved within these few years, and bring annually a con-
siderable sum of money to the glen.  The wild animals are, foxes,
hares, common and alpine; roe and red-deer frequent Glen-
noughty.  Birds; eagles, hawks, black-game, grouse, ptarmi-
gan, snipes, dotterel, plover, partridges, &c. and a great variety
of small birds.  Fish; salmon, trout, and eels are found in the
Don and Bucket.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The barbarous feud that took place betwixt Mowat of Aber-
geldie and Carneron of Brux, is recorded by the celebrated Pre-
ident Forbes in the Culloden Papers.
   The ancient Gordons (Lairds of Glenbucket) were long one
of the most powerful feudal families in this county, a gallant and
handsome race of men.  The last laird had a distinguished com-
mand under the Stuarts, in the bold, rash, and unfortunate en-
terprizes of 1715 and 1745.  It is said that George II. having
the greatest horror at the name of the dread chieftain of Glen-
bucket, often dreamed of him, starting in his sleep, and exclaim-
ing in broken English, "De great Glenbucket be coming."  The
fact was, however, that very few gentlemen in the times in which
he lived were more accomplished, humane, and brave.  He made
his escape to France (a very old man) after the fatal battle of
Culloden.
   The Earl of Fife is sole beritor of the parish, as well as superior
of the estates that once belonged to the ancient and powerful Earls
of Mar.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, of late years,
have been kept correctly.
   This summer, an excellent porter's lodge has been built by
the Earl of Fife's orders at Badenyon, which will be of great be-
nefit to that remote and celebrated spot.

                       III.-POPULATION.
   Beyond the year 1775, there is no report of the population of
this parish.

<TABLE>
             In 1775, population was 430
                1801, 	-	-    420
                1811,	-	-    443
                1821,	-	-    479-246 males-233 females.
                1831,	-	-    539-282      -257

   Population has increased in this parish, in consequence of the
increasing cleanliness of the people, greater attention to children


