
                       KILCONQUHAR.                           323

by facilitating greatly the process of working; while, by means of
the dikes of idjected matter which throw down the strata, valua-
ble beds of coal are preserved within the field, which would other-
wise have cropped out, and been lost altogether. "O Lord, how
madifold are thy works I in wisdom hast thou made them all: the
earth is ful I of thy riches I"
Limestone is not so abundant in the parish as might be expect-
ed from the geological character of the district, and what is found
by no means bears the hichest reputation. It occurs at Kilcon-
quhar, where it has been worked for some years past, and also at
Balearres, and other places. At Kilconquhar, the rock hs of a bluish-
grey colour, compact or rather somewhat crystalline in structure,
and contains abundance of encrinites and minute shells. In the
upper district, few organic remains occur in any of the beds, which
are all highly indurated, as well as much bleached in colour, oc-
casioned probably by the expulsion ofthe bituminous matter through
the agency of the igneous rocks.
Travelled blocks or boulders occur along the sea shore., and still
more abundantly in the higher districts. These consist chiefly of
primitive greenstone, mica slate, and granite. Whatever may have
been the cause of their transportation, whether we are to consider
them as the result of the Noachian deluge, or regard them, with
others, as produced and carried along by the bursting of lakes, in
either case the agency must have been prodigious, as none of them
are to be found in situ nearer than the Grampian mountains. qMe
waters, too, which bore them along, Must bave swept over all our
loftiest hills, or their elevation must have taken place sub"liently
to that event.
Botany.-The following plants are to be met with along the
sea beach, sotm of them adhering to the rocks under K'nieraig
Hill. Rumex maritimus, Artemisia maritima, Erryngium mariti-                        , yngium mariti-
mum, Smyrnium olusatrum, Arenaria marina, Qrobanche rubrx,
Cochlearia officinalis and Danica, Arabis hispida, Sinapistenuifolia,
Geranium sanguineum, Lavatera arboreal Eupatorium i cannabi-
num, Hordeum maritimum, Glaux maritima, Senecio aquaticus, &c
   Kilconquhar loch affords a great, variety of aquatic planti, a'few
of which only can be specified. Carex several species; Sparganiwa
ramosum and nata7m, Arundo phragmites, Jwwus effusw and bul-
bww, Scirpusfluitans, Zaeu-stris, and sylvaticus, Nuphar lutea Ci
cuta virosa, Menyanthes trifoliata, Lythrum salicaria.


