
     Statistical Account

<TABLE>

Taylors,                 11   Shoemakers,        6
Weavers,                 16   Millers,           4
Smiths,                   4   Ferryman,          1
House carpenters,         3   Salmon fisher,     1
Boat carpenter,           1   Apprentices,       7
Plough and cart maker,    1   Men servants *,   22
Wheel wright,             1   Women servants,   29

</TABLE>

   Climate and Diseases.-The climate is rather rainy; yet
the inhabitants depend more upon temperance and exercise,
than physic, for health.  There are none of the faculty there-
fore in the parish, though some reside at no great distance.
There are no destructive epidemical distempers, but the small-
pox and measles.  The danger of the former is nearly done
away by inoculation (which is become pretty general here),
and that danger would be still less, if the lower people paid more

<FOOTNOTE>

is independent of the tenants, for the farm on which he resides, holding his pos-
session from the proprietor, to whom his rent and services are payable.  The old
and infirm, being reckoned in this order, makes the average of their families
fall lower.  There may be about 20 young lads, who hire themselves for the
north fishing yearly, and return to the parish when it is over; there being no
vessels from this place at that fishing.
   Between 20 and 25 years ago, at different periods, about 40 families of
tenants have been deprived of their possessions by a number of large farms be-
ing laid out into pasture.  By the common calculation, this would diminish, the
population about 200.  But upon many of the farms, some of the former pos-
sessors are retained as cotters, and others are put in, to preserve the houses, or
biggings, as they are called, in case it might be found necessary, at some future
period, to return to the former mode of occupying the farms by small tenants,
particularly farms adapted for tillage.  By these means, the loss which popula-
tion would otherwise sustain, is, in a considerable degree, made up.

   *As the gentry in this parish are but few, and the residing heritors still fewer,
there are not many servants, and even these are occasionally employed as labour-
ing servants, particularly during harvest and hay making.


