
		KIRKPATRICK-FLEMING.                           277

covered with natural wood, or more highly ornamented with plan-
tations, gentlemen's family seats, and ancient towers.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--This part of the country is of second-
ary formation. "It consists of dark-red, brown, yellow, and, in
some places, of gray or white sandstone, in some parts dipping to
the south, and in other parts to the west, disposed in thick strata,
and frequently containing vegetable impressions. A great quan-
tity of limestone, dipping to the west, ranges through this district
from east to west. It is covered by, and alternates with, sand-
stone, and contains a variety of shells." In the limestone quar-
ries of Caldronlee, casts of bivalve shells and other organic re-
mains of various forms are often found. Some of these strongly
resemble the shape of a rams horn. The cover of the rocks
is almost always of the old alluvial kind, composed of clay, sand,
and small water-worn stones, with angular pieces of the red sand-
stone, upon which it generally rests. Its common colour is red,
or inclining to red. In this parish there are some flow-mosses of
considerable depth and extent. Out of these mosses many large
trunks of trees, chiefly oaks, have repeatedly been dug.
	The soil in the under part of the parish being underlaid with rock,
with gravel, or with sand, is generally light and kindly. In many
parts it consists of a strong red earth, with a large mixture of sand,
to a considerable depth. When this lies upon a gravelly bottom,
as is generally the case along the side of the river, it is reckoned
land of the first quality. A soil nearly the same, but more shal-
low, is frequently to be met with upon a bottom inclining to clay                           ,Iity
and gravel. The same kind of earth, with a very small mixture
of sand, frequently makes its appearance upon a strong brick-clay
bottom, exceedingly cold, and almost impenetrable by water.
Nearly two-thirds of the land of this parish consist of moss, varying
in depth from six to eighteen inches, resting upon a bed of clay.
As a subsoil, blay is found below the green sward of ridges, and
under peat-mosses, and soft bogs, and is generally either white,
blue, or red.
	There is also found a small portion of whitestone land, which
is well-known in this district as a soil naturally barren, though ca-
pable of improvement in various degrees.
	Many trials have been made near Springkell to discover coal,
but they have hitherto proved unsuccessful. Mr Robert Bald, min-
ing-engineer, Edinburgh, in a report which he gave in 1829, re-
garding the minerals on the estate of Springkell, observes towards



