
     Statistical Account

of a vow made by the wise of one of the lords of this place;
that, "in case her husband should return in safety from the
holy wars, she would build and endow a church*."  It was
made collegiate by Andrew the first Lord Gray, who placed
therein a provost and several prebends, with suitable endow-
ments, in the reign of James II.  On the top of the east
gavel of the church there is a cross; in the church-yard
there is another, 8 foot high; and, about 10 or 12 years ago,
there was a third cross, 14 or 15 feet high, with steps all
round, about a quarter of a mile north from the church.  A
new roof was put on the church about four years ago.

   Schools and Poor.-There are two schools, one in each pa-
rish, but both are poorly provided, the legal salary of each
being only 40 L. Scotch.  The average number of scholars
attending each is 30; and, though aided by voluntary sub-
scriptions, the encouragement is so trifling, that the parishes
are often exposed to changes, and as often but indifferently
supplied.  The average number of poor in each parish is 5.
The collections at church, with the dues of the mort-cloth,
and the interest of a small sum lent, has hitherto been found
sufficient for their support; and none are allowed to beg.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Part of this inscription is still legible, viz. Hoc Templum
structum suit Anno Millesimo centesimo Quadragesimo secundo ab A.
Gray.-There are several other remains of antiquity to be
seen here, particularly a number of paintings upon a wainscot
partition, (which separates Lord Gray's burial-place from the
church, and is supposed to be equally ancient), representing our
Saviour in various attitudes, the Apostles, with the insigma of
their martyrdom, the Roman Centurion, etc.  At the west end
of the church, there are the remains of a large font, besides an-
other without, and a third within the door.  About 20 years
ago, there stood in the east end of the church a large black oak
table, which went by the name of the altar.  It was placed be-
fore a press in the wall, with an iron door.  Upon these are re-
presentations of priests in their sacerdotal robes, etc.


