
                          PERTH.                              57

ed themselves satisfied, and ordained the said repentance to be re-
presented to the ensuing synod, that from both, reports might be
made, conform to the ordinance of the General Assembly. In
consequence of the favourable reports of presbytery and synod, the
General Assembly, May 16, 1645, ordered his reponition, which
took place in the Old Church of Perth on the 15th of June there-
after.
     He was made Bishop of Dunkeld on the 18th of January 1662.
He resigned his charge at Perth in 1664, and died there on the
5th of April 1665. Mr George Wishart, Bishop of Edinburgh,
preached the funeral sermon. Mr Wodrow says of him, Vol. i.
p. 102, "his character was, a man who made many changes, and
was sincere in none of them."
     In addition to the names of " eminent characters connected with
Perth, by birth, residence, or burial," it may be proper to introduce
the names of some of those, who, while the city was the seat of roy-
alty, made it their occasional residence. The Earl of Gowrie: his
palace was immediately in front of the South Street, stretching
somewhat to the south, on the site of the present prison. It and
the premises connected with it, occupied the square which belongs
now to the prisons and the County Buildings.-The Earl of Athole:
his house was on the west side of the Spey-gate, nearly opposite to
that of Earl Gowrie.-The Earl of Errol: his house was at the
south end and west side of the Watergate.-The Bit5hop of Dun-
keld: his house was near to the same place, and had an entrance
from the South Street, probably by what is called the Fountain
Close.-Lord Chancellor Hay: his house was at the south end and
east side of the Watergate, immediately contiguous to Gowrie
Palace. The description of the entertainment given to Charles
makes this certain. Lord John Murray: his house was a little to
the north of the Old Glover Hall, in Couvre-feu Street. The
front portion of it still remains.-Lord Crichton of Sanquhar:
his house was in the Spey-gate, as appears in a minute of the
kirk-session, 4th July 1631.*

<FOOTNOTE>Lord Crichton of Sanquhar was William Crichton of Rayhill, son of John the
second son of Robert, second Lord Crichton. He was created Viscount of
Air, by James VI., in 1622, and Earl of Dumfries by Charles I. In 1635.
He was one of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, who, in a meeting of the
kirt-session of Perth, (the minute of which I shall presently introduce,) held
in 1616, caused it to be sessionally enacted, that the provost and baillies of the
burgh should be thenceforth annually chosen members. His Lordship's immediate
predecessor in the title was Robert Lord Crichton, to whom he succeeded, in conse-


