
     Statistical Account

part, to a rich and beautiful sheep-park.  Between the
W. side of that plantation, and where the hedge-row of
Ninewells approaches to it, there is seen, in the open-
ing, a section of Whittadder, to which Blackadder-water,
there near its confluence, comes forward as a tangent.
A little above both these plantations, and where a grove
of trees intercepts to a spectator, at the manse and other
houses in the same declivity of the hill, the distinct view
of Whittadder, that clear stream is cast into curious and
picturesque appearances.  In one station, it gutters be-
tween the stems of the trees, reflecting intermissive and
tremulous beams of light.  In another, it shows, like a
bright edging or half coronet, to their green tops.  In
a third, where the trees do not interpose, it is thrown
into a shining curve.  The high banks sre seen, in con-
tiguity to those of Blackadder-water.  The plantation
and enclosures around Allanbank0house conspire with
those of Blackadder to omplete the vista, and shut the
scene*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The hill of chirnside, besides the views and plantaions
almost the whole of the extent, a natural fertiltiy
very considerable difference and variation; and it
valuable stores of free stone and marl.  The former, places
not more than 2 or 3 feet under the surface.is between red
and white, and the grain such as renders it not hard to be wrought
by the chisel, yet very durable.  Its chief bed appears in the moddie of
the south side of the hill, where the old path-way ascending it, is, in
a manner, turned, the most part of its length, into a rugged pavement.
As quarries of stone use towards the hill, the marl banks sre formed,
mostly, in the declivities and dips it takes towards Whittadder; the
sloping grounds on the sides of which are the entire accumulations of its
strata; being all either of the clayey kind, or the more lumpish and
stony.  Of'shell marl, no traces appear; nor it is found in the neigh-
bourhood, nor any where in the shire, but in very small quantities.  The

</UNREADABLE>


