
334                           FIFESHIRE.

for supporting a preachers who may reside in the district, and of.
ficiate regularly in the chapel. This chapel is on the confines of
two other parishes, Carnbee., and Cameron ; and within two miles
of it is a population of upwards of 800,, who are, some of them,
seven, and all of them more than two miles, from their own parish
churches. This is a locality where a new parish ought to be erect-
ed, and to which the attention of the Royal Commissioners is now
so1icited.
 The manse and offices were built in 1815, and are in good con.
dition. The grebe contains 12 acres, including the space occu-
pied by the manse, offices, garden, &c. The land is good, and
may be worth L. 30 or L. 35 per annum. The stipend is 17 chal-
ders, one-half meal., and one-half barley, with L. 10 for communion
elements.
 The number of persons belonging to the Established Church
is 2300. Divine service, both in the church and chapel, is well at-
tended. The number of communicants belong to the Esta-
blisbed Church is 1116; the number generally present at the
time of the communion about 1000.
  Dissenters.-There are four dissenting meeting-houses in the
parish, besides a small Baptist meeting. There is also a meeting
house in Cameron parish, just on the borders of this, which hasas
great an attendance of the inhabitants of this parish, and is as con-
veniently situated for them, as any of the others. These meetings
houses Contain as many sittings as would accommodate every man,
woman, and child in the parish, allowing 18 inches to each. They
contain upwards of 2700 sittings. Not 200 of these are let to, or
occupied by, persons belonging to the parish. The number of dis-
senters in the parish, young and old, of all denominations, is 361.
The meeting-houses in the parish belong, two to the Relief, one to
the United Associate Synod, and one to the Independents. The
one in Cameron belongs to the United Associate Synod. Oneof
the Relief meeting-houses in Colinsburgh, and the- United Asso-
ciate meetinghouse in Kilconquhar, were some years ago sold for
debt; but by some arrangement they are still kept up as places of
worship, and have ministers. The other Belief meeting-7house in
s now falling into and is almost deserted. The
Colinsburgh is now falling into ruins, and is almost deserted. The
Independent meeting-house, although actually situated in, this pa-
rish, which runs close to the village of Elie, was builts and is sup-
ported, so far as it has support, chiefly by persons in Elie. A very
small number attend it. What stipends these ministers receive I's
not known, They must, be very small.


