
                        KILWINNING.                   833

average may be stated at L.120 per annum. The average amount
derived from collections for the last ten years is L.65, 18s. 2d.
There are also two farms placed under the management of the
session for the benefit of the poor,--one of them from a mortifica-
tion, the annual rental of which is L.150; and another which was
bought from the poor's fund at a time when the income far ex-
ceeded the expenditure, at least as far back as the beginning of
last century, the rental of which is L.52, 10s. There were like-
wise other three mortifications, of L.100 L.80, and L.50 respec-
tively, made by benevolent and charitable individuals, the interest
of which was to be distributed among the poor of the parsh of
Kilwinning. As it was found necessary, however to borrow money.
in order to meet the necessary annual expenditure. these have
been appropriated in the meantime,--for the heritors and session
are empowered to sell one of the farms, and cap thus make good
the mortifications at any time. The only other available funds
are L.12 or L.15 annually, derived from seat-rents, and a small
sum for proclamations, &c. There has hitherto been no parochial
assessment; but, as the sources of income are not sufficient to
meet the necessary outlay, and the population is so rapidly increas-
ing, it is not probable that this can be long avoided.
	It may be remarked, that, while the people generally prefer
supporting themselves without relief, they do not apppear to have
any strong feeling against it, and few of them consider it degrading.
	Fairs.-There are two fairs annually--Bell's Day, generally
kept on, the first Wednesday of November, and St Winning's day,
on the first day of February. The former was originally intended
as a market for cattle, the latter for horses; but no such distinc-
tion is now observe and horses and cattle are sold at both.
	Inns, Alehouses &c.--The number of houses or shops in the
parish licensed to sell exciseable liquors is 27. Their effect on
the morals of the people, especially of the miners and inhabitants
of the town, is of the most pernicious description.
	Fuel.--The fuel almost universally used is coal, which is pro-
cured at the different collieries in the parish at the low rate of 5s.
per ton at the pit. Peat is also burned, to a small extent, in the
upper district, in the immediate vicinity of the moss.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The changes most worthy of notice in the state of the parish
since the writing of the former Statistical Account are, the opening
of several additional collieries, the improvements adopted in agricul-
ture, the planting of a considerable quantity of wood, and the vast
          AYR.					       3G


