
            146                            BANFFSHIRE.

            the estates of Dunlugas and Montblairy, the proprietors of both
            of which have elegant mansions on its banks, surrounded with ex-
            tensive and thriving plantations.    Below the estate of Dunlugas,
            on the eastern bank of the river, a part of the parish of King-Ed-
            ward intervenes, and at the distance of a mile and a half farther
            down, lies the estates of Inverichny on the same side.    On the
            opposite side, below Montblairy, are situated, in succession, the
            lands of Auchenbadie, Sandlaw, and a small part of the barony of
            Alvah.  Before the Doveran leaves the parish, the scenery on
            either side becomes strikingly bold and picturesque. The ground
            rises to the north, presenting a rocky barrier, as if to intercept the
            progress of the stream. In this barrier, after diverting it from its
            northerly direction for more than a mile, a narrow chasm, as if by
            some great convulsion of nature, has been opened through the
            rocks for the reception of the water. Here the rocky and preci-
            pitous sides of the chasm are joined by a majestic arch,/f* which
            has more the appearance of a Roman structure than of a work of
            modern times.  The chasm immediately under the bridge is only
            27 feet wide, while the depth of the water is 56 feet, and from the
            top of the parapet to the surface of the water, the height is 55 1/2.
            feet.  The scenery at the bridge of Alvaht+ is much and justly ad-
            mired; but it is not easy by words to give any precise and accu-
            rate idea of its beauties.  Immediately to the north of the bridge,
            the rocks start back, as it were, into a sort of amphitheatre, rising,
            in some places, almost a hundred feet above the water, and clothed,
            fringed, and festooned with the most beautiful and diversified tints,
            arising from the luxuriant intermixture of trees, shrubs, lichens,
            and mosses.  The water below is collected into an extensive, deep,
            and dark-looking basin, exhibiting, on ordinary occasions, no ap-
            pearance of life or of motion, save when momentarily agitated by
            the splash of the leaping salmon.  Farther north, and yet higher
            up, arises the hill of Montcoffer, stretching away to a great dis-
            tance, clothed to its top with firs, and forming the back-ground of
            the picture.  The whole scene is of a solemn and secluded na-
            ture, and the sounds which most frequently break in on its gloomy
            stillness, are the scream of the heron, and the hoarse note of the
            raven.  Farther down; the stream is again contracted by a suc-
            -cession of shaggy rocks and steep wooded banks, between which it

            <FOOTNOTE>This bridge was erected in 1772 by the late Earl James Fife.
                      An engraving of the bridge of Alvah may be seen in the Annual entitled
            Friendship's, Offering, for 1832.


