
           12                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

           perty of its wealthier merchants.  But it again experienced a re-
           verse.  Like many of the trading towns of Scotland, it suffered
           from the Union; the sudden failure of its herring fishery com-
           pleted its ruin; and so low bad it fallen before the year 1730,
           that a single shopkeeper, who was not such literally, for in the sum-
           mer season he travelled the country as a pedlar, more than sup-
           plied the inhabitants.  It began, however, about thirty years af-
           ter to emerge yet a third time, under the impulse of that general
           spirit of improvement, which, since the suppression of the last re-
           bellion, has operated throughout the kingdom; and the popu-
           lation, which has become much less exclusively lowland than
           formerly, has been steadily on the increase ever since.  The break-
           ing up of the feudal system first introduced habits of comparative
           industry into the Highlands; the breaking up of the small farm
           system has scattered many of the people over the low country, to
           avail themselves ofthese habits, as labourers, fishermen, or mecha-
           nics; and so large a proportion of this class has fallen to the parish
           of Cromarty, that it was found necessary, about fifty years ago, to
           build and endow a Gaelic chapel, which is now attended by a con-
           gregation of at least 500 persons.  The population of the parish in
           1801 amounted to about 2413.  It had increased to 2900 in 1831.
           Fully three-fourtbs of the latter number are inhabitants of the
           town.
              During the last three years, there were about 6 illegitimate
           births in the parish.

                             <TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY.>

           Agriculture.-

           Number of acres cultivated occasionally in tillage,is about,   2047
                           cnnstantly waste or in pasture,                3166
                           under wood                                     1855

              It is supposed that a considerable number of acres in the upper
           part of the parish might be profitably added to the cultivated land.
              The arable part of the parish towards the east is laid out into
           fields inclosed by fences of stone or hawthorn; and the offices
           of the various farms in this direction -consist of those square-
           looking stone and lime erections, which always indicate the intro-
           duction of the modern system of agriculture.  But in passing
           towards the west, we seem as if retrograding from the present to
           the middle of the past century; we find the surface broken into
           irregular map-like patches, divided from each other by little strips
           and corners of land not yet reclaimed from the waste; and the


