
                       INVERCHAOLAIN                             115

the plan given by Mr Gillespie Grabam, the architect appoint-
ed by the Court of Session, and was built by contract given to the
lowest bidder, who absconded before it was finished; the minister
was in consequence put to a considerable expense in endeavour-
ing to make it somewhat comfortable.  It got a sort of repair
in 1832; but the present incumbent has been necessitated to ex-
pend a considerable sum of money upon it for the comfort and
health of his family since that time.  The office houses are pretty
good, the principal line of them being roofed, and several of them
entirely built at the minister's own expense.
   The glebe consists of about four acres of arable, and three
roods of pasture and unimprovable ground.  Several encroach-
ments are said to have been made upon it during vacancies; be-
sides, there is a servitude of eight cows upon the surrounding
church lands of Strondharaig; but, from the overstocked and
wretched system of cropping the land, the servitude is of little va-
lue.  There is no doubt but the minister was entitled to followers
to those cows, according to the original universal custom of the
country; and the minister was always, even of late years, in the
habit of keeping one or two calves, till, about three years ago, they
were driven off by the present proprietor of the lands.
   The stipend, decreeted for in 1775, is 100 bolls 3 firlots of oat-
meal, and 158 Scots money of vicarage.  What this is short of
L.150 Sterling, is made up by Her Majesty's Exchequer.  There are
lands in the parish rented at upwards of L.200 per annum unvalued.
There is little vacant teind.
   The valued rent of the parish is L.204, 8s. 5d. Sterling; the
real rental is L.3400, 15s. Sterling, exclusive of the lands in pos-
session of the resident heritors, and the returns for woods and
plantations.
   Education.-There are only two schools in the parish.  The
schoolmaster's accommodation is miserable, and the schoolmaster,
who died a few months ago, was in poverty, although a most meri-
torious man.
   There was a good school-house built a few years ago for the
side school, which is inefficiently taught, the teacher being old.
I had a small school taught at the head of Loch Striven for some
reasons, which did much good.  There are two Sunday schools
kept in the parish that are superintended by the minister.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons


