
                       ST LEONARDS.                        501

leges of St Salvator and St Leonards are the chief land-owners in
this parish. The only other heritor is the city of Glasgow, which
receives the rents of the lands of Pikie, in consequence of a deed
of mortification by Scot of Scotstarvet. There are, besides, a con-
siderable number of feuars; but these hold of the college as su-
perior, and pay to it feu-duties corresponding to the extent and
the value of their allotments.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in the parochial re-
gisters of the parish, is of date June 28, 1696. The register of
births and marriages is extant from that period; but with regard
to the former, the same remark is applicable which has been made
in reference to the register of births for the parish of St Andrews,
namely, that it is highly defective, many of the parents neglecting
to apply to the session-clerk to have the names of their children
enrolled.
   When the union took place between the Colleges of St Salva-
tor and St Leonards, the grounds and buildings connected with
one of them were no longer requisite for the accommodation of
the members of the United College. Those belonging to St Leon-
ards College were in consequence sold; and the apartments in
which the masters and students originally resided are now divided
between two proprietors, who, with former occupants, have made
very considerable alterations and additions to the buildings, so as
to form commodious dwelling-houses.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

                    III.-POPULATION.

	The population residing in the city,	   266
                                          suburbs,       161
                                           country,       62

The yearly average of births for the last seven years that are entered into
   the register,                                                 3 2/3
                       marriages,                                2 6/7
No register is kept of the  deaths.
The average number of persons under 15 years of age,     203
                                 betwixt 15 and 30,      100
                                         30 and 50,      125
                                         50 and 70,       49
                             upwards of 70,               12
The number of families of independent fortune residing in the parish,	4
	proprietors of land residing within the parish of the yearly
   value of L. 50 and upwards, but whose lands are not in the parish,   4
Number of unmarried men, bachelors and widowers, upwards of 50 years
   of age,
Number of unmarried women upwards of 45,		               10
   The number of Dissenters of all denominations in the parish, is
53.  A few more usually sit in the dissenting chapels, but have
not joined them as communicants.  They urge that no accommo-


