
48              	CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

attention to its true interests.  Mr Bruce has, for a number
of years, given premiums for the best cultivated turdip-fields,
of various sizes, according to the extent of the farm; which
is improving the cultivation of that valuable root in this district.
Lord Abercromby has not neglected to carry forward what, he
saw, would be highly beneficial to the district, by giving pre-
miums for the best cultivated farms of two classes,--the one
below, and the other above a hundred acres. His Lordship also
assisted the Society in their efforts to improve the breed of hor-
ses, by contributing to a premium for the best draught stallion.
Other gentlemen in the neighbourbood also give premiums for
stobk, &c. through the Society, and the competition thus created
has caused a spirited and enterprising rivalry amongst the breed-
ers of the various descriptions of stock, which has tended much to
their improvement.
   At a ploughing match in spring 1839, there were 107 ploughs,
a number which, it is believed, has not been attained by any other
Society whatever.
   Clackmannanshire Horticultural Society, instituted in 1835, has
for its object, not only to encourage the culture of useful and or-
namental plants, including flowers, fruits, and vegetables, but also
to disseminate botanical and horticultural knowledge. For, this
last purpose, there is a library consisting of books oil both these
subjects, and on rural economy in general.
   Manufactures.-The chief of these is the woollen, which was
not, carried on to any great extent, until of late years, when great
additi¢ns were made to some of the mills. Several new ones have
lately been erected on a very large scale; and at present, there are
six extensive factories, four of which are driven by steam. The
principal articles manufactured are yarns, plaiding, shawls, tar-
tans, druggets, blankets, and cloths of various descriptions. The
following statements, from information kindly furnished by some of
the principal manufacturers, will give some idea of the extent of
the woollen; manufacture in this parish, for the year 1839:

<TABLE>
	Number of men employed,	.	190
		  women,		 72
		  boys and girls,	 89

Amount of wages paid weekly, L.190.
Quantity wool manufactured. 483,000 lbs.
Value when manufactured, L.71,400.
Hard and soft consumed yearly, 45,230 lbs. L.740.
Alkalies,dye stuffs, and oils, L.3,000.
Number of spindles used in spinning, 6,900.
Quantity of yarn manufactured, 141,900 spindles.
Capital invested in the trade, consisting of machinery, raw marterial, and manufactur-
 ed goods, L.42,800.


