
     of Kelso.

at the Edinburgh and Morpeth markets, nothing has paid
better for many years past*.

   Bridge.-At Kelso there is an elegant bridge over the
Tweed, consisting of six beautiful arches, built in the year
1756, by a subscription From the county at large, but parti-
cularly by the inhabitants of this parish of every denomina-
tion, who distinguished themselves by their liberality.  An
act of Parliament has lately passed, for building a bridge
over the Tiviot, a little above its junction with the Tweed,
which will make a free communication with the west part of
the county, much wanted, and likely to prove, in many re-
spects, highly advantageous to the public.

   Antiquities.-A considerable part of the ABBEY of Kel-
so+, formerly an immense edifice, still remains, and exhibits
a venerable monument of that taste for magnificence, which

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common hire of a labourer, per day, is from 1 s. to
16 d. but, in hay time and harvest, from 16 d. to 20 d. Male
servants, maintained in the house, receive from 6 to 8 guineas
yearly; women, from 3 L. to 4 L. 10 s. Most of the men ser-
vants, however, are hired as hinds.  Their wages, at an average,
amount to 18 L. a year.  A great part of the summer work,
such as hay-making, hoeing of turnips, potatoes, etc. is per-
formed by young girls, who, being early accustomed to use the
hoe, are more expert at this work than the men.  They receive
from 4 d. to 8 d and country masons and carpenters, from 16 d.
to 22 d. per day, without victuals.

+The Abbey of Kelso was built by St. David, king of
Scotland: He had a predilection for an order of monks called
Tyronenses, whom he first planted at Selkirk; but not think-
ing it an eligible situation for his favourites, he soon re-
moved them to Roxburgh, (in 1126), and at last translated
them to Kelso, where he, in 1128, founded for them a magni-
ficent church, and other buildings in the Saxon stile.  This ab-
bey was dedicated to the Virgin MARY and St. JOHN the Evan-


