
                           GRANGE.                        217

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   There is an extensive manufactory of lime in the parish, lime-
stone being inexhaustible. A great proportion of the small farms
have their-lime kilns, and in this way the lands have been most-
ly limed. Bone-manure is now much used, and we have conse-
quently less fallow and more turnip. Bones seem to answer well
with the soil; they produce very fine turnip, and not worse grass.
   On the more extensive farms there are thrashing-mills, a great
convenience to the farmer. They might still be more general, as
they could be wrought in the localities, where there is no water,
by the young oxen, without much deterioration.
   There is a bed of plumbago or black-lead at a place called Seg-
giecrook, a rare mineral in the north.
   Harvest-labour has undergone a great change, shearing having
now been nearly abolished, and the scythe generally used.
Oats is the more general produce; and the most prevalent kind
at present is what is called sandy-oats. Early Angus and Kil-
drummy are a good deal used. There are yearly a few fields of
barley, and some patches of bear or bigg. There is no meadow
hay; it all consists of rye-grass, and white and red clover. The
six-shift in cultivation is generally followed, that is, two years in
grass, two in oats, one in green crop, and one in oats or barley,
laid down with grass for hay.
   Farming is as well understood here, and the farms are in as
high a state of cultivation as any in Mid-Lothian. On the large
farms of Braco, Floors, Berryleys, Muiryfold, Myrieton, Cantly,
and others, there are as fine horses and cattle as in any part of
the county. The farming utensils are of the best make and
mould. The iron plough is used, and of the best principle. The
smith and wright work are unrivalled. Our grain, and cattle,
and pork, meet a ready market in London. Many fine cattle are
here fed and shipped from the port at Banff for London yearly.
This is an improvement which was not dreamed of, when the last
Statistical Account was written.
There is no village in the parish, but there is a clachan, called
Nether-mills. There is a sub-post-office, and only one public-
house in the parish.
   There is a bridge over the Isla, which was "built by Alexan-
der Christie, tenant in Cantly, for the glory of God, and the good
of the people Grange," as the inscription, which was graven
upon a stone in the bridge, bore. The stone is now supposed to be


