
50                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Glenmoriston. The people are regular in their attendance on
divine ordinances; and the number of communicants at present on
the roll is 108.
   The stipend is 16 chalders, half barley and half meal, with L. 8,
6s. 8d. for communion elements. The glebe consists of about six
acres of arable land, and about half an acre of pasture. The
manse was built in 1800; and, having been repaired about seven
years ago, is in tolerable condition.
   Education.-By the Parochial School act, the heritors of exten-
sive Highland parishes being allowed to divide the salary into two
or three parts, advantage was taken of this clause in regard to
Urquhart and Glenmoriston; and, in consequence, there are three
parochial schools in the parish,-one within half a mile of the pa-
rish church, to which is allotted the half of the maximum salary
allowed to schoolmasters; one at Miklie in the braes of Glen Ur-
quhart; and the third at Invermoriston,-the other half of the sa-
lary being equally divided between the teachers of the two latter.
There are two schools in the parish supported by the Society in
Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge,-one in Bun-
loit of Urquhart, and the other in the braes of Glenmoriston.
Besides these, there are three other schools taught by individuals,
who depend entirely for remuneration on the school fees. In two
of the parochial schools, and in one of those taught by the latter
mentioned individuals, Latin, English, writing, arithmetic, and
book-keeping, are taught; and the fees exacted are from 1s. 6d.
to 2s. 6d. the quarter, according to the branches taught. In the
other schools the same education is afforded, with the exception
of Latin. In the schools supported by the Society, great attention
is paid to the teaching of the Gaelic language; and in the other
schools, it is taught to those who wish to acquire it. The total
amount of fees actually paid to the three parochial schoolmasters
is about L. 50 per annum.
   During six months of the year all these schools are well attend-
ed. From the 1st of November 1833 to the beginning of May fol-
lowing, there were 552 children attending at these different schools;
but in the summer months the number is diminished by one-half.
The people in general are so much alive to the benefits of educa-
tion, that, in the course of a few years, it is supposed there will be
few or no individuals between the ages of seven and twenty unable
to, read the Bible.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.- The average number of persons


