
			CARMICHAEL.                        523

arms, of curious construction and beautiful workmanship. After
the succession of the Carmichaels of Mauldslie to the estate and
titles, they were removed to Mauldslie Castle; and upon the suc-
cession of the Anstruthers of Elie, they found a receptacle in Elie
House in Fife.--Sic transit gloria mundi.
	Beside charters and other papers in Carmichael House, there
ard in Westraw House, twenty-three folio volumes, of very inte-
resting correspondence between the late John, Third Earl of
Hyndford, and different Courts. The information they contain is
interesting to all who have a taste for reading the transactions
of the corps diplomatique, during a considerable portion of his
Lordship's life, and may be useful to some future historian of that
period.
	Eminent Men.--Under the head of eminent characters, con-
nected with the parish, John Earl of Hyndford, to whom allusion
has been made, has a just claim to be ranked in the first place.
He was born according to the last Statistical Account, in this Pa-
rish, but according to Douglas's Peerage, in Edinburgh, 15th
April 1701, and after occupying many eminent stations, being
several times a representative of royalty both in the church and
state, he died at Carmichael House, 19th July 1767, having com-
pleted his sixty-sixth year. The distinguished appointments which
he held, and the honours conferred upon him, afford an incontesti-
ble proof that his talents as a statesman were of the, highest order.
He was chosen several times one of the sixteen representatives of
the Scottish peerage, and was appointed Lora Lieutenant of the
county of Lanark, and twice Lord High Commissioner to the
General Assembly in 1739 and 1740. As Envoy Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary in 1741 to the Kinf of Prussia, his mediation
between that monarch and the Queen of Hungary and Bohemia was
successful in terminating their differences by a treaty of peace,
signed at Breslaw 1st June 1742. His next appointment as
ambassador was to the Court of Russia in 1744--where he con-
tinued till 1749, and was instrumental in settling the peace of
Aix-la-Chapelle. After his return to Britain in 1750 he was sworn -
a Privy-Councillor, and appointed one of the Lords of the Bed-
Chamber--but was soon despatched as Ambassador to the Court
of Vienna. He held this appointment from 1752 till 1764, when
he was appointed Vice-Admiral of Scotland. He spent the re-
mainder of his life at his house in this parish, enjoying the im-
provements he had made upon his estate, and still projecting and


