
26			WIGTONSHIRE.

Botany.--Sorbie was in 1795, first visited for the purpose of
botanical research, by Mr Mackay, then, curator of the Botanic Gar-
den in Edinburgh. Three  years ago, it was again examined by Mr
Goldie, who found a number of the rarer species of British plants,
and reckened it an excellent station, though it had not been previ-
ously much noticed. The plantation display a beautilful variety
of trees, such as the oak, ash, beech, birch, alder, plane, larch, &c.
to all of which the soil seems quite congenial. in Lord Gallo-
way's pleasure grounds, there are some beautiful specimens of lau-
rel, evergreen oak, horse-chestnut, and Turkey oak. Some of the
laurels rise to The height of 31 feet, and are considered among the
finest in Scotland. There is one Turkey oak, planted not more
than fifty years ago, which deserves to be particularly noticed for
its beauty, and for the rapidity of its growth. The circumference
of its branches is about 156 feet, and the girth of its, stem mea-
sures 9 feet 5 inches. The soil here is also peculiarly adapted to
the growth of evergreen shurbs. In his Lordship's garded, peach-
es and figs are successfully cultivated on the open wall, even
upon south-west aspects. Here, also, there is a vine which merits
notice for its size, and the quantity and quality of its fruit. Its
stem measures 13 inches in circumferenee, and the spread of its
branches is 40 feet. It produces about 346 bunches, each averag-
ing 1 1/4 lbs and some of the individual berries are 3 1/4 inches in cir-
cumference

	   		II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The only ancient or modern historical accounts of Sorbie
which we have seen, are contained in Symon's Description of Gal-
loway the Old Statiscal Account, and Chalmers' Caledonia.
From none of these does it appear that there are any historical
events of great importance connected with this district. We have
not seen any maps, plans, or surveys of Sorbie; nor are we aware
that any resident individuals possess letters, papers, pictures, or
any, other documents of interest, tending, to illustrate the bhography,
history, or an antiquities of the parish.
	Eminent Men.--The only literary character connected with
Sorbie by birth is Patrick Hannay, the poet, who lived in the
seventeenth century. We copy the following account of him
from Murray's Literary History of Galloways. * "Patrick Han-
nay was a younger son of Donald Hannay of Sorbie. It may
be inferred that be had received an academical education: for in

<FOOTNOTE>Literary History, &c. page 269.

                            4


