
     Of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen.

   Proprietors and Rent.-There are 6 proprietors in the
parish; 3 of whom only reside in it.  In 1791, the rent
of the parish was 2711 L. 11 s. 4 d., but it has been fluc-
tuating fince.  The Duke of Argyll's rents were not aug-
mented for a number of years prior to that period, and
some augmentation was laid on a few farms.  Other he-

<FOOTNOTE>

The wages of servant-maids are very low; from 18 s. to 21 s. and 2
pair of brogues, is the common rate for a year.  Their wages have not
increased for many years.  Numbers of them, as well as of the men, go
to the Low Country to the harvest, and also engage in family service,
and other works.  There are other servants common to this parish with
the rest of the Western Isles, and different from those already mentioned.
There are mealers, workmen, moor-herds, and grass-keepers or chasers.
The mealers are a kind of subtenants, and employed only by gentlemen.
They take the arable ground of a farm at so much meal yearly.  Be-
sides raising the crop, they carry on the other work of the farm with
whatever assistance can be given them by the tacksman.  They have the
grass of 2 or 3 cows, and some sheep.  They furnish half the labouring
horses.  They are fed by the tacksman every day; he employs them at
any work, except what concerns the crop.  Few now are employed as
mealers.  The only difference between mealers and workmen is, that
workmen, instead of meal, deliver 3-fourths of the crop to the master,
after it is cut, and keep the fourth to themselves.  The master furnishes
all the labouring horses.
The particular situation of the country has given rise to grass-keepers
or chasers.  In many parts, there are no kind of march walls; and
where there are march walls, they are so bad, that they are no fence.
The consequence is, that every farm is obliged to keep a man to look
after the marches, without any other employment.  This man gets for
his trouble a house, a cow's grass, and grass for a horse, some sheep, and
ground for crop.  Moor-herds are employed to look after their master's
cattle in moors and hills; and his terms are generally the same with
grass-keepers.  All these kinds of servants, viz. mealers, workmen,
grass-keepers, and moor-herds, have families.  There are hardly any em-
ployed as a day-labourers; when they are, their wages are from 8 d. to 1 s.
a-day, besides their victuals.  Tailors charge the same.  Broguemakers
charge 4 d. a-pair, when they are victualled, and 6 d. a-pair, when they
are not.  Wall-builders and ditchers have so much a rood.


