
376                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

customed to attend public worship at these laces. A small number
of the poorer families in the village also seldom attend any place of
worship, under the pretence of want of suitable clothing; so that in-
cluding these, and the number of servants necessarily detained at
home in the management of large dairy farms, the church, though
always well attended in good weather, is never crowded except
during the time of the communion. The church has never been
legally divided; but the heritors, at a meeting by a written agree-
ment, to which they adhibited their signatures, appropriated the
seats according to their valuations when it was new seated, 8th
August 1768. This document was also signed by their preses,
with, reference to their sederunt of that date, the original plan and
copy of which are laid up, and may be found among Lord Tor-
phichen's papers. Ever since patronage has become the law of
the land, it has been exercised by the Torphicben family, in such
a manner as has always given satisfaction to the parishioners ; so
that every clergyman presented to this benefice has uniformly met
with the most cordial rdception from the people. By the "De-
creet, of locality, 20tb July 1647, the local stipend and provision
of the Kirk of Calder Comitis, is found and declared to be 1200
merks, and 50 merks for communion elements, and a tack duty
payable by Lord Torphichen, of L.20 Scots, four kyne, and a
horse's grass in the wood of Calder, together with the manse and
glebe." In 1743, James, Lord Torphichen, brought a process
of reduction of the decrees against the heritors, in so far as it
could import a valuation, of the teinds in exclusion of the titular;
but the Lords repelled the reasons of reduction and assoilzied the
defenders. The access to the pasturage in the wood of Calder
being found not only extremely inconvenient in crossing the water
in time of flood, but sometimes even dangerous, this servitude was
afterwards exchanged for an additional piece of land, which, being
added, to the glebe, made the whole extend to eight acres. In
1806, these eight acres were given in exchange for forty-three
acres and one rood of land, of a quality proportionably inferior,
and situated about three-quarters of a mile west of the village ;
and, in 1807, the present manse and offices were erected on the
new glebe. When land was at its highest value in 1806, the
ground- of the present glebe was estimated at L.1, 6s. per acre;
and a small part of the old glebe, about half an acre, being let as
garden around, was valued at L,8, 8s. ; the rest of it at L.5, 5s.
per acre; and to this was added an additional allowance for re-
                               4


