
                   ANSTRUTHER WESTER.                         619

enlarged since it came into his Lordships possession. The grounds
about it have lately been laid out anew with much taste. The
place altogether is one of the most elegant in the country, and might
form a suitable residence to any gentleman or noblennn in the king-
dom. The town-hall, in which the magistrates aud council hold
their meetings, deserves also to be mentioned as a large and hand-
some room.
   Session Records.-The earliest entry in the session nrecords, as
possessed by the present schoolmaster, is in 1651. One or two
short extracts from them may be interesting. It would appear
from some items mentioned at this time (1651,) that the town had
had a rather unceremonious visit from the "Inglis." Under the
date of 16th September 1651, it is said, "paid for ane- to hold
ye sand-glass ye ould being plundered by ye "Inglis." And
again, on the 7th October following, it is said, "paid to Matt
Thomson for drying ye ould bybell, which was cast in ye sea
ye "Inglis,' yn ye towne was plundered."
 " 5th September 1689.-The  whilk day MrThomas Auchinleck,
minister of Anstruther Wester, was discharged by the  Lords of
yr Majesty's Privy-Council from exercising the offi6e of the mi-
nistry in this congregation, for not reading; the proclamation, and
for not praying for King William and Queen Mary; and the
church was declared vacant by ane sent from the presbytery, Of
Saint Andrews and Cupar to that effect.
  "8th September l689.-Mr John Law, a Presbyterian minister,
preached in the kirk, and intimated the proclamation.
  "15th April 1691.-Mr Hardie preached,- finding no objec-
tions againts seventeen elders, admitted them.
   "May 1, 1700.-"The session appoints aney three elders to clear
accounts with the schoolmaster, and pay what is due to him by
the session against schoolmaster, and pay what is due to him by
that they have no design to keep any schoolnuster not precentor,
both upon account of the indisposition of the minister and the
poverty of the place."  And on the 29th of  the same month it is
said,-"This day Mr David Ballingall, schoolmaster, precenster,
and session-clerk, did dimit.  The schoolmaster's salary at this
time stated at L. 16, 13s. Od. Scots money.
   "February 1. 1701.- Mr William Hardie, minister of Crail,
preached. Collected for Andrew Simsom, skipper in Dysert, and
his company, who are slaves in Algiers, L. 16, 00, 00.
    Antiquities-" At the west end of the town there is a large



