
384                            AYRSHIRE.

	Botany.--Much attention has been paid to horticulture, in both
its useful and its ornamental branches. Extensive shrubberies
round the residences of several of the proprietors, are connected
by pleasure walks with the woods and glens with which the parish
abounds. Arboriculture has also greatly advanced of late years.
Planting has been carried to a considerable extent on the estates
of Bargany, Kilkerran, Dalquharran, and Drumburle. On that
of Bargany alone no less than 666 1/2 acres have been planted in the
last thirty years. Timber of every kind congenial to the climate
of Scotland thrives here luxuriantly, with the single exception of
the Balm of Gilead fir.

			II--CIVIL HISTORY.

	Land-owners.--The land-owners of the parish are, Henrietta Dal-
rymple Hamilton Duchesse de Coigny, proprietress of Bargany;
Sir James Fergusson, of Kilkerran, Bart.; Sir John Andrew
Cathcart, of Carleton, Bart.; Thomas Francis Kennedy, of Dun-
ure, Esq.; Sir David Hunter Blair, Bart.; the Marquis of Ailsa,
and Spencer Boyd, of Penkill, Esq. The four proprietors first
named have residences in the parish. There is also a mansion-
house on the estate of Drumburle, belonging to Sir David Hun-
ter Blair. At Kilkerran and Penkill there are ruins of castles
which had been places of strength, particularly that at Kilkerran.
They are both in very picturesque situations.
	Parochial Register.--The parochial registers, and the records of
the kirk-session, have been uniformly kept together. They oc-
cupy seven volumes. The first volume includes the period from
April 1691 to the year 1711, and is perfectly legible, but in some
places much decayed. There is reason to believe that, during the
early parts of the last century, the registers were not accurately
kept. From the year 1751, every attention has been paid to them.
	Antiquities.--In regard to antiquities, this parish has little to
boast of. At a place called Machry-kill, there was a small church
or chapel, probably dedicated to St Micarius. Near the lower
extremity of a wild and romantic dell, which adjoins to Kilkerran,
and forms with its woods, rocks, and numerous cascades, a beau-
tiful walk, there once stood a chapel dedicated to the Virgin
Mary. From this circumstance, the dell still retains the name of
the Lady Glen. At the western extremity of the ridge of hills on
the south side of the parirh, there are the remains of an encamp-
nent, 100 yards in length by 65 in breadth. It is of an oval
form, and consists of two enclosures. The inner one is more en-


