
                             ABERNETHY.                      853

refer his readers for fuller information on this interesting subject
than can be given within the limits of a statistical report of the
parish.  If Abernethy, as associated with the name of the Cul-
dees, the pioneers of the Reformation, be a scene interesting to
the Christian inquirer, both as a seat of learning and religion, it
became, in a later age, one of the original seats of that secession
from the Church of Scotland, which has now extended so widely,
and produced an important change in the state of society in Scot-
land.
  One of the fathers of the Secession, the Rev.  Alexander Mon-
crieffe, was minister of Abernethy, and proprietor of Culfargie, a
considerable estate in the parish.  He was the son of Matthew
Moncrieffe, Esq. of Culfargie, and born about the year 1696.
His grandfather was the Rev.  Alexander Moncrieffe, minister of
Scoonie, in Fifeshire, from 1643 to 1660, who was ejected at the
Restoration, and died in 1688.   After prosecuting his studies in
Scotland, and for some time at leyden, in Holland, be returned
home, and soon after was licensed to preach the Gospel by the
presbytery of Perth, and was ordained minister of Abernethy in
September 1720.
  He vas one of the four ministers who protested against the
Act of the General Assembly of 1733, which restrained ministerial
freedom, and who, being afterwards ejected from the Established
Church, constituted themselves into a presbytery for bearing tes-
timony to the covenanted work of the Reformation in Scotland,
and against all defections from the same. He is the author of
two volumes of sermons, and of different pamphlets subjects
connected with the controversies and errors of the times. He
was appointed Professor of Divinity to the General Associate
Synod, after the death of Mr William Wilson of Perth, about
the year 1742, and continued to have the charge of the students
of divinity at Culfargie till the period of his death in 1761.  His
popular talents, and the influence which his property in the parish
gave him, enabled him to draw away from the Establishment a
great proportion of the population ; and though a great change
has since taken place, the name of Moncrieffe is dear to many
connected with that body of Christians in which; he acted so pro-
ninent a part.  After his ejection from the Church, he continued
to live on his paternal estate of Culfargie, and ou.t of his private
funds immediately erected a large substantial meeting-house, in
the vicinity of Abernethy, capable of accommodating about 1000


