
                  LEWIS-STORNOWAY.                            129

the roof, fastened by stones called anchors, resting on the top of
the broad wall. On this wall, it is no unusual sight to see sheep
and calves feeding, and making a short passage into the byre,
through the roof. The doors of the houses are so low, that who-
ever would gain admittance must humble himself, and continue in
that posture till he reach the fire, which is always in the middle
of the floor; and very often, he must grope his way or be led by
the hand. From the slightness of the wooden rafters, much straw
or stubble cannot he laid for thatch; but just sufficient to exclude
the day-light. The thatch is not expected at first to keep out
much rain, until it is properly saturated with soot; but to com-
pensate for this defect, the inmates are practical chemists; they
keep plenty of peats on the fire; the interior is soon filled with
smoke; the smoke and increasing heat repel the rain, for a great
proportion of what fell on the roof is returned to the atmosphere
by evaporation. These houses after a smart shower, appear like
so many salt pansor breweries in operation.
   The thatch of the houses, saturated by the smoke with sooty
particles, is considered valuable; for, every summer, the roof is strip-
ped and the inner layer of straw which contains the soot is car-
ried carefully to the potato or barley field, and strewed on
the crop. This gives a wonderful stimulus to vegetation; and in
afew days, a very sensible difference is visible in the colour and
strength of the plants, especially if a warm slight shower should
fall soon after strewing the sooty straw. Though this practice is
generally pursued, from the scarcity of manure, the soot, as an ex-
cessive stimulant, is doubtless injurious to the soil.
   The proprietor and his lady have ordered, at the present set or
lease, that there should be in these dwellings, a separation, by
partition, between the rational and the irrational inmates, and that
more light should be admitted into the dark recesses of their habitations,
by one window at least. In several instances, a reformation
has already taken place, but sorely against the will of the people.
   The peasantry do not much experience the want of food. In
winter, the most of them may have beef and fish if they choose.
But potatoes and gruel make their ordinary meals. They exert
themselves much, in order to pay their, rents and little debts; but
none need be in absolute want, if they have health, except through
laziness. Sometimes in summer after a severe winter, having given
their potatoes to the cattle, they feel short of provisions; but while
      ROSS AND CROMARTY.			I


