
                             ASSYNT.                        107

the district, and its proximity to the sea, it will readily be conclud-
ed, that we have much rainy weather-so much is this the case,
that the harvesting of out crop, is an operation extremely precarious.-
We frequently experience severe storms of thunder and lightning,
And two years ago, a young man was instantaneously deprived of
life by the electric fluid. At the same time some cattle also were,
struck dead. Instances of this kind are fortunately rare. The
climate, though severe, is upon the whole salubrious, and the
inhabitants healthy. Consumption, however, is not unfrequent,
and is generally induced by exposure, during the long harvest
nigbts, at the herring-fishing. The prevailing wind is westerly,
and invariably accompanied by torrents of rain. With easterly
winds we generally have dry weather, but these are piercing and
intensely cold.
   Hydrography.-Every bill and valley, particularly in the heights
of the parish, is abundantly supplied with springs of water, some
of which are very large. There is one at Achumore, ten or twelve
feet in circumference. There are several beautiful lakes some of
which deserve to be particularly noticed.
   Loch Assynt.-Its extreme length is 6 3/4 miles; its greatest breadth
about a mile. It is a fresh water lake, and its banks in most places
covered with brushwood. The scenery altogether is most delight-
ful, and cannot fail to attract the notice of the intelligent tourist,
It abounds in trout of various kinds, and as there is no restrictiop
as to angling, or setting nets, the few inhabitants in the neighbour-
hood are able, in the proper season, to supply themselves, with an
agreeable and wholesome addition to their daily fare.
   Loch Assynt possesses considerable attraction for the angler.
About two years ago, it was visited by Sir William Jardine, the
naturalist, and others, who minutely inspected the different kinds of
trout found here and in other lochs in the neighbourbood, the re-
sult of whose researches must no doubt prove interesting and use-
ful. Before there was a road from the height of the, parish to the
shores, there were several boats kept on the loch for the purposes
a carriage. At the east end of the loch  stands the church.
Next in size to, Loch Assynt is Cam-Loch, i.e. the crooked loch
in the Elpbine, or highest district of the parish. It is a beautiful
lake, very irregular in shape, as its name implies. Trout are found
here in abundance,as well as in Loch Assynt.   Cam-Loch is in
a most sequestered spot.


