
                     PARISH OF KIRKCALDY.*

             PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                THE REV. JOHN ALEXANDER, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THERE seems to be no good reason for doubting the
accuracy of the derivation commonly given of the name. It is
said to be compounded of Cil or Kil, and Celedei or Keledie, the
Culdees. Prior to the introduction and establishment of Popery
in Scotland, the Culdees, who had erected several religious esta-
blishments in Fife and Kinross, had one of their houses, called
cells, here; hence the place was called Kil-celedei. During the
Scoto-Saxon period the name was changed into Kirkcaledie, and
subsequently it was contracted into Kirkcaldie and Kirkcaldy.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish was originally large, but
is now very small, in consequence of the erection of the adjacent
parish of Abbotshall, the greater part of which was disjoined from
Kirkcaldy. The parish consists of one small farm ; a piece of
acre-land, which has been divided, from time immemorial, among
a number of small proprietors; the burgh acres; and the com-
monties,with the moss and moor, which at one time belonged to
the town.It is 2 1/2 miles in length, and scarcely 1 in breadth:
and is bounded on the south-east, by the Frith of Forth ; on the
north-east, by the parish of Dysart ; on the north-west, by the
parishes of Dysart and Auchterderran ; and on the south-west, by
the parish of Abbotshall.
   Topographical Appearances--It rises towards the north, for the
most part very gradually, to an elevation of 300 feet above the level
of the sea. The sea-beach is level and sandy. The parish em-
braces about three-fourths of a mile of the sea-coast. A short

<FOOTNOTE>
   * The former Statistical Account of Kirkcaldy by Dr Thomas Fleming is minute
and accurate. The writer of this account has freely used it, and he wishes to ac-
knowledge this here, as he will not make more special reference to it in the following
pages.


