
                        STRATHDON.                            541

go along with the Rebells, contrary to their inclination, and how
soon soever they had an opportunity of deserting, they came home,
thereby testifying their want of inclination to rebel : and the Go-
vernment is so conscious of this, that they have never called any
of these people to account for their being in the Rebellion."
The people, of Strathdon, however, seem to have been pretty ge-
nerally implicated; for Mr Robertsan, * the Episcopal minister,
says in his confession on the presbytery's libel, " that he did read
the proclamation for the thanksgiving from pulpit, but did
not observe the thanksgiving, because his people were out on par-
ties, and, therefore, had none to keep it with him."
   In 1745, Gordon of Glenbueket joined the Pretender with 400
men raised in Strathdon, Glenlivat, &c.  The families of Skella-
ter, Inverernan, and Edinglassie, joined the cause of the Pretend-
er; but, fortunately, no confiscations, nor even prosecutions by the
Government took place after the insurrection was suppressed.
   Eminent Men.-There is no person of particular eminence,
either in literature or science, with whom this parish can claim con-
nection by birth or residence.  There are not wanting, however,
characters of distinguished moral excellence, some of which merit
special notice in the statistics of this parish.
   General John Forbes of Skellater, when a young man, distin-
guished himself by resenting the attacks on his country of the ce-
lebrated John Wilkes, contained in the " North Briton," and
sought in vain for a personal rencontre with him.  General For-
bes married a princess of the blood-royal of Portugal, and rose to
be a field-marshal in the Portuguese service.  He was a distin-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Robertson appears to have had a strong hold of the affections of his people ;
and his being forcibly separated from them by deposition, will account for one of
those ebullitions of violence against his successor at his first introduction, mentioned
in the former account.  The whole of his confession before the presbytery is made
with so much naivet‚, that we extract it from the record of the presbytery.  "Mas-
ter John Robertson was called and compeared, and being interrogate upon the se-
veral articles of his libell, replyed and confessed as follows, viz.  That during the
time of the late Rebellion he prayed for the Pretender ; but with these limitations,
that God would incline his heart to be a true Protestant; and if it were God's will
he would bring him to the throne who was lawfull heir to our native kings; and if
not, that God would be pleased to incline him to set his heart upon ane heavenly
kingdome.  That he prayed God would preserve the Earl of Marr and his own pa-
rochiners from sin and wrath, and every mark of God's displeasure, and bring them
safe home again.  That he observed the fast-day lybelled, and prayed for the Pre-
tender, the Earl of Marr, and his own parochiners, and that God would reconcile
disagreeing parties.  That he did read the proclamation for the thanksgiving from
pulpit, but not observe the thanksgiving, because his people were out on parties, and
therefor he had non to keep it with him.  That he did not pray for King George
in the time of the Rebellion, but prayed for him before and since that nomina-
tim."


