
994                         PERTHSHIRE.

lential disease by the merits of its patron, St Columba. Their
settldmdnt was ten miles distant from the church of Caputh, and
five miles from the Dunkeld cathedral. That the new residents,
who spoke the Irish Gaelic, might have religious instruction im-
parted to them in their own language, Brown, then Bishop of
Dunkeld, in 1500, erected Dowally into a parish. It is not known
whether the parish received its name from the Gaelic Duille,
a neglected people; or from Doullach or Daullach, a second charge.
The parish is, however, generally denominated in Gaelic con-
versation, eitber Dubh ailean, the black meadow; or, Dail a charne,
the haugh of the cairn, the name by which the "haugh" where
the "cairn" was situated, is known. The cairn stood fifty years
ago, a little to the eastward of the present church, and to the west-
ward of two high upright stones called clachinmore. On removing
the cairn, it was found to consist entirely of land-stones; in the centre
there were an iron-cbain, and a single stone-coffin, 6 feet in length,
and 4 in breadth, with a quantity of rich black earth, but no bones
within it, The cairn was 30 feet in diameter, and about 6 in
height. A small distance from the cairn, were found a few rude
stone coffins. When the late Duke of Atholl directed the present
turnpike road to be cut through the field on which the cairn was
situated, the people at first refused to do it, because thd pesti-
lence had been buried there, and might renew the calamity. His
Grace's firmness, however, overcame their superstitious fears.
	Extent and Boundaries.--Dowally is situated to the westward
of Dunkeld, from which it is separated by a small interjected por-
tion of Caputh. The main body of the parish of Dowally
stretches along the north bank of the river Tay, in the sbape of
a parallelogram, beginning at the "Pley Burn," a mile from the
town of Dunkeld, and extending to the north-west upwards of six
miles, where the parish of Logierait divides it from the barony of
Dulcapon, which forms a part of the parish of Dowally. This ba-
rony lies on the north bank of the river Tummel, and extends
three-quarters of a mile. The breadth of the parish is uncertain,
from the hills having been placed under plantation before any
exact measurement had been deemed necessary. The main body
of the parish of Dowally is bounded on the east by Caputh; on
the north, by Kirkmichael; on the south, by the river, Tay; and
on the west, by Logierait. The barony of Dulcapon is bounded
on the east and west by Logierait; on the north, by Kirkmichael;
and on the south, by the river Tummel.


