
     of Carnwath.

able way above.  In the muirland parts of the parish the ara-
ble lands are either a cold stiff clay, or moss, with clay or sand
at bottom.  The pasture grounds in these places are equal-
ly different.  In the dale land part (as it is here called) the
grass is sweet and good, fit either for rearing or fattening black
cattle or sheep, but in the muirland parts a large portion of
the pasture is boggy ground, which produces plenty of a coarse
sour benty grass, calculated for rearing, but not for fattening,
the cattle that are pastured upon it.  Large tracts of such.
pasture lie along the banks of every rivulet which runs through
the northern parts of the parish.
   In the extensive estate of Count Lockhart of Lee and
Carnwath, turnip farming has been lately introduced, with a
certain rotation of crops to follow the turnip course, which
the tenants, by their leases, are bound to observe.  The
greater part of that estate in this district seems to be well
calculated for that mode of farming, as it is in general dry,
inclined to sand; but when the turnips are carried entirely
off the field, for the purpose of feeding cattle in the house,
(which is the common practice at present), such crop is found
to impoverish our sandy land exceedingly; so that if the far-
mer does not restore to the ground the dung produced by
the turnips, he may lay his account with a very scanty crop
of barley the following season.  The reason seems to be, that
the grounds, from the sandy nature of the soil, are easily pul-
verised, and give their whole vegetable strength at once to
the production of the turnips, and must therefore be renew-
ed with dung to put them into a condition for producing
another crop.  This new mode of farming, which was ex-
ceedingly unpopular with the tenants at its first introduction,
bids fair, however, to increase greatly the rent of the lands,
and to better the condition of the tenants.  A few years ago
there was no such thing known in this district as a turnip-ted


