
582                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

there was no similar conveyance.  The people are more desirous
of knowledge, and anxious for the education and instruction of
their children.  Upon the whole, they enjoy many blessings and
advantages, of which their forefathers had not the most distant
prospect, and it is to be hoped that they duly appreciate and are
grateful for them.

   Written in 1835,
   Revised in 1840.

                            ADDENDA.
   Antiquities.-About half a mile to the south-east of the church,
is to be seen the old ruinous castle of Balquhain.  In it Queen
Mary spent a day in her journey to the north, which terminated
in the battle of Corrichie ; and at which time, it is said she attend-
ed mass in the church of Chapel.  This ancient castle was long the
seat of the present proprietor, Count Leslie, twenty-third Baron of
Balquhain.  Of this venerable building the only remains are a few
shattered fragments of the court or quadrangle of which it origin-
ally consisted, and the noble square tower or keep, which was
erected about the year 1530, by Sir William Leslie, seventh Ba-
ron of Balquhain, to replace the more ancient castle, which had
been burned down in the memorable feud with the Forbeses in
the year 1526.  The walls are six feet thick, and the cement al-
most as hard as the stone.  From it, there is one of the finest
echoes in Scotland.  There is also, at a short distance to the east
of it, a Druid's circle, which is very entire.
   Modern Buildings.-There are four mansion-houses in the pa-
rish, viz. Logie Elphiiistone, the residence of Sir Robert Dal-
rymple Horn Elphinstone, Bart.; Pittodrie, the residence of Co-
lonel Knight Erskine ; Fetternear, the residence of Count Leslie,
twenty-third Baron of Balquhain ; and Pitcaple, the residence of
Hugh Lumsden, Esq.  Logie Elphinstone is upon the north,
and Pitcaple upon the south bank of the Ury; Pittodrie is upon an
elevated situation.
   In the house of Fetternear there is a well known relic of the
Leslie family, called " John of Blairbowie's chair." This massy
and gigantic chair excites the admiration and wonder of the dege-
nerate men of modern times, on account of its tremendous strength
and dimensions.  It is of such weight that the strongest man
could scarcely lift it from the ground; and derives its name from


