
     of Auchtermuchty.

   Ecclesiastical State. Town, etc.  Auchtermuchty was consti-
tuted a royal burgh by James the IV. which charter was re-
newed by James the VI.  It enjoys all the privileges of a roy-
al burgh, but that of sending a representative to parliament.
It has 3 bailies chosen annually at Michaelmass, 15 councillors,
(one of them treasuerer) and a clerk.  The annual income of
the town's property is L. 106: 14: 6, which arises from the
custom of fairs, rent of the mills, etc.  How that money is dif-
posed of is best known to those to whom the management of
it is intrusted.  By the charter there was a market appointed
to be held every Tuesday, which it is to be regretted is now
done away.  There are four considerable fairs in the year, the
one held on the 13th of July, by the same charter, was to
continue 8 days.  It is now one of the most considerable in
Fife, for the sale of black cattle, horses, sheep, wool, etc.
   The church was built in 1780.  The patronage belongs to
Moncrieff of Reedy, an antient and respectable family, who
received some signal tokens of favour from one of the Scottish
kings, when residing at Falkland.  The stipend is 3 chalders
of barley, 3 chalders of oats, and L. 36: 13: 4. sterling.  The
glebe is now let at L. 19. Sterling.-There are 65 heritors, of
whom 57 reside in the parish.  A new manse is just now fi-
nished, and much to the honour of the heritors is inferior to
none in the country; the church too is well finished, and su-
perior to the generality in the neighbourhood.  There is a
flour mill, a corn mill, and 2 lint mills.  Within these few
years there was a cotton work; but one of the partners dying
before it had well commenced, it is converted into a mill for
     VOL VI. X x

<FOOTNOTE>

8 d. and their victuals.  When a common labourer is frugal and well married,
he can do more than support himself and family.  The usual wages of male
servatns in husbandry are from L. 6: to L. 7. per annum.  A female servant.
L. 2: 10 s. besides as much ground as will sow a lippies of flax feed.


