
     of Gargunnock.

dated.  They possess some good pasture ground, immediately
below the hill, which adds much to the value of their farms,
both with respect to convenience and profit.  They are at
pains never to overstock those fields, in summer; and the
sheep find abundant provision in them, in winter.  By this
means, the muir is covered by the sheep which it has bred;
and the farmer says, that such as have been thus reared at
home, turn out much better than those which he hath brought,
at any time, from other parts of the country.
   It is seldom that any part of the muir is cultivated for rais-
ing grain.  Attempts have been made this way, but most fre-
quently with little or no success.  A few acres near the house of
the farmer, have been sown with oats or barley, but a good crop
was never expected.  The soil and climate forbid the use of the
plough.  There are extensive meadows; which, after having
been covered with water in the winter, and had a little manure
thrown upon the surface, produce abundance of excellent hay;
and hay-making, which is generally in the month of August,
is the principal harvest.
   The whole of the muir is without inhabitants, two families
excepted, which possess that part of it belonging to General
Campbell of Boquhan.  Gargunnock-muir, as has been stat-
ed above, is in the hands of its own proprietor; but the other
divisions are rented by sheep farmers in neighbouring pa-
rishes.  To reside at a distance from the farm must always
be attended with disadvantage.  It is impossible the necessary
attention can be given to the stock.  Or, if the trust is com-
mitted to a shepherd, whose visits are only occasional, and who
cannot be constantly at hand, especially amid the storms of
winter, when much exertion is often requisite to save the
animals; it is easy to see the risque must be greater, than
when the master himself, or some such interested person, re-
sides on the spot.
   The two muirland houses have nothing in appearance to re-


