
426                          ROXBURGHSHIRE.

two miles broad.  The Teviot, with the exception just mention-
ed, forms its natural boundary to the north.  To the east, it meets
the Rule Water, but at the lower extremity, shoots out to a narrow
point below it, towards Spittal, and thence, embracing almost the
whole of the northern side of Rubberslaw, the boundary line pro-
ceeds in a southern direction, but with many irregularities, along the
high mountainous ridges which separate the Teviotdale frol the
Liddisdale district, towards the top of Tutop, where the shires of
Roxburgh and Dumfries meet.  Taking from thence a north-west
direction, but with many irregularities, it crosses the pass of Moss-
paul by the Wisp, and Pikethowe to Teviotstone, the western
extremity of the parish.
     Topographical Appearances.--If this parish be irregular in its
outline, it is not less diversified in its general lineaments, prossessing
almost every variety of hill and dale, glen and shaw, soil and pas-
turage.  Its two principal characteristics, however, may be con-
sidered as these; its lower department, though undulating, is yet
upon the whole flat, and in a state of regular and well-conducted
cultivation, with hedges and hedge-row trees for enclosures, and
portions of thriving plantation, suitably interspersed,--while the
upper department is almost altogether of a pastoral character,
and in a state of nature, diversified with lonely wild and stream,
green hill, and deep glen.  From Pencrestpen, a little pyrami-
dical mountain, lying south of Stobbs Castle, where the pastoral
part of the parish may be said fairly to commence, to Teviotstone,
where it terminates, a distance of about fourteen miles,--an inte-
resting family of hills lift up their heads, remarkable for their
rotund and distinct appearance, and the manner in which they are
interwoven with one another.  These, although not very high hills,
are nevertheless seen from many points at a very considerable dis-
tance; and as thus seen, especially on summer and autumn days,
when fantastically overhung, as they often are, with all their splen-
did drapery of towering clouds, obstructing at one time, and emit-
ting at another, the downward-darting rays of the sun, they exhi-
bit a prospect which the lover of mountain scenery can scarcely
fail to admire.  These hills in the summer season are covered with
verdure; few rocks or stones, and only some plots of heat here
and there appearing; or on certain points of high exposure, a
few acres of broken ground, termed in pastoral phrase "moss-hags,"
lending a darker feature, and heightening the effect by contrast.
Crawford, in his Cowdenknowes, has apparently, with fond recollec-


