
516                    RENFREWSHIRE.

Frosty shining morning, rainy dark day. E. 22. Tremendous
gusts of wind and rain ; dry afternoon ; carting in corn in good or-
der. Variable wind. 23. Fine dry sunny day ; much corn car-
ried in; high wind and rain at night. S.E. 24. High wind, great
droug it; harvest home. S.E. 25. Good harvest day. S.E. 26.
Wet morning, dry day. W. From 27 to 30, inclusive, good wea-
ther. Wind variable.
  There is no well authenticated record of the averaoe annual
quantity of rain falling in the parish. Indeed, from the way in
which water-guages are usually kept, they are but uncertain in-
dices by which to ascertain the real or even comparative dryness
or moisture of a climate.  Their results depend to a great amount
on situation, altitude, exposure and a variety of other causes,
which frequently render them at best but lying chroniclers. There,
are no authentic parochial registers either of the thermometer or
barometer.
   Hydrography.-This parish, in the strictest sense of the term,
constitutes an "inland district." It is not within sight, by many
miles, of the sea shore, and is watered by no great or stately river.
The White Cart, here little more than a mountain-stream, al-
though it swells to something like a river at Paisley, divides Mearns
from the parish of Carmunnock. The Earn is also a brattling
brisk stream, from 10 to 15 feet broad, passing between this pa-
rish and the parish of Eaglesham. There are, besides, several in-
considerable streamlets, scarcely worth mentioning. There are
four lochs of inconsiderable size. The chief is the Brother Loch,
and also the Little Loch and Black Loch ; besides which there
is also the White Loch, a small sheet of water in the lands of
Pollock. The fish in these small lakes are excellent, particularly
the trout. The Salmo salvelinus has been long a denizen of the
lakes of Mearns. This is the Tarrag-beal of the Highlanders.
It is a very excellent and savoury fish, distinguished by the first
rays of the ventral and anal fins being white. It is of a black pur-
plish-blue colour, passing into silvery yellow and scarlet on the
scales and belly, with red spots. The flesh is red, and the fish is
generally about a foot long. Upwardg of a century ago, Anne
Duchess of Hamilton caused a number of live trout of this sort
to be taken out of the lakes at Mearns, and put into the Avon at
Strathavon, where she then resided. The breed is still extant,
and goes by the name of the Duchess Anne trout. The Salmo
dfario, or common trout of our rivers, is a distinct species. The

				4

