

198                   DUMBARTONSHIRE.

  The working hours of masons and all who labour in the open
air, are reduced from 1st November to 1st March, and from
that month till November are again increased, and of course the
wages bear the same proportion. In the above calculations, al-
lowance is made for these alterations, and the average only is given.
  There are about 148 horses in the parish, employed entirely in
agricultural labour, which is at the rate of 4 horses to every 100
acres. In the town of Kirkintilloch, there are 20 common car-
ters' horses, taxed at 10s. 6d. each for road-money. There are
also in the parish about 740 cows; generally about 12 or 14
milch-cows, or, including young cattle, 20 in all to the hundred
acres of arable land. There are, besides, a number kept by private
individuals, for retailing the milk to the public. The horses are
of the Clydesdale breed, but rather small. The cows are of the
Ayrshire breed, and very good of their kind. Mr Anderson of
Smithston, on the eastern borders of the parish, has been long
celebrated for the excellent sorts of cattle reared by him. He
and his father, who was also a skilful rearer of cattle, have contri-
buted much to the amelioration of the breed both of the horse
and of the dairy-stock of cattle in the district. He was one of
the prize-takers at the late great cattle-sbow in Glasgow. The
average rent of grazing is at the rate of L. 2, 10s. per ox or cow
grazed, and at the rate of 10s. per ewe or full-grown sheep pas-
tured for the year. But these latter are very few in number.
The keep of a horse per annum to the farmer who has every thing
within himself, is about L. 12.
  There has not been so much draining in this parish as in some
others, but to this general remark there are many individual ex-
ceptions. Mr Horn of Braes is well known as one of the most
able and successful agriculturists in the west of Scotland, and has
drained more.than any other person in the parish. Messrs Stew-
art of Barbeth, and Inglis of Woodhead, have brought in a good
deal of moss. The following are the estimated expenses of
draining and improving one acre of mossy marshy land.

<TABLE>                                                      Per Acre.

  Tiles per acre,                                          L.6  0  0
  Casting drains 8d. pet rood and soles for tiles of wood,   1  0  0
  Casting and filling, ls. per rood,                         0  4  0
  For delving,                                               3 10  0
  For putting one inch of sand on surface,                   2  0  0
  For dung,                                                  3  2  0
                                                            --------
                                                          L.15 16  0


