
                      ABERDEEN.                            19

Aberdeen, who joined him at the head of a band of citizens.  His
body was brought to the town and entombed in the Church of St
Nicholas, where its remains were discovered when the church be-
came ruinous about the year 1740. *  In consequence of the death,
in this manner, of Provost Davidson, it is said that an act of the
town-council, was soon after passed, prohibiting the chief magistrate
from quitting the town in his official character; but Mr Kennedy,
though he mentions this, and though he refers constantly to the
council records, does not quote any authority for the statement
and the writer of this has been unable to find any notice of such
an act in the council register.
   In 1462, the magistrates entered into a bond of manrent for
ten years with the Earl of Huntly; he engaging to protect them
in their freedom and property, and they promising to give him ad-
vice when required, to keep his counsel, to receive him and his
men into the town when he pleased, and to take art with him if
he should be attacked within the burgh, saving always their alle-
giance to the King. +  In the course of the next year he called on
them for assistance, but not strictly in terms of the bond, for he
required them to meet him at the Cabrach, about forty miles from
Aberdeen; but they excused themselves, first because they could
not obtain horses, the whole country having been summoned at
the same time to repress an incursion made by John Lord of the
Isles; and secondly, because they had been ordered by the King
to guard the town against the English who were said to be on the
coast.
   James III. having been killed in 1488, Lord Forbes and some
other nobles came to Aberdeen in the course of the next year for
the purpose of stirring up the people to assist in rescuing the young
King from the party who had led him into rebellion; and to aid
their object they paraded the town, exhibiting the bloody and torn
shirt of the late King on the point of a spear. ++  The appeal,was
not in vain, but the citizens seem to have limited the expression,
of their loyalty to certain resolutions which they passed on the oc-
casion.  In 1497, a blockhouse was built at the entrance of the
harbour as a protection against the English, and in 1514, besides
the gunners stationed there, two men were placed at the bell-house
on the mouth side of the river, with orders, to raise a fire as soon
as the English fleet appeared in sight, while other two on the

<FOOTNOTE>Kennedy's Annals, i. 51.
          A copy of this bond is given in Kennedy's Annals,, i. 55.
          Buchanani, Hist. Scot. I. xiii. c. 4.


