
			LOUDOUN.			835

river and tile-draning have made this name no longer a descrip-
tive one; but the memory of the "marshy ground" is kept alive
in the title of "Waterhaughs," a farm skirting the Irvine, on the
Galston side of the valley.
	Figure, Extent.--The figure of the parish approaches nearly to
that of a right-angled triangle, the base being formed by the river
Irvine, which, rising in the north-east corner of the parish, flows
due south for about two miles, dividing Loudoun from Avondale,
sweeping round Loudoun hill, and pursues a course due west, divid-
ing the parishes of Loudoun and Galston for about seven miles.
On the west, north-wests and north, it is bounded by the parishes
of Kilmarnock, Fenwick, and Eaglesham, the two latter joining it
among moor-hags and heather. The extent of the parish from east
to west is about 9 miles. Its greatest breadth towards Eaglesham
is about 7; at the west extremity, it is only about 3.
	Geology.--Dr M'Culloch remarked, that there was no coal
district in Britain so much disturbed by trap, or, in mines lan-
guage, so "full of troubles," as Ayrshire. The parish of Loudoun
contains no other mineral than trap, and those belonging to the coal
formation. A minute account of its geology would be very unpro-
fitable, as no phenomena have been observed which are not fami-
liar to every geologist.
	Loudoun Hill is composed of columnar trap, and forms a por-
tion,of large trap dike, which, it is said, cuts the whole coal-field
of Ayrshire in a north-west and southeast direction.
	The coal formation occurs in almost every part of the parish,
though in most of the upper districts it is so much broken up by
trap as to be unworkable. The limestone, which is abundant, and
which is of excellent quality, is extensively wrought. One quar-
ry, at the Old Place," consists of, a "post" about six feet-thick.
The upper bed is soft and shellys, the lower, hard and splintery.
The limestone at Howlet burn is about six feet thick. It is wrought
by mining, and is at present let to the Cessnock Iron Company
for smelting. The general dip of the limestone, is to the south-
south-west and north-north-east.
	A large coal-field has lately been proven extending alone the
valley for about two miles from the western boundary of the pa-
rish. Eight different seems of coal have been already discovered
in it, varying, from one foot to seven feet in thickness. In all,
27 feet 3 inches. With the exception of two seems, they are all,
workable. The quality is superior. The distance from the sur-


