
                   PARISH OF CRANSTON.

     PRESBYTERY OF DAILKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

         THE REV. ALEXANDER WELSH, MINISTER.

         L--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--THE name of the parish of Cranston or Cranstoun, in
the charters of the twelfth century, was written Cranestone, the
Anglo-Saxon, Craenston, signifying the crane's district, or resort.
The river Tyne, where it intersects Cranston, is even now frequent-
ed by cranes, that find shelter in the woods, and fish in the water.
   In the twelfth century, Cranston was divided into two manors,
Upper Cranston and Nether Cranston, which were afterwards distin-
guished as New Cranston and Cranston Ridel. The church stood
at Nether Cranston, which was the larger of the two manors. This
district was granted by Earl Henry to Hugh Ridel. From him it
obtained the name of Cranston Ridel, which distinguished it till
recent times. Hugh Ridel granted to the monks of Kelso, the
church of Cranston, with its tithes and other pertinents, for the soul
of David I., and for that of Earl Henry, his lord; and it continu-
ad with them till 1317. During that long period, they enjoyed
the revenues of the rectory, while the vicar served the cure and re-
ceived the vicarage tithes. Adam de Malsarveston was vicar
of Cranston during the reign of William the Lyon. In 1296,
Hugh, the vicar of Cranston, swore fealty to Edward I. The church
of Cranston was early of great value; and in the ancient taxatio,
it was valued at 60 merks. The barony of Cranston Ridel con-
tinued with the Ridels till the reign of David II., when it passed,
successively, by various transmissions, through the Murrays to the
Macgills, who acquired the church of Cranston. Sir James Mac-
gill, in 1651, was created Viscount Oxenford and Lord Macgill
of Cowland. He dying in 1663, left the whole estatest and pa-
tronage to his son Robert, who died without male issue in 1700.
By another series of heirs, these estates and the patronage came to
Lady Dalrymple Hamilton Macgill, spouse of the late, and mother
of the present Sir John Hamilton Dalrymple, Bart. There was


