
392                           FIIFESHIRE.

are in a very thriving condition, and which shelter and benefit the
crops. In the neighbourhood of Wemyss Castle, there is a num-
ber of very old trees of various kinds, and which have grown to a
large size, clearly showing that when trees are properly attended
to, they will grow and prosper even near the sea-shores.
                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Plan.-There is in the possession of the family of Wemyss an
excellent map or survey of the whole of the parish.
  Land-owner.-The sole land-owner of the whole parish is Cap-
tain James Erskine Wemyss, R. N., and Member of Parliament
for the county of Fife.
  Eminent Men.-Under this article may be mentioned Sir Mi-
chael Wemyss of Wemyss, who, along with Sir Michael Scott of
Balweary, in the parish of Abbotshall, were sent as ambassadors
to Norway by the Estates of the kingdom in the year 1290, on the
death of King Alexander III. to bring home Princess Margaret,
grand-daughter of the late King, and undoubted heiress of the
crown of Scotland. They went to Norway as directed, but the
Princess died at Orkney, on her passage to Scotland.
  There is in the Castle of Wemyss, as a memorial of this embassy,
a large silver basin, which was given by the King of Norway to Sir
Michael Wemyss, and which is now used to hold the water on
baptismal occasions.
  The Rev. George Gillespie also was connected with this parish,
and was ordained minister of it in April 26, 1618. He was the
son of Mr John Gillespie, who was sometime minister of the gos-
pel at Kirkcaldy. He was called by way of distinction, " The
renowned Gillespie;" and was the first who was admitted by
a presbytery in that period, without an acknowledgment of the
bishops. He was one of the four ministers who were sent as com-
missioners from the Church of Scotland to the Westminster As-
sembly, in the year 1643. In that capacity we are told he distin-
guished himself greatly, and showed that he was a man of great
talent and learning, so much so, indeed, that few could equal,
and none surpass him. On his return from Westminster, he was
engaged in most of the public affairs of the church, until 1648,
when he was chosen Moderator of the General Assembly. Dur-
ing his whole life, he was most firmly attached to the great work
of the Reformation, and continued so till his death.
  Parochial Registers.-The register of the records of Session
commences 1645, and is regularly kept from 9th March 1692,

