
			ABERCORN.			21

become a nuisance. Buildings are much infested with the brown
rat (Mus decumanus) and the common mouse (M. musculus);
whilst the black rat (M.rattus) and the short-tailed field-mouse
(Arvicola agrestis) are not plentiful. The pheasant (Phasianus
Colchicus) has been introduced, and has multiplied extensively in
the preserves; the partridge (Perdix cinerea) is not abundant;
woodcocks(Scolopaz Rusticola,) snipe(S. Gallinago), and wild-duck
(Anas Boschas) are still rarer. The cuckoo is a yearly visitant, and
the woods are alive in summer with the notes of the blackbird and
thrush, and the cooing of the wood-pigeon. The smaller birds
commou to the climate are plentiful; the numbers of the  missel-
thrush or storm-cock (Turdus viscivorus) have latterly much in-
creased. During the protracted severity of the winter, in the com-
mencement of 1838, a male blackbird was repeatedly observed,
whose plumage had become snow-white, with the exception of a
few speckled feathers. The crested lapwing (Vanellus cristatus),
the dottrel (Charadrius Morinellus), and the grey plover (Squata-
rola cinerea), are frequent. The shores are peopled with flocks
of waders, consisting of plovers, gull, (Larus fuscus, L. argentatus,
and L. eanus,) and the lesser auk (Alca Torad.)  Apart from
which the heron (Ardea cinerea) seeks his food in lonely spots.
An exterminating warfare is waged agains the crows, magpies,
hawks, and owls, but the various races contrive still to exist. Se-
veral years ago a pair of black swans (Cygnus atratus,) from New
Holland were placed in a pond near Hopetoun House, and bred
repeatedly: but the female having been unfortunately destroyed
one winter by a fox, the male bird remains the sole tenant of his
pool. Salmon (Salmo salar,) and its congeners. (Salmo trutta,
and S. albus,) approach the coast when the season is somewhat
advanced. Skate (Raia Batis,) and flounders (Platessa Flesus,)
are frequently caught, soles (Solea vulgaris) occasionally, and
sometimes, but very rarely, sturgeon (Accipenser Sturio.)
   The common muscle (Musculus edulis) is found in consider-
able quantities. Formerly some attention was paid to the forma-
tion and preservation of the scalps, so as to furnish abundant bait
for white-fishing, but they have been now long neglected. The
cuttle fish (Sepia vulgaris) is at times cast ashore.
   Botany.-From the small portion of the land that is waste or
in a state of nature, the botanist has but a narrow range in pro-
portion to the extent of surface. The sea-shore and the neigh-
bouring water-courses furnish the following list of rarer plants.


