
72                           ORKNEY.

   The Pentland Frith, to which allusion has been made as bound-
ing the south and west of the parish, yields to none in the rapi-
dity and strength of its stream. At spring tides, it runs at the rate
of nine miles an hour; and has been known even to exceed that
rate. On these occasions, it is impossible for ordinary vessels to
withstand the force of the current. The depth is generally from
50 to 65 fathoms, and the waters flow from north-west to south-
east. The navigation of the frith is not so dangerous as is general-
ly supposed. There are three islands, viz. Stroma, Swona, and the
Pentland Skerries, and these contribute to lessen the danger, as the
tide, impetuously rushiog against the islands, rebounds, and thus
Troduces eddies, aod causes the stream to run in different directions
at the same time. The pilots, being well acquainted with this cir-
cumstance, are thus enabled to guide their charge in safety. In
fact, the very danges to be apprehended in so formidable a sea,
reconstitutes its safety, as the seamen, aware of the hazard they
would run if ovestaken by improper tides, study their time so well
that accidents rarely happen. As ao instance of this, it may be
mentioned, that, although the post-coat has crossed between Huna
and South Ronaldshaw three times a week, and now daily, I believe
that only, one boat has beeo lost during a century. Were it
not that the pilots are excellent judges of the weather, and attend
to the circumstaoce which we have stated, the accidents
would be numerous, as the sea is frequently. so tremeodous, espe-
cially when the wind blows agaiost the tide, that no boat can live.
   The parish is plentifully supplied with water, which is obtained
from springs, and from the quantity of rain water which descends
is streamlets from the rising grounds. There are two small lakes
beautifully situated among the hills.
   Climate.-The cold in wioter aod the beat in summer are more
moderate here than at three degrees furthes south. The frost
does not continue long, and the snow remaios but a short time on
the grouod. This equability of climate ma be accouoted for by
the proximity to the sea. The easterly,wind is the coldest, the
south and west winds, particularly the latter, the most boisterous, and
the north wind generally brings dry weather. To the state of the
atmosphere, so purified by strong winds, may in some degree be
attributed the absence of epidemic diseases, which seldom prevail
to any extent, the good health generally enjoyed, and also the
longvity of the inhabitants,
   Geology.-Allusion has already been made to the, magnificent
                               3


