
                     KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                         1247

      The summits of our mountains, by the vapotirs, and the clouds
    resting upon them, give indications at all seasons of a change in
    the atmosphere; and in the evenings of spring and autumn the
    vapour rising for miles along the line of the Forth gives sure proofs
    of frost.  The reflexion from the clouds also, of the great furnaces
    at the Devon, the Carron, and other great works, indicate the moist
    state of the atmosphere for a considerable time before the rain vi-
    sits us.  The Drevailing winds are from the west and south-west,
    but the coldest are from the north and east.  The two ranges of
    hills which enclose this level country meet in the Grampians, to
    the west, where their elevation is so great as powerfully to attract
    the clouds which come sweeping along, sometimes on the north
    side, and sometimes on the soutli side of the valley.
      The climate here is of a mild and medium character, and pro-
    motes the health of the inhabitants, and renders the soil produc-
    tive.   The reason is, that the carse division is wide, open, well
    cultivated, and fertile, and but slightly raised above the level of
    the sea, and the dryfield is also in a good state of cultivation, and
    slopes generally to the south.
      Hydrography,-There are no lakes or friths in this parish, but
    there is, especially in the dryfield, plenty of water produced by
    numerous springs, which are pure and copious.  Some of them
    contain a portion of iron, and some of lime which appears in
    very hard incrustations in the process of boiling.  For this rea-
    son the water is hard, and less profitable for washing and bleach-
    ing.  Throughout the parish, but especially near the line which
    divides the carse from the dryfield, these springs appear in great
    numbers.  They gave an abundant supply, with a few exceptions
    even during the long continued droughts of 1826 and 1842.  But
    where there are no surface springs, bundance of water is to be
    found by sinking wells to a moderate depth, especially on reach-
    ing or cutting through the sandstone.
      The proprietor of Blair Drummond estate has, for the benefit
    of his tenants, sunk some wells in the carse, from which tbe-moss
    has been removed, and has found abundance of water.  There is
    in the western division of the carse, a copious supply from two na-
    tural streams, which flow through it from the higher grounds into
    the Forth.   But as there are no spripgs along the banks of the
    Forth, some of the farmers there have, by force-pumps, raised
    water from that river, and filtered it for the use of their families


