
        	 ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON.                 245


L.9 per half year, which is at the rate of ls. per day; the best
dairy maids have seldom more than 6d. per day, or L.4, 10s. per
half year. Inferior servants have wages at a lower rate. If meal
be reckoned at ls. 6d. per peck, the food of a male servant will
cost his master L. 7 or L. 8 more, so that his whole charge will
be about L. 26 per annum; and, allowing L. 4 more for board and
lodging, about L. 30. This is nearly at the rate of a labourer's
wages at ls. 8d. per day upon an average through the whole year.
This may appear a small sum, but it is perfectly sufficient for the
condition of those who enjoy the pure physical necessaries of life,
without any superfluity.
   Manufactures.--The two great sources of improvement in this
as in neighbouring districts are chiefly attributable to two circum-
stances: 1. The growth of the trade of Glasgow, Greenock,
and Paisley, and the increase of their wealth, industry, and inha-
bitants, have supported the prices of corn and cattle for many years
past; and it is to be hoped for the interest of this county, and of
Scotland at large, they will not for many years, at least, much
diminish. 2. The great and constant employment at present
given to the lower classes of our industrious inhabitants, throws
ready money into their hands, with which they go to market, and
paying down, purchase at the lowest rate. Formerly they took
from landlords, farmers, and manufacturing employers, goods and
the means of subsistence upon the credit of their future services,
which by the good was granted as an act of charity, by the bad
as a most usurious and oppressive loan. A great change, however,
took place on the introduction of manufactures on a larger scale
than formerly upwards of fifty years ago, when regular fair wages
for labour were first introduced. So early as 1728, two public
bleachfields were established in this county, one at Dalquharn on
the Leven, and another at Cawesser on Loch Lomond, at both of
which Dutch bleachers were employed. In 1810, there were nine
bleachfields for whitening cotton goods. The gross value of the
works was about L. 14,000 ; they employed about 150 men and
women, whose wages amounted to near L. 3000 per annum, and
consumed about 1800 tons of coals. There was also a field for
bleaching linens, which employed 30 persons, and consumed
1100 cart loads of coals per annum. There were then also other
bleachfields for printed goods, in all employing 1700 hands, at a
yearly amount of wages approaching L. 50,000.
   The machinery was estimated at L. 140,000; and they con-


