
                          TIBBERMORE                         1029

which are surrounded with young thriving plantations, which add
greatly to the be`uty of the general landscape. But the most re-
markable feature of the parish is a largo plain or valley, which
sinks down abruptly to a considerable depth below the surround-
ing, country.   It is about three miles long; and from a-quarter to
three-quarters of a mile broad. On the south, north, and west,
it is boutided by precipitous banks, rising from 50 to 100
feet high, while, on the east, it opens out into a level plain, which
stretches onwards to the Tay. On digging a well into it lately
there was found beneath a thick bed of gravel, sand, and clav, a
considerable depth of peat-moss. This fact, together with the
general appearance of the bank,  would almost seem to indicate
that in some remote age it had been the basin of a fresb water
lake.  Now, however, it is the site of two of the most thriving es-
tablishments in the parish.
    Hydrography.-Tbe parish seems once to have contained seve-
ral wells of considerable note.  One of the most celebrated of these
was situated in the eastern part of the parish, at a place called the
" Hole of Ruthven," in the neighbourhood of Perth.  The civil and
ecclesiastical records of that city testify that this well was long the
source of great annoyance both to magistrates and ministers.  Its
virtues were so famous, that neither the authority of the one, nor the
admonitions of the other, although most rigorously applied, could
deter the citizeDS from frequently trying their efficacy. The
name of the place still remains, but the well has long since lost
not only its fame, but its existence.
    The river Almond bounds the parish on the north.  It is describ-
ed at full letigth in the accounts of ttieparisties of Methveri and Red-
gorton.  There is a stream of water taken off from this river, which
runs through the parish.  The dike or weir thrown across the
river, at the point where this stream leaves it, is called " Low's
Wark," and none can tell the origin of this name.  We find from
various indentures written upwards of three centuries ago, that the
stream of water which issues from the Almond at "Low's Wark"
was then, as it still is, called the " Mill-Lead," and that the family
of Ruthven, with the town of Perth, and the proprietor of Balhousie,
had mills upon it.  Its great object seems, howeveri to have been to
drive the mills of Perth, for it appears, from a charter of confirma-
tion granted by James VI., 15th November 1600, that this aque-
duct was regarded as belonging exclusively to the community of


