
     Statistical Account

   Sheep, Wool, Black Cattle, &c.-The number of sheep in
this parish is calculated at 8266.  They are of the long
white-faced, or Cheviot breed, and at an average produce
annually about 1100 stone of wool, which, of late years,
has been sold at from 15 s. to 18 s. the stone.  It has fallen
this season near a third of the former prices, and the infe-
rior kind has even fallen more.  The farmers in this, and
some of the neighboring parishes, have lately begun to
lay (or smear) their sheep with tar, mixed with palm
oil, or African grease, instead on butter; and it is asserted
by some of them, that after trying the experiment, they
not only find it cheaper, but that it also improves the
wool both in quantity and quality.  The black cattle are
calculated at 300 in Langholm, and 861 in Halfmorton.
It may be proper to observe, that in Halfmorton, the num-
ber of sheep is only 266, and that being of the black-faced
breed, their wool is omitted in the calculation, as being
greatly inferior in quality to that of the white-faced kind.
The horses in both places are about 300, viz. 141 in Lang-
holm, and 159 in Halfmorton.  Of these, about 15 are faddle,
and 8 are carriage horses.  All the rest are employed, ei-
ther in agriculture or by carriers.  The swine fed here, and
in Halfmorton, may amount to 143.  Bacon, of the late years,
has been a great article of commerce among the farmers in
Annandale; amd it has been calculated that 500 a-year has
lately been received in Eskdale, though few swine are bred
in this district, in proportion to the other districts of the
county.  The parish abounds in the game of all kinds, and

<FOOTNOTE>

the seasons siut; barley, from the middle of April to the 20th of May;
turnip, in June and July, and wheat in the end of September and October.
Barley, wheat, and oats are cut in August, and the whole of the crops
are generally got in by the 15th or 20th of October.  The harvest, from
the warm exposurre, being earlier here than even in more inland districts.


