
72                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

have proceeded from Abbotsford, Chiefswood, and Allerly; the re-
sidences of Scott, of Lockhart, and Hamilton, and of Brewster.
   Institutions.-There are three Friendly Societies in the parish,
the Friendly Society of Melrose established in 1790, the Society
of St John's Lodge established in 1797, and that of the Free
Gardeners established in 1821.  That such institutions are benefi-
cial cannot be doubted.  They act as an insurance in alleviating
the wants of individuals from the contributions of numbers; and the
members, by paying in the small sum of 1s. a quarter, receive from
3s. to 5s. a week, when sick, aged, or infirm.  But, besides that they
are continually apt to break or to become unable to make good
their engagements, the necessary calculations being generally too
difficult for their establishers, and their basis too narrow for an In-
surance Company to rest on, they are, it is obvious, in their best
state, and with every advantage of which their nature admits, vastly
inferior to the savings banks, in utility and in the incitement to in-
dustry which they afford.
   Savings Bank.-There is a savings bank in the parish and vil-
lage of Melrose, which is intended for the behoof of the lower
classes of the people only, and in which the sums deposited
amount annually to L.300, and the sums withdrawn to L.250.
As it is a regulation, that the sums deposited should be withdrawn
whenever they have attained to such an amount, that they can be
conveniently transferred to a regular bank, the cash actually in the
savings bank, which is more than L. 1500, is but a small part of
what actually has been accumulated by the lower orders of this
neighbourhood.  One thing is evident, that their savings for seve-
ral years back have not been less than L. 300 per annum.  At
the extremities of the parish, the people make their deposits else-
where.  We speak only of the savings bank of Melrose, and of the
deposits made in the neighbourhood of that village.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
who are upon the poor's roll does not exceed seventy.  The sum
allotted to each is 1s., 1s. 6d., and 2s. per week, amounting on an
average to about L. 4, 16s. per annum.  The funds for the main-
tenance of these, the enrolled and permanent poor, are raised by
an assessment of L. 84 per quarter, upon the landed proprietors of
the parish, which is imposed and distributed by the heritors them-
selves, at quarterly meetings which they hold.  Besided the assess-
ment, there are the church collections, small funeral ones of various
amount, and private donations which are from time to time received
from the opulent families who reside in the neighbourhood.  Ac-

