
448                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

marriages, commences 25th July 1799, and has been regularly
kept since that period, previous to which nothing of the kind ex-
isted. It is contained in one volume. The session records only
began to be kept by the late incumbent; the first entry being
dated 26th September 1821. They consist of minutes of the
proceedings of the kirk-session, poor's funds, &c. There is no
register of deaths kept.
  The kirk-session of the parish consists of ten members, all re-
gularly ordained elders. The session-clerk at present is Mr Wat-
son, the parochial schoolmaster.
  Antiquities.-Dunes.-There is a complete chain of those
round towers called Dunes surrounding this parish; none of them,
however, in a state of even tolerable preservation. One of these,
situated at Easter Fearn, and known by the name of Dune-Allis-
caig, (from D£n-fair-loisgeadh, or the beacon watch-tower,) was
about fourteen feet in height within the last thirty years, and had
vaults and a spiral staircase within the wall. This interesting speci-
men of a Teutonic fortress was entirely destroyed about 1818, by
the materials of which it consisted being used for building dikes and
farm-houses at Easter Fearn, so that scarcely a vestige is now to
be seen.
  Sculptured Stones.-There are saveral of these stones here.
One behind the school-house, which is ten feet in height above
ground, and tapers to a point at top, the breadth -at the bottom
being about four feet. This obelisk, which is of rough unhewn
whinstone, has what seems to be a salmon sculptured very cor-
rectly on the north side, and below that two concentric circles,
the one three inches below the other, but joined together and con-
nected with the fish by a triangle running through this joining.
These hieroglyphics, which perhaps allude to the circumstance of
the chief who is interred under the stone, being one of the Vikingr,
or sea-kings of the middle-ages, are executed with great delicacy
and beauty. There is a circle surrounding the obelisk, at the
distance of three yards from it as the radius, and two feet in height
above the surrounding plain; and the local tradition is, that a
battle was fought in this place betwixt the inhabitants of the coun-
try and a party of invading Norwegian pirates, in which the latter
were defeated with the loss of their leader, Prince Carius, who
was interred on this eminence, and the above -mentioned obelisk
erected over him; accordingly, the name of the place to this day
is Carry Blair, or the battle-field of Carius.


