
                                      ELGIN.                              9

	the building, on which is placed a group of three figures in sculp-
	ture, emblematic of the founder and the objects of the charity.
	The west side has also its portico of six plain Doric columns and
	entablature rising to the base of the windows of the second story.
	The interior contains most convenient and comfortable accommo-
	dation for sixty children, ten aged and indigent persons, and for the
	necessary establishment of house-governor, matron, teacbers, and
	servants.  The grand entrance leads through a narrow corridor di-
	rectly into the chapel, having an arched roof full 30 feet high, and
	communicating by arched passages with both sides of the building.
	The school rooms, the eating halls, and dormitories of the children
	occupy the whole eastern side; the apartments of the aged are
	on the ground floor of the western side, and over these the sick-
	rooms for the children, and the parlours and bed-rooms of the
	house-governor and matron.  The kitchen, wash-house, laundry, &c.
	are to the south; and connected with these, but having a separate
	entry, are the free school, of sufficient extent for 230 scholars, and
	the apartments for a male and female teacher.  The porter's lodge,
	in the form of an octagon with a pyramidal roof, is on the west
	side.  The garden, play-grounds, shrubbery, and stance, of the
	buildings, measure about 3 Scotch acres, and are enclosed with a
	stone wall and iron railing.  The building is reckoned very chaste,
	and highly creditable to the talents of Archibald Simpson, Esq.
	architect, Aberdeen, who designed it.  It is constructed of beau-
	tiful freestone, from the hill of Quarrywood, and, with the furnish-
	ings, cost nearly L. 12,000.  It was opened on the 5th June 1833.
	   Church.-The new church, on the site of the old church of St
	Giles, is in the High Street, nearly in the centre of the town, and
	is built of the same materials as the Institution, and after a plan by
	the same artist.  This is a very elegant structure, not surpassed by
	any in the north of Scotland.  The length over walls is 96 feet,
	and breadth 60 1/2, side walls 36, and height of ceiling 31.  On
	the east end there is a projecting square tower with clock and
	bells, surmounted by what is commonly called a lantern, consist-
	ing of one massive column in the centre, and a circular colonnade,
	supporting a tholus or cupola richly ornamented, the whole rising
	to the height of 112 feet.  The access for the congregation is by
	three doors on the west end under a spacious portico of six Gre-
	cian Doric columns, projecting 7 feet 4 inches from the building
	and extending 53 1/2 feet in breadth.  The entablature rises to a
	sufficient height to admit of the portico being roofed uniformly


