
				MANNER			111

the English borders. The former of these eminences, according
to Armstrong, is 2840 feet above the level of the sea, and is, there-
fore, higher than Hartfell in the adjoining parish of Tweedsmuir.
The lower part of the range may vary from 1600 to 1900 feet above
the sea-level.
   Meteorology.-Cold easterly winds often prevail during the
spring; but the most prevalent are the S. and S. W. winds,-
the position of the hills on either side of the deep valley giving
a direction to the current of air, which sweeps down through it as
through a funnel, and frequently with terrific violence.
   The climate at such a lofty elevation is of course comparatively
late, though the harvest in this parish is earlier than in some others
which are contiguous,-a fact which may be accounted for by the
peculiar position and configuration of the hills, from the steep ac-
clivities of which,-covered in many places with loose stones,-the
rays of the sun are reflected in summer with great intensity on the
cultivated grounds beneath. The frosts, however, are early and
long continued; and the district is exposed to a kind of partial
frost in the end of August and beginning of September, which
chiefly affects the low-lying lands on the border of the stream. It
counterbalances in some degree the disadvantages of the climate,
that the air is particularly dry and salubrious, and epidemical dis-
eases are almost unknown to the inhabitants of this parish.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Wherever the rock of which the
mountain-range is composed breaks the surface, it consists almost
entirely of greywacke. As the rock is exposed but in a few places
to such an extent as to admit of accurate and sufficiently numerous
observations being made with regard to the position of its strata,
which in some localities are variously waved, there is considerable
difficulty in distinguishing their partial from their general direc-
tion'and inclination.  On comparing the results of many particu-
lar observations, it appears that the general direction of the strata
is north and south, and that they dip to the west, forming an angle
of inclination amounting to nearly 45&deg;. A bed of clay-slate, in
some places much indurated, ranging from one to five feet in
thickness, and preserving the same general direction, dip, and incli-
nation, as those of the circumjacent greywacke, runs across the
lower extremity of this parish, and seems to communicate with the
slate formation in the adjoining parish of Stobo.
   The greywacke has not been quarried to any considerable extent,
and few imbedded minerals have been detected.


