
                     KINCARDINE.                               409

was ever imprisoned in the Bass; and the reference to Wodrow is
incorrect, there being no mention of Mr Ross in "Vol. ii. 393."
   In the preface to a work published at Edinburgh in 1738, entitled
"Memoirs of the Life of the Very Reverend Mr James Fraser of
Brea, Minister of the Gospel at Culross, dedicated by the au-
thor to the Very Reverend Mr Thomas Ross, Minister at Kincar-
dine in Ross," it is stated that, "by the dedication to Mr Thomas
Ross, (a singularly pious minister in the north,) the author gave per-
mission to him to publish it;" and that "the reason why Mr Tho-
mas Ross did not cause publish it, was, that at the time he receiv-
ed it from Mr Fraser, he was in prison at Tayne, and died there
in prison or soon thereafter;" and in the publisher's address to
the reader, there is the following:--".  Our copy, as you'll see by
the preface" (as quoted above) "is dedicated to the Reverend
Mr Thomas Ross, some time minister at Tayne, with a power to
publish it or not as be pleased."  Mr Fraser, in the "dedication
by the author to Mr Thomas Ross," (at p. 6,) expresses himself
towards Mr Ross in language glowing with gratitude and Christian
friendship, and lets it appear from the terms he uses, that he con-
sidered himself "much bound unto him," and was anxious to
"kyth his gratitude" by something of that nature. Now this,
coming from the pen of so eminent an individual as Fraser of Brea,
is no small compliment to the worthy "minister of Kincardine;"
and shows the high estimation in which he was held by his con-
temporaries.
   One other notice of Mr Ross: In the Scottish Acts of Par-
liament, (Vol. ix. p. 217, A. D. 1690,) there is an "Act in
favours of Christian Ross, relict of Andrew Fearne of Pitcal-
lion, anent her damages," which states, inter alia, that "her
husband in his lifetime helped to entertain Mr Thomas Ross,
a Godly minister; and that she entertained him and others
of that degree, and some other distressed people passing to and
fro, in her familie; and that she was harassed, and persecuted,
and informed against, with her twelve fatherless children, by the
Episcopal minister of her parish, and compelled to flee in the mid-
dle of the night during the winter of 1683-4, her property and
corn seized by the soldiers, and her familie scattered." Mr Ross,
it appears, had occasionally preached to a small audience within
her house; and for this offence, her parish minister, contrary
to the remonstrances of Lord Seaforth, obtained from the Privy-
council a warrant to a military officer to seize all her goods,

   ROSS AND CROMARTY.                    Dd


