
                     DALMELLINGTON.                         311

miles; its breadth 40 feet; its depth varies considerably, being
from 2 to 20 feet. Except when dashing through the Glen of
Ness, its course is through an almost level meadow, where it forms
nearly one continued pool of deep dark water. Its temperature
is much the same as that of the atmosphere. In its course through
the parish, it receives the additional waters of several small streams,
by which its frequent overflowings are chiefly occasioned, and dis-
charges itself into the sea about two miles south of Ayr.
   Geology.--The chief of the rocky materials of the parish are
graywacke and sandstone, chiefly of the coal formation. For three
miles from the head of the parish, and across all its breadth, no-
thing is visible but the graywacke, which extends into Galloway.
The remaining seven miles are sandstone, in seams of various
thicknesses, with everywhere an abundance of coal, and occasion-
ally lime and ironstone. The only exception to the universality of
this statement, is in the case of the higher part of the ridge termi-
nated by the basaltic columns of Benbeoch, already mentioned.
This trap range is evidently of igneous origin, and cuts off the coal
field of the parish, which is upon the south edge of the great coal
valley of the lowlands, from the more extensive tract which pro-
ceeds through the northern part of the county to Renfrew and La-
narkshire. The effects of the eruption of the basalt by wbich this
ridge has been produced are manifest in  the disturbed state of the
incumbent strata. Where the sandstone has been exposed, it ex-
hibits a succession of thin layers of blue clay and coal alternating
with it, with, in the lower formations, an occasional stratum of the
softer kind of common argillaceous schist.
   The direction and dip of the strata exhibit almost every variety.
The sandstone varies chiefly in the direction, and the graywacke in
the dip. The dip of the sandstone and its accompanying strata in
the lower ridge of hills, as seen in the coal-pits at the extremities
of it, is 1 foot in 6 or 7. At the south-east. the direction is
nearly west, whereas at the other ht is north-east. In the sandstone
above the village, the dip is 6 feet in 11, and the direction north-
west. The graywacke that succeeds it, in going south-east, dips in
the opposite direction, and varies greatly on opposite sides of the
little stream that divides the two ridges; on the south-west side, be-
ing as much as 4 feet in 1, and nearly uniform,-- whereas on the
north-east side it varies, and is no more than from 3 feet in 4, to
4 in 3, The bed is nowhere exposed between the graywacke and
sandstone, to enable one to discover what rock separates them.


