
			CORTACHY AND CLOVA.                     439

	Adders and lizards are frequently seen on the mountains, and
some of them of large size.
        Fishes.-The three lochs in the parish contain trout. Trout
are numerous in that portion of the river Esk which passes through
Clova and Cortachy; many of them are large in size, and of good
quality. The largest get the name of loch trout, known from their
colour and shape to have come from Loch Esk. Sea trout are
often caught in the river here during summer. Very few salmon
are seen before the middle of September, when thd fisheries in the
lower parts of the river close; towards the end of September, and
in October, several of them come up for spawning on the banks of
gravel along the channel of the river, and return to the sea in No-
vember and December.
	The pearl muscle is to be found in various places along the
channel of the river, but it is seldom sought after, the pearl it
contains being small in size, and of little value.
        Botany.-The mountains of the united parish, especially those
of Clova, are highly celebrated for the great number and variety
of plants which they produce. On them, almost all those plants
which are common to such districts are not only found, but also
many of the rarer species, and several which have not been disco-
vered (as far as is known) in any other district of Scotland.
There are few places to which the botanist can repair in summer
with more hope and delight, in pursuit of his favourite science,
than to the glen of the Doll, on the south-west of the valley of
Clova. There, on every side, he readily meets with some rare
and blooming treasure. The late Mr George Don of Forfar
seems to have been one of the first eminent botanists who took a
particular interest in finding out the botanical treasures of Clova.
For this purpose he spent not only a few days, but some weeks
for several successive summers, amid the flowers and the solitude
of the glens. Since Mr Don's death, the mountains of Clova have
been visited by many of the most distinguished botanists of Britain.
They were frequently visited by the late Mr Drummond of Forfar,
who discovered some new plants there. They have been frequently
visited by Dr Graham, Professor of Botany in the University of
Edinburgh, and by many young gentlemen, botanical students,
who accompanied him. They have been visited by, Sir W. J,
Hooker, Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow; by
Dr R. K. Greville, Edinburgh, and by Mr Macnab of the Royal
Botanic Gardens, Edinburgh, &c.


