
254                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

                            <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
          In 1755, the population is said to have amounted to 739
             1791,        -          -             -          800
             1801,        -          -             -          875
             1811,        -          -             -          912
             1821,        -          -             -         1033
             1831,        -          -             -          973
Number of families in the parish,    -             -                       231
                   chiefly employed in agriculture,-                       112
                                    in trades, manufacture or bandicraft,   38

   From the above statement, it appears that the population of the
parish has not been subject for a long period to any remarkable
fluctuations; and that it is considerably larger now than it was
eighty years ago. It is doubted, however, whether the increase
stated in the returns be not rather seeming than real, and whether
the apparent addition to the population in this and in many other
rural parishes be not mainly owing to the greater accuracy with
which the late enumerations have been made. This accuracy, it
is natural to suppose, has gone on increasing; and it is conceived
that, from negligence and other causes, the early accounts of the
population of many parishes are much beneath the real amount.
At one period, it is well known, the people had in general no small
dislike to be numbered; at another, from the operation of the
militia laws, they thought they had an interest in concealing the
number of their families; and it is only of late years that there are
few or no hinderances in the way of a correct enumeration. It is
not, accordingly, considered as at all certain that the population of
this parish is greater now than it was a century ago. The village
of Aberlady has doubtless increased in size and in the number of
its inhabitants, but in the country part of the parish the popula-
tion has as certainly diminished; and this state of matters, it is
believed, is very general throughout Scotland. A great increase
there is, without question, on the whole; but it has taken place
chiefly, if not entirely, in the villages and towns.
   Character and Condition of the People.-The character of the
people in this, as in the neighbouring parishes, is, on the whole
estimable. Intemperance is not frequent amongst them. Those
who have children are exceedingly anxious to have them properlY
educated; they are civil in their manners, industrious in their ha-
bits, and by no means inattentive, in general, to religious observ-
ances. In the midst, often, of difficulties and hardships they are
not discontented with their lot; and it is matter of no small praise
to them, that, with very narrow means, there is so much decency in
their apparel, and seeming comfort in their dwellings. Intelligence


