
			STEVENSTON.                     467

to Paisley. The people of Stevenston then fixed on another of
them, Mr Robert Stirling, who, at the request of the presbyters,
agreed t oexercise his ministry for some time among them; and
be remained at Stevenston, till times having become more peace-
ful in Ireland, and having a call to return to his old charge, he left
this parish, and returned to his own country. Though many efforts
were made, and though in particular Mr Robert Murdoch was
called and urged to become their minister, they seem to have been
unsuccessful till 1700.
   In 1700, Mr William Reid was ordained minister of Stevens-
ton, and continued faithfully to discharge his duty till 1742. He
left many volumes of MS. sermons behind him, which bear evidence
to the soundness of his doctrine, and the interest which he took in
the spiritual welfare of his flock. He was the great grandfather of
the present R. Cunninghame, Esq. of Auchenharvie.
    In the end of the year 1744, Mr Robert Finlay, afterwards
the Rev. Dr R. Finlay, was ordained minister of this parish,
and left it in March 1745, being only half a year here, and
drawing no stipend. He went to Galston, and from that to the
Ram's-Horn Kirk in Glasgow, (St David's,) and was afterwards
appointed Professor of Divinity in the University of Glasgow.
He was a person of very great learning; and of the greatest worth
and integrity of character; and well entitled to a place among the
distinguished persons connected with this parish. He lived to a
great age, and sixty-seven years after he had left this parish, the
present incumbent preached before him in Glasgow, and was con-
gratulated by him as his successor.
   In 1746, Mr Thomas MacKindlay was ordained minister of the
parish, and died in 1758, leaving with the charge of two children, a
widow, who continued to be an ornament of the parish till 1824,
when she died in her 93d year.
   In 1769, Mr James Wodrow, afterwards the Rev. Dr James
Wodrow, was ordained minister of the parish. He was son of
Wodrow, the celebrated Church Historian, and grandson of Pro-
fessor Wodrow. He was a person of great respectability and up-
rightness of character, and of high attainments; and was thought
to excel in lecturing. He died at an advanced age in Decem-
ber 1810.
   David Landsborough, the present minister of the parish, a li-
centiate of the Presbytery of Edinburgh, was ordained 26th Sep-
tember 1811.


