
     Statistical Account

modations, and obliged to run from the fishing grounds to
Tarbert, Lochfine, the Kyles of Bute, Lochranfay, Campble-
town, and under the lee of head-lands and points, being their
only shift to have their lives.  Though there are some natu-
ral harbours formed by the mouths of the rivers, yet these
are often dangerous, from shifting or filling with sand, some-
times inaccelible to vessels of 15 or 20 tons; and, exclusive
of these disadvantages, have not capacity to receive any con-
siderable number*.

   State of improvement.-From the general description given
of the face of the parish, it appears, that though it is better
calculated for grazing than agriculture, yet, that a consider-
able par of the low grounds is capable of cultivation, and
fit to produce the most valuable crops.  On the estates of Sad-

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*It is here to be observed, that besides the advanteages of these three places
above mentioned, for principal harbours, from their local situation with respect
to one another, and the fishing grounds, there are others peculian to them, a-
bove any other stations among the coast.  The country near them is better adapt-
ed for crops, and consequently more populous.  And the proprietors have of
late divided some large farms into small plots, and built houses on them for the
accomodation of fishers and tradesmen; so that if a few harbours were once
made, and the above accomodations of land, houses, etc. somewhat more ex-
tended (which the proprietors will find it their interest to do), the herring fishery
on this coast would flourish, to the great advantage of individuals , the publick,
and Government.  More praise is due to those, who lay out their tune, their
talents, their money, or their influence, to promoting these and such other
plans of real utility, than to all the race of politicians put together.  It is but
justice, therefore, here to add, that, with the laudable view of promoting the
improvement of thus valuable branch of our trade, his Grace the Duke of Ar-
gyll, and another gentleman (Mr. Campbell of Carradell), who has paid great
attention to the herring fishery for a series to years, and is to have su-
perior skill in every thing which concerns it, have got red-herring houses built
on their estates here, in which a very considerable quantity of red-herrings
have been manufactured, and for which there has been a great demand both at
home and abroad. 

</UNREADABLE>


