
      162                           ORKNEY.

      and some cargoes have been sent to the Frith of Forth within the
      last two years.   Almost the whole of Stronsay, with the excep-
      tion of about a square mile covered with moss, in the south-western
      part of the island, might, without much difficulty, be brought under
      cultivation.  Some parts are fertile and other parts are poor,
      but it is all free of stones and wet, while there are no places so
      steep as to prevent the plough'passing along.  The desiderata are
      skill, industry, and capital, along with the division of that part
      which is now common.  It must be observed, however, that, of late
      years, considerable progress has been made in extending cultivation
      over waste ground in these parishes; and one proprietor, Mr Laing
      of Papdale, stands prominently forward in this speciesof improve-
      ment, having, in the course of two years, made the plough to pass
      over more than 100 acres of barren moor.   It is a curious fact,
      that ground which has been yielding grey oats and bigg alternately,
      for a series of years, refuses to yield white oats, and this, too, even
      though the ground is of excellent quality.  The cause of this may
      be, the quantity of shell sand, which mixes more or less with the
      sea-weed, that has been used as manure for centuries, destroying
      the adhesion of the soil.  But, whether this be tbe real cause or
      not, it is certain that white oats grow in contiguous ground that
      has been newly cultivated.
        The ease with which sea-weed can be procured as manure, by
      presenting a temptation to the farmer to have always a grain crop
      upon his ground, may be supposed to have much impeded the in-
      troduction of the improved mode of agriculture.  Another obsta-
      cle which may be mentioned, is the manufacture of kelp from sea-
      weed, which, for nearly a century, has occupied a great propor-
      tion of the labouring part of the community, during the summer
      season, and thereby withdrawn the attention of all classes from
      agriculture.  The ardour for kelp making is, however, much abat-
      ed, in consequence of the little remuneration which it brings, the
      price having fallen from L.15, or even L.20 per ton, to L.5.
        Fisheries.-The fishing, which is of most importance to the great
      body of the inhabitants of these parishes, is the sillock or cootb.
      Besides furnishing the people with a considerable part of their food
      during three-fourths of the year, the taking Of this fish, which is
      both with the bait and fly, affords to old and young a source of
      interesting amusement, more especially during the pleasant even-
      ings in summer. The lobster-fishing has, been carried on here,



