
			KILMORIE.                               53

religious worship in groves, and that columns and circles similar to
those that here exist mark the place of its celebration. Stone-
hegne, and all similar remains of antiquity, will ever be attributed
to the Druids,--yet they are found in countries-such as Scandi-
navia and Scotland, where we have no evidence to show that they
ever existed. We have no information of them, except what is fur-
nished us by the Roman writers, who state, that their principal
seats were in Gaul and Britain, and that they worshipped exclu-
sively in groves. The monuments of antiquity called Druidical
were clearly erected for public purposes, whether legislative,
judicial, festal, sepulchral, or sacred, and consequently vary much
in form and dimensions. A copious account of those found in
Sweden has been published by M. Seoberg, the most distinguish-
ed antiquary of that country, but unfortunately in his own native
language. One of these described by him is remarkable, as the
stones of which it is composed are arranged in the shape of a ship,
some of the rows representing the position of the masts, others
the yards, &c. evidently indicating the burial place of a distinguish-
ed naval officer. The probability of these remains in Scotland
being of Scandinavian origin, is heightened by the fact their
being chieffy found on the coasts and islands that were most fre-
quented by the Norsemen.
	Similar obelisks are found in different other parts of the parish,
but they are evidently monumental, such are those at Maregrioch,
Auchinear,&c. &c. In the former place, there are two colums
about 30 feet distant. Between them there is a parallel row of
smaller stones, forming a parallelogram about 4 feet wide. At a
little distance, a smaller area is enclosed in a similar manner. The
larger is said to be the grave of one of Fingal's heroes; the smaller
that of his dog. Both were opened some time since, but found to
contain nothing but dust and stones. Instead of the side stones
forming the parallelogram being replaced in their former situation,
as interesting monuments of intiquity, all that could be removed
were carried away for building.
	There are also many cairns or tumuli in the parish. The
largest in Scotland is said to be that at Blackwater Foot. It is
now much diminished in size, owing to the great quality of stones
that has been carried away from it for dikes, drains, houses, &c.
but when entire, it was said to measure across upwards of 200
feet. To the north of it, and not far from Sliabh can carachan,
is another, said to mark the spot where Fingal held his court of


