
                        DALSERF.                              745

larly planted.  The system pursued, at present is to set out the
young trees in rows, at from ten to thirty feet distant from each other,
with a space of from ten to twenty feet between the trees.  Regular
and careful cultivation is required, especially when the trees are
young.  The expense of this is covered by the under-crops, such
as potatoes, oats, beans, barley, rye, &c.  Potatoes, with dung,
are generally followed by oats, and then by clover and rye-grass.
But very often, when the soil admits of it, gooseberry bushes are
planted along with the young fruit trees, so as to prevent any re-

gular under crop.  For a good many years the two thrive well to-
gether, and the gooseberries soon yield more than defrays the ex-
pense of cultivation.  The tacksmen of the cottage orchards in
this neighbourhood are bound by their leases to apply manure
once in four years.  Lime occasionally used has great effect, es-
pecially in old orchards, in quickening the growth and productive-
ness of the trees.  Gooseberries, in the way above-mentioned,
and sometimes in plantations by themselves, are cultivated to a
considerable extent.  The bushes thrive best on a light soil.  It
is  needless to plant them in stiff clay.  The ground around the
bushes requires to be delved and cleaned of weeds every year, and
dunged once in two years.  The kinds most in repute at present
are, the early sulphur, the Warrington, the amber, Harvie's red,
and other varieties of the jam-berry.  Taking one year with ano-
ther, gooseberries are a surer and more productive crop than large
fruit.
   The extent of ground occupied by orchards within the bounds
of the parish is about 50 acres; 6 or 7 of which lie on the banks
of the Avon.  In these orchards there is wood enough to yield,
at a full crop, about 8000 bolls.  The fruit boll contains 20 sleeks.
A sleek of plums weighs 60 lbs., of pears 50 lbs., and of apples
40 lbs.  The average amount of bolls per annum is greatly below
the above statement.  During the late war, the prices of fruit
were often prodigiously high, and large rents were obtained.  This
state of things has long since passed away.  For some years past,
the dealers have seldom ventured to give beyond L.2, 10s. or
L. 3 for a boll of fruit, taking all kinds and varieties into account
The facilities with which Irish, English, and foreign fruit is now
brought to Glasgow by means of steam, has tended much to di-
minish the incomes of the Clydesdale orchard men.  The recent
reduction of the duty on foreign apples to a mere trifle, bids fair


