
     of Ecclesgreig, or St. Cyrus.

not afford to purchase a new boat, when their old one fails.
Now, if the proprietors of fishing villages were to furnish the
men with good boats, with all their necessary tackling, upon
their paying a reasonable rent, as interest for the money, this
would be a beneficial public spirited measure, and would
greatly encourage the fishing.  Another mode of encouraging
this usefulclass of men might also be adopted.  Every one knows,
that accidents are continually happening, by which the heads
of the families employed in fishing lose their lives.  The
consequence is of the most distressing nature to their numerous,
and, very often, young families, who are frequently left in the
most destitute circumstances.  Now if the county, or if go-
vernment, sensible of the usefulness of this class of men, for
recruiting the navy, would provide subsistence for them in
these cases, on this express condition, that all the male children
should be brought up to the same occupation, and be ready to
serve his Majesty in case of a war, it would have the effect,
both to relieve the distressed families, and to increase the
number of that hardy and useful race of men*.  Indeed, it
is well known, that scarce any but the children of fishermen
follow the occupation of their fathers, and that they are
kind of distinct tribe, by their manners, and by intermarrying
only with each other.
   The Village of St. CYRUS stands beside the church, nigh the
centre of the parish.  It contains 144 inhabitants, who are
mostly mechanics, salmon fishers, or day labcurers.  Indeed,
no neighbouring parish exhibits so cheerful and populous an
an appearance; for, from one end to the other, the traveller
sees, on all hands, numerous, substantial, well built cottages
of stone, some of them hewn stone, with well proportioned
windows, introducing, at once, light and cheerfulness into the

     VOL. XI. P

<FOOTNOTE>

*It might also tend, in a great degree, if not entirely, to supersede the ne-
cessity of adopting the harsh, unpopular and unconstitutional measure of IM
PRESSING SEAMEN.


