
518                         ARGYLESHIRE.

ern boundary, Kilespieherill, "the church or burial ground dedi-
cated to Bishop Cyril," or Kerill. At the two last-mentioned
of these localities, particularly at Kilmaronag, the ruins of the
ecclesiastical buildings may still be traced. As in most other dis-
tricts of the country, there are several Druidical circles, more or
less perfect, but none deserving of special notice. On a plain
near the rising ground on which the present church is built, there
was a detached obelisk, erected probably before the introduction
of Christianity into the country, to commemorate some remarka-
ble event. On the arrival of the intelligence of the victory obtained
by Lord Nelson over the French fleet at Aboukir, the workmen
at the Lorn Furnace, not in the best possible taste, removed this
obelisk to the neighbouring hill, where it yet remains,-having
been the first monument probably raised in commemoration of
that victory. *
   Eminent Men.-There do not appear to have been any distin-
guished characters connected with this districts. +

<Footnote>There is an eminence near Kilmaranag named "Cnoc-na-michomhairle," that is,
the hill of the untoward conference," a name, tradition states, given to it for the
reason which fonows:-Two hostile bodies, tradition has failed to tell who they were,
rnet on a neighbouring plain, and were on the point of giving battle, when the leader
of one of the parties proposed a friendly conference to his opponent, in order to pre-
yent the shedding of blood. That proposal was acceded to, and they agreed to settle
their differences, if possible, on an adjoining hill, leaving their followers on tile plain
below. Before retiring to this bill, it was agreed, that, if the two chiefs could not
come toan amicable understanding, they should, on the hill, attack each otber,-and
this wasto be the signal to their followers that their differences had not been adjusted,
and the two bodies were then to engage on the plain. The chiefs met accordingly,
--came to an understanding, and were just returning to their men, when a large ser-
pent made its appearance out of a bush beside them. Both leaders at once drew their
swords to destroy the serpent. Their followers regarding this as a signal for them
to attack each other, did so most furiously,-and the two chiefs, accusing one another
of treachery, followed the example of the parties engaged in battle, till both were
mortally -wounded, with the great majority of their followers. Hence, it is said, tile
appropriate name of that hill till this da ( C'noc-na-michomhairle.
    Unless we except a native poet, more noted for his wit than for his gallantry.
There is one production of his, quite ofa local character, which is yet occasionally re-
peated, though the author has, many years ago, been numbered with the dead. To un-
derstand its point, it will be remembered that the Mallore mountains are the highest in
the parish, the river Lonan washing their base for some miles. At a short distance
is situated Strontoiller, a large farm, forming part of the Loclinell property, occupied
of old, as it still is, by several tenants with their cottars, and having the mountain
Toarnnamone in its close vicinity. These remarks will serve to explain the jeu d'es-
prit, which, in the original, is as follows.
       'Siomadh sneadid thair a Mhaol-odbar,
       'Siomadh Truth tha ruith do Lorman,
       'Siomadh Ce6 thair Toamnamone,
       'Siomadh Useach th'an Srondoillar."
  Attempted to be done into English thus -
       Full many the snow-flakes that full on Mallore,
       'And many the streams that run, Lonan, to thee;
       Around toamnamone's sides many thick vapours ]our,
       So-many great glakes in Strontoiller there be.


