
                         TARVES.                               669

Haddo, ancestor of the Earl of Aberdeen, one of whose titles at
present is Baron of Tarves.
   Not many years ago, there existed, on the farms of North and
South Ythsie, several large cairns, of whose origin tradition gave
no account, and at the bottom of which, when the stones compos-
ing them were carried away for the purpose of building fences,
there was found a quantity of gigantic human bones.  They were,
in all probability, the work of an era prior to the introduction of
Christianity.
   The Castle of Tolquhon, now in a very ruinous condition, with
the exception of a part of it called " the auld tower," was built
between 1584 and 1589 by William Forbes, laird of Tolquhon,
Woodland, Knaperna, &c.  It is of considerable extent, being of
a quadrangular form, and enclosing a large court-yard, the arehed
gateway of which is defended by two towers, with loop-holes to
enable those within to use fire-arms or arrows against assailants.
Great part of it is now roofless, and its walls are fast sinking into
shapeless heaps of stones and rubbish.  It is nearly surrounded
with wood, part of which, especially some fine yews, seems to be
co‰val with the building itself.  The family of Forbes, to whom
this castle and the valuable property annexed to it belonged, was
among the most ancient and honourable of that surname-the first
laird of Tolqubon having been the son of Sir John Forbes of that
Ilk, and a brother of the first Lord Forbes.  He acquired the
estate of Tolquhon, in 1420, by his marriage with Marjorie Pres-
ton, daughter of Henry Preston, Lord of Formartine.  In the
church-yard of Tarves there remains, in good preservation, a part
of an aisle, added to the former church by the same William For-
bes who built the castle.  It bears the inscriptions " W. F. 1589,
dochter to Lesmore, E. G.;" and the motto of the family, viz.
" Salus per Christum."
   The mansion-house of Schivas was built, about 200 years ago,
by a gentleman of the name of Gray, descended from a younger
branch of the noble family of Kinfauns.  In its immediate vici-
nity, are some remarkably fine beeches; and there is a large and
beautiful plane, which, according to tradition, was planted by a
daughter of the Gray family.  It passes among the people in the
neighbourbood by the name of Mary Gray.  In the house there
is an old oak cabinet bearing the inscription G. G. of Schivas,
and the date 1697.  The Grays were of the Roman Catholic per-
suasion, and what is now the dining-room of the mansion had been


