
			SKIRLING.                               107

gives an allowance of 3s. a-week for the first sixteen weeks of sick-
ness, and Is. 6d. a-week thereafter, with this proviso, to prevent
injury to the society, that when any person shall have received
L.16, 13s. 8d., his claims shall thenceforth cease and determine.
It is evidently a very useful institution, often aiding those in dis-
tress who would otherwise be cast upon the fund of common cha-
rity; and I have not the smallest doubt that it has a powerful effect
in preserving that spirit of independence so beneficial to the inte-
rests of our country.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor upon
the session's roll is five; weekly allowance to each, Is. 3d.; annual
amount of collections made in the church on their behalf, no mort-
cloth or extra profits included, L.11, 1Os. 6d. This is the only
fund from which they are supplied, and any deficiencies that may
occur are met by the liberality of Sir Thomas G. Carmichael, the
proprietor. The number has been larger than usual for some years,
and may be expected to decrease; but the diminution is to be looked
for chiefly from the natural effects of time, in the removal of those
advanced in life, of whom the list of paupers is at present principally
made up, and not, we fear, in any indisposition generally to apply
to this source of relief.  It is still, without question, considered to
a certain extent degrading to come upon the parish, and there are
some who would submit to very severe privations ere they would
consent to receive public aid; but the feeling of delicacy upon this
point is certainly not nearly so intense as it was in former times.
    Prisons.-There is a jail in the parish, the proprietor having a
baron-bailie appointed, who has the power of imprisoning for forty-
eight hours, but fortunately it is required only for holding the mort-
safes and other parochial implements.
    Fairs.-There are fairs held here on the third Tuesday after
the 11th of May, on the first Wednesday after the 11th of June,
and on the 15th of September.  The first of these is a small mar-
ket now limited to cattle, but the other two, especially that in June,
have a large attendance of queys, cows, and horses, and there is
much business done.  At a former period we had a fair also on the
Tuesday before the 12th of May, which now has no existence
save in the almanack, and at a still more remote date the market
for sheep, hogs, now held at Linton the day before the third Wed-
nesday after the 11th of June, was held at Skirling. The traces
of the bughts are still to be seen, and not long since an aged per-
son died who recollected distinctly his having seen more than once


