
                              ABERDEEN.                         75

low her in her fishing employments, cannot educate them so as to
be useful wives to persons of any other class.
   A free school was established some years ago by Mr John Da-
vidson, goldsmith, exclusively for the white-fishers, and it has been
the means of doing a great deal of good among them.  It is taught
on the plan of the sessional school, and its effects are manifest in
the decided and progressive improvement of the manners and ha-
bits of the fisher.  The children who attend the school re-act on
their parents, and, as it were, shame them out of their indifference
to useful knowledge and habits.
   The fishers are, generally speaking, a long-lived people and
very healthy, and, notwithstanding the dangerous nature of their
occupation, there are few accidents of serious consequence among
them.
   Like most other fishermen, they have a good many superstitious
ideas and practices, and they have implicit faith in many traditions,
and invarious omens.  Thus they reckon it very offensive for any
one to count a boat's crew, or a company of them returning from
market, and it is not less so to tell how many fish they have caught.
If a fisher be turned back when he is going out to fish, he will on
no account go out that day, and is very much provoked.  Often,
too, things, which any one but they would esteem mere trifles, can-
not be spoken of without interfering with some omen, whose influ-
ence the would hold it sinful to doubt.
   It is at the same time to be noticed, that the fishers of Futtie
have less superstitions than those that live in the fishing-villages
along the coast, both to the north and south, where they live al-
most entirely secluded from intercourse with the inland agricultu-
ral population.
   Whale-Fishing was first introduced into Aberdeen in the year
1753, and the success which attended the first attempts induced
others to embark in the same trade, which, for a time, was very
profitable.  Accordingly, the number of ships from Aberdeen en-
gaged in whale-fishing gradually increased, till, in 1820, there were
fifteen, which, on an average, had about fifty hands each.  The
greatest tonnage of oil brought home by these vessels in one sea-
son was in 1823, when fourteen vessels brought 1841 tons.  Of
late years, however, from various causes, such as the withdrawing
of the Government bounty, the reduction of the duty on foreign
seeds from which oil is made, the diminished demand for oil, of
late, in consequence of the introduction of gas as a mean of ob-


