
72                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


stone-coffin, composed of flat stones not fastened together; and al-
together, it gives the idea of very remote antiquity.
   Modern Buiidings.--Tillicoultry House and Harviestoun are
both elegant mansions, built about thirty-five and thirty-seven years
ago; the church, erected in 1828, is at once beautiful and commo-
dious, and the meeting-house is a goodly building.
   There are several large and well-built mills, lately erected for
the woollen manufacture; and the dwelling-houses in the villages
are many of them handsome and comfortable. The Edinburgh
and Leith Bank and dwelling-house are especially so.
<TABLE=POPULATION.>

		      III.--POPULATION
	     In 1755, the amount of population was    797
                1782,        .       .       .        858
                1793,	    .     .        .          909
                1808,	     .       .       .       1050
                1821,       .      .      .          1160
                1831,	     .    .          .       1472
                1837,	    .      .      .          1803
                1841, amount last census,    .	     3213

   The great increase of population which has taken place, of late
years, is chiefly owing to the rapid increase of manufactures in
the shawl trade, tartans, and other branches; and many of the hands
employed being, strangers who are not stationary, any general re-
marks on the character and habits of the people would of course
be applicable only to the individuals. I believe, however, it is ge-
nerally admitted, that Tillicoultry shawls and tartans are now as
much in request,. by skilled merchants, as the well known serge was
in former times.
    The principal heritors do not at present reside in the parish.
There are eight heritors possessing more than L.50 of annual rent.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.--As a considerable part of the parish is well adapt-
ed to the purposes of husbandry, the most improved methods of
farming have been used, draining has been general, in both sides of
the Devon, chiefly with-stone, but in several instances, also with
tile. The lands are generally well fenced, either with stone fences
or hedges, and the latter are neatly dressed. The four-shift ro-
tation is chiefly practised, but in some cases the five-shift mode
is used, viz. oats, green crop, barley with grass seeds, and hay :
or oats, green crop, barley or wheat,--hay,the second crop, being pas-
tured, and, pasture. The rent of land, on the north side of Devon,
from L.8 to L.4 per acre, and some field have been let at
higher rater. On the South side, rent varies as the quality of land,


