
                         SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.             117

      prehended the infield or bear-land only. From the additions
      made by successive tenants, the merk of land has increased, in
      many cases, to eight or ten times its original extent. Besides the
      original arable land, and the successive additions made to it, there
      are no fewer than one hundred and four "outsetts" in the, pa-
      rishes;  that is, when a tenant finds himself unable to pay his
      former rent, or when a newly married couple can obtain land in
      no other way, they fix upon some particular spot in the common
      pasture,-obtain leave from the principal proprietor of the nearest
      arable lands, and enclose as much ground as they think will sup-
      port their family; and such an enclosure is called "an outsett."
      Sometimes, the proprietor builds the dwelling-house and dikes, and
      charges rent from the time of entry; at other times, the tenant
      builds these, and sits rent free, for seven or nine years.
         Agriculture.-Agriculture may justly be said to be in its infancy
      in the parish; and as long as the landlords continue to reduce the
      farms to the least possible size, no improvements can be expected.
      Farms which formerly were possessed by one or two tenants, are
      now occupied by five or six. There are only three ploughs in the
      parish,-one on the glebe, drawn by two oxen; one in Reawick,
      and one in the island of Papa-Little, each drawn by four ponies.
      The plough used on the glebe is of Small's make; the other two
      are made. in Lerwick, after a pattern by Morton, Leith-walk.
      The Shetland plougb, so minutely described by my predecessor,
      the Rev. Patrick Barclay in his Statistical Account of the parish,
      is not now used. All the lands in the parish, with the exception of
      those just mentioned, are turned  over with a small spade peculiar
      to the country. The harrows in  general use are made of two pa-
      rallel pieces of wood, about three feet long, with from eight to ten
      wooden teeth in each piece, and  are connected at the ends by a
      cross bar of eighteen inches long. These are drawn by a man or
      woman, with a rope tied to each end of one of the parallel pieces
      or sides. There are some lands in the parish, on which even a
      wooden harrow has never been used.  Instead of which, after the
      ground is delved, sown, and manured, a besom of heather is procured,
      and a person sweeps mould, seed, and manure overhead.
         Crops.- The crops raised are potatoes, oats, and bear or big;
      and the old distinction of infield and outfield is still continued.
      On the infield-land bear (having four or six rows of grain on the
      head) is sowed year after year, if we except as much of it as will
      grow the orfe-half of the potatoes the family may require.  The


