
                             FETTERESSO.		259

a half, 30 stones Dutch, while even a cross with the Teeswater
of the same age weighs from 50 to 60,--the cross having much of
the gentle tempers and quickly feeding qualities of the pure short-
horn;--if these be facts, they must go far to settle the point, both
as to the pure breed and the cross, in regard to their introduction
on farms, where adequate provender and shelter for summer and
winter can be supplied.
    The crossing system has been advantageously pursued by Mr
Barclay, he having had, for several years, about forty cows of tbe
West Highland breed, (preferred, not only on account of their
form properties, but also their hardy nature), rearing calves to
Teeswater bulls. At the last sale, those from twelve to eighteen
months old averaged L.12 a head.
	Plantations.--These occupy about 2000 acres. On some of the
higher grounds on the Fetteresso and Ury properties, owing to the
nature of the subsoil, the trees long ago planted did not succeed.
In more favourable situations, the success has been great; and
much valuable wood of every kind usually produced in the coun-
try is every year disposed of. Larches have unfortunately, in se-
veral localities, been lately in an unthriving state.
	Mr Robertson, in his Agricultural Report of the county of Kin-
cardine (1808), states that of the 24,914 acres to which this pa-
rish extends, above a third was then in cultivation; that about a
tenth more was susceptible of cultivation; and about a twelfth part
was under plantation. It is supposed, that there are now 10,000
acres under tillage, and 2000 in plantations. The rent at that
period amounted to L.7427; in l794, L.4200. Its state in 1840
was as follows: Ury, L. 4000 a year; Fetterosso, L.3328; Ne-
therley, Monquiech, and Muchalls, L.3397; Rickarton, L.1604;
Cowie, L.1383; Rothnick, L.300; part of the Dunnottar estate,
L.6; and the common of Cowie, L.20.* The property of Elsick
was feued in ten lots, about the year 1760 by tbe magistrates of

<FOOTNOTE> This tract of uncultivated ground extends to 2774 Scotch acres. Of this, 512
acres consist of peat moss,the rest of heath interspersed with coarse grass. Length-
ened judicial proceedings took place about the right to this common, which issued in
a decree, confirmed, on appeal, by the House of Lords, in April 1824, finding, that
" the whole forest, muir, and commonty of Cowie belongs to Sir Alexander Keith of
Dunnottar, subject to the rights of servitude, which the other heritors may be able
to instruct over the same." Of this common, 828 acres are claimed as property by
some of the neigbbouring heritors. A considerable part might be rendered arable at
no very great expense; but no attempt at cultivation can be made until a division
be effected, and to this there are serious obstacles, arising from the great number of
persons who claim rights of servitude. In the meantime, the different conterminous
heritors or their tenants pasture cattle and sheep on the common. Great quantities of
pests are taken from the mosses, and of soda from the surface of the ground,--thereby,
year after year, destroying the means of forming a soil for cultivation. The rent
stated arises from the privilege of shooting.




