
                          AYTON.                                149

same price. There was a prospect renewed lately of coals being
wrought along the coast, about a few miles to the south-east of this,
but the stratum not being found of sufficient thickness to encourage
the erection of machinery, the project has again, for the present,
been abandoned. About eight miles northward peats may be pro-
cured, but they are here in very little demand.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The great depression in the price of agricultural produce has,
of late years, materially retarded improvements, which the landlord
and tenants have shewn a laudable ambition to promote, if the
times afforded encouragement. Some years ago the chief proprietor
invited a few individuals, with their families, to settle on a moorish land
belonging to him, about eight miles to the north, called Ayton com-
mon, said to be a part of this parish, although surrounded by that of
Coldingham. With a view to improve the land, he gave them a grant
of it for a very small acknowledgment. But it does not appear as yet
to have been turned to any very good account. The principal im-
provements in the parish consist in the alteration of the London road,
to avoid the long ascents at Ayton-hill on the south, and at Pease
Bridge on the north; and the consequent new-modelling of the
village of Ayton;-the alteration of the road leading from Eye-
mouth to the interior of the country by the south of Ayton, to
avoid the steep ascent at Millerton-hill,-and the alteration of
another road in the parish leading from Berwick to Eyemouth, by
which the great descent at Blaikies has been avoided. It was at
one time in agitation to extend this latter road along the coast, as
forming a better line for the London road, and less liable to ob-
structions from snow, than one more inland.-A moral improve-
ment has been wrought by the complete suppression of foreign
smuggling, through the establishment of the Preventive Service along
the coast. There is, however, a system of smuggling more de-
moralizing, if not also more hurtful to the revenue, still carried on,
all along the English border, in which Ayton has borne a share,-
namely, the illicit traffic in Scotch whisky. This traffic, on ac-
count of the high duty paid for Scotch whisky in England, holds
out a strong temptation to carry it over the borders at all points,
and by all sorts of artful conveyances,-a practice which has not
hitherto been prevented by all the vigilance of the excise.-Per-
haps the only and the most equitable way to put an effectual stop
to it, is to equalize the duties on both sides of the Tweed.
   July 1834.


