
                        AYR.					19

	Charter and Antiquity.--Ayr is one of the most ancient of our
Scotch burghs,--a synod and presbytery seat,--a circuit station of
the Justiciary Court,--the metropolis of the country which bears its
name,--and the returning burgh of the set with which it is united
in sending a Member to Parliament, viz. Irvine, Campbelton, In-
verary, and Oban. It obtained its charter of royalty from King
William, surnamed the Lion, in the year 1202. The charter itself
does not bear date of the year in which it was conferred, but it has
for witness to it the name of Florence, Archbishop of Glasgow,
thus designed, electo cancillario meo Glasguensi. Now it appears
from other records, that he was advanced to this high office during
the year above-mentioned, and as it could not thus have been
earlier, we cannot err much in fixing this as the date of it. This
charter conferred on the burgh very important privileges, and very
extensive property, extending its jurisdiction over the whole parish,
and making over to it the whole of its lands, in perpetual tenure,
for payment of a small feu-duty. This has been deemed a very
magnificent grant, and so it was, as compared with grants conveyed
in charters to other royal burghs. But it will not be apt to appear
so very liberal, when it is considered that the whole parish, at that
time, was one entire forest, and of very little value. The Kings of
Scotland, however, had shown a more than usual munificence to
Ayr on different occasions, as we find Alexander the Second con-
firming his father's grant, and afterwards bestowing in addition the
whole of the lands of Alloway, and extending the jurisdiction over
the two parishes.
	Property.--It would appear that a subsequent charter was given
to the town by King Robert Bruce, dated at Dunfermline, in which,
besides confirming the grants and privileges conferred by his pre-
decessors, he erects the parish of Alloway into a barony, under the
lordship of the magistrates. That all this extensive territory was
covered with forest trees, and consequently of little value, is evi-
dent from the privilege having been conferred on the burgesses of
Ayr, of acquiring such portions of the land as they might clear of
wood, on paying twelve pennies yearly for every six acres so cleared.
In the charter of Alexander in 1236, the burgesses are prohibited
from using the wood of the lands of Alloway, but for useful purposes,
and for their own accommodation. "Non ardebunt, nec dabunt,
nec vendent, nec aliquo modo distruent, sed solum modo capient

about to be brought forward, Ayr is to remain as it is, with the addition of another
bailie, though the success of the measure we think questionable.


