
102			ABERDEENSHIRE.

Wednesday of April, and a wool market is held there in the last
week of June, and the first two weeks of July, on Thursday and
Friday.
	The timber-market, for the sale of tubs and other wooden ar-
ticles, is held in the Castle Street on the last Wednesday, in August.
	The feeing-market for the hiring of farm-servants is held in the
vicinity of the meal-market at Aberdeen, on the second Friday of
May and November.
	Besides these markets held in Aberdeen, there are several mar-
kets for horses and cattle, held in the close vicinity of the town,
as follows: 1. At bridge of Don, on the first Tuesday of each
month; 2. at Mannofield, on the Dee side road, on the second
Monday of each month; 3. at Ruthrieston, near the Bridge of
Dee, on the third Monday of each month; 4. at Old Aberdeen,
on the last Thursday of April, and on the Wednesday after the
last Tuesday of October.
	Inns and Alehouses.--There are in Aberdeen no less than 193
inn-keepers and vintners, including six principal inns, viz. the
Royal Hotel, the Union Hotel, and the Aberdeen Hotel in Union
Street, the Lemon Tree, in the Huxter Row, Cruickshanks' Inn,
in tbe School-hill, and Macdonald's Temperance Hotel in Queen
Street.
	Pawnbrokers.--It is between twenty and thirty years since this
lucrative but not commendable occupation was first introduced in-
to Aberdeen, and there are now six of them established and in
full occupation. The capital invested in this trade may be about
L. 10,000, which is generally understood to be turned five times
in the course of a year. About nine-tenths of the articles pledged
are redeemed within the legal period, and, unquestionably, much
occasional relief is afforded in seasons of temporary distress by
their assistance, though, at the same time, it is to be feared that
the greater part of their trade arises from the improvident and the
dissipated.
	Streets,--Less than half a century ago, the only approaches to
Aberdeen were, from the south and west by the Windmillbrae
and the Green, and from the north by the Gallowgate, and the
streets in general were inconvenient, from their narrowness and
the badness of the pavement, which consisted mostly of irregular
causeway or round stones. About the end of the last, century, a
street was opened from Broad Street to North Street, which fa-
cilitated the entrance from the north, as North Street, runs along


