
552              GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

avis, boittis, and all utheris veschellis and provisioun requisite for
transporting them to saidis Heelandis."  In 1617, the lairds of
Pollock Maxwell, and Castlemilk were commissioners to Parlia-
ment for the barony, and William Somerville for the burgh of
Renfrew.  In 1633, in the reign of Charles I., domestic troubles,
and popular complaints, seem to form the predominating features
of the times.  In a curious paper, where the inhabitants of Dun-
dee complain of the great extortion used in "exacting a ladell full
of all kynd of victuall, grund and ungrund, presented to the mer-
cat, Dutidie having no definite measure or quantitie, whilk is ane
heavie oppressioun," and where Maister David Wedderbourne,
"Maister of the Grammar Skole Aberdeine," desires that his
"short and facile grammar may be ordained to be taught through
Scotland," a band of genuine corn-law repealers from Renfrewshire
came into the field of action with as much confidence, and nearly the
same sort of arguments used by their genuine descendants in the
same localities at the present day.  The repealers of 1633 came
to Parliament with a petition and complaint, in which they sug-
gest that "All actes and impositions maid and imposit for re-
strainig and inbringing of victual may be discharged, it being
without example in any part of the world, and soe much the more
that the haille scheriffdomes of Dumbartoune, Renfreu, &c. are not
able to enterteine thamselffes in the most plenteful zeirs that ever
fell out without supplie from foraine parts.  And seeing victual is
become the greatest comoditie now in Europe, that it may be de-
claired lawful to merchands to import the samyne frielie within this
kingdom at all times without any imposition." About the same
period, the fisheries of Renfrew seem, to have been important, as
we find them mentioned and designated among the "loches,
frithes, and bayes," reserved to the natives for fishing.  So early
as 1641, the people of the burgh of Renfrew began to look with
a jealous eye on the rival pretensions of the town of Greenock.
In the above year, the provost, bailies, council, and community of
Renfrew, understanding that John Shaw of Greenock is to obtain
in this Parliament a ratification of his infeftment for erecting Green-
ock into a burgh of barony," doe protest that any ratificatione
be grantit."  The protestation was taken by John Spruill, com-
missioner to Parliament for Renfrew.  Renfrewshire suffered con-
siderably during the covenadting times.  In 1662, Mr John Nor-
ry, and Alexander Dunlop, minister of Paisley, were banished.
A few years after, the clergy began to inveigh publickly against
                             6


