
			   BRESSAY.                              11

bushes produce tolerably, but require the shelter of a wall. There
have been often at the Mansion-bouse tolerable crops of strawber-
ries. There is not, so far as I have heard, any instance of a hot-
house in this country, except here; and in it the vines produce
an exuberant crop of large grapes.

		  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   In the year 1636, the Rev.  William Umpbray, who had been
at that time fifty-five years minister of this charge, executed two
deeds of mortification, by which lie left eight merks of land to
Burra and Quarff, and four to Bressay, for maintaining a reader,
and other pious uses, together with the interest of L.120 Sterling
to the one, and of L. 150 Scots to the other. The communion
cups seem to have been his gift, as  they bear his name, with the
date 1628.
   An event of great importance to the minister and people
lately took place, in the erection of a Government church in
Quarff. Before this erection, the charge of these parishes was
one of the most difficult kind, the Bressa and Burra churches being
about twelve miles distant from each other; and it behoved
the minister to go in a verv small boat to Quarff, then to
walk two miles, and lastly, to embark with his Quarff parishioners
for the kirk of Burra, situated at five miles distance.  His Sabbath
days' journies thus occupied eight hours, before his return
home.  The arrangement of places so distant under one charge,
rendered it impossible for one man to go through the duties of a
minister in them, with any regularity or satisfaction.
   Its first minister, Mr James Gardner, was indicted September
1830.  The district at present allotted to him consists of Quarff,
with the adjacent islands in Burra parish; and he has the duty
of preaching in the Burra church, as circumstances may permit.
But as there are contiguous parts of Coningsburgh, Gulberwick,
and Tingwall, for wbose inhabitants it is vastly easier to attend at
Quarff than at their own parish churches, the Presbytery have it in
contemplation to annex, quoad sacra, these contiguous places to
the charge of Quarff.  It is much to be wished, for the sake of
order, and the comfort of all concerned, that the whole were con-
stituted a separate parish. The ground required for the church
and manse, was generously given by the late Charles Ogilvy, Esq.
of Seafield, and the disposition executed by his son, John Ogilvy,
Esq.

<FOOTNOTE>The Bressay bell declares, in Latin, that it was cast, in 1723, at Harnburgh, for
the use of this kirk.


