
		162           ELGINSHIRE.

   nortb-west. It has its source in the mountains to the south of In-
   verness, and, after a course of nearly forty miles, falls into the Mo-
   ray Frith about four miles below Forres. It flows for a great part
   of its course between high rocky and wooded banks, exhibiting in
   many places the most beautiful and picturesque scenery. It is a
   large and impetuous river, and is often subject, to sudden and de-
   structive floods. The greatest of these of which there is any re-
   cord, was that which took place on the 3rd and 4th of August
   1829, and which is so accurately and graphically described by Sir
   Thomas Dick Lauder, in his very interesting account of that calami-
   tous event. The Plain of Forres was, on that occasion, the principal
   scene of its ravages, and its effects in this parish are still visibly mark-
   ed along the banks of the river. The parish is likewise watered by
   the burn of Forres, a small stream which rises in the adjoining pa.-
   rish of Rafford, and after winding through the beautifully wooded
   grounds of Burdyards in this parish, it passes close to the west end
   of the town, at the base of its ancient Castle bill, having its course
   enlivened by several mills and a public bleaching-green. Besides
   the above, another small brook runs through the parish and joins
   the burn close to the town. There are also several perennial springs
   of excellent water, which amply supply the wants of the inhabitants.
	Geology.-There is little in this parish to interest the geologist.
   The only rocks within its confines are of the secondary class of
   sandstone and limestone. They are situated in the south end of
   the parish, and are most conspicuous on the banks of the Find-
   born, where they project in several places in high and precipitous
   cliffis overhanging the river, and form important features of the
   picturesque surrounding scenery.
	Zoology.-Most of the animals generally met with in the other
   low and improved districts of Scotland are abundant, or occasion-
   ally to be seen in the parish. Of the rarer quadrupeds, it may
   be mentioned, that roe-deer sometimes are found in the woods of
   Burdyards and Mundole. Foxes and polecats, although not nu-
   merous, inhabit the same localities, where they prey on rabbits,
   which have of late increased to a treat extent, and have become
   a serious nuisance. Badgers are known to exist, and traces of
   otters have been at different times observed along the banks of
   the river and burn.
   	Of birds,--the pheasant has of late years been introduced, and,
   thrives well in the parish, and partridges and snipes are abundant.
   The ringdove is common in all the woods. Various species of


