

1084                            PERTHSHIRE.

                          Feet.   Inches.         Feet.   Inches.
        2 Silver-firs,     7        8    Largest    12      3
        1 Holly,           8        8      do       --      --
        3 Scothch firs,   10        0      do       12      5
        1 Walnut,         10        8      do       --      --

   Zoology.-The following animals abound : roe-deer, brown
and mountain-bares, rabbits, black-game, grouse, ptarmigan,
pheasant, brown and white partridges, woodcocks, snipes, plovers
&c. The following, which are found in this country, are reckoned
rare : the scaup-duck, the water-rail, the ring-ouzel, the greater
spotted woodpecker, the nut-hatbh, the greater and lesser red
pools &c.  There are the following quadrupeds: foxes,badgers,
wild maritn, and polecats :-of birds of prey : eagles, kite-glade,
buzzard-glade, falcon, hawk, ben-harrier, kestril, mertin, spar-
row-hawk, owls, white, brown, and horned :-of aquatic birds : the
swan, wild geese, sea-gulls, and herons.
   Fish.--The following abound in the lakes and rivers: salmon
and trout, also pike, char, and eels.  Salmon of thirty-six pounds
have been killed in Lochtay; and pike, weighing upwards of twenty
pounds. The angler may have excellent sport in the loch, or
in the rivers and mountain streamlets.  The salmon-fishing is
worth about L.150 per annum.  At the Bridge of Killip, the vi-
sitor may see a curious mode of fishing.  Standing on a rock beside
the deep foaming pool, may be seen an aged weather-beaten fish-
erman, having in his hand a rod fouteen feet long, with a strong
twine attached with a sinker of half a pound weight, and a large
stell hook two and a-half inches wide.  In the drk pool the sal-
mon rest after ascending the lower rapids, and before he ventures
to attempt the raging catracts above.  The fisherman throws
his line into the foaming linn, and the moment the sinker reaches
the bottom, he gives the rod a sudden jerk, and not unfrequently
the hook gets fastened in the iside of a large salmon, when the
deadly but unuqual struggle gegins, and the fish is speedily landed
on the rock.  Neither fly, nor worm, nor minnow is used; and
yet the fishing, though in dark and troubled waters, is often very
successful.  From the spot where the fisherman stands, the lover
of the sublime may obtain a grand view of the descending river,
and of the towering Benmore in the distance.  Several sketches
of this seene have been taken from the Innisbuidhe, but none from
the spot pointed out.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Family of Breadalbane.-The history of the Noble family of


