
172                        ARGYLESHIRE.

rupting the carol of a lark, will seize upon the unresisting lamb,
ere he has enjoyed one sportive gambol in the morning sunbeam;
while the latter, waiting, with keen twinkling eye, his opportunity
from his ivy-covered crevice, will spring forth, as if on wing, and
seize upon his unoffending prey before it has exchanged a parting
bleat with its watchful dam.  Nor is the honesty of the unpre-
tending badger fully established.  From certain equivocal appear-
ances in his churlish abode, strong suspicions have been entertained
against him; but it is right to bear testimony,-and the testimony
is borne by one as free from malice as from partial counsel,-that
the proofs of his sheep-stealing propensities are far from being,
conclusive.
   We are also much infested by moles.  The plausible theory,
that, by a mutual and well-defined understanding as to the division
of labour, moles and crows co operate in improving hill pastures,
is not, here at least, confirmed by experience.  The moles, to do
them justice, are rigidly attentive to their share of the compact,
but there is abundant proof of the negligence of their supposed
associates, who, on repairing here daily from Mull, (for which
island they exhibit an unaccountable predilection,) are found, in
place of attending to the useful occupation of spreading mole-hills,
to misspend their time in the agreeable, and to them, not altoge-
ther profitless amusement of picking up shell-fish and dropping the
same on the rocks underneath; or, in company with more conge-
pial associates, eagles, hawks, and ravens, enjoying a more sub-
stantial repast on the carrion of the mountain. There is, how-
ever, the less cause to complain of such petty annoyances, as a
freedom from others of greater magnitude is enjoyed.  There are
few snakes and these not very venemous; and, above all, the en-
viable but somewhat inexplicable exemption referred to in a for-
mer account is yet enjoved, for Morvern has at least this advantage
over districts in other respects more favoured, that it is wholly free
from those pests of civilized society, rats.  Others may exercise
their ingenuity in accounting for this fact: the long and the unin-
terrupted enjoyment of the privilege has operated, as in matters of
heavier responsibility, in rendering us the more unreflecting on the
subject.
   Fishes, &c.-The Sound of Mull is not remarkable either for
abundance or variety of fish.  The usual kinds of fish are caught,
and occasionally in great plenty, with the exception of haddock
and whitings, which, strange to say, seldom appear in the Sound


