
			DALRY.                            219

he was after a short imprisonment liberated by the Protector.
After the restoration, he was reinstated in his office, and created
a baronet of Nova Scotia.
	Chief Land-Owners.--Colonel Blair of Blair is the largest pro-
prietor, being possessed of nearly a third of the parish. The
Earl of Glasgow ranks next in order. The following heritors
have also considerable properties within the parish: John Smith,
Esq. Swinridgemuir; Ebenezer Smith, Esq. Pitcon; William
Millar, Esq. of Monkcastle, Windyedge, &c.; Miss Morris of
Craig, Auldmuir; Lady Mary Montgomerie, Munoch: William
Patrick, Esq. W. S. Barkip; J. Crichton, Linn, &c. The total
number of proprietors is 90.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest existing registers are of births
and marriages, and commence in 1683, but have not been regu-
larly kept till 1724; from which period they are complete till the
present time. The records of the transactions of the kirk-session
commence in 1693, and, excepting a blank from 1701 to 1717,
have been most accurately kept to 1765. From that time to the
incumbency of the present minister in 1821, it appears that the
minutes of session were written on detached slips of paper, and, as
might be expected from such a slovenly practice, they have all
been lost.
	Antiquities.--On the summit of Caerwinning hill are the re-
mains of an ancient fortification. It appears to have been formed
of three concentric circles or walls of stone, inclosing a space of
two acres. The greater part of the materials of which it was com-
posed have been removed to build fences, &c. The outer wall
cannot now be easily traced, but, from what remains, it appears to
have been from 10 to 12 feet in thickness. The entrance has
been on the western side. The vestiges of a fosse or ditch are still
visible at the foot of the hill. It must have been a place of great
strength, and commands a view of the surrounding country for
many miles. The stones must have been brought from a considera-
ble distance, being a species of tuffaceous trap, while the hill it-
self is composed of felspar porphyry. It is believed that the Scot-
tish army were encamped in this fortification previous to the bat-
tle of Largs. The ruins of an ancient square fort formerly stood
on the banks of the Rye, on the brink of a precipitous rock call-
ed the Aitnach Craig. About forty years ago they were wholly
removed.
	In the vicinity of the town is an ancient mound called the


