
                               DUNSYRE.                             71

                            IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture and Rural Economy.

There are in the parish, cultivated and occasionally in tillage, upwards of 3000 acres.
Constantly in pasture, many of which are waste and of very little value,    8000
Capable of being improved by a judicious application of capital,	          2000
Under wood,       -     -     -     -     -     -       -         -           30
Undivided common,       -     -     -     -     -       -         -            0

   All the wood has been planted ; and, from being constantly cut
without any new plantation, will very soon cease to exist altoge-
ther.  The trees are Scotch fir and larch.
   Rate of Wages.-Farm men-servants receive for summer and
winter, being generally hired by the year, from L. 8 to L. 12, be-
sides bed and board: females during the summer, L. 3, and dur-
ing the winter from L. 2 to L. 2, 10s., bed and board.  If the men
are married, they generally receive about L. 10 wages, and a free
house, with a certain quantity of fuel driven.  Masons' wages are
about 2s. 6d. a-day, and a carpenter's nearly the same.
   Breeds of Live Stock.-Considerable attention has been paid
to the breeds of sheep and cattle.  The Cheviot are bought in
some instances when hogs, and afterwards fattened on the turnips.
The black-faced are the staple breed, of which there are no fewer
than 150 scores in the parish.  They are also reared for fatten-
ing on turnips.  The Ayrshire breed of cattle is generally culti-
vated, and a cross-breed of heavier stock is annually reared for
draughting and feeding on turnips.
   Particular attention has been paid to the dairy.  The number
of milch cows kept by the farmer is generally betwixt 20 and 30,
The milk-houses are fitted up in the neatest manner, so as to pre-
serve the milk fresh and clean.  The usual method is to make
butter, which is salted and sold about Martinmas.  Of the skim-
med milk, cheeses are made, which are sold about the same time.
Dunlop cheeses are also made, and rival any from Ayrshire.
   Husbandry.-The fourth rotation is that which is generally
practised, as the soil will scarcely admit of a heavier cropping.
Turnips are reared in great abundance, and few parishes can boast
of so fine crops.
   The Medwin, has lately been straightened, and will thus afford a
facility for draining the surrounding bog.  Draining has been car-
ried on to a considerable extent; and irrigation was first practised
in this parish in the upper ward of Clydesdale, and has been im-
proving constantly for the last twenty years.  The late William


