
                            INNERWICK.                   237

the characterizing rock of the formation. The organic remains
also, especially the vegetable impressions in the sandstone, are ex-
actly those which occur in undoubted districts, in other parts of                       PR
the country, composed of the coal formation. Such then, are the
rocks at Thorntonloch-there, indeed, only partially visible, owing
to the sands which cover them, but again emerging to view a little
farther westward, where, at a slight angle towards west north-west,
they pass under the magnesian limestone, which here is not in any
great abundance, and which in its turn is covered a few yards west-
ward by pretty thick beds of the encrinite, or mountain limestone
of English geologists. At the point where this change takes place,
the strata of the sandstone, shale, &c. are a good deal jumbled and
confused, and the dip or inclination of the limestone strata becomes
suddenly much greater. The magnesian limestone in the si-
tuation now described has the usual characters of that rock in
other situations; but the first, or rather uppermost bed of the
mountain limestone which rests upon it, presents a more interest-
ing appearance, viz. a pretty thick stratum or reef, if we may so
call it, of extinct corals. The particular species we have not been
able exactly to ascertain. The genus, however, is clearly Caryo-
phyllea. The original forms are preserved with much freshness
and accuracy, and afford a subject of inquiry and speculation deep-
ly interesting and curious. Other organic remains and impressions
might be noticed as occurring in this mountain limestone; but it
is time that these observations were brought to a close. Continu-
ing, therefore, our observations still westward from the situation
now described, the mountain limestone, in numerous and succes-
sive strata, may be said to form the rest of the shore of this parish,
being burned to a very considerable extent in the farm of Skateraw;
from which place a large portion of the agricultural district ad-
joining both are Berwickshire and East Lothian, is supplied with it.
Attempts have been made on the property of Mr Hay at East
Barns, on the confines of this parish, to discover coal. The par-
ties interested were sanguine in their expectations, but they have
lately, and probably wisely, abandoned their exertions.
   Botany.-The botany of this parish maybe considered as a
good deal similar to that of Cockburnspath,  which has been pretty
fully described in the account of that parish. There are some strik-
ing plants, and here and there rather an interesting botanic sta-
tion. But we have observed no plants which are not enumerated
in the account of the above parish.

   HADDINGTON.                    Q


