
                  RATHVEN.				259

  Horses.-The horses, particularly those for agricultural pur-
poses, have been much improved in size and shape, and this in a
great measure has been owing to the spirited exertions of the
Agricultural Society, instituted some years ago at Cullen. A
handsome premium is given from the Society's funds to the owner
of the best stallion that appears at the annual competition, and
the successful competitor is bound to keep his horse for the sea-
son within the limits of a certain portion of the district. There
are now many valuable horses for agricultural purposes in this
parish, which in price may vary from L. 20 to L. 35, and some
even bring so high a sum as L.40.
The fields are properly laid out, cleaned, drained, and in
many instances enclosed with dry-stone dikes. The furrows are
straighted, run-ridge is abolished, and a regular rotation of cropping
is strictly observed. The six years' shift is most general. The
rents are from L. 30 to L. 500, according to extent and quality.
The farm-steadings and office-houses, with few exceptions, stand
very much in need of improvement.
Manures.-Various kinds of manure are used. Farmers resid-
ing, near the coast, after a storm has loosed the sea-weed from the
rocks, and driven it to the shore, procure large quantities, which
they spread in summer on ley to the extent of three hundred cart
loads to the acre. This process is renewed every secon&year.
Dung, purchased from the fishing villages, and composed of the
offals of the large fish, when mixed with moss or earth, is account-
ed a valuable manure for raising, green crops.

<TABLE>

Produce.-

	Grain of all kinds,	   L.27,800
	Potatoes and turnips,	   8,040
	Hay and pasture,	   7,696
	Annual thinnings of wood,   600	WO
	Fisheries from the sea,	   45,000
	Slate avd lime quarries,      300

Manufactures.-About seventy-nine years ago, linen was manu-
factured to a very considerable extent in this parish, which at that
time gave employment to sixty hand weavers, besides the great
number of females who were employed in the spinning of the flax.
It was mostly Dutch, and sent dressed or hackled from Aberdeen,
Fraserburgh, Banff, Portsoy, Cullen, Huntly, and Fochabers, to
different agents, to the amount of 348 cwt., which, given out to


