
                           ALYTH.                            1123

       under cultivation, but it would be exposed to great disad-
       vantages from the want of shelter, unless planting on an extensive
       scale were resorted to as a preliminary step.
         Great improvements have been effected since the last Statistical
       Account in reclaiming waste land, fencing, and draining.  On the
       property of Balhary, since the present proprietor succeeded to the
       estate, the extent of arable land has been increased by one-half,
       and the land formerly under cultivation has been very much im-
       proved in value by the liberal and judicious application of capita.
       The greatest liberality has been shown by the landowners in ac-
       commodating their tenants with commodious houres and ste`dings.
       Both the farm buildings and the cottars' houses have been greatly
       improved of late years.  The old thatch roofs are daily giving
       place to slate, and a stone and turf cottage is now looked upon as
       a relic of bygone times.  The lands near the Isla were formerly
       much exposed to inundation, and still are so to some extent, but
       the evil has been remedied in a great measure by straightening
       the channel of the river, and by the erection of embankments which
       have been raised by the proprietors at considerable expense.
         Most of the land in the lower district, and some farms in other
       parts of the parish, are in a high state of culivation under the most
       approved system of husbandry, and the whole of the arable land
       may be generally said to be under good management.  The ro-
       tation preferred by the best farmers on good land is the com-
       mon one of five years.  The six years' rotation, embracing
       three years in grass, hs not unfrequently followed.  The practice
       of taking two successive grain crops after lea is still kept up on
       several farms, although reprehended by every good practical far-
       mer, not less decidedly than by the scientific agriculturist.  A
       considerable part of the cultivated land is at present thrown per-
       manently into grass parks, and only occasionally ploughed up.
         Live-Stock.--From 2000 to 3000 sheep, all of the black-faced
       breed, and 200 or 300 cattle of the Angus and West
       Highland breed are kept on the hill and moorland pastures.  Sheep
       are seldom seen on the cultivated land, except those which are
       put upon bone-dust turnips.  A considerable number of cattle are
       reared and grazed on the arable farms.  In the upland district
       these are generally of the native Angus breed, but on the finer
       soils, a cross between that breed and the Teeswater is found to be
       more profitable.
         Plantations.-The plantations consist chiefly of larch and other


