
                         AUCHTERTOOL.                           257

and from these causes, together with the variou's accidents to which
hedges are liable, there is not a field in the parish sufficiently in-
closed where a hedge is the fence. In all cases, to mend a hedge
is difficult; but throughout this parish the hedges, in many parts,
are so far gone, that to reclaim them effectually is impracticable.
   Quarries.--There are several whinstone quarries opened in
the parish, for metal to the turnpike and other roads ; also a free-
stone quarry used sometimes for building village and other cottar
houses. The stone is of inferior quality, and is never wrought
for sale. There is a limestone quarry on Lord Moray's ground;
also one on Captain Erskine Wemyss's property, which the tenants
are permitted to work for farm purposes exclusively; none is
wrought for sale.
   Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is exhibited under the
following heads:

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man, or domes-
 tic animals,             -         -            -         -        -         L.  4849
Of potatoes and turnips,       -            -         -        -                  2184
Of hay, both cultivated and meadow,           -         -        -                1200
Of land in Pastuere, rating it at L. 2, 6s. for cow or full grown ox, or sheep
  at 10s. pastured for the year,       -         -         -        -              989
Of cottagers and villagers gardens,    -         -         -        -               40
                                                                                 _____
                                                          Total yearly value, L.  9262
   Manufactures.--The only thing in the parish that may be con-
sidered as allied to manufactures, is an extensive brewery in the
village of Auchtertool, which has been long in good repute for its
ales, porter, and table-beer. It supplies private families, inns, and
alehouses in various places, but the greater part of its ales are
usually shipped at Kirkaldy for London.

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Town--Kirkaldy is five miles distant from the centre
of the parish, where an excellent grain stock-market is held every
Saturday; a cattle-market thrice a-year, and a weekly market for
butter and cheese.
   Villages.--There are two villages in the parish, Auchtertool and
Newbigging, thE former containing a population of 329, the lat-
ter of 75.
   Means of Communication.--There is no post-office in the pa-
rish nor does any post-office runner pass within five miles of its
boundaries,--an inconvenience very much felt. However,there are
other means of communication which the parish enjoys. 1. The
turnpike road between Kirkaldy and Dunfermline runs rather
   FIFE.                      R


