
     Statistical Account

not easy to say; although it is said (upon what authority is
not known to the author of this paper) to have taken place
some time in the twelfth century, or earlier, as some are in-
clined to suppose.  But it is remarkable, that several of
those islands have Christian names, while the places upon
the rising grounds and hills, supposed then to have bounded
the river, are evidently more ancient, and probably origi-
nal Gaelic; the names of many of them being descriptive of
their situation in that language.  And if there are charters
which contain any such expressions as those mentioned, the
period must have been very remote, and might actually
have happened in the twelfth century, or earlier.
   Monorgan might have been at that time a much larger
estate, which indeed is extremely probable; for even in the
memory of men now living, many acres of that estate have
been carried away by the river.  Great encroachments
have also been made upon other estates in the Carse from
the same cause.  Hence it is also very probable, that
the spacious bay between Errol and Kingoody has acquired
its present extent and shape, by the united exertions of the
Tay and Earn, opposed to the flood-tide form the sea.
   The various substrata in this district might likewise be a
subject of curious investigation.  By an examination lately
taken at the braes of Monorgan and Polgavie, where the
river Tay has made its greatest encroachments, and where
the banks are from 19 to 20 feet perpendicular height, the
following strata can be distinctly traced; 1st, A brownish
clay, mixed with sand and vegetable earth, about 1 1/2 feet
deep, forming the present prolific upper surface.  2nd, About
four feet deep of a brownish free clay, with a proportion of
sand, but no vegetable matter.  The only difference be-
tween these two is probably owing to cultivation, manure,
fun and air.  3 d, About 2 feet 3 inches of a poor yellowish
clay, without sand, but mixed with cockle, muscle, and


