
     of Auchtermuchty.

   The roads and bridges are getting into high repair; and the
advantage of the turnpikes which are now established in this
county, will soon be felt by all ranks, though at present, the
common people do not relish them, as they deem the statute-
labour a great hardship.  It is in contemplation to repair the
road from Perth to Kinghorn, through Auchtermuchty-hill,
which will add to the prosperity of the town; for travellers will
naturally come this way, instead of going by the Ferry, as it
will save them twenty miles journeying.  The post ought also
to come this way, and the post-office for this district to be esta-
blished here, rather than at Falkland; as this is not only a more
centrical place, and more business carried on, but it is also in a
direct line from Kinross to Cupar, and St. Andrews.
   The inhabitants of this parish, with a few exceptions, are
very industrious, and rather economical than otherwise; in so
much that there are only 6 on the poor's list.  There is here a
society distinguished by their social habits, their hospitality,
and their benevolence to the poor.  Upon the whole, if Sir
John Sinclair wishes that his patriotic exertions should be effec-
tually crowned with success, and the condition of the country
meliorated, he must device some means of increasing the sa-
laries of country schoolmasters, so that men of merit may
be induced to take upon them that important charge, the
education of youth; for as the poet says.
     "'Tis education forms the huan mind.
     "Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclin'd."

     X x 2

<FOOTNOTE>

now the property of William Marshall, Esq.-In the South East end of the
parish, there are the remains of a road: it commences at the east end of
Rosie-brae, and runs in a direct line to Falkland.  In ploughing the lands
where it lies, the plough is frequently obstructed by large stones; and what
makes it more remarkable is, that these lands about 50 years ago were over-
slown with water.


