
          154                       PERTHSHIRE

          tillage, which is the greatest defect with which the present system
          is chargeable.

          <TABLE=Value of Annual Produce>

                   Grain of all kinds, sold or consumed, deducting seed, L. 21,500
                   Green crops,    do.      do.                       9300
                   Hay and pasturage,                                 7165
                   Woods and plantations,                             1500
                   Moss,                                                30
                                                                      _____
                                                        Amount,  L. 39,495
             Manufactures.-The only manufacturing establishment in the
          parish is at Woodend, in the immediate vicinity of the village of
          Almondbank, and belongs to the Messrs Turnbull of Hunting-
          tower Bleachfield, in the adjoining parish of Tibbermore. This was
          formerly a paper manufactory, but w`s lately converted into a weav-
          ing establishment, and is fitted up with power looms.  It gives em-
          ployment to a considerable number of people in that quarter.  The
          population of the village of Almondbank is chiefly employed at the
          public works on the rhver Almond, which are numerous and ex-
          tensive, but none of them are in this parish but the one now men-
          tioned.
             The principal employment of a great part of the population of
          the village of Methven is hand-loom weaving.  They are chiefly sup-
          plied with work by resident agents, who obtain it on commission
          from manufacturers in Glasgow.

                               V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
             Roads, &c.-The north road from Perth to Glasgow by way of
          Crieff passes through the village of Methven, which is situated six
          miles from Perth, eleven from Crieff, and fifty-eight from Glasgow.
          There is no other turnpike road in the parish, but several county roads
          intersect it, which greatly facilitate the intercourse between this
          parish and the neighbouring districts in all directions.  These roads
          are generally kept in a state of excellent repair, and are maintain-
          ed by the funds arising from the statute labour conversion.  Two
          coaches (one of them the royal mail) pass and repass from Perth
          to Glasgow daily, and there is a penny post-office here, which was
          established about five years ago, In connection with the post-office
          at Perth.
             Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which is conveniently
          situated, is a large commodious and substantial building, although
          not an elegant one, and, with the addition of an aisle built to it in
          the year 1825, at 1he private expense of Robert Smythe, Esq. of
          Methven, the patron and principal heritor of the parish, contains


