
254                        PERTHSHIRE.

quired reputation by the success with which he wrote in English
verse. "The Tragical Death of Sophonisba; Caelia, containing
certain sonnets; and a paraphrase of the 104th Psalm."  John, his
brother, a learned and pious man, was minister of Leith, and an
intimate friend of Andrew Melville's. He was prosecuted and
ordered into confinement by King James VI., for a sermon which
he published, containing some free remarks on the conduct of the
bishops. Andrew and George Moray of Abercairney, and Peter
Maxtone of Cultoquhey were slain in the fatal field of Flowden, 1513.
A proprietor of the latter house has been long famed for a cele-
brated litany, which he repeated every morning, at a well near his re-
sidence. Anthony, of the same family, was, in the reign of Charles
L, prebendary of Durham.
   Mr Drummond of Broicb, was deposed from his office, as minis-
ter of Fowlis, at the Revolution, because, as stated in the records
of the kirk-session, he would not pray for King William and Queen
Mary.-The late Dr Ritchie, Professor of Divinity in the Univer-
sity of Edinburgh, an eminent scholar, and a learned theologian,
was a native of the village of Fowlis.-The Reverend Dr Alison
of St Paul's, Edinburgh, and the late Principal Taylor, of Glas-
gow College, were educated at its parochial school, which was then
a seminary of reputation.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, James Moray of
Abercairney; Sir Patrick Murray of Ochtertyre; Mercer of Gor-
thy; Stewart of Logiealmond; Maxtone of Cultoquhey; Graeme of
Inchbraco; Lord Lynedoch; Mrs Robertson Williamson of Law-
ers; and Captain M'Donald of Sunnysyde.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in the parochial regis-
ters is in 1674. They are voluminous, and regularly kept, with
the exception of a few years after the Revolution.
   Antiquities.-In the village of Fowlis, there is an ancient Cal-
vary cross, on one side of which is a representation of a wolf-chase,
in bas relief, in which there are figures of men on horseback, and
a blood-hound. The wolf appears grasping a head in his fierce
jaws, and tradition says that, in the course of the chase, he ran
through the town of Fowlis, and snatched off the head of a boy.
In the same group of figures, are six men dressed in a peculiar
grotesque style, and following an animal, supposed to be led to the
sacrifice. The figures on the other side are much defaced, but
there are gyves or chains on it, which fastened culprits, and ex-
posed them to infamy, a species of punishment similar to the
pillory.


