
                          KINROSS.                         5

ble exists in the locality is still matter of conjecture only. The
position of this rock is sufficiently indicated by its relation to a
similar deposit in the adjacent parish of Cleish, where it underlies
the mountain limestone: and to the westward a few miles, near
the Crook of Devon, the old red again emerges. If such be its
true position, as we have every reason to believe that it is, any beds
of coal that may be found in it will be such as are characteristic
of the group with which it is connected, amounting, as in other
places, to two or three in number, and of inconsiderable thickness.
Limestone accompanies this sandstone, but of what quality and
extent, whether it belongs to the carboniferous limestone, or to the
cornstone of the old red sandstone series, we have not the means
of determining. No section of these rocks is exposed to view; a
thick covering of aluminous earth overlies the surface; but the
intelligent proprietor, from his excavations and dramings, as well
as great practical knowledge of the minerals of the district, has
been enabled to ascertain the existence of a calcareous deposit be-
neath.
   Whinstone, or rather porphyry, is no less sparingly distributed in
this parish. Two varieties only occur, namely, compact felspar, and
claystone porphyry. The former is quarried towards the south side
of the parish at Calcarnie, and occupies the ridge to the westwards.
This rock is extremely close and compact in texture, and is much
used as a road metal. It has a reddish ash-grey colour, and contains
minute crystals of hornblende and carbonate of lime. The clay-
stone porphyry, which is of a mixed iron-red and ochreous colour,
may be observed behind the farm-steading of Calcarnie, and seems
to run in the form of a vein in a north-easterly and south-westerly
direction. It is traversed by veins of carbonate of lime, and also
contains large masses of the same, along with crystals of glassy
felspar and augite. It is stained in various places with dark-green
spots, which would seem to indicate the presence in small quanti-
ties, of copper, and which arise in all probability from the oxida-
tion of that metal. Boulders of the primitive rocks are abundant-
ly distributed, consisting of granite, quartz, mica slate, born-
blende and greenstone. None of these are of very large dimen-
sions, but all are much water-worn, and bear sufficient marks of
attrition to which they have been subjected in the course of their
transportation. Masses of diluvium, of considerable depth, may
be observed in several localities, and which consists chiefly of the
debris of the old red sandstone.


