
82                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.

It affords accomodation for about 600 persons, and all the sit-
tings are free.  A considerable number of years ago, and additional
gallery was built in front of the pulpit, at the joint expense of
the Duke of Buccleuch, the late venerable Dr Charters, and Wil-
liam Oliver, Esq. aided by a few small subscriptions'.  This sec-
tion of the church is open to sitters of almost every description, and
differes from the rest of the accommodation which was originally
allocated to the heritors, according to their respective valuations.
The lower part of the aisle or gallery reffered to, was reserved for
a cemetery to the family of Dr Charters; and there the ashes of
that eminent servant of God repose, with a plain inscription upon
a neat marble tablet, from the pen of his intimate friend, the late
excellent and venerable Dr Thomas Somerville of Jedburgh.
   The manse was built about fifty years ago, is a substantial edi-
fice, and kept in good repair by the heritors.  It is upon a scale
much smaller than modern houses of the same description, and
quite inadequate to the comfortable accommodation of a large
family
  The stipend is six chalders of victual, half meal and half barley,
with L. 36 and odds in money.  "The glebe," says Dr Charters,
is large and valuable;" and it is much to be regretted that for-
mer incumbents, who lived nearer the source of information, did
not think it proper, for the benefit of their successors, to give a
more ample account of it.  The glebe, properly so called is alto-
gether an anomaly in the Church of Scotland.  What may be de-
nominated in-field, and lying around the manse, consists of about
eighty English acres of excellent land, all arable, and has been in
possession of the minister from time immemorial.  There is no
document or record in existence to show how this land came into
the bands of the church, and evdry search to discover its history
has been altogether in vain.  All that can be said in this respect
is that the land is in the possession of the minister, and no person
can say with certainty how it came.  There is no proof that this
extra quantity of land was ever designed as a glebe, or actually
given out of the lands of the heritors, by any special appropri-
action.  In an account of his stipend and emoluments, given by the
Rev. Mr Simpson, one of the former incumbents, in 1765, he says,
"that there is a glebe, and certain lands called the Mains of Wil-
ton, belonging to the minister of Wilton, which lie contiguous, and
the respective bounds of which are not known, but in conjunction,
they are bounded as follows," &c.  But there is a tradition in the


