
54                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

to neighbouring towns, some to America, and others to cultivate
waste moors where they best can. Logie Easter, it is well known,
has suffered more in its population from this cause, than most other
parishes in the north. And thoulg the system has greatly beautified
the face of the country, and perhaps raised The rents of the land,
it cannot be denied, that it is at the expense of the comfort (in
most cases,) and, I am sorry to add, the morals, of the poor people
in general.  Necessity is a friend to virtue.
The number of families in the parish,	                                       231
                       chiefly employed in agriculture,	                       129
                                           trade, manufactures,	and handicraft, 33

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.

  Agriculture is carried on in the parish according to the most approved
modern system. There is more wheat raised in the parish
than any other grain, and the quality is very superior.
  The whole parish at present is in posession of four landed proprietors,
viz. Sir Charles Ross of Bainagown, Bart.; Hugh Rose
Ross of Cromarty; the HoDourable Mrs Hay Mackenzie of Cromarty
(patroness of the parish;) and Charles C. Ross of Shandwick.
Mr Rose Ross and Mr Charles C. Ross have residences in the parish,
at Calrossie and at Shandwick. Valued rent, L. 1514 Scots.
                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  There are no market-towns in the parish. A cattle-market
holds at Blackhill in the month of May annually, at which hundreds
of cows change owners. Parkhill post-office is within two
miles of the manse, but is situated in Kilrnuir Easter. The mail
coach passes and repasses daily through the parish. But, except
three miles of turnpikes road, the upper part of the parish is ill
supplied in that respect.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is now situate in the
most convenient place for the accommodation of the people,-with
the exception of Scotsburn, on which some families live at the distance
of about six miles, with very bad access, especially in winter.
The church is in excellent repair, and hitherto the seats have
been rent free, which is a great convenience to the parishioners,
many of whom are extremely poor. The manse commands a most
extensive, rich, and variegated view,-embracing very thriving plantations,
which afford both shelter and ornament, and something
more substantial to the proprietors.
  The manse was built upwards of fifty years ago, and is at
present in a tolerable state of repair. The glebe consists of about
22 acres of surface, including the stance of the manse and office


