

			OLD KILPATRICK.                        21

line with tolerable accuracy. The progress of agricultural im-
provement, and, as a consequence, the obliterating of such remains
of antiquity, within the last fifty or sixty years, have been so great,
that without the assistance afforded by the works of these zealous
investigators, it would be impossible to trace this mark of Roman
conquest. Nor is it wonderful that a bulwark of turf should have
disappeared after the lapse of seventeen centuries.
   The termination of the wall was at one time understood to have
been at Dunglass, but it is now generally agreed to have been at
the Chapel Hill, a short distance from the parish church. Two
sculptural stones with the usual inscription, containing the number
of the legion, and the amount of labour performed in the construc-
tion of the wall, were found there, and presented by Hamilton of
Orbiston (to whom this property and the neighbouring estate of
Erskine belonged) in 1695 to the College of Glasgow; and another
also discovered there, was presented soon after by the Marquis of
Montrose to the same learned body. The workmen employed
in digging the canal in 1790, which passes at the bottom of the
Chapel Hill, found, in a subterraneous recess, vases and Roman
coins; and there is little doubt, that more-careful research might
bring to light more of these interesting monuments.
   At Duntocher there is a bridge called Roman, but it is consi-
dered by some of the best antiquarians,* to have no greater claim
to such high antiquity, than that the materials may have been af-
forded by the neighbouring fort. Others, however, are inclined
to support the antiquity of the bridge. Its appearance is much
in favour of an ancient date. Beside it, there is a stone with an
inscription, bearing that the bridge was repaired in 1772 by lord
Blantyre, and also stating that it was built in the reign of Hadrian,
which proves what was the current opinion at the time of erecting
the stone.
   The lines of the Roman fort at Duntocher can now with difficulty
be traced. A stone similar to those found at the Chapel hill,
but more elegant in design and execution, was discovered here.
It stood in Gordon's time on the gate of Cochno, but was soon
after given by the proprietor, Mr Hamilton of Barnes, to the Glas-
gow College. Engravings of these stones will be found in Gordon's
Itinerarium. The College of Glasgow engraved a series of similar
monuments found along this line of frontier, but for their own use
exclusively.

<FOOTNOTE>Roy's Military Antiquities, page 158.


