
                              ARDCHATTAN.                              477

      15 to 16 feet; and, as the bottom is clayey, the anchorage in the
      bays is safe and good.  The waters possess more saltness tbad
      they do in Loch-etive, from causes which have already been
      stated.
        Springs.-The parish abounds in perennial springs, which afford
      constant supplies of the finest water.  Some of these springs, in the
      days of other years obtained notoriety, and were resorted to by in-
      valids in consequence of the sanative properties which they were
      supposed to possess, though these are now-a-days greatly at discount.
      Of this description of springs, it may be mentioned, that there is
      one about midway up the hill behind Achnacree (Aonach-...rd-o-
      heragan,) named tobar bhile-na-banna.  At this well votive offerings
      were wont to be left,-a practice which did not wholly fall into de-
      suetude till within the last forty years.
        About fifteen years ago, a well was discovered in marshy ground
      near the farm-house of Achacha, the waters of which contained,
      in considerable quantity, sulphuretted hydrogen.  It disappeared
      not long afterwards.-There are several fresh-water lakes within
      our bounds, but none of them of great extent.  One, near to Con-
      nell, may be mentioned, named lochan-na-be ich, or "the lake of
      the beast," from some frightful animal said to have been of old
      seen in or near its waters.  The banks of this lake, throughout
      its. whole extent, are about twelve feet higher than the surface
      of its waters; and though there is a considerable stream flowing
      in, there is none running out of it, the surplus waters being
      absorbed, and finding their way by some subterraneous passage
      to the sea, which is distant only a short space.  Two other lakes,
      of a similar size, or rather larger, are situated in the moor above
      Achnaha; and a third in the upper or Glen-etive district, called
      Lochan-mƒr-Eite.  All these lakes are occasionally resorted to
      by the angler, whose pains are rewarded by trouts of a darkish-red
      colour, but of no great size.
        Rivers.-As Ben-cruachan is the loftiest mountain, so the Awe,
      which washes a section of its base, and forms our south-east boun-
      dary, is the largest river in the county.  This noble stream is
      discharged from Lochawe at the strikingly wild and romantic pass
      of Braindir (braigh-n-t-struth) and, after a short course westward
      of no more than four miles, it falls into Loch-etive at Bunawe.
      The average breadth of the river Awe is forty-three yards; and
      its average depth at its fords, not calculating the depth of the
      fords, may be given at three and a-half feet.  Owing to the de-


