
                        TORBOLTON.                       763

	Education.--There are two schools in the village, and one in
the country part of the parish. The parish schoolmaster has the
medium salary. There are no natives of the parish upwards of
fifteen years of age who cannot read. While this is the case, it is
at the same time true that, during the last ten years, there has been
a gradual diminution of the proportion of the population attending
school. Boys are now at the loom, or go down the coal-pit, when
ten or eleven years of age. Girls at even a more tender age earn
their subsistence at needle-work. The evil which must result
from this shortened period of attendance is at present in some de-
gree mitigated by evening-schools, Sunday-schools, and classes for
religious instruction.
	Literature.--There is a subscription library in Torbolton, and
also at the Crawfordston colliery, and there are about 200 small
volumes for the use of the Sabbath scholars.
	Alms-houses.--The late Alexander Cooper, Esq. of Stmithston,
bequeathed all the money and moveable property of which he
died possessed, for the purpose of building and endowing an hos-
pital for the support of persons of the parishes of Torbolton and
Mauchline in reduced circumstances, upwards of forty years of age,
and who have never begged. A very handsome hospital, or rather
thirty years ago, received the name of Failford, and is beautifully
situate near the junction of the Fail and the Ayr. The hospital
is designed to accommodate eight persons, and has eight separate
apartments. The inmates receive a weekly aliment, and have
each a piece of garden ground.
	Friendly Societies.--There are two Friendly Societies for females
and one for men, which have proved of great advantage. There is
also a savings bank.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
on the poor's roll is 20. The average number of persons re-
ceiving occasional relief is 15. The collection at the church
doors amounts to L. 37. Such further sum as is required is made
up by the heritors by voluntary contribution. The average an-
nual expenditure for the poor inclusive of the expense for collect-
ing contributions from heritors, is L. 100.
	Fairs.--There are two fairs held at Torbnlton, chiefly for the
sale, of dairy stock, one of them on the first Tuesday of June, O. S.
the other on the second Tuesday of October, O. S.
	Inns, Alehouses, &c.--There are eleven places for the sale of


