
           412                      RENFILEWSHIRE.

           Anagallis fenella, Campanula hederarea, Sison verticillatum, tBnan-
           thefistulosa, Polygonum bistorta, and Botrychium lunaria.
             Two rows of fine plane trdes, and a clump of beech, Dear the
           mansion-house of Greenock, and some old timber around Carts-
           burn House, the property of William Crawfurd,, Esq., are the only
           trees of considerable girth we can boast of.
                                 IT.-CIVIL HISTORY.
             The earliest historical account of this parish is to be found in
           Crawfurd's History of Renfrewshire.  A work, entitled 11 History
           of the Town of Greenock," was published in 1829 by Mr Daniel
           Weir.  In Mr Wilson's View of the Agriculture of Renfrewshire,
           published in 1812, there is a great variety of valuable statistical
           information respecting the agriculture anti commerce of Greenock,
           as they existed at that period, of which the writer of tb7is account
           has freely availed himself. There are several maps of the town,
           but none, so far as the compiler knows, of the parish.  Mr Mac-
           farlane, land-survevor- in Glasgow, is engaged at prerent in pre-
           paring a more accurate and extended plan than any which has
           yet been published.
            Parochial Registers.-The records of the kirk-session do not
           extend farther back than 1694 and the registers of births and
           marriages commenced with April 1698.  Until a very recent date
           no register of burials has been kept. The kirk-session records
           have been shamefully mutilated.  Happily the oldest. volume con-
           tinues eneire; but, except to the inquirer into the history of ec-
           clesiastical discipline in the end of the seventeenth and the begin-
           ning of the eighteenth centuries, it does not contain any very inte-
           resting information.
            Greenock, as will afterwards be mentioned more particularly
           under the bead of 11 Ecclesiastical State," is divided into eight
           parishes. In trea6ng of its civil history we shall consider these
           Rs one and, after a-brief account of the principal heritable pro-
           perties of which it is composed, we shall confine ourselves almost
           exclusively to the history of the town of Greenock.
           At the erection of the parish in M92, and for a considerable
           timje before that period, the estates of Wester Greenock, Finnart,
           and Spango were in pnssession of the Shaws of Greenock, one of
           the oldest and most distinguished families in the West of Scotland.
           On, the death- of Sir John Shaw, the last,of that name, in 1752,
           MrShaw Steviart, afterwards Sir John Shaw Stewart, eldest son
           of Sir Michael Stewart of Blackhall, succeeded to these estates


