
310                      ARGYLESHIRE.

lines gratis, and had every encouragement and indulgence given.
But, after every exertion, his Grace's benevolent and patriotic in-
tentions were frustrated.  The fishing answered not the idea en-
tertained of its success, and, after much money sunk by his Grace,
it was abandoned; and those who now follow the pursuit merely
do so as a bye job, and when they cannot otherwise be employed.
  In Lochscridain and Lochlahaich, herring are to be found.
Lochscridain abounds with herring of the most excellent quality;
that of Lochlahaich is not so good, and no great quantity of them
to be had at a time; but the fishing in Lochscridain is in general
favourable, and, in 1814, the success met with was very great.
                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Market-Town.-There is no market-town in the parish.
Village.-The village of Bonessan contains about 250 souls.
In this village, there are no less than five merchants or shop-keep-
ers, who may be termed general dealers.
  Means of Communication.-Aros, in the parish of Kilninian and
Kilmore, is the head post-office for this parish ; but there is a
sub-office at Bonessan, and a receiving-house at Gribun, and re-
gular foot-runners convey the mail bags.  This parish, therefore,
now enjoys the same advantage whth any other place in Mull of hav-
ing three dispatches and three arrivals of the mails weekly,-an ad-
vantage which it did not enjoy in former years, for the inhabitants
were then under the necessity of going to Aros, a distance of about
twenty-four miles from the point of Ross.
  There are no turnpike roads in this parish, or in Mull, nor
any Government roads, as in Skye and other parts of the High-
lands.  Communication, however, is much facilitated to and from
the low country by steam-boats, especially in summer and au-
tumn, when clouds of tourists and visitors come to view Staffa
and Iona.
  Ecclesiastical State.-There are two churches in the parish-
one at Bonessan in Ross, and the other at Kilfinicben, both built
in 1804, and repaired in 1828.  The former church contains about
350 sittings, and the latter 300-  Public worship is performed on
two out oF every three Sabbaths at Bonessan, on the third at Kil-
finichen, and once a quarter at Torran, in Brolas, where there
is no church.  There is no manse, but the incumbent receives,
and accepts in lieu thereof from the heritors, L.42 annually.  The
glebe has not been measured, but is supposed to contain from se-


