
836                                PERTHSHIRE.


<TABLE>

138 acres of grass, or 174 imperial acres,  L.9.514,           -    L. 1655 10  8
...     fallow.
 *Quantity usually in gross may give     -       -       -       -       1500  0  0
Sales of wood may give annually	-	-	-	-	-        600  0  0
Orchard and garden ground, 	-	-	-	-	-        150  0  0
Reeds and other produce,	-	-	-	-	-         50  0  0

     Manufactures.-There is a manufacture of linen, which is un-
derstood to afford a fair remuneration to those engaged in it.  It
is principally carried on in the houses of those employed.
     Breweries.-Inchture has long been famous for its beer, which
is the produce of a pretty extensive brewery in the village, from
whence supplies are weekly sent to Perth, Dundee, Cupar- Angtus,
and the surrounding district for many miles.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Market-Town.-Dundee is the market-town, at a distance of
bout nine miles.
     Villages.-In the parish are the villages of Inehture, Baled-
garno, Ballindean, and several, hamlets.
     Means of Communication.-There is a post-office in the vil-
lage of Incliture, which is a great advantage, the only other in
the district being that at Errol, and its branch on the turnpike.
Three coaches to the north and south, inclusive of the mail, pass
through the parish every lawful day.
     Navigation.- The Frith of Tay, forming the southern boun-
dary of the parish, there is a barbour opening out into it at
Powgavie, which is frequented by a considerable number of ves-
sels laden with coals, lime seed, grain, manure, &c. for impor-
tation, and with grain, potatods, wood., fruits, &e. for exporta-
tion.  The number of vessels is not at present so great as, for-
merly, owing to a variety of causes.
     Eclesiastical State.-The church is almost new.  it is situat,
ed in the centre of the parish, or nearly so, the most distant
families being little more than three miles from it, while the
greater number are within half that distance. Exclusive Of the
aisle, which is the property of Lord Kinnaird, one-half Of
which is occupied as a family-seat, and the other for the
domestics and others, it affords accommodation for 550, and is
apportioned, after the usual allotment of heritors seats, &c. among
the farmer and thier servants,-the table-seats and the greater part
of the, galleries being appropriated for the villagers.  No part is


<FOOTNOTE> Most of the land usually in grass is not interior to that usually in Crop
considerable portion of the fallow land being now either planted with potatoes or with
turnip, the annual gross produce, will be considerably larger than the above.


