
                             DENNY.                           127

which, estimated at the rates formerly mentioned, makes the value
of the raw produce to be as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds whether cultivated for the food of
    man or of the domestic animals,   .           .              L.15,130  0  0
Potatoes. turnips, cabbages, beet, and other plants cultivated in
    the fields for food,    .           .          .                 3600  0  0
Hay, whether meadow or cultivated,      .             .              1050  0  0
Crops cultivated for the arts, as-flax,              .                 70  0  0
Land in pasture, rating at L.3, 10s. per cow or full-grown ox grazed,
 or that may be grazed for the season, at 17s. per ewe or full grown
 sheep, pastured, or that may be pastured for the year,      .       2000  0  0
Mines, whether coals, quarries, or metals,         .           .      500  0  0
Miscellaneous produce not enumerated,                .            .   100  0  0
                                                                    ------------
                                                                 L.22,450  0  0

  Farmer's Club.--A farmer's club was recently instituted in
the parish for encouraging agriculture in all its departments:
it is exciting attention to ploughing, breeding, &c.
    Manufactures.-The mills on the river Carron, in the parish
of Denny, have been already stated to be eleven.  The upper-
most are Garvald mills. There are two of them, and both are em-
ployed in grinding charcoal for moulders, &c. Each mill has a
miller at 12s. per week of wages, and a man, horse, and cart, to
bring charcoal to the mills, and to carry the ground produce to
the moulders. The carters have each 12s. per week.
   The next mill down the river is Tamaree, for grinding oats, and
preparing pot-barley.
   The next lower down is Mr R. B. Lusk's mill at Carron Grove,
for manufacturing millboard, and different kinds of coarse paper.
The workers employed are, 15 men, 2 women, 2 lads, and 6
boys; wages are paid every fortnight, and average about L. 27
every fortnight. The materials used are almost exclusively old tar-
red ropes, of which fully one ton, on an average, is used daily.
No rags are made use of in this manufactory. The goods ma-
nufactured are almost exclusively millboards, which are used
for the boards of books, of which from four to five tons per
week are manufactured. Sometinies a little coarse paper is
made, used for sheathing ships and other purposes, as also some
large coarse millboards, used by engineers for making steam-joints
tight. The mill is lighted by gas, and, the manufactured goods
dried by steam and heated air. The excise duty paid is from
L.300 to L. 400 every six weeks.
  Next in order, down this lovely though busy spot on Carron Banks
from Tamareelin, is Herbertshire Mill, the property of William
Forbes, Esq. Messrs Alexander Duncan &,Sons carry on at thismill


