
                                  ARDCLACH.
                                                                            41

     victual, and L. 4302 Is. 2d.  Scots, or L. 35, 16s. 9 8/18 d.  Sterling,
     money, including therein 40 merks, or L. 2, 48. 5 4/18 d.  Sterling,
     for furnishing the communion elements.  In a process of augmentation
     in 1786, the then real rent of the parish was proved to be
     L.543, Ss. 5d.  Sterling, and 283 bolls of victual; and, about 1796,
     the stipend was again raised to L. 85 Sterling, including L. 5 Sterling
     for communion elements, with 31 bolls 3 pecks victuaL
     Lastly, in 1816, the stipend was augmented to its present amount
     of 14 chadders victual, with L-8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
       The patron of the parish is Mr Brodie of Lethen.  The number
     of male communicants is 49, and of females, 52.  The Parish
     is connected with the Nairnshire Auxiliary Missionary Society, to
     which it contributes L.5 Sterling yearly.
       Education.-There are three schools within the parish, viz. the
     parochial school at Ardclach, a female school there, and a school
     at Fornighty; of which the two last are endowed by the Society
     in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge.  The branches
     of instruction taught in the parish school are, reading, writing,
     arithmetic, book-keeping, land measuring, mathematics, geography,
     English, Latin, and Greek; in the female school, reading,
     sewing, knitting, and sampler work; and in the school of Fornighty,
     reading, writing, arithmetic, and English grammar.     The
     parochial schoolmaster's salary is L.36, 7s. 3d. per annium, including
     an allowance of L.2 for a garden; and his legal accommodation
     is complete.  The school-fees amount to from L 10 to L15.
     The female school receives L.15 a year from the Society.  And
     the Fornighty school receives L.15 a year from the Society. and
     L.2 a year from the late Mr Dunbar of London.  The general
     expense of education at the parochial school is, per year, for reading,
     6s.; reading and writing, 9s.; do. with arithmetic, 12s;
          Latin, &c. 15s. There is no higher charge. It is not believed
     there is any young person in the parish, between the ages of six and
     fifteen who is unable to read but there are about thirty persons
     above fifteen who can neither read nor write. The people are, in
     general, alive to the benefits of education but there are some few
     parts of the parish so distant as to render it: impossible for the
     young children to attend school.  In the remote districts alluded
     to the population is extremely scanty,-so much so, as to be in sufficient
     either to support a school, or furnish adequate number
     of scholars. Increased facilities of education have most certainly,
     effected a decided improvement on the character of the people.
     NAIRN.


