
                     TRANENT.                             299

enzie, one of 120, the other of 100 tons burden; they are em-
ployed in the coasting and foreign trade.
   The number of vessels entering the present harbour of the
Messrs Cadells during the year, is from 250 to 300, and the ton-
nage about 20,000 tons. Of this, about one-sixth is from foreign
ports.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The nearest market-towns are Haddington and Dalkeith, each
about seven miles from Tranent. The greater part, however, of
the grain from the parish goes to Edinburgh market, ten miles dis-
tant.
   Villages.-The villages in the parish are,-Tranent, containing
upwards of 1780 inhabitants;-Cockenzie and Portseton, 757;
Elphingston, 250; Meadowmill, 150,-total, about 2937 in the
villages.
   Means of Communication.-The means of communication to the
capital are excellent, the great post road to Edinburgh passing
through the parish for three miles. The other lines of turnpike
roads, extending to six miles, have of late been much improved, by
being placed under the charge of surveyors. The total length of
the turnpike roads in the parish extends to nine miles. The pa-
rish roads, supported by statute labour, are far from being in an
equally good state of repair. The funds amount to the small sum,
of L. 160 per annum, of which L. 36, 10s. is drawn by the turn-
pike roads, and the balance only of L. 123, 10s. is left for expenses
and the support of the parish roads, extending in length to about
fifteen miles, over which many heavy carriages pass.
   There is a regular post to and from Edinburgh twice a-day, al-
so a twopenny post to Haddington, which is a recent and a great
convenience.
   The public carriages on the post-road are very numerous, be-
ing six passing Tranent each day to Edinburgh, including the
Berwick mail,-and the like number out of Edinburgh. There is
also a daily coach from North Berwick, passing Cockenzie, which
carries the letters to and from Prestonpans.
   There are no public canals or railroads at present in the parish,
but the proposed line of the Great North British railroad, to commu-
nicate by Berwick, Newcastle, and Durham with the great English
lines, will pass through the centre of the parish, a little to the north
of the Meadowmill. A private iron railway, as already noticed, has
been made by the Messrs Cadells, from Cockenzie to their coal-


