
488    		              LANARKSHIRE.

cordance with the older woods. Roads have been made, and new
lodges built, and great numbers of work-people are constantly em-
ployed in carrying on extensive plans, by which the place is daily
improving in value and in beauty.
	Douglas Castle, the Castle Dangerous of Sir Walter Scott, as
before observed, was the object of many a fierce conflict between
the English and its proper lords. The conflagration by which it
was consumed, in the year 1760, was accidental; and the cele-
brated architect Adam was employed by the Duke to build ano-
ther, on a scale of magnificence adequate to his high rank and am-
ple property. It was to consist of two spacious sides, or wings, and
a front; and had it been completed on its original plan, would
have been one of the most princely edifices in Scotland. Only one
wing, or about two-fifths of the plan, was built before the Duke's
death; but even in this wing, which was finished by the late Lord
Douglas, there are 52 fire rooms. The dining-room, now used as
a drawing-room, is a very splendid apartment--40 1/2 feet in length,
25 feet in width, and 18 in height, with a particularly rich and beau-
tiful ceiling. The hanging stair is greatly admired by persons of
taste; the steps are of a freestone, veined and clouded like beau-
tiful marble.
	Manufactures.--In the year 1792, a factory for cotton-spinning
and Weaving was erected by a company from Glasgow, consisting
of natives of Douglas. The carding was performed by horse power;
the spinning by hand jennies. It continued in operation for only
a few years, but it was the origin of a connection which still sub-
sists between the manufacturers of Glasgow and the inhabitants
of the village of Douglas, most of whom are employed in hand-
loom weaving. A small carding-mill for wool, which was erected
about the same time on the lands of Carmacoup, is still kept up,
but to no great advantage.
				V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Town.--The town or village of Douglas is a place of con-
siderable antiquity. Its streets, like those of most towns built when
it was necessary to adopt precautions against the sudden incursions
of an enemy, are very narrow. Some of the houses are of a very
antiquee form. One lane is occupied byt range of houses, still
called the Dungeon, and the thick walls, narrow winding stair-
cases, And small windows, completely correspond with the name,
in attesting the purpose to which it was originally destined. Dou-
glas was, in former times, a place of much greater importance than


