
     Of North Uist.

an average for 17 s. the boll; but in very bad years, such
as the years 1783 and 1784, at 24 s.  The season, indeed,
must be very favourable, when the country produces a
quantity sufficient for the support of the inhabitants.  The
returns in barley are from 15 to 20, though there are a few
instances of more than 50 fold.  The boll of this country 
meal consists of 16 pecks; and if at any time a person has 
any that he can dispose of to his neighbour, it is sold at 13 s.
4 d.  Potatoes are also a considerable part of the pro-
duce of this parish, being cultivated for a few years back
to a much greater extent than formerly.  The quantity 
cannot be ascertained; but it is become so plentiful, that it
makes the principal part of the food of the inhabitants for
5 months of the year.  The manure chiefly used here is 
sea-weed, which is thrown upon the shores in bad weather.
This manure, though favourable to the production of bar-
ley, does not at all enrich the ground so much as dung,
which is also used, though not in great quantities.  Kelp
is the principal part of the produced of this parish, the ma-
nufacturing of which was totally unknown here, as well as
in every other part of the Highlands, till about the year
1735, when it was but imperfectly introduced by one
Rory Macdonald, whom a gentleman in this country
(Hugh Macdonald, late tacksman of Ballishar) had invited
over from Ireland for the purpose of making experi-
ments*.  The quantity of kelp manufactured yearly in
     VOL. XIII. Q q

<FOOTNOTE>

*In his first attempts, he only reduced the sea-weed to ashes, on which
account he was called Rhuary-na-luahigh, or, 'Rory, maker of ashes.'
At first it fold at L. 1, 1 s. a ton; but gradually rose in value, till some
time after the breaking out of the American war, when it drew about
L. 8 the ton at the different markets in England and Scotland.  Since the 
close of the war, the price has been on the decline, on account of the im-
portation of great quantities of barilla and pot-ashes; and it is now so low,


