
     Statistical Account

   Soil and Agriculture.-The ground, which has been
recovered from the Spey, is, in general, by a very long
course of frequent manure, and, being in small farms,
abundantly fertile.  We have a good deal of loamy soil.
There is not much clay land:  That upon the coast is
sandy.  In general, we depend very much upon the
dews of heaven.  In a droughty July, our crop near
the sea, though promising, dwindles amazingly.  We
enjoy, however, upon the whole, a happy climate:  Our
agricultural system has nothing very different from that
of our neighbours all around.  We have very few en-
closures, except at Gordon castle, (where an extensive
farm is totally enclosed), and at Auchenhalrigg.  We
cannot boast much of our other modes of melioration,
though we commonly do the best we well can.  The
people are industrious, and labour hard; and you will
not see any thing like a farm, where you do not be-
hold a field of sown grass, a piece of turnips, and some
potatoes.  The potatoe is much cultivated by those who
have but small spots of ground, and proves very useful.
The sea-weed is much used as manure, to the distance of
2 or 3 miles along the coast; and no work is suffered to
interrupt the pursuit of it.  Our crops of grain consist
chiefly of barley, oats, pease, and rye*.

<FOOTNOTE>

have three annual fairs, one of them for black cattle; and a weekly market
for butter and cheese, eggs, poultry, etc but it is not much resorted to.
There are several retail shops, and an ordinary number of the usual artificers.
There are two goods inns, well frequented.  We have a friendly society pretty
numerous.  Its funds are accumulating, and will, in a little time, answer
very benevolent and useful purposes.
*The average wages for common labourers are 6 d. a-day in winter, and 8 d.
in summer.  For harvest work, women receive 6 d., and men 10 d.  A com-
mon artificer gets 10 d. or 1 s. a-day.  With these payments, they generally
have their victuals.  A good man servant for the half year seldom has less
than 3 L., and the women, for the same period, receive about 20 s.  And
these point at continual increase.
 

