
912                    SUPPLEMENT TO THE

in the twelve churches to which we refer--a number itself constitut-
ing a good congregation, without taking into account the other new
churches, which are not less prosperous.  It is important to state,
that, in the face of this large increase in the new churches, there
has not been any very serious diminution in the old.  Any falling off
during late years, in that part of the city revenue which is derived
from the seat-rents may be explained from other causes, such as the
depression of trade, and the growing unwillingness of the people to
pay the highseat-rents which are charged.  This latter circumstance
leads to the occupation of a greater number of sittings than are paid
for.  But the interesting fact is, that, at the communion seasons, tbe
old churches have much the same number of communicants as
before.  A few of them may have experienced a diminution,
but others have gained an increase; while the new churches have
made such important and substantial progress as has been describ-
ed.  Church communion, not seat-letting, is the true indication
and test of the strength of a Christian church.  It may be noticed,
as one useful result of the operation of the new churches, that they
will bring down the price of sittings in the old, and so make
them more accessible to the humbler classes of society.  This
part of the working is only begun, but it will extend more and
more, and most will believe that, as at present, while the old
city churches are charged 10s. or 11s. as the average-priced
sitting over their whole church accommodation, there is ample
room for change.  Indeed, we are sure we do but express the
sentiments of the Presbytery of Glasgow, and of the church at
large, when we condemn the system of seat-rents in endowed
churches, whether in town or country, as inconsistent with the
sound principles of an establishment, and most idjurious, in its
practical operation, to the moral and religious interests of a very
large body of she people.
   Encouraging as is the progress which has been made, it must
be remembered how awful is the religious destitution which
has been unveiled, and that the population of Glasgow is run-
ning on, according to the mortality bill, at an increase of 9000
year, and that the raising up and maintenance of additional
churches must become more and more arduous with the progress
of the undertaking, exhausting, as it will do, the class of people
who area most able and willing to join in supporting them.  When
these things are considered, all who think calmly and impartially


