
                                  DRAINIE.                         155

         In the villages of Lossiemouth and Stotfield, there reside 17
       masons, 7 shoemakers, 5 house-carpenters, 6 tailors, 3 coopers,
       3 blacksmiths, 4 bakers, 3 waggoners, I boat-carpenter, 2 but-
       chers, 4 grocers, 7 British spirit-retailers, and 1 foreign spirit-re-
       tailer.
                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
         About the year 1800, the mania for augmenting farms spread
       from South to north, and in 1809 the farms in this parish were re-
       duced from the number of 68 to 38.  Only three or four tenants
       in the whole parish of Drainie now remain on the farms occupied
       by their fathers at the date of the old Statistical Acount.   Little
       discernment was manifested in the choice of their successors.  The
       highest bidders, men without capital, and many of them without
       skill or capital, were preferred.  These were perfectly satisfied with
       the terms and duration of the lease, and well they might, for be-
       fore the expiration of it, four-fifths of them were bankrupts and
       rouped out.  The war-prices of grain and cattle tumbling down
       at the peace of Amiens, no doubt accelerated their ruin; but their
       own folly and extravagance bad just as powerful an effect.  The
       old butts and bens, with kitchen and spens, were abolished, and
       mansions with dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, and parlours, which
       they could not furnish, or afford to furnish, were erected in their
       stead.  The principal proprietor was then a minor, and but heir
       to an entailed estate.  When be came to majority, he found him-
       self loaded with a vast expense for these buildings, and the abortive
       attempt of draining the lake of Spynie.
         Agriculture has made advances, though slowly towards im-
      provement.  At the date of the last Statistical Account, turnips
      and artificial grasses were cultivated on a very narrow scale.  White
      corn crops succeeded each other till tbe field became exhausted,
      which was then allowed to rest by running into grass, the natural
      product of the field.  The common rotation at present is, 1st, fal-
      low or green crop; 2d, corn; 3d and 4th, grass; 5th and 6th, corn.
      Too frequently beans or pease are substituted for green crop or
      fallow, not from ignorance but from necessity, as the poor farmer
      has not capital to wait a distant though more ample return.   Only
      one farmer, Mr John Stephen of Coulard Bank, adopts the rule of
      never sowing two white corn crops in succession.  Sea-weed is, at
      times, got in abundance and with little trouble, though in general
      not without much labour.
        There are no complete stone enclosures in the parish.   When


