
   304                        BANFFSHIRE.

   acre, is about L.1, 3s.; but some extent of pasture land is
   allotted to each farm rent free, and several districts in the parish
   have a privilege of pasturing sheep and cattle in common over the
   bills and moors.
      Wages.-The rate of wages for farm-servants in the year is
   from L.9 to L.12 for ploughmen, and from L.3 to L.4A, 1Os. for
   women-servants, with victuals.
      Live-stock.-The black-faced sheep are the common breed in
   the parish, and of cattle the west Highland is preferred. That attention
   to their improvement which would be desirable, has been
   for a long time ndglected, but of late years, from the encouragement
   given by the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland,
   by the distribution of their premiums, more attention is now given
   to the improvement of the breeds. Some tenants of capital and
   enterprise have brought into the parish animals of a superior kind,
   and it is to be expected that the improvement in this important
   branch of agriculture will still advance.
      The total number of cattle In the parish of Tomintoul is 801;
   of sheep, 6536; of goats, 410; and of horses, 188.
      The general mode of husbandry pursued is the six shift rotation,
   viz. green crop, barley or bear sown with grass, two grass
   drops, and two cora crops. This system was introduced about
   thirty years ago, and has tended much to increase the quantity of
   grain raised, and the number of cattle reared. The Duke of Richmond
   now restricts his principal tenants to a five shift rotation of
   cropping.
      Leases, &c.-The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
   These, with few exceptions, expire in 1842.  Considerable improvement
   has been  made within the last twenty years, in the
   building of dwelling-houses and farm-steadings.  The buildings
   on the farms of Inverlochy, Croughly, Ruthven, and Delavorar,
   are very substantial and commodious. The tenants on- these
   farms, -and generally in the parish, have of late years improved
   and enlarged their farms by draining, enclosing, and cultivating
   waste ground; and by the encouragement now offered by the
   Duke of Richmond, the proprietor of the principal part of the parish,
   there is no doubt but with'the commencement of new leases
   this improvement will proceed still more rapidly.

   <TABLE=RAW PRODUCE>

      Raw Produce.-
	The average produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for the food
   	of man or the domestic animals, may be estimated at 	L.3500
   	of potatoes and turnips cultivated in the fields, at   	  1200
   	of hay,							   300


