
      258                         INVERNESS-SHIRE.

      Setting sail from Duntulm, the fleet doubled the northern point
      of Skye, and coasting it southward in the channel which separates
      Skye from the mainland, cast anchor at Portree, now the capital
      of the island, and deriving its name from that royal visit. * Leav-
      ing this harbour, his Majesty proceeded southward through the
      Kyles of Skye, and, after visiting in succession the rest of the He-
      brides, landed at Dumbarton Castle.
         About the year 1580, a secret plot was laid to deprive Donull
      G•rm M•r of his property.  This Donull G\o3rn M\o3r was the
      grandson of Donull G•rm, who died at Elandonnan.  The plot was
      devised and artfully carried on against the proprietor by his own
      nephew, Uistean Mac Ghilleaspuig Chlirich, (Hugh, the son
      of Archibald, the Clerk), who was a very powerful and treacherous
      man.  Seeing that his uncle, Donull G•rm, had no issue, and
      that the property would, in consequence, devolve upon his elder
      brother, Donull G•rm •g Mac Ghilleaspuig Chl‚irlch, he resolv-
      ed to usurp it by power and stratagem.  For this purpose, he se-
      cretly contrived to gain over to his cause as many of the clan as
      possible, at the same time pretending to his uncle to be on the
      best possible terms with him.  The first preparation for the ac-
      complishment of his schemes, was the building of a large tower
      or castle on the farm of Peinduin, in the adjoining parish of Sni-
      zort.  This tower, still called " caisteal Uistein," i. e.  Hugh's
      Castle, was never entirely finished.  It was erected on a rock by
      the sea side, and had neither door nor windows, but was to be
      entered on the top, by means of ladders, which could be pulled up
      and let down at pleasure.  The ruins of this castle are still seve-
      ral feet in height.  It is said that Donull G\03rm had but little
      suspicion of his nephew's intrigues, until be commenced the build-
      ing of this unique fortress, which he did under other pretences, by the
      permission of his uncle.  A few years afterwards, however, Donull
      G•rm had more direct proof of his nephew's intentions.  Having
      had occasion to pay a visit to his kinsman at Dunyveg, in Isla, he
      set out from his castle at Duntulm, with a retinue of his vassals and

      <FOOTNOTE>Lewis, as also Alexander Macleod of Dunvegan, and his chief vassals in that part of
      Skye, he was met at Duntulm by Glengarry, several principal men of the Clan
      Donuill, lain Muideartach, and others, who severally accompanied the fleet to the
      south.  The King having landed at Dumbarton, sent the fleet, with the captive
      chiefs, and their principal adherents, round by the north to Leith.
           Portree is a Gaelic name, which signifies the King's harbour.  The name
      of the bay at Portree, previous to the royal visit in question, was " Loch Choluim-
      Cille," that is, St Columba's-bay.  There is a small island in the bay, which still
      retains the name of "Eilan Choluim Cille," viz. the Island of St Columba.


