
		                 KINGSBARNS.                           91

	singular that a disease similar to cholera in the suddenness of its
	attack and the destructive rapidity of its course, appears from the re-
	gister of burials to have existed exactly a century ago in the parish.
	What the population then was is unknown, but the deaths for the
	year 1733 were 58, while the average of the six succeeding years
	21 4/6.  Tradition states that it was confined to this village; that the
	disease commenced with an excruciating pain in the head; that
	chiefly grown up persons, young and robust, as well as old and
	feeble, were attacked; and that in a few hours death ensued.  No
	name is given to the disease; but that it was considered malig-
	nant, appears evident from this, that many were buried the same
	day they died, and none remained unburied over the next day.
	   Mineralogy.-Lime and freestone, with occasional boulders of
	granite, are the prevailing kinds of rock, both on the sea shore and
	in the upper lands.  Coal also appears to exist largely under-
	neath the greater part of the parish; since both among the rocks
	at the sea, as well as on the sides of the burns on the high grounds,
	seams here and there appear.  From the vestiges of workings on
	the lands at and immediately above the shore, the coal, in so far as
	tow and buckets and levels go, would appear to have been wrought.
	Where it peeps out, it is at times quarried by the poor people; of
	course it is small and brushy.  By proper application it might be-
	come available to the public, since it is most likely to be a con-
	tinuation of the same strata which have for a century past been
	successfully wrought on the high grounds to the westward.  But
	from the vast amount of under water in the ground, the working
	would require considerable power, and consequently a great outlay.
	  Lime is burnt at the shore by the proprietor of Cambo, and his
	tenants, for agricultural and architectural purposes.  As, however,
	no land quarry is opened, and the rock used is washed every tide
	by the sea, and no proper selection of stone is made, the produce
	is variable both in colour and quality.  Its adhesive power is un-
	commonly great; and were the smallest pains bestowed in tracing
	the rock back into the land, there cannot be a doubt that lime of
	excellent properties might be obtained.
	  There is a great want of freestone rock in the upper part of the
	parish.  This has proved a serious obstruction to forming enclo-
	sures, and draining the land; the rock at the shore, which is the chief
	quarry, is at too great a distance, and causes so much loss of time
	and expense, that the tenants are deterred from carrying into effect
	many an improvement.  Tile-draining is on that account beginning


