

       338                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

       to bring shoals of herring into Dunvegan loch.  According to the
       original instructions given regarding the flag, it was to be pub-
       licly displayed only on three occasions: 1. when the clan was in
       imminent peril of being overthrown in battle, on which occasion
       the unfurling of it would turn the tide of victory completely in
       their favour; 2. when the sole heir and hope of the family was
       io ear death, and then it would restore him to health; and 3. when,
       through some cause not explained, the whole race of Macleod are
       to be on the verge of utter extinction, in which emergency the
       flag will save them; but flag and flag-bearer are to be swept away
       by a whirlwind, and never more to be seen on earth.
         Laying fiction aside, the "Fairy flag," according to the most
       probable accounts, is a consecrated banner which once belonged to
       some order of the Knights Templars, and is undoubtedly of very
       high antiquity.
         There is also in the castle a very cup or chalice, gene-
       rally known by the name of Ni...l Glundubh, i. e. "Niel of the
       Black Knees," and said to have been taken by one of the Mac-
       leods, alone with other spoils, from an Irish chief, called Nial
       Glundubh many centuries ago.  This cup is hollowed out of a so-
       lid block of very dark wood, stands on four silver legs, has a rim
       of silver about two inches in depth around the lips, and is orna-
       mented by several vertical stripes of silver, raised considerably,
       and wrought with great elegance, having numerous sockets in
       them for the reception of precious stones, a few of which still re-
       main.*
         Rory Mor's Horn.--A drinking cup, of much larger dimen-
       sions than that now adverted to, ought not to be passed over in
       silence, especially as it has found a place in one of the Bacchana-
       lian slings of Burns, and is briefly described by Sir Walter Scott.
       This is a very large born, which was probably at one time worn
       by a long-horned kyloe ox, and is destitute of any ornament ex-


       <FOOTNOTE>The description given of this chalice by Sir Walter Scott, in his Notes to the
       Lord of the Isles, and the drawing by Daniell, published in some of the miscel.
       lanies of the day, must have made its form and appearance familiar to many readers;
       but We may here give the inscription which it bears, copied from Sir Walter's version
       of it. "Ufo Jobannis Mich magni principis de H. R. Manae Vich Siaba Magry-
       neil et sperat Domino Jhesu dari clementian illoruin opera.  Fecit anno Domini,
       993, Onili Oimi."  The inscription is in Saxon black letter, and the numerals 93
       are perfectly distinct; but it is very difficult, indeed, to discover the preceding 9. and
       from, the facts that the Arabic numerals were not at all known in Europe till 991,
       little used in Western Europe for a couple of centuries after this, aiid very
       rarely, if ever, used in the midst of Latin inscriptions in the middle ages, it must be
       doubtful whether the inscription should not be referred to a later period than the
       tenth century.


