
     Statistical Account

to the number of cows that is kept, or the quantity of
cheese that is made in the parish.  The people were a-
larmed when questioned about these things, and alleging
that this was valuing their farms, they refused to give me
any satisfaction on this head ; only from what I could col-
lect, so far as I went with this view, I should suppose that
there may be about 758 cows kept, and about 10,612 stones
of cheese made in it annually, which is equal to L. 3714,
4 s. at 7 s. a-stone, the market-price at present.  And to
this they are well entitled, both on account of the quantity
and quality of their cheese.  For as this is the produce of
the richest pasture, and the best cows, so nothing can exceed
their integrity and cleanliness in manufacturing it.  Like
that made in some of the counties of England, it appears to
great disadvantage when new, but improves by age and proper
keeping.  The valued rent of the parish is L. 4115, 17 s.
6 d. Scots.  The real rent upwards of L. 3000 Sterling*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It might be expected, in a country like this, which is all inclosed,
that there would be a good deal of plantation, or at least that hedge-row-
would be frequent and in a thriving condition.  The truth is, thougth-
nees be necessary both in point of utility and ornament, and though na
ture points with an high hand as it were to many places where these
should be ; yet the, are only to be found in small numbers, where an
house stands, on where one has stood.  This general observation, how-
ever, admits of two exceptions.  Mr Dunlop of Dunlop has planted
some thousands of trees of different kinds within these few years ; and
from his good taste and great attention, there is every reason to expect
that he will proceed on a larger scale.  The late Mr. Muir of Caldwall
was a man of the finest taste, and in nothing perhaps did his superiority
in that more appear, than in the manner in which he has laid off his
ground, and placed his different plantations.  These, skirting and inter-
secting his several farms, add both to their beauty and value ; and afford
a pleasant proof, how much the face of a country, naturally bleak and
unpropitious, may be changed and improved.  But an example of this
kind was not likely to be followed by those whose properties are but
small, and whose study is economy, residing the greater part of them on
their own farms, and depending in a great measure on what they produce,


