
66                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

1 mile, and its mean breadth may be fairly  estimated at 4 miles.
It extends over a surface, therefore, of about 64 square miles. It
is boanded on the south, by the river Clyde ; on the east, by the
parishes of Cardross and Luss; on the north, by a narrow strip
of Luss of about a quarter of a mile in breadth, and lying between
Row and the parish of Arrocbar; and on the west, it is bounded
by Loch-long, Roseneath, and the Gareloch. Its form is near.
ly that of a wedge, with its greatest breadth towards the south, and
running to a point on the north.
Topographical Appearances.-By far the greater part of the pa-
risb is billy and mountainous. The main ridge of hills begins to
ascend gradually from the shore of the Clyde in the south, and
stretches continuously in a northerly direction throughout the whole
length of the parish. The summit of another ridge runs along its
eastern boundary for several miles, until it unites with the other
at the bead of Glenfruin. The main or western ridge, which is
skirted on the west by the Gareloch and Loch-Long, and on
the east by Glenfruin, is mostly covered with heath, where it has
notbeen cultivated or laid under wood. That along the east, though
higher, is beautifully green. The height of Finnart bill, which
is perhaps the highest in the parish, is said to be 2500 feet above
the level of the sea, which lies at its base. Between these two
ridges of hills, lies the beautiful strath  of Glenfruin, signifying, ac-
cording to some, the Cold Glen, or, according to others, the Glen
of Sorrow, probably so called from its having been the scene of
some disastrous event in the times of old, when its inhabitants were
less secure than they now are from the murderous inroads of their
neigbbours. This strath is about 5 miles long, and varies from
between a quarter and three quarters of a mile in breadth. With
the exception of a little natural wood towards the south, and one or
two insignificant patches of plantation elsewhere, this glen is whol-
ly without wood. Much of its soil is exceedingly good; a part of
it ir under cultivation ; but from its tunnel-like form, and its having
no wood or hedges to intercept the currents of wind that often
traverse it very furiously, it is bo/o1th inuch less cultivated and much
less fertile than it should be, and at one time actually was. It owes
but little to man's labour and care, and therefore it gives but little o
what it would give, were it dealt with a little more generously. Few
straths, with no ornament from the hand of man, are more truly
beantiful,  The most northerly eight miles of the parish are entire-
ly with only one or two small patches of level ground. There
is a considerable portion of natural wood along that side of the bills


