
694                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

nearly a mile from west to east, and to this extent separateS it from
the parts of Insch.  Both are reckoned good trouting streams.
   Mineralogy.-Benachie and Tillymuick abound is red granite,
suitable for all kinds of building purposes, which, being light and
easily wrought, is extensively used throughout the adjoining dis-
trict.  No quarries have as yet been wrought for any considerable
length of time.  About two hundred yards west from the church,
is found a bed of serpentine rock, which may be traced west-
ward through this and several contiguous parishes.  Limestone
rock has been found in two places, and some attempts have been
made to burn it for manure but hitherto with little suecess.
There were, at one time, extensive mosses on Benachie.  These
are now, greatly exhausted; but they are still resorted to for fuel
by the inhabitants of this and the neighbouring parishes.  Besides
these, there were several other mosses in the low grounds, but
they are now almost entirely exhausted, and the surface; mearly all
brought into cultivation.  In the east end of the parish, there is a
bed of very fine clay, which, when wrought into mortar and dried,
is almost as white as lime.  In most of the little hills, which have
been mentioned as occupying the centre of the parish, is to be
found a coarse kind of rock, which answers well for metalling roads
and filling drains, and, if quarried on an estensive scale, might al-
so be available for stone fences.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The parish belongs to four proprietors, all non-
resident.  The whole valued rent of the parish is L. 1878 Scots
money, of which the valued rent of the estate of Premnay, belong-
ing to Harry Leith Lumsden, Esq. of Auchindoir, is L.1082, 13s.
4d., that of Edingarrock, Mains of Leslie, Waulkmill and Ed-
derlick, belonging to Sir Andrew Leith Hay of Rannes, L.316,
13s. 4d.; that of the lands belonging to Alexander Abercrombie,
Esq. of Rothney, L.266, 13s. 4d.; and that of Overhall, belong-
ing to Theodore Gordon Esq., L.212.
   The real rent of the whole parish is about L.3000 Sterling.
   Mansion houses.-There is a mansion house at Licklyhead,
built in 1629, which inhabited, but much dilapidated.  There
is also a mansion-house at Overhall, which is inhabited and in
tolerable repair.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers commence in
1723, but are not complete.
                               2


