
266                      RENFREWSHIRE.

French had been making shawls for some years back, from the
genuine Cashmere wool; and that they not only imported the wool
from the east of Europe, but that they had a great many cashmere
goats rearing in France.  It became therefore an object to get
some of the French yarn over.  This was accomplished, and the first
cashmere cloth was made in Paisley.  Attempts were made to get
the yarn spun in this country, but these may be said to have failed.
No doubt a good deal of cashmere yarn was spun in this country,
but it wanted that softness which so peculiarly characterized the
French.  Some of the Edinburgh manufacturers began to make
cashmere shawls, and some beautiful specimens were produced at
Paisley.  In consequence of the fall of prices, however, the ex-
pensive art that was at one time bestowed on shawls was greatly
diminished.
   In connection with the above, the crape trade deserves some
particular notice.  About the year 1823, the manufacture of crape
dresses, Damask and embroidered shawls, exactly the same as those
imported from Canton, was introduced to Paisley, and since that
time a great many hands have been employed in making them.
The dexterity displayed by the embroiderers in the town and neigh-
bourhood, will bear comparison with that of any in the kingdom, and
in many instances with that of the Chinese themselves.  This kind
of shawl is still (1837) made, although to a more limited extent.  In-
deed, the shawl trade generally has, within these very few years, un-
dergone a great change in this place.  The kinds of shawls chief-
ly made now, are of three qualities; the first is wholly silk; the
second, half silk and half cotton; the third wholly cotton.  The
manufacture of such shawls has been increasing with astonishing
rapidity for some years past.  There are several makers whose
yearly sales amount to forty, fifty, or even L. 60,000 Sterling.  The
total sales for the year 1834, are estimated at nearly L. 1,000,000
Sterling, and in 1835, they must have been considerably greater.
   Machinery has of late been introduced to great purpose in fi-
nishing these shawls.  Formerly each shawl employed a girl a whole
day in the operation of what is called-clipping, for which she got
from 1s. to 1s. 3d.  Now, that operation is done for 2d. a shawl, by
means of a machine of a most ingenious description; the invention
of a Frenchman. *  By a very simple contrivance too, the expense

<FOOTNOTE>These machines were first introduced from France in 1834, by their inventor,
M. Vergniais, of Lyons.  The cost was nearly L.300, including carriage and fitting
up.  They can now be got of Paisley manufacture for L.40, equally good, if not su-
perior.  The facility and neatness of machine-clipping give the manufacturer great


