
                        WEST KILBRIDE.                           249

the little which has been planted is generally too much in the back-
ground,--a notion having prevailing that trees would not thrive ad-
jacent to the sea, which no doubt is in some degree correct, though
by no means greatly to be regarded, as some experiments have
fully shewn. The hard-wood tribes seem best suited to maritime
situations; and of these the Scotch elm, plane, ash, beech, and
oak appear to answer best here. But much depends on the na-
ture of the subsoil. For the most part the fir species soon lan-
guish on sour or tilly foundations. Every care should be had to
preserve the westerly skirts close and compact; not, however by
too thick planting, a common error. This will best be secured
by introducing only the hardiest kinds, cautious thinning, and by
allowing each plant to spread to its greatest dimensions, and to
retain its branches as low down as possible. Nor should thorough
draining and cultivation of the soil, where required, ever be omitted.
	Some fine old trees still grow at the ruins of Southanan or Un-
derbank, though latterly a great deal have been cut down. These
were chiefly ash, plane, and Scotch elm; and part of a row of lime
trees yet remain, of exceeding stately growth and beauty. The
situation is on a narrow plain by the margin of the sea, under the
cover of igh and steep banks; the soil a rich brown loam on
sandstone. At the old house of Crosby, there is a plantation of
beeches, of perhaps 150 years' growth; but though of goodly
height, the trees are deficient in girth, not having been properly
thinned. These occupy a deep and narrow ravine in sandstone.
There is likewise some old timber at Hunterston, and formerly
there was more, which stands on an open sandy plain close by the
sea beach. The trees here are chiefly ash, and said to be of ex-
cellent quality. In former times, most of the farm-houses, or towns,
as they were called, were encircled by venerable ash and plane
trees. Some of these still remain to enrich the locality, and mark
the site of these immemorial homesteads of the original possessors
of the soil; but very many of the finest have fallen under the reck-
less hand of cupidity or Gothic barbarity.
	Botany.--The following list of the rarer plants found in this pa-
rish has been communicated by the Rev. David Landsborough,
minister of Stevenston, a gentleman well known for his attainments
in this elegant branch of science.

Allium vineale, Crow garlic.            Trifolium arvense, Hare's-foot trefoil.
Triglochin maritimum, Sea arrow-grass   Soutellaria galericulata, Corn. skull-cap.
--palustre, Marsh arrow-grass.          Melica uniflora, Wood melic grass.
Ervum hirsutum, Hairy tare.             Vicia sylvatica, Wood vetch.


