
			HODDAM.                                     295

	Ecclesiastical State.--The site of the parish church, though ori-
ginally well chosen, is now considered inconvenient for the greater
part of the population, being upwards of a mile from the village,
with very few houses in its neighbourhood. It was built in the year
1817, is furnished with complete stoves, three galleries, and a ves-
try, above which General Sharpe has a small room for himself and
family. It is seated for the comfortable accommodation of about
500 individuals; the seats, however, having been apportioned ac-
cording to the valuation of the respective properties, none who do
not belong to the families of heritors or tenants, (the minister and
schoolmaster, with their families, excepted,) have any rightful ac-
commodation in the church, so that not a few are driven to the al-
ternative either of betaking themselves to the dissenting chapel,
or staying at home.
	The manse, which was repaired in 1795, has since received se-
veral important additions made by the minister himself, and is at
present, with the offices belonging to it, in excellent condition. The
stipend is about L. 250, paid in money, and the value of the three
glebes amounts to about L. 30 per annum. The number of families
attending the Established church is 272. The average number of
communicants about 200. There is one dissenting chapel in the
parish, whose congregation is connected with the Burgher associa-
tion. The minister is paid by seat rents and collections. The sti-
pend of the present incumbent is understood to be L. 110, exclu-
sive of an excellent house, garden, and offices, to which is attached
a field of nearly an acre in extent. This is one of the oldest dis-
senting congregations in the south of Scotland, and some of its
members are very respectable in their station, and easy in their
circumstances; but most of them belong to the surrounding parishes,
the number of families attending the chapel from this parish, being
only about 40.
	There are two Sabbath schools in Hoddam. One of them is
conducted bx the members of the Establishment; the other by
dissenters. Each of them contains nearly 100 scholars.
	The probable average amount of collections at the church for
religious tnd charitable objects cannot, independent of ordinary
church collections, hitherto have been much more than L. 8 per an-
num. There are only two objects in behalf of which stated yearly
collections are made in this way. The one is the Sabbath school
just mentioned; the other is a female Society for the relief of the
aged and infirm.


