
			TORPHICHEN.				35

 ings. The western side of this beautiful ridge slopes gradually
down into softer undulations, in the midst of which are situated the
village, the church, and the Preceptory of Torphichen. The dis-
trict around the village is both fertile, and presents a pleasing and
remarkable diversity of picturesque aspects, as viewed from vari-
ons points, through clusters of woody ridges, and green trees, and
craggy cliffs of trap, till it sinks away into the bollow through
which flows the small stream, the Loggie. From thence it again
ascends into a sort of bleak upland, composed chiefly of stoney
elevations with a clayey subsoil, interspersed by long stripes and
flats of heathery bogs, and wet marshes, covered deep with peat
moss.
   The highest hill in the parish is that central one of the Bath,-
gate and Torphichen range, called Cairn-naple, or Cairn-paple,
which is just included within the angle of its eastern boundary.-
its height is stated to be 1498 feet. Towards the north the bound
ary-line skirts the base of Cockleroi (perhaps Cachil-righ, the
King's chair), which is considerably lower; and incudes Bowden-
hill, which terminates the range in that direction. From the sum-
mit of any of these hills, especially Cachil-righ, may be obtained
a prospect scarcely surpassed by any in Scotland for extent, beauty,
and magnificence,--reaching from North Berwick Law to the dis-
tant cloud-crowned Ben Lomond, and including the view of Edin-
burgh with its castle, Salisbury Craigs, and Arthur's'Seat, the buys
and windings of the Forth, " studded with islets and alive with
sails,"-the rich and varied scenery of the Fifeshire coast, with all
its numerous villVes and spires and towns,-the wavy outline and
the deep indentations of the massy Ochils, the fertile carse-land of
Falkirk, the gray towers of ancient Stirling, end the sky-pierceing
peaks of the majestic Grampians.
   Behind the mansion-house of Craw-hill, on the banks of the
river Avon, which are deep, rocky, and wooded, there is a chasm
commonly called Wallace's cave; and close adjoining it there is
a natural arch in the living rock. of very considerable size, within
the deep clefts of which there are some beautiful and rather rare
varieties of lichens and mosses.
   The climate is unquestionably good, though rather cold. The
air is pure and bracing, particularly in the easter division of the
parish; and eyes, in the more upland and moorish districts west-
ward, there are no such exhalations as to be noxious to the health
of the inhabitants.


