
80                           CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


  Climate.--The climate has a decided tendency to moisture;
Owing, no doubt, to the immediate vicinity of the Ochill hills.
The parish is remarkably healthy. The only disease which
may be considered as peculiar to Dollar, is the glandular swelling
of the neck, called bronchocele-obviously occasioned by drinking
the water of Dollar Burn, which is impregnated, for more than
half the year, with melted snow from the Ochills.
  Hydroyraphy.--There is a spring or rather drippings from the
rocks at the Vicar's bridge, (so called from its having been built
by Thomas Forrest, Vicar of Dollar, to be afterwards mentioned,)
in the parish of Fossaway; but it goes under the name of Dollar
Mineral Water. It is reckoned a good breeding stream for sal-
mon, and is powerfully astringent, and comes from a. rock of iron-
stone. It is said to be very efficacious in healing cuts and bruises
of anykind-and has been particularly useful in healing the fleshy
woundsof cattle.
  The following analysis of this water is by Dr Thomson of Glas-
gow:-
<TABLE>
                                 Sp. Gr. 1.0109.
  In an imperial gallon are the following ingredients:-
            Muriate of soda,    .       .       .                5.87
            Sulphate of soda,   .       .       .              170.99
            Sulphate of alumina,    .        .                 953.18
            Dipersulphate of iron,  .        .                1753.10
            Persulphate of iron,    .        .                 141.55
            Silica,     .       .       .       .               68.70
                                                             ________
                                                              3083.39grs

  River.-The only river in the parish is the Devon or Dovan.
It takes its rise among the hills in the parish of Blackford. It
flows.almost due east from its source, till it reaches the parish of
Glendovan. After this, its course is more to the south. At the
village which has the appropriate name of Crook of Devon, it
takes. sudden turn to the west, flows between the parishes of Fos-
saway and Muckhart, and then enters Dollar, where it has a very
agreeable appearance, and is well entitled to the epithets of "Silver
Devon," "Windina Devon," which Burns bestowed upon it.* Af-
ter passing tbrough the parishes of Tillicoultry and Alva, the De-
von at last reaches the Cambus, in the parish of Alloa, where it
joins the Forth : and it deserves to be noticed, that, after mak-
Ing a circuit of between 30 and 40 miles it, enters the Forth

<FOOTNOTE>It is celebrated in two ofthe publisbed songs of Burns, which were composed b I y
him,when on a isit at Harviestoun. the residence of Mr Tait, in honour oftwo
ladies, relations of that gentleman, Miss Chalmers afterwards Mrs Lewis Ray, ar!d
Miss Hamilton, efterwards Mrs Adair.


