
             SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                   103

some of which are of very considerable extent. They are ge-
nerally skirted with green, and several of them are studded with
islets or holms, on which numerous wild fowls build their nests.
The water is very dark-coloured, owing to the mossy nature of
the soil through which the rivulets run, which feed the lochs.
   Geology and Mineralogy. Quartzose gneiss abounds in the hill
of Russness, on the east side of the voe of Sandsound, and to the
southward of a village of that name. It coutains a great quantity
of quartz and of light-coloured mica.  The line of bearing may be
stated on an average from south 12&deg; west, to north 12&deg; east.  The
dip is to the west, at angles most frequently from 70&deg; and up-
wards. The position of the strata is sometimes vertical.
   The rocks in Foreness (a peninsula to the southward of Inner-
sand, and lying between Sand-voe and Sandsound-voe,) partake of
the common description of gneiss, the felspar being in excess, the
other ingredients being present, and the strata traversed by small
veins of granite.
   At Berfield, (a little above Sandsound, on the east side of the
voe,) talc takes the place of mica, not only in the gneiss, but also
in the granitic veins.
   A little to the northward of Innersand, on the west side of the
voe of Sandsound, a quarry of chromate of iron was opened some
years ago.  But though several tons of it have at different times
been sent to market, the quality of it, and the returns made, did
not warrant a continued working of it.   I have seen several large
imbedded masses of chromate of iron at Garden, in Aithsting.
These are the only places in the parish, where it has been disco-
vered.  A little to the north of the chromate quarry, limestone
makes its appearance.
   At a burn called Tactagill, about a mile to the eastward of
Tresta, which is situated on the eastern bank of a continuation of
Sandsound-voe, here called Tresta-voe, a great quantity of por-
celain earth, of a yellowish white colour, is to be found.  Rocks of
gneiss of which white quartz is one of the component parts,
blended with talc and felspar, extend from Reawickness to Kirk-
ness, and the west shore of Bixter-voe, being a continuation of
Sandsound voe.  The directions of the strata are from south 15&deg;
west, to north 15&deg; east, and from south 20&deg; west, to north 20&deg;
east. Several interstrata of limestone make their appearance, in
a line of direction nearly parallel to that of the strata among which
they occur. Limestone apears in Kirkholm, Kirkness, (both on


