
                  NEW KILPATRICK.                         49

Margaret, married Sir James Hamilton of Fynnart, who received
from James V. a grant of the lands of Drumry, which had probably
escheated to the Crown in default of heirs-male. Sir James ex-
changed them in 1528 with Lawrence Crawford, for the lands of
Crawford-John in Lanarkshire, by which means they came into
possession of the Kilbirney family, who took from them the title of
Barons of Drumry. This Lawrence Crawford is said by Chalmers, *
somewhat inaccurately, to have founded a chapel here, dedicated
to the Virgin Mary. He was not the founder of the chapel; for
there is mention of it in the deed of conveyance by which he be-
came possessed of the estate; and a notice of the chapel-lands
of Drumry, is met with in 1476. Crawford says * more correctly,
that Lawrence Crawford founded a Chaplainry in the little church
of Drumry, of his own patronage; it being a usual practice with
men of wealth to dedicate private altars in churches toitheir fa-
vourite saints, and to provide for their service by liberal endow-
ments. This chaplainry at Drumry was endowed with the lands
of Drumchapel, and other considerable possessions, among which
were the lands of Jordanhill in Renfrewshire.
  Lurg.--At Lurg, on the estate of Mains, there was another
small chapel, of which few memorials now remain. The place
where it stood is pointed out by the name Chapel Couch; and in
the tradition of the neighbourbood the auld kirk is still spoken of.
There was a cemetery attached to it, and till within these thirty
years several tombstones remained. These are now all removed,
with the exception of one, which is covered with a few inches of
soil, and is passed over by the plough. It is a rude unpolished
stone, without date or inscription.
   Modern Buildings.--Of modern buildings the most worthy of
notice is Garscube House, the seat of Sir Archibald Campbell
of Succoth, Bart. It is in the old English manor Style, and is a
very elegant building highly creditable to the architect, Mr Burn
of Edinburgh. It was built in 1826-27.-Another handsome
house, in the same style, has lately-been erected at Clober for Alex-
ander Dunlop Esq. Advocate, planned by Mr Baird of Glasgow.
-Killermont House, the seat of Mr Colquhoun, M. P., is large and
commodious. The modern part of it, forming the south front, was
built about the year 1805.-At Garscadden; at Balvie, the seat
of James Macnair, Esq.; and at Kilmardinny, lately purchased

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonis Vol. iii. p.904, note.   <FOOTNOTE>Peorage, p.160.
   DUMBARTON.                                          D


