
     Statistical Account

   Agriculture, etc.-Very considerable improvements have
taken place in this parish within there 20 or 30 years.  One
of them I already hinted at, the abolishing the run-ridge
system.  The inconveniencies of the old system, and its in-
fluence in retarding improvement, are very obvious.  But
indeed the genius of the country at that time was little di-
rected to this important object.  Proprietors farming their
own lands made as little progress as the oppressed tenant.
About 20 years ago, a new spirit seemed to arise in all this
part of the country.  Improvements took place every
where.  Certain circumstances in the situation of this pa-
rish retarded their progress among us for some years.  One
of the most powerful of these circumstances, was the short
leases given to the tenants.  Many farms were held only
by the year.  This, however, was lately remedied in some
degree, and leases for 19 years granted through all the pa-
rish.  Improvement followed of course, furze and broom
were grubbed up on the hills, and the land ploughed for
the first time; bogs were drained, and pasture and outfield
grounds brought into more perfect cultivation.  There is
still much outfield ground in the higher part of the parish.
One farm is divided into 15 acres infield, and 125 outfield,
besides moor grounds.  The means of improvement here
are green crops, particularly artificial grasses, fallowing and
lime.  A little marl was used some years ago, but it is now
all exhausted; within a convenient distance, lime is pre-
ferred as a more stimulating manure, while it is less perni-
cious to the soil, marl having been found to exhaust the
ground very completely in a short time.  Lime is procu-
red from Polgavie, a harbour on the Tay, about 4 miles
distant.  It is brought chiefly from the frith of Forth and
Sunderland, and some small quantities from Newburgh, on
the other side of the Tay.  It is purchased at the harbour
at the following prices:  Newburgh, the boll barley mea-

     3


