
                             GLADSMUIR.                         187

cultural part of the parish, five houses are uninhabited. A conside-
rable number of houses allotted for colliers were empty some time
ago, but are now mostly occupied. No houses are at present
building. There are three fatuous persons connected with, the
parish, two men, both above middle age, and one woman. There
is also a little girl deaf.
   Character and Habits of the People.-The people in general are
cleanly and attentive to their dress. Their manners have acquir-
ed a considerable degree of polish, arising in some measure from
their vicinity to the capital, and from the great intercourse that is
now maintained all over the country. That rusticity of manners
and dress, and outlandish appearance which some time ago cha-
racterized our rural population, are fast wearing away, and the
manners and dress of the people are rapidly improving. The la-
bouring classes here are in no want of employment, enjoying many
of the comforts of life, and in general seem to be contented with
their condition. And at no former time, perhaps, was their con-
dition more favourable,-for while the necessaries of life, both with
respect to food and clothing, are low in price, their wages are
nearly the same as when things were double their present value.
Their food is plain but substantial; they are in the midst of coal;
and they want only comfortable houses to make their situation
what it should be. *

<FOOTNOTE>The lands of Samuelston were so much infested by witches in 1661, that John
Earl of Haddington, to appease his tenants, was under the necessity of presenting a
petition to his Majesty's commissioner, for the purpose of getting them tried by a
court of judicature. The following extract from this commission shews that the arts of
darkness continued to be practiced by numerous bodies, to the no small terror of the
lieges
   "Edr.3d April 1661. Commission for Judging of Witches, & c. in Samuelston.-To
the Right Hon. His Majestie's Commissioner, his Grace, and the Lordis, and others
of the Parliament appoint it for the Articles, the humble petition of John Earl of
Haddingtoun, Sheweth,-That, upon several malefies committed of late within and
about my land is of Samuel stone, the being several personer suspect of the abomi-
nable sin of witchcraft apprehend it and searched, the marks of witches were found on
thame in the ordinary way, several is of thame half made confession, and half dilatit
sundrie others within the saidis boundes, and half acknowledged faction with the
devile. Their names are these: Elspet Tailyeor in Samuelstone, Margaret Bartil-
man, Mareoun Quheitt, Janet Carfrae. These half maid confession already.
Otheris they half dilatit as partakeris of the same cryme with theme, viz. Christiane,
Deanes, Agnes Williamsone. These are dilatit be the former, and the marks are found
on theme, quha ar lykwayes apprehendit, others are lykewayes dilatit by thame,
namelie, Helene Deanes, George Milnetowne, Patrik Cathie, Anna Pilmure, El-
sabeth Sinclair, Margaret Baptie, Janet Maissone, and Margaret Argyile, Elspeth
Crawford. These are dilatit be the former confessing, bot ar not as yet apprehendit
nor searched. And trew it is, that throw the frequencie of the said sin of witchcraft
in the saides boundes, my haill tenentes there threatnes to leave my ground without
justice be done on these persones. And because the lawest are now silent, this sin be-
comes daylie more frequent. Also, their (ar) two other is persones apprehendit for
thift In the foresaide bounties, quhom I half entertained in prison within the tolbuith


