
484 				DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

hills of aged oaks, pastoral scenes, and verdant fields, which never
cease to attract and arrest the attention of travellers; indeed, it
is upon the whole one of the most picturesque and lovely districts
in Scotland.
	Soil,--The soil in this parish is various. Along the river Esk, is
fine holm land of a light loam, exceedingly fertile, and well shelter-
ed to the east and west by a considerable quantity of wood on the
sloping grounds on each side of the river, the whole length of the
parish from north to south. Upon this ground, crops of all kinds
are highly productive, and early. On the banks of the Liddle,
the soil is nearly of the same kind and quality as that long the
Esk. On the higher grounds, the soil is cold, and of a wet clay
mixed with moss, which, however, when properly limed, produces,
in dry seasons, good crops of oats. From the recent improve-
ments arising from draining and fencing, the greater part of this
ground is now capable of carrying crops of all descriptions.
	Climate.--The climate of the parish is rather moist, and though
we have very heavy falls of rain during the season, the atmosphere
appears to be by no means injurious either to health or vegetation;
as there are a very considerable number of aged persons in the pa-
rish, and vegetation is earlier than in any parish of Eskdale. The
climate, however, varies very much in different situations. Along
the whole extent of the Esk, in this parish, which, as we have men-
tioned, is well sheltered on both sides, the air is found mild and tem-
perate, even in severe seasons,--while, within the distance of two
miles from that situation, it is keen and piercing.
	The diseases common in this parish are rheumatism, consump-
tion, and those of a nervous kind, brought on by the moistness of
the atmosphere. Scrofula, about forty years ago, was rather pre-
valent, but, from care and attention with regard to matrimonial al-
liances, is now nearly extinct. The prevailing winds and the heavi-
est falls of rain are from the south-west.*
	Hydrography.--There are no lakes in the parish. The two
principal rivers are the Esk and Liddle, the former having its
source in the highest grounds of the parish of Eskdalemuir, and
the latter in the extremity of the parish of Castleton. These
rivers, after receiving in their different channels, which have nearly
the same extent of twenty-four miles, a considerable number of
tributary streams, fall into one another at the southmost part of
this parish, when the Liddle loses its name and waters in the Esk,--

<FOOTNOTE>According to Colonel Mein's notes of the state of the weather for last year, rain
fell more or less during 212 days.


