
                         GLASSARY.                        693

Inverary, and a third from Bravealaich to Inverary. The fine
road along the banks of Lochawe, extending from Eritinn, in the
parish of Dalavich, to Fionchairn, in this parish, eight miles, was
completed last year at an expense of L.1500; and, it is under-
stood, was offered gratuitously to the road-trustees by the pro-
prietor of the lands in that district. *
   "The bridges + are not remarkable, but they are in good order,
and that over the Ad, having four arches, is the largest. Not-
withstanding that it has been enlarged and repaired at different
times, it is still very narrow, steep, inconvenient, and almost dan-
gerous. A new bridge lower down would require a mile o new
road; but would shorten the distance to Kilmartin considerably,
and ought to be built. One of the swing bridges over the Crinan
Canal, that at Carn-ban, is in this parish; but none of them is quite
trustworthy, and when vessels are passing there is a long deten-
tion.
   "Of harbours there are Lochgilp, which has good anchorage,
but not much shelter from the south: the two bays of Silver-
craigs, in one or other of which boats find shelter except from the
south: Lochgair and Minard Bays; these are in the state of na-
ture, but there is a small pier built by the road trustees at North
Ottar Ferry, and I have a small pier for my own use below the
house, with a causeway or 'hard,' 300 yards long down, to the
lowest low water mark. I have also rather a larger pier at the
village for the accommodation of herring wherries, coal smacks,
&c. from whom I take a small toll. These are only accessible at
high water. The tide rises here from 8 to 10 feet.  The high
water at full moon and change is at about 12 o'clock in Lochgilp."
   Ecclesiastical State.--Neither this parish nor any other in this
county has the ecclesiastical advantages of church accommodation
and frequent ministerial services possessed in papistical times be-
fore the Reformation. The destitution of this and other portions
of the Highlands arose rather from circumstances than from ne-
glect, and has been perpetuated by custom' or untoward events.
During the early period of the Reformation, no good result would
be considered to arise from the multiplication of places of worship,
as the paucity of ministers was such, that the people were seldom
called together for worship. There were only a few ministers
scattered over the extensive bounds now constituting the two

  <FOOTNOTE>Niel Malcolm, Esq. Poltalloch.
            Communication by Sir John Orde, Bart.


