
884                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

  He was succeeded by his son, Alexander, who married Lady
Mary Gordon, fourth daughter of the Marquis of Huntly-a mar-
riage which did not tend to weaken, but rather to strengthen and
confirm in him those political principles which he had inherited
from his forefathers.  Accordingly, he and his brother Robert,
during the lifetime of their father, joined the banner of Charles,
and distinguished themselves so highly in his service, that they
were excommunicated, (14th April 1644,) and had a price set
upon their heads-18,000 merks being, offered for the young
Laird, dead or alive, and 9000 for his brother Robert.  These
measures rendered their situation in Scotland so perilous, that
they sailed from Fraserburgh with the intention of going to Eng-
land; but, being obliged to re-land near Wick, in Caithness, where
a committee happened to be sitting, they were made prisoners, and
warded in the castle of Keish.  Thence they were conducted un-
der a strong escort to Edinburgh, and lodged in the city jail.
Robert, after a rigorous confinement of six months, died, and was
buried at midnight.  The young laird, who occupied the same
apartment, and w ose health had also become impaired, was then
removed to the castle under sentence of death, and without hope
of mercy.  His execution, however, was happily stayed by the de-
feat of the Covenanters at Kilsyth, and Montrose having marched
to Edinburgh restored him to liberty.  Upon the restoration of
Charles II. the magistrates of Aberdeen prepared a loyal address,
and deputed Mr Irvine to present it to His Majesty.  The King,
out of gratitude for his faithful services, and as some remunera-
tion for the sacrifices which he had made in supporting his cause,
renewed to him the offer of the peerage which Charles I. had
made to his father; but, as Drum's fortune and estates were so
dilapidated that he could not without difficulty have upheld the
dignity of the title, and as it was refused to give this patent
the date which the one formerly granted bad borne, he declined
to accept of the high distinction.  About twenty years afterwards,
however, the King, in granting a charter, containing a novodamus
of Drum's whole estates holding of the Crown, took occasion to
express in it the deep sense which he had of the family's loyalty,
of the valuable services which they had rendered to the country,
and of Mr Irvine's personal sufferings in his cause.  He died in
1687, and was buried in his own aisle, (Drum's aisle,) in the pa-
rish church of St Nicholas, Aberdeen, his funeral being attended
by the magistrates and citizens under arms.
   Alexander Irvine, Esq. the present venerable proprietor, suc-


