
256                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

as peat, which costs about L.5 Sterling per leat, including all ex-
penses.
   The manufacture of kelp has been so much affected by the
prevailing use of barilla, that the shores here, which at one time
let for L.150 Sterling, for that purpose, do not now bring above
L.15 Sterling per annum.  Rope and sail-making are also carried
onto a small extent.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclcsiastical State.-There are three clergymen; the minister
of the Established Church, that of the Scotch Episcopal Church,
and that of the Independent congregation.  Of the population
there are belonging to the Establishment, 2703; and 377 who are
Dissenters.  The parish church, which stands about the middle of
the town, near the cross, was rebuilt in 1802, and is a plain good
structure, and capable of containing 1000 sitters.  Part of the sit-
tings are free, and the rest are all hearty let at from 1s. to 4s. per
sitting.  The church has a spire with a bell, which was built by sub-
scription, and cost about L.300 Sterling.  A new manse was built
in 1818, upon a new site, at the south end of the town, upon a
piece of rising ground, beside the road leading to Aberdeen and
Peterhead.  It is a good plain house, but not so large as other
manses which have been more recently built within the bounds of
the presbytery.  The stipend is 16 chalders of victual, one-half meal,
and the other half barley, with L.10 Sterling for communion ele-
ments.  The glebe including the site of the manse and garden adjoin-
ing, is only a little more than four acres and a quarter in extent, and
the greater part of it land of inferior quality.  The attendance upon
religious ordinances is considerable, and there are increasing symp-
toms of religious improvement.  One of the great evils with which
religion has had to contend here, as elsewhere, is the excessive use
of spirituous liquors; and not until the labouring classes themselves
come to see the folly and madness of expanding their earnings in
their use, will the evil be overcome.  Various regulations have been
laid down for restraining their use, particularly during the herring
fishery; but these have hitherto been only partially observed.
   Savings Bank.-A savings' bank could not be established here
until 1830; nor did the labouring classes seem to have at first
that confidence in its utility to which it was entitled.  But it is now
succeeding; the amount of the deposits having been nearly doubled
in the course of the present and the preceding year.
   Societies.- There are two societies for the diffusion of re-
                          4


