
     of Kirklistoun.

in 1709, yielded a rent of 80 L.; in 1788, the clear rental of
these lands was 181 L.; and they were sold, for 4052 L. 10 s.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The church of Kirklistoun was one of
those belonging to the Knights Hospitallers of St John of
Jerusalem, who had large possessions in this parish at the
time of the Reformation.

   Diseases.-For time immemorial, no putrid fever, nor pleu-
risy, nor inflammation of the throat, nor fever of any kind,
have been epidemical in this parish.  There have been, of
late, frequent instances of one or other of these diseases ex-
tremely fatal and common in the neighbouring parishes,
while the inhabitants of this have altogether escaped.  This,
perhaps, may be accounted for from local situation.  About
60 years ago, the ague was a common disease; but there is
now scarcely an instance of it in the parish.  At the same
time, there is no remarkable instances of longevity.  There
are, perhaps, 5 or 6 above 80, but none who have reached
90.  The diseases of children are, in general, extremely
mild; and nearly one half of the inhabitants practise inocu-
lation.  The only estimate of deaths in the parish is that
which is supplied by the accounts of money received for the

We are informed by Buchanan and other historians, that there
was a bloody battle sought near this place, on the banks of the
Almond, in the year 995, between Kennethus, natural brother,
and commander of the forces of Malcolm II.  King of Scotland,
and Constantine, the usurper of that crown, wherein both the
generals were killed.  About two miles higher up the river, on
the Bathgate road, is the circular mound of earth formerly
mentioned.  The whole intermediate space, from the human
bones dug up, and graves of unpolished stones discovered below
the surface, seems to have been the scene of many battles.
This is rendered probable from the importance of the situation,
as the first opening after the Carse of Stirling, from the North
and West Highlands, to the richer places of Scotland.


