
     Statistical Account

among the aged of the poorer sort, and probably owing to
scarcity of fuel and cold lodging.  The small pox is not pecu-
liarly malignant.  About 16 persons were destroyed by a pu-
trid sore throat in summer 1775; but that disease has not ap-
peared since.  The worst epidemics are fevers, which some-
times spread their contagion to some extent; but may be traced
for the most part to great towns, whence young people at ser-
vice bring home the infection.
   Below Murthy, is an inexhaustible body of free stone, of a
very fine grain, a light, vivid ash colour, and so hard as to
resist for centuries the injuries of the weather.  The cathedral
of Dunkeld with its tower, were built of stones from this
quarry.  In the hill of Birnam, is abundance of slate that splits
into plates of a convenient size and thickness, of a deep blue
colour bordering on violet, and exceedingly beautiful.  Several
pieces of lead ore have been lately found in this same moun-
tain.  The ore was incrusted with a white sparry, or rather
quarttose substance: One piece contained about six pound
weight of unmixed, compact ore, of a small grain, and covered
by this kind of matrix, but open at one end.  A considerable
portion of lead was separated from this mass by mere roasting
in a blacksmith's forge.  This was found at the foot of the
mountain: But upon the highest summit, also, the small sis-
sures of the rock contain the like ore, but platy and of a less
firm cohesion*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Though no iron ores have been yet discovered above ground in this parish,
yet it would appear, from some spring, that this metal is 1odged below the
surface.  About a mile above Dalguise, in the hill, is a fount in strongly im-
pregnated with iron.  The water bursts out, copiously, in a plot of level
ground which it covers for many yards round with the colour of ochre.  Its
taste is that of green vitriol in ink, and so strong that one perceives it by only
wetting his finger and applying it to his tongue.  There is a spring of the
very same qualities near Murthy, where the rocks, too, more clearly indicate


