
     of Rosemarkie.

<TABLE>

Annual average of births,            34   Tailors,    4
                  marriages,          7   Masons      2 
Proprietors, great and small,        22   Glovers,    2
Merchants in the towns,               7   Smith,      1
Shoemakers and their apprentices*,   32   Batchers,   2
Weaver and their apprentices*,       35   Writer,     1
Square-wrights,                       4   Teachers,   4
Mill wrights,                         2   Minister,   1

</TABLE>

   Heritors and Rents.-The principal heritors are, Alexander
Ross, Esq. of Cromarty; the heirs of Abraham Lesly, Esq-
of Findracy; Sir Roderick M'Kenzie of Scalwell, Bart.; And-
rew Millar of Kincurdy; Roderick M'Kenzie of Flowerburn;
and about the burgh, Seaforth, the heirs of the late Sir Alex-
ander Grant of Dalvey, Bart.; Duncan Forbes of Wellfield,
and about 14 other small heritors, who are possessed of burgage
lands and tenements.  None of the principal heritors reside in
the parish.  The total valued rent is 3753 L. 13 s. 4 d. Scotch;
the real rent is about 1350 bolls of grain, and above 500 l.
Sterling in money.  About the burgh, lands are rented from

     U u 2

<FOOTNOTE>

persons have died in the parish, aged 95 and upwards; 3 are now, living 90 years
old, and about 30 between 70 and 80.  One vigorous old man of 81 put off
his wig last year, and has now a set of venerable grey looks.  He was in Edin-
burgh at the hanging of Captain Porteous, which, he says, he well deserved, as
a sweet-heart of his was wounded by the firing.

*It has been remarked, that for ages past, the greater part of the inhabit-
ants, of the lower class, in Chanonry, have been shoemakers, and, in Rosemarkie,
wavers; and they commonly train their children to the future occupations.  The
shoemakers not only furnish shoes for the parish, but carry a parcel weekly for
sale to liverness though they complain that the tanners enjoy almost all their
profit.  The weavers are constantly employed in working linen, a considerable
quantity of which is sold at the two annual fairs, which circulate a good deal
of money in the place.  They, raise and manufacture the flax themselves from
which the linen is made.


