
           152                           ORKNEY.

           their power to enjoy those comforts which they did a few years
           ago, it would be injustice to conceal that they have borne their
           privations with more than ordinary patience ; and that, upon the
           whole, they are contented and happy with their situation and cir-
           cumstances.  There are a considerable number of very intelligent
           individuals amongst them, and not a few who are distinguished both
           for religious principle and good moral practice.

                                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
             As there has never been any survey taken of this parish, the
           number of acres, arable and unarable, cannot be accurately stated.
           The extent of the parish, including hills and lochs, is computed
           to be about 38 square miles.
             Rent of Land.-Farm rents are generally paid in money.  They
           average about 8s. or 9s. an acre.  The usual rent for grazing an
           ox or cow for the season is L. 1, and for a ewe or full-grown sheep,
           about 7d. yearly.  The valued rent is L.2701, 15s. 5d.  Scots money.
             Improvements.-It is generally admitted, that there is no place
           in Orkney, where greater improvements in agriculture could be
           made than in Birsay, because the soil in general is good, and,
           above all, in the barony of Birsay, where there is great abundance
           of sea-weed at command for manure.  If there was a new system
           of husbandry introduced, and if leases were granted for a reason-
           able time, instead of from year to year, as at present, the tenant
           might have some encouragement to cultivate the soil.  The farms
           at present, with the exception of two or three, are very  small, con-
           sisting of eight or nine acres each, which pay of yearly rent about
           L.8 or L.9 Sterling,
            Manufactures.-At no distant period, the manufacture of linen
           cloth was carried on, to a considerable extent, in this parish; but
           -now, there are few, if any, looms employed in this way.  The
           chief employment of the females, now, is straw-plaiting; which
           branch of manufacture was introduced into the parish, in the year
           1807, by Mr Robert Borwick, Kirkwall.  It still forms the chief
           employment of the females, though their wages are much lower
           than they were, when it was first introduced.  The number of
           hands employed in this department may average about 450.  Se-
           veral of the manufacturers have agencies in Stromness and Kirk-
           wall.  The quantity manufactured is considerable; but the annual
           value of it cannot be ascertained.   It is sent, when plaited, to
           Manchester or Liverpool.  The earnings of straw-plaiters may
           amount, at present, to about Is. 6d. or 2s. weekly.
                                             4


