
     of Kilcalmonnell and Kilberry.

   Poor.-The funds for the support of the poor arise from
the weekly collections at the places of worship, which are
from 2 s. to 4 s.; the fines for delinquecies; and the inte-
rest of savings made from the funds, when there were not so
many poor on the roll as at present.  Those funds are distri-
buted, at quarterly meetings, by the kirl-session, to such of
the poor as are confined to their houses by age or sickness.
Of this description there are on the lift (not including those
within the mission, which provides for its own poor) 33, to
whom the funds will by no means afford an adequate relief.
Such as are able to go about to beg, have licences for that
purpose from the kirk-session, by which, however, they are
confined to the parish.  The minister has attempted, but
without effect, to keep off vagrant poor, of whom a great
number make their appearance in this parish*.

   Fish, etc.-The well known and highly prized Loch Fyne
herrings are frequently found on the east coast of this parish,

<FOOTNOTE>

ness for dogs.  Almost every family has one; and, in some fa-
milies, there are two or three.  Even paupers were found to
have so unwarrantable an attachment to there animals, that
threats to strike them off the poor's roll were obliged to be used
before they could be prevailed upon to part with them.  From
the statistical table, it appears there are 400 dogs in the parish.
The food devoured by there animals would feed 400 pigs,
which, when a year old, would sell at 400 L.  Deduct 40 L. for
prime cost; and the balance, 360 L. would be the annual saving
to this parish alone By such a substitution, besides prevention of
danger from canine madness, as well as the loss of sheep, of
which no less than 40 were, a few years ago, destroyed by
dogs in a range of 8 miles, in the course of a few weeks.

*One of the paupers on the list is a man 78 years old, who,
in 1745, got, in defence of the present reigning family, repeat-
ed and severe wounds, the marks of which he will carry with
him to his grave.


