
                     PARISH OF LERWICH.

           PRESBYTERY OF LERWICK, SYNOD OF SHETLAND.

        THE REV. THOMAS BARCLAY, MINISTER.*

          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Extent and Boundaries.--THIS parish extends, from north to
south, about 6 miles along the sea coast, and is nowhere above a
mile in breadth.  On the east and north-east, it is bounded by
the sea, which separates it from the island and parish of Brassa,
and forms that excellent harbourt commonly called Brassa Sound.
     The parish, and country around it, are rocky and mountainous.
The soil, on the mountains, is generally peat or moss, and is deep
to their very summit.  The arable land lies in spots along the sea
coast; the soil is light and sandy, but as fertile and productive as
can well be supposed from the situation and climate.  The high-
est hill in the parish rises little more than 300 feet above the level
of the sea.  The air, though moist, is far from being unhealthy.
     Harbours.--The only harbour in this parish is that of Lerwick,
or Bressay Sound, a capacious bay, in which vessels, well found,
may ride at all seasons in perfect safety; and what renders this
harbour particularly commodious, is, its having two entries, one
from the south, and another from the north.  On the outside of
the north entry, lies a sunk rock, called the Unicorn.
     Geology.--The predominating rocks in this parish are sandstone
and conglomerate, both of which belong to the old red sandstone
of geologists.

          II.--CIVIL HISTORY
     Parochial Registers.--There are three volumes of parochial re-
gisters in the possession of the session-clerk.  The first begins in
the year 1704, and ends in 1750.  The births and marriages are
both recorded in this book; but, owing to the originally imper-
feet binding of the volume, it is now almost in fragments, and the
births of several years at the commencement have been either not re-
corded, or more probably the record has been lost.  The second volume

<FOOTNOTE=From notes furnished by II. Cheynes Esg of Tangwick, W. S.
SHETLAND.                                        A








