
     Statistical Account

mong them by the black-fishers.  The practice of black-fish-
ing is to called, because it is performed in the night time, or
because the fish are then black of soul.  At this season, they
frequent the gravelly shallows, where the female digs consi-
derable holes, in which the deposits the roe.  During this o-
peration, which usually continues for some weeks, the male
attends her, and both are in a very torpid state.  The black-
fishers, provided with spears, composed of 5 barbed prongs,
fixed upon a strong shaft, wade up and down upon the shal-
lows, preceded by a great torch, or blaze, as it is called, con-
sisting of dried broom, or fir tops, fastened round a pole.  By
this light the fish are soon discerned, and being then very dull,
are easily transfixed.  Formerly regular sish courts (as they
were called), were held once a-year at least, before the justices
of the district, where persons suspected of this practice were
put upon oath, and if refused to clear themselves in that
manner, or if their guilt was proved by proper evidence, they
were liable to fines and imprisonment.  At present, no atten-
tion is paid to prevent a practice equally against the laws of
the country, destructive of the health, and subversive of the
morals of those who follow it.  The fish, at this season, are
very unwholesome food; the strongest constitutions often suf-
fer from wading up to the middle in water for hours together
in the dead of the night of all the year; and a black-fishing
match often ends in drunkenness and debaucherry.  There is
a bridge of 2 arches over the river isla in this parish, on the
high road from Dunkeld and Blairgowrie to Kerriemuir and
Brechin.  It is not known when it was built, but, from its
construction, being narrow, appears to be ancient.  It was
lately repaired, and is of great service to the country, there
being only other 2, besides it, upon the river, from its source
at Caentochan, in the head of Glenisla parish, to its junction
with the Tay at Kinclaven, in a stretch upwards of 40 miles-


