
358	                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

enough still remains to indicate its former splendour. It is al-
most entirely covered with a pale gray-coloured moss, which
gives a character of peculiar and airy lightness to the lofty co-
lumns and Gothic arches, many of which are entire. Placed
upon a gentle eminence, on the bank of a rocky and sparkling
burn, and surrounded on all sides, except the south, by a range of
hills, Dundrennan forms an exception to the usual aspect of abbey
scenery. There is little old wood near it, save in the deep and de-
vious glens which intersect the adjacent grounds of Mr Maitland
of Dundrennan; but the neighbouring braes are generally clothed
with copse, and afford from many points extensive views of the
Solway, and of the mountains of Cumberland.
	From Newlaw hill, an eminence adjoining the residence of Mr
Maitland, and forming part of the Hill of Thorns, from which the
place takes its name, the prospect is still more magnificent, com-
manding, in addition to an almost boundless expanse of ocean, a
view of the Isle of Man, and of the mountains of Morne in Ire-
land. It is not uncommon from this spot, as noticed in the ori-
ginal Statistical Account of the parish, to have upwards of a bun-.
dred vessels in sight at one time, between St Bee's Head and the
Mull of Galloway, which, from A well-known optical deception,
seem elevated one above another, according to their distance, till
the most remote appears as if actually dropping rom the clouds;
so that, in a certain state of the atmosphere, the ocean resembles
an immense canvass suspended from the heavens, with an infinite
variety of vessels pictured upon it. But sentiment, no doubt, gives
to Dundrennan its principal charm. These broken arches and
tottering columns--these deserted cells and weed-grown aisles-
these neglected monuments of belted knights and mitred abbots
--and this wide scene of ruin and desolation, melancholy and si-
lent tbough they be, are all invested with an inexpressible charm,
as far superior to that imparted by mere fine scenery, as the plea-
sures of mind are to those of sense.
	For nearly forty years, the late Adam Maitland, Esq. of Dun-
drennan was the principal resident heritor in the parish of Rerrick;
and during this long, period, it may be, truly said that, within his
sphere as a country gentleman, his life was devoted to objects of
public usefulness and private benevolence. He turned his most
zealous attention to every subject connected with rural economy:
and the result of this may now be seen in the admirable roads and


