
386                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

There are remains of several Roman encampments in the parish,
and the road which Agricola must have taken, on leaving his en-
campment on Burnswark, to Glota and Bodotria, can readily be
pointed out.
	Ancient Relics.--Many years ago, a person residing at Heck,
in the close neighbourhood of the castle, found an immensely mas-
sive key, supposed to be the one that opened the lock of the prin-
cipal gate which led to the castle. This ancient relic was offered to
several persons for the sum of 2s. 6d., but no purchaser at that price
could be found, and the person who got it had it converted by the
blacksmith into two spades for cutting peat. In digging round the
remains of the castle, several horse-shoes, spurs, old rusted keys,
and large nails of very rude formation, have been found; also some
large cannon balls, supposed to have been fired against the castle
in the time of Oliver Cromwell. There was a large plain gold
ring, without any inscription, picked up some years ago, by the
tenant's daughter, at the side of the loch in front of the castle.
Many were the conjectures with regard to the history and former
owner of this ring; but we have little hesitation in stating that, in
all probability, from its modern construction, it must have been
dropt by some of the numerous parties who visit the remains of the
castle. The ring is now in the possession of Lord Queensberry, who
gave a handsome price for it to the finder. Two years ago, a party,
while fishing with a net in a part of the loch on the east side of the
castle, dragged up the head of a spear, in fine preservation, made of
a composition of old mixed brass, or that species of copper which
Pliny names " caldarium," or cast in a mould. The head was nine
inches long, and the socket in which the handle was inserted about
half an inch in diameter. It resembled the Roman pilum or hasta.
This kind of weapon was not peculiar to the Romans alone, as all
nations had spears. We know the Celtae had their lancea, spa-
rum, and matara, to which the Roman hasta was similar. A small
piece of the handle still adhered to it, but upon its drying crum-
bled into dust. It is in the possession of John Dickson, Esq. of
Elshieshields.
	Coins.--Coins have frequently been found in this parish. Six
years ago, a workman cutting peat in the Whitehills moss, about
three-quarters of a mile from the town, turned out a considerable
quantity of small coins wrapt up in a piece of strong blue cloth.
They were all silver groats of Alexander I. of Scotland and Ed-



