
24			WIGTONSHIRE.

ther gaw," which resembles the rainbow in colour, but is much short-
er, and hangs in a vertical line, is sometimes pointed out as indicat-
ing a change. A strange tumbling motion of the crows in the air,
by which they imitate something like the sound of wind, has been
said to precede stormy weather, and rain has also been prognos-
ticated by the more shrill cry of the sea-birds which alight on the
lands along the south-eastern shore. Our climate is characterized
by considerable variety of heat and cold, drought, and humidity,
but it is upon the whole good. Perhaps we may say that, it has
rather a, tendency to humidity, which, however, is well suited to
the nature of the soil, and rarely too abundant in summer. There
are no diseases which can be traced to any peculiarity in the cli-
mate of this district.
	Hydrography--The parish, as we have already stated, is
bounded on the east by Wigton Bay, which extends upwards of
ten miles along the coast. The narrowest part of the Bay, as,
connected with this parish, is about 4 1/2 miles wide. This is from
Orchardton to Carsluth Point. From Eggerness Point to Borness
Head, it is 8 miles wide; and its greatest width, from Garlieston
Bay, or Cruggleton, to the point of Ross, is 10 miles. The co-
lour of the water is bright green, where it is not rendered muddy
by flowing over sand. Its transparency is very considerable, es-
pecially on the south-eastern shore, where, we are told, the fish
have been seen at the bait at the depth of 18 feet. Its depth is
various. Between Eggenmess Point and the Ross, it is from 30 to
50 feet. In Garlieston and Rigg Bays, it runs from 20 to 30 feet.
The saltness of the water is considerable at Cruggleton, but de-
creases as we advance up the bay, in consequence of the fresh wa-
ter from the rivers. The tide is derived from the Western Ocean,
by way of the North Channel, and may be styled a northern arm
of the great tide of the Solway. It flows about six hours, and ebbs
during the other six.
	There are numerous perennial springs diffused over the parish,
which afford a copious supply of excellent water. On the north-
western border of the parish, there is a very fine fresh-water lake,
called Dowalton Loch, * from M'Dowall, the name of a fami-
ly, who were proprietors of it, and who lived near it. It is about
3 miles in circumference, and from 6 to 20 feet deep. From

<FOOTNOTE>Old Statistical Account.


