
     Statistical Account

   As agriculture is the principal business carried on in
the parish, the inhabitants are mostly employed in that
particular branch.  There is a considerable number of
tradesmen, such as smiths, carpenters, and plough-wrights,
who are all employed by the farmers, and are generally in
easy circumstances.  No man in this parish is unemployed;
and there is rather a want of hands for labour, than a super-
fluity.

Abstract of Marriages +, Baptisms, and Burials, for 3 Years,
   viz. from the 1st of October 1789, to the 1st of October
   1792.

<TABLE>

                                     Baptis.   Marr.   Bur.
From 1. Oct. 1789 to ditto 1790,       80       10      23
From 1. Oct. 1790 to ditto 1791,       72       13      20
From 1. Apr. 1791 to 1. Apr. 1792,     86       16      22

</TABLE>

   Cattle, etc.-The number of cattle and ploughs in                                    the pa-
rish is as follows:

<FOOTNOTE>

to reconcile the minds of the common people to this useful practice, by paying the
expence of inoculating the children of the poor around them.  In this way, they
have done more to promote the practice, than either reason or eloquence could
have effected.

   +To account for the small number of registered marriages, it is to be ob-
served, that the practice of marrying in a clandestine and irregular manner still
subsists upon the Borders; and though the synod of Merse and Tiviotdale have
done every thing in their power to repress it, yet it is still kept up by some
members of the Church of England, who sacrifice the dignity of their profession
to a little transient emolument.-There are also many more baptisms than these
which are registered; but of late years, since the  tax of threepence was paid to
the King, over and above the usual fees of registration, many cannot be prevailed
on to enrol their childrens names.  The minister has done every thing in his
power, to convince them of the propriety of the measure; but many individuals
still continue obstinate and refractory.


