
			ROTHESAY.                   95

of the fields shows careful and skilful cultivation to have arrived
at a pitch not often perhaps attained, and seldom exceeded, in the
more fertile districts of the kingdom; and a glance at the amount
of the raw produce, as shown above, compared with that from the
former Statistical Account, we gather it to have been at the pe-
riod when that account was written, will prove how great an in-
crease in the profits of the soil has accompanied the improvement
in its management.

	June 1840.


			PARISH OF ROTHESAY.

		PRESBYTERY OD DUNNON, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

	      THE REV. ROBERT CRAIG, A. M. MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--ROTHESAY parish comprehends the whole of the northern
part of the Island of Bute, which gives name to the county. The
word Bute is of uncertain meaning and origin, though it may pro-
bably be connected with the term Ebudae, by which the western
islands of Scotland are sometimes denominated. The ancient
Gaelic name of this parish, according to the former Account, was,
Cilla 'Bhrui, signifying "the Church of St Broke." This seems
never to have been its proper name. (See Ecclesiastical History.)
The present name is said to be derived from the Gaelic Roth-suidhe,
"circular seat," or the place where courts were held, and justice
dispensed. This was done in very ancient times on round artifi-
cial mounds, which are still called Laws or Metes, in Scotland.
	Extent, &c.--The length of the parish from south to north, is
9 3/4 miles, and the average breadth 3 1/4 miles, which gives an ex-
tent of 31 1/2 square miles, equal to 16,133 Scots acres. The Scots
acres, by actual measurement, are ascertained to be 15,998. Its
greatest width is at the south end, from Bogany point to Ardscadpale
point, a distance if 5 1/2 miles.
	It is bounded on the south  by the parish of Kingarth, on the
west by the sea which separates  Bute from Arran and Kiltyre,
on the north by the kyles of Bute which separate it from the dis-


