
     of Tarbat.

English, and some who cannot read, understand a little of it
in common conversation; but in general, they prefer Gaelic*.
   The number of poor standing at present on the parish roll
is 110.  Few of these are mendicants.  Widows, fatherless
children, and orphans left destitute, servants and labourers
laid aside with age or sickness are received into the number,
and have a small pittance given them at an annual distribution
made of the money arising from the ordinary collections in
church on Sundays, and from the parish mortcloths and bells,
amounting commonly to about L. 16 or L. 17 sterling.-Extra-
ordinary collections, amounting, to 2, 3, or L. 4 sterling, are
sometimes made for the relief of persons in circumstances of
peculiar distress.  There is no other fund for the poor but a
charitable donation by the first Earl of Cromarty, from a part
of his property in the parish, which bears the name of the
mortified lands, and is exempted from the payment of cess and
other public burdens.  The charity paid from these lands is
36 bolls barley; 12 1/2 bolls of which belong to this parish, and
the remaining part to the parishes of Fodderty, Kilmuir and
Loggie Easter.-It was intended for the relief of decayed far-
mers and others in indigent circumstances, living on the estates

<FOOTNOTE>

*There were three chapels in different parts of the parish; a part of the
walls of one of them remains, which was built, as is said, by- Dunbar
of Tarbat, and is still pointed out, by the name of Dunbar's chapel.  Of ano-
ther, which waas situated on the shore to the cast of the old castle of Tarbat,
there is nothing left but some rubbish, and stones piled up, or used as a wall
to a piece of ground laid out for a garden, in trenching of which human bones
are frequently thrown up.  Near it, there is a plentiful spring of water, which
continues to bear the name of Tobun Mhun, or Mary's Well.  The rock a-
bove is covered with ivy, and at the foot of it, a small cave of grotto is shewn
as the abode of the priest.  The Gaelic name of the place, Teampul Eraich,
the place at which the people assembled for worship, preserves the memory


