
            470                     RENFREWSHIRE.

            better feelings and affections of the heart. Doubtless there
            are some amongst us whose vitiated taste must be fed inces-
            santly with the worse than unsubstantial food of novels and ro-
            mances. But there are, we trust, a still greater number who,
            though not profoundly versed in the learning of antiquity, are
            eager in the pursuit of useful knowledge, and have acquired the
            habit of spending their leisure hours, with satisfaction and enjoyment
            to themselves, without having recourse to the gaming-table or the
            tavern, or to ceaseless feasting and merriment. The following facts
            afford presumptive evidence that this is the character of a large
            portion of our population.
               The public library in this place was commenced about 60 years
            ago, and now consists of upwards of 10,000 volumes. It is under
            the management of the proprietors or shareholders, who meet an-
            nually in the month of January and elect a committee, whose duty
            it is to purchase books, and transact all the other business of the
            library. The members of the committee continue in office for two
            years. The proprietors and others have the privilege of reading
            on payment of the annual sum of 13s.; subscribers having a double
            privilege, L. 1, Is. Connected with the library, and forming a part,
            though a distinct part of it, is a collection of books in foreign Ian-
            guages, to which access may be obtained on payment of a small
            sum additional to the annual subscription.  Before the erection of
            the house for the reception of the statue of James Watt, the books
            were kept in a hall in Cathcart Street, belonging to the free-ma-
            sons, of Greenock. They are now placed in the building recently
            erected in Union Street, by the son of Mr Watt, for the reception
            Of the statue of his venerable and illustrious parent.
              From the constitution of the library, it being in fact to a certain
            extent a circulating library, it is evident that the committee must
            be under temptation to meet the wishes and gratify the taste of
            different classes of readers; and, consequently, it is not surprising
            that in the 10,000 volumes of which the library consists, there
            should be a considerable infusion of-frivolous and ephemeral pro-
            duetions.  But that is by no means the character of the library as
            a whole. It contains many of the test standard works in all the
            languages of Europe; and little or nothing that can offend the taste
            or poison or pollute the mind of the most cultivated and intelligent
            Christian. It is earnestly to be desired that the present and future
            committe should feel the importance of the trust reposed in them
            in this point of view; and also, that, considering the magnitude


