
92			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHlRE.

repelled at a first glance from the perusal of it, as from the Inves-
tigation of a cypher. Why should not a poem printed for general
use be made universally accessible? There can be no doubt,
that, were an edition published with civilized orthography, the po-
pularity of the work would be extended beyond its present sphere.
Of all the mechanical parts of his art Montgomery is a complete
waster. One of his most common artifices is alliteration, the inju-
dicious use of which was the besetting sin of many of his contempo-
raries. In general, he introduces it with great felicity, although, per-
haps, somewhat too profusely. It seldom forces him into strained or
pedantic words or allusions, and thus, while taking nothing from
his ease, it gives, both to his imagery and language, a great ap-
pearance of vigour and compactness.* He has few inversions;
his rhymes are very exact; his language is elegant, vigorous, and
easy; while in facility and sweetness of versification, he surpasses
not only all his contemporaries, but every Scottish poet, I think,
except Burns. A living authoress, Mrs Gordon of Campbelton,
resided for several years after her marriage at Deebank, of which
her husband was at that time proprietor.
	Parochial Registers.--Those of baptisms extend as far back as
1693. For fifty years afterwards, they appear to have been kept
with great care, and are in tolerable preservation; but of mar-
riages no entry is made till 1712, between which year and 1753
there appears to be a considerable regularity in the record. There
is then a blank till 1807, the year in which the present Dr Tho-
mas Brown of Glasgow commenced his ministry. During the
nineteen years of his incumbency, both marriages and baptisms

<FOOTNOTE>The abuse of alliteration did not escape the notice of Shakespeare, who in the
play of "Love's Labour Lost," (act. iv. sc. 2,) has ridiculed the excessive use of this
figure with irresistible comic effect, when he makes Holofernes, an old, conceited
schoolmaster, something affect the letter, for it argues facility, in inditing his extem-
poral epitaph on the death of the deer;
	"The praiseful princess pierced and pricked a pretty, pleasing pricket, &c., &c."
This affectation of the letter did not die. with Holofernes, but was used lavishly in
the following ages, both by speakers and by writers, and even now, though fallen
into comparative disrepute, is occasionally met with in productions of every grade,
from the poems of our best bards to the sermons of our worst preachers. Words
biginning with the same letters sometimes add force to the logic of Dr Chalmers;
as when he says, "Multiply apples as men may they will never transmogrify them
into apricots." They often give the finest edge to the sarcastic wisdom of Mr
Sidney Smith, and are scarcely ever used improperly by that great reasoner and wit.
Of great livin poets, Mr Rogers, I rather think, is the only one with whom they
are favourites, and like every figure of speech employed by him, are always introduced
with sweet and graceful effeet. Whether the same can be said of the following speci-
men of pulpit eloquence, let the reader judge. The speaker was one of no small pre-
tension, in his day, and I have no doubt thought, with his brother Sir Nathaniel, that
his was "a rare talent," for which he ought to have been accounted "a good member
of the Commonwealth," "Be pious, but not peevish; devout, but not demure; cheer-
ful, but not childish; so shall ye convert every precept into a privilege and every
duty into a delight:"


