
     Of Greenlaw.

oxen.  Since the late improvements were introduced into
agriculture, the price of labour has greatly encreased.  A-
bout 40 years ago, farmers men servants, who had their
victuals in their matters houses, received from 3 L. to 4 L.
a-year; the women from 2 L. to 2 L. 10 s.:  At present, the
men receive from 7 L. to 9 L. a-year; the women from 3 L.
to 4 L.  But most of the men servants, employed in hus-
bandry, are married, and eat in their own houses:  They
receive, for meat and wages, a certain quantity of grain,
some money, and food for a cow for the whole year; a-
mounting in all to between 15 L. and 16 L*.

   Crops.-The principal crops in this parish are, wheat,
barley, and oats.  Some pease also are fown, but in small
quantities, as the soil is found not to be very suitable for
the growth of that kind of grain.  Heavy crops of clover
and rye-grafs are raised on almost all the improved lands.
Turnips have been much cultivated of late, and are found
to succeed well in the dry grounds.  The farmers either
feed cattle with them in the house, or fell them to dealers
in sheep, to be eaten on the ground.  When eaten in the
fields, they generally fell at about 3 L. an acre; but some
years, they are much higher:  This year (1793) some
     3 S 2

<FOOTNOTE>

   *Formerly, men day-labourers, when they furnished their own vic-
tuals, had only 6 d. a day; now they have from 1 s. to 1 s. 2 d., except in
the time of mowing, when the wages are 1 s. 6 d.: in harvest, the men
get 1 s. 2 d. 2-day, with their meat; women, 8 d. or 9 d.: but reapers
are generally hired for the harvest.  The wages of the men are about
1 L. 6 s.; those of the women about 1 L. 1 s.  Women receive for work-
ing at hay, and weeding turnips, 8 d. a day, without meat: the day-
wages of a mason are from 1s. to 8 d. to 2 s.; of a carpenter from 1 s.
6 d. to 1 s. 8 d.; of a cabinetmaker the fame.  Work, however, of all
those kinds, is generally done by the piece.  A tailor receives 8 d. 3-day,
with his meat.


