
16                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

Essex, although numerous others are in use. As early as possible
after the wheat crop has been harvested, the manure which has
been collected during summer is applied to the stubble land, for
the following crop of beans, and the process is continued during
frosty weather until the whole has been gone over. The quantity
laid on varies probably from twenty-four to forty cart-loads per
acre, and the expense, exclusive of the carriage, from L. 6 to
L.10.  If intended to be sown in drills, the same method is
pursued which we described above in the case of their being sub-
stituted for fallow as a preparation for wheat; but by far the greater
breadth of them is sown broadcast. In the latter case, the ground
is not ploughed till the month of February, and the crop is sown
if possible about the beginning of March, at the rate of six bushels
of beans, with one to two pecks of fitches per acre. The seed is
then harrowed in, and the land rolled down, to preserve the mois-
ture, as soon as it is sufficiently dry to permit of it. The land is
again ploughed, shortly after the bean crop has been got off, and
allowed to lay in the winter furrow, till the month of March or
April following, when it receives two more ploughings, with a
vigorous application of harrows and roller, to prepare it for the re-
ception of the barley and grasses which are sown at the same time
for the succeeding year's crop of hay. From three to four bushels is
the ordinary allowance of seed for the former, and from half to a
bushel of ryegrass seed, with about eight pounds of red clover per
acre for the latter. The common two-rowed barley, or, as it is
sometimes termed, English barley, from its having been first intro-
duced from England, has long ago superseded Scotch bear or
bigg, and is the only variety now in use. The land is again
ploughed in the winter succeeding the removal of the hay crop,
for the last crop of the rotation, viz., oats, which are sown at the
rate of six bushels per acre about the end of March. The varie-
ties sown are numerous, but that most in favour, and which, from
the abundance of its produce, and early season at which it ripens,
seems best deserving of it, is the Friesland oat, so called from
having been originally introduced into this country from that pro-
vince. The same course is again commenced by fallowing, the
above being the only crops grown to any extent in the parish.
  " It is difficult to ascertain with precision the average amount of
produce throughout a district; but it way be stated generally that
forty bushels of wheat; forty-eight of barley ; thirty-six of beans;
sixty of oats; and two tons of first crop, with one ton of second


