
			ISLAND OF SKYE-STRATH.                           305

	minor also.  The sale was afterwards reduced by the Court of
	Session, but, on appeal to the House of Lord, is it was confirm-
	ed.  Although the people at the time, from feelings of clanship
	and attachment to their chieftain, were much displeased with the
	decision which had been come to by the House of Lords, yet they
	had no cause to regret the change, as each successive proprietor
	of the Noble family of Macdonald was invariably kind, attentive,
	and indulgent to their tenants; and it is pleasant to observe, that
	the young and Noble Lord who now represents that ancient family,
	promises fahrly to walk in the footsteps of his truly excellent pre-
	decessors.
	  The property of Strathaird was purchased fifty-four years ago
	by Mr Macalister, who likewise proved a most kind and indulgent
	proprietor.  He is now represented by his grandson, Mr Macalister
	of Loup, in Argyleshire,-a young man of much promise.
	  Parochial Register.-The earliest entry in the parochial regis-
	ter is dated 1821; from that period it has. been regularly kept.
	  Antiquities.-There are the remains of several places of wor-
	ship, which were, in all probability, erected by the Culdees, who
	are well known to have, many centuries ago, built a great number
	of "Cills," or places of worship throughout the Hebrides, which
	they invariably dedicated to the most renowned of their saints.
	There is one at a place in the parish called "Ashig."  But there
	can be no doubt that it was primarily dedicated to Saint Asaph,
	which appellation was gradually corrupted into Ashig. There is
	also one at Kilbride, (St Bride); one at Kilmarie, (cella Ma-
	ria, or St Mary's); and one in the Island of Pabbay.  On
	the farm of Boreraig, we have Teampull Ch/o3ain, or the Temple
	of St Coan; and in the Island of Scalpay, Teampull Frangaig,
	or the Temple of St Francis.  In front of the minister's house,
	there are the ruins of a place of worship; and close to it
	stands a rude obelisk of granite, about ten feet high, perfect-
	ly erect.  It is known by the appellation'of Clach na h-Annait,
	that is, the stone of Annat,-a goddess mentioned by mytholo-
	gists.  Near this stone, is a copious well of excellent water, call-
	ed Tobar na h-Annait, or Annat's Fountain, in which it is proba-
	ble the worshippers purified themselves.  It frequently happens
	that the purest and most copious springs of water are dedicated by
	such worshippers to their tutelary saints; and among the excellent
	springs with which this parish abounds one is considered superior
	to all, and is called Tobar Ashig, or St Asaph's Well.  We have


