
250                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

and on the other makes a curve to the south-east, forming the
bay of Fraserburgh.  The sea has receded from the land in some
places, and encroached on it in others.  Westward of Kinnaird's
head, is a stony beach, evidently thrown up by the sea.  Many
of the benty hillocks, which skirt the bay, stand upon moss or
clay; and in 1760, a tree with roots and branches, and a stem
twenty feet long, was found entire under the sand within the high
water-mark.  By a strong south-east wind, the sands on this shore,
if dry, are drifted; and, were they not intercepted by the bents,
would overspread the adjacent fields.  Bent, therefore, ought to
be carefully preserved, especially that kind of it which grows in
the hay here, resembling the river-bulrush in length of joint, thick-
ness of reed, and largeness of leaf and top, and which is seeming-
ly upon increase.  It would appear that this parish at one time
abounded with wood.  Large roots of trees, mostly oak, still re-
main in the mosses; and about Philorth House, the seat of Lord
Saltoun, is some old timber, to which several plantations have
been added.  But owing to the marine atmosphere, and the strong
winds which sometimes blow here from the north and the east,
trees and hedges are reared with no small difficulty.  The only
bill of any magnitude in this district is that of Mormond, covered
with moss and heath, standing 810 feet above the level of the sea,
and is the more conspicuous, as the surrounding country is to a
considerable extent low and Champaign.  In various parts of the
parish are mineral springs of a chalybeate nature; one of which
is at the south-east corner of the town, which has been deemed
useful as a tonic for weak stomachs, and over which a well has been
erected for the more convenient use of those, who choose to avail
themselves of it.  From the upper end of the town a bed of lime-
stone runs to, the south, out of which a quarry has been dug, and
stones obtained for building, the houses of the town, and the piers
of the harbour.  There is also abundance of granite in the upper
part of the parish, and ironstone of a good quality also abounds
amongst the rocks on the coast, but which has been seldom wrought,
owing to the scarcity of fuel.  Great attention has been paid
for many years to the improvement of roads in this district, and
there are now excellent turnpike roads from this to Aberdeen,
Peterhead, Banff, and Strichen.
   Being situated upon the coast, the atmosphere is here temperate,
moist, and saline, and, with no mountain but that of Mormond to
attract and break the clouds, there is less rain and snow than in


