
                          KINNEFF.                         317

green-crop hoeing for 4s. per imperial acre.  Country artisans
do their work by the piece or contract.
   Live-Stock.-The breed of cattle kept is the polled Angus,
and on several farms great attention has been paid to their im-
provement.  No sheep are bred in the parish.  The black-cattle
are sold either at two years old for grazing, or at three years old
when fit for the butcher.
   No very extensive improvement of waste land has recently
taken place in the parish.  It is found in some instances where
heathy moor has been reclaimed, that it will not ultimately be of
advantage for landlord or tenant.
   The state of farm-buildings is generally good, and agriculture
is carried on with great spirit.  The principal obstacle to improve-
ment is the want of encouragement by proprietors to draining and
properly enclosing the land.  A few farms are partly enclosed
with stone-dikes, erected at the expense of the proprietor,-the
tenant paying interest on the money expended ; but generally
two-fifths of the arable land, being kept in grass, is inclosed with
wooden railing, which occasions considerable expense to the
farmer, and not only forms a very imperfect fence, but affords no
shelter, which is much wanted in this exposed climate.
   Quarries.-Several freestone quarries afford sufficient material
for the buildings within the parish, but are of no further advan-
tage to the proprietors.  The rocks along the coast furnish ex-
cellent mill-stones, which have long been in high repute, and are
sent to a considerable distance.  They cost from L.5 to 1-10.
   Fisheries.-A salmon-fishing is rented at L.15. At the fishing
village of Catterline there are two boats' crews, and at Shieldhill
there is only one boat weekly manned.
   Produce.-As nearly as can be ascertained, the following may
be the value of the gross produce raised in the parish:

<TABLE>

         Grain of all kinds,                 L.8450  0   0
              Turnips and potatom              2300  0   0
              Straw,                           2010  0   0
        Hay,                                    600  0   0
          Pasture,                             2000  0   0
              Fisherisa,                        550  0   0
                                            ______________

                                          L.15,910  0   0

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Towns.-The market-towns chiefly resorted to by the
parishioners are Stonehaven and Bervie, the former lying about
four and a-half miles to the north, and the latter close to the


