
146                          ArLGYLESHIRE.

three stories in the modern style, the broadest part of the old wall
forming the back, with other buildings on the other sides, an open
space or court being left in the centre.  These were erected, it is
said, by Campbell of Lochnell, more than a century and a-half
ago.  The floors, rafters, and boards of the roof are all of mas-
sive oak, the states of an extraordinary size, fastened by oaken pins.
When or by whom this castle was built is unknown.  In 1493,
James IV. granted a charter from this castle, and in 1495, again
held his court to receive the submission of the nobles of the for.
feited lordship of the isles.  It is supposed by Gregory to have
been razed to the ground by Sir Donald of Lochalsh in 1517 ;
but it is most probable that the greater portion of the outer wall,
which is of great strength, thickness, and apparent antiquity, was
left standing on that occasion.  In 1588, it was besieged for three
days by Sir Lachlan Maclean of Duart, one of the most daring
warriors and ablest leaders of the Highlands, aided by 100
soldiers of the Florida, a ship of the Spanish Armada, which had
taken shelter in the adjoining harbour of Tobermory.  The
siege was raised in consequence of the approach of the northern
clans under the orders of Government.  In 1644, the garrison
of Sir Donald Campbell in this castle were forced to surrender to
Montrose's general, Alaster Macdonald, by the simple expedient
of piling the thatch and timber of all the houses in the vicinity
against the walls and setting them on fire.  On this occasion, un-
wonted guests were brought to this rude hold.  On his way thither,
Alaster had captured the vessel in which three Scottish ministers,
who had been preaching the gospel and spreading the covenant
in Ireland, were returning to their native country, Messrs Weir,
Hamilton, and Watson, whom, with the wife of the first, and several
other respectable passengers, he, on the 15th July, imprisoned in
Mingary Castle.  Here they seem to have been destitute of all
comfort but the consolations of religion. Their sufferings were
terribly aggravated by an unsuccessful attempt of the Marquis of
Argyle to liberate them.  During seven weeks' leaguer by his troops,
their food was rye bruised between stones, and the green muddy
water collected on the bartizans of the castle.  On the 3d of Sep-
tember, Mrs Weir was Iiberated, and on the 23d, all the captives,
except the three ministers, who were kept close, by AIaster's or-
ders, with the view of exchanging them for his father and two
brothers, then prisoners with Argyle.  Mr Weir's constitution soon
gave way under the pressure of hopeless captivity and deficient


