
               442                        ARGYLESHIRE.

                 2. Reginald succeeded his father under the title of King of the
               Isles, and Lord of Argyle and Kintyre. He finished and formally
               endowed, as will afterwards appear, the monastery at Saddell, be-
               gun by his father Somerled, and assumed to himself, as perhaps
               be virtually might, the merits and the designation of its founder.*
               This is established by a charter of confirmation extant in Reg.
               Mag. Sig., 1st January 1507. The charter confirms a deed
               granted to the Bishop of Lismore by Reginald, where he is de.
               signed "Reginaldum filium Sorlett qui se regem insularurn domi-
               narum de Ergile et Kintyre dicti monasterii, fundatorem." The
               historians of Norway (Torfeus and Torfaei Orcades, p. 146,)
               describe him as a warrior of distinguished note. In conformity
               with a common practice among the Scandinavian Sea Kings, he
               is said to have lived for three years without entering under the
               roof of any house where a fire had been kindled, and thus accus-
               tomed himself to every species of privation and hardship. The
               same historian informs us, that, at the request of William the
               Lion, he undertook to recover Caithness out of the hands of Ha-
               rold, Earl of Orkney, and had the good fortune to succeed. Con-
               sidering the tribute exigible by the Crown of Norway too extra-
               vagant, and the lord of his allegiance at too great a distance to
               enforce his claims, he shrewdly subjected his dominions to the
               Pope, who generously claimed mere nominal tribute of twelve,
               merks (Feedera, Anglia, Tom. i. p. 234.) The petty kings of
               Ireland always appealed to him in seasons of difficulty, and his
               very name often suppressed their quarrels. He died after a reign
               of thirty years.
                 3. Angus Og, i. e. the young. He obtained this title in contra-
               distinction to his father, Angus Mor, son to Donald the son of
               Reginald, from whom the Macdonalds adopted their surname.
               His brother and immediate predecessor, Alexander, had, unfor-
               tunately for himself, opposed the claims of Robert Bruce, who,
               after defeating the Lord of Lorn at Lochow, made a second de-
               scent upon Argyleshire, and crorsing over the isthmus of Tarbert,
               besieged him at Castle Swen, and, after forcing him to surrender,
               carried him away prisoner to Dundonald Castle, where he died.
               Angus had, from the first, taken a decided part in support of the
               interests of Bruce. When that illustrious prince, after the unfor-
               tunate battle of Methven and Dairy, was forced to retreat, he
               gladly availed himself of the hospitality of his friend; and, crossing
               ever from Arran, he landed at a place called Portree (the King's

               <FOOTNOTE>See Douglas's Peerage, p, 358.    See Chartulary of Paisley, p. 377.


