
                            ANCRUM.                             251

the carriage being very expensive.  The nearest coal-hill is thirty
miles distant, and the driving alone costs 9s. for a single cart-load.
Fire-wood, however, is abundant in the neighbourhood, and may
be procured for a comparatively moderate price, at the numerous
sales of that article, and being, thus less expensive and more easy
of access than coals, it is more generally made use of for fuel than
the latter, especially among the labouring classes, and many of
whom are also in the habit of laying up for this purpose furze, turf,
or peat, all of which are to be had in the neighbourhood,--the two
former on the common moor for the mere labour of cutting them,
--and the latter from the adjoining districts at a very small cost.
It may be added, that, for the convenience of the public in this
district, there are several depots of coals within a few hours drive,
and at one of which (Crailing) only four miles distant, there are
coals to be had through the year at from 6d. to 8d. per cwt.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     The only striking variations which are apparent between the
present state of the parish, and that which existed at the time of
the last Statistical Account, consist in the improved system of
agriculture, and in the additional extent of plantation.  Here, as
elsewhere, draining is now better understood, and more generally
and efficiently practised than it formerly was, though much yet re-
quires to be done in this respect
     The distance from lime, and the consequent heavy expense of
obtaining it, remains yet, as it has hitherto been, the great obsta-
cle to the reclaiming and improvement of the land in this neigh-
bourhood.  It may, however, be stated, that there is every pros-
pect of this obstacle being so far obviated by the proposed formation
of a railway from Berwick to Kelso, and from thence up the vale
of the Teviot, and by the establishment of which, it is not to be
doubted, many important advantages, besides the reduction of the
price of lime, would accrue to this district of country.

     April 1837.


