
374                           AYRSHIRE.

the country on the western and northern parts of Brown Carrick-
hill, many places there being from five to nine miles distant by
the road. It was built in 1808, and the last repair by which the
interior was much improved, was made in 1830. It accommodates
from 1200 to 1300. Twelve sittings only, and these in corners
and passages, are free and set apart for the poor. The manse was
built in 1806. It is small, and in the usual style of manse archi-
tecture, but it has been substantially built, and has not hitherto re-
quired any expensive repairs. The glebe consists of about nine
Scots acres, and is worth L. 30 per annum. The stipend is 20
chalders of victual, half meal and half barley, with an allowance
of L. 20 for communion elements.
	There are as yet no chapels, but a preaching station has of late
been established in the shore district, which is so far distant from
the parish church; and it is hoped that a church will soon be
erected and endowed in that quarter. An additional church for
the accommodation of the weaving population in the town is also
much required. There is a chapel belonging to the United Se-
cession body in the town, the minister of which, the Rev. Mr
Thomson, receives a stipend of about L. 100 per annum, a very
inadequate remuneration for his worth and services. There is also a
small chapel in connection with the Methodists, but no regular
minister, and the Irish Catholics and Episcopalians have the oc-
casional services of the ministers of these persuasions in Ayr.
	Taking the population at 6362, there are belonging to the Es-
tablished Church 5033, and of the 1329 belonging to other de-
nominations, the following is the distribution: United Secession,
548; Roman Catholic, 355; Church of England, 214; Metho-
dist, 104; Relief, 54; Reformed Presbytery, 44; Antiburgher,
10.
	Divine service at the Established Church is generally well at-
tended, and the average number of communicants is 1300.
	There is a society, named the Maybole Association, for religious
purposes, supported chiefly by collections, made from time to time
in the parish church and Secession meeting-house, and the most
general application of the funds has been in donations to the Ayr
and Edinburgh Bible Societies, from both of which most liberal
supplies of Bibles and Testaments have been received for distri-
bution among the poor.
	Collectors for other claims, such as the Assembly's Missions,
Church Extension, Education, and for purposes of local charity, are
				1


