
			CREICH.                    637

ton, by whom he had four sons and seven daughters. Janet,
their eldest daughter, who was married, first, to the Laird of
Cranstoun, second, to the Laird of Craigmillar, and third, to Sir
Walter Scott of Buccleuch, Senior, to the last of whom she had
four daughters is celebrated in the Lay of the Last Minstrel
for her bold and adventurous spirit, her great influence, and for
the popular belief of her mysterious endowments. A copy of a
letter of her's to the Queen Regent Mary of Guise is published in
the Miscellany of the Maitland Club. All the other daughters
of Sir John Bethune were respectably married. His eldest son,
David, who inherited the estate of Creich, having died a bachelor
in 1539, was succeeded by his brother, Robert, the fourth pro-
prietor of the name of Bethune. He was page to Queen Mary,
and accompanied her to France, where she was married to the
Dauphin. On her return to Scotland in 1561, he was made
Master of the Household, Heritable Steward of Fife, and Keeper
of the Palace of Falkland. He married a French lady, Joanna
Renwall or Gryssoner, a maid of honour to the Queen, by whom
he had two sons and eight daughters. Mary, their eldest daugh-
ter, is well known as having been one of the Queen's four Maries,
and is celebrated by Buchanan in his Valentiniana:

	Ad Mariam Betonam, pridie Regalium Reginam sorte ductam.
	Regno animus tibi dignus erat, tibi regia virtus
	Et poterant formam sceptra decere tuam.
	Fortuna erubuit sua munera sola deesse,
	Qum tibi nune plena dat cumulata manu.
	Cumque tibi immunem dederit livoris honorem,
	Non satis est tardam visa luisse moram,
	Ni Regina, orbis longe dignissima soeptro,
	Gauderet regno lmta subesse tuo.

Mr Macdonald of the Register-House has printed a copy of her
contract of marriage with Alexander Ogilvie of the Boyne, in the
Miscellany of the Maitland Club, Vol. 1st. It is remarkable for
its being subscribed not only by Queen Mary and Henry Darn-
ley as parties, but by the Earls of Huntly, Argyll, Bothwell, Mur-
ray, Angus, and Atholl, as cautioners for the bridegroom, by Olgelvie
himself as Boyne, and by Mary Bethune, many personages who are
represented in history as havin been generally hostile to one ano-
ther.-David Bethunep the eldest son of Robert, succeeded him

<FOOTNOTES>"It is oberved and reported as a truth," says Martime, "that the race and
people of Balfour were always black, and not beutiful an fair, but that ever after the
Laird of Creich married this Janet Hay, the Bethunes of creich have ever been yel-
low-haired for the most part, and of beautiful countenance."-Martin Genealogi-
cal Coll. MS. Adv. Lib.
          There is an original Portrait if this Mary Bethune in full-court, dress, in Bal-
four House, in Fife.



