
CANISBAY.                                                     31

is the market-town of the east end of the parish, being, sixteen
miles and a-half distant from the church, and ten miles from the
nearest boundary; and Thurso, of the west end of the parish,.be-
ing eighteen miles from the church and twelve miles from the
nearest boundary.
There are two post- offices, one at, Mey and one at Huna.  From
.the last mentioned, the mail-boat with the Orkney bags crosses
the frith three times a week: but, by a recent arrangement, it is
intended to cross every lawful day.  The distance from Huna to
the landing place in Orkney is twelve miles, and the freight of the
boat is 10s. ; but a passenger going along with the mails pays only
Is. To Huna the mail is conveyed daily from Wick in a gig;
and to Mey there is a runner from Thurso post-office 'every lawful
day; between Mey and Huna post-offices,, a distance of five miles,
there is no communication.
Roads.' The length of good and passable turnpike road in the
parish is twelve miles.  An old road that runs for a considerable
distance parallel to the new line, and which passes through the'
inhabited parts of the parish, is principally used by the parishioners,
though in a total state of disrepair.  By the Act of Parliament
that authorized the new line, the old line also is appointed to be
kept in repair, but, I believe, want of funds has hitherto prevented
this most desirable object from being carried into effect.  A cross
road through Brabstermire is very much needed to give the inha-
bitants access to the middle of the county.  The reads in this pa-
rish, as in Caithness, go nerally. present the rather anomalous fact
of being almost all parallel to each other, with scarcely a single
connecting cross road.
Harbours.-Notwithstanding the great number of boats, there
is no regularly built harbour.
Zcclesiastical State.-The period at which the church was built
cannotbeascertained.  Itreceiveda.substantialrepairlaswasqAt6d
before, in the years 1 832-3. -Previously, the inhabitants had seats
of their own, which they claimed as private, property.; but since the
new seating in 1833, the beritors -have divided-the sittings acco- rd-
ing to their respective valued rents, and let them annually-a sys-
tem considered:by the people not only 'an innovation but an impo-
sition. The form of the church     'is that of ti cross: it is as convene
niently situated as it can possibly be,-being six miles and a-half
from the one extremity of the parish, and 6ve and a-balf from, the,
other.  Giving the customary allowance to each sitter, the church


