
342                        FIFESHIRE.

Monan's. The property having become David Leslie's by pur-
chase, he was, in 166 1, ennobled by the name of t" acquisition.
The writer of this account has always understood, that this is
the General Leslie who made so distinguished a figure in the un-
happy civil wars, in the middle of the seventeenth century. He
defeated Montrose at Philiphaugh, 13th September 1645, for
which acceptable service the Parliament voted him 30,000 marks,
and he completely suppressed the civil war in Scotland in 1647.
When Cromwell invaded Scotland, 1650, Leslie had the chief corn-
mand of th,6 Scottish army, in which capacity he sustained a signal
defeat. The history of this catastrophe (battle of Dunbar) is well-
known. Suffice it to say, that no blame can be imputed to the Ge-
neral. Like Fabius Maximus, he was maintaining a commanding
situation, which put Cromwell's army almost entirely in his power;
but he allowed himself to be importuned out of his fastness, and
precipitated into a battle by the inconsiderate zeal of the Committee
of Church and State, and the consequence was, his disastrous
overt , brow, 3d September 1650. Justice was done to the abilities
of the unfortunate general, who was acquitted of misconduct, and
restored to the command from which he had been suspended for
a time.
There is to be found in Douglas's peerage a high testimony to
Leslie's character, under the hand of Charles II. whom some of
the General's enemies had endeavoured to prejudice against bini,
10th June 1667.
Chi!f Land-owners.-T,he chief land-owners of the parish are,
Sir Ralph Abercromby Anstrutber, Bart., of Balcaskie, and
Sir Wyndham Carmichael Anstrutber, Bart., of Anstruther and
Carmichael. Neither of them have their residence in the parish,
-Sir Ralph's mansion being situated in the adjoining parish of
Carnbee, and Sir Wyndham's in that of Elie. There is not much
difference in their respective valuations, Sir Ralph's being L-1486
Scots, and Sir Wyndham's L. 1207, 13s. 4d. Scots. Their actual
rent roll I have not ascertained,,, but should suppose it to amount
to about L. 2200 a-y9ar.
. Mr Mackie has a feu of three acres holding of Sir Wyndham.
He pays of stipend 2 quarters, I bushel, 2 pecks of barley. Mr
F,lder has a feu of about 7 acres, holding of Sir Ralph, but pays
no stipend.
There ts only one other landholder in the parish. He has but
a few acres, and there would appear to be no stipend exigible.


