
        2                        CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

        is a remarkable insulated rock, called the Clett, about 480 feet
        long, 240 feet broad, and 400 feet high, and distant from the land
	about 240 feet. This rock is considered a great curiosity, and is
	frequently visited by strangers.  In the summer months, it is co-
	vered with flocks of sea-fowl; and this adds considerably to its
	striking and interesting appearance.
	   Climate.-It is stated in Henderson's View of the Agriculture
	of Caithness, that for three-fourths of the year, viz. from Septem-
	ber to June, the wind generally blows from the west and north-
	west; and that, during the other fourth of the year, it is variable
	from south-west to south-east, and is but seldom northerly. The
        climate is healthy, though variable. During a great part of the
	year, the air is keen and piercing ; but in summer there is a good
	deal of mild and warm weather.
	   Hydrography.-There are two small rivers in the parish.  The
	principal river in the parish and in the county, is the river Thurso,
	from which the parish takes its name.  It rises in the heights of
	the parish of Halkirk, among the bills bounding Sutherland, and
	after reaching this parish traverses it from south to north, and
	flows into the sea in the immediate vicinity of the town. Its length
	is about thirty miles, and its greatest breadth about 100 yards.
	It adds much to the beauty of those parts of the parish through
	which it flows, at least, as much as can consist with unwooded banks.
	The other stream in the parish, and the fourth in size in the
	county, is the Water of Forss. It rises in the parish of Reay, and
	after reaching this parish divides it from that of Reay, forming the
	boundary between them, and flows into the sea at Cross-kirk Bay,
	near the House of Forss.
	   Geology,-The principal rocks in the parish belong to the so-
	called old red sandstone.  The general direction of the strata is
	from north-east to south-west. The dip on the shore of Thurso
	is north-east, and the inclination about twenty degrees, In some
	of the quarries inland, the dip is southeast.
	   The soil consists chiefly of clay and loam, resting on sandstone
	flag and slate-clay rock.
           Zoology.-The chief kinds of fish in the bay of Thurso are, had-
	dock, cod, herring, and salmon. The herring appear in May, and
	continue until August. The salmon would go up the rivers to
	spawn in August, but are prevented till the 14th of September,
	until which time the rivers are shut.  It is considered injurious
                                      4


