
   168                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   structive to corn at an early stage of its growth, is the grub-worm,
   against whose inroads no effectual means have been devised.
     At some remote period, woods Undoubtedly had extensively
   grown in this quarter, although now no trees naturally grow
   in it. That this had been the case is evident from the fact,
   that the roots of trees are found in peat mosses, and, what is still
   more remarkable and unaccountable, they are found under high-
   water mark, nearly as low as the water recedes at spring-tides, im-
   bedded in black soil or moss, exposed to view in places where the
   sand, by the action of the sea, has been washed away. This is par-
   ticularly the case, on no limited scale, near my residence. From
   this circumstance it may be inferred, that the land must have
   largely extended its bounds beyond its present limits. This is
   still less doubtful from the fact, that several miles from the shore,
   moss is taken up on the flakes of anchors, where, covered by the
   sea, it could never have grown. But we must repress speculat-
   ing and return to statistics. An opinion had long prevailed that
   the sea-air prevents the growth of trees. This, in fact, is not the
   cause, but the want of shelter. Were the experiment fairly tried,
   there is not the shadow of a doubt that trees would grow in shel-
   tered situations and from these the plantations might be extended.
   This was put to the test some years ago by a gentleman, who was
   then factor of North Uist. He planted a corner of a field in a
   well sheltered situation with trees, which have grown and continued
   to thrive beyond expectation ; and the black, thorn hedge has been
   planted by another, which is flourishing. Neither of these is at
   a distance from the sea.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      Amongst the remarkable characters connected, but Dot exclu-
   sively, with this parish, we may notice a class of persons who have
   passed away for ever, with the age and habits which encouraged
   and fostered them. In the last generation, every farm and hamlet
   possessed its oral recorder of tale and song. The pastoral habits
   of the inhabitants led them to seek recreation in listening to, and
   in rehearsing the tales of other times; and the senachie and the
   bard were held in high esteem. As-to use the language of
   commerce-demand produces supply, so a number of bards arose,
   possessing various grades of genius and excellence. Amongst
   these, was John MacCodrum, Who lived in the last generation-
   a man in low circumstances, born and brought up in this parish,
   and who scarcely ever went beyond its bounds-who possessed


