
     of Abernyte.

from 20 to 30 yards a day.  In the parish are 3 mills, 2
for corn, and 1 for flax.  One of the mills only has thir-
lage, which is not very extensive, nor are the multures
heavy, amounting on insucken or grain thirled to a 15th
part of the meal produced, on outsucken, to a 20th.  Flax
is scutched at 18 d. the stone.  On a small stream called
Tidyad, which separates this parish from Longforgan, there
are, within the space of a mile, 9 mills, 4 of which are for
flax, 2 others within the same space were lately pulled
down, as they stood within a piece of ground laying out
for pleasure ground*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The wages in this district are, for a labourer, 8 d. or 9 d. with his
victuals; from 1 s to 1 s. 4 d. without; when engaged by the season for
threshing, 9 d. the boll.  There is yet only one threshing-mill in the pa-
rish.  Wages of a wright, 1 s. 4 d.; of a tailor, 8 d. with victuals.  Out-
work is generally done by the piece.  Wages of a man servant, from L. 8
to L. 10 a-year; provisions to those who do not eat in the house, 16 pound
of oat-meal the week, and 6 d. for milk, or a cow among two or three; of
women servants from L. 3 to L. 3, 10 s. which are not paid wholly in
money, but partly in certain perquisites called bountiths.  Women not
engaged in service, are employed in spinning yarn for linens and thread.
For spinning, they receive from 1 s. 2 d to 1 s. 5 d. the spindle, of which
they spin a half one the day.  It appears from Boetius, that linen was very
early a considerable manufacture at Dundee, and it still continues the
staple of this country.  A woman's hire for weeding, is 5 d. with victuals,
or 8 d without; in harvest, 9 d. and 10 d.; inharvest, a man's 1 s.  The
common practice is to hire for a whole harvest, when a man receives from
L. 1 to L. 1, 5 s.; a woman, from 15 s. to 18 s.  A harvest lasts from 3 to
5 weeks.  In the Carse, where the harvest is earlier, and of shorter dura-
tion, they have frequently finished before we begin here.  Hence it is
no uncommon thing for a person to reap two harvests, and in the course
of 5 or 6 weeks to earn, a man L. 2, 10 s. and a woman L. 1, 10 s.  The
provisions for reapers uniformly in this country, are bread and ale for din-
ner; they are allowed somewhat more than a pound of oat-bread, and 3
mutchkins of ale.-The prices of provisions have been doubled here with-
in there 20 years.  Butchers meat is from 3 d. to 4 d. the pound; a fowl,
1 s.; eggs, from 3 d. to 5 d.; butter, from 7 d. to 10 d. the pound; cheese,


