
1004			ABERDEENSHIRE.

for private families in the neighbouring towns, is bought by the
shopkeepers in Turriff, carefully cured, and sent by them to the
best market.
	Eggs.--There are several aged but active females who make a
scanty livelihood by travelling over the parish and purchasing egg,
which are packed and sent to Aberdeen. At some seasons of the
year, the carriers belonging to the town will take twelve boxes
weekly, each box containing 175 dozen. This branch of business
may seem trifling, but, as an article of parochial produce and in-
dustry, we deem it not altogether unworthy of notice.
	Thirlage, &c.--The system of thirlage is now entirely given
up, and the operations of drying and milling generally con-
ducted by the miller at about one thirty-second part, or 6d. per boll
of grain manufactured. What was termed bandages to the heritor,
which embraced the labour of man and beast, long and short car-
riages, and the yearly payment of poultry, and in some cases of
sheep. butter, and tallow,--are now abolished, and a money rent
substituted, which has been found more agreeable to landlord and
tenant, as well as advantageous to both.
	Fairs.--Lying in the centre of a large and populous district,
there are no fewer than eight annual fairs held in Turriff, for the
sale.of cattle, horses, sheep, and a few articles of merchandise.
They are well attended, and much business is transacted.  Fee-
ing-markets have also been established at the terms of Whitsun-
day and Martinmas, for the engagement of male and female ser-
vants; and if these have been found an accommodation in some
respects, it has, we conceive, been dearly purchased, by their cor-
rupting influence on the morals of a large class of society.  At all
events, if these markets are to be kept up, it would be well if the
Scots statute of 1605 were acted on, and any other day than Sa-
turday chosen for holding them.
	Manufactures.--Some years ago linen yarn was manufactured
to a considerable extent by Messrs John Adam and Company,
Who gave employment to a number of flax-dressers, and indus-
trious female spinners throughout the country. A good spin-
ner, when sitting steadily at her wheel, could then earn with
ease 6d. or 8d. a da. Now 1d. or 2d. can with difficulty be
made out for the same quantity and quality of thread. If, there-
fore, the great improvements in machinery have Increased the
power of production, and the wealth of the country, they have at
the same time abridged the comforts of many of the female popu-


