
                                KELTON.                      159

Meg, are of Galloway granite, to which there is no exactly si-
milar in Scotland; and tradition says they were made on the sum-
mit of Bennan hill, while M'Kim and his sons were employed in
constructing the cannon at the Buchan croft. Two of these balls
only are said to have been discharged at the siege, and of both a
satisfactory account can be given. The first,--that which shook
the castle and spread dismay among the garrison, was, towards
the end of last century, picked out of the wall and delivered to
Mr Gordon of Greenlaw. And in the year 1841, when the ten-
ant of the Isle of Thrieve was removing, for the purpose of tur-
nip-husbandry, a large accumulation of rubbish from the lower part
of the castle, he came upon the draw-well, which was found to be
lined with the strong planks of black oak in a state of perfect preser-
vation. Prosecuting the search which this discovery provoked,
the labourers at length came to an immense round ball, which, on
examination, was found to be a bullet in all respects the same as
those belonging to Mons Meg, and still retaining evident marks
of having been discharged from a cannon. It lay in the direct
line from Knock-cannon to the breach in the wall; so that there
is every reason to believe that this was the identical missile that
shattered the stronghold and mutilated the lady of the tremendous
Lord of Galloway. A massive gold ring, inscribed, "Mar-
garet de Douglas," supposed to have been on the Fair Maid
of Galloway's hand when it was blown away at the siege, was
discovered by one of the workmen employed to clear out
some rubbish, when Thrieve Castle was partially repaired, in
the beginning of the present century, as a barrack for French
prisoners. The ring was handed to Sir Alexander Gordon,
sheriff of the county. Symson says, that "the common re-
port also goes in that country, that in the isle of the Thrieve, the
great iron gun in the Castle of Edinburgh, commonly called
Mount Megg, was wrought and made,"--which statement, writ-
ten nearly a hundred and sixty years ago, though obviously incor-
rect in assigning the Isle of Thrieve as Meg's birth-place, goes far
to prove her a native of Galloway. Finally, the uninterrupted
tradition which has prevailed on this subject in the country, receiv-
ed a strong confirmation, when the labourers who were engaged
in making the great military road at Carlinwark, at the very spot
where Mons Meg is said to have been manufactured, came to a
large mound, which turned out to be a mass of ashes or cinders,
such as are generally left from a forge.



