
                       MELROSE.                                  53

side of one of them, but within the parish of Bowden, a beautiful
columnar porphyry has lately been disclosed.  West from Mel-
rose is the Quarry Hill, a huge mass of a kind of conglomerate rock,
having much clay imbedded in it, on which the frost has great
influence.  Being durable and easily wrought, it is much used in
building.    Over all the northern and western part of the parish
greywacke prevails, dipping toward the north-east.  Abbotsford
is built of this kind of stone, and it is found in the bed of the
Tweed, throughout the whole course of the Allan, and in all
the detached rocks which appear at intervals in the hilly country.
To the south-east of the Eildons, the Dryburgh sandstone begins.
It is first disposed in thin layers of a coarse red colour; and these
are found to overlay other sandstone strata of greater breadth, and
of a finer colour.
      The soil of the parish, as described in the last Statistical Ac-
count, is various.  In the south it is generally a strong clay, excel-
lently adapted for wheat.  The banks of the Tweed are a fine
light dry soil, fit for all kinds of grain.   In the northern parts of
the parish the soil is of three kinds, 1st, a light earth mixed with
sand upon a gravelly bottom; 2dly, a strong clay upon a till full
of springs, and very wet; 3dly, moss.  The moss is frequdntly
found to overlay marl of the finest quality.
      Hydroqraphy.-There are four considerable streams in this pa-
rish.  The Tweed, and three tributaries which it receives from the
north; the Gala, the Allan, and the Leader.  The Gala at the
western, and the Leader at the eastern, extremity of the parish, are
five miles distant where they join the Tweed.  Two miles below
the Gala, the Allan issues from a fine opening in the Langlee
heights, dividing the Long mountain ridge which forms the south-
ern boundary of the hilly country.  It is a beautiful little stream,
nearly concealed in many places by overhanging woods, and its
course, five miles in length, is all within the parish.  The Tweed
enters the parish at Gala foot, having formed its boundary with
the Galashiels parish for two miles higher up.  After receiving the
Leader, it becomes its boundary with the parish of Mertoun as
far as Dryburgh.
      The valley of Melrose must have been a noble lake at some re-
mote period, the Tweed entering it by a narrow. inlet, across which
Melrose Bridge is thrown, and leaving it by a narrow outlet at
Tweedwood, before the formation of which, the whole spaces in-
closed by the Eildon and Gattonside Hills must have been a con-

