
38                             DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the beginning of that period, Charles Duke of Queensberry, who
was then proprietor of a large portion of this moss, and whose
memory, for his benevolence and public spirit, is still held in vene-
ration by all the inhabitants of this part of the country, employ-
ed Smeaton, the most eminent civil engineer of that time, to survey
the moss and make a plan and estimate of the expense of draining
and improving it. The survey, plan, and estimate were made, and
are published in Dr Singer's Agricultural Account of Dumfries-
shire; but unfortunately the plan has never been followed out. The
work could not be properly carried on unless the whole proprietors
were cordially to co-operate, and it is not easy to say when this
may happen. The estimated expense when Mr Smeaton made
his survey was only L. 2952.*
	2d, Much benefit would arise to the parish from the building
of more substantial and commodious farm-steadings, and if more at-
tention were paid to the rearing and managing thorn hedges for in-
closing and subdividing the farms.
	3d, It would also be of great advantage, particularly on the higher
grounds of this parish, if plantations were to be reared in different
places. These would not only beautify the country, but, by the
shelter they would afford, render the climate warmer, and contri-
bute very much to the comfort and improvement of the cattle, which
thrive but very poorly at present on the high grounds, exposed to
every cold blast.
	4th,  The greatest improvement which has lately taken place in
agriculture here is the introduction and general adoption of the
culture of turnips. It is not more than seven or eight years since
this has become general; it is of the greatest advantage to the ten-
ants, and enables them to pay rents which would otherwise have
been ruinous to them. The soil is very much adapted to turnips,
the crops are in general good, and the following crops of barley
and grass are wonderfully improved by the feeding of sheep on the
turnip fields.
	December 1833.

<FOOTNOTE>The method which appears most likely for accomplishing an extensive work of
this kind, in which so many proprietors are concerned, is for some skilful and enter-
prising individual, with sufficient eapital, to obtain a long lease of the whole from the
proprietors for a rent very low at first, (but more than it yields at present,) and gra-
dually rising, with full right to cut the main course straight, and such other lateral
drains as he may find necessary. To enable the proprietors to grant such a lease,
an act of Parliament would be required, as great part of the property is under entail.


