
     of Grange.

of Scotland of excise-duties, as even to pay the salaries of the officers
employed to levy it, notwithstanding the oppressions that the people
suffer on account of it.  It seems to be the general opinion, that if the
excise and distillery laws were repealed in the north of Scotland, and the
revenue raised by them yearly, including officers salaries, were transmitted
to the commissioners of supply of the counties to proportion it among
themselves and tenants, they could pay in the same with the land-tax,
and by this means, the revenue would be improved by the whole amount
of the officers salaries at least, and the country would think themselves
infinitely better, as they would then be permitted to do with their grain
what they pleased without molestation.

     NOTE.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-There are no objects of natural history
peculiar to this parish.  Luncstone is the only mineral worth mentioning.
The only wild beasts are the fox, the weasel or polecat, and the hare.  The
birds are few and common; moorfowl, partridge plover, wild duck,
bittern, rook, jackdaw, magple, lark, sparrow, yellow-hammer, robin,
wren, watercock, linnet, and a few others  The parish is occasionally
visited in winter by snow birds, and in spring by flocks of see-gulls and
now and then by hawks, kites, ravens, and herons.  The migratory birds,
are the lapwing, cuckoo, corn-rail, and swallow.  There are no noted
mineral springs in this parish, though some of them are considerably im-
pregnated with iron; but there are two consecrated wells, one at the
foot of a small natural mount adjoining to the castle of Grange, which,
with the mount, had been dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and are now
called the Ladyhill and the Ladywell.  The other spring is on the south
bank of Isla, directly opposite to the church-door and is called the Crork-
well, probably from Croix, cross.  The greater part of the people are ra-
ther above the ordinary size, and it seems have always been so.  There are
at least as many men in the parish above 5 feet 8 inches as there are be-
low it: and several are 6 feet high: Accordingly such of them as go into
the army, generally enlist either into the Guards or Train of Artillery.
The ancestors of the greater part of the present inhabitants have lived
in this parish for some centuries back, and many of them are descendents
of the ancient feuars in the parish.  The most ancient names are, Innes,
Adamson, Richardson, Riddoch, Longmoor, Cair, Kelman, Scot, Sim,
Ballach, Beg, Craib, Gray, Howie, Allan, Wilson, Taylor, Reaper,
Dyker, Neil, etc. etc.  There are no persons of remarkable eminence,
that have been born, lived, or died in this parish.  It has indeed been

     I


