
152                           WIGTONSHIRE.

Produce of grain of all kinds cultivated for the food of man and of the do-
	mestic animals,			                                 L. 6300
	potaoes, turnips, and other plants cultivated in the fields for food,950
	hay, meadow and cultivated,					     350
	flax,								      50
	land in pasture, rating it at 30s. per cow, or full-grown ox graz-
	     ed, or that may be grazed for the season; at 5s. per ewe, or
	     full-grown sheep, pastured, or that may be pastured for the
	     year,							    1350
	gardens and orchard,						      25
	the annual thinning of plantations,				      25
	the cod fishery,					     200
				    Total yearly value of raw produce,   L. 9250

        Manufactures.--There are no manufactures for the general mar-
ket in this parish, except the embroidering of muslin with the
needle by women. Twelve weavers, called customer weavers, are
employed in working up the produce of the domestic spinning-wheels
for the use of the families by whom they are employed.
	Navigation.--There are, at present, only four sail-vessels
belonging to this port. Of these one is of 80 tons burthen,
two of 40 tons, and one of 20 tons. All of these are frequently
employed in bringing coals for the use of the steam-packets, or of
the inhabitants. The largest sometimes also brings stone for the
harbour-works, and the others sometimes import lime for the pur-
poses of agriculture. About fifty years ago, six vessels of the ave-
rage of 60 tons belonged to the people and the harbour of Port-
patrick, and were employed in the coasting-trade, chiefly in the
importation of cattle from Ireland. It appears from the Statisti-
cal Account of 1791, that, sometime previous to that date, a com-
pany of shipwrights had been formed under the auspices of Sir
James Hunter Blair. But only four vessels of any considerable
size seem to have been built herd. The last of these was built in
1790.
	Besides the sail-vessels belonging to this harbour, two steam-
ers are stationed here by the Admiralty as mail-packets.
	Agricultural Association.--There is no public or private Asso-
ciation in this parish for the encouragement or improvement of any
branch of industry: but several of the farmers are members of the
Stranraer and Rhins of Galloway Agriculture Society, which is of
recent origin, but is believed to have excited considerable interest in
the improvement of the breeds of cattle and of the art of ploughing.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The nearest market-town is Stranraer, where there is a general
weekly market on Fridays, besides other stated markets during the
year.


