
102                          PERTHSHIRE.

salmon-fishing stations became more numerous and valuable.  To
f,uch an alarming extent had these obstructions arisen, and so long
bad the authorities neglected tb assert their right to remove them,
that many years ago it was judged advisable to consult the most
eminent engineers, as to the steps which ought to be,-taken, with
the view of asking new powers from Parliament.  Messrs Smeaton
and Rennie severally reported their opinion, the former recom-
mending a line of quay, suited to the craft then frequenting the
port,-the latter recommending a. suite of wet-docks on the South
Inch.
Mr Jardine afterwards surveyed and proposdd a new harbour
on the site of the old one, but projecting much farther into the
current of the river, together with the removal of the weel-ford,
it being the greatest obstructions and Dearest to the harbour.,
Mr Jardine's plan was adopted, and an act of Parliament procured
for carrying it into effect on the 17th.Jtine 1830, under the di-
rection of a board of commissioners twenty-nine in number.  The
commissioners had proceeded so far with the works under this
act, as to complete the new pier, when doubts were started as to
the efficiency of the remaining part of the plan, which provided for
the removal of the weel-ford, and the deepening of the river upon
an inclined plane, within the very limited space from the County
Buildings to the Friartown Hole.  It is but justice, therefore, to Mr
Jardine to state that his, recommendations were never fully carried
out, but were departed from, chiefly because they did not embrace
other fords between Perth and Newburgh, which would still have
presented great obstructions to the navigation, although the weel-
ford had been removed.
During 1833, this important subject occupied much of the atten-
tion of the town-council, the merchants, and the public generally.
It was at last resolved to employ Messrs Stevenson and Son, en-
gineer, to make a complete survey of the river, and to report fully
their opinion as to the best mode of improving the harbour and
navigation.  On the 22d January 1834, these gentlemen gave a very
full report, in which they recornmedded the removal of all the fords
in the river from Friartown to Newburgh, by a dredging-machine,
excavatin,r from 4 feet 3 inches, to 4 feet 9 inches; the  unction of
the several small islands to the mainland, by which means they an-
ticipated that the track from Newburgh to Perth would be deep-
enened to 16 feet at spring tides, and 11 feet at neap tides ; there-
by admitting vessels of 380 tons burden to pass at the former, and


