
382                               DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

mea.) The water-ouzel (Cinclus aquaticus,) most destructive to the
salmon fry, is very common about the lochs and the rivers. The
missel-thrush (Turdus viscivorus) is found both at Halleaths and
Elshieshields. The stone-chats are in great abundance on the
Lochmaben moors. The golden-crested wren (Regulus cristatus,)
the willow or silver-wren breed around Halleaths. The titmice
are all common, except the long-tailed one, which I have only
seen once in the erden at Elshieshields. The white and yel-
low wagtails are very common about the lakes. The different
species of linnets are found in great abundance. The raven (Cor-
vus corax) is occasionally seen by the sides of the lakes picking
up the small fish that happen to come within his reach. The
hooded-crow is seldom seen. The jay (Garrulus glandarius,)
though not abundant, is found in the woods of Elshieshields. The
goat-sucker (Caprimulgus Europaeus) is frequently seen at night-
fall, and its nest has been found at Halleaths. The pheasant is
frequently shot in the parish;--also the black-cock and grouse,
which breed within a mile of the town. The quail (Perdix Cotur-
nix,) and the butcher-bird (Lanius collurio,) have both been seen.
	Aquatic Birds.--The heron breeds in great numbers at Hal-
leaths,--the numerous lakes and streams in the neighbourhood sup-
plying them with ample food. The heron, in this part of the coun-
try, is very seldom destroyed, from a belief that it devours the
adder. The water-rail (Rallus aquaticus) is very abundant about
the outlets from the lakes. The curlew (Scolopax arguata,) the
lapwing (Vanellus cristatus,) the golden plover (Charadrius plu-
vialis,) the snipe (Scolopax gallinago,) and the woodcock (S.
rusticola,) are all common, particularly the S. gallinago. The
cormorant (Pelecanus carbo) is seen fishing in the Castle loch,
or sitting upon some insulated spot. The wild-duck, the teal
(Anas crecca,) and the coot (Fulica atra,) are all abundant in the
Castle and Hightae lochs, around which the common wild duck
breeds in great numbers. The kingfisher (Alcedo ispida,) a shy
bird, is frequently seen upon the banks of the Annan and of the AE.
The swan and wild goose resort to the lochs in severe winters.
				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Robert Bruce, first King of Scotland, was born in the old castle
situated between the Kirk and Castle lochs, which was the chief re-
sidence of the Bruces till the end of the thirteenth century.
	The writer of this article is not aware that any person particularly
distinguished in the arts and sciences, or in literature, claims this


