
<APPENDIX>

lxx

to the Reverend Joseph Townsend, who has given us, in his travels, a very
interesting account of this country.  At the conclusion of that work, he
mentions having had a curious paper put into his hands, before he quitted
Barcelona, which made him wish for the one corresponding to it.  It was a
schedule, with inquiries, directed to all the Prelates and Corregidors, by
Philip II. but he could not learn what answers had been returned, or what
steps had been taken in consequence thereof.  The Corregidors were to
make a report on 57 heads, the major part of which related to geography,
to natural and civil history, to heraldry, to agriculture, to the productions
of each district, to mineralogy, &c.; but there were several also, purely
Statistical, as,

   I.  What is the present number of houses and families? Were they for-
     merly more numerous? If so, to what cause must be attributed the
     subsequent diminution?
   II.  Are all the inhabitants employed in useful labour?
   III. Are the people prosperous and flourishing? What manufactures do
     they carry on? And in what do they excel?
   IV. What waste lands and commons have they? What is the value of
     these to the community?
   V. What is the value of the bishoprick, and of all the livings in the dio-
     cese, &c. &c.?

   It is evident, as Mr Townsend very justly remarks, from the general
scope of these inquiries, that the design of Philip II. was to gain a perfect
knowledge of his kingdom, with a view to political economy; but, in order
to dazzle the eyes of his subjects, he intermixed queries, which had no re-
ference to that object*.
   It is not known whether any material progress was made in this under-
taking; but it certainly does more credit to the memory of the Sovereign
under whose auspices it was commenced, than any circumstance, connected
with his reign, that is recorded in history.

   2. Sweden.-The second attempt, in modern Europe, seems to have been
made in Sweden, anno 1630.  The nature of the plan will appear, from
a circulater letter, addressed to the Clergy of his diocese, by the Archbishop

<FOOTNOTE>

*See Townsend's Travels through Spain, 2d edition, vol III p. 351.
I believe that no notice of this inquiry is taken, in any of the histories of this
Monarch's reign.


