
     Statistical Account

General Character.-The character of the people is various
but, in general, both here and along the eastern side of the Gram-

<FOOTNOTE>

and the examples of each, for the sake of illustration, added; but perhaps to
some persons, what has been already said may appear too much, while others
will fee, in the constitution of this language, a very striking affinity to the
Eastern languages, in some of their most distinguishing peculiarities.  Such a
strong likeness, and clear analogy, cannot possibly be the effect of chance.  To
the candid, who are at pains to trace it with industry and impartiality, it must
infer a near propinquity in these languages, and an origin from the same source.
This is the manner of reasoning with regard to the analogy between the ori-
ental languages themselves; and it is universally allowed to be conclusive.
   Evidence of this nature, founded on proofs drawn from the similarity or the
derivation of a few words, are generally regarded with some degree of suspi-
cion; but such a striking analogy, in the very constitutional and fundamental
principles of languages, and that in so many particulars, is a very different kind
of proof; and, in all cases, implies a family likeness, which is fairly and fully
recognized, and carries conviction to the mind.
   This conviction is strengthened, if it be allowed, on the credit of Ezekiel, Stra-
bo, Josephus, Bochart, Diodorus, Caesar, Tacitus, and others, (and I know not
how their testimony can be refused), that the Celts and Scythians were one
great people, or that they frequently mixed together, as they advanced in their
progress, and in the neighbourhood of each other, from Asia to the western
boundaries of Europe; and that they had a near affinity, both of kindred, and
of language, and manners, being sprung from Gomer and Magog, the
grandsons of Noah, by Japher.  There sons of Japhet were the first cousins of
Eber, the father of the Hebrews.  Their family language must have been ori-
ginally the same, and their claim to antiquity equally well founded.
   While tribes continue unmixed with people of other tongues, their language
continues pure:  But when empires are overturned, and fierce invasions take
place, the natives and foreigners, the invaded and invaders, are, in a course of
years, blended together, and their languages, however different, are melted
down in into one tongue.  This has introduced a confusion into modern lan-
guages and nations; by their being compounded of different races, and of
mixture of different words and idioms, from which more ancient languages
and an unmixed people are altogether free.
   The emigrations and separations of the same people, into different nations and
tribes, introduces indeed different dialects of the original language, but never
the mixed language, which follows from a mixture of heterogeneous peoples and


