
				LINTON.                            159

    burgh and Glasgow. There are at present in the parish 83 looms
    employed in that manufacture. Two dozen looms were also stated
    to be employed in customary or household manufacture. There
    are at present only two looms in Linton, and three in Carlops em-
    ployed in that trade. There are 5 tailors, 4 dress-makers, 2 but-
    chers, 5 carriers, 9 retailers of meal, groceries, and spirits, 2 sur-
    geons, 4 innkeepers, in the parish.
    	Of illegitimate births there are generally about three yearly in
    the parish.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>
				IV.-INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture and Rural Economy.

	 The number of acres cultivated, or occasionally in tillage, is        4,000
         Uncultivated, *                                                       19,500
         Capable of being cultivated with a profitable application of capital, 1,500
         In undivided common, Linton Green,                                        2
         Under wood,                                                             400

    In the last Statistical Report, the number of sheep kept in the
    parish was stated to be, "by a rough computation, about ten thou-
    sand." The number at present is 9640; the decrease being 360.
    In explanation of this, it is to be observed, that in 1790 there were
    no Cheviot sheep in the parish, whereas at present, in the number
    now stated, there are of the Cheviot breed 3660; and, wherever
    that sheep is introduced, a smaller number is kept. There is,
    besides, a good deal of land that was formerly stocked with sheep
    now under the plough, or pastured with cattle; and the importance
    of light stocking is now better understood.
	Husbandry.-The management of both the Cheviot and black-
    faced breeds is the same. The lambs are sold in the Edinburgh
    market, the best, however, being reserved for keeping up the stock,
    in supplying those sold off in the end of the season, or to be kept
    on turnips. If retained and kept all winter, they are sold off as
    hogs at Linton June market. The practice of feeding the old
    cast off ewes upon turnips had just commenced at the time of
    the last Report, and is now universally practised. Various mix-
    tures are now used as substitutes for tar in smearing, which is much
    disused. The chief ingredient employed at present is train-oil and
    cocoa-nut oil. Ewe-milk cheese is very little made in this parish,
    the attention of the farmer being at present directed mainly to the
    carcase, to which milking is unfavourable.
	There is nothing particular in the cattle and corn-farming to be
    remarked which is not in general practice. It may, however, just

<FOOTNOTE>Much of this uncultivated land is fine sheep pasture, which it would not be ad-
    visable to break up from its elevated and inaccessible situation.


