
                              FORDOUN.                        69

ferruginous clay; and, from the waste or uncultivated part of the
parish being mostly confined to the summits of the mountains, the
appearance of the How, as well as the sloping grounds along the
sides of the hills, is one unbroken extent of rich cultivation. This
is still farther improved by the neat appearance of the farm-stead-
ings, which are, for the most part, substantially built of stone and
lime, slated, and white-washed. The plantations on Hunter's Hill,
Strathfinella, and the enclosures of Kincardine, Phesdo, and Mon-
boddo, enrich and shelter the lower part of the parish. In a beau-
tiful glen, on the east end of Strathfinella, and on the top of a pre-
cipitous bank overhanging the Luther, stand the church, manse,
and village inn of Fordoun; and on the other side of the valley,
gently sloping to the south, the village of Auchinblae. * Few si-
tuations are more happily chosen than that of the church and manse
of Fordoun. Embosomed among fine old trees, with Strathfinella
hill on the right, and the Grampians in the distance, and overlook-
ing the Luther meandering down the narrow but beautiful valley,
the sides of which are richly covered with wood, it forms a scene
of picturesque beauty, which all must admire. This valley is said
to have formed the scene so feelingly described in Dr Beattie's

poem, Retirement.
   Mountains.--The principal mountains are the range of Grampians,
which form the north boundary of the parish. These mountains are
tame in the outline, and do not here attain the elevation they do to-
wards the west coast of Scotland,--the average height of the ridge not
exceeding 1400 or 1500 feet. There are two subordinate ridges or
spurs, which project out from the main ridge nearly at right angles,
viz. the Knock Hill behind Kinkell and Mondynes, and the Hill of
Arnbarrow, and its more southerly termination of Hunters Hill.
The hill of Strathfinella is, however, by far the most prominent
feature in the parish. It is one entire mass of sandstone, and is per-
fectly isolated, being separated from the Grampians by the narrow
valley of Strathfinella, in some places scarcely 100 yards, wide;
its extreme length or base is about four miles, its breadth about
a mile and a quarter. The outline is tame and unbroken, and
its elevation above the sea does not exceed 1000 or 1200 feet, the
height above the How being perhaps 700 or 800, while the How
or bottom of the valley of Strathmore is here, upon an average, not
more than 260 above high water mark.
   Meteorology.--The temperature of Fordoun is perhaps higher
than that of any parish in the county, with the exception of Mary-

<FOOTNOTE>A Gaelic name, signifying thd field of flowers or of blossoms.--Note by Dr Leslie.


