                          DYSART.                            127

tions for their relief is L. 28, 16s. The proportion of this sum
arising from church collections is L. 13, 3s. 8d. - and from other
funds, L. 15, 12s. 4d. There is now little disposition among the
poor to refrain from seeking parochial relief. The days when ap-
plication for such relief was reckoned degrading have long ago
passed away.
   Fuel.--The expense of fuel, which is coal, is the same as in the
adjoining parishes.
   Alehouses.--There is only one alehouse in this parish. The
number of inns, in many other parishes, has, undoubtedly, a very
pernicious effect on the morals of the people.

   April 1836.

                       PARISH OF DYSART.
           
               PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.
                  THE REV. DAVID MURRAY, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--As far back as there are any records of this parish, Dy-
sart has been called by its present name. It is said to be of Gae-
lie origin,-signifying the Temple of the Most High.
    Extent, Boundaries.-The parish is situated in the county of
Fife, on the Frith of Forth, and is about twelve miles from Edin-
burgh. Its extreme length is about 4 miles, its greatest breadth
about 3, and it is about 10 in circumference. Its form is irregu-
lar. It is bounded on the east by Markinch and Wernyss; on the
west by Kirkaldy and part of Auchterderran; on the north by
Kinglassie; and on the south by the Frith of Forth.
  Topographical Appearances, &c.-The coast, which in general is
bold and rocky, extends about two miles, and rises with a gradual
ascent from the sea above a mile northward.
   From its situation, Dysart is much exposed to winds from the
east; still it is allowed to be one of the most healthy districts in
the county. There are few or no diseases peculiar to it. Epidemics
are not frequent. When they come they prove most fatal in Path-
head, not so much from the situations of the village, which stands
high, being partly on a rocky and partly on a sandy foundation,-


