
                       RENFREW.                          23

they generally run from 60 up to 100.  Several farms around
the burgh are made up of separate fields, possessed or taken
from different proprietors; the farmers having their establish-
ments within the burgh.  The leases of large farms are commonly
nineteen years, but in this there is considerable variety, especial-
ly in farms made up as those last referred to.  The common
rotation is, first, some kind of green crop, then wheat, then hay
and clover, then oats, perhaps, and the same rotation over; or
the second crop of hay is pastured upon, and the land is allowed
to rest.
   Manufactures.-The manufactures in this parish are various,
though not extensive.  The first and most important is the mus-
lin weaving.  Connected with this branch, there are 257 looms,
of which 176 are called harnessed looms.  Each of the whole oc-
cupies one man,-except a few, which are wrought by women; and
every two occupy one woman winding yarn.  But in addition to
these, every harnessed loom requires the assistance of a boy or
girl, from seven or eight, years of age, up to probably fourteen or
fifteen.  There are thus, 257 weavers, 176 children drawing, and
at least l28 women winding,-making in all 561.  Weavers' wages
vary not only with changes in trade, but also according to the dif-
ferent branches of work in which they are employed.  But taking
an average of the whole, their earnings are believed not to exceed
perhaps 8s. or 10s. per week; all deductions being made.  The
children employed in drawing earn from 1s. 6d to 2s. 6d. per
week, and winders do not probably, realize more than 2s.  Be-
sides those who are thus immediately connected with the weav-
ing, a considerable number of females are employed with clip-
ping, tambouring, and flowering.  They bring their webs from
Glasgow and Paisley, and work in their own houses ; their earnings
being probably very much in the proportion of those already de-
scribed.  Though these different employments are generally free
from any thing noxious to health, they are all sedentary and long-
continued, usually from six o'clock in the morning till ten o'clock at
night.  The practice of employing children at drawing is, on various
accounts, objectionable.  Parents are induced to send their children
to this employment generally about seven or eight years of age, thus
arresting their progress in education, when they have but well
begun.  They endeavour afterwards to pick up a little at evening
classes, but their hours of labour are too extended to admit of this
without oppressions: their having been employed in this line from


