
264                KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

hired ror the winter, who resides alternately in each house in the
district, instructing such children as are sent to him by the neigh-
bouring families.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of persons at present
on the poor roll, several of whom have families chiefly dependent
on what they receive from the parochial fund, is much increased
of late, and the average sum afforded to each is miserably small.
The session funds arise from collections in church and a voluntary
assessment annually imposed by the heritors. The sum of L. 5
besides, arising from money mortified for this charitable purpose,
is yearly distributed to five such pnor persons as the kirk-session
judge to be the fittest objects.
	Fairs.--There is still an annual fair held in the village of Kirk-
patrick in March, but the assemblage of attendants has vastly
diminished, and the horse races and balls have dwindled into a very
paltry representation of what they seem formerly to have been.
	Inns.--There are four public-houses in the parish, which, in
general, are conducted in a respectable manner.
	Fuel.--The parish was long amply supplied with fuel from the
mosses with which it abound, but of late years this valuable arti-
cle has become scarce. Peats are still obtained in small quanti-
ties both in this and the neighbouring district; but the chief arti-
cle of consumption under this head is coal, which is procured from
the English skippers, who import it from the opposite coast, and
sell it to their customers at the harbour of Dalbeattie, at the ave-
rage rate of 7s. 6d. a cart load.
	               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the last Statistical Account was written, the general aspect
of the parish has been most materially changed. Then, there were
but one or two houses that could claim any superiority over those
Of the farmers, and these last again were but a very small step re-
moved above the humble thatched cottages of their servants and
labourers. Now, almost every considerable estate has its mansion,
and its neat garden and tasteful shrubbery. Heath and furze then
occupied large tracts of ground, which are now covered by thriv-
ing wood, or cleared. for the pasture of cattle and the growing of
corn. Then, only a few tracks existed to point out the direction
which the traveller should pursue, without aiding him materially in
his journey. Now, smooth and well engineered roads, intersect
the parish in all directions.
	Other changes too have taken place. The manufactures which


