
     of Chirnside.

   Church, Manse., Stipend, School, Poor, etc.-That the
church here may be 2 or 3 centuries old, appears from
the architrave, or coarse sluting of its principal door,
and also from a stone, of about a foot square, taken
down at the rebuilding of the east aile, or old choir,
having a few rude and faded characters upon it, which,
just legible, ae these:  Help the pvr (poor); and the
figures 1573. joined with them.  That the church might
be older than this signature upon the choir aile, is not
improbable, from the appearance its walls have of be-
ing much pieced up in the inward side.  Its vaulted
roof has been, many years since, taken down, and con-
verted into the present one of cupples, and blue slate,
with serking of deals.  It was, probably, among the
first in this country so covered; the advantage of which,
in point of interest as well as propriety, when compared
with the continual repairs of the thatched roofs, was
long and late of being apprenhended or admitted by many
heritors.  It is now in ordinary and tolerable condition,
but has not yet received such decent reparations within,
as are exemplified in several neighbouring churches*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The tomb-stones of the church-yard cannot be passed over, as they
exhibit that of the Reverend Mr. Henry Erskine, first minister of the
parish after the Revolution 1658; whole sons, Ebenezer and Ralph,were
the principal and famous leaders of an open and well known secession
from the Established Church.  The first was reckoned the pillar of the
party; while Ralph was allowed to be the best scholar, with a vein for
Latin and English poetry, but particularly fertile of riddles, in both of
which the elegiac distichs upon the tomb-stone of his father sufficiently
bear record.  Mr Henry died in the year 1696, and was interred, not in
burial-ground of the Episcopal ministers, and as such, resigned to their
successors in office, but in considerable separation from it; and what is
rather remarkable, there was no fraternity of coffins and bones between
the clergy of the two churches, by those of Mr. Millar, his immediate 
  

