
                       FRASERBURGH.                            257

ligious knowledge at home and abroad, and one of these has a pa-
rochial library, containing such books only as are calculated to pro-
mote that great object.
   Education.-the parochial school is attended by about 100
children, and of these there are generally from 20 to 30 girls.
The salary of the teacher is L.29, 18s. 10d. Sterling.  The amount
of fees is about L.50 Sterling per annum, and as he has the bene-
fit of Dick's bequest, and is session-clerk, his income altogether
may amouiit to L.130 Sterling per annum.  The branches taught
at the school are, the English, Latin, Greek, and French lan-
guages; writing, arithmetic, algebra, Mathematics, geography, and
navigation.  The books used are, Wood's English Collection;
Lennie's English Grammar; Simpson's History of England and
Scotland; the Latin classics; Moore's Greek Grammar; Greek
New Testament; Dalzel's Greca Minora; Porquet's Parisian
Grammar; French Fables and Telemaque; Morrison's Book-keep-
ing; Bonnyeastle's Algebra; Davidson's Mathematics; Hamilton's
Arithmetic; Norris's Navigation; Scott's Beauties; M'Culloch's
Progressive Exercises in Science and Literature; and the Assem-
bly's Catechism with Scripture Proofs.  The interrogatory or in-
tellectual system was adopted by the present schoolmaster, and
continues to be prosecuted with much advantage to his pupils
and credit to himself.  Besides the parochial school, there are
nine others, all upon the teachers own adventure; four of
them by male, and five by female teachers.  It is usual for parents
to place their children when very young under female teachers,
both to preserve them from accidents, to which they might be ex-
posed, by being allowed to roam in the streets without any one to
look after them, and to prepare them by instruction in the ele-
ments of education for afterwards going to the parochial, or other
schools, where the higher branches are taught.  By returns lately
obtained, it appears that there are about 500 children throughout
the parish receiving education at its schools.  There are eight
Sunday schools, attended by about 300 children.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of the poor upon the
roll is 80 who are relieved, according to the old system, by,collec-
tions at the door of the parish church, which amount to about
L.100 Sterling per annum ; by the greater part of the dues for
proclamation of banns; and by the interest of a fund of L.700 Ster-
ling.  The fund is made up of bequests from wealthy and gene-
rous individuals, who be onged to the parish, or who had previous-
  ABERDEEN                                   R


