
264                          PERTHSHIRE.

improvement of the Highlands, after the suppression of the Rebel-
lion in 1745.
   Clach-Ossian, or Ossian's Stone.-Towards the upper extremity
of the pass, and near the side of the river, is a large stone, eight feet
in height, and nearly cubical in form, which is said to mark the grave
of the Caledonian bard, Ossian.  When General Wade formed the
military road, already mentioned, the soldiers, induced either by cu-
riosity or the hope of finding secreted treasure, removed this stone
from its ancient bed.  Their curiosity was indeed gratified, but
that constituted their chief reward.  They found below it four
stones set on edge, forming a small chamber, 2 feet long, 1 1/2 broad,
and 2 deep, containing bones and some pieces of coin.
   This was held decisive of its being a grave ; but the question,
as to who might be the occupant of this " narrow house," the
"four stones with their heads of moss"-remains unsolved.  An-
other grave having been prepared at some distance, the bones were
carried thither to the music of the bagpipe, and again consigned
to the earth./f*
   Although laid open to the view about ninety years ago, two of the
stones still retain their erect position, and the chamber is not more
than half-filled with rubbish.  Surveying this simple tomb, situat-
ed amidst the wild seclusion of Glenalmond, the reader of Ossian
naturally reverts to the lines of the bard, so truly descriptive of it:
" Narrow is thy dwelling now! dark the place of thine abode!
with three steps I compass thy grave, O thou who wast so great
before! four stones with their heads of moss are the only memorials
of thee, a tree with scarce a leaf." Above the bridge of Newton,
where the Small Glen terminates, the hills on each side recede,
leaving a stripe of level ground on either side of this pastoral
stream.  This is known by the name of Western Glenalmond,
and contains several interesting objects, which fall to be noticed
under the head Antiquities.
   The Thief's Cave.-In one of the lateral glens, communicating
with Western Glenalmond, is a cave, called the thief's cave, from
its having been the retreat of a noted sheep-rtealer, called Alas-
tair Baine.  It is of considerable dimensions, said to be capable
of containing sixty men, and situated about midway up the
face of a rock, called the eagle's rock.  It might have afforded a
more secure retreat, but for its total want of wood.  Attracted by

<FOOTNOTE>These particulars are commonicated by Peter M'Ara, an old man of eighty-four,
still alive, and a native of Glenalmond, who received them from an eye-witness.


