

                      DUNINO.                    359

burned into lime, to manure the adjacent fields.	When the mar-
ble is polished, it presents a beautifully striated	appearance of yel-
low and white, and might be made a lucrative	article of com-

merce. Except on the clay soils of Stravithy Mains and Kings--
muir, where an ochreous mixttire is sometimes found, the water in
the rest of the parish passing through a sandy soil is excellent.
Our fountains in summer are not only cool, but, in their ordinary
state, may be compared with those of the most celebrated purity
-containing not more than three parts in a thousand of saline
particles and vegetable matter. Over the fields of Dunino parish,
may sometimes be found agates and ebalcedonies, and fragments
of light blue whinstode or trap, or of black whinstone or basalt;
but there is nothing to throw light on any of the two fashionable
theories of geology. Ironstone or bwmatites is not uncommon in
the parish.Recently, a person collected forty tons of that mine-
ral from theside of the rivulet which turns Stravithy-mill, and sent
it cost freeto Newcastle as ballast.
Zoolo.qy.-We have all the usual domestic fowls and ordinary
birds. Of the two species of Scottish deer, the stag and the roe,
only a few of the last mentioned peaceful and timid kind ocea-
sionally visit the parish ; and so do a few pheasants and foxes.
The vast colonies of rabbits described in the former Statistical Ac-
count are now nearly extirpated. It appears from an old charter,
that, one hundred and fifty years ago, moorfowl abounded in
Kingsmuir, but they have been expelled by the progress of agri-
cultural improvement. An attempt was made, a few years ago,
to rear a stock of goats of the Atigora kind in this parish.
They were fed with clover in summer, and with hay and tur-
Dips in winter, and were very prolific, the female generally
having three kids at a birth. But they were so mischievous in
their habits, and their milk in so little request in a healthy
district like Dunino, -and at a distance from a great town,
that in five years they were disposed of as unprofitable. There
is abundance nf pigeons in the parish, of which the minister has
annexed to his benefice the principal dovecote Before 1617,
any,-person at pleasure might erect a pigeon-house, and probably
the minister's dovecotwas constructed prior to that period. Af-
terwards, by law, it was incompetent to build a pigeon-house, unless
there was a qualification in the builder, of ten ebalders of arain in
heritage within two miles of the dovecote or unless it was purchase
eds from a licensed proprietor. Had it not been for the penalty


