
			EASSIE AND NEVAY.                  477

pillars. Of all the antiquities of a neighbourhood monumental
obelisks are perhaps the most interesting. They are histories in
stone of the age in which they were erected. They tell little, in-
deed, and that little obscurely, of the usages, the events, and the
men of those distant times. But they tell us nearly all we yet
know, or perhaps ever shall. Rising as many of them did long
antecedent to the dawn of authentic history, they were almost an-
tiquities to the earliest annalists, who, if theynotice them at all,
speak of them as relics of a far older time than their own. Many
of them have already disappeared. "Mors etiam saxis nomini-
busque venit." Those that still stand are often the only surviving
records of ages and generations long since passed away. They
were designed by each successive age that left them behind it to
transmit its memory and usages to posterity. The old name of a
monumental pillar perhaps indicates its use. It was "Amad," sig-
nifying in Hebrew the lips or words of the people; the people of
former generations thus speaking to those who are to come after
them. To this origin may be traced many of the popular tradi-
tions connected with those remarkable stones, termed "speaking-
stones."
	In Pembrokeshire there is one called Lich Lavar (lapis lo-
quax,) the tradition being that it called out when a dead body was
placed upon it.  In the history of Waterford there is the account
of another, so called from having contradicted a person who swore
falsely by it,-the Irish name signifying a speaking-stone.  Com-
mon tradition regards many of them as once animated beings.  Thus
Stonehenge is called the Dance of the Giants; and Staunton
Drew, in Somersetshire, the "Weddings." These are the fancies
of popular superstition.  But there is perhaps a soberer and truer
interpretation of those sculptured records.  They furnish us with
notices of antiquity that are not to be found in the written annals of
our country.  The beautiful execution of the devices and characters
engraven on them attest the skill to which the people had already
attained in the difficult art of sculpturing stone; and the characters
still stand out as bold and clear as when they first came from the
hands of the sculptor.  The obelisks south of the Frith of Forth
are not indeed of this description; but every where to the north
of it the obelisks are covered with emblematical devices; and those
of the northern counties especially are remarkable for their ela-
borate and exquisite workmanship.  Now our oldest annals tell us
only of turbtldnt times and barbarous tribes.  They could neither


