
                        KING-EDWARD.                           275

rest.  The farthest extremity of this disjoined part, which com-
prehends the estate of Montcoffer, lies within half a mile of the
town of Banff, and is about four miles and a half from the parish
church.  The distance of the manse from Aberdeen, the county
town, is forty miles.
   Topographical Appearances and Climate.-This parish is of an
oblong, irregular figure.  It is diversified with high and low
grounds, though there is no hill of any eminence within it.
The temperature in the western part is rather milder than in the
eastern.  In the eastern quarter, however, the climate has of late
been much improved by extensive draining.  Snow seldom lies
long on the banks of the Doveran, or in the valley in which the
church is situated.  The eastern part abounds in mosses, which
considerably affect the temperature,-in consequence of which the
different kinds of crops are rather later in coming to maturity than
in the western.  The north-west wind is the coldest which blows
here; the east wind is generally accompanied with rain, which is
pretty frequently predicted by clouds thickening in the west.
   The climate, as has been stated, varies a little in the opposite
ends of the parish, but, upon the whole, it may be said to be
healthy, as instances of longevity are not rare.  The late minis-
ter, Dr Duff, held the living for sixty years.  An old woman on
the estate of Eden died in 1833, at the age of 108; and her eldest
son, who at the time of his mother's death was aged 88, died last
winter at the age of 93.  An old woman also died here last win-
ter, who was supposed to have reached 100.  Consumption and
rheumatism are the diseases to which the inhabitants are most
liable.
   Hydrography.-The parish is intersected by a considerable
number of rivulets.  The river Doveran, which flows into the sea
at Banff, runs along the western boundary of it for several miles.
There is a fine large stream, named the Burn of King-Edward,
which runs from east to west along the valley of King-Edward,
and joins the Doveran about a mile to the west of the church.
The source of one of the branches of it is near the church of
Gamrie, within a mile and a half of the sea, and about eight miles
and a half from its junction with the Doveran.  The point of junc-
tion is about five miles from the mouth of the river.  The parish
is, upon the whole, well supplied with excellent springs.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-In so extensive a parish, as may be
supposed, there is a great variety in the nature of the soil.  In


