
48                            SHETLAND.

ence experienced by all, some gentlemen residing in Lerwick, in
the year 1820, entered into an agreement to engage a man to
travel as post betwixt Lerwick and this place, and to call at se-
veral intermediate stations, and to carry all such letters and papers
as might be committed to his charge. People residing in the
country parishes have some agent, or friend in Lerwick, who re-
ceives their letters from the general post-office, and puts them into
the hands of the person who is appointed to make up the mail for
the landward districts, where there are receiving-houses conveni-
ently situated. This plan has been found to answer extremely
well. The post travels twice a-week, and greatly adds to the
comfort of this remote parish and other parts of the country.
  Fences in general are of a very inferior kind. A ring fence, of
turf and stone intermingled, about three feet high, surrounds
townships, of from 80 to 100 merks of land, often belonging to
different proprietors. Within this fence there are from 12 to 40
small farms, for the most part lying run-rig ; and the consequence
of this mode of division is, that the tenants cannot, if they had the
inclination, raise crops of ryegrass and turnips, because it is not
in their power to protect them from the cattle. The land-owners
have good sufficient stone fences around their own farms, and they
have them also subdivided into enclosures of six or seven acres
each, and are thus enabled to have a judicious rotation of crops.
They are now beginning to see the inconvenience to their tenants
of the old system, and are having their farms laid in one spot, with
the view, it is hoped, of enclosing them. Indeed, the work of en-
closing has been going on, in a very spirited manner, for the last
three years; and although this cannot be converted into an agricul-
tural country-the pursuits of the people, as fishermen, the vari-
ableness of the climate, and the want of good markets for any ex-
tra produce, being insurmountable obstacles in the way,-yet there
is good hope that such improvements may be effected, as will meet
the dervands, of an increasing population, and enable the people to
procure for themselves many additional comforts.
  Balta Sound, on the middle of ihe east coast, and Uyea Sound, at
the south end of the island, (already mentioned,) are much frequent-
ed harbours, and as good, and of as easy access, as any in the king-
dom. It is much to be regretted, that there is no lighthouse to direct
distressed mariners to their entrance. Such a work is as necessary
on the north, as it has been found to be on the south extremity of


<FOOTNOTE> There is now a Government penny post, established in piece of this private ar-
rangement.-1841.


