
                             ABERLOUR.                           121

the village, a load of peats costs from Is. 6d. to 2s. 3d. according
to the quality.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   On comparing the present state of the parish with that exhibited at
the termination of the last century, it appears, that a great addition
has been made to its cultivated parts, as well as a great improve-
ment in the method of culture adopted. These, in addition to the
erection of the village of Charlestown, and the increased facility of
communication by means of the toll-road formerly mentioned, form
the most striking variations between the state of the parish at that
time and its present state.
   The bridge of Craig Ellachie over the Spev, near the eastern
extremity of the parish, likewise adds most materially to the ac-
commodation of the whole country south of that river, by opening
up a communication to the Elgin markets, and to Garmouth,
the chief grain market for this quarter; from which last place too,
this part of the country is most conveniently supplied with coals.
This bridge was erected in the year 1815, at an expense of L. 8000,
raised partly by subscription, and partly by voluntary assessment,
along with L. 4000 from Government; and in consequence there
never was any pontage exacted. It consists of a single metal arch
upwards of 160 feet in span, resting, on the north or Knockando
side, on a solid rock, which gives name to the bridge, and on a
strong pillar of mason work built on piles, on the east or Aberlour
side.
   In the Knockando approach, the road was cut in the solid rock
to the height of 70 feet in the immediate vicinity of the bridge,
and upwards of 100 yards in length.  Besides its advantage to the
country, which is universally acknowledged to be very great, the
appearance of the bridge, along with the majestic perpendicular
rock frowning over its western approach, is very grand and impos-
ing-adding greatly to the effect of the surrounding beautiful and
picturesque scenery.-It is frequently visited by strangers as an
object of curiosity.
   With respect to the improvements, of which the parish may be
still considered susceptible, the chief regards the communication
between its main body and the district of Glenrinnes.  A road on
this line would be highly beneficial to every part of the parish, by
increasing the facility of driving limestone from Glenrinnes, and
peat fuel from the foot of Benrinnes, to the district of Edinvillie,
and those parts in the vicinity of the Spey, and also by affording


