
272                         ARGYLESHIRE.

galleries.  A gallery in the west end would be a great accommoda-
tion, for though on ordinary occasions there is sufficient room for
the congregation, yet in summer the church is sometimes crowd-
ed, and the hearers feel uncomfortable.  The espense of erecting
a gallery would be but trifling.
   In the church of Inverneill, there is room enough and to spare.
In the year 1828, a government church was built at Lochgilphead,
and a district of this parish including Ardrissaig, and the farms to
the north of it, were annexed to that quoad sacra parish.  The
inhabitants of that district now attend public worship at Lochgilp-
head.  There are about thirty families within a reasonable dis-
tauce of Inverneill.  On the west side of Inverneill hill, there are
about 180 communicants, and on the east side attached to Inver-
neill district, about 20.  Within that section of the parish annexed
to the mission of Tarbert, there are about 120 communicants.
   The manse, offices, and garden wall were built in the year 1808,
soon after the admission of the present incumbent.  Having been
built by contract, and no person appointed to superintend the
work while in progress, the walls of the, manse were found to ad-
mit damp during the winter season; they have lately undergone
a repair; but the evil has not been remedied.  The minister is au-
thorized by the heritors to give any partial repair that may be oc-
casionally required for the manse, offices, and churches.
   The glebe, is about fourteen acres in extent.  By draining and
clearing away brushwood, nearly the whole is rendered arable.
The soil is partly mossy and partly sandy.  During the storms of
winter, it is liable to be flooded by the high tides, and the over-
flowing of the river, which forms the southern. boundary.  By these
inundations, the parts that had been under green crops (potatoes
or turnips) the preceding season are much injured.  To make the
stipend L. 150 with L.8, 6s. 8d. Sterling for communion elements,
the minister draws L.13, 6s. 10d. Sterling from Exchequer.  The
crown is patron, and the incumbents who have officiated in the pa-
rish since its disjunction from North Knapdale, have been, I. Mr
Patrick Pollock; 2. Mr Hugh Campbell; 3 Mr Daniel Hynd-
man ; 4. Mr Duncan Rankin, who was admitted on the 26th No-
vember 1806; 5. Mr Alexander Mackenzie, the present incum-
bent.
   Education.-There are five permanent schools in the parish,
four which are parochial, and one on the General Assembly's
Scheme.  Besides these, there are occasionally, during the winter


