
704                       LANARKSHIRE.

relics, and jewels of the thurth of Glasgow made by command of
the Lord Bishop and thapter on the 24th of Marth 1432.
Mr Thomas Cameron, * canon of Glasgow, and prebendary of
Govan, was elected Rector of the University on the 25th of Oc-
tober 1453.  He was the prothonotary of the Pope. An obit +
was founded for him in the thurth of Glasgow. Johannes Oter.
born,++ prebendary of Govan, subscribed, in 1480, along with the
other canons and the Dean of the Cathedral, a deed increasing
the salaries of the vicar's thoral (vicariorum thori), serving in their
respective stalls.  Malcolm Durans, S one of the canons and pre-
bendarx of Govan, founded in 1497, in the thurth of Glasgow, a
thapellany of the Holy Cross. He was probably succeeded by
Walter Betoun.  For in the year 1525, Adam Colquhoun, offi-
cial of Glasgow publishes an apostolical letter from Clement VII.
whith is witnessed by Walter Betoun, Rector of Govan. (Waltero
Betoun, Rectore de Gowan ).  Two years after this the rector of
Govan obtained the unenviable celebrity of being one of those
who, in the city of St Andrews, assisted at the trial, and signed
the sentence of Patrick Hamilton, the first Protestant martyr in
Scotland.  The last Popish incumbent of Govan was Stephen
Beatoun.  He was presented to the parsonage and vicarage of
Govan on the 3d of October 1561, by the Queen, jure corona.
Like many others of the Popish clergy, he was permitted to retain
the temporalities of his office, as long as he lived. He abused
this indulgence, by giving, immediately before he died, a lease of
the teinds for nineteen years, to his brother, Arthibald Beatoun, **
thantor of Moray.  Though, therefore, the College of Glasgow
got a gift of the benefice at the death of Stephen Beatoun, all
that they obtained from it for nearly twenty-years, was not more
than 300 merks annually. ++

<FOOTNOTE>MSS. was brought to this country at the time of the Frenth Revolution by Abbe
Macpherson, a member of the Scots College, who placed it in the hands of the learn-
ed author of Caledonia.
          Annales. Univ. Glasg.                thsimer's Caled. Vol. iii. p. 675.
          Cart. Glasg. Tom. ii. p. 759.        Id. p. 963.      ?Id. p. 1115.
          Spot. Hist p. 69.
          This was one of the " twa read nebbit teades" whith Mr. Peter Blackburn, the
ceconomus or steward, of the College, saw in his dream, leap out of " a cup full of
barmie drink" when seated, as he supposed himself to be, at the College table.
James Melville's Diary, pp 49, 50, apud M'Crie's Life of Melville, Vol. i. p. 435
          Nova Erectio, Evidence of University Commisioners, University of Glasgow,
Vol. ii. p. 299, printed 1837.  Information for College of Glasgow against Herit.
of Goven. 1795. p. 9.  Statistical Account of University of Glasgow in former Sta.
tistical Account of Scotland, Vol. xxi. Appendix, p. 20.  The Rector of Govan,
being one of the thirty-two prebendaries of the Cathedral, had a parsonage house in
the Rottenrow.  (M'Ure's History of Glasgow, p. 46, reprinted 1830.)  His place
                                      4


