
			KIRRIEMUIR. 				   159

while the southern division is chiefly level, the northern division is
nearly all mountainous.
	In viewing the southern division of the parish from the hill
of Kirriemuir, from which it is nearly all visible, we find that for
about a mile to the north of the parishes of Forfar and Glam-
mis it is nearly level; and that then it rises gently, forming al-
most one continued sloping bank, till within a few hundred yards
of the town, which stands nearly in the centre, and is separated
from this bank by a deep hollow or "den," to which we have
already alluded. To the east and west of the town the parish
is nearly flat; to the north it is almost level, till we reach the
braes of Inverquharity, the summits of which are covered with
thriving plantations, which contribute greatly to their beauty.
	The northern division of the parish may be described as consist-
ing of a large glen along the Prosen, flanked by lofty mountains
which rise on either side, but which are intersected by numerous
small glens and openings.
	The most remarkable mountain in the parish is Catlaw, part
of which is in the parish of Kirriemuir, and part in the parish of
Kingoldrum. This mountain forms the foremost of the Grampian
ridge, which extends in an uninterrupted chain,from the German
Ocean to the Atlantic, and is by some supposed, to be the Mons
Grampius of Tacitus. It is 2264 feet above the level of the sea.
	The braes of Inverquharity, and the hill of Kirriemuir, the only
eminences of any consequence in the southern division of the pa-
rish, are under cultivation up to their summit; but the mountains
of Glenprosen are in general covered with heath, interspersed
with patches of grass, produced or cherished by the many rills of
water which run down their sides.
	Meteorology--Climate.--The climate of the parish varies cousin-
derably,--the lower part being milder and more temperate than the
higher, except in the middle of summer, when, owing to the reftexion
of the sun's rays from the hills, the latter is perhaps warmer than the
former. About the boundaries of the parishes of Forfar on4 Glam-
mis, the air is milder than near the town, and to the northward, of
it. Upon the whole, the climate, of the southern division of the
parhsh may be described (especially since the ground has been so
much drained,) as more dry than moist, more clear than foggy, and
more salubrious than otherwise; and the sun is often to be seen
shining on Kirriemuir while the low parishes in the Strath are
enveloped in mist. Many persons of both sexes arrive at the age



