
                           KILFINAN.                        371

upper, and three in the lower end.  The branches taught in them
are English and Gaelic reading-writing, arithmetic, and some-
times book-keeping.  One of the above is the parochial school,
which is close by the church of Kilfinan.  The salary granted by
the heritors is the maximum ; but L. 6 of it are allocated to two
of the branch schools, viz. L.3 to each.  Hence the salary received
by the parochial schoolmaster is L.28, 4s. 41/2d.  In addition to
which, he receives the interest of L. 95, 1Os., being a sum be-
queathed by one of the Lamont family about a hundred years ago,
for behoof of the teacher of the parish school.  Of this money
the kirk-session are trustees.  The teacher has the other legal ac-
commodations.  He is also session-clerk, kirk treasurer, and pre-
centor, for which a small salary is allowed.  The highest rate of
school-fees is 3s., second rate 2s. 6d., and the lowest rate 2s. per
quarter.  Including several other small sources of emolument, the
income of the parochial teacher may be estimated at about L.50
per annum.
  All the schools in the lower end of the parish are unendowed,
except that one of them, which formerly was on the scheme of the
Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, has an excellent
croft attached to it, sufficient to keep a cow during summer and
winter.  This is granted by Mr Lamont of Lamont.  It is hoped
that this school, which numbers seventy or eighty scholars during the
winter and spring quarters, will shortly be admitted on the list of
schools endowed by the General Assembly.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons regularly
receiving Parochial aid is 34.  The funds are distributed half-
yearly.  Sums are allotted to each, according to their circum-
stances, varying from 8s. to L.1 : average about 15s.  The ave-
rage annual amount of church collections for the poor is from L.25
to L. 30. The other funds are interest of L. 275, mortcloth
dues, and marriage money.  The sum divided each half-year
usually amounts to L.25 and upwards.  There has hitherto been
no occasion for procuring funds by any other means.  The people
in general are in poor circumstances; so that, when disease or old
age comes upon them, they not unfrequently require parochial aid.
It is chiefly to the aged who have no near relatives able to main-
tain them, that such aid is given.  They do not apply for it till
need compels them, and they receive with thankfulness whatever
sum is granted to them.
  Market.-There are no fairs held in the parish : except that


