
34                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

into six parishes took place.  3. Grayfriars Church, which derives
its name from the monastery of Franciscan friars, to which it for-
merly belonged, is the only ancient church now remaining in the town.
4. Futtie Church or St Clements.  There had been, before the
Reformation, a chapel in Futtie, dedicated to St Clement, but this
having fallen into decay, there was no Protestant church erected
in its place till 1631, when a contribution was made for the pur-
pose of building one, and a catechist was settled there.  The pre-
sent church was erected on the site of the old one, but considera-
bly enlarged in size in the year 1828.  5. The South Church.
In 1779, a chapel was built in connection with the Relief body,
which, however, a few years afterwards, became connected with the
Established Church.  The old chapel, being incommodious and
insufficient for the congregation, was pulled down in 1830, and
the South Church was built on its site.  6. The North Church
was erected in 1826.  These are the six parishes, quoad civilia,
into which the old parish of St Nicholas was divided, as already
mentioned.
   The parishes quoad sacra are the following:-1. Trinity Church
was built in 1794 as a chapel of ease to the Establishment.
2. Gaelie Church.  This place of worship was erected in 1795,
and it continues to be used by those of the population who speak
the Gaelic language.  It has a small parochial district allotted to
it, under the name of Spring Garden, parish.  3. Union Church
was erected as a chapel of ease in 1822.  4. John Knox's Church
was built in 1833 as a chapel of ease.  5. A place of worship, in
connection with the Original Burgher Associate Synod, was erected
in l771.  the causes which had produced and kept up the separa-
tion between this body and the Establishment having been happily
removed, its minister, the Rev. William Primrose, has been recently
received as a member of presbytery, and a committee of that pres-
bytery is at present engaged in allotting him a parochial district,
under the name of Melville Parish.  Besides these, there was a
small chapel erected in the neighbourhood of the harbour, in 1825,
by the Seamen's Friend Society.  This was for a time supplied
indiscriminately by ministers of the Establishment, and various de-
nominations of orthodox Dissenters.  Efforts have been made of
late to place it in connection with the Established Church, and to
have a small parochial district assigned to it, and there is every
probability that, in a short time, these efforts will be successful.
   There is also a place of worship in Aberdeen connected with


