
                             TOROSAY.                       281

four hours before they come on, by a brilliant appearance of au-
rora borealis in the northern regions of the heavens.  The cli-
mate seems not to be rendered unhealthy by the great quantity
of rain which falls ; for, as the soil, in general, is very porous,
little of it remains in a stagnant state.  There is no particular
distemper prevalent in the parish.  Cases of typhus fever occa-
sionally occur; but, in general, they can be traced to infection
imported from the low country.
   Hydrography.-Besides being washed on two sides of it by the
Sound of Mull, the parish is indented by several loch and bays.
These are, Lochbuy, Loehspelve, Lochdon, the Day of Duart
Craignuire Bay,  MacAlister's Bay, and Corinahenchar Bay.
Lochbuy is three miles long and two broad; Lochspelve is six
miles in length and one and a-half in breadth; Lochdon is four
miles long.  At its mouth, near the ferry of Acuchenacraig, it is
half a mile in breadth, but it contracts itself immediately to a few
yards, and juts itself, in this state, windingly to its termination.
MacAlister's Bay is about two miles broad.  The other three
bays are each about a mile in breadth,  There are many fresh
water lakes; the principal are, Lochstranamban, near Lochbuy
House; Lochba, near Jarviesfield House ; and the chain of lakes
near the line of road through Glenmove.  Lochstranamban is five
miles in circumference: Lechba is seven ; but each of the three
in the chain of lakes is of much smaller extent.  The steepness
bf the banks of Lochstranamban, producing much acuteness in
the angles of incidence, causes every object upon them to be re-
flected ; and their height, excluding much of the atmospheric
glare, favours the distinctness of the vision, so that nearly equal
in vividness to the grandeur of the surrounding scenery, is the
picture of it reflected from the bosom of the lake when it is un-
disturbed by the breeze.
   The rivers are, the Lussa the Forsa, and the Ba.  The, Lussa
issues from the chain of lakes already noticed.  For the first two
miles it runs in a north-easterly direction, afterwards it bonds to-
wards the south-east, and, after a rapid course of six miles, it falls
into the sea at the east end of Lochspelve, where it is thirty yards
broad.  The Forsa, which is four miles in length, takes its rise
at the base of Bentealluidh, and after receiving all the rain which
falls in Glenforsa, it dicharges itself in the Sound of Mull, as
Pennygown, where it is twenty-two yards in breadth.  The Ba
issues from Lochba, and, after a course of two miles, it falls into


