
308                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

supply the wants of the people; and the rearing of cattle has been
attended to by some of the proprietors and tenants. According to
the last Statistical Account, the rents were mostly paid from the
sale of cattle; but during the course of the last twenty years, great
improvements have been made in the management of the dairy;
and at present a considerable number of the tenants depend, in a
great measure, on its proceeds to enable them to pay their rents.
They produce good butter, and cheese, of excellent quality.
Some of them transport their butter and butter-milk regularly
once or twice a-week to Edinburgh market.
   It is scarcely possible to ascertain the rent of arable land, be-
cause the greater number of farms have some moss or moor con-
nected with them. According to the estimation of the farmers,
the arable portion of their farms costs them from 14s. to L. 1 an
acre. The size of the farms is seldom greater than what is ne-
cessary to support a family, and almost every attempt to accumu-
late this kind of property has failed. The want of capital pre-
vents the farmers from making important improvements, yet a
good deal has been effected of late years, by some active and en-
terprising tenants. The estates of Harburn, Hartwood, and Her-
mand, have, during the last forty years, been adorned with small
plantations, and greatly improved in their agriculture, by the in-
telligent attention of the proprietors. Harburn, in particular, re-
sembles an oasis in a desert. Trees were rare about sixty or seven-
ly years ago in the parish, but are now abundant.
                    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.--Previous to the year 1646, West Calder
was a part of the parish of Mid-Calder, and had a chapel belong-
ing to it at a place tbree-fourths of a mile from the village of West
Calder. This place is still called Chapelton; and the proprietor
has in his possession a large hollow stone, which seems to have been
the font of the chapel. In the year 1647, the Commissioners for
the Plantation of Kirks and Valuation of Teinds, valued the teinds
of Calder Comitis, which included the parisbes of Mid and West
Calders; and allocated the whole teinds as stipend to the minis-
ters of the two parishes. West Calder stipend after this amount-
ed to 800 merks, together with 50 merks for communion elements,
and 30 merks for grass, till it was raised by the Government grant
for the augmentation of small stipends, to L. 159 Sterling, with 200
merks for communion elements. The glebe consists of 24 impe-
rial acres, and is worth about 20s. an acre. There has been also,


