
     Statistical Account

divided in the same manner, but far inferior in strength*.  The
Roman road, or causeway, is the eastern boundary of the parish,
and runs the whole length of it+.  This street has been traced

<FOOTNOTE>

*The CRAG TOWER was built on a rock of some eminence, on the E. side
of Oxnam water, about 500 yards W. of the church.  Within these 20 years,
it was a place of the same construction with those already mentioned, but much
stronger from its natural situation, being surrounded with water on three sides.
In the memory of many now living, there was a pit in the middle of it, which
is said to have been a read cut through the rock to the water, by which it was
supplied when besieged.  It is also said to have been surrounded on the accessible
side, with a strong wall, within which the inhabitants of the neighbourhood
used to shut up their cattle, to prevent the plunderers from carrying them off in
the night.  Anciently, the opposite bank of Oxnam water, on the W., was co-
vered with wood, denominated henwood, and is said to have been the rendezvous
of the inhabitants, to oppose the English freebooters, when the watch word was,
a henwoody.  A quarter of a mile to the W., on Millheugh-farm, there is a hil-
lock, called GALLALA-KNOW, which is said to have been used in the Border
wars as a place of execution.  Many buildings, similar to those described, are
scattered over the country, especially on the Border, which were called peels.-
There is a tradition, that, during the animosities between the two kingdoms, one
of the principal bells, now upon the cathedral of Durham, was carried from this
parish.  Certain it is, that OXNAM is inscribed upon it; but whether it be the
name of this parish, or of the founder, is not determined.  Some are of opi-
nion, that as Oxnam was subject to the abbacy of Jedburgh, the Crag Tower
might be a religious house, and the bell is said to have been hung upon it.
Before the union of England and Scotland, which seem destined, by their situa-
tion to constitute a mighty monarchy, among the military and turbulent Bor-
derers, so little acquainted with the arts of peace, and so averse to industry and
labour, justice was feebly, irregularly, and partially administered; and great op-
pression and violence prevailed, when rapine was the only trade, and bloodshed
often led the way to the successful prosecution of it.  By the interposal of the
authority of both houses of parliament, the reign of good laws is established,
tending, in an eminent degree, to form habits of order, industry, and virtue, to
increase the happiness of individuals, to promote national prosperity, and to in-
troduce a taste for general improvement, throughout this, as well as other parts
of the kingdom.
+A number of years ago, in a field belonging to Cap-hope, on the N. point


