
204                           RENFREWSHIRE.

country. *  It has been supposed that Paisley was not the first situa-
tion selected as the seat of this monastery.  A charter of Malcolm
confirms a grant of its founder, to the monks of St Milburga of
Wenlock, of the Cluniac order, seated at the church of St Mary
and St James, in the Inch beside Renfrew; and a recorded char-
ter of the founder grants to the monks of Paisley "terram quam
monachi prius habitaverunt." +  These words, however, do not
prove that Walter founded his monastery at Renfrew, and after-
wards removed it to Paisley, although they are strong evidence,
that, previous to the grant referred to, a settlement of monks ex-
isted at the former place.  But if, by any other evidence, it can
be made out that Renfrew was the original site of our monastery,
it appears that its founder soon discovered the superiority of
Paisley over Renfrew, as its site: for within a very short period,
and before the death of King Malcolm, did he remove the new
colony to their more permanent abode. ++
   The monastery was dedicated generally to God and the Vir-
gin Mary, and in particular to St James and St Mirin, S the
last of whom seems to have been a Scottish Confessor, who passed
his days in this vicinity, became afterwards the tutelar saint of the
place, and was commemorated on the 15th of September  This
monastery, by its original constitution, was ruled by a prior.  But
about the year 1220, it was, by a bull of Pope Honorius, raised to
the rank of an abbacy, and the lands belonging to it were after-
wards erected into a regality, under the jurisdiction of an abbot.
Its Abbot was entitled to wear a mitre, a ring, and other ponti-
ficals; ** and he and the monks obtained from the popes many bulls,
confirming their rights, and conferring on them certain privileges.  + +
It was liberally endowed by Walter, its founder.  "He granted
to the monks the Church of Inverwick, and the Mill of Inver-
wick, in East Lothian; the Church of Legerdeswode, in Berwick-

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers, in his Caledonia, has not only illustrated that obscure part of Scottish
History, the true origin of the Stewart family, by showing that Walter, the first
Stewart of Scotland; who obtained such magnificent possessions from David I.
was one of the Fitzalans of Shropshire, afterwards Earls of Arundel, but has ex-
plained the nature of connexion between that famil and the Cluniac Monks of
Weanlock-Vol. i. p. 572-6.
          Chart, Pais, pref. p. 5.                  Ib.
          "S. Merinus monachus, S. Regulo Graeco perfamiliaris, qui vol una cum illo in
Scotiam appulit, vel cum ille appeleret, strenuam, Deoque acceptam, instruendis
Christiana pietate popularibus operam impendebat, Scripsit, "Homilias de Sanctis,"
Florebat anno CCCLXIX." Dempsteri, Historia Ecclesiastica, p. 481, Tom. ii. print-
ed for the Maitland Club in 1829.
          Chalm. Caled. V. iii. p. 820.             Chart. Pais. p. 8.
          Chart. Paisley, p. 429.                   Ib. passim.

                                                     4


