
     1262                 PERTHSHIRE.

     agriculture and the rearing of stock.  They have made this pa-
     rish, compared with what it was formerly, very productive.
       Parochial Registers.-The books of discipline in this parish,
     which are not voluminous, dated from 1695 to 1734, in the hand-
     writing of Mr Matthew Wallace, who was the minister of the
     parish, contain a minute account of the parochial collections
     and disbursements.    These old manuscripts are at present in the
     possession of Mr Home Drummond.  The book of discipline has
     been regularly kept to the present time.
       There is also a register of births regularly kept by the session-
     clerk.  The registry of baptisms commenced in 1691, and that of
     marriages in 1692, and have been distinctly kept.
       Antiquities.-Some interesting vestiges of antiquity belong to
     this parish.
       When the Doune approach to Blair-Drummond was made,
     several stone coffins, containing urns and bones of the human
     body, were found, which are noticed in the " Transactions of
     the Antiquarian Society of Edinburgh," Vol. iii. p. 42.  Each
     coffin consisted of a box of stone rudely formed, and half the
     length of the human body.
       A portion of the skeleton of -a whale was found some years ago
     about a quarter of a mile from the manse, imbedded in the clay,
     which had formerly been covered with moss, and lying on another
     stratum of moss below the clay.  An account of it is to be found
     in the Transactions of the Wernerian Society.  It is very re-
     markable that a small piece of deer's horn, with a hole bored in
     it, was found along with this skeleton, of exactly the same descrip-
     tion as a piece of horn which Mr Bald mentions as found with the
     skeleton of the Airthrey whale, now in the Edinburgh College
     Museum.  The skeleton of the whale found here is also deposited
     in the same museum.
       There is a very well-defined tumulus within the garden of Blair-
     Drummond, of a conical shape, and of considerable dimensions,
     which has never been opened, measuring 92 yards in circumference,
     and about 15 feet in height; and there-is one of larger dimensions,
     within tire pleasure-grounds, on a bank overlooking the carse,
     which was probably a watch-tower, or signal-point, as there is no
     intervening object between it and Borrowstownness.  It is 150 yards
     in circumference, 15 yards in height, and 40 yards from the bot-
     tom of the bank.  There is a tumulus near Blair-Drummond
     east. Lodge, in which, on being opened, some fragments of urns


