
294                       	FORFARSHIRE.

in consequence improved; but were lime more easily obtained, a
still greater improvement would be effected.
	Mr Ford, the late proprietor of Finhaven, made an unsuccessful
attempt several years ago to find coal in the parish. It has already
been mentioned, that in the east end of the parish a boring was
executed to the depth of 160 feet, but that it failed. This attempt
cost about L. 150. But even this was not without its advantages.
A quarry of excellent freestone was thereby discovered in the neigh-
bourhood, which is now regularly wrought, and which will prove of
very essential benefit to the lands of Finhaven. Major Wilkie has
also opened a quarry near to this on his property of Newbarns,
which will also be very advantageous to him in the improvements
he is now carrying on.
        Botany.-There is an old tradition, and I believe it to be per-
fectly correct, that a great part of the parish was at one time co-
vered with a forest, called the Forest of Platon, which extended
from Finhaven Castle to Kirriemuir. It was probably a royal
hunting forest. The names of some of the farms in the parish
seem to indicate this; "King's Seat," "Forester's Seat," "Birk-
enbush," "Drakemire," "Wolf-law." The forest has long since
disappeared; but the roots of hard-wood trees have been dug up
lately in several places where the forest is supposed to have been.
Within the last forty years, plantations have been executed on a
very considerable scale, to the extent of 700 acres. These consist
principally of larch, spruce, and Scotch fir, and are in part distri-
buted in belts, and give to the parish a rich and covered appear-
ance.
	Thir parish was at one time celebrated for containing the larg-
est tree in Scotland. This was a chestnut that grew beside the
old Castle of Finhaven. It was killed by the severe frost in the
winter of 1740; but for twenty years up to 1760, a great part of
its trunk and branches remained standing. It was measured in the
presence of some Justices of the Peace in 1745, and an attested
copy of its measurement taken. When it was cut down, the late
Mr Skene of Carraldstone caused a table to be made of the wood of
the tree, on which there is an engraved plate of brass containing
the following inscription and statements of its dimensions:
	"This table is made out of the chestnut tree which grew at Fin-
haven, in Angus-shire, whose dimensions, as taken and attested by
several of the Justices of the peace of that county on the 20th April


