
                             IRVINE.                         633

that they might recommend the same to the Lords of Privie
Counsell for the issuing furth of a commission of assyse to sit up-
on the said persons, and after hearing, the presbyterie does judge
the confessions of the persons following, relevant to be recommen-
dit." Then follow the cases of Margaret Cooper, Janet Robison,
and Catherine Montgomerie; all of whom confessed "the renun-
ciation of their baptism, carnal copulation with the devil, and the
taking of a new name from him." Other cases of similar import
might be extracted from the record of the presbytery of Irvine;
but we pass on to another source of information, as to the preva-
lence and treatment of witchcraft in Irvine, about the period un-
der consideration. This source is found in the Memorials of Mr
Robert Law, page 219. During February 1682, silver plate was
stolen from the house of Major-General Montgomerie. A female
servant was suspected, but while she repelled the suspicion with
indignation, she proffered her services for the discovery of the
stolen goods. On a certain day, according to our author, she
"goes down to a laich cellar, takes the Bible with her, and draws
a circle about her, and turns a riddle on and twice from north to
south, or from the right to the left hand, having in her hand nine
feathers, which she pulled out of the tail of a black cock, and hav-
ing read the 51st psalm forward, she reads backward chap. 9, ver.
19 of the book of Revelation, he appears ib a seaman's cloathing
with a blew cape, and asks what she would; she puts one, question
to him and he answers it, and she casts three feathers at him,
charging him to his place again, then he disappears at this time."
	Two successive times, there is a similar appearance of the devil
who is twice met in a similar manner, when she found herself pre-
pared to disclose the place where the stolen goods were secreted,
and in the place mentioned they were accordinely found. For
this service, the Major-General committed to prison, where she
confessed the charge of witchcraft and told them she had learned.
the art from Doctor Colvin, who used to practise it in Ireland.
	Upon the retirement of Mr Warner in 1702, Mr William
M'Knight became minister of Irvine, and, remained in this situa-
tion till 1750, when he died. His successor, Mr Charles Banna-
tyne, was translated from Kilmorie in Arran, and died soon after
he laid the foundation of the New Church in 1774. During the
preceding year a church was formed in Irvine, in connection, with
the Sypod of Relief. The first stated pastor of this new church
viz. Mr James Jack, was not ordained till: 1777. The vacancy


