
102                      BERWICKSHIRE.

pairs of work-horses in the parish. The number of acres, there-
fore, under tillage, allowing fifty acres to each plough; will,350,
which, considering the nature of the land and climate, can scarcely
be expected to furnish much produce for the market. More had
been cultivated at one period, but was allowed to return to its ori-
ginal state, with the exception of a few patches, which are turned
over occasionally, to renew the pasture. It is very doubtful whe-
ther the farmer would gain by keeping much more land under the
plough while the market prices are so low, all the roads in such a
neglected state, and the distances to places of sale so great.
   Live-Stock.-The sheep are of the Cheviot breed, and amount
to about 4400 in number; and the black-cattle a mixture of several
kinds, in number from 70 to 80, average price L. 6, 10s. at two
years' old.
   Rate of Wages.-Wages of men and women hired by the half
year are about L. 7 per annum. Those of hinds or farm-servants
average L. 28 per annum, inclusive of the value upon their cow's
grass, meal and potatoes. The practice of giving these servants grass
for so many sheep is now abandoned, and L. 3 or L. 4 given in lieu
of it.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce cannot be
exactly ascertained; but the following statement (not including
pasture) must,pretty near the truth.

<TABLE>

Oats, barley and pease, 800 bolls at the Lammermoor fiar prices,    L. 770  9  4 1/2
Turnip, 70 acres at L. 2 per acre,                                     140  0  0
Potatoes, 10 acres, allowing 20 bolls per acre, at 6s. per boll,        60  0  0
Sown grass 2000 stone at 6d. per stone,                                 50  0  0
Natural hay 5000 stones at 3d. per stone,                               62  10 0
                                                                     ____________
                                                                   L. 1082  19 4 1/2

   Manufactures.-It may,mentioned under this head, that two
ingenious young men of the name of Bertram, both blacksmiths,
have lately invented an instrument, by which their labour in form-
ing hoops for carriage wheels of every diameter is wonderfully
abridged, and the fuel generally used completely saved. They
can produce twelve cart hoops in this way in one hour, without the
use of fire, except in joining the two points, and without the use of
the hammer at any other part of the process. This instrument
must soon come into general use: indeed, drawings of it have been
sought, and one of these little machines is already at work at In-
nerwick in East Lothian. It is intended to make an effort to se-
cure a patent for these young men, who, for character and genius,
are highly deserving of patronage.




