
84                      BERWICKSHIRE.

that there are upwards of fifteen miles of turnpike roads,-on which
there are three bridges, and all in excellent condition.
   Ecclesiastica State.-The church is nearly in the centre of the
parish, about three miles distant from the extremities; and although
it is three quarters of a mile from the manse, yet perhaps there is
not another place in all respects so eligible for the site of the
church, as where it now stands. It was built, as already noticed,
in the year 1649,-a very plain building, covered with heather
without, and unceiled within, but much larger and more com-
modious than it now is. In the year 1752, it underwent import-
ant alterations, as, besides the necessary repairs it received,
it was reduced to its present small dimensions. The reason of
this reduction in its size was, that the bodily infirmities of the mi-
nister, together with the breaking out of the Secession, and the ap-
pointment of one of that body to a place in Stitchel, who, to his
other popular attractions, added the charm of preaching in the open
air, had so greatly reduced the congregation that it was agreed upon,
for the comfort of the small remnant that frequented it, to reduce the
church to one-third of its size; and, accordingly, the Wedderlie aisle,
which fronted the pulpit, and which is said to have been ornament-
ed with the family arms, and other carved work, and to have been
altogether the best part of the church, was taken away. The roof
also was lowered, while the steeple, uncurtailed of its length, re-
mained the sole memorial of the ancient dignity of the building.
   Since that period, the church of Westruther has received no in-
termediate repairs of consequence, and was so rapidly falling into
decays that the heritors in 1807, met, from time to time, to concert
measures for a new building. But their consultations at that time
ended in some repairs, which, though designed to be only temporary,
have been considered sufficient to the present, day. It is believed that
the heritors, than whom none can be more attentive to the wants of
a parish, have it in contemplation to improve the present condition
of the church. The edifice, as it now stands, may accommodate
from 350 to 400 people. There are free sittings in the centre,
which will accommodate about thirty people.
   It may be mentioned among the many good effects produced by
the ministry of Mr Veitch in Westruther, that, in consequence of
the vast multitudes who repaired to him, especially on sacramental
occasions, when persons of the first respectability came from all
parts of the surrounding country, and some from as far as Edin-
burgh, and even Fife, the collections for the poor were most libe-
ral, and far exceeded the demand made by the greatest number


