
     Of Clackmannan.

however, of this tower, except the coat of arms, are now
remaining. The proprietor, it scems, in the beginning of

     VOL. XIV.  4 M

<FOOTNOTE>

garet Countess of Sutherland.  King David had no issue, whereby the
crown sell to the house of Stewart.
   IX Edwrd Earl of Carrick and King of Ireland (younger brother to
King Robert), married Isabell, daughter of John Earl of Athol, sister
daughter to the Lord Cumine Stair as Dumfries.  She bare to him three
sons, successively one after another Earls of Carrick; Robert, killed at
Duplin; 2. Earl Alexander, killed at Haledon-hill both without issue;
3. Earl Thomas married Dornagilla Cumine, daughter to Red John
Cumine, widow of Archibald Douglass Lord of Galoway (in her right),
by whom be had one daughter Eleonor, who married Sir James Sande-
lands, to whom her uterine brother Wiliam Earl of Douglas gave in
portion with her the barony of West Calder; of which mariage, the
Barons of West Calder and Lords of Torphichen are descended.  In this
Thomas ended the male issue of Robert Bruce first Earl of Carrick,
whereupon that Earldom was bestowed on John Stewart, Lord of Kyle,
eldest sone to King Robert Stewart, who thereafter was King, called
Robert the III.:  and the Earldom of Carrick was annexed to the prin-
cipality.
   X. King David Bruce, in the 39th year of his reign, 1369, gave the
barony and castle of Clackmannin, which of old belonged to the crown,
to his kinsman. "Delecto confaguinco," faith the charter, dated at
Perth the 9th of December, a regm 39.
   Robert Bruce descended of William Adelmes' brother, whose succes-
for (after the house of Annandale were extinct). did succeed as chief,
and to assumed the armes, to wit, a chief and saltier, so carried by the
lairds of Clackmannin.  The house of Airth giving for difference a star
in chief, and Earlshall descended from Airth for a farther difference,
adeth a flower de lis, in memory of his advancement by King Charles
the VIII. of France (for his great services) to the barony of Concresault,
which he excambed with the Lord Monneypenncy for the lands of Earl-
shall on Fyffe.
   XI. Sir Bernard Bruce, third son to the foresaid Robert fourth Lord
of Annandale, by the favour of elder brother, Robert the Noble. who
married David Earle of Huntingtoun's daughter, obtained the marriage
of the heir of Connington, in Huntingtounshire, and Exton in Rutland-
shire, in England, holding in see of the Earls of Huntingtoun.  To him


