
     of Dyke and Moy.

   He keeps a factor here for his northern properties, who re-
sides at Earlsmill.  The proporietor of Dalvey is resident in
London.

   Mode of Cultivation.-The mode of cultivation is not yet,
in the general practice, reduce to established rules, or a re-
gular succession of crops; and all attempts of binding down
the mode of procedure upon tenants, by articles, are either
spurned at, or prove abortive.  The general prepossession is in
favour of whatever mode of cultivation gives the quickest re-
turns, with least expence and trouble.  Their practice (as it
ought to be) is more the result of observation and experience,
than of theory* and system; yet it is gradually, though slow-
ly, changing for the better.  Nobody doubts any longer of
the profit of sown grasses, with, or even without, enclosing.
Small patches of grass are sown, and enclosed with flakes or
paling by the poorer sort; and clover and rye grass, to great-
     VOL. XX. C

<FOOTNOTE>

*Such proprietors as are bent on agricultural improvement, are too apt to
complain of the slow progress of new methods among their farmers, which
they erroneously impute to stupidit or obstinacy; but, considering how ma-
ny richer people have suffered deeply, by new experiments and speculations
in husbandry, it is a lucky circumstance for landlors that tenants are not so
venterous as proprietors in these particulars.  With a heavy tent hanging
over them, and their living and credit at stake, it behoves them not only to
see before they believe, but to be somewhat easy before they hazard upon
schemes of enclosing, fallowing, and liming; and it is not to be expected,
that they should hashly lose fight of those cautious habits, which have ena-
bled them to keep credit from the beginning.  Perhaps the speediest and
most effectual way, of introducing useful alterations in their method and ma-
nagement, would be, for proprietors to make farmers of the most judicious
and thorough bred of their farm-servants.  When these could be observed to
profit by the new methods they had been bred and accustomed to, hundreds
would copy from a thriving farmer, who has no resources but his plough and
better management, for one that will venture to imitate a monied landlord;
whose crops his tenants may admire, while they remain doubtful and suspi-
cious how far the profit will repay the expence.


