
     Statistical Account

of the auxiliary verb, which signifies to be (a).
   The persons of each tense are distinguished, not by dif-
ferent terminations of the verb, but by adding pronominal
particles to each person, both in the singular and plural num-
bers (b).  The third person singular of every tense has
genders, or admits of a masculine and feminine particle affix-
ed (c).  The moods, in a strict sense, are the indicative, the
imperative, and the infinitive.  Some mode of expressing what
is called the subjunctive, must be, in every language.  In
Gaelic, it differs from the indicative only by the addition of
one syllable to the verb, and a conjunction before it (d).  The
imperative has no more than the second person in both num-
bers (e).  The action of the third person is expressed by the
subjunctive, whether it implies command or desire (f).
The infinitive is frequently used as a subjunctive noun, ex-
pressive of the abstract signification of the verb (g).  The
gerunds are expressed by the infinitive, and are known by the
particles being placed before them, which mark the oblique
cafes of nouns (h).  There is only one conjugation.  Gram-

     4

<FOOTNOTE>

seeming to attend to the consequence, which will be feebleness and obscurity
The ear is never hurt by consonants, which are not founded.  The other lan-
guages of the north of Europe, and also the oriental languages, retain their ra-
dical consonants, without which it would be impossible to know their meaning
or derivation.

   (a) The present is, ata-mi sgriv, I am writing, or I write.  The perfect,
sgriv-mi, I wrote; future, sgrivih-mi, I shall write.  (b) Sgriv-mi, sgriv-i,
fgriv-e, sgriv-sin, sgriv-siv, sgriv-iad.  (c) Sgriv-e he wrote; sgriv-i, she
wrote.  (d) Hinh-e, chum, sgun sgriveah-e, he fat that he might write.  (e)
Scriv-us, write thou; scriv-rv, write ye.  (f) Third person singular, ser-
veah-e, let him write; third person plural, seriveah-iadsan, let them
write.  (g) The infinitive is, seriveah, as, ha mi dol seriveah, I am going
to write; we say, ciod an seriveah-fin, what writ or writing is that?-(h)
An seriveah, of writing; do seriveah, to writing; chum seriveah, ad seribendum,


