
246			LANARKSHIRE.

at present, and if some change does not soon take place, agri-
eulture must greatly decline, and the poor soils be entirely ne-
glected. Several ploughing matches take place in the parish
yearly, by which much emulation among the ploughmen is ex-
cited, and those who obtain a first or second prize generally after-
wards expect, and get higher wages. Much attention is paid to
improving the breed of cattle; and the Ayrshire breed is preferred,
and generally prevails in the parish. During the late war, flax
brought a good price, and many acres, from 500 to 800, were cul-
tivated yearly; but the price is now so low, that it will not yield a
profit to the farmer, and is therefore now little attended to.
	Rate of Waqes.--Common labourers at present receive 10s. or
12s. per week; but masons, carpenters, staters, &c. receive 15s. or
18s. per week.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The only market-town in the parish is Airdrie, one of the new
Parliamentary burghs, having all the privileges of a royal burgh,
and along with Lanark, Hamilton, Falkirk, and Linlithgow, sending
a member to Parliament. Its population still is rapidly increasing.
The villages of Coltston, Clerkston, Greengairs, and Kiggend, are
also thriving villages. The post-office is in Airdrie, and there is a
post twice in the day.
	Means of Communication.--The turnpike-roads in the parish are
the one from Edinburgh to Glasgow by Bathgate and Airdrie, which
intersects the south side of the parish, and the new road from Car-
lisle to Stirling, which intersects the whole parish from south to
north. These roads have afforded a very great facility to the im-
provement of the lands in their neighbourbood. The Balochney
rail-road, which is in this parish, connects itself with the Kirkin-
tilloch rail-road, and the Garnkirk rail-road, for carrying coals to
Glasgow, and the Forth and Clyde Canal at Kirkintilloch, from
whence they are carried by the canal east to Edinburgh, and west
to Greenock and Ireland,--the canal joining the Clyde near Old
Kilpatrick.
	Eccelesiastical State.--The parish church is situated about two miles
from the west end of the parish, on an eminence,and is seen at a great
distance from the west and north-west; it is far from the people
in the east end of the parish, some of whom attend other churches
more contiguous. The church contains 1200 sittings, and was built
in the year 1777, and much repaired in 1817, and is at present in
tolerable condition.  One-fourth part of the sittings belongs to


