
             CROSS AND BURNESS.                                 95


of as much in a day and night, will leave this exciting employment
for farm work at a much per month. The remedy of all this is
evident. Let the cottar's house and land be rented in money,
which rent let him make out in any line his genius may lead him
to. If the tenant requires his services, he ought to be hired by
the day or hour at fair money wages, and if he requires any farm
produce he ought to pay for it in cash. In regard to farm-servants,
the tenant would find his interest in employing only those who have
nothing to do with boating or fishing,-managing his farm so as to
give them work all the year round, and paying them such wages
as shall give him a right to insist for closed, constant, and active
service.
     The most approved make of carts, ploughs, rollers, and other
farming implements are in general use; and some of the plough-
men would obtain prizes at a competition even in the south country.
     The society of Sanday is equal to that of any of the islands,
and the clergy and principal farmers are exceedingly hospitable
and obliging to each other, as well as to strangers. There are few
or no games, or public amusements of any kind. The common
people used to be fond of dancing and foot-ball playing, but of
late years, it is to be regretted, that, while there is less bilarity and
social enjoyment among the young, there is more of quiet tippling
in the public-house. Relaxation and amusement are necessary;
and when the innocent recreations of music and dancing are dis-
couraged, there is a risk that something worse may be had re-
course to.
     The language spoken, as through all the islands, is English.
Among the peasantry a good many words are peculiar to the north
isles, and some of them are evidently of Scandinavian origin. A
few are given in alphabetical order. Anything like a complete
list would encroach too much on our space.

<FOOTNOTE>Abin, (v.) to thrash half a sheaf for giving horses.-Abir, (n.) a sheaf so thrashed.
         -Acamy, (adj.) diminutive.
         Bal, (v.) to throw at-Been-hook, (n.) part of the rent paid by a cottar for his
         land is work all harvest; but besides his own labour, he must bring out his wife
         three days, for which she receives nothing but her food. All the women on a farm
         are called out at the same time; they work together, and are called been hooks,
         and the days on which they work been-hook days-Bull, (n.) one of the divi-
         sions or stalls of a stable-Buily, (n.) a feast-Buist, (n.) a small box-Buit ic,
         or Buito, (n.) a piece of flannel or home-made cloth, worn by women over the head
         and shoulders-Brammo, (n.) a mess of oatmeal and water-Bret, (v.) to strut-
         Brodend, (adj.) habituated to-Burstin, (n.) meal made of corn parched in a pot or
         "hellio."
          Crue, (n.) a small enclosure for raising cabbage plants-Cummal, (n.) a small
         rising ground-Cuppo, (n.) a hollow place-Cheesing meat, (n.) It was formerly


