
     of Urr.

Solway Frith), is a course of more than 20 miles.  The wa-
ter of Urr skirts the parish of that name, so as to divide it from
those of Crossmichael and Buittle; but the source of the river
is about 15 miles farther up in the country, than the spot
where it becomes the limit of this parish, as already mention-
ed.  Vessels of 60 tons find the Urr navigable up to Dal-
beaty, at spring tides.  At small expence, and with no consi-
derable efforts of ingenuity, this navigation might be improv-
ed, both by bringing it farther inland, and by rendering it
more commodious for imports and exports: But in this re-
spect, as well as some others, patriotism and disinterested-
ness make but a tardy progress.-Besides pikes, trouts, and
some other sorts of fresh water fish, this river affords salmon.
In wet summers, the latter are had in considerable quantities;
but in dry seasons, sea fish can get but little higher than the
flow of the tide.  The price of salmon here depends much up-
on the quantity taken, as little is sent out of the parish.  Two
pence per pound was the average this year; and at no time
are fish sold higher with us, than the market rates of Dum-
fries, or of Kirkcudbright, from which towns, Haugh of Urr
is equally distant.

   Soil and Cultivation.-The foil of Urr is in general light,
but, at an average, very kindly.  The upper parts of the pa-
rish are moorish; but, in general, capable of tillage; and it
is believed, the arable land in Urr may be, to that which can-
not be plowed, as 12 to 1.-Agriculture is by no means come

<FOOTNOTE>

Scotland, is universally admitted.  Now the probability of Season's being in
Fife, when the partisans of Bruce expected that prince at Dumfries; the pro-
bability that any man, so obnoxious to Edward I. as Sir Christopher Seaton,
should attempt to conceal himself in Fife, rather than in Galloway, (which at
that time was one of the wildest districts in Scotland), are matters that may be
very safely left to common sense to determine.


