
        		KIRRIEMUIR.                           171

and Mr George Ogilvy remarks, that, in his time, the roots of them
were dug up in the moor by people casting peat and turf. This
wood belonged of old to the Earls of Crawford, who set a forester
over it. It afterwards belonged to the Earl of Strathmore, one of
whose titles was Heritable Forester of the Forest of Plater. It
now belongs to Charles Lyell, Esq. of Kinnordy. One of the
maxims of war, which was bequeathed by King Robert Bruce as
a legacy to his countrymen, was "Let wood for walls be." There
is a tradition, accordingly, (and it is countenanced by Fordoun,)
that Sir Andrew Moray, the friend of Wallace, and the Regent
of Scotland, on a memorable occasion, having been pressed by the
English, had recourse to the forest of Plater, where he concealed
himself for the winter, and frol which he issued and marched
straight to Panmure, when a bloody battle was fought, and when
a distinguished victory was obtained,--4000 men, among whom
was Lord Henry Mountfort, having been left dead on the spot.*
	The natural timber in the parish is now very limited in quantity,
being confined chiefly to birch, alder, hazel, black-thorn, and willows,
on the sides of the waters at the northern extremity of the parish, and
in Glenprosen. On dry ground, though bare, there is no tree that
thrives better than the larch; but for wet land the Scotch fir is to
be preferred. The best situations for the growth of most kinds of
trees are found by experience to be the steep banks of dens, and
the sloping sides of hills. It has been remarked, that oak thrives
better than any other kind of hard-wood in inferior soils. In low
moors, where the soil is thin, and the subsoil retentive, trees seldom
come to any considerable size: but when the subsoil is porous the case
is otherwise. Mr Chalmers, who has had great experience as a fo-
rester, having planted nearly 1000 acres on the estate of Kinnordy,
is an advocate for thin plantings--a practice which he justifies by
many arguments. There are around Inverquharity Castle a few
old chestnut trees, not so remarkable for their size for their
age. There are here also many very fine ash-trees, some of
which are supposed to contain upwards of 100 cubic feet of wood
of the best quality. I measured an ash-tree, which is upwards of
13 feet in circumference, and an elm, which is nearly 12 feet.  But
the largest trees in the parish are to be found around the mansion-
house of Logie. The periphery of the great ash-tree is nearly

<FOOTNOTE>On the question of what has become of the oaks of the forest of Plater, the writer
begs to refer to the Notes to Mr Tytler's History of Scotland, where they will find
the subject discussed in a satisfactory manner.


