
300                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

60 to 70 cubic feet of timber.  The top of the tree was not raised,
so that its full size was not ascertained.  These solid parts were
sent to Gordon Castle, where, after having been left for a time
to dry gradually, they were cut up for cabinet purposes.  The ex-
tremities of several such oaks may still be seen sticking out from
the bank of the burn, a little below the church and glebe of Drum-
blade, on the farm of Baggry Mill, parish of Forgue.
   Soil, &c.-The soil in this parish, though presenting consider-
able variety, may be said in general to be of a superior kind, con-
sisting, for the most part, of a deep rich loam, capable in favourable
seasons of yielding abundant crops, and if the climate (still suscep-
tible of great improvement, were more attention paid to hedging and
planting), were equal to the soil, it would, it is believed, be found
particularly adapted for wheat culture, which has begun of late years
to be somewhat attended to.  There is at the same time in many
places a coldness of subsoil, which is not very encouraging, arising,
perhaps for the most part, from a still imperfect drainage, which
the ordinary system practised does not seem fully to overcome, not
only from the soil being unusually stiff and retentive, but from a
hard crust often found beneath, which, it is hoped, the trench, or
subsoil plough, now begun to be introduced, may do much to re-
move.  While the greater part of the parish consists of this stiff
heavy soil, there is yet a very considerable difference between the
western district, to the south and west of the Aberdeen and Huntly
turnpike, and the other districts.  The former being of a lighter
and sharper description, with a subsoil consisting generally of loose
sand and gravel, and somewhat earlier than the other parts.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-The most interesting event that falls to be
noticed under this head, is the circumstance of King Robert Bruce
having lain encamped here during a time of severe sickness, while
he kept in check at the same time Commyn, Earl of Buchan, who
had followed him hither, and who was then and long before one of
the most powerful of the Scottish barons.  This seems to have been
just before the battle of Barra, which was fought between the same
parties in the year 1307.
   History and tradition have pretty uniformly pointed to Sliach in
this parish as the place so distinguished,-a certain height upon
which is called Robin or Robin's Height at this day.  Indeed, this
point seems never to have been disputed until within the last few
years, when Mr Tytler, in general, the most accurate and philoso-


