
     of Fintry.

most beneficial mode of using the ground in this parish, where
hill and vale equally afford most excellent pasture for black
cattle and sheep.  They use the plough therefore chiefly with
a view to the sustenance of their cattle through winter, as
sodder is the great object of labour.  In some of the farms
the rent is solely paid from the produce of milk cows; in-
deed butter and cheese form the staple produce of the parish.
Feeding of cattle is also generally prastised.  In the month of
May, each farmer but, a number of Highland cows, propor-
tioned to the extent of his farm, which he fattens during
summer, and again sells off in the months of September and
October.  When markets are brisk, and sales ready, this is by
much the most convenient and advantageous method of using
the ground in this parish, as the excellence of the pasture
during summer, ensures the fattening of the cattle purchased,
and the difficulty of procuring fodded for winter prevents the
rearing any more than are necessary, to keep up the stock of
milk-cows.  Sheep are also an object of attention.  The
breed is in general good, a consequence of the excellent pas-

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

ed in Glasgow, and weighed, according to the purchaser's concession, 52. stones
beef, and 10 stones tallow: the price he received was 25 guineas.  At an ther
time he sold 25 Highland stots at 12 L. each, the of which weighed up-
wards of 30 stones He sells annually about 60 tup-lambs of a year old, for
which he never receive, less than a guinea each; and his lambs for killing he
commonly sells in May at half-a-guinea each.  He carries on his plan on a very
extensive scale, renting farms in different parts of the country, from one to ano-
ther of which, he removes his cattle at the proper season according to the qua-
lity of the farm, and the state of the cattle.  His stots he tells at 5 years old,
but calves of his own rearing sometimes equal his best cattle, at three years old
and are accordingly sold at that age.  When he dealt to the greatest extent he
paid rents to the amount of 1800 l. per annum; the largest proportion of which
he paid to the Duke of Montrose.  His annual stock at that time was 470 black
cattle, and 2740 sheep, of which 200 were ewes, as a permanent stock from,
which he has frequently sold in a year 300 lambs.

</UNREADABLE>


