
      242                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

      other part to a permanent population ; and for the same reason, we
      may suppose it to have been continued in use during the time of
      Episcopacy.
        Its local situation could never have been convenient to a great
      part of the population ; but the inconvenience arising therefrom
      was remedied latterly by the labours of a missionary minister, who
      itinerated among the people in the remoter parts, and the people
      have now the benefit of two Parliamentary ministers stationed
      among them.
        At what period the church was erected is not known ; but the
      ancient appearance of the fabric,-several niches in the wall,-and
      the immense number of human bones found strewed within, (prior
      to the late repairs,) afford a strong presumption that it was built in
      Popish times. There cannot be a doubt that it was used for di-
      vine service while Episcopacy flourished in Scotland. About sixty
      years ago, it was newly roofed and slated : but not having been fi-
      nisbed within, it was long the most miserable place of worship in
      the shape of a parish church in the kingdom; nor can much be
      said in favour of it still. A repair was executed upon it last season,
      but of such a nature that it continues confined and comfortless.
        The manse was built in the year 1794, but was very imperfect-
      ly finished; and having been found inadequate to the incumbent's
      comfortable accommodation, the Court of Session, with its wonted
      enlightened and impartial liberality, decerned for a repair and im-
      provement of it and of the offices in 1829.
        Twenty-six Scots acres, arable and pasture, constitute the grebe.
      Being encompassed by water, and very flat, it is subject to inundation,
      which greatly deteriorates its value. In 1823, all the heritors,
      surrendered their teinds ; the stipend is consequently payable in
      money, and averages the value of 16 chalders. For nearly thirty
      years, there has been an itinerating catechist on the establish-
      ment of the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge. The
      people being warmly attached to the Established Church, there
      is no chapel or Dissenting meeting-house of any kind in the parish;
      and we are happily free from Papists, voluntaries, and Seceders.
        Divine service is performed every Lord's day both in English
      and Gaelic, and is well attended in each language. The average
      number of communicants is about 100.
        Education.-Bosides the parish school, there are other three
      supported by societies, and one by the inhabitants. English,
      Gaelic, writing, book-keeping, and arithmetic are the branches


