
     General Appendix to

ble circumstances, less progress had been made, than was con-
sistent with the enlarged views of true patriotism.  In order,
more fully, to remedy this inconvenience, in the second ses-
sion of the first parliament of William and Mary, it was en-
acted, 'That there be a school and schoolmaster in every
'paroch; his fee not under an hundred marks, nor above
'two hundred; to be paid by the heritors and liferenters in
'the paroch, to have recourse for the half off their tenants;
'and that letters be therefore directed with the same privi-
'leges as to suspensions with ministers' stipends. W. & M.
p. 1. s. 2. c. 24.
   This scheme was wisely conceived, judiciously executed,
and attended with a proportionable degree of success.  It was
even liberal, for the days in which it was projected.  The
schools were numerous, and equally distributed; their endow-
ments were competent to supply all the wants of mediocrity,
without placing the master above the exercise of economy,
or the exertion of industrious talents; and the tenure of these
endowments was simple, permanent, and respectable.  Of
what rapid advantages the plan was productive, few, I pre-
sume, need to be informed:  For, few are ignorant of the wor-
thy characters, who have presided in there humble semina-
ries; of the distinguished names who have issued from them,
to guide the helm of state, to preside on the bench of justice,
or to adorn the various walks of literature*; but above all,

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is difficult for honest exultation to be silent, when, in the list of teachers,
it has such names as those of Ruddiman and Beattie to recount; and, in that of
scholars, such men as Fletcher, Adam Smith, and Lord Loughborough.  In this
place, Fletcher particularly deserves honourable mention.  As a man, a citizen,
a scholar, he was equalled by few.  The importance of encouraging general
education he thoroughly understood, and zealously enforced, in an essay on
that subject, published with his other works.  A school, likewise, which he
established at Fraserburgh, on this principle, was long eminently useful; but
the fund which supported it is now destined to another end.


