
		          GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

                          ON THE COUNTY OF RENFREW. *

   Geography, &c.--This county, with Strathclyde, Ayr, and Stir-
ling, was, at the time of the Roman dominion, possessed by a Celtic
race, termed by their conquerors the Damnii, their chief town here
being Vanduaria, which some suppose to have been near the site
of Paisley, while Camden in Ptolemy's Randvara, thinks he sees
the Renfrew of modern times clearly indicated. The whole was
within the Roman province of Valentia. The angular point of
land at Renfield, formed by the junction of the rivers Clyde and
Cart, seems, in the descriptive language of the Celts, to have given
name to the town in its neighbourhood, and the town ultimate-
ly to the whole county.  The word rin or ren signifies a neck-land,
as O'Brien in his " Word-Book" has so clearly shown. Our rinns
of Galloway is an example in point.  The freu or frau signifies
a flux or flow of tide.  The Rinn of Renfrew, now Renfield, has a
double flux, one up the Cart and another up the Clyde, and in
good modern English may be termed the " tidal cape or peninsu-
la." In a charter of David I., preserved in the chartulary of Kelso,
No. 1, the spelling is Renfru.  In the Rotuli Scotorum, a printed
copy of which is in the Paisley Library, the name occurs for the
first time in 1311, and is rendered Reynfreu--in other charters
connected with the early history of the Stewarts, the spelling is
Renfreu, Reinfreu, and Ranfreu.  Should Rhon be interpreted a
division or portion, as it sometimes is, Ronfreu will signify the por-
tion connected with the flow of the tide-still pointing to the land
near the junction of the Clyde and Cart.  Some render the name
Rein Froach, or the north-easterly division. That district bound-
ed on the east by the Black Cart, and comprehending the country
lying westward to the Clyde, was formerly termed Stragryfe, being
watered by the Gryfe; and Chalmers seems to think the Lever-
nani of Hailes's Annals, i. 78, who fought at the battle of the Stan-
dard, were the men of Levernside, the sons of the noisy stream,

   <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Rev. William Patrick, Hamilton.


