
454 			AYRSHIRE.

   Saltcoats.--The town of SaItcoats, more than a third of which,
comprehending the harbour, is in this parish, is also a place of
considerable antiquity. It must have been a place of some note
between three and four hundred years ago, as in 1528 it was
erected into a burgh of barony, by James V. of Scotland, though
we do not find that it ever availed itself of the privileges then
granted. Some great blight, however, seems to have come upon
it, for, says Dr Wodrow, in the former Statistical Account, "It
is certain, from unquestionable traditionary testimony, (that of
parents to their children now living,) that a century after that time,
or about 130 years ago (1661,) there were only four houses in
Saltcoats." We may add, that, from traditionary testimony on
which we can rely, we know that the first slated house in SaItcoats
was built in 1703 by William Miller, who obtained a feu of the
ground from Adam Campbell of Gargunnock, then a person of
great influence in this parish, though his name has almost past
into oblivion. It is that house in Quay Street, which is occupied
by Hugh Robertson, and it was the first house in the street.  A
descendant of William Miller's, still living in an adjoining house,
gave us this information:--The few houses that were then in Salt-
coats were low thatched cots. SaItcots (the true spelling as found
in old records) is now a town of some magnitude, covering, with
its numerous gardens, a considerable extent of ground, with a po-
pulation of nearly 4000, of whom 1466 are in the parish of Ste-
venston.
   Antiquities.--In the second volume of Anacleta Scotica, just pub-
lished, there is some correspondence betwixt the Rev. Robert Wod-
row of Eastwood, the church historian, and Sir Robert Sibbald. On
23d November 1710, Mr Wodrow writes to Sir Robert Sibbald as
follows: "What comes now is a speare of a mixed metall, which
was found with the Roman coin of Faustina (which I let you see) in
Cuninghame, in the parish of Stevenston, a little from the shore,
about a mile from Saltcoats to the south (south-east.) There are
little blowing hills of sand there, and, by the blowing of the sand,
there began to appear somewhat like the ruins of a building, and
it's here wher this speare was gote some years since."
   In 1832, when some labourers were levelling a sandy field at
Dubbs, they came to a causeway five feet under the surface. This
pavement was six yards long and two feet broad. There was laid
across one end of it, a stone of about a ton weight. At the other
end of it, there was a stone coffin three feet in length and two in
				3


