
                            ABERNETHY.                       839

burgh, and is also the boundary in this quarter of the counties of
Perth and Fife.  On the routh, its confines adjoin the parishes of
Auchtermuchty, Coliessie, Strathmiglo, and Arngask.  A small
portion of the southern district is in the county of Fife, but by
much the larger part of the parish is in the county of Perth.  It
forms a very irregular trapezoidal figure, whose greatest diameter
from the north-west to the south-east may be about nine miles.
Its length and breadth from east to west, and from south to north,
vary much in different places.  In the middle of the river Tay,
opposite to Mugdrum, (which is in the parish of Newburgh,) is an
island belonging to the parish, called Mugdrum Island, about an
English mile in length, containing an area of 35 acres of arable
land of the richest quality, which, by the improvements in progress
and embankments, &c. may be greatly extended, as has been the
case by similar operations, along the opposite shores of the Carse
of Gowrie.
   The parish may comprise an area of about 7030 acres, two-
thirds of which, forming part of the range of the Ochils, are hilly;
the remaining part, lying between the Ochils and the rivers Tay
and Earne, is arable, and in the highest state of cultivation.  It
forms the lowest part of the vale of Strathearne, and its beauties,
as well as fertility, not exceeded by those of any other district in
Scotland, are too well known to require notice.
   Hn examining the soil along the banks of the Earn, and the
sections in which the strata are exposed to view, there appears,
under a thick layer of clay, a bed of peat of about two or three
feet thick, being apparently a continuation of the submarine forest
discovered in the neighbourhood of Flisk by Dr Fleming.   Be-
low the peat is a stratum of white or yellow sand, the depth of
which is not known.  The contents of the peat are thus arranged:
Immediately above the white sand, lies the lowest and hardest part
of the peat, composed of the leaves and branches of trees, princi-
pally birch.  Above this, is a stratum composed of moss, and a con-
siderable quantity of seeds, similar to those of the common broom.
Above this, the peat passes into a sedimentary like matter, form-
ing the uppermost part of the bed of peat, in which are found re-
mains of reeds extending upwards into the bed of clay.  These
are found in abundance in that part of the bed of clay immediate-
ly above the peat, leaving their impression on the clay.  These
remains are frequent for a space of three or four feet, above the
peat, but as we ascend they gradually become fewer and less dis-


