
54                        BERWICKSHIRE.

houses, and by weavers, and the Scirpus lacustris, and Typha lati-
folia.  In the bog south of Hardacres grow the Galium boreale,
Valeriana deltoides, and Listera ovata.  Pyrola minor in Bank-
head wood.  Epilobium angustifolium, Eupatorium cannabinum,
Tweedside at Birgham.  Potamogeton perfoliatus, pectinatus, pu-
sillus and lucens, narrow-leaved var. in the Tweed, Nuphar lu-
tea, pond at Kames; Iris fatidissima, pond at Anton's Hill.
   2. On the banks of the Tweed are the Dianthus deltoides, Ceras-
tium arvense, the three British Malvae; Euphorbia esula, Birgham
Haugh; Centunculus minimus, Mayfield moor.
   3. In the glebe and likewise on the banks of the Tweed, and in
the fields about Eccles, grows a species of Tragopoyon, which has
been hitherto confounded with the T. pratensis. It was first ad-
ded to the British Flora during the present year (1831) by the
writer of these pages, who has been able to identify it as the T.
major.  The Senecio, tenuifolius grows near Sunnyside and Grizzle-
rig. Anchusa sempervirens at Belville and Hassington.  Solanum
dulcamara near Orangelane; Rubus cesius, Tweedside.
   About.40 species of fleshy fungi have been collected in the pa-
rish, of which 30 are Agarici.  Of the latter may be mentioned
the A. muscarius and A. Listeri. The greater proportion oc-
cur at Bankhead wood. Alectoria jubata on trees at the same place.
   There are numerous thriving plantations scattered over the pa-
rish, consisting of every variety of tree, but few of a century's stand-
ing.  The most aged are some elms and ashes at Leitbolm Peel,
and Eccles-House.
   		  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Historical Notices.-Birgham, a village on the Tweed, former-
ly called Brigham, (from a bridge which it is supposed united the
two kingdoms at this point) is celebrated as having been the place
where several important affairs were transacted.  In 1188, when
the distresses of the Holy Land had induced Henry II. of Eng-
land and Philip of France to agree to tax their dominions in order
to carry on a new crusade, Henry having determined in a great
Council in his own kingdom, that a tenth of all the moveables and
revenues of the clergy and laity should be exacted for that pur-
pose, sent Hugh, Bishop of Durham, with some other courtiers,
to collect a similar tax in Scotland.  On the arrival of the Bishop
and his attendants, William the Lion of Scotland met with him
at Birgham, in an assembly of his bishops, earls, barons, and many
inferior vassals.  The meeting terminated by William informing


