
   190                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   terror of a jail, and the great distance of the county town.  Smug-
   gling hais been entirely put down by the proprietors and their factors.

   			  IV.-INDUSTRY.
      Agriculture.--The number of imperial acres on Clanranald's es-
   tate is 67,908, of which about 16,250 are arable.  Boisdale's proper-
   ty consists of about 11,000 imperial acres, of which about 2500 are
   arable, and the rest all moorlands,--a considerable part of which
   might be brought to a state of cultivation.  Bornish's property con-
   tains about 1600 acres, of which about 260 acres are arable.  In all
   there are 80,508 acres, of which 19,010 acres are arable, and the
   rest consists of mountain, hill, and moorland.  In such an ex-
   tensive parish, it isimpossible to state with accuracy what quan-
   tity of the waste land might be cultivated.  For years past,
   the tenantry, particularly in Benbecula, and in the northern part
   of South Uist, have been bringing considerable portions of moss
   lands into cultivation.  Roads have been made on some of the
   farms, from the west, or inhabited part, through the moss; by which
   roads the tenants carry manure to the moss, and bring home peats
   in return.
      There is, I believe, very little undivided common in the parish.
   A dispute exists between Clanranald and Bornish as to a servi-
   tude claimed by the latter over a considerable tract of hill ground
   belonging to the former.
      Great attention has, for some years back, been paid to the im-
   provement of black-cattle.  There are in the parish some stocks
   inferior to none in the West Highlands.  Some Cheviot and black-
   faced sheep have of late been introduced; but the small tenants
   still continue the old breed of sheep: these are of small size, but
   the mutton is of uncommonly, fine flavour, and the wool, though
   small in quantity, is very fine.
      Previous to the year 1818 the tenantry had their tillage and
   grass in common.  This system was attended with ruinous effects ;
   the people were not so industrious as they have been since; nor
   did they preserve their corn and potatoes from being damaged by
   cattle; the consequence was, that the proprietors had to supply
   them with meal every year.  The average of meal imported from
   1812 to 1818 for the use of Clanranald's tenants, is 1500 bolls.
   Since then, none was imported till last year; and in ordinary
   years a good deal was exported.  This change was effected by
   the stimulus which the crofting system had given to the industry
   of the tenantry, by their crop being better preserved from cattle


