
712                          LANARKSHIRE.

mously acceded to the prayer of a petition from the feuars, elders,
and inhabitants of Gorbals, who had then begun to build a church
for themselves, on ground which had been given to them by Mr
John Geills Wright, that the Gorbals and the Moor of Gorbals
should be formed into a new parish, the petitioners undertaking to
provide a competent stipend for the minister.  This church was
opened for public worship by Mr Charles Coatts, minister of Go-
van, on the 16th of January 1730. *  The collection on that occa-
sion amounted, we are told, to L. 24 Sterling. +  A considerable
debt, however, remained for some time upon the building.  This
in 1743 was not less than L. 368, 15s. 3d.  In that year, therefore,
the presbytery and synod appointed collections to be made in the
different parishes, throughout their bounds, to liquidate the debt
of the church of Gorbals. ++  The formation of the new parish was
opposed by the magistrates of Glasgow, as superiors of Gorbals,
and likewise by the College, who were unwilling to surrender their
patronage. S  It was not consequently till the year 1771, that the
Lords Commissioners of Teinds disjoined the village of Gorbals,
with the churchyard belonging to it, from the parish of Govan,
and erected it into a new parish, under the name of the parish of
Gorbals.  " By the decreet of disjunction, the patronage of the
new parish, along with the teinds, was expressly reserved to the
College of Glasgow, who soon afterwards sold it to the feuars and
elders of Gorbals for 1000 merks Scots.  Mr Thom, the minister
of Govan, and several of the heritors were desirous that the new
erection should include that part of the parish of Govan, which

<FOOTNOTE>Govan Kirk Session Records.
          Wodrow's Anal. Vol. vi. pp. 110-111.
          Govan Kirk Session Records, 31st July 1743.
          Wodrovv was of opinion the inhabitants of Gorbals were somewhat ungenerous-
ly treated, when making such laudable efforts to provide, for themselves and their fa-
lilies, additional means of religious instruction.  We learn from him, that what the
magistrates of Glasgow wished was " to bring in the inhabitants of the Gorballs or
Bridgend, to hear Scot and lot with them. In qlk case "he adds, "they offer ((March
1731) to pay the expense of the building of the church, and to give a stipend and
manse to the entrant.  Thus, through selfish views, this excellent design is like to be
broken, the inhabitants of Gorbals not being willing to be brought in subjection to the -
taxes of the town of Glasgow." Anal. Vol. iv. pp. 263-265.
          The parish of Gorbals is declared to consist of " the village of Gorbals, which is
boundded and described as follows, viz. on the north, by the river Clyde; on the east,
by, St Ninian's Croft, to the highway leading to Rutherglen ; and from the said high-
way on the south-east, aud south by Paterloan and Dockany-fold, to the highway
that leads to the Shaws : and from the said highway on the south and south-west, by
the Wall-croft that joins the Shiel-loan on the south and west of the garden belong-
ing to the heirs of Andrew Geills, to the highway leading to Paisley ; and from the
said highway on the west, by the Wind-min-croft to the river Clyde; and the bury-
ing place of the said village, bounded on the north by the highway leading to Ruther-
glen, from the Gorbals; on the east and south, by the lauds of Mr Rae of Little
Govan; and on the west, by Sandyfold-burn, from the present parish of Govan." -De-
creet of Disjunction.


