
			KENMORE.                            469

which, though sufficiently commodious, is hardly in keeping with
the wing which stretches out so strikingly to the left. The castle
stands on the southern margin of the Tay, in a semicircular lawn
or field about a mile below the end of the lake, and in the bosom
of woods, which, rising on all sides, seem as if they were inter-
minable. Nothing can exceed the beauty and grandeur of the
scenery of this princely domain. Wood and water, mountain and
meadow, objects animate and inanimate, in endless variety, are
here so blended, and on such a scale, that, when viewed from cer-
tain positions, and in certain states of the atmosphere, they give
you an impression as if you had been transported to a region of
enchantment. But to speak becomingly, there is here the workman-
ship of far more than enchanter's ken or enchanter's might;

		" Surrounded by His power, we stand;
		On every side we feel His hand.
		Oh I skill for human reach too high,
		Too dazzling bright for mortal eye !"

   The most striking feature in the castle itself is its magnificent
staircase, constructed in a quadrangular tower in the cetre of
the mansion, which rises to a considerable height above the main
building; admitting the light from the flauks and top, and having
that light agreeably softened and varied in its hues by being made
to pass through the medium of richly stained glass. The apart-
ments, both in finishing and in furnishing, are in admirable keeping
with the external appearance, as well as with the elegant stair-
case by which they are approached. The Baron's Hall, the dining-
room, the drawing-room, the Chinese-rooms, are particularly wor-
thy of notice. In the three former of these, as in other parts of
the house, are several valuable paintings, there being specimens by
such artists as Titian, H. Carracci, Rubens, Salvator Rose, Van-
dyke, Teniers, &c. There is a large collection of books, part of
which are in the Baron's Hall, and part in a room in the old wing
fitted up as a library.
   Mills, &c.-There is one saw-mill in the parish, situated on a power-
ful stream, near the village of Kenmore. The only manufacture,
properly speaking, is that of wool, and even that is yet but upon a
very limited scale, though there are facilities for the purpose, as well
in the command of water, as in the raw material being to be had
upon the spot. We have sufficient proof that this species of ma-
nufacture may succeed with us, from what has been done in our
immediate neighbourhood at Camuserney, in the parish of Dull.
At that place, a considerable quantity of wool is annually cleaned,


