
                           SHAPINSHAY.                          81

4 and 5 feet; its thickness a foot and a half; and from its being
clothed in moss or scurf, it has a very venerable majestic aspect,
and seems to have weathered many ages. In form and dimen-
sions, it very much resembles stones that are found standing in
many of the other islands, particularly, the circle and semicir-
cle in the parish of Stenness; and it has perhaps been erected
either as a place of Worship, or sacrifice, or to be a monument of
some signal battle or victory, or to preserve the memory of some
celebrated hero who had fallen in the field of battle. Towards
the north side of the island, and by the sea side, is another large
stone, called the Black Stone of Odin. Instead of standing erect,
like the one above mentioned, it rests its huge side on the sand,
and raises its back high above the surrounding stones, from which
it seems to be altogether different in quality. How it has come
thither, for what purpose, and what relation it has borne to the
Scandinavian god with whose name it has been honoured, not
only history, but tradition is silent. On the west shore, oppo-
site nearly to the rock or skerry of Vasa, where the tides are
rapid and the sea is shallow, we meet with a place known by
the name of Grucula or Agricola. Thither, tradition reports,
one of Agricola's ships, in his celebrated voyage round the is-
land of Britain, was driven by violence of weather, and straild-
ed. But the most remarkable pieces of antiquity in this,, and in-
deed in the other islands, are those la ruins denominated Picts
houses. Here, they are frequently met with along the seashore,
two or three of them at no great distance from, and in general
raising their copical heads in view of, each otheri They are situ-
ated for the most part, on the most pleasant spots; covered with
green, and ornamented with flowers and herbs of various sorts; and
such of them as have been examined by the eye of curiosity, have
discovered considerable variety in both their form and dimensions.

                         <TABLE>III.-POPULATION.

         Amount of population in 1801,      744
                                 1811,      726
                                 1821,      779
                                 1831,      809


<FOOTNOTE>Near Cliffdale, it is noticed in the Old Account, a subterraneous building was
discovered, of a sinaular nature. It had been formed by digging the earth about
three feet deep, an4ferectina Pillars of stones built one upon another to the height of
four feet, to support a flat. roof of broad stones or flap that covered the whole build-
ing, which was composed of two  hexagons contiguous to one another, and their dia-
rneter about eight feet, and of a rectangle as large as both. There was found in it a.
gold ring of uncommon construction. The outside was broad and large, composed
I it were of three cords twisted or plaited together; the inside was much narrower,
and pretty well fitted for the use of the finger.

   ORKNEY.


