
     Statistical Account

the fish to foreign markets, without selling any of it in the
country: they have an agent, in the country, for managing
their affairs, upon a farm of Lord Reay's estate in Diurness.
This company have a lease also of the kelp-shores of his estate;
which, if properly managed, would prove an object of great
importance, as these shores are very extensive, and covered
almost every where with vast quantities of the best sea-weed;
but the small renants, occupying the lands next the shore, are
the only manufactures, who for their labour have but 30 s.
per ton, paid upon delivery of the kelp.  As they work only
when they can afford time from their other necessary af-
fairs, the quantity of manufactured kelp falls far short of what
it might, and would be, were a sufficient number of hands
employed, and better encouragement given.
   The rivers of this country abound also in trout, which are ex-
cellent in their season, as do also the less considerable streams,
of which there are several.  The most valuable of these is the
kind called white trout, somewhat like salmon.  Another kind,
found also in plenty in these rivers, is the darker sort, with
red and black spots.  Some of these, as well as of the white
trout, are found equal in size to grilses or young salmon
   The lakes are stored with variety of trout of all sizes.
Of these Lochmoir, at the distance of 7 or 8 miles from the
sea, is 3 miles long by half a mile broad, and never freezes in
the severest season.  Lochstalk is 2 miles in length, and
half a mile in breadth.  Both these locks are connected by a
small stream; and out of the last mentioned runs the consi-
derable river of Laxford.  All these lakes and rivers form a
pretty straight line, which divide Edderachylis from the lands
of Ashir, and was formerly the march separating these proper-
ties from each other.  Besides these great lakes, a vast num-
ber of smaller ones are interpersed amongst the mountains,
most of them abounding with trout.


