
     Statistical Account

   Some time after the white fishing is ended, it generally
happens that herring crowd into our bays and voes, on the
W. side of this parish.  Many of our small boats are then
employed during the night in catching herrings. and old men
and boys in the day time in curing them.  The herring com-
monly leave the coast in November.  From the above, it is
obvious that there cannot be a more laborious and industri-
ous people, than the lower class in this parish, from March
to November, and that every person is actively employed
during that time; but, in the winter months, except pro-
curing small fish for their own consumption, and a few lings
which are caught occasionally, they are employed to little
advantage*.

<FOOTNOTE>

best advantage; that the toil and peril of fishing is imposed upon them, without
a prospect of profit.  The landlords say, that the tenant pays but rent for
his lands, and every necessary for the fishing provided first by them.  But not to
enter farther into the cause, although the present practice may have advantages
equal to its disadvantages, yet the appearance of a monopoly is a circumstance,
which seldom fails to be considered as a grievance.  This connexion between
proprietors and tenants, has often been the origin of disputes, between proprietors
and others, as interlopers, and trafficking with their tenants and fishers.  A
friendly and benevolent behaviour towards their tenants, is a characteristic that
will apply, in general, to proprietors in this country; but their granting no leases,
is much against improvements, and keeps the tenants in constant dependence.
*The bays afford great plenty of shell-fish, such as oysters, cockles, muscles,
spouts, &c.  These, in time of general scarcity, have often proved a great re-
lief to poor families.  It may be observed, also, that sometimes there are vast
shoals of small whales.  When seen near the shore, all the people around assem-
ble, and with their boats drive them around.  Anno 1741, in the bay of Hills-
wick, 360 were forced a-shore, and yielded from 2 to 4 barrels of oil each:  in
1768, ten were taken at the same place; and in 1791, above 100 were caught
there also.  A falie refinement, or sense of delicacy, prevents the people from
making the smallest use of the flesh of those small whales, although there is
every reason to think, from the smallness of the fibres, and appearance of the
flesh, that, setting prejudices, it would make not indelicate food.  In 1741,
    

