
			    FENWICK.			779

			III.--POPULATION.
	The number of inhabitants in the parish, according to the pa-
liamentary census of the present year, was 2020, giving an increase
of only one over that of 1831. The population is very nearly
equally divided between the village and country inhabitants. Dur-
ing many years, there has been no register of deaths preserved, and
only a partial one of births; and on this account, it is impossible to
state the average number in either case.

			IV.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church was built in 1643. Its
external appearance is antiquated, but the interior is neat and com-
modious. Among other objectr of interest belonging to it, the
oaken pulpit from which Mr Guthrie preached, and which is still
used, is the most conspicuous. * The church affords accommoda-
tion for 700 or 800 people. The sittings are all free.
	The manse is a large but uncomfortable and unhealthy house.
It was built in 1783; repaired and enlarged about twelve years
ago.
	The glebe comprises about eight acres of good land. Its yearly
value may be L. 24. The stipend is L. 150 per annum, a small
portion of which is derived from the Exchequer.
	There is one Dissenting chapel in the parish in connection with

of some importance, but of which there is now hardly a vestige. Hither one of the
Jameses was proceeding to administer justice on occasion of some feud or foray, or
which the details have not been preserved. The affair was sufficiently serious to oc-
casion no slight apprehensions on the part of those who had the misfortune to be im-
plicated, and the approach of the monarch awakened many conflicting emotions of
hope and fear. After a long ride over very difficult ground, and in one of the high-
est and most exposed districts in Scotland, his Majesty had at last acquired an appe-
tite too sharp to be compatible with comfort. He was obliged therefore to alight at
the nearest house, which happened to be a peasant's cottage. The gudewife supplied
him with very homely cheer; but luxury was then in a great measure unknown, and
a king would have been contemptible who could not rough it with the hardiest of his
subjects. After a hearty meal, he was proceeding to depart, when the good woman
told him that her husband was one of the prisoners whose trial had been the main
object of his journey, and that he surely never would have the heart to hang a man
after having eat his breakfast sitting in his arm-chair. This appeal the rules of hos-
pitality rendered irresistible. When he reached Pathelly Hall, he singled out the
husband of his hostess, lectured him on the impropriety of his conduct, and dismis-
sed him with an admonition to be a better bairn. He next commenced his inves-
tigation, and finding eighteen of the prisoners guilty, hung them up forthwith on a
hawthorn, which is still pointed out, and displays obvious marks of great antiquity.
On his way to Pathelly Hall, his horse drunk at the spot where King's Well now
stands, and shortly afterwards sunk in a quagmire, which is still called the King's
Stable. His majesty long remembered the ride, of which he used often to detail the
particulars, and the Ayrshire roads were represented as impassable.
<FOOTNOTE>In the church the sand-glass is still employed, and is used thus: When the
preacher has announced the text from which he is to preach, the precentor brings
forth from a small box a halfhour sand-glass, which he places on an iron stand.
When the glass has run out, he removes it, and the preacher after that, only adds
what he finds necessary.


