
     of Harris.

summer be showery, yield rich crops of barley.  The ma-
nure chiefly used is sea-weed, of which great quantities are
cast ashore by the winter storms in the South Islands, in a
few places on the west of Harris within Tarbert, and in Ta-
ransay.  The quantity of dung made is considerable, owing
to the shortness of the stable, and the cattle consuming the
straw in winter provender.  There is neither marl nor lime
stone in the country, not in the whole long island.  Black
earth and peat dust are used successfully as manure, on a few
spots purely sandy.  In the island of Ensay only, there is some
extent of wet clayey soil arable, and it is not reckoned among
the most productive.  The only other kind of soil in the
South Isles is a black mould, generally deep, which, when well
manured with sea weed and tilled in lazy-beds, is by far the
most productive.  On this ground, the shell land, with which
the sea coast abounds, would, without doubt, answer as a ma-
nure, and its effects would, in all probability, be more per-
manent than those of sea-weed, which seems to give only a
temporary stimulus to vegetation, without enriching the soil;
but it has not been yet tried, for want of cart roads to lead it
up; and the grounds are so steep, rocky, and uneven, where
this soil prevails, that it will be difficult, in the future pro-
gress of improvement, to accomplish this desirable object.
There is upon two farms, called Rowdale and Strond, at the
S. extremity of the mainland of Harris, a red loamy soil,
by far the richest in the parish, which has not yet been
brought to that degree of cultivation it might admit of.  It
is tilled in lazy-beds; but if drained and cleared of stones,
which is by no means impracticable, the greatest part of it
might be turned with the plough.  The soil most prevalent
in Harris is a kind of black earth, of firm cohesion, with a
strong surface, which is thin over the rocks, and on the de-
clivities, but very deep and much of the nature of moss, in


