		         
                                  DUNFERMLINE.                      897

	anciently there had been a manse, renewed the action in 1803,
	both for the manse and pasture-ground, and succeeded, first in
	the Court of Session, and afterwards in the House of Peers, on
	an appeal by the heritors, after a litigation of ten years.  He ob-
	tained possession of the present manse in September 1816, and
	remuneration for the want of it from Martinmas 1804; and for
	that of the grass glebe from Martinmas 1803.  The deficiency in
	the arable glebe, caused by the manse being built on part of it,
	was ordered to be made up, along with the ground to be allocated
	for the grass glebe.  An allocation took place by the Sheriff of the
	county on 11th July 1814, but, from various reasons, the desig-
	nation on it was never completed, and the minister has not yet
	obtained possession.  The heritors, however, paid L.24 per an-
	num, in lieu of the pasture and deficiency of the arable glebe, till
	1840, when, by mutual agreement between them and the present
	minister, it was reduced to L.20, and to continue at that rate till
	a glebe be provided.  The arable glebe is at present nearly 3 1/2
	acres, and yields a rental of L.15 per annum.  The manse under-
	went a considerable enlargement and repair, partly at the expense
	of the heritors, and partly of the present minister, when he en-
	tered it in 1836, on his translation from the second to the first
	charge.  There is neither manse nor glebe attached to the second
	charge.  The stipends of th two collegiate ministers are the
	same, viz. 19 chalders of victual, one half meal and the other bar-
	ley, at the rate of the Fife fiars, with L.10 for communion ele-
	ments each.  The number of persons that communicated at the
	last dispensation of the sacrament, in December 1843, was nearly
	500, only about 200 less than the average for these some years
	past, in winter, notwithstanding that the Episcopal, North Exten-
	sion, and Free Churches have been opened since 1840.  The
	number of communicants on the roll is, of course, considerably
	greater.  The present minister of the first charge is the Rev.
	Peter Chalmers, A.M.  The secnnd charge is vacant.
	   Quoad Sacra Churches.-There are two quoad sacra churches
	in Dnfermline.
	   1. St Andrew's, which was once a Chapel of Ease.  The sit-
	tings of the church are 797.  There are also a house and garden.
	Present minister, Rev. Andrew Sutherland, A.M., admitted 28th
	March 1839.  He has joined the Free Church.
	   2. North Church.-An extension church, at the east end of
	Golfdrum, was opened for worship in November 1840,-Sittings
	   FIFE,


