
			    ALVA.		             177

Devon, after having performed a circuitous route of about thirty
miles, should finish its course, nearly opposite the point at which it
first arose, reaching the Forth exactly where the latter assumes
the character of a frith, two miles above Alloa.
  Through each of the glens which divide the Alva hills, stream-
lets, diversified by small waterfalls, descend towards the valley.
The most interesting of these is called Alva burn, a rivulet of ex-
cellent water, which, over abrupt and precipitous rocks, forces its
passage, and falling in three beautiful cascades, seeks repose where
the ground becomes soft and level, in a capacious linn. Separat-
ing the West from the Middlebill, this streamlet adds to the
beauty of a romantic glen, from which, issuing at the foot of the
hills, it runs along the eastern side of the village. A fine plan-
tation of forest trees grows on the steep bank to the east, affording
shelter from the north-east winds, so violent in this neighbourhood.
The Alva, or Strude glen, as it is generally called, was opened
up by its late proprietor, James Raymond Johnstone, Esq. who
had part of the rock blasted to excavate a walk through the ro-
mantic crags. The path conducts to a waterfall about 30 feet
high, above which is an excavation or hole in the rock, worn dur-
ing the lapse of ages, of which there is a tradition that it once af-
forded refuge to an outlaw. Farther back in the hill, and inacces,
sible to all but the adventurous, is another arch of rocks over a wa-
terfall, which is the most singular and wild scene among the Ochils.
The water of the stream not only contributes much to ornament
the landscape, but also affords a powerful arm to industry, by turn-
ing machinery in the village. Where the water finds repose in a
large linn, a dam has been constructed at much labour and ex-
pense, for retaining a collection against times of summer drought
and scarcity. Water-troughs or boxes for conveying the water to
the mills, run along the side of the walk, forming as it were a bar-
ricade from the precipitous depths of the ravine, Here we have
a splendid example of man's power to control nature, and subject
her to the dominion of his rational faculties. This little moun-
tain-torrent, which for many centuries had rolled on, unheeded and
unheard, "singing to itself its own quiet tune," amid the lone and
unbreathing solitude of the Ochils, and which perchance only drew
the eye of the passing traveller by its beauty,--now turns the busy
wheels of commerce, and not only dispenses life to the vegetable
world but to man himself throughout a flourishing district of
country.

   STIRLING.


