
502                        LANARKSHIRE.

quaintance with his professional duties, and his unwearied diligence
in discharging them, established for himself, in the estimation of
the people, the character of one, who would not be misled by the
fashions of the world to gloss over iniquity by giving it false names;
but who would fearlessly contemn meanness, expose artful de-
signs, and denounce prevarication, wherever he detected them. Mr
Millar's successor, Mr John Aird, died in l8l5. It is singular that
Mr Black, in his ninety-fifth year, should have seen all the four
incumbents who have been in the parish for the last 122 years.
	Land-owners.--The chief of these are, taking them in order, ac-
cording to the value of their lands: T. H. Colebrooke, Esq., Lord
Douglas; G. Irving, Esq. of Newton; The Duke of Buccleuch;
and Lord Hopetoun.
	Parochial Registers.--The oldest volume of the session records
commences 1693, and ends 1709. It is apparently entire and re-
gularly kept. The next volume commences 1714, and the records
from that period are uninterrupted till the present day; and, after
perusing most of them, I would have said they are correctly en-
grossed and well kept, had I not come upon the following entry:
"16th May 1764. That the above register was revised by ap-
pointment of Presbytery, and with recommendations of more accu-
racy appointed to be attested by Robert Thomson, P. C." There
is also a volume containing a duplicate of many of the minutes of
session from 1731 to 1797.
	The oldest register of births and marriages goes back to 1690,
and ends 1743; but the leaves are loose, many of them injured by
damp, and several lost. The next begins 1743, and ends 1792; the
next 1793, and ends 1816; but none of them appear to be complete.
In 1817 new and separate registers were got for deaths, marriages,
and births; the two first have been kept with perfect accuracy, and
the last are not so complete.
	Antiquities.--It is said there was originally a castle at Craw-
fordjohn, which furnished part of the materials for building the
castle of Boghouse, of which notice is taken in the last Statistical
Account, and of which all the vestiges will soon be effaced. At
Mosscastle, too, there was once a castellated dwelling, as well as
at Glendorch and Snar; but of none of them, except the last, is
there any thing very remarkable related. One of the proprietors
of Snar was famous in the days of border warfare; and, wherever
bodily strength, and the instantaneous execution of a cruel and re-
vengeful determination were calculated to excite terror, the cha-
racter of Jock of Snar facilitated the accomplishment of his daring


