
		               CATHCART                            499

has increased the splendour of a name always illustrious by his deeds
as a soldier in the field of action, as a senator in the House of Peers,
and as the Ambassador Plenipotentiary of his country on a most mo-
mentous mission. In the register of Paisley we find Rainaldus de
Cathcart in 1179 a witness to the donation of the church of Cath-
cart, with all its pertinents, to the monastery of that town, by
Alan, the son of Walter, Dapifer regis Scotiae. In 1447, the fa-
0ily was ennobled by King James II., who declared Sir Alan,
then the head of the house, to be Nobilis et Magnificus Dominus
de Cathcart, Dominus ejusdem. In 1546, the ancient family estate
was alienated by Alan, the third Lord Cathcart, and passed into
the possession of the noble family of Semple, with whom it conti-
nued for many generations. The history of this house gives weight
to the opinion that religious zeal, forensie talent, and military va-
lour are hereditary. The first great inroad on the property of the
family, in so far as this parish is concerned, was occasioned by
tbeir donations to the monastery of Paisley, and in Paisley Abbey
the principal pillar, still decorated with the Cathcart arms, was
wholly built at their expense. Three of the family fell at Flod-
den in 1513. Their noble nephew fell at Pinkie in 1547. His
successor, the fourth Lord Cathcart, was distinguished by his ener-
getic efforts to promote the reformation of religion in Scotland,
and by his valorous conduct at the battle of Langside.  The
eighth Lord Cathcart, as Colonel of the Scots Greys, contributed
to the victory achieved at Sheriffmuir over the army of the rebels,
and died commander of the forces in America. The present Earl
commanded the military forces at the taking of Copenhagen in
1807, being in that expedition the superior officer of the Duke of
Wellington, whose name before illustrious in India, then appeared
for the first time in European warfare, and earned by his services
not only the gratitude of his country, but new honours from his
King.  The venerable Earl now lives, the repossessor of the castle of
his fathers, senior on the list of advocates at the Scottish Bar, and
of generals of the British empire; and no less than two of his sons
enjoy the enviable distinction of having fought the battle of their
country on the field of Waterloo.
   The more ancient families of the parish have disappeared,
or are now disappearing, with the exception of the Noble house
above alluded to, who have returned to the dwelling of their
fathers after centuries of absence. The Blairs, of Bogton, now
represented by the family of Blair, have no longer any pro-


