
                         ROXBURGH.                       129

Tiviot appears to be not more than one-fourth of that of the
Tweed.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks found here are of the se-
condary sandstone formation. Besides sandstone, there are va-
rious trap rocks, such as basalt, greenstone, and wacke, &c.
The alluvial parts of the parish abound with large blocks of stone,
which seem to have been rolled down from the two eminences, for-
merly noticed, at the south-west end of the parish. The dip or
inclination of the stratified rocks which have been observed is chief-
ly towards the north and east. An appearance is observed on the
north side of the parish worthy of notice. Underlying, and con-
formable to a series of sandstone strata, there is a very thick mass
of rock (probably wacke) called the Trow Craigs, extending in
breadth to not less than 150 yards, and forming in the Tweed an
immense dam, over and through which, in the course of time, the
water has forced its way. Owing to this circumstance, the chan-
nel of the river here is extremely abrupt and irregular. The de-
scent measures sixteen feet, and in it are various rapids and eddies,
where the violence of the water, especially when flooded, becomes
an object of interest. Among alluvial deposits, are found gravel,
sand, and loam, beside the rivers; and elsewhere, marl and peat.
The soils vary from what may be called mossy, sandy, or gravelly,
to fine loam.
   Botany.-There are numerous plantations in the parish, con-
sisting of various kinds of pine, oak, ash, elm, birch, beech, &c.
Though the plantations are in general thriving and good, the trees
in general do not appear to be of any remarkable age,-except the
Trysting Tree, the age of which is not known, but it appears to have
weathered the storm for at least two centuries. There have been
at various times, portions extracted from its trunk, which the skill
of the cabinet-maker has rendered highly ornamental for the draw-
ing-room. This remarkable elm has for some time ceased to
flourish, and is now apparently dead. All the cultivated grasses
thrive here remarkably well; and, what is rather uncommon even
in the south of Scotland, the red or broad clover seed is occasion-
ally and very successfully raised from the second crop of sown
grass seed. Such red clover seed has been repeatedly sown, and
in every instance has proved superior to any foreign seed of the
same year. A sample of red clover seed, raised here six years
ago, was exhibited at the meeting, of the Highland Society at
Glasgow, and very favourable notice was taken of it by that body.
   ROXBURGH.                    I


