
     Statistical Account

nature and art from every noxious blast, provinces apples in
size and flavour equal perhaps to any in Scotland.  Wool,
and some coarse woollen cloth manufactured in the parish, is
also exported.  Real white wool can hardly be obtained,
since the introduction of the black-faced sheep, where wool
is neither so fine nor so white as that of the small breed,
which formerly did more abound.  This article shall be
concluded by mentioning, that the Kincardine and Alford
farming society have offered premiums for the best fleece of
wool; also for an acre of outfield, upon which 70 bolls
slacked lime is laid; also for an acre under green crop, and
laid out next year with artificial grasses, all within their
district; they have judged well in offering small premiums
for one acre, as this will tend to excite emulation among
the tenants, even of the least possessions.  The Society
"deserve well of their country*."

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices of Labour, Wages, etc.-The price of labour is greatly in
creased, from what it was.  There are living in the parish two old men,
(tenants), who, in their younger days, were servants, the one at 20 s and
the other at 30 s. a-year.  For young men to do the same work now,
there must be paid from L. 4 to L 5, and from L. 5 to L. 6, with then en-
tertainment, in which they are most extravagant, often requiring better
entertainment than the tenant can afford to himself.  Women servants
have from L 2 to L 2, 10 s; and a few house servants, L. 3, herd boys,
from 12 s. to 20 s for the summer half-year.  When the children of the
tenant grow up, he employs them.  This is his first relief.  Before, he was
much at the mercy of merciless menials.  A day-labourer, of whom we
have few, gets 6 d and victuals, at some work he requires more; for in
harvest, he gets 1 s. and upwards; a wright, 8 d. and lately 10 d, a
tailor, 6 d. and victuals; a mason, from 1 s. 6 d to 1 s. 9 d. without
victuals.  The blacksmith works by the piece and is very extravagant in
his demand.  The weaver asks 2 1/2 d. or 3 d. for what was formerly done
at 1 d. the ell.  Shoes are at an exorbitant rate, triple of what they were
30 years ago.  The poorer fort have much ado to purchase that necessary
article.-The women of the parish are chiefly employed in the knitting of
stockings, or spinning of lint-yarn.  By the former they earn, when work-


