
		        GLASGOW.                       207

resort to shops. The live-cattle market is, however, an excep-
tion, and is entitled to particular notice. Prior to the year 1818,
the principal butchers in this city were frequently obliged to tra-
vel a circuit of seventy or eighty miles to purchase cattle in lots,
and to rent expensive parks in the neighbourhood of the city to
graze them in; but since the erection of the live-cattle market-
the mode of supply is completely changed. In 1818, the magis-
trates fitted up a spacious market-place, between the great roads to
Edinburgh, by Gallowgate and Duke Street, in which there are a
commodious inn, stables, sheds, a byre to contain 120 bullocks
in view, and 260 pens to contain 9360 sheep. This market-place,
allowed to be the most complete in the kingdom, occupies an area
of 29,560 square yards, or rather more than six imperial acres, is
paved with whinstones, and enclosed with stone walls. Since its for-
mation, graziers and dealers from Aberdeenshire to Dumfries-shire,
and from Berwickshire to Argyleshire, find it their interest to
send their cattle to this market, where they find a ready sale, and
return in cash. It is admitted that this market has been of great
use to all classes of the community, excepting perhaps the more
wealthy butchers. The graziers and dealers are benefited by a
regular sale, without running the risk of bad debts. The public
have a more regular and plentiful supply of butcher-meat of the
best quality. The butcher is saved the trouble, and the public,
the expense, of travelling. The butcher of small capital, who for-
merly had not the means of getting good meat, can now go to
market; and if his capital be equal to the purchase of a bullock,
and a dozen of sheep or lambs, he can compete with his more
wealthy brethren. Monopoly is now unknown. The dues of the
market were let by public sale in 1832 on lease, at L. 1075 per an-
num, which leaves an annual profit to the trustees of upwards of
L 500. It was Dr Cleland who projected and established this im-
portant market.
	The advantages arising from this market have induced the Irish
graziers to send cattle to it. On the 18th December 1834, the
Green Isle swamer arrived in Glasgow from Drogheda, loaded ex-
clusively with cattle and pigs. This was the first cattle-carrying
steamer that arrived in the Clyde, and the traffic is to be continued.
In 1822, a few rumps of beef were sent by the Edinburgh butchers
to the Glasgow market, and this trade has increased so much, that
during 1884, 7210 rumps were sent to Glasgow, the average value
of each being 20s.
	Public Building.-- In a work of this nature, an architectural


