
42                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

the remainder, with a few exception, are engaged in occupations,
in which they owe their employment either to the two families of
independent fortune that live in the parish, or to the farmers.
        Agriculture.--The parish contains about, 8502 acres Scots; of
these there are in pasture, about 2600; under wood, about 260;
arable, about 5500. The remainder may be supposed to be oc-
cupied with roads, water, &c.
	Rental.--The total rental of the parish is about L.6250, allow-
ing a fair value for the land in the possession of thik respective
proprietors.
	Thee parish is chiefly agricultural, or rather, like, most of the
land in the district, agricultural and pastoral combined. There
is one farm in the northern part of the parish principally stocked
with black-faced sheep. The rest of the farms are stocked with
black-cattle and white-faced sheep, and in most of them the dif-
ferent fields are brought under tillage in rotation. Besides the
land incapable of cultivation, there are two farms containing above
500 acres of rich old pasture kept in perpetual grass, and in many
of the farms a field or two is never ploughed for the sake of the
old grass.
	In the tillage farms, the most usual rotation of crops at present
followed is, 1st, oats; 2d, oats; 3d, green crop; 4th, barley or
oats; and in some cases, but rarely, wheat with grass seeds; 5th,
rye-grass hay mown, and then the land is allowed to lie in pasture
for four, five, or six years, according to the number of divisions on
the farms. It is now becoming more common than it once was,
to omit the second crop of oats after breaking up the field, and
to follow the ley crop immediately by a green crop. Turnips are
now the favourite green crop, and in a great proportion are eaten
off by sheep. On one farm in which this system is pursued, and
where the land is mostly sown out with wheat, the rye-grass crop
is chiefly eaten by sheep instead of being mown. Lime is much
used for improving land, and is generally applied to the green crop
land in spring, before the turnips are sown. It is also laid upon
old pasture lands to improve the grass.
	Live-Stoch.--The most common breed of cattle is the Galloway,
which is much esteemed for the ease with which it is fattened, and
for the quality of the beef. On one extensive farm the short-
horned breed has been introduced. It grows to a greater weight
than the native breed, and is fit for the shambles at an earlier age.
The sheep are chiefly a cross between the Cheviot and tht,Lei-

                            3


