
			 MURROES.		        593

who conducted Divine service for several Sundays in succession,
to the no small annoyance of the bulk of the parishioners. The
discomfiture of the insurgents at Sheriffmuir put an end to this
bold intrussion.
        Antiquities.-The only memorials of the feudal times are the
remains of three old castles, which, however, present no remark-
able peculiarities either in structure or situation. Powrie is the
property, and was long the residence, of the ancient family of Fo-
theringham. Wedderburn, which is nearly levelled with the dust,
is said, at a remote period, to have been the residence of the
Gilchrists,-the powerful Thanes of Angus. And Ballumbie was
the seat of a family of Anglo-Norman extraction of the name of
Lovel, which has long been extinct.
	A tradition prevails that Catherine Douglas, a personage of
great celebrity in ancient Scottish story, was expoused to the heir-
apparent of the last-mentioned family, and dwelt in the castle.
This lady merited and has obtained unqualified applause for the
bold and magnanimous though unavailing resistance she offered
to the conspirators who assassinated the ables and most estimable
of the Stuarts, King James I. of Scotland, in the Blackfriars mo-
nastery at Perth. Gagie is a secluded, sombre, and pleasing old
place, amply shaded with trees. It belongs to Mr Guthrie of
Guthrie, a gentleman of ancient descent, who occasionally passes a
few days there. The house was built so long ago as the year 1614.
        Modern Buildings.-The House of Ballumbie, the residence of
Mr Millar, is substantial and commodious. It stands in an agree-
able and well-sheltered situation, and commands a fine propect
towards the sout.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

	Accoding to Dr Webster in 1755, the population amounted to 623
         By last Statistical Account,                              462
         By the cencus 1821,                                       629
                       1831,                                       657
                       1841,                                       736

	The increase of the population is, no doubt, mainly to be as-
cribed to the improvements in agriculture, which have been pro-
secuted on rather an extended scale for a series of years, and the
steady employment afforded to labourers at several valuable free-
stone quarries, which have been opened in the neighbourhood at
a comparatively recent period.
	The yearly average of births for the last seven years in 1s; of
marriages, 4; and of deaths, 6.


