
     Statistical Account

from 6 to 8, and the number of baptisms from 22 to 28.  No
regular list of burials has been kept.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-There are no Roman Catho-
lics, Seceders, Episcopalians, nor sectaries of any denomina-
tion in the district, except one family lately come into it, who
attend an Episcopalian meeting-house in another parish.  All
the other inhabitants attend the parish church, so much so
that about 500 of them annually communicate there.  There
are two licensed houses for the sale of ale and spirits princi-
pally for the sake of travellers, for drinking is much less the
custom here than formerly, the people being sober, decent,
and industrious.  Several live to the age of between 80 and
90.  One died a few years ago at the age of 93, and another
about two years ago at the age of 97 or 98, and was able to
work till a little before his death.  There are no mineral
springs of great vogue in the district, though several, by the
tinge of the water and of the stones on their sides, have the
appearance of chalybeates.  There is a well, called the Tip-
per Castle well, generally resorted to some time ago, not for
its medicinal virtues, but because of its having been conse-
crated; rags, threads, and small oblations in money were
wont to be made at it to obtain particular blessings, so late as
the settlement of the present incumbent, but all these for a
considerable time have been effectually abolished*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are three druidical temples in the districts, of the
usual circular form and size, and three pillars, but without any
inscription, one of them 10 feet high, and 5 feet broad above
ground; it is supposed to be the place at which the vassals of
the superior were obliged to assemble in feudal times, which is
not improbable, as almost the whole district was then held, and
the greatest part of the country around still holds, of the Duke
of Gordon.  There are also two other pillars one of them 10
feet high, and the other 8, standing near one another, but with-
out any inscription.  About three years ago, in repairing a road


