
640                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

After the final defeat of Charles' army at Culloden the Duke
of Cumberland caused fourteen of the rebel standards which he
had taken to be burnt at the cross of Edinburgh. From some
suspicion that the Lord Provost had failed in the discharge of his
duty from secret affection to the opposite cause, he was brought
to trial, and after a protracted one of five days was at last unani-
mously acquitted.
the year 1763-64-65 several tumults occurred in the City in
consequence of the scarcity of provisions ; on these occasions the
magistrate, in order to quell the mobs, were obliged to call in the
assistance of the military.
  In 1778, a rather alarming mutiny of soldiers occurred in Edin-
burgh. A Highland regiment raised by the Earl of Seaforth were
under orders to sail for India. The men, conceiving* that their
engagements did not extend to foreign service, and farther irritated
at some arrears of pay being due them, one morning after parade on
Leith Links, suddenly, by preconcerted arrangement, marched with
their arms to Arthur's Seat, and there took up a menacing position.
Threats and promises were both used to endeavour to win them
back to duty, but these they for a time resisted, till at last an ami-
cable arrangement was brought about by Lords Dunmore and
Macdonald, two noblemen in whom they had implicit confidence.
  In 1779, on the question of the repeal of the penal laws against
Roman Catholics being in agitation, a mob attacked and demo-
lished a Popish chapel in Edinburgh, and destroyed the books and
furniture of the Catholic priests. This riot continued a whole day,
and cost the city L.1500 to pay the damages committed.
  In the same year the citizens of Edinburgh and Leith were
alarmed by the threatened incursion of the noted pirate Paul
Jones, who sailed up the Firth but did not land. This alarm
gave occasion to the erection of the Fort to the westward of Leith.
   Since the time of Charles II. till 1822 no royal visit bad been
made to Edmiburgh. On the 15th of August of that year George
IV. landed at Leith, whem he was received by the magistrates of
the burgh, the judges of the supreme court, a nunmber of the A no-
bility and an immense assemblage of people. He then proceeded
up Leith  Walk in an open carriage drawn by eight beautiful bays.
At Picardy Place a triumphal arch was erected, where he was met
by the magstration of Edinburgh and presented with the keys of
the city. At Hollywoodd Palace be held a levee, which was most nu-
merously attended.  On the 22d a grand procession, under the


