
     of Buittle.

vitrified forts*.  Vestiges of such buildings are not uncom-
mon in the lower parts of Galloway, and the one now allu-
ded to stands on the north-west border of Buittle parish,
within a farm called Castle-Gower, which lies along thee march
of Kelton.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Few people are ignorant of the romantic opinion advan-
ced and adopted, respecting those vitrified forts, as they are
called, namely, that they were structures of dry stone, cemented
and consolidated through fusion, which was procured by setting
fire to immense piles of green timber, all around the wall or
castle that was to be thus ingeniously finished.
   The difficulties visibly attending this theory would not be
few, if detailed, and may safely be left with men of sense.  Suf-
fice it to say, that Caesar leads us to conjectures more pro-
bable than the above.  That author tells us+, that the Gauls,
whom he calls genus summae solertiae, built almost every wall
with a kind of wooden frames, in which the upright beams were
placed about two feet from one another, and the void spaces
filled up with stone.  Caesar commends the invention, as a wall
thus constructed did not easily yield, either to the ram or to
fire.  But in Scotland, a few centuries ago, it will hardly be
denied, that most of the castles, not taken by scalade, were re-
duced by rolling banks, or huge fascines of wood, which were
pushed up to the walls, and then set on tire.  When one, there-
fore, lights on a mass of vitrified stones, here and there inter-
spersed with fragments of burnt wood, and bits of charcoal, he
is almost as ready to believe, that fire has been employed for
demolishing, as in erecting the pile, whatever ingenuity may ad-
vance to the contrary.  This observation, however, is not offer-
ed pragmatically.  If made before by any body, no doubt it has
been already decided upon, Speaking farther of the upright
beams, Caesar says, "revinciuntur introrsus, et multo aggere, ves-
"tiuntur."  Now agger more frequently signifies a bank of
stones, than a bank of earth.  He observes afterwards, that the
thickness of a wall thus formed was very great.-"Materria-
"perpetuis trabibus, pedis quadragenos plerumque introrsus revincta."
-Agreeable to this, these walls, commonly called vitrified, are
ever found, in this part of the island at least, exceeding thick

++De bello Gall. lib. vii. cap. XXIII.


