
                ON THE COUNTY OF DUMFRIES.                  579

barked in it; and though the warehousing of foreign corn on bond
pre-occupies the capital and granaries of merchants, this is not
deemed sufficient, unless the grain now on bond be allowed to be
taken out without payment of duty, and contrary to law, under
pretence of exporting the meal; a pro-posal fraught with farther
depreciation to the grain of this country, by throwing into the
markets fraudulently a great deal of ill-preserved corn ground into
meal, and unfit and unsafe for use; and certainly if the law be at
all in force, this project ought at once and decidedly to be repro-
bated. Nothing can more speedily and certainly hurt the interests
of the manufacturers, and even those of commerce, all which are
confessedly and mutually connected, than the selfish and ignorant
policy of those who, by crude theories and rash projects, would bring
into peril the greatest of all British interests, and with them, the
comforts and morals, and even the support of a great proportion
of our population. The most pressing claims of the British farmers
ought to be urgently brought forward; and as a board of trade has
been eminently useful, the present seems the time also to renew
what did much good before, and was without necessity suppressed,
-a Board of Agriculture. It is to be feared, indeed, that before
anything can be done, farmers may sink into apathy and ruin.
	28. The Dumfries-sbire Flora varies in different places, accord-
ing to the nature of the soil, subsoil, and elevation, with the modes
of culture. Artificial cultivation has altered and improved barren
heaths, and made them rich in white clover, now become indige-
nous there by the use of lime and marl. Peat mosses, utterly
barren, or yielding only tufts of heath or of bog cotton, have
been turned into meadows, rich in productive crops of bay. Lands
that were unfit to produce white oats or barley, are now, in due
order, prodtctive in both. Stiff lands covered by whinS now pro-
duce crops of wheat, and gravelly soils covered with broom, now
yield crops of oats or barley, followed by sown grasses. Lime
has been extensively effectual as a manure in this county; and on
coarse lands, where it was not formerly applied, there is great
need of lime, if the farmers could afford the outlay. Marl has
been found expensive in taking out and carting it on lands, and
composts are liable to the same objection. Burnt clay has gone
out of use, and bone manure has come into favour, being so
easily carried; but the question now is, not ro much what ma-
nure would suit best, as what the farmer can afford to apply. The
old grey oat, full of long awns, has given way to good white oats, of


