


                            ST ANDREWS.                           175

     supposed that iron pyrites was mistaken for lead, as none of the
     latter mineral can at present be discovered.  The same has also
     been ignorantly mistaken for silver.
         Zoology.-Hares were found here at an early period, but had af-
     terwards become extinct till within the last few years, when they were
     again introduced, and they are now very numerous, much to the
     annoyance of the farmer.  Rabbits are seen in different parts, but
     have a predilection for the sandy ground called links.  Otters live
     in the rocks by the sea shore; and seals abound in the bays.
     Grouse are found here and in the adjacent moors.  A great va-
     riety of sea fowl occurs.  Eleven species at least of the tribe Anas
     occasionally visit Deersound.  Swans are seen in spring and
     autumn, as they migrate to other latitudes, and often rest for days
     on the lake, where they sometimes fall a prey to the sportsman.
     They also occasionally appear during winter, when it is supposed
     that they pass the season in the neigbbourhood.  Solan geese are
     sometimes seen; and a species of sea fowl, Anas bernicla, Lin.
     Syst., which has here received the name of Horra-goose, perhaps
     from its loud hoarse cry, comes to Deersound about the end of
     December, and remains till the end of February.  It is worthy of
     remark, that this bird is not known to visit any other part of Ork-
     ney, excepting Hoy Sound and Westray firth.  Several lapwings
     choose this as a situation for rearing their young.  Other migra-
     tory birds are seen in winter, as Snow-buntings, fieldfares, and
     blackbirds, &c.  And the landrail is a hybernating bird common
     in this place.  But, for a complete list of the great variety of birds
     which may at different seasons be found here, we refer the reader
     to Barry's History of the Orkney Islands,* where those enumerat-
     ed and described will, without many exceptions, illustrate the or-
     nithology of this parish.
        Whether deer ever lived here, it is now difficult to ascertain.
     But part of the antlers and bones of one of these animals were
     dug out of a tumulus on the glebe during the incumbency of the
     present minister; and a few other remains of them have been
     discovered in the island.  In corroboration of a prevalent tradition
     that this neighbourhood was once inhabited by these animals, we
     are reminded of a supposed derivation of the names Deersound
     and Deerness, from deer,-the one signifying the sound and the
     other the cape of deers.  But, whatever may be the fact as to the
     existence of deer in this place at some former period, it is much

<FOOTNOTE> Book III. Chapter 1.


