
634                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

on the other, till at last the whole of Britain was convulsed and
monarchical government for a time overthrown.
   In 1637, the liturgy of Laud was introduced into Scotland.
Edinburgh was made the seat of a diocese,  comprehending the
three Lothians and part of Berwickshire.  The church of St
Giles formed the cathedral.  On Sunday, the 23d of July, the
English liturgy was first read in this church.   Both the Arch-
bishops a number of the privy council, the Lords of-Session and
magistrates of the city, with a great concourse of people were as-
sembled.  All was profound silence till the Dean of Edinburgh
arrayed in his surplice opened the service book.  On this one of
the old women near the pulpit exclaimed, "Out, out, ye fause thief,
do ye say the mass at my lug?" This was followed by clapping of
hands, hisses, imprecations, and yellings of scorn.  Lindsay, Bishop
Of Edinburgh, with a view to appease the tumult, ascended the
pulpit, but immediately a stool was hurled at his head by Janet
Geddes.  The Archbishop of St Andrews, the Lord Chancellor,
and others attempted but in vain to stem the torrent of popular
indignation ; the greater part of the multitude now left the church
at the persuasion of the magistrates, and the service was hurried
over amid much interruption both from within and the crowd
without.  In the adjoining church the disapprobation to the
liturgy was as marked though not so violent; while in the Grey-
friars the service was given up.  In the College Church the mi-
nister laid aside the prayer book and gave his usual extempore
prayer.  The opposition during the afternoon's service was nearly
as great as before, and the bishop was rudely assaulted in going
home.  The people in the country taking the alarm crowded to
the city week after week.  The Solemn League and Covenant was
renewed, and many now articles, to suit the emergency of the
present innovations, were added.  A copy of this bond was sent
to each of the counties of Scotland, and there numerously sub-
scribed.  That which belonged to Edinburgh and which is still ex-
ant, contains 5000 subscriptions.*  The agitation still spreading
no less than 60,000 persons assembled in Edinburgh.  Charles
appointed a commissioner to treat with his offendied Subjects;
but they were not to be overawed, and he at last gave in to their
demands of, abolishing the liturgy.  To show the opinion of the

<FOOTNOTE>The original copy of the Covenant is written on a skin of parchment four feet
long, and three feet eight inches deep.  To in completely crowded with names on both
side.  When there is not noo for the name at full length the initials are crowded
 into any spare space.


