
     Statistical Account

greatest improvements; we mean the bridge built by him
over the glen, by wich an easy and healthful communica-
tion has been opened up to the town on the W. immediate-
ly opposite to the principal street.  Formerly, the only
road from the W. was by the bridge at Malcolm's Tower,
running eastward, close by the Queen's House, and then N.
to the town by a confined narrow lane.  The bridge was
a work of great labour and expense*.  Within these 30 
years the trade and population of this place have rapidly
increased.  On the S. the Abbey Park has been feued,
and several streets built upon it, and immediately on the 
W. additions are daily making to the extensive feus on the 
lands of Pittencrieff:  The population on this estate at pre-
sent exceeds 1200 souls. It is but justice to observe, that 
the police of the borough has within these few years been
much improved:  A laudable attention has been paid to the 
paving of the streets, and furnishing them with additional
lamps; and much greater care has of late been taken to 
keep the streets clean, a practice highly worthy of imita-
tion.  Nothing is more necessary to the health of the in-
habitants than cleanliness, especially where the streets of a 
town are narrow, which is the case with most of our Scotch
boroughs:  This consideration, and the high price which

<FOOTNOTE>

*The bridge is of a peculiar structure.  An arch 297 feet long, 
12 broad, and 15 feet 5 inches high, was thrown over the burn, in the bot-
tom of the glea, and the remaining hollow filled up by a mound of earth
68 feet 6 inches thick at the centre, having a gradual hope on both sides
to the extremities of the stone arch below On the top is the road now 
almost completely enclosed in both sides by houses forming a very neat
street.  On the sides or slopes of the mound, and at the back of the houses,
are very convenient hanging gardens.  The whole was furnished by Mr
Chalmers at his own expense, the town only allowing a small piece of 
ground necessary for carrying on the undertaking.  Mr Chalmers subjected
12 acres of his estate to the payments of cess to the town, and they bur-
dened 3 of their acres with payment of 1 d. to Pittencrieff.


