
                           EARLSTON.                       23

which closes the rotation. Little wheat is sown, as the soil is
suited chiefly for turnips, in the cultivation of which bone manure,
recently introduced, has proved an excellent substitute for dung.
Every acre of waste that could repay the labour of the farmer has
been improved. The wet arable has been generally dried by
draining; and the extensive moss already mentioned having been
redeemed at an expense of from L. 1200 to L. 1400, affords now
tolerable grazing for cattle. With regard to the leases, there is
no doubt that, were they longer than they are, the effect would be
a considerable increase of agricultural improvement. They run
at present from fifteen to twenty-one years. The principal pro-
prietor, Mr Baillie of Mellerstain, has been at great expense in
improving the farm-offices on his extensive property; and as the
parish is nearly all enclosed, so the fences being generally kept at
the mutual cost of landlord and tenant, are thus preserved from the
neglect which they might otherwise experience. *
   Manufactures.-There are two manufactories in the parish, one
belonging to Miss Whale and Company, the other to Mr Wil-
son. The former is a manufactory of ginghams, merinos, shawls,
muslins, shirtings, and furniture stripes,-the latter of plaidings,
blankets, and flannels; and in both, but more especially in the
former, employment is given to many who would otherwise be
destitute. In Miss Whale's establishment, where the whole is
wrought by hand-loom weaving, work is afforded to fifty weavers,
and to about sixteen additional individuals, chiefly women and
children. In Mr Wilson's manufactory, where upwards of forty
are employed, some of the men gain 12s., and the children 2s. 6d.,
per week. They work eleven hours per day; and as yet no bad
effect has appeared, either on the health or the morals of the
workmen.
                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The nearest market-town, Melrose,
is distant about five miles. But there is a post-office in the village
of Earlston; and on the road which passes through it, and extends
five miles in length from one end of the parish to the other,
there is a daily coach from Edinburgh to Kelso, and from Kelso
to Edinburgh.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, built in the year 1736,
and now undergoing an extensive repair, stands in the village of

<FOOTNOTE>An estimate of the average gross amount and value of raw produce raised in the
parish may probably be stated in the general summary of this county.


