
             PARISH OF ARROCHAR.
   PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.
        THE REV. PETER PROUDFOOT, MINISTER.

      I' TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HiSTORY.
  Name.-ADOPTING the statement given in the former Statis-
tical Account, Arrochar, formerly written Arrocber and Arro-
quhar, 11 signifies a high or hilly country; it is generally pro-
nounced in the Gaelic language 4rrar, which is a contraction of
ard thir;--ard signifying high, and thir a country." The name
is very descriptive of the general appearance of the parish, which
is hijh and mountainous, and presents very little low or arable
ground.
   Extent, 4c.-The parish is about 15 miles in length, exclusive
of the farms of Ardleish and Doune,, which lie on the east side of
Loch Lomond, and commencing about two miles beyond its most
northern point, extend down its eastern shore five or six miles, and
form the boundaries of the properties of Sir James Colquhoun of
Luss, Bart. and His Grace the Duke of Montrose, and also of the
counties of Dumbarton and Stirling. The mean breadth of the
parish may be computed at 3 miles: and it contains a surface of
somewhat more. than 48 square miles. It is bounded on the east
by Loch Lomond, ' the farms excepted which stretch down its
eastern shore, which are bounded by the counties of Perth and
Stirling; on the south, by the water of Douglass and part of the
parish of Luss; on the'west, by Loch Long, and part of Argyle-
sbire ; and on the north, by the parish of Strathfillan in Perthshire.
  Topographical 4ppearances.-Its form is peculiar; towards the
upper and lower ends of the parish; there is a considerable extent
of mountainous country, while from Tarbet on Loeb Lomond side,
to Arrochar on Loch Long side, there is only a small isthmus of
not more t an a mile and three quarters. Ben Vorlich is the
highest mountain in the - arish. It is distinguished for the richness
of its pasture, its rate and varied botanical productions, and rises'
about 300Q feet above the level of the sea. The parish is so moun'-
tainous, t at ere is on y a small proportion of arabl e- ground, not
more thau from 300 to 400 acres.


