
168                       RENFREWSHIRE.

mans came this length" (to Renfrewshire) " is more than pro-
bable ; for as there are in many places, from the one end of
Clydesdale to the other, visible, undeniable vestiges, for whole
miles of way together, of an old Roman street, from Erickstane,
in the head of Eusdale, to Maul's Mire, at this end where it
bordereth this shire, (called this day Watline Street, * corruptly
for Vitellian or Vitellius' Street,) so there are continued ves-
tiges of their being" (having been) " in this shire; for at Pasley,
there is a large Roman camp to be seen.  The praetorium or in-
nermost part of the camp is on the west end of a rising ground or
little hill called Oakshawhead, on the south-east descent of which
standeth the town of Pasley.  The praetorium is not very large,
but bath been well fortified with three foussees and dikes of earth,
which must have been large, when to this day their vestiges are so
great that men on horseback will not see over them.  The camp
itself bath been great and large, it comprehending the whole hill.
There are vestiges on the north side of the foussees and dike,
whereby it appears that the camp reached to the river of Cart.  On
the north side, the dike geeth alongst the foot of the hill; and if
we allow it to have gone so far, on the other side, it hath enclosed
all the space of ground on which the town of Pasley stands, and it
way be guessed to be about a mile in compass.  Its situation was
both strong and pleasant; overlooking the whole country.  I have
not heard that any have been so curious as to dig the ground into
the praetorium : but when they tread upon it, it gives a sound as if
it were hollow below, where belike there are some of their vaults.
Near to this camp, about a quarter of a mile, stand two other rises
or little hills, the one to the west, the other to the south, which,
with this, make almost a triangular form, where have been sta-
tions for the outer guards.  The vestiges of these appear, and make
them little larger than the praetorium of the other camp, of the
same form, without any other fortification than a foussee and dike." +

<FOOTNOTE>The Roman road here referred to is that from Carlisle to Paisley.  Maulsmyre
is on the estate of Castlmilk, and not far from Rutherglen, and there the remains of
an ancient causeway are to be traced, although Chalmers is of opinion that antiqua-
rians have not been very successful in connecting it either with the Roman road to
Paisley, or with the Roman road through Clydesdale.  There seems no reason to
doubt, however, that from Glasgow, a branch of the great Carlisle way diverged to
the left and went across the country of Vanduaria, (Paisley,) Gordon (Itin. Sept.)
traced it in 1725 ; and Horsley soon after.  Chalmers, Vol. i. p. 139.  There is lit-
tle doubt that the well known street of Paisley, called Causemayside Street, must
have taken its name from its following the track of, or running contiguous to the old
Roman causeway.  In Bleau's map (1654) Causewaysid appears as a small clachan at
some little distance from the town, and deriving its name from the Roman road near it,
   In Bishop Gibson's addition to Camden's account of the country formerly pos-


