
494                       LANARKSHIRE.

England, in 1291; but it does not appear that he entered upon the
charge. We find Ailmer de Softlaw, parson. of Douglas, swearing
fealty to Edward in 1296. Towards the end of the fourteenth cen-
tury, the parish of Douglas was made a prebend of the cathedral
of Glasgow. Archibald Douglas, rector of this parish, was engaged
in the murder of Rizzio, for which Christian-like service he was
raised by the Regent Murray to the office of a Lord of Session.
At the Reformation the revenues of the rectory were let on lease
at L. 200 per annum. In the old church there was an altar to the
Virgin Mary, and one to St Thomas. Besides the church of
St Bride's there appear to have been at one time several religious
houses in different parts of the parish. At Anderson there was
a chapel with a place of interment. The font stone was removed
upwards of eighty years ago; and near the site of the chapel there
is a remarkably fine spring called the Chapel Well. On the adjoin-
ing lands of Glentaggart, there was a building which was proba-
bly a chapel, as a font stone was found in it which is still preserv-
ed. Near Parishholm there was a chapel founded by James IV.
and in the east of the parish there is a hill called the Chapel-hill.
	Lord Douglas is patron of the parish and titular of the teinds.
The parochial register of baptisms commences on the 7th Septem-
ber 1671; the register of the proceedings of the kirk-session on the
23d December 1692.
	Education.--Extensive as this parish is, its inhabitants in almost
every part of it have within their reach the means of good education.
Besides the parish school, in which not merely the ordinary
branches, but classical literature and mathematics may be learned,
there is an English school in the town, very numerously attended.
In the village of Rigside, in the lower district of the parish, inha-
bited chiefly by colliers, there was, about fourteen years ago, only one
school, attended by 17 scholars, and so little interest did the pa-
rents then take in the education of their children, that not more,
than one or two appeared at the annual examination of the school;
now, although the population of that district is not greatly increas-
ed, there are two schools, each attended by 60 scholars; and, at
the last examination in May 1835, the number of spectators in each
was nearly equal to that of the pupils. There is likewise a school
at Tablestone, in the upper portion of the parish, generally attend-
ed by about 35 or 40 scholars. In general, these schools are sup-
plied with excellent teachers. At the parish school, there have al-
ways been some poor children taught free; but as it has been found


