
                           BLACKFORD.                              297

feet above the level of the town, has been made to pour in 72 gal-
lons, every minute, of the most excellent water, which has been
taken into many houses; and baths have been fitted up in some,-
the water supplying not only the necessaries but even the luxuries
of life.
  Few things would tend more to improve the general appdarance
of the country than the planting of Craig Rossie.  This hill pro-
jects considerably from the other Ochils, and, covered with wood, it
would present an object strikingly grand and picturesque.  The
erection of a church at Smithyhaugh or Abruthven would be most
beneficial to that district, which seems naturally formed to have a
distinct pastoral superintendence.  The people themselves could
not support a clergyman ; but we fondly anticipate that, at no
distant date, something will be done to assist them in this.
  We cannot conclude this Account, without referring to the im-
portant law-suit on the power of the veto with which Auchterarder
has been long connected.  In the future histories of our church,
Auchterarder will be noticed as having first entered the lists, and
fought the battle for all Scotland in defence of the laws of the
church, and the rights of the people.
  May 1837.


                      PARISH OF BLACKFORD.

       PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                THE REV.  JOHN CLARK, MINISTER.

       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-IF the name be not altogether-English, it may, per-
haps, be traced to the Gothic word fort, singifying not only, a
strait or firth, but also a road or passage.  Some probability is given
to this derivation by the circumstance of the parish being situated
between the great vales of Strathallan and Strathearn, and conse-
quently forming the line of communication, between them.
  Situation, Extent, &c.-It lies midway between Perth and Stir-
ling, and is intersected by the great road between them. Its
length from north to south is about 1O miles.  It is bounded on, the
south by the water of Devon, and by the river of Earn on the
north.  Its breadth is about 5 miles; it is bounded by the parish-


