
                        SADDELL AND SK1PNDSS.                               451

      quality of the materials employed in it.  The train of nets is usual-
      ly made up of six barrels 240 fathoms in length.  On board the
      larger class of vessels they have been multiplied in a few instan-
      ces fourfold.                                                           1 11
       The number of boats 6onnected with this parish is 65, with a
      crew of three men for each.  The quantity of fish caught this
      season has been unusually large, but from the prices being atone
      time so low as Is. 3d. per hundred of 120, the clear profits do not
      exceed the average of former years.
       The salmon-fishing, both at Carradale and Skipness, has been
      successfully followed.   In the very few instances of white-fishing,
      cod and ling have been caught in large quantities.  Lobsters are.
      also numerous, and of the finest quality.
       Rent of Land-The general extent of the farms in the parish
      is from 250 to 1500 acres.  The rent is determined more by the
      soums* the hill pasture will keep, than by the value of the arable
      land, the average rent of which may be taken at 17s. 6d. per acre.
      Prom the variable quality of the bill pasture, it is extremely diffi-
      cult to estimate its value.  Whilst some of it in the glens hs luxu-
      riant and of great value, other portions are not worth more than
      2s. 6d. per acre.
        The original valuation of this parish was L.212, 10s. 3d.  Scots,
      but, owing to the quantity of land under the immediate manage-
      rnent of the land-owners themselves the amount of the present
      rental cannot be ascertained.
        The price of meal varies from 13s. to 18s. per boll of 140 Ibs.
      potatoes, per Kintyre boll. of 532 Ibs., from 6s. to 16s.; coals are
      from 12s. to 14s. per ton, of which there is no great consumption,
      the principal fuel being peat or turf.
        Wayes._The wages of a ploughman is from L.14 to L.17 with
      board and lodging; shepherds, from L.12 to L.14, with house,
      garden, and grass for one or two cows ; servant-maids, ftorn L.5
      to L.10. The wages of able-bodied labourers is from Is. 2d. to
      18. 6d. per day; of artisans, from 1 s. 6d. to 3s. per day; women
      are hired at from 8d. to ls., and children from 6d. to 8a. per day.
                           V.-PAROCILIAL EcoNomy.
        Ecclesiastical State-There are two parish, churches, thirteen
      miles apart.  That at Carradale is in a state of good repair; that
      at Clonaig requires immediate inspection.  The manse is large

      <FOOTNOTE>A soum is the keep of a milk cow, or two heifers, or three atirks, or ton sheep.


