
                   DOLLAR.                                 85

much, being from a fathom to eight fathoms thick, when it has
been sunk through; but there is no doubt it is in some places
much thicker, as in other places of the county.
  The thickness of the beds of gravel in this valley has not been
ascertained, and at the foot of the Ochills are great mounds of this
substance in these deposits. The boulder-stones are formed of trap
rocks, and of hard and soft porphyry, from a small size to several
hundred weight.
  With regard to the mines which have been wrought or are now
working in this parish, those in the Ochills have been given up long,
ago. Hitherto they have not been successful, and there is no pro-
spect of their being set agoing. These metallic veins yielded both
lead and copper.
  Mines of coal have been wrought in this parish for a long period
of years; but how long it is since coal was first wrought. here, is un-
known. It is most likely that the first opening would be at Kelly,
burn, east from the town of Dollar, as the coals and accompany-
ing, strata are there partially cut through by the water. The next
operation was to lay dry a breast of coal, by means of a day level,
which was commenced in the lands of Pitgober, in Muckhart parish,
and was carried forward until it intersected the main coal, splint
coal, and rough coals from the points of intersection of the three
coals. These coals have been wrought in a water level course, di
rected to near the Dollar-burn on the west, and to the eastward
to the boundary of the parish, and not only so, but in continuation
eastward into the Middleton coalfields. in the parish of Muckhart.
  After all the coals laid dry by the day level were wrought out,
the main coal was fitted or laid dry to the dip north from the pre-
sent turnpike-road, by means of a water-wheel for raising the wa-
ter. This pit was 15 1/2 fathoms deep to the main coal, and the wa-
ter so raised was delivered from the pumps into the day level. By
this operation, the main coal was wrought in a water level course di-
rection on both sides of the water-engine pit. The mines to the
westward extended to the grebe belonging to the parish church,
and to the east, they extended into the Middleton coal-field, in the
parish of Muckhart.
  The next winning or fittingof this coal-field was by means of a
steam-engine, upoa a pit considerably to the north of the water-
mill pit in the lands of Kelly bank, in Muckhart parish. By this new
operation, the splint coal was gained at the depth of 20 fathoms
from the surface. To this pit the Pitgober day level was continued,
and the water raised by the steam-engine was delivered into the


