
                            PARISH OF HOLYWOOD.

	             PRESBYTERY OF DUMFRIES, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

	        THE REV. ROBERT KIRKWOOD, A. M. MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
       Name.--The lower part of this parish was, unquestionably, at an
    early period, a Quercetum, or oak forest, extending most probably
    to Snaid, in the parish of Glencairn, a distance of eight miles.
    In the eastern part of the parish, a quarter of a mile south-west
    from the parish church, there are Druidical remains.  Now the
    Druids, it is known, held special assemblies once a year, and their
    assemblies convened in a consecrated place. * The grove or forest
    of this parish being designed or esteemed by them sacred, might
    transmit that character to the Culdees, their successors; and when a
    Catholic settlement was formed here, in the beginning of the twelfth
    century, it might be found advantageous to its object, still to continue
    its sacred character.  That it was so designed by them is most evident.
    The charter seal of the Abbot, dated 1264, is in my possessions.+
    It bears the following inscription: Sg. Abbat. Sacri Nemoris--the seal
    of the Abbot of the Sacred Grove. Besides, there is a bull of Pope
    Innocent Ill., addressed, Abbate de sacro nemore, to the Abbot of
    the Sacred Grove, in the diocess of Glasgow,++--that is Holywood,
    originally written Halywood and Haliewood.
    	Extent and Boundaries.--This parish is situated in the most
    beautiful portion of the vale of Nithsdale. It is bounded on the
    east by the parish of Dumfries; on the south, by Terregles, Iron-
    gray, and Kirkpatrick-Durham; on the west and north, by Glen-
    cairn and Dunscore; and on the north-east, by Kirkmahoe. It
    extends about 10 miles in length, and is about 1 1/2 mile in breadth.
    It lies in the middle of an extensive valley, and the land is nearly
    without elevation. There is but one range of hills of short ex-

    <FOOTNOTE>"Considunt in loco consecrato,"Caesar de Bello Gallieo, Lib. vii. cap. xiii.
     Kindly furnished by Alexander M'Donald, Esq. of the Register Office, Edin-
   burgh.
      See Connell on Teinds, Vol. iii. p. 10.
      DUMFRIES.                                 N n


