
130                              FIFESHIRE.

pitch. Two of them were cut out of the rock lately, and carried
away by some unknown person; and the other, which has been con-
verted into a pedestal for a. sun-dial, is to be seen in a garden in
the town of Dysart.
  Woods.-The plantations in this parish are not numerous. Al-
together there are about 400 acres occupied by different kinds of
trees, such as fir, oak, elm, &c.-300 acres of which belong to the
Earl of Rosslyn, and contain some trees of considerable age.

                          II-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Had the Burgh records, and other documents once in the pos-
session of the Sinclair family been preserved, it is probable that
they would have thrown much light upon the early history of Dy-
sart. The former, however, are not preserved prior to 1623, and
the latter were consumed in 1715,-when, by the negligence of a
servant, Lord Sinclair's house was burnt to the ground. From the
want of well authenticated sources of information, therefore, little
can be said of the ancient state of Dysart. Indeed, there are no
traces of its history. prior to 874, when the Danes invaded Fife;
and even then, little that can be depended upon is known. About
that time, the Danish fleet, anchored off Dysart, landed their troops
on, the sea-coast: in marching into the interior of the country,
they fought a battle in a field about a mile and a-half north of the
town.
  Dysart was originally a Burgh of Barony and held of Lord Sin-
clair, but in an act of Parliament dated 1506, ordaining the burghs
on the shores of the Forth to expend their revenues on their walls
and ports, Dysart is included; and from, this it appears that it was,
then a Royal Burgh.
  It has been ascertained that salt was made here as far back as
the year 1450; that the salt works at that time were of great ex-
tent; that not only many of the principal towns in Scotland were
supplied with salt from this port, but also that large quantities of it.
were then exported to Holland. About that time, too, and for near-
ly two or three centuries afterwards, the shipping interest was con-
siderableo; maritime and domestic commerce flourished exceeding-
ly; malting apd brewing were carried on to a great extent; and Dy-
sart is allowed to have been one of the principal, if not the fore-
most trading town in the east of Fife. Prodigious quantities of
merchandise, we are told, were regularly exposed to sale under the
piazzas,  which then pervaded the central street; and a square in the
middle of the town is represented as having been in those days,


