
220                         RENFREWSHIRE.

the great Steward, and his lady, are among the distinguished per-
sons said to be interred in the monastery.
   Presbytery.-On the establishment of the Reformed church of
Scotland, a presbytery was erected at Glasgow, and another at
Dumbarton, to the former of which the parishes in the eastern
part of Renfrewshire were attached, and to the latter those in the
western.  But in 1590, all the parishes in this county, with the ex-
ception of those of Eaglesham and Cathcart, only part of which last
is in Renfrewshire, were formed into a presbytery, the seat of which
was fixed at Paisley.  This arrangement continued till May 1834,
when, by a deed of the General Assembly, a presbytery was esta-
blished in the lower ward of the county, having its seat at Green-
ock, and to which that venerable court attached, in addition to
seven parishes formerly connected with the presbytery of Paisley,
the parish of Largs in Aryshire, and that of Cumbray in Buteshire,
both of which formerly belonged to the presbytery of Irvine.  Pre-
vious to this division, the presbytery of Paisley contained 19 pa-
rishes and 20 ministers, the Abbey parish being collegiate. It was
by the division left with only 12 parishes and 13 ministers.  But,
in consequence of the erection of chapels into parish churches,
which took place in the same year, and the subsequent increase of
churches within its bounds, that Presbytery now contains, with one
exception, as many parishes and ministers as it did previous to the
division; and, although for two years it returned to the General
Assembly a minister and elder less than formerly, yet it is again
entitled to return the same number as it did before the erection
of the presbytery of Greenock.
   Although since the year 1570, Paisley has been the seat of a
presbytery, the meetings have not been uniformly held in that
town.  On Account of the pestilence in 1645, the court resolved,
on the 6th of November of that year, to hold their meetings at
Houston, and this they accordingly did, till the 26th of March,
in the following year, when they resumed their sederunts at Pais-
ley. *  We find also that between the 26th of July 1676, and the
5th of March 1684, the meeting of presbytery were held at
Renfrew, probably from the ministers who then officiated at Pais-
ley having refused to countenance the jurisdiction of the Episcc-
pal, presbytery, in matters of church discipline. +  By the archbi-

<FOOTNOTE>"The prebiterie conveent at Houstoune, in respect of the visitation of the pes-
tilence at Paisley, and resolvit to continew their presbiterial seate at Houstoune, till
it pleasit God that Pasley were free of that secknes."-Presbytery Records.
          Presbytery Records.


