
	   ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                        357

road traversing it in various directions, and every stream that crosses
these lines is spanned by a bridge. The district of Glendale is
the only part that is yet left in its original inaccessible state. It
may not be undeserving of notice, as illustrative of the effects of
long-formed habits, and of that prejudice against innovation which
is natural to a primitive race, that, for some years after the con-
struction of roads, the common people would not on any account
travel on them. They said that the stones and gravel both bruis-
ed the feet, and wore the shoes, and tbey preferred to follow the
old paths, uneven and boggy as they were. Now, however, they
have become reconciled to level, dry, and hard roads, and the old
paths are almost undistinguishable, being covered with heather
and moss.
   The mode of agriculture pursued on the larger farms has like-
wise undergone a total change. Now, fields of clover and turnip
are to be seen, where at one time there was nothing but use-
less bog-grass growing; and a system of five years' rotation is
adopted instead of the old one of two. New agricultural imple-
ments have likewise been introduced. No longer than twenty
years ago ploughs made entirely of wood, with the exception of
the sock and coulter, were to be seen dragged by four horses, which
required two men to drive them, and whose work was so imper-
fectly done, that three men were employed in beating down the
only half-turned furrows, and levelling the very uneven surface left
behind. Wooden harrows, and carts of very clumsy workman-
ship, in the few places where carts were available, were the only
ones used; while generally, the articles to be transported from one
place to another were carried on horses' backs. Now, one man
drives a pair of horses with an iron plough, and does more than
the work of six men with four horses. Iron barrows, carts of the
best description, and indeed every farming implement used in tbo
south of Scotland, are to be seen every day.
    Both dwelling-bouses and fartn-offices have underfone an equal-
ly great improvement; and the stock has been completely changed.
    About thirty-five years age, black-cattle and horses constituted
the wealth of the tenantry, and were fotind grazin on the tops of
the highest hills. The few sheep kept were almost exclusively,
used for the table. The gentleman who broke in upon this sys-
tem, is still living in a neighbouring parish, and has seen black-
faced sheep universally introduced, and again give place to Che-
viots, which now graze from the summits of the hills to the


