
                           ELIE.                       283

The village and parish are commonly very healthy. From the
breadth of the streets, and the purifying breezes, epidemics find
difficulty in spreading. During the period of the cholera, three cases
occurred at different times; and, although in one or two of them
it showed itself in circumstances very favourable to propagation, it
never extended beyond the person originally seized. Last winter,
scarlet fever prevailed much to the eastward, and was very fatal.
It did not reach us till May, and then it Was confined chiefly to
children--not above two grown up persons having been seized--and
was on the whole mild. It still, however, continues, having made
a slow creeping progress through the different parts of the village,
and, as the season advances, has become rather more fatal. About
ten children have died of it, or rather of a dropsical affection, by
which the fever has been very generally succeeded. There are no
rain-gages in the parish; and we are not aware that any individual
is in the habit of making regular observations with the thermometer
or barometer.
   Geology.--Lying intermediate betwixt the Earlsferry coal-field
on the west, and that of St Monance on the east, this parish
may be considered as a section of the great independent coal for-
mation. This useful mineral, however, is wrought in no part of
it, although at a former period several pits were open; and little
doubt can be entertained, from its geognostic relations, that it is
not less highly favoured than its neighbours in this respect.
   Sauchur Point forms a bold projecting headland of rock, con-
sisting of several varieties of trap, viz. greenstone, basalt, clink-
stone, and trap-tuffa, on the west side of which, in a well-protect-
ed bay, the harbour is situated. From this, the stratified rocks,
consisting of sandstone, limestone, shale, and clay-ironstone, dip
in opposite directions. The limestone lies upon the beach, within
the bay, but of which little more than the out-crop can be observ-
ed. The same deposit occurs again, a little to the east of Newark
Castle, in a bed about three feet thick, of a bluish colour, and
confusedly mixed up with the disturbed strata of that district. The
quality is not considered to be good, and accordingly it is not em-
ployed at either places for any purposes of husbandry, or of mason-
work. Along the shore, from Sauchur Point, eastward to the ex-
tremity of the parish, all the members of the coal-field are to be
met with, some of them inclined at an angle of 12&deg;, others at 30&deg;,
and in some instances, they are thrown into a vertical position.
The tuffa is a compound of all the adjacent deposits,--coal, sand-


