
     of Forfar.

   Loch Restenet, the property of George Dempster Esq. of
Dunnichen, has been lately drained.  The extent of ground
recovered does not exceed 200 acres, yet the value of the
moss and marle has been computed at above L. 50,000.  In-
deed the marle is supposed to be inexhaustible.  Upon the S.
W. side of this lake, and almost surrounded by it, stood the pri-
ory and the parish church, the ruins of which still remain.  There
is also standing in a pretty entire state, a very neat steeple
and spire built of stone and run-lime with a sort of sineering of
polished asher.  This is said to have been a dependency of the
monastery of Jedburgh, where their valuable papers and ef-
fects were kept, as a place of safety from the depredations of
the English borderers*.
   Loch-Fithie, a little to the S. of Loch-Restenet, a beauti-
ful little sheet of water is also the property of George Demp-
ster Esq.-It has little, if any, either of moss or marle in it,
but abounds in pike and perch.  It is about a mile in circum-
ference, of various breadths, and surrounded by a beautiful rising
bank, which conceals the prospect of the lake till one comes
just upon it, and heightens the delight of the wanderer with
unexpected pleasure.  The banks are adorned with common firs-
larch and spruce trees, in some places agreeably intermixed and
well stocked with singing birds.  Every thing in this spot con-

     VOL. VI. 3 X

<FOOTNOTE>

from a prison.  The incumbent has often returned home, covered with their
spolia opima, after receiving no little entertainment from observing their me-
thod of disengaging themselves, which overbalanced the annoyance recieved
from their buzzing.

*In this neighbourhood, and probably in the adjoining muir, in which
there are the vestiges of a camp by some supposed to be Roman, Buchanan
relates, that a bloody but indecisive battle was sought, about the year 830,
between Feredith the Pictish Usurper, and A'pin King of the Scoth.  Seve-
ral large stones, such as are usually found in Scotland commemorative of similar
events, are still standing, though without any inscription, not far from the
supposed field of battle.


