
			AVOCH.                     383

far to something before the introduction of Christianity ; at the
same time, there seems a shade of compromise as they do not
forget to cross themselves. The amount of benefit, fancied or
real, derived from the pellucid water of Caiguck, it is impossible
to ascertain. But of this there can be no doubt, that in favourable
weather, a morning sail or walk to that most picturesque spot,
must prove essentially conducive to the health of many an invalid,
whether the disease be real or imaginary.-The Burn of Avoch,
which rises principally in this parish, and proves so essentially
serviceable to four mills-one wool-carding mill, and three corn-
mills,--after winding beautifully through the estates of Rosehaugh
and Avoch, discharges its waters into the frith at Henrietta Bridge
close to the village. Near to the source is a beautiful pool, cal-
led Littlemilstick, celebrated as the pool in  which, in times past,
Baptists were immersed. The last immersion was that of a young
woman, from the parish of Rosemarkie, nearly twenty years ago.
The only piece of fresh water is Scadden's Loch, which covers
fourteen imperial acres.
   Geology.-The great peninsula of Ardmeanach, or the Black
Isle, contained between the Moray and Cromarty Firth, consists
mainly of a succession of sandstone ridges falling from the high
sandstone hills, which are abutted in huge conglomerated masses
on the primitive slates of Ord, Fairburn, and Coul, in the parishes
of Urray and Contin. None of these ridges seem to be  prolon-
gations of the magnificent cliffs of Brahan, which, however, with
the neighbouring masses to the south and west of them,  undoubt-
edly belong to the old red sandstone formation.
   To the east and north of the village of Avoch, a high granitic
ridge has been upheaved from below the sandstone strata, dis-
turbing and throwing their beds rregularly in every possible di-
rection, but which has not to a great extent, or in many places,
except along the coast, overtopped them.  We shall afterwards
describe the granitic rock, with its associate beds,directing our
attention, in the first place, to the sandstone ridges,as to which it
may be remarked, that an examination of them  collectively, as
extending over the whole district of the Black Isle, will prove
more satisfactory, (and save repetition,) than if they were noticed
in detail in the Statistical Account of each parish.
   Commencing, then, with the coast line at Avoch, and proceed-
ing westward and across the district to the shores of the Cromarty
Frith, the sandstone ridges are disposed in the following order,


