
                             HUTTON.                            151

extremely fertile, and well adapted for producing luxuriant crops
of all kinds of grain, clover, turnips, and potatoes. It is a rich
deep loam, generally resting upon freestone. Some of it is fine
sharp land, excellently calculated for raising turnips; but it is in
general better fitted for wheat. In the middle of the parish the
soil is by no means so good, but is thin, wet, and moorish, and has
for its substratum a strong tenacious clay. A tract of land of this
description, in breadth about a mile, commences here, and runs
from east to west to the upper part of the county, while on each
side of this stripe the soil is valuable and productive. The inhabit-
ants are not liable to any particular diseases, arising from peculi-
arity of climate; and the parish upon the whole may be pronoun-
ced healthy. Fevers seldom make their appearance here. The
ague, which used to be here a periodical scourge, has entirely disap-
peared, and instances of considerable longevity are by no means
uncommon.
   Sandstone is found after digging to any considerable depth in
almost every part of the parish. On the banks of the Whitadder,
upon the estate of Hutton Hall, there is a stratum of gypsum.
Some casts were made of it by Mr O'Neil, of Edinburgh, who found
it to be of excellent quality, and well adapted to the purposes to
which this mineral is generally applied. But whether there is suf-
ficient quantity to repay the expense of working it, or whether it is
practicable to do so from the steepness of the banks where it is
found, is doubtful.
                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The only circumstance worthy of notice, under this head, is,
that it appears probable that the army of Edward I. encamped here
on the 29th of March 1296, being the day preceding that on
which he took the town of Berwick. From a diary of his pro-
gress through Scotland, it appears that Hatton or Hauden was
the place * where he and his army lay the day after he left Cold-
stream. And as Hutton lies almost in the direct line of his march
to Berwick froin Coldstream, where he crossed the Tweed on
the 28th of March, it seems almost certain that it was visited en
passant by this arch foe of Scotland.
   Eminent Men.-It deserves also to be recorded that Andrew
Foreman, Bishop of Moray, Archbishop of Bourges in France,
and afterwards Archbishop of St Andrew's, who flourished about
the beginning of the sixteenth century, was a native of this pa-

<FOOTNOTE> Transactions of the Antiquarian Society of London.-Tytler's History of Scot-
land, Notes.-Carrick's Life ot Sir William Wallace, Vol. i. p. 207.


