
                        GLADSMUIR.                       183

   William Baillie of Lamington deserves to be noticed hear, not
only on account of his private worth, but also on account of his mu-
nificent liberality to the parish. He was very active in procuring
the erection of the new parish. He made a present to the parish
of land for the church and churchyard, and for the school, school-
master's house, and garden, and built the church at his own ex-
pense, and in addition to all this, he allowed the minister, from
his colliery at Penston, free coals for the use of his family. Bail-
lie's descendants continued to the ministers of Gladsmuir the pri-
vilege which their worthy ancestor had so generously granted, till
it was withdrawn by those who had the management of the pro-
perty, at a period when the succession was doubtful. It is to be
hoped this privilege will be again restored. But whether it be or
not, William Baillie of Larnington will be remembered as a man
deeply impressed with the importance of religion to the welfare of
the country, as a benefactor to the church, and an active promot-
er of her true interests, as long as the parish of Gladsmuir shall
exist.
   Parochial Registers.-The records go back to the erection of
the parish. The first minute is dated at Gladsmuir meeting-
house, 26th April 1692. *  The records are very defective. After
the first volume, which ends in 1707, there are no minutes for thirty
years following. There is also a blank from 1804 till 1833, when
the present incumbent came to the parish. In the register of bap-
tisms, there is a gap from 1734 to 1760. The list of marriages
is also wanting from 1737 to 1766. But besides those defects,
the registers of baptisms and marriages do not appear to have been
accurately kept.
   Antiquities.-There were lately to be found in the parish, the
remains of several old mansion-houses; but the tide of time is
sweeping them fast away, and levelling with the ground the most
stately monuments of former greatness. The mansion of the Dou-
glases of Longniddry, distinguished for their zeal for the Refor-

<FOOTNOTE>That minute mentions, that the United Presbytery of Haddington and Dunbar
had appointed Mr Moncrieff, minister of Saltpreston, now Prestonpans, to be modera-
tor of the Session, for the purpose of uniting with the heritors, in the choice of a mi-
nister to the new parish. The heritors were called at the door of the church, inti-
mation of the meeting having been formerly given to them. Whereupon, they and
the elders unanimously made choice of Mr Mungo Watson, then minister of the cha-
pel, to be minister of Gladsmuir. He, of course, was the first minister of the parish.
It is worthy of notice, that, some time after, as appears from the minutes of presby-
tery, he got a call to the parish of Linlithgow; but the people of Gladsmuir being
attached to him, and having petitioned against his removal, the presbyters refused to
loose him from his charge, and he continued minister of Gladsmuir till his death.


