
     of Kintore.

as at Aberdeen, from which the 11th mile stone is in the
town of Kintore.-The estate of Kintore, till the present
Earl succeeded, had been in general long out of lease, and
consequently little would be done to the houses; but since,
in 1782, he gave new leases, farm houses have been much 
improved; for this he gives encouragement; but a num-
ber of subtenants or cottages have been removed, from an
apprehension of the mosses wearing out.  The old parish is 
better provided in fuel than the new part, which has no 
moss at all; the mosses in general in this country are fast 
wearing out*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Seed-time and Harvest.-Oats are sown from the beginning of March
till the middle of April; near the river, where the soil is warm, they may
be a fortnight later in sowing than others, and will reap a fortnight soon-
er.  Barley is sown from the middle of April to the middle or end of 
May; but the earlier in that time the better, as often frosts and mildews
in harvest blast the bear, and prevent its filling.  Harvest is generally
from the beginning of August to the middle of October.  Turnip gene-
rally is sown about the longest day.  In some bad seasons, the harvest is
better.  The parish has suffered much from these.  In 1752, harvest was 
not done in November, and in 1783, the bad seed made a very scanty crop;
but in 1790, had there not been plenty in some of the neighbouring
parishes, this parish would have suffered much more by a thunder storm
that happened upon the 30th of July, accompanied with incessant showers
of uncommonly large hailstones pointed, and many of them measuring 2 
inches round.  They fell in such quantities as to cover the ground in 2
great part of this parish, for more than 24 hours, and it was more than 2
days before they were all dissolved.  The hail covered a tract of country,
between 8 and 10 miles, from west to east, and 4 in breadth, beginning in
the parishes of Midmar and Cluine, on the west, coming over some part
of Monymusk, the moss of Kenmay, and of this parish, and the spending itself
in Fintray.  The greatest cloud devided in two, when it had passed over
this parish, and come to the moor between this and Kinellar; the largest
division turned down the Don to Fintray, and a smaller turned upon the
parish of Kinellar.  It did little damage in that parish, except where the
large branch came over their haughs.  This hail, with the frost that na-
turally followed, totally destroyed the barley, and most of the potatoes,
and very much damaged the oats and the turnip.  The harvest of 2789
was very bad, and the last and greatest flood, the 8th and 9th of Novem-
ber, carried off a remainder of the crop from our haughs.


