
42                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

gentle acclivity from the banks of the Forth, was the burial-place
of the Roman garrison.
   About half-a mile east from Alloa, is a large upright stone,
known by the name of the Stone Cross.  On each side, the figure
of an open cross is cut from the top to the bottom.  In making a
road near to this stone, about forty years ago, human bones were
found; and a few years ago, a stone coffin, composed of flag stones,
about 3 feet long, was discovered, and two small figures of the true
cross cut upon it.  From this it is inferred, that the interment
must have taken place early in the Christian era, when the Pagan
rite of doubling up the body in short stone coffins had not been
abolished.
  Old Roman coins have occasionally been found in this parish,
and it is particularly to be noticed, that some years ago, a brass
coin was dug up with the letters S.C. upon the one side, and the
words Augustus Tribunus upon the other.
  Some years ago, there was dug up in the floor of an old house
at the village of Cambus, a large jar full of silver coins of Scot-
land, England, and other countries.  Some of the coins of Ger-
many were about the size of a dollar.  The greater part of these
coins was sold by the workmen.  About sixty of them were re-
covered by the Sheriff of the county, and have, since that time,
lain immured in the Sheriff-clerk's office.
    Alloa Tower.--This ancient edifice, which is 89 feet high,
and its walls 11 feet thick, was built in the end of the thir-
teenth century, by the sovereigns of Scotland.  In 1365, David
II. gave it to Lord Erskine, in exchange for the estate of Stra-
gartney, in Perthshire.  Many of our Scottish princes received
their education here.  As they were, for more than two centuries,
the wards of the Lords Erskine and Earls of Mar, who held gene-
rally the three principal fortresses of the kingdom, Edinburgh, Stir-
ling, and Dumbarton,--James VI. was occasionally brought to live
here during his boyhood, though his more frequent residence was
the royal castle of Stirling.  The last heir of the Scottish Monar-
cby, who was brought up here, was Henry Prince of Wales, eldest.
son of James VI., who died in his eighteenth year.  Queen Mary
spent some of her infant years in Alloa Tower; and here, in after
life, she passed two nights, when reconciled to Lord Darnley,
in July 1566.  The very celebrated George Buchanan, the
boast of Scotland, is believed to have resided for a considerable


