
<APPENDIX>

lxxxvi

present to bestow upon it, and perhaps it may be as well, to give such an
account of a kingdom, at so marked a period, as the conclusion, or the
commencement of a century; and if health will permit, and no accident
intervenes to prevent it, I hope that it will be in my power, in the course
of the year 1800, or 1801, to publish such a Work, as cannot be rivalled,
in regard to the state of any other country.
   In the interim, I think it proper to lay before the public, some informa-
tion respecting the plan of that Work, as it may induce public-spirited in-
dividuals, to favour me with their remarks upon it; and in case any cir-
cumstance should prevent me, from executing such a Work myself, it may
furnish hints to any other person by whom it may be undertaken.  With
that view, I have drawn up the following general observations, applicable
to an Account of Aberdeenshire, as a specimen of the manner, in which the
mass of information contained in the Statistical Account, ought partly to
be arranged by parishes and counties, before any important result can be
drawn from it.

   General Observations, respecting the Results to be drawn from the
   Statistical Account of Scotland, and the manner in which the same
   ought to be made.

   A CONSIDERABLE proportion of the vast mass of important information-
contained in the Statistical Account of Scotland, may be condensed,
into a small compass, in three different ways.  1. There are a variety of ar-
ticles, as the General State of the Population, &c where the information
may be given, in the shape of Parochial Tables:  2. There are other parti-
culars, as the State of Property, &c, where calculations by Counties, may
be preferred: And, 3. There are many other points, where general compu-
tations for the Kingdom at large, will be found more eligible.
   In regard to each of these, the attention of the reader is requested, to the
following Preliminary Observations.

     I. PAROCHIAL TABLES.

   Though it could not be expected, that complete information could be
procured, respecting all the particulars contained in the following Tables,
from every individual Clergyman, yet a sufficient number of facts has been
obtained, to form calculations, the average result of which, will be suffi-
ciently accurate for every useful purpose.  There is indeed every reason to


