
     of Alloa.

although many farmers engage women to shear (reap) for
them in harvest; but then they are engaged by the day, or
half day, according as they are employed.  Almost any num-
ber can be got, at short notice, from the town of Alloa; and
it is no uncommon fight to fee 60, 80, or 100 reapers in one
field.  Of late, there have been undertakers for cutting down
a farmer's crop, at 5 s., 5 s. 6 d., or 6 s. per acre, according to
the apparent ease or difficulty of the work.

   Poor.-The number of poor, who were formerly obliged
to accept of constant assistance, was but few, while those who
stood in need of occasional aid were numerous; and yet the
kirk-session*, besides paying for the education of many young
people, have been able to lay up money against any uncom-
mon calamity.

     4 K 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Legislature, in 1597, placed the care of the poor in the KIRK-SESSION,
which is an ecclesiastical court.  They have esteemed this a most important
trust; and have accordingly regarded it as their duty, to be perfectly well ac-
quainted with the situation and disposition, of those who apply for relief; and
assisted them in proportion, from the collections made at the church doors, and
other small dues payable to the session; which were, for the most part, found
sufficient for the purpose.  Under such attentive and careful management, the
act, 1672, was, for the most part, found unnecessary; and therefore, it is believed,
was never put in practice in any parish, until the hard winter of 1740.  By this
act, "the heritors, ministers and elders of every parish, were required to make
"a list of all the poor within the parish, to liquidate a yearly turn for their
"maintenance; the one half to be paid by the heritors, the other half by the
"other householders." In 1740, some counties and particular parities, in order to
oblige absent heritors, to contribute their share towards assisting the poor in their
distress, began to enforce it; and most of them have ever since followed that
method, although it has brought on some few disputes about settlements, and
other disagreeable circumstances attendant on all rates.  But the greater part of
the country moil happily continued to intrust the management of the poor to the
kirk-session; and it may therefore be fairly presumed, that most of the kirk-
sessions in Scotland have been as attentive to this important part of their duty,
as the session of this parish; who have executed their trust, fear this century past,
most faithfully and judiciously.


