
6                       CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

low, is considered to be very healtby; and the town being situat-
ed by the side or a great river, where the regular flowing of the
tide is attended by a strong current, damps are thereby cleared
away, and the atmosphere rendered fresh and pure.  The Firth
of Forth, expanding eastward till it falls into the German Ocean,
certainly contributes to moderate both the summer's heat and
winter's cold.  The Ochil Hills, also, from their vicinity, give all
this parish an advantage in regard to climate, by protecting it from
the piercing north winds.  There are no diseases peculiar to the
town or parish.  Fevers prevail at certain seasons, but they are
seldom of a malignant nature, and are less fatal than in some of
the neighbouring parishes.  Agues, when the last Statistical Ac-
count was written, were "scarcely ever heard of."
   Hydrography.-Wells. There are several spring-wells in the
parish; but their waters have never been carefully analyzed.
Some of them have evident marks of being chalybeate, others hold in
solution carbonate of lime, which harmless substance, although it
Occasions a degree of hardness, and renders the water unfit for
Washing and bleaching, does not make it less suitable for culinary
purposes.  Most of the wells belonging to private families in the
town, are of this description.  One of these wells or springs was
within Alloa House, and is described in the former Statistical
Account, as "strongly impregnated with steel." At the east end
of the town, is a spring of very pure water, apparently chalybeate,
which, from time immemorial, has been called the King's well;
and at Tullibody is one of excellent water, the Lady's well,--a
name couval with the early days of Popery.  The town of Alloa
is well supplied with excellent water, brought by pipes, at great
expense, from Gartmorn Dam (of which afterwards), about thirty-
five years ago.
   Rivers.--The River Forth, which rises at the eastern side of
Ben Lomond, extends along the south side of the Parish by a very
circuitons course, a distance of four miles and a half to the west-
ward of the town; and about one mile to the eastward, where it
ceases to be a river and becomes a firth.*  At Alloa ferry, the
river is about half a mile broad at high water, and it is navigable
beyond Stirling, as far as the "Cruives" of Craigforth.  Ships of 800

<FOOTNOTE>By an old Scotch Act of Parliament, the "Pow" of Alloa,(so the act renders
our word harbour), is between the river and the sea, as to the salmon-fishing.  Long
has been the litigation, and very great the expense of determining, upon scientific prin-
ciples, where the river ends and the sea begins in the river Tay and other rivers, for
regulating the kind of nots to be used in each of these divisions.


