
                 192                              ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                 in an economical point of view, the first mentioned being well
                 adapted for herring barrel staves, and the other for the purposes
                 of the boat-carpenter and agriculturist. Besides these, hazel,
                 mountain-ash, and willow, are found in considerable abundance.
                 The rarer kinds are birch, bird-cherry, poplar, holly, oak, and elm.
                 The native fir, which at one time must have covered a great ex-
                 tent of the parish, its roots being found everywhere in the higher
                 grounds, is now almost extirpated.
                    The planting of timber has hitherto been attempted on a scale so
                 very limited as to be unworthy of notice, except so far as to observe
                 that the result of such experiments as have been made is such as
                 to bold out ample encouragement to this species of improvement.
                 The trees to which the soil seems most congenial, next to the al-
                 der and ash, are the larch, the elm, and the plane tree.  But there
                 is no sort of timber cultivated in Scotland, that would not thrive,
                 under careful management.
                                             II-CIVIL HISTORY.
                    Of the history of this parish, little is known of an earlier date
                 than the middle of the thirteenth century. About this period, Co-
                 lin Fitzgerald, the founder of the family of Seafortb, received from
                 Alexander III. the governorship of Castle Donan in Kintail, in
                 reward, it is said, of his conduct at the battle of Largs.  Letter-
                 fearn was then possessed by tribes of the names of Macbheolan,
                 Macaulay, &c.; and if tradition can be relied upon, it was by a
                 practice not uncommon in those times, of fomenting quarrels
                 amongst these septs, and then obtaining "power of fire and sword"
                 against them as unruly subjects, that the Mackenzies managed to
                 possess themselves of the country. About the beginning of the
                 following century, the Macraes, a clan of Irish origin, who appear
                 to have come over to this country, before or along with Fitzgerald,
                 as they are stated to have fought under him at Largs, and after-
                 wards settled for some generations in the Aird of Lovat, emigrated
                 into the parish, where they gradually increased in numbers and
                 consequence, until they became almost exclusively the occupants
                 of the lands.

<FOOTNOTE>Although a matter of little importance, It may be proper here to state, that the un-
          worthy invention which an individual of a neighbouring district palmed upon the
          credulity of Dr Johnston, and to which the weight of that great name has given cur-
          rency; viz. that the Macraes only attained to consequence by marrying the widows
          of the Maclennans slain at Auldearn,-is destitute of all foundation, anda contradicted
          by ample evidence, written and traditional, from which it clearly appears, 1. That
          the Macraes were a tribe of considerable notice, before the Maclennans existed as a clan
          known by that name; 2. that the former had attained to a higher degree of import-
                                                            I


