
                                 ROSSKEEN.                           269

          neficence and philanthropy. It is known that the emigration on
          an extensive scale, which resulted as a natural consequence from
          this change in Highland agriculture, was attended with sufferings,
          on the part of the emigrants, calculated to excite the sympathy
          even of indifferent observers. Numbers of the expatriated High-
          landers flocked to Glasgow, where Mr Macintosh's bountiful as-
          sistance was never denied them, and where his counsel and advice,
          (of more value, probably, than mere pdcuniary donations,) were
          in addition tendered with equal willingness and zeal. In obtain-
          ing for his destitute countrymen, occupation in the walks of com-
          mercial and manufacturing industry, both in his own employment,
          and in other and distant situations, he was equally indefati-
          gable and successful. In the midst of these events, the war re-
          sulting from the French Revolution commenced; and Glasgow,
          under the influence of Mr George Macintosh, became the
          scene of recruiting for the army on an extensive scale, from
          amongst the numbers of the Highland emigrants. His corre-
          spondence, which is still preserved, indicates no less his kindly
          anxiety for the real welfare of his countrymen, than it does a high
          tone of public spirit and patriotic feeling ; but what is perhaps
          equally gratifying, it demonstrates, as expressed by many public
          functionaries, and individuals of rank and character, that the go-
          vernment of the day was sensible of the services which be ren-
          dered to his country, and duly appreciated the same. When war
          recommenced in 1803, it was mainly through his exertions that
          the Glasgow Highland Volunteer Regiment was raised and orga-
          nized; and when, about this time, the regiment of Canadian Fen-
          cibles, then stationed in Glasgow, evinced symptoms of mutiny
          Mr Macintosh, at the desire of General Wemyss, then command-
          ing the district, hastened to their quarters, and addressed the sol-
          diers in their native tongue ;-the effect was electrical.
                 "With such authority, the troubled host he swayed,"
          that the corps, in the instant, returned to their duty. In the
          midst of this useful and honourable career, Mr Macintosh was
          snatched from society, in tbe summer of 1807. On his return from a
          journey into England, he was seized with illness at Moffat, where he
          expired in the sixty-ninth year of his age. His ashes repose at a dis-
          tance from those of his fathers, in the cathedral burying-ground at
          Glasgow, in the tomb of the ancient family of Anderson of Dow-
          hill, from which his wife was descended. On Sunday, the 9th of
          August 1807, as a tribute of respect to Mr Macintosh's Memory,


