
94                            ORKNEY.

<TABLE>

The total population of Cross parish is now  .    .    .    .    .     560
The population of Burness parish is          .    .    .    .          432
                                                                       ___
                                                                       992
                      Total of both parishes now
     The number of children below 15 years of age in botli parishes is 190.

   The cottar system, which formerly prevailed universally, and
still does prevail to a small extent, is perhaps the most degrading
to the labouring class, the most discouraging to industry and exer-
tion, and consequently the most injurious to morals, which can be
conceived. A youngster, when he has hardly attained to man-
hood, and before he can have saved as much as will purchase a
bed and blankets, makes an improvident marriage, and only then
thinks of looking for a hut to shelter him and his fast-increasing
family. Having got the hut and a small piece of land, he has to
go in debt for the purchase of a wretched cow and a still more
wretched pony, and, paying his rent in small but never-ending and
ill-defined personal services, or, as it is expressively called in the
country language, " on-ca-work," he becomes the slave of the
principal tenant, who is so blind to his own interests, as to prefer
the slovenly half-executed work of this hopeless, ill-fed, and inert
being to the willing and active services of a well-paid qnd well-fed
farm-servant. The tenants of Sanday are, in general, very kind
to their cottars, and seldom a day passes without their having to
grant some little entreated favour or other, which the circumstan-
ces of the cottar makes necessary for his support; but they do not
seem to calculate the value in money of the property thus given
away. Often, in the course of the year, it will amount to as much
as the wages of a good ploughman; but then, being an uncertain
bounty, and moreover, the product of beggary, it does the receiver
little good beyond the immediate relief to his family, and destroys
in him all habits of self-dependence and of foresight.
     The tenants complain that, from the inducement held out to
young men by the fisheries, it is nearly impossible to get farm-ser-
vants. While the tenant was paid a high price for the manufac-
ture of kelp, he kept his farm-servants all the year round, employ-
ing tbem-profitably during the summer season in the kelp; but, not
having yet gone into the system of raising extensive green crops, he
does not conceive that he needs servants during the four months
betwixt plough-casting and harvest consequently, he pays off his
servants at the former period, and they are thus forced to become
fishermen. He cannot, therefore, expect that they will return to
him exactlv at the time which suits his convenience, nor that a
man, who inay be making L. 1 a-week, with the chance sometimes
                                 3


