
174                            BERWICKSHIRE.

and of 500 more given in place of lint, where that is no longer al-
lowed to be grown; a cow's grass; the carriage of coal; and L.3
of sheep money, as it is called.  Till lately, a considerable emo-
lument was derived from poultry, for which advantage a sum of
10s., and that only in certain cases, has been substituted.  the
farm-servant is likewise bound to provide a "bondager," for whose
labour, when the latter is employed, he recieves from 8d. to 10d.
a day.  If any member of his own family is able to do the work.
or if the bondager is often required, the circumstances turns out pro-
fitably; but it is otherwise, when a person must be engaged for the
express purpose, at an expence of L.6, 10s. or L.7 a-year, besides
victuals, &c. and the remuneration for whose labour, (supposing it
to be interrupted and limited,) falls short of the expenxe incurred.
Secondly, the cottar, instead of paying rent for the house and "kail-
yard," engages to do harvest work; at every other season, a pay-
ment in money, of from 8d. to 10d. per day, is received for each
day employed; the cottar also reaps the benefit of as much ground
as two bushels of potatoes will plant, together with the carriage of
coal.  Thirdly, the day labourer is paid at the rate of 1s. 6d. daily.--The
rate of other labour is, for joiners, 2s. 4d., for masons, 2 6d., for
tailors, 1s. 6d., with victuals, per day, respectively.  The smith is
paid 5d. per pound of wrought -iron, and the road-maker is 1s. 4d.
per cubic yard of stones broken to size.
     Husbandry.--Very few sheep or cattle are bred in the district,
almost all of them being purchased at the different markets.  In
husbandry both the four and five-shift systems are pursued.  Owing
to the high price of stock, the latter is gaining ground, and indeed
it is recommended by practical agriculturists as the better system
for general adoption.  The interests of agriculture have been vastly
promoted by the introduction of thrashing-mills, of which there
are twelve, four driven by steam, one by water, one by wind, and
six by horse-power; and within the last twenty years, immense im-
provements have been effected in reclaiming waste land, &c.  Some
intelligent men are of opinion, that draining might be carried to a
greater extent with much advantage, if facilities were afforded by
the erection of a tile and brick kiln in the neighbourhood, as it is
now difficult to obtain a sufficient quantity of stones for the pur-
pose.  Little more than a quarter of a century ago, a considerable
portion of the now fertile farms of Dykegatehead, Wynnefield,
Leetside, and others, was overflowed.  Much praise is due to the 





