
                           KILMALIE.                          125

the canal, there is reason to expect that more dues would be drawn.
The same number of men are employed waiting the locks as if
there were vessels passing every hour of the day; since these men
are in Government pay, and since overseers, &c. are also in Govern-
ment pay, every facility and encouragement should be given to
steam-boats and other vessels to pass through the canal.
   The only harbour of consequence in this parish is at Fort Wil-
liam.  A quay has been recently built there, partly by the Fishery
Commissioners and partly by private subscription.  It is expected
to be of some benefit to the place, if indeed any thing can benefit
a place without any public or private employment for a poor and
numerous population.  There is a very safe anchorage at Camus-
nagaul, between Corpach and Fort William.
   Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church is at Corpach, at the
south entrance of the Caledonian Canal, which is the most cen-
trical spot in the whole parish.  There is a population of from
500 to 600 souls within three miles of the church.  It is distant
about thirty-six miles from the extremity of the parish, and was built
in 1783 for L. 440.  It will accommodate about 900 or 1000 sit-
ters.  All the seats are free, which is an immense advantage to a
poor population.  It removes a common excuse for absence from
church.  The manse and its appendages of garden and office-
houses were built about seventeen years ago, and cost the heritors
triple of what the church cost them in 1783.  The glebe is large,
partly arable and partly pasture, but not valuable, on account of
its unprotected and fenceless state, in the immediate neighbourbood
of many poor cottagers.  The stipend is not fixed, as there is only
an interim decreet.  The living, upon the whole, is considered re-
spectable.
   There is a missionary at Fort William; and a church that can ac-
commodate 300.  The Society in Scotland for Propagating Christ-
ian knowledge allow L. 50 per annum to the missionary; and the
Duke of Gordon, while proprietor of Fort William and neighbour-
ing land, allowed L. 10 per annum for house rent. The place is at
present vacant.
   There are two Government churches in this parish, one on each
side of Linne Loch near Corran Ferry: one minister preaching
every alternate Sabbath in each supplies both. There is a popu-
lation of upwards of 1100 souls connected with his charge; and the
place was very destitute before the Government church was erect-
ed.   There was a missionary for some time officiating between


