
392                  RENFREWSHIRE.

                 "-had a bow bent in his hand
                  Made of a trusty tree,
                An arrow of a cloth-yard long
                  Unto the head drew he.
                Against Sir Hugh Montgomery
                  So right his hand he set,
                The gray-goose wing that was thereon
                  In his heart-blood was wet."

  The barony of Eaglesham has descended since through the
Barons Montgomery and Earls of Eglinton to the present day.
Eaglesham comprehended 100 marks land of the old extent.  The
chief messuage was the Castle of Punoon, or, as it is sometimes
written, Polnone or Polnoon, vulgularly pronounced Pownoon.  This
barony seems all along to have remained in the quiet possession of
the Eglinton family.  In the Acts of Parliament published by the
authority of Government, and in the Rotuli Scotiæ, we do not find
it mentioned till 1672, when Alexander, Eighth Earl of Eglinton,
obtained an act of Parliament for a " yeirlie fair and weiklie mer-
cat at the Kirktoun of Eagleshame."  The petition of the Earl
to Parliament is given in full in the " Acts of the Parliament of
Scotland," (Vol. viii.  Appendix, p. 17,) where it is stated that the
village was then " above six miles distant from any burgh royal,
or from any other place where mercats or frie fairs are kept, and
lying on the Kingis high way, is a most fit and convenient place
for keeping mercats."  The act grants " ane yierlie frie fair to be
keepit within the kirktoun of Eglishame upon the twentie fourt
day of Aprile yierlie, with ane weekly mercat to be kept thereat
upon each Thursday, for buying and selling of all sort of mer-
chandise, and other commodities necessar and useful for the coun-
try."  The Earl and his successors are also farther appointed " to
collect, uptake, and receive the tolls, customs, and dewties belong-
ing to said yierlie fair, and weiklie mercat."  This fair, with an-
other for which there is no act of Parliament, is kept yearly in
May or 24th April, O.  S.; but the weekly market has been dis-
continued.  The Earls of Eglinton have still a residence in the
parish-Polnoon Lodge; but it is at present let out.  Formerly
the farms of Netherton, Polehall, Holemuir, and Maulauther, con-
stituted an ancient property named Auchinhood, a possession of a
branch of the Montgomery family, and till lately, belonging to
John Montgomery of Wrae, Depute Secretary of North Britain.
This estate is now re-united to the Eglinton property.
  Eminent Characters.-The Rev. Robert Pollok, the author
of the celebrated poem " the Course of Time," was a native of


