
       			     NEW MACHAR.                     1027

        Geology and Mineralogy.--Granite abounds in the south end
of the parish.  Limestone is to be found in the estate of North
Kinmundy, but not in sufficient quantity to repay the labour of
quarrying and burning, &c. There. is evidence of its having been
burnt there at a former period; but not, I am told, for the last
fifty years.
      	The parish presents a variety of soils. In the southern part
near the Don, the soil is a gravelly loam; in the middle part,
good loam; in the northern part, patches of good loam, with a large
proportion of inferior various land on a bottom of clay--the most
valuable portions bein those lately reclaimed by modern hus-
bandry, by deepening the principal burn that runs through the
parish, and by judicious draining.
      	There are no large forests in the parish.  The most extensive
woods are those on the estate of Parkhill. The estates of Stra-
loch and Elrick are also well-wooded. On another of the estates
in the parish, the estate of Rainnieshills and Kingseat, there
has been a good deal planted, within the last ten years. With a
few exceptions, the young plantations are thriving well.

       			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
      	There is no separate account of the history of the parish; but
several interesting particulars connected with its history are to be
found in the chartulary of Aberdeen, in the library of King's Col-
lege, and in the "View of the Diocese of Aberdeen," MS., al-
ready referred to. There is in the possession of the Straloch and
Pitlurg families a large collection of papers, which are of interest
and importance, not only as regards this parish, but as regards this
county.  Many of these have lately been published by the Spald-
ing Club (see Miscellany of the Spalding Club, Vol. i.) The
original painting of the celebrated Robert Gordon of Straloch, by
Jamieson, is in the mansion-house of Parkhill, in this parish.
       	Eminent Characters.--Robert Gordon.--This eminent geogra-
pher and antiquary was born at Kinmundy in this parish on the
14th September 1580. He was the second son of Sir John Gor-
don of Pitlurg, a gentleman who long stood high in the favour of
his sovereign, James VI. Mr Gordon has the merit of being the
first who applied actual mensuration in topographical surveys to
Scotland. At the request and earnest solicitation of King Charles
he undertook, in 1641, the preparation of an atlas of Scotland,
which was published in 1648, and soon afterwards went through a
second and third editions. It was his diligence and accuracy in


