
216                        RENFREWSHIRE.

the church about six years ago; and it is at present, boside being
one of the most magnificent, one of the most comfortable, places
bf worship in Scotland.
   The transept, although ruinous, still displayed in the fair propor-
tions, and yet remaining beauty of its northern window, a most in-
teresting relic of monastic grandeur.  The window, about 35 feet
in height, by 18 in breadth, occupies the greater part of the space
that intervenes between the graduated buttresses, which support the
northern angles of the transept.  It is formed within an arch of beau-
tiful proportions and of the decorated kind.  The centre mullion still
remains, dividing the window into two great lights, pointed and rich-
ly cusped.  The space between them and the great arch has been
filled with flowing tracery, a considerable part of which may still be
seen, as well as portions of similar work, in the large windows that
Once adorned the sides of the transept.
   Two large pointed archways, now filled up with masonry, once
formed a communication between the centre part of the church,
and St Mirin's aile on the south.
   The choir, the walls of which are now levelled to within ten
feet of the ground, present an interesting relic of monastic times.
The piscina or font, which still remains, with an accompanying
niche on each side, is near the east end of the soutlr wall.  A little
to the west, in the same wall, are four recesses supposed to have
been stalls or seats for the priests, during the celebration of high-
mass.  One of these recesses, indeed, has a groove in it, as if for
Shelving, which may give rise to the conjecture, that it was intend-
ed rather as a vestiary than as a stall.  The other three, however,
are without grooves.  They are all cinquefoiled at top within
the pointed arch, which is ornamented with beautiful carved
work.
   The remains of the strong clustered pillars that supported the
tower, which, surmounted by the lofty spire, once rose from the cen-
tre ot the building, are still to be seen.  The tower, we are told,
on one occasion, and before it was finished, had, by its own weight,
and the insufficiency of its foundation, given way.  It was afterwards
rebuilt at an immense exoense, by John Hamilton, the last of the
abbot. *  We cannot say what was the cause or the precise pe-
riod of its second fall.  The account given by tradition of its de-

<FOOTNOTE>Porro Pasleti immensis sumptibus, Ecclesiae turrem, nulli spud nos secundam,
extrinxit Joannes ultimus archiepiscopus S. Andrae, quse antea partim firmo nixs
fundaments,  Absolute sample sus conciderat.-Lesleuch.
                                           3


