
		  LIBBERTON AND QUOTHQUAN.                 43

	After the battle of Bothwell Bridge, James Chancellor was im-
prisoned on suspicion of having harboured some fugitives; but no-
thing being proved against him, he was liberated after some days
confinement. * The same gentleman was returned as elder by the
presbytery of Biggar to the first General Assembly which met after
the revolution of 1688. +
	The family residence was originally at Quothquan, and remain-
ed there till 1567, when the then proprietor joined Queen Mary's
party at Hamilton, and engaged in the battle of Langside. After
her defeat, a party of 500 horsemen, sent out by Regent Murray to
demolish the houses of her adherents, burned down, among others,
the mansion-house at Quothquan. After this calamity, the family
residence was removed to Shieldhill, which appears originally to
have been a square tower of no great dimensions, but which has at
different times been added to and modernized, particularly by the
present proprietor.
	At a short distance to the southward from Shieldhill is the man-
sion-house of Huntfield, the property of John Stark, Esq., surround-
ed by thriving plantations.
	Parochial Register.--The earliest date of the parochial registers
is 1717. They consist of two volumes, and refer to births and
baptisms, marriages and burials. The registration by dissenters
is somewhat irregular; but otherwise the records are satisfactorily
kept.
	Antiquities.--About half a mile south-west from the church, are
to be seen the ruins of a fortification or camp,--improperly called
Roman, as its form is circular. It stands on the edge of a high
and barren moor, about half a mile from the Clyde, and commands
an extensive view of that river to the south and west. It contains
about 1 1/2 acres, and is surrounded by a double wall of earth, a deep
ditch intervening.

			III.-POPULATION.
	"From the session records," according to the Statistical Account
of the late Mr Fraser, "it appears that the births in this parish from
April 1683 to April 1753, amounted exactly to 2205, the annual
average of which is 3l 1/2.  The marriages during the same period
amounted to 563, the annual average of which is little more than

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow's Church History.
          Records of the Biggar Presbytery.




