
			UNITED PARISHES OF

                COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS. *

                PRESBYTERY OF DUNBAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                THE REV. ANDREW SPENCE, MINISTER.
                THE REV. ANDREW BAIRD, ASSISTANT & SUCCESSOR. +

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE parish of Cockburnspath, to which that of Old
Cambus appears at a very early period to have been annexed, oc-
cupies the north eastern corner of the county of Berwick. An-
ciently it seems to have been written Coldbrandspeth, Cowbrands-
peth, or Colbrandspath; but, with regard to the etymology of both
this and the more modern name, Cockburnspath, there is much
uncertainty. Tradition generally derives the former from a Da-
nish general of the name of Colbrand, who, it is said, resided at
one time in a castle of some strength in the centre of the parish,
the ruins of which still remain; while the latter, on the same au-
thority, is attributed to another family of the name of Cockburn,
which, at a more recent period, acquired possession of the same
stronghold, and the adjacent lands. Chalmers mentions that the
original name began to be corrupted so early as the year 1506.
   Boundaries.-In point of figure and extent, the united parishes
may be described as nearly a square of 4 1/2 miles: being bounded
on the east by Coldingham; on the south by Abbey St Bathans;
on the north by the German ocean; and on the west by the pa-
rish of Oldhamstocks, in the county of Haddington.
   Topographical Appearances-The general aspect of the parish
is varied and uneven: being diversified by hill and dale, and in-
tersected by occasional deep and picturesque ravines, through each

<FOOTNOTE>According to Chalmers, Old Cambus is derived from the Gaelic name Ald, sig-
nifying, a streamlet, and Camus, a creek or bay; and, in confirmation of this deriva-
tion, hementions, that a rivulet passes at a little distance, and falls into an inlet of
the sea. It is more probable, however, that its derivation is from the Gaelic adjec-
tive Ald, wild, savage-strange, and Camus, a creek or bay,-a derivation which is
strongly supported by the bold and rugged scenery on the coast of this old parish.
    This account has been drawn up by the Rev. Andrew Baird.


