
                           KELSO.                          3l9

scription can convey an adequate idea.  Distinguished alike by
its great height, its unity of parts, its massiveness, and its inor-
nate simplicity, it produces on the spectator, especially when
viewed from the west, south, or east, a distinctness and oneness of
impression, rarely communicated by other than entire and com-
pact fabrics; and it possesses, in common with all objects which
are at once vast, simple, and symmetrical, the charm of gaining
on our admiration, the oftener and longer it is contemplated.  Its
dimensions are as under :--Total length of ruin, from west to east,
99 feet; length of transept within the walls, 71 feet; breadth of
ditto 23 feet; height of centre tower, 91 feet ; breadth of ditto, 23
feet; height of pointed arches on which the lantern rests, 45 feet;
width of ditto, 17 feet; thickness of lower walls, 5 1/2 feet.
  In the year 1649, a clumsy attempt was made to repair part
of the ruin, for the purpose of converting it into a parish church.
With this view, two low and gloomy arches were thrown over the
walls, one over the transept, and another over the head of the cross,
while a wing of rude masonry of a corresponding vault-like cbarac-
ter was erected in the ruined choir.  A second tier of arches was
thrown over the former, to serve the purpose of an outer and inner
prison,--which deserves to be noticed from its forming the original,
whence the author of Waverley sketched the prison of Edie Ochil-
tree in the Antiquary.  The former of these clumsy erections * con-
tinued to be used as the parish church till 1771, when it was finally
deserted in consequence of the falling, during the time of divine
service, of some fragments of cement from the roof.  The congre-
gation hurried out in consternation, under the idea that the vault
over their heads was giving way; and, though the alarm proved un-
founded, it was yet found impossible to persuade the people to re-
assemble in it,--the more especially that there was in circulation
an ancient "prophecy" of Thomas the Rhymer, which bore that
this "kirk should fall when at the fullest."  Nothing was done to-
wards disincumbering the abbey of these unsightly adjuncts, until
1805, when William, Duke of Roxburghe, began to clear them
away.  His plans were followed up still more energetically by his
successor, Duke James, who, in 1816, caused the whole remaining
part to be removed ; though it was not till 1823, that those repairs
were made on the ruin which have brought it into its present state
of beauty and stability.

<FOOTNOTE>A view of the ruined abbey, with these rude adjuncts, taken in 1787, may be seen
in Vol. i. of Grose's Antiquities.


