
			KELTON.                          171

 "Gaulistown," which lands John Gauliston had forfeited. Kirk-
cormack, anciently called Kilcormae, derived its name from the
Irish saint, Cormac, to whom it was dedicated. This dedication
was, no doubt, made during the ninth century, after the Irish
emigrants began to find repose in Galloway. Symson says, that
Kirkcormack is only a chapel, and not, as it would seem, a com-
plete parish, though ordinarily so called." He probably means
Kirkmirren, for Kirkcormack appears from ancient records, to have

had all the attributes of a complete parish. It is beautifully situat-
ed in a retired spot, on the bank of the river Dee, and sedms to
have been the burying place of the Maclellans of Auchlane, a
branch of the noble family of Kirkcudbright. In ancient times
all these churches belonged to the monks of Icolmkill. When
their establishment became ruined by the successive devastations
of the northmen, Kelton, and, indeed, all the churches in Gallo-
ways, which belonged to these monks, were granted between the
years 1172 and 1180, by William the Lion, to the monastery of
Holyrood. This establishemnt also being dissolved by the Reforma-
tion, Charles I. in 1633, granted to the newly erected bishoprick
of Edinburgh, along with many others which had belonged to the
monastery of Hollyrood, the churches of Kelton and KIrkcormack.
On the abolition of Episcopacy in 1689, the patronages of these
churches reverted to the crown. Gelston belonged of old to the
prior and canons of Whithern. After the Reformation, it was, by
the general annexation act of 1587, vested in the King, who
granted the whole property of Whithern priory, including the
church of Gelston, to the Bishop of Galloway in 1606. When
Episcopacy, was finally abolished in 1689, the patronage of this
church also reverted to the crown, which is still sole patron of the
united parishes of Kelton, Gelston and Kirkcormack. The pre-
cise date of the union of these parishes cannot now be ascertained.
It probably took place soon after the Reforlation; at least the
churches of Gelston and Kirkcormack were both in ruins when
Symson wrote his description of Galloway in 1684.
	Castle Douglas, alternately with the county town, is the seat
of the Presbytery of Kircudbright. The parish church is situated
on the east side of Kelton hill, at nearly equal distances from Cas-
tle Douglas, Rhonehouse, and Gelston. Its distance from the
extremities of the parish is about five miles. But although the
situation of the church, considering the state of the parish when
it was built, was well chosen; yet its distance of a mile and a


