
	84                         BANFFSHIRE.

	   The boundaries of this parish are, on the south and east, the
	river Deveron; on the west the parish of Marnoch; on the north
	the parish of Alvah.  Its length from south-east to northwest is
	about 5 1/2 miles, its greatest breadth is 4 miles; it contains about
	12 square miles.  A rivulet nearly bisects the parish, at the mouth
	of which are the ruins of the chapel before-mentioned.
	   Climate, Springs, &c.-The climate is warm, compared with that
	of the surrounding country,-owing to the nature of the soil, and
	the shelter of hills and woods.  Streams flowing from the northern
	and high grounds, and pouring their waters into the Deveron, act
	as drains, and tend to render the soil dry.  The people are in ge-
	neral healthy, and many live to a great age; most are cut off by
	acute diseases, or die of old age.  Chronic rheumatism is common.
	There are several perennial chalybeate springs on the bank of the
	Deveron, and on the higher grounds, where roots of oak are to be
	seen.  The only river is the Deveron, which has its source in the
	mountains of Aberdeenshire.  When it first enters the parish, it
	flows almost due east, it then takes a sudden turn towards the
	north, and continues to flow in that direction till it discharges it-
	self into the Moray Frith at Banff.
	   Geology.-There is a chain of greywacke which passes through
	the upper district of the parish, about north and south, from a
	place called Craigaithry, in the upper part of the estate of For-
	glen, towards Auldtown of Carnousie.  There is another small
	hill of the same rock in the middle of the parish.  Indeed the
	western boundary of the parish may be said to be formed of a ridge
	of greywacke; the slight elevations towards the north are of the
	same rock; where the ground gradually shelves towards the river
	on the south and east sides, the clay-slate is to be found.  In the
	low grounds, the clay-slate extensively prevails; direction, south-
	east; dip 70&deg;.  The fissures of the greywacke are, for the most
	part, filled up with quartz.  Quartz and hyperstone are to be met
	with, but not in large masses.  A thick species of clay-slate is to
	be found along the bed both of the river and rivulet, reaching
	near the meridian of the greywacke.  The greywacke is covered
	by a thin layer of heath, the clay-slate by a light soil, composed
	chiefly of comminuted state, mixed with vegetable mould.  The
	soil is generally light, sandy on the river side-clayey in some
	places-seldom loamy.
	   Zoology.-Among the animals in the parish may be mentioned
	the following:


