
800                        ARGYLESHIRE.

going in search of its end or bottom, had bewildered himself
in its mazes, and was lost.  Some people might have found it
their interest to propagate this story, and impress upon the
vulgar mind a frightful idea of the cave, there being little
doubt of its being repeatedly used for safety and shelter in times
of trouble.  Its formation has arisen in all probability from the
wasting of a trap vein.  The mouth-is fortified by vast fragments
of stones, which render it rather difficult of access, and the bot-
tom, as far as the tide beats in, is covered with shingle and quan-
tities of cast ware or sea-weed.  Farther in, it is spread over with
smooth sand.  The breadth at the entrance may be about 45 feet,
andthe roof, rising almost in a regular arch, is so high and lofty,
that the torches and lights used are insufficient to show it distinct-
ly; and, from its general depth or length, it is not very possible
to form a notion of its dimensions from any point of view.  Pass-
ing inwards from the sea tD a great depth on the right hand side,
is a narrow passage, about six feet wide, obstructed by large
stones, over which, having passed, there is a second cave of about
25 feet in breadth; and here is a square stone, called Fingal's
table.  Onwards still the cave leads, until tokens of a feculent or
corrupted atmosphere beginning to affect the lights, warn the tra-
veller as to the propriety of returning.  This cave is much visited
by tourists.
   In Inimore, there is a cave called the Nuns' cave, and consi-
dered to have been the habitation of Nuns.  Tradition is silent as
to the time when they resided here ; but most probably, it was
subsequent to the demolition and dissolution of the nunnery at
Iona, that they sheltered themselves in this sequestered place.
Several crosses are cut in the sides of the cave, and there are
many initials of names; but these last seem modern.
   Islands.-Passing over Iona, which will be treated of afterwards,
there are two islands attached to the parish, and both in the es-
tuary of Loch-nan-gaul.  These are Inniskenneth and Eorsa, the
former a very fertile little island, separated from Gribun by a
sound of half a mile.  This island is about a mile long, and less
than half a mile broad, and supposed to take its name from Ken-
neth, a friend of St Columba, whom he is said to have rescued by
prayer from drowning during a storm " in undosis Charybdis Bre-
cani."  This Kenneth is supposed to have died abbot of Achabo,
in Ireland, in 600.  According to Donald Monro, Dean of the
Isles, and who visited this, amongst other islands, in 1549, Innis-


