
118                      BANFFSHIRE.

timate,-which system is understood to have lowered the expense
to less than one-half, within the last twelve years.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The parish has enjoyed the ad-
vantage of a sub-post-office to Mortlach, ever since the year 1803;
and in addition to this, a first-office was established, some years ago,
at Craig Ellachie, which now communicates daily with a principal
office at Ballindalloch through Aberlour, and also with the two sub-
offices bf Dufftown and Rothes. The means of communication have
been greatly improved by a toll-road, which was made in 1817, and
runs through the whole extent of the parish, from the bridge of
Fiddich to the hill of Carron on the borders of Inveraven. An-
other very useful road was made last season, in the south, or Glen-
rinnes part of the parish, running through that vale from Duff-
town in Mortlach to Glenlivat and Tomintoul.
   Ecclesiastical State.-It has been formerly stated, that a new
parish church was erected in the year 1812. This contains 700
sittings, all free. It is, at present, in good repair, and is con-
veniently situate for the attendance of the greater part of the
parish,-being, with the exception of Glenrinnes, not more than
three miles and a-half distant from its farthest extremity in an
east and south direction, and little more than four from the far-
thest habitation on the west, or Inveraven side.
   The whole population belong to the Established Church, with
the exception of a few Seceders and Independents, who likewise at-
tend divine service occasionally in the church.
   The manse is a very old building. It was, many years ago, pro-
nounced, by decreet of presbytery, to be insufficient; and having
sustained considerable damage by the flood in 1829, which re-
duced it to an entirely ruinous condition, the incumbent was al-
lowed, in lieu of a new manse, an annuity for seven years from
that date.
   A great part of the grebe land was carried off bare to the chan-
nel, and in order to protect the remaining part, and preserve its
former boundaries, two bulwarks were erected by the heritors at a
great expense in 1830; one on the Spey, about 500 yards above
the glebe land, and the other on the burn of Aberlour, where it
forms the boundary of the glebe, and near its junction with the Spey.
Although that part of the field that was injured is entirely use-
less in the meantime, yet, it is hoped that the stagnant water re-
ceived periodically in the excavated parts behind the bulwarks,


