
176                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

pied by the natives, in warlike times, as places of retreat. The
only tumuli to be seen, are at a place called Druim na Coup, where,
as has been noticed in the former account, a battle was fought be-
tween the Mackays and the Sutherlands. Upon the same ground,
or nearly so, a party of French were seized in 1746, going south
With gold to aid the rebels. The French vessel in which they
were conveyed, being pursued off this coast, ran for safety into
the Bay of Tongue, and the party, carrying their valuable treasure,
landed at Melnbss, where for a night' they were protected by a
gentleman of kindred sentiments. Next day, his son went to con..
duct them by the safest -route through the country, but, as soon
as their character and object were known, they were pursued
by a band of natives from several neighbouriDg places. When
the French came to Druim na, Coup, finding that these were in
chase, of them, and hearing the beating of a drum resounding from
the cliffs of Ben Laoghal, indicating the approach of soldiers from
the south, they at once surrendered. Much of the gold was lost,
being probabl thrown into a deep loch in the neighbourhood, but
a considerable quantity was appropriated by those who led on the
pursuit. A few gold coins have since been found at a conside-
rable distance from Druim na Coup.

<TABLE=Population>

                              III.-POPULATION.
          In 1755, the population by return to Dr Webster was 1093
             1791,                                            1439
             1831, by Government Census,                      2030
             1838,                                            2080

Of these 956 were males; 1124 were females. In 1791 it is
stated that the births were 47, and marriages 17. Since 1831,
births have averaged 44, and marriages it thus appears that,
in a population of 1439, there were more births and marriages es-
pecially the latter, than there are now in a population of 2080.
The probable solution of this strange fact is, that the population,
having increased till it bas become a burden on, the land at pre-
sent cultivated, the subdividing of crofts having been prohibited,
and the ordinary sources of industry by se and land having, for
som time, either proved unproductive or being shut up, the young
of both sexes felt that they could not marry without running the
hazard of being soon exposed to hardships and want When mar-
rriages decrease, births of course share the same fate.
  The Duke of Sutherland the only nobleman connected with
the parish as proprietor, has a residence in it -the House of
Tongue, which lie occasionally occupies for a few days in autumn,


