
                          LOGIE.                          233

education are taught in all the schools, and Latin and Greek in
the parochial school. The salary of the parochial teacher amounts
to L. 30, and the school-fees average about L. 38 per annum.
The school-house is situated about the centre of the parish, in
the neigbbourbood of the church, and is a neat and tasteful build-
ing in the cottage style.  The general expense of education varies
according to the different branches taught, from 2s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
per quarter,--the fees for English alone being 2s. 6d.; when
writing, arithmetic, &c. are added, 4s. 6d.; Latin, 5s.; book-
keeping, 7s. 6d.  A small sum is allowed by the heritors and
kirk-session to the parochial teacher for instrubting the children
of the poor.*/f
   The people in general are perfectly alive to the importance of
education, and even the poorest often show a great anxiety to
procure it for the children. Children are sent to school from the
most remote corners of the parish, though the distance, especially
during winter, must render it very inconvenient. There are pro-
bably none above six years of age, who have not been taught to
read or write.
   Library.-There is a parochial library, containing a few good
books, at Blair Logie, and a small village library has lately been
established at Bridge of Allan.
   Savings Bank.--There is a Savings Bank in the parish, in
which investments are made chiefly or entirely by the working-
classes.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
on the poor roll is about 17 or 18. The usual allowance varies
from 4s. to 8s. per month. The amount of the collections at the
church-door is from L. 50 to L. 60 per annum, which is sufficient
for the support of the regular poor. Other parochial expenses,
board of lunatics in the Glasgow Asylum, &c. have hitherto
been defrayed by drawing very unwisely on the principle of a small
sum lodged in the Bank of Scotland, and now reduced to L. 100.
There is also a bequest of L. 18 by the late Sir Robert Aber-
cromby, distributed amongst the poor on the roll at the beginning
of every year.
   April 1841.

<FOOTNOTE>An infant and girl's school has been lately established at Causewayhead, by the
Honorable Mrs Abercromby, and promises to be of the very greatest benifit to the
neighbourbood.


