
               476                        RENFREWSHIRE

               ing that legacies to this excellent institution are few in number and
               small in amount.
                  There are four medical attendants elected by the managers,
               and an apothecary or clerk who resides in the hospital.  The me-
               dical attendants hold office for four years.  One retires every year:
               and the managers may either re-elect him or appoint another.
               Two of the surgeons visit the hospital during one-half of the year,
               and the other two during the succeeding half.  One takes charge
               of the fever wards for the first quarter, while his colleague takes
               Cbarge, of the surgical department and the other medical cases,
               and at the end of the quarter they exchange.  Their services are
               gratuitous.
                 To this statement of facts the compiler has to add, that the
               evangelical ministers of all denominations visit the hospital in rota-
               tion, and exhort and pray with the patients, excepting those in the
               fever wards.  Each minister undertakes that duty for a month,
               and during) that time visits the infirmary sick more or less fre-
               quently, as his other avocations will allow.
                 On the whole, we may venture to affirm, that there is no town
               of the same extent and population in Scotland, possessing an hos-
               pital for the poor, under better regulations than Greenock, or one
               in which the comfort and recovery of the patients are more faith-
               fully attended to by the surgeons and apothecary, and the matrou
               Of the house.  The patients themselves bear willing testimony to
               the truth of this statement,and the annual contributions from the
               workmen, though not in general so liberal as tbey.ought to be,
               show the impression which they have of the importance and the
               value of the infirmary to themselves and their families.
                 There is no public asylum in Greenock or in  the upper ward
               of Renfrewshire for lunatics. The want of such an institution for
               the poor and working-classes of this district has been long felt,
               and, it is hoped, may be supplied at no distant period. A private
               establishment of this kind has existed for some time at fancy-
               farm, in the neighbouring parish of Gourock, to which the heritors
               and kirk-sessions of Greenock engageto send their lunatic paupers
               at a fixed rate of board.  This establishment is about to be re-
               moved to Hillend, in the East Parish of Greenock. The fixed
               rate of board for pauper lunatics is L. 16 per annum.
                _Mason Ladges and Friendly Societies.-About twenty years ago,
               massonry declined considerably in this town, but has somwhat re-
               vive of late years.  Of the four ladges which existed twenty-
               years ago, only one is now open, and in the receipt of income from


