
114                         LANARKSHIRE.

such was the vigilance of the kirk-session, that they directed the
women to be whipped every-day during pleasure.
	 The Laigh Kirk steeple was built in 1638. The Tron or pub-
lic weights were kept in the under part of this steeple for a num-
ber of years; hence the name Tron. The dues of the tron, which
formerly belonged to the Archbishop, were conveyed to the Col-
lege, which still draws a small sum from the town in lieu of them.
	The council agreed to license Duncan Birnet to teach music
within the burgh, provided be takes no more " skolleges fra the
bairns than James Sanderis was allowed." They authorized the
master of work now in Flanders, to purchase for the town's use
fifty muskets with " stalfis and bandeleiris," and fifty pikes. On
8th September they ordered " three score young men to be elected
and trained to handle arms, the driller to have for his pains 40
shillings each day for his coming out of Edinburgh, aye until he
be discharged, with his horse hire hame and afield."
	 On 25th September 1638, the principal and regents of the Col-
lege petitioned the town-council for help to build the new work
within the said College. The council "condescended aud agreed
to give to the building of the said work 1000 merks when the work
is going on, and another 1000 merks to buy books to the library,
whenever they buy their books to make a library to the said Col-
lege. The money to be advanced by the provost and bailies, who
may be in office at the time."
	" On 8th October 1638, the provost, bailies, and council, un-
derstanding that his sacred Majesty has been graciously pleased
to indict a general free assembly to be holden in this city the 21st
November next, to which it is expected that a great number of
noblemen, commissioners from presbyteries, and other commis-
sioners will repair hither, therefore it is statuted and ordained,
that no burgess or inhabitant within this burgh shall set, or pro-
mise to set, for rent or otherwise, or give to any friend any house,
chamber, or stable, until they first acquaint them therewith, that
the provost, bailies, and council may give a license thereto, to the
end that every one may be lodged according to their quality and
ability in this city, under the pain of 100 punds, and imprison-
ment of their persons during the magistrates' will. And likewise,
that those give obedience to this who are appointed to survey the
houses within the city, and also that no inhabitant expect more
rent for their houses, chamber, beds, and stables than shall be
appointed by the said provost bailies, and council, and ordains the


