
208			KINCARDINESHIRE.

net used in killing salmon on, but is much less. A salmon, as a bait,
is made fast in the bag of the net, and to the fish is fastened a
cork, which floats on the surface. As soon as the seal catches
hold of the fish, the cork instantly goes under water, which being
observed from the shore, the door of the net is immediately closed
by pulling a rope. The seal then becomes an easy prey, being
confined in the net.
	The salmon-fishermen generally engage for a certain rate of
wages per week, and according to the quantity of fish caught.
Those who reside in this parish have, for the most part, a small
piece of ground, which they cultivate at leisure hours; others em-
ploy themselves in different kinds of labour.
	White-fishing.--There are three fishing villages in this parish,
viz. Torry, Cove, and Burnbank. The villages of Torry and
Cove are inhabited by persons of different trades and occupations,
as well as by fishermen. Burnbank is inhabited exclusively by the
latter. In Torry, there are now fewer boats and fishermen than in
former times: but there are still three boats with six men to each.
In thd Bove, there were, in former times, only five boats; now
there are nine, with six men to each. In Burnbank there are
three boats, with six men to each.
	The employment of the fishermen varies according to the season
of the year. In January and May, baddocks are in season, and
are taken not far from land. In this fishing there is often much
annoyance from dog-fish which destroy the lines, and even eat off
the haddocks from the hooks. Fishing with the great line takes
place in March and April. Cod, ling, turbot, &c. are caught at
the distance of several leagues from land.
	There is great difficulty in procuring bait for the white-fishing;
and mussels are brought for the purpose from Montrose and other
places, at considerable expense: but now the mussel-beds or scalps,
that have been formed in the spill water channel ot the river Dee,
will supply the neighbourhood with abundance of good bait, at a
moderate rate.
	Smith fishing with rod and fly-hook forms an amusement in the
summer to many, and considerable quantities of this small fish are
taken, in this way, from the rocks at the sea-side and the mouth of
the river.
	The fishermen in Torry carry haddocks and other fish directly
to the Aberdee market. But the fishermen of Cove and Burn-
bunk, after gutting, cleaning, splitting, salting, and then smoking
 				  4


