
                          EAST KILBRIDE.                    887

from Sir William Stuart, who is mentioned in Rymer's Foedera
Angliae as one of the sureties given on the part of Scotland, in
1398, for the preservation of the peace of the Western Marches
between England and Scotland; and who, along with his brother,
Sir John Stuart of Darnley, went to France during the reign of
James I. of Scotland, and rendered such signal services to Charles
VII. of France, that they are mentioned with high encomiums by
many historians of those times.
   The Maxwells of Calderwood and the Stuarts of Torrance
have frequently given to the nation men of distinguished ability,
who have honourably supported leading characters in the camp
or the court.  Many of them have acted a conspicuous part both
in Europe and in the East and West Indies.
   The parish of East Kilbride comprehends the ancient parish of
Torrance, the name of which is derived from Torran, the dimi-
nutive of Tor, "a mount." At the Reformation this parish was
held by the Hamiltons, (cadets of the family of Hamilton,) and
was leased for which forty merks yearly.  It probably embraced the estate
of Torrance, of which the Hamiltons were proprietors.  Its name
was taken from an artificial mound of earth, still known by the
name of the Tor, which is situated about a quarter of a mite from
the present House of Torrance.  It is about an hundred and sixty
yards round the base, and twenty of ascent.  The area on the top
is of an oval shape, and there are some trees of considerable
height now standing upon it.  The earth seems to have been ori-
ginally dug out on all sides evenly round the spot, in order to con-
struct it.  It appears now in a plantation very near the modern
road from Kilbride to Strathavon.  The old kirk of Torrance
stood about half a mile from the mansion-house, near the village
of Newhouse Mill, on the border of Blantyre parish.  It was left
to fall into ruins after 1589, and had been totally demolished long
before Mr Ure's time.  He mentions that human bones were oc-
casionally dug up in what had been the adjoining burying-ground.
About twenty-five years ago, the tenant of Newhouse Mill farm
removed all the earth of this ancient churchyard, in order to en-
rich the soil of one, of his fields.  Mauchline Hole, or Calder
Glen, as it is now called, which has recently been united to the
estate of Calderwood, is said to have been the residence of the
rectors of Torrance.  The records of the presbytery of Glas-
gow, in 1589 inform us, that the parish of Torrance was, in that
year, annexed to the parish of Kilbride," as being a pendicle
thereof, and as next adjacent to the said kirk."


