
                              CARLUKE.                       569

thick mass of coarse-grained sandstone, and a succession of the
same stone in laminae, in the situation of the millstone grit. This
and many of the free stones in the coal range are used for build-
ings, and many of them are of the best quality for that purpose.
        Limestone.-The workable lime bands in the parish are five in
number,-all of them occurring under the coal, except the first,
and that is the uppermost of the two found above Carluke coal. (6.)
	1. The Gare band or bed, of about four feet and a half, worked
at Gare, Westerliouse, and Bashaw. It is esteemed highly by the
agriculturist of the moorland districts, but it is by no means equal
to the main lime in quantity for general use. The dip at Gare is
in a semicircular form, west, north, and east; at Westerhouse and
Bashaw it is nearly the same. We place this band first in the list,
as it is geologically the highest in the group here; but the work-
ings above named are not within the limits of the Carluke basin
indeed, though known, it has never been wrought in that basin.
	2. The Kinshaw (Kingshaw) underhand of two feet and a half,
worked at Kinshaw, Raes, partially at Birkfield, seen in a pit at
Braidwood, and in a mine at Hillhead. It is a coarse lime of lit-
tle repute, but from its highly stimulating (hot) quality, is valua-
ble as an application to clay soils. The dip at different places is
remarkably varied.  At Kinshaw it is north-west; at Hilibead,
west; at Braidwood and Raes, north-east.
	3. The foul band of four feet, wrought at Mosside, Hillhead,
Leemuir, partially at Raes gill, and seen at Harestanes Loch. It is
of indifferent quality, but has been found fit in some instances for
the furnace in iron-smelting. It passes round the summit of Hill-
head in a semicircular course, and dips north-northwest and west;
at Leemuir, Harestanes Loch, and Raes gill it dips north-east.
	4. The main limestone, of from four to six feet, wrought at Thorn-
muir, Mosside, Hillhead, Langshaw-burn, Harestanes, Braidwood,
and south-west of Kilcadzow. This is a limestone of excellent qua-
lity. Its distribution is very remarkable. At Thornmuir, in the east-
ern division of the parish, it crops out, and has a dip eastwards; at
Mosside and Hillhead, to the west of Thornmuir, it dips to, the
north-west; at Langshaw-burn, to the south of Hillhead, the dip is
north; and at Harestanies and Braidwood, west of Langshaw-burn,
and at Kilcadzow, the dip is north-east. The Thormuir working
is in connection with the basin, to which the first (Gare) lime be-
Iongs, passing eastwards; the others are in connection with the
Carluke basin.


