
                           KILMANY.                          549

plough has also been set to work. These united will improve the
wet and retentive lands. They will free them from extra moisture,
give them depth of soil, and prepare them for the reception of
lime and manure. Another great improvement which has been
introduced within the last few years is the application of bones
for fertilizing the soil. This manure is admirably adapted for
high dry fields.
   The leases extend to the period of nineteen years, and the nature
and conditions of them are generally considered fair for proprie-
tor and tenant,-perhaps an extension of them to twenty-four years
would be still more advantageous to both parties. The farm
houses and steadings are, in a majority of eases, good, and, by the
liberality of the proprietors, are improving every year.
   Rathillet mill presents an obstacle for improving one part of the-
parish. Its dam-dike prevents a proper level from being carried
through the low lands of West Rathillet, and Mountquhanie, and
Stair. The fields lying along this part of the Motray, which from
their situation, should be the most productive in the parish are almost
always damp, and do not bear the crops of which they are capable.
They are also exposed ta be occasional flooded. Were this ob-
stacle removed, and the lands properly drained, the difference be-
twixt the crops, which are now, and which would be raised upon
these fields, would amply remunerate the heritors interested, in a
very few years. All such obstacles are removed in the eastern part
of the parish, and the consequence is, that the banks of the Motray,
which were once marshy and of little value, are now dry, and pro-
duce excellent crops of grain and the best of pasture. What are
called the Greens and the Haughs of Kilmany, were also occasion-
ally overflowed with water. This was corrected some years ago, by
giving the Motray a new and a wider course, betwixt the mill and
the church of Kilmany.
    Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, in as far as it can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>

   Produce of all kinds of grain cultivated for food of man or the domestic
               animals,                                                            13,800
            of potatoes turnips, &c. cultivated in the fields for food,             3,800
            of hay almost all cultivated.                                            1400
            of land in pasture rating it at L. 3 per cow or full-grown ox
                 grazed, or that may be grazed for season, at 12s per ewe,
                 or full grown sheep pastured or may be pastured for the year,       1200
            of annual thinning and periodical felling of woods, plantations, &c.       40
                                                                                   ------
                Total yearly value of raw produce raised,                       L. 20,240

Farms, and the nature of their soil and capabilties,-East Kin-


