
     Of Clackmannan.

3 collieries has one of these.  Sometimes, indeed there are
even schoolmates, paid by subscription, according to the
distance which such inhabitants are from the parish school,
who are able to bear this expense.  At present, one of
these subscription schoolmasters receives upwards of 50 l.
a-year; so that the whole yearly income of the different
schoolmasters in this parish must amount to more than
170 l. Sterling.

     VOL. XIV. 4 L

<FOOTNOTE>

and so justly lamented, by the elegant Author of the Mirror (No. 36).
A very short time before his death, he taught the small school of For-
rest Mill, worth only about 12 l. Sterling a-year; and it was the highest
preserment to which he attained.  Yet, in this obscure retreat, in the
bleakest corner of the parish, living in a wretched hovel, and struggling
under all the hardships of poverty, he wrote LOCHLEVIN, one of the
finest descriptive poems in the English language.
   The following are extracts taken from his holograph letters still ex-
tant, and in the possession of the Reverend Dr. Baird, Principal of the
University of Edinburgh; and they put this fact beyond a doubt.
-"I have wrote a few lines of a decriptive poem, Cui titu-
"lus . You may remember you hinted such a thing to me;
"so I have set about it, and you may expect a dedication.  I hope it will
"soon be finished, as I, every week, add two lines, blot out fix, and
"alter eight.  You shall hear the plan when I know it myself.  Fare-
"well.  I am, your's, etc.                      
Forrest Mill, July 28, 1766.
     To Mr. David Arnot of portmoag.

   And, in another letter to the same person, he gives an account of a vi-
sit to the Island of Lochleven, and exclaims bitterly against the men who
conveyed him thither, for not allowing him more time to examine its
antiquities.-"They," says he, "who consider it in no other view than
"as capable of feeding a dozen or fourteen cattle, when their work was
"over, would not stay a minute longer, had it been to discover the
"great toe of St. Moag, who is burried there.  My description of it, in 
"the poem Lochleven (which, by the bye, is now finished) runs thus
"- I am, etc.
Forrest Mill, December 1. 1766.
A second edition of Michael Bruce's Poems in the press.


