
202                       WIGTONSHIRE.

great expense, it would be most useful as a place of refuge when
storms suddenly arise in the channel. As constructed at present, it
is difficult to prevent either of these harbours filling up with sand
and gravel. In several of the bays above enumerated, small ves-
sels may, in fine weather, and with attentive management, be load-
ed or discharged; but the risk is so great, from change of wind
and weather, that few are willing to enter them.
	Caves, &c.--The caves, caverns, and fissures along the western
coastarenumerous; many of them extensive and capacious wben enter-
ed; though so strait at the mouth as scarcely to admit a single person
creeping nn hands and knees; and the entranbes of many are situated
in places very difficult of access. Symson speaks of one of them
as a rock "from which there is a continual dropping both in sum-
mer and winter; which drop hath this quality, that, if any person
be troubled with the chincough, he may be infallibly cured by
holding up his mouth and letting the drop fall therein." In this
cave, the dropping still continues to wear a hollow in the rock, on
which falls, and to enlarge a stalactite in the roof above; but the
belief in its healing virtue has long ago nearly, if not entirely dis-
appeared.
	Surrounded on three sides by the sea, the climate is considerably
equalized; neither so intensely cold in winter, nor so hot in sum-
mer, as in more inland districts. As a proof of this, the plough-
man may be seen in the fields for eight or ten days after the soil
is completely frost-bound in the interior parts of the county. Con-
sumption is a disease supposed to be rarely originated in the pa-
rish. Cancer is not unfrequent, and has been ascribed to the too
plentiful use of dried salt-fish. Asthmatic subjects have found the
climate favourable to their malady.
	Springs.--There are several very copious springs of fine water,
their temperature is about 48&deg;1 Fahrenheit. Chalybeates are com-
mon, and one of a peculiar character was, a few years ago, discovered
oozing out nf a blue clay in the midst of mosr, which speedily attain-
ed a great, but, from reckless application, a short-lived celebrity.
It has not been analysed.
	Zoology.--There is little peculiar in the zoology of the parish.
The fox and the badger, formerly common, are now rarely met
with. Otters inhabit the caverns on the western shore; and the
rocks are tenanted by the common sea-gull, the Cornish chough
(Pyrrhocorax Graculus), the shag (Phalacrocorax Graculus), the
little, razor-bill, the raven, several species of hawk, and flocks of


