
                        KILDALTON                        665

of managing the farms which he occupied; and his successor is
pursuing the same course. As a proof that the country is rapidly
improving, it may be stated, that formerly there was generally two
or three thousand pounds worth of meal imported annually into
the island, but there is now a considerable quantity of oats ex-
ported. There has been a great extent of waste land reclaimed,
but there are still many thousand acres which might be rendered
capable of bearing good crops at a moderate expense. Few coun-
tries are possessed of such facilities for improvement as this
island. In the inland farms, lime, soft and hard, abounds, and
on many parts of the coast there is an abundant supply of shell
sand, which is found to be an excellent manure for all kinds of
soils. Nineteen years is, in general, the period for which leases
are granted. There are several good farm-houses, but few enclo-
sures; The principal obstacles to improvement were smug-
gling, the subdivision of land, bad roads, and the want of enclo-
sures; but as some of these are now removed, and all the rest likely
to be so in a short time, it is to be hoped that improvements of
various kinds will go on rapidly. There are no -regular fisheries
carried on, but there are cod and herrings caught occasionally on
the coast. I have not been able to ascertain the quantity of raw
produce raised in the parish: it is however very considerable, and
increasing every year. There are six sloops belonging to the pa-
rish.
                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in the parish, and the distance to
Bowmore, which is the nearest market-town, is fourteen miles from
the centre of the parish. Portellen is the only village. There is a
runner, who is paid by the country, from the post-office at Bowmore
to the receiving house at Lagamhulin. There are two harbours,
Portellen and Lochknock. The harbour of Portellen is large and
well sheltered, and a convenient outlet for the west of Ireland.
The channel is wide, and may safely be dntered by the largest
vessels in the darkest night, as the lighthouse which is erected
there directs the proper course to be taken. This lighthouse is
calculated to be of very essential service to all mariners who fre-
quent this coast.
   The parish church is built nearly in the centre of the parish,
and is conveniently situated for the greater number of the pa-
rishioners, since the parish has been divided, but a good many of
the inhabitants are from eight to ten miles from it. It was built


