
                               FALKIRK.                      23

road, four miles from Falkirk, and contains about 100 inahabitants,
who are employed as artisans and labourers. In the neighbour-
hood, there is a small burying-yard. There is a school which has
a small endowment, and the teacher is appointed by the kirk-ses-
sion of the parish.
   Camelon is on the same turnpike road, and about a mile west
from Falkirk. The population in 1831 was 809, and the inhabit-
ants are chiefly engaged in nail-making. It has two schools, one
of which was built by subscription, and a Sabbath school supported
by a society. A handsome church has been recently built at the,
west end of the village, seated for 660 persons.*/f  The ground for
the site, and a liberal donation besides, were given by Mr Forbes of
Callendar, and the remainder of the expense was made up by con-
tribution under the Church Extension Scheme.
   Bainsford, a mile north of Falkirk, is now a suburb of that tow,
and forms part of the Parliamentary burgh. In 1831, it contained
791 inhabitants, a great proportion of whom are employed at the
well-known Carron Iron Works, which are in the neighbourhood,
but in the parishof Larbert. A'basin communicating with the Forth
and Clyde Canal, accommodates the Carron Company's vessels
in the Liverpool trade, and a railway connects it with the works.
Some of the inhabitants are also engaged at a rope-walk at this
place. The village contains one school. By the canal, over which
there is a drawbridge, it is disjoined on the south from Grahams-
ton, which in 1831 contained 1288 inhabitants. It is also a suburb,
and part of the burgh of Falkirk. It consists of modem stone-
buildings, occupied as dwelling-houses and shops. The labouring
part of the population are chiefly employed at the Carron Works,
and at the Falkirk Iron Works in the neighbourbood. From its
vicinity to the canal, there is a considerable traffic in timber and
grain; and vessels with dried fish from the north resort thither,
which command a ready sale. There are four schools; some of
them under female teachers.
   Laurieston is about a mile and a-half east from Falkirk, on the
Edinburgh road. In 1831, it contained 1306 inhabitants, who are,
employed chiefly in weaving, nail-making, and, in agriculture.
There are also various artisans, such as stone masons and shoe-
makers. This place has been laid out on a regular plan on. the
sides of the highway, having, a square in the centre, with lanes in
the same direction on the south and north, and intersected by cross

<FOOTNOTE>This church was opened for worship on Sabbath, 23d August 1840.


