
318                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

boundary on the south. The fishing station of Catterline con-
taining, inclusive of the coast-guard, upwards of twenty families,
is the nearest approach to a village.
  Means of Communication.-In few parishes have the roads been
better constructed or more carefully maintained. Besides the
great coast road from Edinburgh to Aberdeen, and the Strath-
more road, which forms the boundary to the north-west, there are
about eighteen miles of parish roads, and the manner in which
they are kept in repair is such as to reflect great credit on the
trustees.
	It is perhaps deserving of notice, that Mr Stevenson, Civil En-
gineer, so far back as 1820, surveyed a line of railway extending
from the port of Aberdeen, through the valley of Strathmore to
the town of Crieff, on one uninterrupted level of 104 miles; a cir-
cumstance of which there is perhaps no other instance in the
united kingdom. * Should this magnificent design be carried into
execution, the railway will pass through the parish of Kinneff,
and may give much commercial importance to the district.
	At Catterline, a pier has been lately constructed, by the Vis-
count Arbuthnott, which will be of great service to small coasting
vessels unlading lime and coals. It is understood the situation
presents many natural advantages for more extended and safe
harbour accommodation.
  Ecclesiastical State.-Previous to the Reformation, the parish
of Kinneff included also Bervie and Catterline. Even so late as
1608, "By a decree of the Lords Commissioners of Teinds, the
parish of Bervie is decerned to remain a part of the parish of
Kinneff, and because there was no bridge on the river of Bervie,
the minister of Kinneff agreed to keep a suffragan at Bervie."
(Former Statistical Account). But while the boundaries of the
parish were thus more extensive, the places of worship were also
more numerous than now. In addition to Kinneff, Bervie, and
Catterline, there seems to have been religious service in Barras,
at the chapel of St John. At what time this chapel fell into dis-
use does not appear, but the right of presenting to it is several
times mentioned in the seventeenth century. + That it may have

<FOOTNOTE>See Memorial relative to opening the great valleys of Strathmore and Strathearn,
by Robert Stevenson, Civil Engineer. Edinburgh, 1821.
In 1631, Alexander Stratoun, of th`t Ilk, was served heir to his father in the
lands of Herbouracheillis, Glassland, &c. "cum advocatione (patronage, advowson)
capellariae de St John in Kinneff vocatae Barras." (Inquis. Spec. Kincard. No.
56). Ten years later, it is found in the hands of another Family, for, in 1641, Par-
liament passed a ratification in favour of William Gray, and of his son, the Master of


