
     Statistical Account

name of the bourachs.  The walls were built of stone and
clay; the floors were paved with stones.  A farmer in the
neighbourhood, about 20 years ago, applied the stones,
which were all of small size, to erect inclosures.  In remo-
ving the rubbish, he found a cylindrical stone, like a small
mill-stone; probably part of the quearn, or hand-mill, an-
ciently used in this country for grinding corn.  Two cir-
cular huts, containing some ashes, seem to have been corn-
kilns.
   A cairn on the hill of Auchmacher was opened some
years ago, and an urn was found in it, having its mouth
adorned with a great number of small jet black substances,
circular and perforated.
   At the foot of the hill of Sapling-brae, upon the north
bank of the Ugie, stand the remains of the Abbey of
Deer; which was built in the beginning of the 13th cen-
tury, by William Cumming Earl of Buchan, who brought
to it some Cistertian monks, from the abbey of Kinloss in
Moray, in the year 1218.  The revenue of this abbey, as
appears by the collector's books which are extant, was as
follows: Money, L. 572: 8: 6; meal*, 65 chalders 7 bolls
1 firlot 3 pecks; wheat, 14 bolls; bear, 14 chalders 10
bolls.  The lands which belonged to it were erected into

<FOOTNOTE>

*Estimating the victual at 12 s. 6 d. per boll, (the average of the fiars
of the county of Aberdeen for 20 years last past), and valuing the mo-
ney by the quantity of silver contained in a pounds Scots in the middle of
the 16th century, the revenues of the Abbey would amount to nearly
L. 1200 Sterling; but they in fact amount now to a much greater sum.
There is an old rental of the abbey lands in the custody of Mr Ferguson.
To form an idea of their extent, it needs only be added, that the spiritual
mens lands in the county of Aberdeen amounted to L. 321: 16: 8, of
which the Abbey of Deer was rated at L. 20 of old extent, (equal to 10
freehold-qualifications), and that the temporal mens lands amounted to
L. 2372 of old extent, or nearly four times the valuation of the lands pos-
sessed by the clergy.


