
60                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

and the views from the rising grounds were varied, extensive,
lively, and interesting. It is the opinion of some gentlemen, that
the internal communication of the parish would be much improve
ed, were a new line of road made from Fintry, through the east
end of Balfron parish, and by the foot of the Lennox hills, above
Boquhan and Leckie, till it passes between the village and the
church, and joins the new line of the Dumbarton road, near the
new bridge which has been erected over the Forth. Others are of
the opinion, that the new road from Fintry, instead of coming
above Leckie, and past the east end of the village, should coming
down betwixt Boquban and Leckie to the Dumbarton road. Were
this line of new road to be made through the dryfield part of this
parish to Fintry, it would be the nearest road from Dunblane and
that neighbourhood, to the city of Glasgow.

   March 1841.

                     PARISH OF KILLEARN.
      
      PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.
              THE REV. JOHN GRAHAM, D.D. MINISTER.

                         ____________

                I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--KILLEARN seems to be compounded of three Celtic
words, Kill-ear-rhin, signifying the cell or church of west-point.
This etymology is descriptive of the situation, which is at the west-
ern extremity of the Campsie Fells, a mountainous ridge running
eastward from Killearn to Kilsyth, a distance of twenty miles. It
is fartber confirmed by the circumstance, that the rising ground, a
little below the site of the church, near the confluence of Enrick
and Blane, still bears the name of Rhin, or Point.
  Extent.--The parish is of an irregular figure. Its length is 12
miles; its breadth, where greatest, 4, but at an average 21/4. It
contains 27 square miles, and probably 17,000 acres. It is situated
in Strathenrick, now the western district of Stirlingshire, but ori-
ginally a part of Lennox, or Dumbartonshire.
  Topographical Appearances.--The lowest part of the parish, at
the confluence of Enrick and Blane, is about forty feet above the

