
                  RENFREWSHIRE.

   Manufactures. -There are upwards of 100 families in the
parish whose subsistence depends on hand-loom weaving; but
as there is no public establishment for the manufacture of cloth,
the webs, partly for plain, partly for barness-work, are furnished
by the warehouses of Glasgow and Paisley. At Netherlee, on
the Cart, there is a very extensive printfield, capable of giv-
itig employment to 300 persons, including children, to which
very large additions were built about two years ago ; but from the
stagnation of trade, the work is at present discontinued, and the
property is now in the market. A little farther down the river, at
Milholm, is a paper mill in full operation. The manufacture nf
paper was introduced itito this parish about the year 1690, by Ni-
cliolas de Shan, a Frencliman, and one of those Protestant refu-
ges, who, by the impolitic and unjust revocation of the edict of
Nantes in 1685, were driven into foreign countries, and carried
with them the arts which might have enriched their own. A part
of the original building, enlarged from time to time, is supposed
still to remain, and from its origin, until now, with very few and
short interruptions, the work has been continued. Lower down,
and at the end of the old bridge, is a mill for the manufacture of
snuff, which affords employment to several families. On the river
at its lowest point in Cathcart, and just before it enters the parish
of Eastwood, there is an extensive bleachfield at Newlands, but
the workers, who are very numerous, are, with a few excep-
tions, resident in the adjoining town of Pollokshaws. To the
resources of the same stream, the inhabitants are indebted for an
excellent corn mill, as they also are for another at its upper extre-
mity on the estate of Dripps. Thosd mills are principally sup-
ported by a considerable sum which the tenants are obliged to pay
annually under name of multure. The erection of a cotton mill
on the Cart, whose machinery might be propelled by its waters,
has occasionally been contemplated; but the idea seems, of late, to
be abandoned, very much to the gratification of the writer, who has
cause to congratulate himself that none of the public works now
existing has been the means of introducing that sort of promis-
cuous and floating population which is so apt, from its irresponsible
character, to demoralize a neighbourhood,
               V.- PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The distance of the most remote part of the parish from Glas-
gow is not  more than five miles and a-half, and the facility, there-


