
                               EDENKILLIE.                      189


         size, are purchased in autumn, fed upon turnip, and sold the fol-
         lowing summer to cattle-dealers, who purchase them for the south-
         ern markets. The sheep, consisting of about 2500, are of the
         black-faced kind, with the exception of about 250 of the Cheviot
         breed, which are purchased in September, and fattened upon tur-
         nip for the butcher, or partly fed with turnip, and sold with their
         lambs the succeeding year.
           Fishing -There is a considerable salmon-fishing within the
         parish, at Sluie, upon the Findhorn, the property of the Earl of
         Moray. Four men are employed there to fish, with a boat and
         draught nets, the Sluie pool, and two other pools near to it, with
         two or three more, considerably farther down the river. Before
         salmon-fishing nearer the sea was so well understood as it is now,
         the fishing at Sluie was Gf great celebrity. It appears by a letter
         dated 7th June 1648, from the Earl of Moray to his Countess,
         that "in one night, on the Pool of Sluie alone, 1300 salmon
         were taken; and at one draught, six-and-twenty scores." About
         thirty-six years ago, 360 salmon were caught in the same pool on
         one day. But the number now taken, in all the pools connected
         with the net-fishing there, does not average above 700 yearly. It is
         let to Messrs Hogarth and Co. at an yearly rent of L.50, the right
         of angling being reserved to himself by the Noble proprietors,
         which some years ago was let by the Company at L.20 per annum.
         At the Ess, or fall, which is about six feet in height, and half a
         mile above Sluie, a man is employed by the Company to fish with
         an instrument here called a clip, which has a handle ten feet in
         length, and two or three crooked prongs. The man placing him.
         self upon a rnck immediately below the fall, and holding his clip
         about six inches under water, and eight or ten inches from the
         rock where he is seated, watches the opportunity of the fish being
         driven to the water's edge by the force of the fall, and by a sud-
         den jerk with his instrument, seldom fails to place it on the rock
         beside him.
           The Findhorn affords excellent sport to anglers, both of salmon
         and trout. A considerable variety of the latter kind of fish is caught
         in the Divie and Dorbach, especially after falls of rain.
           Produce.-The average amount and value of gross produce,
         yearly raised in the parish, may be nearly as follows.

<TABLE>

      Oats,     1257  imperial acres, at L.3  10  0  per acre,  L.4399    10   0
      Barley,    181     do,               5   0  0    do,         905     0   0
      Wheat,     125     do,               6  10  0    do,         812    10   0
      Pease,      86     do,               9   0  0    do,         105     0   0


