
126                         BANFFSHIRE.

river by the tributary streams of Crombie and Tervie, the former,
which is the drain of the lowest side of the country, called the
Braes of Glenlivet, falling into it at Tombia, and the latter that
of Morange and the country bordering on Glenrinnes, at Tom-
breakachie. Of the smaller streams, the most considerable are
Kymah, Aldregnie, Altachoylachan, and Tommore. The first, Ky-
mah, takes its rise in the mountains bounding the parish to the
south-east, and is larger at the junction than the Livet, which has
also its source in these mountains. Aldregnie falls into the Livet
at the east side of the Bochle. Altachoylachan is tributary to the
Tervie and Tommore, the chief outlet of the waters north of Cairno-
cay. The Spey is celebrated for the value of its salmon fisheries
and the quality of the fish, and also for the quantity of fir timber
annually floated on it from the forests of Abernethy and Ro-
thiemurchus; and the Aven for its uncommon, transparency,
which makes it dangerous for Strangers to attempt fording, being
often many feet deep where it scarcely appears to be two, and
hence the doggerel lines.
                   "The water of Aven so fair and clear,
                   Would deceive a man of 100 year,"
Some twenty or thirty years ago, salmon were very abun-
dant, both in the Aven and the Spey; and in the latter, fish
were frequently caught in the parish upwards of thirty pounds
weight; but now, owing to the close fishing at and towards
the mouth of the river, by means of nets and cruives, few escape,
and those reaching this are seldom to be met with above twenty
pounds weight. Grilse, salmon or white trout, finnock, trout, par,
stickleback, pike, flounders, eels, and large fresh water muscles,
in which pearls of some value are sometimes to be found, are all
numerous in the Spey, and, with the exception of pike and mus-
cles, are also to be found in the Aven, which, with its tributaries,
is much superior to the Spey for trout, and, accordingly, except
for grilse and salmon, held in higher repute by the angler. The
salmon fishings on the Spey for some miles from its mouth, of
which, since the death of the late much lamented Duke of Gordon,
his Grace the Duke of Richmond is proprietor, yield a rent of from
L. 8000 to L. 10,000 a-year. In the intermediate parishes, the pro-
prietors either let them for trifling rents, or protect and retain them
for their own use; but in this parish and farther up, they are con-
sidered of little or of no value.
   Geology and Mineralogy-The rocks throughout this parish are
supposed to be wholly of primitive formation, the mosti prevalent


