
222			AYRSHIRE.

<TABLE>

Unmarried women upwards of 45, spinsters,	         41
     			       widows,                   99
                                                  ---
       		                                140
Number of families,                               760

	The number of persons under fifteen years of age, divided by the
families who have children, will give three children to each family.

<TABLE>

                      Number of inhabited houses,          514
                            uninhabited or building,         5

	Language.--Within the last forty years the language has con-
siderably improved. The English has greatly superseded the
Scottish dialect of that period. Many words that were in common
use at that time would now be utterly unintelligible to the majo-
rity of the existing generation.
	Customs--Amusements.--The ancient custom of "creeling" is
still in existence in this parish. In former days, when penny-
weddings were in vogue, it was customary for the parties who
were at the wedding to assemble the following day, in order to
"creel" the bridegroom. Having procured a creel or wicker bas-
ket, they tied it on the back of the young gudeman, and placed a
long pole with a broom affixed to the top, over his left shoulder.
Thus equipped he was forced to run a race, followed by the young
gudewife with a knife to cut the cords, and who, according to the
alacrity with which she endeavoured to unloose the creel, showed
her satisfaction at the marriage. After which the parties return-
ed to the house to consume the fragments of the preceding day's
feast. About forty or fifty years ago, weddings having become
less numerously attended than formerly, the custom underwent
considerable alteration, and was deferred to new-year's-day. Ac-
cordingly, on this morning the young men of the village assemble
provided with a wicker hamper, or crockery crate, filled with stones,
with which they visit the houses of all those who may have enter-
ed the bands of matrimony during the preceding year, and compel
each young gudeman to bear the "creel" to his nearest neigbbour
who may have qualified himself for the honour. Resistance is ge-
nerally useless, as a number of stout fellows soon compel the re-
fractory person to submit, with the addition probably of one of
their number in the "creel," as the reward of his obduracy. The
"creeling" is generally, however, conducted throughout with the
greatest, good-humour; yet, harmless as the custom is, individuals
have been known, who, in order to avoid the ceremony, have re-
gularly for fifteen years absented themselves from home for a
fortnight at that season.


