
     1072                         PERTHSHIRE.

     the number of out-door labourers, and consequently brought down
     their wages. *
       Fisheries.-The fisheries in the parish belonging to Lord Mans-
     field extend from opposite the palace to Cambusmiebael, and were
     let last year for about L.100.  Lord Kinnoull has a fishing in the
     lower park above Quarry Mill-dam, let for about L.20, making
     about L.120 of rent.  About eighteen years ago, the rent was
     about L.1100. The reason for the extraordinary diminution is to
     be sought for in two causes,-the greater keenness with which
     the lower fishings are worked, and the reduction of the value of
     the fishings above the tide-way, occasioned by the alteration of
     the close-time.  The close-time, formerly from 26th August to
     12th December, is now from 14th Septetnber to 1st February.  I
     am assured by the intelligent gentleman (R. Buist, Esq., Perth,)
     to whom I am indebted for this information, that "our ancestors
     were right in their close-time, and that the sooner we return to it
     the better for the fishings on the Tay."
       The fish got in the Tay opposite Scone are, salmon, grilse,
     sea-trout, yellow-trout, pike, perch, eels, and, occasionally, trouts
     that frequent burns and streams running into the Tay.  The fish
     are seen going down the river after spawning, the males very early
     in the season, in December and January, and the females and fry
     in the latter end of March, April and beginnig of May.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       The market-town is Perth.  There is no village of any extent
     except New Scone, which is within two miles of Perth, thus ren-
     dering any market-town within the parish unnecessary.  There is
     in the village a sub-post-office to Perth, and a delivery of letters,
     free of expense, on the arrival of the south mail.  The turnpike
     road from Perth to Coupar-Angus passes through the parish for
     more than four miles, on which the Defiance coach travels north
     and south daily.
       Ecclesiastical State.-Before the village was transferred to New
     Scone, the parish church was situated in the old village.  It had
     been built in 1784, but in 1804 it was removed to New Scone, the
     same materials being as much as possible made use of.   The pre-
     sent situation is not very centrical, but being near the village, it is
     much more conveniently situated than it would have been at Old
     Scone, now that the bulk of the population are in New Scone.
     The whole seating of the church, exclusive of Lord Mansfield's
     seat is said, in a minute of a meeting of date 1786, to be 677 feet,

<FOOTNOTE> The infornmation as to agriculture was supplied by a very intelligent farmer, and
     may be relied on so far as it goes.


