
8                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

(Appendix to Nisbet's History, p. 151.) How long this state of
things continued does not appear. But at length they became the
property of the Abbey of Holyroodhouse, as appears from Keith's
History of the Scots Bishops, (p. 28.) In 1607, Mr John Both-
well of Whitekirk, first Lord Holyroodhouse, received a grant
of the patronage, rectorship, and tithes of Liberton, (Crawford's
Peerage, p. 185-6.) But his son was forced to resign them when
a bishoprick was erected at Edinburgh. At the Revolution, the
heritors and elders of co urse named the minister, but by the Act
of Queen Anne the patronage became the property of the Crown,
-Wauchope of Niddry clailing, and, it is supposed, exercising a
conjunct right of patronage from his connexion with the ancient
chapel of Niddry-Marsbal. This right has lately, however, been
disputed by the Crown.
  In connexion with this subject it may be mentioned, that a Pres-
byterian chapel was erected at Craigmillar during the indulgence
granted by James VII. which, at the termination of the persecu-
tion and the restoration of Presbyterian worship, became unneces,
sary, and is now used as a stable or out-house. There is also at
Bridge-end a chapel built by James V., near a place which he used
as a hunting-lodge, but it also is now turned into a stable.
  Church Lands.-The lands which lie west and south-west of
the church of Liberton were church lands, and termed Vicar's
Acres. They are so denominated in the entail of Mr Little of
Liberton. To the east of St Catherine's there is a rising ground
formerly called Priest Hill, now Grace Mount, which probably
was connected with the chapel of St Catherhne's, and occupied by
the officiating minister. Near the Craigs is a piece of land, called
the Kirk-lands, extending to about five acres, which formerly be-
longed to the church or chapel of Liberton. A part of Craig-
millar hill heron to the Abbey of Dunfermline, as appears from
Haddington's Collections. It was mortified in pure and perpetual
alms as appears frnm a charter of mortification in the reign of
Alexander II. in 1212. The lands of Inch belonged to the Abbey
of Holyrood, as appears from a charter in the reign Of James II
(see Register-Office)
  There was in ancient times a mill at Nether Liberton, the tithes
of which were bestowed by King David on the Abbey of Holy-
roedhouse. The Black Friars of Edinburgh also received six
merks annually from the proceeds of this mill.
  The Burgh Muir, now in a high state of cultivation, formerly be-


