
68                      LANARKSHIRE.

part red, of a considerable size, and reckoned superior in quality
to those of either Clyde or Tweed.  Pike of a very large size is
often found in the deep parts of the river.

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Historical Notices.-Many distinguished characters have been
proprietors in this parish.  So early as the year 1147, William de
Sommerville, the third of that noble family, afterwards Lord Som-
merville, married Margaret, daughter of Gualter, who is designed
of Newbigging, and Lord of Dunsyre.  Sir Patrick Hepburn of
Hales was, during his father's life, designed of Dunsyre, in the
year 1450, who, on accnunt of his great merit and fortune, was
by King James III. created a Baron or Lord of Parliament, ante
annum 1456.  Adam Second Lord Hales succeeded his father,
during whose life he had been designed Adam Hepburn of Dun-
syre.  His successors were created Earls of Bothwell on the 5th of
October 1488, and the last of the family was created Duke of
Orkney by Queen Mary, whom he had afterwards the honour to
marry.
   Archibald the Sixth Earl of Angus exchanged his castle and
lands of hermitage in Liddesdale, with Hepburn Earl of Bothwel,
for the castle of Bothwell in Clydesdale ; and hence this property
fell into the hands of the Douglases. It has since belonged to va-
rious individuals.
   Sir Norman Macdonald Lockhart of Lee and Carnwath, Ba-
ronet, is now proprietor of almost the whole parish.  The valua-
tion of the parish, as fixed in 1733, amounted to L.1450 Scots
money ; of which Sir Norman Lockhart has L.1383,13s.4d., and
the remainder L.66,6s.8d. belongs' to the Rev. Mr Aiton, which
was bequeathed by the late Rev. Mr Bowie, minister of Dolphin-
ton, to the minister servinq the cure of that parish.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest registers of the parish are
dated, June 7, 1690.  By minute of that date, Mr Robert Skene,
curate of the parish, is required to give up the kirk-box and key.
They have been regularly kept till the year 1712.  An interval
then occurs till 1760 ; after which they are regularly kept to the
present day.
   Antiquities.-The castles generally denominated fortalices,
which were stationed in the valley of Dunsyre, establish the fact
that the parish was well inhabited in early times.  At Easter Sax-
on there were no fewer of these than five.  At Todholes, in the west


