                             BALMACLELLAN.                                107

parts of Balmaclellan, Parton, and Kirkpatrick-Durham.  A neat
church has already been erected with this view in the last-men-
tioned parish.  There is little prospect, however, of its being any-
thing beyond a preaching station.  The people are poor, and the
probationer employed is most inadequately supported.
    Manse, Glebe, &c.--The manse was built about the beginning
of this century.  It is pleasantly situated, commands a fine view
of the valley of the Ken, and is, on the whole, comfortable and
commodious.  The glebe extends to nearly fifty acres, and has
been well fenced, subdivided, and improved, by the present in-
cumbent.  Its value, together with a fdw houses in the village,
may be about L.80. The stipend is exactly L.226, 19s. 9d.  Five
or six families of Catholics are in the parish.  The number of
Dissenting families of all denominations is 22.
     Education. -- The parish is remarkably well supplied with
schools.  Three are parochial, and a fourth is undertaken at the
teacher's own adventure.  In the principal school, no fees are ex-
acted. This arrangement was made in consequence of a bequest
to that effect of L.500.   This sum was laid out in the purchase
of a small landed property, which now yields about L.70 per an-
num.   The teacher has also the yearly allowance of one chalder,
or L. 17, 2s. 2d., as well as a house and garden.  The whole
number of scholars in the parish at the last Presbyterial examina-
tion amounted to 218.
     Poor.--At present there are twenty-four individuals on the roll
receiving parochial relief.  Seven of these are widows.  The rest
are orphans, or fatuous and infirm persons.  A legal assessment
has just been introduced, but its influence on the habits and feel-
ings of the people cannot yet be determined.
     Inns, &c.--There are four licensed retailers of ardent spirits in
the parish. The sale, however, must be very limited.  The inns
are poor and little frequented.
     Fuel.--Peat is the common fuel, and is both cheap and, abun-
dant. Coal is chiefly procured from Ayrshire, and very rarely
from the ports on the Solway. The original cost at Dalmelling-
ton is only 2s. Id. per cart.

     Drawn up in 1840; revised January 1844.


