
120			SUTHERLAND.

ance, especially after rain; each of which, as Well as Ihe forest
range, are close to 3000 feet above the level of the sea.
   Lakes.-The most remarkable lakes are Loch-moir and Loch-
Sac; but many others of considerable size might be mentioned.
  Rivers.-Inford and Inchard are the largest, with innumerable
rivulets, all charging themselves into the Atlantic.
  Islands.-A conser of islands, of about twenty, lies between
Edderachillie and Assynt,and to the north of Scourie Bay, the
island of Han no less celebrated from its rising perpendicularly
on the north      a height of 600 feet or thereby; than for
the myriads of sea-fowl which migrate to its precipitous cliffs in the
summer season to bring forth their young. The tourist would be
as much gratified by a visit to this island as to Staffa, the charac-
ter of its rocks being more singular and striking. The basaltic
columns of Staffa are to be met with in more than in one part, but
those of Hands are peculiar to it only, lying as they do horizontal-
ly, and presenting an apperance as if all were built by the hand of
man.
   Natural Harbours.-The whole line pf coast is much favoured
in respect to harbours. They are sufficient to afford safe anchorage
to the whole   and mercantile shipping Great Britain.
Those of more not  are lochs Laxford, Inchard, Badcall, Calva,
Glendhu, and Sound of Handa.
   General Tho-phers.- Owing to the mountainous character of
the country, the mairel capabilities  are chiefly confined to the
rearing of slidding the greater part is so appropriated. The sea
coast is to be shewed of similar importance as regards the fisheries.
The quantiles corch is limited, and, in consequence of the rug-
gedness and coverness of the surface, it is raised by the force of
manual labor swiff searcely any aid from the plough.
   But what measure has denied in one way for the support of man
is bestowed in other, by the unlimited quantities of fish which
arround the    particularly the herrings: they formerly fre-
duented it in autumn, and still not unfrequently in
aptnmer. The is of a healthy and sound quality. Such por-
tions of the are under tillage are not of a bad quality, and
yield fair retness. The rivers produce salmon, and the lakes are
all well retness. The rivers produce salmon, and the lakes are
all well stocked with bront,-both of excellent quality.
   Meteorology.-The weather is changeable, and the prevailling
winds are south and west. The temperature cannot be reckoned
cold, but the atmosphere, owing to the vapours from the Atlantic,


