
     			DALKEITH.        			 461

From the want of early records, few events are known, unless such as
are connected with the general history of the country, and the no-
ble families that possessed the manor of Dalkeith. The following
sketch will contain all the information that we have been able to
collect upon the subject.
   Of the origin of the town of Dalkeith we have no intimation,
either from authentic documents or popular tradition.*  Its Col-
tic name would lead us to refer it to a remote antiquity.+  But
the earliest information we can obtain respecting it, intimates
that, during the twelfth century, its manor was in possession of
the family of Graham.
   By tracing back the history of this family, as has been done by
peerage writers, through charters and other documents, many of
which are without date, we come at last to the name of William
de Graham, who lived in the reign of David L., (1124-1153),
and is a witness to the charter of the foundation of Holyrood-
house, founded in 1128. Before his time, no authentic men-
tion of the name of Graham has yet been found in Scotland.++
Whence be came, and what were his history and character, seem to
be altogether unknown. That he was a person, however, of some
consideration in the court of King David, is evident from the fre-
quent occurrence of his name as a witness in the charters of that
eminent prince. He probably survived to about the middle of the
twelfth century, as the latest charter to which his name is found
attached is a confirmation charter of Prince Henry, son of David,
to the priory of Durham, in or before the year 1152, during which

<FOOTNOTE>It is stated in the "Report on the Municipal Corporations in Scotland," article
Dalkeith, page 27,-that "the town of Dalkeith lays claim to great antiquity.
Originally the baronial eight belonged to the family a Keith: subsequently it de-
volved to that of Morton, &c." The author of this report has not told us where he
received his information. So far as our inquiries go, we have not seen the slightest
intimation that the family of Keith had ever any connection at all, either with the
town or the barony of Dalkeith.
    The earliest notice we have found of the name of Dalkeith is in a charter of
King David I. to Holyrood Abbey. It is entitled, "De Escambio de Dalketh et
de Ruchale pp. Newbotill," and is No. 6 of the Bannatyne Club Edition of that
chartulary. Edin. 1840, p. 9. The terms of this document are as follows, viz.
   "David, Rex Scottorum. &c. &c. Sciatis me dedisse Deo et Sce Cruci de Edene-
bure,-Iij acras de terra de Dolchet inter namus et planam terram in escam-
bio de Rhuchale; quarn Monachis de Newbottil in perpetuam eleemosynam donavi,
&c. Testibus Johanne Episcopo; Edwardo the Cancellario, &c. &c."  John, Bishop of
Glasgow, died in 1147; Edward the Chancellor held that, office in A. D. 1143-1; so
that the charter may have been granted in or before A. n. 1 143-4.
    We are not to infer, however, that this surname had no existence in Scotland
pripr to thee time specified in the text. It is probably a corruption from Grim,
Grime, or Grimus, (fierce), a name or epithet applied to Kenneth V. (993-1000,)
and which might easily pass into a proper name. By resolving the l into its element.

                       Pinkerton's Enquiry, vol. ii. page 189.


