
472                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

   There are, it is believed, none of the young betwixt six and fif-
teen years of age who cannot read or write : nor are there any per-
sons of any age in the parish, capable of being taught, who can-
not read; and most of them, both men and women, have been also
taught to write, as the people, in general, seem sufficiently alive
to the benefits of education, with the facilities of which this parish
is so well provided.
   Friendly Societies.-There are two friendly societies in the pa-
rish, one of them named " Sir Archibald Grant's Lodge of Gar-
deners," established in 1808; and the other, " A Benefit Male
and Female Society," established in 1824.  But it is questionable
whether they have been productive of any great advantage upon the
whole, the quarterly payments being very low, and the benefit de-
rived by sick and decayed members, seldom, if ever, equal to the
small allowances promised in their rules and regulations, as has
been generally the case with Friendly Societies on the old plan.
   Poor, and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving aid from the ordinary poor funds of the parish is 15, for
whom these funds, after deduction of the fees usually paid by
the kirk-session, afford, at an average, L. 3 each per annum.  As
actually distributed, however, some have more and others less, ac-
cording to their various circumstances.
   Besides the number of ordinary poor just stated, from 20 to
25 poor persons receive annually, in the month of January, from
15s. to L. 1, 10s. each from the dividends on a charitable fund of
L. 765, 3 per cent. consols, bequeathed to the parish of Mony-
musk, by the late Dame Jane Johnstone Lady Grant, by her last
will and testament, bearing date the 12th October 1787; the di-
vidends on which are, according to a plan for the management and
application thereof, approved of by a Master in Chancery, and
sanctioned by the Court, distributed in the month of January year-
ly, among such poor persons as receive no aid from any other cha-
ritable fund belonging to the parish.  The management of this
fund is vested in four trustees, all residing within the parish, in-
cluding always, as first trustee, the minister for the time being.
   The amount of contributions for the relief of the ordinary poor
arises from the following sources; from church collections, at an
average, L. 31 ; interest on L. 350, stock at 4 per cent. L. 14,
yearly donation from Lady Grant of Monymusk, L 5; other inci-
dental small sums, say L. 3; total, L. 53.  Extraordinary collec-
tions of various amount are also made annually for, the Infirmary


