
                         SADDELL AND SKIPNESS.                   443

       port,) accompanied by Sir Nigel Campbell of Lochaw, Sir James
       Douglas, and Sir Robert Boyd. The party were at first enter-
       tained at Saddell Castle, and afterwards at Dunaverty, until An-
       gus found means to convey them in safety to his island of Rathlin
       upon the coast of Ireland. He then set about organizing a body
       of troops, who took a decided part in all the future proceedings of
       the Bruce. In the successful attacks upon Carrick, where "the
       Bruce won his fathers' h`ll," Angus and his followers were fore-
       most in the combat. At length, when the, whole English army of
       Edward II. assembled at Berwick, composed, according to Bucha-
       nan, of 200,000 men,-according to Robertson, of half that num-
       ber,-Bruce anxiously awaited the arrival of Angus, whom some
       of the leaders now suspected of treachery. Immediately, however,
       on his arrival at Torwood near Falkirk, where the army stood en-
       camped, Bruce addressed him in a loud tone, and, as a proof of
       his confidence, observed, "My hope is constant in thee," which
       is still the motto of the lineal representatives of the Lords of the
       Isles. No stronger proof of the sincerity of this declaration could
       have been given, than the appointment of this fine body, along
       with the men of Carrick, as the reserve, of which the King him-
       self took the command. On the 24th of June 1314, the two armies
       met at Bannockburn.  The Scots at first suffered so severely from
       the English archers, that victory was for a time extremely doubt-
       ful, when the brave reserve were summoned into action, and speed-
       ily decided the fate of a day on which depended the liberty and
       independence of Scotland.* The King generously acknowledged
       his deep sense of there important services, by granting to Angus
       the extensive territories of the Cornyns together with that of their
       allies, the Lords of Lorn.  He granted, besides, the lands of Du-
       rour and Glencoe. Though in justice be considered him en-
       titled to these tokens of his consideration, yet, in adding to his
       already too extensive territories, he saw be was strengthening the
       hands of a dangerous and powerful rival.  Accordingly, he took
       the precaution to build the Castle of Tarbert, the ruins of which
       still stand near the village of that name on the estate of Stonefield.
       The effects of this arrangement, in the hands of Bruce's successors,
       proved a successful engine to ruin the ascendancy of the Lords of
       the Isles.+
          4. Thomas, Abbot of Saddell, who, flourished about the year
       1207.  Dempster eulogies him both for his austerity and cha-

       <FOOTNOTE>See Abercrombie's History, Vol. ii. p. 440.
                  +See Robertson's Index, p. 2, No. 51.    ++See Chamberlain's Roll.


