
			          PEEBLES.                            13

cultivators of the soil. The town is not extending its limits, and
when a house is built, it is generally a handsome structure raised
on the site of one that has fallen to decay, adding to the beauty
of the town without increasing the number of inhabitants.
   The number of illegitimate births in the parish annually may
average 5.
			  IV.-IN-DUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The number of Scotch acres
under the plough is 2500: and it is believed that a very small por-
tion of land not yet cultivated could be cultivated with profit.
   Plantations.-When Dr Pennecuik published his Description of
Tweeddale in 1715, there seems to have been very little wood in
this county. "Their greatest want," says he, "is of timber, little
planting to be seen in Tweeddale, except it be some few bushes
of trees about the houses of the gentry, and not one wood worth
the naming in all this open and windy country; so that this un-
happy want of foresight in their forefathers necessitates them to
be obliged to the sheriffdom of Lanrick for most part of the tim-
ber necessary for their houses and husbandry." * This reproach
is now fortunately wiped off, and the county, particularly the lower
part of it, presents a different aspect from what it did in Penne-
cuik's days. The late Sir John Hay, the principal proprietor
in this parish, towards the end of last century, in addition to va-
rious improvements on the estate of Haystone, planted above 300
acres. The present Sir John Hay has within these three years
planted upwards of 700 acres, and is still carrying on the work of
planting. The Earl of Wemyss and March has also planted be-
tween 200 and 300 acres; and other proprietors, though on a
smaller scale, have ornamented their estates with plantations.
   The land is a light sharp soil, well adapted for oats, barley, and
pease. Of late years, wheat has been sown to a considerable ex-
tent, and if the returns are not equal to those in the Lothians, the
deficiency is not to be ascribed to the unskilfulness of the farmer,
but to the difference of soil. The quality seems excellent.: +
   Husbandry.-The farmers having, from experience, found that
the land "had become tired of bearing rye-grass and clover," in-
stead of a rotation of four years, extend it to five and six years.
Turnips are universally cultivated, and are frequently eaten on the

<FOOTNOTE>Description, p. 4.
The wheat raised on the grebe this year from white Essex wheat on potatoe 
land, and sown in October, weighed 18 st. 12lb. imperial weight, of four 
bushels to the boll, exclusive of the sack.


