
692                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

The centre of the garden contains arrangements of British and Eu-
ropean plants, and a small lake for rearing aquatic species. The
herbarium of the late Dr Hope is preserved in the museum; and
a monument, which the same professor erected in the former gar-
den to the memory of Linnaeus, has been transferred to the pre-
sent. During the summer session, lectures are delivered in the
class-room of the garden by the Professor of Botany in the Uni-
versity. By a liberal arrangement, the public are admitted at all
times into the garden; and every Saturday the hot-houses are
thrown open for inspection. An annual grant of L.419 is allowed
by Government for the support of the gardens, and an allowance
of L.25 from the town-council.
   Highland Society.-This Society was instituted in 1785, at first
with the object of promoting agricultural improvements in the High-
lands, but subsequently its plan was enlarged so as to comprehend
the whole of Scotland. Its members consist of landed proprietors
and other gentlemen practically engaged in the pursuits of agri-
culture. Its objects are the improvement of agriculture by com-
municating among the members, and diffusing over the country
every information regarding the art,-by holding general and local
meetings for the exhibition of farm-stock,-and by affording pre-
miums for the same, and for the invention and improvement of
agricultural instruments, new varieties of grain, grasses, and other
seeds. One great meeting is held annually in one or other of the
most populous towns or districts of the country, where stock from
all quarters is exhibited, and where agricultural subjects are discus-
sed, and reports are given in of new experiments, or new inven-
tions. More frequent meetings are held at the Society's Rooms,
Melbourne Place, Edinburgh, where there is an extensive agricul-
tural museum, and where a lectureship on agricultural chemistry is
now established, and practical analyses of soils carried on. The
funds of the Society arise from the entry-money and annual sub-
scriptions of members.
   A school of Veterinary Surgery was established several years ago
under the auspices of the Society, which is now attended by nume-
rous pupils. Premiums are also given for geological surveys
of the various counties, and for the best accounts of coal mines
and mining operations, stone quarries, and other matters connect-
ed with agriculture and the arts.
   The Transactions and Prize Essays of the society are published
along with the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture.
   Caledonian Horticultural Society.-This Society was established


