
                           LEWIS-STORNOWAY.                         123

     be more profitable for a Lewis man, in the present state of the
     market; because, for his two year old stots, he will sometimes not
     get above L. 1; and for a pig one year old, he will get the same, and
     a ready market for ship stores.  Besides, one pig for making manure
     is better than two stots.  Black cattle are sold from L. 1 to L. 6
     per head; sheep from 5s. to 10s. per head; lambs from 1s. 6d.
     to 4s. 6d. ; horses from L. 3 to L. 7 of the small kind,-otbers used
     by the farmers from L. 10 to L. 20.
        The fresh water lochs are numerous, and contain black trout
     of a small size.  In the three rivers, the Creid, Tong, and Gress, a
     few salmon and sea-trout are caught, by the trawl.
        Insects.-The common fly is here abundant; and the midge or
     Hebridian musquito is most annoying before rain.  Out-door la-
     bourers find it impossible to work, without being veiled.  Bees in
     general are not numerous; there are only three hives in the island;
     the first was imported three years ago from Ferrintosh, and they
     have not increased much.  Wet winters and springs drown the
     wild bees' nests.  The bees most commonly met with, are the Apis
     muscorum, or cording-bee, and the Apis lapidaria or red-tailed
     bee.  It is really surprising to find any field or wild honey here,
     since Flora's flowery mantle is so very bare.  There are very few
     fruit trees in the parish to be a prey to insects.
        Shell-fish.-At Tong, Coll, Gress, and Melbost sands, in the
     road bay, a great variety of shell-fish is found;-clams, mussels,
     limpets, whelks, razor-fish, and cockles.  All these kinds are found
     on the Melbost sands, after a severe storm.  The natives expect a
     bursting of the shell-fish banks, once in seven years; then, im-
     mense masses are thrown up and found at low water; but this
     bursting happens oftener than once in the seven years.  The re-
     porter has seen huge heaps thrown ashore, twice during that pe-
     riod,-which employed many carts and creels, for several days, in
     carrying them away for food and manure; the sea-fowl screaming
     for the depredations committed on their provision and territory.
        In the sands of Tong, fine large blue cockles are found, very
     little inferior to oysters.  Scores of children are employed gathering
     them for the hand-line bait; the fishers parboil them ; they ad-
     here well to the hook, and the fish seem to relish them.  Lobsters
     are caught and sold at 4d. each.  Limpets and the whelk or com-
     mon buckie are fished in deep water, and sold to the cod smacks
     for bait at 6d. per peck.  The manner of fishing them in deep
     water, where the tide does not fall much., is this: Two men or boys


