
  390                            RENFREWSHIRE.

  lakes that species of trout Salmo savelinus or torgoch, occurs. The
  Lady Anne trout of the Clyde and Avon, near Hamilton, were ori-
  ginally brought by Anne Duchess of Hamilton from a loch in
  this neighbourhood.  They are of the above species.  Various
  molluscous animals occur, but, as these are also common in neigh-
  bouring parishes, it is unnecessary here to record them.
    Botany.-The parish produces no species of plants so rare as to re-
  quire to be noticed, except in a very cursory manner.  The Drosera
  rotundifolia is not uncommon in the peat-mosses.  In the Cart
  the Conferva rivularis, fontinalis, et gelatinosa are found in several
  places, also Fontinalis antipyretica et minor.  Carex maritime is
  common on the moors, and a great many species are found by the
  marshes and the reservoirs.  This parish is almost. entirely a pas-
  toral cotintrv and therefore contains few plantations in proportion
  to its extent of surface.  The following will give some idea of the
  chief groups of planting:-

<TABLE>
                                                  Acres.    Roods.    Falls.
             Town lands of Eaglesham,              3        2        26
             Kirkton lands,                        2        3        21
             Picket Law,                          11        3         0
             South Floors and Laigh Tofts,         1        1         8
                                                  19        1        15

          The plantations are chiefly.of fir of the common sorts, and are
       generally distributed in clumps on knolls not accessible to the
       plough.  This parish might be laid out very profitably with belts
       of plantations.   The first step to be taken would be to have nur-
       series either on part of the same land to be planted, or as near to
       the place as possible, and also upon the same sort of soil.  People
       complain of treer not thriving in high climates; but this frequent-
       ly arises from bringing the seed ot, young trees from more genial
       to less nial situations, and the consequence is, that a great many
       perish while yet in the state of very tender plants.  As the soil
       tere is entirely formed of decomposed volcanic rocks, it produces
       in all dry si'tuations a soil more fitted for the Scotch fir and spruce,
       than for the silver fir, which ought never to be planted in hot, dry,
       or rocky situations, where it commonly loses the top shoots, and
       the under branches soon become ragged.  The silver fir thrives
       well on--sour, heavy, obstinate clay; the Scots fir springs and
       flourishes upon the most barrela sand, where scarce any thing but
       heath and furze will glow; the spruce requires a stronger soil, and
       in dry ground seldom makes any great progress, and is, therefore,
       unfitted for of the trap hills or eminences on which it is oc-


