
1060                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

The entry is from the west, and the apartment within is 7 1/2 feet
each side. The base course also projects inwardly from 12 to 15
inches, forming a seat or bench all around; and in laying the
courses no cement had been used. It may have been originally
arched or roofed in, but it is now open, and the height of the
apartment within from 5 to 6 feet. The use of this building is
reported to have been for obtaining a view during a deer-hunt;
and this part of the ancient forest of Marr being the nearest to
the old Castle of Kincardine (about fifteen miles distant,) which
was frequently honoured with a royal visit, it is thought it was in
this locality his Majesty, Alexander III., was saved from an infu-
riated stag by Colin Fitzgerald, of whom were descended the
Earls of Seaforth. The charter in favour of Fitzgerald for the
lands of Kintail is dated "Apud Kincardine ix. die Jan. anno
regni nostri xviii." or 1267; and the interesting occurrence which
becomes associated with the date and locality of this charter, was,
as recorded by Sir George Mackenzie of Tarbet, "about that
time when Alexander was on a hunting excursion in the forest of
Marr, an exasperated stag, hotly pursued by the hounds, made a
dead push at the place occupied by the King, when Colin bravely
interposed his own person, and adroitly shot, with an arrow, the
infuriated assailant."
	Half-way between the castle and the old church is an old tree
called the Skeulan tree, and a well called the Skeulan Well.
They are still held in great veneration, and the name appears to
be a corruption of St Eunan, to whom the parish and church of
Aboyne were anciently dedicated. Within a short distance of
the Skeulan tree, there is another well called the Lady's Well.
	At Newton of Tilliecairn, in 1828, several urns, containing cal-
cined bones, were dug up while trenching some ground, one of
them perfectly entire; and the gentleman into whose possession it
has fallen has either lately presented it, or intends to present it,
to the Museum of Marischal College. About fifty yards distant
from the tumulus in which the urns were found, the soil has a
blackish appearance, with small pieces of charcoal imbedded in
it, the whole appearing to have been under the action of strong
fire; and here, it is presumed, the bodies had been burned, prepa-
ratory to the calcined remains being placed in the urns. And it
may be remarke, too, that the site is near some Picts' houses, or,
as they are here called, Mullochies, on the communication branch


