
598 			  FORFARSHIRE.

of the Grampians to the sea Arbroath, in which he describes
Turin Hill; and this distinguished geologist has most obligingly
honoured the writer of this with a communication concerning the
strata and rocks of Turin and Pitscandly Hills, wherein he says,
"Rescobie forms one of a great line of lakes and marshes, which
extends through Strathmore to the loch of Forfar, and from thence
to Lunan Bay. Like most of these lochs, it is surrounded by hil-
locks, and ridges of sand and gravel, containing boulders of many
Grampian rock mixed with fragments of paving-stones and other
formations, such as occur in the immediate neighbourhood.
	"The hills of Pitscandly and Turin, the highest point of which
is 627 feet above the loch of Rescobie, and 814 above the sea,
consist of the gray paving-stone interstratified with conglomerate
or pudding-stone; the whole forming one of the oldest members
of the old red sand-stone formation.
	"The dip of the beds in the Wemys quarry, in the hill of Pits-
candly, is rather to the westward of north, and at an angle of
about 16&deg; it is more than forty feet thick, and is covered by a
mass of puddingstone about thirty feet in thickness. In the hill
of Turin there are two cliffs, one above the other, facing to the
south, in both of which freestone and conglomerate appear.
	"On the farm of Baldardie, the pebbles in the conglomerate con-
sist not only of white quartz , chlorite slate, trap, and other crys-
talline and igneous rocks, but also of well-rounded masses of a
red sandstone with quartz pebbles. This fact deserves notice, as
showing, that in this region, a more ancient red stone had been
formed, consolidated, broken up, and rounded by water before one
of the oldest portions of the old red of Forfarshire originated.
	"The upper precipice of conglomerate, in the hill of Turin, is
about thirty feet perpendicular, and is overhanging at the summit.
	"In the great paving quarries of Turin Hill, remarkable exam-
ples occur of wedge-shaped beds of conglomerate and paving-stone.
Thus one bed of conglomerate attains a thickness of twety feet
at one place, and grows gradually thinner as we proceed westward,
until it thins out and gives place to pavement-stone; the fine
grain of which is strongly contrasted with the coarseness of the
consolidated gravel with which it has been associated.
	"The Quarry Park pits, on the estate of Turin, supply an abund-
ance of fine pavement; and they exhibit a remarkable fault, run-
ning nearly in the line of the strike of the beds, or north-east and
south-west, and shifting the beds about six feet perpendicular.


