
     of Caerlaverock.

   The following rotation of crops is pursued with little varia-
tion.  The ground is broken up for oats, two crops of which
are taken in succession.  Then follows a green crop, general-
ly potatoes; seldom turnips, pease, or naked fallow.  After
this the ground is fown with clover and rye-grafs, and is then
mown for the first year, pustured for the two, and sometimes
three following years:  After which, it is again broken up to
undergo the same course of tillage.  Where the soil is not sit
for wheat or barley, two or three crops of oats are taken after
the lime is laid on, and then the ground is laid out for pasture;
in which state, it is allowed to lie still, in order to subdue the
rushes, heath, and moss which soon grow up, and the farmer is
again called upon to lime and plough it.  The farms are ge-
nerally small, from L. 40 to L. 70 per annum, of rent, and
several pay much less; tow only, pay above L. 100 a year.  In the
parish there are upwards of 90 carts, and about 70 ploughs,
both of the Scotch and the English form; the latter is used in
the low land, which is entirely free of stones, and the former
in the dry and stony land.  The horses are all of the Scotch
breed, and imployed in agriculture only.  A few young ones are
reared annually, either forsale, or to supply the place of those that
wear out in the service.  The cows are mostly of the Galloway
kind.  Few of them. even when well fattened, will weigh more
than 40 ft.  The sheep are of the English mugg, the Bakewell,
the Scotch, or moorland kind.  Part of the swine are confurmed in
the parish, and part killed and salted for the English market.  A
considerable number of young cattle reared in the parish, are
every year sold in the dumfries market.  All the wheat is car-
ried thither, and part of the barley produced here; part is
exported to Whitehaven and Liverpool; to which ports, to
Dublin, and sometimes even to Bristol, the potatoes, after the
very considerable consumption of the parish is supplied, are also
sent

     VOL. VI. D


