
                    DUNOON AND KILMUN.                             617

their lands to law agents rejoicing in the name or Factor. Farm-
buildings present the same contrast. The duration of leases
varies; but, on improving leases, is generally understood to be
nineteen years; and, with the resident heritors, they are considered
to be on terms, generally, favourable to the occupier. The greatest
obstacle to improvement is with proprietors themselves, who dele-
gate their duties to, and throw their responsibilities upon others.
  Quarries.-There are quarries sufficiently fit for purposes of
ruble work building in the neighbourhood of Dunoon and Kilmun,
those in the former vicinity being owned by Mr M'Arthur Moir of
Milton, and Mr Hunter of Hafton, both of whom are liberal in
granting the use of them. Those in the vicinity of Kilmun are owned
by Mr Campbell of Monzie. There are both slate and freestone
quarries, but they have not been much wrought of late, or rather
have been abandoned, it being found that those building mate-
rials can be procured elsewhere of better quality and at no higher
expense, There are no mines of any kind in the parish.
  Fisheries.-There are no fisheries, except one salmon fishing
on the Eachaig at Kilmun, and that carried on along the coast, as
already described, under the head of Ichthyology. A few of the
inhabitants pursue the herring fishing on Loch Fine during the
summer and autumn months. There are eight boats usually en-
gaged in this occupation belonging to the united parish, each em-
ploying during the season four men. Its profits are precarious
and its effects, morally, not beneficial, unless when those engaged
in it have Christian principles to restrain them from the dissipation
and excesses too lamentably common among those following that
pursuit.
  Raw Produce.-It is considered unnecessary to present in any
tabular view the average gross amount of produce raised in
the parish, nor is it easily ascertained, so as to secure accuracy,
without which, any such statement would be destitute of value.
To ascertain it accurately involves a system of personal question-
ing, not pleasing to either party. The quantity of land under
cultivation has been stated, and, it is hoped, with a pretty close ap-
proximation to fact; and the value of all kinds of farm and dairy
produce, as already stated, command fully or nearly the value of
the most public Scottish markets. The average sheep stock reared
in the united parish has been estimated, by competent judges, at
20,000; black cattle at 1130 ; horses employed in agriculture and
other uses, 200. Sheep for the butcher market have of late been


