
			    ALFORD.                          513

of the richest but damp fields, and also on the newly reclaimed
lands, that it would be very desirable to remedy.  On these lands
the pasture of the two last years of grass often fails much; which
is evidently owing to the pasture plants, now cultivated, being un-
suitable to these soils.  The red clover is only biennial, and makes
no show in the pastures any where; and the raygrass is the native
of a very dry and rich soil, and cannot bear damp, and it also dis-
appears on these soils-so that the white clover only remains, and
in too small quantity; and as every plant has naturally its vigour
of growth confined to one part of the summer only, it requires
more plants than one to make a permanent summer pasture.  Un-
der these circumstances, it would surely be desirable to sow, along
with the commonly used grass seeds, which answer well enough for
the hay crop, some seeds of those grasses, which naturally grow in
damp lands, and at the same time are readily eaten by the cat-
tle.  Of these there are found several in our richest pieces of na-
tural meadows, one or more of which might answer the purpose;
as the roughish meadow-grass, the smooth-stalked meadow-grass,
the hard fescue-grass, the meadow foxtail-grass, and the crested
dogs-tail-grass.  Several of these are indeed often observed to
make their appearance naturally, in some considerable quantity,
in the pastures we have referred to, after the raygrass fails in them;
and, where the land is occasionally left for several years in pasture,
come at last to make a rich sward.  They would surely succeed if-
sown.
   There is a considerable extent of land, under peculiar circum-
stances, the management of which might be changed to great ad-
vantage.  This consists of the flat haugh lands within the narrow
lengthened hollows scooped out by the smaller rivers.  At pre-
sent, these streams form generally the marebes between neigbbour-
ing estates or farms ; and each occupier ploughs and crops, in the
course of his rotation, the haugh on his own side; where, from the
lowness of its situation, the crop is often lost by floods or the soil
carried away if the land is in turnips, and, at the same time, slips of
fine grass often cannot be turned to any account.  All attempts made
to straight these streams and render them fences have produced
only great injury, where the river has any considerable descent;
as in the straight course the water acquires an irresistible impetu-
osity during floods, and undermines and fumbles down its banks,
covering and permanently spoiling any flat land below with the
debris; so that here is another inconvenience, that the farm can


