
8                    KINROSS-SHIRE.

     Referring to the birds that repair to Lochleven, it is deserving
of notice, that a new one made its appearance about thirty years
ago. It became very tame, and was called the Swedish crossbill.
It comes in autumn, and its coming was thought to prognosticate
bad weather. It feeds on buds and cones of fir. It frequents the
plantings at the churchyard. Its colour is red, resembling that of
a parrot. The bill crosses, and hence the name of cross-bill.
     Botany.-There are three plants found in the parish of Kinross,
which that eminent botanist, Dr Arnott of Arlary, has not yet
observed elsewhere in the county. The one is Cheiranthus cheiri,
var. fruticulosus, (or wallflower), growing on Lochleven Castle; the
other is Cerastium arvense, found at Lathro, nearly opposite to the
gate at Lethangie, east approach; the third is Bromus sterilis, on
the roadside to the church-yard.
     There were some trees of a Stunted appearance betwixt the
lands of Lethangie and Kinross, or Lochleven, by report and ap-
pearance, several centuries old, which were lately cut down. There
are trees in the avenue that attract, by their size and form, the at-
tention of the stranger. There is a beautiful walnut in front of
the mansion house; and a remarkable ash in the Castle island,
which was split by lightning, and part of which rests on the western
wall of the castle.

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
     Of this parish, as such, there are no accounts, so far as the wri-
ter of these pages has either seen or heard, nor any maps, plans, or
surveys. Of the county of Kinross, there has been a very correct
map by Rennie. Of the counties of Kinross and Fife, a very hand-
some as well as accurate one was published by an English com-
pany a few years ago.
     In Gough's British Topography, Vol. ii. 1780, it is stated that
Andrew Rutherford drew a view of the beautiful thorn tree, near
Kinross, and of Lochleven Castle. In Pont's Maps of Scotland
in the Advocates' Library, folio xvii., there is one of Kinross-shire,
described 28tb October 1642, by James Gordon of "Keanross,"
with the loch and adjacent countries, sixteen inches and a half by
thirteen and a half. This is the oldest map of the county, and a
great curiosity.
     Eminent Characters.-One of the first of these is Sir William
Bruce, who built the mansion-house of Kinross. He was archi-
tect to Charles II. The Palace of Holyrood was his design, as
were also Hopetoun and Moncreiff Houses. Kinross House was
                             3

