
           170                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

           could, for the same extent, be rarely surpassed in beauty.  The
           rivers are, the Borgie, Rhians, and Kinloch; none of them of
           much consequence.  The Borgie (called in the former Account
           the Torrisdale) rises from Loch Slam, and, after separating this
           parish from that of Farr during the greater part of its course, falls
           into the sea on the west side of the Bay of Torrisdale.  The
           Rhians and the Kinloch, neither of them more than two miles
           in length, fall into the head of the Kyle of Tongue,--tbe former
           on the east side of Castle Varrich. the latter on its west.  Cas-
           cades are numerous, and some of them pretty though on a small
           scale.
             Geology.-- The principal rock in the parish is gneiss.  It con-
           stitutes the mountain-range of Ben Hutig and the Moin, likewise
           the smaller range of Castle Varrich, and prevails throughout the
           whole extent of the eastern division of the parish.  Its mineral
           character seems to be the common ternary compound of quartz,
           felspar, and mica; though not unfrequently hornblende is sub-
           stituted for the latter.  The aspect of this rock varies much from
           the component minerals, and, from the size of these minerals, as
           distinct concretions.  It is regularly stratified, though in some
           places, as towards the east, this is not so evident, from the strata
           being intersected by quartz and granite veins, and disturbed and
           contorted by what appears, in some cases, the action of fire, and,
           in others, the action of water.  The direction of the strata on the
           west of Tongue Bay is south-east, at an angle of 20&deg;.  On the
           cast of the Bay their direction is west-south-west, at an angle of
           40&deg;, with the exception of a small district at Sculomy, where the
           direction is south-south-east, and the angle 60&deg;.  In various places
           garnet is found imbedded in this rock.  Ben Hope is composed
           of mica-slate, being part of a very extensive district where this rock
           is developed.  A stripe of the same formation is also found at the
           shore side, on the west side of the bay, stretching from a point op-
           posite the village of Tongue to a place called Portvasgo, near the
           Rabbit Islands.  It connects with, and conforms to, the gneiss of
           the mountain range above it,--the sirata being in the same.direc-
           tion and at the same angle.  The rocks of Eilean na roan are a
           fine specimen of the conglomerate, which rests upon red sandstone.
           The sandstone is only to be seen in the north side of the island,
           stratified in the direction west-soutb-west, at an angle of lo&deg;'; at
           wich point the junction of the two formations is very distinct and
           beautiful.  The mountain-range, stretching along the east side of


