
362                           STIRLINGSHIRE.

444, in the reign of Theodosius the younger, the Romans being
then too seriously engaged in war with Attila, who had overrun a
great part of Europe. The provincial Britons thus left unprotect-
ed the Romans, in 449, brought over the Saxons to defend
them.
   Roman Mill-stones and fragments of Pottery.-About the year
1800, the labourers in digging and draining a piece. of ground
consisting of peat moss, about 1000 feet north-east of the site of
Arthur's Oon, found three or four mill-stones, about eighteen inches
in diameter. One of these which I saw, consisted of a dark colour-
ed lava, like the lava of the mill-stones, of the great millstone
quarries of Andernach on the Rhine. A similar mill-stone, con-
sisting of the same lava, was found in 1835, lying on a stone which
contained the epitaph of a Roman soldier, at the Mumrills, a
place where there was a station on the vallum of Antoninus, about
four miles east of the site of Arthur's Oon.
   Along with the three or four mill-stones at the mossy piece of
ground, 1000 feet distant from the site of Arthur's Oon, the la-
bourers also found, according to the account I received from one
of them, fragments of pottery, and the remains of a fabric which
they considered to be a potter's kiln ; also a paved road, and two
iron runs of wheels.
   Torwood Head.--On the highest point of the Torwood are
some narrow low vaults, probably the remains of a castle or signal
tower of the middle-ages, but of what precise period is unknown.
   Old Mansion-houses.--The mansion-house of Stenbouse was
built in 1622, and has that date inscribed on it. Its ground plan
consists of the two adjacent sides of a rectangle being in the shape
of the letter L. In the internal angle is a round staircase, and
there are turrets at the upper part of the five external angles of
the building. This form of building was much in use in Scot-
land, about the period from 1580 to 1650, and there are in differ-
ent parts of Scotland, a great many country mansion-houses of
a similar form built during that period.
   The mansion-bouse of Torwood Head, (in the parish of Duni-
pace,) now ruinous, is built upon a similar plan to that of Sten-
house. It is larger and probably older. On the mansion-house
of Woodside are inscribed the initials of Rollo of Woodside, with
a date of about 1700, if I recollect right. At that time, the num-
ber of mansion-houses in the parish was four. They were situat-
ed at Kinnaird, Quarol, Stenhouse, and Woodside. The present
                               3


