
102                             SHETLAND.

of grazing one or two cows during the summer, or a few sheep;
and some of them yielding grass barely sufficient for supporting
an eil-mark * sheep for a few months, in the summer and harvest.
   Vementry is a large island, green on the east end, and covered
with heather on the west.   It is considered a rich island, and is
capable of grazing about twenty score of sheep, besides a propor-
tion of black-cattle.  It is at present stocked with a heavy breed
of sheep, generally of the white-faced kind.   It yields a yearly
rent to the proprietor, Mr Gifford of Busta, of upwards of L. 60
Sterling.   About one hundred years ago, it was purchased,
stocked with fifteen score of sheep, for L. 30 Sterling; a striking
proof how much money has been depreciated, while lands and
produce have risen in value.  There are three merks of rental
land in the island, which was formerly cropped, but which, for
these few years back, have been mostly converted into pasture.
The greater part of the sheep stock are in steelbow. + The island
pays of stipend to the minister, 16s. 6d. Sterling.
   The Island of Papa Little is neither so rich in quality, nor so
extensive as Vementry.   It also consists of three merks of rental
land, wbich is cropped by the tenant.  It will carry about ten
score of sheep, which, till lately, were of the native breed, but
are now begun to be crossed with the white and black-faced kinds.
But the tenant is of opinion that the island, owing to the want of
a sufficiency of good food, is incapable of carrying a heavy breed
of sheep.  The rental land is of a very good quality, but the pas-
ture ground has a very parched appearance, consisting principally
of stinted heather.  In addition to the sheep stock, the tenant
keeps about fifteen head of black-cattle, young and old.  The
island was some time since held in steelbow, but it now pays a
yearly rent of L. 20 to the proprietor, Sir Arthur Nicolson.  It
pays of stipend to the minister, 13s. 6d. per annum.  The sheep
in Vementry and Papa Little are free from the scab.
   Springs.-There are innumerable springs in the parish, of pure
and wholesome water, and also many which have passed over
bog-iron, and which are strongly impregnated with its tint and
taste.
   Lochs.-There are no fewer than 140 lochs in the parish,

<FOOTNOTE>* Fil-mark, a beast which no dike will turn, and which cannot be kept out of
the corn.
          + Steelbow; that is, the tenant receives a certain number of sheep, cows, or horses,
for the use and profits of which lie pays a certain sum per head yearly, and at the
expiry of his lease is bound to leave an equal number.


