
                           CROMARTY.                        13

steadings are composed of straggling groups of cottages built of
undressed moor-stones, and covered with turf.  In most instances,
rows of gnarled and time-wasted elms form an accompaniment to
these groups, as if to connect them more thoroughly with the past,
by reminding us that the present occupants are growing old under
the roofs which sheltered their grandfathers.  The improved sys-
tem of agriculture was first acted upon in Cromarty, on a scale suf-
ficiently extensive to render it advantageous, by a Mr George
Middleton, a gentleman from England, who settled in the parish
about forty years ago.  It had been introduced into the place by a
spirited proprietor (of whom more anon) nearly twenty years
before.
  Mr Middleton erected the first thrashing mill seen in this part of
the country, and exported the first wheat ; for it is a singular fact,
that, forty years ago, there was not a field of this grain reared in
the parish, though it now forms the staple of its agriculture, and
one of the chief exports of its trade.  The difficulties which of
late years have borne so heavily on our farmers, have done much
towards the general introduction of the modern system.  In the
universal struggle with high rents on the one hand, and very low
prices on the other, all have striven to restore the balance destroy-
ed through the reduction in the value of their produce, by adding
to its amount; and the observation and experience of a full quar-
ter of a century have convinced even the most prejudiced, that
there is but one set of means through which the necessary amount
can be obtained.  During the last ten years every farmer in the pa-
rish has reared and exported wheat; but the inevitable effects of
over-production have already become apparent; the value of this
grain is fast sinking below even that of oats and barley, and a con-
sequent change of system must necessarily ensue.
   The lands of the parish, with the exception of a few little patch-
es, are divided between two proprietors, Hugh Rose Ross, Esq.
of Cromarty, and Captain George Mackay Sutherland of Udale.
The extensive and beautiful estate of the former contains, nearly
6500 acres, of which 1800 are arable, and the rest under wood and
pasture.  The highly cultivated property of the latter gentleman,
one of the most beautiful in this part of the country, contains
about 500.
   The rental of the parish is estimated at about L.3300.
   Trade, Manufactare, Fishery.-About the year 1765, the estate
of Cromarty was purchased by Mr George Ross, a gentleman of


