
                  KILWINNING.                            817

posterity for divers generations possessed ye said office and lands.
Now ye forsaid Richard being, as vald seime, touched with com-
punctione for ye safty of hes soule, (according to the custome of
these tymes), did found this Abbey of Kilvinnen), in testimony of
hes repentance; and first of all did bulde ye queir or cancell Of ye
said Abbey Church, endowing it with divers lands, as namely, the
the 80 lb. land of Kilvinnen, after this tennor, Damus forrestam
nostram de Kilvinen, ibidem deo servientibus ad pascencdum por-
cos eorum et ad excindenda ligna ad constructionem Monasterii,
una cum decimis tergorum tam cervorum quam damarum euisdem
forrestae. Also, Alicia Loncaster, viffe to ye said Sir Richard,
with consent of her said husband, dottes, in puram et perpetuam
elimosinam the land of Bytth, Batth, and Threppe-wood to ye said
Monastery. Item, Dorathea de Morvil, daughter to ye said Sir
Richard, and vyffe to Philippus de Horssey, accomplished ye fa.
brick of ye said monastery, and hes sone, Dominus Valterus de
Horssey, confirms to them ye same, and ye said foundatione, with
ye donations and mortifications thereto belonging, is confirmed by
Pope Honorius the 2d. An&deg;. 2d&deg;. pontificatus sui. These dona-
tions and foundatons ar also confirmed by King Alexander III;
as also by Jocelinus Dei Gratia humilis Glaguensis Ecclesiae
Minister Auctoritate Episcopali, &e. The reveneus of this ab-
bey ver grate, and maney by (over and above) their proper lands.
The founder therof, Sir Richard Morvill, layes interrid in the
new cemetery of this church, under a tome of lymestone, framed
coffin-vayes, of old polished vorke, without any superscriptioune or
epitaphe. The structure of this monastery wes solid and, grate,
all of freestone cutte; the church faire and staitly, after ye mo-
dell of yat of Glasgow, vith a fair steeple of 7 score foote of
height, zet standing where I my selve did see it."
	It is difficult to suppose tha Pont, who refer in another part
of his work to "old records of ye, monastery of Kilvinnen," and
here quotes the original charter of De Morville to the monks,
should yet be mistaken as to the individual member of that family
who founded the abbey. If the common accounts, however, of the
reign of Malcolm IV. are to be relied on, it closed in 1165, and
consequently he could not receive the murderer of Thomas a
Becket, for that prelate was not slain till 1170, His murderers,
we are told,* retired at first to Knaresborough in Yorkshire, which
belonged to De Morville; from whence they repaired to Rome

<FOOTNOTE>Moshelm, Ecclesiastical History, Vol. ii. p. 401. M'Lean's note.

    AYR.                                               	    3F


