
                       TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                           443

and in the immediate vicinity of a town, would yield a handsome
revenue to the Noble proprietor.  Some attempts were made
about two years ago, to open in Corinne a quarry of roofing-slate,
but although appearances were favourable, they were given up, in
consequence of the expense.  Limestone is to be met with here,
and there are the remains of a kiln for burning it upon one of
the shanks of the hill, which goes by the name of the Limer-Shank;
but the quantity of the lime does not appear to be such as would
remunerate the manufacturer.  Close by the public road which
leads to Huntly, where it has been found necessary for the level
to make a cut of several feet, there is to be seen, towards the foot
of the northern range of hill, a small vein of silicious sand, ex-
tending into the hill, seemingly of decomposed quartz, but ren-
dered unavailable for the purposes which it would otherwise serve,
owing to a small admixture of iron.
   Botany.-The following vegetable species are natives of the
parish, and may deserve to be mentioned, viz.-

<TABLE>
  Potamogeton pusillum        Vaccinium Vitis-idea       Cardamine amara
  Campanula latifolia         Arbutus Uva-Ursi           Fumuria claviculata
  Trientalis Europaea         Pyrola rotundifolia        Habenaria albida

The writer may perhaps mention that Habenaria bifolia, though
common enough throughout the kingdom, occurs but sparingly in
this parish, and, according to better information than his own on
this subject, has scarcely been observed in any other part of the
vale of Alford.  It likewise appears somewhat remarkable, that
common water-cress grows here in but small quantity, and is sel-
dom or never observed in any of the adjacent parishes; and it is
worthy of notice that in the river Don, upon the west border of
the parish, Enanthe crocata (esteemed one of the most poisonous
plants in Britain) occurs in one or two spots, being probably trans-
planted from the Don of Kildrummy, where it is to be met with in
considerable abundance.  The most interesting feature, however,
in the vegetation of the parish, is Linnaea borealis, vhich was dis-
covered at no great distance from the manse in 1826, by the late
Dr A. Murray of Aberdeen, in whose recent death the science of
medicine, as well as of botany, has suffered a heavy loss.  The
patch where it grows is small, but the plants are numerous, the
Linnaea being mixed with Vaccinium Vitis-Idea, Arbutus Uva-Ursi,
and the whole overtopped with common heath.  The Linnaea is
understood to be found in Scotland either in old woods or in al-
pine places, but the station mentioned is not greatly above the


