
                     SWINTON AND SIMPRIN.                    191

attributes the victory at Otterburn; and his heroic death at the
battle of Hamildon, after having vainly endeavoured to restore
order among the Scottish troops, has furnished Sir W. Scott,
(himself a relation of the family,) with the subject of his drama-
tic sketch of "Halidon Hill."  This Sir John married a daugh-
ter of King Robert II., and his son by that lady appears to have
signalized his prowess in the wars of France. He is mentioned-
as having unhorsed the Duke of Clarence, brother to Henry V.
at the battle of Berranger.
   In Rymer, there is the bond of a Sir John Swinton, who, with
many others, engages at Edinburgh to assist the king (James VI.)
against the Earls of Bothwell and Hume, and all who aided and
abetted their rebellion.
   During the reign of Charles I., the proprietor of Swinton sup-
ported the side of the Parliarment, and enjoyed subsequently the
favour and confidence of Cromwell, having been appointed by him,
upon the arrangement of Scottish affairs, a privys-councillor and
a commissioner for the administration of justice. At the restora-
tion, he was accused of having borne arms against the king in the
battle of Worcester, and on this charge, though unsupported by
evidence, his estate was forfeited, and he was driven, with his fa-
mily, into exile. His son returned at the Revolution in 1688, and
obtained shortly afterwards an act of Parliament rescinding his for-
feiture, and restoring to him the lands of Swinton "per modum
justiciae,"-of which his descendants have since enjoyed the un-
disturbed possession.
   Among the modern proprietors of the estate of Swinton, we are
called upon to notice particularly the grandfather of the late pos-
<UNREADABLE>, John Switon Esq. for some time sheriff of Perthshire, and
afterwards one of the Senator's of the College of Justice. The
country is indebted to Lord Swinton's suggestion for the divi-
sion of the Court of Session into two, separate chambers. He was
a zealous and influential advocate for, the introduction into Scot-
land of trial by jury in civil causes; he was the originator of the
small debt court; he gave to the world an accurate and useful
abridgement of British statutes since the Union; and it is the cu-
rious and valuable, information, on weights and measures, which he
published in his elaborate treatise upon that subject, which forms
the basis of the late act of Parliament for effecting their uniformity
throughout the kingdom. To his professional and literary attain-


