
                                INVERNESS.                                  7

several places the fundamental rock is covered with layers of the
above-mentioned dark-coloured argillaceous schist, above which
we again meet with newer sandstone strata.
   So far as seen in this parish, one would be apt to conclude, that
the schist was only an alternating bed with the sandstone, and of
the same era with it; but, on comparing it with the same deposits
in the more open districts of Ross and Caithness, the schist swells
out to an enormous extent, separating the sandstones by a wide in-
terval, thereby giving countenance to the supposition, that the three
are of different geological ages.  The superior sandstone also pos-
sesses more of the soft and spotted features of the new red or va-
riegated formation of that rock than the lower beds; but data seem
yet awanting to enable us to pronounce positively as to their diffe-
rence or identity.
In regard to the schist, its distinguishing characters are its abound-
ing with bituminous matter minutely disseminated throughout it,
and which is sometimes found in lumps or veins of compact bitu-
men, and its occasionally containing, especially in Caithness, im-
pressions of fishes.  It has a fetid smell, and white streak, and
has often been mistaken for the true bituminous shale of the coal
formation, in consequence of which an unfortunate attempt in search
of coal was once made in this parish.
  As yet no organic remains have been found in the rocks of this
district, no metallic ores of any value, and no trap or porphyry
rocks.  The sandstone strata appear to be free of fissures and
veins, and when the latter do occur, they are generally granitic.
Alluvial deposits.-But the most interesting geological appear-
ances in this parish and the adjoining districts are unquestionably
their sand and gravel beds.  The neighbouring mountains are co-
vered almost to their summits with deep gravelly deposits; the
Great Glen has been partially filled up by them, and the necks or
portions of land separating its various lakes are formed of the same
materçals.  Hence the presence of the sea or of some other great
body of water over the dry land is perhaps more unequivocally de-
monstrated, and that on a larger scale, in this quarter than in any
other place in Scotland.
  The elevation of the surface of Loch Ness above the sea is only
46 feet; the intervening space, a distance of about eight miles,
being entirely composed of gravel, which extends to an unknown
depth; and the River Ness flows through this deposit over a chan-
nel slightly inclined towards the coast.  A gravel terrace rises from


