
	            DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                       963

the dark water, and blending with their own reflections so as to
conceal its boundaries.
   About a century and a half ago, the capacity of the grounds
which now form the Dunkeld park was neither understood nor va-
lued. The great improver of the grounds was John, the l`st Duke
of Atholl, one who never saw a difficulty in his gigantic undertak-
ings. In all his improvements he combined utility with ornament.
Limited though the grounds are, the Duke so planned them as
to have a home farm, grass parks, an extensive garden, ornament-
al walks, picturesque carriage drives, American gardens, and a
lawn, all within the enclosures. In appropriate spots he planted
different kinds of wood, which now enhance the varied beauty of
the grounds. In every walk the stranger can take he sees before
him variety without confusion, and ornament without the least ap-
pearance of design. So often have the beauties of the Dunkeld
Park been described by pen and pencil, to lengthen this account
by enlarging upon them would be useless. As one of the evi-
dences of their popularity, however, it may be stated, that, from
1815 to 1842 inclusive, the grounds have been visited by about
60,000 persons of all ranks; nearly 4000 of which number were
foreigners.
   It may be observed, that many persons content themselves with
walking over the pleasure-grounds to the hermitage or waterfall,
and back. This, however, is but a small portion of the beauties
of Dunkeld. To see the place properly, the visitor requires to
spend two or three days, and visit the summits of Newtyle, Craig-y
barns, Craigvinean, and Birnam, where he will ree landscape and
alpine scenery nowhere to be surpassed in Britain.
   Within the pleasure-grounds to the north-west of the cathedral,
are the two noted larches, the first that were introduced into
Britain. They were brought from the Tyrol by Menzies of Cul-
dares in 1738, and were at first treated as green-house plants.
They were planted only one day later than the larches in the Monzie
gardens near Crieff. The two Dunkeld larches are still in perfect
vigour, and far from maturity. The height of the highest is nearly
90 feet, with girth in proportion.
   A little to the east of the two larches stood the old residence
of the Atholl family; and to the west, stands the new house in the
course of erection. At the death of Duke John in 1830, the
operations ceased, a mournful dispersion of the work people in-
stantly took place, and from that hour not a stroke has been heard


