
182                     BERWICKSHIRE.

banks of the Tweed to the east and westward, by nearly horizontal
strata of white compact micaceous sandstone, containing impres-
sions of fossil monocotyledonous and apparently dicotyledonous
vegetables, which alternate with schistose marls, and a dark-co-
loured impure litnestone; towards the western extremity of the
parish, a red-coloured variety of sandstone occurs, forming a con-
tinuation of the strata of a similar rock which is quarried in the ad-
joining parish of Swinton.
   Botany.-There are three rare Scottish plants found on Holy-
well-haugh, viz. Cichorium intybus (wild succory;) Lactuca virosa
(strong-scented lettuce;) and Inula dysenterica (common flea-bane.)
   The trees which appear most congenial to the soil are the oak
and the plane. In many places, after forty years growth, the tops
of the elm and the ash begin to decay, in consequence of the roots
reaching the subsoil, which is of a cold till;

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Mention is made of this parish in Chalmers' Caledonia, in Rid-
path's Border History, and in manuscripts in possession of the
Dean and Chapter of Durham. The supplemental treaty to that
of Chateau Cambreses between the English and Scotch was con-
cluded within the church. On the 2d of June 1291, eight of the
competitors for the Crown, with several of the prelates, nobles,
and community of Scotland, assembled on Holywell-haugh, oppo-
site to Norham Castle, to settle with Edward I. the dispute rela-
tive to the succession. (Vide, Border History, p. 174.)
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owner is Miss Robertson of
Ladykirk, who succeeded her grandfather, Mr Robertson, in 1830,
and is still a minor.
   Parochial Registers.-The greater part of the parish records
has been destroyed. One book, however, remains, the first entry
in which is dated 1697; at that period these records appear to
have been kept very confusedly,-births, marriages, and deaths
being intermingled with meetings of kirk-sessions. The records
have been kept regularly only since the induction of the late
schoolmaster in 1817.
   Antiquities, &c.-In what is called the Chapel Park, a little
lower down the river than Upsetlington, a few large stones, and
the superior richness of the soil, mark where the ancient monas-
tery stood. Near the spot are three springs of excellent water, over
which the late proprietor of the grounds erected pillars, inscribing
on them the appellation of the Nun's, the Monk's, and St Mary's


