
                         MIDDLEBIE.                                    365

	The well known tragical story of fair Helen of Kirkconniel Lee is,
associated with one of the Bells of Blacket House in this parish.
She was loved by Bell, but favoured the pretensions of another.
The former having conceived the purpose of murdering his more
fortunate rival, and knowing the accustomed resort of the two lov-
ers on the banks of the Kirtle, concealed himself amidst the ad-
joining wood, and watched his opportunity. Fair Helen discover-
ed him in the act of levelling his piece, and rushing betwixt the
murderer and his victim, received the hall which was intended for
her lover. The latter, after travelling to foreign lands, returned
and died on the tomb of his beloved Helen, and their ashes are
now mingled together in the romantic churchyard of Kirkconnel.
	The late Dr Currie of Liverpool, the author of the Life of Burns
and of several medical works, was educated at our parochial school.
He was the son of one of my predecessors, the Rev. James Currie,
who was a distinguished by strength of judgment, delicacy of
sentiment, and eminent talents, natural and acquired.--John Ir-
vine, Esq. of Newbie, M. P., the head of one of the first mercantile
houses in London, was connected with this parish in early life, and
still takes a lively interest in many of its concerns.
	Land-owners.--Our principal land-owners are, His Grace the
Duke of Buccleuch and Queensberry; Sir G. F. Johnstone, Bart.
of Westerhall; Sir Patrick Maxwell, Bart. of Springkell; and Ge-
neral Sharpe of Hoddam.
	Parochial Registers.--These of every description have been
kept very irregularly and carelessly, and most of them being writ-
ten on small unbound papers, are now lost. The only register of
baptisms which I can find, commences in 1744; but so imperfect
is it, that a great proportion of them are omitted. I have now,
however, taken this register under my own charge, and carefully
attend to the insertion of the births as well as baptisms of every
child whose parents belong to the Established Church. I am con-
vinced, indeed, from observing the state of the parochial refisters
in this and other parishes, that, without a legislative appointment
of a person with a suitable salary, all attempts to have them pro-
perly managed will prove ineffectual; nor can I help thinking that
the ecclesiastical establishment of Scotland is deficient, in so far
as there is no provision made for session-clerks, presentors, and
headless.
	Antiquities.--The most prominent is the celebrated  camp at
Birrens, which, as well as the neighbouring one at Burnswark in


