
     of Cambuslang.

   Families.-There are few considerable estates in this pa-
rish, and all of them have probably at different periods,
been detached from the barony of Drumsargard.  On the
S. side of Dichmount, stands Latrick, which, about the
beginning of the last century, was the seat of a Sir John
Hamilton, whose family is extinct, and the estate is now in
the possession of the Duke of Hamilton.  On the N. side of
the same hill, stands the house of Gilbertfield, which, from
an inscription above one of the windows, appears to have
been built in 1607.  This place was long the residence of
a family of the name of Cunningham.  About the begin-
ning of this century, the estate was purchased by the laird
of Westburn.  Lieutenant William Hamilton, the friend
and poetical correspondent of Allan Ramsay, lived many
years, first at Gilbertfield, and then at Latrick, where he
died, 24th May 1751, at an advanced age.  The most
considerable residing family at present, is that of John Ha-
milton, Esq; of Westburn.  This gentleman is descended

     VOL. V.  L l

<FOOTNOTE>

that could easily be flooded, except on the E. where it is said to have
been defended by a draw-bridge.  The situation was doubtless well
chosen for a place of security in disorderly times; and, though only a-
bout 60 or 70 feet higher than the adjacent ground, the prospect from
it would always be extensive and commanding, but is now highly rich
and beautiful.  About 20 years ago, there were some remains of this an-
cient castle; but now no vestige of it is to be seen.  The stones of it
were employed in building the farm houses, called Hall-side, because
they stood in the near neighbourhood of the great hall.  The tenant,
who is now in possession of it, has dug from its ruins many carts of stones,
some of which were hewn and had iron crooks in them, upon which doors
had been hung.  Among the rubbish human bones have been found,
once a pewter plate, and on many occasions pieces of coin, but of what
reign is not known.-The barony of Drumsargard has been the proper-
ly successively of several families of great name; the Oliphants, the
Murrays, the Douglases, and the Hamilton.  At present it makes a part
of the entailed estate of Hamilton.


