
			STEWARTON. 		       731

1798-99. I have thought proper to be thus particular in the
detail of the studies of one who was an honour and ornnment to hi
country, and cut off early in life; he died in 1819. He was dis-
tantly related to the two persons noticed above.
	The writer may be allowed to mention another native of the
parish, William Deans, late writer here, whose public spirit was
such, that he in part accomplished, within the last thirty years,
what Mr Dale originally intended on the banks of his native
Annock, before he carried his cotton-spinning to the Clyde. The
agent of the superior here, when consulted on the subject, dis-
suaded the proprietor, on the ground not only of increasing the
population, but, above all, pauperism, by the erection of public
works. The wool and worsted mills at Robertland were erected
by him and others. He was the originator, and for some time, a
partner of the largest carpet-work in this place. The suburb
originally called Templehouse, and now commonly called Darling-
ton, was feued out by him. He was remarkable for his liberality,
hospitality, and intelligence. At times he would amuse himself,
after the dry labours of his profession, with composing essays on
general subjects, and verses, not a few of which did him the highest
honour. It is in the knowledge of the writer, who was the channel
of communication, that for a manuscript collection of poems, he was
offered in 1810 a price by the late Mr Constable, who would have
taken chance of the sale of the volume. The subjoined verses *

               <FOOTNOTE>"At the dread hour of night,
                          By the dim taper's light,
                          Where death's pangs were smarting,
                          And fond hearts were parting,
                          I have sat by the nearest,
                          And wept with the dearest.
                          I have heard the last prayer
                          Of the lovely and young;
                          But few friends were there;
                          And their fond hearts were wrung.
                          The wife of my bosom,
                          A sweet lovely blossom;
                          She lay panting for breath
                          In the cold sweat of death.
                          Now she's slept her last sleep;
                          She has gone--she has gone,--
                          She hath left me to weep--
                          All alone--all alone.
                          And now gone are the joys
                          Of our lonely retreat;
                          And still empty her voice,
                          On her motherless child
                          Fast asleep on my knee.
                          I gaze," &c.


