
     Statistical Account

aven, is at present brought from the parishes of Hamilton
and Dalserf, at the distance of 5 and 6 miles.

   Crops, Cattle, etc.-The crops raised here are oats, bear,'a
few pease, considerable quantities of potatoes, some rye-grass,
and almost every farmer sows a peck or two of lint-feed
for household uses.  The low grounds, when ploughed after
being sufficiently rested, yield good grain, which in an or-
dinary season is cut down fully ripe; but on the borders of
the moors, the crops are very precarious, and seldom ripen.
In the neighbourhood of the town of Strathaven, where
land rents at from 20 s. to 40 s. the acre, the rotation is a
crop of oats, potatoes, oats, bear with grass-seeds, and after
the grass has been cut for two years, it is pastured till the
land is again fit for cropping.  Potatoes are no where cultiva-
ted with more care.  Almost every tradesman plants a few
falls of ground in potatoes, for the use of his family.  There
he labours at his leisure hours, from which he derives health
and amusement, and a wholesome part of food for five or
six months in the year, at a very moderate expense.  But
this district, excepting a few farms in the lower end of the
parish, is better adapted for pasture than tillage; and the
rents are mostly made up from the sale of cheese, butter,
and veal.  The cheese made here sells at from 6 s. to 7 s.
the stone, and calves have sometimes been sold at L. 4 Ster-
ling; but the average price is from L. 1 to L. 3.  The
practice of bleeding calves, so common in England, is hard-
ly known here.  The only arts used to make them fatten
fast, are bringing them on gradually to take a great deal of
milk, keeping them in a dark place, and amidst plenty of
dry litter.  Unless they are fed moderately at first, they are
apt to loathe the milk in a short time; and, like most other
young animals, they are sportive, and apt to take too much
exercise, which is best prevented by shutting them up from
the light.  A calf of two months old, well fed, often sells


