                       BANFF.				   51

   There is a private unendowed school in the town, called the
Commercial School, at which the number of boys attending as re-
gular day-scholars, varies from 40 to 60; of other boys, at sepa-
rate hours, from 15 to 20; of girls, at separate hours, about 30.
Here the fee for reading and writing together is 4s. 6d. per quar-
ter; for English reading and grammar, writing and arithmetic, to-
gether, 6s. 6d. per quarter; geography and higher mathema-
tics, 7s. 6d.; navigation, 10s. 6d.; book-keeping, single, 7s. 6d.,
double, 15s.
   In 1804, Mr Alexander Pirie, merchant in Banff, left the sum
of L. 1100 in trust to the town-council and kirk-session, for the
maintenance (from the yearly interest) of a free school,-a feu in
the sea-town, and an additional sum of L. 100, being at the same
time assigned by him for the erection of a school and schoolmas-
ter's house. The school is open to all poor children (able to read
the catechism) whom the trustees may admit; and instruction is
given in reading, writing, arithmetic, and church music. The
usual number of scholars of late has been from 70 to 80.
   There are several unendowed boarding and day-schools for
young ladies under the direction of highly accomplished teachers;
the branches taught, and terms, being such as are usual in other
similar establishments.
   There is a female charity school, under the management of the
parish minister and a committee of ladies. The salary of the,
teacher is made up from subscriptions, and a small annual payment
from a charitable bequest. The number of girls generally attend-
ing is from 50 to 60. They receive instruction in reading, writ-
ing, sewing, and knitting. One penny a-week is paid by each
scholar to assist in procuring school-books and stationery. The
right of admitting scholars is vested in the subscribers.
   The exact number of persons in the parish who cannot read or
write is not ascertained; but after inquiries made among a great
variety of persons, I feel warranted in saying, that, if there are any,
cases of this description, the number is altogether insignificant.
This is sufficient evidence of the value attached to education by
the people of the parish; but matters having been always pretty
much the same in this respect, there are no data, in the particular
case, for calculating the effect produced on moral habits by in-
creased facilities of instruction.
   Similar circumstances to those that created occasion for an addi-
tional church in the upper part of the parish, make an additional


