
     	968                      FIFESHIRE.

	the last Episcopal rector of the parish. After his ejection he
	got a cbapel erected at the west end of the town, part of which
	still remains as a wrigbt's shop, behind the gas work, in which he
	continued to officiate till big death in 1707. Mr William Har-
	die was then ordained minister of Crail by the presbyteries of St
	Andrews and Cupar-the session record says, "by preaching,
	prayer, and imposition of the hands of the presbyteries-by deli-
	vering to him the Bible, the bell tow, and the key of the kirk."
	Mr Hardie removed to St Antltews in 1701. Mr Robert Fair-
	weather, minister of Carnbee, was then elected by the people
	14th August 1701, was inducted by the presbytery, and continued
	till big death in 1738. But Mr Fairweather having become old
	and infirm, Mr Patrick Glas was ordained as his assistant and
	successors 24th December 1734, and continued to be minister of
	the parish till 1787. After his death Mr Robert Glenditining
	succeeded but lived only a short time. Mr Andrew Bell was or-
	dained 6th May 1790, and dying in 18-28, was succeeded by the
	present incumbent.
	   Education.-In 1542, a grammar school was established here
	by Mr David Bowman, one of the prebendariesk of the college,
	who mortified a house and lands for the maintenance of the
	teacher, and left the patronage, after big death, to the town-coun-
	cil of the burgh, unless a qualified person of his own name should
	apply, who was to be preferred.\f How this provision came to,
	be alienated from its purpose, we have been u-nable to discover;
	but, from time immemorial., the sum of L.12 a-year has been paid
	to the teacher out of the town's common good. In 1821, the
	beritars and council agreed to erect it into a parochial school,
	the former paying the maximum salary to the rector, the latter
	continuing their L.12 payment, under certain conditions, to an

	the cure and benefice of this parish by Thomas Moxicrieff of that ilk, as undoubted
	patron of this kirk, and having a riglit thereto from the Karl of Crawf(,rd, there was,
	ane edict granted by John Bishop of Edinburgh, vicar-general of the see of St An-
	drews, (being in the vacancie of the see of St Andrew's,) in his favour, which was
	served and read this day in face of the congregation by the said Dr John Wood, and
	is to be called at the Trinitie church of St Andrews upon Wednesday come eight
	days next, at ten o'clock,"

<FOOTNOTE>See deed of endowment and mortification in the town's charter-chest. As con-
	nected with the church, schools, and records, it may be mentioned here, that Mr
	John Preston of Drumrack, a branch of the Airdrie family of that name, presented
	to the church the handsome silver basin and ewer used at baptism; that the Earl of
	Crawford. out of the vacant stipend of 1789, gave the session L.20 for education,
	which is mortified in the town's hand at five per cent.; and that a lady, who wished
	her name to ite concealed, gave. through the late Mr Bell, L.50 for the same pur-
	pose, which is now lying at bank interest.



