
388                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Marquis of Abercorn; Sir Robert Keith Dick, Bart. of Preston-
field; Humphrey Graham, Esq. W. S.; and the heirs of Messrs
Jameson and Baxter. Value  rental of the parish, L. 14,191
Sterling.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest parochial record
of births is in the year 1631, which has been exceedingly well
kept from 1640 to the present time. That of marriages was be-
gun in 1813.
   Yearly average of registration of births for the last seven years,
70; do. of marriages, 30 ; do. of burials during the same time,
88, or 12 4/4 annually.
   Antiquities.-Wester Duddingston was at one time a large and
populous village. Nearly the whole of the tenants upon the ba-
rony resided in it, prior to the year 1751. Before the same pe-
riod, it furnished 36 horses to carry coals in sacks or creels to
Edinburgh. About eighty-two years ago, there were more than
30 weavers' looms. These were employed chiefly in manufactur-
ing a very coarse flaxen stuff, then known by the name of Dud-
dingston hardings, which sold from 3 1/2d. to 4d. per yard. No
trade of the kind is carried on now, and there is not a wea-
ver in the village. At the time alluded to, this village con-
tained considerably more than 500 inhabitants; at present, the
number is 225. Very little change has taken place in Easter
Duddingston since 1796.
   Froissart affirms that there were above 100 chateaux in the
neighbourhood of Edinburgh in the time of Queen Mary; and
though this parish is situated so near to the metropolis, it is ra-
ther a singular circumstance that no remains of the ruins of castle,
camp, or tower can be traced within its bounds. Indeed, the
greatest object of antiquity is the church. Though it has been
modernized in outward appearance, some of its interior ornaments,
and the structure of the arches, are of great antiquity. Dr Lit-
tieton, when Bishop of Carlisle, and upon a visit to the Lord of
the manor, was of opinion that it must have been the work of the
Saxons. There is no record, authority, or date, by which we
can ascribe its origin to so remote a period. Under the belfry
there appears a date beginning 51; but of which the remaining
cyphers and the rest of the inscription are now obliterated. About
sixty years ago, in dragging the marl from Duddingston Loch,
the head and horns of a stag some coins with the inscriptions
completely effaced, the blade of a sword, and the heads of some
spears and javelins, from their formation supposed to be Roman,


