
               PARISH OF LIFF AND BENVIE.

      PRESBYTERY OF DUNDEE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

        THE REV. GEORGE ADDISON, D. D., MINISTER.

       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-Liff, according to the author of Caledonia, is derived
from the North Bristish or Pictish word, Liff, a flood or inundation. *
On what account, this name should have been applied to a tract of
country, having in it nothing that deserves the name of a river;
and consisting chiefly of sloping-elevated ground, as secure as pos-
sible from all risk of inundation, it is not easy to conjecture.
  Benvie, some suppose to be of Celtic derivation-from "Beinn
Buidhe"-signifying "the Yellne Hill or Mount."
	The original parish of Liff comprehended the space on which
the greater part of the village of Lochee now stands. That vil-
lage, along with a part of the old parish of Logie, was erected into
a quoad sacra parish about ten years ago, called the parish of
Lochee.
	The parish of Logie, including, together with the lands so cal-
led, those of Balgay and Blackness, was annexed to Liff, quoad
temporalia, before the middle of the seventeenth century. A con-
siderable portion of the suburbs of Dundee to the west and north
is built on these lands; and the inhabitants of the parish of Logie
having, from time immemorial, been connected with Dundee,
quoad spiritualia, it will not be necessary to take any further no-
tice of this part of the united parish. + The parish of Invergowrie
had been joined to Liff as early as the above-mentioned period.
In November 1758, the union of the parishes of Liff and Benvie
took place, and these three, united quoad omnia, constitute what

<FOOTNOTE>"The Liffar and Liver, as well as the Liffy, which bisects Dublin, derive
their names from the British Lif or Lliv-signifying a flood inundation. The riv-
vers named Ylif, which are now Ila and lleu in Britain, have their names from the
same source.-Chalmer's Caledonia, page 25.
	+ While the teinds of Logie have been held to belong to the parish of Liff for nearly
two centuries, an annual payment of twelve bolls of barley has been made, from a
very remote period, to the minister of Dundee, expressly for "the administration of
the sacraments and marriage to the heritors and inhabitants of the lands of Balgay
and Logie, and of the lands of Blackness."


