
260                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

in Lennoxtown--in one or more of which places there is always dur-
ing winter, public worship on Sunday evenings--not without the
appearance of much benefit,--many persons attending the preach-
ing stations who never come to church.
  There is in Lennoxtown a Relief chapel, capable of containing
about 600 persons. It was built by a few of the principal heritors,
who were offended at the appointment of Mr Lapslie as parish mi-
nister in 1784.
  There is a considerable Roman Catholic population in Camp-
sie, all Irish, and amounting to between 600 and 1000 persons.
 A priest has resided some time in Lennoxtown, since whose com-
ing, that part of the people have been more sober and orderly than
they formerly were.
  A few individuals attend Dissenting places of worship in Kirk-
intilloch--and the Chartists have had meetings on Sundays some
time past. There is also a small body of Methodists in the parish.
In my opinion, the religious and moral character of the people is
improving, though more slowly than one could wish.*


  <FOOTNOTE>The following interesting note is copied from Mr Lapshe's Account of this parish.
It is also engrossed on a blank leaf of the old session-book.
  There is reason to believe the clergymen of Campsie continued Roman Catholic,
and occasionally performed the Romish service in it till 1572. We find,
  1. Mr Stoddart, Presbyterian minister of Campsie. 3d November 1581.
  2. Mr James Stewart, settled assistant and successor, 25th March 1607.
  3. Mr James Crichton, admitted 23d April 1623. He was deposed for what
was called corrupt doctrine. There is a tradition in the parish, that he could walk
(from the Clachan, 11 suppose,) to the top of the Fells in twenty minutes, eating a
pesse bannock. A heap of stones on the summit still retains the name Crichton's
Cairn.'
  4. Mr Alexander Forbes was admitted 16th December 1629, and was deposed for
not conforming to the synod of Glasgow, April 3d 1639.
  5. Mr John Collins was admitted 2d November 1641. He was murdered re-
turning from the presbytery about Martinmas 1648. Suspicion fell on the laird of
Belglass, a small heritor in the parish, who fled the country.
  6. Mr Archibald Dennistoun was ordained 30th March 1649, and deposed by the
protesters in 1655. He was restored in 1661, and died 1679. and There is a store told
of him that, in the year 1655, he had begun a discourse on a text, and had half finish-
ed the first head. In the year 1661, when restored, he took up his discourse where he
had left off, remarking, that "the times were altered, but the Gospel was still the
same."
  Principal Baillie says of Dennistoun, "He, for his part, saw nothing evil of the
man.  The protesters put in his room a Mr John Law, a poor baxter cullan, who had
but lately left his trade, and hardly knew his grammar; but they said he was gifted."
  7. Mr John Law was ordained by the protesters in 1656, ejected in 1661, and re-
stored in 1688. He never again officiated in Campsie.
  8. Mr George Miln was instituted 24th June 1681. He was turned out at the
Revolution, and was exceedingly ill used. The worthless part of the parish, having
risen in a mob, broke his furniture, and threatened his person. By way of retalia-
tion, this gentleman carried away the records of the parish.


<FOOTNOTE>Rem ausus plus fame habituram apud posteros quam fidei. "The feat, at least,
for exceeds the powers of such men as live in this age of the world.


