
                                      ABERNYTE.                             225

         pend, of course, should amount to L. 150; but it has been less for
         several years, owing to the low fiars.
            There is a tabernacle here, built about forty years ago, by Mr
         Haldane, for the missionaries,, when he was an heritor in this pa.
         rish.  It is now occupied by a few Burghers, who have no stated
         minister.  All the families in the parish except four, containing
         eight individuals, commonly attend the Established Church, and
         partake of its ordinances.   The average number of people who at-
         tend both places of worship, though small, it is difficult to state;
         because it varies so much on different days, according to circum-
         stances.  But about 130, on an average, commonly attend the Es-
         tablished Church; and much fewer, the Dissenters.  The average
         number of communicants is about 160.  The average amount of
         church collections yearly for religious and charitable purposes is
         between L. 2 and L. 3.
           Education.-There is one parochial school, which seems suffi-
         cient for the parish, except a female school, which has been some-
         times attemptdd without a salary.  The public school-house, in-
         cluding the school-room lately built, is large and commodious,
         and could accommodate some boarders.  The master has the
         maximum salary; and teaches English, writing, and arithme-
         tic, geography, and the principles of religion, very successfully, and
         could well teach mathematics and every other branch that might
         be required here,-he being now a preacher of the gospel.  The
         probable amount of the school fees may be L. 25 per annum: and
         from other sources the teacher may receive about L. 4, 10s. per
         annum.
           Poor and Parochial Funds.- Besides a pauper lunatic, there are
         at present only three families receiving a regular allowance, about
         a guinea in four weeks.  But there are some other families who
         receive occasional supply.  The average amount of collections for
         the poor, since the Seceders commenced preaching here, is only
         about 4s. 6d.-witli the addition of some allowance at mar-
         riages, and for the morteloth at funerals.  There is a regular assesses
         ment of the beritors, for a pauper lunatic in an asylum, amount-,
         ing in general to L. 20.  There is but one alehouse in the parish,
         and the people are sober.  Fuel consists generally of. coals frow
         Polgavie; and there is a frequent sale of brushwood in the neigh-
         bourhood.
                         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
          The more striking variations between the present state of the pa-
           PERTH.


