
			PEEBLES.			     11

comfort and plenty to the neighbourhood of mills and breweries.
As every farm-steading, and almost every hamlet had its brewery,
and generally its mill, and as numerous cottages were invariably,
till about the middle or close of last century, attached to farm-
houses, we might naturally expect to find a great population. Be-
sides this, the members of religious houses were in general not only
good farmers themselves, but they taught their tenants, to whom
they were kind and indulgent landlords, the best mode of cultivat-
ing their lands. Hence we almost invariably find that the preva-
lence of religious houses in any district during the time of Popery,
so far from checking agricultural improvements, had the opposite
effect; and if the best land of the parish belonged to such esta-
blishments, it was not because the m6nks or friars appropriat-
ed it to themselves, which they had no power to do, but because,
while the bulk of the community were engaged in warfare, or were
too indolent or ignorant to cultivate their lands, they were render-
ing theirs productive by their superior diligence, industry, and
skill. So far from many of the inmates of the religious houses
being only lazy drones, "fruges consumere nati," they laboured
with their own hands to raise the produce which they consumed.
Other circumstances some ages ago contributed to the population
of Peebles. It was the favourite summer quarters of the Scottish
kings for the sports of the chase till the accession of James VI. to
the crown of England; the residence of many of the Scottish no-
bility, and the castle of Neidpath, the seat of the powerful family,
whether of the Frazers, the Hays, or the Douglases,-could not
fail to attract a numerous train of followers and dependents. Add
to this, that the great extent of the burgh lands and free pasturage
must have contributed to keep up a great population, as many of
the burgesses were enabled by their civic privileges to live as small
farmers.
    The present incumbent has examined the presbytery and ses-
sion records from the earliest date, but he can no where find any
entry made of the number of the inhabitants.  Dr Webster's re-
port gave 1896 souls; but Mr Findlater observes, that "that re-
turn was made up from calculations founded upon the proportion
which the whole population is supposed to bear to the examinable
persons upon the minister's examination roll." No accurate cal-
culation can be given from such data. It is extremely difficult to
make tip accurate lists, and the number of examinable persons may
fluctuate in different years.


