
                      PETERHEAD.                             381

terest, but also to those engaged in the herring fishery.  A se-
cond petition was presented in 1822 to the same effect, detailing
some shipwrecks which had then recently occurred; and in Janu-
ary 1824, the commissioners resolved to build a lighthouse at
Buchanness, and it was soon afterwards completed.  It is about
118 feet in height, and built of granite from Stirlinghill.  The
light afforded is what is called a flashing light, which in every five
seconds of time emerges from a state of partial darkness, and ex-
hibits a momentary light, resembling a star of the first magnitude.
It is visible at the distance of five or six leagues, and lesser dis-
tances, according to the state of the atmosphere.  It has answer-
ed all the good purposes anticipated, both in regard to the ship-
ping interest generally, and those engaged in the herring-fishery
at Peterhead and along the coast.
   Burnhaven.-Besides Boddam, Burnhaven is the only village in
the parish not now included within the Parliamentary boundary of
the burgb.  It is a small fishing village, which has lately been
erected under that name, on the north side of the bay of Sand-
ford, by George Mudie, Esq. of Meathill.  The houses  are near-
ly on a level with the high water-mark at the bottom of the sea
braes, and near the mouth of the burn of Invernettie-hence its
name.  There have been already built 23 houses, and six more
have been contracted for.  Seven herring boats belong to this vil-
lage; three of which are to fish this season at home, and four at
Peterhead.  A small harbour or landing place for the accommoda-
tion of these boats has been erected, by Mr Mudie, at an expense
of about L.300.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church has already been de-
scribed as standing at the entrance into the town from the south
and west.  It is about three miles and a half distant from the ex-
tremity of the parish.  It was built in 1803, has repeatedly under-
gone repairs, and is at present in excellent condition.  It is ca-
ble of containing nearly 2000 sitters.  There are twelve free sit-
tings appropriated for the elders.  A new manse was built soon
after the last Statistical Account was written.  The glebe consists of
upwards of nine Scots acres of good land, which is worth annual-
ly about L.50, and the gardens extend to about one acre and a
quarter, the manse being situated in them.  The stipend was last
modified in 1821.  It is 18 chalders of victual, half meal, half bar-
ley, payable at the highest fiar prices for the county, and L,10
for communion elements, which was afterwards extended by the


