
            406                        RENFREWSHIRE.

            sun.  Some etymologists have supposed that the word -signifies
            the sunny bay.  But Celtic scholars are agreed in opinion, that
            the 1ast syllable cannot be rendered bay.  Besides, there is no bay
            in the neighbourhood with which the bay of Greenock may be con-
            sidered as put in contrast : and, as it can scarcely be doubted that
            the town received its name, not from the bay on which it stands,
            but from the ancient castle on the elevated ground above, the con-
            ecture that Greenock signifies the bill of the sun seems the more
            probable of the two.
              The parish extends along the river Clyde about 5 miles, from
            the immediate vicinity of Port-Glasgow on the One side, to within
            a few hundred yards of the town of Gourock on the other. -It is
            bounded by the river on the north and north-east; by the parishes
            of Port-Glasgow and Kilmacohn on the south-east; by Kilinacolm
            and Houston on the south ; and by Inverkip and the recently erected
            parish of Gourock on the west. From the shore or brink of the
            river there is a gradual ascent of upwards of 600 feet, interrupted
            'only in the western portion of the parish by a lower ridge, termi-
            nating in a rocky abrupt hill, called Binnans, from which there is
            a commanding view of the bay of Gourock, and the Highland
            locbs on the opposite side of the Fritb.  Beyond the second or
            highest ridge, there is a moor stretching a considerable way into
            the interior, and giving rise to the Gryfei,'one of the tributary
            streams o the Black Cart.  There is nothing peculiar in the as-
            pect of the ground of which the parish is composed. There are
            no caves, caverns, or fissures worthy of particular notice.  The
            sbore of the river or Frith is flat and sandy, without any remark-
            able headlands, unless we except Binnans, formerly mentioned
            and which, standing at a short distance from the sbore, is a very
            -striking land-mark to vessels Coming up the river,,and round   ing
            the point which forms the northern termination of the bay of Gou-
            rock.  Greenock has no picturesque beauty in itself, except what
            it derives from, the elegant and tasteful villas in its eastern and
            western suburbs. - There is hardly any coppice in its ravines; the
            plantations of forest trees are few abd of small dimensions; the
            hills are sadly destitute ofelothing, and when compared with those
            in -the neigbbouring parish of loverkip 'are tame and monotonous.
            But these deficiencies are, in a great measure, compensated. by its
            having some of the finest. land and sea views which a to be seen
            in Scotland or, perhaps in any part of the globe.- It is impossible
            We to walk out of the town of Greenock in any direction without


