
                         CARRIDEN.                            65

other to five years. The registers of baptisms and marriages in-
clude four volumes, the first entry of baptism being dated 1687,
that of marriage, 1668; and both records coming down to the
present day, with only one interval in the former of about seven
years, and one of about one year in the latter. The first volume
of the session-minutes, among some other items besides the ses-
sional transactions, contains "a just double of the mortification
given by the Lairds of Grang, of a house or houses in Muirhouse,
for a schoole to the parish of Caridden, 1636," the family name
at that time being Hamilton; also, "mortification be Sir William
Dick of Braid to Mr Andrew Keir and his successors, ministers
of Caridden, of two roodes of land, 1642." Besides these, there
are several odd volumes, and a register of deaths and burials; but
since 1806, it is very partial and defective.
   Antiquities.-The ancient Roman wall, built between the Forth
and the Clyde in the reign of the Emperor Antoninus Pius by his
Legate Lollius Urbicus, A. D. 140, is, by the almost universal con-
sent of antiquarians, Understood to have had its eastern termina-
tion in this parish. Three different places have been assigned as
the terminating point, Carriden, Walton, and Blackness. In the
summary of the ninth chapter of Gildas, "De excidio Britania,
A. D. 560," it is expressly asserted that the wall commenced at
"Kair Eden;"* and this opinion is adopted by Foredun, Richard
of Cirencester, Gordon in his "Itinerarium Septentrionale," pub-
lished in 1726, and by Roy in his "Military Antiquities of the
Romans in North Britain," published in 1793. Bede, in his
"Eccles. Hist. Gentis Auglorum," written, in 737, affirms that
the wall began about two miles west of Abercurnig,+ i. e. Aber-
corn, at a place called, in the Pictish language, "Peanuabel,"
and in the English, "Penueltum." If the distance be correct,
the "Peanuahel" of the Picts, and "Penueltum" of the English,
must correspond with Blackness, which is exactly two miles from
Abercorn. In accordance with this opinion, Sir Robert Sibbald,
in his "Hist. Inq," printed in 1707, says, "the wall runs from

<FOOTNOTE>The words in Gildas are, "Videlicet, , Inter duo maria murum per millia pas-
suum plurima trans inaulam instrucrent a mari Scotic usgue ad mere Hibernise (i, e,
a kair Eden) civitate antiquissima, dourum ferme millium aptio a Monasterio
Abercurnig (quod nunc vocatur Abercorn) ad accidentem, tendence contra occiden-
tem, juxia urbem Alcluth."
          The language of Bede bears a striking resemblance to that of Gildae, except in
the proper names:-"Cujus operia bodie certissima vestigia cernere licot.  Incipit
autem duorum ferme milium spatio a Monasterio Abercurnig, ad occidentom, in (Unreadable)
qui sermone Pictorum Peanuahel, lingua autem Anglorum, Penueltum appellatur, et
tendena contra occidentem terminatur juxte urbem Alcluit."- lib. i. cap, zii.

   LINLITHGOW.                                            E


