
44                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

Marischal College, who in 1634, mortified the lands of Ferryhill,
in the neighbourhood of Aberdeen, for the maintenance of four
masters in the grammar school.  These lands were feued in 1752,
at L.164 Sterling, half of which, in terms of Dr Dun's deed, is allot-
ted to the rector, and the other half equally divided among the
other three masters. It is provided by Dr Dun's deed, that any
scholar bringing a sufficient testimonial of poverty shall be taught
Latin gratis; that all of the name of Dun, and the sons of tenants
on the lands of Ferryhill, " and haill remanent lands to be con-
quest for the use foresaid," shall likewise be taught gratis; and
in case of a vacancy in the office of any of the masters, a person
of the surname of Dun, or a tenant or tenant's son on the lands
of Ferryhill, if found qualified, shall bp appointed " without anie
contestatione."
   The course of teaching followed in this school occupies five
years; and commencing with the elements of Latin, the pupils are
led on through a series of classical reading and themes, and of
late years, the elements of the Greek ladguage have been taught
to the more advanced pupils.
   The regular business of the school occupies the hours from 9
to 12 and from 3 to 5 four times a-week, with three hours on
Wednesday and two hours on Saturday, besides which arithmetic
is taught at an extra hour.
   Until lately it was the practice for all the pupils to assemble
every, morning for prayer in the public school, but this has been
discontinued, and instead, each master opens his class with prayer
in his own class-room.  It is to be regretted that, with the excep-
tion of this, and the prescribing in the two higher classes, of what
are called sacred lessons on Saturdays (if they deserve the name
of exceptions), neither master nor pupil has leisure to spare, from
the communication and reception of classical knowledge, to attend
to the much more important concern of religious and moral cul-
ture. * In this respect, however, the Grammar School of Aber-
deen is probably nnt more to be complained of than most other
public classical schools, especially those on old foundations.
   The number of pupils attending this school is generally about
200; and there is an examination annually hold in presence of the

<FOOTNOTE>In one of a set of rules laid down by the Town Council in 1700, for the regula-
tion of the Grammar School, the following clause occurs; " once a week all the
rules and the questions of the Shorter Catechiam are to be repeated Publiclie."  But if
this rule was ever attended to, it is long now, since it fell disuse.
                                                3

