
				NIGG.                                25

   by her husband, that she ran to complain to her father, and
   that he and his three valiant sons, (whose fate has already been
   mentioned) and all his mighty men of war, came to avenge the cause
   of the injured countess.
      Dunsheath.- The next era in the history of this parish, of which
   there is any account, is the year 1179,-when (according to Sir David
   Dalrymple of Hailes, in his Annals of Scotland,) William, surnam-
   ed the Lion, King of Scotland, caused a castle to be built on the
   top of the rock fronting Cromarty. The site of this castle may
   be still distinguished, but nothing more. The object of its erec-
   tion is said to have been the suppression of robbers; and from
   this, it is supposed to have got its name Dunsc...th in Gaelic,
   Dunskeath in English. The surrounding farm is still called
   Castlecraig. The Abbey of Fearn was built much about the same
   time with the Castle of Dunskeath; and thus civil and ecclesiasti-
   cal power were united to subdue and civilize the wild inhabitants
   of the country.
      Bishops of Ross.-From the twelfth till the sixteenth century,
   there is no land-mark in the history of the parish. But in the lat-
   ter century, mention is made of the Bishops of Ross; and it would
   appear, that their Lordships, before and after the Reformation, had
   a summer residence immediately behind the site of the present
   church, and that the whole of the parish, with the exception of the
   estate of Dunskeatb, formed a bit of glebe for their convenience,
   Tempora mutantur. Even till the final extinction of prelacy in Scot-
   land, the parish of Nigg was a mensal charge of the Bishops of
   Ross, and still all the lands of the parish (with the exception already
   mentioned) pay bishop rents to the Crown. These amount to
   about L. 200 or L. 300 a-year, according to the fiar prices of vic-
   tual. But some people maintain, that the King does not always
   get the justice he gives; while others with equal authority affirm,
   that the bishop rents ought not to go into the coffers of the Crown
   at all, but should be devoted to the promotion of those sacred ob-
   jects, for which bishops or ministers were first appointed by the
   sole king and head of the church.
      Parochial History.-About the middle of the seventeenth cen-
   tury, a Sir John Sinclair, in Caithness, became proprietor of the
   lands of Culiss and Wester Rarichie. This led to the introduc-
   tion into the parish, of various individuals of the name of Gunn,
   from the boundary that separates Caithness from Sutherland. The
   people of the parish called them "Na Gallich," the Caithness


