
484 			     AYRSHIRE.

		          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The parish contains about 13,000 Scotch acres;
500 of these are under plantation, and about 2000 are moor-
land. The moorland, however, is now rapidly being brought into
a state of culture. The rest of the parish is arable.
   Wedge draining with turf has been a good deal employed in
reclaiming the moorlands, and with great success. The Mar-
quess of Bute has lately erected a tile-work on his estate here;
and has bound his tenants to drain a certain number of acres each
year, in proportion to the extent of their farms. The system en-
joined on them is furrow draining,--the drains are to be made
twenty-one inches deep, and, where the bottom is soft, the tiles
are to bd placed on soles. Lord Bute furnishes the tiles, free of
expense, at the tile-work. The tenants are required to cart them
away, to cut the drains, lay the tiles, and cover them at their own
expense. This imperative obligation, laid on the farmers to im-
prove their farms, accompanied as it is with such liberal encourage-
ment on the part of the proprietor, affords the certain prospect of
a speedy and most beneficial change on the agricultural aspect of
the parish. It will go to secure a general and uniform improve-
ment over the whole of Dumfries estate, which forms the greater
part of the parish, instead of its being confined, as heretofore, to
detached farms, occupied by wealthy and enterprising farmers.
   Rent of Land, &c.--The rent of land varies very considerably
throughout the parish. It ranges from L. 4, for the land near
the town, to 15s. or even 10s. per acre, for the high moorlands.
The average rent of farms is about L. I per acre. The
grazing of a cow in the vicinity of the town costs from L. 3 to
L. 4; and it takes from one to two and a half acres of pasture for
this purpose, according to the quality of the soil. The average
pasture required for a cow is nearly two acres. The cows are
all of the Ayrshire breed; and much attention has been paid of
late by the farmers to the improvement of their stock. There is
a local Farmer's Association, patronised by the Marquis of Bute,
which awards annual premiums for the best specimens of milk
cows in point of colour, form, beauty, and symmetry of proportions.
There are some, indeed, who go so far as to say that there is a dash
of blood in some cows.
   The farmers depend chiefly on the produce of the dairy for the
payment of their rents; and a farm is considered high rented. if
the dairy does not provide for a considerable part of the rent.


