
   318                           BANFFSHIRE.

      The holly (Ilex aquifolium) is remarkably abundant in the pa-
   rish, and apparently indigenous.\f*
                             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      Historical Events.-It is well known, that the piratical Danes,
   who long had the mastery of the seas, continued for several cen-
   turies to desolate the coasts of Scotland, and to prove a per-
   petual scourge to the country.  Although their incursions and
   depredations are involved in much obscurity, yet the scattered
   notices and traditionary accounts banded down to the present
   time, leave no doubt of their predatory inroads albng the shores
   of the Moray Frith.  In Buchanan's History of Scotland it is
   recorded, that the Danes, after having made an unsuccessful at-
   tempt to land on the coast of Buchan, proceeded farther west-
   ward, and put ashore at the mouth of the burn or water of Cullen.
   Thither Indulfus, who then held the sceptre of Scotland, march-
   ed at the head of his army to oppose their progress, and a bloody
   battle ensued between the Scotch and their Danish invaders.  The
   scene of the conflict is denominated by the above historian "a
   woody valley;" and many tumuli have been dug up throughout
   this locality, where now are situated the splendid mansion of the
   Noble family of Seafield, and the beautiful grounds surrounding
   it. The most deadly arena of the conflict, however, appears to
   have been a spot a little farther west, on the moor of Ranna-
   chie, or Baads of Cullen; and the action which took place
   here, is known and currently spoken of as "the Battle of the
   Baads." The place is thickly studded with tumuli in every direc-
   tion, and these on being opened are always found to contain de-
   cayed bones, fragments of arms, &c.  Upon this occasion, the
   Danes were routed, and put to flight; but the brave monarch In-
   dulfus was killed by an arrow while at the head of his troops
   pursuing the enemy, anno 960.  One division of the Danes, it is
   said, fled to Mortlach, where there was an encampment of their
   countrymen; another took the road to Forfar, where they were
   again defeated and a few of their scattered number endeavoured
   to regain their ships.  This was decisive victory gained by the
   Scotch, and is supposed to be among the last battles fought with

   <FOOTNOTE>An accomplished and ingenious friend has suggested the possibilty of the name
   of the parish having been derived from this very circumstance, the name of the holly
   in the Gaelic language being Cuilconn, or, as pronounced by the common people in
   districts where Gaelic is spoken, Coulion-Cullen?

						 4


