
202                         FIFESHIRE.

exterior of the fabric has a heavy appearance, being nearly 90
feet long, and of very subordinate and disproportionate dimensions
in height and breadth. The east gable, and part of the coutigu-
ous side walls are supposed to have stood for at least two centuries.
The remainder was rebuilt in 1773, when the whole received a
new roof. For many subsequent years, however, the church con-
tinued with unplastered walls, and without any ceiling. About fif-
teen years ago, the inside underwent such repairs as have render-
ed it a very comfortable place of worship. There are sittings for
nearly 350. The pews are allocated among the heritors accord-
ing to their respective valued rents, and are occupied, without any
pecuniary remuneration, by tenants, feuars, and other classes of
persons. A distinct appropriation of a greater number of sittings for
such parishioners as are not connected with landed proprietors by
any peculiar tie would certainly be beneficial;-for it cannot be
denied, that, although no seat rents are exacted or paid, yet the
fear of being viewed as unwelcome intruders, by those who have
obtained a previous occupancy, may sometimes operate as a dis-
couragement of regular attendance. Fully four-fifths of the peo-
ple professedly belong to the Established Church. Of these about
350 are communicants. The dissenting or seceding portion of
the population are generally connected either with the United Se-
cession church, or with the religious denomination adhering to the
Associate Synod of Original Seceders. A very limited number are
of the Relief and Baptist persuasions.
   The manse, which is hard by the church, was built in 1774,
and was repaired in 1818. The glebe contains a little more than
6 Scots acres. The stipend, augmented in 1823, is 15 chal-
ders of victual, half meal and half barley, payable according to the
highest county fiars. The sum of L. 8, 6s. 8d. is paid under the
name of communion element money. 
  The parochial register of 1682 acknowledges the receipt of four
silver. communion cups as the donation of Mr Melvill, formerly mi-
nister of this parish. Those cups are still used in the celebration of
the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Each bears the following
inscription:-" Haec quatuor pocula ejusdem ponderis et mensu-
rem ecclesim de Kinglassie sacravit Mr Thomas Melvill non ita,
pridem pastor ibidem."
   Education.-The parochial school is situated in the village.

<FOOTNOTE>The teinds of Kinglassie were A D. 1234, mortified by the Bishop of St An
drews,"Deo St Margarete et monachis de Dunfermline," as the records of that,
abbacy bear.


