
     The Statistical Account.

woolen cloth of inconsiderable value.  As tradesmen could
not depend on constant employment, they at all times fared
but poorly, and in seasons of scarcity were reduced to great
districts.  But now, manufacture and mechanism are eagerly
pursued and liberally rewarded; and the industrious are, for
the most part, in easy circumstances*.  Manufacture and com-
merce, mutually operating as cause and effect, produce and
reproduce each other.  Even in the year 1755, one man car-
ried on his back all the articles, wool excepted, which either
the merchants or private families of Monquhitter parish com-
missioned or sent away; but now, exclusive of what is sent to
and brought from fairs, 4 carriers and 5 horses find constant
employment in exporting and importing (if the expressions
may be allowed) for this parish.

   Dwellings.-The gentry always aspired to large houses, and
not seldom to castles; but the size of the public rooms fre-
quently encroached on convenience, and the smallness of
windows rendered every room dark and comfortless.  In eve-
ry house, for so the times required, there was a hiding place,
where the owner or his friend might be concealed from the
public or private avenger.
   The house of the farmer, commonly built of sod, consisted
of a fire house where family and servants sat and eat; of a
pantry+, and sometimes of an intermediate space where beds

<FOOTNOTE>

*May 13 th 1793.  The same stagnation of trade that presently distresses
our country operates in this corner.  May it be soon dispelled!
+The pantry, notwithstanding its Grecian extraction, was always in bad
order, and fully ceiled by the spider, whose labours were respected by the in-
industrious housewife.  A just idea of what a farmer's house for the most part
was, may be conveyed in the words of a madwoman to a preacher in the church
of Portsoy, whose text was, ' In my father's house are many mansions.'-'In your
father's house are many mansion!  exclaimed the maniac:  'Auld Bankies!  I knew
it full well, a but, and a ben, and that but ill red up!'


