
                           AULDEARN.                      11

   by this means induced Hay to turn round, he saved bis own life
   by stabbing his adversary -at a, disadvantage.  Besides Ray of
   Kinnudie, there fell on the part of the Covenanters, Campbell of
   Lawers, Captain Bernard Mackenzie., Sir John Murray,; Mr Gi-
   deon Murray, and Alexander Drummond of Meedhope.*
     In a field to the south-west of the village, there is a small
   clump of trees enclosed with a dike. Here many of those slain
   in the battle of Auldearn are buried.+
     Eminent Persons.-John Innes, Esq. of Broad Street Buildings,'
   London, who was a partner in the house of Fairley, Bonham, and
   Co.,which had at one time the most extensive mercantile trans-
   actions with India of any house in London, was born in the village
   of Auldearn. He was for many years a Member of the Commons'
   House of Parliament.  To the extensive influence of Mr Innes,
   and the unwearied benevolence with which he exercised it, espe-
   cially in behalf of his countrymen, the rise of many a private for-
   tune may be traced. There has just been erected to his memory,
   on a small eminence on the east of the village, a handsome build-
   ing, intended for an infant school.
     The building is surrounded by a stone wall, enclosing nearly a
   quarter of an acre of ground, imperial measure. The ground,
  with the road by which it is approached, was handsomely given
  for the purpose by Sir Frederick William Dunbar, of Boath, Bart.
  Land-owners.-The heritors of the parish, and their respective
  valued rentals are as follow:
        John Gordon, Esq. of Cluny                 L. 2418 19  4 1/2 Scots.
        William Brodie, Esq. of Wrodie,               1599 10  1
        The Right Honourable the Earl"of Cawdor,      1483 19  6
        James Campbell Brodie, Esq. of Lethen,        1101 0   0
        Sir Frederick W. Dunbar, Bart. of Boath,       652 15  9
                                                      ---------L.7256 4 8 1/2

  <FOOTNOTE>
     The death of the last three is commemorated by two tombstones; the one in
  the church-yard, the other with a tablet within the choir of the old church, the only
  part of that building which now remains. The inscriptions are as follow, and fix the
  date of the battle, which is erroneously said to have been fought on 4th of May.             
    "Heir .lyeth Captaine Bernard Mackensie who in defence Of his religion and
  covntrie feighting diet at Alderne the 9th of May 1645.
    "This monvment is erected be Sir Robert Innes yovnger of that ilk in memorie
  of Alexander Drvmond of Meedhope Sir Jobne Mvrray and Waister Gideon Mvr.
  ray who lyes here intered who, fighting waliantly in defense of their religione
  king and native covntray died at AvIdearn the 9th May 1645,"
   + Some time ago, on trenching the ground, their bones were exposed ; and when
  it was suggested to the late Gordon of Braid, the proprietor, to dig a pft, that
  they might be buried at a greater depth, that, gentleman down. " They are low
  enough already, poor fellows,'and we not put them father down. We'll plant it."
  This was accordingly done, and the place is since familiarly known by the name of
  the Dead Wood.
   + On this is the following inscription :_ "To perpetuate the memory of a man
  of worth, and for the education of infants in his native parish. the building was
  elected by the friends of John Innes, Esquire of Broad Street Buildings, London, who


