
316                            DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

			      II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men.--The late venerable and highly esteemed George
Jardine, Esq. Professor of Logic in the University of Glasgow, was
for a short time, in early life, parochial schoolmaster of Kirkcon-
nel. The session minutes under his hand bear date 1759. A few
years previous to his death, he visited this scene of his early la-
bours, and such of his old friends as were then alive. He be-
queathed for the beboof of the schoolmaster of Kirkconnel, in all
time coming, the sum of L. 50, the interest of which was to be paid
to him, and the capital laid out on the most advantageous terms.*
	Antiquities, &c.--Of antiquities or natural curiosities, this parish
cannot boast much,--except baptismal font stones, which are found
in different parts. It is said that St Connel, who built the kirks
of Kirkbride and Kirkconnel, was buried on the top of that range
of hills called Glenwhurry; but the writer never could discover the
smallest vestige of the saint's grave. In the parish, there are se-
veral cairns of stone,--some of which have been removed for the
purpose of building stone dikes, to save the expense of quarrying,
and were found to contain a quantity of human bones+.

<TABLE=Population>
			   III.--POPULATION.
		In 1755, the population amounted to              899
		At the time of the last Statistical Account,    1000
		In 1811,                                        1099
		1821,                                           1100
		1831,                                           1111
	The small increase of population during the periods above stated
has in a great measure arisen from the recent division of the parish
into more extensive farms, than formerly,--one farmer now occupy-
ing the land which perhas had been held by eight or ten farm-
ers. The whole village holds of the Duke of Buccleuch; but, no
building feus having been granted, every householder is a tenant
at will: he pays a small annual rent, and remains in undisturbed
possession.

<FOOTNOTE>Archibald Macnab, Esq. merchant, laid out a considerable sum in improving
and beautifying a small property in this parish which had belonged to his ancestors.
During the greatest part of his life he was much engaged in mercantile transactions in
Germany. While in the execution of his plans, he was overtaken by a storm, and perish-
ed in the Elbe during the late war. In this part of the country, he was much and
deservedly respected, and the small property of Holm, which belonged to him was sold
and purchased by His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch.
          A few years ago, when a road-maker was levelling down the sides of a gravel pit
upon a very small knoll, about 200 yards west from the bridge which is thrown
over the river Nith at Kirkconnel village, he came upon an earthen urn of Roman
fabric, filled with human bones, which, upon being exposed to the air, were reduced
to powder. The urn was broken to several pieces before he was aware.


