
	308                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	  The great increase of the population is to be attributed to the
	lotting system, by which tenants are supplied with small portions
	of land inadequate for their support.  But this is not all, for the
	possessions which were originally too contracted, were subsequently
	subdivided by the parents among the various members of the fa-
	mily as they got married.  There was in this manner an accumu-
	lation of houses and families without any means for their support,
	or any prospect of comfort.  This evil (for evil it must be called,
	when three, and in many cases four families are to be found occu-
	pying the landr which were originally barely sufficient for the sup-
	port of one family,) has been, and will continue to be productive
	of the worst effects here, as well as over a great part of the High-
	lands.  And unless some method be devised to provide for the
	superfluous population, and to check its increase in future, the
	most disastrous consequences may be anticipated.
	  Language.-Gaelic is the language of the country, and that for
	the most part preached; but of late, in consequence of the con-
	stant intercourse held by the natives with the low country, it is
	very much corrupted with a mixture of English words and phrases.
	  Habits and State of the People.--It is to be regretted that the
	people have not more regard to cleanliness.  The cattle and
	poultry are generally to be found under the same roof with the
	rational inmates, and separated only by a tallan or partition, f6r the
	most part made of stone or wattled-work, a few feet in height.
	They wear home-made woollen clothes, and are very expert at
	dyeing almost all colours.  Their diet chiefly consists of potatoes
	and herrings, occasionally varied with meal and milk.  They are,
	however, contented with their condition, and, singular to relate,
	contemplate with, uneasiness a permanent removal from their na-
	tive soil.
	  As their possessions are too limited to afford employment for
	all who are lobated on them, almost all the young men leave the
	country annually, and resort to the south, in vast numbers, in quest
	of any employment which they may procure.  In the same man-
	ner, many of the young women go to the Lothians in harvest to
	procure employment in reaping.  They are generally most mind-
	ful and attentive in sending a part of their earnings home to their
	parents, to pay the rents, as well ag for other useful purposes.
	  Character.-They are, with few exceptions, of sober and cor-
	rect habits,-charitable to their less fortunate neighbours,-hos-
	pitable and attentive to strangers,-and obedient and respectful


