
          27O                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

          the gentlemen of the Highland Society, and of the Gaelic Club
          of Glasgow, preceded by the Lord Provost and Magistrates, and
          the boys of the Highland Society, (one of the numerous charities
          which had flourished through his bountiful aid and protection,)
          walked in procession to St Andrew's Church in Glasgow, where
          an excellent and an appropriate sermon was preached by the Rev.
          Dr Ritchie, from the text, 112th Psalm, verse 2d, "He hath dis-
          persed, he hath given to the poor, his righteousness endureth for
          ever, his born shall be exalted with honour."
             Mr George Macintosh left, with other children, a son Charles
          Macintosh, who still survives. He is also a merchant in Glasgow,
          and a Fellow of the Royal Society of London. In the walk of
          chemical manufactures, his reputation is perhaps second to no in-
          dividual in Europe. He is the inventor of the process for water-
          proofing fabrics, by the application of Indian rubber.
             Land-owners.-The principal heritors are, the Duke of Su-
          therland ; M'Leod of Cadboll; M'Leay of Newmore ; Hugh
          Rose Ross of Glastullich and Cromarty; and M'Kenzie of Kin-
          craig.
             Parochial Registers.-The registers of births and marriages
          both commence in 1781, and have been regularly kept.
             Antiquities.-Under this head, it may be mentioned, that, in a
          field a little to the west of the church, there is a singular upright
          stone, somewhat in the form of an obelisk, called Clach a Mhear-
          lich, i. e. the thief's stone,-which is evidently of very ancient
          date. Though in the midst of an arable field, it is most religious-
          ly preserved, no attempt being made to remove it, or alter its po-
          sition. None even of the oldest inhabitants are acquainted with
          anx distinct tradition, respecting its origin or intention; but, from
          the name, it is conjectured that some noted robber was buried be-
          neath it. A few years ago, there were found, on the farm of Miln-
          craig, in a bank of red gravel, about eight feet below the surface,
          two stone coffins. They contained, we believe, nothing but a few
          bones.-There are in this parish a number of cairns. Many of
          them have been greatly diminished in size, by the stones of which
          they were composed being taken away, and used in the erection
          of dikes, and other buildings. Some of them have been, by this
          means, gradually removed entirely. There is a very large one in
          the neigbbourhood of Loch Achnacloich. It is surrounded by an
          outer circle, composed of stones, a few yards asunder, and mea-
          suring in circumference 130 yards. All around, there is a great


