
500                                FIFESHIRE.

parish of St Leonards. The teinds parsonage and vicarage of
these lands had not been conveyed to the ancient hospital, but
they were now incorporated with the revenues of the college; and
this circumstance, when combined with the fact, that one of the
four chaplains of the college was to be invested with the cure of
souls, would seem to imply, that St Leonards now for the first
time acquired the name and character of a parish. The parish
thus constituted had its sacrist or curate, who was one of the chap-
lains of St Leonards College, till the period of the Reformation.
When that event took place, many of the parish ministers in Scot-
land continued to adhere to the Popish tenets, and being in con-
sequence ejected, their parishes became destitute of pastors. The
expedient to which the church and the constituted authorities had
recourse, to supply this deficiency, was to place two or three con-
tiguous parishes under the charge of one minister, till a more
ample supply should be obtained. The parishioners of St Leo-
nards being thus situated, were placed under the charge of the
minister of St Andrews; and this arrangement continued to sub-
sist for about thirty years, when Mr Robert Wilkie, minister of
St Andrews, having, by advice of the General Assembly, been
appointed Principal of St Leonards College, and minister of the
parish of St Leonards, he was inducted into these offices, and his
successors in the office of principal have, with little variation, been
ever since ministers also of St Leonards.
   A part of the Parish of St Leonards lies in the immediate vi-
cinity of the city, and consists of several detached allotments, sur-
rounded by the town parish; and the remainder consisting of the
two Kenloways or Kenlies, and Pikie, are most inconveniently si-
tuated, being from four to five miles distant from the parish church.
This latter division of the parish, which is by far the most exten-
sive, though least populous, is bounded by the parishes of St An-
drews on the north, and Kingsbarns, Crail, and Denino on the
east, south, and west respectively.
   To the natural history of the parish it were unnecessary to ad-
vert, as the remarks which might be made would be merely a re-
petition of the statements exhibited relative to the Natural History
of the parish of St Andrews, with which it is so closely connected.
The same remark is applicable to the great bulk of the other
particulars which the "heads of inquiry" embrace.


                   II.-CIVIL HISTRY.

   Land-owners.-The Principal and Masters of the United Col-


