
         536                      ARGYLESHIRE.

   Hydrography.--The number of moor lochs in this island ha
never been, I believe, ascertained: such of them as the writer ha
seen, abound with trout of excellent quality and flavour. The
streams which issue from these lochs, form, in their progress to
the sea, rivers of considerable depth and volume, the whole of
them well stocked with trout and salmon. The principal rivers
in Jura, are, first, the Knockbreck river, where Mr Campbell of
Jura, the proprietor, has established a salmon fishery. The next
in point of depth and volume is Avin Lussa, passing through the
property of Captain M'Neill, younger of Colonsay, which also
abounds with trout and salmon.
   Corran river, about two miles from the manse or Jura, takes its
rise from the countless clear springs that issue from the conical
mountains of Jura. It receives in its progress the streams of
Loch an Debe, Loch na Cloicbe, &c. and empties itself into the
sea below Corran House. In addition to these there is a variety
of streams bearing the same character, in reference to trout and
salmon: they fall, with the exception of one or two, into the sea
on the east side of Jura.
   Coryvrechan.--Betwixt the north point of Jura and the island
of Scarba, is the-famous whirlpool of Coryvrecban. *  There are
also in the neighbourhood many smaller and dangerous whirlpools,
and rapid currents. The following account of Coryvrechan is
taken from MacCulloch's Highlands and Western Isles.
" The hazards of the Coryvrechan are of the same nature as
tbose of the other narrow channels of the Western Islands, as well

<FOOTNOTE>According to a tradition still believed in the Hebrides, Corryvreachkan, or the Cal-
dron of Breachkan, received its name from a Scandinavian Prince, who, during a vi-
sit to Scotland, became enamoured of a Princess of the Isles, and sought her for his
bride. Her wily father, dreading the consequences of the connection, but fearful to
offend the King of Lochlin, gave his consent to their marriage, on condition that
Breachkan should prove his skill and prowess by anchoring his bark for three days
and three nights in the whirlpool. Too fond or too proud to shrink from the
danger, he proceeded to Lochlin to make preparations for the enterprise. Having
consulted the sages of his native land, he was directed to provide himself with three
cables, one of bemp, one of wool, and one of woman's hair. The first two were easily
procured; and the beauty of his person, his renown as a warrior, and the courtesy
of his manners had so endeared him to the damsels of his country, that they cut off
their own hair to make the third, on which his safety was ultimately to depend; for
the purity of female innocence gave it power to resist even the force of the waves.
Thus provided, the Prince set sail from Lochlin and anchored in the gulf. The
first day the hampen cable broke; the second day the woollen cable parted. There
still remained the gift of the daughters of Lochlin.  The third day came; the time
had nearly expired; his hopes were high; his triumph was almost achieved; but
some frail fair one had contributed her flaxen locks; the last hope failed, and the
bark was overwhelmed. The Prince's body was dragged ashore by a faithful dog,
and carried to a cave that still bears his name, in which the old men point out a little
cairn, where tradition says the body of Breachkan was interred. From that time, as
the legend tells, the whirlpool was called Corrivreachkan.
                                   1                                            1


