
  	 		PARISH OF DALGETY.

		PRESBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FIFE.

		THE REV. ALEXANDER WATT, A.M. MINISTER.


                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Extent, Boundaries.-This parish is situated on the northern coast
of the Frith of Forth. Its southern boundary stretches about 4
miles along, the wooded broken line of beach, that lies betwixt the
village of Aberdour and the borough of Inverkeithing. It is near-
ly of a triangular form, extending in length about 4 miles from
south to north, and not exceeding in many places a mile in breadth.
It is bounded by Inverkeithing on the west; by Aberdour on the
east and north; and by a small part of the parish of Dunfermline
on the north-west.
  Topographical Appearances.-There is a gradual ascent from
the southern to the northern extremity, which stands about 436 feet
above the level of the sea. From some of the higher ground on
the estates of Fordel and Cockairney, the views are very extensive.
They command at one sweep the whole range of the opposite coast
from Queensferry as far as the Isle of May.
  It may be said that we have two distinct climates in this small
parish. In the lower division on the sea coast, which is well wood-
ed, and in a state of good cultivation, the thermometer generally
stands some degrees hioher than in the upper district, which con-
tains an extensive coal -field, and the soil of which is of a much in-
ferior quality. In spring, the whole parish, like most of those along
the sea-coast, is much exposed to the chilling influence of the pre-
vailing east winds. The inhabitants, however, are generally very
healthy, and there is no disease peculiar to them except some cases
of asthma and rheumatism amongst the colliers, which are occa-
sioned by the nature of their occupation.
  Hydrography.-There are no rivers in this parish. There is a
lakes, however, of considerable extent. It is about three-quarters
of a mile in length, and a quarter of a mile in breadth. At the
east end of it, stands the old mansion-house of Cockairney, the re-


