
106                     BERWICKSHIRE.

   Hydrography-The River Whitadder winds in a sinuous course
through the parish, its general direction being from West to
east. It is here a beautiful stream, upwards of eighty feet in
breadth. Before it enters the parish, it has run about twelve
miles from its source, and has received the river Dye, with many
smaller streams. In its progress through the parish it receives a
number of streamlets from the dells and vales that occur among the
hills; but its two principal tributaries are the Monynut and the
Ware, flowing in a south-easterly direction.
   Mineralogy.-Veins of copper-ore having been discovered on
the estate of St Bathans, an English mining company obtained
right by lease in the year 1828 to work this mineral; but after
driving in a single mine, they abandoned the undertaking.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-Small as this parish now is, it consisted be-
fore the Reformation of two parishes. These were St Bathans
and Strafontane. We will trace the history of each separately.
   With regard to St Bathans, it appears that soon after the in-
troduction of Christianity into this part of the country, (an event
which took place in the early part of the seventh century,) a church
was founded here, and dedicated to the saint whose name the pa-
rish now bears.  * Like that of Coldingham, it was, during the

<FOOTNOTE> Chalmers' Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 212, 344.-There is reason to believe that this
holy person was St Baithen, cousin to the celebrated St Columba, and his successor
as Abbot of Iona. St Baithen employed much of his time in propagating the doc-
trines of Christianity in the country now called Scotland, and in establishing churches
there. He died on 9th June 598.
   That it may, seen on what grounds the writer of this article conjectures that this
parish derived its name from St Baithen, he shall add a short explanation. There
are four saints whose names bear a close resemblance to that of this parish. These
are the following: 1st, St Bothan. According to Chalmers, St Bothan was the pa-
tron of this parish, (Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 344.) But this saint was a bishop of Dun-
blane, (Camerarius de pietate Scotorum,) and must therefore have lived after the erect-
tion of that bishopric by David I. The church of St Bathans, however, was dedi-
cated to its saint many centuries before. If it,said that St Bothan, who is not
mentioned in Keith's Catalogue of the Bishops, may have been a member of the con-
vent of Culdees, which was established at Dunblane before the erection of the bishop.
ric, this circumstance would not increase the probability of his being the patron saint
of this parish, because in that case he must have flourished subsequent to the time of
St Blaan, from whom Dunblane derived its name; and, as St Blaan lived in the reign
of Kenneth III. (Keith's Catalogue,) St Bothan could not have been the person to
whom the church of St Bathans was dedicated some ages before. 2d, St Bathan.
He is said to have been a bishop or teacher and confessor throughout the whole of
Scotland, but chiefly in Orkney and Shetland, (Camerarius.) It is not likely that a
church would,dedicated to him in the Saxon kingdom of Northumberland, it which
kingdom this parish was then situated. Camerarius confounds this saint with the
following: 3d, St Baithan. He was one of the persons to whom a celebrated letter
from Pope John was addressed in 640, preserved in Bede. He was Bishop of Clon-
maenois in Ireland, (Jameson's History of the Culdees, p. 104,) and it is not there-
fore probable that he was the saint to whoin the church of St Bathans was dedicated.




