
     Statistical Account

   Wages and price of provisions.-The following comparative
state, founded on good information, will shew the advance

<FOOTNOTE>

they hoist an immense oblong sail, containing nearly 80 squar yards, or 700
square feet of cloth.  And they carry a foresailbesides,on a pole at the boat sem,
of the same oblong form, but only a tenth part of the size of the other.
Their shall and alertness in setting and reing those sails, according to the
wind and weather, and the course they mean to pursue, are wonderful. Se-
veral gentlemen of the navy have expressed their surprize at this, and de-
clared,that they have seldom seen common fisherman carry so great a propor-
tion of sail, or manage it more dextrously on any other part of the British
coasts. Yet there have been only four Avoch men drowned by their boats
oversetting, since the fishery first began here.  But, as they continue gradually
to enlarge those sails, without increasing the boats in proportion, it is to be
feared that such accidents may become more frequent among them.  For there
is undoubtedly, a ne plus ultra in this, as in all other human attempts.
   In justice to the active enterprising spirit of those honest men, we may add,
that three of the Seatown crews having engaged in spring 1791, to fish for se-
veral months on the coast of Northumberland, coasted it in their little open
boats the whole way from Avoch to Beadnel, without either chart or com-
pass, and returned home in like manner, with no other accident, except split-
ting one of their sails.  A long voyage this for so small craft to undertake,
if we consider the different windings of the coast, which they must necessa-
rily follow!  What a pity, that such men have not been regularly taught na-
vigation, nor got larger vessels to manage, for there is not a single sloop be
longing to the place.
   The former inconvenience may now be obviated by the academy lately esta-
blished at Fortrose, which affords them an easy and near opportunity of get-
ting their children better instructed than heretofore.  And if, along with this
advantage, Providence be pleased to favour them with three or four good
fishing years in succession, it is more than probable that some of the more
careful and spirited young men may be persuaded to unite and improve their
gains, in fitting out two or three small busses, or proper freighting sloops for
this craft, of 50 or 60 tons each; which could occasionally be navigated by
fewer hands than any of their present boats.  Such sloops might be employ-
ed to good advantage every herring season on the bounty; and during the
other months they would find abundant encouragement in carrying out car-


