
100                      WIGTONSHIRE.

ner, viz.:  A number of new houses have been built in the sub-
aurbs, within the Parliamentary boundary, since the passing of the
Reform Bill, and which are occupied by persons who lately resid-
ed in the town, and who still consider themeselves as belonging to
the town, though not, strictly speaking, in the parish, and such of
them as belonged to the Established Church, still attend it.  All
the seats in the temporary building for the accommodation of the
Established congregation are let, and the congregation is very
regular in attendance.  I believe that the Dissenting chapels
are well attended also.  The communicants on the roll last year
were 447: the average number may be about 400.  The average
amount of the collections at the church-door for religious and cha-
ritable purposes, may be about L. 60 per annum.
   Religious Societies.--A Bible Society was instituted in 1809;
amount of funds about L. 55.  There is also a Sabbath School So-
eiety.
   Education.--The schools in the parish are, one parochial;
one supported by a Society; and six unendowed.  The branches
taught in the parochial school are, English, French, Latin,
Greek, practical mathematics, writing, and accounts.  Hn the
other schools, English, writing, and accounts.  The salary of the
parochial schoolmaster is L. 20 per annum, and the amount of
school fees about L. 50.  He has no allowance for a house or
garden.  The average salaries of the other teachers may be about
L. 25.  The general expense of education per year is from 12s.
to L. 1.  Of the young betwixt six and fifteen years of age, there
are few who cannot either read or write.  Few, if any, born in the
parish, above fifteen years of age, but can both read and write.
   Libraries.--There are two excellent public subscription libra-
ries in the parish,--the one containing works of general literature,
the other chiefly of theological works.  The members of both re-
side in the town and neighbourhood.  There is a very good public
reading-room, at which several Scotch, English, and Irish news-
papers are received.  There is a periodical published in the town
monthly.  It has been about eighteen months in existence.
   Charitable Institutions.--A Dispensary for giving advice and
medicines to the poor (called the Stranraer and Rhins of Gallo-
way Public Dispensary,) was instituted about twenty years ago.
It is supported by subscriptions among the inhabitants of the town
and neighbouring parishes.  The founds have hitherto been ade-


