
724			AYRSHIRE.

works. It is supported by the heads of families, and the books
are lent gratis to the young people attending the Sunday-school.
	Friendly Societies.--A society termed "The Kilbirnie Gar-
dener's Society," having for its object reciprocal support during
sickness, was instituted three years ago. It consists at present of
100 members, and the stock amounts to upwards of L. 100. The
entry payment is 3s. 6d., and the annual assessment is 6s., paid
by regular quarterly instalments. A member must have joined
the Society five years, before being entitled to any benefit from the
funds; but after this period, be receives 6s. per week, if bedrid;
4s., if unable to work, but not confined; and in the event of
death, L. 1 is allowed in defrayment of funeral charges. As this
Society is based on principles of acknowledged stability, it is to be
hoped it may soon be generally supported.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of regular
paupers on the poor's fund, for the last five years, has been 13.
During that time, 36 individuals have annually received oc-
casional assistance. The regular poor receive from 5s. to 12s. per
month. The average allowance to each person annually, is L. 2,
12s. The sum expended yearly in occasional assistance, is L. 33,
6s. 3 5/4d; regular poor, L. 34, 10s. 6d. The sources of supply are,
the funds derived from collections at the church door, averaging
L. 22; interest of money, 16s.; rents of church seats, L. 3, 3s.;
proclamation of banns and mortcloth dues, L. 5. The deficiency
has hitherto been made up by a voluntary assessment of the heri-
tors on the valued rent, but henceforth the real rent is to be as-
sessed for this purpose. In the former Statistical Account, it is
said, "there are few poor, and none that go a-begging; the poor's
funds are good, and more than sufficient for the parish poor;"--a
statement totally inapplicable, with the exception of public beg-
ging, to the condition of the poor at the present day. The paro-
chial funds, which, at that period, had accumulated to upwards of
L. 300, have been long since exhausted, while the contributions
of the charitable and voluntary assessments have, of late years,
proved barely sufficient to meet tbe wants of the regular poor, and
the still more numerous claimants for occasional assistance.
Pauperism has not, however, kept more than a corresponding pace
with, the population since 1792, or if it has, it would not be diffi-
cult to assign its increase to other causes than to any decay of the
virtuous feelings of decent pride among those liable by many ca-
sualties, exclusive of sickness and old age, to impoverishment.


