
264               HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   The monor of Morham included, as far as we can ascertain,
newly the whole of that division of the parish which lies west of
the church, and which now forms several distinct properties. The
eastern division would appear to have once formed part of the ex-
tensive possessions of the Earls of Bothwell, who, first as the
Hebburns of Hales, retainers of the powerful Earls of Dunbar,
subsequently as Barons or Lords of Hales, and finally as Earls of
Bothwell, have been much mixed up with the history of the coun-
ty and of Scotland. The extract given below * mentions Mains-
hill as belonging to James Earl of Bothwell, who finished his in-
famous career as Duke of Orkney, and husband of our unfortu-
nate Mary. And "the barony of Morham" is specified among
the estates restored, together with the forfeited titles of the fami-
iy, to Francis Earl of Bothwell, nephew of the former Earl, by
James VI. By this Earl Francis the, barony was finally forfeited
in 1593.
   This eastern division of the parish new belongs wholly to Earl
Wemyss. The western division, forming the old manor of Morham,
ultimately became the property of Sir David Dalrymple, Queen's
Advocate in the reign of Queen Anne, who also bought the es-
tate of Hailes. While in the possession of the Dalrymples, por-
tions of it were sold from time to time,-until in 1830 the present
representative of that junior branch of the Noble family of Stair
finally denuded herself of the manor of Morham.
   Tradition points to the Glen of Morham as a place where the
people, in far remote days, were wont to assemble to hear he gos-
pel preached. And, no scene, certainly, could be better adapted
for the purpose than the particular spot which is thus hallowed.
It is perfectly secluded, and in no degree indicated on the face of
the country. The position ascribed to the preacher is a small
rocky table, elevated a little above the margin of the burn, which
runs murmuring in front;-while the brae opposite, where the con-

<FOOTNOTE>1559 October. The Earl of Bothwell attacked Cockburn of Ormiston, who
had received 4000 crowns from Sir Ralph Sadler, for the use of the Congregation,
and, wounding him, carried off the money. Sadler mentions that Arran and Moray
immediately went with 200 horsemen, and 100 footmen, and two pieces of artillery,
to Bothwell's house, in Haddington, where be occasionally resided, but were a quar-
ter of an hour too late. Having got notice that the troopers were entering the West
Port in pursuit of him, Bothwell fled down the Gowl Close to the Tyne and keeping
along the bed of river, stole into the house of Cockburn of Sandy Ben, by a
back-door, and changing clothes with the turnspit, performed her duty for some
days, till he found an opportunity to escape. In return for this timeous shelter,
4 bolls of berley, and 4 bolls of oats, out of his lands in Mainshill, in the county of
Haddington, parish of Morham.
                                             4


