
        20                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

        Rose and Murray, the property of Sir Charles Ross of Balna-
        gown, Baronet. The breed of sheep in both these farms is chiefly
        Cheviot, and generally fetches the highest price. Improvements
        in these farms are carried to the highest pitch. The reclaiming
        of waste lands, draining, and irrigation, has been carried on in
        this parishby landlords and tenants, of late years, rapidly and suc-
        cessfully.The general duration of leases is from seven to nine-
        teen years.The farm-buildings on large farms, as well as inclo-
        sures, are in general complete and comfortable, and the small far-
        mers and cottars follow the example of their superiors.
             Quarries.-There are in the parish two quarries of whinstone,
        both very hard to work.
             Fisheries.-The only valuable river fishery is the salmon fish-
        ing of the river, Shin, the property of the Duchess of Sutherland,
        who also has in lease all the salmon fishings along the Kyle, be-
        longing to the ' estate of Skibo, which are worked and generally
        with success by fishers employed under her Grace.
             Navigation.-No ships or vessels of any description belong to
        the parish. But several vessels trade to Bonar Bridge, of from
        30 to 60 tons burden, importing meal, coals, and lime; and ex-
        porting fir props, wool, oak-bark, corn, and salmon.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
             Market-Town and Villages.-There are no market-towns in the
        parish, and the nearest is Dornoch.
             A village and cotton manufactory were established at Spinning-
        dale, by Mr Dempster of Dunnichen, in the latter part of the last
        century; but the destruction of the factory by fire in 1809 has
        been followed by the decay of the village.
             The centrical position of Bonar Bridge, situated at the great en-
        trance of the county, and at the junction of the Assynt, Reay,
        Caithness, and Ross-shire roads, has pointed it out since the erec-
        tion of the magnificent iron bridge in 1813, as the site of a fu-
        ture town. Mr Dempster is feuing ground here, and a village
        has already arisen, which is gradually increasing by that slow and
        natural frowth which experience has shown to be the most secure
        foundation of a town. The great Kyle markets, as they are cal-
        led, for the sale of the cattle of Sutherland and Caithness, are now
        held here, in the months of July, August, and September. A suit-
        able piece of ground is inclosed for the purpose, and the conve-
        nience of the public will be greatly promoted by the desertion of the


