
		URQUHART AND GLENMORISTON.                    47

Ogilvie, Esq. of Corrymony; all of whom have residences on their
estates.
  Public Work.-About sixty years ago a manufactory for linen
cloth, and for instructing the youths of the neighbourhood in Eng-
lish reading and the principles of the mechanical arts, was opened at
Invermoriston, in a set of buildings erected for the purpose. Wea-
versand spinners, with a schoolmaster and mistress, orgoverness, were
brougt from the low country, and the management of the business
was committed to a Mr Shaw of Inverness; but after a few years trial,
the scheme was abandoned, without having materially promoted the
purposes intended. It deserves to be remembered, however, as
several attempts of a similar description were made much about
the same time in various parts of Inverness-shire and Ross-shire,
and which, unquestionably, had some effect in introducing the arts
and industrious habits among the Highlanders.
   No other public work or manufactory exists at present in the
united parishes, except a distillery recently commenced at Inver-
moriston.

<TABLE=POPULATION>
			III.-POPULATION.

The population in the parish of Urquhart in 1811 I was	1944
			        Glenmoriston,	    -    689
							_____ 2633
				Urquhart in 1821,	2180
				Glenmoriston,	    -    680
							_____ 2788
				Urquhart in 1831,       2383
				Glenmoriston,       -    559
							_____ 2942

   The decrease in the district of Glenmoriston has been occasion-
ed by emigration, consequent on the introduction of sheep-farming,
to the partial exclusion of cattle,-that district of the parish having
at no time been capable of supporting an agricultural population.
   The yearly average of births for the last seven years has been
82, and of marriages, 17. The register of baptisms is now regu-
larly kept; but there is none of deaths.
   Language.-Gaelic is still universally spoke in this parish,
though many even of the poorest inhabitants have acquired a know-
ledge of the English language, which is daily gaining ground.
   Character of the People.-The people are a hard industrious,
race, and, from the recent suppression of the trade in smuggled
whisky, there is no doubt of their morals bring in the course of
improvement. Many of them marry young, notwithstanding that
they are extremely poor. Their attachment to their landlords is


