
22                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of supply; and the freeholders assemble in this town; and here
also the Justiciary and Jury courtr sit during the spring and autumn
circuits. Dumfries is, besides, the seat of a presbytery and a pro -
vincial synod.
	Means of Communication.--The revenue of the post-office in
Dumfries, was, for the year 1832, about L.2500, after deductions
for salaries, &c. &c.
There are three turnpike roads, each of which, from its com-
mencement at Dumfries, to the boundary of the parish, measures
about three miles. The London, Edinburgh, and Portpatrick
mail-coaches, daily arrive in and leave Dumfries; and there are
besides, coaches to Edinburgh, Glasgow, and London, and carriers
to those places twice a-week. Owing to the channel of the river
having lately been deepened, vessels of considerable burthen can
discharge their cargoes close to the town, and by this means the
inhabitants have their coals transported by water from Whitehaven
almost to their very doors. There is also a quay at the bend of
the river near Castledykes; one for vessels of greater burthen
about a mile and a-half further down; and another near the mouth
of the river for foreign vessels, and such as draw too much water
to approach nearer to the town.
	The sums expended on the improvement and repairs of the har-
bour, and the deepening of the river since the act of Parliament
was passed for the purpose, amount to L.18,530, 9s. 11d.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The clergyman of each of the two churches
before noticed has a distinct district allotted to him as the scene of
his labours. The landward district, and a part of the town, is under
the minister of St Michael's, and the remainder of the town is under
the care of the minister of the New Church. The officiating elders,
and the clergymen of both churches, constitute a joint session. The
churches are both very well situated for the convenience of the po-
pulation. The Old church is now in a good state of repair, and
accommodates 1250 sitters. For the New church, much may yet
be done to promote the comfort and convenience of the congrega-
tion. It is seated for 1200. There are no free sittings in either
of the churches; 1000 families attend the two established churches;
and the number of communicants at both is about 1500. The
manse is a building of the last century; but underwent a very tho-
rough repair in the year 1831.
	The extent of the glebe is about seven acres and a-half, exclu-
sive of the garden attached to the manse, and its yearly value in


