
210                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

the management of the school has since devolved.  The school-
master retains his salary, with an addition from the " Dick Fund"
of not less than L. 12 per annum.  The assistant is entitled to
the fees, which amounted last year to L. 25, 11s. 2d., and to the
annual allowance from the Dick Bequest, the last payment of
which was about L. 27, 15s.  The school-fees payable per quar-
ter are, for Latin, 6s. ; for arithmetic, geometry, and book-keep-
ing, 4s.; for English reading, and writing, including English
grammar and geography, 3s. 6d. ; for English alone, 2s. 6d.; for
Greek and the higher branches of mathematics, 10s. 6d.  There
are no young people in the parish between the ages of six and
fifteen who cannot read, or who are not learning to read.  There
are only two individuals above the age of fifteen who are unable
to read, but one of these is incapacitated from learning by an or-
ganic defect; and unless a few old people, all above that age have
been taught to write.  There are no parts of the parish so remote
from the school as to prevent attendance on account of distance,
but the state of the roads keeps many of the younger children from
giving any thing like regular attendance in winter.
   Mortified Money.-Upwards of one hundred years ago, Mr Ro-
bert Cheyne, schoolmaster of St Fergus, left in trust to the kirk-
session 100 merks Scots, the interest of which to be applied "to
the education of poor scholars at the school, who are well disposed,
and the elders to see to their education."  This small fund is still
administered in accordance with the benevolent intentions of the
donor.
   Sabbath Schools.-There are five of these in different parts of
the parish ; the greatest number attending which, at any one
period in the course of the year, is 120.  The books used are the
Bible, the Shorter, and Mother's, and Watt's Catechisms, Chal-
mers's References, and Gall's Helps.  These schools have most
of them been in operation since 1822, and, there is reason to be-
lieve, have been instrumental in ensuring a more regular attendance
at church on the part of the young-in preventing Sabbath de-
secration-in leading to an early acquaintance with the word of
God-and in laying the foundation of future usefulness in life.
They are all superintended by the minister, and the teachers be-
Iong to the Established Church.
   During a considerable part of the year, a Bible class is taught
by the minister in the church, immediately after divine service on


