
   From donations and savings, when money was more plentiful
with tbe operatives, and fewer demands made upon the funds, a
sum of L. 160 or L. 170 had been realized: but it was all expended
some years ago ; and the only sum as a fund for the poor is L. 90
bequeathed by the late Right Honourable George Viscount Keith,
the interest whereof be required should be distributed to the poor
annually upon the first day of January,
   The dislike to being on the poor's roll is certainly not so strong
as it once was, and seems daily growing weaker. Whether this be
occasioned by the influx of strangers, who generally show no unwil-
lingness to claim from the parish funds, or whether, by the heritors
taking the management of the funds, producing belief of there being
a legal right to parochial relief ; wHether from these or whatever causes
it may spring, there is unquestionably not that feeling of shame at
being on the session, as it was termed, which was wont to be when
their weekly pittance was doled out to them by the elders of their
respective quarters. The Dissenting congregations contribute no-
thing to the poor's funds. Their poor are supplied out of the pa-
rish funds.  Those who assert, therefore, that the Seceders sup-
ply their own poor, cannot refer to this parish.
   Library.-A subscription library was instituted a few years ago
in the village of Cumbernauld, now consisting of from 1000 to 1200
volumes, and, in general, the books have been very well selected;
-owing, it is supposed, to the causes formerly mentioned, the an-
nual subscriptions have rather decreased.
   Savings Bank.-A savings bank was established in 1815. The
annual deposits are from L. 150 to L. 160, and the sums with-
drawn nearly the same. It does not seem to have been sufficient-
ly appreciated by those for whose benefit savings banks were in-
stituted ; for, with the exception of a few servants, chiefly females,
the deposits have been made by the directors, by societies, or by
those farmers and tradesmen who are in easy circumstances.
   Societies.-A Society of Weavers, and another of Masons, were
instituted about thirty or forty years ago ; but, having been esta-
blished on erroneous principles, they have been declining for some
time.

   April 1839.


