
                               BANFF.				31

   religion, he had gone for some time to Ireland, engaged probably
   in some of the intrigues then carrying on in behalf of the Pretender;
   and it was suspected that the persons in whose charge he
   had left the Castle, having pillaged some of his valuable property,
   murdered him immediately after his return, and set his apartment
   on fire, for the sake of concealment. By some, it seems, the event
   was viewed as a judgment on his apostacy, and particularly with
   regard to some threats used by him, of burning the Protestants.
   This event, might well have entitled the old castle to be haunted;
   btt I have never heard that it enjoys that reputation.
      A vaulted aisle of the old church still remains; in the churchyard,
   and is a burying-place of the family of Lord Banff.
      Adjoining Lord Fife's mausoleum is a very curious ancient monument,
   on which is represented the figure of an armed warrior recumbent
   with the inscription, "Hic jacet Johaues Duf, de Maldavat et
   Baldavi, obiit 2 Julii 1404," &c. This monument with the ashes of
   the deceased (an ancestor of Lord Fife,) was brought from Cullen.
      Some years ago, in levelling a small hillock on Provost Cameron's
   farm of Poddocklaw, a stone coffin or case was rounds inclosing
   a vase of baked earth, in which were some ashes and fragments
   of bones. In a tumulus dug into on a neigbouring farm, several
   of such vases were found, placed on a sort of stone bench, supported
   on blocks. On this bench some of the vases were inverted,
   others bad a flat stone on the top, the whole being covered
   over with earth.
      Within a few years also, in the course of digging the foundation
   of a new house on the high shore, at the foot of the Castlehill, a
   vessel w4 found containing a quantity of silver coins. They are
   about the size of sixpence, but very thin and greatly defaced, and
   covered with a green rust. Six of these coins (which the writer
   has seen) are in the possession of J. A. Cameron, Esq.  Solicitor,
   -other six are in the museum,of the Banff Institution. Of tbese
   coins one only presents a crowned head in profile, and, the name
   Alexander is traceable round the edge. The obverse is quartered,
   in each quartering a star, and, around, Rex Scotorum -is pretty visible.
   The other eleven are ascertained to be, of the coinage of
   Edward II. of England.
      In a small plantation of Lord Fife's on the Gallow-hill is a tumulus,
   having some appearance of being an ancient, sepulchre; but
   it has never been opened.
      Moderuc Buildings.-In the list of modern buildings, the first.


