
302                    KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	Manufactures.--The late James Murray, Esq. of Broughton,
who,as shall soon be more particularly stated, exerted himself to
make Gatehouse a flourishing town, was the means of introducing
the cotton manufacture into this place in 1790; in which year, he
held out encouragement to Messrs Birtwhistle and Sons, from
Yorkshire, who erected two cotton mills, which, with an interval
of nearly, twenty years subsequently to 1810, have ever since been
in active operation. They have, for upwards of twelve years, been
held in lease from the representatives of the original firm by Messrs
James Davidson and Co., who are prosecuting the business with
great spirit and enterprise. The mills are driven by water drawn
from Loch Whinnyan, which ran into the Dee; but a tunnel from
the lake having been cut through a hill at an expense of L.1400,
the waters of the lake were thereby conveyed in an opposite direc-
tion to Gatehouse. The number of wheels is two; the total
power is equivalent to fifty-five horse-power. The number of
hands employed is above 200, of whom about a half are eighteen
years of age and upwards. The rate of wages averages 9s. a-week
to each individual. The quantity of cotton cloth manufactured
per annum is about 60,000 pieces, or, as each piece consists of
24 yards, 1,440,000 yards. We regard these statements as ho-
nourable to the Messrs Davidson and Co., particularly when we
reflect on the comparative difficulties under which, from their iso-
lated and remote situation, they labour, both as to the purchase
and carriage of the raw material, and to the disposal and sale of
the manufactured article. But, by dint of energy and ingenuity,
they seem to be in a condition to cope in the market with compe-
titors who enjoy facilities unknown to them.
	The upper mill was destroyed by fire on the morning of the
14th October 1840. The fire originated in the scutching-room,
in the lowest flat, in consequence of the fanner of one of the
spreading machines giving way, which, coming against its iron
encasement, struck fire and ignited the loose cotton around; and,
notwithstanding every effort that could be made to arrest the pro-
gress of the flames, the whole factory, with its valuable machines,
including seventy-four power-looms, was, in the short space of an;
hour and a-half, a heap of ruins. The damage done to the build-
ing is estimated at from L.900 to L.1000, which was only partly
covered by insurance. The destruction of machinery, which was
fully covered by insurance, is calculated at from L.6000 to L.7000.
The mill has now been rebuilt, with various improvements. The

                                4


