
                            PETTIE.                           385

circumstances which led to this violent proceeding on the part of
the Mackintoshes are to be found detailed at length in Lesly's
and Sir R. Gordon's histories. They record it as occurring in
1526, and give twenty-four of the Ogilvies as the number killed.
There are other discrepancies between the manuscript and the pub-
lished histories.
   In May 1543, the Moyhall manuscript states that William, the
fifteenth laird of Mackintosh, got a new liferent tack of Pettie and
Brachly, from the Queen Regent. Likewise on May 15, 1546,
being Saturday, Mackintosh, in revenge for what had been done
by the Clan Ronald, at Abertarf, in Jtly 1544, to the people of Pet-
tie, did harry and spoil all the lands of Glengarry, and killed such
of the people as made opposition. In 1548, Mackintosh having
received Lachlan, the son of John Malcolmson, ioto favour, gave
him possession and tenandry of Connage.
   In 1548, The Earl of Huntly had the Earldom of Moray be-
stowed upon him : and about two years afterwards, in virtue of the
powers with which he was entrusted, as Lieutenant-General in the
north, he seized and put to death the chief of the Mackintoshes,
and declared his lands to be forfeited. It was believed that Lach-
lan Mackintosh, a near kinsman of the chief, had falsely accused
or betrayed the chief to Huntly. At all events, the fact, that Lach-
Ian was made, by Huntly, joint sheriff-depute of Inverness, with
Munro of Fowlis, and Chamberlain of the lands of Pettie, gave
colour to the imputation. Determined not to let the murder of
their thief go unrevenged, the clan Chattan entered the Castle of
Petyn by stratagem, the last day of September 1551; apprehend-
ed Lachlan, and slew him. (Moyhall MS.) Greater commo-

<FOOTNOTE>

kintoshes and their party, and on the whole affords a good idea of the plenishing and
modes of life of a Baron of Inverness-shire in the reign of James V. It is dated in
1516, the fourth year of that King's reign. We regret that we can find room for
only one or two extracts from this curious document. It enumerates inter alia, "tua
chieris carvit, price of y pece xl s.-ane lang sadill of estland burd-tua thousand
candellis of talch, price of y pece ourheid iii d.-ene barrell of gunpowder price x L.
-ane pare guardivianis, price iiii L.-V tua hale stand of Dornwick small napry-viii
hale stand of napry of Bertane clat-xxiiii balbertis and axis-xii Jedburgh stavis-xv
hand bollis (bows)-x dosane of arrois-xvi pare of splentis (greaves)-iiii jakkis-
viii sellets (helmets)-viii stele bonettis-lx elnis of lynning clat, price of y* eln xv1 d.
-xxvi kirtillis and gornis for women, price of the piece xii s.-viii pare Of doubill
solit schone, price of the pare ii s.-xii Murray girnalls-v punchiois of alltcant,
battard, muscade, and caprik wine price of y tun xx L.-xxxix bollis of male, price
of y boll ix s.-lv bollis of malt, price of ye boll xiii s. and iiii d.-v bollis of threacbin
quhete, price of ye boll xxviii s.-hekkis, spadis, howin axis, cultar sokkis, and yr
pertinend-sleddis with quhelis, harrols, saddills-irne bandis, snekkis and platis for
durris and windoir of costlie werk-tua bellesia with all the grath partening to one
smyth-tua abbis with chesabillis, and all grath portaning to the altar for saying of
mess," &C. &C.


