
138                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

with some slight modifications. Thus some are held upon a tenure
of three lives; in which case, when one dies, the tenant upon re-
newing it is bound to pay his grassum. If he do not renew it,
and one of the two remaining lives fall, he forfeits his lease. An
attempt was made, at one time, to set aside those leases, but it did
not succeed. Some of them, by agreement betwixt the tenants
and landlord, or by neglect of the tenants to fulfil the terms, ran
out and reverted to the proprietor. About two-thirds of the ba-
rony of Ormiston, however, are still held upon those leases.
   At the time the leases were granted, they certainly held out
great encouragement to the tenants to improve their lands to the
utmost extent, of which they were capable; but they were highly
detrimental to the proprietor; and now prevent him from carrying
on those improvements in the parish to which otherwise he might
be disposed. In this plan Mr Cockburn seems to have sacrifi-
ced a permanent to a temporary advantage, and discovered a want
of foresight, which compelled his son to sell the property, and
leave the seat of his ancestors. It is impossible, however, to say
how much the stimulus thus given might contribute to the gene-
ral improvement of the agriculture of Scotland at that time.
   In the year 1726, he erected a brewery and distillery at Ormis-
ton. These works were carried on by Mr Wight, one of his te-
nants, with whom he was in the regular practice of corresponding
about country matters, and to whom he gave the most liberal en-
couragement in conducting such an undertaking. With a view also
to promote the growth of flax, be obtained premiums from the
Board of Trustees for encouraging its culture, and an annual sa-
lary for an established lint-dresser and heckler. He, at the same
time, established a school for teaching young girls to spin linen
yarn, under the direction of a mistress, who received a suitable sa-
lary for her trouble in educating them. And to complete the pro-
cess, he established a bleachfield, and prevailed upon a person in
Ireland, well acquainted with that business, to settle in Ormiston.
This was the first bleachfield in this part of the country, proba-
bly the second in Scotland. For, before 1730, fine linens were sent
to Harlem in Holland to be bleached and dressed. The Board
of Trustees readily granted some pecuniary aid in support of this
infant manufactory.
   To disseminate a spirit for agricultural improvement through
the country, in 1736 he instituted a club or society composed of
noblemen, gentlemen, and farmers, who met monthly for the pur-


