
630                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

that, in those lawless and unsettled times, without full powers,
they could accomplish nothing useful.
  In August 1582, occurred the seizure of the King by the Earl
of Gowrie at his house at Ruthven, hence called the Raid of
Ruthven. The object of this bold step was to get the King into
the keeping of the Reformation party. They brought him to
Edinburgh, and the solemnity of his reception was characteristic
of the manners of the times. He was met by the ministers of
the city, and the procession walked along the streets singing a
Psalm, expressive of their critical escape from danger, and the
great deliverance they had obtained by the captivity of the King.
   Soon after, however, James regained his liberty, and, in 1584,
a Parliament was held at Edinburgh, wherein the authority of
the King and of the estates of Parliament, in all cases, and over
every order, spiritual and temporal, was confirmed. The ref-using
to acknowledge the jurisdiction of the Privy Council, and the pre-
tending an exemption from the authority of the civil courts, were
declared to be high treason. The holding of assemblies, whether
civil or ecclesiastical, without the King's permission or appoint-
ment, and the uttering, either in private or public, in sermons or
otherwise, any false or scandalous reports against the King or his
ministers, were pronounced capital crimes.
   Against these measures the clergy protested, and especially
craved that no enactments should be made, till at least they ob-
tained a bearing on the matter. One of their number was de.
puted to wait on the King, but, instead of his message being lis-
tened to, he was sent a prisoner to Blackness.
  When, according to custom, the new laws were proclaimed at
the market cross, Mr Robert Pont, minister of St Cuthbert's and
one of the Lords of Session, entered his solemn protest against
them, because they bad been passed without the knowledge or
consent of the church. The whole of the city clergy, as well as
the most eminent of those throughout the kingdom, now fled into
Englandl, to the inexpressible grief and disappointment of their
attached congregatious.
   Next year, however, they were permitted to return, and a par-
don granted to those noblemen who had been engaged in the
Gowrie Conspiracy. Still, however, the ministers retained that
independece which a stern sense of their duty dictated to them;
and even, at the earnest request of the King, refused to offer pub-
independence which a stern sense of their duty dictated them
and even, at the earnest request of the King, refused to offer pub-
lic prayers fdr his mother.


