
               NEILSTON.                             341

Considering the population, the revenue I.,. 160, may appear
small; but when it is observed, that all the twenty4hme -masters
of public works lift, every lawful day, their letters at the Glasgow
and Paisley post-offices, it will appear a grettt sum, as coming al.
most wholly from operatives and servants. But what farther proves
the growing greatness and wealth of the parish is, that last year, A
branch of,the Glasgow Union Bank was established in Nei)ston.
Ecclesia,qtical State.-The ecclesiastical state. of the parish of
Neilston is altogether peculiar; . and unlike that of any other landt-
ward parish in Scotland. Thou&h'havinLr only one church it has
two congregations; one of the congregations has free sittings, and
so might the other, if they chose. But some of them, fond of giv-
ing away their money, or seeking favour with the heritors, or from
some other cause best known to themselves, pay seat rent, though
now, comparatively, a very trifle.
The situation of the parish church is perfectly convenient for the
greater part of the population, though the distance of its extremi-
ties from the church is considerable. The western extremity is 5i
miles, and the eastern 3. But the western is thinly inhabited, in
comparison with the eastern,, wbich abounds With villages and A
dense population.
The church by the former Statistical Report of 1791, is said to
have been built in 1762. But this, like many things in that report,
is inaccurate.* Instead of being built then, it must have only been
repaired. The window on the north wall, which is a specimen of
the finest Gothic architecture, must, in the opinion of an eminent
architect, be 400 years old at least. It was repaired, and had an
addition made to it in 1797-8, and got a t]orotigh repair in 1827.
Its present state is deemed good by many; but its walls, being
without band, and its roof heavy, render it unsafe when the storm
rages, or when the church is crowded, as it often is.
In olden times, some important benefactions were made to.the
poor, and the names of the benefactnrs put on boards, which hung
on the walls on the right and left side of the pulpit.  But thes'a
.were removed when the church was -repaired in 1797--4 and have
never been restored. Nor is there any need; the whole of thee
benefactions'baving long ago been taken in t6to, and applied to the
poor, and to the enlargement of the church in 179&
As an instance of the inaccuracy of this Report, it may be observed, tjhat th e
church is there stated to contain 1000, whereas after an ga&tloil to''it cf,391,20"r.
thereby, it only holds.


