
88                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

seige of Thebes, related in the Fourth Book of the Iliad.  We are
told by the author of the last Statistical Account, that be left many
valuable manuscripts, both scientific and miscellaneous, none of
which that we are aware have been published since that time.
   Sir Robert Liston.-The late Sir Robert Liston, K. G. C. B.
who resided constantly for the last fifteen years of his life at Milburn
in this parish, was born at Overton, in the parish of Kirkliston,
in the year 1742.  He studied originally for the church, but
had his attention diverted from it to the civil service of his
country, while a tutor in the family of Hugh Elliot, Esq.  He
acted at intervals, from 1774 to 1821, either as Secretary of
Legation, or as Ambassador from this kingdom at the courts of
Munich, Berlin, Spain, Sweden, the United States, Holland, and
the Ottoman Porte; in all of which situations he displayed great
diplomatic wisdom and address.  He retired finally upon a pen-
sion in 1821, and took up his residence on his estate of Milburn,
which he had previously purchased.  Here he lived during the
remainder of his days, improving and beautifying his property, and
taking an active part in all the public concerns of the parish.
His general intelligence courtesy, and affability made his society
be courted by the high; so that, besides the inter course which he
maintained, with the neighbouring gentry, scarcely a foreigners of
any distinction came to the metropolis who did not pay him a visit
at Milburn.  His public spirit and zeal for originating and for-
warding general improvements, secured him the regard of the
working classes, while the generosity and enlarged benevolence of
his disposition endeared him to the poor of his neighbourhood.
In 1832 he was seized with an affection of the head, which, while
it appeared not to affect his judgment, or his, bodily powers, de-
prived him almost completely of the memory of words.  Though
at One time capable of speaking with comparative ease and cor-
rectness, ten different languages, he appeared henceforth to have
lost them all; and when he attempted to speak, after the first few
words of English, his speech was only a confused jumble of sounds
which belonged to no language.  In this state be continued for
four years enjoying a tolerable degree of health; and, so far as
he could make himself understood, giving directions chiefly by
natural signs about improvements upon his estate, and the roads
of the parish, which he had long superintended, till 1836.  He
died the same year at the advanced age of ninety-four, and was
interred in the old church-yard of Gogar.  The parishioners of


