
216                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

the parishes of Deer and Longside, from both of which it is di-
vided partly by a branch of the Ugie, and partly by a streamlet
which flows into it.  It is touched by St Fergus also on the south,
and is bounded by Crimond on the great line of south and south
south-east.
   Topographical Appearances.-The parish is very irregular in
its figure, having unequal sides much indented and curved.  The
line of coast to the eastward, and the short course of the Ugie
through its southern extremity, are alone well defined; towards
the centre of the parish, the opposite lines converge, forming a
narrow neck, which separates Crimond from Strichen.  There are
two or three unimportant ridges, which run from east to west
through the parish, besides the bent hillocks, and one or two green
braes which skirt the links near the beach.  These run from north
and by west to south southeast, or thereby.
   There are two extensive plains, comprehending the bulk of the
parish.  The northern plain contains the estates of Lonmay, Cair-
ness, Craigellie, Blairmormond, a small part of the estate of In-
veralochy, and part of Crimonmogate.  This plain consists chief-
ly of cultivated land interspersed with plantations of wood.  The
waters of the loch of Strathbeg here also cover, it is supposed, up-
wards of 410 Scotch acres, besides near 140 more in the parish of
Crimond.  The southern plain is somewhat more elevated, and is
broken by rising grounds.  It comprehends a considerable part of Cri-
monmogate, the estate of Park, and the estate of Kinninmonth.
Here are two very extensive peat-mosses, part of the last-mentioned
property and of Crimonmogate: They are connected together, and
with other extensive mosses in Strichen and Crimond.  The coast
extends about four miles from the fishing village of St Combs, to
near Rattray rocks.  The Lonmay share is a sandy beach, with-
out bay or headland.
   Meteorology.-The temperature of the atmosphere may be il-
lustrated by the following tables, shewing the monthly mean of the
range of the thermometer; also a partial series of observations of
the hygrometer; and the pressure of the atmosphere is ascertain-
ed by observation with the barometer; and there is annexed an
account of the prevailing winds:


