
				BEITH.			      591

other landed proprietors. The real rental of the landward part of
the parish may be stated at L. 10,000 Sterling, being at the rate of
about L. 1, 10s. per Scots, acre of the whole parish.
	Rate of Wages.--The wages of farm-servants are maless, L. 8;
females, from L. 3 to L. 4, in the half-year. The wages of la-
bourers are 2s. per day without victuals.
	Manufactures.-There is a considerable quantity of thread made
annually, by which about 200 persons are employed; and a mill
for spinning flax has recently been erected at North-bar, two miles
from the town, which employs upwards of 80 people. The sole
proprietor of this work is Mr James Crawford, manufacturer in
Beith, who has set down several houses for the unccommodation of
his workers, and has begun to feu, so that in a few years a village
will be formed at this establishment. There is at Roughbank, on
the march of the parish, to the north, a thriving similar establish-
ment, but on a less scale, belonging to William Patrick, Esq. and
occupied by Mr Thomas Caldwell. There is at this place a mill
for making potatoe flour, which employs about 14 individuals. The
tanning and currying of leather is carried on to a great extent in
Beith by Messrs John Muir, Robert Ramsay, and Bryce Muirs,
under the firms of "John Muir and Company," and "Muir and
Ramsay." The works are well conducted, and employ 35 per-
sons. At Threepwood, in the north-east of the parish, there are
two bleachfields, one belonging to Mr Hugh Stevenson, the other
to Messrs John Stevenson and Son, at both of which considerable
business is done. Mr James Stevenson of Threepwood has erect-
ed at Knows, in the neighbourhood, an establishment of 38 steam
looms, which employs about 30 individuals. The machinery is of
the newest construction, and has been chiefly formed by one of
his sons, a young man of considerable skill in mechanics. In the
town and parish, there are several merchants who deal very, exten-
sively in grain; and while it is difficult to say what forms the staple
article of the commerce of Beith, it is not difficult to add, that the
spirit of enterprise in the place is considerable, and is on the in-
crease, embracing a share of all sorts of merchandise. The town
is well lighted with gas. The Gas Company was instituted in1831,
and the stock is held in L.10 share. The capital is L.1600, on
which the dividends have rated, from 5 tooL,8 percent annually.

          		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets, &c.--There has been, for a long period, a weekly mar-
ket in Beith. It used to be held on Saturday; but after the Scots


