
84                     BUTERSHIRE.

Ascog, containing 75 acres, 1 rood, 28 poles, imperial, of surface;
Quien Loch, containing, 68 acres, 3 roods poles; and Loch-
fad, containg about 400 acres.
	Geology.--The soil is in general of a light gravelly or sandy
nature, though in some places loam and clay are to be found. The
predominating rocks are old red substance with conglemerate, and
veins, beds, and overlying masses of trap.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Of the ancient state of the parish little is known. That it was
the scene of important events in times of rapine and bloodshed,
may be inferred from its situation, which exposed it alike to the
northern invaders, and the ravaging hordes of the Ebudae, in
their attacks on the neighbouring coasts; and is indicated by its
sepuchral antiquities, and the appearances of places of defence
still remaining. That it flourished in population and in wealth, is
to be grathered from its remains of religious edifices, of a date
when the distinction of any place for its sacred erections was no
bad criterion of the consideration in which it was held for its ge-
neral prosperity. But materials for an authentic history of it have
not been found.
	Land-owner.--The lands, for a period extending to several cen-
turies back, appear to have been held by several proprietors called
Barons--a local designation still retained. These have, within the
last hundred and fifty years, been gradually reduced in number;
and they are present represented by four owners of a small por-
tion of land respectively, the rest of the parish being the property
of the Marquis of Bute.
	Eminent Me.--Of persons connected with the parish who attain-
ed eminence that has transmitted their memory to posterity, is to be
mentioned Saint Catan, or Cathanus, whose name is preserved in
the appellation Kilchatan, (Cil-Chatain, the cell or burying places
of Cuten,) belonging to bay so called; and in that of Suidhe
Chatain, a hill overlooking the hay, and pointed out as his seat.
Saint Blane also has here monuments of his fame. Tradition as-
signs to him this parish as the place of his birth; adding many
particulars respecting him grossly fabulous, and not deserving to
be recorded. He is commonly believed to have been the found-
er of the original church of Kingarth, of which the ruins remain,
and which is still called by his name; as is also a hill which as-
cends from the Garnoch-head.
	Parochial Register.--The parochial register commences in the
year 1648, from which date it is continued with partial interrup-


