
236                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

on 23d November 1768; he died in June l788, "not much regret-
ted by the parishioners." 12.  Mr Thomas Sharp was tutor in
the family of the patron; he was afterwards settled in the south
of Scotland, and translated hither, and admitted on 15th Octo-
ber 1789, he died in July 1791* 13.  Mr James Oliver, former-
ly minister of Ancrum, was admitted on 5th July 1792.+ 14. Dr
David Scott, was ordained and admitted on 17th November 1814,
elected Professor of Oriental Languages in the University of St
Andrews in 1833.  Mr David Horne. formerly minister of
Yester, was admitted on 28th November 1833.
  Presbyterial Visitations. -When the church was first planted,
and for many years afterwards, it was watched over by the Presby-
tery of Edinburgh with zealous care, and they appointed it to be
visited from time to time by some of their members.  Reports of
these visitations are entered in the presbytery register, and they
seem to have been uniformly attended with good effects.  We
have already shown that it was by this means that the union of the
parishes of Corstorphine and Gogar was accomplished, and that
the stipend of Corstorphine was made adequate and respectable.
Many other subjects, however, engrossed the attention of the vi-
sitors.  In August l598, for instance, after enquiring into the life and
doctrine of the minister and his wife and family, and sharplie rebuking
the elders for not resorting to the kirk on the Sabbath afternoon,
they examined the session-books, and finding no schoolmaster in
the parish, enjoined that one should be immediately appointed; ar-
ranged with the provost and laird of Corstorphine to put new glass
windows into the kirk, and to rebuild the kirk-yard dykes; and
communed with the Abbot of Halierudhouse on the ruinous state
of queir of the paroch kirk, and the inadequacy of the clergyman's
stipend.  On another visitation on 16th October 1599, which
seems to have been appointed because the parishioners bad com-
plained that Mr William Arthur, their minister, was "overleirnit a
man for theme.  "The presbytery and, 1st, That Mr William
Arthur edifiet them, but craved that he should be mair plain to the
people in deliverie. 2d, He was honest in l yr, and careful in dis-
charging his device.  Item, They found that the elders were slack
and negligent in discipline, of they being admonished promised
to amend." Item, That deacons were "faithful in their office," &c.

<FOOTNOTE>Woods Ms.
          See the remarks on the state of religion in the parish in the last Statistical Ac-
count, VoL. xiv. pp. 461 and 468, written by Mr Oliver as a specimen of his views.
He seem to have been a sounder politician than a divine.



