
                          ABERLADY.                        259

mitted; but both are worthy of all commendation and encourage-
ment. A parish library was established a few years ago, but as
yet the funds are small, and the books not numerous.
   Poor and Parochial Bunds.- The number of poor on the roll
in this parish is generally from 20 to 25, and, together with the
occasional poor, they receive assistance partly from the collections
at the church doors, and mortcloth dues, partly from the interest
of 1600 merits Scots, mortified for their use, by Sir Peter Wed-
derburn of Gosford, one of which family, also, presented to the
parish four handsome silver cups for the communion service, and
partly from the produce of a regular assessment. The collections
and mortcloth dues amount annually to about L. 25; the interest
of the Gosford mortification is L. 4, 8s. 10d.; and the assess-
ment has yielded annually, for many years past, between L. 60
and L. 70. From the amount of these sums, the usual small sa-
laries are, of course, paid. In addition to the above sources of
supply, the poor are in the habit of receiving, from the liberality
of two of the heritors, the sum of L. 15 yearly at Christmas, for
the purchase of coals; and throughout the year, private charity
is believed to be extensive. On the whole, therefore, it is hoped
that the claims of the poor are duly attended to. Assessments
have existed in the parish more than fifty years, and, as seems to
be their nature, have, in the course of that long period, increased
considerably. The amount is not very, large at present, but it can
scarcely be doubted that it will continue to advance; and by such
increase, it does not follow in the least that the wants of the poor
will be better supplied. What is given in one form is apt to be
withheld in another;-more reliance is placed, on a visible fund
than turns out to be safe; and the condition of the poor, and of the
labouring classes generally, is seldom improved on the whole.
The law which provides for compulsory aid to the necessitous is not
to be found fault with; on the contrary, it is entitled to all praise;
but it is matter of much regret that it should be so often resort-
ed to, at least in small country parishes, where a little considera-
tion on the part of those who are liable to pay would seem to be
all that is needful to make provision for the poor, in a way more
beneficial to them, more pleasant to all. Till such harmonious
arrangements, however, are entered into, it is not to be, wondered
at that the amount of assessments should increase, and still, that
little kindly feeling should exist between those who receive assist-
ance, and those from whom it appears to be wrung. At all


