
			CARMYLIE.			      353

of steatite was intersected, some of which is red, and would make
beautiful porcelain ware; much of it is red, of various intensity,
with numerous white veins interspersed."
	In the direction above-mentioned, and commencing nearly at one
of the most elevated parts of the parish, and extending with a gra-
dual declivity to 1 1/2 mile in length, by 1/2 mile in extreme breadth,
there is a range of strata, which, from the scales of mica which
abound in their composition, can be raised in flags of various di-
mensions, the thicker forming excellent pavement, while iba thin-
ner are used for slates
	Strata of slate-clay or caumstane, as it is  called, of a bluish
colour, and of various thickness, alternate with the pavement strata.
	A tunnel now in progress, upwards of forty feet below the sur-
face, for the purpose of drawing off the water from the principal
quarry, is intersecting a stratum of hard sandstone of a reddish-
gray colour, in which rounded pebbles are found imbedded.
	In the caumstane strata, it is not uncommon to, meet with im-
pressions apparently of rushes or marsh-reeds, and also of what
appears to have been the seed-vessels of some unknown plant re-
sembling the strawberry.
	Imprdssions also of vegetables resembling ferns, and of a red
colour, are sometimes found in the pavement strata. Hollows re-
sembling the foot-prints of animals sometimes occur, and are cal-
led the kelpie's foot. Impressions resembling a confused mass of
pieces of wood, of various dimensions and colours, are also met with in
the pavement strata, at a considerable distance below the surface.
In a pavement stratum of a bluish colour, at the depth of 20 feet,
the superincumbent strata, consisting of clay, scurdy, reddish sand-
stone and caum, there was lately discovered a distinct impression
of a small cartilaginous fish. The specimen happened to be muti-
lated by the workman in raising it; but another specimen more
recently discovered, of what appears to have been the same species,
has been more fortunate.
	I beg to subjoin the following statement as to the alterna-
tion and depth of the strata in the principal quarries, which I late-
ly recieved from one of the workmen.

		1					2
 Mains of Carmylie quarry, or highest		Mosston quarry, a little lower than
		quarry.					Carmylie quarry.

2 feet clay.					5 feet clay.
10 feet scurdy rock.                                  10 feet of rough sandstone-useless.
4 feet reddish sandstone.                             6 feet pavement.
7 inches caum.						3.
20 inches pavement.				Latch nr principal quarry, about 50 feet
6 inches caum.					  lower than Carmylie quarry.
4 feet pavement and slate.                            5 feet red clay.



