
630                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

of the parish; both, however, emerge suddenly from their depres-
sion to eminences considerably loftier than those from which they
descend.  In the north-west eild of the parish, there are two or
three farms, of which several parts of the arable fields are be-
tween 700 and 800 feet above sea level, but most of the farms
in the parish are, on an Rveraoe, about 460 feet above sea
level.  Though there are many eminences in the parish, yet there
is not one in it but the hill of Fare that deserves the name of a
hill.  It rises abotit 1800 feet above the sea.  On the north side
of this hill, along its bottom, are between 400 and 500 acres of
arable land, mostly of good quality.  The Castle of Midmar, the
seat of John Mansfield, Esq., is placed on the north side of this
hill, at 300 feet from its base.  The view towards the north and
north-east is extensive.  The scenery is very beautiful, owing to
the alternate eminences and valleys which are interspersed with
shrubs and trees of various kinds.  Of the time at which it was
built, there is no historical account.  Tradition informs us, that part
of it was erected by Sir William Wallace, when Governor of Scot-
land, as a hunting-seat for his friend, Sir Thomas Longavale.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Granite and whinstone are in abun-
dance, both in blocksand quarries.  The granite is beautiful, and
capable of a fine polish.  Some of the stones are from eight to
ten feet long, and are very useful for lintels, and ornamental in
building.
   Soils.-Though much has been done of late to correct and im-
prove the soil, yet there remain still several patches of marshy
ground, inclined to moss, to employ the ingenuity and industry of
the active agriculturist.  As a spirit of improvement is at present
the order of the day, it is to be hoped that remaining defects and
blemishes will soon be removed.  Where the hilly ridges towards
the west end of the parith slope into the valley or level, there pre-
dominates a thin soil of sand and clay, slightly mingled with loam,
resting on a subsoil of gravel.  Of this character is a great pro-
portion of the land lately brought under cultivation.  The quan-
tity of improved marshy ground is still yearly increasing.
   Hydrography.-Though, this parish is well supplied with per-
ennial springs and rills of fine water, there is no stream deserv-
ing the name of river, or even rivulet.  There are several chaly-
beate springs, formerly esteemed for their effects in removing scor-
butic complaints; but now they are rarely resorted to.
   Botany.-In 1808-1809, there were about 210 acres only under


