				STRACHAN.                  235

the Lolium temulentum, of which a specimen was found, in 1835,
growing among barley on the farm of Heughhead; the Symphy-
tum tuberosum, found in the woods of Blackhall; the Viburaum
opulus, and the Rubus saxatilis, and Melampyrum sylvaticum, all
found on the banks of the river Dee. The Rubus chamaemorus,
or cloudberry, (which is commonly called the everon), grows on
the summits of the Grampians.

			    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	From Spalding's History, it appears that the parish was laid
under heavy contributions for the support of both the Royalist and
Covenanting army in the reign of Charles H. " Eight hundred
Highlandmen of Argyllshire," he says, " had an allowance ilk day,
to be taken off the country, 24 bolls meal, 120 wedders, and --
marts, with 60 dollars of money; which they levied off Cromar
Braes, Aboyn, Strachan, and the countries about." It would ap-
pear from the same authority, that the lands of Strachan, at this
period, acknowledged the feudal supremacy of the Earls Marischal
of Dunnottar. Spalding records the following curious incident,
which shows the superstitious belief of the period in omens of fu-
ture good or evil: " A little before this time (1644), there was
seen in the town of Gellen, pertaining to the Earl Marischal,
within the parish of Strachan, a fearful unnatural fire whilk kin-
dled of itself, and burnt the bigging of the town only. When the
people saw this fire they ran to quench and stamp it out, but when
it was quenched in one part it broke out in another part. It burnt
up a byre with nolt and oxen, none knowing from whence it came.
It seemed to be a prognostic of a far greater fire raised on this
Earl's lands, as ye shall hear hereafter;" namely, as our author
afterwards shows, of tbe burning of the town of Stonehaven and
adjoining country by the army of Montrose.
	Eminent Person.--Andrew Cant, the eminent Presbyterian
minister, was descended of a family of that name, who were pro-
prietors of Glen of Dye in this parish. "Sir Thomas Burnett,
the first baronet of Leys, had a daughter married to Andrew
Cant Glendye, and of this family was Mr Cant, the Covenant-
ing clergyman of Aberdeen,"  (Pinkerton's History of British
Families.) Mr Cant was minister of Pitsligo, from whence
he was translated to Newbottle, and afterwards, by appointment of
the General Assembly, to Aberdeen in 1650. He was the friend
and coadjutor of Dixon and Henderson, and rendered eminent
services by his faithful and fearless preaching and indefatigable la-



