
220                ELGINSHIRE.

   Birds.- There are several rookeries in the parish. Whatever
opinion may be entertained elsewhere, the farmers in this quarter
do not look upon the rooks as the " farmer's friend," and would
be glad to get rid of them. They think, and not without reason,
that the good which they do is far more than counterbalanced by
the ravages which they commit upon the young braird and the po-
tato crops. Pheasants (Phasianus copies), are very numerous.
The cross-bill (Loxia curvirostra), the starling (Sturnus vulqaris),
the woodcock (Scolopar rusticola), the golden-crested wren (Mo-
tacilla regulus), the quail ( Tetrao coturnix), the siskin (Fringilla
spinus), all build in the parish. A beautiful specimen of the snowy
day-owl (Surnia nytea), was shot some years ago in the sand-hills.
  Amongst the water fowl, which frequent the small lochs and
marshy ground near the sea-coast, are the following: The wild-
swan (Anas cygnus ferus), white-fronted wild-goose (A. albifrons),
scaup-duck (A. Marila), shieldrake (A. tadorna), pin-tailed duck
(A. acuta), long-tailed duck (A. glacialis), golden-eye (A. clan-
gula), tufted-duck (A. fusca), gooseander (Mergus merganser),
auk or razor-bill (Alca torda). The great northern diver (Colym-
bus glacialis), is sometimes to be met with in the bay of Findhorn.
A specimen of the bittern (Ardea stellaris), was shot in a small
loch, in 1839, in the Brodie woods. A great variety of terns
(Sterna), breed upon the sand-hills of Culbin. Thousands of the
black-headed gull (Larus ridibundus), breed upon an islet in a
small loch in the Darnaway forest.
             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Characters.-Among the eminent individuals connect-
ed with this parish, may be mentioned James Stewart, known as
the good Regent," who was Earl of Moray in the reign of his
sister, the unfortunate Mary Queen of Scots.
  Alexander Brodie of Brodie, who lived during the usurpation of
Oliver Cromwell, was a man of great piety, learning, and ability.
He was twice chosen a "rd of Session, but from his retired and
domestic habits, accepted tho office with reluctance, and soon re-
signed. He was one of the commissioners sent to treat with
Charles II at the Hague and at Breda. He left a diary, of which
extracts were published about the middle of the last century,
which illustrate some parts of the history of the times in which he
lived.
   The late James Brodie of Brodie was a man of considerable ta-
lent and scientific acquirements. He especially distinguished


