
             DUNOON AND KILMUN.                            581

lands of Castle Toward toward the boundary of the parish to the
westward. This bed has not been closely examined in detail;
but has been pronounced by competent judges to approach to the
consistency of good marble.
    Igneous rocks are of frequent occurrence throughout the united
parish, but nowhere in great mass. The Castle-hill, Dunoon, is
formed of a very dark greenstone, and a section is laid bare on the
shore, beneath which there is exhibited, even to the unscientific
observer, a very interesting junction,-tbe protrusion of the igne-
ous rock through the clay-slate, and the manifest disturbance, dis-
colouring, and crystallization of the latter by the former at the
point of contact. The Gantocks, a partially sunk rock, a few
hundred yards, here, distant from the shore, is also of the same
igneous origin.
     Dikes of porphyry and other trap traverse the red sandstone
in the Deigbbourbood of Toward point, upraising and discolouring
it, and ttt several points they cross eac ' h other.
I No kinds of the more valuable minerals or ores have been found
to occur. - Coal was at one time supposed to exist below the flat
or basin portion of land occurring between Toward point and the
more elevated rising banks in its neighbourbood. Attempts made
towards its discovery by a former proprietor of those lands, failed
of success. Serpentine, susceptible of high polish, occurs in con-
siderable quantity at the coast, about four miles westward of
Dunoon.
    The soil of the parish generally is a light, and, for the most part,
rather shallow, sandy loam, lying upon the kind of bed that hag
been already described. Where depressions of the surface occur,
beds of sandy gravel are found to occupy them beneath the cover-
ing of soil ; and either these or moss, more or less deep, in the
smoother or more level parts of the parish. In portions' ifideed,
of the, several valleys which form the local features of the terri-
torv, the soil is deeper, and favourable to the purposes of farm bus-f
bandry. What in agricultural language is denominated a " badging
soil," where not cultivated, is generally found covered with copse,
the oak, birch, hazel, and asli prevailing, the first chiefly; and
where cultivation has been promoted, or enclosures formed, the
ordinar crops and plantations thrive successfully.
      Botany.-The geological structure, which is known so well to
exert a considerable influence on vegetation, being but little varied
throughout the parish as a whole, its botany may be supposed to-


