
               NEILSTON.                                        351

ston and the coal-masters of the east, especially to Mr Dickson
of the fire-work, were a railway to be carried from the canal at
Rochil to the west of Barrhead, or Mr Cunningham's field. Such
a railway would pay well, from the immense quantity of coal used
at the numerous public works in this parish, and by its inhabitants.
 In 1790, there were no stage coaches running from the parish to
Glasgow, or Paisley, or Irvine. In 1836, there were four, viz. the
Levern Trader, the Perseverance, the Sons of Commerce, and the
Union stage-coach from Irvine to Glasgow, by Loch-Libo. All
these startedin the morning about nine o'clock, and returned in
the evening.On Thursdays, two started, one from Neilston and
Barrhead, andreturned in the afternoon.
 Thus easy and ample means of conveyance are afforded to the
cast and west, and north. Still, a very great advatitaoe would be
conferred upon the manufacturers and masters of public works, if
thetollswerelowered. About twenty-six carts from the public works
and carriers of Barrhead and Neilston, besides others, pass four
tolls a day, the rates of which are very high. In 1790, there were
only about five or six publicans; in 1836, there were fifty-eight.
 But the greatest of all the changes made on the parish, is in its
rental,-which in 1790 was little more than L. 3000,--while now
it amounts to L. 16,475, 5s. 9d. In 1790, the value of the whole
land in. the parish at thirty years' purchase was L. 90,000 ; it is
now at the same rate L. 494,250.'
 The improvements required ire,-that our town should be
created a burgh of barony, with its magistrates and police, and a
good, strong, and efficient jaii. Next, the, parish church should
be enlarged, or another built at Barrliead ; for how can it be ex-
pected that a man excluded from religious instruction and divine
ordinances, can be a good moral man ? Yet here are 9187 all ex-
cILided, save 830. Can this state of tliings lead nien to " fear
God, honour the King, and meddle not with them that are given
to change?"
 Excepting the flow mosses, it appears that at one time oi- others
this parish had been all under cultivation - and by proper draining.

<FOOTNOTE>We omitted above to advert to the management of dziyzgltills, which is susceptible
of an improvement of the highest importance. This improvement would be, to build
them in the form of a hay stack, and square,-and to have a trench around them, antl
awellatthebottomofit,wheretheA'rippingsofthecowsinthebyremayfall. The
dung to be. spread evenly on the 11 midden." then watered with the drippings from
the well; and with the straw covered from the sun and wind. Let this be done daily,
and in spring the middeit" will cut like a piece of new cheese, and be doubly 'ta]U.
able.

  RENFREW.                                            Aa


