
572                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

to such a height, that they had no intercourse with each other. Not-
withstanding of this, it is reported that the daughter of the for-
mer and the son of the latter became attached to each other. Up-
on an appointed day, the young people set off together, when their
flight being immediately communicated to the Laird of Balquhain,
he pursued them with as many of his vassals as he could collect,
and having overtaken the fugitives at the place where the stone
is erected, a rencontre took place, in which the young lady was un-
fortunately killed.  Afterwards, this stone was erected to her me-
mory, and from hence called the Maiden Stone.  In the opinion
of some antiquaries, the heiroglyphics upon it are Danish.  It
might have, also, had some connection with the Maiden Causeway
on the hill of Benochie, as it is about equidistant betwixt it and
the supposed Roman post near Pitcaple House.
   The ruins of the Church of Logie Durdo, in the lands of Logie
Elphinstone, and of Fetternear, * in the lands of Balquhain, with
their accompanying cemeteries, completely surrounded with wood,
are still visible.
   Mansion Houges.-There are four mansion-houses in the pa-
rish, viz. Logie-Elphinstone, the residence of Sir Robert Dalrym-
ple Horn Elphinstone, Bart. ; Pittodrie, the residence of Colonel
Knight Erskine.  Balquhain, the residence of Ernest Leslie, Esq.;
and Pitcaple, the residence of Hugh Lumsden, Esq.  Sheriff of
Sutherlandshire.  Logie Elphinstone is upon the north, and Pit-
caple upon the south bank of the Ury.  Pittodrie is upon an ele-
vated situation on the east side of Benochie, and commands an
extensive prospect of the rich valley of the Garioch.  Fetternear
(once the residence of the Bishop of Aberdeen, +) is upon the north
bank of the Don.  They are all elegant, commodious, and spa-
cious mansions, surrounded by fertile fields, and well-wooded; and
have excellent gardens, avenues, and fields laid out with great
taste.
   Mills, &c.-There are in the parish seven corn-mills, with five
barley mills attached to them ; another barley-mill ; two mills for
carding,and spinning wool; a lint-mill; and three saw-mills.
   The mansion-houses of the resident proprietors, together with

<FOOTNOTE>It appears that there was a chapel built at Fetternear in the year 1109, which
received from his Majesty Malcolm IV., a charter dated 20th August 1160.-Orem's
History of Old Aberdeen:
          The House of Fetternear wass built in 1329, by Alexander Kininmonth, Bishop
of Aberdeen, for a summer lodging to the Bishops of Aberdeen, when coming to sur-
vey the cartons and priests of Fetternear Chapel, about 230 yards from the Bishop's
lodging.-Orem.


