
380				 FORFARSHIRE.

	The family of Mr Scrymseour, of Tealing, is the only one of in-
fluence or importance, resident in the parish.
	There are six proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50
and upwards.
	The average number of children in each family is 5. There
is one fatuous person in the parish.

				IV.--INDUSTRY.

<TABLE=Agriculture>Agriculture.--
Number of Scotch acres either cultivated or occasionally in tillage,           3670
		       which never have been cultivated, and which remain
			  constantly waste or in pasture, about              300
		       which might have been brought under cultivation with
			  advantage, about                                   167
                         under wood, about                                      340

	Larch and Scotch firs are the prevailing kinds of trees: but the
management as to yearly thinning, periodical felling, pruning, and
the like, does not seem to be deserving of commendation.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land per Scotch
acre in the parish, is L. 1, 15s. The average rent of grazing is at
the rate of L. 3 for an ox or cow grazed for the year.
	Wages.--A common country labourer receives at the rate of 10s.
in summer, and 9s. in winter per week. A common farm-servant
receives about L. 10, 10s. of yearly wages, 6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal,
and 1 Scotch pint of milk per day.
	Live Stock, &c.--The Angus-shire breed of cattle is in common
use; and although other breeds have been occasionally introduced,
a preference has been, in general, ultimately evinced for the Angus-
shire.
	In former times, the water which descended from the hills, was al-
lowed to diffuse itself over the surface of the ground, and the practice
of irrigation was to a considerable extent carried on; but the water
is now confined to rivulets or enclosed in drains; and this change
has been productive of important advantages, with reference to the
soil, and also in regard to the mode of thrashing the corn. The
ground is now in general comparatively dry, and there are about
thirteen thrashing-machines in the parish, driven by water. As to
cropping, the prevailing mode is to subject any one field to the
following rotation: green crop, barley with grass, hay crop, pas-
ture, and afterwards oats.
	The distance from Dundee being only five or six miles, a ready
and eligible market is obtained for all kinds of agricultural pro-
duce, and, on the other hand, the transportation of manure from
the town to the country is carried on to a great extent.


