
148                   SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

Ecclesiastical State.-By Bishop Gilbert Murray's charter, in-
ter 1222 and 1245, reconstituting the chapter of the bishopric of
Caithness, which included the whole county of Sutherland, the
chapter consisted of nine canons, of whom five were dignitaries.
The Abbot of Scone was appointed one of the abbots, and had the
church of 11 Keldurunach" assigned to him, under the provision,
that when absent, he would have another to minister for him.
The Abbots of Scone continued in charge of this church until the
Reformation; and the foundation of 11 Tea'n Abb," or the Ab-
bott's House is still seen to the west of the manse, while the -fi-
gure of a human head, rudely carved in stone, and called the Ab-
boes Head, is preserved in the garden wall of the manse. The
patronage of the parish has, since the Reformation, been vested
in the Sutherland family. The extent of the grebe is between 13
and 14 acres, and the minister has besides the grazing of 60 sheep.
The former stipend of 40 bolls of victual is now convertedl and
paid by the beritor with the former money stipend of L. 30, 10s.
Id.; and there is also an addition of L. 70 from Exchequer. The
manse is in good repair, and the church is suitable for the congre-
gation ; the whole inhabitants of the parish being of the church of
Scotland.
  Education.-The parish school is situate near the manse, but,
owing to the great extent of the parish, many families are prevent-
ed from sending 'their children to it. Several private teachers,
however, are employed, and exclusively paid by the inhabitants;
and the parental duty of providing for the education of youth ap-
pears, in this parish, to acquire strength in proportion to the diffi-
culties to be overcome in exercising it. The amountof the pa-
rochial schoolmaster's salary is the minimum.
  Poor.-The few indigent persons in this parish are treated with
kindness by their more independent and fortunate neighbours ;
and the easy access they- all have to fuel,, and the non-exactment
of rent for their small houses, make the moderate allowances from
the poor funds which they receive offar more value to them, I than
the same sums would be in more densely inhabited parishes.
These funds are derived from Sunday collections,' and an annual
dimation1rom the Sutherland family. The average number of
poor Of all classes for the years 1835, 1836, and 1837, is 42
average amount of church collections during these years, L.9
average awount of mortifications, &c. during these years, L. 4.
    February 1840.


