
678                       LANARKSHIRE.

visited Paris, and was in that city at the time of the massacre of St
Bartholormew.  In the course of eight days, according to Sully, *
70,000 Protestants were put to death in the city and provinces.
The Pope ordered a Te Deum to be sung, and medals to be
struck in honour of the event.  And the famous Muretus, whom
perfidious Charles dispatched to Rome to communicate the
intelligence, delivered in the presence of the Pope an elaborate
oration, in which he declared, " that the River Seine rolled on with
greater majesty after having received the carcases of the murder-
ed heretics." +  It was known in Paris that Smeton had elbraced
the doctrines of the Reformation.  He escaped, therefore, the fate
of the unhappy Huguenots, solely through the intervention of Sir
Thomas Walsingham, the English embassador, in whose house he
took refuge, and whom he accompanied to England.  He died in
Glasgow on the 13th December 1583, in the forty-seventh yearof
his age, and was buried in the cathedral. ++  An epitaph in honour
of Thomas Smeton and Alexander Arbuthnot, who was Principal
Of King's College, Aberdeen, and who died the same year, was
composed by their friend and distinguished coadjutor, Andrew Mel-
Ville.  He describes them as " two luminaries of our nation lately
extinguished in the north, and in the meridian of their glory."
But it is easy to see from the language he employs, that if he had
great respect for Arbuthnot, Smeton S had attracted a still larger
share of his admiration and esteem.

<FOOTNOTE>Memoirs of Sully, Vol. i. p. 45. London, 1810.
          Christ. Observ. Vol. xxxv. p. 478.
          Spotiswood's Hist. p. 335. Baillie's Letters, Vol. iii. p. 886, MSS. in Bib.
Coll Glas. Wodrow's Life of Smeton, MSS. in Bib. Coll. Glas. Mackenzie's
Scenes, Vol. iii. p. 194.  M'Crie's Life of Melville, Vol. i. pp. 117, 283.
          " Vix heu, vix raptum deflevimus Arbuthnetum,
          Vix heu justa datis solvimus inferiis;
        Et premit altera mors, et ftnere funus acerbat:
          Et magno extincto lumine majus obit.
        Ille quidiem Arctoa tenebras de nocte fugabat,
          Fulgebas medio Glasgua stella die.
        Quod si luce sua spoliata est noxque diesque
          Nostra, eheu quantis obruimur tenebris!
        Aut ergo e tenebris revoca lucem: aut hominum lux
          Christe redi; ut nobis stet sine nocte dies."-
                                      Delitiae Poet. Scot, Tom. ii. p. 121.
   In a letter to John Row, dated January 18, 1578, Simeton is thus charactertized by
Melville, " Smetonious acerrimus bone cause propugnator."-(MSS. in Bib. Adv.
M'Crie's Life of Melville, Vol. i. p. 185, note.)  When Hamilton, the apostate, pub-
lished a book full of furious invective, and libellous charges against the Protestants of
Scotland, Smeton was urged by his friend, Andrew Melville, to write a reply to it.
This he undertook to do, and in very short time, he produced a work which, for the
keenness of its reproofs, the force of its reasoning, its classical diction, and profound
learning, is justly entitled to a distinguished place among the writings of that age.


