
264	                     LANARKSHIRE.

	Among the Hemiptera of this parish, we may now record Blatta
Americana, which has probably been brought over in raw sugar.
The cock-roach occasionally secretes itself in a pot of jam or jelly,
where it attains an enormous size, and assumes a darker and more
glossy hue; but it loses somewhat of its activity by this, over-indul-
gence of its appetites. It is brought with baggage from sea, but
soon disappears.
	Of Lepidoptera, there are here many rare species. Among the
butterfly tribe we may mention, Vanessa Atalanta or, red admir-
able. This species is pretty common. The caterpillar is solitary,
and feeds on the nettle. The butterfly appears in August, and, it
has been said, lives through the winter. The Vanessa lo, or pea-
cock butterfly, is more rare. The caterpillar, feeds on the nettle,
and the perfect insect appears in July. The Thecla quercus, or
purple bair streak, is found in May and June. The Hipparchia
maegaera, or gate-keeper, and the H. ageria, or speckled wood, are al-
so found. The Lycaena alsus, or small blue, is common here. The
Hesperia Tages, or dingy skipper, and Vanessa cardui, or painted
lady, may be also mentioned. Vast flights of this last species oc-
casionally occur on the continent. It is one of the few insects found
in all quarters of the globe. The following moths also occur: Sa-
turnia Pavonia minor, or emperor moth. This is an early and ele-
gant insect, appearing in April and May. The caterpillars feed on
the bramble and dog-rose. Pygara bucephala, or buff tip moth,
is common in some seasons, and very rare in others. The Cerura
vinula, or puss mo th, Acherontia atropos, death's head moth, La-
siocampa rubi, fox-egger-moth, Smerinthus populi, Zygcena fili-
pendula, Microglossa stellularum, Plusia gamma, and many other
species occur. Biston betularis, is as if a pepper-box had been
dusted on its wings. Abraxas, grossulariata is common in some sea-
sons, and in others very scarce. These keep chiefly to the lower
grounds, and in many places, only 50 feet above Hamilton, are
never met with at all. Among the fruit moths the Bradyepetes do-
labraria, is the greatest scourge of the orchard. Various species
of Hepialus, supposed to be found only in England, occur here.
The Cleophora fagana, and Phragmatobia fuliginosa are very rare
insects.
	Among the Hymenoptera, we may note Ichneumon luteus, 1.
manifestor, and two varieties of Chrysopa reticulata.
	Botany.--As nearly all the phaenogamous plants have already been
published in a "Popular description of the indigenous plants La-


