
54                            LANARKSHIRE.

formed by stagnant water over the original soiL, but in general it is
free from damp.
	Botany.--The soil covering rotten whin is said to produce in
this county only ling (Calluna vulgaris,) and similar plants equally
worthless; but in this parish all the common grasses and other rural
plants are found on the arable lands in abundance, and the swamps
have their full proportion of marsh plants. Perhaps our hill, al-
though clothed with grass almost to the top, are deficient in the
variety of alpine vegetation. Genista Anglica, Newholm plantations;
Ribes alpinum, west from Craft Andrew; Myriophyllum spicatum,
in a ditch near town foot; Equisetum hyemale, at Nine Wells, are
the rarest plants hitherto noticed in the parish. Hippuris vulgaris
and Primula farinosa, one of the rarest and prettiest of plants, may
be found in three different habitats on the eastern confines of Dol-
phinton. The few following plants are mentioned as inhabitants
of this district, not because they are rare, but as they afford
a botanical index to the nature of our soil and climate, as connect-
ed with the physical distribution of the vegetable creation. In
the meadows, buckbean, sun-dew, orchis, meadow-sweet, marsh
marigold, cotton-grass, louse-wort; on the hills, tormentil and
foxglove; in the plantations and fields not under cultivation, saxi-
frage, wood-anemone; and of grasses, there are, in most abun-
dance, bent, hair, sedge, foxtail, Timothy, fescue, and cocksfoot :
by the way side, stone-crop, ragged-Robin, self-heal, and most of
the crow-foot varieties. Several of the fields at Garvaldfoot are,
in spite of many judicious attempts to extirpate them, white in July,
as if covered with snow, from the astonishing abundance of the
ox-eye, Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum.
	There are no forests in the parish, but the trees in it show
what maay be produced. The heritors are still gradually extend-
ing their plantations. As the parish is sheltered by nature from
every quarter but from the windy west, two or three broad stripes
stretching across the valley would be of essential service.

                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY. *

	Historical Notice.--Till the epoch of the revolution, Dolphin-
ton belonged to the diocese of Glasgow, and deanery (or, after
the year 1685 the preabytery) of Lanark. In 1644, when the


<FOOTNOTE>For the Civil Ecclesiastical History of the Parish, see Chart. Paisley, No.
333, 342-MS. Rental-Book. 11.-Priry Steal, Reg. xxxvii. 49, 51.-Inquis, Spec.
257, 260, 393.-Hamilton of Wishaw's MS. Account, 51.-And Caledonia, iii.  La-
narkshire, passim.


