
                       CULLEN.                         327

   the soul of the most serene Princess Queen Elizabeth, consort of
   the same King Robert."
      Monuments.-The church of Cullen, having been, for many
   ages, the burying-place of the Findlater and Seafield family,contains
   several ancient monuments of a very elegant description.
   The chief of these is a monument (1554) to the memory of Alexander
   Ogilvie, Baron of Findlater, and his wife, Elizabeth Gordon,
   which, in point of Gothic excellence and grandeur of design, is
   perhaps inferior to none in Europe of a corresponding age.\f* A
   superb monument to the memory of John Duff of Muldavat, representing
   the figure of an armed warrior recumbent, was removed
   in 1790, along with the supposed aslies of the deceased, from
   the family burying place in the church of Cullen, and deposited
   in the mausoleum in Duff House Park.  The aforesaid John Duff,
   who had his residence near to where the present mansion of Cullen
   House stands, on the opposite side of the water of Cullen, was
   a reputed ancestor of the Fife family, and died in 1404.  In the
   southern aisle of the church, are some curious foundation inscriptions,
   well worthy the attention of the antiquary.
      Cullen House.-Cullen House, the principal residence of the
   Earl of Seafield, is situated in the parish of Cullen proper, at the
   distance of six furlongs from the town.  It is an ancient and stately
   structure, consisting of several irregular masses of unadorned
   building, erected at different periods, the oldest of which is, in all
   probability, coeval with the erection of the present parish church,
   (in the fourteenth century,) to which it appears to have been originally
   attached as a monastic edifice.  It contains many magnifi-

<FOOTNOTE>This monument is thus described in Cordiner's Antiquitie's of North Britain:-
" The splendid enrichments that crown the pyramidal columns, have a very elegant
and beautiful effect.  The bas reliefs are well raised, and minutely finished.  The
figures of the entombed, in devotional attitudes, are well rounded and correctly
drawn.  The sculptures of the central and interior part, according to the ideas of
early ages, have most learned and sublime allusion.  Two angels guarding an altar.
piece, on which the virtues of the deceased are inscribed, seem to call the dead, re-
presented by a skeleton laid under the altar, to appear before the tribunal of the
MOST HIGH, expressed by a hieroglyphic above.  `The Ancient of Days sat on
the clouds of Heaven, and they came near before him to judgment,' was the bold
imagery by which the prophet Daniel pointed out the things that must be hereafter.
The well-known symbol here on the tomb of THIS ONE, upholding the globe in
his arm, implies the Intellectual Power and Wisdom which is the origin and support
of Creation.  The attitude of Benediction and the Triple Crown, though seemingly
of more modern allusion, yet, in the Egyptian wisdom, refer to the Three Great At-
tributes of Deity, and the Supreme pronouncing a blessing on his works.  The pil-
lars of Heaven, expressed by columns supporting an arch, rest on the cloud, and a
circumambient vine.  From that arch, diverging rays are spread, in which a Dove is
descending, and they beam on the Cross that rises over the Globe, the most ancient
and venerable symbols of the Universal Benignity of the Uncreated Light of the
World, manifesting the Divine Favour to Man."


