
576                       PERTHSHIRE.

cardoch, where every accommodation in the way of posting and lodg-
ing is found, equal to that of any inn in Scotland. There is also
a good inn at Trinafour, at the junction of the Glenerichkie road
with the toll-road from Dalnacardoch to Tummel Bridge. Se-
veral small houses along the public road, and at proper distances,
are licensed to sell British spirits. They afford cheap and con-
venient accommodation to foot-passengers, and it cannot be said
that they are hurtful to the morals of the people.
     Fuel.---Though coals be consumed by many families, yet peats
are the common fuel of the country. In general, they are of ex-
cellent quality, but they are distant.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     Several important changes in various respects have taken place
since the last Statistical Account was written. The great mili-
tary road from Dunkeld to the north was formed about fourteen years
ago into a toll-road, which is kept in the very best state of repair.
It has also been much improved by a total change of its line, or
lowering its acclivities. A very beneficial change was made at
Blair. The old line of road, which was one successive series of
ascents and descents for nearly three miles, forming the arch of
a circle, was drawn in the diameter, or in a straight line of two
miles in length, through a level plain along the side of the Garry.
Within the last twenty years, it may be said that L. 25,000 at least
have been expended upon buildings and bridges. Several farm-
houses with courts of offices have been erected, not inferior to those
in the low country. And many of our tradesmen and cottars live
in comfortable houses, built of stone and lime, slated and plastered.
     About five years ago, Lord Glenlyon conferred upon the country
one of the most substantial benefits, by the erection of a meal
mill and kiln at Blair, upon the most improved principles of con-
struction. Five wretched mills, to which his own tenants, and those
of other proprietors, were thirled, have been demolished. The peo-
ple have thus been generously freed from a vexatious and expen-
sive thirlage, and permitted to dry and grind their corn at Blair,
where the work is done in the most perfect manner, without loss
of time to themselves, with a greater return, and at less than half
the former charge.* There are five thrashing mills in the parish,
and all these buildings, and an addition of 300 acres to its plan-

<FOOTNOTE>There is also an excellent meal-mill and kiln at the bridge of Tilt, and a saw
mill at Blair, and one at Lude.


