
268                        RENFREWSHIRE.

200 horse, and the value of the thread made being above L. 100,000
Sterling.
   Looms employed, &c.-The number of looms in Paisley at pre-
sent, is ascertained to be about 6000.  Of these 5700 are employ-
ed by Paisley manufacturers; the remaining 300 work to Glasgow
houses. About 2000 looms are employed in the country by Paisley
capital, chiefly in the neighbouring villages, but including some
hundreds in Kilmarnock, Perth, Largs, Strathaven, &c.  The
number of apprentices to the looms in Paisley is at present 728.
The number of harness-weavers in Paisley at present, is 5350 ;
plain weavers 650; female weavers 40; in all 6040.  Each har-
ness-weaver requires a draw-boy, for whom he pays on an average
3s. 6d. per week of his earnings. *
   Register of Inventions and Improvements, &c.-It is matter of
regret, that the expense incurred in procuring patents for inven-
tions and discoveries, should be so great, as we are convinced that
many ingenious men of the operative classes, both in Paisley and
elsewhere, have from this cause alone been prevented from enlarg-
ing, as they might have done,  the manufacturing genius and indus-
try of their country.  In a letter which we have just received from
an ingenious mechanic there is the following statement: " As there
is no protection in this country, an inventor is obliged to decline
putting his improvements into practice, as the moment they make
their appearance they will be pirated, thereby leaving him no-
thing, perhaps not even the merit of invention, for his trouble and
expense."  On the subject of " tables of prices," as affecting the
progress of manufactures, we have received the following statement
from a most respectable manufacturer in town, who carries on bu-

<FOOTNOTE>The following observations, by a very intelligent observer, will still apply to the
ingenious weavers of Paisley, with this difference, that the ingenuity then (1811,)
employed on the muslin department, has been of late years, applied to other branches,
which were unknown at the time when Mr Wilson wrote his survey.
   " What was said of Bolton in the year 1793, may be at present strictly apllied to
Paisley : -'It is the centre. of the manufacture of ornamental or fancy goods, and
it is only emigrants from this place that any branches of this trade have been trans-
planted elsewhere.  The most ingenious part of the workmanship remains rooted as
it were to the soil, and flourishes even amid 'many discouragements.' (Aitken's
His. of Manchester, p. 262) The condition of the manufactures of Glasgow con-
firms this; for although the muslin manufacturers in that city, which is only seven
miles distant, carry on this business to an immense extent, yet in articles of fancy-
work, they have always been surpassed in Paisley.  In fact, the superiority of the
Paisley weavers, in these ornamented fabric, is so fully admitted, that I'aisley is re-
sorted to as the original seat of this branch of the muslin manufacture ; and many
weavers in this place are employed for these articles by Glasgow manufacturers. The
most dexterous workers employed in Glasgow on these of goods, are either
natives of Paisley, or persons who have learned their business there "-Wilson's Sur-
vey of Refrewshire, p. 255.


