
68                              FORFARSHIRE.

   Throughout the parish the soil varies considerably: it is light
and sandy on the coast: loam, and in some places approaching
to clay in the middle: and moorish, with a till bottom in the
northern extremity.
   Hydrography.--There is one mineral spring of the chalybeate
kind in the parish, which might easily be formed into a well: but
little attention is paid to it; and it has never been much frequent-
ed, unless by persons in the immediate neighbourhood.
   Two small streams run through the parish, and unite about a
mile from the sea. In various places along their course, these ri-
vulets are bounded by pretty high rocks, from 25 to 50 feet, nearly
perpendicular.
   Geology.--The range of the strata in the rocks above alluded to
is from N. W. to S. E. The rocks in this place, as well as those
on the sea-shore, are composed of soft sandstone, intermixed with
masses of very hard compact limestone. These are very durable,
and the weather seems to make no impression on them. Towards
the head of the parish, within the woods of Panmure, there is a
quarry of good hard freestone, which is fit for any purpose of ma-
sonry, and of a fine colour. At a little distance, slates and pave-
ment may also be got. It should be added, that the limestone is
not in such quantities as to render it worth quarrying; and that it
is not pure, yielding only about 75 per cent.
   Botany.--The double flowering Geum, which I believe is a very
rare plant in most parts of Scotland, I have sometimes met with
on the banks of the rivulets which run through the parish. The
greater part of the more showy wild flowers which formerly adorn-
ed our fields have almost entirely disappeared. This is a proof that
the soil is now better cultivated, and cleared of those plants and
weeds which formed near half its produce about the middle of last
century, except on a few farms where the improved system of hus-
bandry had been introduced.

                       II--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Persons.--The ancestors of Hector Boetius were for
several generations proprietors of the barony of Panbride; and that
celebrated historian is generally supposed to have been born in this
parish. *

<FOOTNOTE>About sixty years ago, there was found among some loose papers in the house
of Panmure a short history of the county of Angus, written in elegant Latin, by Mr
Edward, minister of Murroes, containing both a geographical description of the


