
692                           PERTHSHIRE.

   A variety of procedure occurs in the Presbytery records in
relation to this settlement ; as, a counter-presentation by Lord
Stormont, claiming to be patron of the parish, in favour of Mr
Moncrieff, minister of Methven, " a person ignorant of the Irish
language;" and a complaint against Mr George " Robertson, for in-
truding upon the paroch of Logierait, and kirk thereof, praying in
express terms for the Pretender," &c.  This person's proceedings
seem to have originated in the authority which he conceived him-
self to have received from the following strange document, of
which I have the original before me:__
     "By William Marquess of Tullibardine,
   "These are ordering and empowering you to preach every Lord's
day, and other solemn occasions, in the church of Logiereat, and
to exercise all the other parts of the ministerial functions within
that parish, as you'll be answerable at your peril; ffor doing of
which this shall be to you a sufficient warrant. Given at Logy-
reat the 12th of December 1715 years,
                             (Signed)        TULLIBARDINE."
   Annexed is the solemn seal of that Noble person.
   Mr Adam Fergusson officiated in the ministry at Logierait till
1754 ; when Dr Thomas Bissett was admitted, who died in 1800;
and was succeeded by Mr Thomas Menzies, wbo died in 1831 ;
he was succeeded by Mr Thomas Buchanan, admitted minister
of Methven in November 1841 ; and be by the present incum-
bent, inducted Angust 1842.
   Parochial Registers.-The most complete (the volume com-
mencing with Mr Menzies's ministry excepted) is a volume con-
taining minutes from 1639 to 1664.  This volume was reco-
vered and restored to the kirk-session by Principal Lee in 1819.
   The volume had been, it seems, advertised for sale in Mr Con-
stable's catalogue, several years before the title attracted Principal
Lee's notice; and when he inquired ai Mr Constable how he might
be able to trace it, he found that Mr Constable had transferred it
from his stock in trade to his own private collection, whence he with-
drew it that he might present it to Principal Lee. Shortly there-
after, Principal Lee took occasion to repl`ce it in the custody of
the kirk-session, in whose records the fact is very properly and grate-
full acknowledged. "I considered it at the time wben it came
into my hands." the Principal observes, "as a curious memorial of
the state of the country in the time of the Covenanters, and still
look upon it as an important document, though I have examined
                                    4


