
                             DUTHIL.                          133

   Half-way between Dunmullie and Duthil, there is another stone,
   hollowed in the centre, where the same lady is reported to have
   deposited her keys, when going on the same religious erraud.

   <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

       The population in 1755 amounted to 1785, including Rothiemurchus.
                         1792              830, exclusive of Do.
                         1801             1113,    Do.
                         1821             1154,    Do.
                         1831             1309,    Do.

       The yearly average of births for the last seven years is 30 2/7
                     marriages,                     9 2/7

     Number of insane, 3; fatuous, 2; blind, 6; deaf and dumb, 2.
   Of the insane, one is blind, and another dumb, but not deaf. Of
   the fatuous, one is blind.
     Language, &c.-Until of late years, the Gaelic might be said to
   be the only language spoken or understood; but, by the settle-
   ment of a few strangers from the Lowlands among the people,
   the long possession which the language enjoyed has been disturbed.
   Those whose business brought them into immediate and frequent
   contact with those strangers, were from necessity obliged to at-
   tempt to speak a kind of imperfect English.  Another circum-
   stance which contributed much to the advancement of the Eng-
   lish, is the introduction of the intellectual or explanatory system
   into the parochial schools.
      Among the popular customs prevalent here, may be noticed
   penny-weddings and funeral festivities, in both of which there is
   much to be lamented, deprecated, and amended.
      Smuggling has been so completely suppressed, that it may be
   said to be a tale of years long bygone,

                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
      If the present state of husbandry be contrasted with that of
   thirty years ago, the change will appear to have been great.
   At the former period, farm-produce consisted of bear or big on
   dunged land; rye; black oats; brocked oats; and a few patches
   of white oats.  The quantity raised was but seldom equal to the
   consumption; but the deficiency was generally supplied by the
   humane proprietor, the late Sir James Grant of Grant, whose pa-
   ternal regard for his people was unremitting. At the period alluded
   to, there were scarcely any turnips sown, if we except a few ridges
   raised by the clergyman; and so unacquainted was he with the use of
   them, that he generally sold them to the poor in the neighbourhood,
   who used them as food. The present clergyman may be said to be
   the first who used compost of farm-yard dung, and mess earth, and


