
58				WIGTONSHIRE.

the assistanes of the Convention of Royal Burghs; from which, small
vessels sail every week to Whitehaven and other English ports,
and which occasionally visited by the Galloway steamer on her
way to and from Liverpool. There are public roads from Wig-
ton and Garliestown to the Isle of Whithorn, and from Whit-
horn to Port William and Stranraer. A mail-coach traverses the
parish, passing through the burgh from west to east in the fore-
noon, and from east to west in the evening.
        Ecciesiastical State.-The parish church is very happily situat-
ed upon a rising ground to the west of the burgh, in its immediate
vicinity, and no situation more convenient for the country population
could be found. A few years ago, this place of worship was in a
very ruinous condition. In 1822, the heritors erected a very sub-
stantial, commodious new church, with ample accommodation for
800 sitters besides free seats for a very considerable number of
those who have no room in the church, and no means of procuring
any. The church is regularly well attended, and the number of
communicants is about 600.
	Besides the church, there are three other places of worship, one
belonging to the Associate Synod, another to the Reformed Pres-
byterian Synod, and a third to the Roman Catholics. Two of
these have no settled pastor; the congregations attending them are
widely dispersed over different parishes, and very inconsiderable.
in number, compared with the congregation attending the Esta-
blished Church.
	The number of families belonging to the Established Church is
420; of families belonging to the Associate Synod, 45; to the Ca-
meronians, 27; Roman Catholic families, 12. There are a con-
siderable number of poor Irish families that belong to no place
of worship.
        The manse was built twenty-four years ago, and is spacious and
commodious. The glebe contains about 6 acres of rich arable
ground, and would give a rent of about L. 20 per annum. The
stipend is 17 chalders, half meal and half barley, with, L. 10 Ster-
ling for communion elements; and was augmented in 1826.
        Education.-There are two parochial schools and not fewer
than nine other schools. The salary of one parochial schoolmas-
ter is two chalders of meal and L. 6 for house rent. The salary of
the other is one chalder of meal. Their school wages do not exceed
L. 6O per annum. They have no other emoluments. The num-
ber of children attending the different schools during the winter



