
			    PARISH OF DALTON.

		PRESBYTERY OF LOCHMABEN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

		   THE REV. THOMAS H. THOMAS, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name and Boundaries.--THE parish of Dalton, prior to the
Reformation, was divided into two parishes, that of Meikle Dalton
and Little Dalton; but, since their union in 1633, the church cf
Meikle Dalton is used by the parishioners of the united parishes
as their place of worship,--the ruins of the church of Little Dal-
ton now enclosing the burial ground of the descendants of the Car-
ruthers of Holmans. The name of the parish is evidently Auglo-
Saxon; Dal-ton or Dal-dun, signifying the fort in the dale. There
are the remains, accordingly, of a fort on a bill in the immediate
neighbourhood of the village of Dalton, at which village, in ancient
times, the baronial courts were held. The parish is 6 miles in
length from north to south, and 3 miles in breadth; its bounda-
ries are, Lochmaben on the north, which intersects it; Mousewald
on the west; Ruthwell on the south; Cummertrees and the river
Annan on the east.
	Geology.--Betwixt tbe Holmains and Almagill-hills, lies the
vale of Little Dalton, in the north end of the parish. These hills
are 500 feet above the level of the sea and run from north to
south. They are composed of transition rock of greywacke, which
sometimes alternates with greywacke slate. The, direction of
the strata appears to be from cast to west, and their dip to the
north. The next class of rocks in the parish, in point of age and
extent, is the independent coal formation, which lies in the hollow
of the transition rocks, such as the reddish-brown-coloured sand-
stone on the banks of the Annan. In the south end of the pa-
rish, the grayish white sandstone, abounds with limestone of an in-
ferior quality. The next formation is that of floetz trap, consi-
dered as the newest of the universal formations, because it rests
on all the others. Of this formation, there are only individual
links, such as greenstone and porphyritic, amygdaloid. The manse
of Dalton is founded upon the amygdaloid rock at its western ex-


