
188			KINCARDINESHIRE.

altogether died away, although the subscription was only one shil-
ling annually.
	Lunatics.--There is at Aberdeen a lunatic asylum under excel-
lent regulations, where the pauper lunatics within the bounds of the
synod are admitted at a board of L.1 5 per annum: and the thirteen
country parishes of the Presbytery of Aberdeen, in order to avail
themselves of the advantages which it affords, entered into assncha-
tion in the year 1803, with a view to aid one another in the mainte-
nance of their lunatics. They agreed to make a public collection an-
nually, to be thrown into a joint stock for the above purpose; and
this fund has, till within these few years, been adequate to the de-
mands upon it. For some years back, there have been from eight
to ten patients in the asylum, entirely dependent upon this fund,
which has occasioned an arrear against it, to the amount of from
L.50 to L.100; but, upon the whole, the advantage derived from
the institution has been, and continues to be, very great.
	Friendly Society.--There is a Friendly Society here, of more
than fifty years standing, which has done, and continues to do
good, although its allowances to the sick and aged are not very
ample. It has resolved to comply with the regulations, and avail
itself of the benefits, of the act 1829, an act which, being complex,
and not very easily understood, has occasioned the breaking up of
a great many Friendly Societies in this part of the country.
	Savings Bank.--There is also in the parish a Savings bank, es-
tablished about sixteen  years ago, whose funds exceed L.3000,
and whose subscribers are not fewer than 120. It is open for busi-
ness quarterly, and has been the means of saving a large sum which
would otherwise have been dissipated useldsrly, and to the dete-
rioration of the morals of the people.
	State of the Poor and Poor's Funds.--The average number of
poor may be about 64. Our funds for their relief consist of inte-
rest of lent money, L.50; mortifications, mortcloth, penalties, &c.
L.14; collections at the doors of the church, and Portlethen cha-
pel L.71; total L.135--not averaging I 1/2d. a day to every poor
person,--an aliowance totally inadequate to their support; and, as
we have no strolling poor belonging to the parish, it sets in a strik-
ing point of view the private charity of the community at large, and
more especially of the working classes in whose vicinity paupers are
situated.  It is much to be regretted that charitable bequests are
nopt exempted by legacy duty for surely no tax that could be sub-
stituted in the place of it, could be half so exceptionable as one


