
                ON THE COUNTY OF PEEBLES.              177

Why the parishes of Broughton, Kilbucho, and Glenholm were
united it is difficult to conjecture. It was deemed expedient to
continue a schoolmaster in each; it would probably have been as
advisable to continue a minister in each of them also. If any
union was to have taken place, it should have been the annexation
of that part of Drummelzier which lies west of the Tweed to the
parish of Glenholm. The parishes of Lyne and Megget are united
ecclesiastically, though the whole of Manner lies between them.
The distance from the manse of Lyne to the church nf Megget is
14 or 15 miles, and when the Tweed is flooded, the minister must
go round by Peebles, and has thus upwards of 20 miles to
travel. A great error was committed a few years ago by the
Presbytery, which I the more readily point out, being then a mem-
ber of that body. Instead of sanctioning the building of the manse
at Lyne, they ought rather to have recommended that it should be
placed at Megget, to which part of Ettrick and of the extensive pa-
rish of Yarrow might have been added, quoad sacra. Lyne, which
consists of only two firms, might quoad sacra have been united to
Stobo or Peebles. The Earl of Wemnyss and March is sole pro-
prietor of both parishes, with the exception of the property of
Henderland and Lyne Town Head, and, from his Lordship's well
known anxiety on all occasions to meet the wishes and consult
the comfort of all his ministers, no difficulty whatever on his part
would have been thrown in the way to prevent the above arrange-
ment from being carried into effect.
   Roads. Means of Communication.-The county is very well
intersected by roads, except the parishes on the right bank of the
Tweed; and though there is but a scanty population, and there
never could be a great thoroughfare, it would be of great advantage
to the inhabitants in that district to have a bridge across the river
between the bridges of Peebles and Tweedsmuir, and a line of
communication opened to the road from Selkirk to Moffat. The
mail-coach from Edinburgh to Dumfries passes daily through the
parishes of Newlands, Kirkurd, Broughton and Tweedsmuir, and
a letter bag is forwarded from Leadburn Toll to Peebles and the
adjoining districts. There is a daily coach between Peebles and
Edinburgh, and during the summer season two coaches run, chief-
ly on account of the visitors to Innerleithen. For some years past
a coach has run during the summer season between Glasgow and
Kelso passing through Peebles. The tolls of the county are this
year let for L. 2991, to which may be added L. 360 paid by the
Post-Office for the mail coach. *

<FOOTNOTE>Since the of the parish of Peebles was written, wery considerable pro-
   PEEBLES.                                M


