
                     ANSTRUTHER  WESTER.                 613

more commonly Anstruther Burn, divides. "it from, Anstruther
Easter. A tradition revails that there was once a salmon-fishery
in this rivulets from the smallness of it this does not appear
very probable." Nothing of the kind exists at  present ;  but
yet, in former times, the fact may have been as stated;  and
both the seals of the corporation, the old and the new one bear
testimony to it,-the former exhibiting a drave-boat well manned,
-thelatter three salmon crossed. The form of a fish of the same
kind also floats upon the top of the church spire, in place of a
weather-cock.
   Geology and Mineraloqy.-The lithology of the parish belongs
to the carboniferous formation, and consists; of, 1st, the inferior
coal measures; 2d, the Carboniferous limestone; 3d, the upper or
true coal measure. If a line be drawn from the shore at the point
where St Monance and Pittenweem parishes meet, to the north-
east angle of this parish, it will mark the course of the carbonife-
rous limestone which divides the upper from the lower coal mea-
sures.
   I - The under coal measures consist of alternations of red-
dish silicious sandstones, sometimes gritty, shales, fire-clay, and
thin unworkable seams of coal. The shales contain ironstone
in bands, and septaria; and not unfrl-quently present a slaty
bituminous character, not unlike to the older tilate clay. The
whole:measures are full of vegetable remains, whicb, if not of so
frequent occurrence, are at least in far better proservatioi-t than
those of the upper coal measures. Thin beds of shell-limestone
and shale, with shells,, are found subordinate to the general forma-
tion. Excellent sections of these are exposed along the seaward
boundary of the parish.
   2. The Carboniferous limestone, which is nowhere brought to
the surface in this parish, is exposed along the shore, east of St
Monance, and bears in  the direction already noticed. This has
been fully proved by the mining operations carried on west of
Pittenweem. It consists of four beds, varying from 3 to 10 feet

<FOOTNOTE>In connexion with the salmon fishery, the following story is told: -A gentleman
residing in the burgh, induced probably by the above mentioned report, placed a stake-
net in the creek, with the hope of securing "a baul" and to his great joy succeeded
in capturing one good salmon. But it was generally supposed that a well-known
wag in the place had secretly deposited the aforesaid salmon there, to furnish mat-
ter for a joke with his friend. For, except the solitary fish mentioned, he had not the
pleasure of seeing any more slamon in his net. The story tells well enough ; but
we should like to know where the wag got so very opportunately possession of the
live salmon, net one being taken on the whole coast.



