
298			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

waldsen. The ruins of the ancient mansion gre still pretty entire,
about half a mile distant to the north from the present building.
The garden occupies about three acres within the walls. The
pleasure grounds extend to twenty acres; but the family have a
private road extending for several miles within the adjoining parks,
which are retained either in the hands of the proprietor, or are
let as grass parks. The orchard grounds, particularly at the old
mansion-house, are extensive. There is a deer park, nearly a
mile square, within less than a mile of Cally, on the south. In
addition to herds of deer, it contains a few of the ancient Cale-
donian breed of cattle, procured from the stock of the Duke of
Hamilton.
	Antiquities.--There are no antique buildings extant in the pa-
rish, with the exception of the old mansion-house of Cally, al-
ready mentioned. At Enrig, there was a house dependent on
the abbacy of Tongland, and which, it is supposed, formed the
occasional residence of its abbots; and, after the Reformation, of
the Bishop of Galloway. Its site is still known yet as the "Pa-
lace Yard." Some old plane trees are growing, having a, foliage
different from those now propagated. The palace bad apparently
been surrounded by a ditch and wall, one of the arched gates
having been standing, within the memory of a person intimately
known to the present writer. There are several small moats in
the parish, locally called "doons;" one in Bush Park, another
in Enrig, and a third in Castrammon.
			III.--POPULATION.
	The population of Girthon has greatly increased within the
last eighty-five years. In 1755, it was 367; in 1841, it was
1872, having been more than quintupled in the interval between
these two periods. No village or town existed in the parish at
the former date; and the then proprietor of Cally, Alexander
Murray, Esq., had not long previously ejected a great number of
small tenants occupying a great part of the lower end of the pa-
rish, and converted their farms into grazing ground, in which state
they still continue. The existing rural population, as is state in
the following table, is 495, so that the increase under this head
is only 128.

<TABLE>
	Number of the population residing in Gatehouse,       1377
					     the country,      495
							      -----
			Total population of the parish,       1872
The number of families in the parish is 419, so that the ave-


