
326                          RENFREWSHIRE.
patronage, admired for his skill and ability by his bretbre n, as an
anatomist and pathologist, and highly esteemed by all.  *
Not a few ingenious men, skilled in the combination of the
mechanical powers, have appeared in this parish. Some ofthese
bad heads to contrive, but wanted hands to execute. The late
James Dunlop, Esq. of Linwood, united both in himself. He was
allowed by all who knew him to be a man of great ingenuity,
skill and contrivance, and of admirable taste in mechanism,
and success crowned his well merited reputation. His son, Wil-
liam, promised fair to equal if not excel his late father; but ill
health, for a time only we trust, has stopt his career. Should
health again return, we doubt not to have from him some of those
splendid and useful combinations which have immortalized a Ro-
berts and an Arkwright.
But one of the greatest of those ingenious artisans and mecha-
nics to which this parish has given birth, was the late Mr John
"Robertson, foreman to James Orr, Esq. of Crofthead. A self-
acting m-ule had loia. been a desideratum in cotton-spinning for
more than half a century. What neither Crompton of Bolton;
r.or Kelly of Glasgow; nor Buchanan of Catrine; nor Eaton of
Derby; nor M. de Jonge, an ingenious Frenchman; nor Roberts
of Manchester; nor even the talented Mr Smith of Deanston
work.-,, could do with all their skill,- Mr Robertson, single-handed
and alone, accomplished. The process of backing off, which is
one of the most difficult to accomplish. in 11 the self-acting mule,"
Mr Robertson contrived and finished. Mr Smith of Deanston
liad, in -1 833, renewed his mechanhcal labours, resolved, if possible,
to contrive and finish a self-actor. He bad failed in 1792, with
Mr Buchanan of Catrine, to perfect the self-acting mule which
they had then contrived; and though, in 1826, he succeeded to
,contrive an effective machine for spinning low numbers, yet he found
it could not'be applied to mules of various descriptions in the trade,
as they then were and still are in general use. He therefore applied
his vigorous pnwers to contrive one, and was making rapid progress
when he came to hear of Mr Robertson's contrivance respecting
Since the above was written, this eminent physician has fallen a victim to his
profession. As physician in the Royal Infirmary of Glasgow, he bad been' iii the
Fewr Ward for about two hours, examining about seventy fever patients, when he
caught concentrated typhus, and in a few days thereafter was no more. Thus fell
a this akilfid practitiorwr in his 47th year, lamented by a city which had long known
 n4 appreciated his worth. His funeral was one of the largest `lmost ever seen in
GI To his worth'and abilities eJl the Glasgow papers of the day bore ample


