
      188                          ELGINSHIRE.

      farms, which were formerly neglected, has more than compen-
      sated for any pecuniary loss that might at first be sustained by
      the suppression of smuggling; and instances of intemperance
      and open profanation of the Sabbath, are now of rare occur-
      rence. A great improvement has also taken place in their attend-
      ance om religious ordinances. The practice of announcing sales,
      &c. by a crier, in the church-yard, upon the congregation retir-
      ing from cburch, has been quite discontinued; and there have not
      been more than two instances of funerals on Sabbath for the last
      five years.

                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture and Rural Economy.-
      The number of acres, standard imperial measure, which are either cultivated
        or occasionally in tillage,                                                    3,331
      The number of acres that never have been cultivated, supposed to be about       25,000
                    acres in a state of undivided common,                                  0
                    acres under wood,                                                  4,700

        More than one-half of the land under wood belongs to the
      Earl of Moray; two-thirds of the forest of Darnaway, as has been
      already stated, being in this parish, which consists of oak, ash,
      beech, elm, sycamore, Spanish chestnut, larch, spruce-fir, Scotch
      fir, mountain-ash, poplars, birches, gean-trees, bollies, alders, &c.
      In the course of the last twelve years, a large quantity of the wood
      which bad arrived at maturity in the forest has been cut down,
      and the vacant ground has been filled up by young plantations,
      consisting chiefly of oak, to the number of about 100,000 annu-
      ally, on which all due care is bestowed in the way of draining,
      pruning, and fencing, The Young plants are raised from seed on
      the nursery grounds at Darnaway. At three years old, they are
      planted out in pits previously prepared by mixing a small quan-
      tity of lime with the earth in the bottom which is said to promote
      their growth, so as to make as much progress the first year as
      they generally do in two years, when, planted in the usual way.
      The proportion of the other properties under wood is nearly as
      follows: Dunpbail, 800 acrer; Logie, 573; Altyre, 400; Relu-
      gas, 547. The Scotch firs are greatly improved in quality, and
      their growth promoted, by procuring the seed from the natural
      wood grown in Strathspey.
        Rest of Land. -The average rent of land under cultivation is
      about 16s. per annum the imperial acre.
        Breed of Live-Stock.- The black-cattle reared are chiefly of
      the Highland; breed but about 100 two years old, of a larger


