
			KEIR.                                 463

	According to Mr Menteath (Edin. New Phil. Journal, Vol. v.
p. 45,) the Barjarg limestone appears to be a continuation of the
great bed of limestone at Closeburn on the opposite side of  the
Nith, although their connection cannot be distinctly traced, owing
to a dislocation of the strata. Their chemical composition is,
however, almost precisely the same; but at Closeburn there is a
lower stratum of limestone which contains no magnesia, and is
nearly pure carbonate of lime. This stratum has not as yet been
found at Bajarg, which is probably owing to the quarry not, h`v-
ing been worked to a sufficient depth.
	The strata at Barjarg dip towards the north-east under a small
angle, while at Porterstown the dip is more towards the east.
	Sandstone occurs, lying above the limestone, and conformably
with it, in both these quarries. At Barjarg there is a bed of hard
red sandstone, 12 feet thick, under the limestone. At Porterstown
the sandstone at the upper part is of a fine texture and whitish co-
lour. This, as it approaches the limestone, becomes much mixed
with mica, and acquires a slaty structure. At Waterside, sand-
stone occurs, accompanied with a variety of slate clay; and the
appearances were such as to induce the proprietor to bore for coal
some years since, but the attempt proved unsuccessful.
	From the imperfect development of the limestone and, sand-
stone, it is difficult to determine precisely the formation to which
they belong. But it appears probable that they may be referred
to the older part of the secondary series, and possibly to the lower
part of the coal formation. Judging, however, from the general
geological phenomena exhibited in this parish, we should be in-
clined to give it as our opinion that there is but little probability
of coal being discovered, or at least, of its being found in such
quantity as to repay the expense of working it.
	The sandstone formation is entirely covered with alluvial mat-
ter to the depth of from 10 to 50 feet, consisting of gravel, sand,
clay, &c. with masses, large and small, of all the different rocks,
but principally greywacke. Occasionally pieces of coal and granite
are found. Peat occupies some hollows containing oak and fir of
large dimensions. The soil of the hills which rests on the grey-
wacke is generally a rich loam, but full of stones. Much of the
rock is entirely uncovered. In other places large loose masses of
it impede the cultivation of a deep soil. In some cases these have
been broken up and removed at very great expense; and so rich
is the virgin soil, that above 100 Winchester bushels of oats have


