
	                             ERROL.                                381

         ordinary stature may walk through it, almost without stooping. The
         two main branches seem prolonged down to the ground, touching
         each other, and adhering only above the middle of the stem, and
         thus forming a kind of St Andrew's cross, consisting, at the lower
         extremities, of little less than the rigid bark.  This venerable re-
         presentative of past ages still continuer to bear fruit.  To these
         notices, it may be added, that there are at Megginch Castle a few
         holly trees, one of which is at the base 5 1/2 feet in circumference,
         while another has shot up as straight as the mast of a ship, to the
         height of fully 50 feet.  There is, at the same place, a very large
         walnut tree, and an aged thorn, the trunk of which is 6 feet in
         circumference.
                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
            The earliest accounts of the parish of Errol are derived from
         popular tradition.
         Family of Hay.-Referring to the tradition respecting the family
         of Hay, noticed in the Account of Redgorton in this work, (p. 175,)
         we have to observe, that whatever value be attached to this tradition,
         the oldest charter belonging to the estate of Errol, and constitut-
         ing it a barony, was granted in the time of William the Lion, who
         reigned from 1166 to 1214.   It farther appears, that, in 1255,
         Gilbert de Hay of Errol disposed to his brother William, the
         property of Leys,-a property lying within the parish, and pre-
         viously forming the eastern portion of his own.  This property of
         Leys is the only one in the parish which continues to the present
         day in the possession of the lineal descendant of the original pro-
         prietor.  It is reported that the second and third sons of the
         grandson of the said William Hay of Leys became the first pro-
         prietors of two of the oldest estates in the neighbourhood.  The
         eldest br`nch of the Hay family was created Earl of Errol in
         1452, in the time of James II.  The estate and the earldom con-
         tinued united till the days of Charles I., when the noble posses-
         sor, after having lived in great splendour, was obliged to sell the
         estate in 1634.  This eldest branch of the family ended in a fe-
         male, who, in 1720, was married to the Earl of Kilmarnock.
         The writer is not aware of any written accounts of the parish,
         either ancient or modern except the brief description which is to
         be found in the former Statistical Account of Scotland.  He has
         had an opportunity, however, of consulting the fifth and sixth vo-
         lumes of an ancient geographical work in folio, written in Latin,
         and published at Amsterdam in 1662, in the  latter of which a


