
			TONGLAND.                          73

cies bf canaries. They do not increase in numbers, one reason
for which may be, that, building when the streams and rivers are
low, they select crevices of rocks, which the first flood covers,
sweeping away their eggs or their tiny offspring. I saw this hap-
pen two successive seasons to the nest of a yellow wagtail, which,
undeterred by the catastrophy of tbe preceding year, the poor
bird had built in the following one in the same cleft. In winter
and spring, we are sometimes visited by swans and wild-geese, but
they never continue long, and merely make resting-places of our
rivers and lochs as they pass from one haunt to another. The
shieldrake, which is the most beautiful of the duck tribe, fre-
quently builds in the higher grounds, near the centre of the parish,
Although the principal element of these birds is the sea, to which
they immediately conduct their young, they often hatch at a
great distance from it. They commonly descend by a tributary
rivulet to the main stream, and soon reach the tide; but, if in-
terrupted, or accidentally prevented from taking that course they
will boldly go by the shortest and smoothest path they can find.
Last year, a flock of no fewer than twenty-two came down from
the moors to the sea by the high road. They had to pass some
houses, and were met by several individuals in rapid march, the
parent birds fluttering in front, close above the young ones, di-
recting them in their course, and animating them by their cries.
They are delicious food, but although easily tamed, they are stupified
by domestication, having so little idea of self-preservation, as not
to fly even when attacked, so that, being common objects of assault
to the domestic fowls, they are soon exterminated. Several at-
tempts have been made in this parish to rear them with poultry,
but, owing to this circumstance, these attempts have uniformly
failed. The cuckoo is very common among the hills. I have
seen eight in a flock. On arriving, it is almost always solitary,
but before its departure, is frequently attended or followed by a
little bird. Hence the phrase of the "gowk" and the "titling."
Many to whom the fact and the phrase are familiar know nothing
of their origin, which it may be worth while therefore to explain.
The cuckoo, building no nest, deposits a single egg in that of
some little bird, generally the bessy black-cap, or the moss-
cheeper, by whom it is hatched along with her own. After ar-
riving at a certain age, the young cuckoo, a giant compared with
his foster-brothers, takes them on his back, flings them out of the
nest, and thus gets the whole attention of the old bird devoted to


