
			KEIR.                              46l

eight or ten parish churches being seen from some points. Black-
wood hill, in particular, is noted for commanding all the windings
of the Nith, through the rich holms of its central and lower ba-
sins, from Drumlanrig to the Solway, the view being terminated to
the north by the central chain of the lowlands, and to the south
by the mountains of Cumberland.
	Adjacent to the Shinnel, Scar and Nith, are about 300 acres of
rich holm land. This is separated by a steep wooded bank from the
table-land of the parish, which stretches to the foot of the hills, and
becomes gradually narrower and more elevated towards the south-
east, till it merges into the slope of the hill of Kilbride. Black-
wood hill dips at once into the Nith. The height of the hills has
not been ascertained by actual measurement. Aldgirth Bridge is
about 50 feet above the level of high water at Dumfries; and the
table-land may be from 100 to 150 more.
	Prognostics of Weather, &c.--Springs are observed after long-
continued drought to rise before rains. Sea gulls appear in un-
usual numbers before a storm. In clear weather, when the Low-
thers to the north, and Queensberry to the north-east, assume a
very indistinct outline, resembling a piece of printing on which the
types have been shifted, rain may be expected, and in frost thaw.
In cloudy weather, a reddish or brassy glare in the morning in that
part of the horizon which appears in the south-east, between Black-
wood and the heights of Closeburn, when it decreases, portends
rain; when it increases, fair weather.
	The temperature of the atmosphere is extremely mild. But the
air is generally loaded with moisture, as is proved by the rapidity
with which the surface of the earth, or fine gravel, becomes covered
over with mosses. The noxious effects of this dampness are in a con-
siderable degree counteracted by the porousness of the soil, and by
very extensive draining for the improvement of the numerous bogs or
small patches of meadow land, with which the whole surface of the
parish is studded. It is probably owing to the latter circumstance
that the slow nervous fevers, rheumatisms and asthmatic disorders,
which are stated by Mr Wallace in the former Statistical Account
to have been very prevalent, are by no means so at present. Con-
sumption is the most frequent and deadly disease; and stomach
complaints, originating in poor diet, are common.
	Hydrography.--The whole parish abounds in springs: but none
of them are known to posses any remarkable property, though in
some the presence of mineral substances is indicated both by taste


