
                         DALMELLINGTON.                   315

tenced; and returned to his house in peace. We find him after-
wards employed in endeavouring to heal the differences which
separated the Presbyterian brethren.
	Land-owners.--The Hon. Colonel and Mrs Macadam Cathcart
of Craigengillan, who reside at Berbeth, just without the border
of the parish, possess nearly the whole of the parish.
	Antiquities.--The sites of two castles are pointed out;--one, a
few hundred yards above the village, which, from a traditionary story
of its occupant, is still spoken of as Dame Helen's Castle, has been
a small building. One of the oldest houses in the village, from
having. been built of the materials of the castle, is called the Castle
House, and on one of its door lintels bore, thirty years ago, the date
1003. The village seems to have been originally a dependency
of this castle,--for closely overhanging the village, and between it
and the castle, is a most complete moat of considerable height;
one of those primitive courts whence laws were promulgated, and
where the justice of these days was administered. The land be-
tween the castle and the moat still bears the name of the Castle
Crofts, and at a little distance from thence is the Gillies Knowe.
	The other castle has been a more considerable structure, and
must have been from its situation, literally a place of strength,--
and security also. The site of it is a projecting point on a deep
glen side, quite precipitous, or rather overhanging, on three sides;
the fourth side has had the usual protection of a fosse. From
some traditionary connection with the history of Alpine, the 68th
King of the Scots, it is called Leight, or Laght Alpine.
	In Chalmers's Caledonia, notice is taken of a Roman road which
passed through the length of this parish from south-east to north-
west. The line of it has been traced through Dumfries and
Kirkcudbright shires. The last remains of it in this parish, nn
the farm of Burnhead, were raised seven years ago to repair some
dikes, which had formerly been built of the whinstone of which
the road was formed. It had been from ten to eleven feet broad,
composed of a row of large stones on either side, and filled up with
smaller between. Leaving Dalmellington it entered Dalrymple,
where it has been traced in various places, and terminated at a
ford in the River Ayr, not a great distance above the town. We
have farther evidence that this was a great thoroughfare of the
Romans, in the correctness with which the course of the Doon,
the only river in Ayrshire, there laid down, is traced in Ptolemy's
Geography of Britain. There is a strong probability that Dal-


