
308                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the Cheviot; and the remainder are of the black-faced, short woolled
breed, which are commonly kept in this part of the country.
They are all generally in good condition and well managed. Of
late, several of the farmers, instead of smearing them with tar mixed
with butter or palm oil, have poured on them the juice of broom
and tobacco. By this new process, the wool is found to be greatly
improved, nor has the health of the sheep suffered in, so far as
trial has yet been made.
	Draining, &c.--The extensive draining of the high and low lands
which has now been effected has been found most beneficial for
improving the grass and other crops in quantity and quality. The
sheep and cattle are found also to thrive much better in conse-
quence of this method.
	Leases-Mode of Husbandry.--The leases in general extend
to nineteen years, and include in their articles the most approved
methods of husbandry. They require, among other things, a re-
gular rotation of different kinds of crop, wherever the soil admits
of them.
	Farm-Buildings and Fences.--Many of the farm-buildings are
not in the most desirable state, in respect of extent and conve-
nience. In three years, however, about five-sevenths of the leases
expire, when there is the prospect of the houses being rebuilt on
the most approved plans, and put into the best condition. The
enclosures and fences are generally in good order. One great
obstacle to the cultivation of the land is the long distance which
lime has to be carried,--a distance of eight, nine or sixteen miles.
Notwithstanding of this, however, considerable quantity of lime is
brought, and great improvements have been made in the cultiva-
tion of the land, both in the manner of conducting it and the extent
to which it has been carried. The management of stock also is
now much better understood than formerly.
	Quarries.--Freestone quarries are opened up in many parts of
the parish, but none to any great extent. The coal pits present
nothing peculiar, in respect to the manner in which they are wrought.
It may be mentioned that in smelting the lead-ore at Wanlock-
head, a small quantity of lime in powder is mixed with it. Peat,
coal, and charcoal are used as fuel. The operation of smelting,
on account of the great heat of the furnace, is not found to be very
favourable to the health of the persons immediately employed in
it. The smoke which arises from the furnace is most destructive
of animal life, and is carried off by a long flue.


