                                ALVIE.                            93

which he converted to fine arable land, capable of yielding very
rich crops. He also converted a considerable extent of ground
covered with wood to arable land, which is at present under a re-
gular rotation of crops, along with the rest of the farm. ' Mr John
Russel, tacksman of Kincraig, the property of the Laird of Mackin-
tosh, is a very industrious and improving tenant. On a low mea-
dow attached to his farm, he has, by draining, paring, and digging
up large blocks of moss-fir, converted about twenty acres of in-
different pasture to rich arable land. At Dalnavert, also the pro-
perty of the Laird of Mackintosh, Mr James Clark, the present
tacksman, nearly doubled the arable land of that farm, by drain-
itig, grubbing, and embanking, since he came into the possession
of it. At Dalraddy, the property of Mr Macpherson Grant of
Ballindalloeb, an improved system of farming has been recently.
commenced, which, when carried into 'effect, will greatly increase
the value of that part of Ballindalloch's property. The Duke of.
Gordon's lands having been lately divided into improveble lots, it
is to be hoped that the tenants will adopt a more improved system
of farming.
   Produce.-
Produce of grain of all Icinds in the parish,                           L. 3586    5       0
Potatoes and turnips, &e.                                                  1164    4       6
Clover and meadow-hay,                                                      586    3       4
Land in pasture, at 30s, per full-grown ox, and 2s. for a full grown
        sheep,                                                             1936    8       0
                                                                        -------------
                Total yearly value of raw produce,                      L. 7273    0       4

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Towels, &c.-There is no market-town in the parish:
the nearest market-town, to which the people can bring the over-
plus of their farm produce, is Inverness, situated not less than thirtv-
five miles from the northern extremity of the parish. A village
has been commenced near the southern, or rather southwest ex-
tremity of the parish, called Lynchat, on the property of Belle-
ville:-it is yet only in its infancy.
   Means of Communication.-The parish has a communication by
post with the mouth, three times a-week, by Kingussie, Blair-in-
Athol, and Pertb; and also with the north by Grantown, Forres,
and Inverness. There is no post-office in the -parirh; but there
is a receiving-bouse or sub-office, at Lynviulg, within less than
half a mile from the, church, which affords great accommodation.
I Public Roads and Carriages.- The great public road from Edin-
burgh to Inverness parses through the whole length of this parish;;
but although toll-gates have been lately placed upon this road, it


