
                        LARBERT.                               351

  The line of Mr Bruce's travels did not lie in countries where he
would have acquired a knowledge of languages of the Gothic class,
such as German, nor of those of the Slavonic class, as Servian,
Polish or Russian; nor of Persian and the Indian tongues.
  Mr Bruce used to relate, that when he was presented to the Pope
Ganganelli, Clement XIV., his Holiness said, fortunate is the sove-
reign who has a subject like Mr Bruce, able to speak thirteen
languages. Of these thirteen languages, however, it is probable
there might be some of which Mr Bruce knew only a few words.
  Mr Bruce lived in a respectable and hospitable style at Kinnaird.
He repaired, improved, and modernized a little his old mansion-
house, and built a room adjoining to it, in which he disposed his
books and oriental manuscripts on one side, and on the other
side, a collection of curiosities, consisting of corals, shells, and some
sbowyminerals. Some rifles, Turkish sabres, and other arms from
the Levant; red feather cloaks and helmets from Otaheitä;
some fragments of Egyptian antiquities; some small antique
bronzes, and Greek and Roman coins collected by Mr Bruce in
the countries which border the Mediterranean.
  He had the panels of the base of the book-cases ornamented
with figures, painted in the style of the Herculaneum fresco figures
by David Allan of Edinburgh, a meritorious artist of that time.
  In this room was also seen a great old astronomical quadrant of
brass, of two to three feet radius, a camel's load of itself, which
Mr Bruce had carried with him over hill and dale to Abyssinia,
A very clumsy instrument, when compared to the more portable
modern mercurial horizon and sextant used by travellers for finding
the latitude.
  The portfolios in this room contained the works of an Italian
draftsman whom Mr Bruce took with him in his travels. These
works consisted of architectural drawings of the Roman triumphal
arch at Tripoli, and of aqueducts and other ancient buildings,
near the site of Carthage, on the north coast of Africa, and un-
published botanical drawings of Abyssinian plants.
  Mr Bruce was a keen sportsman, and used to go in the season
to a place thirty miles off in the Highlands, on Loch Lubnaig,

  <FOOTNOTE>A brother of Mr Bruce's, who was in India in the medical service of the East
India Company, also made a collection of botanical drawings of Indian plants, which
were sold after his death, and are now, if I recollect right, in the collection of the
learned botanist, the Vice-president of the Linnean Society, Aylmer Aburke Tom.
bert, Esq.


