
     of Inverness.

<UNREADABLE>

which covers the town, was destroyed during the Rebellion
1745, together with the contiguous barracks.  Nothing
now remains of either but rubbish.  This was an irregu-
lar fortification, and consequently of little strength after the
invention of gunpowder and ordnance.  The castle is sup-
posed to have been built by King Malcolm Canmore.  The
barracks, with slender ramparts, were erected in the last
reign.  The Thane of Calder's castle was built on the east-
ern extremity of the hill.  It was razed to the ground by
Malcolm, in detestation of the murderer of his father, and
injust possessor of his kingdom for seventeen years.  There
is not a vestige of this castle to be seen, Seges, ubi Troia
suit.  Fragments of bricks at times are turned up by the
plough.  The remembrance of the theatre of Macbeth's
ambitious villany, however, is preserved in the old charter
names of the lands which belonged to it.  A family like-
wise of considerable antiquity, the Cuthberts of Castlehill,
derive their designation from the site of Macbeth's castle.
Though this family is here only incidentally mentioned,
there may perhaps be no great impropriety in remarking,
that Colbert, the prime minister of Lewis XIV. was a ca-
det of it, that his illustrious descendents recognised, and still
recognise, their origin in the family, that sons of it ranked
high in the church and armies of France, and that the bi-
shop of Rodez, is brother to Lewis Cuthbert, Esq; Provost
Marshal of Jamaica, the representative of the family.
There was, on the estate of Culduthill, at the distance of
somewhat more than a mile from Inverness, an old castle,
no trace of it now appears but the ditch with which it was
fortified, and some rubbish of slime and small stones.  Tra-
dition gives this castle to the Cummings*.-The vitrified

</UNREADABLE>

     VOL. IX. 4 L

<FOOTNOTE>

*The name it bears, however, would be more suitable to a convent
of Monks, than to a castle of that once powerful and splendid family.


