
44                          PEEBLES-SHIRE.

Laird Veitch might have a child baptized by one of the ousted
ministers, and that be had to remain "in hiding" for some time
on this account.  Tradition says that lie spent his nights in his
own house, and his days in a very small cave, scarcely sufficient to
cover his person, where he was at last betrayed by the barking of
a favourite dog that had followed him to the place of his conceal-
ment.
     Antiquities.--The only antiquities worth mentioning, are the
camps referred to in the former Statistical Account, no longer, how-
ever, nor in the memory of the oldest inhabitant, ever called Ches-
ters.  The largest of these is above the present mansion-house of
Cardrona, which word is said to mean "the camp or castle on the
ridge," and certainly a name more appropriate to its situation could
not have been invented.  A very handsome Roman pot of bronze
was a few years ago found in forming a drain on the lands of
Kailzie, and a small b`ttle-axe was picked up on the same
estate.  Both are now in the possession of its proprietor.  In                    In
the summer of 1831, while workmen were employed in widening
and levelling the public road leading towards Innerleithen, they
discovered, in a gravel knoll, about three feet from the surface, a
sepulchre or grave formed of flat stones, evidently of the same kind
as are still found on the neighbouring Minchmoor, and containing
an urn apparently composed of baked city mingled with peat, fil-
led with ashes or very fine mould.  Another urn of the same ma-
terials was discovered a yard or two distant in the bare soil, but in-
verted and covering the fragments of human bones.  The whole
was destroyed before the present writer heard of it, and all he could
pick up was a small piece of one of the urns, which, he was told,
were nearly of the form of the common garden flower-pot, but partly
figured oil the exterior by heights and grooves in the way of a pine
apple.  It is said that another sepulchre of the very same kind was,
dug up near the same spot many years ago.
     Modern Buildings.--In modern architecture there is nothing re
markable in the parish.  Part of Traquair house is very ancient,
but there is no record of its erection, (see Chalmers.)  Two sub-
stantial mansion-houses have been built since the last Statistical
Account was written,--one at Kailzie and the other at the Glen.
The church and manse are both most comfortable.  The school-
room and schoolmaster's house are equally so; and the farmhouses
in the parish are now all large, modern, respectable, and excellent
habitations. Even the cottages are generally good of their kind.
                               3


