
348                       ARGYLESHIRE.

seum are likewise to be seen three potatoes, raised this seaso6 in
a. field -on the U Iva Home farm, weighing when dug up about two
-pounds each. In this field, Mr Clark had nearly 900 barrels of
potatoes. Turnips are found to aiaswer well, and attain a great size.
The farms in the island are divided and fenced with stone.
ikes; each man's possession,, however small, is defined and pro.
tected. Near the shores the arable land generally lies; more in.
land, the pasture; and beyond that again, separated by a stone.
dike running round the island, is the sheep-walk, or bill grounds
wbere the tenants' sheep and horses are grazed, each tenant, ac-
cording to the extent of his holding, being entitldd to place in the
sheep-walk a certain number of these.
About 100 tons of kelp are annually manufactured in the island,
.and the kelp, from its strength and manufacture, is allowed to be the
best in the Western Highlands, and always commands the highest
price in the market. Some years ago, it carried the Highland
Society's premium. The other produce of the island are, pota-
toes, oats, and bear or Scots barley. The tenantry sell consi-
derable quantities of potatoes, and find a ready market at the To-
bermory distillery for their barley. Ulva is considered admirably
adapted for the rearing of black-cattle and horses, and this forms
another branch of the products of the island.
Formerly, the tenants held their possessions from year to year
on tacit relocation, but the present proprietor has introduced
leases, and gives an allowance for every acre of waste ground
brought under cultivation. The tenantry are beginning to see the
advantage of this; and draining, clearing of stonec, and layingon
of lime shell sand, are going forward.
By a private census taken in 1837, the island contained a po,
pulation of 604 souls. In this population there are shoemakers,
square-wrights, boat-carpenters, tailors, weavers, blacksmiths, dry,
stone masons, and two merchants, all more or less engaged in agricul-
ture. Each tenant b" a boat, some two, this being as necessary an
accompaniment of an,island frm, as the cart to a low countryfarm:
the boat is in joever-ending requisition, the using it for fish-
ing being only one of the many purposes it serves. In seed times
it collects the wreck and manure., and in harvest time, takes home
tbe,grain, potatoes, and peats;-in a word, next to his horse it be-
comes, in the management of his farm, the islander's right hand.
     119 Amqri4 the Ul shores, sh 11 -fish of eve description are to be
               e              ry

