
130                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

fords veins of asbestus and also. of amianthus ; actynolite, zoisite,
and tremolite occur in other rocks.
  Fishings.- The sea alon  the coast, and the various lochs branching
off from it, have long been famed for the number and quality
of herrings frequenting them; but, of late years, the fishing has
failed, as on all the west coast of Scotland, to the impoverishment
of a large population who subsisted by it. Other fish are caught
to the extent used by those employed in taking them, and the supply
required by the country,-the prevalent kinds being ling and
cod ; but few, if any, are exported.
  Wood.-A considerable quantity of natural oak, ash, birch, alder,
&c. grows in the glens and on the sides of the mountains, which
overhang the lochs by which the parish is intersected. One or
two instances, on a small scale, of plantations made at a remote
period, also show that hard woods generally, but the ash and plane
particularly, are the trees most congenial to the soil and climate.
About twenty years ago, considerable tracts of land were laid under
larch, pine, and spruce, intermingled with oak and ash, by Mr
Bruce, then proprietor of Glenelg Proper, all which have grown
well. As these plantations have been laid out with admirable taste,
they add in a great degree to the beauty of scenery, otherwise of a
high order. Mr Bruce, at the same time, expended a considerable
sum of money in the formation of an orchard near the opening of
the larger glen of the district, which be sheltered from the prevailing
winds by quick growing wood, and supplied with every description
of fruit tree, and of rare and valuable plant: but, being secured
only by a temporary dry stone dike, and common thorn hedge, and
he himself ceasing soon after to reside in the country, it became a
prey to depredators, of various kinds, and consequently suffered loss.
Still, however, the large fruit trees, especially the pear and plum,
yield good crops; and the orchard, even thus wasted, with its magnificent
beech hedge running throughout its whole length-for onehalf
the way being double, so as to form a sheltered and shaded
walk of considerable extent-and with its parallel lines of graceful
silver firs closely planted, running across its whole breadth,-constitutes
a striking object in the scenery of this, one of the first of
Highland glens.

               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The landowners of the parish are three in number:
The Right Honourable Baron Glenelg of Glene1g, present
Secretary of State for the Colonies, proprietor of Glenelg Proper,


