
18			KINCARDINESHIRE.

parishes during a few weeks in summer. The whole amount of his
yearly income may be between L. 45 and L. 50. He is a very quiet
and inoffensive man, and has an earnest desire to do good. Were
all ministers of his persuasion of equally peaceful habits, there
would be much less discord in many parishes between churchman
and dissenter, than what generally prevails. His chapel is gene-
rally well filled on Sunday evenings by the members of the Esta-
blished Church.
	Divine service at the parish church is generally well attended.
There are a good many persons residing in Gourdon, and in the
burgh, who had no accommodation in the old church, and had no
desire to dissent. By the habit of non-attendance, they lost, in a
great measure, a due sense of the s`cred duty of joining in public
worship; but they are now happily coming up to the new church,
where there is excellent accommodation for all in the parish, who
sincerely wish to obey the divine command, and to profit by the
public ordinances of the gospel. The number of communicants
is about 470, being the average of several years.
	The average, yearly amount of the collections made in the old
church for the poor was L. 30. An yearly collection, varying from
L. 4 to L. 5, is made for the Aberdeen Infirmary, and occasional
collections are made for religious purposes, such as the General
Assembly's schemes, &c.
	Education.--There are, at present, six schools in the parish, viz.
one parochial school, and five private schools unendowed. The
branches of education taught at the parish school are, English
reading, writing, arithmetic, English grammar, mathematics, Latin
and Greek, &c. The teacher is a licentiate of the Church of
Scotland. The first private school is also taught by a licensed
preacher of the gospel, who has an establishment for boarders,
and teaches the same branches of education as those taught at the
parochial school. The other private schools are all conducted
by females, and they are entirely for beginners learning to read.
The salary of the parochial teacher is L. 29, 18s. 9d. He has in
lieu of garden, L. 2, 2r. 9d. The amount of his school fees varies
from L. 15 to L. 20. The rate of fees at the parochial school is as
under: English reading, 3s. per quarter; writing, 2s.; English
grammar, 5s.; arithmetic, 4s. 6d.; mathematics, 5s.; Latin, 5s.;
Greek, 5s. The terms of board and education at the private se-
minary are, for young gentlemen under ten years of age, L. 16 to
L. 21; under fourteen, L. 22 to L. 25.


