
			APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.           177

commences too early, and opens again before the spawned fish, or
at least the greater part of them, have reached the sea. The va-
rieties in the Annan belonging to this family are common salmon in
its various states; the Sea Trout.-Two fish are confounded under
this name, Salmo trutta and Salmo eriox, or gray. Both are easily
distinguished from the gilse or young salmon by the size and length
of the head, and the form of the tail. They commence running
from June to the middle of July, according to the season, and ge-
nerally spawn in the lesser streams.
	The Herling (Ralmo albus) ascends the river during July and
August, (though in wet seasons a few are got at the mouth in June,)
and continues to run till September. They spawn early, chiefly in
the smaller streams, and the kelted or spawned fish return to the
sea befnre March, though they are sometimes met with so late as the
middle of April. Experienced anglers are of opinion that in the
early run of this fish many young salmon mix, and are killed indis-
criminately with them in the Solway nets. It might be of advan-
tage, therefore that the herling-nets or houses of small mesh should
not be permitted before the beginning of July, at which period all
the gilses would have attained a size which would render a mistake
nearly impossible. The herring weighs generally from 8 oz. to 1lb.
        The Parr.-This species, though often maintained to be the fry
of salmon, is very distinct, and possesses characters much more de-
cided than many of the others. It seldom exceeds six inches in
length, and is oftener from three to five. It is gregarious. Some
of them remain in the river during the whole year; but the adult
fish seem to remove to or near the salt water to spawn, thus per-
forming a migration at variance with that of their congeners. At
the end of February and in March, the males may be found on
the confines of tide-way full of milt, and shedding it on the least
handling. They are found in most Scottish rivers that have easy
access to the sea; a circtmstance which seems essential to their
health and may perhaps account for their not being know above
the Falls of Clyde, or any of its upper tributaries. The parr has
not yet been accurately described by naturalists; and thoughh it is
almost every where abundant, its history is but imperfectly known.
	The Common Trout is abundant in all its river varieties. When
in season it is a remarkably fine fish, sometimes weighing as much
as 5or 6 lbs., ordinary weight from 1 to 1 1/2 lb. It spawns late.
The only fish which now seems extinct in the parish is the perch.

	DUMFRIES.                  M


