
     Statistical Account.

admiration, as exceeding any thing they had ever seen for
grandeur and extent of prospect*.

   Language, Manners, etc.-The language of all born and
bred in this parish, approaches to the broad Scotch, differing,
however, from the dialects spoken in Aberdeen and Murray-
shire; this being one of the three parishes in the counties of
Ross and Cromarty, in which, till of late years, the Gaelic
language, which is the universal language in the adjacent
parishes, was scarce ever spoken.  There has been a consi-
derable change, of late years, in this respect, among the in-
habitants here; the Gaelic having become rather more pre-
valent than usual+.  There is a very genteel society, in this
place, composed of several respectable and good families, re-
markable for sobriety, for decency and propriety of conduct,
in every respect.  There are also in the country part of the
parish, and among the farmers, several judicious heads of

<FOOTNOTE>

*The crops raised in the parish, are, oats, barley, pease, very little wheat,
potatoes.  Oats are generally sown in the end of March and beginning of April;
potatoes and pease in the month of April, and barley in the month of May.
Barley harvest begins, in general, about the middle of August, other crops are
reaped in September.  The parish finds consumption for the greater part of the
victual raised among us.  Some indeed is exported to the neighbouring counties,
but in no great quantities.
+This change has been partly occasioned by the great number of labourers
from other quarters of the country, employed in carrying on Mr. Ross's im-
provements; many of whom took up their residence in the place; the number
of such labourers may be judged of, from this circumstance, that in one year,
there was known to be no less a sum than 1000 l. distributed among them at 6 d.
a-day.  What makes the Gaelic language now have any footing, is the esta-
blishment of the manufacture, which has collected many inhabitants to the
place, who never knew any other than the Gaelic tongue.  It is to be observed,
in general, that the Gaelic is wholly confined to those who have settled here
from the neighbouring parishes.  It is worthy of notice, that there is a peculiar
sirname, Mustard, among the people here, not common elsewhere.


