

                   ELGIN.                                             7

stripping the lead from the cathedral churches of Aberdeen and
Elgin, and selling it to pay the troops. This order was too faithful-
ly executed, and the cathedral of Moray, thus uncovered, was
suffered to decay as a piece of Romish vanity, too expensive -to be
kept in repair. The wooden work of the great tower gradually de-
cayed, and, the foundation giving way, it fell in the year 171 L'The
remains of this venerable pile are well worth the examination of
the traveller. The chapter-house, an exact octagon, 37 feet in
diagonal breadth, with a vaulted roof 34 feet high, and supported,
in the centre by a column 24 feet high, and 9 feet in circumference,
on which rest arched pillars from each angle of the sides, is in good
preservation. The turrets and walls of the choir on the east end,
and the towers on the west, between which was the grand entrance
with its deep recess and bivalved door richly ornamented, are still
standing at the dimensions already specified; but of the walls of
the nave and traverse only a few fragments remain. A commend-
able attention has been paid for some years past by the Barons of
Exchequer in Scotland, and the Commissioners of Woods and
Forests in England, to the preservation of these interesting relies,
and grants of money have been judiciously expended in clearing
away the great mass of rubbish in the choir and nave, by which the
steps to the altar and the bases of the pillars that supported the
arches of the aisles have been uncovered, so that a tolerably accu-
rate idea may now be, formed of the extent of the several parts of
the building. Much praise is due to the present keeper * for the
zeal and diligence with which he has laboured in bringing to light
adjuncts of the fabric, particularly the steps leading to the grand
entrance, and a porch. to the southmost aisle, of which there was
no record.
   The Colleqe was an appendage of the Cathedral, and contained
not only the church and grave yard, but also the bishop's house,
and the manses and gardens of the twenty-two canons. It, was
inclosed with a strong stone wall 4 yards high and 900 yards in
circuit, and had four gates. The Pans -Port or eastern gateway,
with part of the enclosing wall,, is still standing, and appears to have
had a portcullis, iron gate, and porter's lodge.
A Convent of Grey Friars was settled in Elgin by Alexander IL
and the ruins of their church are to be seen on the soutk side of
the town.
The site of the preceptory of Maison Dieu may be traced in the

<FOOTNOTE>John Shariks.


