
                                    CANONBIE                        497

years of age who cannot read a little, and repeat many of the ques-
tions in the Shorter and Mother's Catechisms.
	Library.--A Library was instituted in this parish in 1813
The annual contribution for the purchasing of books is the sum
of 4s. 6d. exclusive of entry money. Though not numerous,the
books are very select; and the collection is, under the best manage-
ment.
	Charitable Institutions.--There are two Friendly Societies in
the parish, which have considerable funds for the relief of sick
members.  They have been in existence for many years, and
have afforded relief to many distressed members and poor widows.
     Savings Bank.--A Savings Bank was begun here sometime
ago. As long as four per cent. was allowed upon the deposits, very
considerable sums were lodged. Since the per centage was lowered,
no money has been paid in for years, and the whole amount is
withdrawn, except L. 20 or L. 30.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid at the present time is 7S; but occasional
assistance is given to 25 others. The average sum allotted to
each of those who are upon the poors' roll is about L. 1 per, quar-
ter. Poor rates were established in this parish in the year 1778,
when the annual amount was only L. 54, 2s.; which left a consi-
derable surplus in the collector's hand, after affording the necessary
relief to 24 persons, the whole poor then in the parish, At mar-
tinmas 1793, the number of poor on the roll was 68, and the as-
sessment for their support was L. 176 a year. Last year, the sum
of L. 457, 15s. 8d. was distributed among the poor. Of this sum
L. 408, 9s. 8d. was raised by assessment, at the rate of 1s. 2d. per
pound, the landlord paying one-half, and the tenant the other;
from church collections, L. 27, 5s. ; from the use of a hearse, the
property of the poor, and from fines for irregular marriages and
immoral conduct, L. 21, 16s. We believe there is, with a few ex-.
ceptions, a disposition among the poor to refrain from seeking pa-
rochial relief, which they consider as degrading. But, at the same
time, it must be allowed, that this independent spirit is by no
means so strong as it was fort years ago.
	Inns.--There is one principal inn in the parish, kept in the most
orderly manner, where travellers meet with every accommodation
and comfort; also four alehouses in different places. These low
tippling-houses produce the worst effects upon the morals of the
people. It is much to be regretted that the Justices of Peace do


