
126                  BERWICKSHIRE.

waste land in the parish. The whole parish, indeed, may be said
to be in a high state of cultivation. The number of acres planted
is about 37l.
   All the plantations are in a very thriving state,-particularly
those on the banks of the Whitadder at Ninewells. They are
also well managed. For some years past, the periodical fellings
at Whitehall have been considerable,-in so much that a quantity
of oaks of superior quality was cut down there four or five years
ago, which must have brought about L. 800 Sterling.
   Prices of Timber.-The comparative prices of wood grown here
during the late war, and at the present time, are as follows: Dur-
ing the late war, for fir of a superior quality, per cubic foot, from
2s. 6d. to 3s.; oak, 4s. 6d. to 5s.; ash and elm, 3s.;-at present,
fir, 1s.; oak, 2s. 6d.; ash and elm, 1s. 6d.
   Rent of Land.-lt was matter of Astonishment to the writer of
the last Statistical Account, that the rents of land in this parish
should have risen from 3s. to 12s., and from 5s. to L. 1 per acre.
How much more astonishing to find that these rents have now risen
to L. 1, 16s., L. 2, L. 2, 10s., L. 3, 15s. L. 4, L. 4, 4s., and some-
times even more per acre.
   Of late years, the practice has been introduced of letting land
upon a corn-rent,-that is, for a certain number of bushels of oats
per acre, to be estimated at the average fiars of the five crops im-
mediately preceding. This scheme, however, though apparently
an equitable one for both parties, has its difficulties, from the fluc-
tuations in prices, and in the quantities of produce in different years.
To remedy this, the parties have agreed upon both a maximum
rent, which shall never be surpassed, and a minimum, below which
it must never fall.

<TABLE>

   The rental of the parish is as follows:
          Of farm lands,                        L. 7601  0  0
          Of houses, Ninewells and Whitehall,        80  0  0
          Of plantations at Whitehall,              200  0  0
          Other plantations,                        150  0  0
          Of houses in Chirnside,                   473  0  0
                                                   ----------
                                                L. 8504  0  0
   Rate of Wages.-Farm-servants, or hinds, are generally hired
for one year, from Whitsunday to Whitsunday, and receive ten
bolls of oats, three of barley, and one of pease,-also their food in
harvest, the keep of a cow, an allowance when they take the corn
to market, about 1200 or 1400 yards in length of a drill of twenty-
eight inches wide for potatoes, three or four double-horse cart-


