
362                       EDINBURGSHIRE.

called the Fore-wood Water, and the latter the Back-wood
Water.  It appears to have been originally a copsewood, the out-
skirts of which have been filled up with forest and other trees.  It
extends up the banks of the Linhouse Water above a mile and a
half.
  The trees to which the richest soils appear to be most conge-
nial are, the plane-tree, Platanus, the lime-tree, the ash, the beech,
and all the different species of poplars and willows.  All these
thrive best in a humid loam.  There are many oaks also, but none
of which have as yet arrived at any great, age or perfection.

                          II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Family of Torphichen.--The first authentic account we have of
this ancient family, is in the reign of David II, 1336, when Sir
James Sandilands obtained a grant from that monarch of lands in
the county of Peebles, for his lands of Craiglockard and Steny-
path, in the county of Edinburgh.  He also possessed the lands
and barony of Wiston, in Lanarkshire; and, in 1346, he obtained
a confirmation of the lands of Sandilands and Reidmyre, in Dou-
glasdale, from William, Lord Douglas.  Having greatly distin-
guished himself by his many heroic actions and eminent services,
under that illustrious commander, in the war against the English,
he became so great a favourite that be obtained the hand of his
sister, Elionora, Countess of Carrick, in marriage.  She was only
daughter of Archibald Douglas, of Douglas, and relict of Alex-
ander Bruce, Earl of Carrick; and with her he received the ba-
rany of West-Calder, in "liberum maritagium," to be held by
them and their heirs, in like manner as Earl William held the said
barony from Duncan, Earl of Fife.  In this manner arose the con-
nection of the House of Sandilands with that of Douglas; and, in
consequence of this alliance, the Sandilands family came eventu-
ally as heirs-at-law, to quarter the Douglas's arms with their
own.
  James Sandilands, the fruit of this alliance, being also a person
of great merit, received the honour of knighthood from Robert II.,
who esteemed him so highly that he gave him his own lawful
daughter, the lady Jane, together with a grant of the baronies of
Dalzell, Modirvale, and the lands of Erthbisset, Auchtirbanok,
and Slamanonmoor, with other pertinents, which the family gra-
dually lost; but from their predilection to Calder, and this being
their principal residence, they are chiefly known under that desig-
nation.  These facts are sufficiently proved by authentic evidence
                           4


