
			   GLASGOW.                             141

shire, adapted the stock cards used in 'the woollen manufacture, to
the carding of cotton, and greatly improved them. By their means,
a person was able to do double the work, and with more ease than by
hand-carding. It contrivance was soon succeeded by the cy-
linder carding-machine. It has not been ascertained who was the
inventor of this valuable machine, but it is known, that the grand-
father of Sir Robert Peel, late first Lord of the Treasury, was
among the first who used it. In 1767, Mr Hargreave invented the
spinning jenny. This machine, although of limited powers, when
compared with the beautiful inventions which succeeded it, must
be considered as the first and leading step in that progress of dis-
covery, which carried improvement into every branch of the manu-
facture, changing as it proceeds, the nature and character of the
means of production, by substituting mechanical operation for hu-
man labour. The progress of invention after this was rapid.
Hargreave in the meantime bad removed to Nottingham, where
be erected a small spinning work, and soon afterwards died in great
poverty. The jenny having in a short time put an end to the
spinning of cotton by the common wheel, the whole wefts used in
the manufacture continued to be spun upon that machine, until the
invention of the mule jenny, by which in its turn it was superman
seded. It would appear, that whilst Hargreave was producing the
common jenny, Mr (afterwards Sir Richard) Arkwright, was em-
ployed in contriving that wonderful piece of mechanism, the spin-
ning-frame, which, when put in motion, performs of itself the,
whole process of spinning, leaving to man only the office of sup-
plying the material, and of joining or piecing the thread. *
	In 1769, Mr Arkwright obtained his patent for spinning with
rollers, and he erected his first mill at Nottingham, which he
worked by horse power. But this mode of giving motion to the
machinery being expensive, he built another mill at Cromford in
Derbyshire in 1771, to which motion was given by water. Water-
twist received its name from the circumstance of the machinery
from which it is obtained, having for a long time after its invention
been generally put in motion by water. The only improvement
or even alteration yet made Sir Richard's contrivance, the spin-
ning-frame, is the machine invented several  years ago, called the
throstle. Instead of four or six spindles being coupled together,

    <FOOTNOTE>Those who desire a more minute account of the early history of the cotton trade,
are referred a valuable and elaborate work on that subject, by Mr John 'Kennedy
of Manchester.


