
                            BIRSE                            795

into view the size of the different properties, about L.1, 8s.  In
stating this as the average of the parish, it may be mentioned,
that, along with the land rented, there is conveyed to the tenant
right to the common pasturage of the hills, for which no separate
rent is charged; on which account the average rent of an acre be-
comes somewhat higher than it would otherwise be.  Moreover,
since the above average was taken some years ago rents on some
of the properties have considerably fallen, and may now be called
about L.1, 2s. the imperial acre.
   The size of the farms in the parish is comparatively small, the
generality being from 30 to 60 acres, and only two being above
100 acres.  The chief part of the labour on these farms is done
by the farmers and their families, for which reason the number of
farm-servants in the parish is not large.
   Prices.-Fir wood can be bought at from 6d. to 8d. per cubic
foot.  Hard-wood, which is scarce, is a good deal higher.
Lime, burned in the kilns at home, costs about 7d. per bushel;
that brought from Aberdeen 1s. 2d., including the expense of car-
riage.  Coals cost about 2s. per barrel, the distance from Aber.
deen doubling their expense.
   The state of husbandry has been much improved within the last
twenty years.  Previous to that time, regular rotation in cropping was
scarcely practised, while lime and manure were very sparingly ap-
plied to the soil.  Now the great proportion of the land is farmed
regularly, and the more enterprising of the farmers are beginning
to introduce some of the modern improvements in agriculture.
   The rotation of cropping followed is what is called the seven-
shift, one, which, though it may be doubtful whether it be the
most proper, is at least better than the former practice of follow-
ing none.
  The general duration of the leases granted by the proprietors is
for nineteen years; but in most instances, where tenants are active
and industrious, these are renewed.  Several farms in the parish
have been occupied by the present tenants and their forefathers for
centuries.
   The chief difference in the present state of the parish and that
which existed at the date of the last Statistical report, consists
in the improved condition of the farm-houses and buildings.
At that period, not one slated farm-house existed and both
dwelling-houses and other erections were built without lime, the
upper half of either gable generally consisting of turf.  Now, how-


