
     Statistcal Account

   Roads, Services, and Fuel.-The public roads are in good
repair, and have been greatly improved within these few years,
which renders the access easy from all quarters; but the bye
roads, especially such as lead to the glens, are rugged, slippery,
and dangerous, lying in some parts along the brink of precipi-
ces, and so narrow that two men can hardly pass each other.
The statute labour is converted into money.-Some personal
services are still exacted, but they are not oppressive, requiring

<FOOTNOTE>

King Robert Bruce, immediately after his defeats at Methven and Dalrce, the
pleadings were in the Celtic language.
   In this district stood the famous city of Bergonium-it was situated between
two hills, one called Dun Macsnicban, "the hill of Snachan's son," and the o-
ther, much superior in height, is named Dun bbail an righ, "the hill of the
"king's town."  A street paved with common stones, running from the foot
of the one hill to the other, is still called Straid-mbaragaid, "the market
"street;" and another place, at a little distance, goes by the name of Straid
namiu; "the meal street."  About 10 or 11 years ago a man, cutting peats
in a moss between the two hills, found one of the wooden pipes that conveyed
the water from the one hill to the other, at the depth of 5 feet below the
surface.  On Dun Macsnichan is a large heap of rubbish and pumice stones; but
no distinst traces of any building or fortification can now be seen on either of
the hills, the foundations having been dup up for the purpose of erecting hour-
fes in the neighbourhood.
   There is a tradition, among the lower class of people, that Beregonium
was destroyed by fire from heaven.  In confirmatin of this tradition, it may
be mentioned, that a high rock, near the summit of Dun bbail an righ, project-
ing and overhanging the road, has a volcanic appearance and a most hide-
ous aspect.  Huge fragments have tumbled down from it.  Adjoining to this
place, is a fine, open, spacious bay, with a sandy bottom, capable of containing
the whole navy of Great Britain.
   It would be endless to enumerate all the Druidical monuments in this di-
strict.  May cairns and heaps of stones are to be seen here: one, in parti-
cular, near the centre of a deep moss about 3 or 4 miles in circumference.  In
different places, are stones rising 12 feet above the surface of the earth, all of
them one single stone; and, at a small distance, a number of large stones from
20 to 22 feet in length, of an oval figure


