
     of Alyth.

nor quality, and the advanced price of marle, will soon make
it more used.
   The village of Alyth is situated in this distinct.  Its name
is of Gaelic extraction, and is expressive of its situation, being
built on a flat near the foot of a hill.  It was made a burgh of
barony by a charter from James III.  The whole of it belongs
in superiority or property to the Earl of Airly, who has a large
and valuable estate in this part of the parish, which has been
long in the possession of that noble family.  The situation of
the village is healthy; it is well supplied with water, excellent
springs are found on all sides, and a small rivers runs through
the lower part of the town.  Over it are two bridges, by which
the inhabitants have easy intercourse; manufactures of differ-
ent kinds might be carried on here to great advantage.  There
is a weekly market in the village, tolerably well supplied with
butcher meat, poultry, butter, cheese, etc. and several annu-
al fairs for black cattle and sheep are held here.  The chief
articles are yarn and brown linens, of which a great quantity
is manufactured in the town, and district around it.  The
quantity of cloth stamped from the 1st November 1787, to the
1st November 1791, at an average, was 258, 639 yards yearly,
and the medium price L. 6939: 10: 3 1/11.  This branch of
trade, though lately much improved and enlarged, is far from
being carried on to that extent it would admit, and well de-
serves.  Perhaps not one half of the yarn spun in this part of
the country is manufactured in it.  The distance from Dundee,
(15 miles), where most of cloth is sent, is compensated by
cheaper labour and living: the intercourse is made easy by the
turnpike road betwixt Dundee and Meigle, which will be soon
finished.  And there is a plan in agitation for continuing this
road from Meigle to Alyth, and crecting a bridge over the Isla
in that line, which it is much to be wished may take place, as
it would be a most essential benefit to the country.


