
                              KENNOWAY                              383

monly observed vary according to the nature of the soil. Upon
the stronger soils, the following are practised: Summer fallow,
wheat, beans, barley, hay, oats. Summer fallow or potatoes,
wheat, hay, pasture, oats. Summer fallow, wheat, barley, hay,
oats.
   Upon the lighter soils, the following are in use: viz. turnips or
potatoes, barley or wheat, hay, pasture, oats. Turnips or potatoes,
barley or wheat, pasture, pasture, oats.
   The high prices during the late war gave a stimulus to the im-
provement of the soil; and at this day, the exertions of the tenan-
try have by no means slackened. Although suffering much, as
they have done for a number of years past, from the very low state
of the market, yet it appears as if their utmost efforts have been
used to raise an increased quantity of produce, so as to indemnify
themselves for the depression of price. By the improvements that
have been thus introduced, the fertility of the soil has been much in-
creased. It can safely be averred, that now a fourth more pro-
duce is raised from the soil than was obtained twenty years ago.
This has been chiefly brought about by improved rotations of crop-
ping, by draining and liming, and by the use of artificial manures,
such as ground bones and rape dust.
   The drainage of the soil, hitherto, has been accomplished in
most cases by deep drains cut across the field at the top of the
spring; but a new system has now been put into practice, which,
if properly executed upon that portion of the parish which lies on
a retentive sub-soil, will very much increase its value, and render
it fit to carry all kinds of green crops. This new system, which
is called the frequent-drain system, has been borrowed from Mr
Smith of Deanston. It is executed by cutting small drains up every
six or every twelve ell furrow, as occasion requires, from two and a-
half to three feet deep, with small spades used for the purpose. At
the top, the drains are of the width of a common spade; and at the
bottom, the small spade is used to cut them out four inches wide;
and a scoop finishes the process, by clearing out the loose earth at
the bottom. The drains are, after this, filled to within eighteen inches
of the surface, with stones broken to the size of road-metal; and
these stones are then covered with a turf. After the field has been
gone over with these drains, it is ploughed by a trenching skeleton
plough, sixteen inches deep,-which opens the hard sub-soil below,
and allows the water to percolate to the drains, so that the land is
rendered perfectly dry.




