
10                          LANARKSHIRE.

getate, although its huge trunk is hollowed to such a degree that ten
persons have been crammed into the excavation. The other is a
magnificent larch, said to have been one of the firs brought into
this country; it is 100 feet in height, and 18 in girth, containing
320 cubic feet of timber.

		         II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Notices.--There does not exist any ancient account
of this parish. The town is acknowledged to be of very great an-
tiquity; but all the information we possess with respect to it in
former ages, consists in a few rare and incidental notices scattered
throughout the general histories of the country. It is supposed
to be the Coloenia of Ptolemy; a Roman road having passed
through, or near it, to its castle, on the south-west side. In subse-
quent ages, it must have been a place of considerable importance,
as may be inferred from the fact recorded by Buchanan, that, in
the year 978, Kenneth 11. here held an assembly of the states of
the realm. That it was a royal town at a very early period is
certain; for Malcolm IV., in granting a toft in Lanark, speaks of
it as in burgo meo; and William, the successor of Malcolm, also
designates it his burgh. It possesses charters; the original one
erecting it into a royal burgh was granted by Alexander I.; there
is also one by Robert I., dated at Linlithgow, the fourth year of
his reign; another without date, by Alexander Ill.; a fourth by
the same monarch in the thirteenth year of his reign; there
are besides two by James V.; and a final one, confirmatory of
all the rest, given by Charles I., and bearing date 20th February
1632.
	Chalmers is certainly wrong, when he says in his Caledonia,
that " we hear nothing of any royal castle or place of royal resi-
dence in this city," On a small artificially-shaped hill, between the
town and the river, at the foot of the street called Castle Gate, and
still bearing the name of the Castle hill, there stood in former times
beyond all doubt a royal castle. Tradition ascribes it to David I.
It was the place from which the charter of William the Lion, in
favour of the town of Ayr, was dated in 1197. In the treaty ne-
gotiated in 1298, respecting the marriage of the niece of King
Philip of France, with the son and heir of John Baliol, the Castle
or Castelany of lanark was mortgaged as part of the security for the
lady's jointure. We bear of it as being in the thirteenth century
in the hands of English soldiers. Besides, there are places in the


