
146				WIGTONSHIRE.

is the favourite game. Quoits and hand-ball are occasionally re-
sorted to at other seasons, but rarely by grown persons. Hand-
ball and marbles are the only games in favour with boys. The
girls seem to have no games at all peculiar to themselves.
	Character and Habits of the People.--The poorer class, constitut-
ing the majority of the population, are very far from being cleanly
or tidy in their habits; but it is quite the reverse with those in
better circustances, especially in the town. The diet of the or-
dinary labourer is often very poor. The smallness of his wages,
and still more his improvident habits, allow him but a rare supply
and scanty proportion of anim`l food. Many, especially of the
labourers resident in the town or in the country, and of the small
cottars in the country, are miserably clothed, miserably fed, mi-
serably lodged, and miserably provided with furniture in their
dwellings. But these evils have undoubtedly, in most instances,
a moral couse. For others, with precisely the same advantages,
contrive to make themselves tolerably comfortable. The agricul-
tural population are generally much poorer, and do not live so
well as in the better cultivated and more populous districts of
Scotland. Farmers, in circumstances of moderate comfort, do not
use animal food above once in a day, and that not always
	The ordinary comforts and advantages of society may generally
be enjoyed by the prudent and industrious. In the queries, to
which this Statistical Account is an answer, it is asked whether
"the people, on the whole, are contented with their situation and
circumstances?" Here it is necessary to distinguish between two
kinds of what is commonly called contentment. There is in the
majority by far too much of that sort of contentment which con-
sists in preferring the present condition to the exertion and pru-
dent management by which it might be improved. But, as inse-
parable from this species of contentment, there is a lamentable de-
ficiency of that just and thankful recognition of comforts and
advantagds enjoyed or attainable, which, mingling with a sense of
the salutary discipline of unavoidable evils, constitutes true con-
tentment. Although there is not so much of the restless and
michievous spirit of discontent openly displayed, as would be hail-
ed by the unprincipled demagogue, enough may be observed to
suggest and enforce the lesson, that unless the hearts of men be
imbued with the spirit of the Gospel, we shall look everywhere in
vain for much contentment as is truly conducive to the well-being
of society, or to its permanent security.


