
14                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

without any change in the nature of the rock, or any notable ad-
dition to the quantity of water.  The spring rose to the surface of
the earth and flowed over in small quantity, but on putting in a
pump, the supply was found to be equal to about 45 gallons per
minute, and of excellent quality, being, though not absolutely soft,
yet not by any means materially hard.
   The only other attempt of this kind which has been made is by
Messrs Fisher and Son at the Devanha Brewery, about a mile
south-west from the boundary of the parish, where a bore of six.
inches wide at the top, but diminished to three inches at bottom,
was driven to the depth of 140 feet.  Nearly the whole of this was
through a red granite rock of variable hardness, and the supply of
water, which was obtained after boring about 35 feet, not having
been materially increased, the attempt was then given up.  The
water rose to within two feet of the surface, and the quantity ob,
tained by applying a pump amounted to about 12 gallons per mi-
nute; but it was so strongly impregnated with carbonate of iron as,
to be altogether useless for the purposes of the brewery.
   Zoology.-It cannot be expected that the natural history of a
parish which is nearly altogether occupied by a large city should
present many objects of rarity or interest.  In regard to quadru-
peds, the only circumstance that occurs as being worthy of notice,
is, that the black rat, which formerly used to abound over all Scot-
land, has for many years been altogether expelled from this pa-
risb by the large brown rat, which is commonly said to have been
imported from Norway.  The swallow and martin commonly make
their appearance here about the end of April, and depart a little
before the autumbal equinox.  The beautiful bird, the Bohemian
jay, is sometimes seen here, but seldom.  The other birds found are
those which occur in other similarly situated parts of the north of
Scotland.  The sea in the neighbourhood yields considerable va-
iiety of fish, of which those principally caught are the haddock,
whiting, cod, skate, and flounders of various kinds, as plaice, &c.
Ling, halibut, soles and mackerel are occasionally caught, and
there is no reason to doubt that an abundant supply of some of the,
finer, kinds of fish, as turbot, might be obtained if the fishermen
were in the habit of using decked boats, in which they could ven-
ture to go 15 or 20 miles out to sea.  An attempt was made some
years ago by some fishers from Hartlepool to introduce the tur-
bot fishery here, but they did not meet with the encouragement
which they had hoped for.  Herrings are occasionally caught in
                           3


