
102                        LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

ror, but which is greatly its inferior in point of embellishment, we
cannot err in referring it at the latest to the tenth or eleventh cen-
turies. It is a very elegant small fabric, all of cut stone, 84 feet
long and 25 broad, except at the east end, where it contracts into
a semicircle. The pediments of the principal doors and windows'
are richly carved, resting on single columns with Gothic capitals,
and round the upper part of the building there is an embossment
of carved faces, all dissimilar and of grotesque appearance. But
the chief beauty of the church is in the interior, which has a strik-
ing effect on entering from the west, especially from the upper
part of the gallery. The body of the church is divided into three
parts by two semicircular arches, that over the chancel being so
much smaller than the other as to render the perspective peculi-
arly pleasing. They are both richly ornamented with successive
tiers of mouldings of a zigzag or starry shape. This structure
was repaired and refitted in 1816, in a manner corresponding to
its architectural beauty, though it is to, regretted that so fine
and perfect a specimen of that peculiar style of building should be
deformed externally by the addition of a modern cemetery for the
family of Rosebery, and more recently of a private room belonging
to that of Dundas. It seems originally to have formed part of the
diocese of St Andrews, and to'have been granted during the thir-
teenth century to the Abbey of Jedburgh, in the reign of William
or Alexander II., to which it pertained till the annexation of the
church lands to the Crown by James VI. in 1596. From the
crown-charter conveying the rights of the lands and barony of
Dalmeny, and the fortalice of Barnbougle, with the patronage or
"capallaniae et altaris Sancti Adamani infra ecclesiam parochia-
lem de Durrimany," it would appear to have been dedicated to
St Adaman, as the adjoining parish of Cramond was to St Co-
lumba and the Virgin Mary, the right of presenting to all these
Altars, which were frequently separate endowments, being vested
in the family of Moubray. At the door of the church there ir a
stone-coffin of large dimensions, cut from a single block, and co-
vered both on the lid and sides with hieroglyphics which cannot
now,deciphered. It was found near to its present position, in
digging a belonging to the Stawarts of Craigie, but nothing
can,traced of its origin. Coffins of similar material, but of
much simpler and ruder construction, have been found in other
parts of the parish, one of which is still to,seen with its end
projecting from the bank formed by a cut through Craigiehill on
the road leading to Kirkliston. It scarcely seems to admit of




