
            898                          PERTHSHIRE.

            principal division, from which it is separated by branches of the
            parishes of lzinloeb and Bendocby.  It comprehends part of the
            district called the Forest of Cluny, and a conshderable tract on
            both sides of the river Ardle, consisting of the properties of Black-
            craig, Wester Cally, and Whitehouse.  Its superficial extent may
            be about 4 square miles.  The Forest of Cluny, within the me-
            mory of man, contained a considerable population, who cultivated
            small farms along the banks of the Burn of Lornty, which tra-
            verses the district ; but this population has been entirely swept
            away, and their possessions thrown into one large grazing.  The
            other detached portion of the parish lies to the north-east of the
            main division, from which it is separated by the parish of Rattray,
            and is supposed to contain about 2 square miles.  It is known by
            the general name of the Creuchies, and is but thinly inhabited.
               Topographical Appearances.-The parish lies on the north side
            of the magnificent valley of Strathmore, partly within it, and partly
            along the series of gentle elevations which form its northern
            boundary, rising in height, as they recede from the plain, till they
            swell ott into the lofty summits of the Grampian mountains.
            Longitudinally, the parish extends nearly due north and south,
            and is naturally divided into two districts, nearly equal in extent,
            the Highland and the Lowland; the former being the hilly divi-
            sion, which lies to the northward of the great strath, the latter, the
            portion lying within its boundary,-each differing from the other,
            as well in the characteristic features of natural scenery, as in the
            habits and manners of the population, tbough, in the latter re-
            spect, the difference is daily becoming less remarkable.  The
            upper division extends for a distance of several miles along the
            west side of the romantic Glen-Ericht, which forms the entrance
            of one of the great passes into the Highlands, and through which
            the Ericht/f* pours its impetuous torrent towards the valley of
            Strathmore, in a direction nearly south-east.  The first of the
            series of elevations rises with a somewhat steep ascent, from the
            level of the strath, to the height of a few hundred feet.  It is
            known by the name of the Hill of Blair, and is entirely under cul-
            tivation.  Immediately behind this eminence rises another ridges,
            rather higher than the first, called Knock-ma-har, partly culti-
            vated, and partly covered with plantations of Scots fir, and sloping
            abruptly on the north side down to the bed of the burn or water

            <FOOTNOTE>Ericht, Gaelic name, meaning literally "rough" or "rapid."


