
250                     ARGYLESHIRE.

ing laborious, the wages of a day-labourer vary from 1s, 6d. to 1s,
10d. per day.  A particularly able workman, when required, re-
ceives 2s. and sometimes 2s. 6d. per day, but the number employ-
ed on day's wages at the latter rate is small and occasional.  Lads
from fifteen to twenty, years of age earn 1s. to 1s 6d. a-day, and
boys from ten to fifteen years, 6d. to 1s.  These rates of wages
are applicable alike to the summer and winter seasons.  Besides
those day-labourers employed by the master, crews are frequently
in the habit of hiring in men and boys to assist them when they
find it their interest so to do, but all are under the control of the
master as if directly hired by himself.  With a very few exceptions,
the workmen are all the descendants of the original inhabitants
of the immediate neighborhood of the quarriea, such as are not
being chiefly from the adjoining districts; and as employment can
be obtained at an early age, the boys generally follow the calling
of their fathers, and a very effective body of workmen is thus kept
up.  Indeed no man can become dexterous in the various depart-
ments of the manufacture of slates unless he is trained to it from
his youth, for nothing but experience can enable a man to judge
of the quality of the rock on which he is engaged, and understand
the best way of working it; and it requires early and continued
practices to become expert at splitting and cutting slates.
   Upwards of three-fourths of the men employed in the quarries
have their houses on the Bailechelish estate, and the houses are built
with stone and lime, and slated.  The accommodation in each is
three apartments, all plastered, with chimnies and grates in the
principal one, and an open garret above.  To most of them a cow-
house is attached, as almost everyman with a family has a cow,
which is pastured on the adjoining hill, and also a piece of grounds
which produces annually from two to two and a half tons of pota-
toes, as well as a small vegetable garden.  A man occupying a
house of the best description of those just mentioned, pays of year-
ly rent for the house, L.2, 5s. ; pasture of cow, L.1, 6s. potato
ground, &c. 15s. ; total, L.4, 6s.  It is, perhaps, worthy of re-
mark, that the land occupied as potato ground has been exclusive-
ly planted with that crop ever since its introduction to this country
upwards of seventy years ago, and that at this time, the produce,
both in quantity and quality, is equal, if not superior, to that of ad-
joining lands which undergo a rotation of crops.  The fuel used is
entirely coals, which are brought in at a moderate freight, by vessels
coming for slates.


