
     Of Jura and Colonsay.

culty of its ferries to the main shore.  Had the inhabitants
easier access to see the industry, and mode of living in the in-
terior parts of the country, they would probably follow the
example of their more enlightened neighbours.  Under this
disadvantage, the landed gentlemen ought to bestow double di-
ligence in opening the minds of the people; turning  their at-
tention to the common branches of education; introducing a-
mong them a spirit of industry and improvements.  The
island of Jura labours under a peculiar disadvantage from the
great number of rapid rivers with which it is intersected.
These come tumbling down from the mountains; and as they
are not bridged, render the roads often impassable.  There
are no less than 6 of them in the space of 4 miles.  The fuel
used in this parish is peat, which from the frequent rains in
this watery climate, becomes very precarious.  Last summer
not above half the fuel was got home, and even that in very
bad condition.  But it is hoped that the legislature will adopt
proper measures to take the duty off an article so universally
and absolutely necessary as coal.
   The advantage of this parish are its nearness to the lochs,
where herring are caught; the great quantities of sea-weed
every where on the shores, both for the purposes of kelp and
of manure.  The sea-coral of Colonsay is a valuable article.
The slate of Balnahuaigh brings considerable returns to the
proprietor.  The sand for grass manufacture, and the slate in
Jura, surely deserve attention.  What in this island might be
turned to great advantage, is its excellent wool.  Were a few
spinning machines introduced, and blanketing, and stockings
manufactured, the hands that could be spared from agricul-
ture and pasture would be usefully employed, and, instead of
being a dead weight on the proprietors, furnish an example
of useful industry to their neighbours.  The white herring-
fishery is an object which might be prosecuted with advantage


