
56	              CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

which Kirkcaldy had made. It seems probable from this circum-
stance, that, for some time before, the church had ceased to be
in communion with the church of Rome; otherwise her adhe-
rents would not have committed upon it this act of desecration and
impiety.
   The truth is, that in this neighbourbood, as throughout the
country at large, the Roman Catholic faith bad by this time fal-
len into very general contempt. That this must have been the
case is proved by the following tradition connected with the" Mai-
den Stone,"-a ponderous stone coffin still existing here.
   About the year 1449, Miss Martha Wishart, only daughter
of the laird of Mireton, a lady of great beauty and accomplish-
ments, fell deeply in love with Mr Peter Beaton, at that time
priest of Tullibody. The passion was reciprocated by him. But
his intentions were not honourable ; and when this was discovered,
the circumstance affected her sensibilities so much that her health
gave way. She died, leaving express injunctions that her,remains
should be deposited in a stone coffin, to be placed at the door of
the church, in order That the perfidious priest should behold this
memorial of his wickedness every time he passed to discharge the
duties of his office. It is not difficult to conceive the sensation
which, even in that age, such conduct, on the part of the priest,
would produce in alienating the minds of the people from the Ro-
mish Church. The depravity of that church had in truth be-
come so great as to revolt even some of her own functionaries.
Thus, we are informed that, in the year 1538, Thomas Forrest,
vicar of Dollar, a man of great learning and piety, espoused the
principles of the Reformation, and publicly exposed the errors and
corruptions of Popery. He was apprehended, and suffered martyr-
dom for the truth. But the blood of martyrs is the seed of the church.
This transaction roused the indignation of Thomas Locklaw, at
that time priest of Tullibody ; and led him to inquire into the prin-
ciples espoused by his late brother in the faith, in common with re-
formers in general. The consequence was,that he adopted the same
principles, and became one of the bitterest enemies of the Romish
Church. Among other things, he inquired into the subject of
marriage; and, finding it warranted, not only by the express de-
clarations of Scripture, but by reason, he gave practical expres-
sion to his belief, by actually entering into the marriage relation.
We are informed that the superior clergy were, in consequence,
so much exasperated, that, at their instance, three or four men were
				6


