
                                 TORRYBURN.                             739

There is a small parochial library, but not much of a taste for
reading.
   Friendly Societies.-A most useful institution of this description
is " the dead-box," out of which the contributors receive a sum at
the death of any member of their families to defray funeral ex-
penses; L.6 at the death of a grown-up person," and L.2 at the
death of a child.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-During the years 1835, 1836, and
1837, the average annual amount of collections for the poor at the
parish church was L.36, 4s. 9d. ; of voluntary assessment by he-
ritors, L. 150, IIs. Id.; and of the sum arising from mortcloths,
L. 1, 15s. 8d. The extravagance of the fees for mortcloths had
the effect, about ten years ago, of leading to the formation of a
private mortcloth society, which is very generally countenanced.
The average number of paupers on the permanent roll is 33, and
the average amount of the sums distributed amongst them annual-
ly, L.141, 14s. Id. The average annual expenditure on occa-
sional paupers is L.3, 7s, and on the education of poor children,
L,6. The highest annual rate of relief to paupers on the perma-
nent roll is L.7, 12s., and the lowest, L.2, 12s. Coals and soup
are distributed annually, in addition to the amount of about L.31 ;
and several poor children are educated at the expense of the Hon.
Mrs Colvile of Ochiltree, the lady of one, of the heritors, to whose
bounty in articles of clothing also many of the poorer parishioners
are indebted. Generally speaking, the reverse of a spirit of re-
luctance to receive parochial aid is manifested ; and, in the vil-
lages of Torryburn and Torrie, one family in six receives occa-
sional charity in one shape or another.
   Fairs.-There is one held annually at the west end of Torry-
burn village, on the second Wednesday of July. No business is
now transacted beyond the sale of confections and crockery. In
the evening, there is usually a horse-race.
   Inns, Alehuuses, &c.-Of these, there are not fewer than 14,
not to mention another, which, although not within the parish, is
within a hundred yards of its western extremity. A year or two
ago, the number within the parish was eighteen ; and for the di-
minution which has since taken place, and which, it is hoped, will
go on progressively as the holders of licenses die out or remove,
we are mainly indebted to the enlightened interference of Mr. Be-
veridge of Inzievar.
   Drawn up in 1841. Revised January 1843.


