
     Statistical Account

   Roads, Rivers.-The road from Carlisle to Glasgow, and
Edinburgh, by Moffat, runs through the southern part of
the parish; and, in the western corner, crosses the road
from Annan to Edinburgh, by Langholm and Hawick.
Both these roads are of infinite advantage to this parish,
and have contributed highly to its improvement; and the
former, by opening up a connexion between Carlisle and 
Glasgow, hath in an eminent degree promoted the exten-
sion of commerce and manufacture.  Both roads were ori-
ginally made, and are still kept in repair by the profits a-
rising from a toll, levied in consequence of an act of Par-
liament obtained for that purpose.  The interior roads in
the parish are made and kept in repair with the sums ari-
sing from the commutation of the statute-labour.  But so
sensible are the tenants upon the estate of Springkell, ly-
ing in this and the neigbouring parishes, of the advanta-
ges arising from good roads, that independent of the sta-
tute-labour, which is commuted, they have voluntarily
subscribed 2 1/2 per cent. upon their rents, to be annually laid
out in making and repairing roads within that estate; a
circumstances which does them infinite honour.  The pro-
prietor himself gives 1 1/4 per cent. on his rental for the same
purposes.-Kirtle is the only river in this parish+.

<FOOTNOTE>

+It takes its rise in the parish of Middlebie; and falling upon the
north corner of Kirkpatrick, divides the two parishes, for a space of
more than 4 miles, and then crosses the parish in a S. E.  direction.  It is
only a small stream, but pure and transparent.  In it, there are trouts, 
eels, pike, perch, and some slounder; but not in such quantities, as to be
an object worthy of attention.  Its banks are in many parts well covered
with natural woods and plantations, and in its course are exhibited much
beautiful and romantic scenery.  The burying ground of Kirkconnell is re-
markably so.  It is situated in a crook of the river, upon a rich holm of
considerable extent.  On the opposite side of the river, the banks, which
are bold and simple, rise to a considerable height, and are all covered


