
     Statistical Account

parish in 1763, occassioned by a putrid fever; and, during
the rage of the disease the frost was so very intense, that it
was necessary to kindle fires in the church yard to soften
the ground for digging the graves: In the month of January
Mr Walter Sime the minister was one of thirteen corps un-
buried at the same time.
   Balveny house may be admitted here, a large and mo-
dern mansion, one of the seats of Lord Fife, and built by his
father, about a quarter of a mile below the old cattle, which
will be mentioned soon.  It has a flat roof, and is covered with
lead.
   It is a pity that this house is so ill set down, and that it
has no inhabitants.  Lying naturally too low, the architect
has contrived to sink it lower still: And yet, with the asso-
ciation of life and plenty and chearfulness within, it would
communicate the sensation of a very shewy and pleasant dwel-
ling but, as it is, it looks solitary and forlorn.
   Within this century, the mode of living is much altered here,
and not to the better: On the whole it is not fo strengthen-
ing.  The drinking of whisky instead of good ale is a mi-
serable change, and so likewise is the very general use of tea.
These put together have been exceedingly hurtful both to
health and morals.  Hence too many become tipplers, ne-
glect their bussines, and go to ruin: And hence it is thought
that consumptions, stomach complaints, and a multiplicity of
disorders, which go under the name of nervous, are more fre-
quent than they were.  It will probably be considered as
a pretty curious fact, that instead of two or three tea kettles,
about 60 or 70 years ago, perhaps one for the laird, another
for the parson, and a third for the factor, there are here now
two hundred at least.  But while these remarks must be made,
as impartiality requires, it is agreeable, on the other hand, to
observe a circumstance of a very different aspect.  Some time
ago, the country hereabout was too much given to the indul-


