
          152                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

          bounties were offered for its encouragement.  In 1767, John Suth-
          erland of Wester, John Anderson of Wick, and Alexander Mil-
          ler of Staxigoe, fitted out two sloops on the bounty, which, how-
          ever, by some informality, they lost.  Next year, they fitted out one
          sloop again, fished successfully, and, though with some difficulty,
          recovered the bounty.  This adventure not having been very en-
          couraging, their ardour abated for some years; but the place of
          rendezvous having been at last altered, the herring-fishery there-
          after annually increased.    Adventurers came from Aberdeen, and
          from the Orkneys, and established the fishing at Staxigoe, and
          took leases of 99 years' duration, for the purpose of building stores
          and houses for the curing of red-herring.  Those enterprising fish-
          curers employed boats and crews from Avoch and the neighbouring
          towns, on the southern side of the Moray Frith ; but these fisher-
          men never went fartber from the shore in search of fish than a
          mile or two, when, if they did not find any, they concluded that
          none were on the coast.   In 1786, the British Society for extend-
          ing the Fisheries, and improving the sea-coasts of the Kingdom,
          was incorporated by Act of Parliament.  This incorporation great-
          ly promoted the fishery.  A great number of boats and crews from
          the Frith of Forth began to come northwards to the fishing, and
          the crews, being more adventurous, sought for the fish at the dis-
          tance of ten or twelve miles from the shore, with most encourag-
          ing success.  In 1782, 363 barrels of white herring were export-
          ed. In 1790, there were at Wick 32 boats, measuring 1610 tons,
          on the bounty.  That year, there were 10,514 barrels of white,
          and above 2000 of red-herrings exported, besides about 700, es-
          timated to have been consumed in the county.  In 1808, the British
          Fishing Society, incorporated, as has been mentioned, in 1786,
          commenced their establishment of Pulteneytown, by making a
          harbour for the accommodation of boats and shipping, and by
          granting feus in perpetuity for building on liberal terms.  In 1809,
          commissioners were appointed by Act of Parliament, for the pur-
          pose of promoting and regulating this branch of national industry.
            Under improved methods of curing, introduced by the commis-
          sioners, and an additional bounty granted by Parliament in 1815,
          the fishery increased so rapidly, that, in 1824, the British Fishery
          Society commenced the construction of an outer harbour, which,
          having been finished, rendered the port both safe and commodious.
          This measure consolidated the prosperity of tbe Wick herring-


