
     Statistical Account

detry, the arms and livery of the family a Argyle, after
they had been quartered with those of Lorn.  The laird of
Strachur has been always accounted, according to the cu-
storn of the Highlands, chief of the Clan Artuir, (the Mac-
arthurs), who, like other clans, followed their chief in pre-
datory and warlike excursions, and whom he patronised
and supported.  Since the abolition of the juristion, this
system is exploded, and in a short time the existence of it
will be totally forgotten.  when the General succeeded to
the estate of Strachur, the family-house was but small and
incommodiously situated.  He pitched on a large-plain, on
the borders of Lochfine, inclosed and furrounded it with
planting.  He formed his garden, conssting of 2 acres of
ground, and senced it with a high wall.  It is now well
stocked, and in excellent order.  He has built an elegant
large house, and a very complete court of offices, which,
perhaps, exceed the proportion they should bear to the
house.  He has formed some beautiful walks through his
inclosures, particularly on the banks of a small river, which
runs through his pleasure-grounds.  He is going on with the
English method of farming, principally with a view t raise
a sufficiency of green crops, which alone suit this climate.  He
has called his place Strachur-park; it is now a very great
ornament to this part of the Highlands.  It is only about 20
years since he began, and it is almost complete.  It appears to
the greatest advantage, viewed from the road that is
carried down the opposite shore of Lochsine.  A large ba-
son, which is torned by a curve of Lochsine, lics imme-
diately before the principal front of the house.  The other
from commands a view of the whole pleasure grounds, and
of the neighbouring hills, ne of which appears from his
windows in the figure of a cone of the most regular shape.
In a bow which projects from the middle of this front,
there is a drawing-room, having 3 large windows; opposite


