
	               KILMARNOCK.                              545

Sheep are only occasional visitors to the rich herbage of most part
of the parish; but where they are kept, 12s. is the annual charge
for their pasture.
	Wages--Ploughmen and other labourers connected with farm-
work receive on an average L. 26 annually. An expense of about
L.33 in all is incurred, where they are kept by the farmer. Fe-
male servants are paid at the rate of L. 18. If maintained by
their masters, from L. 8 to L. 10 is a respectable fee.
	Mill-wrights, masons, and smiths receive, when the days are
long, about 18s. weekly; in winter, from 12s. to 15s. Whilst
the farmer has received 7s. 6d. per stone of 16 lbs. for his
cheese, and 7s. for the same quantity of his beef, he has paid for
manure, the produce of the horse and cow, 3s. 6d. per cubic yard
town ashes, 1s. 6d.; Irish lime, 1s. 10d. per boll of 4 bushels,
and 1s. 4d. for the same quantity of Scotch. For 1000 of com-
mon tiles used in draining, L. 1, 5s. is paid, and L. 3 for large
ones.
	Prices.--The average price of oatmeal for a number of years
back has been 17s. per boll of 170 lbs. imperial; of bear, L. 1,
4s. per bell of 8 imperial bushels; of barley, L. 1, 9s. for the
same boll; of white corn, 17s. for the same quantity; of wheat,
L.1, 4s. per boll of 4 imperial bushels; of beans and pease, 16s.
for the same boll; potatoes have averaged 11s. per 50 stones of
16 lbs.
	Live-Stock.--We have only two kinds of sheep in the parish, the
black-faced, and the common Cheviot. In the dairy, the Ayr-
shire cow is alone used. An annual exhibition takes place in the
town, at which prizes are awarded for the best specimens of the
various kinds of cattle. Very few horses are reared, and these
few are generally the produce of the common plough-horse of
Clydesdale.
	Agricultural Associations.--Local and general associations, whilst
raising the character of the husbandry throughout. Scotland, have
nowhere extended their beneficial influence to more purpose than
in this parish. Whilst the stock is changing, the farmers are not
remaining unchanged. A considerable difference exists between
their condition at present, and their state fifty years ago. Their
manner of living is now more assimilated to that of the landlord.
Their knowledge advances with that of general society, and, in the
march of improvement, they are seen working their being to the best
advantage. In general, they are better able to pay their rents than
	AYR.				M m


