
       928                        FIFESHIRE.

       this joyous prince, he celebrates the mirthful recreations of this
       royal retreat.

                       Was never in Scotland hard nor sense
                             Sic dansin nor deray,
                        Nowthis at Falkland on the grene,*
                           Nor Pebillis at the Play,
                          As was of wowaris, as I wene,
                           At Chryst-kirk on ane day.+
         James V. died at Falkland, in December 1542, shortly after the
       disastrous affair of Solway Moss.  It is alleged that he died of a
       broken heart.  After this battle, says Drummond of Hawthorn.
       den, he passed in a retired manner to Fife, and from Hallyards to
       Falkland, "where he gave himself over to sorrow.  No man had
       access unto him, no, not his own domestics.  Now are his
       thoughts busy with revenge, now with rage against his scornful
       nobility; long watchings, continual cares and passions, abstinence
       from food and recreation, had so extenuated his body, that,
       pierced with grief, anguish, impatience, and despair, he remained
       fixed to his bed, where be breathed his last, in the 33d year of his
       age and 32d of his reign."
         Mary of Guise, the widow of James, resided occasionally at
       Falkland during her regency, surrounded by her French soldiers.
       It was here, in the year 1559, that she cited the Earl of Argyle,
       and James, prior of St Andrews, (afterwards the celebrated Re-
       gent,) to appear before her.  Her daughter, the unhappy Mary,
       seems also to have been attached to this residence.  She retir-
       ed to it, on several occasions, to escape from the anxiety and tur-
       moil of her distracted court, and enjoy, like her royal father, the
       pleasures of hunting and hawking.  She was at Falkland in the
       month of September 1561, when Bothwell and the Hamiltons
       laid a plot to take away the life of her natural brother, the Earl
       of Murray, that the Queen might be completely in their power.
       Bothwell urged that the thing could easily be accomplished and the
       Queen surprised, because she was in the habit of resorting daily
       to a wood in the vicinity of Falkland, where stags were kept, and
       where she could be seized without any difficulty.+
         Falkland was also honoured frequently with a visit from that
       sage monarch James VI, who took great pleasure in buck hunt-
       ing--a taste which could be amply indulged in the noble park

<FOOTNOTE>Pinkerton thinks Falkland on the Greeno the title of an ancient ballad, written
       in the style of Chryst-kirk.
<FOOTNOTE>Chrystis kirk on the Grene.
<FOOTNOTE>Buchanan, Hist lib. xvii. c. 29.

