
		               MEARNS.                               519

mers states somewhere in his learned work, that he has invariably
found the local recorders of the past confounding the reign of
Alexander III. with that of Alexander II. Crawford, in his His-
tory of Renfrewshire, has evidently fallen into the same mistake as
Ure in his "History of Rutherglen and East Kilbride," so that
for 1214 we may read 1240; about five years before the dreadful
interregnum in 1245. It is stated, that, before the last of the above
dates, the barony of Mearns came by marriage with an heiress,
named Macgeachin, to one of the Maxwells of Caerlaverock. This
may be so, although there is no authentic records of the Maxwells
of Caerlaverock, at a date so early in history. The family came
into notice only about 1455, on the downfal of the Douglasses' in
the time of James II. Their chief sphere of action was not in
the parish of Mearns, but in the border counties, particularly in
Dumfries-shire. They acquired the estates of Eskdale, and seve-
ral other great possessions in the south, where, about 1529, with
James V., one of the same Maxwells, with Johnstone, was busily
engaged, according to Ramsay in his Evergreen, in fitting

	        -" cordis, baith greit and lang,
	        Quhilk hangit Johnie Armstrang!"

It is evident, however, that this great family had estates in this
quarter, for we find the King (James VI.) commanding Lord Max-
well to live in Clydesdale, and not to come within Dumfries-shire.
But, probably finding his castle at Mearns a cold place, he return-
ed home in summer 1601, it is believed, plotting the death of his
rival Johnston. Maxwell was attainted in Parliament, 24th June
1609, as may be seen from the printed acts now in Paisley Li-
brary, when his estate here would no doubt change hands. The
history of that family now resolves into  that of  the Maxwells of
Pollock. What relationship Rolandus de Mearnes was of to the
Maxwell family, or if any, is not known. He flourishes at air
early period as a witness in that donation which Eschina de Mol-
la, wife of Walter High Stewart of Scotland, founder of the mo-
nastery of Paisley, gave to the monks of that abbey. After that
period, it is chiefly to the  chartulary of Paisley that we are to look.
for any brief glimpses which we obtain of the civil or ecclesiasti-
cal condition of this parish. That document goes as far back as-
1165, telling us that William confirmed, the monks of Paisley in
the church of Mearnes, which was granted by Helias of Perthie,
with consent of his brother, Peter of Pollock. Shortly after
1306, Herbert Maxwell granted to the same monks 8 1/2 acres and
28 perches of land in Newton of Mearnes. One Alan was then


