

938                        FIFESHIRE.

land.  There is a stone in the present structure, bearing the date
1620,\f but there is reason to believe that there was a more an-
cient edifice upon the same site.  The present church can boast of
no architectural beauty.  It was repaired about the year 1772, but
internally it is again in a state of great dilapidation.  It has a damp
earthen floor, and many of the seats are decayed: altogether it re-
flects little credit upon the parish.  It is seated for about 700
or 800 people.  The front of the gallery in the north aisle, be-
longing to Mr Bruce, is beautifully carved in oak.  It bears the
arms of Viscount Stormont, (captain of the guards in the time
of James VI.) by whom the church was erected.
  Manse.-There never was a manse at Falkland until 1807; for
when the original manse at Kilgour fell into decay, the minister,
by a private bargain between him and the titular of the teinds, ob-
tained in lieu of a manse and glebe, one chalder of bear, amount-
ing in value to L.80 Scotch, L.6, 13s. 4d. Sterling, and more re-
cently he was accommodated with a few apartments in the ruins
of the palace.  This state of matters continued till 1806, when
the above compact was declared illegal by the Court of Session.
The heritors then bought half an acre of ground about a quarter
of a mile to the east of the town, on the northern slope of the East
Lomond Hill, for the site of a manse and a garden.  The manse
was erected here in 1807, in a neat substantial manner, though its
interior plan might have been more conveniently arranged.  The
ground on which the manse is erected was anciently part of the
property of the Order of the Knights Templars; and a copious
spring of excellent water at the manse is still named St John's
Well, and the adjoining property to the west is styled St Mary's
Chapel Yard; and beside it is another strong spring of excel-
lent water, called the 'Lady Well,' (in honour of the Virgin
Mary,) which was conveyed in pipes to the town of Falkland, in the
year 1766.
  Glebe.-The grebe is still where it originally was, near the site
of the ancient parish kirk of Kilgour, about two miles west of the

<FOOTNOTE>That eminent antiquary, the Rev. Mr Rowand, has mentioned two very weighty
reasons for concluding that there was a church in the town of Falkland, before the
erection of the present edifice by Viscount Stormont in 1620.  In the first place,
two buttresses, which have evidently belonged to a more ancient ecclesiastical building,
are left standing to support the front wall of the present cburch.  In the second place,
it is mentioned in the life of Mr Patrick Simson, (the Scots Worthies, edit. 1817, P.
88,) "that in 1608, when the bishops and some commissioners of the General As-
sembly convened in the palace of Falkland, the ministers assembled in the kirk of the
town, and chose him for their moderator."


