
                         TONGUE.                165
  as well as the English, name of that organ justifies this deriva-
  tion.
    Boundaries, Extent.-It would seem by the record of erection,
  that the boundaries of this parish extended from Torrisdale, in the
  east, to the water of Polla, in the west; from the Whiten-head, in
  the north, to the great deer forest, in the south.  By use and, wont,
  however, these boundaries are greatly contracted on the west, in
  which direction the parish is considered now only to extend to the
  top of the Moin or the Ben Hope mountain range.  The parish
  of Farr is contiguous on the east and south-east, and the parish.
  of Durness on the west and south-west.  Oil the north, it is bound-
  ed b the Northern Ocean.  Its figure is irregular, somewhat re-
  sembling, as is mentioned in the former account, a spherical tri-
  angle.  The extreme length from north to south is 20 miles; ave-
  rage 15.  The extreme breadth from east to west is 12 miles;
  average 8.   As nearly as can be computed, its superficial extent
  is 140 square miles.
    Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the parish
  is mountainous.    In topographical character, however, it is divid-,
  ed into two districts, distinct from-each other.  The first embraces
  all that is peculiarly alpine, and is the principal part of the parish
  as to extent, population, culture, and beauty.   It lies towards the
  west, and consists of the great valley of Tongue, formed by the
  arm of the sea already mentioned, with the streams which flow
  from the interior into the head of it.  On either side of the bay,
  two mountain-ranges, rising abruptly and boldly from the ocean,
  stretch along its whole length, and continue taking nearly a paral-
  lel direction, till interrupted by a third range, stretching from east
  to west, which consists of the mountain of Ben Laogbal and its
  arms.  The whole constitutes a semicircular chain of hills, appa-
  rently continuous, and gives to the valley the form of a spacious
  amphitheatre.  The western range, commencing with Ben Hutig,
  which is 1345 feet high, is for some miles of nearly an uniform
  height, and somewhat monotonous, till it reaches its southern ex-
  tremity, when it suddenly terminates in the huge mountain of Ben
  Hope, 3061 feet high.  The eastern range is a series of rounded
  bills, not very lofty, rising above the bay sometimes abruptly, but
  in general receding so gently, as to afford scope for considerable
  cultivation on their sides.  The Ben Laoghal range is the most
  picturesque.  This noble hill, the queen of Highlan'd mountins,
  occupies the central point of the whole semicircular chain; there-


