
788		        	LANARKSHIRE.

		The tufted grass lines Bothwell's ancient hall,
		The fox peeps cautious from the creviced wall,
		Where once proud Murray, Clydesdale's ancient Lord,
		A mimic sovereign held the festal board.

   This noble structure, which Dr MacCulloch justly says is perhaps
the most magnificent ruin in Scotland, is of an oblong form.
The front wall extends about 234 feet along the summit of the
bank, and at each end is terminated by a lofty tower.  The breadth
may be about 99 feet over the walls.  The interior of the ruin presents
the appearance of a large court, and it is somewhat difficult
to determine what may have occupied this area in former days.
At the east end the remains of the chapel are plainly discernible
from the form of the windows.  The stair leading to the top of
the large western tower is on the whole pretty entire, but the decayed
state of some of the steps having rendered the ascent somewhat
hazardous, the entrance to it is secured by a door which is
generally locked.  But for this latter barrier the top may yet be
reached without great difficulty, and the view to be obtained from
it will amply compensate the labour and risk of the attempt.
The entrance to the interior of the ruin is on the north about the
middle of the wall; vestiges of the fosse are still visible. The old
well was discovered, about fifty years ago, in a corner of one of the
towers, penetrating through the rock to a good spring.  It has
again been covered up.  In the front wall, entering by a small
opening from the court there is a circular cavern about 20 feet
deep and 12 in diameter, which from its form, is commonly known
by the popular appellation of Wallace's beef-barrel.  In former
times it has evidently been used for the confinement of prisoners.
Within and around the walls there are several turrets, distinguished
by the names of Valence Tower, Douglas Tower, &c.  There
are also some chambers nearlv entire.  A list of the successive
proprietors is given in the last Statistical Account, quoted from a
MS. of Mr Hamilton of Wishaw, now printed for the Maitland
Club.  Guthrie says that the castle was besieged by the Scots in
1337 who took it by storm, and dismantled it.  This was two
years after Edward III. had resided in it for twenty-six days, and
in the same year that Walter de Selby was keeper.  It is said
that a great part of the ruin was taken down by the Earl of For-
far, and the stones employed in building a modern mansion.
   The old Church of Bothwell is a very ancient structure, and
presents a fine specimen of Gothic architecture.  It was used in
former times as the quire of the collegiate church of Bothwell.


