
			         GLADSMUIR.			199

difficulty of obtaining teachers properly qualified, and partly from
the changes that are constantly taking place in the population.
There is another at Longniddry. It began about two years ago.
It is well taught and well attended, and has already been produc-
tive of much good in the neighbourhood. The third is at Tra-
broun, superintended by the Misses Law. But as that property
has just been sold, it is doubtful whether this school will be con-
tinued.
   Parents send their children to school at different ages. Some
are sent when only four years old; others not till they are seven
or eight. But care is taken that sooner or later all be taught to
read. When the parents cannot afford to pay for them, they are
paid for from the poors' fund, or by charitable individuals who take
an interest in them. In this parish, the schools are so situated
that they are accessible to all the inhabitants. There are none,
as far as I know, above fifteen years of age who cannot read; but
there are many who cannot write. And there are some who have
been very imperfectly educated themselves, and, having felt the
evils of a neglected education, are anxious to have their children
properly instructed.
   Libraries.-There are no parochial libraries in the parish. This
want is supplied by three itinerating ones, which are stationed in
each of the three villages of the parish. These libraries, After re-
maining two years in their stations, are returned, and new ones
sent in their place. In this way, the attention of the people is kept
up by a regular succession of new books, which are well selected
and arranged under the superintendence of Mr Samuel Brown at
Haddington.
   Societies.-There are 2 friendly societies in the parish,-one at
Longniddry of old standing, and another at Penston, instituted in
1823, both of which are in a thriving state. At Penston, a Mort-,
cloth Society was set on foot more than fifty years ago, by Lady
Ross Baillie of Lamington, for the benefit of her colliers there.
None but colliers connected with the coal-work have a right to be-
come members. Lady Ross presented the society with three mort-
Cloths, and that number has been kept up ever, since for the use of
the members, who have now; acquired a prescriptive right to em-
ploy their own morteloths, when they bury their dead in the church-
yard of Gladsmuir. At penston, there is also a coffin Society, the
object of which is top discontinue the use of mortcloths altogether.
The members are furnished by the society with coffins, decently


