
     Statistical Account

   N. B. The collections above-mentioned respect the esta-
blished churches of the city only.-There are many cha-
pels and meetings of different persuasions not included.
   In no respect were the manners of 1763 and 1783 more re-
markable than in the decency, dignity, and delicacy, of the
one period, compared with the looseness, dissipation, and li-
censiousness of the other.  Many people ceased to blush at what
would formerly have been reckoned a crime.
   In 1763-Masters took charge of their apprentices, and
kept them under their eye in their own houses.
   In 1783-Few masters would receive apprentices to stay in
their houses, and yet from them an important part of succeed-
ing society is to be formed.  If they attended their hours of
business, masters took no farther charge.  The rest of their
time might be passed (as too frequently happens) in vice and
debauchery; hence they become idle, insolent, and dishonest.
In 1791, the practice had become still more prevalent.  Re-
formation of manners must begin in families to be general or
effectual.
   In 1791-The wages to Journeymen in every prosession

<FOOTNOTE>

this century, one of the smallest churches in Edinburgh * has collected more
money for the poor, at the time of dispensing the sacrament, than eight o-
ther churches did upon the same occasion in 1783.
   With the best intention, a Sunday evening's sermon,(by the ministers of
Edinburgh in rotation) was instituted for the instruction of servants, who
might have been detained from public worship during the day; but, this it is
said has been perverted by many to bad purposes, and made an excuse for
idleness and vice.
   There is another evening sermon, for the common people, supported by
private subcriptions, which it is said has been attended with beneficial
effects, owing to the care and attention of the managers
   There are two other Sunday evening lectures,-one in the Chapel of Ease.
-and one in the Gaelic Chapel,-in this last the service is in the Ease lan-
guage for Highlanders.
     The Tolbooth Church,


