
			    LIBERTON                	    25

dowed to a small extent.  The teacher at Gilmerton has a free
house, school-house and garden, with L. 15 a-year contributed by
Sir David Baird, Miss Innes, and David Anderson, Esq.  The
school-house is not in good repair.  The teacher at Niddry has a
free house, garden, and school-house, with L. 10 a-year from the
family at Niddry.  The school-house was rebuilt in 1837 by
means of a sum of money left under the charge of the parish
minister, and it is also used as a preaching station.  The school
at Cameron, with the houses attached to it, belongs to the kirk-
session.  It was purchased in 1838 for L.200, although it cost
only the year before more than twice that sum; but, when bought,
it was part of a bankrupt estate.  The teacher there, besides a
free house and garden, receives L. 15 a-year from the Assembly's
Committee; but the district in which he labours is very poor, and
the people careless about the education of their children.  His
fees are therefore very small.  The school at Burdiehouse was
commenced in 1837.  It is attended by nearly 80 children in
winter, and the teacher is endowed by Mrs Trotter of Mortonhall,
who has also very generously established a school for girls,,Which
is succeeding admirably.  A free school was in former times sup-
ported by the Craigmillar family at Nether Liberton, when the po-
pulation of that village was greater.  The other schools are at
Niddry, Liberiton Dams, Echobank, Cameron, and Gilmerton,
and are chiefly for girls and smaller children.  About 450 children
only attend all the schools in the parish, and perhaps 30 more are
at schools in the neighbouring parishes.  The school fees are from
1s. to 1s. 6d. a-month. The teachers are nearly all members of
the Established Church.
  The people in general may be said to be alive to the advantages
of education, although to this rule there are a great many excep-
tions.  Many efforts have been made lately by addresses from the
pulpit, and otherwise, to stir them up to send their children to
school, and with some success. A good many have, lately been
sent to school by the kirk-session and by benevolent individuals,
but in three districts of the parish around our district schools I
counted lately 70 children, between five and fourteen years of age,
who are attending no school, and in the other districts the same
evil prevails.
  Schools required. -It would be a most important thing, were
a proper female school established and endowed, as part of the
regular parochail machinery of every parish, and were the number
of schools always to bear a proportion to the population.  One



