
KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEVEN                                327
Torffteus says that in the year 1210, a squadron of piratical.
ships to the number of twelve, under Birkibein and Bagli, taking-
advantage of the intestine divisions of the Princes of the Hebri-
des committed many depredations, and plundered the Holy Island,
or that of St Columba.
Bishop Nicolson, speaking of the library at Iona, says, 41 our
King Edward the First, having claimed the sovereignty of Scot-
land, made a most miserable bavock of the histories -and laws of
that kingdom, hoping that in a short time nothing should be found'
in all that country but what carried an English name and face;"
and, according to the bishop's mode of enumeration, 01 the second
great loss of the Scottish records happened upon the mighty turn
of the Reformation; when the monks, flying -to Rome, carried
with them the register books, and other ancient treasures of their
respective monasteries.",
Pope Pius 11.) intended, when be was in Scotland, to have visited the Iona library!
in search of the lost books of Livy, but was prevented by the death of King James 1.
And farther, a small parcel of them were, in 1526, brought to Aberdeen and
-great pains taken to unfold them, but through age and the tenderness of the parch.
ment, little could be read; however, from what the learned were able to make out,
the work appeared by the style to have rather been a fragment of Sallust than of
Livy.
Dr Jamieson doubts this statement of Bothius the Doctor writes, 11 Fergus must
have made his donation to the monastery of Iona about 160 years before the founda-
tion stone of it was laid. For Boece sais that Alatic sacked ROME A. D. 412. Now-
Columba did not land in Iona till the year 563 or, as some say, .565.
While Archbishop Usher scouts the idea of their being brought from Rome by
Fergus, he admits the narrative of Boece as far as it regards the fragments; and
Gibbon in his Decline and Fall, has no hesitation in saying that Iona was distin-
guished by a classic library which afforded some hope of an er,tire Livy." Abdom-
nan tells us that Bolumba spent much of his time in writing, that he employed his
disciples in the same manner, and was at pains that they should transcribe with the
greatest accuracy; and Dr Smith, speaking of his successors, says, how well they stu.r
died the languages apears from the excellent Latin of Cumin and of Adomnan, who
discovers also his kn;wledge of Greek and Hebrew, and wrote a Geography of the
Holy Land ; and this work Bede not only ascriber to Adomnan, but highly corn-
-ends. Many works both in Latin and Irish are said to have been written by Co-
lumba himself, and among these the life of the patron saint of Ireland. Columl)a'ti
life was also written in Irish-metre, by Baithen his cousin, disciple, and successor.
To Abbot Cumin several writings are -ascribed, - besides his life of Columba. Of all
these, together with the writings of Adomnan and other abbots who succeeded him,
there is every reason to believe that copies would be carefully preserved in the mo-
"aterry o much devoted to writing would strain every nerve
and men who were rethenurnberoftheirbooks. DrJamiesonthereforeasksllwhat,then,bas
become of this library? How can it be accounted for that it should entirely disglp-
pear ?" The learned and acute Doctor answers this by ascribing it to the inroads of
the Danes, which were so frequent and fatal; they burned the monastery in 797 ; a
second time in 801 ; and in 1669 it was again destroyed by fire; in 805. the pirates
of the same nation destroyed sixty-eigbt of the family of ]Iona; and ir 985 they ri'fl-
I'd the monastery, killing the abbot and fifteen of bis disciples. According to the in,
formation of Pennant, it would appear that while the Norwegi"n or,nces were so,e-
reigns, they might judge it proper to carry some of the more V;Iuabl'e IN!SA' t6 a-
Pland of security in their own bountry, for he says, 11 I am informed that numbers o(
the -records of tfie Hebrides were preserved at Drontheim, till they were destr . oyed by,
the great fire which happened in that city.,'


