
                 	 PAISLEY.			      199

town, a number of neat villas, which persons enriched by trade
take a delight in building; and in laying out the grounds around
these, the proprietors have displayed that, taste for which the in-
habitants of Paisley are so distinguished.
   Public Buildings.-The county buildings were erected in 1818
-1820, at an expense of about L.28,000, raised by assessment on
the county.  The general form of this pile is quadrangular, and
the style of the exterior castellated.  The western or front divi-
sion contains a court-house, county-hall, council-chambers, and a
number of offices for different departments of public business con-
nected with the town and county: the eastern range consists of
the correction-house and common jail, with a chapel for reli-
gious worship.  Around these prisons there is a lofty wall, armed,
where necessary, with "chevaux de frise." Between the back
and front divisions are two courts for air and exercise.  The
front one is ornamented with a noble facade, with projecting
hexagonal turrets, rising considerably above the prison roof.  An
exterior balcony has been constructed over the arched gateway.
It is supported by corbels, and adorned by a perforated parapet.
The buildings are for the use of the county as well as of the burgh.
   The steeple of the former prison and court-house still stands, an
ornament at the cross.  Opposite to it are the Coffee-room build-
ings, the upper part of which is adorned,with Ionic pilasters,
and includes in it a large, elegant, and comfortable reading-room,
on whose tables are always to be found an abundance of news-
papers, reviews, and magazines.
   In addition to the parish churches, to be noticed under the head
Ecclesiastical History, we may mention the Episcopal Chapel, a
handsome building of chaste Gothic; and one of the Secession
churches, an elegant Grecian erection, as among the public build-
ings which ornament the town.
   Town and Suburbs of paisley.- The town of Paisley is at this day
the third in Scotland in regard to size and population.  Its houses,
with those of its suburbs, are spread over a tract of ground, about
two miles and a half square.  Its main street runs from east to
west, for nearly two miles, and forms part of the road from Glas-
gow to Beith and the Ayrshire coast towms.  Another long line of
street passes through the town, from north to south, the north part
being the continuation of the road from Inchinnan, and the south
merging in the road to Neilston.  Perhaps the most spacious and
  RENFREW.			  O


