
			KIRKPATRICK-JUXTA.	           135

eminently suited to this mode of improvement, stones abounding
for the fences;--and ferns of brakens, indicating a dry and deep soil,
adapted exceedingly for forest trees. It would be highly useful and
pleasing also to see fruit-trees in most of the gardens of the farmers
and cottagers, and it is hoped this will soon take place, and that
landholders will encourage it. The want of osiers and willows for
baskets may be soon and easily supplied, as cuttings may be had gratis
for this purpose from the minister's lands. To open up the best quar-
ries for building stones, especially such as Lochhouse Craig, would
be of use, and chielfy if good freestone were thus worked in a near
and convenient place. The road across the hills to the lime-works
at Closeburn, if made, would be of great advantage not only to this
parish, but to the country generally; and especially if, as part of
this line, a road were made from Dumcrieff bridge in an equal
slope to Bodisbeck height, which would make Hawick ten or twelve
miles nearer. In the course of time this road will probably be
accomplished, whatever temporary difficulties may obstruct it; and
it will open an intercourse from the east to the west of Scotland;
and therd is no question that, by dividing equally the summit eleva-
tion at Bodisbeck, along the whole slope of five miles to Dumcrieff
bridge, an easy road could be formed there, which would be far
better, and even more speedy than any steeper intermediate line
in leading to Moffat; with the advantage of going direct across
to the westward by the three river meetings on the Closeburn
line, or of turning southward in the shortest and safest direc-
tion. The turnpike road for Lochmaben is incomplete, but it
has been made a branch of the public lines, and ought to be
completed and supported out of the general funds of the district.
	The great evil of the poor system in Scotland arises out of end-
less and uninterrupted public begging; and there is no remedy but
one, viz. to enforce residence in the parishes where the poor are
known, and where they must work, and will be looked after. If
residence were enforced every where, and settlements not acquired
so easily, the poor laws of Scotland would be almost perfect; and
neglect of the poor would cease where it now exists. The acts
recently passed for clearing England of vagrants from Scotland
and Ireland, require mutual protection to be given to Scotland,
into which for some years, vagrants from England have begun to
find their way, besides the hordes that infest it from Ireland.
	Farmers are liable for half of what may be assessed for the poor,
if landholders do not pay for them; and every liberal farmer is



