
		             MAYBOLE.                        349

both of which names are so far descriptive of the situation of the
town, which stands upon a declivity,--no doubt at one time covered
with heath, and at the bottom of which there is a tract of meadow
land which must at one time also have been a marsh.
	Extent, Boundaries, &c.--The parish contains about 34 square
miles; its greatest length as the crow flies being 9, and its
greatest breadth 5 miles. * It is bounded on the north, and so far on
the east by the river Doon, which divides it from the parishes of
Ayr and Dalrymple; on the east and south by Kirkmichael, and
the water of Girvan; and on the west by Kirkoswald and the Frith
of Clyde. It is somewhat of an oblong figure, and towards the
north-east is traversed by a tract of high land, called Brown Car-
rick Hill, which rises over the sea and the river Doon. This hilly
range is covered with heath, and rises to the height of about 1000
feet above the level of the sea, and nothing can exceed the beauty
and grandeur of the views commanded by its summits. Looking
towards the north, the fertile fields of Kyle--the town of Ayr with
its spires and shipping, surrounded by villas and mansion-houses--
the classic and richly wooded banks of the Ayr and Doon--Kirk
Alloway--the humble place of its poet's birth, and the splendid
monument to his memory--lie immediately beneath; while the
waters of the frith, studied with sails and bounded with the mag-
nificent frame-work of Goatfell and the mountains of the western
Highlands, terminate the splendid prospect. Looking again to-
wards the south, the district of Carrick, with its undulating fields,
wooded valleys, and green hills, stretches away to the horizon in
humbler but not less pleasing perspective.
	Climate.--The climate does not differ materially from that which
prevails over the west coast of Scotland. Upon the whole, it must
be considered conducive to good health. Remarkable instances of
longevity are numerous, and endemic diseases are neither very fre-
quent nor severe. It is indeed worthy of notice, that a tradition very
generally prevails, that during the last infliction of the plague in
Scotland and while it raged with great virulence in the town of
Ayr and the surrounding  neighbourbood, it never reached May-
bole, and that a curious confirmation of this immunity was given
to the inhabitants in their entire exemption from the late visitations
of the cholera.

<FOOTNOTE>This measurement is taken in the common way from the county map, and is pro-
bably far from being accurate. By the returns of the different farmers there are 20681
imperial acres.


