
844                      LANARKSHIRE.

of Dundee, and others to the poor of this parish, and also from
small sums collected at private baptisms and marriages.  The
weekly collections in a parish so thinly inhabited, without resident
heritors, and with only nine resident farmers of the first class, can-
not be supposed to amount to much.  They average only about
L. 6 per annum.  The remainder of the demands on account of
the poor is made up by assessment upon the heritors and tenants,
varying from 2d. to 3d. upon every pound of real rent.
   Inns.-There has long been an inn, or rather public-house, in
the village, which is necessary for people travelling by this road.
There is one toll-bar in Hartside or Wandell, where spirits are
also licensed to be sold.  This is an act of the Justices themselves,
to raise the rent of toll-bars, although in doing so they violate an
express act of Parliament, and inflict a sore evil -upon the morals
of the community.
   Fuel.-Peats were formerly generally used as fuel in this pa-
rish, but the mosses from which they are dug being both distant,
and not of easy access, nor of very good quality, they have long
been but little resorted to.  Coals are to be bad about eight
miles off at Rigside in Douglas, and at Ponfeigh in Carmichael,
for about 6s. 6d. or 7s. per cart, when laid down at Lamming-
toune.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Many changes have taken place in connection with these pa-
rishes, since the drawing up of the last Statistical Account forty-
eight years ago.  The old race of tenants have all disappeared,
and but few even of their descendants are now to be found in
the parish.  Incomers from other parishes occupy, their room,
and many farms, then let separately, are now possessed in lease
by one and the same individual.  Hence, with new men come
new measures, and here, as generally speaking everywhere else,
a new and improved system of agriculture has been introduced;
and altogether the people may be said to be becoming more culti-
vated in their manners, and more comfortable in their mode of
living.  The throwing together of so many  farms, however, is to
be regarded as the chief cause of the decrease in the population
from 4l7 in the year 1792, to 331 in 1840.  The great obstacles
to the farther improvement of land in this, parish are, the want of
complete enclosures and subdivisions of farms,-the want of shelter,
only to be remedied by the proprietors puttin down plantations of
young woods,-the want of draining in many places,-and, lastly,


