
                                 WEEM.                             715

       maximum salary.  The schoolmaster of each of the three schools
       which are partly endowed, receives about L.5, 11s., being the third
       of the interest of 6000 merks mortified for that purpose by Mr
       Archibald Campbell, who died minister of this, place in 1740
       The fees are extremely low in some of the schools; but they are
       generally from Is. 6d. to 4s. per quarter, according to the branches
       in which instruction is received.  There are L.8 yearly of a mor-
       tification for educating the poorer scholars at the parochial school.
       The people in general are very much alive to the benefits of edu-
       cation, and make great exertions to have them imparted to their
       children.  A better encouragement to the schools which are poorly
       endowed, or not endowed at all, is more needful than the esta-
       blisbment of new schools.  There are no persons betwixt six and
       fifteen years of age who cannot read, and most of them can write;
       but there are seven above fifteen years who cannot read, and many
       more who cannot write.  A Sabbath school has been taught in
       the church during the present incumbency, generally from the
       middle of March to the beginning of November, by the minister
       and one of the elders resident in the village; and it has been at-
       tended by an average of about 50 scholars yearly.
       Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number receiving
       parochial aid in the parish is 18, and the average sum allowed to
       each of them in the year is L.1, 8s.  There are besides from 12
       to 14, in the contiguous sections of other parishes, who receive
       some aid from this fund.  The average amount of contributions
       for their relief is, from church collections, L. 29, 5s. 4d.; from
       Proclamation and mortcloth dues, L. 4, 15s. 7d.;.and from inte-
       rest of money, L.8, 8s.  The disposition among the poor to re-
       frain from seeking parochial relief is by no means what it has for-
       merly been, and they cease, in too many instances, to consider an
       application degrading.
         Fairs.--Two annual fairs for general business, now very ill at-
       tended, were wont to be held in the village of Weem.
         Inns.--There is an inn at Weem, a second-rate one at the
       bridge of Lochay, and a small ale or whisky-house in GIenquaich;
       but they do not appear to have any bad effect, on the morals of
       the people.
         Fuel.--Peat is the common fuel of the country people, which is
       generally bad in quality.  They sometimes burn wood with it.  All
       who can afford, burn coals, brought at a great expense from Perth.

         1840.


