
			ST BOSWELL'S.                        107

    The increase of population is chiefly to be ascribed to agricul-
tural improvements, producing an increased demand for labourers ;
and these in their turn requiring additional artisans for domestic
manufactures.
    The hunting establishment of the Duke of Buccleuch, which
has not yet had time to produce its full effect, will in all likelihood
have a favourable influence on the population, from an increased
circulation of money. Already the benefits arising from this estab-
lishment have begun to be felt in the increased facility which it pre-
sents to the agriculturists of selling their disposable produce in corn
and hay. These causes combined, have raised the number of in-
habitants residing in the village to 433, leaving for the country 268.

Average number of births registered,		14
	deaths,					       8
	marriages,				             9
	persons under 15 years of age,	     249
		betwixt 15 and 30,		     208
			30 and 50,		           115
			50 and 70,		           116
		upwards of 70,			      13
	unmarried men, bachelors,& widowers,	18
		women above 45,			      17

    Character of the People.-The habits of the people, in regard
to cleanliness, are decidedly and greatly improved, and, with a few
exceptions, little seems to be wanting in that respect.  At church
there is generally an appearance of neatness and comfort; and, in
some instances, a display of finery that would do little discredit to
persons occupying a higher sphere in society. They enjoy in no
common degree the comforts of social life; and never were the la-
bourers and artisans in this parish better provided for than at pre-
sent.
    The people are, generally speaking, sensible and shrewd, hav-
ing few means of acquiring, and little occasion for exhibiting, any
remarkable degree of intellectual attainment. There are instances,
however, that go to prove, that it is the want of time and oppor-
tunities of acquiring distinction in intellectual pursuits, and not the
want of natural ability, that prevents a more striking developement
of their mental powers. They may be morally characterized as
sober, industrious, friendly and obliging in their manners, peaceable
in their behavour, and honest in their dealings.
    Offences against the law, either in poaching or smuggling, are
scarcely known among us.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture.-The whole land in the parish amounts to 2600


