
176                        RENFREWSHIRE.

to hold courts, and determine in all matters relating to the excise
within the same shire.  The growing population of Paisley, how-
ever, required a more extensive innovation, which was nothing
short of the complete removal of the courts from Renfrew to Pais-
ley; and in the same "minut-book," there is the following en-
try:-"Paisley, 6th November 1705.  The qlk day ane warrand
was produced, granted be Alexander Earl of Eglintone, shreff princll
of Renfrew, for transporting the weekly courts from the burgh
of Renfrew to the toune of Paisley; and after the same was
publickly read and published, was ordered to be recorded.  The
qlk day, James M'Alpie produced ane commission by John 
Richardson, sheriff-clerk, in his favirs, for officiating during his
pleasur."*  Paisley has continued eversime to be the seat of the
sheriff-courts.  The meetings of Quarter Sessions, Commissioners
of Supply and Freeholders, are still held at Renfrew ; but most of
the adjourned meetings even of these courts are held at Paisley.
The records of the Sheriff and Regality courts are extant from the
year 1689.
   Ancient Charters-Royal School.-Among a great number of
cliarters and other ancient documents in the charter-chest of the
burgh the following may be noticed.
   "Charter of confirmation,"-dated at Linlithgow on 5th April 1396,
by King Robert III., whereby he, "for the welfare of his own soul,
and the souls of his ancestors and successors, Kings and Stewarts
of Scotland," gives and confirms "to God and the blessed Virgin
Mary, and to the blessed James the Apostle, and St Mirren the
Confessor, also to the abbot and monks of Paisley, now and to
come, all and whole their lands, rents, and possession in our barony
of Renfrew, situated within the county, of Lanark.  Also all their
lands, rents, and possessions in our barony of Kyle Stewart lying
within, the shire of Ayr, and their five merk lands of Moll and
Huntlaw, and the lands of Hassyden, within the shire, of Roxburgh,
and their lands of Orde, within the shire of Peebles, into one en-
tire and free barony, and in pure and perpetual regality," to be
held, "by the said monks and their successors for, ever, of us and
our heirs, with power of holding courts, infang theiff and outfang
theiff," &c. but "reserving the four pleas of the Crown."  All
other proprietors of regalities are prohibited from interfering with

<FOOTNOTE> Introduction to "Certain curious Poems, principally from the pen of James
M'Alpie, Paisley, 1828," "as quoted by Mackie in his Historical Description of the
Abbey and Town of Paisley," p. 153.

