
370		GENERAL OBSERVATION ON THE

wool having greatly encouraged that system of management. It
will be observed however, that, although the feeding of stock is
now carried on during the winter months as well as in summer,
yet that every description of soil; is not equally well-fitted for that
profitable practice, and it is chiefly on that account that land suited
for the growth of turnip, and which at the same time is equally
well calculated for the production of wheat, is so truly valuable to
the farmer.
   It is from possessing that character in so eminent a degree, that
the lands in the eastern or red sandstone district are so particu-
larly distinguished for their fertility and value.  There, with some
exceptions, in its northwest point, to which the sandstone does not
extend, every acre yields annually an abundant crop, either as food
for fattening stock, or of grain of the finest quality.  When, con-
trary to what results from cropping with grain alone, the more
abundant and weighty the cattle crops are, so much the more is
the land enable to yield valuable crops of corn.  Turnip is con-
sequently the basis of the system of cropping on all such soils, and
which are part caten on the ground, and the other portion carted
to the straw-yard for cattle.  Wheat sown at any time after the
ground is cleared, or barley id the spring, always follow the turnip,
when clover and ryegrass seeds are sown for the next season.
Grass, either cut or pastured, is the third year's crop, and which is
followed by oats, that commonly finish the rotation.  In cases
where the soil is of a heavier character, the oats are followed by
pease and beans, when wheat, sown in the autumn, finishes the
course.  There are 19,882 acres, of that soil in the district, and
the gross annual produce over the whole is estimated at from L. 6,
10s, to L.8 Sterling per acre, Scotch measure.
   In the western district, over the lands that exhibit something like
their original strata, summer fallow is the basis of the system of
cropping.  Along its southern border, there are occasionally seem
pretty extensive fields covered with diluvium from the adjacent
transition rocks, and are consequently fitted for the successful cal-
ture of turnips.  In such cases, barley with grass seeds follows,
which often is pastured two or three years when it is again broken
up for oats.   That system is still more applicable to the tract co-
vered by the red sandstone diluvium, which is found peculiarly
vauable for the growth of turnips and grass, and consequently the
feeding of stock.  But, from the nature of the original strata, the
greater part of the district has a subsoil of such a retentive tenaci-


