
                          GREENOCK.                              477

     entries.  Two other branches of higher degrees, formerly unknown
     here, have recently been established, and are increasing. The
     Old Lodge is at present in a prosperous condition.  But the com-
     piler is informed, on the authority of a gentleman. who has been at
     the head of it  directly or as a proxy, for the last five years, that
     there are none who now seek to become members with a view to
     the benefit department,-social intercourse and the gratification of
     curiosity being the chief inducements,-and many sea-faring men
     joining for the sake of the introduction it gives them in foreign
     countries.  Our informant adds, that the masons are perhaps less nu-
     merous now than when the town was at half its present population.
     The St John's Lodge paid this year to poor members and wi-
     dows, L,85, 17s. 6d.
     The Independent Order of Odd Fellows, tbough a private yet
     not a masonic body,   is well known in England by its extensivera ra-
     wifications, and the large sums which it distributes amongst it sick,
     and indigent members-.  About two years ago, a branch of this or
     der was established in Greenock, under the name of the " Banks
     of Clyde Lodge, No. 1586 of the Independent Order of Odd Fel-
     lows, M. U." (Manchester Unity).  The members becoming ra-
     pidly very numerous, two other lodges were establisbed, tbe one
     designated the " James Watt," the other the " Highland Mary."
     There are in all from 500 to 600 members, and their number is
     increasing weekly.  The initiation money is as follows: persons of
     I8 and under 30 years of age, L.1, Is. 30 and under 35, L.I,
     Ils. 6d.; 35 and under 40, L.2, 2s.; 40 and under 42, L.50 5s.
     None are admitted under 18 or above 42, except as honorary
     members.  The contribution money is 9d. fortnightly.  A sick
     brother receives IOs. weekly during the first six! months of his sick-
     ness, thereafter 6s.  A medical adviser is appointed by the lodge,
     who receives 3s. yearly for every efficient member, and attends the
     sick and gives them medicine without further payment.  At the
     death of a brother, L.10 is paid to his widow or nearest relative,
     and L.7 on  occasion of the death of the wife of a brother. Drunken-
     ness and the striking a brother are visited with severe penalties,
     and members convicted of violating any of the laws of the country
     are expelled. There are funds set apart  for the special purpose
     of affording assistance to poor members travelling from place to
     place. The average number of such persons is four or five week-
     ly. A widow and orphan's funds is about to be established. The
     profits of a quarterly magazine,  published by the order, are to be
     deveted to this object.


