
496                       LANARKSHIRE.

from a dependence on mere eleemosynary relief. It is much to
be regretted that the fine spirit of independence which rendered
Scotsmen so reluctant to apply for charitable support is fast dying
away; although it ought to be mentioned, to the praise of the peo-
ple of Douglas, that, how low soever the rate of wages, so long as
they can procure employment, they are industrious and uncomplain-
ing.
	Friendly Societies.--There are 4 friendly Societies in the town
of Douglas,--the Society of Weavers, the Society of Free Masons,
the Friendly Society, and the Douglas Friendly Club. Their
funds are good; and being under judicious management, are pro-
ductive of considerable benefit to their members, whom age or
infirmity have rendered incapable of earning a maintenance.
	There is a female religious society, whose funds are chiefly trans-
mitted to the Edinburgh Bible Society, and partly appropriated
to other religious purposes.
	Inns.--Unfortunately for the morals of the people, there are no
fewer than 12 public houses in the parish, including the two
principal inns at Douglas and Douglas mill.
	Fairs.--Another circumstance very prejudicial to the morals of
the people is the number of fairs, of which there are 7 in the
course of the year. These the working classes keep as holidays;
and as few of them think of resumming their labours till the follow-
ing week, there is a great loss of time, with a most ruinous waste
of means. Most of these fairs might be abolished not only without
detriment, but with great advantage to the place.
	Fuel.--Coal is here so abundant and cheap, that it is the only
fuel made use of, except in the remote parts of the parish, to which
it would be difficult to have them conveyed. In such places peat
is used, which is generally of excellent quality.

			GENERAL REMARKS.

	Upon the whole, the parish is in a flourishing and improving state.
The tenantry, are active, intelligent, careful, and thriving; and their
industry and enterprise are encouraged by the liberality, and stimu-
mulated by the example, of their generous and enlightened land-
lord. Their character is in general most respectable still retain-
ing many of the best traits by which the rural population of our
catmtry was in its best days distinguished.

	August 1835.	Revised June 1836


