
     of Rathven.

usually cultivated.  A Summer fallow is the ordinary pre-
paration for wheat; and after the field is thoroughly clean-
ed, and well manured with dung from the fisher-towns, if it
can be procured, the crop is laid down in october.  Barley
is sown without manure, after oats from a ley-surrow, and 
with manure after peace or turnip.  The turnip field is ge-
nerally ploughed once, and the pease twice, before laying
on the dung for the seed surrow.  Oats are sown on ley
ploughed in February, and frequently after barley.  When
the oats after barley are reaped, the field gets a ploughing
in autumn, and remains in that state till spring, when it re-
ceives the seed surrow, and is sown with pease.  On the S.
side of the post-road, toward the hills, the acre sows from
from 12 to 14 pecks; on the N. side, towards the coast,
from 16 to 18; of gray pease the same quantity is allowed;
but of the late kind, which is seldom used, as they do not
ripen in season, and so prove unproductive, 13 or 14 suffice.
About a peck less of barley, than of the above kinds of
grain, is allowed to the acre, and of wheat the usual allow-
ance is boll.  Of wheat the average produce is 10 returns;
barley 7; oats 4; and pease 3.  On many places pease do
not thrive; and oats, on a field that has been manured with
dung from the fisher towns, generally fails, and on that ac-
count they are seldom a lucrative crop except after ley.
As a common tenant does not often lay down his best
ground with grass seeds, many excellent fields have been
under a regular course of cropping time immemorial.  A
small spot of about 3/4 of an acre, in Mr Baron Gordon's estate,
has produced barley-crops for 47 years, without any loss
of fertility.  It is situated near the beach at Buckie; has
been uniformly twice ploughed, and gotten some loads of
sea-weed, or other manure annually.  It sows 10 pecks,
and has produced from 4 to 5 bolls.  Turnips and potatoes
are cultivated for home-consumption; and flax is pretty


