
302                       PERTHSHIRE.

which is about 1350 feet above the level of the sea. The whole
ridge of the Ochils in the parish is covered with grass, mingled
with a little heather, and forms excellent pasturage for sheep. The
course of the Devon, for some distance above the Rumbling Bridge,
presents a remarkable appearance; a passage being apparently cut
for it through the solid rock. In some parts of the fissure, on the
lower portion of the rock, there are manifest traces of the action
of running water; but higher up, the rock is rough, bearing the ap-
pearance, in many places, of having been rent asunder. And as
the level of the country at the Crook of Devon is such that, with a
very little labour, the whole of the stream might be thrown into
Lochleven, some who are fond of geological speculation have sup-
posed, that the fissure had been opened by some convulsive
movement of the earth, and after the water bad found a pas-
sage through, it gradually deepened it by wintery torrents, un-
til it reached the present level. In this fissure occurs the na-
tural curiosity usually termed the " Devil's Mill." The water, in
falling the height of some feet into a cauldron, is generally sup-
posed to strike against a loose block of stone, which occasions it
to emit a sound bearing some resemblance to that of a common
grinding mill. And from the circumstance of the sound being con-
stantly heard, on Sabbath, as well as other days, it has acquired its
present name. The whole appearance of the fissure is very re-
markable, the water forcing its way a little above the mill through
a crevice of considerable length, and scarcely six feet in breadth.
   Meteorology.-In the upper parts of the parish, from its eleva-
tion above the level of the sea, the climate is considerably colder
than in the lower parts adjoining to Dollar; the difference of level
being not much short of 400 feet. And as, in addition, the hills
attract a great deal of moisture, the harvest in general is consider-
ably later. The quantity of rain that falls at the Yetts must be very
great, as the clouds may often be seen travelling along the face
of the hill, and depositing their moisture, when, at the distance
of half a mile from it, all is sunshine. And as these clouds in
general draw to one point, Sea Mab, and thence proceed along
the Ochils to Milnathort, or diverge to the Cleish Hills, on the
opposite side of the vale, its neighbourhood gets a goodly share
of almost every passing shower. Unfortunately there is no rain-
gage to estimate the amount that falls, nor, as far as has been
discovered, has any record  been kept by any of the parishioners

                           4

