
     Statistical Account

   The King is patron.  The stipend is about 165 L. annual-
ly, including the value of the glebe, consisting of about
acres and a half, and the rent allowed by the heritors in lieu
of a manse.-There are few of the inhabitants who have been
bred in this parish, who have not been taught to read; and
most of them can write, and understand the common rules of
arithmetic.  Education is to cheap, as not to be placed be-
yond the reach of the poorest.  And the people are to impres-
sed with a sense of its importance, that all parents, if not most
profligate themselves, are exceedingly anxious to have their
children instructed in reading.  They often cheerfully deny
themselves many of the comforts of life to give their children
education; and many of them have been rewarded, by seeing
them rising to affluence and respect in society.  As the Baro-
ny parish is very extensive the children could not be accom-
modated at one school.  In the beginning, therefore, of this
century, the legal salary was divided into four equal parts,
and four schools erected in those places of the parish then
judged most convenient for the inhabitants: One at Shettle-
ton, where an excellent school-house, in which the master
also accommodated, has been very lately built by private sub-
scription; the master has also the benefit of two small morti-
fications, paid by the session: one school at Rachazie, for the
north-east quarter of the parish: one at Lambhill or Ruch-
hill, for the north-west quarter: and one at Anderston, where
a school-house was mortified by the laird of Stabcross.
sides these, there are fifteen private schools, attended some of
them by above 70 children: a charity school in the Calton,
supported by Mr. David Dale, the master has 15 L. salary an-
nually; and one in the mill at Woodside, supported by Mr.
Gillespie, for the instruction of the children attending his
cotton-mill.  There are also 4 Sunday's schools, very well at-
tended, viz. two in Calton, of about 70 children, boys and


