
           154                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE

           result which invariably follows such conduct has ensued.  The
           population rapidly increased; rents, wages, and prices rose; build-
           ings were erected, and all things seemed prosperous.  But there
           was a worm in this blossom of happiness.  The means of grace
           and of pastoral superintendence were not extended.  Multitudes
           escaped altogether beyond their blissful influence.  No care was
           taken of the 10,000 young strangers of both sexes who were
           crowded together with the inhabitants within the narrow limits of
           Wick during the six principal weeks of the fishing, exposed to
           drink and numerous other temptations.  The consequences have
           been such, as any one acquainted with the propensities of fallen
           humanity might easily have foreseen ; and results have verified
           the declaration of the prophet, that " the ungodly who earneth
           wages, earneth wages to put them into a bag full of holes." A
           people cannot be exalted without righteousness, and with right-
           eousness they cannot be degraded ; but morality cannot be com-
           municated nor upheld without the full and abundant administra-
           tion of the Gospel.  When will legislators, heritors, and merchants
           be convinced of this ?
             Manufactures.-There are in Wick and Pulteneytown four
           rope-works, which employ, besides the masters, 75 men, with
           occasional hands.  The first of these commenced in 1820.  All
           the rope which they produce is consumed in this port.  There is
           one distillery and brewery, which employs 12 men; one meal and
           barley-mill, which employs 5 ; four saw-mills, three of which are
           driven by steam and one by water, employ 26 hands.  A manu-
           factory of pavement for exportation employs from 60 to 80 work-
           men.  There is a ship-building yard, commenced in 1815, with
           always one or two vessels on the stocks, employing about 50 ship-
           wrights.  Twelve boat-building yards employ from 70 to 80, who
           launch from 80 to 100 boats annually.  There has lately been
           established in Pulteneytown an iron-foundery, which gives em-
           ployment to from 6 to 8 men, and promises to be prosperous.
           A Gas Company was formed in 1840, whose works are in the
           course of being erected; and it is to be hoped, that, by another
           winter, both Wick and Pulteneytown will be lighted with gas.
           There are 265 coopers in the parish.  The principal, almost, in-
           deed, the sole occupation of females in and about the towns, is the
           spinning of yarn and making it into nets for the herring-fishing.
           At this they can earn the miserable pittance of only 2 1/2d. or 3d.
           a day.


