
				ARBROATH.                     91

any tax imposed for paving and lighting the streets. This has
been done hitherto at the expense of the corporation of the burgh.*
There is, at the same time, a great want of public wells for sup-
plying the inhabitants with water. Attached to most of the houses,
indeed, there is a pump or draw-well in the back court. But the
water to be had from these is generally hard, and not adapted to
some of the uses to which such a commodity is applied.
	Means of Communication enjoyed by the Parish.--Of these, the
post-office is one of the most important. The mail passes through
Arbroath from the north every evening at half-past eight o'clock,
and from the south every morning at half-past two. The only
ground of complaint in regard to the carrying of letters is the
want of a cross post to Forfar.
	The length of turnpike roads in the parish, without including
that part of the road which forms the boundary of the parish, is
almost two miles. The length of streets in that part of the town
of Arbroath which is within the parish is 8913 yards. Including
the suburbs in St Vigeans' parish, the total length of streets
within the connected buildings, which may be said to constitute
the town, is 15,622 yards. The streets, with the houses and gar-
dens attached to them, in both parishes, cover an extent of 201
English acres, of which 107 are in the parish of Arbroath.
	In addition to the mail-coach, there are several stage-coaches,
which either start from Arbroath, or pass through it, and thus fa-
cilitate the means of communication with other parts of the coun-
try. Such are the New Times from Aberdeen to Perth, the
Highlander from Montrose to Dundee, and the Commercial Tra-
veller from Arbroath to Dundee, every lawful day; together with
a coach from Arbroath to Forfar, generally once a-week, on Wed-
nesdays. The principal inn or hotel kept by Seaton, affords
ample and excellent accommodation for travellers. There is a
second inn likewise, where the lodging and entertainment are con-
sidered good.
	There is neither canal nor rail-road in the parish, although sur-
veys have been made, with a view either to the one or the other,
between Arbroatb and Forfar.
	As a means of communication between those parts of the town
and suburbs which are separated by the Brothock, there are five
small stone bridges, two of which are in the parish of Arbroath.
	As a means of ready intercourse by sea, the harbour of Arbroath

<FOOTNOTE> The cost of lighting the streets within the burgh with gas, in 1831, was, L.181.


