
                   KINCARDINE.                             425

the "Eminent Men" of this parish. He was "minister at Kincar-
din" towards the beginning of the seventeenth century, and was
in all probability the immediate successor of Mr Hucbeoun Ross.
He was minister here in the year 1655, (Presb. Records of Ding-
wall, Vol. i.); and appears to have been translated to Tain about
the year 1664, where he died shortly before the Revolution.
   3. Mr Hector Monro, second son of "Mr Wm. Monro, parson
of Coulecudden," in Cromartyshire, of the family of Foulis. , He
was minister at Eddertoun in the year 1637, and his name appears
in the "List of Members of the Gdneral Assembly, which met at
Glasgow, Nov. 21, 1638," as one of the Commissioners from the
Presbytery of Tain, thus,-" M. Hector Monro, min. in Nether
Tayne." (Records of Kirk of Scotland.) Mr Monro was "Min.
at Eddertayne" in 1655, (Presbytery Records of Dingwall, Vol. i.)
and was transported to Kincardine about the year 1664, where be
died, 18th March 1670.
   4. Mr George Ross, was the next "minister at Kinearden."
He died in February 1683, and was buried in Fearn church-yard.
   5. Mr Kenneth Mackenzie, whose name appears in a "mortifi-
cation be James Bishop of Ross, with the dean and chapter of the
Cathedrall Kirk thereof, to the school and schoolmaster of Fort-
rose," dated at "Fortrose, 21st August 1686;" for the "Parsonage
of Kincardin" formed part of the chapter of Ross, during the time
of Episcopacy. Mr Mackenzie's subscription to the above document
is "Ken. M'Kenzie, parson of Kincardin."  He was translated to
Fearn about 1686, having been but a short time minister of Kin-
cardine. He was deposed soon after the Revolution by the united
Presbytery of Ross and Sutherland.
   6. Mr Walter Ross, who was also "Episcopall incumbent at
Kinkardin," previous to the Revolution. He "voluntarily dimit-
ted" his charge in 1695, and seems to have been a peaceable,
inoffensive man. The next notice we have of him is in 1704, in
which year, the General Assembly "recommend to all the Pres-
bytries within the Synods of Lothian and Tweedale, Glasgow
and Ayr, and Fife,to collect some charitable supply for Mr Walter
Ross, late Episcopal minister at Kincardine in Ross." (Acts of
Ass) And the Commission of Assembly, in the year 1714, "Payed
to Mr Walter Ross, 100 lib. Scots, by order of the Church," after
which there is no more mention made of him.
   7. Mr Hector Fraser, sixth minister of the parish, and first
Presbyterian minister after the Revolution, who was admitted
here in 1699, the parish having been vacant for four years; in the

   ROSS AND CROMARTY.              Ee


