
		KILMONIVAIG.                            509

factions was fought near Keppoch, in the centre of this parish, at
a place called Mulray. The circumstances that led to this bat-
tle appear to have been the following. M'Intosh of M'Intosh
possessed the lands of Keppocb, along with other lands in the vi-
cinity. M'Ronald of Keppoch occupied this farm of Keppoeh, as
did his ancestors for many generations, partly by force, and partly
by the connivance, and perhaps the weakness of the MIntosb.
MlIntosh would have been satisfied, it appears, with a slender ac-
knowledgement, of his superiority; but this M'Ronald had too much
Highland spirit to yield. After various fruitless negociations, M'In-
tosh was resolved to have recourse to the ultima ratio with his re-
fractory vassal at Keppoch. He collected some hundreds of his clan,
and, proposing to steal unawares on M'Ronald, be procured a com-
pany of regular troops commanded by Captain M'Kenzie of Sud-
dy, to aid him in his expedition. But M'Ronald, being apprised
of his intentions, collected his own retainers, and met his feudal
lord at the mouth of Glenroy. There at Mulray a most sangui-
nary engagement took place. The M'Intoshes were routed; and
M'Intosh himself was taken prisoner.
  Eminent Men.-Ian Lom, already alluded to, resided in this
parish. He bad a poetical genius of a very high order. His songs
translated into English would exhibit a striking picture of the period
in which be lived. He was, however, a frenzied Jacobite. He was
when a very young man at the battle of Inverlocby in 1645, although
he did not mingle in the conflict. It is asserted that the son of
Colkitto said to him on the eve of the battle-" John, will you go
with us?" " No, I shall be a spectator of your prowess, and if you
do well to-day, I will tell it as well as I can to your praise to-mor-
row." He did so no doubt, and in the song he composed on the
occasion, he luxuriates like a fiend on the anticipated music of the
widows and orphans of the Campbells in Argylesbire weeping and
clapping their bands in agony over the fate of their husbands and
fathers. John survived the union of the two kingdoms, and compos-
ed a song against the measure.'In the intervening period, he was en-
gaged in various exploits, some of which led to tragical results. It
is reported that some one procured him the office of Gaelic Poet
Laureate to King Charles II.,-an office which, I believe, died with
himself. We find John describe in a song the march of Dundee from
Lochaber to Athole in the year 1689, the year after the Revolu-
tion. He appears to have been present at the battle of Killie-
crankie, which he describes in a song, composed on the occasion,


