

       1108                 PERTHSHIRE.

         Land-owners.-The principal land-owners of the parish of Port
       are, in the order of property, David Erskine, Esq. of Cardross,
       Patron; General Graham Stirling of Duchray and Auchyle;
       His Grace the Duke of Montrose; William Cunningham Cun-
       ningham Graham, Esq. of Gartmore; James Graham, Esq. of
       Leitchtown; G. B. Home, Esq. of Argaty; Mrs Eastmont of
       Drunkie; James Forrester, Esq. of Polder, &c.  There are
       twelve other land-owners.
         Parochial Registers.--Those of the parochial registers which
       are extant commence on the 14th September 1664; and contain,
       in the earlier part, some curious intimations of manners, some of
       which appeared in print some years ago.
         Mansion-Houses.--The principal mansion-houses in the parish
       are Cardross, Rednock House, and Garthmore, all of them large
       and commodious.  Of the other houses of this class, the most
       worthy of notice is leitchtown, the property of James Graham,
       Esq., which is very favourably situated on a well-wooded bank,
       with a southern aspect.  Mrs Eastmont is at present erecting a
       mansion on her property of Dunkie, in the northern part of the
       parish, which will command a fine view, including Loch Venaebar,
       &c.  The name of the property has lately been changed to In-
       ner-Trosaclis.  Rednock House has received a great addition with-
       in these few years.  The proprietor, General Graham Stirling,
       had previously formed an extensive and beautiful park from the
       lake of Inchmahome on the west, through the hills of Inchy, in
       which he has two artificial sheets of w`ter, amid the plantations
       with which he has embellished those elegant though small rising
       grounds.  These, however, are but a small part of the improvements
       which this spirited proprietor has made on his barony of Rednock.


                         <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
                  Amount of population in 1801,   .   1569
                                          1811,   .   1659
                                          1821,   .   1614
                                          1831,   .   1664
                                          1841,   .   1446
         The language generally spoken in- the parish of Port in 1724
       is, by one of the land-owners of those days, stated to be the Gaelic.
       When, accordingly, a minister came to be settled in 1726, the Earl
       of Buchan, then proprietor of the estate of Cardross and the patron
       of the parish of Port, listened to the application of the parishioners
       for a Gaelic minister.  A native of Cowal, Mr John Fergusson,
       was appointed, although from 1694, the Presbyterian charge in


