
		ON THE COUNTY OF BERWICK.		   361

its extreme breadth 21. Its mean length is 28 miles, and lean
breadth 17 miles.  It contains 476 square miles, or 304,640 Eng-
lish acres. * Berwickshire forms the south-eastern limit of Scot-
land: it is separated from Haddingtonshire on the north by an ir-
regular boundary; the counties of Edinburgh land Roxburgh bound
it on the west, by a crooked and zig-zag line; and the latter coun-
ty, Northumberland, and North Durham form its southern limits.
On the east, the county is washed by the German Ocean. Its
maritime coast extends nearly 20 miles, commencing near Lam-
berton, at the eastern point of Mordington parish, and terminat-
ing at the north part of the parish of Cockburnspath, where it joins
East Lothian. On the south-east it is bounded by the liberties of
Berwick.
   Topography.-The aspect of the county is considerably diver-
sified. The Lammermoor district, if it cannot be called moun-
tainous, is at least hilly, bleak, and moorish.  Some of the hills in
Lammermoor are of considerable altitude; they are generally co-
vered with heath, and have round and flattened summits. The
following table shows the heights of the principal hills above the
level of the sea, and the parishes in which they are situated:-

<TABLE>
	    Names of the hills,    Altitude.     Parishes.
	      Lammerlaw,           1500 feet    Lauder.
	      Sayerslaw,           1500 do.     Longformacus,
              Dirringtonlaw,       1145 do.     Do.
              Boonhill,            1090 do.     Legerwood,
              Soutra,              1000 do.     Channelkirk,
              Cockburnlaw,          912 do.     Dunse,
              Dunselaw,             630 do.     Do.

   Berwickshire cannot boast of such romantic features, and such
striking localities as characterize some of the northern and western
counties, and which prove so attractive to travellers. But still it
is not without its beauties, though these are of a more subdued and
less marked kind. Though there is a general uniformity in the
Merse, yet even its flattest parts are not without many gentle swells
and undulating elevations, which diversify the scenery, relieve the
uniformity of a continued plain, and impart an agreeable variety
to the prospect. These elevations generally range from the north-
west to the southeast. In the district properly denominated the

<FOOTNOTE>This account of the measurement of the county is taken from Kerr's Agricultu-
ral survey, published in 1809. It diffiers in some degree from Mr Blackadder's mea-
surement. According to the authority of Lr Blackadder, as quoted in the Agricul-
tural survey of Berwickshire, published in 1809, the whole may be distributed into
the following divisions: Lowlands of the Merse, containing 100,226 acres; lowlands
of Lauderdale, 7280 ; lowlands of Cockburnspath, 2200; hill lands of Lauderdale
and Lammermoor, 175,734.-J.E.


