
     Statistical Account

   Miscellaneous Observations.-It has been already observed,
with regard to this parish, that agriculture is in an advan-
ced state.  From the abilities and exertion of those en-
gaged in that line, much may still be expected.  Though
the ground in the neighbourhood be not naturally fertile,
that defect is compensated by art.  The elegant house
just built by the Solicitor General, about half a mile W.
from the town, the enclosures and plantations that gentle-
man is carrying on, and the improvements made by other

<FOOTNOTE>

set of questions in opposition to the new doctrine, which was favourably
received at court, and much esteemed by those of his persuasion.  Being
a great adept in theological controversy, he was selected by the Scotch
clergy to defend the Catholick opinions, and distinguished himself in se-
veral encounters with John Knox.  Refusing to acknowledge his errors,
he was banished, through the influence of the reforming party, and be-
came afterwards abbot of the Scotch convent at Ratisbon, where he pre-
sided many years.

<UNREADABLE>

   Kirkwood, rector of the school here, distinguished himself at a future
period by has learning, and still more by his long and obstinate conflict
with the magistrates and town council, whom he  under the de-
signation of the twenty-seven gods.

</UNREADABLE>

   Stewart of pordovan was a gentleman of property in this parish, re-
peatedly provost of the burgh, and represented it in the last Scotch par-
liament.  He was not only averse to the Union, but joined in a soremn
protest against that measure.  Having made Presbyterian government the
object of his peculiar attention, he wrote that well known book, in
which the procedure in the several courts in this kingdom is so distinctly
traced.
   Of the several persons connected with this parish at a remote period,
none is more frequently mentioned than Rob Gib, of facetious memory.
He acted as buffoon to James V.; and being allowed, on a particular
occasion, to personate the sovereign, gave a pointed reproof to the cour-
tiers, who urged their respective claims to royal favour, that he had al-
ways served his master for stark love and kindness His Majesty con-
ferred on him the property of West Cambber in this parish, which was
enjoyed by his descendents even in the course of this century.  The ori-
ginal charter is said to be still extant.

     7


