
190                               WIGTONSHIRE.

a regular distribution of Bibles to the poor: for which objects, col-
lections are made in church, when necessary. There is a library
for the benefit of the Sunday scholars of Penninghame and
Minnigaff in common. The library is kept in Minnigaff.
	The average amount of collections in church for religious and
charitable purposes, besides the weekly collections for the poor,
during four years, was very nearly L.10 a year.
	Education.--There are nine schools in this parish; one pa-
rochial, three endowed, and the rest unendowed. All the branches
commonly taught in parochial schools are taught in these, ex-
cepting the female schools, which are confined to the branches
generally comprehended in female education. There is an infant
school about to be opened on an endowment by the Earl of Gal-
loway. The parochial schoolmaster has the legal salary of L.34,
4s. 4d. and the legal accommodation of house and garden. Of
the endowed schools, one has a salary of ten pounds a year from
the Earl of Galloway, with a school-room and dwelling-house rent
free. Another was endowed in the end of last century by Archi-
bald M'Creddie, Esq. a benevolent gentleman, a native of Penning-
hame. He left L. 500, after having purchased an acre of land,
and built a school-room and dwelling-house on it. Of the L. 500,
L. 50 was paid as legacy duty, and the remainder (L. 450) was
lent on bond for affordidg a yearly salary to the teacher. That
bequest has been, and is, of the greatest importance to a district
of the parish, which, being thinly inhabited, and at a great distance
from any other school, would, but for it, have been destitute of
the means of education for the children of the poor. The other
endowed school was founded by the late Samuel Douglas, Esq.
of Jamaica, who died in 1799, leaving his property under the ma-
nagement of executors named in his will; and on their death, to the
management of the ministers of Penninghame and Kirkmabreck,
with the three oldest acting elders of each parish, trustees in all
time coming. Some difficulties occurred in the managements of
the trust, and after some years of litigation, the trustees invest-
ed the property recovered by them, agreeably to the terms of
the will, in lands in the parish of Ballantrae, Ayrshire. These
lands yield a rental of between L. 200 and L. 300 a-year; but
they are hurdened with some debt. After paying a master
L. 80 a-year, and other expenses, the trustees are to nominate, on
the foundation, as many boys at L. 20 a-year each for board,
education, and clothing, as the funds will permit. The instruc-


