
			ARTICLE GLASGOW.                            929

be neither men's sons, apprentices, nor poor ones, that shall be found
to bicker on the Sunday, or profane the said day by their plays;
but that the fathers of the said sons and the masters of the said
apprentices, shall pay to the treasurer of the kirk for the first fault
20s, for the second 30s., and so on toties quoties; and that the
beggars be banished the town for ever without hope of their regress
to the same."
   Nor did the faithful men of Glasgow in these early days con-
tent themselves with the protection of the day of God;--they re-
membered the claims of benevolence.  They dealt in acts of
positive kindness to their fellow-men.  The love of God led to
the love of man.  At a period when the stipends of ministers,
where they existed, did not exceed 400 or 500 merks, a most
affectionate regard was paid to the wants of the poor; the session
records are full of references to them.  In 1588, the town seems
to have been overrun with beggars.  Indeed, that great social
change, though in a partial degree, Was going forward in Scotland,
which led in the reign of Elizabeth to the enactment of the poor-
laws of England.  The superior ecclesiastical system of this poorer
country, warded off what for so many generations has proved a
curse to the sister land.  Regular collections were made at the
church-doors for the relief of the poor.  These upon an average
extended from L. 1 to L. 3 Scots, or about 3s. 3d. Sterling.  This
may seem a small sum, but, taking into account the value of money,
it was not really so.  About that period a boll of wheat could be
had for 2s. 6d. of our money, and the carcase of the best sheep
was sold in Edinburgh for 10d.  Hence it appears that the col-
lection for the poor was very considerable.  In 1588, it is stated
that the box contained L. 22 in silver, which was equally divided
for distribution in the town into four parts.  When the church
collections, owing to any particular pressure of destitution, were
found inadequate, recourse was had to subscription, and ministers,
magistrates, elders, &c. became collectors.  We read of one per-
son in this way bringing in 6 merks, 6s. 8d; another 10 merks,
16s. ; another 20s. ; another 31s. ; another L. 5, 12s. 8d.  When
men went round on this errand they are directed to collect " of
those that may spare some of their goods and geir for the relief of
their poor brethren, and that with all expedition."  The power of
granting discretionary relief was exercised by the elders and dea-
cons.  Some interesting cases of individual relief are noticed.
Thus, 4s. are granted to one James Kilpatrick to release his cloth-
ing from some sort of pawn.  " The kirk ordains John Fife, flesher,

