
     Statistical Account

be fit to cut.  Various kinds of tares have been tried, viz.
the flat vetch; the large and small round tare; the last
kind has hitherto been found the best, both for fodder and
feed.  They are a most excellent food, and much liked
both by cattle and horses.

   Winter Tares.-Mr Mylne of Mylnefield is the only one
in this parish who has tried winter tares.  They are sown
about October, and may be cut about May.  He thinks

<FOOTNOTE>

Found, that she had been costive for sometime, had a dullness and heaviness
in her eyes, and was very much hide-bound.  some medicines were given
for her costiveness, which answered very well; but her disease increasing,
a celebrated cow-doctor, from a neighbouring parish, by trade a weaver, was
sent for.  After examination, he declared her to be elveshot; and although he
pretended to point out the very holes under the skin through which the elvan
arrow had passed, yet she was not so bad as many he had seen, and there-
fore he prescribed and administered, but without effect:  For soon after
a very large swelling was discovered between the forelegs, upon the brisket,
which felt soft and pulpy.  The cow went off her food entirely, her pulse
quick, breathing short, and in a few days she died.  On dividing the bris-
ket, it was found full of a glary, jelatinous substance, and very much enlar-
ged:  and upon opening the thorax, the pericardium appeared extended to
an immense size, so as to occupy the whole left division entirely.  On
puncturing it a yellowish fluid assued out, which could not have measured
less than 6 or 8 Scotch pints (3 or 4 English gallons), so that the cow died
of a bydrops pericardii.

On examining the cow-doctor, he said he had often seen elveshot cows,
some of which he had cured.  That he had seen some drop down dead up-
on the spot:  That he had frequently felt the impression made by the elvan
arrow under the skin; for they can wound even mortally without any ex-
ternal appearance:  That others he had seen with their whole body as soft
as wool, (his own expression) after death:  That he had frequently picked
up those arrows, which were smooth triangular small pointed stones or
pebbles, like flints; and it was his belief, that those who do the mischief
are our goodly neighbours.

From this it will appear, that the belief in the existence of fairies is not yet
quite extinguished in this country; but they have been very unjustly blamed
for killing cattle, as a stroke of lightning is a much more natural way of ac-
counting for the mischief, which however was beyond the sphere of their
knowledge when this notion was very prevalent; and the triangular peb-
bles are as innocent as our goodly neighbours.


