
     of Inveresk.

where the Pretorium was built.  It was undoubtedly on
the summit of the hill where the church now stands, and 
included that beautiful villa that lies to the eastward of it;
a hollow road, which, till about 35 years ago, passed within 
three yards of that villa, having most likely been the fosse
of the pretorium.  It is now included in the garden and
pleasure ground.  The church, of which the antiquity is
not known, and which is called St Michael's of Inveresk, 
has probably been built out of the ruins of that ancient 
Roman edifice.-A building of high anitiquity was situated
at the east and of Musselburgh, which belonged to the 
abbacy of Dunfermline.  It was called the Chapel of Lo-
retto.  There are no remains of it now but a small cell,
about 12 feet by 10, covered by a mount, in the garden of 
the gentleman who is now in possession of the villa called 
Loretto.  Soon after the Reformation, about the year 1590,
the tolbooth of Musselburgh was built out of the ruins of 

<FOOTNOTE>

This seems to have been a kind of building used by the Romans only for 
temporary use.  The cement, or tarras, sufficiently proves by whom it
was made, as the Roman composition of that kind is superior to any of 
later ages.  It is remarkable, that the tarras of the grand sewers under
the city of Rome is of the same kind; and it is related by travellers, that 
in the very ancient building kingdom of Bengal, the very same 
fort has been used Two medals were found among the ruins, now in 
the possession of Robert Colt, Esq; owner of the villa; one of gold, much
defaced, which is supposed to be of Trajan; another of copper, on which 
the incription is clear, Diva Faustina.  There are traditional accounts,
that in digging foundation of houses in Fisherrow, there have been found 
similar ruins of Hypocausta, which affod a proof, that this station was not 
merely military, but was a Colonia Romana or Municiprum; that they had 
many hoafes and building near the sea, as well as their pnetorium at 
Inveresk; and that one of their principal harbours on this side of the 
Frith was at Fisherrow.  From that harbour, situated where there is one
at present, there was a Roman causeway, (the traces of which remained 
within the memory of some still living), which led to their camp at 
Sheriff hall, three miles S. W. and onwards to Borthwick.


