
  364                       BANFFSHIRE.

   Opposite to Auchlunkart, on the Seafield estate,a large planta-
   tion has recently been made out, on the lower end of the Benagen
   range, which already shews well.   The summits of the Muldeary
   hills were planted many years ago with Scotch fir.  They look
   well at a distance, but the wood has come to little size, and re-
   quires to be filled up with hard-wood and larch.

		         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The earliest account that the repor ter is acquainted with, both
   of the parish of Boharm and the suppressed parish of Dundurcos,
   is in Shaw's History of the Province of Moray.  There are no spe-
   cial plans or surveys of the parish.   It is possessed by four pro-
   prietors, by whose families their respective estates have been held
   for several generations.  William Grant M'Dowal, Esq. has the up-
   per part, consisting of Arndilly, Easter and Wester Gauldwell,
   Newton, and Auchmadies, together with the peninsula of Alkenway,
   in Rothes, already mentioned, all lying contiguous in a rich, com-
   pact, and beautiful estate.  Next, downwards, John Duff, Esq. of
   Drummuir, has the farm of Knockan, which unites with his ex-
   tensive possessions in Botripliney.  Patrick Stewart, Esq., has
   the barony of Auchlunkart, in the middle of the parish, and the
   Earl of Seafield has the lower end of it, comprising the lands of
   BaInabriech, Mulben, Muldeary, Cairnty, and Forgie.
   	Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers commence in
   1636, and, except in the times of Charles II. and his successor,
   and another break, from 1784 to 1800, the session record is very
   full and complete.  The registers of baptisms and marriages,
   however, are defective before 1800, and there is no register of
   deaths.
	Antiquities.-A stone, which was in the wall of the old church
   it Arndilly is now built into the wall of one of the wings of the
   mansion-house.   It has rude figures carved on it.  As the re-
   porter has seen another stone, and has heard of a third, having
   very nearly the same figures upon them, the former having been
   taken out of the foundation of the old church of Inveravon, and
   the latter being built into the wall of the abbey of Deer, he has
   sometimes thought that they may be Druidical memorials, and in-
   dicate that our forefathers fixed their first Christian temples on the
   sites of Druidical worship.
	The Castle of Bucharin, now Galval, is an interesting remain,
   situated on a fine eminence between the brook Aldernie and the
   Fiddich, having the Yale of Balveny stretching out in front ; the


