

218                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.


expense. The communion table seats, containing 40 sittings, are
free to any who May choose, to occupy them. The manse was
built in 1804. It has since undergone some trifling repairs at
different times; and it is now, on the whole, in a good state of re-
pair.
   The glebe consists of 7 imperial acres, and may be worth L. 1
per acre of yearly rent.
   The stipend consists of 96 bolls meal; 64 bolls barley; and
L. 43, 10s. 10d., which includes L. 8, 6s. 8d. allowed for commu-
nion elements. There is, as before said, a church belonging to
the Relief body, to which I believe there are 20 acres of land at-
tached, which, with collections and seat-rents, make up minis-
ter's stipend.
   There are 60 families, and 240 persons of all ages-attending the
parish church. There are about 100 families, and 400 persons of
all ages attending the Relief meeting-house in the parish, and
other Dissenting places of worship out of it. The parish church
is, on the whole, well attended, and, so far as I can learn, the Dis-
senting one also.
   It will be observed from the above statements that the number
of Dissenters in the parish considerably exceeds the number of
churchmen. And it is perhaps proper here to state, that this was
caused about sixty-five years ago, by an unfortunate difference
arising between Lord Stonefield, who was patron at that time, and
the people, regarding the settlement of a minister ; when the
people taking offence, left the Established Church, and built for
themselves a meeting-house in connection with the Relief body,
to which the greater number adhered; bile others went to Dis-
senting chapels in other parishes. And owing to that unhappy
disagreement, and perhaps to the Dissenting chapels being more
conveniently situated for the bulk of the parishioners, the greater
part still continue Dissenters, though after the lapse of sixty-five
years, and, the ministry of two incumbents in the p rish church.
It is right, however, here to state, that a disposition to return to
the church has lately shown itself among some Dissenters, and
that the number of churchmen has been for some time increasing.
As a proof of the correctness of this statement, I may mention,
that, in 1835, the roll of male Treads of families communicants
contained 41 names, whereas in 1838, it contained 51, which
shows an increase of 10 names in three years.
   There are about 150 communicants in the Established Church.



