
                       KINCARDINE.                                  423

Houses, as also that which goes to Croick church, thirteen miles
distant, the rest of the parish, for upwards of thirty miles, is totally
destitute of what may be called roads; the only access to these re-
mote districts, except on Highland ponies, being by the excellent
county road on the Sutherland side, which skirts the Kyle, the di-
vision betwixt the counties, to the extremity of Kincardine, where
it marches with Assynt. The road to Croick winds through a beau-
tiful vale, along the banks of the river Carron passing Braelangwell
Lodge, the picturesque summer residence of Sir Charles Ross of
Balnagown, and Amat Cottage, the residence of Mr Ross of Pit-
calnie.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated within a mile
of the eastern extremity of the parish : its situation is therefore ex-
ceedingly inconvenient for the bulk of the population, its distance
from the western extremity being no less than thirty-four miles.
It was built in 1799, and affords accommodation for 600 persons;
but it is too small for the congregation that usually attend. It is in
contemplation, however, to add a wing: but a new edifice would be
found cheaper in the end, as the present one is much decayed, and
the timber becoming rotten.  Its length is 68 feet 6 inches, its
breadth 20 feet, and its height 17 feet.  There is a large and
well-toned bell attached to the church, which was presented to the
parish by Admiral Sir John Lockhart Ross.  It was a good deal
injured by fire. *
   The sittings in the church have been divided by the heritors
according to their valued rents, and the tenants on their estates
have free access to them.  There are no seat-rents exacted.
   The manse consists of two erections:-the older part was built
in 1769; and, in 1827, it was repaired and additions made to it,

<FOOTNOTE>The following inscription, which was written by Mr Gallie, then minister of
Kincardine, is on a marble tablet, under the belfry, and within the church:-

          "This Bell, captured in a French Ship of War
                    Of 74 Guns, was gifted
          By Admiral Sir John Ross of Balnagown, Bart.,
                       In the year 1778,
                 To the Parish of Kincardine."

           "When Britain's navies did a world control,
           And spread her empire to the farthest pole;
           High stood our hero in the rolls of fame,
           And Lockhart then became a deathliss name.
           This bell no more shall witness blood or gore,
           Nor shall his voice mix with the cannon's roar;
           But to Kincardine by the hero given,
           Shall call the sinner to the peace of heaven."


