
	158			ORKNEY.

	the west ; and Redhead, a high promontory of red granite, to-
	wards the north.  There are several bays about Eday, in which
        vessels can anchor occasionally; and there are two excellent har-
	bours, viz. that of Fersness, on the west, and Calf Sound, on the
	north, each of which has two entrances.
	   Eday, though like Stronsay, of moderate elevation, yet it has
	a ridge considerably higher than Stronsay, running (with the
	exception of a short interruption towards the middle), from north
	to south.
	   There are six small islands connected with Eday.  These are,
	the Island of Pharey, with its holms, which protect the harbour
	of Fersness, on the west, and contains sixty-five inhabitants ; the
	small red holm, between this island and the Redhead; the Calf
	of Eday, which protects the harbour of Calf Sound; and the two
	green holms off the south-west of Eday.  All these, with the
	exception of Pharey, are pasture holms, and uninhabited.
	   There are several fresh-water lakes in each of these parishes,
	particularly one in Stronsay, nearly a circle, and somewhat less
	than a mile in diameter.
	   Mineralogy.--The soil, in general, rests upon a bed of grey
	slate, dipping towards the west at an angle of about thirty degrees
	with the horizon.  There is some sandstone about the north-west
	shore of Stronsay.  And in various parts of Eday, particularly to-
	wards the north-western part of the island, this stone abounds.
	The stone from this quarry has been much used for building in
	Kirkwall; and it may be observed, that some of it was sent a few
	years ago for this purpose to London.  In these parishes, the soil
	which predominates, is that of clay, sand, gravel, loam, and moss,
	the last particularly in the parish of Eday.  In Stronsay, marl
	has been found, which has been used as manure.

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Land-owners.--The principal proprietors of these parishes are,
	Mr Balfour of Trenaby ; Mr Urquhart of Elsness; Mr Heddle
	of Melsetter; Mr M'Kenzie of Groundwater ; Mr Stewart of
	Brugh; and Mr Laing of Papdale, brother and representative of
	the late Malcolm Laing, Esq. Advocate, the author of the His-
	tory of Scotland.  It may be noticed, that a large part of that
	work is understood to have been written, while the author was re-
	siding in the mansion-house of Carrick, in Eday.  Carrick was
	erected into a burgh of barony during the reign of Charles the
	First.  And it may be remarked, that the House of Carrick was
					3


