
86                     BOXBURGHSHIRE.

bute materially to beighten the value of produce and thus a reci-
procity or interchange of advantage actually occurs to those by
whom the poor are maintained.
  Fuel.--The expense of fuel is great in this deistrict.  The
nearest coal is brought from Red Water, Northumberland, a
distance of 28 or 30 miles, and is generally sold by the cart load
of five bags, containing about ten ewt. at from 13s. to 14s.  Coal
is also brought from Berwickshire via Kelso, and sold by the cwt.
The average price during the year is about 14d., although after
and 1s. per cwt.  Of late years, in consequence of more competi-
tion, coal is brought to Hawick much cheaper than formerly.  Dur-
ing a long-continued storm, it has been sold so high as 2s. 2d. and
2s. 4d. per cwt.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  In closing this report., I have only farther to remark, that the
inland situation of this district, which is nearly equidistant from the
Solway, the Forth at Leith and the sea at Berwick is certainly not
favourable to the extension of manufactures, as the land carriage of
articles for exportation adds so considerably to the prime cost; and
the want of facilities for internal communication by canals and rail-
roads, is a desideratum that will not easily be supplied, on account
of the altitude and uneven surface of the country.  Yet, notwith-
standhng these local disadvantages, commerce, trade, and agricul-
ture are in flourishing condition; and the whole of the manu-
factories which have been described above, have sprung up in this
parish since the date of the last report.  Were coal more easily
procured, it would undoubtedly add materially both to the comfort
of the inbabitants, and to the extension of trade.  And were such
of the labouring classes as spend their earnings injudiciously,--and
not a few of these are to be found everywhere--to abjure the im-
moderate use of whisky, they would be better clad and better fed,
and promote at least the temporal comfort of themselves and families.

   November 1834.


