
                           BOHARM.                361

   before long exposure to the air, are bard and compact, living
   much the appearance of breccia traversed by horizontal layers of
   soft sandstone.  After some exposure, they become soft.  The
   breccia-like substance is reduced to clay and gravel, and the sand-
   stone to sand, ready to be swept away by the next rain.  The
   bright crimson colour of the torrents poured through these ravines
   into the Spey has often attracted observation.  They are absolutely
   like torrents of blood.   On this table-land no springs rise, except-
   at its edges, to which of course cultivation is confined; while the
   rest of it, except where pl`nted, for which it is all admirably adapt-
   ed, remains a barren waste.
	Further to the east, and forming the north-eastern side of the
   lateral valley, are the round hills of Muldeary, the western slope
   of which is in this parish composed of the same red clay and gra-
   vel; abounding here, however, both superficially and in the sub-
   soil, with large boulders of granite and hornbleDde.  These, in
   some places, are so numerous as to cover the surfaces and totally
   prevent cultivation.  They afford building stone of the best quali-
   ty, and are extensively used in this way.
   	Zoology.-Red-deer frequently visit the parish, chiefly in their
   passage from the forests of the interior to the coast, or as ma-
   rauders from the park of Gordon Castle. Red-deer are pretty
   numerous.  Hares are most abundant everywhere, and rabbits on
   the river side.   Foxes, polecats, weasels, notwithstanding the ex-
   ertions of the game-keeper; for their destruction, are also nume-
   rous.   Badgers are not rare.    Otters, once very numerous, still
   frequent the rocks of  the Orchil, and the margin of the river.
   A hedgehog, the only one ever seen here, was lately found on
   the river batik.  Rats are a perfect nuisance, and, of late, The
   large grey rat has found its way from the coast.  Water-rats, with
   round heads and short tails, are numerour, burrowing in embank-
   ments and the sides of mill ponds.  Hawks of various kinds are
   very plentiful, and a few ravens may be seen, which have their
   domicile in the rocks of Benagen.  Rock pigeons are numerous
   in the glen of the Orchil, and wood pigeons in all the plantations.
   Rooks visit the parish in large flocks, chiefly from the woods.of
   Gordon Castle and Balveny.  The common crow makes also a
   frequent appearance.  Owls, both common and horned, are nu-
   merous, and there are the usual abundance and variety of smaller
   birds. Grouse are plentiful on Benagen and the  bounding hlls.


