
238                            STIRLINGSHIRE.


years-ago, could find neither food nor shelter; while the larger
predatory tribes have either disappeared, or are seen at long inter-
vals. The huntsman and his bounds, that used formerly to be
maintained by the tenantry for the defence of their live-stock
against the attacks of "beasts of the field and fowls of the air,"
have disappeared with the creatures against which they waged
war. So lately as the latter half of the last century, the golden
eagle bred regularly in Campsie; so did, the gentil falcon; two
species of the badger, three of the fox were natives. Badgers
are still found occasionally; foxes are very numerous; otters are
still seen, also polecats; hedgehogs are plenty. A martin
cat was taken in the Finglen some years ago. The true wild-
cat is believed to be extirpated from this parish. There are a
great many species of hawks, most of them natives, as also several
falcons. The goshawk, buzzard, and kite, are common. Eagles
are no longer observed;	neither is the red-legged crow; and the
hen-harrier but seldom.	The lapwing breeds in great numbers,
as also the stonechat;but both disappear during the winter.
I know few things more pleasant than on a summer evening, in
the solitude of the lofty moors, to hear the plover winding his
mellow horn. The note is rich and beautiful, and is rendered
doubly pleasant by the deep silence around, as if all nature were
listening to the little trumpeter. Squirrels are now abundant.
They were first observed in this district about fifteen years ago.
Roe-deer are now permanent residents with us, and red-deer are
said to have been seen crossing our moors. The jackdaw first made
its appearance here about 1808 or 1809. Pheasants, introduced
some years later, are now spread over the country. The mistletoe
thrush now breeds in Campsie, so does the beautiful kingfisher:
a pair of water-ouzels built their nest under the lower fall in the
Finglen in 1837. The dabchick and the baldcoot have also re-
cently been added to. the inhabitants. The little golden-crest-
ed wren, and the redstart, have also been observed of late, toge-
ther with many new varieties of the duck; among others, the
golden-eyed diver. Almost all the tribes of smaller birds common
in Scotland are found here in abundance.*/f
  Botany.--No district in the vicinity of Glasgow ranks very high

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Stirling, Craigbarnet, shot, in December 1838, two cross-bills, the first seen in
this quarter. They are very beautiful 'birds, and are preserved by this gentleman in
a very fine collection which he has made, and which contains not only all the birds
inhabiting this district, but a great number of beautiful specimens of foreign orni-
thology.


