
     of Crail

Fish of Crail, entered on board his Majesty's fleet; a small
proportion returned home.  Six boats are employed in the
white or cod fishing, and 6 smaller ones in the lobster fish-
ing.  The number of men required to work them, is about
45 or 50.  In 1791, 13 large boats were fitted out for the
herring fishery, each carrying 7 men.  Upon the island of
May, which, quoad facra, has always been considered since
the Reformation as part of the parish of Crail, there were
formerly 10 or 15 fishermens families, with a proportion-
able number of boats.  At present there are only 3 men
and 2 women upon it, for the purport of taking care of the
light.  At Fife's Ness there is only 1 boat, with 2 fisher-
men.  The little village which is situated there, is not now
so considerable as it appears once to have been.  In the present
generally decayed Rate of the fisheries along the east coast
of Fife, the people employed about them deserve every
protection and encouragement from the country.  Nothing
but the most pressing necessity should ever induce Govern-
ment to make demands upon them for manning the Navy.
Upon the occasion of a late armament, one for every five
men was required by the regulating captain at Leith, before

     VOL. IX. 3 L

<FOOTNOTE>

*For an account of this island, see the "Statistical Account of An-
struther Wester."  The melancholy accident there recorded, viz, the
suffocation of George Anderson, his wife and five children in the light-
house, between, the night of the 23 d. and morning of the 26th of Janu-
ary 1791, is supposed to have been occasioned by a termentation among
the immerse heap of ashes, which for years had been accumulating round
the building as the two, men who were saved, declare that a sulphureous
steam was observed to issue from it for several weeks before the fatal might
on which it burst out in flames.  The infant that was taken from the
brest of the dead mother, and the eldest son and daughter, who happen-
ed providentially not to be upon the island, are under the profusion of
Miss Scott, to whom the light-house belongs, and who doubtless will con-
tinue to patronise them, as they shall be found deserving.  For several
curious particulars concerning thus, and the other islands in the such of
Forth, sea Sibbald's Hist of Fife.


