
                               AYR.                             79

establishment in life either in the way of marriage or of trade.  A
person who carefully manages his savings in this way, will general-
ly be found to stand aloof from those thoughtless follies and ex-
cesses which prove hurtful to so many of the young, on their
setting out in the world; and he will run no great risk of falling
into improvident indigence in old age, and thereby becoming a
burden on his friends or the public.  We look upon savings banks
as of far more advantage to the lower orders than benefit societies,
as the latter often fall into decay from want of proper calculation
of their resources, and the pressure of demands that are liable to
be made upon them by contingencies of sickness, against which
they sometimes become unable to provide.  The former, however,
are as steady and secure as any regular bank, and the money sav-
ed in this way is always available at pleasure.  The interest allow-
ed to money deposited in the Ayr savings bank, has varied at dif-
ferent periods.  The bank of Messrs Hunters and Co. in which it
is lodged, allows one-half per cent. more than the current interest.
Formerly it was at the rate of 6d. for every 12s.; lately, it has
been reduced to 6d. for every L. 1, or two and a-half per
cent. annually.  In 1820 its rules received the approval of the
general sessions of the county of Ayr, in terms of the act of
Parliament passed anent savings banks in Scotland, which entitled
this bank to certain privileges.  In terms of the act, they can lend
their funds in bond without stamps, and are not subject to any ad-
vertisement duty.  The directors, however, have never as yet
availed themselves of these privileges.
   Friendly Societies.--Various societies of this description have
long existed here, and, notwithstanding the decay and dissolution
of several, they still continue to keep their ground, and new ones
start up as others disappear.  The general principle on which
they are all founded is, that every member, by contributing a small
pittance of his earnings weekly, while in health and able to work,
shall be entitled, during temporary sickness or old age, to have a
fixed weekly allowance.  This allowance is greater or smaller in
different societies, according to the rate of their contributions;
but we fear there is something necessarily unfixed and liable to
prove deceptive, as regards them all, in consequence of their be-
ing so much dependent on circumstances that are, and always
must be, contingent.  Insurance upon lives can be reduced, to a
pretty accurate standard, by calculations on mortality on a large
scale, but it is quite a different thing to form a fixed and ac-


