
			KIRRIEMUIR.                          187

ber of scholars is 200. One teacher has the charge of the clas-
sical department, another of the commercial, and a third of the
English.
	Henry's Mortification.--Mr Henry of Kensington, a native of
Kirriemuir, bequeathed in trust the sum of L. 1400 to the mini-
ster and elders; the interest of L. 1200 to be laid out in educat-
ing and furnishing with school-books, pens, ink, and paper, twelve
boys, or as many more as the money would educate; and the inte-
rest of the remaining L. 200 to be paid to the parochial school-
master for keeping the accounts. In consequence of some diffi-
culties which had arisen respecting some part of Mr Henry's pro,
perty, the whole matter came before the Lord Chancellor, who
settled it in the following manner: The capital having been placed
in the funds at an advantageous time, his Lordship found to be
L. 2192, 3s. 6d. 3 per cent. with L. 394, 12s. Sterling of accu-
mulated interest: he determined L. 50 Sterling of this interest to
purchase ground for building a school-house, and L. 100 Sterling
to be expended on the building; the interest of L. 200 Sterling
was allotted to the schoolmaster, and the interest of the remaining
sum was to be applied to the education of as many boys at the pa-
rochial school as could be admitted on it, at the rate paid for the
education of other boys. The boys are entitled to remain at school
four years, and on completing that period, they are entitled to re-
ceive a Bible. They are treated in all respects as other scholars,
and in case of a competition for admission, a preference is given
to boys of the name of Henry. They are taught the common
branches of education. On this fund, there are educated about
50 boys.
	The Webster Bequest.--John Webster, Esq. writer, and agent
for a branch of the British Linen Company, in 1829, left by his
will the whole of his property, amounting to upwards of L. 8000,
to Charles Lyell, Esq. of Kinnordy, to the minister and elders of
the parish, and the officiating baron-bailie of Kirriemuir, for insti-
tuthng, erecting, perpetually endowing, and for regulating a school
in the town of Kirriemuir, at which the youth of the town and pa-
rish might be instructed in thd `rts and sciences, or in such branches
of education as his trustees might think most suitable. The trus-
tees are at present engaged in collecting the money, which they
are securing in the funds; and, as soon as the amount is ascertain-
ed, they will erect suitable buildings, and endow schools, in terms
of the will. As they are anxious that the poor should receive in


