
204                    BERWICKSHIRE.

far as we know there has beeN no chemical analysis of this coaly
envelope. The following is the analysis of a tree found at the
place now spoken of, taken from Mr Witham's paper:* Carbo-
nate of lime, 78; peroxide of iron, 17; protoxide of iron, 13;
loss, 2=100 parts.
   The prevalence of lime in these petrifactions is usuallyu ac-
counted for by the gradual introduction of calcareous matter into
the tree, (from the calcareous clay enveloping it,) as the internal
parts decayed; and we know that, on account of the greater dura-
bility of the bark, the interior of a tree generally decays first.
To such an extent have the decay and destruction of the ligneous
parts taken place, and so complete has been the intrusion of cal-
careous matter, that these fossil trees consist almost entirely of
carbonate of lime, and very little of the woody fiber remains.
   It is of course chiefly by the examination of the remanent fibres
that any hopes could be entertained of detecting the nature of
these fossils. Recent investigations, for the commencement of
which we are also in this respect indebted to Mr Witham, have
proved that they belong to the genus coniferae, to which class our
Scotch firs belong. It was for a long time supposed that the larger
fossil vegetables, now and then discovered in our coal-fields, were
palms. But a transverse section of the palm tree shows no appear-
ance of small reticulated fibres, or pith, or medullary rays, or concen-
tric rings, (denoting the annual growths) such as those observed in
sections of the Tweed-mill fossils. The interior of a palm consists
only of a cellular tissue, with vascular fibres, having neither medullary
rays nor concentric rings. And in the appearances thus exhibited by
these fossils, there is a complete resemblance to various species of
Coniferae now existing. There is only one point of difference, viz.
the greater size in the fossils of the fibrous cells and extent of the
annual growths,-facts attributable to the more favourable combi-
nation of heat and moisture, which operated on the Flora of a for-
mer period.
   This result of an internal examination of these fossils is fully
confirmed by their external appearance. For, besides that many
of the stems appear twisted and otherwise irregular in their shape,
(like the Coniferae of the present epoch) many of them bear the
remains of branches, such as are never met with in palms.
   It has not yet been positively determined whether these trees have
grown originally in the district where they are now deposited. In

<FOOTNOTE> Transactions of Newcastle Phil. Soc. Vol. i.


