
                  DESKFORD.                                           67

mossy and knolly piece of ground upon a bed of clay. The ground
abounded with hazel-nuts, which looked entire, but, upon being opened
were found empty. This antique curiosity is nowin possession
of the Banff Institution, to which it was presented by the Honourable
Colonel Grant, to whom it was given by the tenant who
found it on his farm. The place where it was found is close by
the confines of another farm, called Inalterie, which is supposed
to mean the place of the altar, and where there are the remains of a
very old strong massive building, the nature of which cannot now be
ascertained, and respecting which there is no tradition. In one part of
this building, there is a deep circular hole, about the diameter of an
ordinary draw-well, inclosed by a wall of masonry, rising to a considerable
height in the building. This hole is now filled up with
rubbish to a level with the surface of the ground. What had been
the original purpose of it cannot now be ascertained. Perhaps it
had been intended as a "dry pit" for the solitary confinement of
offending individuals. Close to it, there is a vault, on the top of
which the tenant has now his kail-yard. Some years ago, an attempt
was made to explore this vault. A stair was found leading
down to it. A heavy rain, however, coming on at the time, and
filling the place with water, the work was interrupted, and has
never been resumed. Whether this ruin be that of a baronial or
ecclesiastical edifice, it is not perhaps now possible to determine;
though the name Inalterie, and the artificial head already mentioned,
which was probably contrived for some purpose of imposture,
or "lying wonder," would rather incline us to suppose it to
be the ruin of some ecclesiastical building, erected in those remote
ages, when ignorance, superstition, imposture, and tyranny were
so prevalent.
  In the immediate vicinity of this ruin, there was, till lately, a
conical artificial eminence, called the Law Hillock, and supposed
to have been at one time the seat from which justice was distributed.
It is now demolished, the tenant having found the stones,
of which it chiefly consisted, very convenient for the building of his
offices; a purpose to which the stones of the adjoining ruin refused
to be subservient, obstinately resisting every effort made to
separate them.
  There is also on the other side of the burn of Deskford, within
view of the former, and about half a mile from it, another hillocki,
rising to the height of 20 feet, with regularly sloping sides, and
flat upon the top,-which is of an elliptical shape, about 30 feet by


