
278                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

prior to 1837, when it was discovered by Mr Alexander Croall of
Montrose, in the dam of Stone of Morphy.
	On banks, fields, and by way-sides,--Primula veris, with its
hybrid relative P. elatior, Anagallis arvdnsis, Convolovus arvensis,
Gentiana campestris, Saxifraga granulata, Pimpinella saxifraga,
Agrimonia Eupatoria, Antirrhinum linaria, Cardamine amara,
Sisymbrium Sophia, Carduus acanthoides, and Avena alpina.
	In salt marsbes,--Scirpus maritimus, Potamogeton pusillus, and
Aster tripolium; and on dry, sandy, or gravelly banks in the neigh-
bourhood of the sea, Phleum arenarium and nodosum, Poa mari-
tima, Elymus arenarius, very abundantly along the outer range of
the bents from the mouth of the north Esk eastward, with Arundo
arenaria, Triticum junceum, and Carez arenaria; Hyoscyamus ni-
gep, Viola flavicornis, Salsola Kali, several species of Arenaria,
Origanum vulgare, Cakile maritima, Eryngium maritimum, and
Lithospermum maritimum, of which two last plants, though said to
have been met with, some years ago, not a single specimen can now
be found in the parish.
	In the shady dens of Fenella and Morphy,--Poa nemoralis,
Festuca sylvatica, F. elatior, Bromus giganteus, B. asper, B. steri-
lis, Asperula odorata, Galium boreale, Alium vineale, A. ursirum,
A. oleraceum, Paris quadrifolia, and Adoza Moschatellina.
	In the recesses and on the sloping sides of the cliffs of St Cy-
rus,--Campanula glomerata, Dianthus deltoides, Silene nutans, La-
thyrus sylvestris, Vicia lutea, V. sylvatica, V. lathtyroides, V angus-
tifolia, Solidagn Virgaurea, Pyrethrum maritimum, Eupatorium
cannabinum, Carlina vulgaris, Echium vulgare, Geranium pratense,
G. sanguineum Tragopogon pratensis, and Trifolium scabrum.
This last was observed by Mr James Cruickshank of Dumfries,
in 1838, on the peninsula of the Kaim of Mathers, and also on a
spot about half a mile westward, and, though common in England,
is only known to exist in other two stations in Scotland, the
nearest of which is on the coast of Haddington.
	Plantations.--The whole of the woods in the parish have been
planted, and cover a surface of somewhat more than 300 acres.
They consist of the usual sorts of evergreen trees, mingled with
the hard-woods, ash, elm, beech, and a few oaks. The soil is
not unfavourable to the growth of any of the sorts of trees em-
ployed in the formation of plantations; but, being exposed to the
influences of the sea breeze, their growth is necessarily slow,
though, on this very account, they are said to produce timber of


