
                        JOHNSTONE.                         157

which contained them were directed to be inhumated, under the
superintendence of the minister of the parish, in the year 1818,
who possessed himself at that time of copies of their several in-
scriptions.*
	Land-owners.--The whole parish, with the exception of two
farms belonging to the Rev. John Copland and Sir William Jar-
dine, now belongs to Mr Hope Johnstone of Annandale. The fa-
mily from which he is descended, have been proprietors of it and
other extensive estates in this district of Dumfries-shire as far back
as tradition goes. They were, as is well known, one of the chief
warlike border clans, and in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries
were distinguished for their constant warfare with the Douglasses,
their English neighbours, and particularly with the rival Scotch
family of Maxwell of Nithsdale. Among the ancient records and
papers of Mr Hope Johnstone, there will no doubt be found much
to illustrate the history and antiquities of this part of the border,
especially during the latter period of the reign of Elizabeth, when
Sir James Johnstone of that ilk was knighted, and made "warddn
of the west marcher,"--an office held more than once by the family,
under the several successive reigns of the sixteenth century.
	Parochial Registers.--No parochial registers, or sessional records
exist in this parish previous to the year 1735. Since that period
a book has been kept containing an account of the ordinary collec-
tions, &c. and of the half yearly distributions to the poor, which is
balanced and docqueted annually by the session, and to which the
heritors of the parish have at all times access. Another book is
kept, in which is recorded the general sessional business, and an-
other for the registration of those births which are communicated
to the session-clerk. No record of deaths, or marriages has ever
been kept here.
	Antiquities.--There is upon the cast side of the small runner which
separates the farm of Crawknowes from Beastockrigg, a small burrow
or tumulus, which was never opened in the memory of any person now
alive, and which is said to be the spot where the Laird of Lochwood
shot, in a private quarrel, the Laird of Dumgree, and hid his body.
There is nothing in the shape of a ruin worthy of notice, with the ex-
ception of the Castle or Tower of Lochwood, in the north end of the
parish, said to have been built during the fourteenth century, and
which, from the thickness of its walls, and from its insulated situation,

<FOOTNOTE>
	  For those inscriptions see original MS. of this Account, among the Archives of
the Church.


