
                             GREENOCK.                      435

power to the whole line of falls, or to somewhat more than 1000
feet, the water-power acquired is equal to 1782 horses. Whether
Mr Thom was well-founded in the remark with which he con-
cludes his report, namely, that, if all the water-power which
Greenock possesses were actually applied to machinery, Greenock
would be in possession of nearly as much power from water as was
then (in 1824) given by steam to all the public works in and about
Glasgow, the compiler of this account will not pretend to deter-
mine. But one thing is undeniable, that the water-power furnish-
ed by the company is far cheaper than that which is procured
from steam. The expense of the latter, even in Glasgow, in the
immediate neighbourhood of coal, is not less than L.30 a-year for-
each horse power. The Shaw's Water Company let out their
water-power to manufactories at the rate of from L.2 to L.4 per
horse power per annum, with this advantage additional, that there
is no tear and wear, as in steam-engines, and no risk of failure or
deficiency in the supply. The quantity of water guaranteed by
the company is 1200 cubic feet per minute on each branch of the
line for twelve hours every day during 310 working days in the
year. The Act of Parliament provides that there shall be an an-
nual inspection of the grand reservoir on the 1st of April. At some
of these inspections, it has been found that, making large allowance
for leakage and evaporation, there was a supply of water sufficient
to fulfil the engagements of the company for a whole year, though
not a drop of rain should fall in the interval. The certainly, there-
fore, of a uniform and abundant supply, not only at present, but
after the formation of the second branch of the line of falls, is fully
established.
  The genius of Mr. Thom as a civil-engineer and mechanic has
been most succesfully displayed in the construction of the embank-
ments, the self-acting sluices, and other machinery connected with
this splendid undertaking. The great reservoir covers nearly 295
imperial acres, and contains 284,678,550 cubic feet of water. Its
embankment is 60 feet high from the bottom of the Shaw's water
rivulent. The compensation reservoir, immediately adjoining to
the great reservoir, and in connection with it, covers about 40 im-
perial acres, and contains 14,465,898 cubic feet of water. Its
embankment is 23 feet high from the bottom of the rivulet. Both
embankments have stood the test of time, and at this moment dis-
cover a firmness and solidity which inspires the most unmingled


