
                         XIRKLISTON.                              137

vices, were born, the former on the 6th, the latter on the Sth of
October 1742.  The houses of their parents were only about half
a mile apart, and they both received the elements of education at
the parochial school of Kirkliston, then under the charge of Mr
John Hastie, of whose talents and eminence as a teacher, Sir Ro-
bert Liston was wont frequently, to the very latest years of his
life, to speak in terms of high commendation.
   Chief Land-owners.-These-are, the Earl of Hopetoun;.Mr
Hog of Newliston; Mr Dundas of Dundas; Mr Falconar of Car-
lowrie; Mr Cameron Of Foxball (anciently) Todshaugh; Mr
Ramsay of Barnton; Sir Alexander Charles Maitland Gibson of
Clifton Hall; Sir James Gibson-Craig of Riccarton; Mr Coch-
ran Wisbart Baillie of Lamington.  The five first mentioned pos
sess the part of the parish lying in the county of Linlithgow; the
four last mentioned, possess that portion lying in the county of
Edinburgh.
   The valued rent of the parish is L. 12846, 18s. Scots, 'where'
of more than two-fifths belong to the Earl of Hopetoun, and near-
ly one-fifth to Mr Hog.
   Parochial Registers.-These are of four classes:-I.  The Mi.
nutes of Session; 2. The Minutes of Heritors' Meetings ; 3. T4
Lists of Baptisms, Marriages, and Deaths; 4. The Accounts re-
lative to the Poor's Funds.   Of the first class of records the ear-
liest volume commences in 1647, and there are six other volumes,
the latest commencing in 1817 ; of the second class, there are two
volumes, the former commencing in 1692, the latter in 1785; of the
third class, the earliest volume' commences in 1675, and there are
five other volumes, the latest commencing -in 1817, but there is
no record of deaths prior to 1816.; of the last class, the earliest
volume commences in 1712, prior to which period, the accounts,
relative to the poor's funds were all engrossed in the minutes   of
session, and there are five other volumes, the last, commencing
in 1821.' All these volumes, with the exception of the Irst. and
fourthl of the first class, are in a tolerably go6d state of preser-
vation, and from the earliest period, the records seem to -have been
carefully kept.
   Antiquities.-At Lochend, near Newbridge,"in the,zounty, Of
Edinburgh, some large stones are set up, where a battle was fought
in the year 995, between Kenneth, the natural brother of Mal-
colm, second King of Scotland, and commander of his forces, and
Constantine, the usurper of the Crown. About a mile and a half


