
120                        DUMBARTONSHIRE.

   His widow continued to reside in the castle which he had re-
built, nor can the insertion be resisted of this beautiful eulogium
on one who so long hallowed these sequestered shores by her pre-
sence. "His noble lady, Lady Margaret Douglas, a lady of sin-
gular piety and virtue, bore the sad shock with other both per-
sonal and domestic afflictions, with great patience and incredible
fortitude, giving herself always to prayer and fasting, and minis-
tering to the necessity of the saints." In the old Castle * one of
their daughters was married to the Earl of Caithness, whom Mid-
dleton, the brutal minister for Scotland, (one of those dissolute
bacchanals to whom Charles II. confided the government of his
kingdom,) "threatened to kick with his foot when sitting on her
knees before him, begging her dead father Argyle's head to be
buried."
   The fate of the next Argyle, rather a rash patriot, the victim of
royal resentment and jealousy, is well known; although, perhaps,
the particulars of his escape from his first imprisonment are fami-
liar only to the readers of the more minute and circumstantial bio-
graphies. They were of a romantic cast, and reflect exceeding
credit upon the self-command and dexterity of his step-daughter,
the Lady Sophia Lindsay, to whom, after his arrival in the Low
Countries, he addressed a poem well expressed, and throughout
containing a pleasing vein of religious sentiment. The following
lines might be applied to the present phase of our own community,
and are quoted to show how curiously in certain cycles men are
the agents or the victims of the same ecclesiastical and political an-
tagonisms:
	       The world is here as I have seen,
	       All do cry down what is--up what hath been;
	       Debate for government in church and state,
	       Are still the devil's delight.

<FOOTNOTE>The castle was the scene of superstitious omens of his untimely end. According
to Baillie, "all the dogs on the day Charles II. landed in England, did take a strange
howling and staring up to my lady's bedchamber for some time together. The Mar-
quis's sister, Lady Kenmure, 'from a little skill of physiognomy which Mr Alex-
ander Colville, Justice Deput, an old servant of the house, had taught her, had said
some years ago that her brother would die in blood."  "When the Lord Marquis of
Argyle went from Inverara to Roseneath in birline, when going up to see the King
after his return from exile, Mr Gordon, minister, with some others, accompanied
him to the boat, and after said lord was upon his voyage they, returning home, met
a dumb man, who falls a whining and mourning, and having a staff in his hand, laid
down the staff on the ground, and lays his body on the ground, laying his neck upon
the staff, and smyting the upper part of his neck with the edge of his hand, be arose
from the ground and pointed at my Lord Argyle in the birline, which accordingly fell
out, for he was beheaded."


