
276                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

markable spring, which Mr Pennant, in 1772, said was the largest
that he had ever seen, except the famous spring at Holywell, in
Flintshire. Near the Gair farmstead, which is built on a ridge
considerably elevated above the level of Sprinkell House, and near
to limestone rock, several streams wbich issue from springs are ob-
served to sink into the ground, and entirely disappear from the
view. It is generally believed that these streams during their pas-
sage through subterraneous fissures, become united, and burst vio-
lently out in one large stream in the present garden of Springkell.
There are four mineral springs in this parish, of which three are
nearly of the same nature and qualities, The first, distinguished
by the name of the Branteth Well, is situated in the north-east
part of the parish, in a moss of considerable extent. Its waters
having at different times been subjected to a chemical analysis, were
found to be strongly impregnated with sulphur. Its smell is most
offensive, and its taste disagreeable. It is used with great success
in scrofulous and scorbutic cases. The late Sir Humphry Davy
stated some years ago that it was very similar to the Moffat Well.
The other three mineral springs are all of the chalybeate kind, and
do not differ materially from each other.
	The Highmoor Well, in all probability impregnated with a sub-
stance not possessed by the others, has often been used with advan-
tage in bilious and other stomachic complaints. The second of this
kind, distinguished by the name of Charley's Well, upon the farm
of Goukhall; and the third by that of Wyesbie-hill Well,--are ex-
actly of the same nature and qualities and are said to possess all
the power and medicinal virtues of the famous Hartfell Spa near
Moffat. *
	Kirtle is the only river in this parish. It has its source in a val-
ley, which is formed by Winterhope-hill on the one side, and the
farm of Kirtlehead on the other, in the parish of Middlebie; and
running towards the north corner of Kirpatrick-Fleming, divides
the two parishes for a space of more than four miles, and, then
crossing the parish in a south-east direction, falls into the Solway
to the east of Redkirk, in Graitney. Its length is about 18 miles;
its breadth at a medium, where it divides this parish from Middle-
bie, above 23, and after that 30 feet. In it there are trouts, eels,
and perch.
	In the south of, Scotland it would be difficult to find another
river of equal size to the Kirtle, which has its banks more richly

<FOOTNOTE>See Account of Moffat.


