
548            GENERAL OBSERVATION ON THE

where are her blast furnaces? Perhaps the new iron-works of Dalry
will test both the extent and quality of iron that are to be found
in the neighbouring fields.  Notwithstanding occasional boastings
about the extent of the Renfrewshire supply of iron, it seems pro-
bable that this country will never be notable for its manufactures
in iron; and even its coal is not of the very best quality, although
in many respects excellent.
   Simple Minerals found in Rocks.--In the parishes of Paisley,
Neilston, and Lochwinnoch, there is an amygdaloidal porphyry,
forming a sort of table-land, eight or nine square miles in extent,
very rich in zeolites.  The same sort of rock occurs in the upper
ward of Lanarkshire, about Edmiston and other places, chiefly
to the west.  The simple minerals found in Renfrewshire are
most abundant about Hartfield, near Paisley.  These are most-
ly "calcareous spar, aragonite, stilbite, chabasite, &c. and occa-
sionally large cavities occur lined with prehnite in reniform and
botryoidal forms, of a green or straw colour, sometimes smooth,
and in other instances crystallized on the surface.  Preh-
nite, too, is frequently found embedded in, or constituting an
integral part of the rock,"  Some remarks on the prehnite of
Hartfield moss will be found in the account of Neilston.  The
very able writer of that account, however, makes one remark
which must be corrected, where he says, "prehnite is not found
in any other parish in the west of Scotland known to us." For the
accuracy of this work, it is but right to say that it occurs plentiful-
ly on the Kilpatrick hills.  A white prehnite is found in Loch-
winnoch; it also occurs in Abbey parish, Paisley.  We refer to
the table of minirals found in Lochwinnoch parish as at once cu-
rious and valuable.  The red foliated stilbite at Clovenstane in
that parish, and several others, are very interesting.  The parish
of Kilmalcolm is famous for its chabasite and yellow stilbite.
Needlestone, analcime, and other similar minerals, also extend to
the parish of Erskine.  In the light-blue-coloured porphyry forming
Kempoch point, there is found brown-spar, fluor-spar, the oxide
of manganese, and small rock crystals.  Near the village of Kil-
barchan, specimens of white carnelian were found in claystone, con-
nected with a remarkable rock consisting of pieces of chalcedony
united by an argillaceous cement.
   Zoology.--The following is a list of the principal whales and
fisher found in the Clyde, and its frith or estuary.


