
188                           ORKNEY.

There are no chapels in the parish, either in connection with
the Established Church or any. other body of Christians. There
are 70 male beads of families, and individuals from 84 families,
who attend the parish church. The number of persons of all ages
who attend it, is from 2.50 to .300, but the number is constantly
varying. The average number of communicants is about 200, but,
like the former, is variable. 'Divine service is regularly attended
by almost all who profess adherence to the national church. Dis-
senters attend divine worsbi' beyond the bounds of the parish.
Contributions are made here in behalf of the Orkney Church
Bible and Missionary Society, tn the amount, of L. 5. The an-
nual amount of church collections, for religious and charitable ob-
jects, is L. 6, 10s. 10#d. at an average of eight years.
Education.-There is no permanent school except the parochial
one. And the branches taught in it, are reading, writing, arith-
metic, and grammar. At present, the parochial schoolmaster is so
nearly blind as to be incapacitated for discharging the duties of
his office, and cannot be compelled to provide a substitute. The
school is, however, taught by a qualified person, who, in addition
to the school-fees, receives a small gratuity from the heritors. The
schoolmaster's salary was, by the late augmentation, raised to L. 27;
and the school-fees, under an efficient teacher, may amount to
from L. 9 to L. 12 Sterling. He has, besides, a schoolhouse, con-
sisting of two comfortable apartments. The expense of attendance
at the school is, for English, Is. 6d. ; for ditto and writing, 2s.;
and for these with arithmetic, 2s. 6d. per quarter. It may be af-
firmed, that no person belonging to the parish, above seven years
.of age, and of ordinary capacity, is entirely unacquainted with the
elements of education ; and that there is none, above ten, unable
to read with some degree of intelligence. And the people seem to
be so far alive to the benefits of education, that, in the present un-
fortunate circumstances of the parochial school, they make such
exertions as prevent their children growing up in total ignorance.
The school is situated in the immediate vicinity of the church
and is of course equally central. Winter, however, being the sea-
son most convenient for attendance, and the roads being then ba d,
as well as the days short, it is hardly possible that it can be at-
tended by the children of those who live in the more remote parts
of the parish ' The population that lies beyond the reach of con-
venientatiendance, is, probably, not more than 150-persons. And
for the children of such, care is taken to encourage temporary se-


