
                            BALFRON.                          289

eminence; for here, the parish church still stands, surrounded by
the burial-yard, always an object of deep interest to the popula-
tion. Here, also, is the smithy, -and the old oak tree, of fourteen
feet in circumference, in the very heart of the clachan, in which
were fixed the jougs of the parish, But, alas! the glory of the
clachan has past away. It is now shorn of its importance by its
immediate neighbour, the new village of Balfron, which sprung into
existence with the introduction of manufactures, about sixty years
ago. This is now the principal village in the western district of
Stirlingshire, is built on a gentle declivity, with a southern exposure,
sloping gradually to the river Endrick. The situation is command-
ing, and extremely beautiful. In the immediate foreground, you
have the rich valley of the Endrick, with the river meandering through
the well-grown and richly diversified plantations of Ballikinrain and
others; bounded by a well-defined ridge of hills, known by the
name of the Lennox Fells, and which here rise to an elevation of
1500 feet above the level of the sea. In the greater distance
are the Grampians bounding the view amongst which, Ben-
ledi, Benvoirlich, Benvenue, Benmore, and Benlomond, with the
more distant mountains of Cowal, in Argylesbire, form grand and
conspicuous objects. The village is neatly built, and being kept
clean and white, is at all times an object of interest to the travel-
ler or visitor.
   Hydrography.--Our only river is the water of Endrick, which
rises in the parish of St Ninians, and after fertilizing and beau-
tifying the parishes of Fintray, Balfron, Killearn, Drymen, and
Kilmaronock, at length is lost in the waters of Lochlomond, the
Queen of British lakes. It is a clear running and beautifully wind-
ing stream, and, though well-wooded on its margin in general,
there is nothing to prevent the angler from following his sport;
and richly is he rewarded by full creels of those deliciously flavour-
ed trout in which it abounds.
  Geology.--Abundance of limestone there is in the parish, but
from want of coal it has never been turned to any profitable account.
It is said, however, that coal formations do exist in the parish, and,
perhaps, the appearance of newest floetz-trap and basalt may ren-
der the statement not improbable; but certain it is, that any ex-
periments upon what have been supposed to be the likeliest situa-
tion for coal deposits, have proved hitherto unsuccessful.
                       II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Balfron originally belonged to the one powerful family of Drum-
STIRLING.


