
     Statistical Account

where it is indented by Dalmaik, it does not extend above
5 or six miles.  It is in many places 5 or 6 miles broad.
This parish is of a very irregular form.  The burn of Leu-
char or Culter, parts it into three divisions; the west, and
the south and east divisions.  That burn flows from the
Loch of Skene southward, and after dividing the parishes
of Echt and Skene in that quarter, it turns eastward along
a large tract of peat moss, called Leuchar-moss; and there
it gets the name of Leuchar-burn.  Proceeding towards
the south-east 3 miles, it is in that course the boundary be-
tween the parish of Skene and the west division of this
parish*.  It then receives the burn of the Ord, and runs,
in a line almost at right angles to its former direction, from
a south-west corner of Skene, to a north-east corner of Dal-
maik; so that it quite intersects this parish, which is there
only a mile and a half broad.  At the N.E. of Dalmaik,
the burn of Gormack falls into it; and then it is called
the Burn of Culter.  Thence it directs its course sometimes
eastward, sometimes southward, and washing part of Dal-
maik, and the north-east side of the barony of Kenarty, falls
into Dee at the south-east corner of the glebe+.-The

<FOOTNOTE>

*Leuchar-burn, prior to its junction with the Burn of Ord, passes
through an extensive flat, partly meadow, partly swamp, and some of it
arable.  But it is so liable to inundations that none of it can be ploughed
but in a very dry season.  At the end of the flat there is a cataract.  Some
time ago, a mason was employed to cut the rock and deepen the channel,
that the plain might be drained.  By some defect, however, in the plan
or execution, or in both, the end was not attained.

+I have been the more particular in tracing the course of the Burn of
Culter and Leuchar, because in that tract a canal might be formed be-
tween the river Dee and Loch Skene Into the north corner of that
lake runs pretty large stream, after gliding through a smooth valley near


