
     of Erskine.

successive crops of oats upon the same ground, and that they
should introduce turnips and sown grasses into their system.
With these conditions all of them but one complied, and
took their farms for 19 years.  They however complained
of the restrictions.  They thought, that they were allowed
too few crops of oats, the staple commodity of the country,
during the course of their lease; they were not well ac-
quainted with the turnip husbandry, nor with the method
of buying, fattening, and selling cattle.  Upon after reflec-
tion, his Lordship thought proper to relax the rigour of his
restrictions, and to allow them more discretionary powers.
From the example, however, which he had given them,
and the spirit he had infused into them, they all
began with vigour to improve their farms.  They
purchased considerable quantities of lime and foreign
manure.  They became more active and industrious;
and though the turnip husbandry was never carried by
them to any extent, and is now generally laid aside,
they all adopted the practice of laying down their
fields in good condition with sown grasses, having a ready
and secure market for their hay in the towns of Port Glas-
gow and Greenock.  The consequence of this has been,
that the country is considerably improved both in appear-
ance and in value; the tenants are easy in their circum-
stances, and indeed wealthy for their station; their rent is
paid in general with perfect punctuality, and there is eve-
ry reason to believe, that, upon the expiration of the lea-
ses, they or their sons will be able and willing to pay a
rent equal to what may be considered as the just value of
the ground.  The writer of this account feels a particular
satisfaction in having an opportunity of exhibiting such an
example, and at the same time of paying a deserved tri-
bute to the memory of an amiable and respectable noble-
man, and a most worthy and useful citizen, whose death
was lamented by people of all ranks in this country as a

     VOL. IX. 1


