
78                        ORKNEY.

a considerable quantity. On the success of their fishing, both
here and in Walls, the people depend in a great measure for their
ability to discharge their engagements for the year.
   The number of inhabitants by a census in 1838 was 851. In
1841, there were 493 persons; forming 81 families. The Earl of
Zetland is the sole proprietor of this parish.
  Pharay is an island to the north of Flotta, about two miles long,
and nearly one broad ; regarding it there are no peculiarities to
be noticed. The population in 1838 was 49. In 1841, there
were 55 persons, forming ten families. The island is the property
of Robert Heddle, Esq. of Melsetter. These are the inhabited
islands, besides which there are three which belong to the parish,
and which are uninhabited, but afford pasture for cattle and sheep;
these are Rysay Little, to the north of Pharay, and Switha, to the
south, and Flotta Calf, to the east of Flotta. The first of these
also belongs to Mr Heddle, the other two are the property of the
Earl of Zetland.

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   There was formerly Divine service in Walls two successive Sab-
baths, and in Flotta every third Sabbath. It is almost unnecessary
to remark that in a double parish, where there is a distance of
nearly five miles between the two churches, and that space inter-
sected by rapid tides, and the passage often dangerous, this order
of things must be frequently broken in upon; and no minister but
one who has been actually so circumstanced, can imagine the
distressing state of affairs caused by this arrangement, by which,
of necessity, one church is left vacant every Sabbath; besides, the
minister cannot possibly maintain pastoral superintendence over a
people removed at such a distance, and that by water. So con-
vinced was the present incumbent of this, that, after his induction
four years ago, his first attention was directed to remedy an evil
which had been the cause of much demoralization in these parishes.
After considerable exertion, he succeeded in obtaining an ordained
missionary, under the auspices of the venerable Society for Pro-
pagating Christian Knowledge, who, along with the Right Ho-
nourable the Earl of Zetland and ourselves, contribute to his sup-
port.
   An invaluable blessing, is thus conferred, not only upon the people.
of Flotta and Pharay, but upon the 1150 inhabitants of Walls,
who, now enjoy Divine service every Sabbath. All the ordinances.
of religion are now regularly maintained in Flotta; and we have


