
54                          ORKNEY.

fiftieth plate of the Encyclopaodia' Britannica, published in 1797,
might pass for a representation of this monument before the dis-
placing of its pillars.
   On the hill north of Quoyloo there is a standing stone, and also
a curious collection of large and ancient stones, to which the name
Haly Kirk is still applied; and a gentleman residing in that
neighbourhood informs me, that he recollects one of these, now
prostrate, supported by those that are still perpendicular, thus
completing that resemblance to an altar, which its name seems to
indicate. Not far from the same spot, about 200 yards north-
east of North Dike, and about 500 east of the summit of Ves-
trafiold, are thd remains of an enclosure, 800 yards in circum -
rence, and, I believe, of great antiquity, many of the stones be-
ing large, and set upon edge, particularly five or six on the north
side.
  About sixty yards nearer the summit, is a quarry, with enor-
mous blocks of stone detached, so similar to the standing stones of
Stenness in size and shape, that I suppose this to be the bed from
which they were 'taken, as I know of no other quarry from which
they could be procured, and no other purpose for which people
would detach such blocks as these, from 13 to 18 feet long.
The nearest circle of the standing stones is about six miles from
this spot; but, though they might be considered geographically in
this parish , they are ecclesiastically within the boundaries of Sten-
ness. I may, however, mention, that numerous remains of anti-
quity, probably connected with them, may be seen at the adjoin-
ing boundary pf this parish, and more particularly about a mile
north of them; and within the west corner of the dike of Was-
bister is a circle$ which seems a miniature of that in Stenness, with-
out the stones, surrounded by a ditch about 12 feet broad, and 6
feet deep, 219 yards in circumference outside of the ditch.
    There are in the parish at least five brougbs, which their name
and situation prove to have been, of old, places of defence. Two
of tbese are on promentories at the precipice in Yeskenaby,
one jutting out in the Loch of Clumly, and two in the Loch of
Stenness; each of these, not an island, or surrounded by water,

<FOOTNOTE>The slab of Via is 1 foot thick, 5 feet 10 long, and 4 feet 9 broad. The four pil-
lars under it are each about 3 feet long; and the head stone 3 feet 9 by 2 fcet 9 on
the surface, and 1 foot 4 thick. It is placed nearly in the centre of an old circular
enclosure, 275 places in circumference, with a small tumulus on the south side of it,
which was lately opened, but nothing found in it except a parcel of large stones.


