
508                         FIFESHIRE.

History of Fife, held various high offices in the State. A younger
branch of this family was ennobled, in the reign of Charles II., by
the title of Lord Nairne, which was forfeited at the Rebellion in
1745, and restored during the reign of George the Fourth. The
estate of St Fort, along with sever l other lands belonging to the
family of Nairne, was sold at the beginning of the last century;
and since that time all the lands in the parish have frequently
changed owners, with the exception of the small property of Mor-
ton, which has continued in the same family for a long period.
     Antiquities.-There are several ca'irns or tumuli, composed of
small stones, in conspicuous situations of the parish, but they have
not been thoroughly explored. A few urns of rude workmanship
were found, a few years ago, in cutting the public road at Newport.
They were injured by the workmen, and their contents, if they
had any, were not ascertained. It is not improbable that a proper
examination of these cairns might bring to light some interesting
relics, in reference to the contests between the Danes and Picts
near the entrance of the Tay.
     Parochial Registers.- The parochial registers do not extend far-
ther back than 1701.
     Modern Buildings.-On the estate of St Fort, there has been
recently erected a very spacious and handsome house in the Eliza-
bethan form of architecture. The mansion house of Tayfield,
several years ago, received large additions, in a similar character
of building, so as to present the appearance of an entirely new
structure, and from its delightful situation on the banks of the Tay,
it commands a very extensive and beautiful view of the river and
country to the west.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

                     The population amounted in 1755 to     751
                                                1793    .   875
                 By the Parlimentary census for 1801 it was 916
                                                1811    .   898
                                                1821    .   937
                                                1831    .   1090
     This increase of population in the parish is obviously caused
by its contiguity to, and ready communication with, the town of
Dundee, and it is highly probable that the thriving village of
Newport will ere long become a large and populous town.

<TABLE>

	The village population is somewhat more than		-	600
	Total number of families,	-		-		205
	Of which employed in agriculture nearly, 	-		 90
     From 40 to 50 are artisans or connected with trade, and not
more than 10 are engaged in seafaring occupations.


