
     of Newburgh

been engraved on the Cross M'Duff.  They are to be found
in every hook, which treats of that ancient monument*

     Z

<FOOTNOTE>

*Although tradition has retained few particulars respecting the history of
either of the crosses, it continues to preserve the memory of the spot, in the
lands belonging to tee town of Newburgh, on which more than one unfortunate
victim fall a sacrifice to the superstition of former times, intent on punishing the
crime of witchcraft.  The humane provisions of the legislature, joined to the su-
perior knowledge, which has, of late years pervaded all ranks of men in society,
bid fair to prevent the return of a phrensy, which actuated our forefathers univer-
sally, and with fatal violence.  But we may well be surprised in observing how
near to our own times, it continued to exert its influence over the judgement, not
f the common people only, but of those too, who. by their education, should
have been raised above vulgar prejudices.  As late as the year 1653, the records
of this parish, contain articles of an additional charge, brought by the minister
himself, against Katharine Key, while under process of scandal, before the
kirk-session, for imprecating curses upon him, because he had debarred her ac-
cess to the communion, which evidently shew, that he entertained suspicions of
her being a witch.  The articles, or points of accusation, as the records term
them, are 5 in number; and as they serve to exhibit a striking picture of senti-
ments, once prevalent among the people of this country, no apology is requisite.
for taking the liberty of inserting them.

<UNREADABLE>

   "Newburgh, September 18th, 1653.  The which day, ye minister gave in,
"against Kathrine Key, several poynts yet had come to his hearing, which he
"desyred might be put to tryell.  1. That being refused milk from Christian
"Orme, or some other in David Orme's house, the kow gave nothing but red
"blood; and being, sent for, to sie the kow, the clapped (stroked) the kow, and
"said, the kow will be well, and thereafter the kow becam weill.  2. That
"John Philip having one kow new calved, the said Kathrine Key, came in and
"took forth ane peice fyre, and yras er the kow becam so sick, that none expect-
"ed the should have lived.  And the said Kathrine being sent for, to sic the kow,
"the clapped the kow, and said the kow will be well enough, and the amen-
"dit. 3 That the minister and his wyfe, having one purpose to take one chyld
"of their from the tot Kathrine, which she had in nursing, the chyld wold suck
"none woman's breast, being only one quarter old; but being brought again to
"the said Kathrine, presently sucked her breast.  4. That thereafter the child way
"Spayned (weaned), she came to sie the child, and wold have the bairne (child)
"in her arms, and yrafter, the bairne murned and gratt (weeped sore), in the

</UNREADABLE>


