
         			KINGART.		85


tions down to the year, l703. It resumes in 1740, and is regu-
larly kept till 1820, when it is again interrupted till 1827; from
which period, it is complete to the present time. It occupies five
volumes.
        Antiquities.-Near the north-east shore of Kilchatan  Bay are
two barrows or tumuli, at a short distance from each other. One
similar, farther along the same shore, was opened some time since,
and some pieces of old weapons, were dug out of it. All barrows of
this description, it is believed, will be found to contains sepulchral
remains.
	In the peninsula which connects the northern and southern por-
tions of the parish, half mile from the east shore, are what have
been considered the remains of a Druidical circle. The circle is
imperfect towards the north-west; but it is distinctly indicated by
three stones placed upright, at a distance of from 23 to 25 feet
from each other. They are from 7 to 8 1/2 feet high from the
surface of the ground; in breadth, from 4 to 6, feet; and from 15
inches to 6 feet thick. The circle has been supposed when entire,
to have been formed by seven stones; but the vacant space appears
to leave room only for two, and to limit the original
file. Nearly half a mile distant, towards the west shore, also
stand three stones, which have been variously conjectured to have
been connected with Druidical rites, or to mark a scene of battle,
and to have served as monuments for persons who fell in it.
Most probably it was the letters object for which they were erect-
ed. They are situated on a plain, at the foot of a gently rising
ground, a half a mile distant from the bay of Stravanan, where an
dnemy  was likely to land; and indicate a position singularly fa-
vourable for a defending force. On the other hand, they have
little apperance of a Druidical erection. They are placed in a
line running nearly from north to south, and are made to face to-
wards the east and west; and although their direction has a slight
inclination towards being circular, the circumtances may have been
greatly larger than that above-mentioned. They stand closer, too,
than the stones in the former, the distance betwixt them little ex-
ceeding 7 feet. In dimensions, the stones are both nearly alike.
  A mile farther south, on the west shore, is the fort of Dun-na-
goil (the fortified hill, or rock, of the Lawlanders), near the bay to
which it gives name. It is formed by a ridge of rock 50 feet high,
rising with the steep ascent from the sea on the wert side perpendi-



