
     of Menmuir.

souls, viz. 432 males and 468 females, which makes an in-
crease of 157; although, from examining the register of
baptisms for a considerable time back, it appears, that the
population is rather on the decline.  The births are, at an
annual average, nearly 27, deaths 22, marriages 8.  Of the
two latter no exact records are kept, and consequently the
calculations may not be so perfectly correct.  The number
of farmers is 36; of manufacturers, the weavers, who are
the only people of that description that are here, 12. The dif-
ferent sectaries or dissenters, are about 60, viz. 2 Roman
Catholics, who do not properly belong to the parish, but
come from the north; 10 Seceders, who attend a meeting
in Brechin; and 48 Episcopalians.

   Farming and Produce, etc.-There are 55 ploughs in the
parish and 100 carts.  The old Scots plough is commonly
used.  On 2 farms they still use oxen.  In some places the
small plough is introduced.  The parish supplies itself with
provisions, excepting butcher meat and small groceries,
which people in a country situation need from market towns;
but in return for these they send in fat cattle, and export
pretty large quantities of grain, especially oats and rough or
Chester bear.  On some of the larger farms, where they
have a greater proportions of pasture, a good deal of cheese
and butter is made and sold at Brechin or Kirrymuir.  The
soil, in several places, seems peculiarly favourable for raising
flax.  Four or five persons have lately obtained premiums
for this article; and this summer, with the assistance of the
Board of Trustees, a mill for dressing lint has been erected
on the water Cruick, which, it is to be hoped, will meet
with encouragement.  Peas and oats are sown here as soon
after Candlemas as the weather will permit, thought, in some
late seasons, they are hardly finished by the middle or even
the end of April.  Flax is sown about the beginning of that
month, and through the whole of it.  When it is a dry


