
		PENCAITLAND.				351

        Average of marriages for each of the last 7 years,      10
		of births,					30
		of deaths,					24
	In 1831, there were inhabited houses,		       256
	Families,					       259
	Employed in agriculture,		        	92 families
	In trade or manufactures,				29
	Other families					       138
	Males,						       557
        Females,					       609
   The general character of the in habitants of this parish is high-
ly respectable. Of course there are here, as well as in other places,
some " that walk disorderly," but for the most part the people are
diligent in their various callings, moral in their habits and regu-
lar in their attendance on the ordinances of religion. A marked
improvement in the observance of the Sabbath has taken place
within the last twenty years. Still, however, it is greatly to be
desired that there should be more decided evidence of the spirit
and power of true godliness.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.

   This parish, as we have seen, possesses some valuable minerals
in addition to the productions of the soil.
   The amount of land may be estimated at 3800 acres Scots,
which may be divided as follows:
	 In tillage,			     3400
	    permanent-artificial pasture,     160
	    wood,			      240
					     ----3800
   There are sixteen farms in the parish, varying from 160 to 360
acres in extent, besides a few detached portions of land on wbich
there are no buildings.
   Leases and Rents.-The duration of leases for the most part it
nineteen years, agreeably to the general practice in this county.
The total rental of corn and grass land may amount to L. 6400.
The rent of land in tillage varies from L. 1, 5s. to L. 3, and may
average about L. 1, 15s. Pasture land brings from L, 1, 10s. to
L,2p 10s. per acre Scots. The rents are almost entirely aid in
money. The dwelling-houses of the farmers are suitable to their
condition, and generally very comfortable. The farm-Offices are
also well adapted to the improved stateOf agriculture. It is gra-
tifying to find that greater attention is paid to the comfort of the
firm-servants. Their houses for the most part consisted formerly
Of but one apartment, with bare walls, and all open to the roofing-
Of late years, however, a considerable,improvement has taken.
place in the style of these dwellings. This is the case over the
whole parish, but especially on the estate of the Right Honourable-
Lady Ruthven, the principal heritor. Each one of those houses,


