
350                      BERWICKSHIRE.

pelling stream, abut upon the little cataract; and the whole is
shaded by some thriving trees. In consequence of lying lower
than the read, too, it is not observed until the passenger is almost
in a condition to look down upon it, when the real scene may al-
most be forgotten, in the likeness which it presents to a Dutch pic-
ture.
   The hill which has been said to occupy the southern part of
the parish is formed principally of conglomerate, resting on which,
on the southern as ct of the hill, is a shivered graywacke, much
more granular than the compact and solid stone at Dodds Mill,
with frequent strata of camstone or slaty graywacke in thin layers
much hardened, and at one place of the road quarry, where it is
revealed, enveloping with several concentric folds an imbedded mass
of the principal rock.
   Minute portions of copper of good quality have been found
washed out by the rain, on the farm of Dodds. It is believed to
be present in small quantities over a large part of the ditsrict ; and,
at a distant period, to have been wrought in the Lammermoors.
No mine for that or any other metallic ore has ever been opened
in this parish. None of the simple minerals have been found in
the rocks, excepting veins and occasionally small crystals of calc-
spar, and pieces of common quartz. The rolled stones which
occur in the fields are generally sandstone, graywacke, camstone,
and porphyry, pieces of which abound on Legerwood hill, and
may form the top of the highest eminence, resting on the tuffa.
   A formation here called Moorband, (clay with imbedded stones
indurated by iron,) is found at several places in thin but pretty ex-
tensive masses near the surface.* It seems to be a sort of bog-iron,
forms rapidly, and, unless broken up and removed, which is not
easily accomplished, is both a bar to the plough and destroys vege-
tation. Peat of great depth and excellent quality is abundant;
but it is not permitted to be cut: and, excepting in a few instances,
and very sparingly, that fuel is not used.
   There is a considerable variety of soils in the parish, which in
general take their character from the underlying rock. Upon Boon
Hill, the soil is clayey and very deep, and upon much of Legerwood
Hill also the soil is a deep reddish clay. The graywacke is cover-
ed to the top of the hills by a thin gravelly and untransported soil,
which, on their sides, becomes deep and productive; and upon the
<FOOTNOTE>The moorband, in other parishes in Scotland, is named pan, and generally is
made up of gravel and sand cemented by bog-iron ore.


