
216                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

of considerable size; and this is separated from the black vegeta-
ble mould by a layer of yellow clay. The low flat, however, which
forms the bottom of the valley, and which bears evident marks of
having at some period been a part of the bed of the frith, con-
sists of successive strata of blue clay, varying in thickness, and alter-
nating with sand or gravel containing quantities of sea shells. In this
clay, wbilst cutting a water-run some years ago, in the bottom of
the strath within this parish, the vertebrae of a wbale were found
not far from the surface, in high preservation. And this succes-
sion continues to the depth of about twenty-five feet,-bevond
which, the writer is not aware of its having been penetrated.
   The general character of the soil in this parish is clayey, con-
taining a greater or less admixture of vegetable matter. In the
lower part, particularly in the neighbourbood of the town, it con-
sists of a bed of black vegetable mould, varying in depth from
one foot to two and a-half feet. Throughout the whole parish,
it is remarkably fertile, and, being generally in a high state of cul-
tivation, yields luxuriant crops. It is especially adapted, with the
aid of lime, for the growth of wheat, affording in favourable sea-
sons grain of this description, not inferoir to the finest por-
duction of the Lothians. From the richness of the soil, however,
the nature of the subsoil, which renders it exceedingly retentive
of moisture, and from the extreme flatness which makes drainage
difficult, if not in some cases impracticable, farming in the low part
of the parish is somewhat precarious,-a wet season always proving
uncommonly injurious, not only in retarding farming operations in
spring and autumn, but in spoiling the grain, by causing the crops
to lodge from over-luxuriance.
   Botany.-- Of the plants most peculiarly attached to the soil perhaps
the most characteristic is the poplar tree, which here rears its slender
form to an unusual height. Numbers of these grow in the neigh-
bourbood of the town, whose tall pyramidal shapes, disposed in rows,
have an uncommonly picturesque effect. It would appear that in
former times (as it is at the presen-t day) Dingwall was famous for
the growth of cabbages ! as it was, and even is still known by the so-
briquet Baille ... Chaille, (kail-town,) a title which was no doubt
originally intended, by their wild and warlike neighbours, to con-
vey a sarcasm on the effeminacy of the worthy burghers.
   Zooloqy.-The animals found in this parish, are such, generally,
as are common to it with most parts of the Highlands. In addi-
tion to the usual domestic quadrupeds, we have, either as perma-


