
934                       PERTHSHIRE.

taining about seven-ninths of the population, lies immediately op-
posite to Perth, from which it is separated by the Tay: and, ris-
ing from the margin of the river till it reaches the summit of the
hill of Kinnoull, presents many striking features of natural beauty.
   Gdology.-The principal part of the parish being situated on
the western terminal slope of the Sidlaw hills, consists almost en-
tirely of the different varieties of trap, of which a large portion of
that range is composed. One slight and solitary exception oc-
curs in a thin bed of stratified sandstone, seen to lie over trap
in a quarry near the church. Great beds of water-worn gravel
rest on the rocky strata, some two hundred feet above the present
level of the river, and these are peculiarly conspicuous near the
toll-bar at Barnhill, about three-fourths of a mile, south-east from
the church. On the river side, rich alluvium prevails like that
which constitutes the soil of the lower Carse. In the Inchyra
section of the parish, trap also is alone visible, although it is ex-
tremely probable that the great bed of red or greyish sandstone
which fills up the Carse of Gowrie, and the westermost quarries of
which are at Pitfour, in the adjoining parish of St Madoes, extends
as high up as Seggieden, and consequently may be found around
Inchyra. The rich alluvium here, however, is so thick, that after
quitting the slopes of the trap on the hill side, and descending to
the level ground, no rocks of any sort are visible. The Balbeg-
gie division of the parish, though lying within the region of the
old red sandstone formation, consists chidfly of the same material
as that alone appearing in the other two districts.  Greyish red
sandstone is found, however, and is abundant in the neighbour-
hood. It is of considerable beauty, and from its compactness and
durability, is in demand as a building stone.
   The minerals in the parish are so common, and are so univer-
sally found in trap districts, that it is unnecessary to enumerate
them. The splendid agates, of which most museums in Britain
contain specimens, and which are known by the name of Kinnoull
stones, though found in the hill of Kinnoull, are so chiefly, in that
part of it lying in the parish of Kinfauns.
   Climate, &c.-The climate of this parish may be said to be ge-
nerally salubrious. From the fine exposure of that part of it
which lies opposite to Perth, and the shelter from the east which
the rising grounds interpose, there are here the earliest indications
of coming spring. Close to the river, no doubt, hoar frost is oc-
casionally very severe, as is seen in its effects on shrubs and plants


