
                        TRANENT.                          291

   The lands of Elphingstone were held feu of the Winton family,
find in the fifteenth century belonged to the family of Johnstone.
About the middle of the sixteenth century, they were, acquired by
the Primroses of Carrington, ancestors of the Earls of Rosebery,
and are now possessed by Mr Callander and Mr Elphinstone.
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners, according to their
valuations in the parish at present, are Mr Cadell of Tranent;
the Earl of Wemyss; Sir George Grant Suttie, Bart; Mr Burn
Callander; Mr Hunter; Mr Elphinstone; Colonel Macdowall;
Mr Anderson of St Germains, and Mr Fowler.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers of late years, have
been very regularly kept, and exist from 1615: but the first fifty
years are very imperfect; and from 1688 to 1720, the registers
are missing, and appear to have been lent and not returned.
   Antiquities.-There are no very remarkable antiquities in this
parish. A Druidical circle of stones formerly existed on the west
side of Longniddry Dean, near the sea; but in the course of mak-
ing some agricultural improvements it was unceremoniously de-
stroyed.
   The old collegiate church of Seton is the finest monument of
antiquity in the parish, and is an interesting specimen of Gothic ar-
chitecture, built in good taste. The date of the oldest part is un-
certain, but it must have been previous to the year 1390, for in the
beginning of the reign of Robert III. Catherine Sinclair of Her-
manston, the widow of Lord William Seton, "biggit ane yle on the
south syd of the paroche kirk of Seytoun of fine astler; pendit
and theiket it wyth stane, wyth ane sepulture thairin quhair sche
lyis, and foundit ane preist to serve thair perpetuallie." *  Consi-
derable additions were subsequently made to this church by the Se-
ton family, many of whom expended large sums in decorating the
mausoleum of their race, and there still exist several monuments,
which appear at one time to have been very richly ornamented. In
1544, the church was much destroyed by the English during the
invasion of the Earl of Hertford, who "tuk away the bellis and or-
ganis, and other tursable (moveable) thingis, and pat thame in
thair schippis, and brint the tymber-wark within the said kirk." +
It afterwards suffered severely in succeeding revolutions; but it is
pleasing to find that this interesting and beautiful remain is now

<FOOTNOTE>Maitland's History of the House of Seytoun, continued by Viscount Kingston,
printed by the Bannatyne Club, p. 29.
   Ibid p. 43.


