
430			AYRSHIRE.

where the wind, aided by the rabbits, had made deep hollows
in the sandy soil, we lately observed a thin stratum of peat some
feet beneath the green sward, which, on examination, proved moss
formed of sea-weed, Botalia Beccarii-perversus being still fresh on
the surface; and the leaves of Zostera marina being still distin-
guishable. On breaking up the peat, we found that it contained
some sea shells in tolerable preservation, and we could easily dis-
tinguish Lucina radula, Cardium laevigatum, and Astarte Scotica.
From all these circumstances, there is every reason to conclude,
that over that wide tract where the sand-hills now rise in sterile
undulation, and over the grassy common to the west, where cows
now feed, and rabbits burrow and frisk, and over the fertile farms
of Bog and Bogend, the Atlantic once rolled its billows.
	Still, however, we can form but very vague conjectures respect-
ing the various changes which must have taken place in former
days, on this desolate part of the parish. It was not always
so desolate, since the sea ceased to include it in its dominions.
We discover at times traces of early cultivation, which have
been long hid from the eye of man. In extending the quarry at
Ardeer, and in sinking for coal, after removing some feet of
pure sand, a stratum of rich alluvial soil has sometimes been reach-
ed, which must have been under the plough; as ridges are quite
perceptible when a section of it is made; and as horse-shoes of
small size have at times been found, as well as hazelnuts mingled
with the soil.*  Here, then, in days of yore, there must have been

not have grown 5 feet under ground. From the shells then, and from the Ulva, the
sea must have been there, though at a period too remote now to be ascertained.
And though the sea is now about three quarters of a mile distant from the quarry,
we can easily credit the tradition, that, in ancient times, vessels were accustomed to
lie at anchor north of the quarry, and about the placewhere Ardeer House now stands.
Indeed, from various phenomena that have come under our observation, we have the
most thorough conviction, that, at a period not extremely remote, the half of this
parish was overflowed by the sea.
        * Since we wrote the above, we have been told that, at sinking the pit at Misk,
after digging through many feet of sand, the workmen came to ridges evidently form-
ed by the plough, and found fragments of earthen vessels; and, what was still
more wonderful, found an entire tobacco-pipe, which pleased the colliers so much,
that they insisted on having a whiff with il, in their turn. This brings down the inun-
dation of sand on part, at least, of the tract, to a more recent period than we would
have imagined, unless we suppose that our forefathers were smokers of herbs or opium
before the introduction of tobacco by Sir Walter Raleigh, in 1560. We are quite
convinced that the sand-hills, in general, are of much longer standing; but as they
travel from the west, and, as Misk is on the eastern boundary, it would be one of the
last places covered. The progress of the sand at Misk is very perceptible, as it has
risen in wreaths higher than the upper door-lintel of a house built there, no great
number of years ago. It is the general belief, that the sandhills are becoming gra-
dually lower; and what they lose in height is spread, to their no small detriment,
over the cultivated lands on the east.


