
     Statistical Account

   Character, Occupation, etc. of the People.-The peo-
ple in this parish are good, honest, manly, decent men.
The general sizes of the people are thus:  My clerk, the 
writer of this papaer, is 6 feet 1 inch high; we have ma-
ny 6 feet high; and, in general, they are very strong 
men, being hard wrought.  We can hear of no parti-
cular tall men; in general, the people of this parish
are above the middle size:  they are, in general, very
industrious, and even laborious; but at present we have
no standing manufacture of any kind.  The women spin
a great deal of lint for so much a hank, or buy bags of
lint, at about a guinea, which they work up into linen,
by an 800 reed, which is sold at Newcastle, Edinburg,
and Shetland, at about 11 d. the yard, besides many
pieces of finer and coarser grists for themselves.  The
woollen manufacture is not much employed, except for
mere convenience:  there may be about 40 or 50 wea-
vers, mostly employed in the linen branch, and a few
are employed in the woollen for family use, and these

<FOOTNOTE>

defended it, together with a great number of foundations of small huts
within the fortification; which surely may be attributed to the inhabi-
tants, to secure their best effects against invaders, but could not secure
their cattle, horses, etc., because there is no grass.  The aera of this for-
tification, and others of the same kind, I leave it to be judged upon, as
such places are quite frequent, both in Shetland, such as the Mule of
Unst, and in the other end of the mainland of Orkney, called the Mule-
head of Deerness, the Burgh of Murray, and, indeed, in all other places
denominated Burghs, that is to say, insolated headlands projecting to the
sea; which, in these rude times, before the invention of gunpowder,
might be deemed very sufficient for the safety of the inhabitants against
incursive enemies.  We may mention, by the by, that in the Burgh of
Birsay there is a little chapel of modern workmanshiip, of which only
one window, and part of the wall, remains, said to be dedicated to St.
Peter, to which the superstitious resorted; but St. Peter and his chapel
are now much neglected.


