
66                            ELGINSHIRE.

  Ichthyology.-The Spey is one of the most productive fishing
rivers in Scotland, and a high rent is annually paid for the fishings
at its mouth. Owing to stake-nets and cruives being employed far-
ther down, the salmon fishing in this parish has much. decreased of
late years. There is still, however, occasionally excellent sport for
the angler, and in the Spey are to be found white trout; finnock
and flounder are also to be numbered amongst the inhabitants of
the river. Excellent trouts are found in the larger burns of the
parish. The fly, the bait, the bag-net, and the clip, are all em-
ployed by anglers, and sometimes the spear is put into operation
during a blaze by torch-light.
  Botany,-The parish of Knockando affords an excellent field
for the study of botany. "The moorland harebells beautiful"
are very plentiful; the forget-me-not, that "little modest flower,
to friendship ever dear," is not awanting; the anemone, "child of
the wind," adorns the woods and plantations; "the violet blue,
that on the moss bank grows," is by no means uncommon; the
primrose presents itself in great abundance, and in rich profusion
scattered around, the "wee, modest, crimson-tipped flower, daisy,"
rears its gentle head. The honeysuckle, the wild rose, and the
foxglove, court the shade of the, woods, and the heather rejoices
in the moors and uplands. Along the beautiful,banks of the burns
of Knockando and Ballintomb will be found plants and flowers
almost

		___________"beyond the power
		Of botanist to number up their tribes."

Amidst these sequestered dells may the student of botany gather
each flower of the rock, when "ilka cowslip cup has kepp'd a
tear," and explore the varied phenomena by which he is surround-
ed. Amongst the rarer plants may be mentioned Ranunculus au-
ricomus  (wood ranunculus;) Hippuris vulgaris (mare's-tail;) Ve-
ronica Anagallis (water speedwell;) V. montana (mountain do.;)
Poa decumbens (decumbent meadow-grass;) Briza media (quak-
ing grass.)
   The heath consists of three kinds, viz. Calluna vulgaris (com-
mon heath;) Erica Tetralix (ross-leaved heath;) and E. cinerea
(fine-leaved heath.)
   The fruits are as follows:-Vaccinium Myrtillus (blae-berry or
whortleberry;) Fragaria (strawberry;) Rubus fruticosus (bramble
or black-berry;) R. idaus (raspberry;) Berberis vulgaris (bar-


