
     Statistical Account

   The number of inhabitants in the village is almost doubled
since 1774.  At that time they amounted to 555; now they
are increased to 1060.  Several acres of ground were lately
seued by the proprietors, on which a number of houses are built,
and possessed chiefly by manufacturers.  The land in the ba-
rony of Alyth near the village is let out in two or three acres,
for the convenience of the inhabitants, and is rented from 30 s.
to 40 s. the acre.  The greatest disadvantage this part of the
country labours under is want of fuel; the time spent in cast-
ing and winning peats, and the expence of bringing them
home from a distance of 5 or 6 miles, are great inconvenie-
cies to the husbandman and the manufacturer, who begin to
find it more for their interest to use coals, though there are
none to be had nearer than Dundee.
   In surveying this districts, it takes away much from the plea-
sure, to observed a large common (called the Muir of Alyth) of
several hundred acres, a geat part of which is capable of im-
provement, and might be made to raise corn and grass; the
rest of it is well adapted for planting.  As it is now under
submission, it is to be hoped a division will soon take place.
   On the other side of the hill of Alyth there is an open coun-
try of considerable extent, and capable of much improvement.
The soil in a great part of it is good, and the crops far from
being deficient.  When the ground is more cultivated, and
drained where it is wet, there will be loss reason to complain
of the lateness of the crops; which cannot be so much owing
to different of climate, as to the advanced state of agriculture.
Till lately, the old mode of farming was followed in all this
district, viz. taking crops of oats and bear alternately from
the in-field, and after three successive crops of oats from the
out-field, letting it remain as long in ley.  But now a better
system of agriculture is introduced, and a spirit of industry
promoted among the tenants. In a few years hence, when the


