
884                     LANARKSHIRE.

at Dalmuir, with a dip 5&deg; west.  Much of this stone is carried to
Eaglesbam and other places, where the whinstone only occurs.
   As Mr Ure has nearly exhausted the mineralogy of this district,
(although not very full on its geology,) it way be as well to give
the result of his labours in a tabular form.
   Earths and Stones.-Argillaceous.-Potter's clay; camstones;
bluish pipe-clay; black-grey till, with vegetable impressions; fire-
clay, till full of entrochi, shells, &c.; hard black slaty till; un-
common till, called by the miners Maggy; inflammable schistus;
argillaceous breecia; Osmond stone; white steatites ; sulphate of
barytes; white fibrous zeolite, also cnmpact and crystallized, or in
radiated crystals in till.
   Calcareous.-Limestone replete with marine productions; lime-
stone flag; fine white limestone; also reddish limestone, contain-
ing some iron; limestone with selenite and manganese; also lime-
stone spar, semitransparent, and of a rhomboidal form, sometimes
opaque, reddish, fibrous, pyramydical, prismatic, or in hexahedral
and truncated crystals.  Lime is also found in the state of stalac-
tites and stalagmites, and in incrustations of various plants of the
class Cryptogamia.
   Saxa silicia.-Quartz nodules; whinstone containing felspar,
quartz, and shorl; petrosilex; freestone; millstone grit; coal;
petroleum; pyrites in nodules, &c. &c.
   Metallic substances.-Haermatites; ironstone; calcareous iron-
stone, in tetrahedral prisms and in balls; Ludus Helmontii; sep-
taria, or waxen veins; aetites, or eaglestone; blood-red argilla-
ceous iron ore (keel), and galena at Eldridge.
   Extraneous Fossils.-Vegetable Impressions-Arundo, or bam-
boo of India; Equisetatecae; impressions of ferns and roots of
plants; branches of trees in a charred state in coal and freestone;
impressions of exotic pines; impressions of the bark of oak in free-
Stones, &c.
   Marine Petrifactions.-Of univalve shells there occurs the Pa-
tella or limpet, Orthoceratites, Cornua Ammonis, smooth and round,
also flat; Cochleae, Helices, chambered Nautiltus, Turbo, Tere-
bra, Buccinum, Trocbus, Serpula, Planorbis.  Of bivalves there
accur the cokle, muscle, Anomia laevis, with various other species
of Anamiae; Conchae pilosae, Pecten, and various Echini.  En-
trochi occur, including screwstones, fairy-beads, witchi-beads, lime-
stone beads, Astropodiae, with various siliceous substances con-
taining shells.


