
                            MINTO.                           375

and attaining a considerable size and age.  The management of
the plantations is well attended to, more care being bestowed on
pruning and thinning than is common in some other parts of the
country.  Scarcely any of the trees seem to be older than the
date of the union, and planting to any extent does not go farther
back than the middle of last century.  The size of some of the
older trees, however, is such as to deserve notice. A silver fir, in
the glen below Minto House, has a bole of about 40 feet in length;
its girth at l 1/2 feet from the ground is 10 feet 4 inches; 20 feet
from the ground, 7 feet 9 inches; and at 40 feet 7 feet.  An ash
near the house, at 2 feet from the ground, is 14 feet in girth; at
10 feet from the ground, 13 feet; and where it divides into 2
limbs, each of them is 9 feet in circumference.  Another ash in
the policy measures 100 feet in height; its girth at. 2 1/2 feet from
the surface of the ground is 15 feet, and at 18 feet from the ground
11 1/2 feet.  An oak tree was found, at 3 feet from the ground, to
be 11 feet in girth, and at 9 feet to be 9 feet.  There is a well-
grown poplar 90 feet high, with a bole 50 feet long, of which
the mean girth is 6 feet.  Several beeches have attained a good
size.  They would seem to have been the first trees planted near
mansion-houses in Scotland, and frequently in avenues; they
commonly branch out a short way from the ground, but are other-
wise of considerable dimensions.  One measures 14 feet round, at
3 feet from the surface.  The most remarkable trees, however, in
this place are some larches, planted on the top and sides of the
glen below Minto House, and, it may be remarked, over the
sandstone rock, which in this instance has had none of the hurt-
ful effects, ascribed to it by some writers, to wood of this species.
One of the finest and most characteristic in its appearance,
close to the pond side, is 80 feet high, and at 3 feet from the
ground measures 11, feet in girth; at 20 feet from the ground 8
feet; and at 40 feet, where it parts into two tops of considerable
dimensions, 7 feet in circumference.  Though of less bulk on the
whole, a number are teller, reaching 100 feet in height and up-
wards; at 25 feet from the groumd they average 6 feet in girth,
and have a clean and straight bole,varying from 40 to 60 feet long
The noble and picturesque character of the oldest of these trees
cannot be judged of by those who have only seen the larch as
thin sapling, drawn up in a crowded and choked plantation,or
stinted in some bleak hedgerow, and bending from the wind.  When
in favourable situation, and properly treated, it is not less noble
and ornamental, than it is valuable from the useful and durable


