
   150                         BANFFSIRE.

      Rolled blocks were formerly common throughout the parish ;
   but on the surface of the cultivated ground most of them have
   yielded to an improved husbandry long ago.  A few blocks of
   greywacke, similar to the rocks in situ, are still to be seen on the
   waste and rising grounds, between the farms of Clayfolds and
   Sandlaw; and on the hill of Maunderlea, on the south-western
   boundary of the parish, a number of rolled blocks of granite,
   coarse mica-slate, gneiss, quartz, and trap, are still to be seen on
   the surface, and many similar are found deeply imbedded in the
   soil.  Various blocks of sandstone are also intermixed, of a coarse
   and hard texture, altogether different from any sandstone rock
   within the county; but most of those of a larger size have been
   fashioned into rabbets and lintels, or otherwise employed as mate-
   rials for building.
      The existence of flints in Scotland is a recent discovery, the
   chalk formation in which they form a constituent part of the up-
   per beds, being there unknown.  Notwithstanding, flints have now
   been found both in this and the neighbouring parishes, which ge-
   ologists have considered to be the true chalk flints.  They are
   common on the sea shore, intermixed with the shingle along the
   beach adjacent to Banff, and have also been traced to Gamrie,
   and to the eastward as far as Peterhead.  A large deposit of flints
   was first discovered in the hill of Delgaty, imbedded in a sort of
   unctuous clay, intermixed with nodules of quartz and shingle.
   They have also been discovered by Colonel Gordon of Park, in
   the parish of Ordiquhill, and they have been met with in the hill
   of Alvah, and in different other places within the parish.  As
   there are no chalk-beds in this country, it appears evident that
   the flints and other debris, dissimilar to the rocks in situ, must
   have been brought there by some mighty inundation from a great
   distance, sweeping off the superior strata from extensive tracts
   which they once covered, and spreading and throwing them toge-
   ther in indiscriminate masses at great distances from the range,
   with which they have every appearance of having been once con-
   nected.  To this great cause we cannot help assigning the great
   mass of the upper beds of coarse clay, intermixed with every va-
   riety of the debris of rock, neither to be found here in situ, nor at
   any known distance from the spot.  To this general covering of
   water-worn debris then, torn from all the strata, the name of dilu-
   vium has been given by geologists, from that great and universal
   catastrophe to which it appears most properly assignable.  Within


