
596                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

laid out. The name formerly given to this lordly mansion was
Cramond Regis, and in ancient times it was one of the hunting
seats of the Kings of Scotland. The present edifice was greatly
enlarged and improved by the former proprietor, Mr Ramsay's
father, and is now by far the most splendid residence in the parish.
   Lauriston Castle, the residence of, Andrew Rutherfurd, Esq.,
M.P., is beautifully situated on an eminence not far from the
sea, a little north from the village of Davidson's Mains, and ap-
pears to have been built toward the end of the sixteenth century
by Sir Archibald Napier, brother of John Napier of Merchiston,
the far-famed inventor of Logarithms. Many alterations have
been made on Lauriston Castle of late years, and at present the
house is being enlarged, and the grounds are being extended and
improved. This castle at one time belonged to the famous John
Law, who raised himself to the high dignity of Comptroller-Ge-
neral of the Finances of France, and whose extraordinary history,
as detailed in Mr Wood's Account of Cramond, will be read
with all the interest of a romance.
   Cramond House, the residence of the Right Honourable Dow-
ager Lady Torphichen, is situated close by the junction of the
Almond with the Forth, and is a handsome and commodious
mansion. The trees which surround the house are remark-
able for their size and beauty, more particularly, consider-
ing their vicinity to the sea. Immediately adjoining Cramond
House, stands an old tower of square dimensions, three storeys
in height, and of massive architecture, which, tradition informs
us, is the remains of what once was a mansion of the bishops of
Dunkeld.
   Near the northeast extremity of the parish is Caroline
Park, the property of His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch. It
is a very ancient and extensive edifice. From a stone tablet in
the centre of the north front, we learn that this mansion was
built, in 1685, by George, Viscount of Tarbat, at which time he
was prime minister of Scotland. It appears that this mansion
was first of all named Kingstown, then Roystown, and that it re-
ceived its present name from John, Duke of Argyle, in memory
of the consort of George II., to whom, while Princess of Wales,
his Duchess had been maid of honour.
   A little westward from Caroline Park, along the sea shore, in
the midst of well-wooded and beautiful grounds, stands Muir
House, a modern edifice of elegant ornate architecture. It was


