

       1114                      PERTSHIRE.

       been introduced, and thrive very well.  Ptarmigan is occasionally
       met with in the higher part of the parish, and white hares have
       been shot in severe winters.
                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         The earliest document in which the name of this parish occurs,
       is a charter of the lands of Bamff, &c. granted by King Alexander
       II., in the year 1232, to Nessus de Ramsay, the lineal ancestor
       of the present proprietor, Sir James Ramsay, Bart.  The rest of
       the property in the parish has repeatedly chanced bands since
       that period.  The Lyndesays, afterwards Earls of Crawfnrd, be-
       came connected with it in 1303, when Alexander de Lyndesay
       received a grant from Thomas, Earl of Marr, confirmed by a
       charter from King David II. of the lands of Balwyndoloch, now
       Ballendoch.  By successive charters from the Scottish Kings, to
       whom they were nearly related, the family came into the posses-
       sion of the whole of the parish of Alyth, or at least of all the land
       in it worth occupying, with the exception of the estates of Bamff
       and Balhary, the latter of which was then much less extensive
       than at present.   About the beginnhng Of the fifteenth century,
       they fell into straitened circumstances, and sold or pledged their
       lands piecemeal, until, in 1630, they disposed of all their remain-
       ing property in this district to the family of Airlie, who were al-
       ready the chief land-owners in this parish.
         The village of Alyth is a place of considerable antiquity, and
       has enjoyed the privileges of a burgh of barony since the reign of
       James III.  The family of Airlie, who have also the title of Ba-
       rons of Alyth, are the superiors.  At a much earlier period, it
       seems to have been a place of some importance.   In the History
       of Dundee, published 1803-4, it is said that David Bruce, who
       reigned from 1341 to 1371, granted an edict in favour of that
       town, prohibiting Kirriemuir, Alyth, &c. from holding weekly
       markets, as being within the liberties of Dundee.  The people
       of this village, with Thomas Greig, Prebendary of Alyth, took an
       active part in the tumultuous election of the celebrated Gavin
       Douglas to the Bishopric of Dunkeld, A. D. 1516, and are even
       said to have taken up arms in his favour (En. Brit. new edition,
       Art.  Douglas).  Stewart, the defeated candidate, obtained the
       livings of Alyth and Cargill, as a solatium for his disappointment.
         This parish had a considerable share in the commotion and
       turmoil of the troublous period, from 1640 to 1660, Notwith-
       standing the pretalent malignity of the district, and the proximity
       of powerful royalist families, the people of Alyth. seem to have


