
490			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

each of the following places, viz. Mumbyhirst, Auchonreveck, Hall-
green, Woodhouselees, and Sark, where Kinmont Willie was buried.
	Priory.--The date of the charter confirmed by William the
Lion in 1165, as mentioned in page 483, proves that this priory
must have existed previous to that time; but for how long a period,
after much investigation, the writer has not been able to make out
with any degree of certainty. Some vestiges of the convent are
still to be seen at Halgreen, about half a-mile to the east of the
church. From Halgreen, a private road is still kept open through
enclosed fields to the church, confirmed by use and wont. In the
year 1533, Henry VIII. claimed this monastery, as having belong-
ed at one time, as well as the whole parish, to England; and on this
false pretence, ordered hostilities to be committed upon the Scot-
tish borders. By some means, its destruction was not affected at
this time by the English monarch, who would soon have expelled
its pious inmates, and secured their revenues. In 1542, after the
unfortunate surrender of the Scottish army at Solway Moss, the
English soldiers pillaged and laid in ruins both the monastery and
church. Some years ago, the chrismatory, a piece of singular and
grotesque sculpture, was dug up in the church-yard, and is in the
possession of the present incumbent.
	Roman Stations,--The remains of a Roman station are very vi-
sible somewhat less than a mile to the east of Gilnockie, on the
rising ground: it is evidently the first of the line of connection that
was situated in Eskdale from the famous station at Netherby to
Catle-over, or o'er, the upper camp, in the parish of Eskdalemuir,
which is of the oval form.
	Coins,--A variety of Roman and English coins has been found
in this parish at different times. The late clergyman, the Rev. John
Russell, found an aureus denarius of the Emperor Nero, on a field
in the glebe to the east of the church. A number of silver coins,
which are in the possession of William Oliver, Esq. of Dinlabyre,
were found on the 29th of October 1811, by a person who was em-
ployed in draining some marshy ground near the place where the
rivulet Rowanburn falls into the Liddle. They were contained in an
old purse, and some of them were remarkably entire. On one side
is Civias London, the city of London, and on the reverse is Edwr.
Angl. Dns. Hyb. a contraction for Eduardus, Angliae Dominus
Hybernaie, Edward Lord of England and Ireland. We can have
no doubt that these coins are all Edward I. of England,--because,
if they had been coins of any of the other Edwards, some figure


