
                     ROTHES.                               233

the river. And although no authentic historical documents are
extant, at this distance of time, to attest the truth of such a tra-
dition, there are some ruins to be seen which are pointed out as
the remains of the castle, and afford no small degree of credibility
to the tradition. * Connected with the castle of Rothes was a cha-
pel or religious house, whose site is a short distance from the cas-
tle on the south side, and is marked out by the remains of a bury-
in ground, which are still seen, though no longer used.   The
farm where this house was situated, is known by the name of Cha-
pel hill.  In the district of Orton, also, was a ebapel, dedicat-
ed to the blessed Virgin. And in the same quarter, there exists
a well, known by the name of the Chapel well, which, in former
generations, where, under the Popish yoke, ignorance and super-
stition wofully prevailed, had attained a degree of unexampled ce-
lebrity for its efficacy in the removal of almost every kind of
disease and suffering, and was the resort of multitudes from
all parts of the country, even from the distant Highlands.  The
first Sabbath day of the month of May was the special period
when the waters, through the miraculous interposition of the bles-
sed Virgin, were said to possess their full medicinal and curative
efficacy; and then, early in the morning, even before break of day,
might be seen crowds of humanity, under real or imaginary suf-
fering, of all ages, and ranks, wending their way from all directions
towards the celebrated Chapel well, in anxious hopes of relief from
their troubles.  And even at present, there are individuals surviv-
ing who have witnessed the eagerness, and sympathized with the
credulity, of persons resorting to this once consecrated well, believ-
ed to be efficacious in curing troubled hearts as well as diseased
bodies. The first Sabbath of May is still observed by many of the
lower classes of society hereabouts; and though, perhaps, not with
the hopes of bygone days, yet, with no,small degree of superstition,
they keep up the practice of visiting the Chapel well, at an early
hour of that day annually.
  The parish of Rothes, with respect to its ecclesiastical and edu-
cational establishments, consists of what was orlainaliv the entire
parish of Rothes, and a large proportion of Dundurcus.  The an-
nexation took place in the year 1782, when the suppressed parish

<FOOTNOTE>In the churchyard of the parish is to be seen the tombstone of the first Presby-
terian clergyman after the Reformation. As the stone is quite entire, the inscription
is perfectly legible, and runs as follows:-" Here lies ane Nobleman, Mr James
Leslie, Parson of Rothes, Brother.German of George umquihile Earl of the Same,
who departed in the Lord, 13th October 1576."


