
     Statistical Account

carry up the coal, the collier's price is reduced, as the ma-
ster is obliged to draw them up by gins, which is either
wrought by horses; or driven by water.  The water gin,
which has been in use here for there 70 or 80 years; is a most
ingenious simple machine*.  There are two collieries in the
barony of Alloa, the oldest of them, called the Alloa Pits,
is about 1 1/2 mile distant from the shore; the other is the Colly-
land, and is about double that distance.  There are various
seams in each colliery; some of 3, 4, 5 and 9 feet in thick-
ness.  They dip to the N. E. abou 1 in 6 or 7.
   The pits are free of all noxious damps, and have in general
a good roof and pavement, although there are iron stones over
some of the seams.  The engine pit of the Alloa coal is about
48 fathom deep; and the coal is drained by a water engine,
there having been a large reservoir of water collected (as has
been already mentioned), for that purpose, about the begin-
ning of the century, as the seam engine was then but lately

<FOOTNOTE>

ago, the proprietor weighed a piece of coal, that a lame woman had brought
out of a pit, 12 fathoms deep, and was astonished to find it full 2 cwt.  Another
woman carried an uncommon large piece of coal, from the mouth of the pit to
the overseer's house, a distance of 400 yards; and, bit the measure of this piece
of coal, it must have weighed 3 cwt.
   *It is a wheel of 18 feet diameter, and appears as if two wheels were joined
together, with the buckets of the one reversed from those of the other.  The
axle is 39 inches diameter, to which the rope that draws up the tubs, or corve,
is fixed.  There is a cistern placed over the wheel, divided in the middle.  Each
division has a valve, exactly over the centre of the different buckets, which valve,
is opened, by a slider moved from the bottom; so that when the wheel turns
rounds it draws up the tub, or corve, of coals, weighing 6 cwt. and lets down
the empty one, on shutting the valve of those buckets, and opening the other,
the corve that has just been emptied is let down, while a fresh corve full of coals
is brought up.-The late Mr. Browns the famous engineer and operative coal-
master at Newcastle, was so struck with it, when he was at Alloa in 1774, that
he took a drawing of it; and, on his return to Newcastle, contrived one an the
same principles, to answer for their deep pits.


