
     of Kenethmont.

If we add to the above, 40 acres of turnips, 10 of potatoes,
and 40 laid down with grass seeds, we shall not be far from
the truth.  The produce of the parish, in ordinary seasons,
is more than sufficient for the consumption of the inhabi-
tanst.  The overplus, if there be no demand in the neigh-
bouring parishes, is carried to the Huntly or Aberdeen
market.  The valued rent is L. 1817: 13: 4 Scots, but as
the rents are all paid in money and meal, the real rent
must vary with the price of grain.  It may be L. 900,
and perhaps never exceeds L. 1000 Sterling*.

   Services.-On Colonel Hay's estate, no services are re-
quired, except in hay-harvest, and these are of so trifling a
nature, as to be scarce worth mentioning.  Two or three
of the farmers indeed, most contiguous to the moss of Kirk-
hill, have been in the custom of paying a few leets+ of
peats yearly, for which they are allowed a certain deduc-
tion of rent.  The other heritors have not thought proper
to dispense with the usual services; but as they are univer-
sally esteemed a grievance, they might, doubtless, be com-
muted to the satisfaction and advantage of both parties.  It
ought, however, in candour and justice to be observed,
that were landlords to dispense with services and customs
of every denomination, which their good sense and public

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Grain and Provisions, etc.-Bear, in 1792, sold at 15 s. and
meal 12 s. the boll; beef and mutton, 3 d. the pound; a duck, 10 d.;
a hen, 6 d.; eggs, 2 d. a dozen; butter, from 6 d. to 8 d. the pound, at
24 ounces Averdupois.-The usual wages to men servants employed in
busbandry, are from L. 6 to L. 7; maid servants, from L. 2 to L. 3 a-
year; a day-labourer earns from 10 d. to 1 s.; a mason, from 1 s. 3 d. to
1 s. 6 d. and a house carpenter, 1 s. and furnish their own provision; a
tailor gains 6 d. and his maintenance; and persons employed in the mos-
ses, hoeing, or other farm-work in summer, have the same allowance.
+A leet peats is a stack 12 feet long, 12 broad, and high in propor-
tion.


