                                     MOFFAT.                   105

The great elevation of the Hartfell group of mountains may
account for occasionally deep falls of snow, attended by storms of
wind and snow drift, of which very serious instances have occurred
in this parish; but after all, the fact is not denied, that on
these mountains the losses in sheep are not so great as in the less
favourably situated hill pastures in the counties of Lanark, Peebles,
and Selkirkshire lying near them; and in the greener and lower,
but softer hills of Eskdalemuir in Dumfries-shire, with a less fa-
vourable soil and aspect.  The climate and temperature of the vil-
lage of Moffat may be stated most intelligibly by comparison, being
neither so cold as in Edinburgh, nor so wet as in Glasgow; and
not so warm as in Dumfries and Annan; but all observation and
experience concur in assigning to Moffat a mild temperature, and a
healthy climate. The town is built on, and surrounded by, lands
of a dry and gravelly description, so that the streets and roads
around the village are soon dried after falls of rain.  It has a
gentle declivity to the south, and a noble screen of lofty moun-
tains protecting it from north and east, and frequently attract-
ing showers which ntherwise must have fallen in the vale.  There
is here no eastern fog or kaar (as it is called in Edinburgh)
when there is an east wind, nor is Moffat exposed to the dense fogs
that visit and hang over Dumfries and Annan from the Solway
Firth, and from the vast mass of spongy peat still  undrained in
Lochar Moss.  There is no furnace to cause a nuisance and con-
taminate the pure air, as in the vicinity of many populous and ma-
nufacturing towns.  The centre of Moffat has been cleared and
widened to the dimensions of a moderate square.  It may be added,
as connected with salubrity at least, that a full supply of the very best
and purest spring water has lately been introduced in lead pipes from
the parish of Kirkpatrick-Juxta, and carried below the bed of the An-
nan Water into Moffat; that in all directions the intercourse is easy
and regular; that an elegant set of baths, and ` long-room for the
purposes of reading and assemblies, have been lately constructed
on a superior plan; and that the habits of early rising, in order
to visit the well, to which also there is a good walking and car-
ariag,e road" have been thought materially to contribute to heath.
It may be added, that there is hardly any cla
riage road, have been thought materially to contribute to health.
It may be added, that there is hardly any clay-bog undrained
in the parish; that peat-bogs are not known to cause marsh
fever; and that most of these are  now drained for the benefit
of the sheep, or for the purpose of being cut into peats, or im-
proved and laid down in meadow grass; and, accordingly, among


