
                           PARISH OF WALSTON.

          PRESBYTERY OF BIGGAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                   THE REV. JOHN WILSON, MINISTER.


           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE village of Walston, to which this parish is evi-
dently indebted for its name, has been supposed to be so called *
from a particular well, or spring, distant from it about half-a-mile,
and at one time in some repute for its medicinal properties.  It seems
more probable that the name is derived not from one well but several;
viz. the Buck-well, the Siller-wells, Walston-well, and many others,
named and nameless, in the neighbourbood, from which no less
than three rivulets descend in the immediate vicinity.  But pro-
bable as this etymology may appear, the conjecture may still be
hazarded, that, as the neigbbouring parish of Dolpbinton, which
anciently belonged to the same proprietors, took its name from
Dolfyn, a brother of Cospatrick, the parish of Walston may
have taken its name from WaIdef, another brother of the same
Earl,  + and that from Waldef's-toun, the name may have been
transformed into Walyston and Walston.
   Boundaries, &c.-In figure, this parish approaches towards a
trapezium, the northern, eastern, and southern boundaries extend-
ing to about 3 miles respectively, and the western to about 2 miles.
lt is bounded on the north, by a corner of Carnwath, and by Dun-
syre, on the east, by Dolphinton ; on the south (having touched
Kirkurd and Skirling in a single point) by Biggar; and on the
west, by Libberton.  Medwin Water, the northern boundary, flows
gently to the westward, no longer in a thousand meanders, as na-
ture dictated, but in a sunk artificial cbannel, straight at both ex-
tremities, and curved towards the middle abruptly and ungrace-
fully; the difference of level between the point where it first
touches the parish, and that where it leaves it, being not more
than 15 feet.  On this line the lowest point, as determined by
actual survey, is 660 feet above the level of the sea, and conse-

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Chalmers's Caledonia, and former Statistical Account.
          Dolfyn and Waldef, brothers of Cospatric, Earl of Dunbar, are mentioned in the
Inquisitio Davidis, anno 1116.


