
     Statistical Account

stands upon rocks so close to the sea, that the waves dash a-
gainst its defaced walls, and at the very entrance of the in-
let or creek that forms the port.  It seems to have been a
royal hunting seat, one of those places to which the Court
retired, to enjoy the diversion of fishing and the chase*.
   Hitherto, no satisfying account has been given of the ori-
gin of the name of this place.  In the common language of
the country, it is called Pencross, which is just a corruption
of its proper ancient name, Portincross; but, for the reason
of the name, we have only conjecture.  And, upon a sub-
ject so uncertain, we may be allowed to hazard one, just as
tenable as any other, in the note below+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*What leads to this conjecture, is, that there is still extant in the posses-
sion of Robert Hunter, Esq. of Hunterston, a charter of seasin, signed by Ro-
bert the Second, at this castle, in the 1374, being the 4th year of his reign,
vesting the family of Hunterston, in the property of certain parts of the lands
of Ardneel; and to which deed, the names of several nobles who attended the
King in that excursion, and composed part of his court, are appended as wit-
nesses.
+The promontory, near to which, this port and castle are situated, is the
extreme point of land directly W. from Edinburgh.  To this day, the track of
a line of road, can be distinctly traced through the country, leading from
capital to this port.  From this circumstance, as well as from the very name,
we conclude it must have been a place of some consequence.  In these barbar-
ous and remote times, there could be no trade carried on in it, to give it that
consequence.  Neither can it be imagined, there was so much communication
between the Highlands and the main land, as that this place might be con-
verted into a mere ferry port, for the conveniency of passengers, who, we may
believe, would hardly be induced, either from profit or curiosity, to visit these
inhospitable regions.
   The most probable account, therefore, of the matter, seems to be, that this
was the place where they took boat to go over to the celebrated monastery of
I. Colm Kill, the most ancient foundation of the kind in Scotland, and which,
it is well known, as, for many ages, the burial-place of our Scottish Kings.
And, as this monastery was established long before any other in this country, it
may be supposed, that in that period of the gloomy reign of superstition, many
pilgrimages were made to it.  Hence, the name Portincross, being a compound


