24                 KINCARDINESHIRE.

picturesque appearance of a part of this vale is, that about forty
years ago, James Macdonald, Esq. then factor for the property of
the Earl of Kintore, which is pretty extensive in this quarter, at
the renewal of everv lease, set apart a quarter or half an acre close
by the farm-stead, which he planted with hard-wood, larch, or
spruce, most of which succeeded, and are now grown up.
	From this station, it is pleasant to see the extensive inroads
which cultivation has made, on the steep and barren territories of
the little prince of Garvock on the one side, and on those Of the
Grampian sovereigns on the other. Besides the extent, beauty, and
variety of the landscape presented to the view of the spectator,
many places famous in the history of our land, or rendered remark-
able from their having been the residence of celebrated indivi-
duals, may be seen from single station on this hill. The follow-
ing are a few of the more noted and prominent: From nort-east
to south-west, the visible horizon is bounded by the dark and heath-
covered Grampians, towering over one another like rival sovereigns
of the wilderness. Along this line, beginning from north, the
most conspicuous points and their elevations, are Cairnmanearn,
1020 feet; Kerloak, 1890 feet; Cloachnabein, 2370 feet; on
the very top of this last, stands a huge rock, between 80 and 100
feet high, appearing at ten or twelve miles' distance like a ruined
fortress; Mount Battock, 3465 feet; on the top of this, the three
counties of Aberdeen, Kincardine, and Forfar, meet; Mount Keen,
3010 feet; Lochnagair, 3800 feet, sixty miles distant in Aberdeen-
shire, whose elevated locks are more or less trimmed with snow, even
in the summer months. From Locbnagair, the German Ocean, from
the Frith of Forth to the Murray Frith, may be seen. In the fore-
ground of these, you see Strath Fennella Hill; Cairn o' Mount
and Caterthun in Angus-shire. This last is crowned with a vast
circle of stones, enclosing nearly two acres, the ruins of a fortress
or camp, the work of the days of other-years, and which serves as
a kind of weather-glass to the people in the Howe of the Mearns,
from the colour it assumes from the reflectidg clouds. Farther on,
you observe the dark-blue mountains of Angus and Perth grouped
together like the swelling waves of the ocean, till, with the lofty
top of Benlomond, you lose them in the far-distant sky.
	Turning your eye again towards the north, and lowering it to
the vale, you see more cheerful objects. The first I shall men-
tion is Falside, ibe mansion-house of a small property belonging
to General Forbes, about four miles from Stonehaven. Straight
                               3


