
42                               PEEBLES-SHIRE

marble slab on the wall of the church, and a Bible which he pre-
sented to the pulpit in 1777. He was a man of great respectability
of character, anxious to do good in his native place, and he did so
while he lived; but, either from his own defective education, or from
calculating too securely on a longer life, he did nothing to keep up
his remembrance among us after his death. It ought in justice to
be added, that it is said he offered to send cast iron to Leith, free
of all expenses, vith which to erect a bridge across the Tweed in
this neighbourhood, but the offer, for some reason, was not accepted.
     Land-owners.-- The only land-owners in the parish are his
Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, who posseses a small part of only
one farm; the Right Honourable the Earl of Traquair, to whom
belong perhaps three-fourths of the whole parish; and Miss Wil-
liamson of Cardrona. Robert Nutter Campbell of Kailzie, and
William Allan of the Glen, among whom the remainder is diveded
in portions nearly equal. The estates of Traquair and Cardrona
have long been in the possession of the present families. That be-
longing to the Duke of Buccleuch was purchased from an old fa-
mily of the name of Cassie, above forty years ago. The other two
estates, till about the same period, were more frequently in the
market. it is most devoutly to be wished, however, and there is
no prospect to the contrary at present, that no change among these
proprietors may take place for a long time, as justice compels
the declaration, that heritors more anxious for the good of the pa-
rish and of their tenantry, in every sense of the word, cannot be
found. Whatever is proposed to them for the comfort the spirit-
ual and temporal interest of the people at large, is cheerfully
carried into effect, whatever may be the expense. A few years
ago they allowed the  then schoolmaster, who had held that office
for nearly sixty years, to retire on his full salary, and provided an
additional one of L. 30 for an assistant> They erected one of the
neatest and most comfortable school-rooms in the neigbourhood,
surrouding it with a shrubbery; they also erected coach-houses,
stables, and private rooms for the accommodation of the church-
going population; and when the present incumbent was entitled by
law to apply for an augmentation of stipend, they appeared in Court
pleading not againts, but for the augmentation.
     Parochial Registers.-- The parochial register reach back only
to the Revnlution; the Episcopalian clergyman, who has then de-
                              4



