
     of Carnwath.

   Poor.-Two hundred pounds bad many years ago been mor-
tified by the Westshield family, for the behoof of the poor of

<FOOTNOTE>

This seems to suggest that it was not only originally meant for,
but intended to continue, a burying-place: It is surrounded with
a deep ditch and large mound round the whole.  It was, upwards
of 40 years ago, planted with Scotch firs, which have grown but
slowly.
   On the west side of the large moss or cave to the north of the
village, on a narrow point of dry land that juts out a little into
the moss, are the ruins of the Cattle of Couthalley, the seat of
the ancient family of Sommerville, a branch of the Sommer-
villes of Whitmor in England, and which settled in this coun-
try about the middle of the 12th century.  This family, the
most powerful and opulent in this part of the country, were at
one time possessed of the baronies of Carnwath and Liberton in
Clydesdale, and of Linton in Tweeddale.  Sir John Somerville
of Carnwath and Linton was a steady and faithful adherent of
Robert Bruce, in the violent and bloody contest he had to
maintain for the crown.  This Castle has once been a place of
great strength, surrounded with an exceeding deep ditch and
large earthen mound, the entry being by a draw-bridge on the
W.  Tradition says that it got the name Couthalley, (which
signifies a warm sheltered walk or avenue,) because at this time
there was an avenue from the Castle all the way to the village
of Carnwath, bordered on each side by full grown oaks; and
what seems to give weight and confirmation to this tradition, is,
that when this moss is dug to the bottom, large oaks are often
found some of them in a surprising state of preservation, con-
sidering the amazing depth at which they now lie.  Besides oaks,
there are also Scotch firs, birches, alder, hazel, etc. found at
the bottom.  Some of the nuts appear entire till touched, but the
slightest touch breaks them to pieces.  The vegetables found on
the surface of this moss are a dry stunted kind of heath, and a
strong thick white moss, vulgarly called fog.  What is singular,
the peats dug out of this moss to the depth of 3 or 4 feet, are
evidently composed of this white fog, closely cemented with a
black matter, which seems to be the heath completely rotten.
One of these peats, thoroughly dried, if catiously rubbed be-
twixt ones hands may be again reduced to that white fog, which
constitutes its principal part, the black matter, which, like glue,
connected the peat together, moulders down in the operation to
small dust.  The deeper this moss is dug, the more difficult it be-
comes to separate the component parts of the peat, till at last


