
                     DALSERF.                             759

this kind is in general afterwards supplied by attendance on week
day evening and Sabbath schools.  The parish schoolmaster is
bound to teach all children of paupers that are sent to him, gratis,
and the teacher at Larkhall takes three or four in the same way.
The kirk-session is always anxious that none should be left un-
taught from want of means, and pays for a good number of chil-
dren who, from the poverty of their parents, would otherwise be
neglected.  There are three well-attended Sabbath schools in
connection severally with the parish church, the church at Lark-
hall, and the Relief meethng-house there.  The number of young
persons, accordingly, betveen six and fifteen years who cannot,
read, more or less, is very small. From fifteen years and upwards
there may be said to be none, of sufficient capacity to receive edu-
cation, who have not been taught, or are in course of being taught,
to read the Bible.  Writing is by no means so common a qualifi-
cation.  The number of young persons at present receiving in-
struction at the different week-day schools in the parish is proba-
bly not much short of 300, or about a tenth of the whole popula-
tion.  A subscription has lately commenced at Larkhall for the
purpose of erecting, with the aid of a government grant, an addi-
tional school there, in connection, if possible, with the new church.
An institution of this kind would be of great benefit, and it is
to be hoped nothing will occur to make the proposal miscarry.
   Libraries.-There are two subscription libraries in the parish,
one at Larkhall, and another at Dalserf.  The one at Larkhall
was instituted in 1809, and contains upwards of 500 volumes. The
entry money is 5s. and the annual payment 3s.  The library is
open at all times, and the librarian receives L. 1 per annum. The
library at Dalserf was begun in 1822, with a stock of books,
amounting to about 120 volumes, which has not been increased.
From causes which it would be difficult to explahn, this library has
for some years past nearly fallen into distse.  The books, how,
ever, are carefully preserved in a good press in the parish school-
room.  There is no great taste for reading among the rural popu-
lation.  Attempts have been made, not without success, to excite
and encourage such a desire among the young.  A few years ago,
two sets of the Kildare Street Library were placed at the disposal
of the teachers in the parish for circulation among their scholars,
and there are juvenile libraries attached to the Sabbath schools.
  The parish has no Savings Bank.  The nearest institution of
the kind, and that very recently set agoing, is at Hamilton.


