
96                      FIFESHIRE.

for fattening cattle.  They are chiefly exported to London and
Newcastle, sometimes by the grower and sometimes by the mer-
chant.  The amount annually disposed of may be 2000 bolls of
4 cwt.  A due proportion of cattle are regularly fed off each win-
ter.  Eight of the farms turn out from the byre, one year with ano-
ther, 90 head, weighing 36 stones each ;and the other disposes of
about 20 three-year-olds each spring.  The rent of these farms is
partly in money and partly in grain; with amximum fixed; and the
average of the whole is L.3, 12s. 9d. per acre.  A deduction was
a few years ago granted upon the higher rented of them. but the
very great and continued depression in the price of agricultural
produce would intimate that a farther abatement is necessary.*
   2d, The upper division of the parish consist also of nine farms.
The land is wholly arable, but, from the inferiority of the soil, a
different rotation of cropping is pursued,-more land is retained
in grass, and more is subjected to fallow.  The soil in many places
is strong and heavy, and in othrs a thin clay and muirish, lying in
general upon a wet bottom. and containing much water.  Green
crops cannot be successfully cultivated to a great extent. Fallow
more largely takes their place; and when the land is enclosed,
which is generally the case, two or more years of pasture are
included in the rotation of cropping.  The amount under corn
uponthe average of years above stated is 838 acres, in the follow-
ing proportions: 217 in wheat; 125 in pease and beans; 183 in
barley; and 313 in oats.  The produce per acre is 6 bolls; the
highest farm producing 7 and the lowest 5 bolls.  This gives a total
produce of 5028 bolls, from which, deducting for seed, &c. 21/2 bolls
per acre, there remain to be brought to market 3136 bolls of grain.
About 200 bolls of potatoes annually are sold; 35 head of cattle
at 35 stone weight are fed off. and 28 sold from the straw-yard.
The rent of these upper farms is upon an average L.1, 5s.  The farms
recently taken being more conformed to present prices, are con-
sidered as able to pay; while those under old leases are gradually
reducing the capital of the tenants. - the sheep husbandry is no-
where pursued.  Only a few are kept by the resident gentlemen
for their private use.
   Produce.--From this statement the following brief analysis of the

<FOOTNOTE>Since 1832, many of the money rents have been changed into a certain amount
of corn, in wheat, barley, and oats payable by the flars of the county.  In proof of
this, the actual rent of the parish, which in that year was L.8290, is this year only
L. 6780.


