
			CORTACHY AND CLOVA.                        451

the people in the southern part of the parish about four miles, and
from those in the northern part of it about eighteen miles. The
means of communication are, the post-office at Kirriemuir, and
the roads (none of which are turnpike) leading in differeint direc-
tions to and from the parish. The alteration of the direction
of sole of the lines of road is a great improvement, which has
been effected in the course of the last twenty years. The roads
in general are of a proper breadth. They have been well form-
ed, and are kept in a proper state of repair. The line of road
leading to Strathmore extends the whole length of the inhabited
portion of the united parish. Several miles of this road are now
in excellent order, and the improvements which have recently been
made on it will doubtless, from the good effects resulting from
them, afford encouragement to all parties concerned to use their
endeavours to render this road good, even to its northern bound-
ary. There is no carriage road from Clova across the mountains
to Deeside. A survey was made some years ago of a line of road
to extend over the Cappel Mount. This line, (to carry which into
effect, has been considered, by an experienced surveyor, quite
practicable,) would afford the means of easy communication be-
tween the people in this county and those in the upper districts
of Aberdeenshire.
        Bridges.-The two principal bridges connected with the parish
are those across the Southesk and Prosen rivers,-the former, near
to the church of Cortachy, has only one arch. It is narrow, like
most old bridges, of excellent workmanship, and romantically situ-
ated. The latter crosses the Prosen, on the line of road leading
to Strathmore. It was widened some years ago, and has been
substantially built. There are several smaller bridges on different
lines of road throughout the parish, which are in good repair.
There is also neat suspension bridge across the Southesk river,
opposite to the church of Clova, for foot-passengers, and also for
horses when the ford below becomes impassable.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The church of Cortachy is placed nearly
at the southern extremity of the parish, and consequently is not
conveniently situated for the greater part of the population. It
was built in 1828-29, on the site of the former church. It is an
elegant building. The internal work has been very tastefully exe-
cuted. It is sufficiently large affording accommodation for 550
persons, and it is delightfully situated. It was built at the expense
of the Earl, of Airlie, and cost considerably upwards of L. 2000.


