
                        KIRRIEMUIR.                       161

to some distance on its south side, and contracting intn very
narrow limits, when it approaches the South Esk, and still con-
tinuing along the banks of the latter to the east side of the
parish. This species of soil is not confined to the flat haughs on
the sides of the waters, which are of no great extent, but stretches
over most of the elevated grounds within the above limits; and in
the lowest portion of the parish, on the south-west, there is an
extensive flat tract, about two miles long and one mile broad, of
a similar description. The whole of the remainder, forming the
centre of this division of the parish, is incumbent on a thick bed
of clay, intermixed with stones, provincially termed mortar. Upon
many of the heights this deposit is of little depth, but it is rarely
altogether awanting, and in few cases does the subjacent rock reach
to the soil. This deposit consists of a heterogeneous mixture
of clay, sand, and stones of all sizes, from those of many tons
weight down to the smallest pebble; and is in its nature imper-
vious to water. The soil on it is therefore more or less damp,
unless when possessed of considerable depth, which is frequently
the case on the face of sloping grounds, on moderate elevations,
or in flats and hollows, where there is an alluvial deposit. In
such situations, the richest soil of the parish is found, consisting
of black and brown loams of excdllent quality, but comparative-
ly of little extent.
	In the low gravelly tracts the soil is all dry, but generally thin-
ner than the mortar, unless where there happens to be an al-
luvial deposit on the flats and hollows, which are in such cases of
very rich soil. The tracts on the northern side contain the greatest
proportion of good soil, that on the south being chiefly very bare
gravel, having a thin black moorish soil on it, equally barren with
the coldest and worst soils on the mortar. There is not a pebble
to be seen which cannot readily be referred to the parent rock.
Within the limits of the mortars there are numerous specks of
sandy and gravelly soils, but none of such an extent as to deserve
notice in such a general view as this; and, strictly speaking, there
is no strong clay soil, for all the mortar soils are in general
more of a sandy than clayey nature, when compared with clays in
other quarters of the county, and these of other districts of Scot-
land. In many of the hollows over all this portion of the paris
there are deposits of moss, some of which have been completely
and others partially, drained. In the former case a considerable
	FORFAR.                            L


