
286                      RENFREWSHIRE.

amount was distributed among nearly 400 persons in sums which
on the whole averaged 6s. to each.
   Town's Hospital.-Till 1740 assessment was totally unknown
in the town of Paisley.  That year was one of extreme seve-
rity on the poor of Scotland generally, and the circumstances
of Paisley, as a rising manufacturing town, tended to an in-
crease of pauperism.  In 1740, an assessment, to be paid weekly,
was laid by the magistrates on the inhabitants, and overseers were
appointed to allocate and to distribute it.  These acted along with
the minister and elders of the parish, in the joint charge of the
poor.  In 1750, the necessity of an asylum for maintaining
the aged and infirm, together with poor and destitute children,
was strongly felt; and for this purpose a substantial and commo-
dious building was erected in 1752.  It is built in a free and airy
part of the town, and has a large garden belonging to it.  The
only addition made to it of late years has been the erection of a
small lunatic asylum, which has proved of immense advantage both
for the recovery of insane persons, and the safe and comfortable
keeping of such as are fatuous and incurable.  The house is under
the management of fifteen directors, who are chosen annually,-
three from the town council; one from each parish session ; and the
rest by the rate-payers from among the inhabitants at large.  It is
conducted on the strictest principles of economy, and with great
attention to health, cleanliness, and good order, and has hitherto
answered the ends of its institution, as much perhaps as any erec-
tion of the kind.  It is visited daily by an experienced surgeon,
annually chosen by the directors, and paid out of the funds.  It is
visited also weekly, and occasionally by a committee of directors,
and a meeting of the whole number once every fortnight takes
the regular superintendence ofits concerns.  The internal manage-
ment is committed to a master, who has also the charge of educat-
ing the children ; a clerk who, along with the treasurer, manages all
financial concerns; and a matron, who, with one or more house-
maids, has the more immediate care of the household economy.
The master also takes charge of the employment of the inmates;
for it has been all along a leading principle in the management of
the house, that while the young are duly educated, the adults, so
far as practicable, shall be employed in some kind of useful in-
dustry.  The particular kind of work in which they have been
einployed has varied from time to time, according to the state of
manufacture in the town.  At an early period of the institution,


