
     of strathdon.

master, with a salary of 100 merks Scots; he is generally 
session-clerk, for which he receives L. 20 Scots.  His whole
emoluments will not exceed L. 12 Sterling*.-There are

<FOOTNOTE>

nimous, and of course require compulsion to make them execute any
measure of the kind, which turns out in the issue to be against their 
own interest; as a few shillings timeously applied in this way, would
sometimes save a pound  For upwards of 50 years pass, an itinerant or
missionary minister has been stationed in the upper district of the parish,
called Curgarff.  He has a salary of L. 28 Sterling yearly, from the Royal
bounty, with a house.  He has the immediate charge of 462 people,
old and young, belonging to Strathdon, and of the people in the detached
corner of Tarland parish above mentioned, amounting to 188; but the
people in both these districts communicate at the parish-church of Strath-
don.  The missionary is of signal advantage to the interests of religion
in that remote corner  The place of worship is about 7 or 8 English miles
distant from the parish-church, and the habitable part of the country ex-
tends 4 or 5 farther to the westward.

*Excepting in a mild winter, the school is seldom throng, awing to
the situation of the parish.  It abounds in hills and rivers or burns, so
that children at a distance cannot attend in srost and snow; and owing to
the scarcity and dearth of servants, of all descriptions, the generality of
the tenants employ their children in herding, as soon as they are sit for
it.  The parish has had the benefit of a schoolmaster, paid by the Socie-
ty for Propagating Christian Knowledge, for their 40 years past.  He has
been generally stationed in Curgarff, on Nochy side and Kindy side by
turns, these being the most distant parts of the parish from the parochial
school; in all which places he has been highly useful.  The Society have,
with great propriety, appointed anothe of their schoolmasters to be sta-
tioned in Curgarff, where it is hoped he will be continued, as the children
in that extensive district are not only at a great distance from their own
parochial school, but are quite out of the reach of every other school, at any
season; and though their turn of the other schoolmaster was of great con-
sequence to them, it was by no means adequate to their necessities.  If the
schoolmaster's settlement in Curgarff is made permanent, and the school-
master just now on Kindy side shall be stationed there, and on Notchy
-de, 3 or 4 years alternately, which the interest of religion do indeed re-
uire, all the children in the parish, notwithstanding its extensive and scat-
         

