
                            WALSTON.                          853

rish, and there are three splendid brethren of the species growing
in the immediate vicinity of the manse.  The other trees which
seem adapted to the climate and soil, and of which good speci-
mens are to be seen on the Walston or Elsrickle sides of the hill,
are, the elm, the plane, the ash, the gean, and the hawthorn.
There are in the garden at the Place, formerly the manor house,
two fine yew trees of considerable age, and there was also in an
enclosure beside it a row of hollies of great beauty, which have
lately been destroyed by sheep.  Around the manse, the Place
and the Old Borland, there still remain a few plane and ash
trees, the survivors of a noble plantation.  In Hamilton of
Wisha's Account of this parish, it is said, " it" (the pro-
perty) " hath an old house seated near to the church, and well-
planted with barren timber."  This description is, alas! no longer
applicable.  It is currently reported at this day, that the greater
part of the wood was cut down between 1709 and 1752, during
the dependence of the lawsuit between John Baillie's heirs, and
George Lockhart of Carnwath; and it is expressly stated in the
records of Presbytery, that, in the year 1737, " a great many
large trees growing in the kirk-yard were cut.down, and sold by
the principal heritor." To this period, therefore, we may refer
the clearing which the present generation deplore, and which
they cannot even hope to see remedied in their days.  Some-
thing, however, has of late been done in the way of planting, and
the growth of Scotch-firs, larches, spruces, and silver-firs, and also
of the hard-wood with which they are interspersed, affords the
greatest encouragement to the proprietors to persevere in planting
and enclosing.  And they must be quite aware, that, though the
direct return from their plantations may be distant, the return
from their fields fenced, and sheltered will be immediate and pro-
gressive.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is no account of this parish more ancient than that in
Hamilton of Wishaw's account of Lanarkshire, drawn up about
1710, and lately printed for the Maitland Club, to which are sub-
joined by the editor, six charters relating to the revenues of the liv-
ing of Walston, of date 1292-3, extracted from the chartulary of
Glasgow.  The account in Chalmers's Caledonia does credit to
his acknowledged accuracy of research.  There is no separate map
of the whole parish.  There are, however, excellent plans of the,
   LANARK                             3I


