
     Statistical Account

The parish of Fetlar is 4 miles long, and 3 1/2 in breadth.
North Yell is 8 miles in length, and 6 in breadth.  The
soil is various; in the parish of North Yell the ground is a 
deep black morass, full of ferruginous springs.  The island

<FOOTNOTE>

first century; but the Romans would not attempt farther, by reason of
the boisterous seas and rapid tides; another reason was according to Ta-
citus, in Vita Agricola, because, despectu eft et Tbyle, quam bactenus nix
et hiems abdebut:  Mare quoque pigrum et grave remigantibus, perbi-
bent.  The place seen by the Romans could be no other than the island
Fula, which probably tben was called Thule, though it now has got the 
name of Fula; for it is a certain fact that throughout the whole of Shet-
land, the snow frequently covers the top of the hills; when there is none
to be met with on the plains; and the space was too far for them to dis-
cern the tops either of Fitfield Head, or Sumburgh Head.  The Picts,
upon their landing in Shetland, set to work, and erected a number of
small castles, called afterwards Broughs, upon which they placed large
fires, to give warning of an approaching enemy, and so artfully were these l
light-houses contrived, being every one placed in the view of another, so
that the whole Lordship of Shetland could have been apprized of their
danger in less than an hour's warning.  But this strategem sometimes was
the cause of their destruction, as Torfeus in his History of Norway ac-
quaints us.  The Picts having secured themselves in the best manner
they could, in the island of Shetland, which then were uninhabited, they
sent over some of the principal men to the Court of Norway, to solicit
aid against the Caledonians, that they might regain the delicious fields of
Caithness and Sutherland, from which they had been so lately expelled;
and their request was readily complied with by the warlike Harold, who
warmly espoused the cause of the exiles; and accordingly, a powerful
fleet was put to the sea without delay, and they laded at a place in this island
called Funzie, as above observed; but as Harold could not procure ancho-
rage for this fleet, he failed a little to the N E. to a bay on the neighbouring
island of Unit, which still retains his name to this day, being called Ha-
rold's Week; and it is handed down by tradition from one generation to
another, that this was the way that it acquired its name.  Harold con-
tinued at anchor with his fleet till he had collected all the Picts in Shet-
land, capable of bearing arms, and then be set sail for the coasts of Caith-
ness and Sutherland.  Of both these counties he made a very easy con-
quest, and they became tributary to the Kings of Norway until the end of


