
                         EDINBURGH.                         635

community of Edinburgh on this occasion,. it may be mention-
ed that two petitions were drawn, up, one in tbe name of the
men, women, children, and servants against the service book;
another, in that of the nobility, gentry, ministers, and burgesses
against both the service book and book of canons.
The King also was obliged to consent to a General Assembly
being formed, which met at Glasgow in November 1638. Next
year the covenanting party rose in arms; Edinburgh Castle and
Dalkeith House were taken possession of under the generalship,
of Lessly their leader, and money to carry gn the war was eagerly
furnished b y all classes, Provost Dick, a rich citizen, advancing
the suin of I. 20,000 Sterling. In the meantime Charles de-
spatched a fleet and army under the command of the Marquis,of
Hamilton, but before any active operations were commenced, a
pacific treaty was concluded between both parties.
In 1641 Charles visited Scotland with a view to restore peace
and harmony. He was stimptuously entertained by the citizens
of Edinburgh, at an expense of L.12,000 Scots money, but his
indecisive vacillating conduct procured him few friends on either
side of politics.
During the protectorship, Cromwell marched with an army in-
to Scotland. In the autumn of 1650, he took possession of Ed-
inburgh and Leith, and repaired and extended the fortifictions
at the latter Place. On his taking possession of the city, the lord
provost and magistrates, at the desire of the chancellor, fled to
Stirling. That the place might not remain in a state of anarchy,
the inhabitants assembled, and chose from among their number
thirty of the most respectable citizens, whom they invested with
powers to treat with Cromwell.  On be whole he conducted him-
self with great moderation, and in 1652, on the arrival of the En-
glish commissioners, the magistrates were re-instated, and the for
mer constitution of the city was restored. On the restoration of
Charles II, the city of Edinburgh sent his Majesty a present of
L. 1000 as a testimony of its loyalty. This infatuated monare
although he had previously signed the Solemn League and Cove-
nant, and, on his mounting the throne, had bound, himself, by his
coronation oath, to preserve the religion of the Scots, yet, in one
of his first, acts of Parliament, immediately proceeded to overthrow
it. The whole acts passed since 1633 were repealed, and Episco-
pacy was again established and enforced under grievous penalties
The privy council assumed the power of banishing to the West


