
                          ORMISTON.                            151

upon the most favourable terms for receiving the little sums which
the poor were able to spare for it. But a prejudice was excited
against it, and it did not succeed.
   Poor.-The average number of persons upon the roll is 15, who
receive upon an average about 1s. 9d. a-week each. Some require
to be supported entirely, others require only a small assistance.
But besides those who are permanently upon the roll, aid is occa-
sionally given to some who are not paupers, but from distress or mis-
fortunes are reduced to temporary want.
   The fund for the support of the poor arises from collections at
the church, mortcloths, assessments, and occasional donations.
The annual collections at church amount to from L. 10 to L. 12 a
year; the mortcloths to L. 3; the assessment is generally L. 60, and
sometimes L. 80. The first assessment was laid on in 1757. For
several years after, it was resorted to only occasionally. But since
the beginning of the present century, it has been regularly im-
posed every half year: and about 1810 it rose so high as L. 100
a-year. Previous to 1813 there were funds belonging to the
poor amounting to L. 180. This money was lodged with the
Earl of Hopetoun upon two bonds, at an interest of L. 5 per
cent. At that time, James Earl of Hopetoun, being in a very poor
state of health, and the estate at his death going to the heir of en-
tail, who was different from the heir of line,-his trustees refused to
allow any more assessments till the poors' money in the Earl's
hands was all exhausted. The kirk-session was thus obliged to
expend the whole stock belonging to the poor, which amounted to
L. 9 a year. There is also a house in Ormiston burdened with
an annual feu-duty of L. 4, 9s. for the benefit of the poor. From
these sources, arise the regular supplies for the support of the poor.
But besides the regular supplies, there has been for several years
an extraordinary collection in the course of the winter for supply-
ing needy families with coals and meal and other necessaries. The
poor also obtain every year from an institution at Haddington a
supply of flannel clothing. The Earl and Countess of Hopetoun
are subscribers to this institution, and have granted permission to
the minister of Ormiston to draw from it upon their joint subscrip-
tions such flannel clothing as shall be found needful for the poor
in the course of the winter. In addition to all which, the Dowager
Lady Hopetoun is in the constant practice of giving occasional
charity, and contributing whatever is necessary in cases of distress.
   The poor are not insensible to the benefactions they receive.


