
     of Morven.

   Roads, Rivers, etc.-As to the roads of this parish little
can be said.  The line of road along the court of the Sound
of Mull is, by the application of the statute labour, for the
most part rideable; through the other parts of the parish so
little has been done to them, that they may be said to remain
this day as nature left them: The people, however, are now
becoming more sensible of the advantages that would arise
from good roads; though from their scattered situation, and
the want of residing heritors to bring them forward, the
work proceeds but slowly.-There are many rapid torrents
pouring down from the hills to the sea; some of which are
so considerable, as to be always impassable in times of heavy
rain.  Ten of these are more dangerous than the rest, on ac-
count of the greater quantity of water, and the coarseness of
their channels.  Of all these, three only have got bridges
over them, and one of the three is in so. ruinous a condition
as to be hardly safe for passengers.-There are some very
valuable stools of natural woods in many parts of the parish,
particularly along the whole Loch-Suineart side, consisting
chiefly of birch, interspersed with some valuable spots of
oak and ash, also around the south east end of the parish,
facing the Sound of Mull, and at the head and both sides of
Loch-alin Bay.  The respective proprietors of there woods be-
nefit themselves much by selling them off to the Lorn-fur-
nace company or others for charcoal, etc. the manufacturing
of which must be supposed very serviceable to the poor of
this and the neighbouring parishes.  During the last seven
years, a sum of 8000 L. or 10,000 L.  Sterling has been expend

<FOOTNOTE>

paid by the job, by which they earn from 1 s. 6 d. to 2 s. per
day, exclusive of maintenance; a boat carpenter, joiner, cowan,
(or builder of stone without mortar,) get 1 s. at the minimum,
and good maintenance; a shepherd has from 7 L. to 10 L. per an-
num, besides maintenance and shoes; weavers are paid by the
measure, and according to the quality of the stuff.


