
                            REDGORTON.                          191

flour-mill, is intended to drive a flax spinning-mill by day, which
is now erecting, and the flour-mill by night. It is held by a com-
pany of bakers in Perth, on a subset from R. Sutherland Esq. of
which there are only seven years to run, who have again subset it
for driving a flax-mill to Messrs M'Dougal and Langlands. The
flour-mill, which was formerly capable of grinding 200 quarters
per week, will by this restriction not be capable of grinding above
50 quarters, or per annum, 21600 quarters.
   The spinning mill will contain 800 spindles; capable of spin-
ning per week of 3 pound yarn, 2400 spindles; giving a fabrication
per annum of 124,800 do. *
   The bleachfield at Pitcairnfield is in the possession of Ro-
bert Sutherland, Esq., who holds it and the preceding fall on
a long lease from Robert Smythe, Esq. of Methven.  The power
here is obtained from the old mill-dam of Pitcairn, where there
has been a mill as far back as our records go.  This fall, besides
the other requisite machinery, gives motion to eleven sets of beetles,
which, besides finishing the goods bleached at the field, are em-
ployed in dressing a considerable quantity of umbrella cloths; an
article, the fabrication of which is luch attended to by the manu-
facturers of Perth.  There are employed at this work 50 hands.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

Market-Town.-The nearest market-town, there being none in
the parish, is Perth, which is upwards of two miles from the most
adjacent part of the parish; and upwards of eight miles from the
remotest part; except the barony of Mullion, which is from ten to
twelve miles distant. Perth is also the post-town.
   Roads.-The only turnpike road in the parish is the road from
Perth to Dunkeld, which runs through it for four miles, and a
branch from it passing Stanley.  On this road, the Dunkeld coach
passes and repasses every day, as is the case also with the Inver-
ness mail.
   There are four statute labour roads in the parish.  One cros-
ses it from east to west; one from north to south; one branching
off from the Dunkeld road crosses a part of it from south-east to
north-west; and one crosses from south-west to north-east.
   Bridges.-In a parish situated as this is, at the confluence of
two rivers, the one of which is seldom fordable, and the other ex-
tremely dangerous when in flood, and which cannot be approach-

<FOOTNOTE>The completion, of this work has been stopped since this account went to press,
in consequence of the pressure on business in Dundee.


