
	1258			PERTHSHIRE.

	ing deed was signed, it appears that William the Lion, granted to
	the Abbey of Cambuskermeth the church of Kincardine, as un-
	der, "Ecclesiam de Kincardin cum capellis decimis et oblationi-
	bus omnimodis et tredecem acris terrae arabilis, et unum toftum
	brasiatoris cum uno orto, et unum toftum ad campanam sancti Lo-
	lani cum two orto, et unum toftum ad baculum sancti Lolani cum
	uno orto."
	   It also appears that "the lands of Guddie were, by James II.,
	on the 1st of June 1452, given to Robert Norrie for bringing the
	tidings of the birth of Prince James, afterwards James III."  Scots-
	tarvet's Calendars in the Harleian Library.
	   Eminent Characters, &c.-The Muschets long held high rank
	in this parish and district.  They were descended from the Earls
	of Montfort, who were the Dukes of Bretagne.
	   The Duchess of John de Montfort was daughter to the Earl
	of Flanders, and her daughter Ann, was married first to Charles
	VIII. and thereafter to Lewis XII., kings of France.
	   The Muschets, originally called Montefitchett or Montfichet,
	and De Montefixo, are said to have come from France into Eng-
	land with King William the Conqueror, and in King Edgar's reign,
	to have come from England into Scotland with that king's sister,
	who was married to Malcolm III.
	   The above particulars are taken from a manuscript in the pos-
	session of Dr Muschet of Birkhill, near Stirling, who is the lineal
	descendant of the Muschets, and, it is said, their only representa-
	tive in this district.
	   For the following statements in reference to this ancient family,
	the writer is indebted to H. Home Drummond, Esq.
	   "In the churchyard, over the door of a burial-place at the east
	end of the ground where the old church stood, there is a shield
	of arms, consisting of two cheverons, Gules, on a field ermine,
	with a pigeon for crest, and the motto, "I thank my God."
	Above the shield is the date 1686, and below it this inscription :
	" Sepultura, antiquissimae Mushetorum familiae a Gulielmo de
	Montefixo, qui hic floruit circa, annum M.C.C.C. progenitae."
	Sir David Lindsay, in his  " Regiater of Armes," gives the same
	shieldas the bearings of "Muschet of Kincarne," with the differ-
	ence of an additional cheveron charged with a star.  There were
	various branches of this ancient family, who, were proprietors of
	many estates in this part of the country, and in this parish in par-
	ticular here were Muschets of Burnbank, Culgarth, Miln of


