
     of Dalserf.

and others again, to the practice of hay crops of artificial gras-
ses, which, they assert, unfits the land for producing grain
crops, till it has been recovered by long rest and pasturing.
But, whatever is the cause, the culture of barley, an account
of its bad success, is in a great measure abandoned.
   Beans and pease have been found to thrive well, in this pa-
rish, upon land in good order; but of late, they have not been
much more successful than barley.  Discouraged by bad springs,
or violent droughts in the beginning of summer, they grow too
vigorously, when the latter rains come on, and run more to
straw than to feed.  The present crop, (1791,) appears to be
better than any for these several years past.  In favourable seasons,
pease, which are sown alone on the poorer ground, yield from 3
to 6 bolls per acre; and, beans, or beans with a mixture of
pease, sown on better land, from 5 to 10 bolls, each boll con-
taining somewhat more than 4 Winchester bushels.
   Wheat and oats are the chief crops.  Wheat succeeds well
in the strong soil, and yields grain of a good quality.  The
produce of an acre is commonly from 25 to 50 Winchester
bushels.  The greatest danger, to which it is subjected, is
from severe frosts in the beginning of the spring, while the clay is
soft, and drenched with rain-water, which swells the ground,
and throws out the roots of the wheat.  This was lately the
case for three years successively, to wit, 1783, 1784, and 1785,
when the wheat crops were much injured, and produced very
poor returns.  Oats are hardy, and succeed with less manure
and culture.  The most favourable circumstance, for this
crop, is, whent the particles of clay have been well separated,
by the winter's frost, and the feedtime dry.  This enables
the soil to resist the summer's drought.  The produce of an
acre of oats, is from 25 to 60 bushels; of an acre of hay,
from 1 to 2 tons.
   The clay soil is not very favourable for the culture of pota-

     VOL. II. 3 B


