
           312                         BANFFSHIRE.

   at Banff, a distance of about fifty miles. There is a lock-up-house
   in the village of Tomintoul, under the charge of a district constable.
   But this place of safe keeping is comparatively useless, from
   the want of any resident magistrate, or efficient means of securing
   those disturbers of the public peace, who not unfrequently infest
   the village, and annoy the peaceful and well-inclined portion of the
   community.  There are five markets held annually in Tomintoul,
   viz. on the last Friday of May, new style; on the last Friday of
   July, old style; on the third Wednesday of August, old style; on
   Friday after the second Tuesday of September, old style; and on
   the second Friday of November, old style.  These markets are
   principally for the sale of cattle and sheep, and engaging servant.
     Inns. - There are four inns or public-houses in Tomintoul, and
   two in the country part of the parish. It is much to the credit of
   Mr Skinner, the Duke of Richmond's factor for this parish, that
   be strenuously opposes the indiscriminate licensing of dram-houses.
     Fuel. - The only description of fuel used in the parish is mosspeat.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The more striking variations betwixt the present state of the
   parish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account,
   exhibit considerable improvement in the state of society.
   The means of religious instruction and attendance on these means
   are greatly increased, as appears from the Sabbath collections
   made for the poor.  These have increased about eightfold, or
   from L.2, 2s. 6 1/2d. to about L.17. The total annual funds for the
   mainteriance of the poor have increased fortyfold, or from L.2, 2s.
   6 1/2d. tn L.95. The population has increased more than one-third,
   and,the attendance of children at school is fourfold, or from about
   80 to 320. The minister's stipend is increased about four-fold,
   or from L.68, 6s. 8d. to an average of more than L.240,,
   whilst he has less than half the charge.
     The arable acres are increased from 1550 to 2400, and the rent
   from about L.1100 to L.2760. The permanent poor's funds have
   increased from L.5 to about L.1800.
     The parish is susceptible of considerable improvement, by
   means of planting the hills and moors, improving waste ground,
   enclosing the fields, and road-making. In this last particular, something,
   has been done within the last ten or twelve years, by opening
   up a line of internal communication along the banks of the


