
200                             ABERDEENSHIRE.

<TABLE>
No. of professional and educated men,    .      .      .      .    .                 4
       all other males 20 years old, (except servants,) including retired trades.
          men, superannuated labourers, and diseased males,  .       .           .  23
       male servants upwards of 20 years of age,	     .     .        .        138
       female servants         do.        do.      .    .     .        .           100

   It was stated in the former Statistical Account, that there were
43 weavers in the parish-there is now only one individual who
earns a livelihood by that trade, so much has the manufacture of
home-made cloth declined.  About forty years ago, a lit pig was
a necessary utensil in almost every family-but there is not a
house in the parish where such an article is now to be seen in use.
   Agricultute.-

<TABLE>
	Arable land in the parish,  .     .     5048 acres.
	Pasture on farms,    .       .     .     208
	Planted,      .    .       .   .          26
	Moss,    .      .    .      .    .       563
	  Do. partly improved,	   .    .         40
	Stances of houses, links, and bents,     215
                                               ---
                                              6200, or in imperial acres 7878"

   Soil.-The soil in the parish, as regards its adaptation to agri-
culture, may be classed under three divisions.  Along the coast
it is sandy loam and moss, easily cultivated, and producing tur-
nips, potatoes, and bulky crops of grain,-the grain, however, is
not of so good a quality, or of such weight, as that raised on the
stronger lands.  The middle division is strong adhesive clay, ca-
pable of producing weighty crops of grain, but ill adapted for tur-
nip husbandry.  The western division is inferior; some parts of it
at no very distant period had been moorish and covered with moss.
As a whole, it is composed of clay and moss.  A considerable
portion of the moss has been redeemed during the last fifteen
years, and more is in course of being improved.  Since the last
Statistical Account was written, upwards of 300 acres of land in
different parts of the parish have been brought into a state of
cultivation.  Mr Cumine of Rattray's improvements on the moss
land on his part of the parish have been very successful, and,
while they have meliorated the -climate, and refreshed the eye,
have greatly enhanced the value of his property.  He has con-
verted the black and unproductive swamp into fields, bearing
abundant crops of oats, turnips, and bear.

<FOOTNOTE> There is a considerable discrepance between this computaion and that contained
in the former Statistical Account.  The measurement here given was furnished to
me by Roderick Gray, Esq. factor to both the heritors, who states that it was taken
from surveys and tables of contents, which had been repeatedly checked and found
correct.  I am also obliged to Mr Gray for other information embodied in this ac-
count, and for the prompt and pains-taking manner in which it was furnished.
                                            4


