
                  BOINDIE.					239

bridges mostly sufficient, at ten separate points. There is a small
harbour at Whitehills, having ten to eleven feet depth of water at
spring-tides, serving for the landing of herrings in the fishing sea-
son, and admitting two or three vessels for the exportation of her-
rings, and the importation of salt, coals, &c. There is another
small harbour a little to the east, near to the brick-work at Black-
pots, intended for the exportation of tiles, and like the former, af-
fording accommodation for the prosecution of the herring-fishery.
At this point, too, the salmon-fishery is carried on.
  Ecclesiastical State-The church hs situated at the distance of
five miles from the south-west extremity, and nearly two miles
from the north-east extremity of the parish. Since the erection
of the new church at Ord, with which 250 of the population, in
the remote district, have naturally connected themselves, the
situation of the church is sufficiently central and convenient. It
was built in 1773, when the old church, the ruins of which still
exist in the burying-ground, near the sea, was abandoned. It is
comfortably fitted up, and in good repair.
  There was left, in the year 1809, by the Rev. James Stewart,
a native of the parish, and a clergyman of the Church of England,
in the late American colonies, in trust to the kirk-session and
the presbytery, a sum now amounting to L.391, intended to yield
L.1,  10s. of an annual gratuity to each of six poor persons of the
parish, and the same allowance, as a bursary, for defraying the
education expenses of six poor boys of the parishioners.
  The church affords accommodation for 600 persons. The poor
are freely accommodated in the seats attached to the land, and in
a gallery held in trust by the kirk-session. The manse was built,
for the first time, in its present situation, a year or two after the
removal of the church. The old manse is still habitable, not less
so than its successor which is in an insufficient state.\f* The glebe
extends to about reven Scots acres, and may be, worth L.7 per
annum. The stipend is 15 chalders; equal parts of meal and
barley. It has ranged, since the commencement of the writer's
incumbency in 1890, from L.172 to L.284. L.8, 6s., 8d. is al-
lowed for communion elements.
  There is no chapel of ease or otber additional place of reli-
gious worship, within the boundaries of the parish;\f+ but there was

<FOOTNOTE>A very commodious new manse is now nearly finished near the present site,
March 1842.
          The Methodists, have lately, erected a small chapel in Whitehills, the use of
which is liberally allowed to the writer and his people on Sabbath evenings.

  BANFF.						  Q


