
			PERTH.                               97

trade of Perth was prosperous. Perth-made gloves had a prefe-
rence throughout the kingdom. One tradesman had seventeen men
employed in cutting out work for his sewers. The quantity yearly
manufactured for home consumption was between 2000 and 3000
pairs. But the trade is now almost entirely gone, the sale of the
article being in the hands of haberdashers and cloth-merchants, who
obtain it from various quarters in England and Scotland. The con-
sequence of this has been the falling off of another branch of trade,
that of skinners, which, not many years ago, was very prosperous, and
which, in ancient times, occupied such a numerous body of the in-
habitants, that the main street from the north, being chiefly occu-
pied by them, was named Skinner Street. About the year 1795,
the number of sheep and lamb skins prepared and dressed was
30,000. The trade is now limited to two or three individuals. The
number of these skins, prepared and dressed by them, is about
27,000.
   Perth was, forty years ago, the only town in Scotland, with the
exception of Edinburgh, and perhaps Glasgow, in which book-
printing was carried on to any extent. The Messrs Morison, who
were distinguished for intellectual endowment and literary attain-
ment, vigorously applied themselves to this branch of trade. They
printed, Mr Scott informs us in his Statistical Account of Perth,
between twenty and thirty thousand volumes annually. Since their
time the trade has been more generally diffused over the kingdom,
and in many other provincial towns it is prosecuted with consider-
able spirit. Of course it is not now in Perth what it formerly was.
   Villages.--The villages in the parish are, as I have already
stated, Tulloch, containing 193 inhabitants; Pitheaveless  and
Cherry-bank, containing 114 inhabitants; Upper and Lower Crai-
gie, containing 250 inhabitants. There was at one time a con-
siderable village at South Muirtown, but it is now removed.
   Means of Communication.--Perth is a post-town. The net re-
venue of the office is about L.4000. The mail from Edinburgh
arrives at 9 P. M. on its way to the north, to Dundee, Aberdeen,
Inverness. The mail to Edinburgh is dispatched at 1 A. M.
   The Glasgow mail arrives at half-past 8 P. M., and is dispatch-
ed at 1 A. M. The mail from Aberdeen and Dundee arrives a
10 minutes before 1 A.M., and from Inverness at 11 P.M.
   The turnpike roads in the parish, from south to north, are about
four miles and a half, and from east to west about two miles.
The roads diverge from the city as a centre,--one to Edinburgh,

	PERTH			    G


