
			PARISH OF DRYFESDALE.

		PRESBYTERY OF LOCHMABEN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES AND
			GALLOWAY.

		   THE REV. DAVID B. DOUIE, MINISTER.*

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--It is obvious that this parish derives
its name from Dryfe, a small rivulet that runs through the north-
west side of it; Drysdale being a contraction or abbreviation of
Dryfesdale. It lies in the middle of that beautiful and extensive
valley commonly called the How of Annandale, and is in 55&deg; 08"
north latitude, and 3&deg; west longitude. It is 7 miles in length, north
to south; at the southern extremity only about a mile broad, but at
the centre 5 1/2, at the north end 3 miles; `nd contains in whole up-
wards of 11,000 acres. It is bounded on the south and west, which is
flat and well cultivated for the space of 6 1/2 miles, by the river An-
nan, which divides it from the parish of Lochmaben; on the north-
west by that of Applegarth ; on the north by that of Hutton; on
the east and south by the parishes of Tundergarth, and St Mungo.
	Topoqraphical Appearances.--No mountains, but some of the
most beautiful hills add much to the beauty and diversity of the sce-
nery, of the parish. The highest and most beautiful is White Wool-
len or Quhyte Woollen, but generally named White Wynd. The
pasturage upon it being at one time very good, it used to be covered
with very white sheep; from which it is supposed to have taken its
name. But the lapse of a few years has created a wonderful revolution
on its appearance. Instead of the once beautiful and white fleeces,
we have to admire the rich luxuriance of the waving corn,--it being
now almost all cultivated to the very summit. It is of considerable
steepness and height, being about 1500 feet above the level of the sea.
On its summit is a small verdant plain of about 2 1/2 acres, of a cir-
cular form. It has now no traces of antiquity; but beacons are sup-
posed to have been lighted on it, to warn the more northerly in-
habitants of the country of the approach of the English borderers.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the l`te incumbent, the Rev. John Henderson.




