
514                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

     and Croy and Dalcross. Their boundaries and figure are very ir-
regular.
     The hills which bound the south side of the parishes are one
continued chain, and form the northern range of the Munadh
Leagh mountains. They run southwest and north-east. Their
height, upon an average, may be from 1000 to 2000 feet above
the level of the sea. They are of easy access, and, with a few ex-
ceptions, are generally flat or round at the top or summit.
     The parishes are bounded on the west and north-west.by a rug-
ged chain of hills for nearly eight miles, and which contain a se-
ries of lakes partly forming the bounding line. These hills may
be about 1500 or 1600 feet high. On the north and nortli-east,
they are bounded by an inclined sandstone ridge commonly called
Drimmasbie or Drummossie moor, (or the moor of Leys,) at the
east end of which the battle of Culloden was fought, in the parish
of Daviot. This ridge or moor, in so far as it bounds these pa.
risbes with those of Dores and Inverness, is from 800 to 900 feet
*bove the level of the sea, at the latter place, and the roads to that
town from this district pass over that height.
     The valley of Strathuairn, which forms more than nine-tentbs
of the united parishes, is in figure, nearly though not quite, trian,
gular, and extends from Wester Aberebafder, the property of
Charles Mackintosh of Aberarder, at its south-western extremity,
in a north-westerly direction, widening very considerably towards
the middle, (the chain of precipitous and rugged cliffs which con-
statutes a wall on the north side separating it from the parish of
Dores, there suddenly breaking off,) thence rapidly inclining to a
-point at the bridge of Davio't, on the Highland road, where the
strath may be said to terminate in a very steep and narrow glen.
A quarter of a mile below the bridge just mentioned, are situated
the church and manse of Daviot, which, as well as the mansion-
house of Daviot afterwards noticed, are entirely without the strath,
and the parish continues for more than four miles further east-
ward along the north bank of the river, to the breadth of nearly
two miles. 'The last two miles of the parish, (Culloden's lands),
are, from causes unnecessary to be here inquired to, accounted, as
in a political sense, part of Nairushire, although locally and geQ-
graphically -altogether detached from that Aire. It is quoad
juridica that this proportion of the parish is comprehended with-
in the county last named. The inhabitants are indeed subjected
to great and needless inconvenience and expense by their being


