
90			AYRSHIRE.

the sole, the halibut, and the shrimp. The most abundant are
the whiting, haddock, cod-fish, ling, flounder, salmon, mackerel,
skate, and herring. And those less frequently found are the
mullet (Mugil cephalus); horse-mackerel (Scomber trachurus);
sun-fish, which is very rare and little valued; pilchard (Clu-
pea pilchardus); lythe. (Gadus pollachius), caught at the end
of harvest by nets, and also by the fly; and saith or cole-fish
(Gadus carbonarius,) which is caught by lines as well as in
nets.
	Besides these, the conger-eel, called by the fishermen have-eel
(Murana conger) is found in great abundance, but it is only of
late years that it has been sold for food. The silver sole (Pleu-
ronectes Margaretta) is got in deep water, but it is now in small
request. Trout are also occasionally taken; and lobsters and
crabs are caught, the former in great numbers.
	Of fishes which are not sold, the Portugal shark or sheer dog
(Squalus cornubicus) is met with, particularly when fishes are
abundant. The porpoise or pelliak (Delphinus phocaena) fol-
lows the herrings, and is sometimes caught in the turbot nets:
as does likewise the spout-whale or herring-hoy (Balaena physalus,)
which is supposed to live on the spawn or fry of the herring.
Corse-foot or five fingered star-fish (Asterea rubens) are found in
great abundance, sometimes on almost every hook of the fisher-
men's lines. The kethick or sea-devil (Lophius piscatorius) is
sometimes found of the weight of three or four stones. It is armed
with sharp teeth, has a head disproportionately large, and is a
most hideous-looking fish. The ink-fish (Sepia loligo) is plen-
tiful, and employed as bait for skate-fish. It is well known to
derive its name from the dark inky kind of liquor which it dis-
charges from its mouth, so as completely to blacken the water all
around it.
	Botany.--In a parish of such limited extent, and with so little
variety of soil, few rare plants can be expected to occur. It may,
however, be mentioned, that the Teesdalia nudicaulis, Senebiera co-
ronopus, Arabis verna, and Arabis thaliana--all nearly allied to
each other, both according to the natural and artificial classifica-
tion, are here to be met with. The Sedum villosum, the Brassica
monensis, the Eryngium maritimum, or sea holly, which is scarcely
to be found except on the western coast; and the Centunculus
minimus (a very rare plant) are also found--the last mentioned
on the northern confines of the parish. The Convolvulus Solda-
				3

