
			    BONHILL.                       221


rence at the height of 5 feet. In September 1784, according to
Dr Walker, it measured 17 feet 9 inches ; but at the height of
one foot above ground, it was found to be no less than 33 feet in
girth. At the height of six feet the trunk divides into three great
arms. In the Agricultural Survey of Dumbartonshire, published
in 1811, the circumference of the trunk where smallest is said to
be upwards of 18 feet. This venerable tree is going rapidly to
decay. The trunk is hollow, and the branches, though clasped,
may soon be expected to give way. It still, notwithstanding, an-
nually produces luxuriant foliage.
   Another remarkable ash-tree, of even greater dimensions, is
also to be seen in this neigbbourhood. It is thus described in the
edition of Gilpin's Forest Scenery by Sir Thomas Dick Lauder,
published in 1834: " Near the house of Bonhill, in Dumbar-
tonshire, there is a very ancient and remarkable ash. This tree
has been surrounded by a sloping bank of earth to the height of
about three feet. A little above this artificial bank, or about four
feet above the natural surface, it measured 34 feet 1 inch; at the
height of four feet above this bank, it measured 21 feet 3 inches,
and at the height of twelve feet from the ground, immediately under
the three great arms into which it divides, 22 feet 9 inches.  At
the junction of these arms, the leading trunk bad above a century
ago, been broken, and in consequence of which the tree has be-
come hollowed. One of these arms measured 10 feet 4 inches,
another 11 feet, and the third 12 feet in girth, and yet they seem
not to have been original branches, but only pollards formed after
the trunk was broken over. Many years ago, the tree being hol-
lowed and opened on one side, the opening was formed into a door,
and the other part of the tree scooped out. In this way a small
room, 9 feet I inch in diameter, was formed within the trunk. Its
roof is conical, and 11 feet high. It is floored and surrounded
with an hexagonal bench, on which eighteen people can sit, with a
table in the middle; and above the door there are five small leaden.
windows. Though the tree has decayed in the heart it has con-
tinued to live in the bark, and to form a great arch of, new wood.
The whole trunk, which is a vast mass, is thickly covered with
fresh vigorous branches."--Vol. i. p. 264, 265.
 	             II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   The whole lands in the parish formerly belonged to the family
of Lennox; but in the fifteenth century the Darnley family by
marriage got one-half of the estate and the titles. The other


