
716                      ARGYLESHIRE.

There are several salmon fisheries also; they pay no rent, and do
not cover the expense of pursuing them. They are found to have
declined much of late, from the means, it is supposed, which have
been successfully employed of intercepting and securing the fish
in deep waters before they enter these lochs. But the fishing of
principal importance is the herring fishing. Lochfine, from time
immemorial, has been celebrated for it, and in an inferior degree
Lochgoil and Lochlong. The people, however, are not nearly so
extensively occupied in this business of late as formerly, owing to
the failure of the fishing, particularly in the upper parts of Loch-
fine, and in Lochgoil and Lochlong. The necessary outlay for
the fishing is so great, that when it is unsuccessful, the fisherman
is soon reduced to poverty. Still, the scarcity of other employ-
ment, the habits he has acquired, and his having his capital, such
as it is, invested in fishing implements, render it difficult for him
to chance his mode of life; and this class of people are often ob-
served to swell the lists of the poor. There are but few, however,
who now pursue the fishing as their only employment. They oc-
cupy themselves at some handicraft or as day-labourers during
the greater part of the year, and go only in the summer and har-
vest months to pursue the fishing. A complete equipment,--boat,
train, &c. costs about L.70. Young people, however, commence
with shares, and according to their success and good conduct,
make progress in getting boats of their own. It is by means of
machinery that nets are now manufactured, which has effected a
great improvement on the trains. Formerly each net was divided
into several pieces for the conveniency of working; but these, how-
ever skilfully joined, did not run so regularly, nor stand so well in
the water, as when the whole net is one entire piece. The trains
now used are double the size of those in use some years ago. This
year the fishing has been uncommonly successful. Several boats
have rdalized L.150, and the average is from L.60 to L.70. This
employment is attended with the great advantage of training young
people to handle the rudder and the sail, and to encounter the wind
and the wave, but it is attended with many drawbacks. So much
depends upon chance and good luck, as it is called, that the pur-
suit is calculated to unsettle the minds of the young, and to give
them a distaste to regular every-day employment. It is well
known also, that fishermen are in the daily practice, while they
are engaged in this occupation, of drinking several glasses of ar-
dent spirits, the curers, in order to secure a speedy cargo, rivalling


