
532                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

fences for which confinement is awarded, are generally drunken-
ness oil the streets, rioting, theft, &c., and occasionally offenders
are lodged there on their way to Edinburgh. * The confinement
does not continu6 longer than twenty-four hours.  The prison is
well secured,-the diet is good,-but the prisoners have no bed-
ding except straw,-and, in cine of the apartments, communica-
tion may be held through the agrating with persons on the outside.
Males and females are placed in separate apartments.  The num-
ber of persons confined during the year is about thirty.  The pri-
son is under the superintendence of the Bailie of Barony.t Since
the establishment of the county police, in 1841, this jail has been
in a great measure supersed.ed,-offenders being now lodged in a
police office properly fitted up in the West Wynd.
  Fairs.-By a statute, passed in 1581,S a fair was ordained to be
held annuallv in Dalkeith on the 10th of October.  It is now
held oil the third Tuesday of that month.  By a statute, ++ passed
in 1672, two other fairs were appointed to be held annually for
the benefit of the town, the one on the last Tuesday of April, and
the other on the second Tuesday of July;-but they have been
discontinued.  In 1820, at the sutgolestion of the Agricultural As-
sociation, a fair for horses was appointed to be held in May, on the
first Thursday after Rutherglen fair, which still continues.S Two
other markets have been recently introduced for hiring, servants,
one on the second Thursday of October, and the other on the
last Thursday of February.
  Inns, Alchouses, &c.-We have at present (1844) 3 inns,-45
ale houses,-and, including these, 62 spirit-dealers in the parish.
In 1839 there were 85.  A certain number of these may be con-
sidered necessary;-but, unquestionably, the multitude that have
long been established here, have proved most injurious to the
morals of the people.  The dram-shops especially, that invite the
labourer in the morning, or minister to the cravings of street wan-
derers at night, ought to be regarded as a moral nuisance, and dis-
countenanced by every person of respectability.

<FOOTNOTE>As a historical fact in connection with this prison, it may be mentioned, that
Andrew Guillan, weaver, who lived near Magus Moor, and who was executed at
Edinburgh on the 20th of July 1683, for being present at the murder of Archbishop
Sharpe, was apprehended near Cockpen for refusing to drink the king's health, an
confined one night in Dalkeith Jail on the 11th of June 1683.  The account of his
apprehension, trial, and execution, which is deeply interesting, is narrated at length
by Wodrow in his History of the Church of Scotland, Vol. ii. page 303-4, folio
edition.
    See Report of the Commissioners an Prisons, Vol. xxxi.  A. j). 1837-&
    Acts of $cot.  Pad, Vol. iii. page W&
    Ibid, Vol. iii page 238, Vol. vii. page 74, 1672.



