
                           MAXTON.                         121

but have a pernicious influence on the morals of those who are
within the sphere of their influence. Satisfied of this, the mini-
ster and every tenant in the parish presented a respectful petition
to the justices of the district, praying that the licenses might no
longer be renewed; but their request was not attended to. It is
not easy to see on what ground of expediency this refusal, on the
part of our magistracy, can be justified.
   Smuggling is not known in the parish; neither is there much
ground for complaint in regard to poaching.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The parish contains 4514 acres. Of these 3827 are divided
into convenient fields, substantially enclosed with thorn-hedges,
and under a regular course of cropping, some portions in the four-
shift Husbandry, some in the five, and some in the six, according
to the quality of the soil. 668 acres are planted. About 10 acres
are an irreclaimable bog; and 9 is a fine pasture field, never
ploughed, because sometimes it is flooded by the river. There
are no commons, and no wastes. The plantations are all thriving,
well attended to, and judiciously managed. Many sorts of timber
are mixed up in them; but the ash, the elm, the larch, and the
oak, predominate, and seem to thrive best. The Scotch fir grows
very well for a time, and serves as a nurse, but it does not attain to
a great size. This is probably owing to a spurious kind (not the
true Scotch fir) having been planted, rather than to any unfitness
in the soil or climate for its growth.
   Rent Of Land.-The rental of the parish cannot be exactly ascer-
tained, because nearly 1000 acres, besides the plantations, are in the
natural possession of proprietors. But supposing the arable part
all let, the rent of the whole might be about L. 3700, or 19s. 3 1/2d.
per acre. If we value the wood at the same rate, and add L. 30
more for the salmon fishings, we shall have a total rental of
L. 4374.
   Live-Stock.-The cattle raised are for the most part of the short-
horned breed, or crasses of them. The sheep are chiefly Leices-
ters; but there are also a few Cheviots, or crosses betwixt the two
kinds. Much attention is paid to this part of farming, especially
to the breeding and management of sheep. The keep of a cow
per annum is valued at L. 6 or L. 7; of a sheep, at from 13s. to
L. 1.
   Husbandry.-Much has been done of late years, and is now
doing by all the tenants in the way of deep draining, which is at-


