
284                           ABERDEENSHIRE

erie. The branches taught at all the three are nearly the saine, viz.
English reading, English grammar, arithmetic, geography, Latin,
practical mathematics, and book-keeping. The salary of the pa-
rish schoolmaster is L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d., with a house and garden.  He
has also the benefit of the Dick bequest.  The salary of the
teacher at Newbyth is about L.6, paid by the heritors; and that
of the teacher at Fisherie, about L.5, arising from subscriptions.
Each of them has a house and garden.  The fees at the parish
school may average about L. 10.  Besides the above, there is a
school lately erected at the northern extremity of the parish of
Turriff, supported by subscription, and a small sum from one of
the heritors, which accommodates a considerable number of young
people belonging to this parish.  All these seminaries are regu-
larly visited.  The means of instruction are now within the reach
of all the young people in the parish.
   There are also two Sabbath schools here, one under the super-
intendence of the minister of the parish, and the other, under that
of the minister of the chapel at Newbyth, both of which are pretty
well attended.
   Library.-In the village of Newbyth there is a library lately
instituted, which is supported by subscription.
   Savings Bank.-A savings bank was established here about
three years ago.  The deposits already amount to about L.1030.
To the class in life of which the depositors consist, an institution
of this kind must be productive of much good.  Its effects here have
already been of the most beneficial description, for many have now
saved a little who would otherwise-have had nothing.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor at present on
the roll is 32.  During the last year, thirteen others received oc-
casional supplies.  The income of the session, arising from col-
lections at the church, fines, donations, interest of L.210 at two
per cent., ind the yearly amount of the mortification (L.6, 10s.)
formerly mentioned, amounted last year to L.73, 3s. 2d., while
the expenditure was L.78, 10s. 2d.  The demands on the kirk-
session have increased of late years; and it is much to be regret-
ted that that spirit of independence which formerly prevailed is
now on the wane.
   Fairs.-There are three fairs held yearly at Newbyth.
   Inns.-There are five inns within the parish.
   Fuel.-The fuel principally used consists of peats. The ex-
pense of cutting, drying, and carrying them home is very conside-


