
                           NEW SPYNIE.                              97

judiciously about L. 900, in enclosing with stone dikes, and planting,
and in building a keeper's cottage, to whom they allow L. 5 yearly,
for taking care of the place, and looking after the planting. A
large portion of the moor is at present in course of being rendered
arable ; for doing which, the Barons allow the tenant L. 5 per Scots
acre.
   In the year 1828, the heritors united in building, at the expense
of about L. 30, a substantial stone wall, pointed with lime, around
the much neglected and unprotected churchyard of Spynie, the old
wall having totally crumbled down; and colpleted the enclosure
with a cast-iron gate. This is the only burying ground in the pa-
rish, and consists of about an acre finely situated.
  Parochial Register.-The earliest entry in the parochial regis-
ter of baptisms was made in the year 1708; and since that period
the register has been pretty regularly kept.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>

                        III.-POPULATION.

                        In 1801,    843
                           1811,    816
                           1821,    996
                           1831,   1121

   The population has evidently been increased by the building of
the village of Bishopmill, which contains 621 inhabitants; while
the rest of the parish contains only 500. In several parts of the
parish, a number of crofts have been long ago converted into farms,
-which has greatly diminished the population in the country.

<TABLE>
     The yearly average of births for the last seven years is   24
                        of marriages                             8
     The number of families is                                 259
                   inhabited houses is                         207
                   uninhabited houses, or now building, is       4
  Number of families chiefly employed in agriculture,           50
                   in trade, manufacture, and handicraft,       81

  During the last three years there have been 6 illegitimate births
in the parish.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture. -The number of acres, standard imperial measu
  re,which are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage, is 3176; con-
stantly waste or in pasture, 471.
   The uncultivated land is chiefly that part of the bed of the an-
cient lake which belongs to this parish; a much greater part of
which belongs to the parishes of Duffus, Drainie, and St Andrews.
It affords coarse pasture for cattle, but proves neither nutritive nor
wholesome, and has the strange effect of changing the colour of
black cattle grazing on it, into gray.
   By draining, embanking and substantial sluices; by treaching
   ELGIN
                                  G


