
432                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

The occupation of weaving, when continued during so large a
portion of the day, can scarcely be considered beneficial to health.
It cannot be said, however, that, either in health or in moral cha-
racter, there is any perceptibly injurious effect produced by the ma-
nufactures of Stirling.
  Navigation.--The port of Stirling is the only one in the parish;
and the Forth the only navigable river.  There are belonging to
the port of Stirling twenty-two vessels, of from 50 to 350 tons
burden; two of them brigs engaged in foreign trade; the others
schooners, smacks, &c. trading up and down the Frith, or to ports
in the united kingdom.  Besides these, there are belonging to
the port, three steamers for passengers, of the Stirling and Alloa
Company ; and one or two luggage steamers.  A passenger
steamer, belonging to a Glasgow company, also occasionally plies
between Stirling and the neighbourbood of Edinburgh, calling, as
do the others, at the intermediate ports.  Three schooners,
bringing timber from Norway, regularly visit tbe Port; and occa-
sionally one from Holland, with bark.  The navigation of the
Forth is much impeded by shallows, which prevent vessels of
heavy burden from reaching the port, and often greatly retard
those which are able to reach it.  A plan has been lately submit-
ted to the magistrates and Council for deepening the river.  The
expense would be great; and it may, perhaps, be impracticable to
obtain the necessary funds, without the aid of Government.  It
would, however, not only be of great and lasting advantage to
Stirling, by raising its port to a higher position; but would be an
improvement felt throughout a large and important district; and
would, in so far, prove a national benefit.
                      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town.--Stirling is the only market-town in the parish.
It has a weekly market on Fridays for grain, and the other produce
df the district, which is well attended.  It has also several fairs
or extraordinary markets, for horses, wool, &c. annually, which
are held on Fridays.  There are only two villages, viz. Raploch
and Abbey; whose population has been already stated.
  Means of Communication.--The post-office is in a very conve-
nient part of the town, in respect of. proximity to the great roads
by which the mails are received and despatched in all directions.
There are mails to Edinburgh twice, and to Glasgow three times
in the day, and through these cities to the south: to Perth, Aber-
deen, &c. once; to Doune, Cullander, Alloa, Larbert, Falkirk,


