
                       COLMONELL.                           533

children in turn. Dr Hamilton of Kildonan, and the Trustees of
the late Sir W. Fettes, have given L. 15 per annum to the other;
and, as many poor children receive their education gratis on this ac-
count, it is hoped they will continue the contribution. The other
three private schools are on the teachers own adventure. The
number of scholars attending the six schools averages during sum-
mer 110, during winter 250; and the expense of education is as fol-
lows:--reading per quarter, 3s.; reading, writing, arithmetic,
do. 4s. 6d.; Latin and Greek, 6s.
	The people generally can read and write, and are by no means
averse to the education of their children. On the contrary, all
seem anxious to have them taught to read the Bible, and give
them the blessings of sacred and useful knowledge.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--Twenty-four persons receive pa-
rochial aid. The funds for their support and expenses of manage-
ment are derived from the following sources. Mortcloth per
annum, L. 3; donations from heritors do. L. 20 ; fines do. L. 1;
collections at church door do. L. 30; proclamations, L. 5.
	Inns.--There are two inns, and seven public-houses; yet intem-
perance is not the besetting sin of the people. This disproportion
may be ascribed in a great measure to the number of fairs held
annually in the parish, and the public roads that intersect it.
	Fuel--Many attempts have been made to discover coal, but
without effect. Coals are generally used in the lower, and peats
in the higher districts. The coals brought from Bargany and Dul-
quharran cost the villagers 10s. a cart. The cart contains 12 cwt.
Peats are sold at 3s. a cart.
	Lime-kilns.--Five are kept going during the summer months,
and afford employment to many labourers. They burn about
20,000 bolls of lime per annum.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The population has been nearly doubled within the last thirty
years. This rapid increase is mainly attributable to the excellent
roads that divide the parish in every direction. The estate of
Kildonan that, about twenty-five years ago, was almost wholly
covered with heath, is now thickly inhabited, and the soil has been
rendered fit to bear the most luxurious crops. Many small farmers
are located on it, who rent from forty to fifty acres. Great attention
has been paid to the sheep-stock. On the more sheltered farms,
it has been much improved by a cross with the Leicester and
Cheviot-ram, thus producing a larger animal, and shorter and finer


