
124                    ROXBURGHSIRE.

dernised and thoroughly repaired; and though no great taste was
displayed in its improvement, it is now a comfortable place of
worship to the little congregation that resorts to it. It is seated
to hold about 150, but accommodation might easily be made for
fifty more if there were occasion for it.
   The manse was built about twenty-seven years ago, and is not
unsuitable to the living, which is 14 chalders, half meal, half bar-
ley, with a small sum for vicarage tithes and communion elements.
The glebe is about 11 acres, which might be let, perhaps, for L. 18
or L. 20.
   The ordinary church collections, with mortcloth and proclama-
tion fees, and the interest of L. 72, which was mortified by Mr
Smith, a former incumbent, may average about L. 8 per annum,
which is all expended on parochial purposes. We have no extra-
ordinary collections for foreign objects,-the money of the people
being too much required at home; yet I know they would not be
backward in giving their mite, if called on to do so. I have been
twenty-three years their minister, and never called on them for an
extraordinary collection but once, (for the Assembly's Highland
schools,) when I expected to get, perhaps, between L. 1, 10s. and
L. 2 to shew our good-will to that benevolent scheme; but was
surprised to receive upwards of L. 6. Not only the members of
my own congregation, but the Seceders in the parish who could
not attend on the occasion, sent their shillings and half-crowns.
In 1831, there were 90 families in the parish; of these 21 were
Seceders, and the rest belonged to the Establishment. But many
of these families of both classes were divided among themselves,-
part going to the church, and part to the meeting-house.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the place.
It is set down in a central situation, where all have easy access to
it, and it is well attended. The children are all taught to read,
write, and count; there is none in the parish, old or young, who
have not had this advantage; and yet, the general poverty of
the parents obliges them to put their children soon to work, so
that these useful accomplishments are often not so perfectly ac-
quired as might be wished. The schoolmaster is an infirm old man,
who retired from the school twenty-five years ago, retaining his
house and garden, and a salary of L. 25, 13s. 3 1/2d.  His assistant
and successor has a house and salary of L. 20, 6s. 8 1/2d. from the
heritors, and the school-fees averaging L. 20, 1s. 5 1/2d. during the
last three years. He has also L. 4, 4s. as clerk to the heritors, and


