
                        STRATHDON.                            549

grateful for kindness and attention.  The influences of pure and
undefiled religion are, it is hoped, being more and more diffused
over their minds, one evidence of which is their habitual and re-
gular attendance on Gospel ordinances.
   The favourite pastimes are, prize-shootings about Christmas,
and subscription dances.  These are generally made subservient
to charitable purposes.	 They are set on foot for the relief of
some case of poverty or	incidental distress in the neighbourhood;
and thus, at the individual cost of a few pence, a considerable sum
is realized for a needy neighbour.  Another charitable practice
prevails.  When an extraordinary case of helpless distress occurs,
the young men in the locality assemble together, and, often ac-
companied with music, go from house to house, where they re-
ceive a donation in kind or money.  In this way a considerable
supply is speedily raised in behalf of the object of their charitable
exertions.
   There is, indeed, no feature of character that more peculiarly
marks the people than their warm sympathy, humane attention,
and active benevolence to their suffering iieighbours : however
straitened their own circumstances may be, the common beggar
is never allowed to pass from the door unrelieved.
   Poaching in game prevailed to a considerable extent some years
ago.  During the shooting-season, bands of desperate characters
still infest the hills ; but they are not connected with the parish.
The analogous offence of moor-burning, however, is still too pre-
valent.  Neither can they be acquitted altogether of blazing the
river.  A good many foul fish are thus annually killed.  This is
not done secretly as a crime, btit openly as a diversion.
   Previous to the alteration in the distillery laws, this parish was
one of the strongholds of smuggling.  The inhabitants of Cor-
garff, the glens, and not a few in the lower part of the parish,
were professed smugglers.  The revenue-officers were set at de-
fiance.  To be engaged in illicit distillation, and to defraud, the
excise, was neither looked on as a crime, nor considered as a dis-
grace.  As may be supposed, such a system of things proved most
pernicious, productive of the grossest demoralization, irreligion,
and sin, and destructive of every habit of regular industry.  But a
happy change took place.  By the vigorous measures adopted by
Government effectively seconded by the proprietors, this mo-
ral pest was struck at the very root, and speedily became utterly
extinct.  The lawless life of the smuggling " bothie" was wholly


