
     Of Kirriemuir.

   Cultivation, etc.-Part of this parish was enclosed many
years ago, and is in a state of high cultivation; and, in every
part of it, improvements are carrying on.  Such, at present,
seems to be spirit for improvements in agriculture, both
among the proprietors and tenants, that if they go on for a
few years longer, as they have done for 15 years past, there
will be little waste ground in the parish.  What is wet, they
are draining; what is uncultivated and arable, they are bring-
ing into tillage; what is not arable, they are planting.  Much
has been done in all these ways; and a great deal still re-
mains to be done.  And here the means of improvement are
to be had in great abundance.  The Lake of Kinnordy, which
is completely drained, and the meadows of Logie, which are
not drained, contain an inexhaustible supply of fine marl.
Nor is encouragement wanting to engage the tenants to use it.
For the proprietor of Kinnordy fells it considerably cheaper
than any other marl in the county; though, in quality, it is,
by many, rockoned inferior to none.  Accordingly, it is car-
ried not less than 14 miles.  The town likewise affords a
great deal of manure, which, within these 3 years, has risen
from 8 d. and 9 d. the cart load, to 16 d. and 18 d.  This is
a clear proof of the spirit for improvement; and, as another,
it may not be improper to mention, that a small estate about
2 miles to the N. of the town, sold last year at 60 years pur-
chase, though one half of it is under lease for a life, and the
other for 9 or 10 years.  Few, if any, leases are now let, in
which the tenant is not bound to a regular rotation of crop-
ping; and those who have old leases, and are not bound, be-
gin to find it their interest to follow one.  The rotations most
common are, 1st, oats or flax, after ley; 2 d, turnip or pota-
toes; 3 d, oats; 4th, barley with grass-seeds; 5th, hay; 6th,
7th, and 8th, pasture; then oats or flax, etc. as before.  In-
stead of 3 years, some pasture 5; and, in place of making


