
			AUCHTERDERRAN.                              167


remarks, " The gentleman should have said, instead of the love of
independence, the love of progeny." But I feel inclined still to
adhere to my own version. In that class, the love of progeny does
not appear to be either intense or even very general, but the de-
sire of procuring that independence which consists in having their
own house, their own fireside, their own little domestic society, &c.
seems to influence them generally, and in a great degree.
Poaching and snaring are far from being unknown here. A
little Highland whisky, I believe, is occasionally smuggled, although
we have far too much of our own production.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-We have no undivided commons, nor any ground
altogether waste. All is applied to culture, to pasture, planting,
buildings, yards, mines, quarries, courts, roads, water-courses.
There is a great deal of wood in the parish; and if all our planta-
tions could have been laid out upon one general improved-plan, we
might have had nearly all the wood necessary either for shelter or
ornament. There remains, however, still unplanted the large den
of Cardon, a mile long, and of considerable width, and of such
depth and goodness of soil, as would grow all the most valuable
kinds of timber. We have all the common sorts of wood. Al-
most all our trees have been planted. Fife in general has very
little natural wood remaining. The management of woods, though
censiderably improved of late, is still defective. There is a neglect
of thinning, felling, pruning, and enclosing. Sir Gilbert Elliot,
Treasurer to the Navy, and John Sinclair, Esq. of Balgregie, were
our first planters upon a large scale. The best wooded properties
are those of Lord Minto, containing 102 Scotch acres; Robert
Ferguson of Raith, 73 acres, 3 roods, 9 falls; Mrs Sinclair's of
Balgregie, 50 do.; Mr Reddie, Redhouse, 30  do.; and Malcolme
of Balbedie, the exact number not ascertained. The number of
Scotch acres in plantation over the parish is about 500. Our
plantations have suffered by the planters sometimes neglecting to
suit the species of tree to the quality of the ground.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is, per Scotch acre,
L.1, 4s.; the, average rent of grazing a cow or ox L.3 for the sea-
son.
   Rate of Wages, &c-Day labour rose during the late war, from
1s. to 2S. 6d. and 3s. a-day. It is now 1s. 6d. When maintain-
ed by the employer, a woman is at present hired for L. 6 for the
year, and a man for L. 12. Artisans get 12s. or 14s. a  week.


