238				KINCARDINESHIRE.

<TABLE>
	Agriculture.--
		Imperial acres under cultivation,                2236
			uncultivated, waste, and in pasture,    45561
			susceptible of cultivation,               365
		 	in a state of undivided common, about    6000
			under wood, larch, and Scotch fir,       2200
							Total,  56362

	Average rent of land per imperial acre, somewhat above L.1.
	Rate of Labour.--Labourers and artisans without victuals, in
summer, 2s, in winter, ls 6d. per day.
	The common breed of sheep is the black-faced, and of cattle
principally the small Aberdeenshire breed.
	The system of cropping is generally on the seventh rotation.
The better land is well cultivated, is of a deep black soil, early
and productive; but the inferior land is still in a rude state of
cultivation.
	The late General Burnett of Banchory, a public-spirited gentle-
man and kind landlord, whose melory will be long and grateful-
ly cherished in this parish and neighbourhood, reclaimed a con
siderable number of acres on his estate, now the property of Bur-
nett Ramsay, Esq. He paid the expense of trenching, draining,
and building stone feuces. The farmer cleared the ground and
paid 4 per cent. for the money expended, during the remainder of
the lease. The rivers Feugh and Dye, principally the former,
have been embanked at considerable expense, for several miles of
their course, and a few acres thereby reclaimed, while the whole
valley is thus preserved from inundation, (to which it is especially
liable in August and September months,) except when rain falls
to a great extent, when the embankments do not form a sufficient-
ly high and strong defence against the torrent, and much damage
is done. In autumns 1838 and 1839, the embankments were
overflowed, and in several places burst open, and the crop covered
with mud and gravel, in some instances to the depth of from two
to three feet, and otherwise greatly injured. Eight or ten acres
are at present being reclaimed, which were in this way sanded
over.
	The general period of leases is nineteen years. There are se-
veral old and valuable liferents in tbe parish. Farm-buildings are,
in general, in commodious proportion to the extent of the farms,
and the system of agriculture jeeps pace with the improvements
of the surrounding district.
    				    3


