
        314                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.


	from the circumstance that is seldom known to be covered with
        ice, it must be considerable.  Near the south end of it is a small
        island, where the lairds of Fowlis had at one time a summer house.
        The waters of this loch are discharged into the sea by the Ault-
        graad, a stream which, in its course, presents the most singular
        natural curiosity in the north of Scotland.  Shortly after quitting
	the loch, it forms a succession of very picturesque falls, and, af-
	ter winding for some distance in a valley enters a deep and nar-
        row chasm in the red sandstone rock, and flows through it for two
	miles.  Its course is thus graphically described by the late Dr Ro-
	bertson in the old Statistical Accound: "The river continues to
	run with rapidlu for about three-quarters of a mile, when it is con-
	fined by a sudden jutting out of the rock.  Here, the side view
	from the summit is very striking.  The course of the stream being
	thus impeded rock, till, collecting strength, it shoots up perpendi-
	cularly with great fury, and forcing its way, darts with the swiftness
	of an arrow through the winding passage on the other side.  After
	passing this obstruction, it becomes in many places invisible, owing
	partly to the increasing depth and narrowness of the chasm, and
	partly to the view being intercepted by the numerous branches of
	trees which grow on each side of the precepice.  About a quarter
	of a mile further down, the country people have thrown a slight
        bridge, * composed of trunks of trees covered with turf, over the
	rock, where the chasm os about 16 feet wide.  Here the observer,
	if he has intrepidity enough to venture himself on such a totter-
	ing support, and can look down on the gulf below without any un-
	tonishing.  The wildness of the steep and rugged rocks; the gloomy
	horror of the cliffs and caverns, inaccessible to mortal tread, and
	where the genial rays of the sun never yet penetrated; the water-
	falls, which are heard pouring down in different places of the pre-
	cipice, with sounds various in proportion to their distance; the
	hoarse and hollow murmuring of the river, which runs at the depth
	of near 130 feet below the surface of the earth, cannot be contem-
	plated without exciting emotions of wonder and admiration in the
	mind of every beholder."  From the appearance of the opposite
	sides of this remarkable chasm it seems quite clear that the rock
	must, at some early period, have been rent asunder by volcanic
	agency.  Anterior to this period, the hollow above the point where

        <FOOTNOTE>There is at present a substantial wooden one.
                                          4

