
370                          FIFESHIRE.

of Dunino, was the public-spirited Sir William Areskine of Torry,
predecessor and relative of Captain Areskine Wemyss, at'present
Member of Parliament for the county of Fife. About 1767, Sir
William, as proprietor of the estate of Dunino, made the same fe-
licitous attack on the asperities of the soil, as be had previously
done on the rebels in America. In Sir Robert Sibbald's descrip-
tion of Fife, which was published about 1710, he says, when voll
come to the east moors of Fifeshire, by which lie meant Kingsmuir,
the first place which attracts attention is the castle of Stravitbv;
Dunino estate, Sir Robert Sibbald held unworthy of notice, At
this period, the conterminous beritors had a ri-lit 11 to dig feal and
divot" on Kingsmtiir, and to 11 pasture their cattle ;" Which usages
were bought up, by granting.tbein sections of land in recompense.
The rest of the parish, like KiDDISMuir, lay open and UDInclosed,
and the whole bestial ofthe forty-four farins, in addition to those of
Kit)gsmuir, were in autumn sent forth, as at present in Iceland,
for promiscuous pasture,-tbotigh the act of James VII. had ex-
isted for ninety years, prohibiting such destructive practice. It
was in this state ofaurricultural barbarity, that Sir William Ares-

kine commenced his operations.	He enclosed his whole estate
with substantial stone fences five	feet bigh ; and ditches along
id6 of them were superadded.	He               wheat, potatoes,
and turnips ; and these two latter	crops were so scarce in the cast
of Fife, that at night they were	Plundered, like apples from an

orchard. The horses were shod not only as formerly on the fore
feet, but also on the hinder feet. Metal plates were appended to
the timber ploughs, as mould boards; the cart wheels ofsolid wood
were abandoned; recourse was bad to the saddler, instead of the
flax-dresser, for harness; large stones which impeded agricultural
-o eratiODS were removed from the fields; the crooked ridges were
p
made straight; and- plantations were formed to shelter the hi(yher
grounds. For some years the tacksmen of Dunino were looked
up to, as presenting to the public, experimental firms.
Sueb an example was not lost. The properties of Kinaldy,
Pittairtby, Balcaitbly, and the-most, of Stravithy, have been in-
closed with stone fences, and in general substantially drained.
The empire of bog-plants is on the wane, and the parish, de-
scribed in the former Account as 11 wet and spongy," will sooi),
in every part, deserve the opposite character. The refits, as has
bfta shown, are moderate the tenants are in good terms with


