
   384                          BANFFSHIRE.

   village of Inverkeithy, on the opposite bank, about two miles dis-
   tant. Here on the Marnoch side is a place called Chapelton,
   where, no doubt, there had once stood a place of worship. A
   little lower down are the grounds and mansion-bouse of Ne-
   therdale,--the property of Mrs Rose Innes, second heritor of
   the parish. The house is modern and handsome. The garden
   and grounds are beautifully laid out and well wooded. There
   are beech hedges here remarkably large and fine specimens.
   The property chiefly consisting of several large farms, is very
   well cultivated.
     The middle portion of the parish from west to east is considera-
   bly diversified with rising grounds, the summitsof most of them being
   covered with young thriving plantations, which afford shelter and
   very much improve the appearance of the country. The hollows
   or straths between are well cultivated, and watered with small burns
   or rivulets. The soil in some places is dry, but commonly humid
   and mossy.
     On the west side stands the old castle of Crombie, now the
   property of the Earl of Seafield. It has the appearance of having
   been a place of some strength. It now consists of three stories,
   but, like the similar castle of Kinardy, was at one time much
   higher. It is supposed to be of very ancient date.
     In the northern parts of the parish, consisting of the small pro-
   perties of Barrie, Culvie, Thorax, and the larger one of Auchin-
   derran, the soil, in general, though pretty fertile, is of a mossy
   nature, the exposure rather unfavourable, there being no wood.
   Much has been done of late years to improve these properties.
   In this part of the parish, the only resident proprietor is Robert
   Ogilvie, Esq. of Culvie.
     Hydrography.-There are numerous small rivulets tributary to
   the Doveron;-and springs of different qualities, abound in the pa-
   rish. Most of the springs are strongly impregnated with iron.  Se-
   eral in the lands of Crombie and Auchintoul have been of late dis-
   coverod, containing sulphur, &C. There are very extensive mosses
   in the parish, especially on the hill oT Cr6mbie, and on the lands of
   Auchintoul, and Auchinderran- these are much resortod to for peats.
     Mineralogy.-The rock in the parish is principally granite, of
   which there are several quarries wrought t6a considerable extent.
   One of these,on the lands of Cluny, of a gray colour, yields the
   largest and, finest post for all siezes of cut granite, equal to any in
   Scotland. A limestone is also found in Armellie. A kiln had
   been formerly in operation here. The range of granite rock seems


