
     of Kirkaldy.

which this place suffered the loss of many of its most active
inhabitants.-That unhappy event was followed by a suc-
cession of misfortunes.  No less than 58 ships, belonging to
this port, were either taken or lost at sea, before the English
invasion in 1650; and from that time to the Restoration, 36
ships more were taken, many of them with cargoes; making
in all (as stated in page 17.) 94 ships, the value of which is
ascertained, by a particular appretiation contained in the ac-
count of losses already mentioned, to have amounted to the
sum of L. 53,791 sterling.  A considerable number of these
ships were taken in the harbour of Dundee, when that town
was stormed and sacked by General Monk; at which time,
too, effects belonging to the inhabitants of Kirkaldy which
had been deposited at Dundee as a place of security, were
carried away or destroyed, to the value nearly of L. 5000*.
Besides this, different individuals suffered the loss of money,
which they had lent to the Committee of Estates for the pub-
lic service, but which on the establishment of the Common-
wealth it was impossible to recover+.  In consequence of these
heavy losses, and the still greater loss of 480 men killed in

<FOOTNOTE>

of those who had joined the army, were many of them assisted by public con-
tributions.  Deserters were cited before the kirk-session: there is an instance
of nine of them being called before it in one day, and ordained to return to
their colours under pain of excommunication.  A person was summoned be-
fore the presbytery, for calling the cause of God presently in hand, the Devil's cause,
as he trowed.  Different persons who, during the success of Montrose at Perth,
had been induced to declare for the King, appeared before the kirk-session,
and professed their sorrow for their conduct.  After the battle of Kilsyth, the
date of which, and of Philiphaugh, is marked on the margin of the record,
horses for transporting the wounded, necessaries, medicines, and attendance,
were at different times paid for out of the parish funds.
*A particular account of its loss is preserved, among the burgh records.
+Both these facts are annexed to the account of losses at sea.


