
                                    ARDCLACH.                       33


       None of the proprietors of land in the parish now reside within
   its limits.

          In 1801, the number of families in the parish was               314
                                 houses inhabited,                        314
                                 houses uninhabited,                        5
           At present, the number of families is                          299
                                     houses inhabited,.                   295
                                     houses uninhabited,                    5
                      the average number of children in each family, is     4 1/4

       The people of the parish are, generally speaking, rather above
   than below the middle size; and are a strong and hardy race,
   capable of enduring much fatigue.  They are ruddy and healthy
   in complexion, and chiefly black and yellow-baired ; but there are
   some families whose hair is generally fair, and who were former-
   ly termed "Bain," "Riach," or "Roy," according to the depth
   of the shade of yellow or red.  In these last families, the Chris-
   tian names of "Sweyne" or "Sueton," " Evan," and "Gillies,"
   has prevailed for ages, from generation to generation, evidently
   indicating their Scandinavian descent.
     The number of insane or fatuous persons in the parish is two.
     The language now generally spoken is English; but in the upper
   or southern district of the parish they continue to speak the native
   Gaelic, though, within the last forty years, it has, been gradually
   losing ground ; and, even in the upper district, the people, with few
   exceptions, now speak both Gaelic and English with almost equal
   facility.  On the Sabbath, there are two services at the parish
   church, one in Gaelic, and the other in English.
     The people are industrious, and have greatly improved in their
   habits of cleanliness.  At church and market they equal, in de-
   cency of appearance, any of their own rank in Scotland.  Their
   dress is home-made, the linen or cloth being usually spun by the
   female members of the family or woven by some country weaver.
   In former days, the men, instead of stockings, wore hose made of
   tartan cloth, called  "caddas," with party-coloured garters, the
   kilt, and the pointed or Glengarry bonnet, and brogues with
   freuchans,-every, family being their own tanners, and, generally,
   their own shoemakers.  The dirk, the sporran, and skian-dhu,
   were worn  on gala days. Now, the Highland dress has given
   place to stuffs from the manufacturer; but the plaid is  still re-
   tained, and frequently the Highland bonnet. In former times,
   the shirts in general use were made of woollen cloth called "plaid-
   ing," which has now given place to cotton and linen; but, with
   the latter, have been introduced rheumatism, and other diseases,
     NAIRN                               C


