
                              DVNFERMLINE.                            853

     present, all that remains, perceptible by the eye, of this ancient
     and once splendid royal burying-place, is the -tombstone of Queen
     or St Margaret, already noticed, which is a large horizontal slab
     of coarse blue marble or limestone, in two tiers, about three feet
     above the surface, at the east end of the new church, outside, co-
     vering the spot in which, it is understood, were once deposited not
     only her remains, but those of her husband, Malcolm III. There
     are to be seen on it six indentures, which, tradition says, are the
     prints of candlesticks, in which candles were kept burning; and,
     it is added, that a proprietor in Fife, at Pitilloch, in Falkland pa-
     rish, once paid an impost for lighting them.
         Besides Malcolm Ill., his Queen Margaret, and their eldest
     son, Prince Edward, named by Winton Edward I., there were,
     according to different authors, interred at Dunfermline, the fol-
     lowing royal and distinguished personages :-Edward, eldest son
     of Malcolm Ill. ; King Edgar ; Alexander I.; David I.; Mal-
     colm IV.; Malcolm, Earl of Athole and his Countess, in the
     reign of William the Lion; Alexander III., and Margaret, his
     first Queen ; David and Alexander, his sons; Robert I., and Eli-
     zabeth his Queen; Mathildis, their daughter; Annabella Drum-
     mond, Queen of Robert III., and mother of James 1. ; Constan-
     tine and William Ramsay, Earls of Fife; Thomas Randolph,
     Earl of Murray, nephew of Robert I., Regent of Scotland during
     the minoritv of David II. ; Robert, Duke of Albany, and Earl of
     Fife and Menteitb, Governor of Scotland.
        It may be proper to answer a very natural inquiry which is often
     put, What evidence is there for believing that King Robert Bruce
     was interred here ? It is gratifying to think, that the evidence for
     this fact is clear, varied, and strong.
        In the first place, the King himself selected Dunfermline as the
     Place of his sepulture. For it appears from the Cbartulary of
     Dunfermline that he gave the church of Kinross and chapel of
     Urwell to the monastery of Dunfermline, not only in honour of
     his predecessors buried in it, but on account of his own sepulture,
     which, it is said, " I have specially chosen among them;" * and
     again, " he chose his own interment to be among the kings of
     Scotland, in the bonourable monastery of Dunfermline."t Then
     Barbour and Fordun, two of our earliest chroniclers, record that
     he had been buried here, and in what may be presumed, the very


