
			MOUSWALD.                             449

marked change in their conduct and morals since the facilities of
education were increased. There is no part of the parish so dis-
tant from some one of the schools as to prevent attendance; on
that account, no additional school is required.
	Savings Banks, &c.--There is no circulating library, nor friendly
society, nor savings bank, in this parish. The nearest savings
banks are at Dumfries and the neighbouring parish of Ruthwell.
The one at Dumfries was established in 1815, and the other in
1810. Several individuals of this parish have deposited small
sums in the Ruthwell bank,--the first of the kind, which was in-
stituted by the clergyman of that parish, Dr H. Duncan.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor at present upon
the roll is 16; besides that occasional relief is given to a few others.
There are no funds for the poor in this parish, except what arise
from the weekly collections, fines, &c. and the sum of L. 5, which
was left in the year 1791 by a man who died in Dumfries, whose
forefathers had been natives of Mouswald. The heritors gene-
rally assess themselves to raise any additional sum that may be re-
quired. Last year the assessment was L. 35; church collections,
&c. L. 13; making the sum of L. 48, which was distributed. At
an average, the poor receive 12s. 6d. per quarter. There is nei-
tber a blind nor a fatuous person in the parish.
There is no manifest disposition, but rather an aversion at first,
on the part of the poor, to seek parochial relief; but it has been
remarked, and we believe with much truth, that, as soon as they
do get upon the roll, this feeling immediately dies away, and they
look upon what the session gives them as their right, which the
one is as much bound to bestow as the other is entitled to receive.
At the same time, we are quite aware, that there are others in the
parish, objects of charity, who would accept of private relief, but
in no other way.
	Inns.--The parish contains two good inns, which, from the
great intercourse betwixt Engl`nd, the south of Scotland, and Ire-
land, may be considered necessary. The landlords of both are re-
spectable men, and keep their houses in an orderly manner.
	Fuel.-The common fuel used is peat, procured in great abun-
dance within the parish. A cart load costs, within the parish,
from 1s. to 1s. 6d ; and if carted to any great distance, 2s. From
the time that is spent in cutting, drying, and carting the peats
home, farmers, of late, have begun to use more coal than former-


