
     of Eckford.

from a farm in the parish, of vicarage tithes, paid regularly
every year, not having been commuted; with a piece of
muirland for the exclusive right of turf, which the minister
generally occupies yearly, at the distance of above a mile.
By the late additional expence of living, the present incum-
bent found it necessary to commence a process of augmenta-
tion of stipend before the Lords Commissioners for plantation
of kirks and valuation of teinds.  Having met with no oppo-
sition therein from his heritors, a decreet of modification was
pronounced; but as the process is not quite finished, the a-
mount of the augmentation cannot as yet be ascertained.
The King is patron.  Eckford, from ancient records, seems to
have been a vicarage dependent upon the Abbey of Fedworth,
commonly called Jedburgh.

   Poor.-There are no parochial funds, or mortified money
for the poor.  Their maintenance arises from assessments every
half year, at what is called a parish meeting for that purpose;
the one half upon the heritors according to their valued rent,
and the other half upon their tenants according to their present
rents, respectively.  The sum assessed is levied by a collector
appointed for that purpose, who is allowed some gratuity for
making the cast, and levying the money.  It is put into the
hands of overseers for the poor, who distribute it to those per-
sons admitted upon the roll of pensioners, according to the
weekly allowance paid, which varies in proportion to the rise
and fall of grain.  Persons claiming this charity, must have
resided in the parish for 3 years, without interruption, before
the application is made; and they are required to subscribe a
bond or deed of conveyance, bequeathing their effects to the
heritors at their decease, as a check to prevent concealed pro-
perty, or alienating this charity, and to hinder the interfer-
ence of relations in that event.  There effects are seldom ex-
acted, and therefore turn out of small account to the parish.

     D 2


