
			ISLAND OF SKYE-STRATH.                                   301

	ing the dark lake of Coir-Uisge, which is here and there studded
	with small green islands, contrasting remarkably with the surround-
	in barrenness.

			-Rarely human eye has known
			A scene so stern as that dread lake,
			  With its dark ledge of barren stone.
			Seems that primeval earthquakes sway
			Had rent a strange and shatter'd way
			  Through the rude bosom of the hill
			And that each naked precipice,
			Sable ravine, and dark abyss,
			  Tells of the outrage still.
			The wildest glen, but this, can show
			Some touch of nature's glow;
			On high Benmore green mosses grow,
			And heath bells bud in deep Glencroe,
			  And copse on Cruachan-Ben;
			But here, above, around, below,
			  On mountain or in glen,
			Nor tree-nor shrub,-nor plant-nor flower,
			Nor aught of vegetative	power
			  The wear eye may ken,
			For all is rocks at random thrown.
			Black waves-bare crags-and banks of stone,
			  As ifwere here denied.
			The summer sun, the spring's sweet dew,
			That clothe with many a varied hue
			  The bleakest mountain side.-Lord of the Isles.
	  A few miles to the south of this scene is a cave which has of
	late been frequently resorted to by travellers, from being one
	of the numerous places of refuge occupied by Prince Charles Ed-
	ward Stuart during his eventful career.  Proceeding again to the
	northward, we soon reach the far-famed Spar-cave of Stratbaird.
	Here we have another most striking specimen of nature's grandest
	workmanship.  Every visitor must admire this lofty vaulted cave,
	resplendent with pure white icicles of semitransparent spar,-and
	having its roof supported, and its sides decorated, with massive co-
	lumns and drapery of the same sparkling material.  At the inmost
	recess, is a circular pond formed of shining spar, which nature
	has located there as a reservoir to contain the water which oozes
	through chinks of the roof.  But of this fairy spot a more correct
	idea may be formed from the following lively description of it.*

<FOOTNOTE>
	"The first entrance to this celebrated cave," says the author of Waverley," is
	rude and unpromising; but the light of the torches with which we were provided
	was soon reflected from the roof, floor, and walls, which seem as if they were sheeted
	with marble-partly smooth, partly rough-seeming to be wrought into statuary. The
	floor forms a steep and difficult ascent, and might be fancifully compared to a sheet
	of water which, while it rushed whitening and foaming down a declivity, bad been
	suddenly arrested by the spell of an enchanter.  Upon attaining the summit of the
	ascent, the cave opens into a splendid gallery, adorned with the most dazzling crystal-
	lizations, and finally descends with rapidity to the brink of a pool of the most lim-


