
     of Clunie.

with certain reservations, from the proprietors, and send
the bark to a great distance, to Dundee, Forfar, Brechin,
etc. where the tanners receive it generally at the rate of
10 d. or 1 s. the stone weight.  The wood-cutters do not
draw such profits from this business now, as they did for-
merly, owing partly to the proprietors of the oak beco-
ming of late more sensible of its value, partly to different
companies setting up in opposition to one another, and
partly to some of the members of the same company not
paying due attention to their particular departments; by
which means the company at large sometimes sustains very
material losses.  It is therefore probable, that this trade
will soon fall into the hands of the proprietors themselves;
and that the wood cutters, who have generally farms,
from which this business draws off their attention in the
summer months, will find their account in abandoning it,
and in betaking themselves to the less precarious occupa-
tion of cultivating and improving their possessions*.

     VOL. IX. H h

<FOOTNOTE>

*The natural wood of this parish is much decayed.  In many banks,
and angles of fields, it has very properly given way to the plough The
cattle are generally permitted to browse the infant shoots, and thereby to
retard their growth.  The stinted stems having, after a struggle of seve-
ral years, got above the reach of the cattle, are suffered to rise in too
great numbers on one stock; which greatly hurts the quality, as well as
diminishes the quantity of the bark.  The wood being so frequently cut,
and the stocks laid bare, the rise of the natural juices is thereby lessened
or prevented Besides, it may be supposed that, independent of the na-
tural duration of the particular species of wood, according to the nature
of the soil that bears it, the ground that produces trees, like the ground
that successively produces any other exhausting crop, must, in a certain
number of years, become wasted and fatigued, and consequently must re-
quire a certain period of repose, before it be able to produce such crops
again.  To some such causes as these, it must be owing, that this country
does not produce one half of the natural wood now, that it appears to
have produced some hundred years ago.


