
                        RAFFORD.                           249

who was married to Alexander Dunbar, first laird of Burgie of
that name.  To the castle a more commodious house was added
in 1702; but along with the original great hall, it was, in 1802
taken down to build the present mansion house.  The strength
of the building was such, that the detaching of the stone from the
mortar or lime cost more than the quarrying of new materials
would have done.  A square tower similar to that of Blervie, but
more elegant, still remains.
  On the Burgie estate have been discovered several ancient
coffins, each formed of five slabs of undressed freestone.  The
last was found in 1841. Its length was three feet, breadth two
feet, and depth two feet one inch. It contained a skeleton, in a
sitting posture, the head resting on the knees, which, on exposure
to the air, fell to pieces. It contained also, as did the others dis-
covered, an urn of clay, of very rough workmanship, rudely orna-
mented with the representation of spiral shells, ten inches by seven.
In this coffin alone were found ornaments, of a jet black substance,
resembling cannel coal.  Two rhomboidal pieces measured two
inches by one, and an eighth of an inch in thickness. These,
with two smaller pieces of the same shape, and two of a triangular
form, had small holes neatly drilled in them, through which ap-
pear to have passed cords, attaching them to about 100 large
beads; the whole fixed to a ring two-and-a-half inches in diameter.
The appearance of the bones and the ornaments seemed to indi-
cate that the grave had been that of a female of rank.  None of
these graves were surmounted by cairns, of which, notwithstanding,
there are many in the parish.  Small mounds occur in various
places, composed of pieces of stone, about the size of road-metal,
and having the appearance of exposure to the action of fire.
Mixed with these is a very black would, which, on minute inspec-
tion, is found to contain small pieces of burnt wood.  On remov-
ing one of these, on a warm summer morning, the workmen were
sensible of a heavy sickening smell, like that which is sometimes
felt on opening a grave. The cairns are found in the higher parts.
of the parish, and are by the common people thought to mark out
the former rude attempts of agriculture, when these stones were
gathered, in order to lay the circumjacent parts under cultivation;
it being farther supposed, that only these patches of the higher,
ground were cultivated, whilst the valleys were covered with wood.
This however, is disproved by the fact, that, when opened, they
present the reliCs of human bodies.  Their origin is entirely un-


