
     Of Tynron.

he increased both in reputation and wealth.  In the lat-
ter part of his life, he was married to a lady in London,
by whom he had no children.  He bequeathed to her all
his property during her personal life; and after her death,
which happened in the year 1762, 1500 L. was appoint-
ed by will to descend to the Society for Propagating
Christian Knowledge in Scotland.  This Society, by
their acceptance of this donation, bound themselves to
pay annually to the parish of Tynron 35 L. Sterling.
Twenty-two pounds of this sum being paid by the trea-
surer of said Society to a schoolmaster, appointed by
Mr. Gibson's latter will, to teach a school at or near
Tynron kirk: the schoolmaster found qualified by the
presbytery of Penpont, and certified to be so, to instruct
in the principles of the Christian religion; to teach to
read and write well, to cast accounts, to sing psalms at
church and in private families, and also to teach any
other parts of learning as shall be thought proper, and
to be elected to his office by the minister and elders for
the time being, and the heritors residing in the parish*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The presbytery examines this school annually; and upon their certifi-
cate of the schoolmaster's due election, diligence and faithfulness in the dis-
charge of his duty, he draws the salary above specified.  The remaining 13 L.,
by the will of the donor, is appointed to be distributed annually, by the kirk-
session, among 12 poor, sober, and industrious persons, residing in the parish:
the value of 6 L. to be given them in flax, adjudging the value of 10 s. to
each, accompanied with 10 s. in cash, the last 20 s. being still kept in the
hands of the treasurer for the poor, till the yarn spun from the flax is inspect-
ed by proper judges; at which time, it is adjudged in different proportions to
four or five of the best spinners among the twelve.  This donation has an ex-
cellent effect in encouraging industry among the poorer class, at the same time
that it greatly tends to relieve their wants.  A strict attention has been paid
hitherto in acting up to the will of the donor, both in the letter and spirit.
And every thing at present, both in respect of the school and the gift to the


