
248                       FIFESHIRE.

being done. There is, however, one upon the first week of Au-
gust, which is frequented in the afternoon by numbers of people
from the country districts.  There being a horse and a foot race
for small prizes given from the funds of the burgh, there is abund-
ance of gingerbread and sweetmeats for sale, as well as drink, with
many  of which the people regale themselves and their friends in
the public houses in the evening.
   Inns.--Including the back shops of grocers, there are 23
houses in the burgh where spirits may be bought in small
quantities, and drunk upon the premises. Two of them only are
inns for the reception and entertainment of travellers. In the
North Ferry, there are 13 such places, including the great inn,
and a secondary one, and in the rest of the parish there are three,
making in all 30; but some of these are required to accommodate
passengers at North Ferry, and travellers upon the public road
from Edinburgh to Perth and Inverness.
   Fuel.--The fuel is coal of various kinds, procured from diffe-
rent pits, and at the distance of from four to seven miles from the
burgh. The price, including carriage, may be from 5s. to 9s. per
ton, according to the quality and distance from the colliery.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   Since the Statistical Account in 1793 was published, a remark-
able difference has taken place in the parish. The state of agricul-
ture has been greatly advanced, and the general appearance of the
town much improved. It is rather against the interest of the burgh,
that none of the great heritors reside within the parish. The place
is favourable for carrying on manufactories of various kinds, hav-
ing numerous facilities,-yet no person of capital and enterprise
has ever engaged in trade or commerce upon a large and exten-
sive seal. There used to be some years ago, strong political con-
tests in the burgh, which frequently led the parties to the Court
of Session, and when these regarded the election of a Member of
Parliament, they were sometimes carried to the House of Commons.
This arose from the very peculiar set of the burgh. The members
of council continued in office during life and residence, and the
Minority could not be turned out, and their places filled up with
more friendly adherents. The struggle between the parties was
thus kept up, and maintained with much activity and contentious-
ness. It is recorded in the session books, in 1720, "that the
kirk-session unanimously twice postponed, and finally omitted the
celebration of the sacrament at that time," "on account, of the
great animositie and disagreement that is in the place." Several


