
                              WICK.                               145

   that, during the six weeks of a. successful fishing, not less, than
   500 gallons a day were consumed.   Let it be remembered, how-
   ever, that at that period 10,000 strangers, 'as boatmen, gutters,
   &c. were crowded into the town of Wick.   Of late years, the
   people have been more temperate.  Snuffing is almost universal
   among the men, and both it and smoking are very common among
   the women.  About L.3,500 a-year are spent in the parish 'Of
   Wick on tobacco.
     Character.--The parishioners of Wick are shrewd and atten-
   tive to their own interest. Their shrewdness, however, sometimes
   degenerates into cunning.  Unchastity, both in man and woman,
   is lamentably frequent, which appears from the records of the kirk-
   session to have been always the case.  They possess, notwithstand-
   ing, many most estimable qualities.  They are 'remarkable for
   natural affection, and show much kindness to their poorer neigh-
   bours.  No small respect is evinced by the commonalty for the
   ordinances of religion ; family worship is prevalent among them;
   the Sabbath is much regarded; and their attendance on the
   preaching of the Gospel is most laudable.
   Smuggling is all but unknown, excepting between the fishers
   and the French fisbing-boats during the season of the herring-
   fishery.  Poaching is not frequent;land there is not a pawnbroker,
   in the parish.

                          IV.--INDUSTRY.
      The state of agriculture in the parish of Wick, previously to 1790,
   was extremely curious, and its arrangements as hostile. as they pos-
   sibly could be to all improvement. Each property wacs divided into
   townlands.  In every townland there were what was called'"the
   mains," which consisted of a farm, on which were a barn 'and a
   stack-yard.  The proprietor retained the mains in' his own hand.
   The remainder of the townland was divided into what were called
   penny-lands, halfpenny.-lands, farthing lands, and octos.' These
   were  measured out shrewd countrymen, 'called land-riders, or
   more  properly land-redders, for they did not ride. In acoomplish-'
   ing, their work, they spaced six spaces as the breadth of a rig of corn-
   land, and 240 as the length.  This they denomininated a firlot-sowing
   of ots. The multiplied by four, the number  of firlots in a boll, gave
   5760 square spaces, being precisely the number of Scotch ells in a
   statute Scotcb acre.  The land-redders knew nothing about survey-
   ing, nor had ever heard of a chain, or of an acre; yet it must be
       CAITHNESS.                            K


