
			GLASSARY.                           685

   A century ago the number of heritors in this parish was twenty,
of whom thirteen were Campbells and three were MacLachlanes.
There was one MacKellar, one Lamont, one MacTavish, and
one MacCallum. Now there are fourteen heritors, seven of whom
are Campbells. There is neither a MacLachlane, a MacKellar,
nor a MacTavish among them, and the descendants of MacCal-
lum having assumed the name of Malcolm, their heir is now the
principal heritor, manifesting their hereditary enterprise, judg-
ment, and prudence.
  The ancient ecclesiastical condition of this parish is made
known to the present generation, only by the ruins of chapels or
churches scattered over it. There are Kilbride in the west-end,
Killevin, near Crarae on Lochfyneside, and Kilmory near Loch-
gilphead. There is also a fine ruin of a church, with an oratory
close by it, at Kil-neuair on Lochaweside.  This seems to have
been an important station, as is indicated by the beauty of the
workmanship and the traditions connected with the church.  The
date of the building cannot be given ; but it is related that, as in
building the temple in Jerusalem, so in the erection of this church,
--not a hammer was laid on a stone at the site of it; that the
stones were found in and dressed at a quarry close to Killevin, on
Lochfyneside; that on a particular day duly appointed, people at-
tended in sucb numbers as to form one close rank from Killevin
to Kil-neuair, a distance of twelve miles, and that each Stone, as
raised at the quarry or hewing station, was handed from one man
to another along the whole rank until it was fixed by the last of
them in its place in the building.
   This church was held in superstitious veneration long after it
ceased to be used as a place of worship, and it was imagined that
the spirits, either of the saints or of the dead unemancipated from
purgatory,haunted its walls. * A village once was ranged round

          Yet wandering, I found on my ruinous walk,
          By the dial-stone aged and green,
          One rose of the wilderness left on its stalk,
          To mark where a garden had been.
          Like a brotherless hermit, the last of its race,
          All wild in the silence of nature, it drew
          From each wandering sun-beam, a lonely embrace;
          For the night-weed and thorn overshadow'd the place
          Where the flower of my forefathers grew.

          Sweet bud of the wilderness! emblem of all
          That remains in this desolate heart!
          	  &C.           &C.
  <FOOTNOTE>It is of this church that a story is told, to which we have often listened with
wonder and awe in childhood, and which has obtained a wide circulation. The tra-


