
500                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

ral copsewood, whilst their green summits are "clothed with
flocks." Others are so rugged and precipitous, as in some degree
to resemble the scenery of the Highlands. Glenquhargan Craig,
situated about nine miles from the church, is frequently resorted to
in summer by those who admire the wilder beauties of nature.
	It presents an irregular and precipitous front to the south and
south.-west. It is said to be 1000 feet in height, which, if un-
derstood in reference to the level of the sea, may be not far from
the truth. But if the height be taken from the adjoining valley,
or the Scarr, which washes its base, it certainly does not appear to
be underrated. The parish at this point may probably be from 3
to 4 miles broad. These distances are not given with perfect pre-
cision. But on the authority of an eminent surveyor, the parish is
said to contain 32 1/4 square miles, and 20,640 English acres.
	The lower part of the parish is bounded very distinctly upon the
west and south by the Scarr, which separates Penpont from Tyn-
ron, for about five miles; upon the south still by the Scarr, which
separates it from Keir; and on the north or north-east for about three
miles by the Nith, which separates it from Morton and Closeburn.
Indeed, in consequence of a change in the channel both of the Nith
and the Scarr, a small angle of the parish of Closeburn has been
somewhat unceremoniously cut off from it, and in defiance of eccle-
siastical statistics attached to Penpont. The Scarr rises near the
extremity of the parish. Its course is marked by a hilly range on
either side, extending from the north-west to the southeast, the one
terminating in Glenquhargan Craig, the other on the south at
Chanlock foot, in a beautiful round green hill, formerly covered
with wood to the summit. When this hill is again planted, which,
in the judicious and tasteful matmgement of the estate to which it
belongs, is about to take place, the landscape will bear to be com-
pared to some of the most beautiful scenes in the Highlands.
	About the middle of the parish, a hilly ridge extends towards the
north, which terminates in Cairnkinnow, a hill of gradual ascent,
2080 feet above the level of the sea. On the north-east, for seve-
ral miles, the parish is separated from the parish of Durrisdeer by
the Mar or Park Burn, a small stream, which after adorning the
policy and flower-gardens at Drumlanrig, falls into tho Nith about a
mile below the castle.
	The parish is generally of a hilly character, and, comparatively
speaking, there is little flat or low-lying, land in it. The land of


