
766                          AYRSHIRE.

			   IV.--INDUSTRY.
	This parish is entirely agricultural.
	There are three limestone quarries, and there is one tile-work,
lately erected, which produces good tiles, and is of great advan-
tage to the farmers.
	The parish contains coal of different kinds, both what is termed
dross and cannel coal. The coal has been wrought in several
places, and at different times, and at one of the works very lately,
but the working is now discontinued as unprofitable.
	The parish contains about 6300 imperial acres, all fit for cul-
tivation, except about thirty acres of hills. There are also about
forty acres of meadow, on which water is kept during winter for
the usd of corn-mills. Part of the hilly ground might be culti-
vated, but whether profitably or not, is, doubtful. About thirty
years ago, the uncultivated hilly land was double of what it is now.
	There is only one corn-mill, viz. Heughmill. The loch at
tached to this covers about twenty acres of the meadow-land,
There are other two lochs, viz. Fail loch, partly in this parish,
and partly in Torbolton; the mill driven by the water of this loch
is in Torbolton parish. Loch Brown is partly in three parishes,
viz. Craigie, Mauchline, and Torbolton. The mill driven by its
water is in the parish of Mauchline. This loch covers nearly a
hundred acre, and is not dry in summer: and perhaps more than
the half of it is in this parish.
	The rental of the parish may amount to L. 7700 Sterling, and
the average rent per imperial acre, exclusive of woods, is L. 1, 5s.
	The length of lease is generally nineteen years. A general im-
provement in agriculture has taken place; ploughing is neatly
executed, and the corners of the fields, and sometimes the borders
of the hedges delved where the plough cannot reach; many of the
grass-fields are cleared of thistles and other weeds, and the hedges
generally are well kept. But the greatest improvement is that of
furrow-draining. One of the proprietors, in order to have the drain-
ing on his property thoroughly executed, pays the whole expensd of
draining, except the carting of the tiles, and charges his tenants
about four per cent. per annum on his expenditure; another pays the
tiles at the kilns, charging the tenants 1s. per thousand tiles, which
comes to nearly five per cent. per annum; other proprietors assist
a little, but the greater part, of the draining is at the expense of
the tenants.
	The farm-houses are substantial aind commodious About a
				3


