
244				ARYSHIRE.

gular. A chain of pretty high hills, gradually declining, however,
to, and terminating with its southern limits, runs along its whole
inland boundary, occupying, perhaps, fully one-fourth of its super-
ficies. This is a continuation of the hilly western part of Ren-
frewshire, and intervening parish of Largs. Kame hill, the high-
est of the range, here rises nearly 1000 feet above the sea-mark,
from which it almost immediately springs. From these again are
deflected to the westward several eminences of considerable alti-
titude, though cultivated pretty far up; other stand quite detach-
ed, as those of Law, Ardneill, Tarbet, and some lesser heights
in the vicity of the village. Of the arable lands towards the
coast, about 2000 acres consist of alluvial formations, but little
elevated above the level of the sea, varying from a few feet to
about 40. Some fissures or openings occur in the rocks near
Portincross, as likewise in the Island of Little Cumbray, as arter-
wards to be noticed.
	From its peninsulated figure, this parish has the advantages of an
increased line of coast, in all extending to perharps upwards of seven
miles. The shore is low and shelving, consisting of alternate sandy
bays and reefs of sandstone, except for about amile at the pro-
montory of Portincross, which is sleep and rocky. To the north,
the sands of Southanan, lying in a deep and sheltered curvature,
extend fully two miles in length, and from which the tide recedes
for nearly a mile in the center. This fine plain, consisiting of a
soil in some degree adhesive, largely intermixed with shells, it
has been supposed, might be embanked and reclaimed for culti-
vation; but the expense of such an undertaking, if at all practi-
cable, will probably ever preclude the attempt being made. These
sands are frequented by immense flocks of wild fowl, chiefly of the
duck tribe, and contain likewise large beds of cockless and mussels,
besides other varieties of shell-fish, as the clam, &c. Nextsouth-
ward lies the promontory of Portincross, which is terminated by
the celebrated precipice called Ardneil Bank, in some old writings
"Goldberrie head." * This majestic wall of rock, rising where
highest to perhaps little less than 300 feet perpendicularly, ranges
in a straight line along the water's edge, from which it is merely
separated by a narrow slip of green land, and extends to about a
mile in length. Alomg the bottom, the precipice is richly fringed

<FOOTNOTE>"Goudberrie head, are grate heigh rockes; making a headland, and running in
the maine occeane.--Pont's Cuningham.
				      3


