
                FOSSOWAY AND TULLIEBOLE.                   1023

of whom are above four miles from the church of Fossoway,
These, and the inhabitants of the adjoining districts of the pa-
rishes of Clackmannan, Dollar, and Muckart, form a population
as numerous as the church of Blairogorie can accommodate, it
being seated for from 200 to 300.
The necessary steps having the is been taken, the present in-
cumbent was ordained minister of Blairngone in autumn 1841.
He holds a bond for L.60 per annum, payable from the seat-rents
and church-door collections.
  Education.-There are 4 schools in the parish.  Of those, one
is parochial, two are on the teachers' own adventure, and one is
aided by a small sum raised by individual subscription.  The
branches taught are, Latin, English, writing, arithmetic, and prac-
tical mathematics.  The parochial teacher has the maximum
salary, hnuse, garden, and a few acres of land.  The land was pur-
chased with vacant stipend, and a small sum borrowed from the
poor's funds, for which the teacher pays interest.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
in the parish is about 11. At present there are only eight on the
roll, the average allowance to each of whom is about L.4, 7s.
yearly.  The funds for their supports and for occasional, aid to
others, arise from the collections at the parish church, interest of
money, donations from lieritors, and burying-ground sold in the
church-yard. Many of the poor, but not all, manifest a reluct-
ance to apply for parochial aid.
  Fairs.-There are two fairs kept in the parish early, at which
a few cattle and some small wares are exposed for sale.
  Inns, &c.-There are 14 inns or public-houses in the parish.
It appears that three would be sufficient for the accommodation of
travellers.  The increased number of these houses tends very much
to deterioratd the morals of the people.
  Fuel.-The fuel in general use in the parish is coal procured
within the parish itself. Peats are also used, but to a smal ex-
tent.

January 1843.


