
     of Linton.

but its effects are not observable till after sun-rise.  If wind
arises through the night to prevent the mist from settling, or
if the next day is cloudy, and especially if it rains before sun-
rise, or if the field be so shaded by hills from the rising sun
that the crop may be gently thawed by the increasing heat of
the atmosphere before the sun's rays shine directly on it, no
danger is to be apprehended.  In conformity to this expe-
rience, a small field of potatoes has been known to be saved
by sprinkling them with well water before sun rising.  But
this can never be executed on a large scale.  Attempts have 
also been made, though without success, to save oats and bar-
ley, by dragging something over them, before sun-rise, to
shake off the hoar frost, or ryme or cranreuch, as it is called,
which is deposited wherever the mist settles.  This frost af-
fects the vegetation of corn only at a certain period of its pro-
gress.  Pease are frosted however green in the grain, and the
greener the more readily; they are not killed by it when
hard ripe; but to this state they seldom arrive at Linton.
Barley and oats are not hurt by this frost when hard ripe,
and fit for the hook; and it is probable that they are not
hurt by it even though they are shot, and the ear beginning
to fill, as long as the juices are watery, and have not yet
come to the consistency of thickish milk.  It is certainly the
cafe with oats.  In the year 1784, the frost was on the 17th
and 18th August.  The uppermost grains of the oats, which
always fill soonest, had thick milk in them, and were frosted
4 or 5 grains down the head.  The grains below these all
ripened well.  The barley, which might be about equally for-
ward with the top grains of the oats, was totally destroyed.
Probably the upper grains had sheltered the under ones from
the frost, the crop being very thick and strong; and this
might have been the reason why the undermost grains ripen-
ed; But as proof, above all exception, that the frost does not

     VOL. I R


