
                      LISMORE AND APPIN.                    247

although some improvements were made in these respects, yet
there is room for a great deal more, and by the application of ca-
pital in this way, the value of property might be greatly increased.
Farm-houses and steadings were formerly of the most ordinary
description; indeed, they were far from being comfortable; but
these are also improved, and in every instance where new ones are
erected, they are constructed on a more comfortable scale.
   Quarries and Mines.-There are several appearances of lead
mines to be found in Appin, but only one of them on the property
of Mr M'Coll of Minefield was attempted to be wrought, and it
did not turn out to any advantage.  There is also some appearance
of marble in Appin, but no attempt was ever made to work it.
There is at the foot of Glencoe, on the farm of Laroch, the pro-
perty of Charles Stuart,. Esq. of Bailechelish, a slate quarry, which
has for many years been extensively wrought, and from which large
quantities of the best slates are yearly manufactured. The fol-
lowing information relative to the management and manner of
working the quarry of Bailechelish was obligingly communicated
by Henry Stuart, Esq. the proprietor's brother.
  "Some time previous to 1760, the grandfather of the present
proprietor opened a vein of slate on his property, and wrought it 8 suc-
cessfully for many years. Another adjoining to that which was first
wrought, possessing greater natural facilities for quarrying, having
been discovered, the works were gradually removed to it, where
they have been in operation for upwards of fifty years.  These veins
are on opposite sides of a valley, and are of such extent that they
may be said to be inexhaustible, the one now quarried being the
lesser of the two.  The quality of the slate in both is the same.
The quarries now wrought are on the side of a high mountain,
which rises out of an arm of the sea called Lochleven, a branch
of the Lianhe loch.  The vein of slate, which is at an angle of
about 80", commences at the shore, and stretches southward along
the side of the mountain for a short distance, and then runs into
the centre of it. The face of the rock is laid open by workings
fronting the west, the inclination of the vein being towards the
east.
   The workings are conducted in three levels, rising above each
other as steps of stairs.  All the levels are entered from the north.
that end of the vein which abuts upon the sea.  The total height
of the works from the bottom of the lowest level to the extreme
height of the rock, is about 216 feet, and the rock wrought ex-


