

                              COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                   173

     polar migration of the herring is an instance, and it is not to be
     supposed, that accurate and extensive observation, and cautious
     inference and analogy devoted to the subject, would fail in eliciting
     something like scientific principles, and in establishing most interest-
     ing and valuable practical results.  Of all beings, the rude fisher-
     man is the most superstitious and theoretical, and almost all, we
     think, we know of the subject is derived from him.
        Trade.-Much intelligent commercial activity prevails.  The
     exports consist chiefly of salt fish, oil, butter, beef, cattle, ponies,
     and hosiery; the imports are, it may be supposed, very miscella-
     neous.  A good many merchant vessels of respectable size, some
     of which have been built in the country, belong to it, and small
     fishing craft are very numerous.  Leith is the great dep"t for
     Shetland produce.
        Manufactures.-Knitting of various articles of hosiery and kelp
     making may be said to be the only native ones.  They are especially
     useful as giving employment to that part of the population which would
     otherwise want profitable occupation; and, moreover, in the case
     of kelp-making, a substance becomes valuable, which otherwise would
     be left to waste away on the strand.  Kelp was never so important
     an object in Shetland, as in Orkney and the Hebrides; the shores
     are not so productive of the materials which afford it, nor is its
     quality so much prized; but there is, doubtless, much yet to be
     learned in its chemistry and manufacture.  Since the duty on
     barilla and other substances, in competition with kelp, has been
     taken off, its preparation has been almost laid aside, and its want
     is seriously felt.  It is difficult to conjecture what other mo-
     tive, than a reckless adherence to the speculative dogma of Free
     trade, could have induced the British Legislature to inflict so
     severe a wound on the industry and resources of the Scottish
     islands, and which neither equity nor policy can honestly defend;
     much more oppressive and pernicious monopolies may take shelter
     under the mask of commercial freedom, than under the protective
     mantle of a prudent and patriotic government.  Free trade is, af-
     ter all, only relative; it has been imagined and described; but
     when the globe shall become one vast Utopia, then only can we expect
     that its beau ideal will be realised.  Among the advantages which
     Shetland might hope to derive from Legislative favour, a reduc-
     tion of the duties on timber generally, and particularly on boats
     from Norway, would be most valuable, and universally felt.  These
     boats are imported in boards, and are of a class not in use in any


