
     of Kilsyth.

favour.  The presbytery, being assured that the presentee
was acceptable to the parish, dispensed with that form, and

<FOOTNOTE>

did not continue in that office long.  For he was translated to Cardross in the
year 1673.
   Two years after this, Mr Walter M'Gill, the last episcopal clergyman that
officiated here, was admitted minister, being translated from Wigton.  He was
a man of uncommon meekness and moderation; and a great favourite of
all ranks and denominations of people in the parish; insomuch, that when
it was declared vacant by the Presbytery in the year 1690, an uproar ensued.
The patron and his lady, and a great and powerful party in the parish espous-
ed his cause; and when the Presbytery met at the church, the patron sent
down the chamberlain to refuse them admittance, and lock up the doors.
The populace even offered violence to the Presbyterian clergyman who was to
officiate.  The friends of the Presbytery were exasperated by this; and a scuf-
fle ensued, in which many were wounded, and one killed.  Mr M'Gill's
partizans at last prevailed.  And the Presbytery themselves seem to have
been at a loss what steps next to take; insomuch, that they desisted
from farther procedure, and even declared that they could not take any other
measures.  They were soon rescued from this dilemma For in Feb 1691 Mr
M'Gill formally gave in his demission of the charge.  When the Presbytery
met at this time, they called for all the books of discipline, and registers of
baptism.  The latter were delivered up; and are on the whole regular
and distinct from the year 1620 till that period They are still in good
preservation, as will appear from the extract I make from them.  When the
clerk was ordered to deliver up the books of discipline, he said, they were in
the hands of Mr M'Gill.  When he was interrogated, he said, he had left them
in the manse; the beadle who had charge of the manse, being called, said, that
some person or other had destroyed them.  So that it would appear all the three
were willing to have prevented them from falling into the hands of the
Presbytery.  All the bills, bonds, and papers respecting the poors funds
were nevertheless recovered, as well as the utensils and vessels belonging to the
church.
   A vacancy ensued for some time, during which period the Presbytery visited
and ordered repairs upon the church, manse, and offices, to the amount of
L. 212: 1: 4 Scots.
   On the 29th of Dec. 1682, Mr James Hay, the first presbyterian
minister, was translated from Kilmalcomb, and admitted to this charge.  Dur-


