
774                        AYRSHIRE.

miles, its breadth upwards of 6. It is bounded on the east, by the
parishes of Loudoun and Kilmarnock; on the south, by Kilmar-
nock; on the west, by Stewarton; and on the north, by Mearns
and Eaglesham.
	Topographical Appearances.--The form of the parish some-
what resembles that of an oblong square. From the south, the
ascent is gradual northwards, till it attains an elevation of about
700 feet, before reaching the point where it joins the Mearns
moor. The lower part of the paris is occupied by cultiva-
tors of the soil, and the produce is equal to that of the other
districts in the neighbourhood. In the higher parts, the land is
chiefly pastoral, and of excellent quality, the stock being equal to
that of any land for many miles around, and, from the spirit of the
farmers, it is daily improving. Of late years, the farmers in many
parts of the parish have done much toward the improvement of
their lands by draining. They have, in consequence, brought un-
der cultivation large tracts of land, which formerly were not mere-
ly unproductive, but positively dangerous. In many instances,
fields, across which, in a natural state, cattle could not with safety
walk, are now yielding abundant crops. There is, however, a
considerable portion of the soil entirely unproductive. In some
of the farms, there are extensive mosses, which, at various seasons
of the year, cannot be crossed by either man or beast, without the
risk of life; and one farmer lately told us, that there were at least
loo acres in his farm which he would gladly want, as he found
the moss frequently fatal to his sheep and cattle. These mosses
are of great depth.
	Climate.--The climate is moist, and rains, owing, it maybe,
to the comparative proximity of the parish to the sea, are very pre-
valent. There are no diseases peculiar to the parish; and, from all
I have been able to observe, the people enjoy as fair a share of
health as any in the county. By the parliamentary census of the
present year, there were in this parish twenty persons in a popu-
lation of 2020, between eighty and ninety years of age.
	Rivers.--There are only two streams in the parish: they rise
in the north, and flow in a south by south-west direction towards
the sea, which they enter at Irvine.
	Geology.--Limestone is found in the parish in abundance, and
several quarries are worked with considerable advantage to the pro-
prietors, and to the parishioners in general. Coal has, at differ-


