
			CARMYLIE.			357

ter of baptisms, collections, &c., commencing 7th May 1666 and
ending January 1681. There is another register of baptisms, &c.
commencing 1684, very regularly kept, and ending 1709. The
next register commences in 1720, *  and, with the exception of a
blank in the register of marriages, from 1745 to 1779, has been
pretty regularly kept to the present time.
        Antiquities.-There was a chapel in the time of popery, on the
farm of Back-boath, that part of the parish which was cut off from
the parish of Inverkeilor. Some of the hewn work of it is still to
be seen in the walls of the farm-steading; and the spot where it
stood is still pointed out in an adjoining field, still called the cha-
pel shed.
	Upon the top of an eminence called Boath-hill, on said farm,
there were, not many years ago, several large upright stones cal-
led the kemple or temple stanes, which were believed to have been
a Druidical temple; but it happened here, as in many other parts of
the country, that, in the progress of improvement, no regard was
paid to these interesting remains, and the kemple stanes have now
disappeared.
	There were several sepulchral cairns in the parish, almost all of
which are now cleared away. The largest of this kind was on the
high ground of the farm of Skichen, and extended over one-fourth
of an acre. Hundreds of cart loads of stones for drains, &c. were
obtained from it. Several stone coffins containing urns were found
in different parts of the cairn, about six feet below the surface, and
each of the urns contained some fragments of bones. Two of the
urns were got out whole, one of which is said to be in the posses-
sion of the Society of Antiquaries in Edinburgh.
	In a small sandy hillock, on the same farm, there was discover-
ed a few ears ago, another coffin nf a similar description, about
three feet below the surface, containing an urn, but no trace
of bones.
	Human bones have been dug up in several places in that niegh-
bourhood, supposed to be of the Danes, who had fallen in thier
flight from the battle of Barrie, where they were defeated by the
Scots under Malcolm II. The ancient stone cross which marks
the grave of Camus, their general, is at no great distance.+

<FOOTNOTE>It is stated at the commencement of this register that the session book of the pe-
riod from 1709 to 1710 had been carried off in 1715, and was then either lost or con-
cealed by some of the Episcopal permission.
         +Buchanans History, Book vi.




