
                      ARDCHATTAN.                        489

	One of Mr Campbell's sons, Mr Gregorson state, inherited his
	father's taste for mathematical investigations, and was offered the
	chair of Mathematics in one of the English universities, which he
        declined, preferring to pass his days in the retirement of his na-
        tive country.*
           In the family burial-ground at Ardehattan a monumental stone
        is erected over the remains of the father of Mr Campbell. The
        inscription is in Latin, and is understood to have been written by
        his son. It is now nearly obliterated, but is as follows:-Around
        the margin of the monument,

        HIB . JACET . PATRICIUS . CAMPBELL . DE . INVERZDLDIES . QUI
          OBIIT. VEG . PRIM . DIE LARTIS . ANNO . DOM . 1678
                  ANNO.     ET . 86.
        In the centre, and placed betwixt emblematical representations of
        our frail mortality above, and the family armorial bearings below,
        the inscription runs thus:

             Vir probus hie situs est, cautuS, providus, per honestus,
             Judicio claro promptus et ingenio. In apothymatibus
             Communis sermo fluebat
             Facta suis dictis consona semper erant
             Prole, parente, toro, rebus, virtute, senecta,
            Justitis, et meritis, laude, beatus obiit.

         There is no stone to mark the place where Mr Campbell's own
      remains were laid.

      among which are a a small MSS. against Popery, copy of a letter to Leibnitz.
      Mr Gregorson meiitions other papers, in the communication with which he fa-
      voured me, and adds, " These are not the one-half of the papers left by Mr Colin
      Campbell and in my possession ; but the rest are in great confusion ; many were
      lost and others burnt before the'above came into my possession. Many were ab-
      stracted, and amotig these were the letters from Sir Isaac Newton written in Latin.
      A great many letters from the Gregory of Aberdeen and Camnbridge, which are
      now in the hands of Mr Gregory of Edinburgh, throv light on Mr Campbell's ardent
      pursuit of knowledge, and prove his extensive acquaintance with science."
         I in the third volume of the Transactions of the Antiquarians of Scotland are pub-
      lished three letters from Professor Gregorie of St Andrews, afterwards of Edinburgh,
      to Mr Campbell, dated in 1672 and 1673, containing solutions, written in Latin, of
      problems sent to the Professor by Mr Campbell, and in which the Professor speaks
      of Mr Campbell in terms of high respect. The letters are accompanied with notes
      by Professor Wallace, In the same volume of the Transactions, there appears an-
      other letter from Mr Murray, minister of Comrie, to Mr Campbell, dated 2d July
      1717, giving an account of the escape of Rob Roy after his apprehension by the
      Duke of Athole.

         Contemporary with Mr Colin Campbell was the Rev. Donald or Daniel Camp-
      bell, minister of Kilmichael. Glassary, in Argyleshire, an able and devoted Christian
      minister. This excellent man published a valuable treatise "On the Lord's Sup-
      per," which is now exceedingly scarce, but which well deserves to be republished,
      To the volume is prefixed Latin verses by Mr Colin Campbell.


