
     of Dunfermline.

known*; it appears, however, that Queen Anne of Den-
mark mortified L. 2000 Scots in the hands of the town,
chiefly for settling an yearly salary to the schoolmaster of
the borough.  The rector, on the recommendation of the
Town-council, is presented by the Marquis of Tweeddale,
as heritable bailie of regality.  His salary, arising from
the Queen's mortification, and what is paid him by the
town, (part of which is voluntary), amounts to L. 17, 7 s.

<FOOTNOTE>

arising from said mortification amounts to L. 70 Sterling a-year.  The
number of poor at last distributions was 15 L.  Besides the poor's funds
belonging to the several incorporations; to the Society of Gardeners, and
to the Guildry, who have considerable property, there are 12 Friendly
Societies in the parish.  These have different designations, but their rules
respecting the admission of members, entry-money, quarterly payments,
etc. are on the whole pretty similar.  The object of all them, is most
laudable, to afford relief and assistance to the members, when by sick-
ness or accident, disabled from pursuing their ordinary occupation; a
certain allowance when death happens in their families, and a weekly
pension, when unable to work, through infirmities or old age.  Upon the
death of any of the members, their widows, and also their children be-
low 12 years of age, have a certain allowance.  All these societies have
been instituted within these 11 years, except that of the Weaver Lads+,
which began about the year 1739 or 1740.

<UNREADABLE>

*The entry-money to this society is 2 s. 6 d. with 6 d. to the clerk, and
the quarterly payments 1 s.  When disabled from working, each member is
entitled to 2 s. 6 d. weekly.  If through old age of infirmities, unable to
follow his employment as formerly, 1 s. 6 d.; and if through old age or
infirmities, totally unfit for has business, 2 s. 6 d. a-week.  On the death
of his wife, 30 s. and of a child under 12 years, 10 s. His to
have 20 s. a-year, and if in distress, 1 s. a-week, and 1 s. 3 d. for every
child below 9 years.  Children, when their parents are both dead, to have
6 d. weekly, tell they are 12 years of age; 30 s. allowed for the funeral
charges of members.

</UNREADABLE>

   +The present school and school-house are said to be a donation by a
Mr Ged, a Romish clergyman, to the masters of the grammar-school, and
by which donation they were obliged to put up prayers for an easy pas-
sage through purgatory to their benefactor.


