
218			AYRSHIRE.

aire, he was invited to Ayr, and there treacherously slain by the
English in 1296, along with many other of the Ayrshire barons,
among whom was the uncle of Sir William Wallace. Wallace
did not fail amply to retaliate, by burning the English garrison at
Ayr.
	Captain Thomas Crawford, the captor of Dumbarton Castle
in the reign of the unfortunate Mary, resided in this parish,
having married the daughter and heiress of Ker of Kersland. His
eldest son succeeded to the estate of Kersland, whose grandson,
Robert Ker of Kersland, distinguished himself during the reign
of Charles II. Being a zealous Covenanter, and deeming the,
form of Episcopacy forced by a profligate monarch on a re-
luctant nation, to be the prelude to Popery, he did not hesi-
tate to join himself to that devoted band, who, in defence of their
liberty and their faith, "loved not their lives unto the death."
Having been concerned in a meeting at Chitterflet, now Shutterflat,
near Beith, along with a number of the western gentlemen, he was
accused of rebellion,--and being tried in his absence, his life was
forfeited, his estate confiscated, and himself compelled to fly into
Holland. Subsequently returning, he was apprehended and im-
prisoned for many years. The prison, however, took fire, and, mak-
ing his escape, he again returned to Holland, where he died in
1680. At the Revolution his estate was restored to his family. *
It came into the possession of John Crawford of Fergushill, who
married his daughter, and assumed the name of Ker. This indi-
vidual, by his political tergiversations, acquired considerable cele-
brity during the reigns of Queen Anne, and George I. His me-
moirs of these transactions are well known.
	Sir Robert Cunningham, of Auchenharvie, was a native of this
parish. Having studied medicine, he soon became eminent in
his profession, and was appointed physician to Charles II. for Scot-
land. He accompanied Charles into England, and was of great ser-
vice at the battle of Worcester. Having been taken prisoner, he
was committed to the Tower; but in regard of his high talents,

<FOOTNOTE>His sword, inkhorn, and a small jar belonging to him are still preserved. The
sword is a real Andrew Ferrara, and wants the sheath. The inkhorn is a small cir-
cular horn tube, about five inches in length, having a small bulb at one extremity for
containing the ink. The slender part is hollow, and contains a receptacle for the pens.
The jar is rather a curious article. These relics, at the seizure of the effects at Kers-
land, were taken by a servant of the family, who bequeathed them to his nephew, the
late Hugh Brown, piper, Dalry, a worthy who, had he lived in the days of Habbie
Simpson, would have proved a formidable rival to the far-famed piper of Kilbarchan.
Brown left them to Mr Andrew Crawford, Courthill, Dalry, in whose possession
they now remain.
                                        3

