
                                  DULL.                        765

   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers consist of six vo-
 lumes, two of which contain entries of baptisms and proclamations
 of marriage banns,-otber two, cases of church discipline,-and
 the remaining two exhibit transactions relative to the poor, and
 economics of the parish. The earliest entry is made in the year
 1703, during the incumbency of the Rev. John M'Kerchar, who
 appears to be a greater observer of discipline than of book keep-
 ing. At that period, registration of births and marriage banns
 may not unfrdquently be seen intermingled, with minutes of ses-
 sion recording the compearance of persons guilty of moral delin-
 quency before the congregation upon twelve, and sometimes more,
 consecutive Sabbaths previously to their being absolved from scan-
 dal. * Besides being thus irregularly kept, intervals of time, and
 that at different periods, were allowed to elapse without any entries
 whatever being made in the earlier registers; but, in the more re-
 cent ones, these faults have been, in a great measure, avoided.
    Antiquities.-Abbey.-At what period this abbey was first esta-
 blished, we have now no means of accurately ascertaining. But it
 appears from Scottish history, that an Abthanedum was attached
 to it at a very early period. This peculiar appellation existed no-
 where but in Scotland; and even there we read of only three, the
 Abthaneries of Dull, Kirkmichael, and Madderty. These three
 Abthanedums, from the earliest period to which they can be
 traced, held of the Crown, and the monks of Dunkeld had ancient
 rights vested in all of them. Crinan, Abbot of Dunkeld, who
 married Beatrice, daughter of Malcolm II., and who gave a long
 line of kings to Scotland, is denominated by Fordun " Abthanus
 de Dull ac Seneschallus insularum." But as the term Abthane
 is not so much a distinctive title as a modification of thane, which
 was only introduced into Scotland along with the Saxon policy,
 the title could not exist in the time of Crinan, but must have ori-
 ginated at a later period, most probably in the reign of Edgar.
 This sovereign conferred upon his youngest brother, Ethelred,
 who was Abbot of Dunkeld, the three Abthanedums above-men-
 tioned, under the peculiar appellation of Abthaneries; and as he
 was the only Abbot of royal blood, to whom such a munificent gift

 <FOOTNOTE> Rigid in matters of discipline as Mr M'Kerchar certainly was, one of his succes-
 sors in office, Mr M'Lea,was still a greater disciplinarian. It appears from the res-
gister of discipline, that during the latter's incumbency, offenders often appeared in
sackeloth before the congregation for twenty-four consecutive Sabbaths are they
were absolved; and, at one period, no less than three of the heritors made their com-
pearance in a body, and were publicly and frequently reproved by the moderator for
violating the seventh commandment of the decalogue.


