
     of Hoddom.

1000 carcases of swine, at 4 s. per stone, which will amount to
2l. 8 s. each carcase, have been sold at an average each season.
Most of this pork, with a great quantity not brought to the
market, is made into bacon in this country.  After being pro-
perly manufactured and dried, it is sold commonly at 6 s. per
stone to different dealers, by whom it is exported to different
places in England.  A great quantity is exported each season
to London, by a person who resides in Ecclessechan.  Of late
years this parish, as well as those in the neighbourhood, have
been comfortably situated in regard to frest provisions.
Formerly, there was rarely any frest butcher meat to be got
nearer than Dumfries; now, one may be very well supplied
from Ecclessechan twice in the week during summer, and
once in the ten days or fortnight during winter.  And, from
Annan, on may be regularly supplied twice in the week
during the whole of summer, and the greatest part of winter.
This is a great convenience to the inhabitants of this place,
who, not long ago, were subjected to the trouble of sending
to Dumfries, which is 16 miles distant, at all times, when
they stood in need of frest provisions.  It would not be do-
ing justice to the place, to omit mentioning the objects which
contribute to its beauty and pleasantness.  A place is always
pleasant where there is much wood, water, and dry ground.
All these contribute to beautify Hoddam, and to render it
the most delightful spot in Annandale.  The three rivers
have already been described.  The fields, lying on the banks
of these rivers, particularly the Annan, are charming, being
mostly holm land, dry, and at the same time rich, and fur
rounded with beautiful banks of wood.  On this side of the
Annan, one large wood, consisting of birch, oak, and ash,
ascends from the river about a quarter of a mile, and extends
alongst its banks about two miles.  Part of it goes beyond
the bounds of this parish.  A foot path, always dry and


