
                       QUEENSFERRY.                              9

three or four men, and this also has for several year been discon-
tinued. The trade is precarious, and far from lucrative. The
workman make good wages, and, as the business is at present con-
ducted, the morals of those engaged do not suffer.
   There are no vessels belonging to the port, though a person have
ing ship property resides here. The foreign trade is not carried
on, though various coasting-vessels from time to time arrive here
with barley for the distillery here and at Kirkliston. The
coals used by the inhabitants are nearly all sea-borne, and in the
winter months, some farmers in the country have been in the prac-
tice of shipping potatoes for the London markets, and receiving in
the course of the season cargoes of rape-cake, drain-tiles, dung,
&c. A few cargoes of stones are also sent to different ports from
an excellent freestone quarry at Humbie, about three miles distant,

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The situation of Queensferry is favourable for communication
with the metropolis and the northern parts of the kingdom. The
water liassage is admirably managed. The great northern road is
in the very best state of repair, while that to Edinburgh cannot be
exceeded in excellence. This was the first turnpike road in West
Lothian, formed in the year 1751. There is a post-office, at which
the mail arrives from Edinburgh at half-past 6 A. M., and 5 P. M. and
from the north at 5 A. M. and 8 P. M. There are two coaches which
leave the town each morning for Edinburgh, and return in the
evening. At various times in the day there are four other coaches
which pass to and from the north. On the opening of the Edin-
burgh and Glasgow Railway, in February 1842, a minibus start
ed to join it at the Winchburgh station. It was discontinued dur-
ing the winter, and has not yet been resumed.
   There is much obscurity about the establishment of the water
passage. It was once private property, and appears to have been
attached to the lands of Muiryhall, consisting of  seventeen acre
in the immediate vicinity of the town. These were, it is suppose-
ed, a donation from Queen Margaret, for supporting the passage.
There were formerly two classes of proprietors; the holders of
shares, and the holders of boats and vawls. A change took place
in 1784, when the whole boats were purchased by the shareholders
and let by annual, roup. They were kept in a state of good re-
pair, and the arrangements devised by the proprietors were so ju-
diciously carried into effect, that the interests of the public
as well consulted as circumstances would permits. The state of


