
12                       KINROSS-SHIRE.

workmanship, weighing four sovereigns, appears from its flat shape
to have been intended for the pocket; and as it has engraved on it
the royal arms of Scotland impaled on the dexter side, with those
of England on the sinister, it was at once considered, according
to the laws of heraldry, as the private seal or signet of a Scottish
King, who Had married an English princess. The seal was shewn
to several Edinburgh antiquaries ; and among others, to the late
Sir Walter Scott, the late Sir Patrick Walker, Mr Auriol Hay,
and Mr William Clerk, all of whom were decidedly of opinion,
that it was the personal seal of the unfortunate James IV., who
fell on the fatal field of Flodden. James, it is well known, mar-
ried Margaret, daughter of Henry VIL of England.
  The seal is in perfect preservation, and affords a favourable
view of the art of engraving in Scotland more than three centu-
ries ago. How this relic of the olden time found its way to Kin-
ross, must be mere conjecture; yet is it no great stretch of ima-
gination, that the ill-fated Mary had possession of this memorial
of her grandfather, and may have dropt it in making her escape
from the Castle of Lochleven ? A more probable opinion may be
hazarded, which is, that James himself may have lost this seal
while hunting or travelling from his palace of Falkland to StirliNg,
Kinross being in the direct line betwixt these two royal residences.
This view is strengthened, by the fact, that there was found at the
same time with the seal, and within a few yards of it, the corrod-
ed fragment of a horse's shoe,-a circumstance which would lead
us to suppose, that the royal charger, in losing a shoe, had stum-
bled, and thrown his rider, when the seal dropt from his person.
  In 1829 the proprietor of Lathro, on trenching some of his
grounds which had been planted sixty or seventy years before,
came upon thirteen graves, which did not appear to contain any
coffins; but in one of them were two bodies, and a skull filled with
undecayed teeth. This burying-ground was on an eminence be-
side the ground trenched, and called the Gallows Know, and hence
it is naturally supposed to have been the place of public execu-
tion. This burying-ground must have been used before the abo-
lition of heritable jurisdictions, and when the proprietors of the
estate of Kinross had the power of pit and gallows. With regard
to the bodies discovered, they were again committed to the earth,
and the spot where they were found has been planted anew.
  The Castle of Lochleven, so far back as 1257, was a royal re-
sidence. We read that, in that year, Alexander Ill. and his youth-


