
         		KIRKMABRECK                    319

breed with very fine wool. It was compared by Lithgow the tra-
veller, who walked over this country in 1628, to that of Spain.
This breed has long ago disappeared. The hills are now stocked
with small black-faced sheep; and Chalmers, in his Caledonia,*
states that it has not been ascertained whence this hardy breed
came. It is the practice here to keep what is called a running
stock, which is sold in regular rotation. Perhaps a well-selected
ewe stock would be an improvement, with a little more attention to
horns and wool. It was estimated that, in 1794, tbere,were 7500
black-faced and 300 white-faced sheelp in the parish. There are
nnw fewer black-faced and more white-faced; of the former there
may be about 7000, and of the latter 800.
	The horses of Galloway are as celebrated as its sheep. They
are undoubtedly the descendants of the native breed, whatever
wav be said of the Spanish Armada having left upon the Gal-
loway shore some sheep and horses when the Spanish ships
were wrecked. Camden, who published his Britannia in l586,
describes the Galloway horses by their good qualities, be-
fore the Armada was heard of. And Galloway horses were
well known in Shakspeare's days, who makes Pistol exclaim when
insulted by Doll, "Know we not Galloway naggs." Lithgow,
who had visited many countries, says, in 1628, that Galloway
abounds with little horses, which for mettle and riding may rather
be termed bastard barbs. These useful horses continued to be
exported from Galloway in great numbers in 1684. This admi-
rable breed has by neglect been allowed to degenerate, and it is
difficult now to find a genuine Galloway pony. It would scarcely
be safe to state, that there is one of the pure breed in this parish.
There are, however, some excellent draught horses, particularly
at Spittal, Cuil, the Quarry, &c; and Mr M'Culloch of Bar-
holm has long been in the habit of breeding ponies of a small size
and very handsome, which, for mettle, may be as good as those of
which Lithgow wrote. The young horses brdd in the parish are
generally bought up by the dealers for the Glasgow market; and
the demand for horses of a large size has induced the farmers'to
pay more attention to bulk than beauty. This is much to be re-
gretted, because the pasture in general is not fit to rear horses of
a large size; and besides, a horse of fifteen hands, of good pro-
portions, is much more useful for all the purposes of husbandry
in this part of the country. In 1794 it was estimated there were

<FOOTNOTE>Chalm, Cal. Vol. iii. 289.


