
     of Stornoway.

ever come in to it.  The four principal headlands are
Tolsta-head, Seller-head, Tiumpan-head, and Pebble-head.
   In this parish there is a remarkable cave, into which the
sea goes at high water.  When it was first noticed, vast
numbers of seals were killed in it; and the practice is still
continued once a-year, about Michaelmas.  It is only ac-
cessible from sea; the people land from their boat opposite
to the cave in time of low water, at spring-tide; they walk
forward, and being furnished with fire, they light torches
at the entry to the cave, which is dark far in, and they
knock to death all the seals found there with heavy blud-
geons armed with iron.  At first it was not uncommon to
see 50 killed at a time; but now the number does not ex-
ceed from 7 to 12.  At the farthest end, there is a small
apartment, the top of which is lined with stalactitae, or icicles,
of a very firm consistence; it is about an eighth part of an
English mile in length, and its height is variable.-The
otter, and tighan or foumart, are found in this parish.  Moor-
fowl, plover, and wild pidgeon, are in great abundance.
   In the country part of the parish are spun and woven all
the cloth necessary for labourers, and make all the broags
used there.  Mrs Mackenzie of Seaforth gives encourage-
ment in this as well as in the other parishes of Lewis, to
industrious females, in the spinning of flax, etc. and be-
stows L. 10 yearly on the poor.-In this parish there is one
attorney, and one solitary Roman Catholic priest, without
an individual of a flock.  In the town there are many bat-
chelors among the superior rank.  The number of inhabit-
ed slated houses in this town is 67.  They are all made of
the best materials; some of them large, commodious and
well furnished; they are generally two stories high and
a garret; there is a customhouse, with all its proper
officers, a town-house, an assembly-room, and two-school-
houses; one for the parochial grammar-school, and the

     VOL. XIX.   K k


