
84                           CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


view to the erection of a new church for the parish : but it is
feared it will not answer.
  The ironstone found in these coal-fields is of the common argil-
laceous kinds, and is found in bands and balls imbedded in shale
or dark-coloured argillaceous schistus, and yields from 28 to 33 per
cent. of cast-iron.
  The argillaceous rock or fire-clay is found in the pavement and
roof of the coal. It is here of the ordinary quality, such as is com-
mon in the coal-fields of Scotland. When Trade into bricks it is very
suitable for lining of furnaces, where there is an intense heat.
  The alluvial deposits overlying or covering the rocks in this pa-
rish, are of the following kinds :-
  Upon the Ochill mountains are found beds of peat, debris of
the rocks mixed with sand and gravel, and also what is termed the
old alluvial cover.
  The cover along the mountain's foot over the coal formation,
consists of the angular debris of the Ocbills, mixed with sand and
loam; from thence to the river Devon and to the foot of the steep
banks on the south side of that river, it consists of gravel, sand,
and loam. Few large boulder-stones are to be seen; those found on
the surface at the mountain's foot, are of greenstone. Adjoining
the holm-ground, is a very thick bed of brown plastic clay, very
suitable for the manufacture of tiles, bricks, and common pottery.
In this clay there are found angular and fantastic forms, of from
an inch to three inches in length. They are hard, have a meagre
feel, and have a portion of calcareous matter in their composition.
These stones have attracted the attention of naturalists, as to the
manner in which they have been formed; but no satisfactory con-
clusions have been come to. They are collected as curiosities, and
they are sometimes used as slate-pens.
  All the alluvial cover upon the rising ground, south from the
river Devon, is composed of what is termed the old alluvial cover,
which abounds very much in the coal districts and uplands of Scot-
land. It consists of an intimate mixture of clay, sand, small gravel,
and boulder-stones of various sizes. It is without beds, is very Com-
pact, impervious to water, and difficult to work. It is remarkable
that no organic remains, either of the animal or vegetable kingdom,
are found in this cover, although the rocks and strata upon which
it rests, abound with innumerable petrifactions of shells and plants,
Such as are found in the coal -fields of Scotland. It is a most ste-
rile substance; for although thrown up and exposed to the weather,
it is long before any plant strikes upon it. In thickness it varies


