
KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEURN.                        331
land regarding the payment of a. pension formerly granted to the
Bishop of the Isles.
In 1633, Charles 1. writes to the Dean and Chapter of the
Isles recommending Mr Neil Campbell to be elected as Bishop.
In 1634, Charles 1. writes to the Lords of Session ' to hasten-
their decision in a law-suit between the late and the present Bi-
shop of the Isles.
In 16,15, Charles 1. writes to Sir Lauchlan Maclean of Dowart,
and Morvern, Knight, Baronet, desiring him to restore the Island-
of lcolmkill to the Bishop of the Isles. In the same year, his,
Majesty writes to the Court of Session in favour of the Bishop of
the Isles, and particularly regarding -the tithe fishds of the Isles.
In that year, his Majesty farther writes to the l,ords of Exche.
quer directing the payment of a grant of L.400 Sterling to the
Bishop of the Isles, for repairing the cathedral church of Icolm-
kill.
All these documents are published at length by the Iona Club
in their Collectanea de Rebus Albanicis.
In 1688, Governor Sackeverell visited Iona, and from him we
find that the cathedral church and other buildings were then in
ruins, from which it may reasonably be inferred, the L.400 refer
red to above was never expended in their repair.
Then we have the Statistical Account of Iona in the Macfar-
lane MS., before given as in 1693; thus carrying the history of
the island down to that period, at or about which time Iona came
into the hands of the Dukes of Argyle, in whose family it has
since continued. His Grace is likewise proprietor of the whole
guoad sacra parish.
Antiquities.-We will begin with the cathedral or church of St
Mary, as being the most conspicuous object amongst the ruins;
and, although inferior to many other Gothic cathedrals and ab-
beys of a more recent date in Scotland, it has been very magnificent
for the remote period in which it was built. Boece says that it
was built by Malduinus in the seventh century. It is extremely
remarkable for the materials of which it is constructed, being
built of sienite or red granite, brougbt from the opposite coast of
Mull. There the stone is procured in abundance and of the best
quality, equal, indeed, to the famous red granite which the Romans
brought from Upper Egypt, with which they erected their most
superb monuments. It is nowhere polished in any part of the
building, but painfully formed, by hammering, to a plain surface-;


