
			GLASGOW.                               213

distinguished for ability, purity of conduct, and integrity in the
discharge of their multifarious duties. The city, from having had
a mean appearance, is now the most splendid of any manufacturing
city or town in the empire. Nor has their exertions been confin-
ed only to the embellishment of the city; for trade, commerce, and
numerous benevolent institutions have prospered in their hands, and
when they surrendered their trust to the Reformed Town-Council
in November 1833, the funds were in a flourishing condition.
	Several years ago, when that able and indefatigable reformer,
Lord Archibald Hamilton, advocated Burgh Reform in the House
of Commons, his Lordship stated in the Committee of which he
was Chairman, that the affairs of the city of Glasgow were con-
ducted in the most honourable and open manner. Indeed, the
faithful and disinterested management of the corporation concerns
of Glascrow has long been acknowledged all over the country.
	Of the Reformed Town-Council the citizens of Glasgow have not
yet had much experience. There is, however, one part of their
conduct, which, as we consider it an evil, we animadvert upon, in
the hope of repressing it in their successors. Some of the coun-
cillors, unwarily, or it may be from ambition, pledged themselves to
certain measures,and thereby became delegates of a party, instead of
being representatives of the whole community. This is to be regret-
ted the more, as a majority of the council have suspended a part
of the local taxes for a purpose not affecting the general interest.
Should this measure be carried into effect, which the best informed
consider illegal, it will necessarily prevent their successors from
improving the city, building churches, reducing church seat-rents
for the poor, maintaining. market-places, gaols, and other local ser-
vices,--for which such taxes were long since granted by royal au-
thority or legislative enactment.
	It was to be expected that, in a great community like this, there
would be some political demagogues who, intoxicated by the power
conferred on them by the Burgh Reform Act, would abuse it; but
let us indulge the hope, that, when the political effervescence has
had time to subside, the electors and elected will join hand in hand
for the public good without respect to political party, and that the
future councillors, like many of those now intrusted with the munici-
pal concerns of the city, will be men of integrity and honourable
feeling, whose every effort will be to promote the good of the com-
munity.
	LANARK.			P


