
                        KINNETTLES.                     215

1758 to the Earl of Strathmore; and in 1773 the General As-
sembly of the Church of Scotland annexed them, quoad sacra, to
the parish of Kinnettles.
	Eminent Men.--Only two eminent men seem to have been con-
nected with this parish for the last 100 years. The first is Colonel
William Patterson, son of a gardener to Mr Douglas of Brig-
ton, about the middle of the last century. Honoured with the
patronage of Lady Mary Lyon of Glammis, he rose to the dignified
station which he filled during the greatest part of his remarkably
diversified life. He was connected with the parish by birth, as well
as by residence in his early years. *
	The other eminent character alluded to is John Inglis Harvey,
Esq. of Kinnettles. He was born and resided in this parish till
he attained the age of sixteen years. After receiving a classical
education in his father's house, he was sent to one of the English
universities, where he was instructed in general literature and
science, but in the law department in particular, and where he car-
ried several prizes. Having thus qualified himself for some con-
spicuous station, he, about twelve years ago, obtained an appoint-

ment to a very honourable and distinguished office in the East In-
dies; and afterwards ascended the bench as a civil judge in that
country.
	Land-owners.--The land-owners in the parish are, the Earl of
Strathmore; Robert Douglas, Esq. of Brigton; John Inglis-Har-
vey, Esq. of Kinnettles; Captain John Laurenson of Invereighty;
and Mr John Wighton of Muiryknows.
	Parochial Registers.--The kirk-session is in possession of six

<FOOTNOTE>The cenotaph in thd church-yard of his native parish bears the following inscrip-
tion: Sacred to the memory of Colonel William Patterson, Fellow of the Royal So-
ciety, Member of the Asiatic and Linnean Societies, Lieutenant-Colonel of the 102d
Regiment, and for many years Lieutenant-Governor of New South Wales. He
served thirty years in the army,--twenty-five of which were passed in the East Indies,
and in New South Wales; and, in fulfilling his duty to his country, he twice circum-
navigated the Globe. His taste for Natural History induced him in the earlier part
of his life, to travel from the Cape of Good Hope into the interior of Africa, into
which country he penetrated farther than any European had ever done before him.
His unwearied assiduity in the pursuit of science, supported in an unusual degree
by talent and zeal, enabled him to collect, and bring to England, specimens of plants
and nther curiosities till then unknown. He discharged with honour and fidelity
the trust reposed in him as an officer; and his services were particularly valuable in
New South Wales, as Lieutenant-Governor of that settlement. Nor did he there
neglect his favourite pursuit, but continued to enrich both public and private museums,
by employing his leisure hours in useful researches. His life was not less amiable
than useful; and his happy disposition endeared him to his dependents, to society,
and to his friends. After a long period of ill health, he attempted to return to his
native country, but it pleased God to take him during his voyage. He was born in
this parish on the 10th of August 1755, and died on the 21st of June 1810.


