
	268                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	probably owing to this circumstance, that his name has failed to
	be associated, as it deserves, with the more enlightened views
	which have, from time to time, been adopted in the government of
	our eastern possessions. In the French translation of Mr Macin-
	tosh's Travels, his name, however, appears, and he is fully recog-
	nized as the author of the work. It is on this circumstance, that
	Mr Macintosh's claims to public notice chiefly rest. On his re-
	turn from the East, Mr Macintosh took up his abode in the south
	of France; but, on the breaking out of the French Revolution, his
	house was attabked and sacked by the republicans, and the same
	fate awaited him at Avignon, in the Pope's states, where he had
	sought refuge, when the French forces invaded Italy. The cause
	of this hostility is not known; but it is not a little remarkable, that
	when Napoleon visited Erfurth, in 1808, be found Mr Macintosh,
	then far advanced in years, residing in Eisenach in Saxony; and
	the immediate result was his arrest and incarceration in a dungeon,
	till such time as the Corsican bad departed from Germany. Mr
	Macintosh was, however, seized, in consequence, with an illness,
	which terminated his life in 1809.
	  George Macintosh, the younger brother of William, who was
	also born at Newmore, was destined by Providence to distinguish
	himself in a different field of exertion. In early life, be settled as
	a merchant in Glasgow, where be married a lady of the name of
	Moore, sister of Dr Moore, the author of Zeluco and other li-
	terary works of eminence, and the aunt of the celebrated General
	Sir John Moore. Mr Macintosh soon became conspicuous for in-
	dustry and intelligence in the line of his business, and zealously
	devoted his talents and exertions to the promotion of those branches
	of manufacture, in which chemical science constitutes a distin-
	guishing feature. He established in Glasgow the manufacture of
	a species of orcella or orseille, called cudbear, `nd introduced into
	Britain the branch of trade known as the Turkey or Adrianople
	red dye, and which has subsequently exerted so powerful an influ-
	ence on our calico-printing and cotton-spinning establishments.
	But in treating of this his native parish, and that, too, a High-
	land parish it is to Mr Macintosh's devotion to the cause of
	the Highlands and of Highlanders, wbich continued to animate
	and distinguish him through life, that the-mind naturally reverts.
	The introduction of the improved system of farming into the High-
	lands, and in Particular the system ofsheep farming, soon opened,
	though indirectly,- a field for the exer.cise- of Mr Macintosh's be-
					   3


