
			WIGTON. 				7

free rectory, of which the King was patron. There is a manuscript
in the Advocates' Library, (Jac. V. 8. 8,) in which a donation is
mentioned (in the year 1495,) from William M'Garvey, vicar of
Penningham, of various houses and crofts in or near the burgh,
(which are minutely described,) to support "a chaplain in St Ma-
chutus in Wigtoun." The celebrated Sir Peter Young, the co-
preceptor with Buchanan of James VI. for some time held the rec-
tory of Wigton in commendam. At what time the present church
was built, we have not ascertained. It is an old mean-looking edi-
fice, and has so frequently been repaired that little of the ancient
building remains. It is situated in a beautiful retired spot at the
east end of the town, and at the extremity of the parish. The sti-
pend is 18 chalders, half meal, half barley, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for
communion elements. There is no manse, but L. 30 per annum
is allowed for a house rent, one-half of which is paid by the he-
ritors, and the other by the burgh. The glebe contains 7 acres,
and is worth about L. 21 per annum.
	There is also a meeting-house of the General Associate Sy-
nod, in which there is accomodation for about 600 sitters. At
an election of a pastor lately, about 120 members were found
qualified to vote. The number of Dissenting and Seceding fa-
milies in the parish is about 66. The number of families attend-
ing the Established Church about 240; the number of Roman
Catholic families about 25.
	Education.--There is an excellent grammar-schoolu in this town
conducted by an able teacher and assistant. The emolument
arising from salary and school-fees is upwards of L. 100 per per an-
num. The number of scolars is from 80 to 100. The usual
branches of education are taught, viz. English, Atin, Greek,
French, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, and mathematics. Be-
sides the public schools, there are two unendowed schools, whose
teachers depend upon the school fees. There are also two Sun-
day schools, attended by nearly 300 children. The total number
of scholars attending school in the parish is about 450.
	Banks.--The Bank of Scotland first opened a branch in Wig-
ton in 1784. There are now a branch of the British Linen Com-
pany, and a private bank.
	Charitable Institutions.--A Friendly Society was instituted here
in 1795. The terms of admission are 10s. 6. from the age
of 18 until 25. From 25 until40, 6d. more for every year of
their age above 25; and no person after the age of 40 is admitted.


