
2                       FIFESHIRE.

Though the town of Cupar and the lower parts of the parish that
lie along the banks of the Eden are liable to be enveloped in hoar
frost at certain seasons, particularly in the spring and autumn, yet
the air is in general dry and exhilarating. As the town is situated
little more than twenty-five feet above the level of the sea, the
temperature and climate are warm and agreeable. In consequence of
this, there seems to be no particular disease incident to the parish.
And while there are some instances of extreme old age in it,-two
or three persons upwards of 90 and one above 100,-tbere are
many of an almost youthful vigour at the advanced period of three-
score and ten and fourscore years.
   Hydrography.-The small river of Eden, flows from west to
east through the parish, as well as the strath to which it gives its
name. It rises about sixteen miles west, near the north side of
the West Lomond. It is joined, at the eastern extremity of the
town, by the Lady Burn, which flows from north-west to south-
east till the point of junction. The bed of the Eden is very
level, in consequence of which it flows sluggishly (lene fluit
aquis.) Though Cupar is six miles from the sea, at Edenmouth,
the river has a fall of only twenty-five feet. It is not available,
therefore, for the purposes of machinery to the extent that the vo-
lume of water which it contains would justify, were its descent more
rapid. Through the enterprise of modern times, however, nearly
every fall has been seized upon and turned to account. And though
there is not a wheel moved by it within the paris that has more
than a breast-fall, yet there are several employed for the move-
ment of powerful machinery. From entering the parish till leav-
ing it, it is made available to the extent of eighty horse power. The
course of the Lady Burn is more brisk and rapid; but the volume
of water is in general so small, that, except by much damming up
and saving, it cannot he made to serve any other purpose than
that of driving thrashing-mills. The junction of these two streams
at the town gives to it a lively appearance, and contributes greatly to
its cleanliness and healthfulness. There are many perennial spring
in the parish. And at any place of the town, by sinking to the
depth of 20 or 30 feet, an abundant supply of water can be pro-
cured, fit for all domestic, purposes except washing.
   Geology and Mineralogy,-While the surface of the parish is
diversified and undulating, the geological construction and the cha-
racier of the minerals is also various. Along the banks of the
Eden on either side, white sandstone abounds, lying in strata of
                               3


