
186			 KINCARDINESHIRE.

the whole seat rents and collections. When the present incum-
bent was admitted minister of the parish in 1785, the chapel at
Portlethen was occupied by any strolling preacher who chose to
hold forth to the people; but ever since that time, a licentiate of
the church has been appointed to it, at first by the minister, with
concurrence of the proprietor of Portlethen, but latterly, by the
minister along with such of the heritors as contributed towards its
repair. *
	In this parish, there are very few Dissenters or Episcopalians,
and only three Roman Catholic families and three families of Se-
ceders: the two last consisting in all of fifteen individuals.
	The teinds of the parish are exhausted, and the minister has
an allowance of L. 22, 18s. 10d. to make up his stipend to L. 150
per annum.
	Education.--Besides the parish school, there are in the parish
three others which may be considered as established: 1. At
Portlethen, where a substantial school-room and accommodation
for the teacher was built some years ago by the present minister
of tbe parish, on a building lease from Mr Gammell of Portlethen,
and L. 200 lodged in the hands of the treasurer of Aberdeen,
the interest to be applied in the shape in a small salary for the sup-
port of the teacher. The district is populous, and the school well
attended. 2. A female school situated near the church; it was
built and endowed by a bequest of L. 200 to the kirk-session for
that purpose, by the late George Hogg of Shannaburn, whose fa,
ther had been for many years schoolmaster at Banchory. L. lOO
was allotted by Mr Hogg for purchasing a site and building the
school; and L. 100 to afford a salary to the schoolmistress.+
3. Mr Symmers, proprietor of Cults, built upon his property, in
the Aberdeenshire district of the parish, a good house, affording
accommodation for the scholars and teacher, which he gives rent-
free to a schoolmaster of his own choosing; but the teacher has
no permanent salary, and depends entirely upon a subscription of five
guineas by Mr Menzier of Pitfodels, (who has shewn himself ready

<FOOTNOTE>The chapel at Portlehen has been enlarged by an aisle, so as to accommodate
about 500 sitters, and in the hope of aid from Government towards its endownment;
and Mr Thomson of Banchory having subscribed L. 50, with a promise, at no distant
perform of four acres of land for a glebe. A subscription is going on for building a
manse and offices, in order to the district around it being erected into a separate pa-
rish quoad sacra--the necessity of which must be perceived at once by looking at its
populousness and distance from the parish church.
        The minister of the parish has added L. 100 towards the endownment of this
school,--the teacher of which has now for salary the interest of L. 220 in whole.


