
					MUCKART.                  305

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	  Accounts of the Parish.-The only ancient document of which
	the writer is aware, that gives any information relative to the
	parish, is Martin's History of the See of St Andrews, written in
	1683, and printed 1797; from which it appears that the greater
	part of the parish, styled in the Golden Charter of the See of St
	Andrews, Muckartshire, was given to the Archbishop by James
	III.; that the house of Castleton was built by Archbishop Lam-
	berton in 1320 ; and that, in 1490, Archbishop William, striving to
	gain the Earl of Argyle to take part with him against the Archbi-
	shop of Glasgow, disponed and feued out to him the Lordship of
	Muckartshire, for a feu-duty of L. 101 Scots. In his possession the
	greater part of the parish remained for a considerable time. Part
	appears, from the date of the charters, to have been feued off in
	1500, and part in 1564; and now, the whole has fallen into the
	hands of different proprietors. In 1644, every house in the pa-
	rish, including the church, with the exception of one or two at
	the eastern extremity, was burned by the Marquis of Montrose,
	when he sacked and destroyed Castle Campbell, at that time be-
	longing to the Earl of Argyle. In remembrance of his barbarous
	inroad, the pass in Glendovan, by which he entered the parish,
	still bears the name of the Mandrose Yetts, obviously Montrose
	Yetts.
	  Land-owners.-The land-owners in the parish who have more
 	than L. 100 Scots valuation are, Mr Haig of Blairhill; Dr Paton
	of Middleton; Miss Bruce of Castleton; Mr Renny of Balilish;
	and Dr M'Turk of Middlehall. The remaining heritors amount
	in number to 15.
	  Parochial Registers.-The parochial register from 1698 to
	1743, containing an account of sessional discipline, proclamations,
	and collections and distribution of the poor's fund, appears to have
	been remarkably well kept. From 1787 to the present day, there
	is also a full account of all sessional proceedings, but none from
	1743 to 1787. There is a separate register of baptisms from 1698
	to the present day, and another of proclamations from 1800. In
	addition to the above, there is a small volume of sessional proceed-
	ings from 1678 to 1695, very difficult to be deciphered.
	  Antiquities.-The only antiquity in the parish, worth mention-
	ing is the remains of the old house at Castleton, built by Arch-
	bishop Lamberton, in 132O. It appears, from some foundation
	stones lately taken up, to have been a building of considerable size.
	  PERTH.                               U

