

448                          ARGYLESHIRE.

sent one Mackay, to whom Robert Bruce made a grant of the
lands of Ugadale, still retained by his descendants as the reward
of his hospitality. Here is also the grave of Archibald Bampbell
of Carradale, who was killed at the battle of Inverlochy, whilst en-
gao,ed with the forces of Montrose; and also the graves of many
other eminent men, whose fame is passed into oblivion " carent quia
vate sacro." The late learned and pious Dr Smith of Campbelton,
in a letter to General Hutton, the antiquarian, written in 1789,
in giving an account of his visit to this sacred spot, speaks
with exquisite beauty and touching tenderness of 11 the melan-
choly soothing pleasure with Which the mind ir entertained in
viewing these monuments of our forefathers' piety." 11 We," he
addsp 11 see, bear, and converse with them,-iiay, we feel otir
hearts glow with their devotion, and before we are aware, bear
a part in their prayers, psalms, and anthems. Were I to judge
from my own feelings when I view these sacred scenes, I could so-
lemnly declare'tbat there is such a thing as local sanctity !" King
James IV. annexed this monastery to the Bishopric of Argyle in
1507.
   Castles, S-c.--The castle at Skipness is a venerable aiid n)aj'es-
tic pile, evidently of great antiquity. It is of a square form, with a
.court within. The outer wall is 35 feet in height, 7 feet thick, and
450 feet in all. There are two projecting towers, one at the south-
east end, and the other, called Tur in t'sagairt (the priest's towe,,,)
at the north-east end, which was evidently the keep of the castle.
The western side is fladked by a small tower about the centre.
The wall at the entrance projects slightly on tbe,south side, so as
to form, by means of loop-holes at its junction with that side, a slight
flanking defence to the easf and west. There has been also a
portcullis to protect the gate.
The castle at Saddell is a square tower of considerable- dimen-
sions, which is said at one time to have been entirely surrounded
by water. This, joined to the circumstance of its being flanked
,with a strong ran-e of battlements all round the top, must have
rendered it an impregnable fortress. From these battlements one
of the Macdonalds, who had a gun which be facetiously called
the cuckoo, let her voice be heard to the destruction of anv sus-
-picious person who unwarily appyoacbed his dwelling.
   Upon several of the headlands near the sea coast, there are ruins,
of small forts, which probably served as watchtowers or stations
for telegraphic signals.

<FOOTNOTE>See Spottiswood's Religious Houses.


