
                                  RAFFORD.                       253

effect, as many of the prizes from agricultural societies are award-
ed to this parish.
  Husbandry.-- The system of husbandry commonly pursued
is the six-course shift, which is thus arranged : 1. year, grass;
2. grass; 3. wheat; 4. oats; 5. turnips or potatoes; 6. barley. There
are instances, although not required by any conditions of lease, of
the farmers preferring the fifth course, which does away with oats
succeeding wheat, or two continuous white crops.  Draining is
carried on to a considerable extent, and a good deal of waste land
has been reclaimed. Perhaps the principal improvement recently
introduced is the draining of the moss of Tarras, by means of
which, and of other operations of a like kind, from 200 to 300
acres have lately been added to the cultivated land of the parish.
Farther improvements might be made in this respect. Indeed, all
obstacles to improvement are in a fair way of being overcome by
the increased activity of the tenantry.  The only thing required
is adequate remuneration on the part of the landlord for reclaim-
ing lands.  Were the proprietors to grant a fair allowance to the
tenant at the end of the lease for every acre taken in, the benefit
would be theirs as well as the tenants, in the improved state of
their properties.  The duration of leases is nineteen years, which
is considered equally favourable to the tenant, and to the land.
The farm-buildings are generally substantial and in good repair;
but no enclosures are used except palings, and, in most instances,
none at all.  Thrashing-mills are now almost universal.
  Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce, as nearly
as can be ascertained; is as follows:-

<TABLE>
       For grain of all kinds, at L. 5, 10s. per Scotch acre,   	L.7700	   0	0
       For hay and pasture, at L.2, 10s. per do.	              2325	   0	0
       For turnips, at L.4, 10s. per do.	                          2097	   0	0
       For wood, from felling, &c.	                                 550	   0	0
       Quarries,	                                                    13	   0	0
                                                                    -----------------
                                                        Total,   L.12685	   0	0

	        		V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Town.--There is no market town in the parish. The
nearest is Forres, distant from the church about two and a half
miles.  The parish contains no village of any size.  Forres is also
the nearest post-town.
   Means of Communication.-The length of turnpike roads is
three and a-half miles. On the road between Elgin and Forres
which intersects the parish for about three miles, there run daily
a mail-coach and two stages; these, however, pass only through


