
                       REDGORTON.                            195

parish, at Stanley. The minister has a stipend of L. 150 for the
payment of which he holds a bond by Denniston, Buchanan, and
Co., and that company has also very handsomely given him a house,
for which there is no compact in the deed of erection.
  There are two Dissenting meeting-houses in the parish; one of
which belongs to the United Secession, and is attended by 61 in-
dividuals, young and old, belonging to this parish, according to a
list taken in 1835-36;-the other of which belongs to the Ori-
ginal Seceders, which is attended by 63 within the parish, ac-
cording to the same list.  But part of both congregations come
from the adjacent parishes. The ministers of both chapels are
paid, I believe, entirely from the seat rents, and may be stated to
have a stipend of L. 70 or L. 80 each.
  There are at present belonging to the Establishment 1617; to
other denominations 280; not known to belong to any denomina-
tion, 15. This, however, would not give a just view of the state
of dissent in the lower part of the parish; for it gives nearly a
sixth of the population as Dissenters. But it is worthy of observa-
thon, that there is a remarkable difference in the proportion of dis-
sent in the two districts of the parish; a difference which shews
that dissent is greatly increased by removal from the means of in-
struction and superintendence in the Establishment. In the barony
of Mullion, which contains a population of 100, there are 56 Dis-
senters, which gives a proportion of more than one-half of the in-
habitants; whilst in the lower part of the parish, in the midst of
which the church is situated, there are onlv 224 Dissenters out of
a population of 1812, which gives only a proportion of one-eighth
of thd inhabitants.

<TABLE>

There are of families that attend the Established Church,                   324
Families of whom part attend the Established Church, and part belong to some
      denomination of Dissenters,                                             9
Families attending Dissenting Houses of any kind,                            61
Individuals belonging to the Establishment,                                1617
Individuals of all denominations of Dissenters,                             280
The average number of communicants in the Established Church,      500
In the church of Staniev belonging to this parish,                 183      683
  The Established Church is at all times well attended, in sum-
mer by as many as the houre can contain. And were there bet-
ter accommodation, or more of the kind that we possess, there
would be a still more numerous attendance; as many are withheld
from going to church by not knowing where they are to sit, or
whether they may obtain a seat at all.
  The average amount of church collections for religious and cha-
ritable purposes is L. 27, 5s.  11d.


