
     Statistical Account

   So long then as the passage is furnished with good boats
and yawls, well manned; so long as it is kept under its pre-
sent regulations; and so long as the rates of the several
freights are to reasonable, or rather so very low, the public
ought to be well satisfied that it continue with the present
proprietors.  There is, however, an object of great impor-
tance, respecting the passage, to which the attention of the
public ought to be-directed, that is, the state of the landing-
places, or shippings, as they are called.  There, especially at
South Queensferry, are not in good repair; nor have a suffi-
cient number of them been built, so as to render the passage
commodious.  One, called the Gray Shipping west of the
pier, is in total disrepair, though it is a landing place much
frequented when the water is far back, especially at spring
tides.  It is painful for a spectator to witness the difficulties
passengers meet, the dangers to which they are exposed in
getting to or from that place, as they have to scramble a
considerable way among rocks and large stones, rendered
slippery by being covered with wet sea-weed.  To this land-
ing-place the boatmen are often obliged to carry, with much
jeopardy to themselves, the great mail on the north road.
The only fund for upholding the landing-places, on both
sides, is an appropriation of the 40th part of the gross freights,
called the ferry silver, amounting, at an average, to about
35 L. per annum; a sum far from being sufficient.  Occasion-
al aid has been given by the Royal Boroughs, and by the
Commissioners for the forfeited estates.  When, therefore,
it is considered that this is one of the most frequented pas-
sages in the kingdom, and that it will continue to be much
frequented from its many conveniencies, which are well
known, every thing relating to its regulations, and the state
of its repairs, is interesting to the public.  The police of the
country has been actively and usefully employed in making


