
982                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

and east, till it terminates in gently undulating fields, bearing in
general, in favourable seasons, abundant crops.  The hills of Vrae
on the north, Cothturn on the east, Darra on the south, and Ard-
middle on the west, are the most elevated.  The town is very
pleasantly situated, with a fine southern exposure; and although
it cannot boast of its spacious and well-formed streets or its public
buildings, the houses are substantial, neat, and commodious, and
surrounded by little gardens, tastefully laid out, display a degree
of comfort and convenience which the inhabitants in general enjoy.
Indeed, it has often been remarked by strangers, that Turriff ex-
hibits fewer instances of poverty and wretchedness than most
places of the same size.  Within the last fifteen years, a consider-
able addition was made to the extent and population of the town
by two streets which were opened; and it is rumoured that addi-
tional feus are to be given off upon a more uniform and improved
plan than has hitherto been followed.
   Longevity.-In the course of last summer, a woman died
in her 99th year; and there are now living in the parish, and
in tolerable health, a few persons above 90, and a good many from
80 to 87 years of age.  Two of the present members of the kirk-
session are in their 87th year, and still take an active part in the
discharge of their duties as elders.
   Hydrography.-The river Doveron, at its source called the
Blackwater, takes its rise in the Cabrach, on the confines between
the counties of Aberdeen and Banff.  When it first enters this
parish, after many beautiful windings from west to east, it changes
its course below Mill of Turriff, and, taking a sudden turn towards
the north, continues to flow in that direction till it discharges it-
self into the Moray Frith at Banff.  The only other stream of
consequence which runs through the parish, is the burn of Turriff,
which has its source on the farm of Little Byth, in the parish of
Aberdour, and which, before it reaches its termination and falls
into the Doveron, ir of considerable size.  In its passage of about
two and a-half miles through this-parish, it works two meal mills,
two carding and one flax mill, and the machinery of a bleachfield.
In the memorable flood of 1829, this burn became flooded to such
a degree, that in the mill-house at Mill of Turriff, and in some of
the premises about the bleachfield, the water rose eight feet above
the door-soles, or eleven feet above its ordinary level.  There are
some minor streamlets, which divide this from the neighbouring


