
54                      ARGYLESHIRE.

Statistical Account, were 27 feet in diameter, and, as nearly as
can be conjectured, from the stones which lie scattered around
them, 12 feet in height, The thickness of their walls was 7 feet.
  A stronghold, of greater magnitude and more importance, stood
near the north-western boundary of the parish.  It was built on a
rocky elevation near the shore, the side next the sea being preci-
pitous. Its walls are tolerably entire, and are 10 feet thick, are
erected nearly in the form of an oblong square, and enclose a space
of 260 by 90 feet. The part of tbe wall still standing is, in height,
where highest, 6 feet. Within, was a well of 9 by 6 feet wide,
Having been filled witb rubbish, its depth cannot be ascertained.
  Modern Buildings.--The house of Barbreck, the seat of
Captain Campbell, R. N., the principal proprietor, stands on
the north-eastern part of the parish. It is a large and commo-
dious buiIding. On the west coast is the house of Dail, the
residence of John McDougall, Esq. of Lunga. In the south-
ern part of the parish stands Castle Craignish, the mansion of
Colin Campbell, Esq. of Jura. The lower story of this building is
very ancient, the upper part modern. It is a square tower, ter-
minating above in embrasures. The ancient portion of the wall
is 9 feet in thickness. Within, on the ground story, is a vaulted
apartment, extending the whole length and breadth of the tower,
which is said to have been used as a dungeon. In the centre of
this apartment, an excavation, of 12 feet deep, by 8 in width, was
made in the solid rock on which the castle stands. The ancient
oaken door, with a frame-work of iron, still remains. The ram-
part, which was erected on the eastern side of the green bank on
which the castle is situated, has been removed. The moat was 12
feet broad, and of corresponding depth. A modern house, little
in unison with the appearance of the tower to which it was attach-
ed, was many years ago built at the north end of the latter. Its
present proprietor has removed this building, and erected an
edifice in better taste, as well as more spacious.



                         <TABLE=III.--POPULATION.>

      The amount of the population at the census of 1801, was 904
                                                    1811,     826
                                                    1821,     901
                                                    1831,     892
                                                    1841,     873
The numbers of families, of independent fortune residing in the parish, 4
	     proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and up.
                  wards,   .       .      .      .       .              5
	     unmarried men, upwards of 5O years of age,          .	6
              widowers upwards of 50 years of age,             .        6


