
			DUNBARNY. 		       819

northeast to south-west. They have been sometimes employed
as fuel, but not frequently, from the offensive smell which the
burning of them diffuses. Below this moss and its load of super-
incumbent clay there is a stratum of sand of 18 inches in thick-
ness, and below it a variety of soils. This moss must, like that
designated the Moss of Flanders, have been formed by the pro-
gressive decay of vegetable substances, and especially trees.
  While in the soil along the Earn we may see fragments of im-
bedded timber that grew many years ago, we sometimes see in its
banks a phenomenon, which, though not leading us so far up the
stream of time, is yet of an interesting character, that is, parts of
branches of trees which, having become imbedded in the sand at the
margin of the river, have been gradually petrified; and it is easy
to see how the process advadced. While the work of decompo-
sition was going on in the vegetable substances, the particles of
s`nd insinuated themselves into it, so that as each vegetable particle
successively disappeared, it was replaced by a stony particle. Thus
the sand or stony substance gradually occupied the spaces left vacant
by the decay of the vegetable parts; and, being moulded in their
cavities, assumed the contexture of the original branch. The pe-
trified wood presents such an exact imitation of the real wood, that,
upon cutting it transversely, we can trace the concentric rings
which marked the annual growth of the tree. About three miles
above the bridge of Earn, many specimens of such petrified wood
may be seen in a high bank close to the river. In several in-
stances the petrifaction is complete, in others it is going on, the
sand by degrees penetrating the decayed vegetable, and copying
the exterior form of the organic body.
  In this parish there is to be found every variety of soil, from a
rich loam to the poorest clay. The lands on the south side of
the river consist of a strong, wet, clay soil and are very flat; those
on the north side consist chiefly of a rich loam; while towards the
west end of the parish a red stiff till predominates. The mode of
cultivation varies considerably on the different properties. On the
Moncrieffe estate, all the farms were formerly cultivated upon a four-
shift rotation, viz. 1st, fallow or green crop: 2d, wheat; 3d, grass;
4th oats; but latterly, in consequnce of the tenants seldom or never
fallowing the ground, and the green crop being almost entirely
potatoes, with the exception of a few turnips to supply their milk-
cows, and the potatoes being all disposed of for the London mar-
ket, while in most cases no manure was purchased in lieu thereof,


