
     of Stirling.

"moirs of Scottish affairs, from 1627 to the death of Charles I."
It appears from the council records, that this Mr. Guthrie,
after his removal from Stirling, resided at Kilspindie.  There
he probably wrote his memoirs.  In 1661, after the death of
James Guthrie, the council sent several deputations to invite
him back to his charge in Stirling; but he declined it, on ac-
count of bad health.  Mr. Nimmo mentions another Mr.
Henry Guthrie, who was executed in the beginning of the
reign of Charles II. on account of his activity in opposing
the measures of the court.  But this certainly was the cele-
brated Mr. James, who was beheaded in the year 1661, and
who was minister of Stirling at that period, along with a Mr.
David Bennet.  There are some of the said James's books,
with the chair in which he sat, still in the manse of Stirling.
In the council records, a Mr. John Allan is mentioned as prior
to Mr. Bennet*
   Mr. Ebenezer Erskine was settled 3d minister in 1731,
where he continued, till he was deposed by the General As-
sembly in 1738.  Upon this Mr. Erikine, and three of his bre-

<FOOTNOTE>

*By act of council 2, February 1663, Mr. Andrew Kynnier, minister of East
Calder, was called and collated by the bishop of Edinburgh as minister, along
with Mr Matthias Simpson, who succeeded Mr. Bennet.  In 1665, Mr. James
Torsyth was first minister.  In 1668, Mr. Patrick Murray was made 2d minister,
in the room of Mr. Kynnier who had died in 1664.  But from the public confu-
sion of that period, the vacancy was not sooner supplied.  An act of 22d January
1676 appoints a commissioner to go to Edinhurgh or St. Andrews, to speak to the
archbishop of St. Andrews, and offer, to him the perform whom the council has
chosen to be first minister of this burgh; and to deal with his Grace effectually
thereanent.  The minister's name is not mentioned.
   An Act is recorded 9th August 1679, anent supplying the vacancy of the 1st
charge, by the death of Dr. William Pearsone.
   28th August 1679,  Mr. John Munro is presented by the Council.
   On the 10th June 1682, Mr. James Hunter minister at Donying, is chosen
2d minister, in room of Mr. Patrick Murray deceased
   From this period, to the 1694, there is no mention of the ministers of Stirling
in the records.  From the 1694, we have Messrs. Robert Rule, John Forrester,
James Brisbane, Arcibald M'Aulay, Charles Muir, and Alexander Hamilton.


