
                  KIRKMICHAEL.                               75

three merk lands of the old extent, now the property of Mr Lyon.
Garvald was of old a mensal church of the bishops of Glasgow;
and Robert Blackadder, the first archbishop of that, see, in 1506,
assigned this rectory to the colleg‚ of Glasgow. The patronage
thereof at the Reformation belonged to the convent of Red
Friars at Failfurd, in the county of Ayr; was thereafter vested in
the Crown; and, so far as is known, remains so, although it has
not for a long period been exercised by the king. The church
lands of Garrel, extending to five pound lands of the ancient va-
ruation, in 1565, exclusive of the grebe united by excambion to
that of Kirkmichael, passed from that convent into lay lands, and
are now mostly comprehended within the barony of Ross.
	The present parish church is near the south-Western boundary;
a situation not at all convenient for the greater part of the popu-
lation, being fully five miles from the opposite side and southern
extremity. It was built in 1815, and is in good repair. It con-
tains sitting for upwards of 1500. The manse was builtin 1798;
and has since that time undergone several repairs. The glebe-is
about 18 imperial acres in extent, and may be'valued at L. 18 a-
year. The stipend is 15 chalders, half meal, and half barley; and
L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements, amounting, at the county
fiars' price of the seven years preceding the augmentation 5th
December 1821, to L. 232, 0s. 1/4d. There being no place of
worship in the parish but the Established church, it is attended by
all the inhabitants, except about 30, who are dissenters. Divine
service is generally well attended. The average number, of com-
municants is 330.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish, the principal
one being placed near the centre of the greatest population. The
branches of instruction generally taught are English, writing, arith-
metic, Latin, Greek, and geometry. The salary of this school is
the maximum, viz. L. 34, 4s. 41 d., and the fees amount to about
L. 16 per annum. The teacher has considerably more than the
legal accommodations with respect to a dwelling-house and garden.
No salary is attached to the side-school. The master of it is paid
entirely by fees received from the scholars, which are the same as
those of the parochial school.
	The people are in general a-live to the benefitsof education.
There are none above fifteen years of age (idiots excepted) who
cannot read. Two sheep-farms on the north-western side of the
parish are about six miles distant from these school. But the po-



