
                          FYVIE.                              331

style is very happily preserved, and it combines now the imposing
magnificence of a feudal age with the internal comfort and elegance
of modern times.  It consists of two sides of a square of turreted
architecture.  The south-east wing, still called the Preston Tower,
must have been erected about 1400.  The south wing has in front
a tower called the Seton tower, with the arms of that family cut
in freestone over the gate.  The old iron door still remains, con-
sisting of huge interlacing bars, fastened by immense iron bolts
drawn out of the wall on either side; and in the centre of the arch
above the door-way, a large aperture called the "murder hole,"
speaks plainly of the warm reception which unbidden guests had
in former times to expect.  The south-west part of the castle is
called the Meldrum Tower, in the bottom of which is an inaccessi-
ble chamber, with neither door nor window; its only known or
supposed use being that assigned in an old plan, of a conceal-
ment for arms.  The west wing is terminated on the north by a
tower, erected by the late Honourable General Gordon, on the
site of the ancient chapel, which had become ruinous.  The whole
buildings are in good repair-the present proprietor has greatly
improved both the castle and grounds.  In every direction the
views are very beautiful.  There is an extensive lake within the park,
well stocked with fish, and altogether this is one of the finest seats
in this county.
   About three miles west of the parish church, stands the mansion-
house of Rothie, the residence of George Leslie, Esq. It is a
modern building, pleasantly situated on a rising ground overlook-
ing a little valley.  The view is not extensive, but varied and beau-
tiful.  The house was built by the former proprietor, and the pre-
sent one has laid out plantations around it with much taste, and
added many improvements.
   About one mile farther west is the House of Kinbroom, occu-
pied by a member of the family of Rothie, a desirable residence,
encompassed with thriving young wood, and commanding a fine
view.  There is no mansion-house on Monkshill, the estate of the
other resident proprietor.
   Cairnchedly.-There is a cairn on the outskirts of the farm of
St John's Well, known by the name of Cairnchedly.  It is greatly
reduced now from its former dimensions, in consequence of most
of the cottages in the neighbourhood having been built out of it.
In digging about it, small earthen urns are frequently found.  They
have been cast up in all directions for a considerable distance.


