
                          KINNELL.                      395

Wester Braky, belonging to the Right Honourable Lord Panmure;
Easter Braky, belonging to the heirs of the late Colin Alison,
Esq. and Rinmure, belonging to the heirs of the late John Laing,
Esq. The valued rents of these estates, according to the valuation
of 1682, are, respectively, L.1600, L.500, L.300, and L.300
Scotch.
   Bolshan, anciently Balishan, is said to have been gifted to the
abbey of Arbroath, about 1178,  by Donald, Abbot of Brechin,
and the gift was confirmed by King William the Lion, under the
name of Ballegillegrand. In the latter half of the following cen-
tury, the monks feued it for six merks of annual feu-duty, and
afterwards they consigned the feu-duty, with half a merk more from
another source, to the Bishop and chapter of Brechin, for sup-
porting a chaplain in the church of Brechin, and upholding a
bridge over the Esk. Before the middle of the fourteenth century,
Margaret de Abernethy, the Countess-Dowager of Angus, gave
Brakko to the abbey of Arbroath for a daily mass at the altar of
St Catharine, in behalf of her husband's soul and her own, and
the souls of their progenitors and heirs. In 1443, Sir John Ogilvy
of Lentrathen and Airly was proprietor both of Bolshan and Brak-
ko; the latter of which Abbot Walter had sold to him for an an-
nual feu-duty of eight merks that same year, under the pretence
that the intricacy and uncertainty of the marches boded future
detriment to the interests of the abbey. In 1528, Lord Ogilvy
resigned both of them into the hands of the Abbot, and received
a new charter. In 1634, Bolshan was sold to David, the first
Earl of Southesk, of whom Arthur Johnston, the celebrated
translator of the Psalms into Latin elegiac verse, says,--
		"Neo numero clauduntur opes, nec limite rura,
		 Carnegi: sdrvat mens tamen alta modum."
And so great was the power of the two houses of Airly and South-
esk at that time, that they would have been able to keep Forfar-
shire in its allegiance to Charles I. if they had not been over-
powered from without. In 1716, on the attainder of the fifth
Earl, Bolshan fell to the Crown. In 1720, it was sold to the
York Buildings' Company; and in 1764, on the bankruptcy of
the company, it was bought by Sir James Carnegie of Pittarrow,
grandfather of the present proprietor, and representative of the
ancient Earls of Southesk.
   Sir Simon Fraser, heir, and, after his uncle's death, possessor
of the chieftainship of his clan, is said to have been rewarded by


