
838				AYRSHIRE.

ing man, when some dragoons arrived who had tracked him to the
house. His being recognized seemed inevitable, when the tenant
with great presence of mind, struck Lord Mauchline and said,
"You lazy loon, why do you not go to your work?" and in this
way drove him out before the dragoons, who never imagined he
would dare so to treat his landlord, and he was thus saved. He
soon after fled to Holland, and died at Leyden, where he was
buried.
	The Old Tower in Newmills.--This old tower, itself without any
history, was the scene of more than one transaction characteristic
"of the troublous times." This was Captain Inglis's head-quar-
ters when in the district. In one of the expeditions of Inglis's
troops in the search of conventicles, eight men, who were disco-
vered praying in the Black-wood, near Kilmarnock, were taken
prisoners. One of them, it is said, was immediately executed,
and the soldiers in mockery kicked his head for foot-ball, along
the Newmills public green! Inglis was about to shoot the others,
when it was suggested to him that it would be prudent to get a
written order from Edinburgh for the execution. The seven men,
in the meantime, were confined in the old tower. But while the
troop was absent on one of it's bloody raids, with the exception of
a small guard, a man named Browning, from Lanfine, with others
who had with him been at Airds Moss, got large sledge hammers
from the old smitby, (still in existence,) with which they broke
open the prison doors and permitted the Covenanters' to escape.
John Law, (brother-in-law to Captain Nisbet,) was shot in this
exploit, and is buried close to the wall of the tower. The dra-
goons soon went in pursuit of the prisoners, but they had reached
the heather, and there no cavalry could pursue them. The sol-
diers, however, having ascertained that John Smith of Croonan
had given the runaways food, went to Smith's house, and meeting
him at his own door, shot him dead! Within a short period his
grave, was to be seen in the garden of the old farm-house.
	The Loundoun Family.--The barony of Loudoun belonged in
the days of David I, to one Lambrinus, father of James de Lou-
doun, who got a charter of the barony of Loudoun from Richard
de Morville, constable of England, also a chatter from William
de Morville, both in, the reign of William I. This James left an
only daughter, Margaret, who married Sir Reginald Craufurd,
haritable sheriff of Ayrshire. Their great-grand-daughter (only


