
                        GOVAN.                       671

Gray's MS. Chronicle. *  " In 1454, on the 25th and 26th of No-
vember, ther wes ane right gret speit in Clyde, the quilke brocht
down haile housis, bernis, and millis, and put all the town of Go-
rane (Govane) in ane flote, quihile thai sat on the housis."
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The substrata belong to the coal
formation, and contain a considerable portion of its usual fossil re-
mains.  A good deal of interest was excited, about twelve or four-
teen years ago, by the discovery of the roots of a number of fossil
trees at Balgrays, on the banks of the Kelvin.  There were nearly
thirty of these.  Thex were standing close to one another, and in
their natural position.  But not more than two feet of the trunks
were attached to the roots, and no organic remains whatever were
visible in the superincumbent rock.  One of those fossil roots was
covered over by the proprietor to protect it from injury.  It mea-
sures about two feet and a-half in diameter.  Another, the trunk
of which measures two feet in diameter, is preserved in the Ander-
sonian Museum in Glasgow.  They have all the appearanee of be-
longing to the dicotyledonous class of plants.  The upper surface
of the coal measures is very generally covered with diluvial mat-
ter, containing rolled stones, indicating the action of currents from
the north-west.  Above the diluvium, there are alluvial beds of
sand and finely laminated clay, in which recent marine shell have
been met with.  These are in general similar to such as are at pre-
sent found in the Frith of Clyde.  Some were lately discovered in
stratified clay in Balshagry and Cartnavel, at least 80 feet above
the level of the sea. +  From a remote period, coals have been ex-
tensively worked at the Govan collieries, at present in the posses-
sion of Mr W. Dickson.  These form a part of the valuable
mines, known by the name of the Glasgow Coal Fields.  The fol-
lowing seams lie contiguous to each other.

<TABLE>
                                             Feet.  Inches thick
          1. The Mossdale or upper coal,   .  4         3
          2. Rough ell,      .       .   .    3         6
          3. Rough Main,       .       .    . 4         0
          4. Humph,       .        .       .  2         6
          5. Splint ell, .        .     .     3         9
          6. Splint main,   .	       .        7         0
          7. Sour-milk,      .      .      .  2         6

   There are other seams, at a greater depth, which will no doubt

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmer's Caledonia, Vol. iii. p. 587.
          Mr Smith of Jordanhill, who has paid much attention to this deposit, has form-
ed a catalogue of these shells, containing about 150 species.  Nearly a tenth part of
these is not known to exist in the present seas.


