
384                          FIFESHIRE.

  Farms are generally let on lease for a period of nineteen years. The
farm-buildings, with few exceptions, are by no means commodious.
In too many instances, the occupier is fettered for want of suffici-
ent accommodation for his bestial. Most of the land in the parish
is inclosed, but many of the fences are by no means substantial.
A very excellent and commodious steading was built in 1832, by
Miss Balfour on her farm of Newton of Kingsdale. It is built of
freestone, and covered with slate. The thrashiDg-machine is pro-
pelled by a high-pressure steam-engine of six horse power. There
is another thrasing-machine propelled by steam power in the pa-
risb, on the farm of Wester Treaton, the property of Mrs D. Be-
thune of Balfour.
The greatest improvement winch has recently been made in the
parish, in agricultural matters, was executed by the late Captain
Lundin on his estate of Auchtermairnie. By cutting ditches and
planting hedges,-by draining and liming,-by removing embank-
meDts and levelling,-by planting and transplanting trees,-by
buil din- steadiDgs and making roads, lie nearly doubled the value
of his property in the course of sixteen years. The appearance,
also, of his estate in this time, was improved, perhaps, more than
any other part of the county of a similar extent.
This gentleman, whose many virtues, both private and public,
will render his memory long dear, died in the prime of life, after
an illness of only a few days, in the month of November 1832.
Coal Mine- It has been mentioned, that, in the eastern part of
the parish, coal at different depths s found, and that it has been
wrought with little intermission, for nearly fifty years past. The
seams which have hitherto been chiefly dug are those marked No.
Ill. and IV. in the 'ournal before given. These seanis were ]at-
terry wrought on what is called the long-wall method. After leav-
ing sufficient pillars at the pit-bottom, every inch of coal, with the
interjacent bed of black stone, was cut out progressively forward,
and the whole superineumbent strata allowed to crush towards the
stone or rubbish taken from the coal, which was used for gobbing
the excavation. This coal was raid dry by a day-le.vel of 350 fa-
thoms in length.
  The seams above-specified having been nearly wrought out, the
proprietor of the mine, J. B. Fernie, Esq. of Kilmux, a gentleman
of great enterprise, well known, especially', as an eminent agricul-
turist, and to wbom the writer of this account is indebted for the
information he supplies, both in regard to coal and agricultural


