
394                  EDINDURGHSHIRE.

bailies to execute their jurisdiction within their proper limits.
The church of Duddingston appears to have been of moderate
value, as in the ancient "taxation" it is rated at twenty-five merks.
During the reign of Robert Bruce, the monks valued this, rectory,
according to established use, at L.20 per annum. The rectory
continued to belong to the monks of Kelso till the Reformation,
and the core was served by a vicar. In August 1296, John Com-
hale, the Vicar of Dodineston, swore fealty to Edward I., and re-
ceived in return a restitution of his services from the Sheriff of
Edinburgh. In the register of assignations for the ministers' sti-
pends in the year 1754, MR., presented by Bishop Keith to the
Advocates' Library, Duddingston is said to have been a joint de-
pendence with the Castle of Edinburgh upon the Abbey of Holy-
roodhouse. After the Reformation, the patronage of Dudding-
ston church, with the manor, passed through successive proprietors
to James Earl of Abercorn, who purchased it from the Duke of
Argyle in 1475. In the year 1630, the estate of Prestonfield was
disjoined from the parish of St Cuthbert's, and annexed to Dud-
dingston. In 1631, the Presbytery of Edinburgh ordained an
aisle to be added to the church of Duddingston, for the use of the
proprietor and his tenants.
   The parish church, the original foundation of which cannot be
traced, stands at Wester Duddingston, upon the south-east base
of Arthur's Seat, and is a very ancient building, the arches and
ornaments, when examined by an antiquary, appearing to be as an-
tique as the days of "Dodin."  A beautiful semicircular arch di-
vides the choir from the chancel. The church was enlarged, re-
paired, and painted, about four years ago, and is in very good
repair, and contains from 300 to 400 sitters. There are no free
sittings since the collieries were given up about forty years ago.
   The manse was built in 1805, and considerable additions were
made to it twenty-two years ago. Both it and the office-houses
are in excellent repair, and are most delightfully situated.
   The glebe contains six acres of arable ground of the best quality.
   The stipend is eighteen chalders, consisting of two of wheat,
eight of barley, and eight of meal, payable according to the
highest fiars of the county, with L.5, 12s. 11d. of money, and
L.10 for communion elements. The stipend, when converted
into money, may average, for the last five years, L.300. Glebe,
manse, and garden L,45; in whole,  including money and the al-
lowance tor communion elements, L.360, 12s. 11d. Number of
communicants at the parish church, about 100.



