
126                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

room rent free,--reading, writing, arithmetic, and English gram-
mar taught.--A private school at Oldmains of Fasque, supported
by the fees of about 30 scholars, paying from 2s. 6d. to 4s. per
quarter, school-room rent free,--the same branches as in the
last taught.--A female school in the village, in which reading and
needle-work are taught, supported by a small salary paid by two
of the heritors, viz. Sir John Stuart Forbes, Bart. and Mr Glad-
stone during their pleasure, and by the fees of abott 26 scholars,
paying from 3s. to 5s. per quarter. Besides these, about 40 chil-
dren are instructed daily in smaller places of elementary tuition
throughout the parish. A Sunday school is taught in the church
throughout the year, and is attended by upwards of 8O children, who
have received prizes from one of the heritors, * for several years, for
proficiency, regular attendance, and good conduct. Another Sun-
day's school is taught on the Arnhall estate at which from 20 to 30
scholars attend. By one or other of these means, instruction is pro-
vided for all the rising generation, within a convenient distance, from
their respective places of abode. There are few, if any, between six
and fifteen years of age who cannot either read or write; and there
are, it is thought, as few above that age who cannot do both. The
people, in general, seem alive to the benefits of education, and
make great efforts to keep their children as long as possible at
school. There can be no doubt that, to some extent or other,
their morals and conduct have improved with the increased facili-
ties afforded them for education.
	Libraries.--There are two libraries in the village. One of
them belongs to the Fettercairn Club; and the circulation of its
books is confined to the members of the Club and their families.
It contains above 500 volumes on miscellanenus subjects. The
other is a parish library, under the management of the minister
and elders. It is supported by donations of books and cash, and
by occasional collections in the church. It contains nearly 400
volumes on various subjects, but chiefly on religion. The books
are given out gratis for perusal; and there generally are from 80
to 120 readers.
	Savings' Bank.--A savings' bank was established in 1831. It
has succeeded well. Amount yearly invested, L. 126; with-
drawn, L. 79.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of regular
paupers is about 40; their average rate per month, 4s.; occa-
sional paupers about 15; their average rate per annum, about L. 1.

<FOOTNOTE>Sir John Stuart Forbes, Bart.


