
602                      AROYLESHIRE.

exposure of the burying-ground for several years without inclo-
sure, led to the defacing of any inscription which might have
marked these graves. It is most likely that certain of those whose
designation has been fixed in history as Tulchan Bishops, and
others perhaps of an earlier day despoiled of their revenues, may
have found shelter and protection here, under the sway of the Ar-
gyle family, and ended their days in personal comfort. The re-
mains of a house are pointed out, to which the name has been as-
signed of the bishop's palace. There is, however, nought belong-
ing to such an establishment pointed out in history as having ex-
isted in Dunoon,-and most probably the residence so denomi-
nated might be a dwelling-house, assigned by the Argyle family,
after the Reformation, to individuals of the order. Neither is
there any trace to be discovered, to show that any nunnery ever
existed in Dunoon,-the story of its existence being merely found-
ed, apparently, on the assumption, that the name Dunoon must
signify some connection with a nunnery I The ancient parish
church, replaced by the present so late as the year 1816, appears
to have been built in a style superior to most of the parish
churches of the same period,-a fact easily accounted for by its
proximity to the castle, and that being possessed for such a period
of time by a noble family, disposed to liberality toward the ex-
isting establishment of their day.
    The place of Kilmun is, ecclesiastically, of higher repute than
Dunoon.  Tradition ascribes the origin of a church in that place to
the circumstance of a ship bearing a precious cargo of consecrat-
ed earth from the Holy Land, or Jerusalem, having been stranded
in the Holy Loch, and the cargo having been discharged, that the
church of Kilmun was erected on the spot where this earth bad been
deposited, or the portion of it saved from the wreck. The ship,
tradition bears, bad been destined for Glasgow, and its cargo in-
tended for the purpose of erecting upon it some ecclesiastical edi-
fice of more than ordinary sancthty. Tradition ascribes this event
to the times of St Kentigein,- and points out the Cathedral of
Glasgow, as the building for consecrating the foundation of which
this earth from Jerusalem was intended ; and that the catastrophe
gave its name to the Holy Loch. For the latter of these tradi-
tional assertions there is some apparent foundation in the Gaelic
name by, which this arm of the sea is designated-'' an Loch sean-
ta," the charmed loch and while it certainly does not appear in


