
400                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

greywacke and other transition rocks, is from north-east to south-
west.
	In my report to Sir John Sinclair, I mentioned the letter stones
on the farm of Twiglees. They are part of a stratum of amygda-
loid, which can be traced from the Shawrigg in the parish of Wester-
kirk, to Castlehill Craigs. These same letter stones occur at
Twiglees Burnhead and Black Esk head Pikes in this parish, a dis-
tance of six miles. They lie in a direction different from that of
the regular strata, being from south-east to north-west.
			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Events.--I have never been able to learn to whom
the lands in Eskdalemuir belonged, prior to the reign of James V.
There might be, and were probably, parts granted to one or more
proprietors before that time; but tradition says, that in general
they were possessed by the clan of Beattieson, from whom the pre-
sent name of Beattie is derived by no other title than that of oc-
cupancy. It is farther stated, that Cardinal Beaton and Robert
Lord Maxwell were sent by James as ambassadors to France in
the year 1537, to conclude a marriage between the King and Mary
of Guise; that Lord Maxwell, by commission, as proxy for the
King, married the Queen in France; and that he and the cardinal
conducted her to Scotland; for which good service, the King gifted
the lands comprehended under the name of the Five Kirks of Esk-
dale to Lord Maxwell. It may be proper, however, to add, that
the Five Kirks, then, were not the same as those comprehended
under that name, now; but were Upper and Nether Ewis, Wauchope,
Staplegordon, and Westerkirk, which last included Eskdalemuir,
before it was erected into a separate parish. Tradition farther says,
that, when Lord Maxwell came to take possession of the Eskdale-
muir part of the estate (having previously summoned them to meet
him at Dumfedling, which, and Staplegordon, were the two baro-
nies of Eskdale, where justice was administered and business tran-
sacted,) he offered them rights to their several possessions on cer-
tain specified conditions. These, however, they were unwilling to
accept of, thinking themselves injured by the King's grant. Words
rose high between Lord Maxwell and them,--consultations were
held in his absence, and the result might have been fatal,--had not
Rolland Beattie of Watcarrick, a prudent man, warned him of his
danger, and given him his white mare, which none of them could
overtake to carry him to Branxholm. It is further stated, that,


