
70                        FIFESHIRE.

ed in the churchyard of St Madoc's, on the property which origin-
ally belonged to the Leys.
   Besides the above singular monuments, one of a similar cha-
racter, and said to be connected with the murder of King Malcolm,
in the year 1030, exists at Glammis-another, said to comme-
morate the battle of Duplin, is to be seen in fine preservation at
Duplin Castle in Perthshire; and fragments of exactly the same
class, but as to which even the whisper of tradition is silent, are to
be found at Forres, Elgin, Aboyne, Eassie, Dunnichen, Menmuir,
Arthurstone, near Cupar Angus, and in the cathedral yard of St
Andrews.  The real history of the last of these is not to be con-
sidered more obscure than that of those in regard to which Ho-
linshed, Fordun, and Buchanan, have written so much and record-
ed so little.  Such is their antiquity, that the lapse of three cen-
turies appears to have little obliterated traditions, than which no-
thing more remained at the time our earliest Scottish historians
flourished.
   The other is the celebrated cross of Macduff, which stands at
the distance of about one mile to the south in an opening of the
Ochil hills, on the confines of Strathearn, where it overlooks that
beautiful valley and far distant Grampians.  It consists of one large
block of freestone, rudely indented in several places.  According
to a description given in 1712, these consisted of nine, each con-
taining an iron staple and ring, and intended, according to tradi-
tion, for the benefit of the kindred of the powerful Thane of that
name, amounting to precisely the same number, who claimed pro-
tection even against the penalties of murder, upon the payment of
"nine kie and colpindach, or young kow."  The upright pillar
which stood upon this base-stone, was destroyed by the reformers
on their way from Perth to the Abbey of Lindores in 1559.

<FOOTNOTE>Gordon's Itinerarium. Fordun says with regard to this privilege, " Quod etiam ipse et omnes in poste-
rum, de sua cognatione, pro subitanea et improvisa occisionce, gauderent privilegio le-
gis Macduff, ubi generosus occidens solvendo viginti quatuor marcas ad Kinbot, et ver-
naculus duodecim marcas, remissionem plenariam exinde reportaret;" which would
seem to limit considerably the ferocity of the privilege.-Lib. v. chap. 9.
    The inscription upon it, as taken about that period by the son of Sir James Bal-
four of Denmile, the celebrated annalist, is as follows:-
          Maldraradum dragos, mairia, laghslita, largos,
          Spelando spados, sive nig fig knighthite gnaros
          Lothea leudiscos laricingen lairia liscos
          Et colovurtos sic fit tibi bursia burtus
          Exitus, et bladadrum sive lim sive lam sive labrum.
          Propter Magridin et hoe oblatum.
          Accipe smeleridem super limthide lamthida labrum.
   Mr Cunningham, in his learned essay upon this singular inscription, regards the
words as Saxon intermixed with Latin, and the whole "aped in a Latine dress," be-

                                       4


