
150                        LANARKSHIRE.

of sycamore, about ten inches long by five broad, on the surface of
which the pattern was cut in relief, in the common method of wood-
engraving. On the back of the block was a handle by which the
workman held it: the surface was applied to a woollen cloth stretch-
ed over a vessel containing the colour, and in contact with that
colour, so as to be saturated by it, and was then laid upon the
piece of cloth, (there being wire points at the corners of the block
to enable the workmen to apply it with exactness,) and struck with
an iron mallet. Thus the figure was impressed upon the cloth,
one colour only being used at once; and if other colours were re-
quired to complete the pattern, it was necessary to repeat the ope-
ration with different blocks. In order to produce more delicate pat-
terns than could be engraved on wood, copper-plates were intro-
duced in the neighbourhood of London, and the cloth was thus
printed from flat plates, with the kind of press used in copper-plate
printing. Each of these modes was tedious, as no more of the
cloth could be printed at once than was covered with the wooden
block or copper-plate; and a single piece of calico, twenty-eight
yards in length, required the application of the block 448 times.
	The grand improvement is the art of cylinder printing, which
bears nearly the same relation in point of despatch to block-print-
ing by hand as throstle or mule spinning bears to spinning by the
one thread wheel.
	This great invention is said to have been made by a Scotchman
of the name of Bell, and it was first successfully applied in Lanca-
shire, about the year 1785, at Mosney, near Preston, by the house
of Livesay, Hargreaves, Hall, and Company.
	The chemical department of printing, has not been less rich in
discoveries than the mechanical. At the head of these stands
the grand discovery of the properties of chlorine, and which are
of important use in several stages and processes of printing, as well
as in whitening the cloth. Whenever, in the course of printing,
the calico is to be freed from stain or discoloration, the solution of
chloride of lime is used; and by the aid of this powerful agent a
rich chintz, which formerly required many weeks to print in the
summer season, when it could be laid on the grass exposed to the
air and sun, is now produced without ever going from under the
roof of the factory, and almost in as many days.
	It has been remarked, that cotton fabrics are very rarely dyed
of a uniform colour. Sometimes a flower, stripe, or other figure,
is, printed on a white ground; and at other times the pattern only


