
     Statistical Account

lambs, and hogs wintered, in all amounting to about 1200*.
Black cattle, horses, sheep and wool, have been rising in
their price for several years past.  The wool sold at the
Lockerbie markets comes from the upper part of Annan-
dale and Eskdale, and is from 4 s. to 10 s. the stone.  Un-
laid or pet wool, is from 15 s. to L. 1, 1 s. the stone.  The
common people are generally clothed in home manufacture,
from the laid sheep wool, at the rate of 2 s. 6 d. 3 s. and 4 s.
the yard, for the Scotch ellwand is now universally laid
aside.  Every family is a small factory for both linen and
woollen cloth.  There are a great many dyers and dressers
of cloth, also bleachers, in this part of the country.

   Roads, Woods, etc.-The great post and turnpike road
from London to Edinburgh and Glasgow, runs through
Lockerbie and this parish.  The southern mail coach arrives
at the post-office here every evening, and the northern ditto
every morning.  The time of communication between
London and Lockerbie (336 miles) is only about 50 hours.
Along this road in the spring, but especially in the end of
harvest, vast droves of black cattle from the North and
West Highlands pass into England, to the number of about
20,000 annually, prices from L. 3 to L. 7 each, in order to
be fatted in the Norfolk fenns and other places, and supply
the London and other markets, making the most delicious
meat, vastly preferable to the large and rancid Irish horned
bullocks.  About 50 cart loads of merchant goods pass
weekly to and from Glasgow, and that vicinity, mostly of
the cotton fort.  The private road in this parish are getting

<FOOTNOTE>

*The beasts of the wild kind are foxes, hares, badgers, polecats, wea-
sels, hedgehogs, adders, snakes, otters.  There are moorfowl, red and
black; patridges, &c.; also geese, ducks, herons, teals, snipes, plovers,
woodcocks, blackbirds, crows, magpies, thrushes, wren, lapwings, kites,
hawks, cuckoos, swallows, cranes, pigeons, sparrows, linnets, larks, gold-
finches, sea-gulls, and robin-red-breasts.


