
	               STEVENSTON.                           429

for which a flood in the river would better account; but the tra-
dition strengthens our belief in the reality of the change, while
it carries it back to a dark and distant age.
	Whatever may have been the changes in the course of the
river, there is reason to think that the sea at a remoter period over-
flowed what is now occupied by the sand-hills, and washed the
base of that rocky ridge, which, commencing at Saltcoats, is very
evident at Sea-Bank, and forms the high ground at the church
and manse, and also at Ardeer. In proof of this, we may men-
tion, that sea shells were lately found in sandy gravel, in digging a
deep grave in the churchyard; though we have to regret that, they
were not shewn to us. We have ourselves found in deep hollows
formed by the wind among the sand-hills, about a mile from the
sea, abundance of sea shells, chiefly consisting of Turbo littoreus and
Mactra subtruncata. We have seen fine specimens of Pecten
maximus found in perfect preservation twenty-two feet below the
surface, when sinking for coal in the flat sandy common to the
west of the sand-hills. * And in several places of the same field,

<FOOTNOTE>It is quite a common occurrence in sinking for coal in any part of the coal-field,
from Saltcoats to Misk and Bogend, after passing through a bed of sand, varying in
depth from 5 to 25 or 30 feet, to come to a stratum of clay, and to find on the sur-
face of the clay abundance of recent shells. A list of about 70 species of these sub-
fossil shells was made out, but we need insert only those not found in a recent state
on the shore, viz.
Solen legumen	        Crassina minima        Patella parva
Mactra truncata	        Nucula minima          Cemoria Flemingi
Tellina approxima	Modiola papuana        Fumus lamellosus
Crassina ovata	        -- albicostata         Corbula nucleus
	Since the above sentence was written, we have had the pleasure of picking up
abundance of these shells, where they are boring the rock at Ardeer or Stevenston
quarry. There, the shells are only 5 feet under the green award. At this depth, there
is a bed of coarse sea-sand, mixed with Turbo litioreus, &c. &c. the whelks and lim-
pets and cockles being sound and entire.
	Under this bed of gravel and sand and shells, there is a stratum of solid till or
slate-clay, 10 or 12 feet thick, overlying the beautiful sandstone of the quarry.
This schistue is perforated in innumerable places, to the depth of 5 or 6 inches by
Pholas crispata or the Borer, in the same manner as the progeny, probably, of these
venerable Borers are at the present day piercing the same rock, in the sea at Saltcoats.
The bore is fully an inch in diameter. The shell still occupies the mouth of the perfora-
tion, and, though now frail, it is distinctly marked by its waved ridges and longitu-
dinal furrows, and the groove running from the hinge to the margin. But what is
much more wonderful; at the bottom of the holes which the Pholas has bored
there is a matted tuft of sea-weed, (Ulva intestimalis), not petrified; not con-
verted into peat--not rotten--but retaining its sap and form, and texture and
reticulations, and even its pale green colour! This is not a little surprising Sir
William Hooker, to whose kindness, on many occasions, we have been indebted, and
to whom we sent specimens, says that we are correct in the name; and that it could

         * As we are not well acquainted with sub-fossil shells, the names have been kind-
ly furnished to us by James Smith, Esq. of Jordanhill, who has paid much attention
to the conchology ot the newer tertiary formations.


