
64                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Town.-Dumfries is the nearest market-town, and is
scarecely two miles distant from the south part of the parish. We
have no post-offices; but a runner, or penny-post, to carry letters
to and from the town might be useful. A spacious public road
runs, almost six miles, in a longitudinal way through the parish.
The bridges and fences are kept in good repair.
        Ecclesiastical State.-It appears from ancient records, that "Da-
vid II granted to the monks of Arbroath the church of St Quin-
tin of Kirkmaho, in the diocese of Glasgow." This grant, how-
ever, seems never to have been effectual, at least as to the pa-
tronage, for that "continued to belong to the Stewarts," who suc-
ceeded the Cumins in the barony" of Dalswinton. In 1429, the
rectory of Kirkmaho was constituted one of the rebends of the
bishoprick of Glasgow, with the consent, however, of Marion Stew-
wart, the heiress of Dalswinton, and of Sir John Forrester, her se-
cond husband, and of William Stewart, her son and heir; she and
her heirs continued to the patrons of this rectorial prebend. * At the
Reformation, the rectory of Kirkmaho was held by John Stewart,
the second of patron, Sir Alexander Stewart of Garlies. On
the seventeenth century,the patronage of Kirkmaho passed, with
the barony of Dalswinton, from the Queensberry family through-
out the eighteenth century, and in 1810 passed to the Duke of
Buccleuch and Queensberry." +
	The parish church was built twelve years ago, a little farther to
the north than the old church, and stands four miles distant
from the cross of Dumfries. It is a comely Gothic structure, and
amidst the trees of the churchyard and vicinity, it makes a very
graceful appearance. Its situation, however, is far from being con-
venient for a part of the population. It has no seats peculiarly
appropriated to the poor.
	The manse was built in 1799, and has had almost no repair hi-
therto. The glebe contains about eight acres of good land.
	The stipend, by the last augmentation, commencing with crop
and year 1825, is 16 chalders, half meal half barley, payable in
money, according to the highest fiars prices of the county, yield-
L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.

<FOOTNOTE>See the original deed in Crawford's Lives of the Officers of State.
        Caledonia, Vol. iii pp. 161-162.


