
134                        ARGYLESHIRE.

Ardnamurchan, are light and friable, consisting of decomposed
mineral and vegetable particles, washed from the mountains by the
rains or streams, or of reclaimed moss.  In some cases, they are
gravelly and stony to a degree betokening utter barrenness; but
these yield by no means the worst crops.
   Mines.-Though traces of lead are found in many parts of Su-
nart, only the mines of Strontian have been worked.  These de-
serve a more scientific and particular description than can here be
given.  They consist of two veins; one, termed steel ore, on account
of its hardness and iron grey colour, is said to be rich in silver;
but is difficult to smelt, though producing excellent lead.  The
direction of this vein is from south-east to north-west, with a slight
dip to the north.  The working or vein is about eight feet wide,
the walls granite, and an opening having been made on the slope
of the hill in which it is situated, it is entered by a level passage
through this without a shaft.  On the other vein, there are several
openings or shafts, some of which are 100 fathoms deep.  This
vein isat one spot thirty feet wide ; its bearing a few points more
to east and west than that of the former, and its dip slightly to the
south.  It is crossed from north to south by a whin dike, nineteen
feet wide, besides others of less size.  The walls are granite or
gneiss.  There are various riders, as the 'miners term them, of
quartz, apart from 'the walls, rising abruptly in the very centre of
the vein, and splitting into parts for several yards, and terminating
at once.  These aire left by the miner, bnt the blue stone or cale
spar, in which the galena is imbedded, is totally removed, and the
ore afterwards separated before smelting.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There appears to be no, doubt that the entire parish formed part
of the possessions of Somerled, the celebrated Thane or Regulus
of Argyle, whose mainland conquests, moreover, are supposed
with great probability, to have been the dominions of his ances-
tors.  After his death in 1164, it would seem that the superiority
of these lands had been wrested, by the efforts of successive Scot-
tish Kings, from the descendants of that warlike aud able chief,
At any rate, the first authentic notices of them are grants of Alex-
ander III. in 1283, of Ardnamurchan, and Maruin to Angus Mar
of Isla, and of the lordship of Garmoran to Allan MacRuari,
both heads of powerful houses descended from Somerled.  Moi-
dart, Arassaig, and South Morir, with adjacent districts to the north,
had by this time been formed into the lordship above-mentioned,


