
     Of Northmaven.

or take in their lines, every fish, as brought into the boat,
they cut off the heads, and throw them into an apartment by
themselves, then take out, the guts and entrails.  It some-
times happens, that they cannot carry their draught with
safety to the shore; in which case, they first throw the heads,
skate, hallibut, tusk, cod, and sometimes ling.  Boats have
taken ashore 20 score lings; 12 or 14 score, with cod and tusk,
is esteemed 2 great haul; 5 or 6 score is esteemed a medium.
In moderate weather, they commonly reach their landing
place, from 12 noon to 4 P.M. They have been known to
be out 3 days and 3 nights. All the stores they ever carry
with them, is an half anker filled with the drink called Blan-
da, a cake of bread to each man, and a bottle Geneva. The
fishing ends the 15th August.  Old men and boys are em-
ployed at the fishing station for curing the fish.  The old men
cut out the back bone, after which the boys wash the fish in
the sea, bring them again to the old men, who salt them in
tubs or vats for the purpose, where they lie a competent
time soaking in brine.  When taken out of these vats, they
must be carefully washed with a broom in salt water.  They
are then laid in heaps for a day or two, and then, at proper
intervals, exposed to the sun, till perfectly dried, taking care
gradually to increase the piles or stiples into which they are
built as they harden.  In this way, they are kept on the 
beach for 6, 8, o 10 weeks until cellared or shipped*.

     VOL. XIII. Z z

<FOOTNOTE>

*A committee of Parliament in 1786, declared, that the best means of im-
proving the fisheries, was to encourage the inhabitants living nearest the seat of
them to become fishers.  What description of men, then, can have a better title
than the poor inhabitants of this parish?  Who should be more encourage, or
suitably rewarded, than a stout, hardy, and laborious race of men, who have a
predilection for the employment of fishing, above all other pursuits, though none
attended with more fatique and danger, or hitherto rewarded to meanly?  The Fish-
ers complain that they are not permitted to dispose of their fish and produce to the


