
48                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

during his life-time, and he died suddenly, when pursuing his usual
exercise, having just completed the seventieth year of his age. His
dust rests with that of his ancestors in Athelstaneford church-yard,
where a marble monument is erected to his memory. "By simpli-
fying the comforts of life, he rose to private independence," as one
has said of him, and left considerable property to his relatives.  For
some years before his death, he kept a riding-horse, and lived more
in the style of a country gentleman than of an artist. About that
time his professional labours did not exceed one likeness in the
twelve months, and its price was one hundred guineas. The time
and labour he bestowed on his likenesses were great beyond what
can be expressed. Had he painted for gain, he might have left a
large fortune; but his great object in painting seemed to be to
please his own fine taste.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers of this parish
have been kept correctly since the beginning of last century, and
are generally written in a fair hand. The register before 1688 is
imperfect. The record of the Presbytery of Haddington com-
mences at the first establishment of Presbytery after the period of
the Reformation, is entire, and appears to have been correctly kept.
   Modern Buildings.-The only modern building of large dimen-
sion in this parish is the mansion house of Sir David Kinloch, Ba-
ronet, of Gilmerton.
   An old baronial mansion of large extent stands in this parish,
formerly the residence of the Earls of Winton. Part of it is still
inhabited, but the greater part is in ruins. It had been built in
the form of a square: an excellent garden and fine bowling green
are attached. The house had been defended by a strong wall, and
on the north side also by a deep moat. George Earl of Winton
in large gilt letters is still legible in the ceiling of the principal
room.
   Ancient Families- Of the ancient families of distinction in East
Lothian, whose ancestors swore fealty to Edward I. of England at
Berwick A.D. 1296, there does not appear to be any now existing,
and in possession of the lands they then held, except Brown of
Colestone, the last branch of which family is the Right Honourable
Christian Brown, Countess of Dalhousie.
   It is perhaps not unworthy of notice, that the lands of Fast For-
ton, after passing into various families, are again in the possession
of a lineal descendant of the renowned Sir Simon Frazer of Peebles-
shire, whose eldest daughter was married to the ancestor of the


