
4				AYRSHIRE.

in any direction, and the plantations that abound are finely diversi-
fied with the stately mansions and pleasure grounds of landed pro-
prietors, which tend greatly to improve the scenery and aspect of
the parish. The district in the immediate vicinity of Ayr is beau-
tifully ornamented in this way, and the fields that are not under
wood are cultivated and dressed like a garden. In the old parish
fronting the town, the mansion house of Castlehill, belonging to
James Ballantyne, Esq. stands pre-eminently distinguished. It
is situated on a commanding eminence, surrounded with fine plan-
tations, and has a most interesting view of Ayr, its harbour and
bay, and the distant mountains of Arran. A little to the west of
it is the secluded retreat of Belmont Cottage, nearly hid among the
trees in which it is embowered. A little further on, towards Allo-
way, is the magnificent seat of Rozelle, with its stately woods and en-
closures, the residence of Archibald Hamilton, Esq., and Lady Jane
M. Hamilton, daughter of the late and aunt of the present Earl
of Eglinton, to whom the property belongs. To the south, at a
short distance, lies the beautiful domain of Doonholm, stretching
along the banks of the Doon, and having its mansion-house almost
entirely concealed by thick groves of thriving plantations. To the
west, nearer the sea, is the House of Belle-isle, the residence of
the late Alexander West Hamilton, Esq. of Pinmore, who al-
most rebuilt it, by constructing a spacious edifice around the walls
of the old mansion, on one of the most enviable sites in the parish.
It is now the property of his son Hugh, a minor, and rears its tur-
reted gable, projections, and chimney tops above the trees, in the
style of the old English baronial manor-houses. And in its imme-
diate vicinity, is the elegant new mansion of Mount Charles, stand-
ing on a steep bank above the Doon, with a beautiful lawn in
front, and shaded all around with groves of plantations. When
the parish of Alloway was united to that of Ayr, so bleak and bar-
ren was its surface, that it was covered almost entirely with furze
and heath, without shelter or ornament of any kind, except some
natural wood along the banks of the river. It is on record, that
"the lands were possessed by tenants, at the yearly rent of 1s. 3d.
per acre, which they were unable to pay, and often became bank-
rupts and beggars." At present, a great part of it is among the most
fertile, the best cultivated, and the most finely wooded districts
in the county, the land yielding a rent of upwards of L. 4 an acre,
and producing in crops a fair remunerating return to the farmer.
	Climate.--The climate at Ayr, although variable and moist, is
				 3


