
                                  DULL.                            759

     and, proceeding in a south-easterly course, falls into the Tay on
     its left bank, at the south-east extremity of Logierait.
        The Garry has its rise from a loch of that name in the parish
     of Blair-Athole.   In its course it is greatly augmented by the
     Bruar, the Tilt, and other mountain torrents.  Besides partially
     intersecting this parish, and forming the boundary line betwixt it-
     self and the former parish at Shierglass, it again wholly intersects
     the north-east corner of Dull, a little below the pass of Killiecran-
     kie, and, sweeping through it in a southerly direction, joins the
     Tummel in the neighbourhood of Fascally, amidst lovely and im-
     posing scenery.
        Cascades.--The cascades which chiefly claim attention are, the
     Falls of Keltnie, Camserny, Tummel, and Moness.  The first of
     these is in the vicinity of Coshieville inn, and forms the march
     betwixt this parish and the adjoining parish of Fortingall on the
     west.  The Keltnie here forms a series of beautiful cataracts, the
     highest of which issues from a dark narrow opening, and, precipi-
     tated in one foaming torrent over a pile of perpendicular rocks
     into the deep and gloomy dell below, makes a fall of sixty feet.
     There is a footpath leading to them on this side, from which they
     appear to better advantage; and the traveller who rests at the inn,
     and is in search of the picturesque and beautiful, will find ample
     gratification and reward in visiting them.
        About half-way between Coshieville and Weem is the Fall of
     Camserny.  It is higher than the former, but more broken and
     tortuous, which, however, tends to give it an additional charm.
     As the tourist approaches Camserny bridge from the west, a beau-
     tiful, though somewhat distant, view is presented to his eyve, on
     the left hand, of its foaming sinuosities struggling and dashing in
     milky whiteness over its precipitous and rugged channel, until it
     is swallowed up by the woody and rocky bank bounding it on either
     side.
        The principal fall of the Tummel is situated neitr its junction
     with the Garry.  It is inferior to the two preceding falls in point
     of altitude, but superior as to the quantity of water and sublimity
     of scenery.  The roaring of the waters, rushing forward with heed-
     less impetuosity, and falling over a height of about 18 feet, in one
     continued sheet of white foam, fills the visitor with admiration, not
     unmingled with awe.                                                   I
        The Falls of Moness are situated in the vicinity of the populous
     village of Aberfeldy, and have been celebrated by Burns's lively


