
                           DUMFERMLINE.                               865.

     Wardlaw of Balmule; Johne Stanehouse, and Mr Samuel Row,
     then assistant minister at Dutifermline.
       In 1643, the Solemn League and Covenant, a mutual bond of
     union which bad that year been entered into between England and
     Scotland, for the better protection of the Protestant religion, pre-
     vention of the spread and ascendancy of Popery and Prelacy, and
     the preservation of the liberties of the kingdom in peace and unity,-
     a document which has been characterized by our latest church his-
     torian as "the noblest, in its essential nature and principles, of all
     that are recorded among the national transactions of the world,"-
     was sworn and subscribed at Dunfermline, on the 5tb, 6tb, 7th, 8tb,
     and 12th days of November of that year. This Covenant contains
     most of the signatures already mentioned as attached to the for-
     mer Covenant, with several new ones, among which are those of
     Mr Robert Kay, then minister at Dumbarton, and two years after-
     wards at Dunfermline, Robert Anderson, reader of God's word,
     and a great many more, many of them written in the same hand,
     probably for those who were unable to write. It is printed, and
     contained in a quarto bound book, baviDg on one of the boards,
      "For the Kirk of Dunfermling."
       In 1645, the plague raged in the parish, and carried off num-
     bers, of which there are several notices in the kirk-session records,
       In 1650, Charles II., soon after his accession to the throne, on
     the decapitation of his father in January 1649, subscribed at Dun-
     fermline, with apparent, but only feigned, sincerity, a most re-
     markable declaration, confirmatory of his former oath to adhere
     to both covenants. This has been styled " The Dunfermline
     Declaration," and is dated 16th August 1650.
       In February 1651, there was a great  dearth in Dunfermline.
       In July 1651, a battle was fought near Pitreavie House in this
     parish, between the army of Cromwell and that of Charles II.,
     when the former crossed the Frith at Queensferry, on their march
     northward to Perth, in order to cut off the royal resources from
     the King, then at Torwood, in the vicinity of Stirling, an engage-
     ment which in its consequences proved very disastrous to the Scots.
     It has been called " the Battle of Fife," and sometimes also,
     "the Battle of Inverkeithing," and " Battle of Pitreavie ;"-the
     first action having been fought near Inverkeithing, and then,con-
     tinued up to Pitreavie, where the chief slaughter took place
        The English soldiers, after,their victory, indulged in many -acts
     of annoying petty plunder.
        FIFE.

