
                        EDINBURGH.                       735

sewers which join the Water of Leith are by no means in that
perfect state which the comfort of the community requires.
   In former times, the plague, which paid frequent visits to
many of the cities of Britain, was not uncommon in Edin-
burgh. We have accounts of its raging with great violence in
the years 1513 and 1514. At this period, public regulations were
instituted by the magistrates for the public safety, and all vagrants
were forbidden to walk the streets after nine o'clock at night. It
prevailed also with more or less violence in the years 1568, 1585,
1604, and 1645. After this latter date, it does not appear to have
occurred.
   Another disease, at one time common in Britain, but now to-
tally unknown, was the leprosy, or rather that species of it called
elephantiasis. This ailment was by no means unfrequent in Edin-
burgh, as well as other districts of Scotland, so late as the year
1591. In that year the monastery of the Carmelite Friars, situ-
ated in Greenside, near the base of the Calton Hill, was convert-
ed into a leper house, for the reception of persons affected with
this disease.
   About a century ago intermittent fevers or agues were not un-
common in Edinburgh, caused, it was said, by the exhalations of
the marshy grounds to the north-west of the Castle. In the pre-
sent day, agues arising from local causes are totally unknown;
typhus and other fevers especially afflicting the poor, have in re-
cent times superseded the ancient plagues. In the years 1814-15,
typhus fever appeared as an epidemic in Edinburgh, and raged
with great violence. Since that period it has prevailed with more
or less virulence every winter, and indeed it may be said now
never to be entirely extirpated from among the poorer dwellings.
   A fever of a new type, of a milder character, raged in
Edinburgh in the years 1843-4. Its seizures were even more
numerous than those of the ordinary typhus, but fortunately it was
not so tedious nor by any means so fatal. It commenced in au-
tumn, and was accompanied by a bilious affection, which was cha-
racteristic of the disease.
   In 1832, during the awful visitation of cholera in Britain, Edin-
burgh was not exempted, although it did not suffer so much in
portion to its size as many other smaller towns and districts.
While the disease was yet only in its progress towards the city,
measures were promptly taken to meet and if possible abviate it.
A board of public health was constituted, the town was portioned


