
			CRAWFORD.                      339

cially during the winter, and many of the shepherds who are at a
distance from a school follow the same plan.
	Poor.--In consequence of the mining operations being somewhat
fluctuating, numbers of individuals occasionally leave the place, and
afterwards become a burden on the poor's fund. The number of
persons on the roll may be about 10, exclusive of the poor in Lead-
hills, who are supplied by a stated sum, given by the heritors and
Lord Hopetoun. The average sum given to the poor on the roll is
about L. 2, 1Os. The whole amount required in support of the poor
in the parish is about L. 85; L. 50 of which is contributed voluntari-
ly by the heritors, and the remaining sum is raised by the collec-
tions, &c. at the church and chapel, and by donations from Lord Hope-
toun. The aversion to receive parochial relief, by which Scotland
was formerly distinguished, seems here, as in many other places, to
be on the decline.
	Fairs.--There are two fairs held at Leadhills during the year,
chiefly with the view of supplying the village with the necessaries
and the comforts of life. These fairs are very advantageous to
the country around, and are generally well attended.
	Inns.--There are two inns at Crawford and one at Leadhills,
which afford excellent accommodation to travellers. No alehouse
is allowed at Leadhills.
	Fuel.--In the higher parts of the parish, peat or turf is the fuel
generally used, and is procured mostly from the tops of the hills.
Peat ground does not abound in the parish, and it is difficult to pro-
cure enough of it for the use of the smelting, operations at Lead-
hills. Coal, brought from Douglas, is generally used in the lower
parts of the parish. Thus fuel is procured at no small expense.
The coal is carried upwards of fourteen miles, and access to the
peat is difficult.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The improvements that have been made in the parish within the
last fifty years are very striking; both as they regard rural economy
and the morality of the people. The improvement on the stock or
sheep is very apparent,--the quality is better, the number is greater.
This may arise from various causes combined,--the spirit of emula-
tion which exists,amongst the tenants in the parish,--the extensive
improvement made on the sheep-walks by draining,--and the vast
extent of separation dikes, which allow the flocks to pasture at ease
on their own grounds, and which afford shelter from the storm.


