
342                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

laird's court;" "pick-locking ane house;" " steiling of fruit;"
"braking doun dykis of parkis and woodis;" "cuting grass in
plantations and green wood," &c. 2. "Absence from the wapin-
schaw;" "discerning the haill tennentis in the barrony to be at
the place appointit for baddin out the hielandmen;" "obliging
the haill tennentis to go to the service of the camp for the defens
of the country." (1640). 3. "Ordaining tennentis to wark thair
irne wark with James Smith, and to pay him thair smyddy bow
zeirly." "Discerning, brewsteris to furnisch the laird's stewart
with barm for makkin and bakin sufficient bread," &c.
        The punishments are,-"the price of ane quart of ale ; 20 sh.;
40 pundis Scotis; loss of moweables; escheiting of hail guidis to
the laird; sitting 24 howris in the stokkis; banischment from the
laird's landis, and pulling down the hous of the offender," &c.
	The court sat about four times a year, and the average number
of cases was 27.
        Eminent Men.-The first minister of this parish after the Re-
formation was Mr James Reid (cir. 1580), a younger son of Mr Reid
of Pitfoddels, a gentleman of very ancient family in the county of
Aberdeen. He was succeeded by his son Robert (1620); subse-
quently by Alexander Cant, a relation of the celebrated Andrew;
and afterwards by his great-grandson Mr Robert Reid (1662)-
"James Reid," says Gordon of Rothiemay, "was a man of a nota-
ble head-piece for witte, and the most part of his children were men
of extraordinar qualifications." His son, Thomas, studied under
Lipsius, and, after travelling over Europe, he became Greek and
Latin secretary to James I., and lived in habits of intimacy with
some of the most distinguished characters of that period. He col-
lected in a volume and published the theses which he had defend-
ed at foreign universities, (De objecto Metaphysicae, London,
1616), and some of his Latin poems were inserted in the Deliciae
Poet. Scot. Barclay gives his paraphrase of the 104th Psalm a
high place among the efforts which were made by the eminent
scholars of the time to clothe, that beautiful hymn in a Latin dress;
"et propter elegantiam carminis, et propter expressionem prophe-
tae mentis prae caeteris, et propter antiquitatis et doctrinae non ob-
scura argumenta." Dempster also praises him as "a man of great
dmhnence." He bequeathed to the Marischal College of Aber-
doen a collection'of books and MSS., with a fund for establishing
a salary  to a librarian. His brother,  Dr Alexander Reid, was


