
                  CATHCART.                                  507

are natural copse on the estate of Langside, and the rest consists
of plantations, including ornamental belts of every descriptions
Upwards of twenty acres of the above number occupy the farm of
Merrilee, the property of Sir John Maxwell, and the only portion
of the parish unfit, from its rocky nature, for profitable cultivation.
The ground was planted with firs by the proprietor about forty
years ago a part of which has recently been cleared, yielding
fair return upon the original outlay, and is again replanted. The
average rental of the lands of the whole parish is L. 2, Os. 10 1/4d per.
imperial acre, and the total rental amounts to L. 6013, 14s. 3d.
There is a very great variety, however, in the value of the several
farms, according to the quality of the soil and the relative advan-
tages of the I ocality for manure and markets. Very great im-
provements have taken place since the commencement of the pre-
sent century, in the mode of cultivating the soil, resulting from
the rapid progress of agricultural science. A regular rotation of
cropping, completed in four years, is generally practised with much
success. Oats, potatoes, wheat, and bay, follow each other such
cessively, the potato crop being always well mantired. The
greater proportion of the lands which required it have, within
these few years, been thoroughly furrow-drained, either with-tiles
or stones, and thus made capable of producing potatoes of good
quality and fair crop in despite of untoward seasons. At the date
of the last Statistical Account, there were scarcely thirty acres fit
for the produce of this most valuable rool There are now about
300. Many acres also of rich alluvial soil have been reclaimed
within the above period from a state of utter worthlessness by deep
open sewers, brought to a lower level, and carrying off to the
river the superfluous water which had formerly flooded  them
throughout the whole course of the seasons. Very little of the
land is kept by the farmers in pasturage, and in the few instances
where it is so, it is again broken up by a five instead of a four
yeaes rotation. Upon the whole, this parish, will bear a compa-
rison to its hononr with any part of Scotland, in local improve-
inent, industrial management, and the diligent promotion of every
scheme which science can suggest and practice can accomplish for:
the prosperity of agriculture. It is perhaps more the, consequence
than the cause of this happy state of matters, that a Farmer's So-
ciety has recently been instituted, for the purpose of awarding
prizes at an annual competition to those who: approve themselves
the most  skilful in those practical operations, on which the success
of husbandry so much depends.


