
176                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

walking one day about the Shank braes, bargained with each other
that one of them was to kiss the first woman they met.  She hap-
pened to be a young lady of the family of Grant, then residing in
the neighbouring mansion-house.  The adventurous youth who
had undertaken the wager immediately walked up to her and
accomplished his purpose-upon which the lady, whether in wrath
or in good humour is not stated, informed him, that it was well for
him, that the scene had not been enacted in her country-tbe
Highlands-otherwise he would have paid with his head the for-
feit of his audacity.  Lord Elcho resided in the same house about
the year 1745-and when the property of Shank was purchased
by the Arniston family the mansion-house was inhabited by a
Lieutenant Carnegie.  The original march of the Shank property
was within a few hundred yards of the front of Arniston House.
The very aged oak tree which all visitors must have observed in front
of the lawn-and which is believed to be the oldest tree on the
estate-marks the boundary of the two original properties.  About
the year 1754 a small portion of the Harvieston property was pur-
chased by the family of Arniston from a person of the name of
Campbell.
  Middleton House stands at the higher part of the parish, and is
the most elevated in its situation of any of the seats of the pro-
prietors.  It is of inferior dimensions to the house of Arniston--
though of the same general style of architecture, only suited to the
smaller extent of the property to which it is attached.  From an
inscription above the principal entrance it appears to have been
built in the year 1710.-It is surrounded by an extensive wood of
tall beach trees-and has a general air of quiet and genteel seclu-
sion. Being in the immediate neighbourhood of Middleton moor
and of the Lammermuir hills, it is considered to be a healthy situa-
tion-and is much valued for the advantages which it offers to per-
sons who are fond of rural sports.  Its extensive woods-its neigh-
bourhood to the old and quiet-looking village of Middleton-and
its proximity to the green  hills which border the moor on the
South, give it altogether an aspect which most persons regard with
pleasure. The garden is kept in a very superior style, though the
roots of the trees, seem soon to find an unhealthy subsoil, which
renders it expedient to keep their branches as low as possible. The
ornamented grounds in the vicinity are the admiration of all visi-
tors. The proprietors have repeatedly attempted to enhance the
beauty of this locality by forming a pond in the centre of the or-


