
                           CREICH.                          647

ner of dress, there is no peculiarity. On the Sabbath, they ap-
pear in church in their best attire, which is neat, respectable, and
becoming. They show a regard for religious institutions and in-
struction ; and may, in general, be considered an intelligent
moral, and religious people.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.-From answers to my inquiries by the different
proprietors and tenants, I am enabled to state that the number of
standard imperial acres in the parish is 2324; that of these 1803
are cultivated ; that 276 remain constantly waste, or in pasture;
that, scarcely any could with a profitable application of capital, be
added to the cultivated land ; that 4 1 acres are occuppied by roads,
houses, farm-steadings, barn-yard, churchyard, and, burying-
ground ; and that the remaining 204 are under plantation.
   Woods.-The trees are, chiefly Scotch, larch, and spruce firs,
in the larger plantations intermixed with several kinds of hard-
wood. In one of smaller extent, and in some belts and clumps of
planting, they are chiefly hard-wood and in, the grounds, about
Luthrie House there are some fine old elms, planes, and horse-
chestnuts, &c. A few years ago, a plantation of Scotch fir of fifteen
imperial acres, on the north-east extremity of the farm of Creich,
and last year about nine acres of a plantation on Luthrie, were cut
down and sold,-the; trees having come to full maturity at the age
of seventy. The ground on, which they grew has been,
trenched, is now bearing excellent crops.
   Rent-Many of the proprietors, farm their properties; but
a fair average rent of the arable land in the parish is considered
by good judges, to be L. 2, 2s. per Scots acre, or L. 1, 13s. 3 1/2d.
per imperial acre and, of the uncultivated ground to, be 5s per
Scots acre, or about 4s. per imperial acre. According to this es-
timate, the rent of the parish is L. 3056, 14s. 2d. The average
rent of grazing is at the rate of L. 3 for an ox; L. 3 10s. for a
cow; 12s. for a ewe or full grown sheeo for the year; and L. 5
for a mare and foal.
   Rate of Wages.-Unmarried ploughmen receive each from L. 10
to L. 12 in money, and six bolls and half of oatmeal, Dutch
weight, annually, and a Scotch pint of milk daily, as it comes
from the cow. They are lodged in bothies. Married ploughmen
receive each annually about L. 10, 10s., the same quantity of meal
and milk, a free house and garden, the driving of their coals, and
about 27 falls of ground for planting potatoes. This small por-



