
4                     SELKIRKSHIRE.

famous of old as being tenanted by the wizard Michael Scott,
many traditions of whom are here still current.
   Some coins, apparently Roman, were found three or four years
ago, but from their decay it was impossible to make out their date
or inscription; and it is noticed in the former report that some
skulls of the Urus, or wild ox, and a Roman spear, were dug up
in a moss near Selkirk.
   Eminent Men.-The chief characters of eminence connected with
this parish have been, 1st, Andrews Pringle, Lord Alemoor, a Lord of
Session during the last century, equally remarkable for his learning
and eloquence, 2d, Mungo Park, the African traveller, born at
Fowlshiels, where one of his brothers still resides. And lastly,
the great Sir Walter Scott, Baronet, who was long Sheriff of the
Country.
   The chief Landholders are the Duke of Buccleuch; Robert
Pringle of Clifton; Charles Scott of Sunderlandhall; Hugh Scott
of Harden; Alexander Pringle of Whytbank; John Boyd of
Broadmeadows; John Dunlop of Whitmoorhall; Maconochie of
Greenhead; and the town of Selkirk.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, namely, those of
births and marriages, are kept with great regularity by the session-
clerk.  They consist of several folio volumes, the earliest date of
which is 1641.  Unluckily, however, the register of births is not
so complete as could be wished, from the circumstance that people
belonging to the Secession church, who are here pretty nume-
rous, have a seeming reluctance to enter the births of their chil-
dren, and, consequently, the enrolments are mostly made by pa-
rents in union with the establishment.  It may be here noticed,
that there is also a register of deaths, not kept by the session-clerk,
but by an individual merely for his own amusement.  It commences
in 1742, and has been continued down to the present time.
   Modern Buildings.-There is one church belonging to the Esta-
blishment, and one Secession meeting-house.  At one time there
were two Secession meeting-houses, but when the dissenting synods
united, one was found to be sufficient, and the other has been convert-
ed into a dwelling-house.  There is also a town hall, with an elegant
spire 110 feet in height; and close to the town there have just been
rebuilt very excellent mills forgrinding wheat, barley, and other grain.
An inkle manufactory, which existed many years, was discontinued,
in consequence of the late great depression of trade.  There are
some stockings-looms, and a fulling mill, which employ only a very



