
                      ST FERGUS.                              195

rochial register of births and baptisms is the 1st May 1688.  This
register consists of three folio volumes, but till within the last fif-
teen years does not appear to have been regularly kept.  Parents
formerly were often very negligent in recording the births of their
children; but registration is now enforced.  The records of the
kirk-session begin on the 1st January 1749, and, as far as regards
the management of the poor, seem to have been carefully kept
from that time.  To the res gesto of discipline less attention had
been paid during the two last incumbencies ; but from 1749 to,
1772, the details are very minute, and very interesting, as illus-
trative of the habits and character of the people, though certainly
not calculated to confired, the impression, that 14 the former times
were better than these."  A register of deaths has been kept for
several years, but hither to unaccompanied with a nosological table.
   Antiquities.-On the banks of the Ugie, and on the most interest-
ing site that could have been selected in the parish for such a build-
ing, are to be seen the ruins of Inverugie Castle, once a splendid edi-
fice, and the principal residence of the Earls Marischal.  One of the
towers, called the Cheyne's Tower, is of great antiquity; but the
greater part of the, fabric is supposed to have been built by
George, Earl Marischal, the founder of the Marischal College
in Aberdeen.  Tradition reports, that Sir Thomas Learmont the
Rhymer visited this place, and poured forth his vaticinations
against it from a stone in the neighbourhood, in such strains as
these:

                Inverugie by the sea
             Lordless shall thy lands be.

   The stone on which the Seer sat was removed to build the
church in 1763; but the field in which it lay, is still, called Tam-
mas' stane.
   The late James Ferguson, Esq. repaired and roofed; in the main
building of the castle, floored it, and erected an observatory on the
top of it, at considerable expense.  But the present proprietor,
with a greater regard to taste than utility, has dismantled it of
these modernizings, and allowed ruin to reassume bar empire.
   The old churchyard close by the coast, and which is still the
only burial-ground in the parish, is an interesting object, and, from
the loneliness of its, situation, peculiarly adapted to be the dwel-
ling, place, of the dead.  It is enclosed by a substantial wal, built
at the sole expense of the parishioners, in 1751, and repaired by
them in 1833.  The principal heritor has conceeded the privilege


