
       182                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       height little short of 4000 feet; and presenting many series of
       pyramidal summits, among which the peak of Sc-r--ran is eminent-
       ly conspicuous, they form a piece of alpine scenery not often sur-
       passed in grandeur.  The middle chain is distinguished by the
       name of Benmore, great mount ; that on the north is called Bein-
       fhadd, lony mount; and the other Meal-cheann-dearg, red-headed
       mass.
         Between these ridges, lie the vallies of Glensheil and Glenlichd,
       i. e. the valley of the flat stone or flag,-the former extending along
       the western,-the other, along the eastern base of Benmore.
       The valley of Glensheil is about fifteen miles long, the lower por-
       tion of which space consists of a level plain about eight miles long
       and half a-mile wide, containing some good meadow and arable land,
       through which the river Sheil winds between low banks ornament-
       ed with alder bushes.  The lower end of this portion is occupied
       by the lake of Lochsbeil.  About the middle, its breadth gradual-
       ly diminishes, until the mountains approach so closely as to leave
       only room for the stream to pass between them.  But after passing
       the level, at which the waters which run to the east divide from
       those flowing to the west,-tbe valley again expands, and forms a
       bed for the lake of Cluonie, which is about six miles long, and the
       middle of which marks the boundary of the parish in this direction.
         The valley of Glenlichd is shorter and narrower than the other,
       opening at its lower end into the strath of Croe, i.e. the Sheep
       Penn, which is about five miles long and two broad, and is drained
       by the river Croe, which here divides the parish from Kintail.
         The western division of the parish, called Letterfearn, i. e. the
       alder side, * consists of the north side of a hill, of the average height
       of about 2000 feet, and is 12 miles long and 2 broad, forming
       the south bank of Lochduich, and extending from Kyle-rea to the
       pass of Ratagan, where it joins the most southerly of the mountain
       chains already described.  The character of this division is far more
       attractive than that of the other.  The rock is here well covered
       with soil, and clothed with pasture of remark-able verdure.  The
       ground rises with a gentle slope from the water, the general uni-
       formity of the landscape being agreeably diversified with bold head-
       lands, precipitous ravines, and rocky eminences, interspersed with
       cultivated fields and clumps of natural wood.
         Meteorology.- Although no meteorological tables have been kept
       in this parish, the climate may he stated generally as characterized

<FOOTNOTE>The opposite side of the loch, in the parish of Kintail, is called Letter-choil;
       i.e. the wooded side.
                                                   4


