
626                        PERTHSHIRE.

country, thd remains of some seven or eight of them still existing
between Pdrth and Dundee. Of these, one is in this parish. There
is also a stone of some historical note here, viz. that stone on which,
as tradition bears, the falcon alighted which measured out the
arded to Hay by Kenneth III. for his intrepid conduct
territory awarded to Hay by Kenneth III. for hir intrepid conduct
at the battle of Luncarty. By some the whole of this tradition has
been treated as fabulous, and, undoubtedly, there are portions of it
not easily reconcilable with what are considered to be well-esta-
blished, facts; but, however that may be, the stone referred to has
beyond all question been denominated the Hawk's Stone for many
centuries past, the most ancient charters and historical records re-
ferring to it as Saxum Falconis: and one fact in favour oftbe tra-
ditionary account connected with it is, that it does certainly lie upon
the very westmost verge of what is known to have been the origi-
nal property of the Hays of Errol.
     In the churchyard there is a very beautiful specimen of that
class of monuments, called Runic, from their imagined Norse or
Danish origin. They are somewhat prevalent in this part of Scot-
land, other specimens being found at Abernethy, Mugdrum, Dup-
plin, Fowlis Wester, and Dunkeld. There is not any thing au-
thentic known about their history, origin, or object; and although
they were lonf supposed to have some connection with events that
took place during Danish incursions, those who have lately been
comparing them and investigating their characters, begin to think
that there is more reason for linking them with the introduction of
Christianity into this country. The St Madnds' stone is about 7
feet in length, and in width about 3 at bottom, and 2 1/2 at top. Its
thickness is 8 inches. It is composed of gray sandstone, similar to
that which is found at Murray's Hall, fully six miles off. On the
one side the sculpture is divided into five compartments, right
under each other, and nearly equal in size. Each of the upper-
most three is occupied by the figure of a man on horseback, the
horse and rider being of the most grotesque form aiad unseemly
proportions. The bridle reins, bit, rings, and buckles, are mi-
nutely though rudely cut, and are in perfect preservation. The
rider wears a cloak or mantle, somewhat like the short water-proof
eloaks of out time, but with a flat crowned head piece, which leaves
only a small portion of the face to be seen. In the fourth com-
partment is a serpent-shaped figure, with fretted ornaments and
something like double-headed broken sceptre both of which or-
naments are to be found on most stones of the same class. Still
                                    4


