
     Statistical Account

kinds were in great abundance, and at an easy rate, but now
are very scarce, and high priced; not one haddock being
taken in a whole year.  There has been no sufficient cause
as yet assigned for this remarkable change.  The shoals of
herrings which used with great certainty to frequent the
coast, particularly in the autumnal season, and likewise in
the spring, are now become very precarious, and of no con-
sequence.  This great decrease of the fishing is a vast loss
to this part of the country.  For as fish was a principal part
of the support of the inhabitants, other provisions have
greatly advanced in price; and as great quantities of her-
rings, over and above the home consumpt, were cured and
exported, trade has suffered much.  Besides, the fishers are
threatening an emigration to other places; though as yet
only one man and family have left the parish this spring,
and gone to the town of Ayr, on the west coast*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common market for the fish is Edinburgh  They are bought up
by the fishers of Fishersow who attend with their boats, purchase at sea,
and carry them off  Formerly the practice was, that out of the sleet of
boats belonging to the town, two were obliged in their turn to come in-
to the harbour, and offer market for two hours, for the supply of the in-
habitants  But that good regulation being now overlooked, the fishers
have wholly laid it aside  Thus has enhanced the price oF fish here, that
it is but little below the market at Edinburgh, and they are difficult to
be obtained.  The lobsters are commonly taken in contract from the
fishers by a Company, and carried alive in smacks to the London market,
and other places in England.  The boats used in the fishing consist of
larger and smaller kind; of the former there are about 14, and of the
latter about 20.  The small are used both in summer and winter, in what
they term the white fishing.  Each of these require four men for the oars,
and one steersman.  With them, they fish with great and small lime, for
cod, rowan, haddock, etc. and with nets for skate.  The larger are used
only in the heming fishing; and their complements of men are some fix,
some eight, according to their size, with a steersman.  But besides these,
there are a number of yawls, with which, through summer, they fish with

</UNREADABLE>


