
	204                                   BANFFSHIRE.

	and stretch westward with increasing elevation and almost unbroken
	range, till they terminate at the shores of the Western Ocean. A
	stranger viewing the parish from certain points would conclude
	that it contains no cultivated land, as he sees nothing but hills and
	moors. But there are not a few rich straths, the principal of
	which is that through which the river Doveran flows, with ser-
	pentine course, from one extremity of the parish to the other,
	having a pretty regular line of hills on each side, from 1200 to
	2000 feet above the level of the sea.
	   Hydrography.-There are a vast number of springs, of different
	magnitude, around each of the hills. Those towards their sum-
	mits are intermittent, being dry in summer; those at their bases,
	and in the hollows, perennial. Some of them produce pure water;
	others are mixed with chalybeate, and other ores, according to the
	nature of the rocks and strata through which they percolate.
	   The only river in the parish is the Doveran, already mentioned.
	It rises among the bills of Cabrach, the adjoining parish, and
	flows with great velocity from one extremity of Glass to another,
	through a deep narrow vale, from west to east, emptying itself into
	the Moray Frith, at Banff, after a winding course of about fifty
	miles.
	   The prevailing soil over the parish is a light loam, of from six
	to twelve inches deep, resting on a strong impervious bed of yel-
	low clay, mixed with small stones, containing, no doubt, a portion
	of marl, as when trenched up, and intermixed with the soil, it pro-
	duces luxuriant crops without manure.
	   Formerly, considerable flocks of sheep were raised and fed;
	but now, owing to losses in severe seasons, they are reduced to a
	few hundreds, mostly of the black-faced Highland breed. Their
	place is more profitably occupied by small cattle.

	   Botany.--Along the banks of the river, the large hills are,'to
	a certain height, fringed with natural plantations, consisting prin-
	cipally of :

  Betula alba         Salices                       Corylus avellana
  Alnus glutinosa     Pyrus Aucuparia               Rosa canina
  Fraxinus ornus      Prunus cerasus                Juniperus communis.

	   The bills, above the limits of cultivation, are clothed principally
	with:

  Calluna vulgaris          Melica, cerulea          Genistas Anglica
  Eric cinerea              Myrica gale              Vaccinlum myrtillus
  ----tetralix              Nardus stricta           Aira caespitosa
  Empetrum nigrum           Festuca ovina            Juncus squarrosus.
	Eriophorum angustifulium  Alra caryophyllea
	Eleocharis caespitosa     -----flexuosa

                                 3


