
                                 ELGIN.                                27

  Inns.. Alehouses, &c.- There are in the town and suburbs 33 licen-
sed innkeepers, 21 spirit-merchants, and 10 tippling-shops, and
in the country part of the parish one inn or public-house. This
extraordinary number might be reduced at least one'-half without
any inconvenience to the public, and with much advantage to the
morals of the inhabitants. Too little attention is paid to the cha-
racter of some who receive licenses, and there is great reason to
suspect that those who recommend them are influenced by other mo-
tives than the good of their fellow citizens. Many of the innkdep-
ers are persons of good character, and to these the granting of li-
censes ought to be confined, but there are others of an opposite de-
scription, and whose houses are too often the haunts ' of folly and,
vice. The evils of the present system of indiscriminate licensing
are too apparent to be denied, and an effort ought to be made by
those who have the power to apply a remedy.
   Fuel.-Peat or turf is used for lightin fires, but coal is almost
the universal fuel of the town. The prime cost and ' freight of a
keil of coals from Sunderland to Lossieniouth may be about L. 15,
and the carriage to Elgin, five miles, about L. 4, 10s. The far-
mers on the outskirts of the parish partly burn peat or turf; but
the cost of casting, drying, and driving is so great, that the use of
coal is every year becoming more general among them.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The improvements in the agricultural implements a the system
of farming, and in the breed of stock.-in the education, dress,
houses, and other comforts of the peasantry, are very striking and
extensive since the last Statistical Report. The drainage,-the
straightening and laying out of the arable fields,-the farm-stead-
ings, and the plantations, give to the general aspect of the parish
a look of cultivation, and management prosperity, which, at
the former period, it did not possess. The means of communica-
tion are also most decidedly superior. It must be acknowledged
however, as has been already hinted, that thereis siill,ample scope
for improvement. A more general and adequate'allawance from
the land-owner for waste land brought under proper culture by the
tenant, and for enclosing and 'building, e should be granted; addi-
tional roads and planting are wanted, especially on the south side
of the parish.  The progress of improvement in the town is also
very observable: Forty years ago there were no turnpike roads'
leading to or from it, no stage-conches, no gas-work, no lighting,
or side pavement to the street, no hospital for the sick, no insti-


