
48                          FIFESHIRE.

repairing roads; but the trade of exporting it, mentioned-in last
account, has been almost entirely given up for some years.
   Climate, Soil.-The air is salubrious, no diseases here having
been ever ascribed to the influence of the atmosphere.
   Owing to the unevenness of the ground, the nature of the soil
is various. In the lower part of the parish, on the banks of the
Tay, there is a very rich alluvial field of considerable extent, of
the same quality with the Carse of Gowrie on the opposite side of
the river; on the ascent to the higher grounds, the soil becomes
a deep black earth, or in some places light and gravelly, but
still very productive. At an average, an acre may yield from
seven to ten bolls; but the acclivities of the mountains, which
are partly covered with heath or furze, still continue to be pas-
tured by sheep, which are of a mixed breed, and considerable pains
have been taken to improve them. They are disposed of at vari-
ous prices in the neighbourhood. There are likewise considerable
numbers of various sorts annually fed off, on turnip, many of which
are sent to the London market by steam-vessels from Dundee and
Leitb. Some of the hills are now planted towards the top, which
will improve the appearance of the country, but such plantations
are complained of as affording shelter to rabbits, which prey upon
the crops.
    Botany.-In the marshy ground near the loch, there grows the
Cicuta virosa or water hemlock, or as it is provincially called,
deaffin or deathin, peculiarly noxious to cows. Here too the Meny-
anthes trifoliata grows in great abundance, and is used as a medi-
cine, being a powerful bitter. The Nymphwa lutea major or great
water-lily, may also be mentioned as a plant that grows in all the
lochs in this parish.
   Zoology.-During the violent tornado of 1825, there appear-
ed among the poultry here a very uncommon bird. It was of
the size and colour of the wood-pigeon, and exactly of the figure
of the lapwing. Its bill, which was an inch and a-half in length,
was one quarter at the bottom, of the colour of red sealing wax,
the rest to the point was a bright yellow. It bad also a faint circle
of red around its eyes. It ran and flew with amazing rapidity. No
attempt was made to tame it, but after being kept in the house for
twenty,four hours, it was set at liberty, No satisfactory account
has hitherto been got of this bird. The description which M'Loc
gives,of the greenshank approaches nearest it. The osprey or
sea-eagle the sometimes seen on the banks of the lake; and an


