
258                          EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ing alternately flowers and figures. Part of the fragments are
yet in the possession of Mr Ritchie, the sculptor here, who, on
hearing of the circumstance, hastened immediately with his cha-
racteristic artistical zeal to the spot, only to find, that the other
portions had been-again buried up amid the sand.
   All along the bill of Inveresk, Roman coins have from time to
time been discovered and at the laying open of the foundations
of the  Hippocausta in 1783, two medals were found amid the rub-
bisb. The one was of gold, and much defaced, supposed to be
of Trajan ; the other of copper, with the inscription Diva Faustina,
and in  perfect preservation.
   With the Romans all things were meant for durability; they
seemed to have waged war, however inefficiently with Edax Tem-
pus.  In allusion to the mortar used in, the Inveresk ruins, Mr
Wedderburn says, " the mortar which has been applied to the
out side of the end wall, by way of stucco, is smooth without cracks,
and has no appearance of decay, but adheres well to the smooth
surface of the stones.  The workmen say it is equal to the best in
common use, but is by no means comparable to that in the heart
of the wall.  The only circumstance remarkable is, that there is
not the least mark of decay, though only from six to ten inches
under the surface of the earth, which is a loose sandy soil, and
therefore within reach of frosts, roots of vegetables, &c.  The
circumstance of considerable thickness given to the terrace floor,
and the large pebbles and bits of brick in it, seems favourable to
make it water-tight, for no crack can go further than the first bit
of brick or pebble."
   The Shire-haugh, lying immediately below the village of Inver-
esk, and extending south-west to the base of the hill on which the
village of Monktonhall stands,* bore, until of late years, many
strong traces of a Roman encampment, which seems to have ex-
tended westward to the spot still called Camp-end, in the parish of
Newton, on the turnpike road from Edinburgh to Dalkeith.  From
the Shire-haugh to the harbour of Fisberrow, there was a Roman
way, partly remaining in the memory of several people not long
dead. - No vestiges, however, now remain.
   Of the two stone bridges over the Esk, between Musselburgh
and Fisherrow, the upper is of remote antiquity; and, alike from

<FOOTNOTE>The whole of this plain was once comprehended in the Shire-haugh, the river at
that time flowing almost in a line from the will to Montonhall. It has since bent
eastward, and thrown the flat to other side of the stream.
			          3


