
                          BLAIR-ATHOLL.                              559

are Gaelic. Blair, bl r, rhgnifies a plain; Lude, leth-jhoid, läoid,
signifies the half of a furrow, and hence a declivity; Kilmaveonaig,
Cille-Eonaig, the chapel dedicated to St Eonaig; Strowan,* Cille-
R£ain, the chapel dedicated to St Rowan; and Blair in Atholl,
or Blair-Atholl, the modern name of the parish, signifies the plain
in or of Atholl.
   Blair-Atholl is a very extensive parish, and is situated in the
north-west district of Perthshire. Its length is 30 miles, and it is
about 18 miles broad. It is bounded on the east by Kirkmichael
and Moulin; on the south by Dull; and on the west by Rannoch;
on the north by Laggan and Kingussie, in Inverness-shire; and on
the north-east by Braemar, in Aberdeenshire.
   Topographical Appearances.-The valley of the Garry, from
the pass of Killiecrankie to the point of Strowan, may be consi-
dered the nucleus of the parish. On both sides of the Garry,
there is a considerable extent of plain in a state of cultivation, and
which is surmounted by sloping banks of excellent arable land,
terminating in hills of valuable pasture, or covered with plantations.
The back ground on the north side of the Garry is formed by the
lofty Grampians, which separate Perthshire from the counties of
Aberdeen and Inverness. Glentilt and Glenfendar, Glengarry
and Glenerichkie, are narrow vales diverging from the leading val-
ley of the Garry. They receive their names from their respective
streams. Bohespick, Strathtummel, and Borennich, constitute the
remaining portion of the parish. These are districts upon the sides
of the river and loch of Tummel, separated from the valley of the
Garry, by a moor of four miles in breadth, but of inconsiderable
altitude.
   The Grampians form the northern boundary of the parish. In
this extensive Alpine range, there are several mountains of great
elevation. Beinnghlo, with a base of many miles in circumference,
has four separate summits, viz. Carn-nan-Gabhar, 3720 feet high;
Airgiod-bheann, Carn Liath, and Carn Torkie. And in the same
Alpine range, there are other mountains little inferior to Beinnghlo
in height, viz. Beinn-mheadhonaidh, Beinn-Chait, Beinn-deirg,
&c. &c.
   Hydrography-Lakes.- Loch Garry is situated in Drumuach-
dar, and very near the boundary-line of the counties of Perth and
Inverness, or where the waters separate. It is surrounded by very
high hills, and thus appears to be as it were in a den,-hence the

<FOOTNOTE>Strowan is vulgarly understood to signify streams.
                                         3


