
	                         DUNFERMLINE.	                   821

	focus of each to a dazzling brilliancy.  This heptagon performs,
	by a beautifully constructed machine, an entire revolution around
	the burner, or fixed light, in the course of seven minutes, which
	causes the lapse of one minute between the concentrated light
	passing through the centre of one lens till it again passes through
	the centre of another.  Hence the alternations of brilliancy and
	dimness in the light, appearing to every eye around the whole
	horizon.
	   There are two families who constantly reside on the island,-
	the principal keeper of the light-house and his assistant, who are
	very comfortably lodged within the building which has been erected
	for the light.  Everything connected with this establishment is in
	the most complete order, being under the skilful superintendence
	of Mr Robert Stevenson, Civil-Engineer.
	
	   January 1843.
 
	                        PARISH OF DUNFERMLINE.
 
 	              PRESBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FLEE.

	             THE REV. PETER CHALMERS, A. M., MINISTER OF
	                            FIRST CHARGE.
		
                	   Second charge at present vacant.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	   Situation and Height.-THE town of Dunfermline is situated in
	latitude 56\d1 5' 4" north; longitude 3\d1 27' 18", west from Green-
	wich (station, Abbey Church); sixteen miles north-west of Edin-
	burgh; 43 north-east of Glasgow; 21 east-southeast of Stirling;
	29 south of Perth; 11 south-west of Kinross; 30 south-west of
	Cupar, the county town; and 12 west south-west of Kirkcaldy.
	It is 2 miles 7 furlongs north of the Frith, at Limekilns, in the
	parish; 3 miles 3 furlongs ditto at Rosyth Castle; and 5 1/2 miles
	north-west of North Queensferry.
	   Name.-The word Dunfermline, locally pronounced Dumfer-
	line, or vulgarly Dumfarline, is of Celtic origin.  Dun signifies a
	heap, hill, tower, castle; faire denotes a watch or guard; and linne,
	a pool, a pond, and also a waterfall or cataract; or loin, a little stream

