
296                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

present proprietor, George Pott, Esq. of Dod, we may expect soon
to see a great improvement on this farm.  He has already com-
menced erecting stables, forming part of a plan of new offices,
which, in point of elegance and accommodation, are of a very
superior kind.  The situation of Rewcastle commands the view
of one of the most extensive and varied landscapes in the country.
In this landscape, you have the vale of the Teviot from Hawick
almost to the Tweed, bounded on N. W. and N. by Eildon Hills,
the Lammermoor Hills, Home Castle and the fertile plains of
the Merse; and on the south and west by the giant height of
Ruberslaw, and the range of hills which stretch to the Etterick
and Yarrow.  There are few places in this county capable of
more improvement, and in the hands of the present spirited pro-
prietor much may be expected.  This property formed a part of
the estate of Knowsouth, long in the possession of the ancient fa-
mily of the Rutberfords of Knowsouth. But shortly after the
death of the late Captain Rutherford, the estate Was sold by his
heirs to the present proprietors.
   Knowsouth.--William 0. Rutherfurd, Esq. of Edgerston, and
Sheriff of the county of Roxburgh, is now tire proprietor of Know-
south, having purchased it from Charles Scott, Esq. one of the
heirs of the late Captain Rutherford.  Mr Rutherfurd has been
at great expense in building a very elegant villa, and in making
other improvements on a similar scale.  The house is of that style
of architecture which is known by the name of the  Elizabethan
style, of which we have other specimens in the neighbourhood.  It
is, however, more ornamented than any I have seen, and the situation,
that of the old mansion-house, being admirably adapted for this
style of building, and well surrounded with wood, gives a grand and
imposing appearance, as seen from the high road between Kelso
and Hawick, which passes near it.   Nor does it lose much from a
nearer inspection.  There are few more delicious spots than Know-
south, and a more appropriate style of architecture than that
adopted by Mr Rutherfurd can scarcely be imagined.  There are
two magnificent elms at a little distance from the house, which de-
serve particular notice, not so much from their size, which is very
considerable, as from their wide spreading and numerous branches,
which extend in every direction from the parent trunk.  One of them
measures l2 feet 3 inches in circumference, the other 11 feel 3 inches.
They seem to have been co‰val with the old mansion-house, and
to have been pollards, which may account for the great number of


