
	128                          ELGINSHIRE.

	driven by the waters of the Dulnan.  About thirty years ago, an
	extensive tract of barren moor had been planted by the late Sir
	James Grant along the northern banks of the Spey, which is in
	a very thriving state.  The district is well supplied with natural
	birch; scattered partly in clumps through the forest, and partly
	detached, by which the landscape is greatly enlivened, and the
	eye relieved from dwelling continually upon a scenery composed,
	without this latter addition, of lugubrious heath-covered hills, and
	cypress-coloured forests.  To the fir, birch, and alder, the climate
	appears very congenial.

                                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Tradition ascribes the possession not only of this parish, but of
	almost all the lands adjoining the Spey between Inverlochy and
	Fochabers to the Cummings, whose principal residence was in
	this parish.  Be this as it may, it is evident they were in possession
	of the greater part of the said district, many years before 1280;
	as appears by a charter granted in that year by Gilbert, the third
	lord of that name, or, as he is called in the charter, tertins Domi-
	nus de Glencherny, Knight, with consent of Matilda, his Spouse,
	Gilbert, his eldest son, of the lands of Gerbothy, with pertinents
	for homage and service. This charter is granted on the feast of
	the Purification of the Holy Virgin at Glencherny; the reddenda
	being "unum per albarum Cyrothicarum, fortasse Cherothi-
	carum." These lands of Gerbothy are situated near the banks of
	the Fiddich, parish of Boharm. By another charter of Gilbert
	de Glencherny, he gives to Duncan of Ferindrawth in libero mari-
	tagio with Margery his daughter, and their heirs, the eastern half
	of the Davoch of Conynges, "per suas rectas divisas in tenemente
	de Abernethyn."  Among other witnesses to this deed are found the
	names of Archibald and Henry, Bishops of Moray and Aber-
	deen. Though the deed bears no date, yet, as Archibald was
	Bishop of Moray from 1253 to 1298, and Henry, of Aberdeen, from
	1281 to 1298, between the first and last year of Henry the char-
	ter must have been granted.  From various other charters still ex-
	tant, it appears that, from the last-mentioned period, the overgrown
	power of the Lords of Glenchernich was fast decliniog, as they dis-
	posed of davoch after davoch of their property, for homage which
	in many cases was but reluctantly paid them, and for services
	which wese but imperfectly performed.  Gilbert, the last of the
	Lords of Glenchernich, better known by his soubriquet of Gibbon.
	M•r, had the mortification, on succeeding to the property, of find-


