
            182                         ELGINSHIRE.

            the Divie, and the Dorback. Of these the principal is the Find-
            horn, which "rises from a wide morass covering the flat summit
            of a mountain in the midst of the Monad-leadh group" in Inver-
            ness-shire, "and runs" north-east "through a direct line of coun-
            try not less than sixty miles, its sinuosities being about thirty more,"
            and discharges itself into the Moray Frith, about three miles be-
            low Forres. This river, in its course, runs through Edenkillie
            about seven miles, dividing the Darnaway district, which contains
            nearly one-sixth of its population, from the rest of the parish. The
            Divie has its origin in the hills which have been noticed as form-
            ing part of the southern boundary of the parish, and, with its wind-
            ings, runs about nine miles in a north-westerly direction, when it
            joins the Findhorn. The Dorback flows from the lake Lochen-
            dorb, also forming a part of the southern boundary of the parish,
            and situated about midway betwixt the source of the Divie, and
            where the Findhorn enters this parish. Like the Divie, it has the
            whole of its course within the parish, which is about seven miles,
            when it unites with and loses its name in that river, about three-
            fourths of a mile below the church, and three miles from its junc-
            tion with the Findhorn. The Divie and the Dorback are but of
            small dimensions, yet the former, for an extent of several miles,
            especially after being united with the latter, may almost vie with
            the Findhorn in the wildness, variety, and picturesque descrip-
            tion of its scenery; nor after extraordinary falls of rain can the
            depth and force of its current,be regarded but with mingled emo-
            tions of admiration and alarm. Its capabilhty of doing mischief has
            been often felt; onestriking instance of which has been well de-
            scribed by the accomplished and talented author of the "Account
            of the Great Floods in the Province of Moray in August 1829."
            The scenery on the Findhorn in its course throueh this parish, par-
            ticularly deserving of notice, and not inferior to any perhaps through-
            out its whole course, commences at Rannoch or Randolph's Bridge,
            about a quarter of a mile above where the Findhorn is joined by the
            Divie, and about an equal distance on the east from the house of
            Relugas. From this place, for five-or six miles down the stream,
            the scenery is truly magnificent, comprehending all the varieties of
            the wild, the grand, and the picturesque. Some of the finest views
            of that splendid scenery are obtained from various points of the
            very extensive and beautiful pleasure-walks, which were lately
            planned with great taste by the Honourable John Stuart, and are
            now in course of being finished-leading from the castle of Dar-


