
     Of Dalkeith.

ged with wood.  The soil produces every king of grain, and
is well adapted for raising every species of forest trees, which
arrive here at great perfection.  There are no mountains nor
hills in the parish: indeed almost the whole of it might he
considered as a plain, did not the steep banks of the rivers give
it, in some places, an uneven and broken appearance.

   Farms, and Rent of Land.-The farms are few in number,
and neither large nor extensive.  This is owing to a multi-
plicity of portioners, who either farm their own land, or let
it out to gardeners, who pay a high rent for it.  Agriculture
as well understood, not only in the parish, but in the whole
country around, and has attained a high degree of perfection.
Materials for the improving of land are at no great distance,
as lime may be procured in abundance in the neighbourhood,
and the village affords a considerable quantity of excellent ma-
nure.  The rent of land here is, in general, high.  Meadow,
or pasture ground, when inclosed, lets at from 3 L. to 5 L. the
Scotch acre, according to its quality or vicinity to the village.
Those farms which lie in the remotest parts of the parish, are
let, some of them at 1 L., some at 1 L. 15 s., and others at 2 L.
the acre, in proportion to the quality of the soil.  Land that
has been under the plough, is, at present, picked up with a-
vidity by gardeners, and brings from 3 L. 3 s. to 5 L. 10 s.
yearly, according as the lease granted happens to be of a long-
er or shorter duration.  When there is any land in the mar-
ket here, it sells at from 50 L. to 100 L. the acre, in propor-
tion to its quality or local situation with respect to the vil-
lage.  The parish contains a considerable quantity of coal, but
as it lies so deep in the earth, that it cannot, in general, be
come at with advantage to the proprietors, without the help
of fire engines, there is little of it wrought at present.  The
inhabitants, however, suffer no inconvenience from this cir-

     C 2


