
     The Statistical Account.

ther sacred or civil, Were disgraced by quarrels, frequently
resumed, and not seldom terminating in blood or in murder*.
An insatiate thirst of revenge raged almost in every bosom,
and armed the ferocious with the dagger of assassination+.
   But now quarrels, extremely rare, are confined to the
very lowest of the people.  Funerals are conducted with due
solemnity by people in their senses.  Drunkenness has lost,
and is losing ground; and unless by the sot, the tavern is ne-
ver frequented but when propriety or necessity require it.

   Amusements.-People who are not regularly and profita-
bly employed rejoice in a holiday, as the mean of throwing
off that langour which oppresses the mind, and of exerting
their active powers.  So it was with our fathers.  They
frequently met to exert their strength in wrestling, in cast-
ing the hammer, and in throwing the stone; their agility
at foot-ball; and their dexterity at coits and penny-stone.
The midsummer-even fire, a relict of druidism, was kind-
led in some parts of this county; the hallow-even fire, ano-
ther relict of druidism, was kindled in Buchan.  Various ma-
gic ceremonies were then celebrated to counteract the influ-
ence of witches and demons, and to prognosticate to the
     VOL. XXI. T

<FOOTNOTE>

*Servants frequently bargained for liberty to attend a certain number of
markers.  One fellow was asked by his master how he had returned so soon
from one of these-The reply was, 'I have drunk my pint, and made any play,
and what more had I to do?'
+One Conn, a mason, acquired, by building the castles of Delgaty and Craig-
ston, the lands of Little Auchry, whereon he built the Red Castle, to defend
himself from a neighbouring gentleman with whom he was at enmity.  One
day, however, he was shot dead in his own door by his enemy, whom he was
observing, as he thought at safe distance, walking along the river side.  'Nec
prosunt domino, qu‘ prosunt omnibus artes.'  But, through the Red Castle is
now rased, and though Conn's lands belong to Earl Fife, yet Conn's name is
preserved by a quarry near to Delgaty, and his race by some opulent descen-
dants in Spain.


