
                     KILTEARN.                                 315

the river enters the rock must have been filled with water, for in
some places the height at which the water stood is still quite dis-
tinguishable.
   The only other stream in the parish worth mentioning is the
Skiack, which is formed by the union of several mountain streams,
and falls into the sea near the church, about half a mile from the
mouth of the Aultgraad. In summer, particularly if the season be
dry, these streams are so small that they can scarcely struggle
among the stones to reach the shore; but after heavy rain or the
melting of the snow in the hills, they swell into impetuous torrents,
and require to be prevented, by embankments, from injuring the
cultivated spots on their banks.
   The Cromarty Frith, on the south side of the parish, lies on a
bed of sandstone covered over with sand and the detritus of the
different rivers which flow into it. The slime thus deposited covers
the sand, in many places, to the depth of several inches. The
water contains little salt, and the time of high and low water is a
quarter of an hour later than at Cromarty.
   In the heights of the parish, there are several extensive tracts
of moss, where the inhabitants cut peats in summer to serve for
winter fuel. In cutting out these, numbers of fir-trees are dug
up, which, owing to the antiseptic qualities of the moss water, are
perfectly sound, and remain so for a very long time when used
for building. They are also very commonly used by those who
live near the mosses for light. When split up into small pieces
and carefully dried, they burn with much clearness, and add greatly
to the comfort of the poor during the long winter nights. Clay
and shell marl are found in trifling quantities; but have not been
applied in any considerable quantity to the purposes of agriculture.
   Mineralogy.-There are indications of the existence of coal in dif-
ferent parts of the parish; and some attempts were actually made
many years ago under the direction of the late Sir Harry Munro, to
discover the most proper situations for working amine but were un-
fortunately abandoned. The reason alleged was, that thought coal
was found, it lay so deep, that, unless the bed was considerable, it
would not pay the expense of working. In a rock on the banks
of Aultnancaorach, a rivulet that falls  into the Altgraad, some
ore was discovered, which, when smelted was found to produce
good lead. The prevalence of chalybeate springs in different
quarters clearly indicates the existence of iron, though the quan-
tity is unknown. Some of these were frequented at one, time for
their medicinal virtues.


