
528                           ARGYLESHIRE.

   In the landward part of the parish, there have been three ille-
gitimate births within the last three years.
   It appears from the preceding statement, that a considerable in-
crease has taken place in the population of Oban for some time
past, while in the same period the population of the landward pa-
rish has decreased.  This decrease may be attributed to the system
recently adopted by some of the proprietors, of letting to one,
farms that were formerly occupied by several tenants.
   The prevailing language is Gaelic, but English is generally un-
derstood and gaining ground.

                        IV.--INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.--Of late considerable improvement has been made
in agriculture.  A rotation of crops is encouraged, and in some
cases insisted upon by the proprietors.  Draining of land is carried
on to some extent, partly at the expense of the landlord, and
partly at the expense of the tenant.  Leases varying from seven to
nineteen years are usually granted.  This practice is productive
of beneficial effects.  The certainty of having possession for a de-
finite period frequently encourages the tenant to undertake and
execute improvements which afford himself immediate profit, and
render the land more valuable for the proprietor.
   Rent of Land, &c.--The average rent of arable land per acre
may be estimated at about L.l, 1Os. yearly. The rent of grazidg
a cow, L.2, 15s. ; a sheep, 3s. The valued rent of the parish is
L.363, 15s. 6d. Sterling. The real rent of the landward part is,
L.6750 ; of Oban, L.2200; total, L.8950 Sterling,
   Barley, oats, potatoes, and turnips, form the crop usually pro-
duced.  Black-cattte of the West Highland breed, and black-
faced sheep are the principal stock reared. They are thought
best adapted to the climate and soil.  Ayrshire cows are kept by
a few individuals.  One of the proprietors lately stocked part of
his land with South Down sheep.
   Rate of Wages.--A ploughman receives from L. 9 to L. 12 a
year with victuals; a maid servant from L.4 to L. 6 a year with
victuals; a day-labourer, Is. in winter, and Is. 6d. in summer,
without victuals.  Wrights and masons receive from 2s. to 3s. per
day.
   Quarries.--There is a slate and freestone quarry on the pro-
perty of Mr Macdougall of Gallanach.  The freestone is of a su-
perior quality.
   Fisheries.--There area several salmon-fishing, stations in the pa-


