
190                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

whom this augmentation was given, gratefully records (in his Sta-
tistical Account, to which we are indebted for the fulness of the
present report,) that Lord Alva not only resolved of his own ac-
cord to give this grant, but actually executed a summons against
himself as sole heritor, in name of the minister, and without his
knowledge, as the first step towards accomplishing his generous
resolution. The glebe consists of nearly nine acres.
   James Johnstone, Esq. is sole heritor of the parish.
Education.-The present parish school-house, built in 1828, is
a fine house situated in the centre of the village, and fitted to ac-
commodate upwards of 100 scholars. The salary of the parochial
teacher is L. 29, 18s. 10d. Sterling. The village also contains
a subscription school, and there are besides an infant school
and a seminary for the education of female children, almost
wholly supported by the patronage and bounty of Mrs Johnstone,
and the young ladies at Alva House. Besides the other elemen-
tary branches of knowledge, the children are taught to knit and sew.
Many great improvements have been recently adopted in the intel-
lectual and moral training of children, which it is most desirable
should find their way into this district.
The number of individuals, including children, professing to be-
long to the Established Church, in the year 1836, is 1185, or 262
families. Belonging to the Dissenting congregations, there are
272 persons, including children, or 60 families, averaged at 4 1/2 for
each family.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The poor receiving parochial aid
are few in number, seldom exceeding a dozen; and occasional
supply is given to others not on the poor's roll, as their necessities
demand.  On a board in the session house, we have recorded the
following donation to the poor, A. D. 1764:-"John Mitchell, far-
mer in Windlestrawlee, near Leith, bequeathed to the poor of the
parish of Alva the sum of L. 50 Sterling. Remember the words
of the Lord Jesus, 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.'"
The ordinary collection, with the interest arising from a small fund,
and the common dues of the parish mortcloth, without any assess-
ment upon the heritor or inhabitants, has hitherto maintained the
poor. Examples are not uncommon of individuals refusing to ac-
cept charity from the parish, and, with that patience and honest
pride peculiarly Scottish, undergoing privations untold, rather
than ask or take relief.
   Drawn up in 1836.
   Revised April 1841.


