      of Ecclegreig, or St. Cyrus.   109
	  
	  afterwards be noticed, they, in general, enjoy a pleasing and agreeable affluence, and have it in their power to bring up and
	  educate numerous families, and provide for their future settle-
	  ment in the world. Such are the happy effects of rural in-
	  dustry!
	  
	  Mode of Cultivation. - The common mode of treating land here,
	  is, after summer fallow, to lime and dung it; and then to sow,
	  the first year, wheat; the second, peas or beans, or a mixture
	  of both, called mashlie; the third, barley or Chester bear, with
	  grass seeds. The grass is commonly cut the first year for hay,
	  and pastured two years afterwards. It is then broke up, with
	  one furrow, for oats; next year it is sown with barley, or
	  Chester bear, after three earths, or furrows; the third year, it
	  is wrought into a finer mould for turnips, which are always
	  sown in drills, and well manured; and the fourth year, it is
	  sown with barley and grass seeds; When the soil becomes
	  foul, and is over-run with weeds, a new summer fallow be-
	  comes necessary to clear it; and then it is treated in the manner
	  now described. There are, and no doubt will be, several al-
	  terations from, and exceptions to this general system. While
	  men speculate in this, as upon other subjects, they will invent
	  new plans, and experience alone must justify or condemn the
	  alteration. Sometimes the ground, after one crop of hay, is
	  broke up with the plough, in the beginning of autumn; and
	  wheat is sown with success. To this succeed turnips, or
	  pease and beans; and the third year barley and grass: It is made
	  hay the summer following; then pastured for a year or two;
	  afterwards plowed for oats, &c.
	  Sometimes the land thus pastured, is taken for raising flax.
	  The flax raisers are often different from the farmers, and pay
	  them 5l. or 6l. an acre, for a single crop of such land as suits
	  their purpose. They pay the expence of the seed, the sowing,
	  4         the

