
     of Kinnettles.

for the manufactured articles*.-As to the manners of
the people, they are distinguished from those of a period
30 or 40 years ago, as there is more industry, attention, en-
terprise and sobriety.  Their customs are much the same

     VOL. IX. D d

<FOOTNOTE>

*The public road from Perth, through Strathmore, which passes thio
this parish, is repairing on a new plan, and will soon be finished within
our bounds, unless it shall be deemed necessary to widen its It was be-
gun to be repaired in autumn 1789.  Owing to the spirited plan of sub-
scriptions from the gentlemen in the county, the road from Forfar to Dun-
dee, part of which passes through this parish, is proceeding on the same
plan.  All the county roads in Angus are to be repaired from the sub-
scription-fund.  We are much indebted to the exertions of Mr Douglas
of Brigton, who transacts and superintends the business of the road from
Forfar to Dundee, and for several miles on the Strathmore road.  To ren-
der the road convenient, steep banks are avoided, and on Mr Douglas's
ground in this parish, the road takes a new direction for 1 1/2 miles through
inclosures of land of very excellent quality.  The rule is not to admit, if
possible, above 1 foot of rise in 20.  These roads have turnpikes, and all
the county roads either have or are to have them.  Our farmers are much
reconciled to turnpikes, and imagine that the accommodation obtained in
this way, is cheap.  Statute-labour is not exacted in kind.  Since the plan
by subscription took place, the commutation-money is to be applied to the
repairing of the private roads.  We have two bridges in the parish; one
on the road from Forfar to Glammis, was built by subscription, at least in
part, about 21 years since, and is in good condition; the other, on the
load from Forfar to Dundee, is intended to be taken down, and another
built at some small distance.-In the year 1782, our dinest lands were not
fit for receiving seed till the 16th or 17th of April.  There was not a blade
of oats to be seen till about the 12th of May, in this neighbourhoud,
which is rather an early district.  The barley-seed time was very back-
ward.  About the 29th of May, we had rain for 50 hours, without in-
termission, The summer was cold and wet; and on the 16th of August,
we had an uncommon flood, which chilled the ground so as to deprive it
of the warmth necessary for filling and ripening the corns.  On the morn-
ing of the 12th of September, we had hoarfrost as thick as at Christmas.
About 7 o'clock that morning, the sun was bright, and had influence suf-
ficient to melt the frost; and, in a few minutes, pease and potatoes had the
look of having been dipped in boiling water.  The effect of this frost
made the farmer imagine that harvest was nigh.  The corns assumed a
whitish appearance, and the first rain threw it in appearance several stages


