
158                     BERWICKSHIRE.

own, and is never separated from his family. His gains raise him
above penury, and with good management, and an industrious and
frugal wife, he can never be in want of the necessaries of life.
Being paid chiefly in grain, lie has an interest in the produce of
the farm, which stimulates his industry; and while he is attending
to his master's interests, he is also, promoting his own.  He is gene-
rally treated with kindness, as a proof of which many continue for
a number of years in the service of the same master.
   Husbandry.-Of late years there has been a failure of clover
even on lands of good quality, which have been long under a sys-
tem of judicious management, and to which every justice has been
done.  For this failure various causes have been assigned.  Most
persons are of opinion that it proceeds from the too great severity
of the four-shift husbandry, and from the land under it not being
allowed to remain long enough in grass. The depressed state of
agriculture has caused a considerable decrease in the use of lime.
One gentleman, who has one of his farms in his own possession,
has given it a complete liming within these two years, and the ad-
ditional quantity of corn in the stack-yard is the best proof of the
effect produced.  Draining is practiced with great success, and to
a considerable extent.  In one field of 15 acres, upon a farm cul-
tivated by a landed proprietor during last summer, 393 roods of
drains were cut, and 1082 cart loads of stones used for filling them
up, at an expense amounting to L. 78, 14s.  By a judicious system
of draining, a striking improvement has been effected both by pro-
prietors and tenants of late years.
   The condition of farm-buildings is good on most of the proper-
ties.  The dwelling-houses of the tenants are substantial and com-
fortable, suitable to the size of the farm, and with convenient ac-
commodation for a family. The offices are well laid out for the
various purposes of rural economy. Slates are generally used for
the roofs of modern farm-houses and offices. There are fourteen
thrashing-machines in the parish, of which one has a steam power,
one is driven by wind, two by water, and the rest by horses.
   The whole land is enclosed chiefly by thorn-hedges, and much
care is employed to keep the fences in proper order.  Persons are
still alive who remember the time when a considerable portion of
the parish was unenclosed, and when the grain was carried to Ber-
wick on horses, the state of the roads not admitting the use of
carts.
   Improvements.-The principal improvements which have taken
place within the last thirty years, in as far as agriculture is con-


