
               GLENMUICK, TULLICH, AND GLENGAIRN             783

wards of L.100; and, it is hoped this will prevent the river from
making future encroachments.
   The amount of the stipend is 17 chalders, half meal, half bar-
ley, standard weight and measure, payable in money, according to
the county fiars, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.  But
a part of it was permanently converted into money by the Court
of Teinds, and is not affected by the fiars.
   There is a missionary chapel at Rinloan in Glengairn, about
seven miles from the parish church; and its minister receives L.60
annually from the Committee for managing the Royal Bounty,
besides enjoying all the accommodations which they require.
   In these parishes, there are no chapels of ease, Government
churches, catechists, Dissenting, Seceding, nor Episcopalian cha-
pels.
   There is one Catholic chapel on Gairnside, about five miles
north-west from the parish church, and about two miles east from
the missionary chapel at Rinloan; and its bishop resides at Pres-
home in Banffshire.
   The number of families who are members of the Established
Church is 462; of persons do. 1919.  The number of families
who are members of the Catholic Church is 86; of persons do.
360.  Divine service at the parish church, and also at the chapel
at Rinloan, is well attended, except on very bad days.  The ave-
rage number of communicants at the Established Church, for the
last ten years, is 936; the average number of young communi-
cants for the same period is 31; and the average of their ages
about nineteen years.
   No Society for religious purposes has yet been established in
these parishes.  The average amount of church collections yearly
for the Indian Mission, the Assembly's Schools, the Infirmary at
Aberdeen, and other religious and charitable purposes, has hitherto
been about L.12.
   Education.-The total number of schools at present is 8, viz. 1
parochial, 1 endowed, 1 unendowed, and 5 supported by subscrip-
tion among the parishioners.  The parochial schoolmaster's salary,
is the maximum; the amount of his school fees and other perquisites
about L.20; and he has the legal accommodations; He has also a
share of the Dick Bequest.  The teacher of the endowed, school
has a salary of L.15, with the usual accommodations; and the
amount of fees, paid to him is about L.6.  The teacher of the un,
endowed school has a salary of L.30, without any accommodation


