

                       DAMBARTONSHIRE.

     Mangel-wurzell has been tried, but not continued, as it is con-
sidered no to be profitable.
     Admiral Fleming cultivates a number of the artificial grasses;
but the Fescue, Timothy, Holci, and meadow-grasses are suppos-
ed best to suit the soil.
     Twenty years ago, very little wheat was sown here.  Both cli-
mate and soil were supposd unsuitable for this grain, but experi-
ence has proved this to have been a fallcious opinion, for a very
considerable breadth is now under wheat.  This arises from the
different way of management; before the introduction of fallow
and green crops, the ground was neither worked, cleaned, nor
manured.  Still, the farmer labours under disadvantages which no
system of cultivation can remove.  The continued and heavy rains
which prevail in the end of the year often prevent him from get-
thing his wheat into the ground in sufficient time before the winter
sets in.  Many instances of this might easily be adduced, were it
     At one time flax was grown to a great extent, and when it yeild-
ed twenty or twenty-five stones or more per acre, and brought L 1,
and sometimes even L.1, 10s. per stone, it amply repaid outlay
and labour; but from some cause not well ascertained, of late
years, the flax crops have almost altogether failed, and, of course,
the culture is comparatively given up.
     Wheat may average per acre from 8 to 9 bolls; barley from 7
to 8 bolls; oats from 6 to 7 bolls; and potatoes, county measure,
from 30 to 40 bolls; rye-grass and clover from 150 to 200 stones
tron per acre.  A few meadows still remain, and when well ma-
naged and carefully irrigated, when that can be done, will yield
from 200 to 300 tron stones per acre, and an excellent fodder for
cattle in winter.
     Live-Stock.-The breed of horses, as well as of cows, has been
greatly improved of late years, and prizes for both were awarded
at the show of stock of the Highland Society last autumn at Glas-
gow.  Indeed, the dairy stock of some of our farmers, for figure
and produce, equal any in the country.  The milk, generally, is
made into butter, and sold in the Glasgow or Falkirk markets.
Little or no cheese is made here.  The produce of a good cow
average L.9 to L. 10 per annum.  The grass of a milk cow costs
about L. 3 15s.; of a yeld about L.2, 15s; of a two-year old
quey about L. 1, 10s. to L. 2; of a one-year old quey about L. 1
or L. 1, 5s.  It may be sometimes more or less, according to the
                                4

