
			LUMPHANAN.                    1089

which had belonged to the Rosses, and of the greater part of
Auchinhove, which had belonged to the Duguids.
         Land-owners.-The present land-owners -of the parish are,
John Farquharson, Esq. of Finzean; Mrs Farquharson, senior of
Finzean; Alexander Smith, Esq. of Glenmillan; Sir John For-
bes of Craigevar, BarL; Mrs Lamond of Pitmurchie; Joseph
Elmslie, Esq. of Camphill; and Francis Fraser, Esq. of Fin-
drack.
         Antiquities.-the Peel Bog.-The Peel Bog, situate in a
marshy hollow near the church, is an interesting monument of an-
tiquity. The circular earthen mound, forty-six yards in diame-
ter, rises about twelve feet above the level [of the bog, and is sur-
rounded by a moat. The course by which the water was convey-
ed from the burn of lumphanan may still be traced; the mea-
surement of the circumvallation by which the water was confined
may still be made; the situation of the drawbridge is still discer-
nible; the path leading from the fosse to the top of the mound
may still be trodden; and the sluice by which the water issued
from the moat was laid bare by the flood of 1829,
	That the Peel Bog, a name which is of Saxon origin, was erect-
ed in the beginning of the thirteenth century, when the Saxon
language was probably introduced into Scotland; that a wooden
castle, erected on the artificial mound, was a residence of the
Durwards, who then possessed a wide domain in Aberdeenshire,
stretching from Skene to the western boundary of Cromar, and
that this ancient structure, guarded by a moat, and surrounded by
that "wode of Lunfanan," into which Macbeth, according to
Wyntown, had been chased, was, during that century, a strong
place of defence against warlike and predatory attacks,-these
are conjectures which the writer of this article is disposod to make
respecting this fortress.
	Edward I., after the battle of Dunbar, marched his victorious
army to Aberdeen, where the bishop, Walter Blackwatre, the
Dean, Sir Walter de Scherwinglawe, Sir Norman de Lechelyn,
Sir Duncan de Frendragh, Sir Hugh de la Hay, &c. took the
oath of allegiance to him. On Saturday, 21st July 1296, he road
to Lunfanan, accompanied by Sir Walter de Beauchamp, Sir John
de Tregotz, Sir Thomas de Bigenore, Sir John Merk, and many
other knights and esquires, and received the submission of Sir.
John de Malevill, a copy of which, extracted from the records,


