
					SCONE.                       1071

	by feuars.  The late Earl of Mansfield, partly by purchase and
	partly by giving an equivalent in land, obtained possession of the feus
	at Old Scone.  The village of New Scone has been greatly extend-
	ed, containing between 1200 and 1300 inhabitants.  Many of the
	feuars have sub-feued their properties; and other proprietors have
	increased the village by encouraging feuing on their ground.  A
	large part of the village stands on the property belonging to An-
	drew Murray, Esq, of Murrayshall, and some on that of the pro-
	prietor of Kincarrochie.
	   The only nobleman connected with the parish is the Earl of
	Mansfield.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture.-The average number of acres, either cultivated
	or occasionally under cultivation, may be as follows;

	<TABLE>
			   Wheat, about       200 Scotch acres
         Barley,            400
         Oats,              700
         Potatoes,          380
         Turnips,           300
         Hay,               600

	   The average rent of the cultivated land may be about L.2 10s.
	per Scotch acre.  The average rate of a cow's grazing may be
	about L.3, 15s.  Ordinary ploughmen, engaged for the year, have
	from L. 11 to L. 14 wages, besides board and lodging; foremen
	have from L.15 to L.20.  Day-labourers earn from 1s. 4d. to 2s.
	in summer, and from 1s. to 1s. 8d. in winter, per day ; artisans
	from 2s. to 3s. in summer, and from 1s. 8d. to 2s. 6d. in winter.
	   The general duration of leases is for a period of nineteen years.
	The farm-buildings are generally good; but the cottages, in seve-
	ral places, very uncomfortable.  Some part of the parish is well
	enclosed, but there are considerable portions where enclosures are
	but little attended to.  A great improvement has taken place in
	the whole economy during the last thirty or thirty-five years.  The
	produce of oats, at an average per acre, may be rated at 46 bu-
	shels; of barley, 38; of wheat, 34; of potatoes, 8 1/2 tons per
	Scotch acre.  Neither beet nor cabbage are cultivated in the
	field.  The average value of an acre of turnips may be about
	L.9; of hay, about L.6 ; and land for pasture may bring from
	L.1, 15s. to L.2 per Scotch acre.
	  The above was furnished in 1837.  There has been since then
	a diminution in the value of all kind of farm-produce, and, in some
	degree, of wages, both for farm-servants and labourers.  The dif-
	ficulty of obtaining employment as hand loom weavers has increased


