
                          NEW CUMNOCK.                      513

	Lime-Kilns.--The lime-kilns in this parish, with the exception
of those at Mansfield, are of the same construction as those gene-
rally used throughout the country, about 20 or 25 feet deep, 20
feet wide at top, and 2 or 3 feet wide at bottom, with one, two, or
tbree eyes, only large enough to admit a shovel. Those at Mans-
field, erected by Sir Charles G. S. Menteath, Bart. of Closeburn,
are of a better construction, being about 30 feet deep, 6 feet diame-
ter at top, 8 feet at the middle, and 5 feet at the bottom, and lined
with brick. The lime in the kiln is supported on movable iron bars,
I foot apart, placed in front on a cast iron frame, upon which doors
are hung to regulate the draught of air through the kiln. The lime
is brought down through the iron bars by a poker upon a grate,
from which the lime is filled into carts, and the small lime and
ashes fall through this grate into the ash-pit. From this construc-
tion of a lime-kiln, a great saving of coal is effected, and the lime
better burnt. Fire in a lime-kiln having a tendency to rise per-
pendicularly, and rather contract than expand at the top, a great
quantity of the lime in a wide topped kiln at the sides, is left un-
touched by the fire, and consequently much unburnt stone, and
waste of coal and labour.
	Sandstone or freestone occurs in every part of the parish, gene-
rally of a yellowish white colour, and coarse grain irregularly strati-
fied. In the lower parts of the valley, the sandstone is more regu-
larly stratified, and contains great quantities of fossil impressinns.
There are several quarries of freestone for building in the parish.
	Ironstone occurs in bands and balls, in great quantities in the
coal formation; but has never been wrought.
	Coal.--The coal formation at Mansfield forms an isolated basin, in
the eastern part of the parish, in which six seams of coal have been
ascertained, and in whole are about forty feet in thickness. The
upper seam is fine cannel-coal, two feet six inches thick; at five
fathoms deeper, thirty-three inches of dross coal; the next seam
is the nine feet coal, in the middle of which there are sixteen inches
Of smith's coal. The twelve feet coal is separated from the nine
feet by strata of freestone fabes, which form a wedge between
the two coals from north to south, being only a few feet thick at
the north point, and upwards of thirty feet, at two hundred yards
south. In the centre of the twelve feet seam, there are sixteen in-
ches of cannel coal. The next seam, five and a half fathoms deep-
er, is the eleven feet coal, all splint, and a four feet coal has been
ascertained to lie under this. In several places, the seams of coal
	AYR.                              K k


