
                    KIRKCOLM                      119

    were in great quantity, and of excellent quality, are now rare,
    while the quantity of small whitings is much grater than former-
    ly. Small cod, and in the beginning of the year, large cod, are
    still sometimes caught in abundance;  and the price of such fish
    has never exceeded a penny a pound.  Though the quality of
    fish in the loch has decreased, the quantity in the sea adjoining,
    appears to continue the same; and if the fishermen here had ca-
    pital sufficient to provide smacks of ten tons burden or more, and
    were thus enabled to go out and fish in the open sea, such fishing,
    it is conceived, might, from the numbers of fish, and the facility of
    going to market, become very profitable.  There are oysters in
    Loch Ryan of the best quality. Sir Alexander Wallace, a pro-
    prietor on the opposite coast of the loch, has, by Royal Charter,
    an exclusive right to them.  The fishermen of the village of Stew-
    artown pay him a rent of L.20 a-year for the oysters they can
    gather on the Scar, the sand-bank already mentioned. The fisher-
    men who pay him for leave to dredge for oysters, belong to other
    parishes.  Crabs and lobsters. which were known to be obtainable
    at the mouth of Loch Ryan. were neglected by the fishermen
    bere. Within the last few years fishermen from the opposite
    coast of Ayrshire, and from Ireland, have had much success in
    catching them, and have found a ready market at Glosgow, Bel-
    fast, and Dublin.  In the latter city, they at one time received
    3s. 6d. for each lobster.  This encouragement tempted them to
    fish at improper seasons, during the time of spawning;  and the
    result was a great falling off in the quality caugt. It is hoped
    that this imprudence will not occur again, and that the catching
    of lobsters may yet become a source of profit to the native fisher-
    men.
    Manufuctures.- The only thing worth mentioning under this
    head is, that in almost every house in the  village, and indeed
    through the parish generally, young women are much employed
    in embroidering muslim webs, obtained from Glasgow or Ayshire-
    By embroidering they earn, according to their expertness and
    the time they can devote to this word, from 8d. to 1s. 3d. a day,
    and sometimes more.
    Navigation.- There are at present three small vessels belong-
    ing to this parish, under 40 tons burden, employed in the coasting
    trade


                V. PAROCHIAL ECONOMY


