
308                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

employed it in an active vindication of the vital principles of ec,
clesiastical and civil freedom. Their valuable friendship was en-
joyed by the illustrious confessor, Mr John Davidson, in his times
of perplexity and peril. And at a later day, when the same great
principles, for which he faithfully contended, were again invaded
with much indiscretion and little success, Robert, the chivalrous
and high-minded brother of Sir William Hamilton of Preston,
was distinguished as the commander of the Presbyterians in the
successfid skirmish at Drum clog, and the disastrous battle of
Bothwell Bridge. Sir William Hamilton, the present distinguish-
ed Professor of Logic in the University of Edinburgh, is the re-
presentative of the family.
   Eminent Men.-Mr Davidson, already referred to, was the first
incumbent of the parish. He was transported from that of Lib-
berton, in the Presbytery of Edinburgh, in 1596, and continued,
with the exception of the time of his imprisonment in Edinburgh
Castle, in the active discharge of his pastoral duties until his death,
which, (in so far as may be safely inferred from the earliest men-
tion of his successor's name in the session records,) appears to
have occurred about the year 1606. He was a man of singular
natural endowments, and, in common, with many of his contempo-
raries and friends, was greatly distinguished by his extensive and
manifold acquirements. Possessing a large share of that peculiar
sagacity which the character of his times was well fitted to unfold
and sharpen, and being at the same time of remarkable prompti-
tude and decision of character, he was naturally required to act a
prominent part in the transactions of the Reformed Church. To
him was committed the arduous, though honourable part of ex-
communicating the simonical and perverse Montgomery, whose
affection for filthy lucre appears to have been of more strength
and authority, than his regard to the will of the great Head of the
Church. In 1596, Mr Davidson was elected to preside at the
memorable meeting for humiliation and prayer, which was accom-
panied with a most remarkable discovery of the divine grace and
mercy. It was held in the Little Church of Edinburgh, on Tues-
day the 30th of March. A large number both of ministers and
private Christians attended. A double portion of the heavenly
spirit was imparted to them all. Mr Davidson exhorted them, as
he was well qualified to do, in a straight of powerful and touching
appeals to their hearts. So great was the success of his ministra-
lions on that occasion, that the whole assembly were moved to
                             4


