
                           PARISH OF BOTRIPHNIE.

                 PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                       THE REV.  W. MASSON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY ANDR&TURAL HISTORY.

      Extent, &c.-The parish is situated about twenty-four miles
   west from the county town, and extends from north to south about
   4 1/2, and from east to west about 3 English miles, comprehending
   the whole breadth of the county, being bounded by the parish of
   Glass, in Aberdeenshire, on the south, and on the north by part
   of Dundurcus, in Moray.
      The greater part of the parish consists of one beautiful strath,
   situated between two hills to the north and south, with the small
   river of Isla (which takes its rise in the west part of the parish to-
   wards Mortlach) running through the middle of it.  The banks
   of this stream are beautifully adorned with alder and birch trees,
   the natural produce of the country; several small-rills, which fall
   into it from the bills on each side, are coveredin the same manner.
      The soil is a black loam, and, in some places, a strong clay.
   The course of the small river Isla, which risesin the west end of
   the parish, and runs through its centre, has been straightened.
   since the last Account was drawn up; by which means, a large
   extent of rich alluvial soil, which formerly was covered with bushes
   of alder or overgrown with rushes, is now, in cultivation, and pro-
   duces, in favourable seasons, immense  crops of grain.  Besides
   this very extensive and, profitable improvement, a large quantity.
   of land, which was in moor or in rough, permanent pasture has
   been brought into cultivation, and chiefly by means of, lime, of
   which there is a plentiful supply in the immediate neighbourhood,
   is turning out. well, producing in general very fair crops.   The
   enclosing of the fields with stone dikes, sopointedly recommended
   in the last Account, has not made much  progress,--one  farmer
   only havitiLy had the spirit to incur tbe outlay of enclosing his farm
   in this way.

