
22                    PEEBLES-SHIRE.

   In the application of money to the poor, it may be mentioned,
that the collections made at the administration of the Lord's Sup-
per, now twice a-year, amounting to about L. 15 or L. 16, are given,
not as in former times, doubling the fortnight's allowance, to the
regular paupers, but are disposed of by giving two-thirds of the col-
lections to communicants at the sacrament, who are not on the
poors' list, and the remainder to the regular poor who are mem-
bers of the church.
   In treating of the poors' laws, it is not unusual to prognosticate
that Scotland will soon be in the same condition as England.  No
opinion can be more erroneous, as no Scotch act of Parliament bears
any resemblance to the 43d of Elizabeth, as it is now interpreted and
acted upon.  The poor in Scotland are under the management of
the heritors and kirk-session; in England, a magistrate in a distant
part of the county can award what relief he thinks necessary, with-
out knowing the merits of the case, till the Quarter Sessions are held.
   If the funds of the poor are administered with a steady and ju-
dicious hand, there is no great prospect of any considerable increase
of expenditure, unless the population should be greatly augmented.
The utmost caution, however, should be observed in admitting poor
persons on the permanent roll, for then it is almost impossible to
strike them off.  All donations or legacies left to the poor of any
parish ought to be strictly applied to them, and not given indiscri-
minatelv to new incomers who have not gained a settlement, or to
paupers; belonging to other parishes.  To extend such charities
equally to all, is to hold out a premium and encouragement for the
poor to settle in places to which they do not belong, and to consume
those resources which should be applied to the native population.
   Inns, &c.--The number of inns in the burgh is 6, of taverns 7,
and of grocers' shops where spirits are sold, 17.  There are 3
breweries.  The reduction of the duties on whisky was defended
by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the plea of underselling
the smuggler, and thus putting a stop to illicit distillation.  It
may reasonably be questioned if the country has gained by the
change in the excise laws.  No doubt, smuggling supported a law-
less race of men who set order and good government at defiance;
but it ought to be remembered that illicit distillation was confined

<FOOTNOTE>kirk-session were excellent, but unfortunately neither the magistrates of this burgh
nor any other magistrates can enforce them.  The grievance is severely felt, but we
cannot remedy it.  A legislative enactment that would extend the law of settlement
to five or rather to seven consecutive years of residence, would confer a great benefit
on towns surrounded by parishes where the work of depopulation is going forward,
and would thus in a great measure equalize the burden of supporting the poor.


