
                         NORTH BERWICK.                 339

   Ecclesiastical State.-A church has been established at North
Berwick from remote antiquity. St Baldred may have been its
founder in the sixth century. It is shewn to have been esta-
blished before the reign of David I. Under that monarch, Duncan
the Earl of Fife, who died in 1154, founded the convent for
Cistertian nuns, to whom he granted the church of North Berwick,
"with its tithes and pertinents." It was dedicated to St Andrew.
There was an altar in it devoted to the Virgin Mary. It is a cu-
rious record of the olden time, that Agnes Fawlaw, wife of Robert
Lauder of the Bass, with the consent of her husband, granted an
annuity of ten merks from a tenement in Edinburgh, and five from a
tenement in Leith, for supporting a chaplain to officiate at the Vir-
gin Mary's altar in St Andrew's Kirk at North Berwick, which grant
was confirmed in 1491 by James IV. This church was of con-
siderable value; in the ancient Taxatio it is valued at 60 merks. It
remained in the patronage of the nuns till the Reformation. It pro-
bably was then transferred, along with the grant of the nunnery, and
much of its property, made by James VI. to Alexander Home, pos-
sessor of the manor,-all of which possessions were acquired by
Lord President Dalrymple, and are enjoyed by his lineal descend-
ant.-It is an original and single parish. The Auld Kirk, near the
shore, with its surrounding cemetery, is in entire desolation. The
present church was erected in 1770, on the foundation of a former
one, said to have been built in 1670; and, with the exception of the
old oak seat of the Dalrymple family in front, the interior was
wholly renewed in 1819, and is all in excellent condition. It affords
accommodation for 550; of course, there is great and evident defi-
ciency of church accommodation for the population of the parish.
The seats are allocated to the heritors and tenants, except half of the
western gallery, which is allotted to the magistrates and council and
burgesses of the town.-The church stands in a large square area,
forming the parochial burying-ground, encompassed with rows of
lofty, venerable and wide-spreading elm trees. The solemn beauty
of the scene excites universal observation. The church is conve-
niently placed for much the greater part of the population,-no
house being farther distant than three miles. The present manse
was built in 1824-5, and is peculiarly substantial and commodious,
and is inferior too none in the kingdom. It is beautifully situated
on a gentle elevation, in the centre of the glebe, and commands
every view of the beautiful and grand scenery around it. The
offices are excellent, numerous, and extensive. The glebe is some-


