
			PARISH OF KIRKINNER.

		PRESBYTERY OF WIGTON, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

		THE REV. JAMES REID, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE popular tradition respecting the name of the pa
rish is as follows.  In former times, the  parish of Kirkinner in-
cluded in it what now forms the parish of Kirkcowan.  The clergy-
man preached two Sundays at the church in the  southern part of
the parish, and the next in another place of worship; in ther north-
ern part of it.  In those days the one was distinguished as the Inner
Kirk, hence the name Kirkinner; the other was called the Outer Kirk,
which in course of time was change into Kirk-cowan, and now forms
the parish of that name.  Chalmers, in his Caledonia, however, gives
a very different account of the matter.  He teIls us, that the ancient
church of Kirkinner was consecrated to Saint Kennewil, Virgin and
Martyr, who suffered martyrdom at Cologne, October 29th 450.
Hence the name of the parish Kirkinner.  This church was grant-
ed by Edward Bruce, the Lord of Galloway, to the prior and can-
nons of Whitborn, and the grant was confirmed by King Robert I.
In the charter it is called the church of Saint Kenere of Carnes-
moel.  This seems to have been the name of a barony, for we
learn from Chalmers that, " before the demise of David II.,
the Earl of Wigton resigned his whole earldom into the King's
hands, except the barony of Carnesmull, and that; after the acces-
sion of Robert II. this resignation was repeated and accepted;
whereupon the King, in April 1372 granted a charter to Sir James
Lindsay, for the earldom as the same had been held by the first
earl, except the four pleas of the crown, and the barony of Carnes-
mull.  Kirkinner formed the benefice of the subdean of the chapel
royal.  In Bagimont's roll, as it stood in the reign of James V.,
Kirkinner was taxed L. 26, 13s. 4d. being tenth of the estimated
value.  This was the highest of any parochial benefice in Wig-
tonshire.  In 1591, James VI. granted the patronage of this


