
                           TWEEDMUIR.                           61

other parts of the parish, and committed several depredations.  It
had well nigh carried off a shepherd's boy, but fortunately it was
discovered hovering over its destined victim, and driven away just
before it had pounced upon its prey.  Under this head it would
be unpardonable to omit the fidus Achates, or shepherd's dog,
whose docility, sagacity, and vast utility cannot be toohighly ap-
preciated.  A occasion requires,ans the shepherd issues the man-
date, he either remains onperm`net duty as a guard or watch
over the flock when his master is necessarily engaged elsewhere, or
he goes roun the scattered sheep at a great distance and collects
them, thus relieving the shepherd of the most ardous part of his
labours, and accomplishing feats on these mountains which, with-
out his dextrous management, could nor perhaps be ac accomplished
at all.  Those of the true breed a high price, varying from
L. 3 th L.5, and even L. 6 Sterling.
  Botany.-The earliest spring food for the sheep in this district
is the plant bearing a white cotton head, vulgarly called moss-crop,
i.e. bog cotton, the Eriophorum polytachion of Linnaeus.  To
this it is thought Ossian refers when he thus describe a certain
beautiful female; "If on the heath she moved, her breast was
whiter than the down of Cana, &c."  It begins to spring about Can
dlemas in propitious seasons, and grows in mossy ground.  Draw-
ling, the E. vaganation of Linnaeus, succeeds it in March, and the
sheep gently seize upon the part above ground.  Heath is the last
in order, and it being the practice to burn part yearly, in order
to secure a succession of it, the burnt or young part is first dis-
cernible.
  Tradition as well as living authority inforrms us, that this country
abounded in wood of a natural growth; but, partly through the cu-
pidity of proprietors in turning their timber into cash, regardless
of the interest of their successors, and the beauty of the country,
and partly through the increasing demand for mutton and broad-
cloth, the hills are now denuded of their trees, and almost wholly
devoted to pasture for sheep.  Some old ash tres still remain at
Fruid and Hawkshaw, and it is found that larch, birch, Scotch and
silver fir, and poplars, agree best with the climate and soil of this
clevated region.  It is unfortunate that leases are not long enough
to encourage tenants to lant trees to any extent, but it is grati-
fying to be able to report that the Earl of Wemyss and Sir James
Montrgomery of Stanhope, Bart, have not been altogether inatten-
tive to this object.  In the course of a few years, the young and


