
672			PERTHSHIRE.

   Beside what is contained within the extiansive boundaries al-
ready   described, there are several detached portions scattered
throughout the counties of Perth and Forfar, viz.  Balholmie, lying
within the parish of Cargill; West and Middle Gormack in Kin-
loch; East and West Logie, Cairns, Chapelton Meadows and
Crofty, in Clunie; and Craigtown of Dalrulzian, in Kirkmiehael
all in Perthshire. Also, South Bandirian, in Collace; Balbeeuch-
ly, (through which the Newtyle Railway passes), in luehterhouse;
Broughtay Castle and fishings, and a small, piece of ground at
Mylnefield, near Dundee; and Fofarty in Kinriettles; all in For.
farshire. -In Fofarty there is a field of about four acres called
from time immemorial, "the minister of Caputh's glebe," and
Which was believed to belong to him, though unoccupied by any
person. Of being claimed, however, a number of years ago, by
the late incumbent, the Rev. W. Innerarity, he was opposed by the
rustees of the Earl of Strathmore, and the Court,of Session de-
cerned in their favour.
   Surface and Climate.-Its surface is very diversified. To the
south-east, stretching towards Strathmore, it is almost a perfect
level, and present a rich and beautifully cultivated champaign.
To the north and west it partakes of much of the grandeur of
Highland scenery, without its wildness, being an agreeable sucess-
sion of hill and dale, and pleasant little valleys opening their
bosoms to the sun, enlivened by lakes or rippling streams. The
temperature accordingly varies with the situation, being more keen
in the, higher parts, but the climate is everywhere genial and salu-
brious. There are no prevalent distempers, and longevity is very
common. At present there are several persons on the verge of
ninety years, and two or three advanced beyond that period.
Hydrography.-There is no streal of any consequence flowing
directly through this parish. But the Tay, which forms its southern
boundary for ten miles, from the bridge of Duakeld to its junction
with the Isle, is a splendid river, from l50 to 200 yards in width, and
soldierym and such of them as had stood to the west and north-west of the cathedral
were not rebuilt. The ground which they, and the gardens which had lain inter-
mixed with them, occupied, is supposed to have extended to about acres, and this
space now forms a part of the Duke of Atholl's lawn and policy. But as the bound
daries of the town receded on one quarter, they stretches out in another. Several
new houses were built on the slope of the eminence which rises to the eastward of
the town. These are uniformly described in the title-deeds as lying in the parish of
Caputh. That parish indeed, completely surround Dunkeld, (except where it is
skirted on the south by the Tay), and in former times had reached, it thus appears,
cloke to the site of the buildings. Stepend is paid to the minister of Caputh from
a placd of ground lying but a few yards from the cathedral.-Vol. xx. pp. 412, 413,
				4


