
                             CRIEFF.                         495

are reared in a public nursery in the parish, and consist of the
following kinds, viz. the common oak, the scarlet oak, Turkey cak,
l`rch, spruce, Scotch and silver firs Weymouth pines, ash, elw,
beech, plane or sycamore, horse chestnuts, limes, walauts, and pe-
plars of various descriptions.
There is no tree in the parish that is remarkable for age, size,
or form, save the yew at Inchbrakie, which is said, to be the second
largest in Scotland, and in the thick foliage of which the Marquis
of Montrose is reported to have been concealed during a season
of danger.

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices, &c.-" This town," says one who is every
way qualified to give an opinion, " is a place of respectable aati-
quity;-various notices of it occur in the annals of Scottish hi-
tory. Justice courts in Air sat at Crieff at a period of a very
distant date.  It formed the head-quarters of the army of Montrose
more than once during the civil wars of the seventeenth century,
and in the two last eras of intestine commotion, it was transversal
and occupied by the insurgent and royalist forces.  In the year
1715 it was burnt down by the Highlanders, and in all probability
it would have undergone the same fate in 1745, if the Duke of
Perth had not interfered to preserve it from destruction."
  The Highlanders had no good will to Crieff; and the fact,
it was stedfast in its loyalty to the then reigniag Prince, will be
fully sufficient to account for their dislike.  They were wont to
say of it, that "she would be a bra toun gin she had anither sing"

<FOOTNOTE>"There are no ancient or modern accounts of the history Of the far
as we know, neither are there any maps, plans or surveys, of the parish; but there is
a plan of the town of Crieffhn Wood's Town Atlas, published i Edingburgh in the year
1822, and, since, accompanied with a " Descriptive Account" of the Principal towels
in Scotland.  The above extract it takes from the account which is there given
of Crieff, and it has the advantage of being written by a native. The only other do-
euments of public importance, concerning which we have been able to obtain any in-
formations, arc the records of the legal and judicial proceedings of the course of the
Scowarts of Stratbearn, ineluding those of Chancellor Drummood. These intervers-
ing and valuable relies of antiquity, which are aid to have consisted of upeards of
40 relance folics, bound in veltom, together with many loose papers, were certainly
in existence in Crieff about the year 1798. There are several respectable individu-
als still alive, who remember secting the books, and reading portions of the less antisite
of thom; but there is much research to fear that they are now sil lost; It is common-
ly reported that the greater part, if not the whole of them , were burnt instead of feel,
by a reginment of fencibles who were statiened in Crieff in the year 1798 and who
made the court-room their guard house. It is also said that wose of shens were benit
to the sheriff Clerk's Office in Perth ; but, through careful skecth has been aside
through the obliging kindnerr of 3lr James Parson, no trace of them coold  be
covered in the Sheriff-Clerk's record rooms. The probability, there, is, that they
were never sent to Perth; and it is somewhat curious that the early records of the
pariah, both civil and ecclesiastical, have, at separate times, been destroyed by the
military.


