
                          DRUMOAK.                             881

Some time after this, a deadly feud seems to have arisen be-
tween the Keiths, hereditary great Marischals of Scotland, and
the Irvines of Drum; and tradition tells of a fight which took
place between them on a moor on the north bank  of the Dee,
which now forms part of the glebe, and is known by the name of
the Keiths' Muir.  In that battle the Irvines were victorious, and
drove their enemies across the river, at a deep and rocky part of
its channel, which still bears the appellation of the Keiths' Pot;
and a rock, which occasionally appears a few inches above the wa-
ter, on which, as is said, one of the fugitives took refuge and was
killed, retains the name of the Keiths' Stone.  In order to stop
this bloody feud, the states of the kingdom interfered, and enjoined
Alexander Irvine, the third in descent, to marry Elizabeth Keith,
daughter of the great Marischal.  Drum so far tempered his re-
sentment with that spirit of loyalty which has always distinguished
the family, as to enter into the proposed alliance, by submitting
to the performance of the marriage ceremony ; and this external
union, which seems to have been all that took place between the
parties, bad the desired effect of binding the two families together
in bonds of friendship, which remained long unbroken.  But this
powerful Baron not only distinguished himself in feudal fights with
the great Marischal, but also when opposed to the more formi-
dable forces of Donald, Lord of the Isles.  That chieftain having
taken possession of the Earldom of Ross, and ravaged the fertile
provinces of Moray, Strathbogie, and the Garioch, was met by
the Lowland army, under the Regent's nephew, at Harlaw,
about nineteen miles west from Aberdeen.  There a bloody con-
flict ensued, during which, Irvine of Drum (who had a com-
mand in the Lowland army), and Maclean of Dowart (Donald's
Lieutenant-General), encountered each other, and fought hand
to hand with such determined bravery, that both were killed.
Drum was buried on the field of battle by his followers, who also
raised a cairn of remembrance over his grave; and, the following
stanza, in the popular ballad of the battle of Harlaw, composed at
the time, records at once his gallantry, and the high respect with
which his countrymen regarded him:

<FOOTNOTE>bert Bruce, and not conveyed with the forest lands to William de Irwin), is still extant,
and is dated, " A pud Berwicum super Tweddam, primo die Februarii anno Regni-
nostri septimo decimo."  Among the family papers there is another charter by Ro-
bert I., dated at Kynros, 4 October, eighteenth year of his reign, in which are the
expressions, " Cum furca el fossa soc et sac thol et them et infangandthef."
    ABERDEEN                                                 3  K


