
80                            ELGINSHIRE.

  Education.-There are six schools in the parish, two of which
am parochial, three supported by the Society in Scotland for Pro-
pagating Christian Knowledge, and one which is unendowed. The
last mentioned, and two of the society's schools are taught by fe-
males. Each of the parochial schoolmasters has a salary of L. 25,
13s.3 1/4 . with a share of the bequest left by the late Mr Dick to
the parish teachers in the counties of Moray, Banff, and Aberdeen.
The amount of fees at each of the parish schools averages from
L. 8 to L. 10 per annum. The school-house of Knockando is at
present in very bad repair, and the scholars have no play ground.
The school fees vary from 2s. to 5s. per quarter, according to the
number of branches which the pupils are learning. The usual
branches taught at the parochial schools are, reading, writing,
arithmetic, book-keeping, land-measuring, mathematics, geography,
English grammar, and Latin, with the Shorter Catechism, and the
principles of the Christian religion. The Bible and New Testa-
ment are read every day in all the schools of the parish, and the
parochial schools and the Society's male school at Archiestown are
opened and closed with prayer. In the female schools, sewing,
knitting and samplar work are taught, along with reading, spelling,
writing and arithmetic.
  There are two Sabbath schools under the superintendence of
the minister and elders, which are well attended both by young and
grown up persons. It is also intended to have another established.
The Independents likewise have a Sabbath school. One of the
parochial teachers officiates as session-clerk, with a salary of L. 2,
10s. out of which sum he provides a depute precentor. His fees
for proclamations of bass are, 5s. when both the contracting par-
ties reside in the parish, and 3s. 6d. when only one party is resi-
dent ; for recording baptisms, 1s.; for extracts and certificates, 1s.
except when of an unusual length. The session officer has a fee
of 16s. 8d. and a small perquisite from the marriage and baptism
dues.
  Library,--Savings Bank.-At present there is neither a parish
library  nor a saving bank,--the want of which are felt. It is, how-
ever, sincerely to be hoped that means will ere long be found for
introducing into the parish these admirable additions to our in-
valuable Scottish parochial system.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are at present thirty-nine
individuals on the poor's roll, and upwards of 20 families who oc-
casionally receive supplies during the year.  There is a general


