
                       LINLITHGOW.                          173

many feet wide, it presented a most favourable position for the,
execution of the murder, as the Regent, on horseback, was com-
pelled to advance slowly, owing to the multitude by which he was,
surrounded. Hamilton, it is said, had the walls of the room hung
with black cloth, to prevent his shadow being seen; and the tra-
dition of the town is, that the neighbouring lane leading, to the,
back of the town, where his horse was stationed, was choked with
bushes and other substances, to retard pursuit.
   At the rejoicings, in 1662, in celebration of the restoration of
Charles II., Linlithgow obtained an unenviabld notoriety in Scot-
tish history, by the burning of the Solemn League and Covenant.
This act was not, however, authorized by the inhabitants, but ap-
pears to have been the deed of the chief actors in it, Mr Ramsay
the ministers and Mr R. Mylne, then dean of guild; both of whom
had signed the document which, with every circumstance of igno-
my, they then consigned to the flames. In the records of the
council there is no minute bearing upon the incident. There is a
minute of a previous date enjoining the celebration of the restora-
tion in 1660, which, though not bearing upon this incident, may
be quoted as a specimen of the manner in which our fathers were
wont to keep their holidays.
   "18th July 166O.-In respect that the morrow is appointed
ane soleme day of thanksgivin to the Lord for the King's Majes-
tic his saife returne, without debait or bluid, to sitt upon his fix-
ther's throne in England, in a peaceable and laudable way, upon
the unanimous call of his guid subjects thair, By the imediate
hand of God, contrair to all men's expectatioun, to the terrour and
astonishment of his enemies, and for the solemnizatioun thairof,
thair is a sermon to be in the morning, and after sermon the
marches, in a ordourlie and congratulatory way are to be ryddin,
and having closed the marches ryde, the council and others arr to
meitt together at dinner; and they appoint and ordein bonfeires
to be got, one by the haill inhabitants, at four clock efternuin,
at the ringing of the belles and intimation of the drume, and efter
denner the haill counsell and honest men are to go throu the
toune to see the bonfeires, and who refuse to get one, and to
sing a song of praise to the Lord at the cross."
   Various meetings of the Scottish Parliament were held in Lin-
lithgow. The last of them was in 1646, when Edinburgh was infect-
ed with the plague. A curious minute of the town-council, relating
to the sitting of this Parliament may be given as illustrative of the


