
     Statistical Account

in the Stormont.  The present number of scholars is about
30.-The number of poor is much diminished, in conse-
quence of the progress of improvement and of industry.
In the year 1775, the Justices of Peace for this country en-
acted certain regulations for suppressing vagrants and beg-
ging, and appointed lists of the poor in every parish to 
be made up half yearly, and their maintenance to be pro-
vided for by assessment, if it should be found requisite.
The heritors and kirk session of this parish met according-
ly, and agreed to adopt the plan pointed out by the Justi-
ces of Peace: but it was not carried into effect.  The list 
of the poor at that time contained 30; of whom 19 recei-
ved assistance from the parish-funds, and II were allowed
badges.  The average amount of these funds was L.  13,
7 s.  8 d.  at present, there are 12 on the poors list; and
the average amount of the parish-funds, for the last 5 years,
is L. 27: 13: 6.  They receive from 2 s. to 4 s.  The month;
in all L. 1, 12 s.; which makes L. 19 4 s. a-year.  They
also receive about L. 3, 3 s.  extra at Martinmas for clothes
and shoes: total, L. 22, 7 s.  But it must be remarked,
that many of them contribute towards their own support;
and they have in general a laudable pride, in not requi-
ring aid from the parish funds, as long as they can subsist
without it.  The kirk-session gives occasional supply to
such as are less necessitous.  Their clerk and beadle are
likewise paid out of these funds*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*About christmas 1729 began the several front that had been known
since the year 1715.  For six weeks, from the 1st of January 1740, the
river Tay was frozen over; and loaded carts passed and repassed on the
ice.  The crop of that year, not being fully ripened, was very deficient;
and oat-meal rose, in 1741, to the enormous price of L. 12 scots (L. 1
Sterling) the boll.  At that time, the most indigent poor of the parish
received 6 s. scots, (6 d. Sterling) a-week; and those who were able to 
beg, 2 s. Scots, (2 d. Sterling.)  The next season was as mild as the for


