
                      ARDNAMURCHAN.                          129

a small piece of money, or any article of little value.  A few years
ago, some pins, needles, metal buttons, and an old halfpenny
might be seen there, the last tribute to expiring superstition.  At
Baradale, in Arasaig, a cave is shown as one of those rude fast-
nesses which gave shelter to Prince Charles Stuart after his de-
feat at Culloden, a purpose for which it is well adapted.  It is in-
a rock of mica slate, and within expands into, an apartment of
considerable size, floored with jagged and uneven stones.  Yet
here, in damp and utter darkness, the unfortunate Prince took re-
fuge for three days.  There is another cave, on Lochnanua, not
now well known, where he also concealed himself.  Another, in
Ocal, in: Ardnamurchan, is said, on its own account, to be well
worth a visit.  Of course, in a parish of such extent, there are
many clefts and fissures running into the rocks, which it would be
tedious to mention.  All are on the sea shores, and many the
haunts of wild pigeons.
   Coast.-The coast, the extent of which, considering how deeply
and frequently the land is indented by lochs, cannot be estimated
at less than several hundred miles, is, so far as can be seen from
shipboard, generally bold and rocky, especially the headland of
Ardnamurchan, which, from its position, is thrown much in the
course of mariners.  When the wind is high, and blows from the
open sea, as it generally does on one part or other of this iron-
bound promontory, its aspect is very formidable.  The sea rises
with the abrupt and irregular motion occasioned by strong tides,
so very dangerous to open beats; breaks in huge masses of boil-
ing foam and showers of spray against the rugged barrier of na-
ked rock, while no creek or landing-place, where even life could
be saved, though there are in fact several, is visible.
   North of the point of Ardnamurchan, the coast inclines sud-
denly inward and eastward, so as to form, with the point of Ara-
saig bearing east north-east from the former, a deep and wide
bay, the shores of which, presenting all around a seaward frontier
of rock, high ranges, and rocky headlands, seem everywhere in-
accessible.  At the point of Arasaig, where the land again juts
considerably to the westward, the coast, though rocky, is compa-
ratively low.  Here, however, ledges of low and numberless sunk
rocks extend to the northern boundary of the parish, guarding
the mouth of Lochnakeauld and the sandy shores of Lochmoir,
with a barrier line of breakers advanced about three-quarters of
a mile into the sea.


