
514                     RENFREWSHIRE.

thirteenth Lord Sempill, brought into that family. That noble-
man sold both these properties, and left the family of which he
was the representative, once the most powerful in Renfrewshire,
without a rood of land in it. This Hugh Lord Sempill is repre-
sented, in the account of Lochwinnoch, as the last of the family.
This statement however, is incorrect, as Hugh Lord Sempill,
who sold Castle Sempill, was succeeded by his eldest and only
surviving son, Selkirk, fifteenth Lord Sempill, who died on the
4th of May 1835 when the title devolved upon his eldest sister,
Maria Janet, present Baroness Sempill, who married Edward
Candler, Esq. of Morton Pinknex, in Northamptonshire, Deputy-
Lieutenant of that county, son of Henry Candler, Esq., who was
paternally descended from the Irish family of Candler of Callan
Castle, in the county of Kilkenny, and maternally from the emi-
nent Yorkshire f amily of Vavasour, now extinct in the male line.
   Eminent Men.-The two last incumbents of Erskine have both
acquired considerable celebrity tbough in diffierent ways. Dr Wal-
ter Young was famed as the most splendid private musician of his
day; he performed with equal grace and effect on the piano, the
violin, and the flute, and it is said that the Church of Scotland is
indebted to him for the arrangement of some of its most beautiful
Psalm tunes. Dr Andrew Stewart- is famed as being the author
of the bracing, or antiphlogistic mode of treatment in pulmonary
and consumptive complaints, which is known by his name, and is
now almost universally adopted, as the most successful in' diseases
of the breast, though it was keenly opposed by the leading medical
practitioners, both in Scotland and England, at the beginning Of
this century.
    Modern Building.-Happily for the peace and morality of the
people, no mills nor manufactories can be numbered among the
modern erections. The chief of these are, the church, a hand-
some modern Gothic building, erected in 1813 which has since
served As a model for several new churches in different parts of
the country;-a new parish school, built in 1839, which is larger
and more commodious than any yet built in this county, and bears
Testimony at- once to the liberality of the heritors, in increasing
the schoolmaster's accommodation, and to their regard for the
health and comfort, as well as the education of the children of
the lower orders;-and column, in form of- an obelisk, 80 feet
high already  referred to as raised by the gentlemen of the county,
in memory of the late Lord Blantyre, about the year 1833.


