
			FORDYCE.                             179

   ber of square -miles in tbewhole parish is about 28.  It is bounded
   on the north, by the Moray Frith ; on the west, by Cullen, Rath-
   vens and Deskford; on the south, by Grange and Ordiquhill
   and on the east, by Ordiqubill and Boyndie.
	The general appearance of the parish is irregular, and presents
   considerable variety of hill and dale.    In its centre rise the hills of
   Durn and Fordyce, extending continuously, and in a crescent form,
   from north-east to south-west; while the Knock Hill, in the south,
   rears its head still more majestically, and is seen as a landmark from
   a considerable distance at sea.  The height of the Knock is from
   1200 to 1400 feet above the level of the sea, and that of Durn
   about 700 feet.  On the top of the former, there is a bank of peat-
   moss, extending to the depth of ten or twelve feet, of comparatively
   little value, from its inaccessibility to carts.
	The coast is rather bold and rocky.  It is intersected by two
   bays, that of Portsoy, where there is a safe and commodious har-
   bour for ships, and that of Sandend, where there is a sandy beach
   of about half a mile in length, with a small creek at the Redhyth
   Point, in which vessels of very light tonnage occasionally moor.
   The principal headlands are the East and West Heads, so called
   from their relative positions to Portsoy, and Logie Head, at the
   western extremity of the parish.  There are several caves, which
   run more or less into the rocks; but none of them are of any great
   extent.  The chief of these are, the Dove Cave, Kitty's Cave,
   the Bow Cave, and Cloutty's Cave, between Portsoy and Sand-
   end, and Findlater Cave close by the old Castle of the same
   name.
	Meteorology.-The temperature of the parish from its conti-
   guity to the sea, is perhaps less variable, upon the whole, than
   that of others possessing a different exposure.  But, from its
   very position in this respect, it is more exposed to the winds blow-
   ing between the north-west and north-east points of the compass,
   than parishes lying in the interior of the country.     The climate
   is very salubrious.
 	Hydrography.-The only streams of any importance are, the
   Burn of Boyne, forming the eastern boundary of the parish,-the
   Burn of Durn, and the Burn of Fordyce, the former emptying
   itself into the sea at Portsoy, and the latter into the bay, at Sand-
   end.  In the neighbourhood of Portsoy, there are several springs
   of a chalybeate character.  John Legg's well is the most famed
   in this respect, and is resorted to in the summer months by


