
                PARISH OF MORHAM.

   PRESBYTERY OF HADDINGTON, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND

		      TWEEDDALE.

          THE REV. JAMES FORSYTH, MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.THE names is variously written, Morham, Momeham,
Morhame, Morehame. Of these, the first form is the oldest and
most correct; although the second is now the most common. The
origin of the name is differently given. But if Lord Hailes's pria-
ciple be well founded, "that the names of the most ancient villages
and hamlets in East Lothian are Saxon," the most probable ori-
gin of it will be Moor-ham, the village on, or bordering upon,
the moor. No village, indeed, now exists in it parish. But
several circumstances lead to the belief of the former existence of
one, probably of considerable extent, and clustered, as was usual,
around the stronghold of the Lord of the Manor; in paticular,
the existence of such a village will help to account for the high-
er rate of the ancient taxatio of the parish, than was otherwise to
be expected from its extent. *  And immediately west of the
locality usually assigned to the extinct village lie a district of the
parish still called Morham Moor.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The extent of the parish is fully 3
miles in length from east to west, and varying from 1 to 1/2 mile
in breadth. It is bounded on the east by Whittinghame parish;
on the west and north by Haddington; and on the south by Gar-
vald. It contains 1458 Scots acres, divided into nine forms of
different size, the largest consisting of 315 acres, and the small-
est of 27.
   Topographical Character.-The parish lies on the acclivity of
the land towards the Lammermeor, nearl midway betwixt these
Hightands 6f East Lothian and the sea, and exemplifies at once
the gradual nature of that acclivity, and the undulating line of its
<FOOTNOTE>In that taxatio, as given Chalmers's Caledonia, Ecclesia de Morham is rated
at 20 merks, while Garvald and Ormiston are rated at 12, and Stenton and Aihe-
staneford at 10 each.


