
92                     PEEBLES-SHIRE.

  Leases are generally granted for nineteen years, but farms purely
of thd store kind are let for fourteen years only.  In some instances
a break in the lease at the end of five, nine, or any other number
of years is agreed on.
  The chief binderances to improvement are the non-residence
of the proprietors, the distance from markets, coal, and lime; and
to these may be added strict entails, which fetter both the land-
lord and the tenant.
  Produce.--The average gross amount and value of raw pro-
duce (exclusive of pasture) yearly raised in the parish may be as
follows:

<TABLE>

2000 acres wheat, barley, oats, pease, at L.8 per acre,   .          L. 16000  0 0
  90 acres potatoes, at L. 7 per acre,     .    .    .   .   .   .        630  0 0
 240 acres turnips, at L. 4 per do.,      .    .    .    .    .   .       960  0 0
 189 acres sown grass, 85 do. meadow bay,       .    .    .    .   .      941  0 0
Pasture, rating it at L. 3 per cow grazed or that may be grazed, for
  the season, and 5s. per ewe pastured, or that may be pastured, for
  the year      .     .    .     .    .     .    .    .    .     .       2400  0 0
Thinnings of wood,     .    .     .    .     .     .   .     .    .       300  0 0

                                                                     L. 21231  0 0

  Hardly any flax is raised in this parish.  It is supposed to
scourge the soil, and linene can be purchased at a moderate rate.

                    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

  Means of Communication.--The principal cause of the great
unevenness of the old public roads was a belief that it was next to
impossible to make a path that could be travelled, through a bog,
swamp, or morass.  Yiedling to this mistaken notion, the surveyor
conducted his line up bill and down dale, wherever he could find
a hard or rocky bottom, which was less injurious in its effects, at
a time when wheel carriages were almost altogether unknown.
Another cause was the desire of accomodating country gentle-
men with regard to their parks, policies, and gardens.  To avoid
interfering with these, the road formed a semicircle, or went off at
a right angle, thereby occasioning a loss to the public, and a delay
to the traveller.
  Under the management of a skilful and judicious superintendent,
the line of toll-road is in a fair way of being greatly amended.
Three miles of new road, from the village of Broughton to the
northern extremity of the parish, has already been made at an ex-
pense of about L. 1000, and another of nearly two miles, farther
south, is contracted for at L. 800 or thereby, and when the work
shall be executed, the intercourse between the capital and the
                             3



