
294			KINCARDINESHIRE.

to instruct in reading, writing, and arithmetic. There are usually
classes in the parochi`l school, for geography, Latin, and French,
besides the branches, ordinarily taught in country schools. The
master of the parochial school has a salary of L.33, school fees,
amounting to L.30 a-year; a commodious house, much larger than
what is considered the legal provision; a garden, and separate
school-room. The private schools are all unendowed, and appear
to be kept up without any subscription by the parents of children
attending them, or by others, beyond what is paid to the teachers
in the shape of school fees. The attendance at the parish school
is from 60 to 90, occasionally upwards of 100, for whose proper
accommodation the room is much too small. The average num-
ber of children in constant attendance at all the schools is 200,
which is exactly one-eighth part of the whole population of the
parish.
	There are Sabbath schools at five different stations in the pa-
rish, under the conduct of the assistant minister, and other indi-
viduals, who take an interest in the religious instruction of the
young. There are also classes kept by the assistant minister, on
the afternoon and evening of Sabbath, for the instruction of male
and female servants, each of which is attended by from 30 to 40
persons. All the young persons in the parish above seven years
of age, are in the course of being instructed in reading and writ-
ing. The people, in general, shew much anxiety to have their
children educated, and use every means to keep them at school
as long as possible.
	The deed of settlement of the late Sir Joseph Straton of Kirk-
side contained a bequest of the sum of L.500 to the heritors and
kirk-session of this parish, "for the purpose of promoting educa-
tion within the parish." The parties in whom the management
of this fund is vested have the power of applying it in "such
manner as may appear to them best calculated to promote" the
intended object, and they have resolved, in the meantime, to lay
out the interest arising from it, in the education, at the various
schools in the parish, of such children as may be selected by the
kirk-session from among the poorer classes of the people.
        Library.-The parish library, which has existed for a number
of years, under the management of the minister and kirk-session,
contains about 750 volumes, chiefly of a religious kind. It was
formed by a collection at the church doors, and by a subscription
among the parishioners, and has had very little pecuniary support


