
                        COLDINGHAM.                            289

persons who are not able to sign their name is very inconsiderable;
and there is no part of the parish so distant from a school as to
prevent attendance. In addition to these sources of instruction
there are four Sunday schools, which are numerously attended.
   Literature.-The village of Coldingham is furnished with a sub-
scription library containing 400 volumes, consisting of the best
English authors.
   Fairs- There is a fair held twice a-year in the village, which has
now dwindled almost to nothing.
   Inns.-There are two inns and ten public houses in the parish;
four are situated on the great London road, and all of them are
well conducted, and do not appear to be productive of any serious
injury to the morals of the people.
   Fuel.-The principal fuel used in the parish is coal, brought
from the sea-port of Eyemouth and Berwick; but the persons who
live in the moorland parts of the parish chiefly burn peat.
   Charitable Institutions.-A friendly society was established in
1791; it is in a very flourishing state, consisting at present of 125
members. The present amount of its capital stock is lent in
small sums on floating security, and amounts to L. 700. The
quarterly payment of each member is 3s.; and the allowance per
week to the sick and those unfit for work, 2s.; and in the case of
a funeral, L. 5 for expenses.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of individuals
on the poor roll is 140, a few others receiving temporary aid;
and the average sum allotted to each is 1s. 3d. a-week. The poor
are supported by a legal assessment, amounting to nearly L. 600
per annum, and there is no other source of relief except that af-
forded by the collections at church, which may amount to L. 10
per annum.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Nothing is wanting to promote the progress of industry and the
happiness and comfort of the labouring classes, but the residence
of the landed proprietors, scarcely any of whom reside in the pa-
rish. The consequence of this is, that the poor have none to whom
they can look for assistance in adversity, or counsel in difficulty;
and the relative duties between rich and poor have no existence
in this parish.

   November 1834.
   BERWICK.                      T


