
			KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                              25

neight of 75 feet; several of the apartments are large, but not
well suited to the present system of prison discipline. Some al-
terations are contemplated in the interior arrangement of the cells.
The prison was erected at the joint expense of the county and
burgh, and cost between L.4000 and L.5000. The court-room,
a spacious and elegant ball, is contiguous to the prison.  The
buildings, from a distance, have an imposing appearance.
	The Academy consists of three large class rooms and a library.
Its site, with about an acre of ground adjoining, was presented to
the magistrates by the late Lord Selkirk. It has a kind nf piazza,
or portico, in front for the use of the scholars in bad weather. The
academy originally cost L.1129, but the expense of its erection was
partly defrayed by subscriptions from the friends of the institution.
	Mansion-Houses. --The mansion-houses in the parish are
St Mary's Isle, Balmae, Janefield, St Cuthbert's Cottage, and
Fludha.
			III.--POPULATION.
	Ancient State.--The ancient state of the inhabitants of the pa-
rish was by no means favourable to their health and happiness.
About the beginning of the last century their houses in general
were miserable hovels, built of stone and turf, or stone and clay,
and covered with turf and indifferent straw. Holes in the walls
or roof served to admit light, and allow the smoke to escape.
Domestic animals, such as cows and horses, were often kept in
the dwelling houses of the inhabitants. In a report made by the
magistrates of Kirkcudbright to the commissioners of the conven-
tion of royal burghs in 1692, they say, "that the most pairt of
their houses are inhabited by their respective heritors, and all the
rest are either waist or ruinous, and that more than the half."
	Their furniture was of the rudest and poorest kind, and
their food consisted of the meanest and coarsest materials. In
the same report, it is stated that the town had no foreign trade,
and that their inland trade was very inconsiderable; that all the
articles they required, they brought. from other towns on horseback;
that all the vessels they had, was one small boat of eight tons,
newly bought for carrying their coal.
	The dress of this period was uncouth and homely, and in ge-
neral neither men nor women wore shoes in summer; shirts.they
scarcely knew.
	Their agricultural operations continued extremely awkward and
inefficient, and the instruments then in use were clumsy, ponder-


