
     Statistical Account

   Heritors, etc.-There are 14 heritors, 7 of whom re-
side.  The mansion-house of Springkell stands in the pa-
rish of Kirkconnell, and is situated about 200 or 300 yards
to the eastward of the place where the old mansion-house
and town of Kirkconnell stood.  It was erected in 1734,
and is a genteel and well executed building.  There are in 
the neighbourhood of Springkell, woods and plantations
of considerable extent, all in a very thriving condition,

<FOOTNOTE>

that it possesses a larger quantity of sulphur than the sulpherous spring at
Moffat.  Some of the ingredients, contained in the Moffat water, were
indeed found to exist in smaller quantities in this; but there be consider-
ed rather injurious to the health of the patient.  Its smell is highly sulphu-
reous, and is by the people in the neighbourhood compared to that of rotten
eggs, or the washings of a soul gun.  It is used with great success in scro-
fulous and scorbutic cases; and frequently, as a wash, in healing ulcerous
and cutaneous eruptions.  It is light and diuretic, and so remarkably vo-
latile, that it can be scarcely be preserved in perfection over one night.  It is
drunk in the highest perfection at the fountain, about sun-rising, or in the
dusk of th evening.  The other three mineral springs are all of the cha-
lybeate kind, and differ not considerably from each other, with respect to
the qualities of their waters.  Of these, one known by the name of the
Highmoor-well, doubtlets possessing less of the chalybeate quality, and
which likewise appears to be impregnated with a substance which the
others do not possess, hath been successfully used for creating appetite,
and promoting digestion, bilious and other complaints of the sto-
mach.  It is situated in the vicinity of a large body of limestone; but
whether it is affected in any degree by that fossil, remains yet to be as-
certained.  The second of this kind, distinguished by the name of Char-
ley's well, upon the farm of Goukhall; and the third, by that of Wysbie
well, are purely of the same nature and qualities, and said to possess all
the power and medicinal virtues of the celebrated Hartwell Spaw at
Moffat.  Of these, the two first are in the parish of Kirkconnell; the lat-
ter is in Kirkpatrick, upon the estate of Wisbie.  The stones about the
edges of the Wysbie well are completely coated with an ochre or
iron ore.  Recourse is bad to it in stomachic complaints and debi-
lities.  A few years ago, in the time of a great drought, a farmer, whose
cattle were seized with the red water, drove them to this well, by the
use of which they were all cured.


