
                          ABERDOUR.                              273

instituted on the 15th August 1815, for affording relief to aged
and indigent members, and also for the benefit of the widows and
children of the deceased.  The number of members is 75.  The
money is invested in a chartered bank, in terms of the act of Par-
liament, and amounted in 1835 to L.279, 12s. 7 1/2d.
   There is no savings bank in the parish.  The nearest is in the
parish of Strichen, about seven miles from New Aberdour.  It
was established about six years ago, and is said to be in a flourish-
ing condition.  As yet, the transactions with this bank consist chief-
ly of investments of money by farm-servants, of both sexes, and
also by crofters and tradesmen.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid is 36, and the average annual allowance to
each is L.1, 4s.; the contributions for the relief of the poor
arising from church collections, L.39, 14s. 6d.; donations, L.5;
interest of money, L.6, 4s. 9d.; penalties, L.3, 10s.; average an-
nual aniount of poor's money, L.54, 9s. 3d.  The poor scarcely
ever apply for parochial aid until compelled by dire necessity, ma-
nifesting a landable spirit of independence, and a desire to sup-
port themselves by the fruits of their own industry.
   Fairs.-There are 4 annual fairs lately established at the village
of New Aberdour, for cattle, merchandise, and engaging servants,
but they are not well attended, as the place where they are held
is within a mile of the margin of the sea.  Two of them are held
at the two terms of Whitsunday and Martinmas, one in the middle
of April, and another in the middle of August.  There is also a
fair, called Byth market, held twice a-year, in the months of May
and October, upon a moor in the southern division of the parish,
where a few cattle are bought and sold.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There are 5 licensed ale and spirit-bouses
in the parish, three in the village of Aberdour, and two in Pennan,
and there is also a gin-shop or two, of inferior note, in the more
remote corners.
   FueL-The fuel chiefly usde is peat, of which there is an inex-
haustible quantity in the parish.  The expense varies according to
the distance; but it costs at an average, before it can be laid down
on the stack-hill, about 2s. per cart load.  Considering the ex-
pense of cutting, spreading, setting, and driving, it is very doubt-
ful whether the people woul not be gainers by using coal in-
stead of peat.
   ABERDEEN.                         S

