
                            STAIR.                        645

<TABLE>
	Number of inhabited houses,                           137
                   houses uninhabited,                     none.

	What the writer of the former Account says of the inhabitants
of that period, is applicable to far the greater proportion of the
present population,--that they are in their morals sober, honest
and industrious, and strongly attached to the Established Church.
	There have been five illegitimate births within the last three
years.
                             IV.--INDUSTRY.
        The parish is wholly agricultural, and is divided into 36 farms,
two of which are under the management of their proprietors. The
others are possessed by 29 tenants; there are 8 small holdings.
	There are 41 male farm-servants; 15 labourers; 2 master
carpenters, and 2 others engaged in jobs; 2 mill-wrights, one of
them usually employing from 2 to 3 hands, the other occasionally
working as carpenter; 2 master blacksmiths, and another en-
gaged by the tacksmen of Drongan colliery for purposes about the
works; 4 master shoemakers, three of whom constantly employ
several hands; 3 tailors; 2 gardeners; 1 nurseryman; 1 gar-
den and orchard; about 32 colliers; 2 masons; 1 customer
weaver, who usually employs a journeyman; 1 stocking-framer;
4 persons who sell groceries; number of servants, 89; males un-
der 20 years of age, 16; above do. 25; females, 48.
	The arable land amounts to about 3400 acres, and there are
at least 640 acres covered with wood. By far the greater propor-
tion is planted. Scotch fir and larch constitute by much the largest
proportion, and seem well adapted to the soil.
	The writer has not the means of ascertaining the average rent
of arable land per acre; but considers himself warranted in stating,
that L. 1 is very nearly the rate actually paid in most years,
though a considerably higher, sum probably stands in many in-
stances on the rent-roll. The grazing of a cow or ox is about
L.3.
	Live-Stock.--There are 96 work-horses; 481 milk cows, all of
the Ayrshire breed; 222 young cattle; and a few score of mountain
sheep are fed on the lawn at Barskimming. Most of the farmers
keep a few pets, chiefly for the sake of the wool for domestic
purposes.
	Agriculture.--The grain raised in the parish is oats, peas, and
barley. Some years ago, wheat formed a regular part of the ro-
tation the estate of Barskimming, but, having both found to


