
     Statistical Account

the fraternity had increased to 26*.  Some of the grants
to the abbey were of a singular nature, and on that ac-
count may not be unworthy of particular notice.  David
I. + grants to the abbey, omnem decimam de auro quod
mihi eveniet de Fif et Fothrif, i.e. the tenth part of all
the gold he should derive from Fife anf Fothrif .  By a

<FOOTNOTE>

*The abbey was richly endowed, and derived part of its extensive re-
venue from places at a considerable distance.  Kitkaldy, Kinghorn, and
Burntifland, called of old Wester Kinghorn, likewise Musselburgh and
Inveresk belonged to this abbey.  According to a rental given up at the
time of the Reformation by Allan Couts, in name of George Durie Abbot,
the yearly revenue was as follows.-Money, L 2513. 10:8 Scots;
wheat, 28 c. 11 b. 1 f.-bear, 102 c. 15 b. 1 f. 3 p-meal, 15 c-oats,
61 c. 6 b. 2 f-horse-corn, 29 c. 1 b. 1 f. 2 1/2 p.-butter, 34 ft-lime,
19 c. 15 b.-salt, 11 c. 8 b.-According to another rental by the same
person:-Money, L.2404, 4 s.-wheat, 27 c 4 b. 3 f.-bear, 83 c. 11 b.
2 f. 2 p-oats, 158 c. 5 b. 2 f. whereof 84 c. white oats.-lime, 20 c.-
salt,11 c. 8 b.-capons, 374-poultry 746.

+James I. is reported to have said of David.  "He was an soir Sanct
for the Croun."  Had James I. (says Lord Hailes), been possessed of the
revenues which his predecessurs bestowed on the clergy, he would have
employed them in augmenting the influence of the Crown, and to speak
in the dialect of Bellendin, have kythed an soir King for the Lords.
Hailes's Ann.

Fothrif is called Forthrick, in Chart. Cambuskenneth.  Sir Robert
Sibbald, History of Fife, c. 2. says, that Mr Robert Maule, the antiquary.
derived Fothrick from Veachric, i. e. "the painted kingdom," or "the
kingdom of the Picts."  Lord Hailes says, that Fothwick is compounded of
Forth and rick, i. e. the kingdom or territory at the Forth; and supposes
that it means that country on the northern bank of the Forth, from the
neighbourhood of Stirling to where the river is lost in the salt water.
Hailes's Ann.  In Hay's Scotia Sacra, the monastery of Dunfermline is
said to be in Fothrick moor, and on the north side of this parish there is
a moor which still retains the name of Fatrick moor.  Lord Hailes's de-
rivation of the word Fothrick appears extremely natural; but it should
seem that the country so denominated, extended farther east than he sup-
poses.


