
106                        LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

acres, including that on the extensive policies of the respective
proprietors, and the double hedge-rows of trees that line. most of
the parish roads, and subdivide several of the farms, adding much
to the richness and beauty of the landscape, though perhaps not to
its productiveness. The wood consists principally of oak, ash, elm,
plane, and beech and fir, of about eighty years' growth; though
some of it, which is of large dimensions and of the finest quality,
may have-stood upwards of two centuries.
The gross rental of the portions of the parish under cultivation
may,estimated at L. 8700, and in pasture at L. 2250. The
valued rent is L. 9598, 10s. 10d. Scots, thus allocated:-

<TABLE>
            The Earl of Rosebery,         L. 4004    2   7
            Mr Dundas of Dundas,             2190    8   6
            Mr Hope Vere of Craigiehall,     1905   12   7
            The Earl Of Hopetoun,            1066   13   4 }  Both now
            Earl of Rosebery,                 390   18   0 }  Hopetoun.
            Queensferry Acres, &c.             40   12   6

   The produce may average three quarters wheat, five quarters
barley, and six quarters oats; a large proportion of the land on
each farm being regularly under turnip crop, which is partly eat off
by sheep, and partly used for feeding cattle.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-There are no villages of any extent within the parish,
the greater part of the population, not purely agricultural, or at-
tached to the establishments of the large proprietors being resident
in the two ends of the town of Queensferry amounting to nearly
400.
   The small village of Dalmeny, which is delightfully situated
nearly in the centre of the parish, on the road lending westward
to Dundas, and commanding a view of the Frith of Forth, consists
only of about a dozen of cottages, besides the church, manse, and
and school-house, with a green in the middle.
   Roads, &c.-The parish roads are generally excellent; the
Great North Road from Edinburgh, unequalled perhaps in Bri-
tain for its width and condition, entering it at Cramond Bridge,
an elegant structure erected at great expense ever the Almond,
in the year 1821. It terminates at Newhalls, where there is a good
and commodious inn. From this place the steam-passage-boats
sail to North Queensferry every hour between sunrise and sunset,
returning from the apposite side at each intermediate half-bour.
The fares, which are generally considered high, are, for each
Passenger, 6d.; for a horse, 1s.; a two-wheeled carriage, 2s. 6d.;
a four-wheeled do. 7s. 6d.; and for cattle, 6d. a-head; and for




