
                       KINCARDINE O'NIEL.                    837

manse are placed in the village,-a situation extremely inconve-
nient for at least two-thirds of the parishioners.  An attempt was
made above thirty-five years ago to get it removed to the centre of
the middle division of the parish by the heritors in the two north-
ern divisions, and it would have been effected but for the Act of
1709.  Where it now stands, it is within 400 yards of the south-
ern extremity of the parish, while some of the parishioners are
nearly eight miles distant from their place of worship.  Another
place of worship, at least, is necessary, and would tend much to the
comfort of the people.  Even in the middle division, many of
the people are above five miles distant from it.  The church
is at present in good repair, and, though an old edifice, a very
comfortable place of worship, but too small for the population.
It is seated only for 640, while, in 1842, 870 parishioners
joined in the communion.  The walls appear to have been built
with small stones and run lime.  Their age is unknown; but
tradition says that they have stood above 200 years.  In 1733,
the roof was burnt down by a young man shooting pigeons
on it, it being then covered with heath, which the wadding
ignited.  The roof was then covered with slates.  In 1799, the
roof was re-slated, and the doors and windows renewed, and made
more comfortable.  It has since been regularly seated, lathed, and
plastered, and divided among the heritors. Of course, no seat-
rents are paid.  In the northern division of the parish, there are
a good many Dissenters; nor is this to be wondered, when they
are six or seven miles distant from the church, and have two Dis-
senting chapels much nearer them.  They are principally of the
Associate Secession Church.  The number of communicants
evinces that the church, notwithstanding the distance to hundreds,
is well attended.  There are no Societies for religious purposes in
the parish.
   Part of the present manse was built about the year 1760.  It
was repaired and an addition put to it in 1772. In 1812, it was
again repaired for the present incumbent.  It is comfortable,
though not modern, the rooms being generally small.  The glebe,
including the tofts, measures about eight imperial acres.  The
stipend was augmented in 1832,-the heritors agreeing to give
17 chalders, half meal, half barley.
   There is no place of worship of any description in the parish
besides the Established Church.

   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Within the last thirty years, two


