
     of Dundee.

Alectum, and by this it is distinguished in the highlands.
The signification of Alec is laid to be pleasant or beautiful.
The language spoken by the inhabitants, has, from time im-
memorial, been the broad Scotch; that is English or Saxon,
with a peculiar provincial accent.  The names of places in
the parish are partly in this language, and partly Gaelic.  Of
the former kind are Blackness, Coldside, Clepingtown and Clay-
pots.  Balgay, Dudhope, Drumgeith, Duntroon, Baldovie, and
various others are examples of the latter.

   Situation, Extent, etc.-The parish of Dundee is situated
in the county of Angus, now called, in writings, Forfarshire,
from the county town.  The length from W. to E. is about
6 miles, but its breadth is various; for, towards the west end,
it is nearly two miles, towards the middle, where the town
stands, not more than one, ard towards the earl end, between
three and four*.  The territory of the parish belongs to a

     VOL. VIII. B b

<FOOTNOTE>

*As there is no map of the parish, it is hardly possible to communicate an
intelligible description of its form.  The ridge of mountains, which runs from
Perth to the east promontory of Angus, called the Red Head, separating be-
tween this country and Strathmore, is well known, being a continuation of the
Ochil Hills; and in the parts where it approaches nearer to the parish of Dun-
dee, it is named the Siedlaw Hills, and Lorn's Hill.  While these mountains
run along the Carse of Gowrie, no new range rises between them and the Tay,
and there the country is flat, and almost level; but, where the Carse terminates
near Millfield, a new range rises of lower hills, running from Balgay Hill on
the west, to the Knock-Hills near Arbroath on the east, where it forms the south
boundary of a sort of vale or strath, contained between them and the ridge of
Siedlaw and Lorn, etc. on the north.  In this vale, no single great river runs,
but it is watered by several streams, which descend from the northern ridge,
and, after traversing various parts of the vale, make their way through the low-
er range into the lay.  On part of this lower range of hills, and chiefly on
their southern exposure, the parish of Dundee is situated; towards the east end
it is intersected by Dighty and Fiethy, the principal of all the streams which


