
     Statistical Account

   From what has been said of the village and barony of
Chirnside, previous to the division of the lands, according

<FOOTNOTE>

old run-ridge, the arable, and the intermixed property in the outfield,
inconveniencies, even in the ordinary course of the land tillage, were
necessarily inccured. Adapted to the state of the country, under the
policy of the feus, and calculated for common defence, especially in the
constant predatory was carried on the borders of the two kingdoms,
it embarrassed rather than promoted the culture of the field.  The
acres, and smaller lots of the arable, were laid out in such a manner,
that balks, or strips of untilled ground, being interposed between eve-
ry 5 or 6 ridges, a waste of the best land was thus made for the sake of
marches, not only between the grounds of the different proprietors, but
amidst the lots and subdivisious of acres, into which they were cast.  In 
the shape of the ridges, no alteration, howsoever proper, could be at-
tempted; and all the difference of the operations of the plough, con-
sisted in taking either a deeper or shallower surrow, or a wider of closer
one.  The unalterable curvature of the ridges had a tendency to collect
moisture in all slats or dips of the ground.  Within the compass of the
acres, and their divisions, no useful drains could be formed.  In the out-
fields, they were often impracticable, from interjections of separate pro-
perty, or the boundaries of it being indistinctly ascertained.  In such
circumstances, it was no wonder that the husbandmen of those days, whom
we are now too ready to accuse, not only of want of skill, but of an in-
dolent and obstinate adhcrence to their old customs, would find it very
difficuslt to make new or uncommon exertions.  That they were tar-
dy, in general, may be understood, from their having certain days, or
weeks at least marked out especially in the spring season, from, com-
mencing their labours.  Their ploughts drawn by more oxen than horses,
both but poorly fed through the winter, could not accelerate their work. 
It is to be observed, that the tradesmen in the village, who had por-
tions of acres, either hired their ploughings of the farmers, or else con-
joining not only the horses, but the cows they had among them, made
shift, with a common or borrowed plough, to perform more thriftily, if
not so properly, the tillage required.  An old saying, retailed about the
time of making the bear seed, is an evidence that the season of it was more
apt to be postponed than anticipated.  "It is too late," it was said,
"when the leaves of the ash cover the pyet's (i.e. magpie's nest."
The screaming of this poisons bird, at the building her nest on her.
favourite tree, it seldom heard sooner than about or after the middle of
Junc.


