    190                     ELGINSHIRE

<TABLE>

    Potatoes          172     Imperial acres, at  L.5   0    0 per acre, L.860    0     0
    Turnips           236        do.                3  10    0  do.        826   10     0
    Rye-grass hay     417        do.                3   0    0  do.       1251    0     0
    Grass in pasture, 908        do.                1   0    0  do.        908    0     0
    250 sheep, glazed at 3s per sheep,                                     375    0     0
    Annual thiilnings and falling of wood,                                1700    0     0
    Fishing,                                                                50    0     0
                                                                          -----------------
                                                                      L.12,192   10     0


      Husbandry.-When the last Statistical Account was published,
   farining seems to have been in a very backward state in this. pa-
   risb.- Since then, hundreds of acres of land, which had been lying
   waste and useless, have been brought under cultivation, with an
   ample return of profit; and the land previously in culture, by
   means of draining, cleaning, the application of lime, and a regti-
   lar rotation of cropping, has been rendered, in many instances,
   worth more than double its former value. Lime, of which little
   or none had been used at the former period, is now had recourse
   to almost universally. It is procured from Cothall limekilns, the
   property of Sir William G. G. Cumming, Bart., in the parish of
   Forres, about six miles distant from the centre of this parish ; or
   from the sea-port of Findhorn, about fourteen miles off, where it is
   imported from England. About seventeen bells are generally
   given. to the imperial acre, which are supposed to be fully equal
   in, the effects it produces on the land here, to a third more on, the
   low grounds of Morayshire nearer the sea.
      The commencement of agricultural improvements in the tipper
   districts may be dated from about the beginning of the present
   century when Mr Alexander Wilson, late tenant at Gervally, was

   brought from Berwickshire by Mr Cumin of Regulas to this parish.
   His merits as an agriculturist have been recognized in a manner
   which must have been, highly gratifying to his surviving family, as it
   was honourable to themselves, by five extensive and most respect-
   able proprietors, who erected a marble tablet to his memory in the
   churchyard of Edenkillie, where his remains were deposited, in
   order, as the inscription on. it bears, 11 to mark the sense thev en-
   tertain of his zeal and fidelity in the management and improve.
   ment of the estates in this neighbourhood."
      While the spirit of improvement, of late years, has been evinced
   in a greater or less degree,e on all tb6 properties, it is no more than
   justice to state, that the improvements, both of an,useful and or-'
   namental kind, which have been making on Dunphail, the proper-
   ty of Mr, CummiDg,Bruce especially on that part of it, of which


