
314                    INVERNESS-SHIRE

parish, from draining, trenching, fencing, and the application of
lime, marl, and shell-sand. The caschrom, or crooked-spade, is
giving place to the plough, which is now drawn by two horses in-
stead of four, as was the case not many years ago. The pannier
or creel is also giving place to the cart, which is now in common
use. The small oat is also fast disappearing, and, from the differ-
rent varieties of great oats, we have fair returns; but unless the seed
is frequently changed, they soon degenerate, owing no doubt to
the moist and cold nature of our climate. The crops, however,
in the most favourable seasons, are inadequate to the support of
the superabundant population. The consequence is, that they
annually suffer privations in a greater or less degree.
   In the years 1836 and 1837, this parish, in common with the
rest of the Highlands, experienced the effects of the alarming des-
titution, which was so prevalent in consequence of the failure of
the crops in general, and of the potatoes in particular, from some
unaccountable causes. And had it not been for the laudable and
philanthropic exertions of John Bowie, Esq. W.S., agent for Lord
Macdonald, and of Dr Norman Macleod of Glasgow, and the
timeous relief procured by the appeal of these gentlemen to a li-
beral public, a fearful loss of life must have been the consequence.
The recurrence of similar calamities can only be prevented by
striking the evil at the root,-by the establishment of a systematic
emigration conducted upon proper principles, and holding out such
inducements as will overcome the amor patriae so strongly im-
planted in the breast of every Highlander.
   If the indefatigable exertions of Mr Bowie to benefit the High-
lands, and to promote emigration, were responded to by the High-
land proprietors, with that energy which his judicious suggestions
on this subject so well merit, and which the state of the country
so loudly calls for, not only would they find it for their own ulti-
mate advantafe; but their people might again be restored to the
enjoyment of a competency of the necessaries of life, and to that
status in a society which they held  until the introduction of the lot-
ting system, at which period some of the best of the small tenants
of this parish left it for North Carolina, one of whom brought
more capital along with him than is now in the joint possession of
all the tenants who occupy the farm which he left.
   All traces of the feudal system have now disappeared, and most
of the ancient manners and customs peculiar to the Highlanders
have long ago sunk into oblivion. At one time the feudal lairds


