
                         INVERNESS.                           35

encroached on the quiet of Sunday, have lately curtailed the mar-
ket time of each fair from the forenoon of Wednesday to the after-
noon of Friday. The show of horses and cattle at the Inverness
fairs is now much less than it used to be previous to the establish-
ment of several cattle trysts in the neighbourhood. In the month
of July, however, in each year, a great wool-market is held in this
town, at which the principal Highland sheep-farmers, from all the
northern counties, are wont to meet the south of Scotland and
English wool-staplers and agents, and at which sales to the extent
at least of 100,000 stones of wool are annually effected, besides
numerous exchanges among the sellers and drovers from the south
of their various kinds and ages of sheep, which exceed in amount
100,000 careases a-year. The prices fixed at this fair generally
regulate those of all the other markets in the country, as well as
the subsequent sales of the farmers who are not present at it; but
these prices fluctuate so frequently, from causes little understood,
that we do not conceive it necessary to quote them; and, indeed,
the prices of past years are not found to influence those of the
next season.
   Besides the markets now alluded to, every Tuesday and Friday
are ordinary market days in Inverness for butcher-meat, eggs,
poultry, and farm and garden produce; and on a certain day every
half year there is a fair on the Exchange of Inverness for the hiring
of farm-servants.
   Inns.-Inverness has been long celebrated for the excellency of
its inns-the Caledonian hotel especially being inferior to none in
Scotland. Besides the accommodation of parlours, and large sit-
ting-rooms, and a spacious ball-room, Mr Wilson, the keeper of the
hotel, can make down upwards of eighty beds, and insure private
lodgings in town to such strangers as require them. His coach
and posting establishment is also great. The number of licensed
inns and alehouses is 52 in the burgh, and 19 in the landward
portions of the parish.
   Fuel.-Coals from Sunderland and Newcastle, and a small quan-
tity of Scotch coals from the coal basin of the Forth, constitute
the principal fuel in Inverness. Wood is not extensively used, but
peats, employed principally for kindling coal-fires, are brought to
town from the upland districts, and sell from 1s. to 1s. 6d. the
small cart load. Coals sell from 10d. to 1s. 6d. the barrel of two
heaped imperial bushels.
   January 1835.


