
			GLASGOW.                                 191

them but little anxious to preserve the welfare and stability of the
state." *
	It has been said, that clergymen in the discharge of the sacred du-
ties of their office belong to no particular class of society, mixing, as
they necessarily do, with the high, the low, and the middle grades.
In Glasgow the clergymen have always been highly respectable,
and at no period more so than at present. The Established churches
in Glasgow are all uncollegiate. The ministers prepare and preach
two sermons every Sunday, and in rotation preach on Thursdays
in St Mary's Church, and Hope Street and St Mary's Churches
on Sunday evening. They preach occasional charity and mission-
ary sermons. They examine the youth of their congregations in
class meetings, and give partial ministerial visitations in the families
of their parishioners. To visit the whole in the present overgrown
state of the parishes would be next to impossible. They visit the
sick, and assist the kirk-session in the proper distribution of the
poors' funds;--they superintend the schools in their parishes,--
and, in obedience to the wishes of the pious founders of some of the
benevolent inrtitutions of the city, they share the management with
the magistrates; and their attendance on funerals, kirk-sessions,
presbyteries, synody, and generals assemblies, occupies a consider-
able portion of their time. The bare recital of the above must
convince every one of the laborious duties of a city parochial clergy-
man; and as to pecuniary remuneration, it is barely sufficient for pre-
sent purposes, leaving little or no provision in case of a widowed family.
	The clergymen of Glasgow have long moved in the first rank of
society. Their dwelling-houses and their domestic expenses are
necessarily on a scale suited to their rank. In addition to the Go-
vernment and local taxes, they are subjected to clerical ones, and
they readily contribute to private and public charities; and when
it is considered that their sons usually receive a university educa-
tion, and their daughters that which is suited to their station, the
wonder is, how a city clergyman can bring up his family on his sti-
pend, not to speak of his making any after-provision for them. In
1831 there were 58 clergymen in the city and suburbs who receiv-
ed stipend, varying from L. 150 to L. 500; the average to each
was within a small fraction of L. 268. If the maintenanace of the
whole clergy was chargeable to each individual in the community,
it would only amount ti 1s. 5 3/4d. in the year,--a sum rmall, indeed,
when compared with the important benefits received.

<FOOTNOTE>Hill's Theological Institutes, p. 282.


