
                              CAVERS.                       439

     Inns.--In Denholm, there are 4 or 5 inns: in the landward
part of the parish, 3.  These latter, being more especially for the
accommodation of travellers, are regarded as an advantage ; and,
in general, it is not understood that any of these houses have had
any demoralizing effect
     Fuel.--Peat is a good deal used for fuel in the upper depart-
ment of the parish.  In the more inland parts, the principal fuel
is coal.  It is brought far, and from various quarters--Mid-Lo-
thian, Berwickshire, and other places: it is therefore very expen-
sive.  Of late, however, since the Duke of Buccleuch took his coal-
mines in Cannoby into his own hand, great quantities of coal have
been brought thence into this parish : and there is a prospect
from this rource of immense benefit to many.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     Very considerable improvements have taken place in this parish
since the last Statistical Account was written, both with respect to
the farming of land, and the management of stock, as well, indeed,
as in many other matters.  With regard to agriculture, as much
has been done, or is doing, especially on the estate of Cavers, as
seems advisable in a district where the climate is precarious, and
coal and lime are wanting.
     Store-farming has been improved.  Summer hirseling is given
up, and ewe-milking done away.  The flocks, being left to wan-
der wide and more at will than formerly, acquire more strength
and condition for enabling them to brave the hardships of winter.
More stells, and on more eligible situations, have been erected for
shelter, and greater quantities of hay, in case of severe and pro-
tracted storms, are generally provided.
     The parishioners are more comfortably accommodated than
formerly in their houses.  Greater attention is paid to clothing and
cleanliness: and the daily food is in several respects more whole-
some.
     In the upland division of the parish, there is much land lying.
untouched that might be tilled: but considering the precarious-
ness of the climate, it is very questionable whether the land in
its natural state, and as it is presently stocked, is not more profit-
able to the possessor than it ever otherwise could be.  The greatest
deficiency is the want of plantations.

September 1839.


