
814                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

year 1834, Mr Brown, the tenant, erected a brick-work.  At this
place drain-tiles were first made north of the Tay.  The quality
is approved of, and the demand is considerable, and progressively
increasing.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town, &c.-The church of Logie Buchan is situated
fifteen miles north of Aberdeen, the nearest market-town.  The
nearest post-town is Ellon, which lies two miles west.  There are
three portions of turnpike road in the parish, amounting together
to about five and a half miles.  Two portions of these are on the
great north road to Aberdeen, on which the mail, and other pub-
lic coaches, travel twice a day.  On the other portion, leading
to the shipping port of Newburgh, there is a great traffic carried
on by the tenantry in lime, grain, &c.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Considering the great length of the pa-
rish, the church is as conveniently situated as it could be.  It
was built in 1787 to hold 400 persons, and is in good repair.
The sittings are all free, except about 50 in a gallery lately erect-
ed by the kirk-session, with consent of the heritors, out of legacies
left by Mr Paterson, late minister of the parish, and his widow,
to purchase coals for the poor.  The sittings are rented at from
6d. to 2s. 6d. each.
   The manse was built in the year 1775, and is needing no re-
pair.  The extent of the glebe, as laid down in the plan of Tarty,
before-mentioned, is 5 acres, 2 roods, 33 falls, including the toft,
besides the usual privileges.  Its value is estimated at L.12, 10s.
The stipend is 14 chalders.  Mr Buchan is patron.
   The number of persons attending the Established Church is
685 ; Episcopalians, 7 ; members of the United Associate Sy-
nod, 20; * Independents, 1. Total, 713.
   Education.-It was not till at a meeting of Presbytery, on the
30th of August 1721, that the heritors of this parish agreed to
erect parochial schools, one on each side of the river, and to di-
vide the minimum salary of 100 merks Scots equally between
them.  This arrangement was carried into execution immediately
after, and continued till 1803, when the sum necessary, by the
new Act, for keeping up two schools being deemed too burden-
some for so small a parish, the school upon the north side was
brought nearer the river with the view of accommodating both

<FOOTNOTE>These had a church in this parish, which was removed about ten years ago.


