
			KILBIRNIE.                                 693

         Geology. *--Viewed geologically, the parish is divided into two sec-
tions, unequal in extent, and widely different in character. They are
separated by a line running east and west. The north division, which
is the largest, occupies an extensive tract of hilly country. It is of
an igneous origin, and belongs to the secondary trap formation,
being composed chiefly of greenstone and porphyry; but except
to the curious in speculative geology, it presents little that is in-
teresting. None of the metallic veins usually associated with the
trap formation have been observed. Agates, however, and other
simple minerals, are occasionally met with; and the vein of ba-
rytes, which is worked in the island of Arran to the south-west,
and at Muirshiels, in the parish of Lochwinnoch, to the north-
east, and which has also been discovered in the parish of Kilpa-
trick, still farther to the north-east, is supposed to traverse this
district.
	But the most interesting, as well as valuable mineral products
of the parish, are on the south side of the line indicated. They
belong to the carboniferous series of stratified rocks, and occupy
an area of about 1500 acres, stretching along the valley of the
Garnock. Where the strata have been denuded by streams and
otherwise, opportunities occur of investigating the sedimentary
rocks, and this has been done with tolerable accuracy to a depth
of 120 fathoms. At the depth here mentioned, a limestone post
of excellent quality, measuring thirty feet, rests upon a bed of
marl, of unknown thickness. Over the limestone, and extending
twenty-five fathoms upwards, thinner limestone bands of inferior
quality prevail, alternating with shale and freestone. The sixty
fathoms next in succession, besides two layers measuring fifteen
feet each, formed of ironstone nodules thickly imbedded in shale,
comprehend not fewer than twenty ironstone bands, chiefly argil-
laceous, varying in thickness from one to thirty inches, with inter-
vening beds of fine clay, lime, freestone, aluminous schist, and thin
coal seams. The next thirty fathoms reaching to the surface, con-
tain four workable seams of coal, a few calcareous ironstone bands,
with strata of freestone, lime, and shale.

othersboats. A case between them is reported, 16th July 1626, (Mor. Dict. p.10631)
from which it appears that both parties had the loch included in their titles. The
Craufurds of Kilbirnie subsequently acquired right to the barony of Glengarnock
and there was no longer room for dispute on the subject. Sir John Craufurd's right
was  ratified by Parliament in 1641.

<FOOTNOTE>The lucid and comprehensive account of the geology of the parish here given has
been most obligingly contributed by Andrew Craig, Esq., Westfield House, King-
ston, Glasgow.


