
44                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

therefore, this castle merits our first regard.  Perched on the west-
ern promontory of Urquhart bay, it overhangs Loch Ness, and is
built on a detached rock, separated from the adjoining hill, at the
base of which it lies, by a moat about 25 feet deep, and 16 broad.
The rock is crowned by the remains of a high wall, or curtain, sur-
rounding the buildings, the principal of which, a strong square keep
of three stories, is still standing, surmounted by four square hang-
ing turrets.  This outward wall encloses a spacious area, and is in
some places terraced; and in the angles were platforms for the
convenience of the defending soldiery.  The entrance was by a
spacious gateway, between two guard-rooms, projected beyond the
general line of the walls, and was guarded by more than one mas-
sive portal, and a huge portcullis.  These entrance-towers are much
in the style of architecture peculiar to the castles of Edward I.
of England; and in, front of them lay the drawbridge across the
outer moat.  The whole works were extensive and strong, and the
masonry was better finished than is common in the generality of
Scottish strongholds.  They could have accommodated 500 or 600
men.
  The first siege Urquhart Castle is known to have sustained was
in the year 1303, when it was taken by the officers of Edward I.,
who were sent forward by him to subdue the country from Kil-
dirummie, near Nairn,-beyond which he did not advance in per-
son; and, of all the strongholds in the north, it was that which
longest resisted the efforts of his arms.  Alexander de Bois, the
brave governor, and his garrison, were put to the sword.  Sir Ro-
bert Lauder of Quarrelwood, in Morayshire, was governor of the
Castle, A. D. 1334, and maintained it against the Baliol faction.
His daughter, marrying the laird of Chisholm in Strathglass, the
offspring of their union, Sir Robert Chisholm of that ilk, be-
came laird of Quarrelwood in right of his mother, and constable
of Urquhart Castle in right of his grandfather. After this period,
it is known to have been a royal fort or garrison; but it is very
likely it was so also at the commencement of the fourteenth cen-
tury, and existed as such in the reigns of the Alexanders, and
other early Scottish sovereigns.  A gentleman in Inverness is
in possession of an original charter of this Sir Robert Chisholm
to the church of the Holy Cross, in Inverness, of certain lands
war the town, dated on the feast of the Epiphany, 1362.  In 1359,
the barony and castle of Urquhart were sponed bv David II. to
William Earl of Sutherland and his son John.


