
     of Kirkcudbright.

   St. Mary's Isle, now the beautiful seat of the Earl of Sel-
kirk, was formerly a priory, and founded in the reign of
DAVID I. by FERGUS, Lord of Galloway.  It was called
Prioratus Santa Marie de Trayll, and held of the Abbey
of Holyroodhouse.  The prior was a lord of Parliament.
There are no vestiges at present to shew that it was originally
a priory.  Two gates that led to it were many years ago de-
molished.  The outer one, which was placed about half a
mile distant from the priory, and about an equal distance from
the town, still retains its ancient name, the Great Cross.  The
inner gate, which led immediately to a group of cells, the
habitation of the monks, was called the Little Cross.  All
these cells and buildings were pulled down, and removed
about a century ago, and the ground now applied by his
Lordship to a much better use, in extending his beautiful
pleasure ground, than serving the purposes of folly and super-
stition+.  It is worthy of notice, that although the retreat

<FOOTNOTE>

in exciting this tumult, and preventing the curate from entering the church.
At the meeting of the commissioners at Kirkcudbright, John Lord Kirkcud-
bright, and many others, were arrested and sent prisoners to Edinburgh, for re-
fusing to quell the tumult and admit the curate.  Many women in the town,
who had been most active in raising the mob, were condemned by the com-
missioners to stand at the market cross for several market days, with a paper
on their face, intimating their crime, and then bound over to keep the peace.
The magistrates were appointed to execute the sentence.
+ A few years ago, when his Lordship was extending his garden upon the
east side of the isle, the workmen, in digging and removing the shells, acci-
dentally discovered the skeletons of 14 people, who had been buried under
them.  They were regularly placed alongst the side of each other, with their
heads to the west, and their feet to the east.  One of them seemed to be dis-
tinguished from the rest, by a row of thin stones placed around him.  Probably
he had been some chief among them.  How they came to be interred in that
particular spot, when there was a burying place adjoining, which belonged to
the monks, can only be explained, by supposing them to have been buried there,
long before the priory existed.  Be that as it will, the present Earl, with great
humanity, caused all the bones to be carefully collected, put into boxes, and
again interred in the Galtway church-yard.


