430                        RENFREWSHIRE.

all these unfavourable circumstances, there has been as great a
moral deterioration here as in other towns equally populous and
exposed to the same temptations.
   It is satistactory to be able to state, that neither pnaching nor
amuggling prevails to auy extent.
   Pawnbroking is a trade which can thrive only when the people
are unprosperous either from losses in trades, or want of emplpy-
ment or vicious habits.  The first pawnbroker in Greenock began
business about nine years ago.  The are now four licensed pawn-
brokers carrying on: a very extensive business; and upwards of
thirty, many of whom are not licensed, who purchase clothing and
furniture, whic4 they re-sell to the original owners at a large pro-
fit,or remove out of the reach of the lawful creditor.
   The last of these practices is evidently the same in effect with
pawnbroking.  It is an ingenious method of evading the law, and the
expense of license.  The rapid increase of both affords a melan-
choly proof of declining morals.  For it is to intemperance chiefly
that pawnbroking owes its growth, and its present flourishing con-
dition.  Pawnbroking in its turn affords great facilities to the in-
dulgence of that vice, and presents a strong temptation to theft
with a view to the gratification. of intemperate habits.  We
are compelled to add, that in families where the pawning of
goods is practised, the wife is in general the offender.  The dis-
solute habits of the husband may on some occasions leave the wife
and family so destitute of the means of subsistence, as ta present to

the sober wife the plea of necessity; but more frequently the intem-
perance of the wife not only consumes a large portion of the hard-
wrought-earnings of the sober, industrious husbands, but strips his
once, comfortable, and well-furnished dwelling of almost every ar-
ticle belonging  to him.  There are houses in Greenock, and  pro
bably in every large towa in Britain, where, in consequence of the
intemperance of the husband or wife, or both, and the practice of
pawning in connection with it, there is no furniture of any descrip-
tion-no bedstead, no table, no chair; nothing but a wretched
stool, a chest containg all the property of the inhabitants, and
some dirty wood-shavings, on which to repose their weary limbs.
Cobbet remarkad; with reguard to the poor in Ireland, that the pigs
in England were better ledged and accommodated than they.
The remark may be applied to some of the working poor (not all
Irish) in Greenock, and elsewhere; and the root of this degrada-
tion and misery in intemperance.  Tee-totalism, with its ostenta-










