
346                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

equally so in summer from the stones left by the winter stream,
there are now to be found excellent roads, affording an easy pas-
sage to any species of conveyance.
   The general aspect of the parish has also been greatly im-
proved, by the cultivation of large tracts of land, and by the plan-
tation of an immense quantity of wood, principally of the larch
and Scotch fir species, which are already covering the sides of the
hills, formerly bleak and rugged, with thick masses of evergreen.
   Plantations.-On the estate of Novar, since the property came
into the hands of the present proprietor, four million and a half of
trees have been planted. They are chiefly of the larch and Scotch
fir species, but comprehend also a number of kinds of forest and
ornamental wood.

		V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
There is no entire village in this parish. The village of Alness
is divided nearly equally between this and the neighbouring pa-
rish of Rosskeen, by the river of the same name, which forms the
eastern boundary of Alness. In that part of this village which
belongs to Rooskeen, a market is held monthly, principally for the
purpose of disposing of cattle.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is sittiated in the southern ex-
tremity of the parish, being only about a mile distant from the
shores of the Frith. It thus apparently occupies a situation in-
convenient for the people, the parish stretching to a great distance
northward. The individuals who chose the present site were,
however, justified in so far, in placing it in the district in which it
stands, as it is by far the most populous one in the parish. The
present place of worship was built in the year 1780; but having
been repaired at three different periods Since then, it is still in pret-
ty good condition, and is seated for about 800. All the people of
the parish belong to the Established Church, and are, with scarcely
a single exception, regular in their attendance on public worship.
The number of communicants belonging to the parish is about
80.
   Education.-- There are, altogether, four schools within the
bounds of this parish, which for the educational wants of a popu-
lation of little more than 1400, may be considered a very ample
provision. The  principal school is the parochial one, which is
built quite close to the church and the teacher of whichis quali-
fied to instruct the scholars in the higher branches, of education
commonly taught throughout the country. The number of scholars


