
     Statistical Account

few years ago, was discovered upon the hills, which was con-
sidered as a curiosity.  The birds of prey, of song and of the
migratory species are those which are abundantly common in
the south of Scotland.  The bull-finch is found in Elliock
woods.  The wild quadrupeds, besides hares, are otters, bad-
gers, weazels, wild cats, pole-cats, and some foxes; which
last, it is said, are not so numerous as formerly, owing to the
industrious exertions of the sheep farmers to exterminate this
destructive race.  There is only one chalybeate spring known
in the parish, but its virtues have not yet been explored*.
   Mr. Robert Crichton of Elliock in this parish, was a lawyer
of eminence, Advocate to Queen Mary and King James VI.
and a Lord of Session.  He had two sons called James and

<FOOTNOTE>

*The old castle of Sanquhar, standing a small distance south of the burgh,
once the residence of the family of Crichton, deserves to be mentioned.  It
has been a building of considerable magnitude and extent.-It is said to have
been for some time in possession of the English in the reign of Edward 1st,
and to have been recaptured by Sir William Douglas of Douglasdale, who put
the garrison to the sword.  The whole barony belonged to the Crichtons, but
the family of Queensberry having a mortgage upon some part of the estate,
purchased this barony, in the latter end of the 16th or beginning of the 17th
century.  Prior to its being in possession of the Crichtons, it belonged to the
family of Ross of Ryehill.  A stone was found some time ago, with the fol-
lowing inscription.-"Here lies the good Sir John Ross of Rychill.-Here
"lies the good, good Sir John Ross.-Here also has the good, good, good
"Sir John Ross." Near the residence of the Rosses, there seems to have
been a large pale of building, perhaps the Hospital of Sencwar, a religious
foundation, though this cannot be ascertained.  Several of the stones of a
Gothic figure are built into the walls and windows of the houses, where this
edisice once stood.  There is also a large font, or rock bason.  Human bones
have been found in digging and ploughing up the field in which it stands; and
a key of enormous size was found, not above twenty years ago, much
consumed with rust.  It is now lost.  Betwixt the antient seat of the Rosses and
the Nith, is a large artificial mound of earth of a circular form, probably
the place for the baron to hear causes, and to distribute justice.


