
766                 FIFESHIRE.
<TABLE>
                            Date of erection.    Cost.         Sittings       Stipend.
United Secession Church,          1822          L.1700           750           L.160
Episcopalian,          .          1818             800           132         L.37 to L.65
Independent,      .        .      1803             650           480        L.100 to L.112
Scottish Baptists,    .           1822             700           350       services of pastors
					                                 gratuitous.

   These stipends are raised from collections and seat-rents.
There are two diets for public worship each Sabbath in all the
churches; in, some of them there are frequently three.  These
congregations are collected from a number of parishes; and, on
the other hand, many from this parish attend a United Secession
congregation in Abbotshall, and a congregation of Original Se-
ceders in Pathhead, and a few go to a Relief church in Dysart.
   Religious Societies.-There are two Bible Societies in the parish,
a Tract Society, a Sabbath Evening School Society, and a Parochial
Association in connection with the General Assembly's Schemes.
Some of the congregations have missionary associations within
themselves.  The average amount annually collected for purely
religious purposes by the societies within the parish cannot be less
than L.150.  The interest of L.400, mortified by Robert Philp,
Esq. for the circulation of the scriptures, is annually sent to the
British and Foreign Bible Society, agreably to the directions
given in his trust-deed.
   Education.-There are 15 schools in the parish, attended by
773 scholars.  Eight of these, with 206 scholars, are taught by
females; three for young ladies, who are instructed in French,
music, &c; and five for girls, who are taught needle-work, as
well as the elementary branches of English reading, writing, and
arithmetic; one of them called the Ladies' School, because it is
supported and superintended by a committee of ladies, is partially
maintained by subscriptions; and'another is supported chiefly by
the benevolence of one family.  There is an intant school includ-
ed in the eight, which is also supported by subscriptions.
   The heritors have never been burdened with the maintenance
of a parochial school in this parish.  The town's funds bear the whole
expense of the burgh school.  For a long period this school had
two teachers, who received small salaries, and were quite inde-
pendent of each other; and in order to prevent interference or
opposition, they were restricted by the council to teach particular
branches.  The burgh school is now under the charge of Mr John
Lockhart, as rector, with one assistant.  He is allowed L.50 of

<FOOTNOTE> Report by the Commisioners of Religious Instruction in Scotland in 1838.
                                                3

