
490		FORFARSHIRE.

nal chapel and hermitage were at Grange of Conan, where there
are a small grove and foundations of a chapel, and also a most co-
pious fountain, which preserves his name. Three or four acres of
land contiguous to these are by tradition held as belonging to the
chapel. Not far from this place, there was a baronial castle, named
Gory or Gregory, which perhaps afforded protection to him; and
a Druidical circle, on another eminence not very distant, laid a
foundation for the rude population conveniently assembling and
being converted to a new faith by former local associations.
        Extent.-The greatest length of the parish from east to west is
8 1/2 miles, and its greatest breadth 4 1/4. There are two detached
estates, Inverpeffer and Hospitalfield, the former lying to the south-
west of Arbirlot, and the parish of Arbroath separating the latter.
Including these two estates, the extent of the whole parish is 22
square miles.
	The form of it is not very different from that of two right-angled
triangles raised upon the Brothock as a common base, the western
triangle being somewhat more northerly than the eastern. The
stream of the Brothock flows through the parish for four miles in
a direction straight south, passing through the middle of Arbroath,
and entering the sea at its harbour.
        Boundaries.-The p`rhsh is bounded on the north and on the
east by Inverkeilor; on the south, by the German Ocean for five
miles; and on the west, by Arbroatb, Arbirlot, and Carmylie.
Originally it included the parish of Arbroath, disjoined at the Re-
formation, and the estates of Guynd, Crofts, and Milton of Co-
nan, now in the parish of Carmylie, disjoined in 1606. The ec-
clesiastical district of Inverbrotbock was disjoined by the Presby-
tery in 1829; and part of that latter district was again disjoined
and taken to constitute part of Ladyloan in 1837. Inverbrothock
and Ladyloan * districts include the whole suburbs of Arbroath,
with about 100 acres of land on the east side, and 110 on the
west side of the town. +
        Topographical Appearances.-The form of the surface of the
parish, may be understood, by conceiving three declivities in dif-
ferent aspects, with an intervening valley. The ridge commen-
cing at the Red-head, in the parish of Inverkeilor, at a height of

<FOOTNOTE>Ladyloan consists of that part of St Vigeans to the south of Kepty Street, and
to the east of the Crossgates.
   An excellent map of Arbroath, by Wilson, show the present parishes most dis-
tinctly.


