
                          FORTINGAL.                          551

people, these buildings belonged to the Fingalians. For Fingal's
heroes are said to have had 20 or 21 castles, as they were called,
scattered over this parish. In the upper part of the glen, on the farm
of Cashlie, i. e. Castles, there are, within the distance of a mile, three of
these, one-Caisteal an Deirg, the Castle of Dargo-another, Cais-
teal an Duibhe-the castle of the black hero,-and Caisteal coin-
a-bhacain-the Castle of the dog's kennel. This bacan, or stake,
to which the Fingalians tied their stag-hounds, and from which
the castle is named, is a thin stone, about 2 1/2 feet in height, re-
sembling the letter q, with the small end set into the ground, up-
on a little green eminence.
   Although it is difficult or rather impossible to ascertain the era
to which these forts should be referred,-the total want of lime in
their construction, though it is often found in great plenty in the
very neighbourhood, renders it probable that they were built be-
fore its use was known to the inhabitants. The presumption also
is, that these forts are the first rude specimens of architecture in
the country. The difference between these and the castles of suc-
ceeding or feudal ages is remarkably striking, and shows clearly
that the art of building had, before the era of the latter, under-
gone a very great change.
   Besides the Fingalian castles, there are other two old castles, the
residence of chiefs during the feudal ages, and which, before the
introduction of fire-arms, might be deemed impregnable. The one
in the east end of the parish, was occupied by the Cuilean Cursta,
or the Fierce Wolf, as he was called, brother of the Earl of
Buchan, from whom a great number of the Stewarts of Athol
are descended. (See Stewart's Sketches.) This castle is built
upon the point of a rock where two deep chasms meet, formed by
brooks flowing at their bottom; it was defended by a ditch or draw-
bridge.
   The other castle is at the foot of Glenlyon, situated on a high
steep bank, and defended also by a drawbridge. The last pro-
prietor that resided here, about the middle of the sixteenth cdn-
tury, was Duncan Campbell of Glenlyon, commonly called Don-
nacha ruagh na feileachd, i. e. Red Duncan of Hospitality: he is
said to have carried his hospitality to such an extravagant and ro-
mantic height, that his fame in this respect was not confined to
Scotland, but extended to the rister island, Ireland.
   There is on the farm of Inverchadain, an old ruin, called She-
omar-na-stainge, i. e. the Ditch Hall. It seems to have been


