
248                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

by the introduction at that time of the manufactures which since
have been so much extended in this parish, both the Lennox Mill
and the Kincaid Printfields having been established during the
ten years mentioned above. In 1831, the inhabitants of Campsie
were 5109. In April 1836, the number had increased to 5653,
and at present, I believe, they considerably exceed 6000. The
majority of the people are employed in manufactures, in the vari-
ous printfields, the alum-works, &c. and a considerable number in
weaving. The increase of the population has arisen entirely from
the extension of manufactures; for here, as elsewhere, the agri-
cultural portion of the people seems to have been more numerous
150 years ago than they are now. The great majority of the in-
habitants are collected in villages, especially in Lennoxtown, which
itself contains nearly one-half of the whole population.
   The exact number of births annually cannot be ascertained.
Those registered in the parish books, in the year 1836, amounted
to 127. In 1840, they were only 99. The proclamations in order
to marriage, in 1836, were 51. In 1840 they were 43.
   Character of the People.-The people of this parish, so far as
I can observe, have little to distinguish them from persons simi-
larly circumstanced elsewhere. The agricultural population,
living, many of them, in elevated and secluded situations, retain
perhaps, more of the primitive simplicity than in most other dis-
tricts. The migratory habits of many of the calico-printers are
highly unfavourable to the formation of regular habits. It is right
to add, that a great proportion of the manufacturing population
manifest a very commendable love of knowledge, and mental im-
provement, and zealously avail themselves of any opportunities of
acquiring these within their reach. The great improvements in
education also which have been effected in this parish, by the li-
berality of the more wealthy inhabitants, cannot fail to work a de-
cided amelioration in the course of a few years. Indeed, tokens of
improvement are beginning to appear already.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Landed Property and Agriculture.-A considerable part of the
parish, it is understood, has never been surveyed by the land-mea-
surer, so that the number of acres it contains cannot be accurate-
ly stated. Mr Lapalie, in his excellent Account, written in 1793,
supposes it to contain 15,000 Scotch acres, but, taking into calcu-
lation the contents noted on the plans of some of the principal
estates, and estimating the remainder, 13,500 acres are believed


