
852                            LANARKSHIRE.

alis acetosella) is found as, high as 1400 feet above the same level.
Considerably lower down, at a place called the Old Kirk Wa's,
may be found the only specimen of the hazel-nut tree (Corylus
Avellana) in the parish, and beside it a patch of woodruff (Aspe-
rula odorata.)  On the grebe, at the height of about 950 feet above
the level of the sea, are found the lucken gowan, or mountain
globe-flower, (Trollius Europaeus); marsh cinquefoil (Comarum
palustre) ; water avens (Geum rivale) ; and butterfly-orchis
(Habenaria birolia) ; and lower down frog-orchis (Habenaria vi-
ridis) ; bald-money (Meum athamanticum); and marsh arrow-
grass (Triglochin palustre.)  On the sides of the Borland Burn,
common golden-rod (Solidago Virgaurea) ; common dwarf cistus
(Cistus helianthemum) ; and wood crane-bill (Geranium Sylvati-
cum.)  On the sides of the Ha' Burn, purple foxglove (Digita-
lis purpurea) ; common whin or furze (Ulex Europaeus) ; alternate-
leaved and opposite-leaved golden saxifrage (Chrysosplenium al-
ternifolium and oppositifolium) ; pilewort (Ficaria verna) ; and
butter-bur (Tussilago petasites.)  In the lower grounds, along
with several of those already mentioned, marsh marigold (Caltha
palustris) wood anemone (Anemone nemorosa) ; common tway-
blade (Listera ovata); white cluster-rooted orchis (Habenaria
albida); aromatic palmate orchis (Gymnadenia conopsea), and
yellow water iris (Iris Pseud-Acorus.)  In the Borland moss, com-
mon mares-tail (Hippuris vulgaris), and cranberry (Vaccinium
oxycorcos), may be found, but neither abundantly.

   Genista anglica            Parnassia palustris
   Ononis arvensis            Epilobium alsinifolium
   Euphrasia officinalis      Pinguicula vulgaris
   Gentiana campestris        Sedum villosum
   Linum catharticum          Saxifraga granulata
   Draba verna                Spiraea ulmaris
   Alehemilla vulgaris        Tussilago Farfara
   Menyanthes trifoliata      Cardamine pratensis,
   Drosera rotundifolia

may also be met with in their appropriate habitats.  The moun-
tain ash (Sorbus or Pyrus aucuparia) is to be met with, eaten down
by sheep, and pushing out its branches under shelter of the
heather, after the manner of white clover, and nearly as small, (and
in more favourable situations) as a stately ornamental tree.  Were
the high grounds enclosed it would speedily rush up in all direc-
tions; and at present it may be seen raising its bead above the
whins, which protect it from the ravages of its enemies.  This
tree may therefore be regarded with justice as a native of the pa-


