
28                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

stone; but in general consisting of a silicious sand agglutinated
by calcareous cement.  The coal measures occupy the lowest part
of this secondary district which has been yet exposed."
11 The hard sandstone is principally composed of pure silicious
earth.  It is not acted upon by acids, and is not liable to be de-
composed by the action of air and water.  The shale contains no
calcareous matter near its junction with the coal.  The limestones
found in the secondary strata contain no magnesian earth, and are
adulterated only with aluminous and silicious earths, and oxide of
iron.  They differ very much in purity, in different parts.  The
marble in the calcareous breccia at Rbives, and on the coast,
leaves only from one-twelfth to one-twentieth of residuum during
its solution in acids.  The sand on the coast, near the quay at Dun-
robin, contains from one-half to one-third of weight of calcareous
matter."
Zoology.-The following birds, of the rarer kindsohave occasion-
ally been seen in this parish, by the game-keeper.  The goshawk,
(Falco palumbarius, Linn.; L'Autour, Buffon.) The ash-colour-
ed shrike, or greater butcher-bird, (Lanius excubitor, Linn.; La
Pie-Grieche grise, Buffon.) The ring-ouzel (Turdus torquatus,
Linn.; Le Merle d Plastron blanc, Buffon.) The cross-bill or
Sheld Apple (Loxia Curvirostra, Linn.; Le Beccrois6, Buffon.) The
snow-bunting or snow-flake (Emberiza nivalis, Linn.; -L'Ortolan
de Neige, Buffon.) The Siskin or Aberdevine (Frin illa spinus,
Linn.; Le Tarin, Buffon.) The night-jar, goat-sucker, dor-hawk,
or fern-owl, (Caprimulgus Europr,-zus, Linn.; VEnyoulevent, Buf-
fon.)
At a very remote period, deer seem to have been numerous either
in the bills of this parish, or in its neighbourhood; for large, and
dentl Y very old deposits of their horns have recently been dug up,
evi
uear the site of the old chapel.  They now seldom venture to ap-
proach so near the coast.  Galloway black-polled cattle, Highland
black cattle, and the Cheviot breed of sheep, and some good work-
horses, are reared with great care-and success, in this parish. The
kinds of fish found here are merely those which are common to
the other parts of the east coast of Scotland, and which are men-
tioned in the former Statistical Account.  The most useful shell-
fish, in the parish, is the mussel, generated on a bank in the Little
inlet.  This shell-fish i.3 the bait chiefly used in the haddock
Perry
and other white fisheries; sometimes, however, the limpet, and a
worm named by the fishermen luy, and found in the sand, at ebb
                              4


