
88                     ARGYLESHIRE.


mony, by Sir Duncan, the twelfth knight, on his second son, Sir
Colin, Knight of Rhodes, or, as he is called by Highland Shea-
nachies, Cailean dubh na R¢imh, the founder of the house of
Breadalbane; and hence the patronymic designation of this noble
family is Mac Caillein mhic Dhonochaidh, or Colin son of Duncan.
He partly rebuilt and enlarged the castle. Tradition gives his
lady credit for the erection of the great tower or donjon of the
castle. She, it is said, occupied herself thus, during Sir Colin's
absence in the Holy Land. The date of its erection was 1440. It
received several additions at different subsequent periods. The
south side is said to have been built, during the fifteenth century;
and the north, which exceeds the rest in spaciousness and ele-
gance, was built by the first Earl of Breadalbane in the year 1615. *
The, noble family occasionally occupied it till about a century ago.
About seventy years ago, in the absence, and without the privity of
its noble proprietor, and with a view, it is said, to a paltry saving of
expense, it was unroofed, and its materials used, not, as has been
alleged, + in the erection of Taymouth Castle, but of farm-houses
and offices in the parish. This hastened its decay prematurely.
It is lovely in its ruins, and intensely interesting from the records
of other times connected with it.
   The pass of Brandir, whilst its sublime scenery is greatly en-
hanced in point of interest, by many historical recollections and
associations, + is, independently of all these, one of the most magni-
ficent which the Highlands present. It is by this mountain pass
that the waters of Lochawe effect their escape to the sea. The
north side is formed by the massy, abrupt, and rocky, yet well-
wooded base of Cruachan, which rises in some places like a per-
pendicular wall from the water, and which, until the present
line of road was executed, rendered it impassable to any except,
the sure-footed and steady-headed mountaineer. Even he had, at
one place, still known by the name of the ladder rock, to climb up
by a ladder, as the name would intimate, the face of a bold and
precipitous rock, which then shot down its masses abrupt to the
water edge. This formidable barrier has, at length, yielded to hu-
man might and ingenuity; and its removal has given access to scenes
nowhere surpassed, either in point of loveliness or grandeur, and
rendered the sea at Bunawe accessible to the mountaineer for ex-
porting his produce to southern markets. The south side of the pass

<FOOTNOTE>Vide GENERAL Stewart's History of Highland Regiments.
          See Bridal of Caolchurn.               See Blind Harry.


