
                             CAVERS.                        429

particularly at the mansion-house of Wells, (one of the seats of Sir
W.F. Eliott, of Stobbs and Wells, Bart.) are of great variety and
value.  After flowing twelve miles, and, touching upon the lower
extremity of the parish, it joins the Teviot at Spittal, opposite
Minto Craggs.
     Climate, &c.--The climate is, upon the whole, cold and moist, es-
pecially in the upper division of the parish.  Of late years, however,
it has much improved, owing to the great extent of draining which
has taken place.  No distemper, in particular, now prevails.
     No slate, limestone, or coal has ever been found, or is supposed
to exist in this parish.
     All the streams abound with trout, and are visited annually
by salmon from the sea.  The principal spawning season is about
Martinmas.  There is abundance of almost all kinds of game in
the parish, but especially of black game.  The hill-fox, or, as
sometimes termed, the grey-hound fox, is a native of the upper
part of the parish.  This species is much larger, more elegantly
formed, and of a greyer colour, than the more inland or plantation
fox.  The erne or Scottish eagle, in certain seasons, frequents the
more mountainous districts of the parish.
     There are no plants or fruits which are not found in the parishes
around, save the foxfoot, the foxglove, the cranberry and cloudberry.

                           II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     Historical Notices.--The history of the parish, or, more parti-
cularly, the history of the Kirklands of Cavers, as they are for the
most part designated in ancient records, is so intimately connected
with the history of Roxburghshire in general, that they cannot
well be treated of separately.  It appears that Roxburghshire was
established as a sheriffdom as early as the Scoto-Saxon period:
and, as the Douglases were mainly instrumental in freeing Teviot-
dale from the oppression of the English in the reign of Edward
III., or about the year 1384, that sheriffship, together with the
property of the lands of Cavers, for a long succession of genera-
tions, followed the fortunes of this bold and ambitious house.  The
lands of Cavers, with the sheriffwick of Roxburghshire, were grant-
ed to George Earl of Angus in 1398.  On his demise in 1402,
this office and that property seem to have been invested in Isobel
Countess of Mar, who transferred them, but without the ne-
cessary assent and sanction of the King, to the Earl of Douglas,
then a prisoner in England.  By this it was supposed that both
had become escheat: and King Robert III., desirous of rewarding



