

                            FALKLAND.                               927

       hind, and which in former times was secured by strong doors, and
       could be defended by the towers which flank it.  James V. made great
       additions to the palace, and appears to have erected two ranges of
       buildings equal in size to that described on the east and north sides
       of the court-yard.  As completed, therefore, by him, the palace oc-
       cupied three sides of a square court, the fourth or western side being
       enclosed by a lofty wall.  The range of building on the north side
       of the court has now entirely disappeared, and of that on the east
       the bare walls alone remain, these two portions of the palace hav-
       ing been accidentally destroyed by fire in the reign of Charles II."
       On the east wing the "facade between the windows is ornament-
       ed with finely proportioned Corinthian pillars, having rich capitals,
       and above the windows are medallions presenting a series of heads
       carved in high relief, some of which are beautifully executed, and
       would lead us to believe that more than native talent had been
       employed upon the work.  On the top of the basement which
       supports the pillars, the initials of the King and of his Queen,
       Mary of Guise, are carved alternately."*
         Little is said of Falkland as a royal residence before the time
       of James V.  That gay but unfortunate prince was kept in re-
       straint at Falkland when a minor, by the Earl of Angus and the
       Douglasses.  Angus left him there to enjoy the pleasures of the
       chase, and proceeded himself to the Lothians; while Sir Archibald
       Douglas went to Dundee, and Sir George to St Andrews, en-
       trusting the young monarch to the charge of Douglas of Park-
       head.  James embraced the opportunity to escape out of their
       hands and assert his independence.  That his purpose might not
       be suspected, he ordered preparations for a splendid hunt on the
       following day.  The chase was to commence at seven in the morn-
       ing, which James made the excuse for retiring early to bed, and
       Douglas, after setting the watch, followed his example.  As soon
       as all was quiet in the palace, the prince, disguised as a groom,
       contrived to elude the vigilance of his guards; went to the stables
       and saddled a fleet horse, and then, accompanied by two trusty
       followers, galloped at full speed to Stirling Castle, which he reach-
       ed by dawn of day.  James, who was fond of hunting and hawk-
       ing, often returned to Falkland afterwards, that he might enjoy
       his favourite amusements.  In the following passage, taken from
       an old humorous ballad which the learned ascribe to the pen of

<FOOTNOTE>Swan's History of Fife, Vol. ii, P. 230.


