

196                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

increase at that time compared with the census in 1791 In 1811,
the work there was almost discontinued, and hence the decrease.
Again, front 1821 to 1831, the Redding colliery was conducted on
more than its present extensive scale; and in 1835, the diminution
was occasioned by fewer workmen being employed.
  The population connected with the collieries amounts to about
1000. The rest of the population consists of agricultural labourers
and quarrymen, with a small number of shopkeepers and mechanics.
   During the last seven years, the average number of births was
83,and of marriages,27. The number of deaths cannot be ascertain-
ed with any accuracy. There is only a register of funerals, and
as many from neighbouring parishes are buried in the church-yard,
it gives no correct index of the mortality in the parish. Nor is
much reliance for any practical purpose to be placed on the regis-
ters of births and of marriages, or more properly of proclamations;
for not a few omit to record the names of their children. Though
an account be kept of the publication of bans, it often happens
that one of the parties resides in another parish.
  Of villages, the two principal are, Bennetston and Redding;
the former containing 474 inhabitants, the latter 587.
  In September 1838, there were 34 different proprietors on
the list of heritors. Of these, 27 have properties of the yearly
value of L.50 and upwards, and two only draw from their lands
in the parish above L. 1000 per annum.
  The people, on the whole, are orderly and peaceable. Among the
colliers, there has been a perceptible improvement during the last
few years-more attention being paid to the education of the young,

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.

<TABLE=Agriculture>

   Agriculture:-
	Land cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,	3790 Imperial acres.
         Uncultivated,                                 531
         Under wood,                                   100
  The uncultivated consists of the Redding Moor, and is capable
of being cultivated. It is an undivided common, belonging to the
Duke of Hamilton ; but the right of pasturage is held by some of
the other heritors. Till very recently, it was altogether a waste,
when portions of it, with the permission of the superior, were par-
tially enclosed and cultivated, chiefly with the spade by the col-
liers, at their spare hours,-a circumstance creditable to their in-
dustry, and advantageous to their morals; and in some instances,
they have reaped an abundant produce both in oats and potatoes.
Were the whole brought under culture, it would be a very great
improvement.


