
                      CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                     569

fore they entered upon possession of their estates, and permitting
them, although minors, immediately to serve heirs to their lands.
Bruce, on the eve of the battle of Bannockburn, encouraged his
troops by a promise of the like nature. *
   Buchanan also observes, that, in the Battle of Harlaw, there
perished more noble and illustrious men, than had fallen in foreign
warfare during many years; and a village, formerly obscure, be-
came distinguished to after ages.
   In the immediate neighbourhood, two cairns were opened a
few years ago.  In the first, nothing was found but ashes; and
in the other, a stone coffin of rude workmanship, containing hu-
man bones, and also ashes.  There are other two cairns upon the
field of battle, still left untouched.  The one, as formerly men-
tioned, is called Drum's Cairn, and the other Maclean's Grave. +
   The field upon which, it is said, the battle was fought, is about
a quarter of a mile to the south-east of the farm of Harlaw, and
still goes by the name of the Pley Fauld.  About a hundred yards
to the west of said farm, is to be seen a large whinstone, about 7
feet in height and 2 in breadth, which is called the Ligqar's Stane,
and which is said to have been put up in its present situation, to
mark the spot where the females who followed the soldiers, and
who were slain in the battle, were buried.  A few years ago, there
were two of these stones; but at that time, one of them was re-
moved by a farmer in the neighbourhood; and after being broken
down, was put into his house which was then building.
   In the Gencalogical Collections of Macfarlane, preserved in
the Advocates' Library, ++ (as mentioned by Tytler,) there is a
manuscript account of the family of Maclean, which informs us
that Lauchlan Lubanich had by M'Donald's daughter a son,
called Eachin Rusidth ni Cath, or Hector Rufus Bellicosus.  He
commanded as lieutenant-general tinder the Earl of Ross at thd
Battle of Harlaw in 1411, where he and Irvine of Drum, seeking
but one another by their armorial bearings on their shields, met
and killed each other.  He was married to a daughter of the Earl
of Douglas,

<FOOTNOTE>The fact mentioned in the text is proved by a retour in the Chartulary of Aber-
deen, foL. 121, in favour of Andrew de Tulidef, whose father, William de Tulidef,
was slain at Harlaw.
          In the year 1837, when the tenant at Harlaw was trenching a piece of barren
ground, about a quarter of a mile to the north of the field of battle, he dug up the
bones of about twelve human bodies.  Part of a scull, and of the thigh bones, are in
the possession of the writer hereof.  The place in which they were found was a trench
about 3 1/2 feet deep, 4 feet wide, and 12 feet in length.
          MS. Jac. V. 4, 16, Vol. i. p. 180.


