

                             ABENFOYLE.                       1157

      Breeds of Sheep and Cattle.-The breed of sheep reared in this
   parish is the black-faced, and great attention is paid to the im-
   provement of the stock.  On most of the farms, the sheep are of
   a very superior quality, and bring high prices in the market-
   Highland black cattle are chiefly reared in the upper part of the
   parish, and the Ayrshire breed in the valley.
     Leases.--The leases on the grain-farms are given for twelve
  years, those on the sheep-farms for nine years, and are considered,
  upon the whole, as favourable to the occupier.
     Farm--Buildings and Enclosures.-With one or two exceptions,
  the farm-buildings in the parish are new and commodious, and
  very superior to those generally found on Highland estates.  The
  enclosures, so far as they extend, (and they are now extending ra-
  pidly,) are strong and sufficient.  If applied for by the tenant, and
  if built of stone, six per cent. of interest is charged on the outlay.
  The principal improvements which have recently been introduced
  into the parish are, the proper rotation of crops, fencing, draining,
  and liming, and rearing better breeds of sheep and of cattle.
    Produce.-The grain raised is, as formerly noticed, consumed
  chiefly in the parish, but no accurate calculation has been made
  as to the gross amount.  A considerable profit is sometimes made
  by the wintering of black-cattle, for which many of the farms are
  peculiarly adapted by the shelter which the woods afford against
  the inclemencies of the weather.  Wool, too, is a considerable
  article of commerce ; and a few of the farmers are assisted in
  making up their rents by the sale of butter and cheese.
    Woods.-The whole woods, consisting principally of oak, from
  the head of loch-con to the lake of Menteith, in the parish of
  Port, all the property of the Duke of Montrose, are divided into
  twenty-four portions, one of which is cut down annually, and care-
  fully defended by enclosures, till it has grown beyond the reach of
  cattle.  It is, in the meantime, properly thinned; and, at the end
  of twenty-four years, when the whole woods are cut down, the
  same rotation is ready to commence.  Before a lot of wood is cut,
  the wood-forester marks out a certain number of trees which are
  to be left as standards, viz. in a lot of ordinary size, 400 trees, of
  24 years' growth, 8 of 48 years, and 8 of 72 years.

                     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     MarKet-Town, &C.--The nearest market-town to Aberfoyle is
  Stirling, which is twenty miles distant.   To  Glasgow, which is


