
                          KINGHORN.                          803

Three spinning-mills have been built on the margin of the stream
which flows from it to the sea.
  Geology.-The parish is situated among the coal measures.
Where the rocks are stratified, they consist of alternations of lime-
stone, sandstone, shale, and coal. The beds of limestone have
been wrought in several places, and have been found of excellent
quality. They are of salt-water formation, and the petrifactions,
which they contain in abundance, are those common to the coal-
fields, being chiefly encrinites, terebratulites, and madrepores.
The substance of the limestone of one of the strata, as Invertiel
quarry, is almost wholly fragments of encrinites, and, when cut
and polished, serves as a beautiful material for mantel-pieces and
other interior works. It is probable, that some small patches of fresh-
water limestone may also be found in the parish, as a rock of this
kind appears near the eastern boundary of the neighbouring pa-
rish of Burntisland. Some of the sandstone beds produce build-
ing materials of good quality; but there seems to be none of great
thickness, or of the sort called liver-rock. There is nothing re-
markable in the shales, further than that there is said to be a good
fire-clay situated near the coal-bed. The single bed of coal is
about five feet thick; but if oral report may be credited, it was
wrought out, in former times, to a depth of 100 feet, but there
are no authentic accounts extant regarding it. The wastes are full
of water. The bearing of the stratified rocks, where they are least
disarranged, is northerly, and the coal-bed seems to be the lower-
most one of the extensive coal-fields stretching from this parish
eastward to Largo.
     These stratified rocks occupy only a small extent in the north-
eastern part of the parish; the remaining part is composed mostly
of a large outburst of trap rock, which extends to a considerable dis-
tance through the neighbouring parishes to the west, but which con-
tains here and there patches of stratified rocks. The unstratified rock
is chiefly greenstone, or, as it is more commonly termed here, whin-
stone. Its basaltic appearance at Kinghorn ness, and along the
shore to Pettycur harbour, has already been alluded to. It has
there a rudely crystallized form. The greenstone rock is of vari-
ous qualities, some of it being quite friable, while at other places
it is very hard and tough, and forms excellent road materials. The
boundary of the trap rock is exceedingly irregular, and has never
yet been exactly traced out. It is probable that large parts of it
are overlaying the stratified rocks.

