
     Statistical Account

the latter would be greater, did not so many of the young
men go to sea.  Some go aboard Greenland Ships, which
anchor every year in Balta Sound, both in sailing to the
North Seas, and in their return.  Unst furnishes the tenth
part of 100 seamen whom the Shetland isles are, by agree-
ment, obliged to furnish to government for the Royal Na-
vy, upon any extraordinary emergency.  Fishing boats are
sometimes lost, too, by accidents at sea.  From the waste
of the peat earth upon the eastern side of the island, it should
seem, that Unst must have been peopled at a very remote
period; and the great comparative extent of the arable and
inclosed ground affords reason for presuming, that the popu-
lation may have been anciently* more numerous than at
present.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Norwegian or Norse tongue appears to have been the ancient
language of this, as well as of the other Shetland isles.  Most of the pro-
per names have their origin in that tongue.  On each side of the island
there is a line of old buildings, at moderated distances from one another,
which are said to have been Pictish castles.  These are round towers, open
above, and having very strong and thick walls built of very large stones.
The interior area of each of these may be about 20 or 30 feet in diameter.
The walls are penetrated by galleries, into which probably the neigh-
bouring inhabitants might retreat in times of danger, while their move-
ables were secured in the open area of the building.  Some of these stand
in the middle of lakes; some are guarded on three sides by the sea; and
they are generally surrounded by three or four moats of considerable
depth.  At Muness there is a ruinous feudal castle, which appears, by an
inscription in Saxon characters above the gate, to have been built in the
year 1598 by Laurence Bruce, who is said to have been from Cultmalun-
die, in Perthshire, and to have sled either in consequence of having slain
a neighbour in a assray.  It is an oblong square, 60 feet long, by 18
feet wide within, and 24 feet in height.  At each of the four angles there
is a tower.  Two of these are hanging, and the other two rise from the
ground.  On the east side of the parish, between Balta Sound and Hars-
wick, there are two high eminances, called Hoap.  On one of these
there is a heap of stones intermitted with human bones.  They are both


