
                          YETHOLM.                           167

of at neighbouring markets, and in the surrounding country. The
horn-spoons, or "cutties," are very generally used by the peasan-
try, and before harvest are purchased for the use of the reapers.
Most readers are probably familiar with the appearance of a gip-
sy tent. It is generally situated in the least frequented parts of
the country, probably beside some plantation, which supplies it at
once with shelter and with fuel. The women carry about their
manufactured articles for sale; while the men either remain with
the cart, or occupy themselves in fishing and poaching, in both of
which they are generally expert. The children accompany the
females, or collect decayed wood for fuel. At night the whole fa-
mily sleep under the tent, the covering of which is generally wool-
len cloth, and is the same usually that covers their cart during
the day. Occasionally two or more families travel together. A
dog, chained under the cart, protects their property, and at
night gives warning of danger. Each family generally travels a
particular district, seldom remaining, more than a few days in
one place. This is their mode of life, even in the coldest and
wettest weather of spring, or the beginning of winter; and some-
times the tents are but scantily provided with warm and comfort-
able clothing. The ground, from which, while they sleep, they
are separated only by a blanket or slight mattress laid on some straw,
must frequently, of course, be completely saturated witli raid;
nevertheless I have never understood that these people are, even
so much as others, troubled with colds and rheumatisms, to which
this mode of life seems almost unavoidably to expose them. In-
deed, both at home and abroad, they enjoy the best health.
In cases of sickness they are usually unwilling to call in a me-
dical practitioner. Before autumn all return who are able and
willing to hire themselves as reapers. After harvest work is
over, they set off once more to the country, where they continue
until the severity of winter drives them home. At home they
are usually quiet and peaceable. Their quarrels, which do not
often take place, and are only among themselves, are very violent
while they continue: and the subject or ground of quarrel is sel-
dom known but to themselves. On these occasions they are much
addicted to profane swearing, and but too much so at other times.
I think it deserving of remark, that most of the murders for which
gipsies have been condemned seem to have been committed upon
persons of their own tribe, in the heat and violence of passion, the
consequence of some old family feud, or upon strangers of other
clans for invading what they regard as their territory, or the dis-


