
     of Logie-Coldstone.

civil, the other by moral law, that "whom the Lord loves
he chastises."  Lord Strathaven, who got his father Lord
Aboyn's property in this county made over to him 2 or 3
years ago, has altered the terms of payment of rents from
Martinmas till the 8th or middle of February; and from
Whisunday till the middle of August; by which his te-
nants have an opportunity of making the best of their vic-
tual and cattle, and now pay their rents with much greater
ease and advantage than they did formerly.  If this plan
were adopted by heritors in general in this country, it
would be of the greatest consequence to their tenants in ge-
neral, who depend chiefly on the produce of their crops for
the greater part of their rents.  Improvements in agricul-
ture will never take place in this parish, until leases are
granted and encouragement given for houses and inclosing;
till that happen, the poor farmer will be obliged to adopt
the old mode of cultivation, whether right or wrong,
though the climate and soil in general are such as would
produce good crops of any kind of grain used in the north
of Scotland.  At present the farm-houses are worth very
little, and the mode of living very mean; dwelling-houses,
when valued on the removal of a tenant, are appreciated
from 16 s. to L. 1, 5 s.  Subtenants from 5 s. to 10 s.* 

<FOOTNOTE>

*Servants wages since 1784 are raised near double of what they
were before that time.  The average rate at which men servants are hired
for the year by the farmer is from L. 5, 15 s. to L. 7. 10 s. and maintained in
the family; women servants usually get from L. 2 to L. 2, 10 s. and their
maintenance.  There are no alehouses in the parish; the inhabitants in
general are very sober: but numbers of them are obliged by necessity to
attend a weekly market at Tarland, some time before every term, to sell
victual in the way already mentioned to pay their rents; by which means,
they throw away a great part of their time and their subject.  At this
market no fewer than 4 messengers, 3 of whom are notary-publics, attend
regularly, and have made themselves rich on the ruins of the poor; one
of them has bought 2 estates.


