
324                       LANARKSHIRE.

pany. As a class, it must be confessed that they are much more
healthy than the mill-workers in large towns.
	In general, the working people marry young, and in all cases where
any degree of care is exercised they live very comfortably. Many of
them have brought up large and respectable families. The village
is kept clean and neat; to insure which, the company provide both
watchmen and scavenoers. With regard to the habits of the people
they may be said to be cleanly. To encourage this desirable ob-
ject, the company built a public washing-house several years ago,
to which the householders have access in rotation; and a large
bleaching green on the banks of the river, with a good exposure,
capable of accommodating ten times the amount of the population,
has also been provided. The village is supplied by means of force
pumps at the works, with both soft and hard water. The ordinary
food of the workers is much better than that of the agricultural la-
bourers in the neighbourhood. A considerable quantity of butcher's
meat is consumed every week in the village. There are also seve-
ral shops or stores from which the people derive the advantage of
competition and low prices.
	There has been a considerable library established among the
workers for several years past, and measures have now been taken
for extending it considerably. A funeral society was established
fourteen years ago. Among other provisions on the death of a mem-
ber or his wife, the heirs receive L. 4, and for a member's child
L. 2. to defray funeral expenses. There is also a poors' fund for the
sick and destitute, to which the company contribute L. 21 annually.
The management is vested in the workers, who elect new mana-
gers every six months. The average number obtaining relief is 16.
The average sum expended annually is L. 75. An association for
religious purposes was, instituted in 1822. The average annual
amount that has been voted to sundry societies at the yearly gene-
ral meetings has been, for the last ten years, upwards of L.20. The
Blantyre Works Temperance Society was formed in 1830, since
which period it has had at an average from 60 to 70 members.

<TABLE>
	The population of the village at present is, males,		743
	      					     females,	       1078

  						     Total,            1821
		Belonging to the Established Church,	   1041
				 Dissenters,	            592
				 Episcopalians,  	     39
				 Roman Catholics,	    149

	Any worker known to be guilty of irregularities of moral conduct
is instantly discharged, and poaching game or salmon meets with


