
                        DYSART.                                     135

burgh. Under the same roof, are the prison, the public weigh-house,
the guard-house, and the black-hole. The whole is a plain build-
ing of strong ruble work, ornamented with a tower and spire.
Part of it was occupied as a barrack-room by Cromwell's soldiers,
and part of it as a magazine. Some of the soldiers, however, having
entered the magazine with a lighted match, while in a state of intoxi-
cation, the whole building was almost reduced to a ruin, and was
not rebuilt for several years afterwards.
Mansion-house, &c.- The only mansion-house now in the parish
is that of the Earl of Rosslyn. It stands to the westward of the town
of DysarL It is a plain, but net and commodious building, and
commands a most beautiful view of the Forth, and of the pictur-
esque scenery to the eastward of the town.
  About five or six years ago, a mill for spinning flax was erected
in the parish, which employs from eighty to an hundred individual,
most of whom are resident in the town. There is also a factory for
stone-ware, which gives employment to nearly an hundred indivi-
duals. And there is a small factory for making ropes, at which
three or four individuals have constant employment.

                  III.-POPULATION.
   From want of proper documents, little information can be given
of the ancient state of the population of this parish. With the ex-
ception of Dunfermline, it has long been reckoned the most po-
pulous in the county. So far back, indeed, as the year 1619 or
1620, the inhabitants were so numerous, that one minister was not
sufficient to do the work of the parish, and in consequence of this
a second charge was established, and another minister introdu-
ced. According to Dr Webster's report, as quoted in the former
Statistical Account, the number of souls in 1755 was 2367, and,
as will be seen from the census of 1831, it is now upwards of
7000, exclusive of sailors, which amount to a few hundreds more.
This great increase may be fairly traced to the different public
works which have been established in the parish; to the facilities
afforded to feuars; to the low rate of house-rents, and to the cheap-
ness of fuel.
  A more particular account of the different villages in the parish
will afterwards be given; but in the meantime the following state
of the population may be depended upon:

<TABLE>
                  Town of Dysart,            .        .        1801
                Pathead, including Sinclair Town,	.	3390
                Hawkley Muir or upper part of Sinclair Town,    434
                Gallaton,	.	.	.	.	1053



