
			TROQUEER.                               225

tribute highly to the beauty of that part of the parish, and to the
value of the conterminous parishes. On this moss the botanist
will find no plants of the rarer kinds to gratify his curiosity. It is
evident that the whole range of this moss, stretching several miles
in length, was, at a remnte period, a part of the firth, and covered
twice a-day with the tides that flow up the Nith.
	The third range of elevation, which is much higher than the
second, and extends along the whole space of the parish, is under
tillage on the sides and along parts of the summit; and the crops
which it produces, though neither so early nor so rich as those that
grow on the other two, are sufficient to repay the skill and indus-
try of the cultivator. On several parts of this range are extensive
and thriving plantations of fir, larch, ash, elm, oak, and other
forest trees. None of these hills contain freestone, limestone,
coal, or any other fossil entitled to the notice of the mineralogist.
The rock of the whole of them is composed chiefly of mica slate,
running into syenite, with occasional masses of granite shooting
up through the strata beds.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Mansion-Houses.--The properties in the parish entitled to no-
tice, are those of Kirkconnel, Cargen, Mabie, Daiscairth, Gol-
dielea, Terraughty, Carruchan, Cargenholm, and Mavis Grove.
The mansion-house of Kirkconnel, the most extensive and valuable
of these properties, stands remote from the public road and in sight
of the river, is surrounded with a considerable extent of cropping
and pasture land, and several thriving plantations, and has many ac-
companiments that invest it with an imposing aspect and an air of an-
tiquity. A Catholic chapel is attached to it, appropriately seated
and furnished. The mansion-house of Cargen is a large building;
and though placed too near the corner of the field and the parish
road, yet, as it commands a viev of some of the beautiful windings
of the river, it might, by a skilful extension of the lawn, and a
tasteful grouping of the trees around it, be made a charming re-
sidence. On this estate is St Querdon's Well, which is the sub-
ject of a poem of considerable length, written by Mr White, late
teacher of mathematics in the Academy of Dumfries. The man-
sion-house of Mabie is a modern, substantial, and well-arranged
building, stands on an elevated situation, and commands an ex
tensive and sublime land and water prospect. A saw-mill, lately
erected on this estate, proves of great advantage, by bringing to
market the surplus of fir trees, with which some of its woods
  JIRKCUUDBRIGHT.                P


