
                        FORTINGAL.                            543

mals, as Tom-an-tuirc, i. e. the knoll of the boar;-Ruighe-a-mha-
daidh, i. e. the haunt of the mastiff or wolf:-Doire na-bo gile,
the thicket of the white cow.
   Of the feathered race we had, at one time, the capercailzie
(caper-coille) or great cock of the wood.
   In our remote dells and mountains, there are red-deer:  And our
woods and forests abound with roes and fallow-deer. We have also
the common and Alpine hare; the latter of which is always whit-
ish,-and in winter perfectly white. The fox is of the kind pecu-
liar to high mountains; and although there have been regular fox-un-
ters in this, as in other quarters of the Highlands, for these seventy
or eighty years bygone, they have not yet been able to effect its ex-
tirpation. We have, besides, badgers, otters, martins, wild-cats,
polecats, weasels and other small quadrupeds. The squirrel has
lately also made its appearance in our woods and plantationr, as
also the rabbit; and another intruder, not quite so welcome, the
rat, has forced his way into our most sequestered glens, and even
to our most retired apartments.
   Among our hills are sometimes seen serpents from a foot to
three feet in length; but no person has ever been known to h`ve
been hurt by them.
   The indigenous birds are the great eagle, the kite, the hawk,
the raven, the hooded-crow, the rook, the magpie, water-ouzel, &c.
   Those belonging to game are the ptarmigan, the red and
black grouse, the partridge, and the woodcock: and towards the end
of harvest, the snipe, plover, the fieldfare, the phesant. Among
the migratory that annually visit us and bring up their
young with us, are, the swallow, the cuckoo, the corncrake,
sea-mew, the curlew.
   We have also the wagtail, the stonechatter, the yellow bunt-
ing; as also, on our waters, the crane, wild duck, sand-piper, &c.
   In severe winters, flocks of wild geese visit our lakes; but up-
on the first setting in of fresh weather, they take their departure.
   Our finest, native songsters are the thrush (mavis), the lark,
blackbird.
   In size and symmetry, our black-cattle, and especially our
sheep, yield to few or none in the Highlands; and some of our sheep,
and cattle generally, fetch the highest prices, when exhibited at the
great cattle-markets in the south.
   The lake not only those which discharge rivers, but even the
small pools in the moors, as already observed, are well stored with


