
154                       FORFARSHIRE.

brought into cultivation. The next adjudication was for straight-
ing marches and enclosing. Former ministers also had a right of
pasturing their cattle on the hill of Dunnichen, in name of turf and
divot land, which was taken from them without such an equivalent
as is granted in other cases in this country. The minister has
also a right to cast peats in the moss of Dunnichen. There was
formerly a road up to the church, passing through the glebe, which,
during a vacancy, was shut, and along with it a very valuable part
of the grass glebe was taken off. The consequence is, that there
is no road to the remainder of the grass glebe but through the
arable ground, which occasions so much destruction of the crops,
that the glebe is of little value. Several years ago the General
Assembly granted warrant to prosecute the redress of these griev-
ances from the funds of the church; but the present incumbent has
waited, though in vain, expecting to get them amicably settled.
	The only stipend payable from the parish is from the estate of
Dumbarrow,--6 1/2b. bear, 24b. 6p. oatmeal, and 18s. vicarage; and
from the estate of Dunnichen L.2, 16s. 4d. vicarage. All the rest of
the stipend is paid by Lord Panmure and other proprietors of land
which belonged to the monastery of Arbroath: also by the Earl of
Strathmore. By the 50th Geo. Ill., L.22, 5s. 1d. were added to
raise the stipend to L.150; but when the victual fell much lower
than, was established by that act, in cheap years the stipend hardly
exceeded L.100. To remedy this, by the 5th Geo. IV., L.15,
17s. 7d. were added, which makes the whole allowance from Go-
vernment amount to L.38, 2s. Sd. From this it can easily be seen,
that, when the fiars' prices exceed the valuation of that act, the
stipend proportionally exceeds L.150; but when the fiars are
below that valuation, which is the case at present, and likely to
continue, the value of the stipend is proportionally below L.150.
	In this parish there is a meeting-house belonging to the sect of
Congregationalists. The hall of Letham also is used as a place
of public worship by a congregation of Seceders. The preacher
in the latter is paid partly from collections, partly from their synod
fund: the other is also paid partly from collections, and partly
from a fund established by the adherents of his sect.
	Some time ago, Mr Jaynes Hawkins, advocate, heir apparent of
the estate of Dunniehen, became a convert to the famous Row
heresy, which he preached in this parish, in a chapel which he him-
self built. -The chapel has been for some time vacant: but it is said


