
                               SALTON.                      125

expense of education per quarter is, for English and grammar, &c.
3s. with the addition of writing and arithmetic, 5s., and with
that of Latin, 6s. The parochial schoolmaster's emoluments as
teacher are, from Bishop Burnett's fund, L. 6; legal salary,
L. 34, 4s. 5d.; school fees, &c. L. 20; three roods of ground, L. 2;
total L. 62, 4s. 5d.
   The other school is situated in the village of West Salton. The
branches of education taught in it are English, English grammar,
arithmetic, writing, book-keeping, and the elements of laud-survey-
ing. These branches of instruction are likewise well taught. The
expense of tuition is the same as in the parochial school. The
teacher's emoluments are, from Bishop Burnett's fund, L. 20;
school fees, L. 20; per centage as heritors' clerk, L. 8; one and
a-half acre of land bestowed by the late General Fletcher, value
L. 4, 10s; total L. 52, 10s.
   The school-house at West Salton is a neat and spacious build-
ing, erected by General Fletcher about thirty years ago. The
parish school-house is not so large nor so commodious, and would
require to be considerably increased in size. The parochial teach-
er's house possesses the legal accommodation.
   In each of the schools, in addition to the above-mentioned
branches of education, the Holy Scriptures are daily read, and the
Shorter Catechism taught. The meetings are opened and closed
with prayer. The following is the state of attendance.

<TABLE>
                                                 E. Salton.  W. Salton.      Total.
Maximum attendance,                                  70          80           150
Minimum      do.                                     58          66           124
Average,                                             66          75           142
Proportion of maximu attendance to population of parish,                        5 1/10
Proportion of average    do.       to   do.                                     5 1/10

   I am not aware that there is any inhabitant in the parish up-
wards of fifteen years of age who has not been taught to read and
write. Between the ages of six and fifteen there is none of either
sex who cannot read, and only a very few who have not yet begun
to be taught to write.
   There is a Sabbath school taught in the church, attended by
125 children. Of these, 30 are beyond the age of attendance
at the day schools. If they be added to the numbers already men-
tioned, the gross amount of young persons in the parish receiving

<FOOTNOTE>The reason why the average is stated higher than the medium between the maxi-
mum and minimum, is because the maximum attendance continues for a much longer
portion Of the year than the minimum; to estimate which, therefore, a proportional-
ly higher average must be taken.


