
60                              ROXBURGHSHIRE.

it is natural to inquire, to be created in such a site, and in an age
so early and so rude as the twelfth century? David was a "sore
saint to the crown," nather from his enormous grants of land than
from the amount of pecunairy capital which he had it is his power
to sink unproductively; and why should he have chosen to place
the finest building of which the nation has ever had to boast so far
from the heart of his kingdom, and so near a hostile frontier?  It
is also worthy of remark, that the style of the architecture is ascer-
tained to belong to a later age than that of David; that the build-
ings which David did erect on this site are said to have been finish-
ed in ten years; and that there are architectural indications which
distinctly show that the Abbey, the main building now existing in
ruins, was unfinished when distroyed 500 years after his day.  There
are appearances of temporary finishing, that the work might be
afterwards resumed and carried forward towards completion.  The
character of the monastic orders in general, and that of the Cis-
tertians in particular, seem to afford the best explanation of the
difficulty which can be given.  The Cistertians, besides being strict
in their monastic discipline, had the wisdom to inculcate industry
upon their brethren as a virtue, and a as a preservative from vice;
on which account, they were also great patrons and prommters of
learning and the fine arts.  Is it not probable, then, that multi-
tudes of the resident monks would employ themselves in what
might be deemed the pious work of rearing and embellishing so
sacred an edifice; that the masterly pieces of sculpture which adorn
its windows, walls, pinnacles, capitals, keustones, &c. were executed
by their own hands; and that the whole work, instead of being
produced by a single effort of David, which would have been be-
yond his means and the architectural talent which he could have
commanded, however ample his means had been, was the result of
a long-continued effort of the religious community which he esta-
blished, aided by the princely revenues with which it was endowed,
the munificent benefactions it was continually receiving, and the
architectural talent of the whole Romish church which would be
at his command.  The monastic orders are known to have been
ambitious of adorning their habitations with great architectural
works, which were frequently begun on a scale of magnificence
vastly beyond their means, and which the labours of several gene-
rations were required to complete.  The Scottish monarch, in 1136,
seems to have merely founded and endowed the monastery, build-
ing suitable accommodations for its inmates, and a humbler edifice,


