
				FORRES.				169.

   sides these, a few individuals and families not engaged in business,
   living in the town on moderate private means.
      Habits and Character of the People, &c.-The great body of
   the people enjoy in a considerable measure the comforts and ad-
   vantages of society, and are generally contented with their condi-
   tion in life. They are warmly attached to their own town and par.
   rish, the beauty and amenity of which they highly appreciate, and
   take a zealous and lively Interest in promoting every measure cal-
   culated for their embellishment and improvement. On occasions
   of public excitement they particularly manifest sentiments of loy-
   alty and patriotism; and it may be truly said that Chartists, Soci-
   alists, or similar characters have met with little encouragement
   among them. The people are decent and orderly in their outward
   deportment, and are regularly observant of the public ordi-
   nances of religion. The lower orders are frugal and indus-
   trious, and have of late years much improved in habits of clean-
   liness both in their houses and dress. it is much to be lamented,
   however, that so many houses and shops for the retail of ardent
   spirits are permitted within the town, and if fewer existed, there
   can be no doubt the moral and religious character, as well as
   comfort and happiness of the people, would improve. It may be
   observed, that nothing has tended more to the demoralization of
   the working-classes than the frequency of fairs and markets which
   are held in the burgh, and particularly of the half-yearly feeing
   markets for agricultural servants, which have been established with-
   in the last few years. These markets are much under the con-
   trol and regulation of the farmers of the district; and it is earn-
   estly hoped that they will soon see the propriety of altering a
   system which has already produced but too great efflects in low-
   ering the standard of morals of our labouring classes, both miale
   and female.
      Language.-The English language is universally spoken in the
   parish. There are perhaps 200 individuals who speak Gaelic,
   chiefly old persons, natives of the Highlands, and of these one-
   half may understand it better than English, but their number is
   yearly diminishing.
      There are six insane persons connected with the parish, three
   of whom are supported at the expense of the beritors, in well-con-
   ducted asylums, and the others are under the care of their friends.
   One deaf and dumb boy has beea sent to an institution in Lon-


