
	126                        PERTHSHIRE.

	   In 1772, a periodical, under the designation of "the Perth Ma-
	gazine," commenced.  After the publication of five volumes it ceas-
	ed.  A similar literary effort was made a few years ago; but it did
	not succeed.
	   Charitable and other Institutions.-King James VI. Hospital or
	Alms House.  To this institution I have already adverted, but the
	following particulars it may be proper here to introduce respecting
        its history.  In neither of its charters-the one obtained before,
	the other after, the King's coming of age, is there any injunction
	to build a house for the reception of the poor.  They speak mere-
	ly of property given for their aliment.  They bear that his Ma-
	jesty, moved by certain weighty considerations, deemed it his duty
	to provide, by all honest ways, an hospital for the poor, maimed,
	and distressed persons, orphans, and fatherless children within his
	burgh of Perth, had therefore given, granted, and disponed to the
	poor members of Jesus Christ, now and in all time coming, abid-
	ing in, and residing within the said burgh, certain properties--the
	designation of which evinces the endowment to have been most
	munificent.
	   But it appears that soon after the endowment was granted, an
	hospital-house was considered to be necessary, to carry into proper
	and full effect the intention of the Royal donor: for, so early as
	1579, i. e. about ten years after the first charter was granted, there
	is in the session record the following entry : "Ordains Js. Sim,
	uptaker of the casualities pertaining to the hospital, to give to the
	poor folks in the hospital straw to lie upon."  Thus there was
	then an hospital-house.  But it must have been only a temporary
	one, for on the 7th December of the same year, this entry occurs:

<FOOTNOTE>These properties consist of "All and hail the lands, tenements, houses, buildings,
	churches, burial,places, chapels, colleges, yards, orchards, crofts, annual rents, feu-farms
	canonries, pensions, mills, mill-lands and their sequels, fishings and fish mercat, fruit
	rents, duties, profits, incomes, emoluments, kain service, alms, distributions, deal-silver,
	obites, aniversaries, and others, whatsoever, which any way pertained to chapelaries,
	altarages, prebendaries, founded on whatever kirk, chapel or college within the liberty
	or privilege of our burgh, in possession whereof the chaplains or prebends thereof
	were originally, the said et cetera are lying, or were uplifted respectively with the ma-
	nor-places, yards, lands, ground-annuals, emoluments, and duties whatsoever, which
	formerly pertained to the Dominican or Predicant friars, to the minor or Franciscan
	friars, and to the White friars of our said burgh, together with the yard belonging to
	the monastery or place ofthe charter-house in our said burgh ; as also all and sundry
	other lands, houses, and tenements lying within said burgh, given and founded to
	whatever chapelaries, altarages, kirks, monasteries or aniversaries, wherever they are with-
	in the kingdom ; as also all and sundry ground annuals and other duties which can be
	demanded, by whatsoever kirk, without our said burgh, from the Provost, Bailies or in-
	habitants, out of the revenue of said burgh, and all and sundries of the foresaid to be
	holden by the said members of Jesus Christ, and present, being, and to be therein, in
	all time coming, of us and out successors for ever."
					3


