
			NEWLANDS.                             143


bably as weighty as what had been cut for hay ten days or a fort-
night before. Might not that which was stunted in growth in the
cold months of spring  *shoot out more vigorously in being cut over
so early?
    But to return to the rest of the management. Mr Aitchison
enlarged his tilth, and, by consequence, augmented his crop, and
made a still farther enlargement of tilth by the conversion of its straw
into manure,-in one instance by purchasing Edinburgh street
dung, when it lay as a drug upon the hands of the magistrates,
and subsequently by the foreign manures of rape and bone dust.
And here it may be observed, that these two last-mentioned ma-
nures afford a prospect of improving our pastures on hills where
merely the plough can operate; for as a ton weight per acre suf-
fices to raise turnip, and as this could easily be carried on horses'
backs, if sheep were flaked upon the turnip, the land would come
to be in best order to be sown off with grasses, even where the ex-
pense of lime in addition might be inexpedient, although certainly
to be desired.
    To procure sufficiency of manure, is the great foundation of pro-
fitable farming. In the neighbourhood of great towns, it is advan-
tageous to exchange the straw of the farm for the dung and fulzie
of the town; but at a distance, excepting the easily transportable
manures of bone or rape dust, the great dependence must be on
the dung of the cattle and their litter. Mr Aitchison's plan is to
consume his whole straw in litter, carrying off the litter and re-
newing it, so soon as it is merely so fouled by the dung as to make
it ferment: to consume as much of the fodder in rearing young
cattle, and to use the least possible for litter, which immediate pro-
fit suggests, he considers as almost equivalent to burning the straw
to obtain the ashes for dung.
    His dung manufacturers are, first, from twenty to thirty black
cattle, bought in at Hallow-fair, which are kept through winter in
a well-littered court, having open shades, and into which water is
introduced, to which they have access ad libitum, upon turnip and
meadow hay, and through the ensuing summer with cut grass from
the water meadows or sown fields, and upon tares; when they are
sold to the butcher in the end of autumn. Perhaps a dozen of
swine are also fed in the cattle court.
    The next engine for creating dung is a standing stock of breed-
ing ewes, in number 105, of the new Leicester breed, remarkable
for smallness of bone, weight of carcase, and heaviness of fleece.
These are pastured in summer upon the parks on the ridge rising


