
		            PARISH OF GIRVAN.

     		PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		     THE REV. PETER M'MASTER, MINISTER.


	     I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

	Name, Boundaries, &c.--GIRVAN takes its name, no doubt, from
the small river at the mouth of which it is situated. The name (at
one time written Griffan) seems to be derived from two Celtic
words, signifying a rapid stream, and is descriptive enough of the
river for several miles below its source. This parish lies on the sea
coast of Carrick, about midway between the well-known points of
Bennan and Turnberry. Its length from south-south-west to north-
north-east is 9 imperial miles; and its breadth from 2 to 7 miles. The
mean breadth, as nearly as can be computed, is 4 miles, which
gives a surface of 26 square miles, or 19,000 acres. It is bounded
on the east by the parishes of Dailly and Barr; on the south, by the
parish of Colmonell; on the west, for nearly its whole length, by
the sea; and on the north by the parish of Kirkoswald.
	Topographical Appearances.--A ridge of fine hills, that might
almost be called mountainous, runs across the parish in a somewhat
diagonal direction, and divides it, as it were, into two distinct dis-
tricts. When viewed from the neighbourhood of the town of Gir-
van, this ridge appears truly grand. Its average height is about
900 feet, and its highest point not less than 1200 feet above the
level of the sea. On the south side of it, the ground is high and
coarse, and, where not cultivated, covered with heath. On the
north side, though not uniformly level, it is low and of fine quality.
	Meteorology.--Owing to the great difference of elevation, the
temperature is variable. In wet weather, the clouds being attract-
ed by the hills, considerably more rain falls in the high than in the
low part of the parish. In the former district, too, especially in
spring and autumn, the frost is often so strong as to injure the po-
tatoe crops, when it is scarcely at all perceptible in the latter. The
prevailing winds are from the west and south-west; but the rains
which occasion the greatest floods generally fall when the wind is


