
	                   KIRKMICHAEL.			309

   About 20 scholars annually. The teacher has the maximum salary
   of L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d., besides being eligible for a share of Mr.
   Dick's bequest of from L.20 to L.30 a year. The school-fees
   average about L.3 a year. By the liberality, of the heritors, the
   teacher has a dwelling-house of six apartments, and a commodious
   school-room sufficient to contain about 100 scholars. The
   school-room was built in 1836, and both school-room and dwelling-house
   are in wood repair. The teacher has a garden and
   croft of land sufficient to keep a cow. He has L. 1 a year of fee
   as session-clerk, besides the usual perquisites of office, which do
   not amount to more than L.2. 2. There is a school in the village
   of Tomintoul. The school is at present on no established
   footing. The teacher receives L.17, 3s. 3d. a year as a gratuity
   fromn His Grace the Duke of Richmond. The parochial school was
   situated in Tomintoul until the year 1835, and the teacher still
   enjoys the accommodations. The school is attended by upwards of
   100 scholars annually. The school-fees average about L.14 a year.
   There are measures now in progress for erecting this school into
   a parochial school, under the Act 1. Victoria, c. 87.. The heritors
   have liberally undertaken to enlarge the accommodations, so
   as to entitle the teacher to the maximum salary; and it is expected
   that he will be also eligible for a share of Mr Dick's bequest. An
   active and efficient teacher will thus be suitably encouraged.  Besides
   the ordinary branches of English reading, writing, arithmetic,
   and English grammar, such scholars as may require it are
   taught Latin, mathematics, and geography at both these schools.
   The school-fees charged from those who can pay, are 2s. a quarter
   for reading, with 6d. additional for writing, and ls. additional
   for arithmetic and English grammar. Five shillings a quarter are
   charged for the higher branches; but a considerable proportion of
   the scholars are unable to pay any fees. The greater number of
   them attend only about a quarter in the year-many of them for
   a shorter period. 3. There is another school in the village, endowed
   by the Trustees of the late Mr Donaldson of Aberdeenshire.
   The salary is L.26. The school is attended by upwards of 100
   scholars annually. No fees are charged; only the elementary
   branches of education are taught.
      Besides these, there are commonly two or three schools on the
   teachers' own adventure in remote corners of the parish.  These
   are taught only during the winter season.  One of these schools,


