
600			      AYRSHIRE.

fessors of Divinity of the United Associate Synod. Mr Mitchell
was succeeded by the Reverend James Meikle, who was ordained
in September 1812, and is now minister. Their church was re-
built in 1816, and it capable of holding 500 people. The have
a good substantial dwelling-house, and suitable offices and garden
for their minister.
	There is also a congregation of Relief, which was formed in
1784. Their first ordained minister was the Reverend John Har-
riot; their second the Reverend William Thomson, who was
placed in 1788, and was translated in 1800 to Hutchisontoun,
Glasgow, where he now officiates. He was succeeded in 1802 by
the Reverend James Anderson, the present minister. The Relief
society have also a good manse, offices, and garden, with some
acres of land adjoining, which they have recently commenced to
feu. The church is seated for 849 persons. There is a school
belonging to the society, which has a small endowment arising from
the bequest of one of the heritors.
	Parochial Registers.--Few parish registers in the Presbytery
are of older date than the Revolution. The earliest volume of
the Beith register commences in 1659, and ends in 1758. It is
imperfect, and for some year no entries are made; sometimes
births, baptisms and marriages, are entered promiscuously. Bap-
tism was generally administered "in presence of the hail congrega-
tion," but it was also done at the houses of the parents, on which
occasions the names of two of the witnesses present at the cere-
mony are entered in the record. The more frequent way was to
administer this ordinance in presence of the congregation, as di-
rected, by the, Act of Assembly, 7th February 1645. It appears
that baptism was administered very soon after the birth, of the
child, sometimes on the same day. The laws against disorder-
ly baptism were severe, and by the statute 22d Charles II,
1672, those who delayed the baptism of their children beyond
thirty days, were subjected in very heavy penalties. Besides, it
was the popular belief, that infants perished who died unbaptised,
and until baptism that they were more readily subject to the power
of witchcraft. Of late years, the register has been kept with greater
accuracy and care, but there are comparatively few births regis-
tered.
	While on this subject it may be remarked, that the mode of
conducting funerals has of late years undergone considerable
change. Formerly large companies were invited, there being fre-


