
                             ST NINIANS.                             323

extremity of tbe parish, in a very sequestered spot, and which, in early
times, must have been difficult of access. The  appearance of the
ditch, and the thickness of the wall, leads to the conclusion, that
it was a place of considerable extent, and great strength. Wallace
is said often to have retired to this castle, and Graham was slain
when fighting along with him at the battle of Falkirk. Sir J.
Graham was a younger brother of the family whence the Dukes
of Montrose are descended. Dundaff, whence they take the title of
Viscount, and the greatest part of the moorlands, at one time be-
longed to them, and they were patrons of the Kirk o'Muir. It is
reasonable, therefore, to conclude that it was in honour of some
one of this family that the Earl's hill and the Earl's burn were
named.
  No part of the fabric of the Kirk o'Muir now remains. The
burying ground is still used; and a small erection at the gate, said to
be that in which the elders stood when collecting, was in truth built
for a school, but is now in ruins. It was a place of worship in Popish
times, and a field in the neighbourhood is still called the Priest's
croft or field. In the Commissary's list of parishes, Kirkamuir is
stated apart from St Ninians; and it is said to have been one of
the first places in which the Lord's Supper was dispensed, accord-
ing to our present mode, after the Reformation. It is nearly ten
miles from the parish church, and five west of Buckieburn.
   St Ninians parish contained other three chapels,--one at Skeok,
a mile below Bannockburn, dedicated to the Virgin, of which there
are no remains, and nothing is now known. Another at St Ni-
nian's Well, (whence Mr Nimmo says the parish derived its name,)
has been repaired, and is used as a washing-house. A third is
at Cambusbaron, of which there were some fragments in the me-
mory of persons still alive; and to which a burying-ground appears
to have been attached, as, in trenching the garden ground in the
neighbourhood, a great variety of human bones were turned up.
   The house of Sauchie, now in ruins, must have been intended
as a place of defence. The loop-holes whence the archers shot
their arrows, are still in perfect preservation. On the lands of
Carnock there is a round tower called Bruce's Castle; and not
far from this, at Plean Mill, a much finer square erection, the
greatest part of which, however, has been used for the buildings
on the farm.Except the name there is no tradition whe-n,
by whom, or for what purpose either of these were erected. The
bored stone, a little to the south-west of St Ninians, and the stand-


