
178                        LANARKSHIRE.

	The records of the town-council have been searched in vain for
the plan or system by which the school was conducted prior to the
year 1707. Since that period, it has undergone various changes
in the management and system of education. Sometimes the
school was under the control of a rector, and at other times the
office was laid aside. Sometimes the course consisted of five, and
at others of only four years. In 1830, the office of rector was
abolished, and each of the four masters bad the entire charge of
finishing his own scholars during the four years. In 1834, this
seminary underwent a very material alteration. From being a
grammar-school, it may now be considered as an academy. Two
of the masterships for Latin and Greek have been suppressed;
and, in lieu of these, teachers of English grammar, elocution,
French, Italian, German, writing, geography, and mathematics,
have been introduced, and the name of the seminary has been
changed to that of the High School. The school is under the im-
mediate management of a committee of the town-council, aided
by the advice and assistance of the reverend clergy of the city,
and learned professors of the University.
	Schools.--In a large community like that of Glasgow, where
schools are ever Shifting, it is difficult to ascertain the exact num-
ber; but the following abstract from Dr Cleland's Annals of Glas-
gow, lately published, will give the reader an idea of the extent of
education in this city. In that work, the names of 144 teachers
are published, from which it appears that, exclusively of the Uni-
versity and 13 institutions where youth were educated, there were
144 schools of every description; that, including the public insti-
tutions, there were 16,799 scholars, of whom 6516 were taught gratis
in the charity or free schools. These schools were all in the dis-
trict of the royalty, containing about 75,000 souls. It appears from
the same work, that Sunday schools were established in 1786; that
there were 106 schools, 158 teachers, and 4668 scholars, viz. 2235
boys, and 2433 girls, besides 3 adult schools. An infant school so-
ciety was instituted in 1826, and in 1827, the Glasgow Model
School, the first in Scotland on the training system, was opened here
under the auspices of Mr David Stow. In 1835, there are 6 in-
fant schools, viz. the Model School in Salt Market, a school in
Drygate, Chalmers' Street, Marlborough Street, John Street, and
Cowcaddens; and two school-houses are about to be built in Gor-
bals, and one in Anderston. As it would be tedious to quote the
rate of wages in the various schools, it may be sufficient to say,
that they are from two to fifteen shillings per quarter.


