
156		    	       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

stone, Esq. M.P., the present representative of that family, there
is a considerable extent of ground covered with oak and ash tim-
ber of natural growth. The former, particularly, has the appear-
ance of great antiquity, and in some instances has attained un-
usual size. Various trees are, indeed, to be found near the pre-
sent ruin of Lochwood, containing upwards of L. 200 cubic feet of
timber, and of which one of the largest, is an oak of seventeen feet
and a-half in circumference. On Mr Johnstone's property in the
parish, there may be from 1200 to 1500 acres of plantation from
fifty years old and downwards. Of all the varieties of plants, the
larch and the spruce (but especially the silver fir, which in certain
situations grows most rapidly,) seem best adapted to our soil and
climate. The ash and the plane regularly planted round the farm-
steadings from 100 to 150 years ago, have attained a large size,
and are still thriving; and the oak is found to thrive in sheltered
situations on every description of soil.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men.-- This parish has the honour of being the birth
place of the late Dr John Rogerson of Wamphray, for many years
first physician to the late Empress Catherine of Russia; a gentle-
man distinguished not less by his high attainments in medical
science, than by the general polish of his mind, and the fascinat-
ing urbanity of his manners. His father, Mr Samuel Rogerson, was
one of the Marquis of Annandale's tenants in the farm of Lochbrow,
near the southern extremity of the parish, where the doctor was born.
He died at Dumcrieff, near Moffat, in the year 1823, and was buried
in the church-yard of Wamphray. While one-half of Lochbrow was
farmed by Mr Rogerson, the other was at the same time rented by
Mr William Halliday, whose son, Dr Matthew Halliday, then en-
joyed the appoinment of one of her Imperial Majesty's medical
attendants, which Dr Rogerson afterwards filled, and in which Dr
Halliday had been preceded by Dr Mounsey, from the parish of
Tinwald, by Dr Guthrie from Edinburgh, and by Dr Grieve from
Peebles-shire; so that we have five eminent Scotch physicians in
successive or co-etaneous attendance upon royalty in the Russian
court, of whom two were natives of this parish. Dr Halliday died
at St Petersburgh about the middle of the eighteenth century.
	In the vault of the family of Annandale attached to the church
of Johnstone, the remains of several persons of high distinction are
deposited. To make room for succeeding generations, the coffins



