
                     LADY.                                  143

window fly, matilot, the French term for a sailor.  The term  has
been suggested by this insect creeping or climbing on glass.
There are various custorris evidently superstitious.  Thus, the
people never marry, but when the moon is growing.  Were they
to do so, when it is waning, the marriage bed would be barren.
They observe the same rule in killing cows, firmly believing that,
if they did otherwise, the beef would dwindle in the pot.  Thursday
is the day generally fixed for marriage.  In going to sea, they
turn the boat in the direction of the sun's course.  To move in the
opposite way, would be considered improper, if not dangerous.
When the first lamb seen for the season is white, the omen is for-
tunate : and the appearance of a black lamb is unlucky.
   The people, in general, are peaceful, temperate, and industrious.
The poverty of the cottage is cheered by the domestic cbariti         'es
and social affections.   In the faithful discharge of their duties, as
husbands, wives, parents, and children, they are unrivalled.  To
the indigent poor, the sick, the lame, the blind, the infirm, they
cheerfully give what they can spare.       Any individual deficient in
those respects, would be viewed by his nciubbour with hatred and
contempt: consequently, cases of this nature seldom or never occur.

                    IV.-INDUSTRY.
Agriculture.-Though there is almost every variety of soil in
Lady Parish, what generally prevails is sand, or a mixture of
earth and sand.  The soil is productive, and, in favoured seasons,
considerable quantities of bear and meal are exported.  The
precise quantity cannot be ascertained, because no farmer will
give explicit information on this subject, from an apprehen-
sion that, if the truth were fully known, his rent might be
raised.   But an approximation to the truth may be obtained.
Several years agoI procured from the custom-house an  account
of the quantities of bear, meal, and malt exported coastwise from
Orkney for a course of years.  This account it may not be im-
proper here to insert.
   Account of grain and meal carried coastwise from Orkney in
the following years:-

<TABLE>
                              Bear   Oatmeal.
             Years.           Qrs.       Bolls.
             1790,            28W         315
             1795;            4970       1552
             1800,            2430        667
             1806,            2934         80
             1810,             272
             1815,            4399        952


