
98                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

by dissenting clergymen; and in the whole parish there have been
altogether within these two periods only three deaths.
	The Duke of Buccleuch, who succeeded to the dukedom of
Queensberry in 1810, is now sole proprietor of the parish of Mor-
ton, with the exception of the farm of Ridings, which is the pro-
perty of Robert Kennedy, Esq. of Dalwhat, who resides in this
parish on his property.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.

        Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The parish contains about
9000 imperial acres; and the gross rental is L. 3060, which, on an
average, will be between 6s. and 7s. per acre. Of the above, as
nearly as can be ascertained, 2600 acres have been cultivated, and
are occarionally in tillage, or in meadow, and of which the rent, ac-
cording to its situation, quality, or state of cultivation, does not
exceed at present 8s. l0s. or 16s. per acre. About 3500 acres
must remain waste or in pasture; and I have no doubt that 1000
or 1200 acres more may, with a profitable application of capital,
be added to the cultivated land,-either for meadow, occasional til-
lage, or permanent pasture. About 480 imperial acres are under
wood, 90 acres of which is natural, and consists chiefly of British
oak from 45 to 50 years old, with a few withered birches. 100
acres more are now in the course of being planted. There are no
undivided lands or commons in this parish.
        Breeds, &c.-Of the kinds of sheep, the black-faced are consi-
dered the best suited for this parish, being a more hardy, sound,
and healthy stock, and better suited to the climate and pasture;
yet, in an adjoining farm in the parish of Closeburn, the Cheviot
breed has been introduced with success. Upon the farms adapted
for cattle, especially where the young are reared, the stock select-
ed is of the Galloway breed. By the farmers whose attention is
directed to the dairy system, the Ayrshire cows are preferred, as
giving milk in larger quantities; yet there are some who prefer,as
the Galloway cow; though the milk be less in quantity, it is sure
to be richer, and of superior quality. And, with regard to horses,
attention is here chiefly given to the breed of work-horse, which,
of late years, has be much improved.
        Husbandary.-New leases of 19 years' endurance have been en-
tered into, and commenced at Whitsunday 1832, on terms highly
advantageous to the tenants; the good effects of which already ap-
pear. Large tracts of wild uncultivated land, hitherto of little va-


