
	246 			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	Sianta discharges itself into the deep, dilse, or Fucus Palmatus,
	of most superior quality is found, which is much prized by the
	natives, who frequently cook it like greens, and other vegetables
	and reckon it a salutary dish.
	  A little fresh water lake in the parish, called Loch Miaghailt,
	discharges its water by a subterraneous passage, through the rocks
	between it and the sea.  Near where the stream from this loch
	spouts out from the precipice, may be seen the form of a Highlander,
        in full garb, in the face of the rock.  From the striking
	resemblance of this cliff to a Highlander in complete costume, it
	received the name of Creag na feiLe, the rock of the kilt, and has
	been frequently admired by tourists in search of the picturesque.
	It can only be seen to advantage from a little distance at sea.
	  Near the ancient house of Flodigarry, there is an eminence in
	close vicinity to the sea-shores, upon which, when a person stands,
	be bears under him a loud rumbling noise, which must be caused
	by the sea finding an entrance under the eminence, by means of
	some hollow recesses which are too deep to be seen.
	  Not far from the house of Aird-mbic-ceolain, there is a remarkable
        natural formation called Slocbd a' mhadaidh, where the sea
	dashes under a natural arch into a circular pool beyond it.  From
	this pool there is a subterraneous passage of some hundred yards
	in length, through which a person may scramble, at low-water,
	and come out at the other end.  At the place where the person comes
	out of that rough, dark passage, he sees before him a huge, isolated
        rock of considerable height, called Stachd-Laeblain.  This
	rock is encompassed with quadrangular columns of basalt, and
	covered on the top with grass.  As no one can scramble to its
	summit, marine fowls take possession of it for a nestling-place.
	In another place on the same farm, there is a variety of arches
	and passages, through which the sea dashes with a hollow rumbling
	noise.
	  There are five little lakes in the parish, which abound with
	small black and yellow trout. -The largest of the lakes was that
	of St Columba, which is now drained. It was proposed to drain
	this sheet of water as early as the year 1715, and the work was
	commenced under the superintendence of Sir Donald Macdonald,
	who, from his great achievements, was commonly calbod Donull a'
	chogaidb, that is warlike Donald.  The work was however, relinquished
        in an unfinished state, owing to the disturbances occasioned
        in this and other parts of the kingdom by the battle of



