
                           LONGFORGAN                              409

      out date-the practice off recording the date on the coinage of
      Scotland not having been introduced till a subsequent reign.
         The objects of antiquity mentioned in the last Statistical Ac-
      count, need not again be enumerated or described.  But any ac-
      count of this parish, which did not embrace a Particular notice of
      Castle Huntly, by far the most remarkable building in it, would
      be unsatisfactory and incomplete.  It is the seat of George Pater-                                                                  George       titir-
      son, Esq. and there are few nobler specimens of an old baronial
      residence to be met with in Scotland. The time of its erection is
      not known with certainty, but there can be no doubt that it must

      have been very soon after the middle of the fifteenth century.
      It has thus already resisted the storms of nearly 400 years; and
      the strength of its foundation, and the massiness and almost impe-
      netrable solidity of its walls, seem to justify the belief, that if it is
      not overthrown by some convulsion of nature, it may stand firm for
      several hundred years more.  It was built by the second Lord
      Gray of Foulis, who had very extensive possessions in the Carse
      of Gowrie; and the tradition is, that he named it after his lady, a
      daughter of the Earl of Huntly.  The castle, with the fine estate
      belonging to it, was sold to the Earl of Strathmore in 1615; but
      it did not become Castle Lyon till 1672, when in virtue of a char-
      ter obtained from Charles II., the barony of Longforgan was erect-
      ed into a lordship to be called the Lordship of Lyon, a name
      which it retained till 1777, when it was purchased by the late Mr
      Paterson, the father of the present proprietor, who, having married
      a daughter of John Lord Gray, the descendant of the founder,
      very naturally restored its first name of Castle Huntly.  Large ad-
      ditions, in remarkably good keeping with the original edifice, were
      made to it by that gentleman,  which had the effect, not only of
      improving its appearance, but also of greatly increasing its accom-
      modation.  Its situation is a striking one, on rock rising almost
      perpendicularly out of the surrounding plain, and scarcely acces-
      sible, except on the north-east side from which quarter the ap-
      proach to it is conducted.  It is built of Kingoody stone, which,
      notwithstanding the long period that has elapsed, can hardly be
      said to have sustained injury, or to exhibit the smallest symptoms
      of decay.  Its walls are not less than 10 feet thick, while they are
      as compact and as firmly cemented as the basis that supports them
      and the height of the round tower above the ground is 116 feet.
      The view from the top is much and deservedly admired.  There
      are many views certainly in other parts of Scotland, of which the



