
                           INNERWICK.                     239

son of Sir Walter Hambleton of that Ilk, introduced the inheri-
tance into a family from whom, by this connections sprang the
Hamiltons of Innerwick, ancestors of the Earl of Haddington. In
the thirteenth century, by a grant from Stewart, a person of the
name of Lindsay became possessed of Thurston. Walter de Lind-
say of Thurstoun was appointed a nominee by Robert Bruce, on
occasion of the competition for the crown; and next year, his manor
was visited by Edward I.-in the words of Rymer, "Capella manerii
domini Walteri de Lindsay, in quo tunc dictus dominus, rex hospita-
batur."*  At the accession of Robert II., John de Lindsay gave
the lands of Thurston to John Wallays; but whether the locality now
called Wallace-mill derives its name from this family, from the re-
nowned Sir William Wallace, or from neither of these sources, is
uncertain. In the time of Regent Morton, Thurston belonged to
a person called in Godscroft's History of the Houses of Angus and
Douglas, Craigiewallace, a descendant, perhaps of the John Wal-
lace now mentioned. In that work, too, the following story relative
to Thurston is related: George Hume of Spott, displeased with,
Alexander Hume of Manderston, to whose son he had promised
to give a daughter of his own in marriage, disposed of her and also
of his estate to a son of the Regent. The lands of Thurston lay
near to those of Spott. The former, although the property of
Craigiewallace, were possessed by George Hume of Wedderburn,
whose predecessors have been supposed to have held them for eight
or nine generations, the tenure being lease and good-will. Wed-
derburn, giving possession to Craigiewallace of the lands of Dun-
donald, himself retained those of Thurston. But the latter, hav-
ing got the Dundonald property confirmed to him as his own by
the King's agents on royal lands, sought to dispossess him. Wed-
derburn, however, still kept possession. The Regent, hearing of
the circumstances, and influenced by the vicinity of Thursthon to
Spott, offered to buy from Craigiewallace his right to the former.
He also inquired of Wedderburn, however, what he would have
for his right to the disputed estate. Wedderburn, replied, that he
desired nothing but his own, and that only that could satisfy him.
The Regent intimated that he had bought the estate. "No one
but yourself," said Wedderburn, "would have done so, nor would
you had you not been Regent."  A decreet of removal was ob-
tained against him, and he, on his part, set about building on the

<FOOTNOTE>At Thurston, too, in July 1292 William Douglas srore fiealty to the Eng-
lish King.


