
                     DUDDINGSTON.                            389

were discovered. Some of these relics of ancient times were sent
to the museum of the King, some were presented to the Antiqua-
rian Society, and the remainder are preserved in Prestonfield
House. In the meadow around the loch, on opening some drains
under the first strata of moss and gravel, the remains of oak trees,
hazel bushes, and nuts, and the almost consumed iron of horse
shoes of different dimensions, have been found. At the mouth of
Duddingston, on the Figget Burn, the trunks of large oak trees
have been discovered in a deep stratum of clay, which, when cut
or broken, have been found as black as ebony to the very heart.
They may be, it is supposed, remnants of the King's forest to the
east of Edinburgh, in which, it appears by the original charter of
erection of the Monastery of the Holy Cross, the monks obtained
a privilege to send their hogs to feed. At the north-east boun-
dary of the parish, to the west of Portobello, there is a fragment
of an old causeway, resembling the Roman roads, which, not
very long ago, formed part of the great road from Edinburgh to
London. Some suppose that it was part of the Roman road be-
tween the stations of Inveresk and Cramond, while others conjec.
ture it to be a remnant of one of those regular roads which
Queen Mary is said to have so attentively encouraged for the im-
provement of her kingdom. We may state in support of this opi-
nion, that several roads of the same kind converged to the Palace
of Holyrood. The burghs of Linlithgow and Peebles are said to
have been bound to uphold this causeway; and it is known to
have been a common practice of Queen Mary to allow to bodies
corporate, and even to private individuals, grants of certain pri-
vileges, immunities, &c. on the condition of their making and up-
holding particular roads and paths. This road is entirely disused,
except as a foot-path, and is called the "Fishwife's Causeway."
From the north side of the outer gateway which leads into the
churchyard, hangs an iron collar, an ancient symbol of the eccle-
siastical discipline of former days. A century ago, Wester Dud-
dingston was a place famed for the preparation of singed sheep's
heads, which is supposed to have arisen from the practice of
slaughtering the sheep fed on the neighbouring hill for the mar-
ket, removing the careses to town, and leaving the heads to be
consumed in the place.
   Modern Buildings.-Duddingston House, the seat of than Most
Noble the Marquis of Abercorn, is a handsome mansion, erected
after a design by Sir William Chambers, the celebrated architect.
The house and offices were finished in 1768, which with the lay.


