
     of Kiltearn.

small, while the member if widows is so great, as much excite
compassion  in every feeling breast.  If the number of houses
or smokes shall appear considerable, let it be observed, that
most of them are miserable huts, and that some of them are
only inhabitted by a poor solitary widow, or by a single man,
who works for days wages wherever he can find employment.
At different periods of time the populations of this parish has
varied much, which can be easily accounted for.  We learn
from good information, that, about the beginning of this cen-
tury, there were nearly as many inhabitants in this parish as
there are at present.  This fact seems to be farther establish-
ed by some old session registers of baptisms and marriages
between the year 1700 and 1728, extracts of which are sub-
joined.  It is to be regretted that there are several chasms
in those records, which prevents our giving the extracts so
completely as might be wished; but to shew clearly that the
population here had gradually diminished between the year
1740 and 1770, lifts are given of the baptisms and marriages
celebrated about that period, viz from 1747 to 1752.  The
diminution of the number of inhabitants then can be very
rationally accounted for.  That martial spirit which has been
a distinguishing characteristics of the Munros, led persons of
every rank and description in this parish to fly to arms as
soon as the trumpet founded the alarm of war.  By this
means the flower of the young men of Kiltearn were scatter-
ed abroad in all the countries that have been the seat of war
during that period; in Flanders, in Germany, in the East
and West Indies, and in Americas; besides, several hundreds
have gone as recruits to the Scots Brigade in Holland, which
establishment was at that time one of the chief fields of pre-
serment for young gentlemen of family.  It is no wonder,
then, that a country which for a long time had been a nurse-
ry for the army, should, in a course of years, decrease confi-


