
     Statistical Account

hand-rake, which serves the purpose of harrowing; this is a 
more tedious operation the laying the plant upon the ma-
nure before it is covered with earth, but is the only method 
thant can be used on these meadows, which are deep and 
wet, and the season must be very bad when they do not
make good returns.  They have of late begun to plant po-
tatoes in light sandy soil, which answers very well, and 
Mr Macneil, the proprietor, plants almost all his with the 
plough, which gives ample satisfaction, and every one be-
gins to follow the example.  The principal crop here is 
barley and potatoes; there is some small black oats, and 
little rye.  The returns in barley are from 10 to 15; in 
potatoes from 15 to 20.  Sea-weed is the principal manure
here; as that is sometimes precarious, the crop must be so
also, for when a sufficient quantity of sea-weed is not cast
upon the shore, a plentiful harvest is not to be expected .
Formerly the Sea-weed that grows upon the shore was
used for manure; but since kelp has become so valuable,
the proprietors every where have restricted the people from 
cutting it for that purpose, which is certainly prejudicial to 
agriculture.  The people also make some compost.  In 
good seasons they raise as much crop as will be sufficient 
for their subsistence, otherwise there is a scarcity; but the 
proprietor supplies the country with low-country meal at 
the market price.  It is to be hoped, that a scarcity may 
not happen so frequently henceforth, if the people in gene-
ral could adopt the improvements lately introduced, in 
raising crops and rearing cattle.  The cattle here are gene-
rally small.  Mr Macneil, who has an extensive farm in 
his own hands, having bought from the best solds in dif-
ferent parts of the Highlands, can now produce a sold of 
his own rearing equal to any of them.  The lands here, as 
in many other places in the Highlands, are distinguished
into single and double lands, and the division of them is into


