
     Statistical Account

supplying their necessities.  There is a general reluctance to
become a burden to the parish, which leads to industry and
economy.  Our young people consider it as a point of ho-
nour to support their parents; and, when any case of extra-
ordinary distress occurs, to which the public funds are un-
equal, the people cheerfully and amply make up the defi-
ciency.  There is no strolling beggar belonging to the parish;
but we have great numbers of them from other parishes.
Some of these, particularly the women, are young and healthy;
and they are usually attended by several children of different
ages, whom they train up to the same habits with themselves.
If there be laws for remedying these and similar abuses, it is
a pity they are not put in execution.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-Some of our disadvantages
have been already mentioned.  To these may be added, our
want of wood, which we are obliged to bring from great
distances, even for the most common uses.  This complaint,
however, will soon be removed.  Mr. Gordon of Craig, has
planted about 600 acres, with all the kinds of forest trees that
are to be found in the north of Scotland.  They are in a very
thriving state, and, while they have nearly doubled the value
of his estate, have rendered Craig one of the most beautiful
places in the county.  The poet Arthur Johnston, in order to
draw his learned* friend from his retirement at Craig, re-
presents this country as blcak, and shockingly ugly.  Had he
seen Craig in its present state, he would have made use of

<FOOTNOTE>

*Johnston's letter is published in his "Parerga."  The gentleman, to whom
it was addressed, seems to have been a man of abilities and accomplishments.
"Tu doniae fontes ficcasti cohortes"-"Tu mores hominum vidisti et urbes"-
"Te spectant curia, roftra, forum;" even if allowance be made for the par-
tiality of a friend, and the colouring of a poet, applied to a man of ordinary
merit, would have been an insult rather than a compliment.


