
296                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   From the want of painting and other necessary repairs, the in-
terior of the building is now quite in keeping with its exterior.
The steeple, the only redeeming feature in the structure, forms an
important land-mark, and as such, its erection was contributed to
by the Commissioners for the Northern Lighthouses.  The bell,
than which no one of a finer tone breaks the stillness of the Sab-
bath throughout Scotland, bears the following inscription: SOLI .
DEO . GLORIA . MICHAEL . EVRGERHVYS . ME . FECIT . Anno
Domini 1624. Innervijsk . Kirk.
The church-yard is under the management of the heritors and
town-council, the charge of it having been resigned by the kirk-
session in 1825.  To whatever cause owing, it must be confessed
that its general aspect does not reflect the highest credit on their
management.  Although the situation is naturallyfine, and many
very handsome monuments have been erected, still the dilapidated
state of the railings, and a great part of the wall being left in an
unfinished state, without a coping, combine in giving it a ruinous
and neglected appearance.
   Besides tbe parish church, and the new church built in Fisher-
row, to which is attached the quoad sacra parish of North Esk,
so called by a singular misapplication of terms, there are four
places of worship within the parish, an Episcopal chapel, and three
meeting-houses connected with the following bodies of Dissenters,
the Associate Burghers, the Relief, and the Independents.
   The numbers connected with the various religious denominations
are as follow: Established Church, 5876; Episcopalians, 153;
Relief, 1468; Secession, 789; Independents, 144; belonging to
other denominations, 112.
   The manse, which is a commodious dwelling, was built in 1807.
Attached to it are a garden and small field, making in all about an
acre, which were given by the town of Musselburgh to the minis-
ter of the parish when the former manse was built in 1681, for a
small addition made to which in 1758 there is paid a feu-duty of
1s. 6d. yearly.  The glebe consists of 51/2 acres; its yearly value
may be L. 22.  The stipend, now all converted into grain, is 2
chalders of wheat, 9 of barley, and 9 of oatmeal, with L. 15 for
communion elements.  His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch is pa-
tron.*

<FOOTNOTE>The following is a list of the ministers of this parish from the Reformation;
1. Mr Andrew Blackhall, admitter previous to 1591, died in 1609; 2. Mr Adam
Colt; and, 3. his son, Mr Oliver Colt; who, together filled up the rest of that cen-
tury till 1679; 4. Mr Arthur Miller, ordained 1680; 5. Mr Richard Howleson, or-


