
206                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

the shore, there is no probability of its ever being wrought with ad-
vantage.
   In the southern part of the parish, the whinstone rock is found
overlaid with clay of different colours, mixed with rounded water-
worn stones, to the depth of 10, 14, and 30 feet. In one part,
viz. the site of Fenton Barns, the whinstone forms a basin of 300
yards in diameter, and is filled to the level with the above de-
posit. In deepening the Peffer, in 1829, the workmen found
a deer's born, imbedded in the hard till, 7 feet below the sur-
face, in a mixture of clay and minute gravel. About a mile fur.-
ther east, on the banks of the same stream, in a soft clay, there
have been found a considerable number of oak trees from 5 to 10
feet below the surface; nuts also and millet-seed in considerable
quantity were discovered,-their position seeming to indicate the ac-
tion of water. They grew readily when put into the ground.
Boulders from 1 to 3 feet long, occur imbedded in the soil, a mile
to the east of the basalt rock, which forms the western extremity
of the southern ridge of the parish; none, however, have been
found to the west of that rock. The coast is composed of beauti-
fully rich sand, and of the whinstone and basalt, already spoken of,
interspersed with sandstone; in several places, it is evidently mak-
ing advances upon the sea. The islands also are of the trap formation.
   Soil.-About 300 acres along the southern side of the parish,
are soft moorish soil, naturally wet, on a very retentive subsoil;
furze and heather seem to have been their natural productions. On
the northern side of the parish, above 400 acres are dry, sandy,
or gravelly rich loam; the remainder of the arable land is general-
ly hazel loam on till, or a clayey bottom. From Gulane, east-
ward, there are about 100 acres covered with sand, which seems
to have been transported by the wind from the hill that stands
to the west of that village. Tradition, fifty years ago, used to
assign its commencement to the time when the gap, still so ob-
vious, was made in the hill; and in the Statistical Report of 1627,
the precise period of its commencement seems obviously to be
pointed at, for it is said, "the gleib is so overblown with sand, as,
the largest aiker thereof has not been manured these five years
by-gone;" and elsewhere, after enumerating. the different lands in
Gulane, it thus concludes: "As for the rest of the few aikers of
Gulane, they are all lying waste, and unlaboured, and never likely
to be laboured. Besides the rent of the rest of the land of Gu-
lane quhilk we have given up, cannot be counted constant rental
respect the-samyn is licklie to be overblown more with sand;" and


