
128				SUTHERLAND

the sound of Hands, exceedingly lamented on account of his many
excellent qualities.
   Buildings.-In a country like this, almost entirely pastoral,
many extensive buildings are not required.  It is a marked fea-
lure in its character, since the succession of the Duke of Suther-
land, that new farm-houses and inns have displaced the old,-in-
troducing a new era in this district, and illustrating the liberality
and ability of the new landlord.
 			III.-POPULATION
   The population in 1792, according to the last Statistical Ac-
count, was 1024; and the last census makes it 1965 giving the
striking increase of 941, notwithstanding that many families emi-
grated.
   Character of the People, &c.- The population is domiciled along
the coast in townships or hamlets, each family possessing a cer-
tain portion of land.  Their houses are of better description than
the ordinary run of Highland houses, and amongst them are a few
slated cottages.  The people are moral, hospitable, and very mind-
ful of their poor. They are particularly honest; and hardly ever
a case of, theft occurs, even when the wants of the population are
great.  For example; a ship laden with corn was stranded at
Loch Laxford in 1838; and though the vessel and cargo, in the
confusion of the shipwreck, was laid open to pillage,- to the cre-
dit of the people be it told, nothing was stolen ; a self-denial
scarcely to be met with anywhere, under similar circumstances.
Gaelie is the vernacular toungue, and generally spoken: the great-
er number of the young speak English also; and the few south
county shepherds amongst them speak English only.
   Illegitimate births seldom occur, there having been only four
within the last three years.
   The names most prevalent are Morrison, Mackay, Macjeral,
and Mackenzie. The men are athletic; and such of them are a-
ware in the army made first-rate soldiers.  Their features are
marked,and although not particularly well favoured, indicate a
bold and resolute character.  The women are comely.  The co-
lour of the hair is generally light,and the complexion rather fair.
   In the article of dress, they are not extravagant.  On Sundays
and holidays, they are neatly and cleanly attired.  The elderly
people dress in cloth in their own manufacture.  Such as repair to
the south and Caithness herring-fishing,adopt, to a considerable
extent, the lowland dress and habits.


