
            310                              BANFFSHIRE.

   in the Braes of Avon, is usually attended by from 40 to 50 children.
   This portion of the parish is from seven to thirteen miles
   distant from the parish school, and from two to eight miles from
   the schools of Tomintoul.  The population of the Braes of Avon
   is 280 souls.  Of these 70 are under twelve years of age. An additional
   school is much required in this station.
     Library. - There is a small circulating library belonging to the
   quoad sacra parish of Tomintoul.  It consists at present of 160
   volumes, chiefly religious and historical.
     Friendly Societies. - Various attempts were made some years
   ago to establish friendly societies in the parish and neighbourhood,
   but, being based on erroneous principles and under improper management,
   none of them succeeded.
     There is no Savings bank in the parish, nor within twenty miles
   of it; and it is not known that any of the population invest any of
   their earnings in any of these institutions at a distance. It is believed
   that a Savings bank instituted in the parish, would be productive
   of great advantage, by inducing the labouring population
   to save their earnings, and rpake some provision for sickness and
   old age.
     Poor and Parochial Funds. - The average number of persons
   receiving parochial aid is about 80. They receive from 5s. to L.2
   each annually. These allowances are very inadequate to the maintenance
   of the poor, and much more depends on the private benevolence
   of the community than on the poor's funds for maintaining
   them. Such of them as are able, assist in supporting themselves
   by any industry of which they are capable.  Others obtain supply
   by going from house to house, whilst those who are disabled by
   sickness or old age from doing any thing, are supported by the
   alms-givings of the neighbours sent into their houses.
     The following natives of the parish may be here mentioned:
   Miss Isabella Macpherson of Tomachlaggan,who, by her talents
   and industry, acquired a respectable rank and fortune in Edinburgh,
   and after making provision for all her relations, bequeathed L.350
   to the poor of the parish, which laid the foundation of the handsome
   permanent funds now belonging to the poor. Mr Eneas Ca.

       These facts refer to the state of the Braes of Avon previous to the year 1839.
   Since then, more than half the population has been removed by the new system of
   enlarging the farms, and many will soon be removed from the same cause.
	This removal of the population removes also the necessity of any additional school
   in this district of the parish.


