
                        ROSEMARKIE.                          349

east; near the middle of which curve Rosemarkie is situated. The
greater part of the shore is lined with a smooth surface of fine sand,
affording delightful ground for sea-bathing; while the bay itself is
an admirable place of anchorage and shelter for trading vessels,
during high westerly winds. Indeed the shores on this part of the
coast are peculiarly favourable for sea-bathing, and are frequently
resorted to by strangers for this purpose.
   The parish is well supplied with water by means of perennial
springs, and some small streams or burns. On the burn discharg-
ing itself into the bay of Rosemarkie, about a mile above the town,
there is a pretty little fall or cascade. During rainy weather it is
considerably increased, and from its position and proximity to the
public road, and situation towards the head of a deep ravine, it can-
not fail to attract the notice of the traveller, as a pleasing and
striking object. Another waterfall, of a similar description, is to
be met with on proceeding along the shore to the east; and at the
extreme boundary of the parish, in the direction of Cromarty, runs
the burn of Ethic, which, with its cascades and high precipitous
banks, as it approaches the sea, is truly wild and picturesque.
   Soil and Climate.- The nature of the soil is various. In the
upper parts of the parish, the lands lie generally on a deep clay
bottom, producing abundant crops of excellent quality: of the
lower grounds along the coast, where there is an extensive and
beautiful flat, well cultivated, the soil is a fine black mould upon
light gravel, which, in moderately rainy seasons, never fails to yield
a luxuriant crop of all kinds.
   The surface being in general dry, and having the benefit of fine
sea-breezes, the air is particularly pure and salubrious, so that few
contagious distempers make their appearance, and when they do,
their progress is quickly checked. The climate bein thus favour-
able, the inhabitants in general are a robust and healthy race; and
many of them attain to extreme old age. The most prevailing
winds are south-west and north-east; and these at times are suffi-
ciently high and boisterous.
   Zoology.- The zoology of the parish is not distinguished by any
of the rare species of animals. Under this head, however, the
writer may take occasion to notice, that along its bold and rocky
coast, crabs, and sometimes lobsters, are dragged from their fast-
nesses, by the country people, in the proper season and seals are
often seen and killed along the shores, while they are watching
their prey. The frith abounds with fish of various kinds, such as


