
312                       ABERDENNSHIRE.

ther from the farms with which the originally stood connected, and
a general indistinctness and confusion prevail otherwise upon the
subject.  The session let upwards of 100 sittings at from 1s. to 1s.3d.
each, and there are some lately erected to which they admit gratis.
These consist of forms wherever there was space to admit them,
and may accommodate upwards of twent persons.  They are
chiefly occupied by old people and children attending the Sabbath
school.  There are no seats unlet that are set apart for letting,
and these and others are in general fully occupied.
   Mortifications.-Two benefactions of L.100 each are upon re-
cord, one in the year 1793, by the Rev. George Abel, some time
minister of the parish, and another by his widow, several years sub-
sequent; also a share in common with the other parishes in the
synod, of what is called Burnet's Mortification.  L.20 has been
the portion hitherto received by this parish, and as it goes from
presbytery to presbytery in turn, it counes to be paid in each pa-
rish once in a number of years.
   The manse was built in 1824, is quite near to the church, and
in good repair.  The glebe, one-half of which is beside the
manse, the other at some distance, consists of nearly 10 acres, and
is all arable.
   The stipend of Drumblade amounts in all to 84 bolls, 1 1/2 lippy
of oatmeal; 9 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, 3 lippies of bear, mostly
paid in kind; and L.41, 17s. 7d. in money, paid by the heritors
from the teinds of the parish; and L.51, 9s. 11d. paid by the Ex-
chequer, to augment the same to the annual value of L.150.
   There is no other place of worship, either Chapel of Ease or
Dissenting, within the parish, besides the parish church.  There
are, however, a few preaching stations occupied by the parish
minister for week-day services, and which continue to be well at-
tended.
   There are in all 171 families or householders, male and female, in
the parish, 152 of which belongto the Established Church, and 19 in
all to the various classes of Dissenters.  Reckoning the whole popula-
tion at 970, which, though somewhat less than the return made at the
las Government census, is all that have been found at this date,there
are belonging to the Established Church, 856; Episcopalians, 50;
United Secession, 20; Independents, 40; Roman Catholics, 4.
The average number of communicants (parishioners) in the parish
church is from 340 to 350, and, including non-parishioners, may be
about 60 more.  The sacrament of the lord's supper is now dis-
                               4


