
                          GLENCAIRN.                       331

is the source of the river of that name. Its greatest depth is about
4 or 5 fathoms, and its circumference about 3 miles; it abounds
with pike and a large species of trout. The water has a black
appearance, as the neigbbouring ground abounds with moss. The
scenery has a bleak aspect, all the hills around being covered with
heath. In this parish, there are the following waters, all taking their
rise from the high hills on the west, viz. Castlefairn, Craigdarroch,
and Dalwhat, which all meet a little below the village of Minnyhive.
When united, they assume the name of Cairn. The Cairn flows
in a south-east direction, till it unites with the Nith, abnut a mile
above Dumfries, seven miles distant from the Solway Frith. The
length of each of the three waters above-mentioned, till they form
the Cairn, may be 6 or 7 miles; and the Cairn runs about 16
miles till it joins the Nith.

                       II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-Sir Robert Lawrie, Bart. of Maxwellton; Ro-
bert Cutlar Ferguson, Esq. of Craigdarroch, now M. P. for the
stewartry of Kirkcudbright; John Walker, Esq. of Crawfordton;
and Gilbert Collow, Esq. of Auchenchain, are the chief heritors;
and there are upwards of 30 smaller proprietors whose rentals may
be stated at from L. 600 to L. 50.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest register is one of births and
marriages, and commences in 1693; with a variety of deficiences,
it has been continued to the present time.
   Antiquities.-There is a tumulus commonly called the moat, about
half a mile from the church, which, in Grose's Antiquities of Scot-
land, is called the Bow Butts, and, as is generally supposed, was em-
ployed as a place for the exercise of archery. There is a cross in the
centre of the village of Minnybive, made of freestone, about 14 feet
high, consisting of a pillar about 9 feet high, rising from a circular
pedestal about five feet high,-which, from its date, appears to have
been erected in 1638. A charter was granted about the same time,
constituting the village of Minnyhive a burgh of barony, with power
to hold a weekly market.
   Modern Buildings.-A monument was erected in 1828 to the
memory of the Rev. James Renwick, the last of the martyrs, who
was executed at Edinburgh in 1688. This monument is situated
within a quarter of a mile of the village of Minnyhive, upon rising
ground, about 100 yards from the place where he is supposed to
have been born. It is about 25 feet high, and built of hewn stone;
it cost nearly L.100, which were raised by subscription.



