
104                       RENFREWSHIRE.

ber of persons in,the parish, in which the jeanies were moved by
the hand; but it did not succeed, and was soon given up.
   Messrs William Caldwell and Co. built a small will at Boghead,
a quarter of a mile north from the village, soon after the former.
It consisted of three stories, besides garrets and employed about
80 workers; but being accidentally burnt down about 1813, it has
ever since remained in a ruinous state.
   The persons employed in the cotton-mills work twelve hours five
days in the week, and nine hours on Saturday. They have one
hour and forty minutes for both breakfast and dinner. The con-
finement and high temperature of the mills must enfeeble the frame,
and ultimately tell upon the health of the workers, especially when
they do not enter them in early life; but they are not immediately
broken down, and are not in general very sickly, so long as they
continue to work, though paler, and sometimes thinner than those
who are employed in the open air. The morals of the workers are
still less affected, for the reasons already assigned,--the care with
which unworthy persons are excluded, and means employed to im-
prove workers. There are many as excellent persons in the mills
as amongst any other class of the inhabitants. The workers make
very high wages, and these mills would in this respect add greatly
to the comfort of the inhabitants, were it not that they tend to in-
crease the population, with its attendant evils, and more especially
to bring a number of large and poor families into the parish, in the
hope of finding employment easily for their numerous children. Not-
withstanding of this, I am satisfied that the inhabitants of the vil-
lage of Locbwinnoch have for a considerable time past been more
comfortably provided for, than those of places where there are no
mills and a great many weavers, who have repeatedly suffered more
of late than persons employed in such mills. Cotton-spinning is
not now so profitable as it once was to the proprietors; but the spi-
rit and extent to which it is carried on is, I should think, the best
proof that it is not yet an unprofitable concern.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-There is no market-town in the parish, and Beith,
which is the nearest, is almost four miles distant; but everything
that is needed be got in the village of Lochwinnoch. The
only other villages are Hollowood and Glenhead, and they are
both very small.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office in Lochwin-
noch; and there are carriers both to Glasgow and Paisley more


