
                          CRAMOND.                           601

tion of paper made is cartridge paper, which is used entirely by
the manufacturers of hosiery. The number of hands employed in
connection with the iron and paper works above mentioned is
about 100.
		 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-There are two villages in the parish, one called
Cramond, containing forty-three families; and the other, called Da-
vidson's Mains, containing ninety-three families, better known by
the name of Mutton Hole--a name, by the way, whose derivation
has not a little puzzled etymologists.  Of late years, Granton has
become a very populous district in the parish, and there is every
probability that, in a short time, the population there will be
greater than in any other part of Cramond.
   Bridges.-The old bridge, over the Almond was in a ruinous
and unpassable condition in 1607, as appears from an act of the
Scottish Parliament. It bears three successive dates of repair,
1619, 1687, and, 1776. The oldest arch is groined, and of a
structure similar to the old arches of Bothwell Bridge over the
Clyde,or to that of the Maiden Bridge over the South Esk. The
new bridge consists of eight arches, and was erected in 1823.
The road which passes along it from Edinburgh to Queensferry
is one of the most splendid in Scotland. It was constructed by
Mr Rennie, Engineer, London, and is sixty feet in breadth.
There is a private bridge a little further up the river, on the
Craigie Hall property. It consists of one arch, and is of rough
rock architecture.
   Granton Rier.-This noble erection, situated at the eastern ex-
tremity of the parish, was begun in 1835, and finished in 1845.
It is 1700 feet in length, and 180 in breadth, and is capable
of accommodating a large amount of tonnage. Upon the pier
there are ten jetties, two low water slips, eleven warehouses,
and sixteen cranes. This splendid work was built at the earnest
request of steam-boat proprietors, by His Grace the Duke of Buc-
cleuch, who employed as the engineer, James Walker, Esq. The
contractors were Messrs Orrell and Co. The stone was sup-
plied from an extensive quarry, the property of His Grace, situ-
ated a mile west of the pier; and the timber for the jetties, ware-
houses, &c. was imported direct from Memel. The gas, which
extends to the end of the pier, was brought by His Grace from
Leith; and the water for supplying houses in the vicinity of, and
vessels frequenting the pier, flows from the Corstorphine Hills.


