
486                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

limits.  The How, properly so called, includes three other pa-
rishes, and is in the form of a trapezium, 10 miles long from east
to west, and 8 miles broad at the east end, and 6 at the west.  It
is bounded on the east by the mountains Benochie, Cairnwilliam,
and Mennowy; on the south, by the mountain Correny, and a
series of low hills, which form, the south part of the parish of Al-
ford; on the west, by the mountain Callievar; and on the north,
by a ridge of mountains named Coreen.  These mountains, with
the exception of the low hills at part of the South side, all rise
above the limits of cultivation, and give a peculiarly sheltered as-
pect to the vale.  They are scarcely continuous at any point
with other mountain ranges, but spring up round the vale, from
the table-land of Aberdeenshire.  Their tops are rounded, with
the exception of those of Benochie, which are finely serrated.
   The river Don flows through the vale almost directly from
west to east, entering and leaving it by narrow winding gorges,
which penetrate the two loftiest parts of the bounding mountains.
   The parish of Alford forms the south-west part of the How.  Its
extreme length from east to west is 7 miles; extreme breadth
from north to south, 3 miles, and area 13.6 square miles nearly.
The church is nearly in Lat. 57&deg; 13', north ; and in Long. 2&deg; 40',
west of Greenwich.
   The boundary on the west is the crest of Callievar, the loftiest
bounding mountain of the How.  On the other sides the bounda-
ries are nearly all water-courses; that on the north being the river
Don, the outline of whose course is very nearly west and east.
The figure of the parish is a semi-ellipse, cut off by the longer
axis, represented by the Don.
   Surface and Elevation.-In reference to the forms of the sur-
face, the parish is naturally divided into three distinct regions.
The river Leochal, running into the Don by a course directly
north, cuts off one of those, containing about 5.6 square miles, to
the west.  This region rises from the bed of the Leochal, which
is 420 feet above the level of the sea, westward, by various waving
acclivities to the crest of Callievar, which is 1480 feet above the
sea.  The cultivation is here, at some points, carried to 950 feet
above the sea.  The other two regions on the east side of the
Leochal are separated from each other by a somewhat waving
line, passing from the mouth of the Leoebal south-eastwardly, and
contain four square miles each.  The more westerly of the two
which is the middle region of the parish, consists of four or five


