                                       GLENSHEIL.                     197

          portant in the history of the Highlands, seems to have been one,
          during which the inhabitants of this parish enjoyed a large measure
          of prosperity.  It is still referred to as a species of golden age; and,
          after making every necessary allowance for the fondness with which
          it is natural that ihe memory of better times should be cherished
          under the pressure of present misery, it is likely that the people,
          during the period in question, possessed, in a high degree, the sub-
          stantial comforts of life.  Secluded by their inaccessible position
          from the turmoil of general society, enjoying, to a considerable ex-
          tent, in virtue of their high character for prowess, security of life
          and property; and holding their lands on such terms as admitted of
          their consuming among themselves a large proportion of the pro-
          duce; they passed their days in peace and comfort, alike free from
          the drudgery of labour and the privations of indigence, The coun-
          try was, at this period, exclusively stocked with black-cattle.  The
          flesh of these, with the produce of the dairy, in the management of
          which they were noted for their skill, oat-cake and salmon, constitut-
          ed their food.  They were clothed with kelt or tartan manufactured
          from the fleeces of a few sheep kept for the purpose, and if their
          luxuries were not numerous, their wants were few in proportion.
          About the beginning of the present century, the change of stock
          from black-cattle to sheep, which has tended so materially to alter
          the whole social system of the Highlands, began to be introduced.  It
          could not have long escaped observation, that the mountainous pas-
          tures of this parish could be employed to greater profit in feediog
          the sheep, to which the most lofty and rugged eminences are ac-
          cessible, and which can exist during the severity of winter, inde-
          pendently of artificial provision and shelter, than in rearing the less
          hardy and active cow.  Yet the change was not introduced but with
          great caution and much reluctance on the part of tenantry.  It was
          apprehended, that though the breeding of.sbeep was carried on with
          great advantage in the finer pastures and milder climates of other
          parts of the country, they could not live among the sterile and stormy
          mountains of this quarter.  A series of unusually severe seasons,
          which occurred about this period, seemed to justify these fears.  It was
          also, and with more reason dreaded, that a system of husbandry,
          which could only be carried on to profit on large farms,  and which
          required a mode of management so difTerent from that to which they
          had been accustomed, as to render their skill. in that branch of agri-
          culture of no avail, might'lead to the removal of the ancient occu-
          pants of the soil, and the introduction of strangers, possessed of the


