
                         CROSS AND BURNEISS.                      87

  Geoloqy.-The whole island of Sanday is composed of secon-
dary rocks, sandstone, sandstone flag, and a little limestone. Near
the house of Saville, in Burnesq, there is an isolated mass of -pri-
mary rock, supposed gneiss, about fourteen tons weight, resting on
the surface of the ground, and considered by Dr Neill to be 11 one
of the most uncommon mineralogical appearances in Orkney, the
nearest primary rocks being at Stromness, which is above thirty
miles distant, and several rapid friths intervening." Opposite to
Eday, on the west sbore of the farm of Stove, in Cross parish,
there is a curious rock called Heclabir, which Dr Neill says is
a breecia, " most of the component parts of which are -rounded
and water-worn nodules of sandstone. The pieces are of diffe-
rent sizes., from balls of three, five, and ten pounds weight, to such
as are of the size of sparrow eggs. A few quartz and calcareous
nodules are interspersed."
   The bays of Stove, Backaskail, and Otterswick produce enor.
mous quantities of shell-fish, principally cockles and the spout or
razor fish. The accumulated shells of these fish ground to pow'-
der, and heaped up upon the beaches by the action of the sea,
and blown inland by the wind, seem to form a very considerable
portion of the soil in Cross and Burness; and in some districts it
is evident that the dry sandy downs, now inhabited by numerous
colonies of rabbits, have at one time been fresh water lochs, or
lagoons communicating with the sea. The writer of this article,
in draining lands of the description referred to, has found, at a
depth in some places of six or seven feet, but always on reaching.
a certain level, a bottom of mud and gravel containing mat-iv rem.
nants of reeds and other aquatic plants; and throughout the deptb
of the ditch, it was easy to mark the different layers of sand which
had been blown over the ground at different periods, by the black
line of mossy earth or decayed vegetable matter running along,
where each successive surface had been. In immediate connee-
tion, however, with such sandy dovns throughout both parishes,
there are large tracks of strong clay, of gravelly, or of deep loamy
land admirably fitted for, raising the ordiuary green and grain
crops. The natural pastures of Sand4y, where they are protect-
ed from those most destructive ver'min, the rabbits, are eyeeeding.
ly rich and feeding. They are composed of a variety of grasses
among which cooksfoot, the different fescues, plantains, and, the
red and White,clovers- known here by the names, of red and wbite
curl-doddies, are the most conspicious. Sea-rockets, bent-grass,


