
   872                          FIFESHIRE.
   
     Ebenezer Henderson, D,D., Theological Tutor, Highbury Col-
   lege, formerly agent of the British and Foreign Bible Society,
   and author of several works, was a native of this parish.
     Modern and other Buildings.-The most recent school build-
   ings are the Burgh, Commercial, and Maclean Schools.
     Churches.-The following may. be noticed :-Queen Anne
   Street Dissenting Church, a huge building, " rearing its enormous
   rectilinear ridge over all the other buildings in Dunfermline, the
   Abbey Church itself not excepted."
      Within the last sixteen years have been erected St Margaret's
   Church, of the United Associate connexion, 1827; behind it,
   the Baptist Church, 1834; St Andrew's Church, North Chapel
   Street, 1833; North Church, Golfdrum, 1840, which last two
   are both quoad sacra churches, built in connexion with the Esta-
   blishment; the Independent or Congregational -Church, Canmore
   Street, 1841, and the Episcopal Trinity Chapel, Queen Anne
   Place, 1842, all additions to the ornamental structures of the
   town, and affording comfortable accommodation to the congrega-
   tions worshipping in them. A Free Church also, built of stone
   and slated, has been erected in Canmore Street, in the end of
   1843.
      But the largest, most splendid, and interesting ecclesiastical
   edifice of modern date, is the Abbey Church. It was begun in
   March 1818, and completed in September 1821. It imme-
   diately adjoins the Old Church on the east, the latter being now
   a porch or vestibule to it. It is of light ornate Gothic architec-
   ture, with tall handsome windows, and having a- fine square tower,
   near the east end, 100 feet high. On the summit of this tower,
   instead of a balustrade of the same architecture as the rest of the
   building, there are the four words, " King Robert The Bruce,"
   on the four sides respectively, in capital letters of open hewn
   work, four feet in height, which can be easily read at a consider-
   able distance. These are surmounted by royal crowns, and each
   corner is ornamented with a lofty pinnacle. This decoration is
   intended to designate the place of sepulture of our great patriot
   King, whose ashes repose immediately beneath; but the taste
   and architectural effect of it are questioned by many. The in-
   terior of the cburch is much and universally admired, for the
   simplicity, chasteness, and elegance of its form and ornaments.
      A Poor's House and Prison have been recently erected in the
   Town Green, east from tile Burgh.


