
		    	      MAYBOLE.                         379

the demoralizing consequences of that practice, particularly among
the young, are taken into account.
	Prisons.--There is a prison attached to the town-hall, used
chiefly as a lock-up house, till offenders are sent to the Ayr gaol.
	Fairs.--There are four held annually, the Candlemas Bel-
tane, Lammas, and Hallow fairs, originally instituted for different
purposes of merchandise, but now almost entirely limited to the
hiring of servants.
	Inns, &c.--There are 50 inns and ale-houses in the parish,
between 30 and 40 of which are in the town, and the others
in the country,--a number far beyond what is required for legiti-
mate purposes, and most prejudicial to the morals of the people.
	Fuel.--The fuel almost exclusively used is coal. The town
and southern districts of the parish are generally supplied from the
Girvan water-pits at Dalzellowby and Dalqubarn, four and five
miles distant, while the northern part is more frequently supplied
from the Ayr water coal-field. The coal from the Girvan water
is sold at from 7s. 6d. to 10s. per ton delivered. That from the
Ayr field generally costs a little more, but is much superior in
quality.

          	    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	The changes in the state of this parish since the publication of
the last Statistical Acount are numerous and striking.
	It is little more than thirty years since wheat began to be par-
tially cultivated; it has only been generally raised within the last
twenty years, and it now constitutes the chief and most valuable pro-
duce of the land, and has been grown of a weight and quality equal
to that of the Lothians.
	Within the last forty years, there was scarcely a hedge, the
greater part of the land was in pasture, and the only crops were
oats, bear, and a few peas and beans. The fields are now well
enclosed and drained, and bear abundantly all kinds of agricul-
tural produce.
	About that period, too, the cattle were of the Galloway breed,
which have now been superseded by the Ayrshire, and which are
found in as great perfection, both as to weight and symmetry, as in
any other parish in the county. The cow painted by Mr Shiels
for the Edinburgh University Agricultural Museum is in the stock
of Mr Finlay of Lionston, in the immediate vicinity of the town.
	Some very curious details, illustrative of the progress of im-
provement, were furnished by an inquiry lately made, for a legal


