
     Of Chrinfide.

   If the more abundant crops of corn, consiquent to the
melioration of the soil, had not been followed with the rise
of the value of that commodity, the tenants in the country
of Berwick, would hardly have been in any beter cir-
cumstances than those in the poorest Lowlands of Scot-
land.  It has been observed, what shifts they were often
put to even when agriculture was in the lowest state, a-
bout disposing of their ground to any adantage.  The
average price of every kind of it, was considerably below
that of the Lothians.  The custom had long obtained of
having a larger sirlot, than the standard one; and, as the
quantity of corn was increased by better cultivation, and
manure, they found it necessary to allow the gratnity of a boll

<FOOTNOTE>

been:  so common and natural is the fear and doubt about the success of
any new scheme to those who, by the failure, may incur irreparable loss.
Some tenants would run to hazards until they faw fuller proofs of the 
fertizing quality of the lime.  Others, blundering in their manner of
applying it, threw it upon wet grund, or buried the substance under
deep surrows.  But these mistakes being corrected, and the structifying
power of the lime becoming more and more visible, the tenants were
satisfied with smaller allowances of it in gratuity; and the more enter-
prising of them hesitated not to purchase it.  The change made by it
upoin unopened lands, excited a demand for large outfield farms, in pre-
ference to the confined infield.  The best of the former, and what in-
cluded some of the latter, generally rose from 3 s to 5 s.  The S. croft of
Chirmside, appropriated to the acre-men, gave from 12 to 15 s. If some te-
nants, who, before the efficacy of lime was known or suffieciently proved,
had leases of 19 years, and at a low rate, granted them, and yet for
want to stock, or of a spirit of enterprise, did not become so wealthy as
they might have been, we need not admire, if we reflect again upon
what has been faid of the low prices of corn and cattle, those discou-
raging circumstances to the husbandman, and which could not be reme-
died, but by the gradual advancement of commerce.  It may be added,
that it is fit, and providentially well ordered, that no new discovery or
improvement, even in the most necessary arts, should be carried rapidly
to its perfection, but that, by a progressive knowledge and skill in it
not 1 but 2 or 3 generations may have some phase in the benefit.


