
570				LANARKSHIRE.

	5. On the confines of the old red sandstone, a band, of about
three feet, which seems to have been wrought near Yieldshields,
said to be of good quality. At all the places enumerated the lime-
stone is found at the surface or outcrop.
	A number of others, principally small bands, intermediate with
and under the above-mentioned, at least eight, are seen; those oc-
curring under the main band having, attendant coal seams, like
the main band itself, of from six to eighteen inches. Large
tracks of limestone on the estates of Braidwood, Waygateshaw,
and Milton-Lockhart, have not yet been explored. From what
has been already stated, the numerous faults or casts in this range
may be inferred. Marl has been worked at an early period at
Oldhill, on the estate of Waygateshaw. It is of excellent quality,
and, though long neglected, it is likely to be opened up anew.
	At the termination of the limestone group, in the natural ar-
rangement, the old red sandstone appears; but its presence in its
proper, or rather regular position, is, from the frequent downcasts
of the strata, marked only at one place. On the south-eastern
boundary it is not found till we reach Kilcadzow; on the north-
east boundary its appearance is protracted much beyond our
bounds: but between these two points, it comes under observation
just at the outcrop of the limestone range, near Burnhouse,--a sort
of tongue-like projection, on either side of which, by repeated
downcasts, the limestone is continued. The old red sandstone here
bears all the characteristic marks of that range, and abounds with
conglomerates. Some particular parts of the rock used as road
metal, as it is technically called, is preferred for that purpose to
the trap. It constitutes the highest peak in the parish, namely,
Kilcadzow Law.
	Ironstone.--Ironstone is found in great abundance throughout
the coal and limestone radges.
	1. Below the main coal there is a band or lead of 9 inches.
	2. Above the Castlehill first coal there is a shelly band of 9
inches.
	3. In the shale of the roof of-the Castlehill second coal, balls
are found equal to a band of 6 inches.
	4. In the shale of the Castlehill fifth coal a band of 4 inches
is found.
	5. A considerable space below this last named coal the slaty
band of about 9 inches is found.


