
     Statistical Account

ral course of their fishing has been at Staxigo, and in the
head of the Moray frith; and their engagements with the 
owners of vessels cleared out on the bounty.  The herrings
on this coast are generally better than those caught farther
south, and bring a higher price by 2 s. the barrel at least
for home use.  Montrose, Dundee, the towns on the frith 
of Forth, and Newcastle, are the best markets for large her-
rings; and Jamaica, and the West India islands, for the
middle sized and small herrings.  They are exported from
London, Newcastle, Greenock, and a few from Leith.  The
herring-fishery is fluctuating and precarious.  When the
fishing is small, the adventurer loses; when a full cargo is
caught, or nearly so, the profit may amount to about 4 s.
the barrel*.

   Cod-Fishery.-This is susceptible of considerable improve-
ment.  From 1st October to the middle of February, a
great many cod are caught on the small lines, which, if
they are not lost, are sold for a trisle, as they cannot be
dried.  From 300 to 400 barrels of cod, and from 100 to
200 of codlings, a smaller cod, might be cured annually,
during the period specified above, in the 4 fisher-towns be-
longing to the parish.  Two attempts have been made in

<FOOTNOTE>

*In July 1786 a number of very large herrings was discovered, 
chiefly by some country people, in the Bay of Buckie, and along the coast.
In 1787, Meffrs Falls employed several boats on the coast with great suc-
cess.  Some of the boats caught in a night 27 salmon crans, i. e. 27,000
herrings.  These gentlemen dropped this fishery after one trial; and it
remained neglected, except by the country people, who, in fine nights,
were very successful, till 1791 and 1792, and some boats were employed 
by Mr J. Geddes and son; and they sometimes caught from 12 to 19
crans the boat in a night.  But it was soon discovered, that the want of a
harbour rendered Buckie until fora herring-fishing station, as no vessel
could repair to it with materials.


