
     of Kirkcudbright.

   The town of Kirkcudbright bears some marks of ancient
fortifications.  A deep ditch and a wall appear to have formerly
surrounded it.  Strong gates were also placed at the entrance
into the town, to prevent the approach of an enemy.  These
gates were pulled down not many years ago, to make way
for building new houses.  Some remains of the ditch and wall
are still to be seen*.  It is probable, that the ditch was then
filled with water by the flowing tide; but from the retreat of
the sea along this coast, it does not at present reach it.

     D 2

within this parish, which belonged to the family of M'Clellan, called Raeberry
castle.  It hung over a very dreadful precipice above the Solway Frith, and was
disjoined from the main land by a deep fossee, and a strong wall next the castle,
with a draw-bridge of hard free-stone, of an immense size.  The wall and
draw-bridge were destroyed only about 40 years ago; the interior buildings
perhaps more than 200 years before that period.  At present nothing remains
but the deep fossee.  This castle was besieged and taken by WILLIAM, EARL of
DOUGLAS, and Lord of Galloway, in 1452.  Sir PATRICK M'CLELLAN of
BOMBIE, the proprietor, having incurred the displeasure of this proud and law-
less baron, partly from his connection with Lord HERRIS, (who had withdrawn
his dependence upon the Earl, and was hanged), and partly from his attachment
to his Sovereign, was seized in his own castle, carried to the castle of Trief, con-
demned, and disgracefully put to death.  This family had another castle at
Bombie, within this parish, from whence they took their title.  It is now a
heap of ruins.-In tracing the various remains of old castles, which formerly be-
longed to this powerful clan, together with their vast possessions in land, one can-
not help reflecting on the great instability of human affairs, and the sad train of
misfortunes, which sometimes attend particular families more than others. Of
all the great estates that once belonged to this respectable family, there does not
now remain one single foot of land to the heir male of the title, the present
LORD KIRKCUDBRIGHT.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In Nicolson's and Burn's History of the Antiquities of Westmoreland and Cumber-
land, and the ancient state of the borders, during the reign of King ED-
WARD VI. (1547), there is a manuscript account, by Sir THOMAS CARLETON of
Carleton-Hall, " of ferray in Scotland, conducted by himself, who commanded
"a party under the (then) LORD WHARTON, warden of the West Marches"
Sir Thomas says, "he went through Tevidale with his party, and plundered

     I


