
     of Carnwath.

into arable land.  Some of these flowes are found to be 20,
25, or 30 feet deep, and are, besides, such a dead level, that
the water has little or no descent; and even supposing they
should be cast, or burnt to the bottom, standing pools of
dirty water could only stand in their place.
   Every farmer in the parish raises potatoes, in greater or less
quantities, for the use of their families; they are sometimes used
also for feeding their labouring or fattening their other cattle.
The cottars and poor people in the village of Carnwath and
the other villages of the parish, have allowed them, by the
neighbouring farmers, ground for planting 2, 3, or 4 pecks
of potatoes, for such a number of days shearing in the har-
vest as can be agreed upon, insomuch that the potatoes raised
in this manner make a considerable part of the food of these
poor people for more than six months in the year.  This
root answers exceedingly well with our sandy lands, which
produce not only large quantities, but good in their kind;
but the cold stiff clay does not answer so well.  The farmers
observe that they have better crops from potatoe than from
turnip land, with an equal quantity of dung.
   Little flax is sown in the parish, excepting for domestic
purposes; what is raised for sale is exceeding trifling.  The
poor people have commonly, along with their cottage, ground
for sowing half a peck of lintseed.  The flax thus raised is
partly applied to family use, the remainder spun in winter
into yarn of a spindle per pound, which is in general sold to
the Glasgow manufacturers, at Lanark fairs, from g 2 s. 2 d. to
2 s. 6 d.  Oats and barley, or beer, are the common crops
of this district; and on there the farmer principally depends
for the payment of his rent.  It is difficult to ascertain the
value of the land in this parish, as there are some thousand
acres in it not worth 6 d. per acre.  The infield land about
the village and neighbourhood is let from 20 s. to 30 s. or

     VoL. X. T t


