
	                    ALVAH.                           163

   	Modern Buildings.-Under this head, the parish presents little
   worthy of particular notice. The house of Montblairy, the pro-
   perty of Alexander Morison, Esq. was built in 1791 by the late
   Major-General Andrew Hay, whose name has been already men-
   tioned. It is a substantial and commodious edifice of three storeys.
   A considerable addition was made to it in 1825. Within the last
   two years, it has received a thorough repair, and its outward ap-
   pearance is now very handsome and tasteful. Its situation amid
   thriving plantations on a fine sloping bank, on the west side of the
   Doveran, is particularly delightful, and the large' and beautiful
   quadrangle of offices erected on the wooded rising-ground behind
   the house, adds not a little to the beauty of the scene, when viewed
   from the opposite side of the river. The southern facade of this
   quadrangle is adorned in the centre with an elegant portico, sup-
   ported by four massy columns of the Ionic order, and surmounted
   by a corresponding entablature and pediment. An attic storey ex-
   tends from one end of the building to the other, and the whole is
   constructed of beautifully dressed granite.
	It may be noticed, while on this subject, that in the house of
   Montblairy, are to be found a few paintings which deserve the at-
   tention of the lover, whether of the arts or of history. Of these
   may be mentioned as the most valuable, either as works of art or
   as representations of remarkable individuals,-an original portrait
   of the Admirable Crichton,\f* transmitted, according to tradition,
   by Crichton himself from Mantua to the Laird of Frendraught, to
   whom he was related;-six portraits by Jameson, including the
   great Montrose, and the infamous Lady Frendraugbt, whose cruelty
   in setting fire to the house of Frendraugbt is commemorated in a
   well known popular ballad;-portraits of Peter the Great, and
   Prince Menzikoff, presented by the Czar himself to Gordon of
   Auchentoul, who was a General in the Russian service, and wrote

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Tytler mentions, in his life of Crichton, that there are three riginal por-
   traits in this country of that famed individual; one in the possession of Colonel Crich-
   ton, Edinburgh; and another belonging to Mr Stirling of Airth, both of which he
   has seen,and from the former of which his engraving was taken. The third is the
   one in question, which Mr Tytler never saw. Judging from the engraving in his
   book, the present portrait would appear to be much superior to the one made use of
   by Mr Tytler.  It is indeed regarded by judges as a painting of great merit, and is
   also in an excellent state of preservation. The painter, in so far as we are aware, is
   unknown.
     These portraits are but in an indifferent state  of preservation. The truth is,
   that, owing to the extremely thin covering which Jameson used, or else to accidental
   circumstances, the portraits of our Scotth Vandyke (as he has not Unjustly been
   termed) are, in so far as we have had opportunities of seeino them, rapidly basten.
   ing to decay.


