
126                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

by premiums bestowed annually on the best ploughman, and for the
best managed farm.
  Draining is much neglected in the parish, from the want of capi-
tal among the tenants. The general duration of leases is nineteen
years, which is considered to answer well for both proprietor and
tenant. The state of farm-buildings and enclosures is not good.
The principal improvements which have recently been made in the
parish, are by the Messrs Gilmour of Knowhead, by means of
thorough draining and trenching the most part of their lands, which
are now worth double the rent in consequence. *
   The want of capital prevents many a tenant from lining and
purchasing manure for his land. Were landlords to allow so much
for every chalder of lime which the tenant laid on the farm, it
would increase both the produce and the rent. To give premiums
for the greatest quantity of draining on a farm--for the largest
and best field of turnip and potatoes,--for the best laid down field
of bay, &c. would give a stimulus to agriculture of the most
beneficial description. Sheds and straw-yards are likewise much
wanted in this parish, to enable the farmer to feed and rear more
stock, and so to make more manure and sow more turnips for feed-
ing, &c.; for, the more manure, the more turnips; the more
turnips, the more cattle; and the more cattle, the more manure
again, and so on indefinitely.
   Quarries and Mines.--The quarries are of freestone and whin-
stone. There are several mines of iron ore in the glen of Castle
rankine, and on the estates of Herbertsbire and Myot-hill: but
they are not, at present, from the want of a remunerating price,
worked. The coal mine at present at work in the parish, is that
of Banknock, already described. About ninety workers, young
and old, are employed in the various operations going on there.
Three steam-engines are constantly at work.
  Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>

               Oats,	 .          .      9000 quarters.
               Barley,	      .            1500
               Wheat,	.          .        500
               Beans,	      .             100
               Pease,	.         .         l00
               Rye-grass hay,        .   .     200 tons.
               Meadow hay,      .              100
               Flax,         .       .           2

<FOOTNOTE>Draining may be said to be the rage at present.  All proclaim the Increase of
produce which follows.--(1841.)
                                           3


