
                        ISLAND OF ARRAN.

                      PARISH OF KILBRIDE.

            PRESBYTERY OF KINTYRE, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

           THE REV. ALLAN M'NAUGHTON, D.D. MINISTER.


              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	THIS parish is situated in the mouth of the Clyde, and forms
the smaller of two very extensive parishes, which divide between
them the magnificent and strikingly picturesque Island of Arran.
The small Island of Lamlash, or the Holy Isle, as it is sometimes
called, also belongs to it.
        Name.-The name of the parish requires little explanation, be-
ing obviously a compound formed by Kill, the well known Gaelic
name for a burying-place, and Bride or Bridget, * that once po-
pular female saint, whose name still lives in the names of so
many parishes and other places, both in Scotland and other
kingdoms. The etymology of the name of the island itself is dis-
puted. Some derive it from the two Gaelic words Arr and Inn,
the High Island; and others from Arr Fhinn, the slaughter or
field of Fingal, conceiving it to have received its name from a
battle said to have been fought at the north end of the island by
Fingal against a son of the King of Norway, whose forces he to-
tally exterminated. The field in which the battle was fought, is
still called Arrin by the natives. Dr Mac Culloch smiles at this
etymology; and having made the notable discovery, that "Fin-
gal was never heard of in Arran till lately." insists that  Ar-
ran is simply ancient British, signifying a land of mountains. His
etymology is most probably correct; and if we consider ancient
British and Gaelic as kindred branches of the Celtic, it is sub-
stantially the same as the first mentioned above. But his state-
ment in connection with it is a bold on even for Dr MacCulloch;

<FOOTNOTE>An interesting and amusing outline of the history of St Bridget, or Brigid ocours
in the first volume of Moore's History of Ireland in the Cabinet Cyclopedia. It dif-
fers in some particulars from that given by Scotch antiquarisms.-Vide Pennant's
Tour, under the head of "Abernethy," with the authorities there referred to.
	BUTE.                            A



