
924                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

derably larger, say from 1300 to 1400.  In the autumn of 1839,
it was tastefully lighted up with gas, by means of which improve-
ment the evening service can now be continued through the whole
year.-The church, although it has its site where the population
is most dense, does not occupy a central position, its distance from
the southern boundary of the parish being at an average only about
two miles, while its mean distance from the northern boundary
cannot be less than from six to seven.  The inconvenience thence
arising to the section of the population inhabiting the northern dis-
tricts of the parish was long severely felt by them; and, as appears
from the Presbytery records, attempts had been made, from time
to time, to remedy the evil complained of, by the erection in their
neighbourbood of an additional place of worship.  What gave
greater weight to this proposal, and rendered all parties more an-
xious to have it carried into effect, was the circumstance, that the
inhabitants of the adjoining districts of the parishes of Deer, New
Deer, and Tarves were subjected to a like inconvenience, being
equally distant from their respective parish churches.  According-
ly, when in 1834, prospects were held forth by the establishment of
a Church Extension Committee, that the church was disposed to
make a vigorous effort to provide for the growing spiritual desti-
tution of the community, the proposal above alluded to, which had
been kept in abeyance only by the want of the requisite means for
carrying it into effect, was again taken up by the parties more im-
mediately interested, with redoubled energy.  Their efforts were at
length crowned with success, and. by subscriptions raised in the des-
titute districts, by collections made through almost all the parishes
of the presbyteries of Deer and Ellon, and by liberal donations re-
ceived from the heritors, together with a grant of L.140 made by
the Church Extension Committee, sufficient funds were provided
for erecting, on a convenient site, a neat and substantial church, ca-
pable of containing from 600 to 700 sitters.  The new church
was opened for public worship in December 1834, and, though
means have not yet been obtained for the maintenance of an ordain-
ed clergyman, the services of the sanctuary have ever since been
regularly administered to a large and respectable congregation.
On every third Sabbath day, the pulpit is filled by the minister of
one of the parishes more immediately benefited by the new erec-
tion, while it is occupied on the intervening Sabbaths by a proba-
tioner resident in the neighbourhood.  The sacrament of our


