
			  PORTPATRICK.       	               151

the bounty is the only reason assigned by the fishermen for no at-
tempt being now made to resume this fishery.
	Immediatelty after the herring was abandoned, it was found
that a profitable fishery of cod might be carried on during the five
months, from the beginning of November to the beginning of
April. This has continued ever since to be the only fishery car-
ried on at Portpatrick. During last season, the fish were very
abundant. Ten boats with three men, or two men and a boy in
each, were employed; and each boat realized at an average about
L. 20 of clear profit. The fish above 12 pounds were sold at an
average of 9d. each during the season. The average weight of
ruch fish as taken from the water was about 16 pounds. The
largest were from 36 pounds to 40 pounds. The cod come from
the north and proceed southward. It is the opinion of the fisher-
men, that they go round the south coast of Ireland, and return
northward along the west coast. In the beginning of the fishing-
season, they are caught in water about 30 fathoms deep, and to-
wards the end of the season in water about 60 fathoms. They
are supposed to seek the deeper water, in order to avoid the strong
current, as they become weaker from the approach of the time of
spawning, which is in April and May. The distance of the cod
fishing ground from the shore is from two to three miles. The lines
used in fishing are from 800 to 1000 fathoms, and are stretch-
ed along the bottom by large stones let down at each end, and
fastened by a cord to a buoy on the surface of the water. The
bait used is the shell-fish, Buccinum undatum, called here buckie,
which is caught for the purpose in baskets containing pieces of fish,
which are let down in about 10 fathoms water about a quarter of a
mile off from the harbour or the old castle, and are drawn up daily
to emptied of the shell-fish which have crept into them to feed
on the dead fish. Each shell-fish serves to bait two hooks; so
that reckoning the number of hooks used by all the boats at 4500,
about 2250 of these large shell-fish must be destroyed everytime
the lines are shot, and probably not fewer than 70,000 every year.
Yet the supply chiefly obtained from a space of no great extent
seems to be even more abundant than ever.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, has been calculat-
ed as follows, by the gentleman to whose authority the facts stat-
ed under the head of Agriculture have been referred.


