
4                        KINROSS-SHIRE.

a reservoir on which they could depend throughout the year. But
the means to be employed for this object, were the very same which
made it for the interest of the landed proprietors around the lake 9
and ofnone so much as the proprietor of Kinross estate, to unite with
the owners of the mills and bleachfields in taking steps to diminish
the extent of the lake,-a work which, by lessening its evapora-
tion, gave a more equable and steady supply to its outlet, while it
added to the arable acres of the district. Accordingly, George
Graham, Esq. of Kinross, first moved in the scheme, and after him
ThomasGrabam,Esq.witbstillmoreactivity. Itwasnot,however,
until after the decease of this gentleman, and during the minority of
his grandson, Graham MODtgomerv, Esq. son of Sir James Mont-
gomery, B.art. that all opposition and difficulty were surmounted.
Geology.-The rocks are sandstone, limestone, and trap orwhin-
stone. Thesandstoijeconsistsoftwovarieties,oneofwhichbelongs
to the old red sandstone formation and the other to the tinder car-
boniferous group. No good section of either occurs within the
parish, and our knowledge of the existence of the former is chief-
ly obtained from an examination of the geognosv and structure of
the surrounding district. The old red prevails throughout the en-
tire extent of Stratheden, flanking the southern slope of the
Ochils from Strathmiglo westwards, and -cropping out at various
places in the neighbouring parish of Orwell, whence it ranges in a
southwesterly direction through the basin of which Kinross occu-
pies the centre. It consists of two beds, the lower of which is an
extremely coarse conglomerate, containing fragments of quartz,
granite, slate, bornblende, felspar, and several members of the
trap family, varying from the size of a garden pea to three or four
inches in diameter : the upper bed is fiiie-graided, hard and com-
pact, and forms an excellent building stone. The dip varies from
an angle of 81 to 12. No organic remains have been detected
in. this deposit in, any of the quarries in the vicinitx. Binnarty
hill rests.upon a yellow sandstone, which differs in its mineralogi-
cal character from the sandstone of the coal-field, and which is
supposed to be more nearly allied to the old red. But the inter-
vention of the loch and other obstructions prevent any satisfactory
researches being made into the nature of this interesting deposit,
so far as its range is connected with the parish of Kinross.
The Carboniferous sandstone occurs in the western division of
the parish on the farm of the property of Mr Spowart. It is said
to contain beds of coal, but to,what extent this valuable combusti-

