
248			   AYRSHIRE.

race is probably now exterminated. On the coast, the seal and
otter are still pretty numerous; and the badger yet maintains his
footing, especially in his stronghold of Ardneill Bank. Hare and
the more common species of game are numerous; and rabbits are
thinly sprinkled over many place; but no quadruped which may
strictly be reckoned uncommon possibly exists here. The falcon
in the cliffs of Ardneill Bank. The young can only be obtained
by letting a person down over the rocks by means of ropes, which
has sometimes been done.
	Fisheries.--With the exception of a few trout found in the
strealets, fishing here is confined to the sea.  Herring are oc-
casionally taken in considerable quantities, but are too uncertain
to induce any regular pursuit of them. The other species, but
usually found are, cod, whiting, mackerel, lythe and saithe, but
except the lat none of them are often very plentiful. A few lobsters
are caught in their season, which are sent to the Glasgow market,
chiefly by the steam-boats which pass this way. *
	Woods and Plantations.--There is ageneral want of wood in
this parish, in great part the consequence of long abseteeism
among its proprietors; and assuredly nothing could equally contri-
bute to its improvement, as the liberal and judicious introduction
of sylvan embellishments in it. In particular, its absence in the
vicinity of the sea is signally felt, where, of course, utility not less
than just taste requires that it should be supplied with no sparing
hand.  The many steep banks, ravines, and hill faces, as well as
portions of thin and broken land, which occur everywhere, are
situations exceedingly fitting for such purposes. The extent of
woods of all sorts does, not probably exceed 150 acres, of which
about one-third may be natural coppice; the rest mixed planta-
tions of fir and hardwood, mostly of no great age. Unfortunately,

<FOOTNOTE>Fishing, on the whole, has not for a long time been either extensive or profit-
able here. Its former importance has been very fully and properly alluded to in the
first Account. There can be no doubt it was long a main dependence of the people
here, and that its declension, as there surmised, may have affected the population.
The many little "boat-ports," all less or more the work of art, still to be observed,
clearly indicate the fact. Herring appear to have been a common stipulation in the
payment of land-rent. In the Commissary Records of Glasgow, a tenant in Fairly,
at this decease, 1601, is indebted to "the Lady Fairly, twa hundrith half-hundrith
mail herring;" another in Largs owes "the Lady Robertland sax thousand salt her-
ring, pryce of the thousand vj li. to be payit yeirlie betwixt Yuill and Candlmes," &c.
And in the minutes of the session the following notice, amongst many others ilhus-
tartive of this subject, occurs:--June 18, 1718, the session resolve that the sacrament
"behoved to be before the middle of July because of the herring fishers."


