
292                        FORFARSHIRE.

cuous in the history of Scotland as the residence of the Earl of
Lindsay and Crawford, are the most prominent objects in it,-it must
be admitted that the ancient name of Finhaven is by far the best
and the most characteristic. On these accounts, it is the wish of
the present chief proprietor and patron of the parish, the Earl of
Aboyne, to have the old name Finaven restored.
        Extent-Boundaries.-This parish lies about four miles north
from Forfar, on the south banj nf the South Esk, which in some
places forms the boundary line. From east to west, its longest
direction, it extends about 6 miles, not being anywhere above 3
miles broad. It is bounded on the north by the parish of Tan-
nadice, which chiefly lies on the opposite bank of the Esk; on
the east, by the parish of Aberlemno. The parishes of Rescobie
and Aberlemno bound it on the south; and the parish of Kirrie-
muir lies on the west.
        Meteorology and Hydrography.-The climate of this parish was
formerly very damp, owing principally to the retentive nature of
the soil, which occasioned much stagnant water, and consequently
made the atmosphere very cold and moist. But since the exten-
sive agricultural improvements, especially in draining, which were
carried on in the parish during the time that Mr Ford was pro-
prietor of Finhaven, and more recently under the direction of Mr
Hillocks, factor to the Earl of Aboyne,-there is now little stagnant
water left, and the climate has in consequence been of late years
very much improved.
	The River Esk runs along the parish, intersecting it in some
parts. It is here about 140 feet broad, and in more than one place
is easily fordable. Its banks in this neighbourhood, and for seve-
ral miles to the eastward, are in general low; and the lands, in con-
sequence, suffer considerably from thd vinter floods. The great
flood in August 1829 did injury in one place to the extent of L. 160.
Embankments are accordingly required at some points; and during
the last year a very considerable sum has been expended in em-
banking. The tenantry of Finhaven are bound, by their leases,
to afford horse-labour, when necessary; on such occasions. It may
be remarked, that in some places the river has slightly changed
its course; and on one farm, the Haughs of Finhaven, it is now
about a quarter of a mile distant from its old track. The former
bed is still visible, but has of late years been brought into cultiva-
tion. The only other stream in the parish worthy of notice is the


