
                          MARKINCH.                            685

of system, will bear a comparison with seminaries of the first class.
After this, it need not be said that it is well attended. Indeed,
want of room is the chief impediment it labours under, and though
the beritors have already done much in the way of affording ac-
commodation, more is needed for the due working of the im-
portant institution. When Dr Thomson gave his Statistical Re-
port, the salary of the schoolmaster was L. 10, the dwelling-house
also being old and incommodious Mr Stewart's salary is L. 34,
4s. 4 1/2d.; school-fees, L. 70.; other emoluments, L. 17, 10s. ; total
income per annum, L. 121, 14s. 4 1/2d. The dwelling-house is of
late erection, and affords accommodation considerably beyond the
statutory amount, though by no means beyond the station of the
occupants.
  Besides week-day means of instruction, the Sabbath school sys,
tem is diligently worked under the efficient direction of the assist-
ant minister, aided by a number of gratuitous teachers, who de-
vote a portion of the Sabbath to this excellent purpose. Oral in-
struction is aided by the gratuitous use of a small, but gradually
increasing collection of appropriate books, which convey to many
houses, ill-provided with such furniture, means of information and
materials for thought, on subjects of momentous importance. The
Dissenting chapel has also its collection of books in useftil circu-
lation.
Benefit Secieties.- There are several Associations that belong to
this department, the strength and resources of which are shewn in
the subjoined table:

<TABLE>

   Name. No. of Members.        State of-Funds.     Entry.   Quart. payt.

Friendly Society,    224       -    L. 1000 0 0    L 0 2 6      L.O 1 6
Brotherly do.        107       -        300 0 0      ...           ...
Apron     do.        160       -        440 0 0      ...           ...
Fquitable do.        180   never exceeds 30 0 0   weekly payment, 0 1 0

The last is of recent origin, and for the time, the most, popular,
as requiring a moderate payment of ls. weekly, till the collective sum
amounts to L. 30; each in his turn, which is determined by lot, is
put in possession of that sum, continuing the weekly contribution,
nevertheless, till his payment shall have replaced, the amount
drawn, with interest. Thus, each has his contributions realized
to him, and a mutual accommodation results to the whole.
  The object of the other three Societies is to make provision for
widows and superannuated members, and to help wben disabled
by sickness or incidental casualty. The widows allowance from the
Friendly Society is, L. 1, 4s. per annum; sick members receive for a


