
			ST BOSWELL'S.				111

P. 180,) all spell the name of the village Lessedwin, Lessadwin,
or Lessedewyn, i. e. the manor place of Edwin. During the reign
of William the Lion, Robert de Loudonia, the lord of the manor,
granted to the monks of Dryburgh the church of Lessedwin, for
the safety of the souls of his king, of his father, Richard de Lou-
donia, and his mother, Matildis de Ferrers. * In 1221, Lessedwin
was settled by Alexander II. on Johanna, his queen, as part of her
jointure. Robert I. granted to the monks of Melrose the lands of
Lessedwin. The English of the middle march, on the 5th of No-
vember 1544, burnt Lessedwin, wherein was sixteen strong bastel
houses, slew several of the owners, and destroyed much corn.
    Means of Communication.-The means of communication are
most abundant; the post-office communicating with Kelso and
Melrose once a-day; a daily coach from Newcastle to Edinburhg;
a coach every alternate day from Jedburgh to Edinburgh, (except
Sundays); a daily coach during the summer and autumn, and in
winter thrice a-week, from Kelso to Glasgow; two carriers weekly
to Kelso and Selkirk, and one to Edinburgh weekly.
    The length of turnpike-roads is inconsiderable : the Jedburgh
turnpike 1 1/4, Kelso 1 1/2, and Selkirk 2 1/2, miles. The bridges are
four, on a small scale, but in excellent repair.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated near the eastern
boundary of the parish, and consequently three miles distant from the
population residing at the other extremity: but as the population there
is scanty, and the great bulk of the inhabitants reside in the village
of Lessudden, or in the immediate vicinity of the church, it cannot
be said to be inconveniently situated for the great body of the
people. From stone in the front, it would appear that the present
church, (which is situated a little to the west of the site, still dis-
cernible, of a more ancient fabric,) was built in 1652; although it
is possible this stone may have belonged to the former place of
worship.  The present building was thoroughly repaired in 1791,
enlarged in 1824, and now forms a commodious place of worship.
It is understood to accommodate about 300 persons. There are not
more than half a dozen of free sittings,-by which are meant sit-
tings set apart for the poor. In a certain sense the are all free,
seat-rent being wholly unknown. Number of families belonging
ished clinical, 1 18; of persons, 615
to the Establablished church, 118; of persons, 615; of Dissenters, 86,
including children.  The number of communicants ranges from

<FOOTNOTE>Chron. Dryburgh, No, 39-41. Ry. i. 252, Rob, Index Bord. Hist. Cited
by Chalmers.


