
                       KILTEARN.                               321

infested the country.  But this can scarcely be admitted for a
probable explanation; for in that case, these cairns would neces-
sarily be much more numerous than they are, or several bodies
would be deposited in each.  This, however, is not found to be
the case.  There is reason indeed to believe that many of them
owe their origin to a very different cause.  The original cultiva-
tors of the soil, being ignorant of any better mode of getting rid
of the stones which impeded their agricultural operations, collected
them into those heaps, which have since furnished matter for so
much valuable antiquarian disquisition.  To the west of the House
of Clyne, there was some time ago a very remarkable relic of for-
mer times, but which has lately been removed in the course of some
agricultural improvements.  It was supposed to have been at one time
a Druidical place of worship.  The following is Dr Robertson's
description of it in the old Statistical Account:  "It consists
of a single row of twelve large stones placed upright, and so
disposed as to form two ovals, whicb are joined to each other.
The areas of tnese ovals are equal; they are 13 feet from east
to west, and 10 feet in the middle from north to south.  At the
west end of one of them is a stone, which rises 8 feet above the
surface of the earth; the other stones are from 4 to 6 feet long.
There is also, in the middle of this oval, a flat stone, which was
probably the altar ; it seems to have stood formerly at the east
end, but has been thrown down by some accident.  Distant
about three paces from the eastern oval, is a circular hollow, said
to have been a well of considerable depth, but it is now filled up;
its diameter at top is 8 feet. These ovals are situated on the top
of an eminence, round which are marked out three concentric
circles ; one at the bottom, another 28 paces above the former,
and the third 12 paces higher, immediately surrounding the ovals.
The circumference of the first is 80, of the second, 50 and of
the third, 35 paces." There are still remaining the ruins of five
chapels and burying-places; and in the neighbourbood of one of
them, near the shore, may be traced the site of the manse or mi-
nister's house. In some of the graves which have been dug up,
were found small earthen pitchers; and this circumctance, along
with the extreme smallness of the graves themselves, appears to
furnish a strong confirmation of the opinion, that our ancestors were
in the habit of burning their dead, and depositing their ashes in
these rude urns.


