
302                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

cid and untroubled.  The highest flood of which there is any re-
cord took place in February 1831.  On that occasion, the Tweed
rose with a rapidity and to a height wholly unprecedented.  The
whole of the lower part of the valley had the appearance of a sea;
corn and cattle were swept before the torrent; and many of the
houses on the haugh lands adjoining the river were filled with water.
  One result of the occasional floods of the Tweed and Teviot is
much to be deplored.  Immediately below the point where these
rivers unite, and opposite the most prominent part of the town of
Kelso, is an islet or anna, which at no very remote period was so
verdant and richly wooded as to look like a basket of foliage in
the middle of the stream, and to form, from its position, a centre
to some of the finest scenery of the place.  This islet has been
severed into disjointed portions as well as robbed of its wood by
the floods; and though several attempts have been made to defend
it by bulwarks of stone, &c. yet hitherto these expedients have
proved wholly abortive.  Nor have the inhabitants any other pros-
pect than that of seeing the last of its trees laid prostrate, and
the remaining vestiges of its sward and soil swept down to aug-
ment the fertile land of their neighbours of the lower Merse.
  Geology.--With respect to the geological features of the parish,
it way be stated generally, that the lower and more level parts,
constituting the great bulk of the surface, rest upon sandstone,
while the hills and rising grounds are composed of trap-rocks,
which appear to have been ejected from beneath through the
former.
  The principal sections of the stratified rocks occur on the
south bank of the Tweed, which is loftier and more precipitous
than the other.  These sections exhibit strata of sandstone, shale,
and marl-limestones, variously alternating with each other.  The
sandstone is either of a gray or of a reddish-brown-colour, of con-
siderable weight, and highly indurated except where the beds are
very thin.  There is generally a small admixture of iron, and a
sufficient portion of calcareous matter to cause the mineral to ef-
fervesce freely with acids.  In thickness, the sandstone strata vary
from a few inches to several feet; and their dip is towards the
south-west at an angle of from 15&deg; to 20&deg;.  The shales, or soft
marl-clays, which alternate with the sandstone, and in many in-
stances form the more abundant strata of the two, also occur in
beds of a great of thickness.  They are usually of a blue,
brown, or purple colour; but the blue is the most common, and


