
                                    GREENOCK                        471

       of the library, and the literary reputation of the town as involved
       in it, they should lay it down as a rule fixed and unchangeable,
       that they wili regard, not so much the nominal price of the book,
       as its real value ; and will rather -be contented with a smaller num-
       ber of books of merit than load their shelves with those which in a
       few months 6or years will fall into merited oblivion.
       The working-classes here, as in other towns are treading fast
       on the heels of their rich neighbours.  About seven or eight years
       ago, a considerable number of the mechanics formed themselves into
       an association for the establishment of a Mechanics Library.  It was
       commenced in 1832, and now contains nearly 2000 volume& In
       1836, the same persons formed themselves into a society for the
       establishment of a Mechanics' Institution, and have made rapid
       progresss in the accomplishment of that object. A handsome build-
       ing, now almost completed, has been erected by subscription in
       Sir Michael Street.  The ground-floor contains apartments for
       the library, apparatus, reading-room, &c.  The second floor is en-
       tirely occupied with a hall 62 feet long by 39 broad; and capa-
       ble of accommodating from 600 to 700 persons.  It is estimated
       that the building when completed will cost about L.1300.
         The plan and execution of the whole building reflects no small
       honour on the mechanics, by whose efforts chiefly it has been
       erected.  If they shall succeed in the ulterior parts of their pro-
       ject, namely, in procuring a complete philosophical apparatus,
       and a popular course of lectures on chemistry and mechanics, and
       if the whole institution be pervaded and imbued by the healthful
       spirit of true Christianity, it will not only prove a source of inno-
       cent gratification, but the means of intellectual and moral improve-
       ment to the mechanics of Greenock and many others in this grow-
       ing community.  At the present moment. the great majority of the
       mechanics are, we believe sound in their religious principles and
       will not suffer the institution which they have cherished so suc-
       cessfully to become a tool in the hands of noisy, active, and rest-
       less infidels and anarchists.  In some institutions of a simllar kind,
       religion has been unwisely and improperly excluded, on the plau-
       sible ground that men cannot, or will not agree on the subject, of
       religion; Men of no religion are not so tolerant. If they obtain
       the ascendancy, they will show, as they have already done in too
       many instances, that, if Christians will not contend earnastly for
       the faith, the enemies of religion will seize on every means they
       can lay hold of for the promotion of infidelity.


