
      104                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

      bridges on the Parliamentary roads, and kept in good repair.
      There are good harbours at Poldown, Shieldag, and Torridon.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is very ill situated, hav-
      ing very few inhabitants near it, and lying on the north side of a
      river, without a bridge over it, which frequently prevents the people
      from attending public worship.  They often, however, side the
      water, and sit in church during service with wet feet and wet clothes,
      which no doubt occasions many serious complaints among them.
      It were earnestly to be wished, that, by some means or other,whe-
      ther by subscription or otherwise, a bridge was erected on this
      river.  A subscription for the purpose has been lately commen-
      ced: it amounts to L. 30, and it is to be hoped, that an equal
      sum may be obtained from kind contributors in other places in-
      terested in the welfare of the people of this place, and the gene-
      ral cause of humanity; which sum, it is supposed, would be suffi.-
      cient to complete the work.  The parish church was built in 1817,
      and is in good repair.  It is large enough to accommodate up-
      wards of 600 sitters.  There are no seat rents.  The manse was
      built in 1796, and has been repaired since.  The grebe may be
      worth from L. 12 to L. 14 a-year.  The stipend, all paid in mo-
      ney, is L. 158, 6s. 5d. of which Government pays L. 54, 4s. 10d.
      The ministers of the parish since its erection in 1726, have been,
      Mr Angus Macaulay, Mr Colin Macfarquhar, Mr John Macqueen,
      and the present incumbent.  The Government church at Shiel-
      dag, which was commenced in 1825 and finished in 1827, is about
      twelve miles from the parish church.  It is exceedingly well situat-
      ed for the accommodation of a large congregation; and it is satis-
      factory to find, that, along with the other Government churches, it
      h`s been lately erected by the General Assembly into a parochial
      charge.  It is also to be hoped, that Government will soon com-
      plete their own bounty, by raising the stipends of the ministers of
      these churches to the minimum stipends of Scotland.  There is
      a catechist supported by the Royal Bounty Committee.  There
      are few dissenters, only three or four Episcopalians, and about the
      same number of Baptists.  The minister of Shieldag is appointed
      to preach at Kishorn, ten miles distant, once a month, in a place
      of worship built by the inhabitants.  The people near the various
      places of worship attend pretty regularly.
         Education.-There are five schools in the parish,-tbe parochial
      school at Applecrosss; a school at Shieldag, and another at Torri-
      don, both supported by the General Assembly's Committee; a


