
724                             ABERDEENSHIRE.

From the sea towns, with which most of our lands are saturated, and
also from the adoption and application of bone manure.  It may
be stated, as an exemplification of the vast advantage attendant on
plough trenching, that one of our proprietors has gone over the
whole of his farm, consisting of 150 acres, with a trench-plough
drawn by six horses, breaking up the soil to the depth of thirteen
inches at an average, piercing through the iron-bound pan, and
following up this process with a sufficieny of lime, and an extra
quantity of dung, and, by these means, he has rendered his farm
even more than doubly productive, and his superseded the neces-
sity of manuring his lea-fields previous to ploughing them for crop-
ping.  From seeing the benefits resulting from this procedure,
others have been induced to follow his example as far as their
means permitted.
   A Horticultural Society was established a short time ago, at
New Pitsligo, under the auspices of Sir John S. Forbes, and it
has excited a considerable emulation among the villagers and
tenantry; and the beneficial effects are attested by the supe-
rior mode in which their gardens are now kept, and the superior
crops of cabbages and turnips, &c. raised on their fields.  Many
of our farmers have joined the Buchan Agricultural Society, and
some of them have been succesful at the different competitions
for seed oats.
   Many of our farmers are in the practice of exporting their
grain and cattle, directly on their own adventure, to the London
markets, and have been succesful in their speculations; and one
individual amongst us, (Mr Catto, at Mains of Tyrie), has dealt
very considerably and succesfully of late, in the purchase of grain
for the London and other markets.

                              V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Fraserburgh, si-
tuated to the east about five mile.
   Village.-New Pitsligo is the only village in the parish.  Placed
as it is wit its two main streets, lined with rows of neatly built
houses, (one of its streets extending fully a mile in length,) on
the brow of the hill of Tirlundie, and partly surrounded with oc-
casional small beltings of wood, or with scattered patches of plan-
tations, it presents, when viewed from certain spots, rather a pleas-
ing and picturesque appearance.  In former times, and in the days
of Lord Pitsligo, its present site and the adjacent cultivated grounds
were occupied by two or three farm-houses, with their patches of
                                4


