
              160                          ELGINSHIRE.

              wood.  The most conspicuous of these are the Cloven bills, so
              called from their peculiar formation, a cluster of abrupt and wood-
              ed eminences, situated close to the town on the east, on which
              public walks have been tastefully formed, which. are much resort-
              ed to by the inhabit-antst of the town, and from whence beautiful
              views are obtained of the surrounding country. On the highest of
              these hills,-a handsome octagonal tower of three stories in height,
              in the Gothic castellated style of arcibitetture, having a flat leaden
              roof surrounded with a parapet and embrasures, and surmounted
              by a flag staff, was erected in 1806, by public subscription, in com-
              memoration of Lord Nelson, and the victory of Trhfalgar.
               In the south-eastern quarter of the parisb, the ground rises gra,.
              dually to a very considerable elevation, 'and is chiefly occupied by
              moorish tracts, which are but partially cultivated, and exhibit a
              striking contrast to the fertility and beauty of the rest of the parish.
              Here, however, the hand of industry is making rapid advances in
              diminishing the waste-ground ; and there is every prospect that, in
              a few years hence, from the united effects of the progress of culti-
              vation, and the growth of plantations which have been lately form-
              ed, this division of the parish will present a ver improved appear-
              ance.  The southern portion is principally composed of low wet
              Jand, interspersed with tracts of de.ep moss ; these, however, have
              of late years been much improved by draining, and are now almost
              entirely under cultivation.
               The south-west corner of the parish is altogether covered -with
              extensive plantations of Scotch fir and larch, with the exception
              of the farm of Cot-hall, which consists of several beautiful fields
              of haugh-land on the banks of the Findborn, surrounded by state-
              ly timber trees, and separated by a broad expause of wood from
              the other cultivated parts of the parish.
                The general-aspect of -the parish, when viewed from any of the
              commanding eminences in -the neigbbourbood of the, town, is rich
              and delightful, and presents to the eve a landscape abounding in
              every E feature of rural beauty. From Nelson's Tower is obtained a
              splenndid panoramic view, which, for extentand beauty, is scarcely
              excelled in any other part of Scotland. Extending far beyond tbe
              limits of the parish it embraces a large portion of the plain of
              Moray, studded with towns, hamlets, gentlemen's seats, and well-
              cultivated fairms, interspersed with groves and winding streams,
              and adored with extensive woods and plantations.  Bounding this
              foreground on the north, is seen the Moray Frith, in its whole


