
                            WATTEN.                        51

county generally, is the remarkably horizontal position of the
strata. In a great many cases, there is not the slightest dip or
inclination perceptible; and when this does appear, the average
angle does not exceed 10&deg;. The strata are almost universally in-
tersected by minute fissures, perpendicular, and often rectilineal,
the principal of which seem to run from east to west; these again
are met, but not traversed, by others, often at right angles. Tra-
versing veins are rare, and in no instance do they exceed an inch
in tbickness. In one part of the parish, they are met with running
generally from north-east to south-west, composed of gypsum, and
in some instances of felspar, and met in a very irregular manner
by minute fissures. It is in this district that the greatest inclina-
tion is found, as well as the greatest derangement of the strata.
   The rocks are composed entirely of flagstone slate or cla3r-slate,
with two or three very trifling, exceptions, consisting of limestone. and
whinstone, the former occurring perhaps not more than twice, in small
quantity, and the latter hardly oftener. All these rocks appear to be
of the secondary order, and although, from the limited observation
which it has hitherto been possible to make, it cannot be deci-
sively stated, yet there is reason to think that the clay-slate gene-
rally is superimposed over a bed of limestone, and has an average
thickness of from 10 to 20 feet or upwards. Few or none of the
simple minerals seem to have been met with imbedded in rock,
but the beds of the rivulets are frequently strewn with the usual
debris of primitive rocks, such as small pieces of granite containing
minute portions of garnet and scborl, fragments of mica schist,
quartz, &c.
  Among the alluvial deposits covering the solid rocks, we may
mention first those occurring along the course of the streams.
Where the water has worn out for itself a deep channel, and a
perpendicular section of the bank is presented, these deposits are
seen frequently to consist of alternate horizontal layers of clay,
light-coloured towards the surface, and darker as it descends, and
coarse gravel, composed, as that in the beds of the water-courses
generally is, of clay-slate, porphyry, sandstone, white red,
quartz, mica, and occasionally bog iron-ore. These layers of
gravel rarely exceed 3 feet in depth, those of clay often occur
with a depth of from 8 to 16 feet, containing disseminated por-
tions of rock of various sizes. By far the most general, indeed
the universal alluvial deposit resting on the rocks elsewhere is clay,
hard, tenacious, of a bluish colour, and containing in greater or less


