
10                      LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

the piers and shippings was, however, a great barrier in the
way of comfort. These on the south side, especially, were in a
very, ruinous condition, and at certain states of the tide much risk
and inconvenience were experienced in landing and embarking
passengers.
   This state of things continued till 1809, when a general desire
was felt to improve the water passage, both by altering the system
of management, and making such changes as its increasing impor-
tance demanded. An application was made to Parliament in
1809, rendered necessary by the following circumstances,-that
there were no suitable piers,-no superintendents,-boats only at
the North Ferry, where all the boatmen lived,-other traffic at the
wharfs, unconnected with the passage,-and the arrangements at the
piers so incomplete, as to admit of passage only four and a half
hours in each tide. The rates and dues belonged to individuals,
and the jurisdiction was such, that the proprietors could not be
compelled to keep the piers in a state of repair.
   By the act, trustees were nominated, consisting of the following
persons, viz. the Keeper of the Great Seal, Privy Seal, Lord Justice-
General, Lord Advocate, Lord Justice-Clerk, Lord Clerk-Re-
gister, Lord Chief-Baron, and Vice-Admiral of Scotland, Keeper
of the Signet, Postmaster-General for Scotland, Lord Lieutenants
of Perth, Linlithgow, Fife, Kinross, Clackmannan, Commander
of the Forces, Admiral of Leith; Chief Magistrates of Perth,
Linlithgow, Queensferry, Inverkeithing, Dunfermline; the Sheriffs
of the counties; the proprietor of the estate of New-Halls; and
all having 1,200 Scots valuation in the above counties. Nine
trustees to,a quorum; a committee of management consisting
of fifteen, who have the power of making bye-laws. To these
trustees, by the act, was committed the power of constructing land-
ing places, purchasing ground for boatmen's houses, opening quar-
ries in any common in Fife, on the shore, within high water mark,
between Port Edgar and the Long Craig.
   At this time there was only one pier on the north side, two on
the south, one at New-Halls, the other at Queensferrv. Advan-
ageous, however, as an alteration and improvement of the passage
obviously were, there was great and continued opposition, which
at length was happily overcome. The localities for the proposed
piers were surveyed by the celebrated Rennie. The Chancellor of

<FOOTNOTE> For the privilege of erecting a pier here, L. 10 are annually paid by the trustees
40 the town.
                                        4



