
30                            AYRSHIRE.

comfortable snug room has since been built, by way of addition, at
the west end of the cottage. The present kitchen is said to have
been the apartment where the birth took place; and even the site
where the bed stood is pointed out in a small recess in a corner of
the room. The only other article that is shown to strangers con-
nected with Burns, is a rough portrait of him in the costume and
character of a ploughman in his holiday clothes, which hung long
as a sign-board at the door of the inn.
	The country around the cottage is picturesque and beautiful in
appearance, rich in soil, and highly cultivated, and finely diversi-
fied with thriving and umbrageous plantations. In the immediate
neigbourhood, runs the water of Doon, with its " bonny banks
and braes," which he has so feelingly described in his immortal
lyrics, and which, in the vicinity of Alloway Kirk, not a quarter of
a mile from the cottage, is adorned by a landscape peculiarly rich
in romantic scenery and associations. For three or four miles
from its mouth, it flows between finely wooded banks, in some
places precipitous, and interspersed with naked rocks, and brush-
wood growing from their crevices, and in others, gently sloping
from the bed of the stream, characterized by every variety of hill
and dale, with all their interesting accompaniments of meadow
pasture and cultivated fields, finely intersected with groves of forest
trees. Sometimes it flows on in a straight line through uniform
projecting ridges of banks, at the bottom of which it is hardly per-
ceptible through the foliage of the overhanging branches; and at
others it exhibits abrupt or gentle bends in its current, pleasing
the eye, in every form that is grand, beautiful, and attractive.
Beyond the river, is the picturesque ridge of Brown Carrick Hill,
finely diversified with clumps of planting, green pasture, fields of
grain in their season, with "blooming heather," "lone glens of green
bracken," and "the burn stealing under the lang yellow broom."
It was amid such scenery as this, that the genius of Burns was
nurtured and furnished with excitement and materials to work up-
on. It was here, where his early-years were spent, where he re-
ceived the rudiments of his education, where his first attach-
ments were formed, where, "when summer days were fine," he
ran about the braes and paidled in the burn," and where he laid
in that rich store of imagery and recollections which be has em-
bodied so sweetly in his fascinating poetry. About a mile and a
half to the south-east of the place of his birth, lies the farm of
Mount Oliphant, which his father afterwards rented, and where
                            4


