
			FETTERESSO.                             265

   The former parish church was situated close on the southern
boundary, rather more than a mile from Stonehaven. It must
have been very ancient, but without any claim to architectural
importance. Its walls still remain, having been purchased by
Mr Duff of Fetteresso, and it is not likely that they will be de-
molished but by the hand of time. Although its length was cur-
tailed in 1720, when a small aisle was built opposite the pulpit,
it still was in length 94 feet, while its width was only 19. In
1813, an excellent new church, fitted to accommodate 1400 sit-
ters, was erected, near Stonehaven, and, at the same time, a cor-
responding manse.
   There is attached to the former church an extensive burial-
ground, in which, on an average of seventeen past years, seventy-
six corpses have been annually laid.
   For a considerable period, commencing about the year 1760,
there was a small place of worship at Newhall, in the northern
district of the parish. It was known by the name of the Sod
Kirk, having, at first, most likely, either been built of, or covered
with  turf. Latterly, it was tile-roofed. It had always been a
wretched place, and at last became altogether ruinous. In 1816,
great exertions were made for procuring a better and larger build-
ing; and a house, accommodating 400 sitters, was erected at
Cookney, on the property of Muchalls. It having become insuf-
ficient for its object, fresh, exertions were made, which resulted in
a church, in which 700 are properly accommodated. In promot-
ing this important object, the late Mr Silver, of Netherley was in
every way powerfully efficient.
   In this district, far distant from the parish church, there are
1400 members of the Establishment, exclusive of nearly 300 who
are connected with an Episcopal chapel, also on the estate of Mu-
challs. At Cookney, worship is regularly conducted on Sabbath
by a preacher, who is also second parochial schoolmaster; and,
by permission of the presbytery of Fordoun, the sacrament of the
supper is annually administered by the minister of the parish. At
the celebration of it, in May last, 510 communicants joined in the
sacred ordinances.

<FOOTNOTE>It is to be remarked that, after the Reformation of religion in this kingdom in
Queen Marie's time, this chapel being demolished by reasons of superstitious report-
ing thereto, a certain man called William Rait of Redclcok brought away some of
the roof of this chapel and built a house therewith; and a little thereafter the whole
house rained drops of blood. There be some living yet that can testify this."
"Keyth's remarkable things, &c."--See Description of the Coast between Abardeen
and Leith, by Mr Duncan, p. 10. Aberdeen, 1837.


