
                           DRUMMELZIER.                         77

the elders, if they kept family worship, by reading the scriptures,
&c. and they all answered, that they neither could read themselves,
nor had any in their family who could read.  On which the mini-
ster exhorted them to send their children to school, and in hiring
servants, to try to get some who could read.
   Poor and Parochial Funds--At allowance is betwixt L. 2 and
L. 3 per annum.  There have occasionally been six or seven on
the poors' roll, some receiving 3s. 6d. a-week.  They are sup-
ported by weekly collections,--the interest of L. 40,--and acca-
sional donations from the heritors.  There was an assessment for
several years, but there has been none since 1824.  The average
amount of collections for the last seven years is L. 10, 2s. per annum ;
average from other sources, L. 5.  The heritors have always been
ready to come forward most liberally in any case of particular dis-
tress.
                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In the last Statistical Account, Mr Welsh observes, that "few
grass seeds are sown on account of the sheep, which are great ene-
mies to them."  At present, the sowing of grass seeds (chiefly
perennial rye-grass with clover) is universal.  In 1790, a man-ser-
vant's wages were L. 6 a-year, a maid-servant's L. 3, 5s.  Now, the
man-servant receives from L. 10 to L. 12, and the maid-servant L. 6,
with victuals.  In 1790, a lamb cost 5s. or 6s. ;  now it costs about
double of that sum.  Sheep, if fat, cost 11s. in 1790 ;  now they are
sold at from 18s. to 20s.  The ploughs used in 1790 were of the
Scotch kind, few English being used, except by gentlemen or im-
provers, on account of the stony quality of the land.  At present
there is not a Scotch plough in the parish, and two horses are now
universally used instead of four.  The iron plough is become very
common.  In 1790, there were seven weavers in the parish ;  at
present there is only one, and he has scarcely any work.  There
was then also a dyer, but at present there is none.  The giving up
of weaving and dyeing is one of the greatest changes that have taken
plce in parochial economy.  It is found more profitable to pur-
chase at once from the manufacturer.  The turnip crops contri-
bute much to improve the condition of both cattle and sheep.  Ewe-
milk cheese, of which a great quantity was made in 1790, is now
almost entirely given up, as tending to injure the sheep.  The
introduction of thrashing-machines is an entire novelty since 1790,
and they are now universally in use.
   April 1834.


