
		GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

clination being sometimes in one direction and sometimes in an
other, having reference to the point at which the moving power by
which the surrounding strata had been elevated, had exerted its
greatest energy. Indeed, in some instances, where it has been raised
to the surface, the dip is so rapid that it is found unworthy of work-
ing.  But in general, the strata are tolerably level and the rock so
near the surface, that it is readily procured at a moderate price every
where.  The limestone of the county is understood to be all of the car-
boniferous series, and often exhibits beautiful specimens of the encri-
nite, and of other organic remains of that era.  From 12 to 14 feet
is the common thickness of the rock in all the principal quarries,
which strengthens the probability of its having all formed part of the
same original deposit. The Hairlaw rock, in the parish of Glads-
muir, at a short distance from the western boundary of the trap,
presents a vivid picture of the movement by which the limestone
and all its superincumbent strata had been lifted to its present po-
sition.  The limestone dips from the trap away below the coal
worked at no great distance to the westward. But  its rising there
and elsewhere to the eastward, without any coal being seen in the
neighbourhood where it makes its second appearance, cuts off all
hopes of the mineral ever being found in that direction.
   3d,-Clay ironstone, fit for smelting,is met with in various situations.
A number of years ago, it was worked at bullane, on account of the
Carron Company at Falkirk; but nothing has been done in the bu-
siness, either there or elsewhere in the district, for a considerable
time past.  When speaking of the prospects of coal in the parish
of Dirleto, allusion was made to the new red sandstone, which
there makes its appearance.  The rock has obviously been lifted
up by the trap, which forms the conspicuous landmark of Gullane-
hill.  The sandstone cropping out to the surface is composed of
various strata, both red and white, and leaning on the trap-rock dips
to the northwest, away towards the sea.  A thin seam of coal, and
also two searns or beds of fire-clay, are found in the sandstone
strata.  The undermost bed of clay is about 6 feet thick, and con-
tains ironstone in blocks, imbedded in the clay.  It was that seam that
Was formerly wrought by the Carron Company; it was worked out
by mining, something in the manner of working coal. The upper-
most bed of the fire-clay is about 2 feet thick, the tiandstone ad-
joining it being red, and which is quarried for the ordinary pur-
posses of building.  The seams of clay contain blocks of red clalk,
(provincially keil) an article much used by shepherds in marking,
			       4


