
                      FODDERTY.                             253

for the building of enclosures or fences. A number of bones have
been discovered in it.
In the same neighbourhood are the remains of two Druidical
circles. Of the one, which lies due north of the cairn, there are
only three stones remaining, the rest baving been blasted and used
in building. The other, which is situated in the march line between
the properties of Cromartie and Hilton, presents a singular
and interesting appearance. In the centre, the stones are from five
feet to six feet above ground, one foot apart from each other, and
inclose a space of nine feet diameter. On each side, are the appearances
of two spaces of smaller dimensions, one having only
two stones placed at right angles, and the other only one, which
measures seven and a-half feet by four and a-half feet, and at the
height of two-thirds has an indentation slightly angular in the
centre, and cut more deep towards the edges. Surroundin  the
whole are the appearances of several concentric circles of considerable
dimensions, but most of the stones have been carried away.
It is proper to notice, that, while the proprietor resided in the
vicinity, the people were prevented from interfering with these interesting
remains of the religion of our Celtic ancestors, who held
it as a principle, that no temple or covered building should be
erected for public worship, but that their devotions should be performed
under the open canopy of Heaven. The object of the
smaller spaces observed in one of the remains can only be matter
of conjecture. It is not unlikely that they were a kind of
Holy of Holies in which the Druids met, apart from the vulgar,
to perform their more sacred rites, or to sit in Council for the
purpose of determining controversies. Some assign a Scandinavian
origin to these remains, believing that the Druids never visited
Scotland. However this may have been, previous to the invasion,
it is by no means improbable that after it they were induced
to flee thither by the system of extermination exercised towards
them by the Romans. Of their religion, little is known, and their
circles have long since become a mere theme for the antiquary.
   On each side of the church, are two standing-stones. The vulgar
tradition respecting them, is, that Knock-Farril, which lies
directly opposite, was often resorted to b Fin Mac Coul, the
Fingal of Ossian; whence, by his immense strength, be threw them
down upon his enemies. In confirmation of this, the marks of a
gigantic finger and thumb are still pointed out on one of them.
Some are of opinion that they were used for offering up sacrifices


