

                                PARISH OF DURNESS.

               PRESBYTERY OF TONGUE SYNOD OF SUTHERLAND AND CAITIINES

                  THE REV. WILLIAM FINDLATER, MINISTER.


      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THE name Durness, or, as it is pronounced by the na-
tives, Duirinish, is evidently of Gaelic origin.  By some it has
been derived from Dorrain, i. e. storms or tempest, and nis or nes
a promontory. Others derive the word from Dubh, black; raon
field; and ness or nis, a promontorv,-Dubh-thir-nis. But as thl
word ,less or nis is seldom, if ever, used to signify a point or pro-
montory in Gaelic, it may with greater probability be derived from
Durin, the principal township in the parish, and innis, a green
patch or grazing,-literally an oasis in a desert. Hence the word
Shineness, a green knoll near the Deer Forest in this parish, is de-
rived from sithin, venison, and innis, a grazing.
     Formerly the parish of Durness comprehended the whole of the
district known by Lord Reay's Country, or, as it is called in Gaelie
Dathaich Mhic Aoi, i. e. The Land of the Machays, extend
from the river of Borgie near Strathnaver, to the Kyle of Assyp
and comprehending a space of about 800 square miles!  Since
1724, it has been divided into thi6e, parishes, viz. Edderachillies
Durness, and Tongue: with the parish of Farr, it was disjoined
from the presbytery of Caithness, and by Act of Assembly
tached to the presbytery of Tongue.
     Boundaries.-It is bounded on the N. by the Northern Ocean
on the E. by the parish of TonOlne; on the S. and S. W. by
derachillis; and on the W. by the Atlantic Ocean. and its area
lenath from east to west is twenty-five miles, and its liver
breadth about tweelve miles,--there being thus, including friths and
lakes, about 300 square miles
   Topography Appearances.--The general aspect of this parish


<FOOTNOTE>Notwithstandingg the frequent incursions of the Danes and other northern tribes
it is remarkable that they never suceeded in the eatabling themselves as separate
lonie or in giving names to the difference places in the country, which as every Gaelie
scholar knows are all, with hardly an exception,of Gaelie origin.


