
     Statistical Account

convenient; but though new, draws water through every
part of the walls and roof exposed to the blast.  The stipened
is characteristic of the religion of our great folks, rather
small.-Including an allowance for communion elements, it
consists of 37 L. 12 s. 7 d. in money; 20 bolls 2 firlots bear,
and 24 bolls a firlots oats in grain; which, when we consi-
der the very inferior quality of corn in the muirland farms,
that pay the most of it, seldom amounts to above 60 L. a
year.  If we take into the account the remarkable high
prices of provisions here, this small sum is very inadequate
to the maintainance of a family, unless they are clothed, like
the Baptist of old, in coats of skins; and live, too, like him,
upon locusts and wild honey.

   Antiquities.-Vulgar report says, that in the S. W. part of
the parish, there are some traces of a Roman camp; but
these have been so often described, and so often mistaken,
that the author of this article shall neither attempt a descrip-
tion, nor hazard a conjecture concerning them.  The only
authentic remains of antiquity, to be met with in the parish,
are the ruins of an hospital* upon Soutra-hill.-On the

<FOOTNOTE>

*This hospital was founded in the year 1164, by Malcolm
IV. King of Scotland, for the relief of pilgrims, and for poor
and sickly people.  To this charitable institution, the royal
spunder annexed some lands near to St. Leonard's, in the neigh-
bourhood of Edinburgh.  It had also the privileges of a sanc-
tuary, as appears from the name of the road leading to it, from
the abbacy of Melrose.  From Bridgend, about half a mile a-
bove Dornick to the west, on the south side of the Tweed, there
has been a plain road or causeway, through the muirs to Sou-
tra-hill, called the Girthgate, from the word Girth, which, in
the Gaelic, signifies an asylum or sanctuary.  The traces of this
road are still visible in many places of the muir.  Another cir-
cumstance, illustrative of Soutra's having formerly been a place
of refuge, is, that about half a mile to the south of the hospital,


