
		  DUNKLELD AND DOWALLY.                        987

ful monument to the Marquis of Atholl, emblazoned with the
quarterings of his many powerful connections. The vault of the
chapter-house is now the burying-place of the Atholl family-
	it is traditionally reported, that the upright stone situated in a
field near to Poll'-nan-gobhair, now called Pol-na-gates, marks
the grave of a Highland chieftain; but the name of cause of his
death is Unknown, The twn upright stones at the Doo's Nest,
near Newtyle, are understood to mark the graves of two Danish
warriors, who fell in one of the engagements that were fought
near to Dunkeld in the tenth century. There is a natural curio-
sity on the top of the hill to the west of Dunkeld, called in Gae.
lic Creag-bhan-righ or Creag-nam-ban righ, but better known in
English as Craig-y-barns. It is a huge mass of stone, supported
at some distance from the flat surface of solid rock on which it
stands, by means of three fragments. Dr MacCullocb and others
are of opinion, that it is merely the relic of a heap of fragments,
from which time, having produced the whole, has carried of the
smaller parts.
	Antiquities and Ancient Places.--The first is the roofless cathe-
dral. It measures 120 by 60 feet; the walls are 40 feet high;
and the side aisles 12 feet wide. On each side are seven spacious
Gothic arches with flutted soffits, resting on six plain Norman
pillars having shafts 10 feet high, and 4 1/2 feet in diameter, and
two half columns. Over the arches are two tiers of windows, the
lower semicircular, the higher acute. Buttresses project between
the windows of the side-aisles, surmounted above the church with
traceried spiracles. The windows are all of different designs. At
the west end rises the great tower or steeple, and adjoining it, a
Slall,octagonal watch-tower, which is very much admired. There
are two upright stones on the south of the cathedral, which form-
tedpart of the old monastery. The oldest house in the town, and
which belonged to the Dean of Dunkeld, stands not far from the
choir. It is tbe only house now standing out of the three that escaped
the conflagration of the town in 1689. Its walls are of great thick-
ness.
	On the eminence east of the town is a very extensive terraces
with a, pyramidical-formed hill rising in the centre, called the
Craigwood, which commands a very fine view of Dunkeld and the
passes leading into it. On  this terrace, close to the hill, are to be
found water-stones of various shapes and sizes. The hill where
the bishops hanged many a lawless freebooter is situated close to
the second lodge of the Dunkeld grounds; and the hollow ground


