
                            CRIMOND.                        715

communion.  The Established Church is well attended.  The
Sabbath day is decently observed by the great body of the people,
and religious discord between different sects is comparatively un-
known.  The number of communicants at the parish church va-
ries from 360 to 370.  The Lord's Supper is celebrated once in
the year, generally on the Sabbath of June.
   Education.-The parochial schoolmaster's salary (through the
generosity of the heritors) amounts to L.35.  He enjoy also the
yearly interest of L.400, bequethed by a former minister of the
parish, the Rev. Mr Johnston.  The school fees may every vary from
L. 15 to L.20 per annum, all which, together with the Dick Be-
quest, (which, however, depends on merit,) affords a very superior
income to the schoolmaster.  The school-room is large, airy, and
well lighted, and the schoolmaster's house contains considerably
more than the accomodation required by law.
   Besides the parish school, there are several female schools for
the iniatory branches of education, with sewing, knitting, &c.;
but one such school, conducted on improved principles, and by
a regularly trained teacher, is still wanted, and ought to be
established.  A Sabbath school has been in operation for the last
sixteen years.  A parish library, containing about 400 volumes,
was established some years ago; but the advantages it holds out
for acquiring sound and practical information are not so much ap-
preciated as they ought to be.  At the parish school, there is also
a juvenile library for the use of the scholars.
   Poor's Funds.-The average number of regular paupers at pre-
sent receiving parochial relief is 14, and of occasional paupers, 8.
The average sum the former receive annually is L.2, 1s.; the lat-
ter, L.1, 7s.  The highest sum received by any one pauper at
present (1840) on the roll is L. 3, 15s,  The average amounths of
annual collections for the benefit of the poor is L. 32, 10s. 7 1/2d.,
which, together with the interest of L.400 in the heritor's hands
and in the Aberdeen Bank, is in general found sufficient to meet
all demands.  A collection is also made yearly to provide medi-
cine and medical attendance for those upon the poor's roll.  There
is frequently to be observed a strong indisposition on the part of the
poor to begin accepting parochial relief; but, once it is granted,
it can seldom be withdrawn without occasioning much complaint,
   Fairs and Alehouses.-There are three fairs held in the parish,
-one at Candleman, another in September, and a third in Octo-
ber, for buying and selling cattle, horses, and sheep, and some-


