
62                        SHETLAND.

ed on King James to confer them on him; and, in 1600, Earl
Patrick obtained a new grant of them, lived at Scalloway, built
the castle, and grievously oppressed the inhabitants, doing all in
his power to prevent their complaints reaching the ears of Govern-
ment. In 1608, howeveri they made known their grievances to
Parliament, which, in 1612, revoked the charter, and annexed the
Lordship to the Crown. Two years afterwards, Earl Patrick, who
justly merited punishment for his cruelty to the Shetlanders, was
put to death for high treason. He had the power of life and death
over the inhabitants of these islands, fined them, and confiscated
their property at his pleasure. He assessed the country in money,
provisions, and personal labour. He also feued lands be had seiz-
ed from the poor udallers; and these, with scatt and other bur-
dens then imposed, together with the Crown lands, form the re-
venue of the Earldom in Shetland.
  In 1614, Sir James Stewart of Ochiltree farmed the Crown
property; but be being also guilty of the greatest oppression was
deprived of it.
  In 1624, Sir George Hay was appointed Farmer-General and
Steward of the islands. He, too, oppressed the poor Shetland-
ers; and the lordship was again annexed to the Crown by act of
Parliament.
  In the reign of Charles 1. the Earl of Morton obtained a wad-
set of the Lordship of Shetland and Earldom of Orkney for the
sum of L.30,000, said to have been advanced his Majesty by him.
This deed was ratified by act of Parliament. No attention was
paid to it during the Commonwealth; but, at the Restoration,
Viscount Grandison, as trustee for the Morton family, obtained a
grant of the property and revenues belonging to the Crown in
Shetland and Orkney.
  In 1641, the alleged debt due the Earl of Morton was discharg-
ed, and the Lordship of Shetland and Earldom of Orkney were
to remain inseparably annexed to the Crown. During the reign
of Queen Anne, however, on account of the active part taken by
James Earl of Morton in bringing about the Union between Eng-
land and Scotland, he obtained a now grant in the form of a wad-
set, redeemable for the old sum L.30,000.
  In 1742, the Earl of Morton obtained an irredeemable right to
the lands, on conndition of improving the islands.  He was to drain
marshes, build harbours, promote the fisheries, and improve the


