
                            DUTHIL.                            125

proved system of husbandry, yielded excellent crops of oats, bear,
barley, turnips, and potatoes.
   Climate.-The cold, season may be said to commence, in gene-
ral, eariv in November, and to end in May; yet, notwithstanding
the long continuance of the cold season, the climate is the reverse
of unhealthy. The prevailing diseases are rheumatism and scro-
fula,-the former proceeding in some measure from the people's
inattention to add to their summer dress, when the winter colds set
in. The latter may be ascribed to the low innutritious food on
which many of the poorer inhabitants were, of necessity, in years of
scarcity obliged to subsist. In the summers of 1808, 1816, and
1817, many families subsisted for several successive weeks on the
tops of nettles, mugwort, turnip thinnings, and milk, without
any corn food; and such as subsisted on this miserable substitute
for food, are labouring under the latter disease.
   Fissures.-About four miles north of the parish church, there is
a rocky hill, projecting in front of the main range, called Craig na'
'iolar, the eagle's eyrie, or crag. In this hill there are several fis-
sures. One of them, near the west end, is from the top to the bot-
tom of the hill. Its appearance is as if it were cut with a sharp
weapon. *
   Hydrography.-If we except three or four small lakes of a few
furlongs in circumference, there is little in this department de-.
serving of notice. Loch Bhruach, situated on the summit of the
northern range of hills, abounds with very fine trout, resembling
in colour the mossy bottom of the loch in which they live. In two
of the other lochs, there are some pike; and in one of these, viz.
the loch of Tullochgriban, some water snakes have been recent-
ly seen.
   The Dulnan is the only river properly belonging to the parish.
Its source is in the Badenoch hills. It flows from west to east till

<FOOTNOTE>The tradition respecting its formation is sufficiently wild. As the formation of
this natural phenomenon could not be otherwise accounted for by the limited under-
standing of the inhabitants, they ascribe it to the prowess of the Fingalian hero,
who, on a certain day, had left his residence in the lowlands of Moray, and had gone
to the forests of Glenmore and Benavin, for the double purpose of enjoying the
amusement of the chace, and of replenishing his larder. Having that day, by some
fatality, neglected to propitiate the favour of Caillench a ghlinne mh•r, (an ill-natur-
ed spirit in the unamiable shape of an old withered beldame, who lorded with potent
sway over man and beast that came within the boundaries of her sylvan domains),
though tantalized with the sight of more game on that day than he had ever seen on
any former visit, he had the mortification to catch none. Returning homeward in
the evening, weary in body, and his mind chafed with disappointment, he was cut-
ting figures in the air with his sword, till at last, in a fit of frenzy, he struck the
end of the hill with his sword, by which he made the fissure alluded to. Hence the
fissure is called "beum a ehlaidheamh"-the sword's cleft.


