
     of Tillicoultry.

ferent minerals, such as silver, lead, cobalt, antimony, sulphur,
and arsenic, but no proper trials have yet been made.  A small
edge stratum of dark blue clay, 2 1/2 feet thick, was lately
found, which, it is thought, will prove exceeding good for
building furnaces, and making fire bricks.  There is plenty
of free-stone of a good quality for building; and stones have
been cut in the quarries from 8 to 10 feet in length.

   Coal-The whole parish, south of the hills, abounds with
coal, which is the property of Mr Bruce, except in Mr John-
ston's estate.  The coal has not been wrought to any great
extent, unless where it is drained by the present level.  There
are 4 different seems of coal which the level drains.  The
first is a mixed cherry coal, 3 feet thick, and 12 fathoms
from the surface.  The 2 d is a rough soft coal of an excel-
lent quality, 6 feet thick, and 15 fathoms deep.  The 3 d
is a remarkably good clean splint, 2 1/2 feet thick, and 20 fa-
thoms deep.  And the 4th, which is reckoned the princi-
pal seam, is about 5 feet thick, and lies at the depth of 30
fathoms.  It is a hard durable splint well adapted for expor-
tation and the foreign market, particularly Holland.  Only
the 2 d and fourth seams have been wrought;+ the roofs are
all good, except that on the 2 d seam, where it runs towards
the crop.  But it is very valuable, as it contains balls of iron-
stone in the roof, of an exceeding good quality.  Eighty acres
of the 2 d seam, and 20 of the fourth, may still be wrought
by the level; but by erecting a steam engine, an immense
quantity may be gained.  The Devon company have been

<FOOTNOTE>

+Twenty pickmen used to be employed in the coal-work; and about
3000 chalders of great coal were exported annually from the harbour of Alloa;
but for 4 years past, the working of the coal has been discontinued.  There
is no doubt, however, but that, in process of time, the coal will be a most pro-
fitable concern, as there are inexhaustible fields of it to be found.


