
			GLASGOW.                            163

stituted here in 1783, under the auspices of Mr Patrick Colqu-
houn, at that time an eminent merchant in Glasgow. Pullicate
hankerchiefs were begun to be made about the year 1785.
	The business of a regular to be made about of recent date in Scot-
land. Mr William Menzies of Gorbals, Glasgow, was the first
person in the west of Scotland, who had a licensed still. He open-
ed his distillery in Kirk Street in 1786, and his license was the
fourth in Scotland; the houses of Messrs Stein, Haig, and another,
having alone preceded him. At that period, the duties amounted
to about one penny per gallon, and the best malt spirit was sold
at 3s. per gallon.
	In 1800, Messrs Tennant, Knox and Company, established a
chemical work at St Rollox; now carried on under the firm of
Charles Tennant and Company, for the manufacture of sulphuric
acid, chloride of lime, soda, and soap. This manufactory, the
most extensive of any of the kind in Europe, covers ten acres of
ground, and within its walls there are buildings which cover 27,340
square yards of ground. In the premises, there are upwards of 100
furnaces, retorts, or fire-places. In one apartment there are platina
vessels to the value of L. 7000. In this great concern, upwards
of 600 tons of coal are consumed weekly.
	Messrs Henry Monteith, Bogle, and Company, established a
manufactory for bandana handkerchiefs in 1802, now carried on
under the firm of Henry Monteith and Company. This respect-
able firm also carry on the business of cotton-spinning and calico-
printing. Their establishment at Blantyre is most extensive;
while their splendid works at Barrowfield are probably unequalled
in the kingdom. With the exception of an, attempt, on the conti-
nent, which proved unsuccessful, the manufacture of bandanas has
been chiefly confined to this city. The manufacture of silk is but
in its infancy here; but the throwing and other departments of
the trade bid fair for prosperity.
	Gas-Light Company.--A company for lighting Glasgow with
gas was incorporated by act of Parliament in 1817, with a capi-
tal of L. 40,000, which has been increased from time to time, to
L. 150,000. The first street lamp was lighted with gas on the
5th September 1818.
	The works are on a large scale, and, including subsidiary esta-
blishnwnts in different parts of the town, occupy an area of 14,831
square yards. The principal establishment now forms a square.


