
                              CLACKMANNAN.                          135

nances of Christianity, Which it were so desirable to see universally
evinced.
   Education.--There are 7 day-schools in the parish, and there
are also evening and Sabbath-evening schools. The parish school,
which is adjacent to the town, is efficiently taught and numerous-
ly attended. The teacher has the maximum salary, and being
both session-clerk and clerk to the heritors, and since, from the
amount of the population of the parish, there are very many regis-
trations and certificates required, his annual income must be highly
respectable.
<TABLE>
Annual number of proclamations on an average of three years, - -  47
Annual number of persons buried in the burying-ground of Clackmannan, on an
 average of three years,      -         -         -         -     65
Annual number of children baptized by the writer on an average of three years,f\*l32

  In the village of Kennet, which is about a mile from Clack-
mannan, Mr and Mrs Bruce have built an exceedingly handsome
schoolmaster's house and school-house. To these they have at-
tacbed an endowment, and a very neat garden. The teacher's
house has been so planned that a large room in it is used as a
school-room for young females, who are taught by his wife. In
the Kennet village school-rooms, the usual branches of education
are taught, but the imparting of scriptural knowledge is made to
occupy an unusually prominent place; and since the teacher is a
man of much Christian zeal, and of exemplary diligence, his pupils *
exhibit the most pleasing proofs of the extent and the accuracy of
their religious knowledge. When decided symptoms of intellec-
tual and moral superiority are displayed by any of the young fe-
males, they are encouraged by Mrs Bruce to engage in those stu-
dies and occupations, which are fitted to prepare them to fill su-
perior situations as servants in genteel families.
   About seven years since, there were a schoolmaster's house
and very large school-room, erected at the Devon Iron-Works.
The teacher has a house, garden, and coal, and also his fees
guaranteed to him by the Devon Iron Company. The day-school
is numerously attended; and since the teacher also teaches an
evening and Sabbath-evening school, much benefit has been there-
by imparted to the rising generation in that district of the parish.
In the large school-room at the Devon Iron-Works, the writer has

<FOOTNOTE>It is believed that the number which has been mentioned (192,) may be re-
garded as being about one-third of the children born in the parish; and if this sup-
Position be nearly correct, the average number of births will be, of course, about 220.
The writer is disposed to think that the mortality is comparatively great among the
infant portion of the population connected with the different collieries in the parish.


