
			KIRKDEN.		391

stone and lime wall for espalier fruit trees, and the whole is well
stored with every variety of garden produce.
	The glebe, consisting of about 7 acres, is chiefly loamy, and
lies around the manse, which is close by the church.  It has been
much improved of late,--neatly enclosed, by the present incum-
bent, with stone fences, and might be let at L.24 per annum.
	The stipend is one of those requiring aid from Government, the
teinds being exhausted.  The whole amount of what the heritors
pay in money is L.718, 6s. 3 4/3d.  Scots, besides in victual, 32 bolls,
3 firlots, 3 pecks, 1 lippie meal; and 5 bolls, 3 4/3 lippies bear; and
L.1 Sterling, in lieu of a moor which is planted.  From the above
is deducted L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.  Thus in order
to make up the stipend to L.150 per annum, the sum of L.67 1 1s.
l0d, Sterling is annually received from the Exchequer.
	A catechetical meeting is held by the clergyman every Sabbath
evening in the school-room, and is well attended both by young
and old.  He has been also in the habit of holding prayer and
missionary meetings weekly in the same place.
	All the people in the parish belong to the Established Church,
excepting fifty of several Dissenting denominations.  The church
is well attended, not only by the parishioners but by a number of
the inhabitants of Letham, who, owing to proximity, prefer it to
their own parish church.  Owing, however, to the parish of
Friockheim having been entirely taken from this, the church of
Kirkden is perhaps now unnecessarily large, the population being
reduced to about 500, and several families being still four miles
distant.  Prior to the division of this parish, the communicants
averaged upwards of 400 on every occasion of a sacrament; and
the annual collections L.30; of course both are now proportion-
ally decreased.
	Education.--Besides the parish school, there is one supported
by subscription in the village of Friockheim.  All the branches
usually taught in parish schools are taught in both, if requested,
by able and experienced teachers.  The parochial schoolmaster
has the legal accommodation, which is certainly very paltry, and
receives an annual salary of L. 25, 13s. 10d., besides about L. 6
per annum for officiating as session-clerk.
	The amount of fees is trifling, owing to the school being situat-
ed in the most awkward corner of the parish that could have been
chosen for the convenience of pupils.  The parish however, is
sufficiently accommodated in respect of education by the various


