
	                 PARISH OF KINGLASSIE.

		PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYXOD OF FIVE.

		THE REV. J. M. CUNNYNGHAME, MINISTER.
                             ______________

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name.-WHILE some have, supposed that the village after
which the parish is called, derives its appellation from a spring
denominated St Glass's Well, others, with apparently greater
reason, have traced the name to Gaelic words signifying the
head of gray land. This idea seems to be corroborated by the
large extent of inundated, marshy, and mixed surface which, al-
though much reduced from its former size, still stretches itself to
the immediate vicinity of the village. The preferable conjecture
concerning the derivation of the name acquires additional support
from the circumstance, that a locality, somewhat elevated above
the channel, along which the water runs from the swamp alluded
to, has received the appropriate designation of Finglassie, signify-
ing the termination of the gray land, or mixed bog.
   Extent and Boundaries.- The parish of Kinglassie, some-
what irregular in figure, is computed to be about 5 miles and
3 furlongs long, by the road leading through the village from
west to east. The breadth varies from 1 mile to 3 1/2. The total
surface comprises about 5800 Scots acres. It is bounded on the
east by the parishes of Markinch and Dysart; on the south by the
latter, but chiefly by that of Auchterderran, also stretching along
the western limits to the north-west corner, which is touched by
parts of Portmoak and Ballingry; and its northern extremity is
washed by the Leven, on the opposite side of which the parishes
of Portmoak and Leslie meet. From this point of junction, Port-
moak takes a small jutting to the south bank of the Leven.
   Topographical Appearances.-Three ridges, of varied height,
steepness, and width, run towards the east, where they assume a
lower elevation. From the northern limits, a very considerable
acclivity arises, which extends along the whole length of the pa-
rish. The lands of Goatmilk, situated on this range, contain two


