
			KILWINNING.                           811

nature, the walks in the neighbourhood, either along the beach or
through the adjoining groves and plantations, afford an unceasing
source of pleasure. In these respects it. must be admitted, that
this favourite place of resort is unrivalled in the westof Scotland.

  April 1842.

  		      PARISH OF KILWINNING.

	    PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

            THE REV. ARCHIBALD BLAIR CAMPBELL, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Extent, &c.--KILWINNING takes its name from St Win-
nin, a Scottish saint of the eighth century, to whom the ancient
church of this place was dedicated. The greatest length of this
parish, between the borders of Beith and Stevenston, is about 7
miles, and its greatest breadth, between the borders of Ardrossan
and Irvine, is about 5 miles. According to Aitken's map, pub-
lished in 1828, it contains 17 1/2 square miles, or 11,200 acres. It
is situate in Cunninghame, the northern district of the county of
Ayr, and is bounded on the west by Stevenston and Ardros-
san; on the cast, by Dunlop, Stewarton, and Irvine; on the
south, by Irvine and Stevensten; and on the north, by Dalry and
Beith.
	The figure of the parish is very irregular. Its surface gra-
dually slopes upwards from the south-west to the north-east, and
is, varied by gentle undulations, but nowhere rises to any conside-
rable elevation. It is intersected by the valleys of the Garnock
and Lugton; the former, open and cultivated; the latter, more
narrow and woody. The view from the upland district is exten-
sive and beautiful, sweeping down the vale of the Garnock, on the
one hand, and on the other, over the woods of Mountgreenan and
Eglinton to the sea, and embracing the towns of Saltcoats, Ste-
venston, Kilwinning, and Irvine, the bay and headlands of Ayr,
the rock of Ailsa, the Mull of Cantyre, and the serrated range of
the Arran mountains.
	Soil,--The soil in the higher and central parts of the parish, is


