
                            MORHAM.                             269

ence of this is most severely felt in cases of sickness. And at all
times, it must be of most injurious tendency to the modesty and de-
cency of domestic intercourse. Houses of a superior and more
commodious description for the farm-servants, containing each two
apartments, are now erecting on the farm of Morharn Mains,-
an example which, for the sake of the health, comfort, and good
morals of an important and valuable class of our rustic population,
it were much to be desired, should be generally followed.
V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market.-The market-town is Haddington, from which the dis-
tance is three miles, and where an excellent market is found
equally for the sale of the various produce of the parish, and for
the purchase of such articles as the inhabitants may require.
   Means of Communication.-The parish labours under great dis-
advantages on this head. No public conveyance of any kind passes
through it, or comes nearer than Haddington. The inhabitants
have to send to Haddington for their letters, or depend on chance
opportunities of having them brought up. Not even a carrier be-
longs to the parish, and it only gets a share of the accommodation
of the Garvald and Stenton carriers, as they pass through the east
and west extremities onward. The main roads are now tolerably
well kept, but very circuitous, and the comfort and ease of the in-
ter-communication of the parish are much impeded by the deplor-
able state of the branch road, (if road it may be called,) leading
through a large division of it westward.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is pleasantly situated at the
entrance of the little glen before-mentioned, and nearly in the
centre of the parish. No record exists when it was first built, but
it was taken down and rebuilt in its former situation in 1724. * It
has since been occasionally repaired, and is at present in tolerably
good condition. It contains sufficient accommodation for the pre-
sent wants of the parish, and may be enlarged at a small expense
if necessary.-The manse till recently stood down close by the
church; but having become ruinous beyond all repair, and the
minister having frequently been incommoded to a very great de-
gree by the flooding of the burn which flowed round it, it was
pulled down in 1827, the site of it thrown into the garden, and
a new and handsomely finished manse built in a situation as much

<FOOTNOTE>While the church was rebuilding, the minister preached. on alternate days, with
the minister of Garvald, at Barra, then united with Garvald, although still posses-
sing a separate place of worphip.-Session Records.
   HADDINGTON.                                   S


