
26                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

over a perpendicular precipice of sixty feet.  In the same neigh-
bourhood, the Carnock, another rivulet, has worn a channel seventy
feet deep, through red sandstone.* There are also many cascades
on the rivulets of Ballikinrain and Boquhan,the steep banks of which
have been planted by the proprietors; and numerous walks have
been made along them, that the scenery may be seen to advantage.
   Minerals.--The base of this district is the old red sandstone.
In the rising ground, a variety of strata is exposed to view by the
action of the mountain,streams, consisting of clay, lime, and free-
stone. Of the last, which is uppermost, some quarries are wrought
for building houses; and one quarry near Ballikinrain, if we may
judge from the excavation, must have been of repute, formerly, for
mill-stones. About ten pairs are still disposed of annually; but
they are reckoned inferior, as they wear too rapidly. Near the
mill-stone quarry is a spring, holding lime in solution, and petri-
fying the moss on its brink. The mountains are all caped with
trap rock, which seems, at some remote period, to have been forced
upward through the sandstone in a state of fusion. During the
same eruption, many fissures were made, extending like radii from
the centre of the mountain down to the valley. These fissures
were also filled with fused trap, and furnish excellent materials for
the roads of the district.
   In the trap formation, near the south end of the parish, there
is a singular chasm, called the Wanzie. A transverse section of
a hill, running east and west, seems to have slipped off, probably
from the partial decay of the subjacent sandstone leaving it with-
out support. The chasm is 346 feet in length. The width
where greatest 1012/12 feet, and where least 26/10 feet. The depth
at present is about 30 feet at a medium; but as the bottom is
filled with rubbish, it must have originally been much greater. It
takes a zig-zag direction, and it is easy to mark the exactness
with which the angles and surfaces, on one side, answer to those on
the other. There were many fissures in the same hill, which have
been filled up by the tenants since the introduction of sheep.
Near the north corner of the hill, there is still one left open, run-
ning in a zig-zag direction, 185 feet in length, and generally 6
inches in breadth.

<FOOTNOTE>Most names of places are Celtic, and significant. The chasm of Carnock is
called Ashdow, a corruption of Uisk-dhu, black water, from the dark appearance of
the rivulet, as the rays of the sun rarely reach it, on account of the high precipices and
overhanging woods. Carnock is a diminutive of Carron, and signifies little wind-
ing river. Dualt flows through mossy ground; hence its origin dhu-alt, black rivulet.
Avon or Arurs is the same in sense and sound with the Latin Ams-is.



