
260                         FIFESHIRE.

of public begging in the parish. The poor derive their aid from
the parish funds. Four years ago the number receiving parochial
aid was 6. Since that date, it has never been less, and now it
amounts to 9. To most of the number, the monthly allowance also
is increased. There is usually some difference in the several al-
lowances, but their average at present is 3s. per month to each
pauper. Six of the nine enjoy, together with their money allow-
ance, free apartments in houses belonging to the kirk-session for
behoof of the poor, with a small portion of garden ground attach-
ed to each. Two old persons who have no money allowances en-
joy the same privilege. The paupers, and also a few poor house-
holders, receive annually in winter, at the cost of the parish funds,
as many coals as two farmer's horses can draw in a cart, which the
farmers very cheerfully drive gratis. The value of each cartful,
at the present high rate of coals (driving included) may be stated
at 9s. 6d. or 10s.
   The yearly amount of monthly allowances and of cost of coals
distributed, is L. 18, 16s. 6d. The sources from whence funds are
derived to meet that expenditure, are various ; and the following
is a statement of their variety and amount. The annual average
amount of church door collections L. 12, 14s; mortcloth dues,
L. 2, 10s; rent of two houses, L. 4, 10s ; interest of money,
L.4, 5s.  The income apparently exceeds the expenditure, as
from the above statement there appears an annual surplus of L. 5,
2s. 6d. That surplus is exhausted by precentors and session-
clerks' fees, and dues to synod and presbytery Clerk. Hitherto
the poor have been supported by these resources. The heritors
have never been called on for the aid of assessment. How long
this state of things may continue, it is not easy to say. Times were,
when parochial relief was considered as degrading to name and
character; but these times are gone, and the noble Scottish spirit
of independence seems to have gone with them. In the minds of
many, the idea of degradation is never associated with the idea of
parochial relief. They consider it as an heritage not discreditable,
and bring forward their claims with a holdness that would better
become a creditor demanding payment of a just debt.
   Inns and Alehouses.--There are no inns, but six ale-houses in
the village of Auchtertool, certainly unfavourable to the morals of
the people.
   Fuel.--The only kind of fuel used in the parish is coal. It is to
be had at four places, each about four miles distant from the vil-


