
                    AYR.                                29

with whom be afterwards travelled on the continent. He became the
friend and associate of the celebrated Fenelon, Bishop of Cambray,
by whom he was converted to the Roman Catholic faith, and whose
life he wrote after his decease. His apostacy from the religion of
his country and his kindred, is certainly not to his credit; but the
circumstances that led to it are so imperfectly known, as to render
us incompetent to pronounce an adequate decision. The Bishop
was an amiable man; and he might have been swayed by other
motives than the force of opinion. He is best known in the lite-
rary world, as having been the author of a popular work called the
Travels of Cyrus. Besides his literary merits, he has some claims
on the remembrance of Scotchmen, as having been tutor in the fa-
mily of the son of James II. the ex- King of England commonly
called the Pretender.
	Robert Burns.--By far the most celebrated character that the
parish of Ayr has produced, was Robert Burns, the Ayrshire poet,
in whose genius and writings the whole of Scotland feels a proud
distinction. He was born at Alloway on the 25th day of Febru-
ary 1759, as appears from the register of births kept in this pa-
rish. His parents were humble in station, but respectable in cha-
racter,--of indigent circumstances, but great personal worth.
They both lie buried in Alloway churchyard, where a plain neat
tombstone has lately been erected to their memory, the original
one having been destroyed by the action of the weather, or bro-
ken into fragments and carried off by visitors, as relics or memen-
toes of the deceased. His father's name was Burness, still re-
tained by some of the collateral branches of the family, who be-
longed originally to Montrose; and why the poet should have chang-
ed his name to Burns, does not appear from his own writings or those
of his biographers.  * The cottage in which the poet was born is still
standing; a neat cleanly one-storey house, of humble appearance,
with a thatched roof, situated close by the road side, and which
has long been used as an inn. Humble as it looks at present, how-
ever, it was still more so at the time of the poet's birth. A very

<FOOTNOTE>On the tombstone there is engraved the following beautiful and expressive epi-
taph, the tribute of filial affection to parental worth:
              "O ye whose cheek the tear of beauty stains,
               Draw near with pious reverence and attend;
             Here lie the loving husband's dear remains,
               The tender father and the generous friend,
             The pitying heart that felt for human woe,
               The dauntless heart that fear'd no human pride,
             The friend of man--to vice alone a foe,
                'For e'en his failings leant to virtue's side."


