
14                       BERWICKSHIRE.

ef books, and of paper and other, incidental payments, is, for read-
ing, 13s.; for writing and reading, 18s.; for these, with arithme-
tic, L.1, 6s.; for Latin, Greek, and French, L.1, 12s. The pa-
rochial teacher has rather more than the legal house accommoda-
tion, and somewhat less than the legal extent of garden ground.
   Of the young betwixt six and fifteen years of age who cannot
read or write, there are probably none, and of persons above fifteen
years of age who cannot read, there is reason, to believe that there
are not, more than two (aged females,) whilst, amongst those who
are advanced in life there is doubtless a number, though compa-
ratively small, who cannot write. The people in general are alive
to the benefits of education, and evince that they appreciate these
by sending their children to school at five or six years of age, and
andeavouring to secure their attendance till they may acquire that
useful learning which is necessary to fit them for discharging the
duties of life, with credit to themselves, and advantage to society.
At our parochial school were trained the present minister of Jed-
burgh, the minister of Hope Park Chapel, the Rev. John Wilson,
an ordained minister of the Established church, and an intelligent,
indefatigable, and useful missionary, now labouring at Bombay,
under the direction of the Scottish Missionary Society, a promis-
ing young man about to receive license to preach the gospel, and
a minister of the United Associate Synod.
   In those parts of the parish which are at a considerable distance
from the town of Lauder, parents find it more convenient to send
their children to the parochial school of Channelkirk, to a private
school at Spottiswoode, in the parish of Westruther, or to another
of the same description at Blainslie, in the parish of Melrose.
About 50 of our children are educated at these seminaries, to two
of which those of them who attend have to travel from 2 to 21/2
miles. An additional school, taught at a hamlet in the country
district of the parish, would doubtless be advantageous. The
average number of children in the whole parish attending school
is about 300. Respecting the salutary influence of education
there can be only one opinion; and, since the means of this are
here abundantly enjoyed, so they appear to be producing in a
greater or less degree their usual beneficial effects on the moral
habits and general welfare of the people.
   Library.-A subscription library has long existed in Lauder, in
which the principal persons in the parish have shares. There is also
one more recently formed for mechanics, together with two libraries


