
                         ECKFORD.                        223

on Caverton edge, where the Kelso races were formerly held. *
There are three aged yew trees in the churchyard, but at what
time they were planted it is difficult to say.  Close to the ancient
mansion-house of Hall of Haughhead, stands a stately ash tree, un-
der whose shade the children of that noted individual are reported
by tradition to have been baptized.

                    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
Historical Notices.--This parish, the southern extremity of which
lies within a few miles of the borders, was the scene of frequent
rapine and devastation in former times.  The village of Eckford,
which was once a place of considerable note, was burnt by the En-
glish under the Marquis of Dorset in April 1553, along with
many other places in the district.  Within the bounds of this
parish, there were of old several strengths or strongholds. such as
Ormiston-tower, Eckford-tower, Wooden-tower, and Moss-tower;
but of these the last mentioned was by far the most important.
This was situated about the eighth part of a mile to the north-east
of the village of Eckford, and within a few yards of the present
farm-house, which now bears its name.  It was so called, from a
piece of marshy ground in its immediate vicinity, and is reported
to have been once a residence of Hepburn Earl of Bothwell. + In
an ancient chronicle, it is represented as surrounded by a marsh,
and as accessible only at one point by a causeway.  This the far-
mer at present is in the act of removing from its ancient site.  On
the 30th of June 1523, it was destroyed by a party of English
headed by Thomas Lord Dacre; and on the same day were de-
molished Ormiston-tower, and a vast number of other places in the
neighbourhood.  On the 6th September 1544, it was burnt along
with the towerand church ++ of Eckford, by an army under Sir Ralph
Eure, and forty-four persons, who were found in it, fell victims to

<FOOTNOTE>This, from one of the titles of his Grace the Duke of Roxburghe, is denomi-
nated the Bowmont forest.
  About fifteen years ago, some persons were employed to divide a common in
this district, partly belonging to the Duke of Buccleuch, and partly to the ,Marquis
of Lothian.  A doubt having arisen, as to which of these proprietors a certain piece
of ground should be assigned, an old man in the neighbourhood was examined on the
question.  After interrogation, he stated, that he had heard it reported, that some
tenant on the laird of Buccleuch's lands here, had put out an ox to graze on the spot,
but  that the laird of Crailinghall, conceiving that a trespass had been committed,
shot the animal. Immediately upon this (added the old man,) Bothwell having girt on
his armour, came up from his tower, to take vengeance on the aggressor, but before
he arrived the laird had secured himself within his fortress.  This anecdote certain-
ly tends to strengthen the belief that Bothwell once resided at Moss-tower.
  The ancient church bell of Eckford is at present in the belfry of the church of
Carham, in the county of Northumberland.  At what period it was carried off, it is
difficult to determine.  Probably it was at this time.


