
                       DALSERF.                               749

by a person of the name of Burns.  Larkhill, situated close to the
boundary with Hamilton parish, and near the road leading from
Glasgow to Carlisle, is the largest and most important village in
the parish.  It is chiefly built upon the Raploch property, though
partly also upon the Duke of Hamilton's lands, and those belong-
ing to West Machan, on leases of ninety-nine years.  It is mostly
inhabited by weavers, and the houses are nearly all of one descrip-
tion, namely, an apartment (seldom two) for family use, and a four
loom shop.  Larkhall has been nearly all built since 1776.  In
1791 it bontained about 100 houses.  At present it consists of not
fewer probably than 1250, and is increasing with great rapidity.
This increase is in no small measure owing to the establishment of
building societies, and other causes which are elsewhere noticed.  It
is impossible to speak of Larkhall separately from the hamlets,
rows of houses, and dwellings, in its immediate vicinity. The whole
neighbourhood in which it stands, is one large village, containing a
population of upwards of 2000 souls.  Within the last two or three
years a post-office has been established in the village, subordinate
to Hamilton and Glasgow.  This may be a benefit, perhaps, to per-
sons in the village and its immediate neighbourhood, but is felt to
be a positive nuisance to those living on the banks of the Clyde,
who, from greater facility of communication, would in general ra-
ther have Hamilton as their post-town.  The payment of a run-
ner, with a single letter perhaps, renders the recently established
penny postage of no benefit.
   Means of Communication.-There are three great lines of road
which intersect the parish, namely, the road from Glasgow to Car-
lisle, the one from Glasgow to Lanark, by the banks of the Clyde,
and the more recently formed line from Edinburgh to Ayr, which
crosses the river at Garion Bridge. The Carlisle road, which is of
long standidg, was much altered and improved about twenty years
ago, and afforded seasonable employment to the manufacturing po-
pulation in the troublesome years of 1819 and 1820.  The Lanark
road was formed about the end of last century.  Though beauti-
ful and picturesque in its windings, it is not distinguished by those
principles of road-making which now prevail, and admits of many
improvements.  The road from Edinburgh to Ayr only became a
thoroughfare about ten or twelve years ago, and its use and import-
ance are only yet beginning to be appreciated.  These roads tra-
verse the parish to an extent of about eighteen miles, and are a
great benefit to the farmers of the parish and the neighbourhood


