
                         TARLAND AND MIGVIE.                    845

number of communicants in both parishes within Cromar does
not exceed 400.  The sacrament is dispensed at Tarland church
only.  The communicants from the Strathdon and Deskrie-side
are generally accommodated at the churches of Strathdon and
Towie, where they find it more convenient to attend.
   The present manse of Tarland was, built in 1800, and is in
good repair.  The glebe at Tarland is about 4 1/2 imperial acres, and 3 1/2
acres at Migvie.  The amount of stipend is L.54, 3s. 5d. Sterling
of money, 74 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, 2 2/3 lippies of bear, and 10 I bolls,
1 peck, 1 1/3 lippies of meal, valued and paid according to the fiars
of the year.  There are no places of public worship in these pa-
risbes besides the churches of Tarland and Migvie, the latter of
which was rebuilt about sixty-five years ago, and is at present
in good repair.  It accommodates between 200 and 300 sitters.
Divine worship at the Established Churches is generally well at-
tended; and, with the exception of a few Roman Catholics, there
are no Dissenters nor Seceders in these parishes.  The average
amount of church collections, including penalties, yearly, may be
stated at L.30.
   Near the centre of the district of Cromar the church and manse
of Tarland are situated, on a plain, and by the side of a burn or
rivulet formed by the springs and auxiliary streams from the ad-
joining hills on the north side.
  Education.-The parochial school at Tarland is the onyv semi-
nary of learning in these parishes.  The branches of instruction
generally taught are, Greek, Latin, English, arithmetic, writing,
book-keeping, and the principles of geometry and mathematics.
The schoolmaster enjoys the legal accommodation, the minimum
salary, and scbool-fees; which, with other perquisites, may amount
to L.40 annually.  The school is well attended : but an additional
school is very much wanted at Migvie.  The teacher participates
in the Dick bequest.
   The parochial school of Tarland has been supplied with quali-
fied and successful teachers for a century past, and a considerable
number of young men from the district have been distinguished
for genius and talent in civil, ecclesiastical, and commercial de-
partments.
   Poor.-The poor's funds in these parishes are very limited, not
exceeding L.80 Sterling.  There are, at an average, 16 paupers
on the roll, but no travelling poor belong to these parishes.  Two,


