
344                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

by a burying ground. It is only 40 feet long by 18 broad in
the inside; but the walls are almost 4 feet in thickness, and so
indurated has the lime which cements the stones become, that
it is almost impossible to separate them. There is no date now
distinguishable to show at what period it was built. Near the
chapel, there is a spring called " Tobair na Muire," or Mary's
Well, obviously taking its name from the circumstance of its being
consecrated to the Virgin Mary. The water of the spring was
thought by the people to have the peculiar virtue of healing dis-
ease either in man or beast, provided they visited the spot: and
under this impression, pieces of coloured cloth were left as offer-
ings to the numen of the place. The offering made to the offi-
ciating priest were probably more substantial and valuable dona-
tions.

                   III.-POPULATION.
  There are now no means of accurately ascertaining the state
of the population in this parish at a very remote period. From
all the information that can be gathered on the subject, it appears,
that, for a long series of years, the population has been increasing,
though by no means rapidly. Previous to the time at which the
former Statistical Account was written, the number seems for
many years to have been almost stationary, but since that period,
and from the commencement of the Parliamentary census taken
at different periods, there has been a regular increase. In the
former Account, which was written, we believe, in the year 1793,
the number of persons then inhabiting the parish is stated at 1121,
of whom 800 are stated as having been above seven years of age.
The number now living in the parish is 1440. The chief cause,
apparently, of the low ratio of increase may be traced to a practice
now becoming too common throughout the country, of convert-
ing districts of land which have been formerly tenanted by a num-
ber of small farmers or crofters into large farms. The tenantry
thus ejected are obliged either to emigrate to some of the colo-
nies, or to congregate in the villages at home.
  Language.-Till the end of the eigbteenth century, the prevail-
ing, and, indeed, almost the only language in use, was the Gaelic.
Since that period, however, the English has been advancing ra-
idly; chiefly in consequence of the schools which have been
established in the different districts of the parish, and partly from
the difficulty experienced by the Highlanders, speaking the Gaelic
alone, in transacting business in the more southern parts of the
                               3


