
                 		GALASHIELS.                            13

These are masses of stones loosely piled in the interior, but finished
on the surface after the manner of a pavement, and shaped like the
fore half of a shoemaker's last, pointing up the stream, and form-
ing with the bank art angle of 450. This occasions a lodgement
of gravel giving strength to the work, and thus obliged the river,
in its wildest mood, to furnish protection to the land. The main
thing is to guard the base with piles well driven, for if one stone
he suffered to give way, the whole scheme is futile.
   About fifty years ago, the town of Galashiels was liable to such
inundations, that boats were occasionally brought from Boldside,
two miles distant, to rescue the people from their houses. But of
late, the channel of the river has been found a convenient quarry
for the great increase of buildings, and the course of the stream
has ill consequence been so much lowered, that there is now no
apprehension of danger from its assaults upon the streets. Yet
though personal safety be secured, property is subject to no small
damage by the presence of flood. Bulwarks reared at great ex-
pense are liable to be swept away; and mills, necessarily placed
near to the water's edge, are often in jeopardy from the erosion of
the gravelly stratum on which they are built. As soon as the tor-
rent has made a breach in the bulwark the is imminent, and
all hands are at work.
   In the autumn of 1829 this place had its share in the terrors of
the floods so destructive at the same period in Morayshire. A large
new Factory was in peril; and a multitude of hands were employed
in collecting and piling up stones, as a barrier against the inroads
of the water. But at every interval of a few minutes, large masses
of the bank were falling down; and the strong pile, losing its
foundation, was but as chaff to the torrent-when a spectator of
this toil and dismay suggested an expedient that was then, as it
has nice frequently been, successful, viz. that of cutting down
trees, making them fast by the trunk with long ropes and stakes,
and tumbling them with all their branches into the flood. The
sight was grand: the scheme was novel: a hundred people might
be employed in hauling along full-grown trees through the more
quiescent waters to the main stream, being, themselves half im-
mersed in the element with which they were contending. The
effect was immediate, and the progress of destruction was arrested.
Spruce and Scotch firs of four to six inches in diameter are the
most suitable. They are so arranged that the bushy part of one
tree overlaps that of another, forming a sort of thatch, along which


