
8                                ELGINSHIRE.

middle of an arable field at the east end of the town, but no part
of the buildings remain.
   The ruins of the Abbey of Pluscarden are situated in a vale of
the same name, at the foot of a steep bridge fronting the south,
about six miles westward of Elgin. A lofty. stone wall, of which a
considerable part is standing, inclosed several acres of ground.
The church, in the form of a cross, stood almost in the centre,
with the prior's house and the cells of the monks adjoining. The
Dormitory., which has recently been roofed in, and the walls
and windows repaired in the same style as the original build-
ing, was on the second floor, at the south east end of the church,
and under it was an arched Kitchen. The latter has been fit-
ted up as a place of public worship for the inhabitants of the vale,
and a clergyman on the Royal Bounty resides near, and regularly
officiates. The inclosure also contained the gardens, the burial-
ground, and the mill for grinding the monks' grain. Every atten-
tion is paid by the Earl of Fife, the proprietor, to preserve these
relies from fartber decay, and the shrubberies and walks near the
abbey, and the plantations adjacent, add greatly to their beauty
and interest.
   Fort.-There are some remains of a fort on a small green hill,
now called the Lady-hill, at the west end of the town, but they are
not sufficient. to show the form or extent of the buildings. The
walls were built of stone and run lime, and, as the length of the
plain area on the top of the hill is nearly twice the breadth, the
fort was probably an oblong quadrangle. It no doubt bad its towers,
draw-well, guarded entrance, and fosse, as traces of some of these
are still to be seen. The Earls of Moray acted as constables, and
badjurisdiction within certain bounds till the middle of the fifteenth
century; they had for salary the customs of the town, the assize of
ale and some lands. The property of the hill descended to their
successors, and belongs to the present Earl. This little bill com-
mands a most extensive and delightful view of the frith and the
surrounding country for many miles.
   New Buildings.-The Elgin Institution for the support of old
age and the education of youth, stands on the southside of the en-
trance to the town from the east, and is a quadrangular building
of two stories, Surmounted with a circular tower and dome. The
principal front and entrance is to the north, having the two sides
of the quadrangle projecting, and, in the centre a portico of two
beautiful Ionic columns with entablature rising to the height of


