
100                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   The patronage and the haill teinds of the parish of Ratho,
which had till 1671 been the property of the Forresters of Corstor-
phine, were then, with the exception of those of Dalmahoy and
Bonnington, disponed by James Lord Forrester to Charles Mait-
land of Hatton. The patronage still remains in connection with
the estate of Hatton, but is at present vested in four trustees.
   The present church is as conveniently situated as it possibly
could be for the great majority of the population. It stands to the
north of the village, on the opposite side of the Canal, in a repos-
ing situation, and is surrounded by trees of ancient growth, through
the embowering foliage of which it is dimly seen by the casual
passenger. When it was built is uncertain, unless it was at the
same time with the Dalmahoy isle, which is apparently of similar
antiquity, and bears the date of 1683. It partook originally of
the form common to the tasteless country churches of Scotland,
being a long narrow barn-like building, with the pulpit in the
centre, and recesses on either side, and in front of it, for the families
of the principal heritors. A few years ago, during the minis-
try of the Rev. Dr Henderson of Glasgow, an addition was made
to the south side of it, at an expense of L. 500 or L. 600, which,
besides increasing the accommodation considerably, has improved
most materially the external and internal appearance of the build-
ing. The church is now somewhat in the form of a cross ; and
affords ample accommodation for the population, being seated for
about 700. The seats are allocated to the different heritors
according to their valued rents, and by them subdivided among
their tenants and dependents. It ought to be remarked, that the
new part, as it was built not by a legal assessment upon the whole
heritors, but by the subscriptions of a few, belongs to the subscrib-
ers and to those others who had seats upon its site. None of the
sittings are let ; those which are required for the tenantry of the
different proprietors in the parish being occupied without rent by
the villagers.
   The church is a very pleasant one in summer, but, from the great
number of public and private doors which it contains, it is intole-
rably cold in winter. An attempt was made to remedy this by a
stove; but, from the defective principle upon which it is construct-
ted, it has failed to produce the desired effect. The church-yard
requires an addition to its extent, and some alterations, which would
improve materially the enclosture of the sanctuary.
   Belonging to the church are two benefactions by Richard Lord


