
                  SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                      129

     Rent of Lands.- The rents of the lands in the parish are made
up of so many different items, that it is almost impossible to ascer-
tain their exact amount. These consist of cashies, fowls, days-
works, butter, bear, schoolmaster's salary, teinds, seat-rent in
church, scatt, land-rent, and, in some cases, fishing profits. But,
including outsets, they may be fairly stated at L.1, 10s. Sterling
per merk, which will make a total rental of the parish of L.1165,
10s. Sterling.
     Rate of Waqes.- The Rev. Patrick Barclay, in his Statistical
Account, has stated, that "men servants get from L.15 to L.18
Scotch," that is, from L.1, 5s. to L.1, 10s. Sterling, "for three-
fourths of the year." In summer they are employed in the ling-
fishing, and the boys on beaches. The men get from L.12 to
L.24 Scotch; boys from L.6 to L.10. Women servants get from
L.12 to L.8, sometimes less, when they get liberty to spin and
knit stockings, for their own behoof and emolument, at leisure
hours. The yarn is generally spun at night, when they would be
otherwise idle; and, when carrying dung, or travelling on the
road, they are always knitting. Their service to the master is often
very inconsiderable. Artificers are seldom paid by the day, and are
always maintained by the employer. A mason has from 10d. to
1s. 2d. a-day; his servants, 6d.; wright, 10d.; tailor, shoemaker,
and boat-builder, are paid by the piece, and generally earn 8d. or
10d." The wages usually given to a man for about ten weeks
on the ling-fishing is from L.2 to L.2, 10s. with victuals; and for
a boy to assist in curing fish on a beach, with his victuals, 10s.
or 12s. Sterling; and without victuals, about L.1. When he
gets his food, he is bound to do any kind of work required, when
not employed with the fish. The wages of a man-servant, for
farm-work, is from 12s. to L.1 Sterling for three months; wo-
men servants generally get 8s. for three months. The usual term
of service is three months. The servants are in no respect im-
proved, since my predecessor wrote; neither will there ever be
good servants, while the present system is pursued. They do
not consider the obligation as mutual, but regard it as lying
altogether on the side of the person who employs them. And
when there is occasion to reprove them for having done wrong,
the frequent answer is, "I have no occasion to serve; I can go
home."
     The wages of a mason, with his victuals, 1s.; and without victuals
1s. 6d; a wright with his victuals, 1s.; and without victuals, 1s. 6d;
     SHETLAND.                                 I


