
			    PARISH OF CRAWFORDJOHN.

		PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		      THE REV. WILLIAM GOLDIE, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATVRAL HISTORY.
	Name.--The origin of the name cannot be easily disco-
vered. Chalmers, in his Caledonia, relates a story on the sub-
ject, with all becoming gravity, proceeding upon the supposition,
that names of a similar construction are to be discovered every-
where throughout Scotland. "John the son of Baldwin de Big-
gar," he says, "held in the reign of Malcolm IV. a portion of this
extensive mountainous district. He assumed the name of Crawford,
and fixed his residence on Duneaton river, and from him the name
of his settlement was called John's town, and in some charters it
is designed villa Johannis privigni Baldwinnii."--" Before 1279
the district of Crawfordjohn," he continues, "was established as
a distinct parish, and the chapel of John's town became the parish,
church, hence the name of Crawfordjohn was affixed to the pa-
rish." But this summary mode of accounting for the name can-
not be satisfactory to any one who recollects, that there are no au-
thorities produced by him, and that it is not merely the only parish,
but the only village (I presume) in Scotland, which is designated
by a Christian and family name, joined together in this awkward,
unusual form.
	Extent and Boundaries, &c.--According to Forrest's map of the
county, the length of the parish is between 11 and 12 miles, and
its breadth between 9 and 10, and it contains 41.50 square miles,
and 21,123 Scots acres. The figure of the parish is irregular. At
the east end, it is only about 2 miles broad, but it soon widens in
both directions, till, from the most southern point near Leadhills to
the north east at the source of Millburn, it is about 10 miles across;
higher up than this, it gradually becomes more narrow, till above
Sheriffcleuch it lies all on one side of Duneaton, and, at the very
top, is little more than one mile broad. On the east by north, it is
separated from Roberton (now united to Wiston) by Millburn and
Duneaton; on the east, from Lamington and Crawford, by Clyde;



