
684                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

same course of study is further extended for one or two years.  In
the intervals of the hours for classical instruction the other mas-
ters are attended for writing, arithmetic, &c.  The rector and
four classical masters have a small annual salary from the town-
council, amounting to about L.20 each.

   The fees are,
      Rector's class, including Greek,	     L.1    5	0 per quarter.
      Four junior classes.                     1    0	0
      French,	                               0   10	6
      Mathematics                              0   10   6
      Arithmetic,	                       0    7	6
      Writing,	                               0    7	6
      Matriculation ticket paid annually,      0    5	0

   Attendance on the last four branches is optional.  The average
number of pupils is 400.  They generally enter at the age of 9
or 10.
   Edinburgh Academy.-This academy was established by a num-
ber of subscribers in 1824.  The building, which is situated to
the north of the new town, is simple but elegant, and cost about
L.14,000.  It contains a large public hall and library and class
rooms, with ample enclosed playground.  The management is
vested in fifteen directors, chosen from the body of subscribers.
The teachers are, a rector, four classical masters, and teach-
ers of French, English, mathematics, arithmetic, and writing.
The course of study extends to six or seven years.  Each class is
taught in the classical department by the same master for the
first four years.  In the fifth year the class comes under the
tuition of the rector, assisted by the same master, and continues
under the same for three years.  In the intervening hours, English,
writing, arithmetic, mathematics and French are successively at-
tended, with ancient and modern history and geography.  The
fees amount on the average of seven years to 1O guineas, the ju-
nior class paying L.7, and the senior L.11, 11s.  Pupils enter
about the age of nine or ten, and are received at any period of the
session.
   Scottish Naval and Military Academy-This academy is for
the purpose of affording education to pupils destined to serve in
the army or navy, or East India Company's service.  The sup-
porters of the establishment consist of shareholders, donors, and
annual contributors.  Its affairs are conducted by a president and
committee of management. There is a military superintendent,
with teachers for the various classes.  The branches taught consist,
in addition to the classics and other ordinary branches of a liberal
education, military and civil engineering, landscape, and per-


