
542                             FIFESHIRE.

was elected minister in 1764, it is stated, that the sessin-clerk
produced "an old illegible book of minutes, about the year 1669
-70,*/f&c.&c.a book in which were contained a register of baptisms, &C.
from November 1696 to December 1729, inclusive, and minute of
discipline, collections, distributions of the same dates;" another
book, containing a register of baptisms, &e. from January 1730,
to the present time and minutes of collections and distributions
frem January 1730 to December 1728, inclusive and discipline
by itself, from January 1749 to the present time ; another book
containing only Minutes of collections and distributions from Ja-
nuary 1749 to the present time." These are all in existence.
They were most accurately kept by Mr Adamson.  They have
been continued to the present day, except minutes of discipline.
Since Mr Adamson's time, until very lately, this part of the pa-
rish registers has been completely neglected. No entry has been
made with regard to any meetings which have taken place betwixt
the heritors and kirk-session.
   Little is known of the ecclesiastical state of the parish before
1697. From a menument, lately turned up in the church-yard, it
appears that a Master James Thomson was minister of Kilmany for
forty-two years previous to 1646. He died in that year agedseventy-
eight ; and it adds, and "that of his beloved wife, Besse Smith,
with whom he lived forty-one years, Deo Lavs, amen." No tradi-
tion remains in the parish with regard to this reverend gentleman.
In Limoad's Diary, a Mr George Thomson is mentioned as minister
of Kilmanys, and dying there about 1655. But whoever were
the ministers of Kilmany previous to 1697, it is evident from a
Minute of session May 7th 1707, that the sacrament of the Lord's
supper f6r a long time had not been regularly dispensed, These
are the Words of it: "Being Wednesday the session met, and
Censidering that this congregation has long wanted the benefit of
the sacrament of the Lord's supper, the minister (Mr Brown)
did intinate to them his design of celebrating that solemn ardi
mance; and the session considering what may be the most, proper
season for it, did condescend upon the last Sabbath of June next; and
father considering that the communion table were all broken and
gone to ruin, the session recommends it the minister and elders
in the towm of Kilmany to agree with James Miles, wright to buy
timber, and make up the said tables, and to mend some parts of

<FOOTNOTE>I never saw the old illegible book minutes about the year 1698-70, The
sattled which was part in my possession was 1st of November 1696.


