
                                    TONGUE.                         181

       rials lie ready at hand, it is believed by many that such an under-
       taking would not be very expensive.
         Ecclesiastical State.--The church is so situated as to be nearly
       equidistant from the several extremities of the parish.  There are,
       however, two populous districts on either side of it, so remote,
       that few of the people can attend public worship.  The Skerray
       district to the east, which contains a population of 630, is from
       seven to eleven miles distant from the church.  The Melness dis-
       trict to the west, with a population of 690, is from four to eight miles
       distant, separated, moreover, by the arm of the sea, the crossing of
       which is always expensive and often impracticable.  Each of these
       stand much in need of the labours of a resident minister.  Mel-
       ness forms the chief part of a mission connected with part of the
       parish of Durness.  The missionary is supported by the Society
       for Propagating Christian.  Knowledge; and a church and manse
       were built by the late Duchess-Countess of Sutherland.
         The parish church was built in 1680,--was nearly rebuilt in
       1731, and repaired 1778.  A few years ago, new doors were put
       in, and some of the pews a little improved.  It is seated for 520,
       being just sufficient accommodation for the proportion of the peo-
       ple who can conveniently attend.  There are no seat rents.  The
       pews were originally purchased by the parishioners, and continue
       the property of their descendants while they remain in the parish.
       In winter, when the people are all at home, the church is well fill-
       ed, and the people are diligent in attending the catechetical mi-
       nistrations of their pastor.  There is one catechist chosen by the
       people, and supported chiefly by a small salary from the Society for
       Propagating Christian Knowledge.  The number of elders are
       eleven, and of male heads of families communion with the
       church 45.  Collections are annually made for the General As-
       sernbly's five schemes, and occasionally for otber objects.  There
       are no Dissenters, Seceders, Episcopalians, or Roman Catholics
       in the parish.
         The manse was built in 1787, and has never got a thorough
       repair; a new substantial house is, however, to be commenced ear-
       ly this season, having been already contracted for.  The stipend is
       L. 150, with an allowance for communion elements.  When the
       present incumbent entered on the charge, the glebe was of little
       value; the hill-grazing was a share of an undivided common, and
       the little arable land was rig about with adjoining tenants.  An
       excambion being obtained, and quantity given for quality, improve-


