
                         DRUMOAK.                            883

of Drum, his said son, and their friends, their good and thankful
service done to the King in searching, taking, and bringing his
rebels to justice."  The young laird, whose loyalty and zeal are
recognized in that document, took an active part also in the stir-
ring events which occurred during the minority of Mary, till, hav-
ing joined the Regent near Musselburgh, to aid in repelling the
English invasion by the Duke of Somerset, he was killed in his
father's lifetime at the fatal battle of Pinkey, where so many of
Scotland's best and bravest fell.
   The son of this gentleman succeeded to the estates, on the
death of his grandfather, and married Lady Elizabeth Keith,
daughter of the Earl Marischal.  Their eldest son obtained the
lands in 1583, and distinguished himself as a patron of learning,
and a benefactor to the poor. *  In 1629, he devised L.10,000
Scots, for the maintenance of four bursars in philosophy and two
in divinity at the Marischal College, and four at the grammar-
school of Aberdeen, vesting the right of presenting to them in the
family of Drum.  He also mortified 32 bolls of meal to persons
on his property in this parish, viz. 12 to poor scholars, 8 to the
parochial schoolmaster for teaching them, and 12 to decayed te-
nants,-all of which are annually divided at the sight of the kirk-
session.  His lady (Lady Marion Douglas, daughter of the Earl
of Buchan,) also mortified,3000 merks, anno 1633, to endow a
hospital in Aberdeen, for the widows and aged daughters of decayed
burgesses, the patronage of which is exercised by the town-council.
   This benevolent man was succeeded by Sir Alexander, his eld-
est son, who married Magdalen, daughter of Sir John Scrimzeour
of Diddup, Constable of Dundee.  He was sheriff principal of
AlSerdeen in 1634, and several following years; and obtained a
patent from King Charles 1. creating him Earl of Aberdeen,
which the breaking out of the civil war prevented from passing, the
Great Seal.  During the subsequent troubles he suffered much in
his person, his family, and his property, on account of his attach-
ment to the Royal cause.  His house and lands were frequently
occupied and plundered by the army of the Covenant; and he
himself was warded, fined, and more than once obliged to flee for
safety to the court of England.

<FOOTNOTE>As the Earl of Mar eked out the scanty wardrobe of his sovereign, by sending
at his request, " a pair of silken hose, with goud clocks at them," to enable him in a
befitting manner to give an audience to the French ambassador, so this Laird of
Drum  seems to have ministered to the pecuniary wants of the same needy monarch,
and to have rendered him his debtor; for there is extant in the charter-chest a holo-
graph bond by King James VI. to Drum for 500 merks, dated at Dalkeith, 27the
November 1587, and payable at Whitsunday thereafter.


