
                     DOLLAR.                                93

Americanoaks have been introduced into ornamental plantations.
In general, the whole, both common and uncommon, appear to
grow in the greatest luxuriance. The soil in the low grounds is
more congenial to the growth of hard-wooded trees, where they
have, with few exceptions,' - been planted. The high grounds are
more suitable for the larch and Scotch 6r. Fruit-trees have been
planted with variable success. The apple, for a few years, grows
with vigour, and bears fruit; but as soon as the roots penetrate
.the subsoil-wbich is in many places a retentive clay-tbe trees
begin to canker, and gradually decay. The soil appears more
adapted to the growth of the pear; even the oldest trees are, for
the most part, healthy and in favourable seasons produce fruit in
abundance. The plum and the cherry are seldom planted.
Although there are a number of old trees scattered over the
parish, few present any remarkable appearance for size or singula-
rity of form. About thirty yards from the entrance to Castle-Camp-
bell, on the north, there stands a group of aged plane trees, one,
of which measures 13 f6et in circumference, at about 8 feet from
the ground. This tree is remarkable for the singular beauty and
symmetry of its form. From the earliest remembrance, it has
borne the name of 11 the Maiden Tree." The whole group are
very old, but still retain the vigour of health.
Near the church there are a few old trees, chiefly ash. One
of them, some years since, presented a curious study to the vege-
table physiologist. The trunk bad become bollow, with an aper-
tUre at the bottom. A considerable quantity of decayed matter
had accumulated within. A root, apparently from the insertion of
a large limb, descended, lining the internal cavity with its long
and slender rootlets, many of them luxuriating in the vegetable
substance below. This decayed vegetable matter has been gra-
dually exhausted, and the roots have since disappeared.

                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Eminent PIen.-We cannot omit to take some notice of Dean
Thomas Forrest, commonly called the Vicar of Dollar, who suf-
fered martyrdom for his liberal opinions. Spottiswood, in his His-
tory of the Church of Scotland, informs us, that there was a meet-
ing of Bishops held at Edinburgh, in the month of February 1.5381
when five persons were- accused of heresy. Among these was
the Vicar of Dollar, Thomas Forrest, who, sorne time before the
meeting, 11 had been called before the Bishop of Dunkeld, his or-
dinary, for preaching every Sunday to his parishioners upon the


