
52                         LANARKSHIRE.

in the sky was anxiously watched in vain, they diverged into three
portions. Nne goes toward the south and east down the vale of
the lyne; a second crosses in the opposite direction by Dunsyre and
Midcorset; while the third and greater portion keeps the original
tract by Mendick along the Pentlands. At the summit of Car-
nethy, the highest hill of this range, a similar partition takes
place. One division is carried towards Dalkeith, a second across the
Forth, while the main body moves over Edinburgh by Arthur
Seat. When moisture comes from the east, it is either in a
creeping haar, or in a storm, which, whether it be of rain or snow,
usually last for three days. As a certain prognostic of a change
of weather, it deserves to be mentioned, that in the memorable
drought already referred to, the springs of water which had been
long dried up, again gathered strength for several days before a
drop of rain fell. This singular phenomenon is probably refer-
able to the same law of nature which in frost causes rheum to ooze
from stone, earth and trees, prior to any other sign of thaw. The
average quantity of rain, so far as it has been ascertained by a gauge
lately kept at the manse, may be about 27 inches yearly
	With the exception of the moisture from the north side of the
parish, which falls into the south Medwin and Clyde,
the waters of Dolphinton are carried in one small rivulet called
Tairth, into the Lyne and Tweed. In the northern extremity of
the parish, above Garvald House, the Medwin is seperated into
two portions. The one of these finds its way eastward into the
Tweed, the other by keeping its natural course to the west, runs
into the Clyde. It is said that salmon and salmon fry, but no
pars, have been killed in the Clyde above Lanark. As these could
never ascend the falls, fisher have been puzzled by the fact. But
it may perharps be accounted for, from the topographical cir-
cumstance her mentioned. The fish may go up the Tweed,
Lyne, and Tairth, into the Medwin by its southern extremity;
and in going down the water, they may, from accident or design,
take the western stream into the Clyde. Whether they are, in
thus returning to the sea, dashed over the Corra Linn,
or whether they succeed, by this new north-west passage, in ex-
changing the German for the Atlantic Ocean as their home, can-
not well be ascertained.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The principal mineral in nine-tenths
of the parish is whin or trap-rocks. These form a portion of the ex-
tensive Phonolitic range, which runs from the confines of Ayrshire,



