
                       	  KILCHOMAN.                        657

ciently taught, there are two schools on the General Assembly's
Scheme,--one supported by the Society for Propagating Christian
Knowledge,--one by the Edinburgh Gaelic School Society,--and
six schools taught by persons on their own adventure.  During the
winter half-year, these schools are numerously attended. The
branches taught are of the most ordinary description. None of
the teachers received a classical education. The rates of pay-
ment per quarter are 1s. 6d., 2s., 2s 6d., and 3s. 6d. The young
people are all taught to read,--the boys to write and figure.
The salary of parochial teacher is L.25, with house and allowance
for garden. There are six Sunday schools, which are well at-
tended. Of the grown-up part of the population, above one-half
are unable to read. They are, however, alive to the benefits of
education, and make considerable exertions to get the children
instructed. The change produced by the more general diffusion
of education is perceptible in the conduct of the younger part of
the population, which contrasts strongly, in some respects, with
that of persons of middle age.
   Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial re-
lief, including regular and occasional poor, is about 25. The sum
paid to each per annum varies from 5s. to L.I. 10s.  The funds
for their support arise from collections in the church-from part
of the fee paid on publication of bans-from mortcloth dues-from
interest of a small sum in stock-and from fines recovered by the
kirk-session from delinquents. The applicants for relief are in-
firm aged persons, whose means of support have failed, and
whose relations are either dead or in indigent circumstances. Re-
lief is occasionally afforded to widows having young children. A
feeling of independence still obtains, and it is considered a deara-
dation to have one's relatives partially supported by the parish.
The wants of the poor are frequently supplied by neighbours.
The parish finds bedding when necessary; food and fuel are
easily procured, and it is rarely any house-rent is exacted. The
kirk-session have the privilege of recommending patients to the
Royal Infirmary at Glasgow.
  Inns.--There are seven public houses; three of these are kept
by respectable persons who are in the habit of lodging travellers.
The other four being mere tippling houses, are a great public nui-
sance, and exercise a pernicious influence on the morals of the peo-
ple.
   ARGYLE.


