
                          LONGFORGAN.    		     419

in so far at least as nothing whatever is paid for them by their
possessors, though not free in the sense of being npen to any who
may choose to occupy them.
  The manse was built for the present incumbent in 1823 and
1824.  It is an excellent house, commanding a delightful prospect,
and embracing every accommodation for a family.  The glebe
consists of between 4 and 5 acres of good ground, and its yearly value
may be stated at L. 14 or L. 15.  The stipend was augmented
in 1824 to 18 chalders of grain, in the following proportions, viz.
138 1/2 bolls, of barley, 138 1/2 bolls of meal, and 11 bolls of wheat,
all payable by the highest fiars of the county, together with L. 2,
being an old allowance for a grass glebe, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for fur-
nishing communion elements.  The whole has amounted on an
average of the thirteen years that have elapsed since the decreet
of modification, to about L. 308 a-year.
  There are 310 families belonging to the Established Church,
which is the only place of worship in the parish, and which is ge-
nerally well attended : and 11 connected in whole or in part with
the different dissenting bodies ; besides three Episcopalianr, and
2 Roman Catholics.  The number of communicants is upwards of
600.  The church collections for religious and charitable objects
have this season yielded L. 22, exclusive of L. 13, 4s. for the des-
titute inhabitants of the Highlands.  The average of them for the
last five years is abott L. 15.
  Education.-The are six schools in the parish, viz. the paro-
chial and five others, which are conducted by persons (two of them
females) entirely on their own adventure.  Three of these are in-
tended for children only, and nothing but a mere knowledge, of
English in its plainest style is professed to be communicated.  In
the other three, the branches of instruction usually taught are,
English reading and grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping,
and occassinally Latin and the elements of mathematical science.
The quarterly payments for English are from 2s. to 3s., and 4s.
when writing and arithmetic are added; the charge for Latin is
5s.  The parochial teacher enjoys the maximum salary of L. 34,
4s. 4 1/2d. and his fees may amount to L. 30 more.  A good dwel-
ling-house and a most excellent school-room have been very re-
cently built for him, and though his garden is not of the extent re-
required by law, defiency is supplied by an adequate allowance
in money.  The emoluments of the private teachers are very va-
rious; L.5, L.00, and as high as L.34 anually.  There are also


