
			COYLTON.                               657

the erection of houses on building leases, and of cottages by pro-
prietors, and to the much greater extent to which the coal mines
have been wrought, which has caused an influx of a migrating
population.
	There are no proprietors, the value of whose estates in the
parish is under L. 50. All are far above this amount.
			IV.--INDUSTRY
	Coylton, with the exception of the coal trade, is almost entirely
an agricultural parish. Of the 11,515 imperial, or 9160 Scotch
acres it contains, the number of Scotch acres cultivated or occa-
sionally in tillage, is 6404; the number never cultivated and con-
stantly in pasture, about 2120; the number in wood, chiefly forest
trees, 636. Part of those which have never been cultivated might
be greatly improved for sheep or cattle pastures, but few or none
could with profit be added to the arable lands.
	The old valued rent of the parish is L. 3290, 16s. 2d. Scotch.
The present real land rental is L. 7734 Sterling. The average
rent of land per acre over the whole parish is 18s. But, as the
hill affects so much the average of the low and arable ground, it
will give a more satisfactory view of the value of land, and state
of rents, to mention, that the average rent per acre of the land
lying between the Ayr, and a line stretching from the east end of
Loch Martnaham to the Coyl, above Coylton village, and com-
prising about 3342 acres, is L. 1, 9s. 6 1/2d. For the arable land
in the district immediately above this, amounting to nearly 3000
acres, the rent is 14s. 6d. per acre; and for the hill and moor
land, being upwards of 2000 acres, 3s. 6d. per acre.
	The price of grazing varies according to the pasture. In the
highest part of the parish, the grazing of a full-grown ox or cow
is L. 2, 15s. Towards the middle district, L. 3; and in the
best pastures in the lowest division, L. 3, 10s. or L. 4. The
summer's grass of a year-old differs in a similar ratio, being L. 1,
and L. 1, 5s; and of a two-years'-old, L. 1, 10s. and L. 1, 15s.
or L. 2.
	The breed of cattle almost universally kept is the pure Ayr-
shire. In the high grounds, a few of the West Highland or Gal-
loway kind are pastured; these being better adapted to the natural
grasses and keener climate. Till very lately, the sheep-stocks
reared were the black-faced, from the North Highlands or Gal-
loway. But, for some years, a cross between the black-faced and
Cheviot has been introduced. It was imagined that the Cheviot
	AYR.          			      T t


