
     of Mary-kirk.

they buried their dead on the farm of Spear-mill.  But when
this happened none can precisely tell.  This farm is bound-
ed on the east by the Burn of Inglis-den.  The Burn also
bounds the parish, and divides it from St Cyrus.  On this
farm, it is likewise said, a bloody battle was fought between
the English and the Scots;-that the English general was slain,
and no doubt they would add that the Scots gained the victory;
but the date of this is also unknown.  There is a small piece
of ground a little up the Burn from Mary-kirk, called the
Threap-acre.  About the boundary of this ground, it is said,
there was once a dispute between the proprietors of Balmalee-
die and Aberluthnet.  The former claimed the ground as his,
and said the Burn was the boundary; the latter contended
otherwise.  At last they agreed to settle the dispute, by al-
lowing the proprietor of Aberluthnet to bring proper men
upon the spot, who might declare upon oath the truth of
the matter.  The arbitrators came at the time appointed,
with the earth of Aberluthnet in their boots, and solemnly
swore, they were then standing upon the ground of Aber-
luthnet.  This fraud coming to the ears of the proprietor of
Balmaleedie, he sent his neighbour a challenge to meet him
in the field, and answer for his perfidy, by single combat.
The combatants met, and the proprietor of Aberluthnet was
slain; and it is not above 18 years since the stones were re-
moved from the place where it is said he was buried.  It is
also to be observed, that there were 4 Druidical temples
here; one at Hospital Shiells, another on the Burn of Bal-
makellie, a third on the farm of Dyke-lands, and at no great
distance from the Deer-dyke, that in ancient times separated
this parish from Garvock, when (as tradition says,) it was a
forest; and a fourth near the house of Hatton, at a little
distance from the public road; but as the stones of all these
are removed, and taken away for building houses, there ap-
pear very few vestiges of them now.  The last thing that

     VOL. XVIII. 4 L


