
264                    KINCARDINSHIRE.

attention has, of late years, in this respect, been paid, by persons
in Stonehaven. The quantity of fruit there produced is great,
and, in many cases, of high quality.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The picturesque remains of the church
of Cowie,* strike the eye of every traveller on the road leading to
and from Stonehaven; the effect, no doubt, injured by its, having
had placed close to it a dead-house, lately erected. It was dedi-
cated to the Virgin Mary. Its length is 67 feet, and width 18 1/2;
and it is surrounded by a burial-ground, in which many bodies con-
tinue to be interred. Cowie does not appear to have ever formed
a separate parish from Fetteresso. The church seems to have
been a private chapel for the accommodation of the proprietors
and their feudal retainers. The chapelry was conveyed to Mari-
schal College Aberdeen, by the original charter of George, Earl
Marischal, in 1593, but reserved by the charter of ratification of
William, Earl Marischal, son of the former, in 1623. At the Re-
formation, the value of the benefice was estimated at 24 bolls of
bear. In 1601, Mr Andrew Milne, minister of the parish, received
a grant of the third of it.+

<FOOTNOTE>Cowie seems to have been, in ancient times, a place of greater importance than its
present appearance would give ground for supposing. There is a charter in Maris-
chal College Aberdeen, dated 20th October 1367, "By Alicia, relict of the deceased
John son of . . . of Cowy, to her well-beloved cousin, Allan of Gilnafoyet, of
four acres belonging to her, with the buildings of the same, lying in the north part
of the village of Cowy."
          Keyth says--"At the mouth of Cowy water, is a free burgh called Cowie vetusia
magis quam opuienta, by reasons of the want of a shore or seaport for ships. There
is to be seen beneath the town, the ruines of a castle, built, as is supposed, by Mal-
colm Canmore; the town of Cowie made a free burgh by the said king. Besides
these ruins, there is an old chappel, called the Kirk of Cowie, and a chaplaincy be-
longing thereto, given out by the king of old; and the parson of Fetteress bath a
portion of the said chaplaincy given to him by the king's donation to this day.
          "There be many crofts of land yet, beside this ruinous castle and the town of Cowie
that have their several denominations from the several office-men of the said palace,
as Cooks-croft, Porter-croft, Stable-croft, Stewart-croft, and have their several char-
ters to this effect."
          No authority is known in support of these statements by Mr Keith. It appears,
however from the baptism register, that the Earls of Marischal and other persons of
high respectability, were an habits of social intercourse, at a much later period, with
persons there residing.
          The grant was as follows:--"Oure Souerane Lord remembering the gude,
traw, and thankfull seruices done to his beines at all occasions be his louit Maister
Andro Mylne. Minister of Fetteresso, especiallic the common affaires of the kirk,
considering also the lang, ernest, and profitable travellis tane and sustenit be him in
his ordiner functioun of the ministerie without any sufficient stipend, or worthy re-
compence mald to him thairfor, the persononage of Fetteresso, quhairunto he is pro-
vydit, being set of auld be his predecessors for ane small silver dewtie, quhilk is not
able to sustane him convenientlie as becometh, and his beiges being of good inten-
tion to incurage the said Mr Andro to continew in the honest discharge of the said
functions) theirfor ordains ane letter, &c. givand, grantand and disponand to the
said Maister Andro, during all the days of his lyflyme, all and haill the thrid of the
shaplainrie of Cowie, extending yearly to aucht bollis bair, &c." The church seems
to have been demolished at the time of the Reformation.


