
922                  SUPPLEMENT TO THE

even in Glasgow belong to the Established Church, how much
greater must be the proportion over the country generally?  The
Church of Scotland has never been the enemy of private schools.
Her whole history in connection with education is a proof
of this; but she thinks that schools are most likely to be acces-
sible to the mass of the people where they are endowed,
and where, of course, the education is cheap; that it is de-
sirable to have some religious security for what is taught the
youth of the nation ; and that such a system as the parochial is
as open as any other to all salutary, intellectual, and literary im-
provement.  Whatever improvement, without afecting the great
principles of morality and religion as at present taught, may be in-
troduced into the education of Scotland; (and the Church has
shown that she is not only not backward, but most anxious to pro-
mote these improvements, as the facts of this paper can tes-
tify,) there is one which is of the highest importance, and that is, a
better remuneration to the teacher.  It is a sad truth, the data of
which the summary of Education returns for 1833-34 supply, that
the whole emoluments of the 1170 parochial instructors of Scot-
land are upon an average, only L. 47, 6s. over the country ge-
nerally ; and for teachers of private schools the provision is still
lower.  In the Highlands it is as low as L.13.  In such cir-
cumstances, how vain is it to expect that there can be any
general or substantial improvement in the system of education as
a whole!  Men, who are so miserably under-paid, can scarcely. be
expected to be very well educated themselves, or to persevere
in acquiring improvements, or to teach with spirit and zeal.
Where the qualifications are superior, there must be a strong
temptation to exchange the school for a profession which more
adequately rewards the labour.  In every light, the result must
be most injurious to the cause of able and successful teaching.
   Ancient Ecclesiastical Record--Religious State of Glasgow
in the end of the Sixteenth Century.--Since the above was
written, an important record has come into the possession of the
presbytery, and I have been requested to give a short ac-
count of it.  The record was supposed to be an early volume
of the presbytery minutes, which would have been very va-
luable, as so large a portion of these minutes was destroyed or
greatly injured by fire in 1793; but on examination, it appears
that the record is the kirk-session book of Glasgow from
3d November 1583, to 29th March 1592, extending there-


