
     of Kilbarchan.

   Mines, Coal, Limestone-There are seven different coal
mines in the parish, all the property of the Milliken family,
except one, the property of Mr Cunningham of Craigends.
Lime-stone is found connected with the coal at each of these
mines.  Only 4 of them are at present wrought, and at 3 of
them, no coal is sold but the splint, the rest being consumed
in burning the lime.  But the fourth produces more coal than
is consumed upon the lime.  The overplus is sold; but is

     VOL. XV. 3 R

<FOOTNOTE>

times, they might have been used as places of rendezvous, where chiefs and
vassals might settle their disputes, yet they appear to have been originally
burrows, or monunents erected over the bodies of warriors.
   I am inclined to think this mound has been a fort, or out-post of the Ro-
mans, when stationed at Paisley, and intended to keep the inhabitants of the
mountains in check It commands a full view of the Roman camp at Paisley,
distant about 6 miles, and might cummunicate with it by signals.
   A little to the East of the castle, there are tire vestiges of an old Romish
chapel; though nothing remains but the foundation, yet the present tenant,
Robert Donaldson, says, his father remembered the walls 3 feet high.  The
floor was of clay, which being dug, contained human bones.  The farm is
called Prieston; and the house remains the same as when the priest lived in
it.
   On the top of Bar-hill, formerly mentioned, in a commanding situation,
are the remains of an old Danish encampment.  It consists of a semi-circular
parapet of loose stones towards the South, and defended, on the North, by the
perpendicular basaltic rocks, already mentioned, The tradition concerning
it among the people here, is, that it was an encampment of the celebrated Sir
William Wallace:  and they shew a pinnacle of rock, where they say Wal-
lace sat, while he enticed the English forces into a bog at the bottom of the
rock, where they perished.  But as our historians make no mention of this,
I am inclined to think the fortification, from its circular form, of Danish ori-
gin.
   There are two other ruinous castles, one to the West, anciently the seat
of the Crawfords; but now demolished almost to the foundation.  This castle,
with the lands annexed to it, were called Achinames, which in Gaelic means
the field of butter.  The other, on the North-west, on the lands of Penneld, is
said to be built by one of the name of Haic; but he being killed in the in-
term, it was never finished.


