
                              CALLANDER.                             353

horse; the breed of  horses has been very much improved of late,
both in this and in the neighbouring parishes,-as has also the breed
of black-cattle.  This improvement is owing in a great measure
to the encouragement given by the Highland and Agricultural
Society of Scotland, not only in establishing general exhibitions of
stock of all kinds, but in distributing premiums for the best, and
also by district shows, one of which has been held for several years
past in this parish.  The breed of sheep upon our hills is of the
black-faced kind, while the Cheviot and the Leicester are fed
upon the low grounds. Roes are to be found in the woods.  Lord
Willoughby has a forest of red-deer at Glenartney, near the con-
fines of this parish, which are sometimes seen traversing this
neighbourhood, particularly in winter.  Hares, rabbits, and foxes
are numerous; the latter often commit sad depredations among
the sheep and game.  Wild cats, badgers, &c. are also found.
Such places as the Glen of Brackland and the Trosachs afford
shelter and security to these destructive animals.  We have here
the grouse, black-cock, the ptarmigan, the partridge, the phea-
sant, the snipe, and plover.  Wild ducks and other water-fowl
abound, and not unfrequently the eagle is seen soaring in the
heavens, or perched on the pinnacle of a rock in the Trosachs.
   Our lakes, and rivers, and mountain streams, abound in trout, sal-
mon, pike, eel, perch, char, and other small fish.
Botany.-The oak, the ash, alder, Scotch fir, bireb, plane,
holly, hazel, and the willow, grow spontaneously. The oak is valu-
able, and is cut commonly every sixteen or twenty years, and
the bark sold to the tanners. The proprietors pay great attention                                     Ion
to their oak woods, and some of them are beautifying the ap-
pearance of the country by rich and extensive plantations of
Scotch fir, larch, spruce, plane, elm, beech, lime, chestnuts pop-
lar, and other trees.  There are some trees which have grown to a
good size mostly of hard wood, and some Scotch fir.  On the glebe
are still remaining full grown trees, planted by, the Earl of Cal-
lander about the year 1596; and venerable hawthorn in front
of the manse, with its branches curiously entwined, is still in full
vigour. The most common shrubs which grow upon the higher
grounds are: broom, whins and, heath of Ihe usual kinds.  Of the
heath, the Highlanders in former times, made a dye, first; by boil-
ing woollen cloth with alum and then with the tops of heath
produced an orange-colour.  It has been used too in tanning leather
Juniper grows in all soils and situations, and of different sizes. The
  PERTH.                             Z


