
                         LOCHWINNOCH.                         93


their talents and literature:--James Latta, Surgeon in Edinburgh,
was born in 1754. He was son of James Latta, an extensive farmer,
and grandson of Michael Nasmith, long parochial schoolmaster in
this parish. He published a practical system of surgery in 3 volumes
8vo, the second edition of which appeared in 1790, and is quoted
by Cooper, in his Dictionary of Surgery, as a respectable work.
Latta died young and unmarried.
  Alexander Wilson, the Scots poet, and celebrated American
ornithologist, was not a native of this parish, but he was connected
with it by residence. His father removed from Paisley, the place
of his nativity, to Auchinbathie, in 1784, and his son was employ-
ed as a weaver in Lochwinnoch till 1790. In consequence of this,
many of his poems are founded on the scenery and incidents of
the parish :--such as Calder Banks, Address to Mr McDowall of
Garthland, Fauldhead's Elegy, &c. His most remarkable poem,
Wattie and Meg, is supposed to refer to two individuals who were
well known here; but the inhabitants of Paisley dispute this ho-
nour with us. In consequence of a satirical poem written against
a respectable manufacturer in Paisley, an action was raised against
him before the Sheriff, and though the sentence was mild, he
took it miss, and went to America in 1794. He lived at Phila-
delphia, and having abandoned politics, which had provoked his
muse to satire, he betook himself to the study of natural history.
There he published a splendid work entitled American Ornitho-
logy, in 9 volumes, with plates. *

  <FOOTNOTE>It may not, be improper to subjoin a notice of tbe parochial minister since
the Reformation. It so happens, that almost all the former Presbyterian minis-
ter of Lochwinnoch have been not merely exemplary to their characters, and dili-
gent in the discharge of their duty, but acceptable to their parishioners. This cir-
cumtances has kept the people united, promoted their improvement and maintain-
ed the Established Church here in a state of uninterrupted prosperity. This is a
fact worthy of the attention of patrons. l. The first person who officiated in this
place in sacred things, after the Reformation, was Ninian Sempill, in 1576. He
was only a "reader",--a class of public teachers still of inferior repute in the country.
His stipend was L. 16 Scots, with the kirklands. Mr Andrew Knox, son of
Mr John Knox of Ramforlie in Kilbarchan, was ordained about 1580, and translat-
ed to Paisley in 1585. He helped to defeat an attempt of Ms Mew Baresleyof kirk-
land, to overturn the Protestant faith by the assistance of the court of Spain, but was
not equally zealous againts Episcopacy, which shows lie bad lost something of the
spirit of his relative the great John Knox of a former generations when James VI,
restored Episcopacy in 1606, he was made Bishop of the Isles. In 1622, he was
promoted to the Bishoprick of Raphoe in Ireland, where he died in 1631. Crawford
represents him as a person of considerable learning but of dispositions, and
averse to persecution for conscience sake. He therefore showed great kindness to
his Presbyterian countrymen who fled from Scotland in accounts of their aversions to
the church which the government were trying to establish in the country. S. Mr
Patrick Hamilton was minister of this parish in 1602, and was translated to Paisley
in 1697. 4. Mr Alexander Hamilton in 1897. I have found no moved how the
parish was supplied during the long vacancies of this early period. 5. Mr Hew


