
622                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and the kingfisher is not uncommon on the banks of the Water
of Leith.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   From the commanding position of the ground on which the pre-
sent city of Edinburgh is placed, especially the bold and precipi-
tons rock on which the Castle stands, there can be no doubt but
that it was early occupied as a place of refuge and defence in the
first troubled periods of the Scottish history. The surrounding
country, at the Roman conquest, formed the province of Valentia.
The district was subsequently occupied by Saxon invaders from
the north of England; and by them chiefly retained till about the
year 1020, when the Lothians were ceded to the Scottish mo-
narch, Malcolm II.
   Name.-The most ancient name which we find given to Edin-
burgh Castle according to Boetius is Castelh Mynyd Agned, or the
fortress of the Hill of Agned, and the bill itself Mynyd Agned
Cathre-gonion, the hill Agned nigh the fortress. Simeon, of Dur-
ham, writing in the year 854, mentions this fortress under the
name of Edwinesburch, or the castle of Edwin, probably so called
after Edwin Prince of Northumberland, who flourished in 626,
about which period probably the fortress was first built. In
a copy of a very old French map of Edinburgh the Castle is
denominated Castrum Puellarum; tradition relating that the daugh-
ters of the Pictish kings were wont to be kept there as a place of
safety.
   Historical Notices.-King David I. in his charter of foundation
of the abbey of Holyrood, dated 1128, recognises Edinburgh as
Burgo meo de Edwinesburg, and, as this monarch is said to have
been the first who chartered royal boroughs in Scotland, it is
not improbable that Edinburgh derived this distinction from him.
   It must at this period have been a town of some consequence,
for, besides paying revenues to the king, out of which forty shil-
lings were to be paid yearly to the abbey of Holyrood, the charter
also to the same "one half of the tallow, lard, and hides of
the beasts killed in Edinburgh."
   In the year 1174, William the Lion was taken prisoner in an
unsuccessful excursion into NorthumberIand; and the Scots, im-
patient at the captivity of their king, purchased his freedom by
giving up to their enemies some of the chief fortresses of the na-
tion among which was the Castle of Edinburgh. On the subsequent
                                   3

