
                       PARISH OF HOBKIRK OR HOPEKIRK.

         PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                       THE REV. JOHN EWEN, MINISTER.



      I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.--In the more ancient records, the name of this parish is
written Hopkirk, undoubtedly an abbreviation of Hope-kirk or
kirk of the Hope. *
   Extent, Figure, Boundaries, &c.--The parish extends in length
from north to south, about 11 miles, and in breadth from east to
west, about 3 miles, widening to something more at the top or south
end, and contracting to little more than one mile at the northern
extremity.  Its figure is not unlike the naked impression of the left
foot, the heel being turned to the north. The whole superficies
may be estimated at 30 square miles./F+  On the south, it is bound-
ed by Castleton parish; on the west by Cavers and Kirkton ; on
the north by Cavers and Bedrule ; on the east by Southdean, and
a small part of Castleton.  By the one or other of these two
last-mentioned, it is separated about six miles from the English
border.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.--The hills in the southern ex-
tremity appear to be a continuation of the Carter or Cheviot range.
The principal summits are Fanna and Windbrugh, which attain an
elevation of about 1600 feet.  At the opposite or northern extre-
mity, Rubberslaw rears, to a height of 1420 feet, its dark rug-
ged and heath-covered form, part of which only is in this parish,
the remainder in Cavers and Kirkton.  On the other side the Rule,
and somewhat south, is the beautiful round-shouldered and grassy
hill of Bonchester, rising to a height of about 1260 feet.  The
flat lands or haughs lie all within the valley through which the
Rule flows from south to north, and are scarcely a quarter of a

<FOOTNOTE>A hope means a small valley or glen opening into a larger valley, generally at
the confluence of a mountain rill with a larger stream.
     Stobie's map errs in assigning the whole of the suppressed parish of Abbotrule
to Hopekirk, whereas it was divided equally between Hopekirk and Southdean.
                                     4


