
	64                  CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

	   Breeds of Live-Stoch.-The common breed of cattle among the
	proprietors and larger tenants is a cross with the Highland and
	Teeswater, which Mr Traill introduced some years ago. They
	have answered very well, and are a vast improvement compared
	with the old stock. The smaller tenants still keep the old breed,
	an inferior description of highlanders.
	   The breed of sheep is the Leicester, which was also introduced
	by Mr Traill eight years ago: it has succeeded beyond expecta-
	tion, both as to weight and the quality of the wool. There are
	now about 1500 sheep of this kind in the parish; and the num-
	ber is yearly increasing.
	   Husbandry.-The husbandry of the parish is of all kinds, from
	the best modern systems to the most antiquated. On the improv-
	ed farms the five and six shift courses are followed. Turnips eat
	off with sheep, and business managed much the same as in the
	southern part of the kingdom. On the lands occupied by the
	smaller tenantry (they occupy more than one-half of the parish,)
	the system is continual cropping, or nearly so, viz. bear and oats
	alternately. Numbers are beginning to sow a few turnips and
	grass-seeds; but there is scarcely as yet any regular rotation in-
	troduced. However, with the great command the parish has of
	manure, viz. marl, sea-weed, and shell-sand, vast quantities of bear
	and oats are raised of good quality-Angus oats generally weigh-
	ing from 40 lb. to 42 lb. per bushel, and bear from 48 lb. to 52
	1b. A part of the parish (Murkle) is remarkable for producing
	black oats. They degenerate everywhere else by repeated sowing
	except here; the consequence of which is, that the whole coun-
	ty take a change of seed of their oats from Murkle.
	   The mode of reclaiming waste lands is,-first enclose with ditch
	and thorn hedge, protected with flags set on edge; then drain out the
	springs with three feet or four feet drains as required; plough in and
	allow it to lie a year or more; lay on mart or shell sand at the rate
	of twenty to twenty-five loads per acre; then cross plough and
	work it down for turnips with dung, or bone-dust, or both; feed
	the turnips of with, sheep; then oats, or bear and grass seeds;
	then pasture with i3heep for a few years; and the land is general-
	ly afterwards fit for any rotation. The quality of the soil being
	good, considerable progress is made and making in thus reclaim-
	ing waste lands. Furrow draining has also been introduced on Mr
	Traill's estate. The effect is wonderfull, and the practice will,
	though expensive, in a few years, be common.
                                    3


