
564                             EDINBURGHSHIRE.


said to have come with Queen Margaret to Scotland, and to have
got from her husband King Malcolm III., some lands near Edin-

<FOOTNOTE>of ye bounds" was ever ready, on application, to interpose his authority as a civil ma-
gistrate for such summary processes as the above, and for the enforcement of disci-
pline where the parties were refractory.*
   Mr John Melville's+ trial having been gone through, and his edict thrice seryed,
an the l9th September, he desired "ane formall testimoniall for his admissioun to
be given to ye bischope per se. It was grauntit" Ordination and induction must
have followed though not noticed in the record; and accordingly, at a visitation of the
kirk of Newton by the presbytery some time afterwards, occasioned by a complaint
of his having been slandered by one of the parishioners, we find, among other
things, Mr John expressing his "earnest desire to ye brethr yat yei wald have cair
of ye provisioun of ye stipend and of ane manse to him and his successors." It is to
be noted, therefore, that, up to this period, neither a stipend out of the teinds, nor a
place of residence for the minister was provided in this parish. The want of them,
however, was greatly felt, and measures were from time to time taken for the attain-
ment of both. As to the former, one is as follows:-23d January 1623. "Quhilk
day Mr John Melvine relating unto ye brethr yat it was ye will and mynde of ye
Prince's counsel yat ye brethr, for ye better provisioun of Natoun, suld deall with ye
gentilmen of ye parochin to see what yei will give for yair pairtes, and ye Prince's
grace fill out ye rest, also bringing a letter fra, ye Archbishop to hold a visita-
tioun for yat effect. It was appointit for Tuesday next." Having taken place,
"Reportit the moderator ye visitatioun of Natoun, where Mr John-Melvine, minister,
being removed, was approven. The gentilmen yair present being carnestlie desired
be ye brethr, yat everie one of yaim wald do for yair own pairtes to make up a sti-
pend to yat kirk, and ye Prince's grace wald fill up ye rest. Answered, yei payed
deare for yair teyndes, so yat yei culd do nothing except yat privilie, yei wald give
Mr John suretie for some help. As likwayes willed ye brethr to tak ordour anent
ye valuatioun of yair vicarage, and to deall with ye Prince's counsel," (the crown
was patron and in possession of the benefice,) "to make up ye rest of ye stipend.
It being also regraitted by ye brether yat yair was not a manse for ye minister, and
yat ye kirk-yaird had no dyke. The gentilmen were content to build both, and
choosed to yat effect four of yair tennents stentmaisters, &c. But in regard yat seed-
time was now to come, ye gentilmen desyred a prorogation till after heir seed-time."
   Mr John Melville was guilty of various misdemeanours, on account of which his
conduct was animadverted upon by the brethren of the presbytery, on one of which
occasions the record runs thus:-"4th March 1624. Compeired Mr John Melville,
having come fra court, quho declared to ye brethr, yat he had obtained of ye Prince
big grace, three hundreth merks money yeirlie, and settilled by his grace's counsell
to be yeirlie paid to ye kirk of Natoun. The said Mr John being posed anent his
unorderlie solemnizing of marriage, confessed he had sinned against God and ye kirk
yairin, and quhat he had done, he did upon necessitie, being engaged in debt to ye
parties be reasoun of ye meanness of his provisioun. But now seeing God had pro-
vyded him, besought ye brethr most humblie to pardon him, and promisit yairafter,

   * That the said official also voluntarily interponed his authority for the attain-
ment of these objects at a much later date, during the existence of ibe heritable ju-
risdictions, the following will show:-"Acts of the Barron Court of Edmonstoun,
holden at the tounhead thereof by Alexander Elphinstone, bailie to John Wauchope
of Edmonstoune, the 26th October 1708." In the first, the said bailie ratifies and
approves of all former acts of court made for frequenting of God's worship on the
Sabbath day, and for obeying the church censures and the discipline thereof, and or-
daine those guilty being convict to pay ten pounds Scots for pious uses according to
the said acts of court.
     From what is said of him above as having been the son of one who was a mar-
tyr and witness for Christ, he must have been son of Mr James Melville, who was
coadjutor of his uncle, Andrew Melville, both at Glasgow and St Andrews, and who,
having incurred the royal displeasure, along with his uncle, by an intrepid stand
for the rights and privileges of the Presbyterian Kirk of Scotland, was driven into
exile, and, having been at last permitted to reside at Berwick, died there 19th Janu-
ary 1614, in the eighth year of his banishment.


