
                      FERRY PORT-ON-CRAIG.                          81

fidently anticipated that, at no distant period, new branches of trade
will be opened up, while those which have already been so success-
fully pursued will be greatly extended. While the population of
Newburgh has been steadily increasing during the last fifty years,
its wealth has been more than quadrupled since the commence-
ment of the century. Both are still rapidly progressing, and from
experience of the past, as well as speculations already forming, we
have reason to conclude that the place will continue to progress in
commercial enterprise and importance. One great and substantial
evil felt here is that which arises from difference of opinion on pub-
lic affairs. In places of greater extent, the shock is considerably mi-
tigated, in consequence of the different classes, of varying shades
and degrees of sentiment, through which it has to pass, thus con-
stituting, as it were, an intermediate tribunal by which disagree-
ments are insensibly reconciled and asperities softened down; but
here, and perhaps in most places of similar dimensions, the collision
is abrupt, and families remain estranged from each other, because
of matters in which neither may be personally or even in the re-
motest degree concerned.

   April 1836.

                    PARISH OF FERRY PORT-ON-CRAIG.

               PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                    THE REV. W. NICOLSON, MINISTER.

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE local situation of the town of Ferry Port-on-Craig
naturally accounts for its name; it is on a rocky shore on the south
bank of the Tay, where there is a regular passage, by means of boats,
to the opposite shore at Broughty Ferry. Previously to the erec-
tion of pier, the boats landed and took in passengers at the point
of a craig or rock, where, by the aid of a timber platform laid be-
tween the craig and the boat, horses and cattle were also shipped,
-so that this was literally a ferry whose port was on a craig.\f

<FOOTNOTE>Neither horses nor cattle, however, cross the river by this passage, since the erec-
tion of the steam-boat between Newport and Dundee, although it is expected that a
similar mode of conveyance will ere long be adopted here.
   FIFE.                                    F

