
                                EDNAM.                    421

tion was defrayed by subscriptions contributed or promoted by
the members of the Ednam Club, which was composed of several
gentlemen living in the parish and neighbourhood, who used to
meet and dine together in the village on the anniversary of the
Poet's birth.  Their last meeting was held in September 1819.
A miniature of the poet from a painting in the collection of the
late Earl of Buchan was presented to the club by his Lordship,
and is kept in the manse.
     The late William Dawson, Esq. of Graden, a distinguished
agriculturist, who introduced the turnip husbandry into Scotland,
was born at Harpertown, in this parish; and there is some reason
to believe, from a comparison of the biography of Captain Cook.
with the parish register, that the father of the circumnavigator
was a native of Ednam.
     Landholders.--The landholders in this parish are, Lord Ward,
the proprietor of the estate of Ednam; John Waldie, Esq. of
Hendersyde;--Moffat, Esq.; Sir William Don, Bart.; Ro-
bert Thomson, Esq., formerly one of the magistrates of Edin-
burgh; and Sir William Dickson, Bart.
     Modern Buildings.--Hendersyde Park, the residence of Mr
Waldie, is the only mansion-house in the parish.
     There are three corn-mills and a brewery.
     Parochial Registers.--February 6, 1668, is the date of the
earliest insertion in the register of baptisms.  In this register there
is one considerable blank, owing, probably, to the loss of one of the
books.

                          III.--POPULATION.
     According to a census taken with great care between the 14th
and 25th of May 1838, the population of this parish then amounted
to 589; of which number 274 were males, and 315 females.  There
were at that time 118 families.  One landholder is resident.
     The means of subsistence and the comforts of life are as gene-
rally diffused here as in any other part of the country; and, with
not very many exceptions, the people are peaceable, sober, indus-
trious, and attentive to the ordinances of religion.

                           IV.--INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture, &c.--There is no waste land in this parish.  Of
about 3700 acres of arable land, two parts are in corn, two in
pasture and hay, and one part is in turnips and fallow.  There are
40 acres in policy, 70 in pasture along the banks of the rivers, and



