
     of Logie-Coldstone.

part of the country is interspersed with a number of small
hills, and large barren moors; a great many of which retain
the marks of cultivation, by the remains of surrows and fences;
but the ground is now so reduced by that barbarous prac-
tice of casting muck-feal and turf, (that is, the surface), that
it produces nothing in general, but a short worthless kind of
heath.  Near the manse there is a small plantation of fir
wood; to the S. and E. of the church, these are 5 of the
same kind.  Some farms on the E. and W. side of the
manse, called the Easter and Western Baronies, and lands
of Waterairn, are a fine rich deep loam; and though very
capable ot improvement, are all in a state of nature, except
the farms of Kinaldie, Coldstone, and part of that of Loan-
head.  The first is all inclosed, and some of the fields
straighted and dressed; the second was inclosed by the
heritor about 14 years ago, and lies in natural grass on
which he pastures his own cattle in summer and harvest;
a part of the third, which lies near the manse, is inclosed
and improved.  On the E. and W. side of the church, the
ground is light and sandy, a great part of it of a very
poor quality; in advancing farther from the church, to-
wards the S. E. extremity, the soil is of a fine rich loam.
That part of the parish called Deskrie Side, which lies on
the north side of the hills, is of a cold wet mossy nature,
and very subject to frost and mildews.

   Climate, Rivulets, Springs, etc.-The air is accounted sa-
lubrious.  The frost in winter is often very intense, though
the country is not near so stormy as the neighbouring pa-
rishes to the N. and W. of it, such as Towie, Glenbucket,
and Strathdon.  There are 3 rivulets in the district, which
fall into the Dee in the parish of Aboyne.  They are so
small in summer, that they require gathered dams to drive
the meal-mills, of which there are 5 in the interior part of
this district, and 1 on Deskrie Side, driven by a burn, the
one side of which, for 2 miles, belongs to this parish.  It


