
                        LINLITHGOW.                        181

numerative, for the utmost that a female can earn, working with
the most, untiring diligence from morning to night, is about 6d.
per day-a most miserable pittance, when we consider the toil of
the over-tasked female, who, however, but for this, scanty as it is,
would be often entirely destitute. The employments of the ope-
ratives are generally healthful, and no way injurious to correct moral
habits. A portion of the workmen are, as in every town, dissi-
pated; but this arises from other causes than the nature of their
occupation: others, again, are highly intelligent and religious,
most favourable specimens of Scottish intellect and piety.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Town, &c.-Linlithgow, which is the county town, is the only
one in the parish. It is a place of great antiquity. Its earliest
existing charter, as a royal burgh, is dated in the reign of Ro-
bert II.; but, previous to that period, it undoubtedly enjoyed that
rank, since, in the parliament of David II., held at Perth in 1348,
it was statute and ordained, "that, so long as the burghs of Ber-
wic and Roxburgh are detained and bolden by English men, the
burghs of Lanark and Lithcow shall be received and admitted in
their place," as constituent members of the court of the four
burghs. In early times, when the residence of the Scottish mo-
narchs, it was a place of considerable importance, trade, and opu-
lence, and, though shorn of its former splendour, it has by no
means sunk so low as many other towns once of consequence, but
now lost sight of, in the increase of younger and more active
communities. It extends about a mile along the high road be-
tween Edinburgh and Stirling, along the south bank of the lake
already mentioned. The principal portion of the population is con-
fined to this single street, which is of various width, expanding at the
cross into a large open square, narrowing in other places to but a
few feet, and widening at either end. The place has an antique air,
many of the houses having that aspect of decayed grandeur, which
testify to the power and opulence of their ancient owners. It is,
however, gradually changing in its look of "venerable eld," as mo-
dern buildings are usurping the place of these worn-out edifices.
Several houses are still called Templar Tenements, having been
the property of the preceptory of the Knights of St John at Tor-
phichen. The superiority of these tenements has now, with one
exception, been acquired by the town-council. Mention has been
made of the trade of the town and its principal antiquities, under


