
156                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

ease by one plough; above thirty that require two ploughs; seven
or eight that cannot be wrought by fewer than three ploughs, at
least; and two that furnish sufficient employment for five, six,or
seven.  Several of the others, although they have a less field for
their operations, are entitled, we doubt not, to a proportional share
of credit; but the occupiers of the two largest farms, both gentle-
men, well educated, of public spirit, and possessed of some funds,
have, in the course of a few years, effected an admirable change,
both as to appearance and value, in the land under their manage-
ment. *  Besides the tenements above-mentioned, there is a very
considerable number of small possessions, the holders of which
continue with one horse either to associate with a neighbour simi-
larly circumstanced, or to mount a yoke of their own, by providing
an ox, a stot, or even sometimes a cow, to go alongside his horse
in the spring season.  Most villagers, and some with small crofts
in the country, hire for labouring their lots of ground, or doing
other similar services, the ordinary charge being at the rate of
1s. 6d. to 2s. for a horse per yoking.  The total number of ploughs
presently required, or rather actually used in the parish, is as fol-
lows, viz. 244 drawn by a pair of horses; 25 by a pair of oxen;
and 27 by a horse and a nolt animal of some description for a fel-
low.  It is utterly impracticable, for obvious reasons, to furnish an
accurate statement of the amount or value of agricultural stock;
and yet this, if it could be procured, appears to be a very import-
ant matter, as it would afford data for comparing the state of the
country at one period with that at another, and marking the
change for the better or the worse that takes place during the in-
terval.  As a near approximation to the truth, however, the fol-
lowing may be given as the gross amount of live-stock, of all ages
which have been usually kept, summer and winter, for a few years
back throughout the parish, taken from lists carefully made up by
different individuals acquainted with the several districts, viz.
4347 black cattle, 721 horses, 1019 sheep, and 216 swine.  An
attempt was made at the same time to ascertain the quantity of
grain sown and grown yearly on the several possessions.  Owing
principally to the irregularity of seasons, there is still greater diffi-
culty in ascertaining the fact here than in the former case.  The
following, however, may be stated as the result:

<FOOTNOTE>Much to the loss and regret of many, one of these gentlemen has paid the last
debt of nature since this paragraph was written.


