
     Statistical Account

   Price of Provisions, Labour, Servants Wages, etc.-Provi-
sions have risen in price since the commencement of the pre-
sent century at least two-thirds, and in some instances more.
Butcher meat is at present from 3 d. to 4 d. a pound; chic-
kens 3 d. a piece; hens and ducks 1 s.; butter 9 d. and cheese
3 d. a pound.  The wages of a mason are 1 s. 8 d. a day;
of a carpenter 1 s. 4 d.; of a taylor 1 s.; or 6 d. with victuals;
of a day labourer in husbandry 1 s.  The wages for harvest-
work of a man are from L. 1: 5: 0 to L. 1: 10 :0; of a wo-
man from 18 s. to 20 s.  The yearly wages of a male servant
are from L. 6 to L. 8; of a female servant L. 3.  Servants
wages are nearly trippled within these last 50 years.  Far-
mers prefer men servants who are unmarried to cottagers,
chiefly because they are always at hand, while the cottagers
go to their own houses after the stated hours of labour.  Cot-
tagers, however, are preferred for harvest-work, as they do
not require lodging, which it would be difficult to find for
so many as are wanted at that season.  When a cottager is
employed through the whole year, which is done in a few
instances, he is allowed a house and yard, with about L. 6 of
wages.  Some eat in the farmer's house; and others are al-
lowed, in name of maintenance, 6 1/2 bolls, or 52 stones of oat-
meal, with pasture for a cow; but, in the latter cafe, the wa-
ges seldom exceed L. 5, or L. 5: 10: 0 at most.  By the 
wages he receives, with the produce of his wife's industry,
arising chiefly from spinning, he is enabled to live pretty
comfortably, to bring up three or four children, and to give
them an education suitable to their station.  It is evident,
indeed, that doing this with an income of about L. 10
must require good economy, but, unless it be wanting, there
are no cottagers in straitened circumstances.  Their ordinary
food consists of meal, partly of oats, partly of barley, potatoes,
and milk.  A family of few persons, viz. a wife and four


