
     of Dalry.

small compared with some in the neighbourhood, scarce ex-
ceeding II acres of land, which in its original state would have
been though high rented at 8s. the acre.  The present incum-
bent, though at an expensealmost equal to the original value of
the land, has rendered it at least twice as valuable as formerly.
This parish has a fund of about L. 1000, which was bequeath-
ed to it by a Mr Johnston, to erect a school house, and main-
tain a schoolmaster capable of teaching Latin.  At this
school, the parishioners have the privilege of getting their
children taught gratis.  In former times, this school was
one of the most famous in the southern parts of Scotland,
and was crowded with scholars from many distant places,
as the salary with the Candlemas offerings, procured a com-
fortable subsistence for a man of superior parts and education.
But in late times, though the schoolmasters have possessed
abilities and literature equal, is not superior to those of the 
more ancient masters, yet few scholars have come from dis-
tant places to attend them.  The reason is, that learning is
now so common, that there is scarcely a parish schoolmaster
of 10 in Scotland, who is not able to teach Latin and
Greek, with accompts and some practical parts of the ma-
thematics; in short, every thing necessary to prepare the
young student for the university, as well as to qualify the
man of business for acting his part well in any ordinary
occupation.-The number of poor in this parish is between
12 and 20, and may be expected to increase with the in-
crease of the village.  They are supported by the weekly
collections and the interest of about L. 150, of which Mr
Forbes of Callendar, when he became an heritor in the pa-
rish, gave L. 10, 10s. and Mr John Wallace, late merchant
in London, bequeathed L. 5.  The rest had been accumu-
lated when the number of the poor was smaller.  The he-
ritors and their tenants, have never yet been obliged to as-
sets themselves for their support; but as the funds for this 


