
     Statistical Account

nal charter of erection*, 52 acres of adjacent land, which,
together with the burgh, had been conveyed to the abbey of
Dunfermling in 1450, were disjoined from the regality of
the abbey, and annexed to the burgh, to be held of the crown.
Some time after, the right of pasturage in the moor, which
had also been conveyed to the burgh in 1450, was by a new
conveyance from the abbey, converted into property+.  The
moor and burgh acres extended to full three fourths of the
present parish.  The burgh acres were early alienated.  The
moor continued long in the possession of the community.
In 1648, at which time the parts of it that lay nearest the
town were begun to be converted into arable land, it was let
at L. 72: 6: 8++.  In 1688, the moor and common loan
were let at L. 68: 10SS Since that time the whole property
of the town has been feued out, and it now yields L. 40: 12,

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*This charter, which is referred to in the Charter of Confirmation, but
without specifying its date, is not now to be found.  It is probable that the
papers which related to the erection of the burgh, were either in
1560, when the French, whom the queen Regene brought into Scotland to
assist in suppressing the Protestants, plundered and burnt Kirkaldy in their
destructive progress along the coast of Fife, or lost in 1651 at the taking of
Dundee, to which place they had, on Cromwell's invasion, been removed for
security, with other valuable effects, as mentioned in page 21st.  One or o-
ther of these is stated in a memorial from the town in 1678,     reason
why they could not be produced in a process before the Court of Session, in
which an exhibition of them had been ordered.  The facts  ???? above are
taken from different papers in possession of the burgh.-

+This conveyance is mentioned in an inventory of writs belonging to the
     
+and discharge Henry B  w ll to the town.

SSReport of the Commission of of Visitation, appointed by the Convention of
Burghs.

</UNREADABLE>


