
344                                FIFESHIRE.

adjacent tenantry still use the butying-ground, Abercrombie being
the oldest remembered site of their ancestors.
                     III.-POPULATION.
Population in 1775, by return to Dr Webster, 780
           in 1790,     -                    832
           in 1821,       -                  912
           in 1831,        -                1110

The increase within the last ten years is partly to be accounted
for by the working of the coal ; since the coal ceased to be
wrought, there has been a marked diminution of the population.
There are about 130 of the population in the country, and 884
in St MODan's.
Births.-The average of births cannot be given with so much
certainty, as were desirable,-from the neglect of many parents in
giving in their children's names for registration. But the whole
number from 1828 till 1833 inclusive, is 59, which gives an ave-
rage of 9 5 for each year.
The average of deaths in. six years, appears from a register
which was for some time kept by the minister, to be 19.1'.
Families.-Tlie number of families in the parish by the minis-
ter's last visiting list is 248.
I do not know more than one bachelor above fifty years old in
the parish, but there are at least 12 widowers of that age, and
there are 19 unmarried females above forty-five.
In 1828, there died in the parish, in his ninety-second year, in
full vigour both of body and mind, a respectable farmer, whose an-
cestors and himself had occupied the same farm on the Aber-
crombie estate, for nearly 300 years. His name was John Cow-
pery and his son (Robert) still keeps possession.*
There are two male parishioners of ours, at present boarded in
the Dundee Lunatic Asylum. The board of one of these unfor-
tunate persons is defrayed out of his own funds, that of the other
by the kirk-session and beritors. We have three fatuous persons
at homes not strictly under coercion, and all of them maintained
by their respective families without parochial assistance. These
last mentioned were born without apparent defect either of body
or mind. Their present unhappy state is to be ascribed to very
severe sickness in earl life.
There is every reason to believe, that it is of this stationary family, that the ad-
mirable William Cowper of Olney thus writes to one of his friends, (Mrs Courtenay-)
11 While Pitcairne whistles for his family estate in Fifeshire, he will do ,,ell if be
Will sound a few notes for me. I am originally of the same shire, and a family Of
my name is still there.7-See Dundee Courier, January 11, 1822.


