
  				MUIRKIRK.  		149

tation, but do not affect the health of the inhabitants. There
are, therefore, no particular diseases incident to the parish which
are the result of moist air; nor any other diseases that are not
common to other parts of the country.
	Hydrography.--There are many excellent springs in this parish,
but none of them present any thing peculiarly interesting, if we ex-
cept a few which possess the power of petrifaction. These springs
are not strong, but the process can be distinctly seen. The moss
which grows on the edge of each of the springs is generally about
two inches high. The moss is green and flourishing on the top, the
middle appears as if half-frozen, and the lower part is converted
into stone. I am not aware that any springs have been found pos-
sessing medicinal qualities, but it is not unlikely that there may be
a few unknown impregnated with sulphur, iron, or other mineral in-
fusion.
	There are no natural lakes, but two artificial lochs or reservoirs
were formed about the year 1802, at Glenbuck, in this parish, by
Messrs James Finlay and Company, of Glasgow, to supply their
cotton works at Catrine. They cover 121 acres of land.
	The water of Ayr, which is the second river in point of mag-
nitude in the county, rises immediately out of the reservoirs al-
ready mentioned; and, after running a distance of thirty miles, falls
into the Frith of Clyde at Ayr. It is augmented by a number of
lesser streams before leaving the parish, amongst which may be
mentioned the waters of Garpel, Greenock, and Whitehaugh.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--There is an extensive field of coal
and other minerals, forming a portion of the great coal-field of
Scotland, which runs from east to west about seven miles, and is, on
an average, about one mile and a-half broad. The thickness of the
coal at present wrought is 24 feet 4 inches; but, altogether, there
will be nearly 40 feet of workable coal. There are also twenty-four
bands of ironstone, of the average thickness of 6 inches. The line
of dip is irregular. In the northern portion of the coal field, it is
greater than in the southern, varying from one foot in two, to one
foot in seven, and, in some portions of the outcrop, it is nearly
vertical; while in the southern portion it seldom varies more than
from one foot in two and a half, to one foot in three and a half,
and some portion lying nearly flat. There is an immense
number of slips or fillings, which are found to lead about 30&deg; south-
east and north-west. They are found straight or in an oblique


