
                          DUNBOG.                           207

ducing abundant crops of wheat, barley, oats. What wa s former-
ly a noxious morass is now good and valuable land. The exact
elevation of the hills above the level of the sea has not been as-
certained with perfect accuracy, but the extreme height is comput-
ed to be about 500 feet.
  The climate is mild and salubrious, and no better proof of this
can be adduced than the robust health of the inhabitants, and the
great old age to which many of them attain.
  Geology and Mineraloqy.--The hills and the basin that lies be-
tween them are composed of whinstone or trap rock. The dip of
such parts as have been exposed to view is nearly vertical. On the
very summit of the hill, rolled blocks of granite are met with, some of
them of considerable size. In the valley, the whinstone is covered
by a rich black mould of no great depth, and through which the
rock pierces in numerous places, forming barren spots, or snobs, in
the midst of the best fields. The greatest portion of the soil in
the parish is of this sort, resting immediately on the rock, or on a
bed of gravel interposed. We have indeed a few fields of a clay-
ey texture, and towards the east the soil becomes of much sharper
quality, though equally productive. From the nature of the subsoil,
the ground is easily drained, and is therefore dry and early. A
considerable part of the arable ground consists of the reclaimed
bog. This great improvement was effected about thirty years ago
by the united contributions of the proprietors through whose do-
mains it ran. Previous to the execution of this measure, an exten-
sive tract of ground was covered with brushwood, with large stag-
nant pools of bog water; and in the more favourable spaces, with
a coarse and rank grass, which. afforded a scanty nourishment to the
few half-starved cattle that waded about in search of subsistence. It
is now converted into fruitful corn-fields. The soil, however, is soft
or mossy, and not well qualified for growing wheat. The sub-
soil is various. In some places, it is cold clay, in others a hard till,
but generally it is composed of sand and gravel. In this mossy soil,
there are still found pieces of oak trees, black as ebony, but other-
wise In a state of excellent preservation, and which must in all pro-
bability have lain there for many centuries.
  Zoology.--There is nothing remarkable in the zoology of this
Parish. It may perhaps be worthy of notice that a pair of starlings
built their nest and brought out their young last summer in the
shrubbery of Dunbog House. The young birds were taken from
the nest, when nearly fledged, and are still alive in the neighbour-


