
			   DUNDEE.                             21

tive Dumfries-shire. Public amusements, and especially theatrical
ones, have been on the decline; and a more rational, healthy, do-
mestic tone of happiness has been introduced. The people have
been improving in their style of living, and in their dress. The
hodden grey and broad bonnets, for the manufacture of which Dun-
dee was once famous, are almost abolished. A few patriarchs
from the neighbouring country exhibit now the only specimens of
this ancient costume. A flask of claret, which our forefathers
drank without duty, cannot now escape the tax to the crown; and
the illicit prowler from the hills, who formerly stole into the town
under the cloud of night with his poney and his kegs, has become
a productive labourer of the soil, and no longer contends with the
exciseman. Brokers have been increasing, the bane of the poor,
who may prefer their cordial to their family. City vices no doubt
prevail to a great extent; but, on the whole, there is a buoyant spirit
of intelligence, enterprise, assiduous labour, and successful specula-
tion, as will be seen when we come now to the department of In-
dustry.

<TABLE=Industry>
			   IV.--INDUSTRY.

       Agriculture and Rural Economy.
          The extent of land in the parish under cultivation, or oc-    Imp. Acres.
            casionally in tillage, is about                                3812
          Never cultivated,                                                 135
          Capable of being cultivated with a profit,                          0
          In undivided common,                                                0
          Under wood,                                                       254

	The soil of the parish is various. To the westward of the town,
including Balgay and Blackness, it is thin and dry. Farther north
and east it becomes deeper and richer, and the banks of Logie in-
cline to clay. The land to the north of the hill of Balgay, and
around the Law, is poor and thin, on a till bottom, excepting what
lies between Dudhope Castle and Dundee, which is rich and fer-
tile. The lands of Craigie lying along the river Tay, between
Dundee and Broughty Ferry, are generally good, and let at the
highest rents. The south banks of Duntrune, Drumgeith, and
Baldovie estates, on the north-east side of the parish, are of good
deep soil. But Pitkerro, which adjoins these lands, and is almost
on the some level with the two last, is dry and thin. Claypots, a
farm belonging to Lord Douglas, consists of a strong deep soil;


