
				OATHLAW OR FINAVON.                 295

1745, were as follow, although at that time the tree was mostly divest-
ed of its bark,-being killed by the severe frost in the winter of 1740:
"Root end of the trunk half a foot above ground, 42 feet, 8 1/2 in-
ches; middle of the trunk, 30 feet, 7 inches; top of the trunk where
the branches broke out, 35 feet, 9 inches; the biggest branch,
23 feet, 9 inches; the smallest branch, 13 feet, 2 inches."  Frnm
these measurements the tree would appear to have been upwards
of 500 years old-most probably planted at the time of the building
of the castle-and, therefore, in truth, one of its "contemporary
trees." The roots of it are still to be seen in the court-yard of
the castle. The table is now in the possession of the Earl of Aboyne
at Aboyne Castle.

                                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

        Antiquities.-This parish seems to have been a place of consi-
derable importance in the earlier and later periods of the history
of Scotland. Judging from the extent and magnitude of those
military works,-Caledonian and Roman,-the remains of which
are still visible in the parish, it must in early times have been the
residence of some very powerful tribes. These works always bear
a proportion to the strength and resources of the people among
whom they are situated; and not only this parish, but the whole
neighbourhood for many miles round, is rich with the traces of
these ancient monuments of their power.
        Vitrified Forts.-The earliest and most conspicuos of these in
the parish, is the celebrated vitrified fort, on the Hill of Finhaven.
This hill, as has already been mentioned, rises to the height of about
1500 feet above the level of the surrounding country, and com-
mands a very rich and extensive prospect. The tnp of it is com-
pletely occupied by a work evidently constructed upon military
principles, so as completely to command all the points of access,
and nowhere to permit the enemy to approach under cover. It is
in the form of a parallelogram, extending from east to west by
recent accurate measurement about 476 feet. At the east end the
breadth is about 83 feet, and as the ascent is here easier than at
other points, it is at the end defended by a sort of outwork about
52 feet distant from the wall. At about half the length of the
whole, it widens, considerably, and there are here the slight vesti-
ges of an inner wall. Towards the west end, which is somewhat
lower down the hill, the breadth is about 125 feet, and at this end
there are the distinct traces of a well, which must have been made


