
526                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of the brave Scots who fell in a keenly contested and bloody en-
gagement which there took place, and in which the English were
routed with dreadful slaughter. There is a wall adjoining the spot
in which the Scotch soldiers washed their swords after the battle,
which, with the adjoining grounds, has ever since been designated
"Sword well." Among the English of note that then fell, were
Sir Marmaduke Longdale, Sir Philip Musgrave, and Lord Howard;
who were interred in the neighbouring church-yard of Dornock. A
grave-stone, with an inscription which time has reddered incapable
of being deciphered, covers the spot where they were laid.
	Modern Buildinqs.-On the eastern bank of the river, and near-
ly two miles from the town, is situated the mansion-house of Mount-
Anna,the residence of Mrs Dirom, widow of the late Lieut.-
General Dirom, who, from the Christian benevolence of his cha-
racter, the able and varied productions of his pen, and the im-
portant improvements connected with agriculture he effected, was
extensively known and deservedly esteemed. Placed on an ele-
vated situation, Mount-Annan commands a prospect of the Solway
Frith and northern counties of England so extensive and varied as
comparatively few residences can boast of. The grounds around
the house are tastefully wooded, and the scenery on the banks of
the Atinan, which it overlooks, highly beautiful and picturesque.
	On the same side of the river, and about a quarter of a mile soutli
of Mount Annan, is situated the handsome residence of Warman-
bie, the property of A. Carruthers, Esq. This elegant edifice was
erected by the present proprietor a few years ago. The grounds
have been greatly improved, and are most tastefully laid out.--The
situation of Northfield House, the seat of Miss Carruthers, about
half a mile nearer the town than Warmanbie, and close upon the
cast bank of the river, though confined in its prospect, is surpass-
ingly beautiful. The house, which was lately enlarged, is very
elegant.--The vicinity of the town is studded here and there
with handsome houses and neat cottages, miny of which have been
erected of late years.
	The town itself is well built, and the streets are capacious and
generally well paved. The church and town-house are each adorn-
ed with a handsome spire. *

<FOOTNOTE>Since the tbove was written, Mrs Dirom of Mount-Annan has, with her usual
benevolence, built a neat church at Bridekirk village for the benefit of the inhabitants
and those ofthe adjoining district, who, especially in winter, are placed at an incon-
venient distance from the parish church,--not to speak of the decided want of church
accommodation there.


