
                           DUNSE.                           257

sheep, and Hampshire pigs, have been introduced for many years,
-the chief excellence of which consists in their coming to a state
of full size and fatness in less than half the time required for
the native breed, and so more speedily remunerating the skill and
industry of the breeder. These are reared mostly for the Eng-
lish market, and the labouring-class of consumers at home,-while
the Kyloe or Highland oxen and the black-faced or Cheviot sheep,
kept to a more mature age, are chiefly fattened for the use of those
who can afford a somewhat higher price at home. *
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.-There is a weekly market in Dunse every Wednes-
day, at which little business is done. The principal market-town
is Berwick, distant about fifteen miles.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post twice a-day to Lon-
don, and once to Edinburgh. There is also a daily coach to Edin-
burgh.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, conveniently situated for the
parish in general, is in good repair, and affords accommodation to
about 1200 persons. The manse was built in the year 1780, and
has undergone no general repair since, but is kept in good habit-
able condition. The extent of the glebe is between nine and ten
acres, and its value about L. 35 or L. 40 a-year. The stipend was
augmented in 1833 to 20 chalders,-one-half meal, one-half bar-
ley; with L. 10 for communion elements.
   There are three dissenting chapels in this parish,-two of the
United Associate, and one of the Relief. The stipends are paid
by the congregations.
   The number of families attending the Established church is
390; attending the dissenting chapels, 446. Divine service is,
with as few exceptions as in most places, well attended in the Esta-
blished church and in the chapels. The number of communicants
in the Established church averages nearly 600.
   Education.-There is one parochial school in the parish, at-
tended at an average by 120 children. The schoolmaster, who
has all the usual emoluments, is qualified to teach the English,
French, Latin, and Greek languages, writing, arithmetic, book-
keeping, the principles of mathematics, and geography, He is
diligent, and successful in communicating instruction. His salary
is the maximum L. 34, 4s. 4d. The average amount of school-

<FOOTNOTE>The writer regrets that he has not been able to ascertain the gross amount of
raw produce yearly raised in the parish

    BERWICK.                            R


