
			FORFAR.                       701

Forfar and Kirriemuir has been rendered comfortable,  and a wide
Highland district thereby opened up.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church of the old parish is situated
in the town of Forfar, and is rather more than four miles from the
most distant houses in the parishes. It was built in 1791 to accom-
modate 2000 sitters. It was altered in the interior in 1836. By
this alteration, the number of sittings was reduced to about 1800,
but a great improvement was effected as to the facility of hearing.
The church is a substantial building, though plain. In the interior
it is commodious and elegant. It has a steeple, which was erected
in 1814. The steeple is a well-proportioned and handsome struc-
ture, and forms one of the principal ornaments of the town. It
has three bells, all of them the gift of a Mr Strang, merchant in
Stockholm, (about the year 1650,) a native of Forfar.
        The church of St James was erected in 1836, at an expense of
about L. 1200. It is seated for 1100 hearers. It is a neat and
comfortable church. A district as a quoad sacra parish was allo-
cated to it by the Presbytery of Forfar.
        The present Episcopal chapel was erected in 1824. It is un-,
der the superintendence of the Bishop of Dunkeld. It accommo-
dates 380 sitters.
        The United Secession meeting-house was erected about the
year 1780. It accommodates 400.
        There is an Independent chapel in the town, while accommo-
dates 400. It was erected in 1836.
        The old Mason Hall was recently purchased by some parties
(not resident in Forfar) of the Roman Catholic communion, and
there is occasional worship in it.
        The stipend of Forfar is 21 chalders of victual, half meal and
half barley. The glebe was valued by the Ecclesiastical Commis-
sioners at L.20. The present manse is a modern building. It
is a large and commodious house.
        Education.--There are 14 schools in the parish ; being 1
parochial school, 3 burgh schools, and 10 private schools. There
is a deficiency in the means of education for the children
of the labouring-classes. Their earnings are such as to prevent 
ê3ê3
äthem, in many cases, from paying for the education of their chil-
dren, even low as the fees are. The magistrates and town-council
have had this important subject under their consideration, and have
purchased a site for the erection of a school in the west end of


