
454                        FORFARSHIRE.

and mortcloth dues, L.42, 16s; interest of money in the bank,
L.4, 10s.; interest of mortified money, L.4. The amount of
mortified money is L. 100, which was left by the late Mr Alex-
ander Robie at Inveriskandy, who was a native of, and a farmer
in, thhs parish; the interest of this stim, according to directions
left by the donor, is annually distributed amongst the poor be-
longing to a certain district of the parish; the minister and elders
of the parish, and the heads of families in the specified district
are appointed trustees. The wants and comfort of the poor are
particularly attended to by the Noble family of Airlie. The dis-
position among the poor in general to refrain from seeking paro-
chial relief is very powerful.
        Fairs.-There are two sheep-markets held annually at Cor-
tachy, commonly called the Collow markets, as they are held in
the immediate neighbourhood of a farm of that name. The first
established of these markets is held on the fourth Monday of Oc-
tober, and has become one of the best sheep markets in the north
of Scotland, both for the number and quality of the sheep which
are there exposed; the number being on an average from 8000
to 12,000. The sheep brought to this market are generally three
or four years old, and are purchased by proprietors or farmers in
this and the adjoining counties, who feed them off during the
winter with turnips and hay or straw. The latest established of
these markets is held on the last Friday of April. The stock
exhibited consists chiefly of hogs, or one year old sheep, and as it is
much approved of by the store-f`rlers in this district, it has been,
and will, doubtless, continue to be, well supported. The grounds
where the above markets are held, are not only most conveniently
situated for the flocks as they descend from the mountains, but
ample space is afforded for their convenience, and for preventing
them, when properly attended to, from mixing together.
	Inns, Alehouses.-There is a convenient and well kept inn at
Clova, which was erected only a few years ago, and which is much
frequented by travellers in summer. There are five ale-houses
in Cortachy; to reduce their number might be injurious to the
support of those who keep them; but it could not fail to be be-
neficial to the morals of some of the people.
        Fuel.-Peat and turf are commonly used as fuel by the families
in the northern districts of the parish. Peat is obtained from the
mossy grounds in the hollows, either on the sides or towards the
summits of the mountains. In these hollows, the moss is almost


