
				GLASSERTON.                    39

not escape downward, but is constantly oozing up through the sur-
face.
	The hills an the sea shore are only partly arable, from the thin-
ness of the soil, and being interspersed with bare rocks towards
their summits. But none of hills, either on the south or north,
are covered with heath, as described in the Old Statistical Ac-
count of this parish. In as far, then, as that Account was correct,
so far has improvement advanced. But I suspect, that, if ever
there were heat-clad hills, it must have been much earlier than
the date of that report. There are, to be sure, spots and patches
of moorland and mosses of considerable extent in the north-western
parts, but even the moory parts are but lightly sprinkled with
heath. They are covered with, sprit and other coarse grasses and
plants common to moory soil. The mosses formerly supplied the
inhabitants with peats for fuel ; and even yet these are used in
some places, but not commonly, for coals are procured with less
trouble, and at a moderate expense.
	Of late, both proprietors and farmers have been more anxious
to bring the mosses into cultivation than to encourage peat cut-
ting. They are more desirous to level the surface and drain off
the water, than to dig pits to retain it, which, is the consequence
of the peat system. Indeed, if the moss is upon a rocky bottom,
and of no great depth, cutting it away in peats is destroying so
much land altogether. It is demolishing in a single day what na-
ture required some thousand years to produce.
	The cultivation of moss has been carried as far perhaps as is
profitable. What has already been subjected to tillage might be
susceptible of still farther improvement in draining, levelling, and
manuring, or in top-dressing with cross soils, which is always
ceedingly beneficial; but any farther encroachments into the cen-
tre of the mosses, that is, into the flow-moss or soft spongy part,
would not be advisable, at least for a long time to come. Besides,
there is no great extent of such moss in the parish.
	There is no natural wood in this parish. Furze abounds, and,
if not kept in check, would soon cover the whole surface. There
are bushes of hazel, sloe-thorn, and broom to be met with, but
not in such quantity as to give the farmer much concern; but
furze costs him a great deal of labour to keep it from over-spread
ing the fields.
	From this descriptions of the surface of the land, it may sup-
posed that there is much variety in the soil, which is the case,


