
78                                FIFESHIRE.

periods of high water; but at all times of the tide boats at New-
burgh can be hired to the opposite banks of the Tay.
   Ecclesiastical State.-There are two clergymen in the parish of
Newburgh,-the ministers of the Established Church, and of the
United Associate Synod, (formerly the Burgher Secession,)-be-
sides several others, who, without taking the name of clergymen,
teach and exhort under the denomination of Anabaptists, Metho-
dists, and Independents. The attendance upon the three last
denominations is very limited, and will not, upon any occasion, in
either, exceed the number of twenty. The United Associate Sy-
nod congregation may approach to about a third of the whole in-
habitants of the parish.* The parish church is a new and elegant
building, capable of containing 1000 hearers, and placed in the
very centre of the town. With the exception of a few families on
the estate of Pitcairly, the whole population lie within the easiest
and most accessible distance. The sittings, for the most part, are
either free or let out at a mere nominal price.
   The Earl of Mansfield and Mr Hay of Mugdrum are vice-pa-
trons of the parish. The stipend consists of 15 chalders, half
meal and half barley, and L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
This is according to the decree of modification; but the full amount
in the locality has not been realized, in consequence of a fall in the
rent of the lands of Mugdrum immediately upon the last augmen-
tation being granted. The glebe amounts to 4 Scotch acres, and
the grass glebe to 10 do., both fields being of excellent quality.
   Education.-There are four schools in the parish, including the
parochial school taught by Mr Wilson, besides other three which
are superintended by females. The average number of pupils at-
tending the whole may be about 400. The usual branches of edu-
cation are taught in them; and in the parochial school, Greek, La-
tin, and the higher branches of mathematics are taught in addi-
tion. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L.34, and
the amount of fees averages about L.30. Besides the legal ac-
commodations of a dwelling-house and garden, the schoolmaster
has a glebe of nearly four Scotch acres of land, a bequest left
many years ago, and a sum of L. 1, 15s. arising from feu-du-
ties and altarage money. The people are in general alive to the

<FOOTNOTE> Precise ecclesiastical state of the parish, as just reported by the elders to the
Church Extension Committee : Total population, 2868; belonging to the Esta-
blishment, 1656; communicants to do, 669 : belonging to dissenters of all denomi-
nations, 1008; communicants to do. 414; belonging to no stated place of worship,
204.



