
     of Alloa.

ral, are apt to form opinions from local circumstances, and to
apply them indiscriminately to all situations.  What appears
a large farm, in some parts of the country, would be called a
moderate one, nay perhaps a small one, in others.  It is an
undoubted fact, that in this parish, until the farms were en-
larged, husbandry was at a very low ebb.  Any one, who re-
members the grounds in their former state, and who fees
them now, cannot but acknowledge the different appearance
that the country makes.  Formerly, the miserable tenants
had wretched accommodation for their families, or produce of
their fields or cattle; ragged children, with scanty education;
and wretched complaints of poverty at every term.  There
are now substantial houses, and convenient offices; a double,
and often a triple produce; fields beautifully dressed and in-
closed; a wealthy tenantry, and growing improvements*.

<FOOTNOTE>

acres), a large one; and thinks that few or none should exceed it.  Large farms,
some people maintain, depopulate the country, and occasion the rise of all kinds
of provision, etc. etc.; but there are others who hold a very different opinion;
and, if we may be allowed to judge by analogy, with some appearance of rea-
son.  It is allowed, that no trade can be carried on to advantage without a suf-
ficient stock; that the division of labour, and large dealings, enable people to
sell at a less profit, as the quantity sufficiently recompences for the lowness of
the price.  Why should the farming trade totally differ from all others?  A
certain size of a farm is absolutely necessary to carry on the business with any
prospect of success.  In those parts of Britain, where improvements have been
carried on to the greatest extent,were they brought about by large or small farms?
Examine them minutely, and fee where the greatest skill is displayed, or the
largest produce brought to market.
   *The leases are commonly given for 19 years; but where the ground was so
wild, that it required a tedious and expensive process for the melioration of it,
2 nineteen years were given, with a small rise of rent at the commencement of
the second period.  This is thought to be no more than equitable.  Many gen-
tlemen, who have tried improving ground themselves, are thoroughly sensible,
that the best part of a 19 years tack passes away before any adequate profit can
be received for the expence laid out; and the farmer, who, from his knowledge
and skill, adds to the stock of the community, is certainly entitled to ample re-
tribution.


