
        426                            PERTHSHIRE.

          ed. Fogs and hoar frosts are common in the valleys throughout
          the year, and often prove very, detrimental to the potato crop, and
          severely try the lungs of asthmatic patients.  But, on the whole, the
          atmosphere is of an agreeable temperature, being both mild and
          salubrious.  Even the highest winds and the coldest weather are
          bracing and healthful. ithe district is subject to no prevalent dis-
          tempers, and many of the inhabitants attain to an extreme old age.
          Within these few years several individuals have died at the age of
          from ninety to a hundred yearr.  There is now living in the pa-
          rish a woman in the enjoyment of good health, aged ninety-five;
          and there are in it several stout and healthy octogenarians, both
          male and female.  The southern and eastern districts of the pa
          rish are from a fortnight to three wedks earlier than those at the
          foot of the hills, but in these lower districts the harvest is as early
          as in the Lothians.
             Hydrography.-Numerous aud copious springs of pure and ex-
          cellent water are distributed over the whole parish; and by sink-
          ing wells through the alluvial gravel, abundance of good water is
          found everywhere from ten to twenty feet below the surface.  Su-
          perstition formerly invested St Bryde's, and Chapel Well, and
          perhaps some others, with a sacred character, and made them
          places of resort for pious purposes.  Several small streams flow
          from the hills, and traverse the lower districts of the parish.  Such
          of them as have obtained names, and give a character to the face
          of the country, are the Corral burn, * which has its source in a
          spring at the foot of the Obney hills, and after forming a marsh
          below the Stare Dam-now nearly drained-passes through the
          village of Bankfoot, and flows southward till it meets the Garry
          at a short distance below the Church; the Aldinny, which also
          rises at the foot of the Obney hills, and joins the Corral in the
          meadows of Airlywight;-the Garry, which flows from boggy
          ground at the head of Glen Garr-a pass through the hills to
          Strathbran-runs by the manse, receives the Corral, augmented
          by the Aldinny, and unites with the Ordie at Loak;- the Wyn-
          nie, which- has Lits source in marshy land in, the barony of Tully-
          beagles, and joins the Nrdie near the mill of Bahnacollie;-the
          Ordie, which rises in a i small lake in the hill of Tullybelton, tra-
          verses the heart of the parish, receives in its course all the streams
          which have, now been noticed, imposes its name upon the largest
          district in the parish, namely Sthrathord, and at last unites with the

          <FOOTNOTE>This description proceeds from the east side of the parish towards the west.



