
                         AUCHTERGAVEN.                   443

   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands on a sloping
bank, at the foot of which is the great road from Perth to Dun-
keld.  No situation could have been more convenhent for the bulk
of the population, when it was resorted to by that of Stanley.
Since the erection of a church in that village, the population of
the eastern extremity of the parish attend divine service there,
while that in the western districts still attend the parish church,
from which five families are from five to seven miles distant.  The
great body of the people, however, is within three miles and a half
of the church, and many of them much nearer.  The present fabric
-an oblong building with a tower on its west end-was erected
about twenty-six years ago.  It is a firm substantial edifice, and
seated to accommodate nearly 1200.  At a meeting of heritors,
held 8th June 1813, they divided the sittings among them accord-
ing to their valued rent.  And the Duke of Atholl's interest in
the parish may be known from the fact, that nearly 700 of the
seats fell to his share.  His Grace built the tower, it is said, wholly
at his own expense, besides his proportion along with the other
heritors.  Miss Mercer, now Lady Keith, assisted in buildinf the
church, and has seats in it for her tenants in Tullybeagles.  The
seats are all free, each farm having a certain number allotted to
it; and all have abundance of accommodation, except the people
on the Airlywight property, which has been greatly increased by
means of the feus in the vhllages of Bankfoot and Waterloo.
   Logiebride. *-A small parish, named Logiebride, the church of
which stood about a mile and a half to the southwest of that of
Auchtergaven, on the banks of the Ordie, and where there is still
a burying-place, was united to Auchtergaven, by an act of the
Scottish Parliament, in the year 1618, and was afterwards separat-
by the Bishop of Dunkeld.  In 1647, the heritors and the
parishioner petitioned the Presbytery of Dunkeld to have the pa-
rihes again united: because there was not adequate stipend for
two ministers-because the parish of Logiebride lay within the
bosom of that of Auchtergaven,-and because all its inhabitants

<FOOTNOTE> "And as he"-the Bishop of Dunkeld-" found in an old record of his Church,
that the lands of Gawy, and the lands of Ferdischawe had once been a prebend for
the entertainment of strangers, but the former Bishops had for sometime been in the
use tob apply it to their own advantage, this Bishop," Brown-"first got the consent of
the canons and then restord the prebend.  But as the rents were too scanty for
maintaining a decent hospitality, he joined to this prebend the church of Logiebride."
-Miln's History of the Bishops of Dunkels in the Transactions of the Literary and
Antiquarian Society of Perth, p. 51.
   Thomas Brown, Vicar of Auchtergaven, was family chaplain `nd clerk to this Bishop.
lb, p. 57.


