
398                          ARGYLESHIRE.

valleys; and where the sea has had access to them, it has scooped
out considerable bays and creeks, which afford, as has been already
observed, good anchorage for vessels of any size, and ports in which
smaller boats can be kept, and, at the same time, a sheltered re-
treat to the numerous shoals of cuddies or coal fish, seythe, &c.
which frepuent the coast almost at all seasons of the year, and
supply the poor with much sustenance.
   The hornblende rock, which forms great part of the more cen-
tral parts of the island, is sometimes found of a schistose descrip-
tion but oftener of a prismatic, and exhibiting many of the cha-
racters of an overlying trap; and being of a very hard consistence,
it has withstood the action of wind, rain, and waves.  On shore,
it stands up by itself in high relief, forming several ridges and
hills, varying in height from 50 to 400 feet; and, owing to the
same cause, it continues to form numerous reefs, headlands, little
islands, and half-submerged rocks, which serve as a natural break-
water round the greatest part of the island.  The rocks, which
stand alone in the sea, are rounded and smoothed on their sum-
mits by the incessant action of the sea, and those on shore present
a great extent of bare surface, which, owing to their elevation above
the more fertile parts, give the island, viewed from the sea, a bar-
ren and rocky appearance. These rocks and eminences, how-
ever, are useful, as they afford shelter to the adjacent lowlands
and valleys.  The chlorite slate is almost exclusively confined to
the west side of the island, forming a coast of considerable eleva-
tion, which, presents many fantastic appearances from the une-
qual ddcomposition of the rock.  The dip of the strata is here
very considerable hence the sea along the greater part of this
coast is deep enough to permit vessels to sail near the coast
Wherever this rock comes in contact either with whin or trap dikes
or with hornblende rock along the coast, considerable decomposition
of both is observed to have taken place. The oozing of water
from above between the rocks, and the action of the sea beneath,
have scooped out several caves and fissures, which are frequented
by wild pigeons, starlings, and goats.
   On the shore of Leim, a little to the east of the jetting cave,
there are some appearances of copper. At the south end of Cara
there are some appearances of iron ore.
   Soil, &c.-The soil of Gigha is a rich loam, with a mixture in some
places of sand, moss, and clay.  It is fertile, and favourable for the
growth of potatoes, turnips, bear, and oats.  Vegetation is quick.


