
                           KILTEARN.                           331

say any more on this subject, as the principal improvements have
been noticed under the head Industry.
  The houses of the peasantry, some years ago, were merely
wretched hovels-tbemselves, their cattle, pigs, and poultry living
under the same roof.  At present, there are many neat and com-
fortable cottages in the country, and well built houses in the village.
  It is not in the physical appearance alone of the parish, that a
change is visible. Those who are old enough to remember the
former period declare, without exception, that a change for the
worse has taken, place in the moral character of the people. Some
ascribe this to the increase of villages throuohout the country:
others, laudatores temporis acti, are disposed to ascribe it to the
gradual deterioration which this world has physically and morally
undergone since men began to record their opinions of the times
in which they lived. Whatever discrepancy there may be in the
causes assigned, there is but one opinion as to the fact, that vice
and immorality are now more common than formerly.  The po-
verty and degraded state of the lower classes appear to furnish the
only rational explanation.  In the forme state of the parish, many
occupied that respectable rank in society which is now confined to
a few. These felt an interest in maintaining a good character,
and their conduct bad a beneficial influence on all immediately
under them. There are, however, few or no breaches of the law
which require the interference of the magistrate; and only one
case of criminal prosecution has been known to occur since the
beginning of this century, and even that one was not of an aggra-
vated nature.
  In ancient times, before those useful members of society the le-
gal, functionaries had effected a lodgment in the vicinity, (for hap-
pily none have yet been induced to settle in the parish,) it would
appear that when any misdemeanour was committed, they adopted
a more expeditious process than the modern one for bringing the
offender to justicd. *  A dispute having arisen at the beginning of
the seventeenth century between the Baron of Fowlis and the Laird
of Tulloch, about the boundaries of their estates at a part where
they were conterminous, the matter was referred to arbiters, and
witnesses were called and examined on the disputed ground. There
was a large stone, which was alleged by the one party to lie in the

<FOOTNOTE>A very striking example of the glorious uncertainty of the law was lately furnish-
ed in this parish; for a process that commenced in 1,706, about marches between Cro-
mertic and Fowlis, was carried n with various success, until it was finally settled by
judicial arbitration in 1833.


