
                    STIRLING.                                409

tion of these reformers; and the people in various places openly
declared themselves on their side, and threw off the yoke of Po-
pery.  Stirling was one of the first towns to follow the example of
Perth and St Andrews in abolishing the Popish ceremonies; over-
throwing the monasteries; destroying the instruments, of idolatry;
and setting up the Protestant worship. The same year, the Lords
of the Congregation took possession of Stirling, in order to prevent
the purpose of the regent to introduce a garrison of French sol-
diers, with the view of stopping their passage across the Forth.
On this occasion, the Abbey of Cambuskenneth, and the convents
of Black and Grayfriars were demolished by them.  In the month
of August, the reformers here entered into their third bond of
mutual defence.  In 1569, four priests of Dunblane were, by or-
der of the Regent Murray, chained to the market-cross, where
they stood for an hour with their vestments, books, and chalices,
for having said mass contrary to Act of Parliament.  On the 1st
of April 1571, John Hamilton, who had been Archbishop of St
Andrews, and Primate of the kingdom, and who had been a par-
ticular friend of Queen Mary, and had officiated at the baptism of
James, her son, was executed for high treason; one of the articles
of charge, viz. that he knew, and was participant, of the murder
of the Regent Marray, being acknowledged by himself, with ex-
pressions of deep sorrow.  In 1571, a parliament being held in
the castle by the Earl of Lennox, the king's grandfather, then re-
gent, the town was surprised at four o'clock in the morning of the
4th of September, by the Earl of Huntly and his faction, with 300
horse and 80 foot soldiers; the houses and lodgings of the chief
nobility surrounded, and the regent, with ten other noblemen,
made prisoners and carried off in triumph.  The only one who
could make resistance was the Earl of Morton, who did not sur-
render till the house he occupied, which stood at the east end and
south corner of Broad Street, was set on fire.  The enterprise was
eventually defeated, and the captive noblemen recovered, by the
Earl of Marr, but not till the regent had been mortally wounded.
He died in the evening, and was interred in the Chapel Royal.
Calder and Bell, two of Huntly's party, of whom twenty-six were
taken prisoners, were executed two days after in Broad Street.
During Lennox's regency, the Court of Session for some time held
its sittings here.  And the General Assembly of the Church met
here in August 1571, and in June 1578.  In 1584, the Earls of
Angus and Marr, the Master of Glammis, and others who had been


