
950                     FIFESHIRE.

massy chandelier for lights, anda splendid chimney-piece of
white marble, which he brough workmen from Italy to execute.
After the General's death the estate was opurchased by Methven
Erskine, Esq. afterwards Earl of Kellie, who died there in 1830.
Upon the Earl's death Sir David Erskine, Bart. succeeded as heir
of entail.  He took down the wings built by General Anstruther,
and removed the fine chimney-piece to his own house at Cambo,
where it now ornaments the drawing-room.
   Upon th same estate, but a little to the west of Airdrie, at
Redwells, or Redwalls, stood an ancient and extensive building,
the history of which we have not been able to find.  It was a
quadrangular building, having the ground apartments on every
side arched over with hewn stone, and smallapertures or loop-
holes at regular distances from each other.  Over these there was
as second story of solid monsonry, containing accommodation for a
numerous family,and at one end a well-paved barn, with tow in-
clined planes up to the door, as if for cattle carrying up their bur-
den and again descending.  The barn, the last remain of this
singular erection, was taken down a few years ago, when the walls
were found to be a amazing thickness, and of uncommon strength.
A general impression is, that it had been a religious house; but, as
someofthe old charters convey the property cum fortaliciis, others
think it must have been a kind of fortress; while from the name,
Ard-rhi, or King's height, a third conjecture is, that itwas a hunt-
ing seat of royalty.
  Kingsmuir House, the residence of George Francis Hannay,
Esq. is a respectable country mansion, which hs been greatly
enlarge,andnow forms a genteel and comfortable dwelling.
  In former times, the extensive property on which this mansion
stands, was an open muir adjoining to the commonty of Crail, with
limits so ill defined as to lead many to believe that the neighbour-
ing proprietors helped themselves to portoins of it, without leave
askedor given.  However, after it came into possesion of the
present family, buildings began to be erected, and progress towards
improvement made, so that in 1724 the presbytery of St Andrews
took into consideration, "under whose ministerial inspection the
dwellers therson should be," and adjudged the inhabitants ad inte-
rim to be under the jurisdiction of the minister of Denino.  A
similar appointment took place in 1743, when a new minister came
to that parish.  Thus it continued till it was found necessary to
rebuild the church and manse of Denino, when Mr Hannay being




