	
       		KINNETTLES.                              207

hill of Brigton, and sometimes the hill of Kinnettles, because it is
divided betwixt the proprietors of those two estates. This hill,
whose form approaches to that of an ellipsis, whose flattish top
rises about 356 feet above the level of the sea, and whose attractive
appearance strikes the eye of every beholder, especially when
viewed from the south, instead of disfiguring, adds considerable
beauty to the parish. Its beauty arises chiefly from its gentle
acclivity, from its great fertility, and from its being all arable and
under various agricultural crops, except a very few acres on its brow,
which, being very steep, somewhat rocky, and not easily approach-
ed by the plough, are closely covered with various kinds of thriv-
ing wood. The view on all sides is grand and extensive.
	Meteorology, &c.--This parish, owing to its vicinity to the German
Ocean, and the situation, at least of nearly the one-half of it, among
the Siedlaw hills, has an atmosphere of considerable humidity.
	Among the prognostics of weather, it may be noticed that a
small acquaintance with physiological botany, finds in the economy
of some plants several satisfactory indications of the state of the
weather. Thus, the Convolvulus arvensis, Anagallis arvensis, Ca-
lendula pluvialis, shut up their flowers against the approach of
rain; whence the anagallis has been called the poor man's weather-
glass. There is, in the parish, a species of soft gray sandstone,
which, when built in the wall of a dwelling-house, and not coated
on the inside with lime or clay, indicates rain, by becoming gloomy
and moist before rain.
	This parish enjoys a variety of climate, corresponding to the variety
of its elevations and exposures. Those parts of it which are little
elevated above the valleys, have a mild and genial climate; whereas
those that are more elevated on the north, east, and west sides of the
hill of Kinnettles, and on the north side of the bill of Kincaldrum,
whose summit, and part of whose base, are situated in the parish of
Inverarity, enjoy a purer and colder climate. But, as thd highest
grounds in the parish have only a moderate elevation above the
level of the sea, the climate is, on the whole, justly entitled to
the character of good and salubrious. It was not so, however,
forty years ago, because a considerable portion of the parish
was then in a state of marsh and meadow, saturated with stag-
nant water. But in consequence of a general drainage throughout
the parish in the course of the last twenty years, there is little or
no stagnant water to be found. Of course the air, although occa-
sionally moistened with eastern haars or fogs, which come from the
        FORFAR.


