
     Statistical Account

   Church and Heritors.-The church is old, and bears no
date; it is also dark, and too small.  About 40 years ago, it
received a through repair, being furnished with new pews,
all painted, and the roof was plaistered.  It has received
some partial repairs since that period.  The walls and roof
which is oak. and said to have grown in the parish, where
there is now no natural wood, are still good, but the ceiling 
begins to fail.  The earl of Eglinton is patron.  The sti-
pend is 106 bolls 2 sirlots of meal; 1 31/2 bolls bear; and, by 
a late decreet of the Court of Teinds, L. 35, with L. 4, 3 s. 
8 d. for communion elements, making in all, at the old con-
version, L. 100; but, according to the average price of 
meal and bear, for some years past, its real value may be 
L. 120, exclusive of the glebe, which  is not 4 acres.- In 
1789, the heritors, unsolicited, and with a liberality which 
distinguishes their character, built a large, commodious, sub-
stantial, and well finished manse and offices.  The two prin-
cipal residing heritors live in elegant modern houses, plea-
santly situated.  One of these in particular commands the 
view of a rich, various, and extensive landscape; and 
though by no means in an elevated situations, yet part of 13
different counties are seen from the top of the house.  The 
fields, orchard, garden, and pleasure grounds around it, do 
honour to the judgement and taste of the proprietor. 

   School and Poor.-In 1788, a house, with a flated roof,
was built for the schoolmaster, consisting of a school-room, 
kitchen, and small bed-room.  The salary is only 100
merks Scotch, or L. 8: 6: 8 Sterling.  The fees of the ma-
ster are, for teaching English 1 s. 6 d. per quarter; for wri-
ting, 2 s. for arithmetic 2 s. 6 d. with some small emoluments, 
as session-clerk, and for registering baptisms and marriages. 
The whole does not exceed L. 23.-The number of poor in 
the parish, who, at present, received aid from the charitable


