
              		 FAISLEY.                              149

feet of diluvium, containing numerous rounded water-worn pebbles,
and occasionally also by extensive beds of sand, exhibiting the ap-
pearance of a sea beach, and containing shells the same, in species
as those at present existing in the adjacent Fritb of Clyde.  Im-
mense numbers of these shells were found in digging the canal
from Glasgow to Johnston.  They were little altered in appear-
ance ; and the impression left by a careful examination of the stra-
tified sand in which they were found was, that they had been de-
posited at the bottom of the sea, and that the lower part of the
parish must consequently be of submarine formation.
   For the most part, the colour of the sandstone is yellowish white,
more or less tinged with iron.  In texture it is commonly compact
and small-grained, but this varies in different parts of the same
quarry.  In some localities, it is traversed by innumerable mi-
nute veins of carbonaceous matter.  In other places, it abounds in
nodules of the common radiated iron pyrites.  In most of the
sandstone Quarries, vegetable remains have been found from time
to time, consisting of reeds, arborescent plants, and ferns.  The
former are often circular, but more generally flattened; some of
them are smooth on the surface, others are sulcated longitudinally,
and many are jointed.  They are met with from half an inch to
six or eight inches in circumference.  The remains of the arbo-
rescent ferns are for the most part marked externally with rhom-
boidal impressions raised above the surface, and arranged around the
specimen in a spiral order.  All these, remains are coated with
charcoal, and their interior filled with siliceous or calcareous matter,
often also with a considerable quantity of the proto-sulphuret of
iron.  The sandstone quarry in most repute is that of Nitshill,
and is of such extent as to give employment to nearly one hundred
men all the year round.  The following description is from the
pen of Mr Oatts, manager of the Hurlet Alum Works:
   " This rock has a gentle declivity from south to north, with a
dip eastward.  It lies over a stratum of coal 2 feet 6 inches thick.
The rock is 60 feet in thickness from the coal upwards.  In some
parts it rises to the surface; in others, it is covered by 3 feet of
earth.  It contains three distinct strata of coal, besides the stratum
underneath it.  This coal is quite different in its nature, quality,
and value, from the neighbouning Hurlet coal.  In the sandstone
rock some remarkable specimens of fossil vegetable remains have

<FOOTNOTE>See Capt. Laskey's Account of these shells in Vol. iv. of the Transactions of the.
Wernerian Society.

