
392                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Female Society.-This Society was instituted in 1819.  Its ob-
ject is to assist deserving poor females, who are not in the practice
of receiving weekly charity; but in cases of sickness this condition
may be dispensed with.  It is under the management of three
ladies, viz. a president, treasurer, and secretary, and a committee
of twelve ladies, all elected annually.  Two of these ladies in ro-
tation visit the poor, and distribute the charity every month.  The
number of poor receiving aid from this institution is limited to 85.
Young widows left with children receive aid until the youngest ar-
rives at the age of six.  From L. 70 to L. 80 are annually distri-
buted by this institution.  It has fully realized the benevolent in-
tentions of its projectors, and is well deserving of the patronage
and support of the public at large, which it has hitherto received.
   Fairs.-The weekly market here is held on Fridays, and is well
supplied with all sorts of provisions and garden stuffs.  There are
two half-yearly markets, chiefly for the feeing of servants, held re-
spectively on the first Tuesday after Whitsunday, and the first
Tuesday after Martinmas.  These markets are of very long stand-
ing, having been established in 1669 by authority of an act of
Charles II. passed in that year, in favour of William Earl Maris-
chall.
   Inns, &c.-There are 46 licensed public-houses, and 28 licensed
spirit-dealers in the town.  The new inn, kept by Mr D. Fraser,
is the principal one, where the daily coaches arrive and depart.
The inn is large, commodious, and neatly fitted up and, under
Mr Fraser's management, affords every comfort at reasonable
expense.  Mr Fraser has a lease of the Mason Society's Cold
Baths, and has lately added to his establishment a handsome bil-
liard-room.
   Fuel.-About twenty or thirty years ago moss found in the
neighbourhood was very generally used for fuel ; but this has been
now almost superseded by coal, which is the common fuel through-
out the town.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The improvements which have been effected in this parish since
last Account was written the considerable.  Some of these will be
seen by the short comparative view subjoined of the state and cir-
cumstances of the parish before the time of Dr Moir and the pre-
sent time.  This will serve a double purpose, in presenting and
preserving a statement of the more prominent parts contained in Dr
Moir's account relative to the then state of the parish ; while, at


