
                            BOTHWELL.	                        781

Making the interior of the square. roads, &c.    .     L. 3,000 0 0
Stock for the farm under spade cultivation,     .    .    4,000 0 0
Contingencies and extras,    .       .    .     .     .   6,600 0 0
                                                        -----------
                                                       L.96,000 O 0

Which sum, divided among 1200 persons, was at the rate of L.80
per head.
   Scarcely a fourth part of the parallelogram was finished, at an
expense greatly exceeding the original calculation.  It consisted
of a central building with a spacious wing, of freestone, four sto-
reys high, and garrets. *  Each flat was bisected by a passage run-
ning from the one end to the other ; on either side of the passage
there were eighteen rooms, of comfortable dimensions.
   Within this structure a population, amounting at one time to
60 adults, and 120 children, was collected from all parts of Scot-
land, England, and Ireland, certainly not the elite of their respec-
tive countries, and the system was commenced.  The inmates as-
sembled to their meals in a public room, which was fitted up for
the purpose, but they did not all fare alike.  There were four dif-
ferent tables, and four different rates of expense.  At the first
table the charge for breakfast, dinner, and supper was 14s. per
week; at the second table, l0s. ; at the third, 7s. ; and at the
fourth, 5s. 6d.  A theatre, lecture-room, and school-rooms were
attached to the establishment, and the children slept in dormito-
ries, apart from their parents.
   The principles professed by the managers of the concern, and
the regulations by which they attempted to carry the new system
into effect, it would not be easy to explain, and it could serve no
good purpose.  There was a small publication distributed among
the members, entitled " The Religious Creed of the New Sys-
tem, with an Explanatory Catechism, and an Appeal," &c.  The
author, Abram Combe, who was also overseer or principal mana-
ger of the establishment, says in the preface; " The following
pages contain a candid statement of the religious impressions which
an attentive perusal of his, (Mr Owen's,) writings has made upon
my mind."  From this statement, we learn that Mr Combe re-
ceived what he calls his " religious impressions" from an attentive
perusal of Mr Owen's writings, and they are certainly worthy of
such an origin.  The chief merit of his book consists in its being
for the most part utterly unintelligible.  So far as a notion can be
formed of its contents, it may be justly, characterized as a farrago
of crudities, absurdities, unfounded and infidel assertions, that can


