
                          PAISLEY.                         263

mented gauze was issued from the place, as outdid everything of
the kind that had formerly appeared.  Spitalfields was obliged to
relinquish the manufacture.  Companies came down from Lon-
don to carry it on at Paisley, where it prospered and increased, it
is believed, beyond any manufacture of which any town in Scotland
could boast. * Indeed it not only became the great distinguish-
ing manufacture of that town, but it filled the country round to
the distance of twenty miles; and the gentlemen engaged in it
had not only warehouses in London and Dublin, but correspond-
ents upon the continent, and shops for vending their commodities in
Paris and other large cities and towns.  About 1785, the change of
fashion, on which this trade must entirely depend, had an unfavour-
able effect upon it; and many of the principal houses in the place,
while they pushed the silk branch as far as they could, entered in-
to the muslin manufacture with their accustomed ardour, yet with
a judgment and prudence by which men of business and of capi-
tal are ever distinguished from rash and unwary adventurers.
The muslin trade soon rose to an unexampled height of prosperity,
and its gains both to master and workmen were very encouraging.
Of late years comparatively little has been done in this branch;
but the houses which are still engaged in it are of the highest re-
spectability, and the fabrics produced, and which are chiefly de-
signed for the London market, are unexampled in point of taste
and elegance of execution.  The ornamenting of muslins by fine
needle-work has lately become a considerable branch of our trade-
Such work has long been done here, but never at all to the same
extent as now.
   It appears from the best calculation that could be made, that
in the year 1784, the manufactures of Paisley in silk-gauze, lawn
and linen-gauze, and white sewing thread, amounted to the value
of L. 579,185, 16s. 6d; and that no fewer than 26,484 persons
were employed in carrying them on.  In 1790, when the last Sta-
tistical Account was compiled, the total yearly value of the manu-
factures of Paisley of all kinds, was estimated at L. 660,385, 16s.
The progress of manufactures up to this period may be judged of
by comparing this statement with the fact, that in 1744, there
were only 867 looms in all employed. and the whole value of the

<FOOTNOTE>Disputes betwixt the masters and men had arisen at Spitalfields, which led to
the famous "Spitalfields' Act" for fixing minimum of prices.  The folly of this, as of
every attempt of the kind, was soon proved by its utter ineptness as a means of pre-
venting misunderstandings and feuds; and the Spitalfields capitalists transferred their
capital and trade to Manchester and other places.
   RENFREW.                             8


