
                KILBRANDON AND KILCHATTAN.                             75

of great strength, as the wall is about ten feet thick. There is
another in Torsay, called the Castle of Dogs, and supposed to
have been a hunting seat of the McDonalds.

                   III.--POPULATION.

   Nothing is known of the ancient state of the population of this
parish; but from the number of churches in the times of Popery,
it must have been very considerable.

<TABLE>
                The population in 1755 was 1492
                                  1772,    1750
                                  1703,    2060
                                  1801,    2278
                                  1811,    2327
                                  1821,    2644
                                  1831,    2833

The increase in the population has been chiefly owing to the
great number of people who are employed in the slate quarries.
   Character, &c. of the People.--The people of this parish, who,
with the exception of a few families, consist entirely of the labour-
ing classes, are very intelligent and industrious. They are de-
cidedly superior, in point of knowledge, to the population of most
of our Highland parishes, and their moral character is in general
very correct and regular. Those employed in the quarries cannot
perhaps save much money ; but as they are supplied with a pro-
vision for themselves and their families, though in debt to the
Company, they are, upon the whole, in somewhat comfortable cir-
cumstances.
  The Gaelic language is universally spoken by all the natives of
this district. The people in general can understand and speak
English tolerably well; but they have a great predilection for their
mother tongue. There are scarcely a dozen people in the whole
parish who do not understand Gaelic, and these are strangers
from the south.
   Mr John Whyte, the engineer of the slate works, who is an
elder in the Established Church, and teaches one of the Sabbath
schools, has, during the last three winters, delivered a course of
lectures on mechanics in the Gaelic language. The people in
general, and especially the young men at Easdale, seem to appre-
ciate his laudable and gratuitous efforts for imparting to them use-
ful and interesting knowledge. It is believed that this is the first
attempt that has been made to communicate such knowledge to
the Highlanders in their own language. Lord Breadalbane, to
Whose liberality this parish is so much indebted in many respects,
has lately presented this infant institution with an air-pump, to


