
206			AYRSHIRE.

church originally stood on the Castlehill of Ardrossan, where its
foundations may still be traced, and where may be seen the old
churchyard, in which sleeps many a generation now forgotten and
unknown. This church was blown down by a violent storm of
wind in the year 1691, when another was built about half a
mile more inland, and in a more sheltered situation. About the
year 1744 this church was taken down and removed to Saltcoats,
where the present one now stands. In February 1773, Mr Dow,
the then minister of the parish, reported to the presbytery, "that
the church of Ardrossan had been so much shaken by the storm
upon the 20th of last month, that the parishioners ever since had
assembled in it with terror." It was eventually ordered to be taken
down, and was rebuilt in 1774, with the slight alterations of fourteen
feet only being taken off the length of it, and the removal of the
front aisle. There is great need of the present church being
enlarged; or, what would still be more desirable, a new church
built in Ardrossan, and that town, with a section of the landward
part of the parish most convenient to it, erected into a separate
parish.
	It may not perhaps be out of place here to give a list of the
ministers of this parish, so far as is known.
	1. The earliest reformed minister of the parish of whom any no-
tice has been found is named in a letter of Regent Murray's to
the General Assembly of 1569. The Regent says, " Mairover
at our coming, at Aberdeen, there came ane named Porterfield,
minister, provydit of before to the viccarage of Ardrossane, and
required also of us that he micht have the viccarage of Stein-
sone, seeing both was ane matter meine aneuch to sustaine him,
and because the kirks war neir, he micht discharge the cure of
both." Two years prior to this it appears that Alexander Hen-
derson was exhorter at Ardrossan, at 40 merks of salary. He
was "translatit" to Stewarton, and was succeeded by William
Montgomery. 2. Alexander Campbell, rector of Ardrossan, is
witness to a sasine, (penes Robert Cuninghame of Auchinharvie)
in 1593. 3. Alexander Dunlop was deposed in 1646 and suc-
ceeded in the year following by, 4. Ralph Roger, who was trans-
lated, and succeeded by, 5. John Bell, who was one of the indul-
ged, ministers. On 26th January 1671, the privy-council made
an act confining all indulged ministers to their respective parishes.
Wodrow states, that "Mr John Bell, minister at Ardrossan, being
confined to his parish, his father living within a mile of him, falls


