
                           LUNAN.                            325

to their unwearied exertions in promoting the moral and religious
improvement of those under their charge, that we are to attribute
the distinguished character of the Scottish nation for piety and
virtue.
  Antiquities.-At the influx of the Lunan into the German Ocean,
and upon a small eminence on its southern bank, stand the ancient
ruins of Redcastle, which, though not situated in this parish, may
with propriety, be noticed, as evidently accounting for the names
given to several places within the parish. William the Lion, who
built the Abbey of Aberbrothock, and whose favourite daughter
was married to Gilchrist, commonly called Lord Conan, whose es-
tate lay in the neighbourhood, has been uniformly pointed out by
tradition as the builder of this castle. Its dimensions are small,
its walls thick and compactly built, and surrounded by a strong
rampart of considerable height. As this castle is situated almost
in the centre, and commands the whole of the bay of Lunan, it
has naturally been supposed that King William had built it to
prevent the incursions of the Danes, who frequently landed in the
bay; and an artificial mound of earth on the west side of the bay,
called "the Corbie's Knowe," has been conjectured to have been the
place where the sacred ensign of the Danes, distinguished by the
emblem of a raven (Scottice, corbie,) was stationed; or it may have
superseded a Danish fort, for the eminence in question bears evi-
dent marks of having been a fort long previous to the erection of
the castle. Another tradition is, that it had been one of the King's
bunting seats. It might have been both. All, however, agree,
that it was a royal residence. And this tradition is fully borne out,
not only by several charters from that monarch, in which one Berk-
ley, a favourite of William, and who designates himself lord
Redcastle, subscribes as a witness, but also by the names of
many of the surrounding places. We have in this parish Hawk-
hill, where King William kept his hawks; Courthill, where his,
courts bad been held; Cothill, where he kept his cattle; the Tom-
au-moid, the foundations of which were entire within these few
years, and still recognized under the name of "Knap o'Castle,"
i. e. "the Castle Knap," where the prison or warding-place was si-
tuated. And in the neighbouring parish of Inverkeilor, about 300
yards south of the Tom-au-moid, we have the Gallowhill, still en-
tire and complete; Ironshill, where the chains with which the cri
minals were bound had been forged.
	Another remarkable feature in the antipuhties of Lunan is the


