
     of Roxburgh.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-Though this parish is
not much distinguished from those around by any particu-
lar local advantages, yet its vicinity to a good market at
Kelso, its inhabitants being liable to no peculiar disease,
and its very healthful climate, are properties of high esti-
mation.  Spring agues were troublesome in two or three
places, which lie low and damp; but since the ground
about these was made dry in the course of farming improve-
ment, by drains and inclosing, the inhabitants have not
been exposed to that complaint in any remarkable degree.
Several old people complain much of what they call the
pains, or rheumatism, owing probably to the extreme cold
they are exposed to from their damp houses, and great
scarcity of firing.  Among the principal disadvantages un-
der which this place and all the neighbourhood labour, is
the great distance from coal, and a total want of every
other species of fuel.  This is a real calamity to the poor;
and most heavily felt by them since they were, some years
ago, all prohibited from casting turf on the moors.  Every
cottar used to have liberty from his master to call a darg or
two of turf.-The fine road from Berwick to Carlisle, (so
beautifully described in the Statistical Account of Bedrule),
passes through the fourth part of this parish, and is of exten-
sive substantial benefit, as is that likewise which runs along
the north side of the parish from Kelso to Melrose.  But
the high road passing through the village of Roxburgh is
yet in a natural state, and on account of its extreme rug-
gedness is almost impassable.  In consequence, however, of
a bridge now building over Teviot, near Kelso, we hope
this road will soon be put into a state of complete repair,
being the direct line there from up through a rich populous
country, whose comforts and improvement are much im-
peded by the want of it.  The bridge above mentioned is
remarkably handsome, and will be of vast utility to all that
     VOL. XIX.   R


