
                        BENDOCHY.                   1201

fees.  A school-house was built four years ago at Mayriggs by
subscripts, and its affairs are very, well managed by a small body
of Disrenters in that neighbourhood.  There seems, however, to
have been no necessity for this erection, as it is within little more
than a mile of the parish school, and about two miles front Blair-
gowrie, where there are schools of every denomination.  The
kirk-session have a right to Dominate ten scholars, to the parish
school of Balirgowrie on the "Barty mortification."  The pupils
enjoying the benefits of this bequest are entitled not only to their
education free, but to scbool books and writing materials gratui-
tously, and, if wished, to have their education carried on until, they
are fit to go to a university.  There is a Sabbath school taught
by the parish minister and schoolmaster; and the religious in-
struction, of the young at Persie is faithftilly attended to by my
friend and fellow-labourer, the Rev. Mr Mitchell.  The people
in general are alive to the benefits of education and seem espe-
cially to appreciate the advantages of Sabbath school instruction.
   Hospital.-In 1841, the parisb remitted L.21 to the Dundee
Infirmary, in virtue whereof the minister of this parish is ex-officio
a governor of that institution, and the parish has acquired a per-
petual right to send to it patients.  Lord Wharncliffe authorizes
the kirk-session to procure, at his expense, medical attendance
and medicine for the industrious poor on his estate when sick.
This is a most judicious Charity

    Savings Banks.- There are no saving banks in the parish, but
those at Coupar-Angus and Blairgowrie are sufficiently convenient
for the parishioners.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid for the last five years is seven; and the
average annual sum allotted to each has bee L.3, 12s. 7d.  The
average amount-of church collection for the poor for the last five
years, L.12, 9s. 5d.; do. of. interest of money (viz.L.58,) L. 1,
14s. 9d.; do. from mortcloth, &c. L.1, 10s. 9 1/2d.; do from assess-
ment, L.28, 19s. 5d.   The assessment was first laid on in 1775.
For the first half of that year it amounted to L.8, 2s. 5d.  The
origin of the assessment in such a parish must have been the same
cause that alone renders its continuance necessary, the impossibi-
lity, viz. of the great body of the people attending the parish
church.  In the old Stastical Account, the assessment is stated
at L.6, and the monthly collections at 8s.  When the difference
in the value of money, and the larger aliment now allowed to the
   PERTH.                              4 G



