
     Of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen.

   The Druids undoubtedly possessed I, before the in-
troduction of Christianity.  A green eminence, close to
the sound of I, is to this day called the Druid's burial
place*.  A cottager, some years ago, planting potatoes
in this spot, and digging earth to cover them, brought
up some bones, which the people of the island imme-
diately concluded to be the bones of the Druids.  The
tradition is, that the first Christians banished the Druids
and took possession of their seat.  The Druids also had
a temple at the head of Lochscridain, in a farm called
Rossal+.  This temple is but small, and several of the
stones have fallen down.  Here, as the name of the place
indicates, they held courts of justice.
   I seems to be early the seat of a religious society of
Christians.  Scots historians say, that Fergus the II,
erected a religious house, with a stately church, in Iona,
where his successors were buried.  Bede, in the passage
already quoted, countenances the opinion of Scotch

<FOOTNOTE>

habited that part of Britain, made a present of it to the Scotch monks,
who converted them to the Christian religion.  By the Picts, who made
the present, Bede must mean the Picts inhabiting S. of the Friths of
Forth and Clyde; for Britain extended, according to ancient writers,
that far only, all N. of that, or the wall of Agricola, being called Albia
or Scotia.  But there is not the smallest probability that I ever belonged
to the Picts, as the venerable writer asserts.  The least knowledge of
geography will convince any one of this.  Bede was indefatigable in
his researches after whatever concerned the first planting of Christianity
in every part of the island of Britain, but looked upon profane subjects
only as secondary objects.  The Picts were separated from I, not by a
narrow arm of the sea, as he says, but by a wide and tempestuous ocean.
He says, in other places, that I is in Hibernia; by this he means Albia
or Scotland, which in those ages was often called Hibernia.-Book. III,
chap. 3.
*Claodh nan Druineach, signifies the Druid's burial place.
+Rosal, in the old Gaelic, signifies, judgment, justice.


