
                   PARISH OF SALTON.

      PRESBYTERY OF HADDINGTON, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND

                       TWEEDDALE.

      THE REV. ROBERT KERR HAMILTON, A. M., MINISTER.

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The origin of the name of this parish is somewhat,
doubtful,-though it has in general been ascribed to the fact of the
ancient manor having been possessed during part of the thirteenth
century, by Nicolas de Soulis or Soules, one of the competitors for
the Scottish Crown in 1291, (and grandfather of the celebrated
Lord Soulis of border history,) from whom it is supposed to have
been originally termed Soulistown, by abbreviation Soultown, and
subsequently, by corruption, Saltoun, or Salton.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-The extreme length of the parish is
3 1/2 miles; in breadth, it varies from 2 to 3. The number of square
miles of surface, however, does not probably exceed 8. It is bound-
ed on the north by the parishes of Gladsmuir and Haddington;
on the east by that of Bolton; and on the south and west by those
of Humbie and Pencaitland, from both of which it is divided by
the Salton and Tyne waters. In figure, it nearly resembles an
oval, of which the greater diameter extends from north to south.
The regularity of the form is, however, somewhat affected on the
eastern side, by two extensive indentations formed by the parish of
Bolton.
   Topographical Appearances.-From the western boundary, the
land rises by a gradual ascent towards the south and east, until, at
its highest point of elevation, called the Skimmer hills, it reaches
the eight of about 600 feet above the level of the sea. From this
point, which is almost in the middle of the parish, the land again
declines somewhat more abruptly towards the south, until it reaches
the level of the Salton and Hurnbie waters. On the west and
north, the ground wears the aspect of rich cultivation; the thorn
hedges, often interspersed with wild roses, are neatly and tasteful-
ly kept; and the beauty of some of the roads is much increased by


