
                       ADDITION TO HOLME AND PAPLAY.                 219

     year  1770, particularly. encouraged among his tenants the culture
     of flax, which was consequently more attended to in Holme at that
     time, than in any other part of Orkney.  He furnished them with
     linseed gratis-had them instructed in all the particulars relating to
     the cultivation, manipulation, and manufacture of it into linen cloth.
     Their families were thus furnished with what is much wanting in the
     present day, profitable employment in the winter season and in other
     intervals of agricultural labour,-tbe female domestics spinning
     it into yarn fit for weaving into cloth.  It is also stated, that, for
     many years previous to the date of the old Account, (1795,)
     there had been annually exported of such cloth, woven aud bleach-
     ed, in the parish, 20,000 yards, which always brought a good price
     at Newcastle and other English markets.  By the profits hence
     derived, the tenantry of Holme became distinguished above their
     neighbours for industry and wealth.  But, on the death of their
     benevolent landlord, who was suddenly cut off in the prime of
     life, their exertions in this branch of industry gradually relaxed,
     until their culture of flax and their linen manufacture were en-
     tirely given up. He was succeeded in the property by his bro-
     ther, Admiral Alexander Graeme, who distinguished himself in
     the action with the Dutch fleet off the Dogger Bank, where he
     lost his right arm in the cause of his country.  Though lie did not
     reside on his estate, having no turn for rural affairs, yet his tenants
     always experienced from him the greatest kindness and liberality.
     Alexander Sutherland Graeme, Esq. having lately succeeded to
     the property, is, as before stated, the principal land-owner in the
     parish,-the estate of Graemeshall being nineteen-twentieths of
     the whole.
         Parish Registers.-The register of births and marriages begins
     in 1654.  The record of the kirk-session begins in 1673.  It
     may be mentioned as evidence of the heterogeneous mixture of
     Episcopacy and Presbytery, which continued for several years in
     this synod,-that it is recorded of Mr George Tod, December
     11th 1681, and of Mr James Graham, February 26th 1688, that
     they " were transplanted by the bishop and presbytery front their
     former charges to the kirk of Holm, as their presentation, institu-
     tion, and induction thereto bear."
         Mill.-There is but one mill, driven by water, to which the
     tenants are astricted, paying the usual proportions of multure,-
     a twelfth part for oats, and a sixteenth for bear.  There is no kiln


