
     of Inveresk.

is about 110, none of whom are allowed more than 1s. per 
week, and some have only 6 d*. an allowance so scanty, 
as leaves them but in a very wretched slate, when they are 
entirely past their industry: and were it not for private 
charities, or subsidiary funds, must be wholly insufficient to 
support nature.  The sum laid on for the support of the
poor has for some time been L. 215, of which above L. 65
is paid from the collections; which have fallen so much short 
of the debursements on account of bad payments, and con-
troversies that have arisen, that the heritors and session have 
been obliged to encroach on the price they received for the 
poors-house.  Of late years it has been thought proper to
follow the directions formerly given by the Sheriff of the 
county, and to lay on the assessment for the poor, according 
to a rental of all property in the parish, as the most certain
and equal rule + by which to levy the poor's funds.  Various

<FOOTNOTE>

*For eight or ten years after the house was first occupied by the poor, 
they were maintained at the very cheap rate of I s. 2 1/2 d. per week a piece.

+It is remarkable, that not a few of the clergy in their Statistical 
Accounts, exclaim against the change, that of late years has been made in 
many parishes, in their method of maintaining the poor, which has not 
been entirely by collectious at the church doors, as formerly, but partly by 
assessments, and thence 'ake occasion to warm their country against poors 
rates as a heavy burden, that even England is not able to bear.  But these
writters do not seem to have sufficiently attended to the alterations in the 
state of the country in general, and of many parishs in particular within 
this half century.  They seem not to have adversed to it that the poor
have increased, and that the weekly collections have been dumminhed, for 
various reasons, in many parishes during that period, while the expence of 
maintaining any poor person has necessarily increased, with the increased 
prices of labour, and the necessaries of life.
   It cannot be denied, that where the collections are sufficient for the pur-
pose, there is no plan for the maintenance of the poor that can be com-

     VOL. XVI. F


