
     of Monifieth.

From this hill of laws, at a little distance S. W. is the
Gallow-hill of Ethiebeaton, on which, it is said, the Barons
who were the proprietors of the adjoining farms of Ethie-
beaton, Laws and Ornochie, were wont to fit in judgment
on their vassals, and to hang such as were convicted of
theft.  Farther to the S. is the hill of Balgillo, which will
be included in the account of Broughty castle, in its im-
mediate neighbourhood.

   Broughty castle.-Broughty castle* is situated on the most
southern point of this parish, whence to the coast of Fife,

<FOOTNOTE>

made a wooden frame, of the same dimensions they wished their defence
to be, filled it with sandy, and whin of plum pudding stones, set fire to
the frame, and by the entenseness of the heat, vitrified the inclosed mass,
and produced a strong munition.  (See William's treatise on vitrified
forts.)  A second agrees to the conjecture of the first in every thing
but this, that fire was applied to the frame, not by friends who wished
to strengthen the fort, but by enemies who whished to demolish it.  (See
Essay on Vitrified Forts in Phil. Trans. Ed. Vol. II.)  But by whatever
process the vitrifications on other hills have been effected, it appears pro-
bable, that the vitrifications on this hill have been effected, neither at
the construction nor demolition of its fortress,* but at a different period.
When that period was, it is not easy with precision to tell; but surely a
supposition which occupies little time, where supposition only is to be
had, can do no harm.  In A. D. 838, the Picts had been finally expel-
led by Kenneth II whose father King Alpio, in a battle sought on a
plain N. W. from Dundee, they had taken prisoner, and with barbarous
cruelty slain.  Most of the Picts at their expulsion sought for shelter in
Denmark, whence, it is said, their ancestors sprung.  Incited by them,
the Danes rose for revenge, and frequently invaded the eastern coast of
Scotland.  From these wasting invaders, the fortress on this hill might
afford a temporary refuge.  On the E. end of it, which is most conspi-
cuous, fires might be kindled to alarm the more distant parts of the coun-
try, when these incursions happened in the night; and the frequent fires
might at last vitrify the stones which they touched.

   *The following note, the substance of which has been extracted from
the Kirk-session records, will afford a proof that there is no reason to que-


