
			KILBIRNIE.                                719

There are five and a-half miles of turnpike, and six and a-half miles
of parish roads, all of which are kept in good repair. Two carriers
travel once a-week to Glasgow, and on separate days the same
number maintain the commercial intercourse with Paisley. There
are likewise weekly opportunities of conveying parcels to Green-
ock, though there is no regular carrier on this road,--and from
Beith to Largs, there pass through Kilbirnie twice a week as
many carriers. No stage-coach runs nearer to this than Beith,
nor is chaise, gig, or car kept for hire in the village.
	Bridges.--There are not fewer than twelve bridges in the pa-
rish, two of which are in the village and a third hard by it. Se-
veral of these, however, span even in the worst of weather, insig-
nificant streamlets, and are all, with the exception of that over the
Garnock in Kilbirnie, on a level with the roads they connect, and
of sufficient breadth. The one alluded to, besides being unneces.
sarily steep, is by much too narrow, there being only ten feet be-
tween the parapets. It stood a long time with the ledges partly
broken down, until on a dark stormy night in the winter of 1811,
a native fell over it, and was carried off by the swollen river and
drowned. On the turnpike south of the loch, though by much
the best and most frequented of the two roads leading eastward,
there is no bridge over the river, which is, in consequence, alto-
gether impassable after heavy rains. Pedestrians can, however,
cross it by means of a wooden bridge, though that this may some-
times be attended with danger, was fatally exemplified, four years
ago, in the case of a benighted farmer, who, missing his footing, was -
precipitated into the overwhelming waters and perished. The
want of a bridge over this ford has long been felt,--a desideratum
that will probably now be soon supplied, as the railway passes within
less than half a-mile of it, and it is said to be by this line of
road that the communication between it and Kilbirnie is to be es-
tablished.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church of Kilbirnie belonged an-
ciently to the monastery of Kilwinning. The Monks edjoyed
the rectorial tithes and revenues, and a vicarage was established
for serving the cure. In the Books of Adjournal, commencing
in 1507, mention is made of Robert Peblis, in Brockly, being con-
victed of a felony done in the house of John Skeoch, capelano in
Kilbirny. This is the first notice we have met with of a resident
chaplain. ln l543, James Scott was vicar of Kilbirnie. Prior to
that year, the Abbot of Kilwinning had granted to the College of


