
372                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

portrait of the Reformer, from which are taken almost all the
common engravings of this wonderful man; and, at the other end,
is a portrait of the beautiful Queen Mary, the unfortunate, if not
the innocent object of his animadversions. That the sacrament was
dispensed in Scotland by Knox, on various occasions and in dif-
ferent places before this time, is abundantly, clear from Knox and
Calderwood's History, and from Wodrow's valuable MSS., Vol.
vi. p. 10; also from Dr Cook's History: of the Reformation, and
Petre's General History of the Church, Part ii. p. 184; but, in
all the instances mentioned or alluded to by these authors, the
sacrament must have been dispensed privately, and when the Po-
pish church was in great vigour; whereas, when it was dispensed
at Calder, the Reformation had made very considerable progress,
both at home and abroad; and therefore there can be no reason
to doubt but that this was the first open celebration of it in con-
formity to the practice of the Reformed Church in Scotland, after
the establishment of Presbyterianism by act of Parliament in 1592.
  In the middle of the kitchen of Calder House, is the deep draw-
well already noticed ; and, hf tradition can be trusted, there was a
secret concealed passage under ground from Calder House to the
church or village of Mid-Calder, from which it may be supposed
that, at an early period of our history, Calder House must have
been a place of considerable strength.
  There is another building of great antiquity, the parish church,
which stands at a small distance from Calder House, on the south
of the village. No date has been discovered to record the time
of its erection. The walls are in excellent repair, and it was
newly roofed in 1792, but the seating is of an earlier date. At
the east end of the building is attached a cemetery belonging to
the noble family.
  On the stones which support the Gothic windows are sculptured
various coats of arms, of the Stewarts, Douglases, and Torphichens,
with the initials of the family name, from which there is some rea-
son to believe that this fabric was originally erected by some of
the ancestors of this noble family. Immediately opposite the pul-
pit, within the church, are the remains of a very ancient wooden
seat, on which is carved, in raised letters, the following inscrip-
tion:-" The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. 1595."
It also contains the initials J.S., J. L., and RAW. This seat
was probably erected soon after the Reformation; for it is cer-
tain that churches, in general, were not, fully seated till long after


