
                        KINFAUNS.                             1211

at the approach of winter, by large flocks of fieldfares, and cross-
bills are then, too, sometimes found in the woods.  The Tay is
frequented by different sorts of wild ducks, particularly the teal
and the widgeon; and also by gulls, and birds of the awk kind.
   The Tay, besides abounding in excellent salmon affords also
fine trout of different kinds, particularly two species of sea trout,
the white and red, weighing from 2 to 6 lbs.  The large bull-
trout is sometimes found from 16 to 30 lbs. and upwards. Stur-
geon of large size are sometimes, though but rarely, caught in the
salmon fhshers' nets.  Pike, too, are very numerous; and seals
and porpoises are occasionally taken.
   One species of animals deserves here to be noticed, which has
of late given, more annoyance to the inhabitants of this parish, than
all the other wild flnimals put together. It is of no consequence,
indeed, whether we term this wild or domestic, as it seems de-
termined, at all events, to make itself the latter. We mean that
detestable and mischievous little animal, the brown or Norway
rat, which has intruded itself into every dwelling-house and out-
house in the parish; and has multiplied to such a delyree, not-
withstanding all the means that have been. used to destroy it, as
to become a perfect pest.
   Plantations.-In this parish, all the common   kinds of trees are
found.  Some of the plantations consist chiefly of hardwood trees;
such as oak, ash, elm, beech, &c.; while others consist mostly of
Scotch fir, with larches and spruces intermized.  But some con-
sist of a mixture of all these.  Birches and mountain-ashes are not
very common, and are, for the most part, comparatively young
trees. The young plantations consist, for the most part, of larch
and oak. The oaks planted in woods, whether old or young, are
almost all of the variety called Quercus robur, or true British oak.
But, many of those planted in hedge-rows, and along road-sides, are
of the variety Quercus sessiliflorus, or Turkey oak, with narrow.
leaves and mossy acorn-cups,-a variety which is said to infe-
rior to the former, both ip the quality of its wood, and also in that
of its bark for the purposes of the tanner.
   In the vicinity of the mansion-houses, there grow sycamores,
limes, poplars, Spanish chestnuts, horse-chestnuts, silver-firs, &c.
   There are no trees in this parish very remarkable for age or
size. Near Kinfauns Castle, grows a Spanish chesnut, 14 feet in
circumference; an elm, 11 feet 7 inches; an ash, 12 feet; a sy-
camore, 12 feet 9 inches. Near the east gate og Seggieden there



