
1030                        PERTHSHIRE.

Perth, although there can be no doubt that long before this the
family of RuthveD and the      Eviots of Balhousio had, by special
gr.int or otherwise, acquired  a right to mills upon the course of it.
The community of Perth sti'll possess their ancient rights over the
11 Lead," and a committee of the town-council perambulate its
banks every year, to see that they are kept in proper repair. The
utility of this Lead has been greatly extended in modern times.
Instead nf the three mills which it originally drove, it now affords
sufficient water power to drive the machinery of Huntingtower
bleacb field, the Ruthv en mills and Ruthven printfipld, in the parish
of Thbbermore; and the Tulloch printfield, the B,alhousie mills,
and the Perth mills, in the parish of Perth.
aeology.-This parish, like most of the neighbouring, rests
upon the red sandstone formation.       In two or three places the
sandstone is penetrated by trap dikes of considerable extent,
where excellent quarries have been opened for making and repair-
ing roads.   The sandstone also is deemed of very superior
quality, and has been quarried to a great exteiat.  There are three
quarries, which have been in operation for a number of years, and.
from which most of the stones used for building in Perth and the
ioei hbqurhood have been taken.

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Historical events.-This parish has been the site of several his-
torical events of no small importance ; but, as most of them are
rather national than local, tliev are to be found detailed at length
in all our Scottish bistories, and, therefore, it is not necessary to
give any particular account of them in a work of this description.
It was here that Gowrie, Mar, Lindsay, and the master of Glamis
perpetrated that assault upon the liberty of James VI., which is
commonly called the Raid of Ruthven.  The castle where the King
was first seized and for a time confined, is still standing and in con-
siderable repair.  It is now the property of General Cunningham,
and was then called Ruthven, but now Huntingtower Castle.  It was
here that the Covenanters under Lord Elcho sustained a signal
defeat from Montrose with his Irish auxiliaries.  The raw untrain-
ed bands which bad been hastily raised in Fife, Perth, and Angus
to oppose Montrose, were encamped in the soutb of the parish on
the night before the battle where traces of this encampment are still
in some places distinctly visible.  There were indeed within these
few years men alive in top Parish, who well remembered that it was

				a


