
			  OLD CUMNOCK.                        477

pose a trout to enter the Ayr water at the town of Ayr, pass from
it into the Lugar at Barskimming, then again into the Glasnock at
Cumnock, repose itself for a while, after its upward journey in the
lake above-mentioned, and afterwards pursue its easy way down
the course of the Nith, until it reaches the Solway.
   The late Earl of Dumfries at one time proposed making a cut
from the river Nith in New Cumnock to the lake above mention-
ed, in order to have a large supply of water for a factory that he
intended to erect on the Glasnock water, and thus to make the
Nith send part of its waters into the Clyde, instead of the Solway;
but it was never attempted tn be executed. The cuts, however, I
am told, could easily be made, and at very little expense; but how
the people of Dumfries-shire would relish this new order of things,
in regard to the direction of their majestic river, I cannot say,-I
am afraid they would forbid the bans between the Nith and the
Clyde.
   Mineralogy.-The parish abounds in limestone, coal, and free-
stone; and it is also conjectured that ironstone may be found were it
sought for. The limestone is of the first quality as a cement,
making the best possible binding lime. It is known by the name
of Benston lime, and hardens under water into the consistence of
stone. Hence, it is highly valuable, and, consequently, much
used in the erection of bridges and other buildings that stand
under water. It is carried, I believe, to a considerable distance
for subaqueous buildings. The direction of the dip is to the
southwest. The cover consists of 28 feet of clay and 8 feet of
bastard limestone. The strata of limestone are about 7 feet in
thickness. The workmen earn about 2s. a day; and the time is
sold at the quarry for 6d. per boll, Winchester measure.
   A freestone of a very superior kind is found on the banks of
the Lugar of a light blue colour, and which takes a very fine polish
in the hands of the mason. There is also a beautiful white free-
stone, which is held in high repute, as making the very best mill-
stones for grinding barley. It has been sent, I am told, even to
America for this purpose.
   The whole parish may be said to rest on coal; though, in many
places, the seams are troubled and unworkable. It is wrought,
at present, on the high lands towards the south-west side of the
parish. Two beds of trap or whinstone intervene in, sinking for the
coal; the one is 11 1/2 feet thick, and the other 4 1/2 feet; the former
is 8, and the latter 16 fathoms from the surface. There is a seam


