
82		      RENFREWSHIRE.

nished with swans, Cape and Canadian geese in vast numbers,
ducks, teals, and other kinds of water-fowl, and contains pike,
perches, and other kinds of fish. "Queenside Loch is situated on
the moors, and contains about 21 acres; it forms an excellent re-
servoir for supplying two large cotton mills in the village of Loch-
winnoch." * Waws Loch is in the opposite extremity of the parish.
It is small, and, remarkable only for its situation and the quantity
of water lilies (Nymphea alba) which it produces.
   The only river that runs wholly within the parish is the Calder,
which rises on the borders of Ayrshire, amongst the high-lands
so often mentioned. It runs prinbipally in a south-eastern direction,
and pursues a very winding course. Owing to the height of its
source, it descends over various elevations, and forms in different
Places beautiful waterfalls. Its banks, as it approaches the village,
are exceedingly picturesque, and are adorned with wood, both na-
tural and planted. After passing through these beautiful banks,
which are celebrated by Wilson, the American ornithologist, it
winds round the west and southern extremities of the village of
Lochwinnoch, and, turning to the east, falls into Castle-Semple
Loch, keeping up a constant current through it, and maintaining
its salubrity. When it issues from this loch it obtains the name of
Black Cart, which is a dark, level and slow-running stream. It
forms the boundary, between Lochwinnoch and Kilbarchan from its
source, till it leaves the parish. The  Dubbs-flows through level
meadow land from Kilbirnie Loch to Castle-Semple, and though it
be not much elevated above Ahe level of the sea, yet it is the sum-
mit from which the adjacent streams pursue different courses to the
sea. Those upon its west side proceed directly westward to the
coast, but those upon its east side fall into the Black Cart, which
flows in anorth-easterly direction, till it join the White Cart at
Inchinnan, whose united waters proceed in a north-west direction,
till they fall into the Clyde a little below Renfrew.
     Geology.--There is no very remarkable feature in the geology
parish. The rocks are generally of secondary trap, afford-
ing almost innumerable evarieties of greenstone, basalt, amygdaloid,
perphyry, &c. Which run into each other by endless gradations.
There are neither primitive nor transition rock in it. Green-
stonestratified with claystone, and with freestone overlying coal, is
found at Hallhill, where there is also crystallized freestone. The
crystals are cubical, contianed in the freestone, and form an integral

<FOOTNOTE>Former Statistical Account.


