
                      DRUMOAK.                            875

parish for nearly four miles, is the highest river in Great Britain,
its source being on Braeriach, a mountain in the head of Braemar,
4000 feet above the level of the sea.  From that alpine region it
descends impetuously in an easterly direction, and, after pursuing
a winding course through scenes of acknowledged grandeur and
magnificence, falls into the German Ocean at Aberdeen, nearly
eighty miles from its source.  The superabundant waters of about
900 square miles feed its current, but so clean are its gravelly
banks and pebbly channel, that its water rivals in purity the most
limpid streams in Scotland.  Having run between sixty and seventy
miles from its source, and fallen 3870 feet, it enters this parish at
an elevation of 130, and passes its eastern extremity at the old
church, 90 feet above the medium level of the sea.  When at an
ordinary summer height, its stream on this part of its course va-
ries in depth from 2 to 12 feet, and its breadth from 10 to 70
yards, its average fall being 10 feet per mile, * and its velocity
about 3 1/2 miles an hour.  At the great flood in August 1829, the
height which it attained on the lawn at Park, where a wide ex-
panse of haugh allowed its water to spread on both sides of the
channel, was 14 feet above its ordinary summer level.  This
beautiful river, though much superior to its gentler neighbour, the
Don, in the value of its salmon-fishings, has never, like it, been
rendered serviceable to the manufacturer; for, at no part of its
course, is its fine stream employed as a moving power to any kind
of machinery.  Nor does it compensate this unprofitableness to
the manufacturer by rivalling the Don in usefulness to the agri-
culturist; for instead of fattening his meadows with a rich alluvion,
its inundations cArry off the best part of the soil, and deposit in its
place a bed of sand possessed of little or no vegetative power;
while its wintry torrent, unwilling to be restrained, contends power-
fully with the embankments which have been raised to protect the
haughs from its destructive ravages, and occasions great trouble
and expense to the proprietors, in repairing the breaches which it
too frequently makes.  This difference between the two rivers,
and the value of their respective banks, are well contrasted in the
proverbial lines,

             " A foot o' Don's worth twa o' Dee,
             Except it be for fish and tree."

   The Loch of Drum is a fine oblong sheet of water, which co-
a space of 84 acres, 3 roods, 7 poles.  Its margin is fringed

<FOOTNOTE>This may be regarded as the average fall of this river from Aberdeen to Aboyne.


