
222                         FIFESHIRE.

appearance of the groined ceiling. In the inside, the windows are
decorated with pillars similar to the outside. The roof consists of
a simple cross rib of three reeds, with two half arches meeting it in
the centre, and groined between. Those arches spring from short
pillars supported on projecting corbels, representing heads of ani-
mals. A lofty arch opened from the apsis into the body of the
chancel, and a similar one opened from thence into the nave. The
sides of those arches are each formed of three slender pillars, the
middle one projecting beyond the others. The arches connecting
them above are ornamented with the zig-zag and fillet mouldings.
This portion of the building has two windows to the south, and one
to the north. They are ornamented on the inside with pillars, and
rich mouldings from the soffits of the arches. The outside of this
part of the building, like the apsis, consists of two tiers of arches,
the lower rests upon four double and two single pillars on each
front, and the tops of each alternate pillar connected by intersect
ing semicircular arches, so that the spaces between each two pil-
lars have the form of Gothic arches. Over these arches, there is
a band or fillet, on which is placed an upper range of pillars and
arches similar to those on the apsis, but the pillars stand directly
over those of the lower tier. Above this tier of arches, there is a
range of corbels representing faces, supporting the upper part of
the wall. The roof is high in the pitch, and the timbers are open
to the view inside, the body of the chancel not having been arch-
ed. Ancient gravestones form the pavement, and this portion of
the building is now little else than a tomb. From the style of ar-
chitecture, it is probable that this portion of the church was built
about the year 1100, when the Saxon style prevailed. At or about
the period of the Reformation, the two windows on the south side
of the body of the chancel were built up, and two square windows
with a single stone mullion in each were substituted; and one of the
same in the apsis; and although they are somewhat interesting, as
showing the degraded style which succeeded the Gothic, it were
desirable to have them removed, and the original appearance re-
stored.
  The original nave is probably not much later in date than the chan-
cel; but as it only consists of plain dead walls with a single hatched
fillet, there is not much from which its date can be ascertained.
From the unbroken appearance of the side walls, there does not ap-
pear to have been any windows. It was probably ligted by windows
in the West gable, which is now removed. A wide and lofty arch


