
                        LOGIE-BUCHAN.                             809

in his Life of Melville, that he was minister of Logie-Buchan.  And
this is put beyond all doubt by an insertion lately discovered in
an old missal or obituary, in the possession of the present Vis-
count Arbuthnot; which also corrects another error into which
almost all his biographers have fallen, viz. that he was the son of
Baron Arbuthnot.  In the manuscript he is stated to be the son
of Andrew Arbuthnot of Pitcarles, the baron's brother.  He was
born in 1538, educated at King's College, Aberdeen, and in the
year 1560 his name * appears in a list of young men of promising
talents for the ministry, given in to the first General Assembly of
the Church of Scotland.  After further studying civil law, (as was
then usual for students of Divinity,) four or five years at Bourges
in France, under the celebrated Cujaccius, he returned to Scot-
land in 1566, and was soon after licensed as a minister of the re-
formed church.  On the 15th July 1568, he received a presenta-
tion to the church of Logie-Buchan, one of the common kirks of
the Cathedral of Aberdeen.  On the 3d of July 1569, he was ap-
pointed Principal of King's College, Aberdeen, and three weeks
after was presented to the church of Arbuthnot, "provyding he
administrat the sacraments of Jesus Christ, or ellis travell in some
other als necessar vocation to the utility of the kirk, and approvit
by the samen."  The emoluments of his two parochial charges
were probably his only support as Principal, the funds of the Col-
lege having been greatly dilapidated by his predecessor, Principal
Anderson, in the view of his deposition for his adherence to Po-
pery.  To the University, Principal Arbuthnot rendered the most
important services, both in the augmentation of its funds, + and by
his assiduity and success in teaching.  Besides being an emi-
nent divine, he is said to have been a good mathematician, jurist,
physician, and poet.
   To the Church of Scotland Mr Arbuthnot's services were in-
valuable.  He took an active part in the leading ecclesiastical
questions of his time, was frequently a member, and twice mode-
rator, ++ of the General Assembly.  In 1578, he was appointed one
of a committee to attend the King and Queen about the affairs of
the church, and along with John Knox he revised the Second
Book of Discipline, and assisted in drawing up that solemn and im-
pressive form for the ordination and admission of ministers of the
gospel which is still in use.  How he discharged his duties as mi-

<FOOTNOTE>See Calderwood.
    In 1573 and 1557.
    See Professor Gordon's MSS.


