
 		           GLASSERTON.                    43

looked upon hereafter as the beginning of a new era in the his-
tory of farming. Change of manure seems to be as essential as
change of crops. Lime, when often repeated, loses much of its
efficacy. It acts only as a stimulant at best, and, after two or three
repetitions, the land can be stimulated no longer, being exhauted,
unless now strength is supplied by dung, or some other substan-
tial manure and the quantity of dung which can be raised on a
farm is very limited, and inadequate for keeping the land in proper
condition;--then it is too heavy and bulky a substance to be im-
ported or carried from a distance; consequently, farmers had the
greatest difficulty in obtaining a sufficient quantity of manure for
their green crop fields. Indeed, this difficulty was so great, that
the land seldom got half the manure which it required. This dif-
ficulty is now completely obviated by the application of bone dust.
This is the most portable of all manures. Twenty or thirty im-
perial bushels of it are the allowance for an acre of turnips. The
carriage of this quantity from England or Ireland does not come
to more than 2s. 6d. or 3s.: and a single horse cart will carry
thirty bushels from the sea-port to the farm. Steep hills can now
be manured with bone-dust, without subjecting horses to labour so
hard and oppressive, that they were often wind-broken and ren-
dered nearly useless for life,--of this was a frequent occurrence
in drawing dung and compost up to the tops of the mountains.
Under these advantages, a greater quantity of grain will no doubt
be raised in this part of the country and steam navigation being
introduced about the same time, affords greater facility in carrying
produce to market, than the farmers in this neighbourhood have
been hitherto accustomed to enjoy. But to say the truth all
these advantages were required to support the drooping spirits, of
the Galloway farmers, for, notwithstanding all the indulgence of
their landlords, which has been very great indeed, they have been
struggling with difficulties for at least these twenty years. They
were difficulties too, of such magnitude, that I several have make
under them, and very few have been abld to fulfil the engagements
entered into with their landlords.
	The system of tillage generally followed in this place  is one
crop of oats in opening up a field; next year, a green crops either
of potatoes or turnips; the third, it is sown out-with dye-grass and
clover, along with wheat, barley or oat; then a hay crop is taken;
and after that, the field returns to pasture, for a longer or shorter
period, according to the number of divisions in the farm. Three


