
                          DUNBAR.                             79

rested the Queen at Almond Bridge, and carried her forcibly with
her principal attendants to this castle, where he kept her twelve days
imprisoned. One short month after her union with Bothwell, Mary
was compelled to fly first to Borthwick, and next, disguised as a
page, to Dunbar Castle, where she collected forces from Lothian
and the Merse, and marched to Carberry bill; there she joined the
insurgent, and Bothwell deserted returned to Dunbar Castle
               "With shame and sorrow filled,
               Sharne for his folly; sorrow out of time
               For plotting an unprofitable crime."
Bothwell's dependents shortly thereafter surrendered the castle to
Me Earl of Murray, Regent of Scotland; and in 1567 Parliament
ordered it to be demolished, and the artillery carried to Edinburgh,
-which was so literally executed some months thereafter, that no-
thing now remains of this important place of strength but the ves-
tiges of its former grandeur. These are in many parts now so
completely effaced that the antiquary may here give full scope to
his imagination, and delight himself with rebuilding this ancient
castle in the air.
   Patrick the sixth Earl of Dunbar, in 1218, founded in this pa-
rish a monastery of Red or Trinity friars; part of the building is
still standing in the Friars Croft. The lands which piety or zeal
had given them, says Spottiswood, were transferred after the. Re-
formation to George Home of Friars land.
   In 1263, the seventh Earl founded here a monastery of Carme-
lites or White friars; but no vestiges of it now remain. Some Ro-
man medals inscribed Judea captive were found, on digging the site,
of the reservoir: hence it was supposed to have been formerly the
site of the Carmelite friary. There was also a Maison Dieu at
the head of the High Street; but its pious founder is now unknown.
   In Broxmouth Park, there is a small mound of earth where Crom-
well stood (and which is still called Cromwell's Mount,) when, look-
ing through a glass, he beheld Leslie's army descending from the
hill, and exclaimed the "Lord hath delivered them into my hands."
   In a sequestered spot, not far from the door of Broxmouth House,
is a rough tombstone, having the name of Sir William Douglas
rudely inscribed upon it; he was one of the Douglasses of Kirkness,
a branch of the Morton family, and the only individual among, the.
fallen in that battle who has been honoured even with such a frail
memorial to mark the warrior's bed.
   Modern Buildings.-There is a Gothic church, having its base
65 feet above the level of the sea, with a magnificent tower, 107 feet
6 inches high,-forming a well known land-mark to the mariner. It


