
710                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

from a want of careful management in its rulers, but chiefly from
large sums having been expended on extensive and beneficial im-
provements. In 1723 the city's debts amounted to L. 78,164. In
1788, in consequence of disposing of some of the landed property
and other arrangements, the debt was reduced to L. 70,000, while
the gross revenue, exclusive of an appropriated revenue of the ale
duty, amounted to about L. 10,000.
   In 1833 the city debt had accumulated to about L. 400,000,*
and as the annual income was not nearly sufficient to pay the
usual legal interest thereon, and as besides this debt the corporation
had become bound to government for the sum of L. 228,374 ad-
vanced on the Leith docks, the affairs of the city became so em-
barrassed that the corporation was at last declared insolvent.
After a great deal of discussion, and after various plans of settle-
ment had been proposed and rejected, both on the part of the
creditors and the town-council, an amicable arrangement was at
length agreed to, and an act of Parliament legalising the settle-
ment was obtained in July 1838.+ By this act the town-council
are relieved of their responsibilities and of all concern with
the Leith docks. The management of these was placed under
commissioners. Government agreed to postpone the interest
on the debt due,-an annual sum of L. 2000 was secured to
the city clergy in lieu of the merk per ton, which was abolished,
and L. 2500 for the payment of the necessary expenses of the
University and High School. Another sum of L. 3180 was
appropriated to the city creditors, making in all L. 7680 of an-
nual payment to the city of Edinburgh out of the revenues of
the Leith docks and harbour.++ The remaining revenue was to
be appropriated, under the direction of the commissioners, to
the improvement of the harbour; and the residue, if any, to be
paid towards the ultimate extinction of the government debt. The
affairs of the city of Edinburgh and those of Leith were also en-
tirely separated.

<FOOTNOTE>The actual debts valued in 1833 were            L. 393,755
          Value of liferent annuities                         14,743
                                                          __________

                                                          L. 408,498
   The life annuties, being principally old lives, are now rapidly being reduced by
deaths.
   The active parties in bringing about this settlement were the then Solicitor
General, Andrew Rutherford, Esq., Sir William Rae, Bart., and Duncan M'Laren,
Esq., city treasurer.
   For a more particular statement regarding the Leith harbour revenue, see the
account of Leith.


