
			RUTHWELL.                              223

of the column might not have bedn of a religious nature, and might
even have preceded the establishment of Christianity in this part
of the country; and also, that the Runic inscription, which has
hitherto baffled all attempts of the learned to interpret it, had pro-
bably been mutilated, and rendered illegible by narrowing the sides
of the column in the process of alteration. But the very ingenious
and apparently successful efforts of Mr Repp, * which are after-
wards noticed, and which reflect so much credit on his learning and
antiquarian talent, lead to an opposite conclusion in both three
respects.
	The later history of this remarkable column is not much more
indebted to tradition than that of a more early date. In the for-
mer Statistical Account of this parish, mention is made of a report
which still prevails, of its having been set up in remote times at a
place called Priestwoodside, (now Priestside,) near the sea, from
whence it is said to have been drawn by a team of oxen. What-
ever truth there may be in this, it is at least certain, that at a
very early period it was erected in the church nf Ruthwell, where
it remained, and was held in the highest veneration, till the
Reformation; and where, even after that period, it was preserved
from demolition till the middle of the seventeenth century, pro-
bably by the influence of the Murrays of Cockpool, the ances-
tors of the Earl of Manrfield, who had espoused the cause of the
Stuarts and of the Episcopal party, in npposition to that of the
Presbyterian. In 1642, however, when the latter were triumphant
over the court and its satellites, by whom they had been at once
cajolled and oppressed; and when the progress of the dispute be-
tween Charles I. and the country party, which was rapidly coming
to a crisis in both kingdoms, had greatly inflamed men's minds,--an
order was passed by the General Assembly of the church+ for the
destruction of this ancient monument, as idolatrots. This order
must have been but p`rtially and reluctantly obeyed by the local
authorities. The column was, indeed, thrown down and broken
in several places, probably by its fall, and some of the emblems,
which were peculiarly obnoxious, because objects of Popish idolatry,
such as the crucifixion, were at the same time perhaps nearly ob-
literated; but, after this act of obedience was performed, it was al-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Thorleif Gudmandson Repp, A. M., F. S. A., Scotland, a Danish gentleman,
and one of the librarians of the Advocates' Library.
	  This order is dated 27th July 1642, at St Andrews, where the General Assembly
was then sitting.
				3


