
352                          FIFESHIRE.

of the most reasonable instances that can be conceived of seat
rents drawn by heritors. It appears the more reasonable in the
following views; that the rents have been twice reduced; that they
are now only 1s. a sitting; and that, besides the original sum of
L. 1730, the heritors, upon two different occasions, 1829-1836,
have come forward, and at an expense, 1st, of L. 40, and 2d, of
L. 17, have ordered a strengthening of the roof by additional
couples, for the removal of apprehensions, in regard to the safety
of the building.
This unfortunate state of matters, in regard to the church,
makes it somewhat difficult to say, who are or are not members of
the Established Church. We ard in a transition state. Respect-
able parishioners are still absenting themselves. But we are
not aware of many having joined Dissenting congregations. There
'is no Seceding or Dissenting place of worship in the parish; nor
are there now, we should think, above twenty-five grownup per-
sons in the bounds who acknowledge any dissenting minister as
their adopted pastor. The church is seated for 528; deduct free
sittings for the poor 36 ; preserved for heritors, their families, and
their servants, farmers, their children and servants, the elders and
minister's, and schoolmaster's seats, 200; there remain for letting,
292; an ample supply for the parishioners, and considerably ex-
ceeding the number of applicants. ,
The number of persons of all ages attending the Established
Church, we cannot, in present circumstances, state with accuracy.
But,without reference to our late alarms, we might say, towards
300.There should be many more, and we lament that there are
not.Clerical means are used to augment the attendance, but we
are apt to have offered as excuses, the difficulty of hearing, the want
,of decent clothing, the coldness of the church, especially in winter,
-artificial heat, by means of stoves or otherwise, never having
been introduced.
The average number of communicants way be given at 210. It
is low compared with the population. Many are absent at seat
when the sacrament is dispense4i in summer, and when we have it
in February, when the men are at home, it falls in with the throng
,of the winter herring fishing.
There is in the parish an Abercrombie and St Monan's Bible
and Missionary So4ciety of some years standing. But, from want
of unanimity among the members, as to the disposal of the funds,


