
                            GLENELG.                            129

through the valleys into the interior of the country, as if they re-
treated from the advance of a resistless enemy.  Notwithstanding
the excessive moisture of the climate the inhabitants of the country
are singularly healthy.
   Hydrography.-The parish is intersected by two arms of thesea,
Loch Hourn and Lochnevis, and is thus divided into three districts,
Glenelg Proper, Knodyart, and North Morar.  Loch Hourn is navi-
gable for twenty miles, being about five broad at the entrance,
which breadth it retains for about one-half its extent, when, for
the remainder, it contracts into less than half this.  Lochnevis
also extends about twenty miles, being in point of breadth much
of the same description as the former.  Both are remarkable for
the romantic beauty of the scenery of their coasts, especially Loch-
Hourn.  The mountains rise from their margin, and are covered
with wood.
   As in all parts of the Highlands, so here many fresh water lakes
are to be met with, supplied with trout ; but nothing in the na-
tural history of any of them requires particular notice.  The same
remark applies to the rivers which, along the coast, empty them-
selves into the friths.
   Soil, &c.-The soil in Glenelg Proper is loamy and fertile, not-
withstanding the quantity of rain which falls.  By this, however,
the average weight of the grain is necessarily much deteriorated;
yet it is no unusual thing for the common bear or big to weigh fifty
pounds imperial bushel, and Flemish oats forty-eight pounds.  In
the district of Knodyart the soll is much lighter, but good crops
are raised, with the advantage of a harvest always two weeks earlier
than in Glenelg Proper.
   Mineralogy.-Beds of limestone are met with in various parts
of the parish, but it is burned neither for building nor for agricul-
tural purposes.  This may be accounted for by the rock being
of a very hard description, and by the want of suitable fuel.  Peat
would hardly suffice for the purpose, and the expense of coals, it is
supposed, would be greater than the benefit derived from the use of
lime could compensate.  An excellent substitute is found in the
shells; it abounds on the coast, and is obtained at the expense of
the conveyance.  Plumbago also is to be met with in considerable
quantity.  The rocks of this parish, as Professor Jameson informs
us, are chiefly gneiss, with subordinate mica slate, quartz rock, horn-
blende rock, granite, syenite, and serpentine.  The serpentine af-
     INVERNESS,			I


