
114                            EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Foulis, was also mised to the Bench during his father's lifetime.
(in 1674) by the title of Lord Redford.  He was a member of the
last Scottish Parliament, and of the first British one. These two,
as may well be supposed, from the places which they held, agreed
with the Court in its views and measures.  This ancient and ho-
nourable family still has a representative in the parish, though
the lands of Colinton have passed into other hands, the title being
now enjoyed by Sir James Foulis of Woodhall, Bart., whose an-
cestor was George, the second son of James Foulis, who held the
lands of Colinton in 1581. *-John M'Laurin, son of the famous
Colin M'Laurin, when raised to thd Bench, on which he sat for
eight years, took the title of Lord Dreghorn, from a small pro-
perty which be held in this parish. The touching and impressive
inscription which he caused to be put upon the south-west corner
of Greyfriars Church, Edinburgh, in memory of his father, de-
serves to be inserted:

			Infra situs est
			Colin M'Laurin,
	Mathes. olim. in Accad. Edin. Prof. electus suo Newtono susdente.
			H. L. P. F.
		Non in nomini paterno consultant,
		Nam tali auxilio nil eget;
		Sed ut in hoc infelici campo.
		Vbi Luctus regnant et pavor,
		Mortalibus prorsus non absit Solatium,
		Hujus enim Scripta evolve,
		Mentemque tantarum rerum Capacem,
		Corpore caduco superstitem crede !
  The parish is still connected with the College of Justice, by
the residence at Bonally, of the Honourable Lord Cockburn, who
was raised to the Bench in 1834.
  Dr Alexander Monro, Secundus, who taught anatomy,and sur-
gery most successfully in the University of Edinburgh for the
long space of forty years, maintaining and advancing the celebrity
of that University as a school of medicine, purchased the proper-

<FOOTNOTE>Foulis of Caliton.- This family seems at one time to have possessed nearly the
whole ofthe parish of Hailes.  1609, James Foulis de Collingtoune was ratified in
the lands of Collingtoune, Swanston, Dreghorn, Boneyley, Baddis, Pitmure Oxgangs,
Comiston Reidhall, 1641, Sir Alexander Foulis is ratified in Collingtoun Oxgangs,
the vicarage of Hailes, in the teinds of town and lands of Craiglockbart Oxgangs,
portion of Boneley, Dreghorn, and Swanston.  1661, July 12, anent Lord Col-
lingtoune's losses, ister alia, in 1650, his whole tenement, tennant-houses, barnes,
byres, and haill onsets, in the town and lands of New Mains, Craiglockhart, and
Benbridge, nurnd by the Usurper's army, L. 4000 Scots. The  whole of his plenish-
ing within the manor place of Collingtoun, burnt or taken away, all the doors and
windows, iron work, amd much of the loften an roof were burned, pulled down,
destroyed, or taken away, by the said Usurpers, and that he had several other houses
destroyed, and much of his planting cit, all estimated to L. 10,000 Scotts, his corns
destroyed, estimated at L. 3083 Scotts.-Acts of Scottist Parliament.


