
464                       FORFARSHIRE.

	The average rent of arable land in Lundie is from L. 1 tn
L. 1, 14s., and in Fowlis from L. 1 to L. 3. Lundie is divided
into eighteen farms, from L.40 to L.300 of yearly rent; Fowlis
into nine, besides several pendicles, varying from L. 100 to L.800.
        Live-Stock.-In this quarter the attention of the farmer is about
equally divided between breeding and feeding black cattle, with a
few sheep where they have hill pasture, and of late to a small extent
on the low grounds. The breed is generally the native Angus, which
is hardy, and feeds well. For some years back, a disposition has
been shown to cross with the Teeswater or Ayrshire, and, to a
smaller extent, to cultivate these breeds pure. The former gives
a larger bone, and earlier maturity; the latter is meant to increase
the quantity of milk. The number of cows in Lundie is about 120;
in Fowlis, 93; and about 130 calves are reared every year in the
former district of the parish, very few at present in the latter.
About 113 work-horses in Lundie, and 56 in Fowlis, are employ-
ed daily; and saddle and young horses may amount to 20 more in
each district. The number of sheep varies exceedingly, as seve-
ral of the hills, (if such they are to be called,) are kept entirely for
winter pasture, and let to the farmers among the Grampians, who
remove their stock down during the winter storms. The others
cultivate the black-faced generallx. Of late the Cheviot is gain-
ing ground; and on the arable land the Leicester breed is pre-
ferred. Swine are not kept to the extent they deserve,-scarcely
in sufficient quantities for home consumption. One farmer in
Lundie, and another in Fowlis, cultivate the dairy husbandry in
preference to breeding and feeding, and carry their milk and but-
ter to the Dundee market. At present it pays well; and the one
keeps about 20 and the other about 40 milch cows.
        Husbandry.-It is not necessary to enter into a minute detail of
the state of husbandry, or the amount of annual produce, for so
small a district, the more especially as it differs little in these re-
spects from the neighbouring parishes. It may suffice to state, in
general terms, that the most approved modes of husbandry are in
general use; that both districts of the parish are, for the most part,
thoroughly drained, generally enclosed witli excellent stone walls,
and well accommodated with farm-steadings; and that one far-
mer * has introduced the subsoil plough invented by Mr Smith of
Deanston, an example which others will no doubt soon follow. In
Fowlis  all kinds of grain are grown in great perfection, and in the
usual proportions. In Lundie wheat is sparingly sown, on account

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Alexander Smith, Wester Keith.


