
32                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

mariners mistaking other inlets for the entrance to the Dee. The
lighthouse on Little Ross will now be seen from a great distance,
and serve as a beacon to direct shipping,, but particularly stranger
vessels, to a haven of safety. The lantern is about 50 feet above
the level of the sea at high-water. The light is a revolving one,
producing a bright flash every five seconds.
	 Police.--The Rural Police of the stewartry consists of a super-
intendent and eleven officers. The superintendent and one of the
officers reside in the town. This officer's district comprehends the
parishes of Kirkcudbright, Rerwick, Tongland, and Trognholm.
The btrgh has one police officer in its constant employment, and
two additional officers receive salaries for assisting to keep the
peace of the town and other public services. There are besides
a harbour-master and some steward-officers in the parish.
	Steward Court.--A Steward Court is held within the town for
ordinary cases every Friday during session, and a Commissary
Court when business requires, the Steward-substitute being gene-
rally the presiding judge. A Small Debt Court for the disposal
of cases where the claim is under L.8, 6s. 8d., is held once in the
fortnight. From the legal knowledge, acuteness, and patience of
the Judge-Ordinary, this Court has become very popular. The
number of cases disposed of in it during the last year was 272,
exclusive of those decided in the Small Debt Circuit Court. In
the Steward Court, during the last year, were tried, with or with-
out a jury, no fewer than 59 criminal actions. Both the ma-
gistrates of the burgh and the justice of the peace also sometimes
hold courts for disposing of civil and criminal business.
	Banks.--There are two branches of banks in the town of Kirk-
cudbright, namely, one of the Bank of Scotland and another of
the Western Bank.
         Water.--The town is excellently supplied with water, brought
in leaden pipes from springs at the distance of nearly half a
mile from the main cistern. This useful vork was completed
in 1763, and cost L. 440 Sterling. The burgh defrayed about
one-half of the expense, and the inhabitants the other. Even in
the dry summers of 1826 and 1842, there was no great scarcity of
water.
	Markets.--The markets in general are supplied with abundance
of provisions, and prices are moderate.
	Assessments.--The inhabitants of the town enjoy a complete ex-
      				   3

