
     Statistical Account

struction.-The farms, in general, are not large.  Excepting
3 or 4, which may contain from 300 to 500 acres, they run
from 100 to 200 acres.  The increasing desire of accumula-
ting this kind of property, has not operated to a very great
extent for 50 years past.  One farm of 500 acres presently
maintains, in connection with it, families consisting of 47
souls*, The diligence and activity of the farmers are equal

<FOOTNOTE>

*The disadvantage to population by the accumulation of
farms, must arise chiefly from the habit and capacity of doing
more work with fewer hands; and even this to a whole nation
may be lessened by the reduction in the price of grain, from an
additional quantity in the market.  But the chief disadvantage
of this ruinous and prevailing practice arises not so much from its
effects on population, as in changing manners and habits.  It
destroys the balance, in point of numbers, between masters and
servants, and produces a considerable effect on the spirit and in-
dependence of a whole nation.  The evil may be lamented; but,
during the state of rapidly increasing cultivation, where a capi-
tal is required, and where the knowledge of the business is con-
fined, there can be little hopes of a cure.  In a general and
high state of cultivation, however, when the existence of a fa-
mily will become of importance, and the labour of it procure
the means, when superiority in the art will only consist in close
attention, when persons of this character will be able to afford
the higher price for land; and finally, when there shall be no
extraordinary demand for men to the other departments of civil
society, this evil will naturally cease to exist.  It it to the local
and partial operations of those principles, that we must ascribe
the general equality and moderation of farms in this parish;
and, if these were universal, the facts would more certainly
follow.  In the mean time, though the proprietors of land are
excusable in adopting the best method of bringing their proper-
ty, in the speediest manner, to the greatest value; yet have they
it much in their power, without interrupting the general plan,
to prevent the inconveniency.  A few acres, lying contiguous
to the villages, divided among the inhabitants, would greatly
attach them to the soil, by giving thorn a property and exis-
tence in the country.  It would better their condition, and in-
crease their numbers, by blending together the characters of
the mechanic and husbandmen; and, far from diminishing, it
would add to the value of land.


