
                          HOBKIRK.                           211

note may be observed in the red sandstone, by which the strata are
heaved up and otherwise deranged.
   At Robertslin, near Limekilnedge, occurs a stratum of agate or
coarse jasper, which has frequently been employed for seals and
other ornaments. Its prevailing colour is reddish, clouded and
streaked with blue, crimson, and yellow, generally presenting but
little transparency. Portions of fossil wood are found in the water-
course, brought down from the bills; but none have been discover-
ed in situ.
   The soil over the sandstone is a reddish clay, among which are
numerous large rounded stones, commonly blue, more rarely black,
rolled from the greywacke and basaltic rocks. These, mixed with
red sandstone, form the channel of the river. Moreover, there
occur frequently smaller stones, of two or three pounds weight, of
an oval shape, sometimes of a flesh colour, sometimes of a white
quartzy look, such as occur in coarse conglomerate. Of this, in fact,
a mass is exposed by the Catlie Burn near Wauchope garden,
where the sandstone formation terminates.
   Zoology -- Judging from the names of places in the neighbour-
hood, it would appear that the hart, the hind, the wolf, &c. were
formerly natives of this district. Thus, we have Hartshaugh,
Hindlee, Wolflee, Swanshiel, Ernescleugh, &c. Foxes still com-
mit nightly depredations upon the poultry-yard, and otters have
been discovered on the banks of the stream about Wells. There,
also, among the lofty trees, herons build their nests; and squirrels
latterlv have been seen in the woods.
   The Rule abounds with excellent trout, and is esteemed an ex-
cellent stream for angling; but some dexterity is required, from its
being shallow, and in many places fringed with alders.  Few sal-
mon or sea-trout visit its waters, and that never but in spawning
season, when they are killed without any regard to prohibitory
statutes.  It is to be regretted that the small streams are so gene-
rally swept with nets, which not only diminish the angler's legiti-
mate sport, but destroy much of the salmon fry ere they reach the
sea.
   The sides of the valley are plentifully and beautifully wooded,
--in a manner scarcely equalled in this part of the country.  Birch,
hazel, alder, and ash, are of natural growth. Oak, beech, elm,
and the different kinds of fir, seem most congenial to the soil, and
attain to a state of great perfection.


