
                               COLLACE.                             213

        1114 feet above the level of the sea.  Its oval and conical sum-
        mit is 169 yards in length, by 89 in medium breadth.  Upon this
        insulated and chosen site, Macbeth, the Thane of Glammis, in
        1043, and soon after his usurpation of the Scottish crown, erected
        a strong and lofty castle. Here held his court, and for some
        years was attended by his reluctant vassals, and kept the surround-
        ing country in the most upgrading subjection.  In the meantime
        Malcolm, son of the old and good King Duncan, whom Macbeth
        had murdered, fled into England for protection.  The reigning
        prince, Edward the Confessor, not only gave him a kind recep-
        tion, but was prevailed upon also to support his claim to the Scot-
        tish throne by a powerful army, commanded by his brave General
        Siward, Earl of Northumberland.  The discontented barons flock-
        ed to the English standard reared in Malcolm's behalf ; and in the
        course of the year 1094 this overwhelming force approached to
        Dunsinane.  Being observed from the battlements by Macbetli,
        he considered his fortifications untenable, and immediately fled
        northward.  He was pursued, overtaken, and slain, according to
        common report, at Lumphanan in Aberdeenshire.  His fortress
        was immediately razed to the ground, and that the destruction
        might be the more complete, fire was employed, as appears from
        the calcined matter and scorched materials among the rubbish.
        Such as take the trouble of ascending this remarkable hill, will fin-d
        themselves amply repaid.  The enthusiasm of classic ground will
        be felt and acknowledged by the scholar.  The scenery, indeed,
        may call up some of the blackest pages of Scottish history, but
        our recollections will be accompanied by the grateful feeling of as.-
        surance that such barbarous times are for ever gone by.  The view
        presented from Dunsinane on every side is rich, varied, and pic-

        turesque.  Nor is it a more delightful, than it is a commanding
        station.  In a clear day, there is nothing to prevent the practised
        eye from taking in fifty miles all around, and obtaining a glimpse
        of sixteen different counties in the horizon.  This eminence hs
        also favourable to devotion.  Turning to the north and north-west,
        an amphitheatre or uncommon grandeur and beauty rises before
        us. Grampian's piled on Grampians in countless succession, rear
        their heads be ond the clouds.  They display the majesty of the
        Almighty Creator, and fill us with the most sublime conceptions
        of the power of him "who meteth out the heavens with a span,
        weigheth the mountains inscales, and the hill's in a balance. *

        <FOOTNOTE>For further particulars, see notes taken on the spot in 1772, by Sir John gin-


