
                                     BARRAY.                          201

         stances have been known of barley sown on the 20th of June being
         cut down ripe in September.  Snow and frost are little known in
         this island, and when they appear, seldom continue more than a
         few days at a time.  The diseases most prevalent are rheumatism,
         fevers, croup, asthma, bowel-complaints, cutaneous eruptions, sore
         legs in consequence of frequent immersion in salt-water during
         the boating and fishing, and such other diseases as are the usual
         concomitants of poor living, want of cleanliness, and destitution of
         clothing.  Besides the other various evils to which the inhabit-
         ants are subject, the want of a medical practitioner among them
         is not the least; neither is there any of that profession within
         twenty miles, to whom they can apply for advice, under the most
         distressing circumstances.  The consequence is, that people are
         often cut off in the prime of life, who, under the management of a
         skilful medical man, might be spared to their families.
            Rainbows, halos, and-polar lights are seen often in this quarter.
         It is universally admitted that the aurora borealis or polar lights
         make their appearance much more frequently in our hemisphere
         now, than ever they did in former times, and in much greater splen-
         dour.  They generally prognosticate a change of weather from good
         to bad, or from bad to good.  The halo about the moon indicates in
         summer rain, and in the winter snow or frost.   As the south-west
         and north-west are the prevailing winds, when the atmosphere
         thickens to the west, it prognosticates rain and bad weather; but
         while the west keeps clear, no change of weather is apprehended.
            The Island of Berneray, (anciently denominated the Bishop
         Island,) and the adjacent island of Mingalay, are particularly dis-
         tinguished (as already observed) for the height of their rocks, and
         their romantic appearance in every other respect; but what adds
         greatly to the splendid scenery of these precipices, are the innu-
         merable tribes of aquatic fowls by which they are inhabited, during
         the whole of the summer season.
            These birds pay their first visit to the rocks on the Ist day of
         February, early in the morning, when they clean out the. rubbish
         of last year's nests.  Betwixt that period and the month of May,
         they pay cursory visits to the roeks.  Early in the mouth of May,
         the lay their eggs on the shelves of the rocks, so close, to each
         other that it appears wonderful how they can distiinguish their
         own eggs from those that surround them.  Each of these birds
         has but one egg, and as soon as the young one is hatched, and
            INVERNESS.                         0


