
 				ISLAND OF SKYE--STRATH.              313

 	ple in general are becoming more alive to the advantages of edu-
 	cation.
 	   Fuel.--The fuel chiefly, it may be said entirely, used is peat, of
 	which the supply is abundant and the quality excellent.  It is pro-
 	cured at comparatively little expense, being secured at a season of
 	the year when there is a cessation from all other labour.  Coal
 	has been discovered on the estate of Strathaird, but was never
 	wrought.  The smith in that district tried its quality, and found
	it to answer his purpose well.
	   Inns.--We have three inns, and in situations necessary for the
	accommodation of travellers.  It cannot be said that they have any
	bad effect on the morals of the people.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	   Since the former Statistical Account of this parish was drawn
	out, various changes of importance have been effected.  The
	means of diffusing useful knowledge have greatly increased, and
	the facilities for the attainment of general improvement have been
	extensively afforded.  Improvements have taken place in the modes
	of communication with other parts of the kingdom.  The mails
	have been accelerated--roads have been formed in all directions--
	steamers and other packets have been established.  But al-
	though the benefits arising from such modes of communication are
	great, yet some of them are attended with disadvantages, as they
	are the means of introducing into the country a variety of vagrants,
	such as gipsies, rag-men, venders of crockery, tinsmiths, egg,
	dealers, and old-clothes-men.  By characters of this description,
	manners and habits, which were formerly unknown to the lower
	orders, are gradually introduced, such as tea-drinking, tobacco
	chewing and smoking.  The disadvantages of such habits are
	sufficiently apparent; and while temperance and total absti-
	nence societies, in regard to spirituous liquors, are establish-
	ed with such noted success throughout the kingdom, we would
        earnestly recommend anti-tea and tobacco societies to be set on
	foot here,--much more money being uselessly lavished on these ar-
	ticles than on intoxicating liquors of any description.
	   Of late years, the sale of eggs for the Glasgow market has be-
	come a general and useful traffic ; but it is matter of regret that
	the money thus realized, which must amount to at least L. 100 per
	annum, should not be laid out more usefully than in the procur-
	ing of tea and tobacco.
	   Great improvements have taken place in the agriculture of the
	   INVERNESS.                              x


