
	                 CARSTAIRS.                       561

and the vicarage L. 2, 13s. 4d. At the Reformation the preben-
dary parsonage was held by Bishop Kennedy, and the vicarage by
Mr John Scott. The former was then reported at eight and a
half chalders meal, and one-third bear, the latter at L. 40. The
aggregate of the probend in money was L. 105, 12s. By the act
of annexation 1588, when all the church lands were annexed to
the Crown, the superiority passed into the hands of the sovereign.
It would appear, that when the estate of Carstairs was conveyed to
Sir James Hamilton, (of which conveyance no record is to be found
in history,) the benefice and all other pertinents were bestowed
on him also. Both are now held by H. Monteith, Esq.
	The parish church, with its surrounding burying-ground, stands
in the centre of the village on a rising ground a situation exceed-
ingly well chosen for the convenience of the population generally.
It was rebuilt in 1794, and is ornamented with a spire and clock.
It affords 430 sittings, all of which are divided among the heritors,
according to their respective valuations, and again subdivided
among the tenants, excepting the seat of the patron, according to
the size of their respective farms. None of the seats are let. The
families in the village of Carstairs, having no sittings attached to
their feus or houses, complain of the want of accommodation, and,
in consequence, some have left the Established Church and join-
ed the Dissenters.
	There is no Dissenting place of worship in the parish. The
Dissenters who reside in it are chiefly connected with the Relief
and Associate Synods, and attend the places of worship belonging
to these sects in Lanark and at Braehead, in the adjoining parish
of Carnwath.
	Number of families attending the Established Church, 163;
number of Dissenting or Seceding families, 42.
	An elegant and commodious manse, with offices and garden-wall,
was built in 1820, on a new and very eligible site, about five mi-
nutes' walk from the church. The globe contains 13 acres, in-
cluding the ground occupied by the garden, manse, and offices,
It may be valued at L. 40 yearly.
	The stipend, which was augmented in 1819, amounts to 15
chalders, half meal and half barley, estimated at the rate of the
highest fiars in the county, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
ments.
        Education.-There are two schools in the parish; the parochial
school in the village, and a private school at Ravenstruther. The


