
                    CUMBERNAULD.                           141

   Antiquities.--There are no remains of any religious houses; yet
the names of several places, as Achinbee, Achenkill, Chapelton
Kildrum, Kilmair, Croy, and others, would lead to infer that there
had been several within the parish.
   The only relic of antiquity is Graham's Dike or Agricola's
Wall, of which there are some traces. It enters the parish at the
Red Burn bridge, near to the Roman camp at Castlecary,
where the turnpike road crosses the burn, and runs nearly parallel
with the Forth and Clyde Canal, through the whole length of the
parish till it enters the parish of Kirkintilloch, at the Barrhill, a
little south of Achinstarey.
    No part of the wall, which is said to have been 20 feet high,
and 24 feet thick, now remains; but the fosse, which tradition
states to have been 20 feet deep, and 40 feet wide, is distinctly
to be seen throughout its whole length, part of it being used as a
parish road. Running in a straight line, partly over elevated and
rocky ground, little of it could have been filled with water; but to
compensate for this, and where most required, it had the Dullatur
Bog, then a loch or impassable morass, upon its northern bank.
Near its eastern extremity, on the farm of Toll-Park, the fosse,
and part of the road which run along its southern boundary, may
still be distinctly seen. But, for a more particular description, we
refer to the authors who have more minutely described it.
   Some stones with inscriptions, found in or near the wall, may
be seen in Glasgow College Museum.
   In the garden at Nethercroy, near Achinstarey Bridge, there is
to be seen a Roman altar, bearing the following inscription :--
                           Nymphis,
                           Vexillatio
                          Leg. VI. vic.
                         P. ET. sub. FA
                          6\il0. LIBERA.
  Into the south wall of the mansion-house of Nethercroy are
built two stones. On one of them are three male figures clad in
armour, and bearing spears and shields. On the other are two
female figures, one of them as having come from the bath, regard-
ing attentively her attendant, who is in a bending posture, as if lift-
ing something from the ground.
   On the farm of Carrickstone or Carrigstone, on the rising ground
nearly west of the church,and a little to the sotith of the Roman wall,
there is a large stone, called the Standing-Stone. Though con-


