
922                          PERTHSHIRE.

L.20,800 to L.26,000 per annum; and the value of yarn spun at
the same mills, from L.650 to L.700 per week, or about from
L.33,000 to L.36,00 per annum.
   The other branch of manufacture, the weaving of yarn into
cloth, employs about 370 hands. The yarns are purchased by
the master manufacturers of the place, who employ weavers to
weave it into cloth, which is then sent to Dundee and sold to
cloth merchants there. Part of the cloth, however, is shipped di-
rect, at the risk of the manufacturer, to North and South America
and France. The greater part of the cloth manufactured consists
of Osnaburgs and coarse sheetings; but there is also a consider-
able quantity of fine dowlas and drill manufactured. The weavers
employed by the master manufacturers are paid for their work by
the piece, and their earnings average for men, 8s.; and women,
5s. per week, working, fourteen hours per day. The whole of the
weaving is done by hand-looms, no machinery being employed for
that purpose.*
   About the period of the publication of the last Statistical Ac-
count, a considerable quantity of flax was grown in the parish, the
produce of which was spun with the common spinning-wheel by
domestic servants, and women who were not fit for any harder
work, and it was quite a common thing for expert hands to earn
from 3s. to 4s. 6d. a-week in this way. The yarn was then woven
into linen, sometimes of very fine texture, for shirting, &c. The
introduction of machinery, however, has now completely super-
seded this branch of industry.
   With regard to the effect which these occupations may have
upon the health of those employed in them, the writer is not pre-
pared to say that it is prejudicial, at least to any great extent,--
certainly much less so than in large towns where the operatives do
not enjoy equal advantages in respect of air and exercise; and
were these operatives more regular in their habits of living, and
more attentive to cleanliness in their persons and dwellings, it is
thought that they would be equally healthy with other classes of
the population who are also engaged in occupations of a sedentary
nature.
   Their effect on the morals of the operatives are unfortunately
much more marked and observable, and is such as might natural-
ly have been expected, and has invariably followed, from the pro-

<FOOTNOTE>Messrs Leadbetter, Adamson, and Co. have lately erected power-looms in their
large mill at the Haugh, on the opposite bank of the river.


