
			KILBIRNIE.				701

one of our oldest Scottish families. Of the history of those of
Glengarnock, all that is known with certainty is, that the line ter-
minated in an heiress, who, some time previous to 1266, had es-
poused Hervey Cunningham of Kilmaurs, to whom the peerage,
writers have assigned the honour of having gallantly distinguished
himself at the battle of the Largs in 1268. Galfridus, the second
son of this marriage, was the ancestor of the Cunninghams of
Glengarnock. The early annals of this ancient family are, how-
ever, very meagre, and, unless it be to the genealogist, altogether.
uninteresting. During the sixteenth century, they become more ex-
tended, and of the feuds, rencounters, and conspiracies in which the
lairds of Glengarnock were frequently and evidently with no aver-
sion engaged, there are many notices recorded. The most rest-
less and enterprising spirit of his race, seems to have been William,
the thirteenth possessor of the barony, who closed his turbulent ca-
reer at the fatal battle of Pinkie, 10th September 1547. His
will, made on the eve of his departure from his house of Glen-
garnock to that disastrous field, an interesting document, and
hitherto unpublished, is subjoined. * Sir James Cunningham,
the sixteenth in descent from Galfridus, who married Kathe-

<FOOTNOTE>This document, of which a literal translation follows, is preserved in the records
of the Vicar-General of Glasgow. It is now in the course of being printed for the
Maitland Club,--the contribution of William Patrick, Esq. of Roughwood:--
"Death is certain--the hour most uncertain. Hence it is that I, William Cunyng-
hame of Glengarnock, taking my way to rencounter our old enemies, and, in the event
of sudden death make and ordain my testament and last will. In the first place, I give
and leave my soul to Almighty God, the most blessed Virgin Mary, and all saints, and
my bones to be buried wbere it shall please the Most High. And I leave iiij pence
to the fabrick of St Kentigem, and xx pound to be given to a chaplain duly ordained
to pray for my soul in the parochial church of Kilbirny. Also, I leave to Sir Ro-
bert Cunyngfiam, chaplain, x merkis of money; likewise I leave to the Friars Mi-
nor of Air and Glasgow, xx merkis. Also, I appoint and ordain that my tenants
have the liberty of compounding their debts. Further, I appoint my executors, viz.
Elizabeth Synclair, my wife, and Lady Isabella Cunyngham, my mother only; and
I leave my four best horses to my four sons, in such a way that the eldest shall have
the first choice of the same, viz. ay the eldest to cheis first, and that the heirship horse
shall stand to my heir for his choice. I leave to Alexander Cunyugbam, my younger
son, the younger horse called the 'seur staig,' and to John Blair, my son-in-law, the
Younger horse, called the 'brown staig.' I grant and assign to Elizabeth Cunyng-
hame, my daughter, relict of the late Alexander Schaw of Sauchguy, that sumof 400
merkis, resting upon the lands and buildings of Sir John Makghe, vicar of Abruth-
ven, lying within the city of Glasgow; as also that sum of 200 merkis, owing by the
said Sir John, I assign to the foresaid Elizabeth, towards relieving my executrices
of the forementioned sum of 700 merkis due to the said Elizabeth. Moreover, all my
goods, moveable and immoveable; my debts being taken out and paid, I give and leave
to my three daughters, to be distributed and apportioned at the will of my executrices
aforesaid, as they shall answer to the Supreme Judge."  The testament was made by the
mouth of the departing, "the xxix day of the month of August, in the year of our
Lord, 1547, my manuel subscription bearing testimony, at Glengarnock." Follows
the form of subscription "William Cunyningham of Glengarnok, with my hand."
This testament was confirmed, &c. 4th November 1547.


