
	6                          PERTHSHIRE.

  towards N. W. 1/2 JW., while on the south side of the same hill,
	at the distance of nearlv two miles, the dip was 13" towards N,
	W. At Invermay, six miles onward in the direction of the plane
	of the trata, the same bed of conglomerate makes its appearanbe,
	(but disjoined by the vale of Strathearn,) with similar layers of
	sandstone interposed, having the same dip and direction.  It may
	also be traced along the southern face of the Sidlaw range, as far
	as the western shoulder of Kinnoul hill; its continuity beink in-
	terrupted at this pnint by the bed of the Tay, It is a curious cir-
	cumstance, however,.that the planes of the lowest strata of the con-
	glomerate, on both sides of the river, are so iiearly coincident, as
	to imply from that circumstance, and other appearances, that they
	had formerly been united; large detached masses of conglomerate
	occurring in the bed of the Tay, in the very position they might
	have been expected to occupy, in consequence of the disruption
	of the river.  Previously to this event, the whole of the parish of
	Perth, with the flat and extensive district towards Crieff and Dun-
	keld, on which water-worn materials are everywhere to be found,,
	must have been covered by the waters of a lake, of no ordinary
	magnitude.
	In support of this opinion it may be stated, that trees of large
	dimensions, chiefly of the oak and willow kind, and other vegeta-
	ble productions, are 'frequently found in the alluvial soil on which
	the town of Perth is built, at a depth varying from 25 to 40 feet
	below the present surface ; and, what is still more confirmatory of it,
	Oaks upwards of two feet in diameter may be still seen protruding
	from the immense bed of clay which forms the southern bank of the
	Tay, at the Friartown, in positions not less than 20 feet above the
	highest level of the river, in spring tides. -In the mass of clay con-
taining these organic remains, beds of fine sand, and other indica-
	tions of aqueous arrangement are distinctly observable : so that at
	a period, in the annals of geology, comparatively recent, no doubt
	can be entertained of a barrier having existed across the present
	channel of the river sufficient to raise its waters far above their pre-
	sent level.  In fact, an obstruction of 200 feet in height, in the bed
	of the Tay, between, the hills of Kinnoul and Moncrieff, would
	cause the waters of the river to find their way to the ocean by the
	valley of Strathmore; nor are indications wanting that such a
	state of things once existed, in the chain of lakes, and the gravelly
	and sandy subsoil, which characterize the district of country
	stretching between the town of Forfar and Lunan bay.
	NO ores of any Description have been discovered to exist in the


