
                              CRAIL.                              963
 
     It is sheltered from all winds but the south, and may be entered
     by vessels of small draught of water, from any point, at an hour
     and a quarter's flood.  The corporation have voted a sum of money
     to defray the expense of having it surveyed with the view of bring-
     ing it under the notice of Government, as a harbour of refuge; find
     should it be so constructed, it would prove a benefit not only to
     the traders on the Forth, but also to the whole east coast of Scot-
     land.
       Unless in importing coals, and exporting the produce of the
     land, the port is not much frequented by sbipping.   However,
     twelve vessels belong to it, with a register of 530 tons.  In po-
     tatoes alone, several vessels have been employed for a portion of
     the year, carrying them to Newcastle, London, and elsewhere;
     above 3000 tons having been exported in one season.  This crop
     has fallen off considerably for some time, and, in consequence,
     last year's export was only 1800 tons.  Fishing is not carried on
     to the same extent as in some of the neiohbouring places, such as
     Cellardyke.  Yet a number of respectable men contrive to make
     a living by it. The kinds of fish which they most commonly
     bring ashore are, cod, ling, halibut, haddock, rock or red cod,
     cole-fish, dog-fish, cat-fish, flounder, turbot, skate, and occasion-
     ally mackerel.  Sand-eels and shrimps are gathered among the
     sand as the tide recedes.  The principal employment of the fish-
     ermen here is in catching shell-fish, such as lobsters and crabs,
     but in these the quantity seems to be rapidly diminishing; for,
     when Mr Bell wrote the former Statistical Account, lie states the
     number of lobsters sent annually to the London market to be
     about 20,000 or 25,000, and that ten years before there was
     double the number; whereas, though the same trade be still con-
     tinued, the number sent to London last year was onlv about 4000.
     During the same year, (1844,) after supplying the home con-
     sumption, between 3000 and 4000 dozens of crabs were sent to
     the markets of Dundee and Edinburgh.  Within the last few
     years, a new trade in shell-fish has been opened with London,
     viz. in periwinkles or wilks, of which no fewer than 50 tons were
     sent from Crail in 1844.  The town-couneil has also let the sal-
     mon-fishing, to the south of the town, and, a few days ago, the
     tacksman set his nets and was successful.  He therefore antici-
     pates that the salmon-fishing will be advantageous to himself, and
     a new source of revenue to the town.
       In the burgh, no manufactures are carried on, nor any trade of

