
72                     ARGYLESHIRE.

by Lochmelfort; one of the outlets of which lies between Shuna
and the parish of Craignish. On the south it is, bounded by the
north end of the Sound of Jura, a branch of which, from 1 to 2
miles in breadth, separates Luing on the south-west from Scarba,
and other small islands belonging to the parish of Jura. On the
North-west, it is bounded by the, Sound of Mull, which is here
about 8 miles in breadth, thus leaving a part of the parish due
west, of some miles in extent, open to the Atlantic Ocean.
  The islands of Seil and Luing, which constitute the principal
part of the parish, form one contiguous range, with the exception
of the narrow sound of Cuan for 10 miles in length. Along the
east side of these islands, the land is low and indented with bays.
On the west, the coast is generally high and rocky, particularly
bout Easdale, thus presenting a bold front to the waves of the
Atlantic, which in stormy weather beat with great violence against
these shores.
  There are no high mountains in the parish,,but there are seve-
ral ridges of hills rising in some parts to the height of 600 or 800
feet above the level of the sea. The island of Seil consists very
much of undulating low hills, with fertile slopes and valleys
Luing is generally more level. The soil in both these islands is
well adapted for every species of crop, but the climate is so varia-
ble and moist, that the expectations of the husbandman are often
disappointed, The district on the mainland consists chiefly of hill
pasture.
  There are no rivers in this neighbourhood, but their place is
supplied to a certain extent, by the number of narrow sounds by
which the parish is so much intersected. The Sounds of Insh and
Easdale are on the west coast, lying between the islands of the
same names and Seil. The Sound of Clathan, which separates
Seil from the mainland, is only a few yards in breadth. It runs
nearly in a straight line for about two miles, and might be taken
for an alpine river. A bridge was built across this sound fifty
yearr ago, being perhaps the first instance of the kind in Great
Britain where. an island was thus joined,to the mainland. This
bridge, is 70 feet wide, and 26 feet above high water mark, so that
small vessels of twenty tons burden rally pass tinder it. The skiffs
from the north find a safe passage through Clachan in bad wea-
ther, when they,could not venture with safety round the West
coast. This sound is very shallow, being dry in some parts at low
water. The Sound of Cuan is much broader and deeper than that
of Clachan, and the current here is very strong, running at the


