
                  ARTICLE GLASGOW.                    917

neral Assembly, upon a late, Report of its Standing Education
Committee, has established a relation with this important institu-
tion, so that it may be looked upon as a Normal seminary, ap-
proved and adopted by the National Church.
   I have obtained the following information from David Stow,
Esq. the noble-minded projector, and laborious secretary and su-
perintendent of the Normal Seminary.  It may be considered as
supplying the leading facts connected with the institution, down to
the present time.
   About L.15,000 have been expended on the purchase of the
site, play-grounds, building, furnishings, &c. Of this sum, L.4500
have been contributed by Government from the Parliamentary
grants; L.3500 have been raised by private subscription; and a
debt remains of L.7000.
   More than 600 teachers, male and female, have been trained
since the opening of the institution in 1836-7.  The average
number in attendance is about 40.  At this moment it is 45.
About 30 have gone to the West Indies.  There is an addi-
tional application for 9 for the same quarter ; 19 have gone to
Australia, and several more are wanted.  Not a few have gone to
British America.  A few have received appointments in Ireland,
and a great many in England and Scotland.  The English Poor-
Law Commissioners have applied for, and received a considerable
number.
   The demand for persons qualified for conducting the training
system, is usually four times greater than the supply ; and it
continues to encrease.  Lately there was an application from Eng-
land for 22, with the promise of salaries of L.100 each.  It is
not uncommon for the secretary of the Institution to have applica-
tions for so many teachers, that their joint salaries amount to be-
tween L. 2000 and L. 3000.
   The number of children at present trained in the Normal Se-
minary, is 500.  It thus supplies the place of sessional schools to
several adjoining parishes.  The great difficulty with which the
Institution has to contend, besides raising money for the teachers'
salaries, and meeting the interest of the large debt, is the want of
a few hundred pounds a year to assist the young men who come to
be trained, to remain a longer period at the seminary than they
are able to do from their own private resources.  The present
term is six months; but it is desirable it were twelve.  Besides,


