
     Statistical Account

   Schools, Poor.-There is no parochial school (properly so
called) in this parish, and there is only one society school for
reading, etc. at 5 L., and another for knitting, etc. at 6 L., both
placed at skipness.  There are two annuities left to the for-
mer, one of 2 L. 10 s. Sterling, by Daniel Campbell, etc. of
Shawfield; and the other of 5 L. left to it by Mrs. Ann Camp-
bell, relict of Captain Colin Campbell of Skipness; both
which annuities are regularly paid.  The parish would re-
quire three other schools at least; one in the centre, one at
Carradell, and one in Glenfaddel*.
   Such is the modesty of the poor in this parish, and their
aversion to begging, that the session list seldom exceeds 12,

<FOOTNOTE>

disgrace, and had drawn upon themselves the displeasure of the race of Fingal,
by assuming a greater degree of power, than these haughty heroes were willing
to allow them.  As there is a similar building in the island of Bute, and other
places, it is hoped a more satisfactory account may be obtained.
*Application was made by memorial, about I5 years ago, to the Society in
Scotland for Propagating Christian knowledge, representing the state of the 
poor people for want of schools, and craving the end of the Society.  No relief
was then granted, on this ground, that there was no parochial school in the
parish.  This is still the case, for this obvious reason, that one parochial school
would be of little benefit in this parish, on account of its great length and com-
parative narrowness, intersected by so many rapid and dangerous rivers. But a
plan much better adapted to the purposes of education and general advantage,
was adopted in lieu of it, namely, to divide the parish into convenient districty,
with a small school in each; the inhabitants contributing a salary to the teach-
er, which salary amounted considerably above what the could legally, or rea-
sonably be assested in.  These salaries, however, though not very considerable,
being too heavy a burden on the poorer fort, who are by far the greatest num-
ber, these schools were frequently discontinued, and in some districts dropped
altogether.  But it is now to be hoped, that the survey lately made by a Re-
verend Gentleman, will show the Society the propriety of erecting more schools
in this parish, for the relief of the poor, encouragement of teachers, and the
interest of religion.  The Landed interest in the parish, must certainly consider
it as a right measure to concur with the Society, in promoting a scheme, not
only benevolent in its nature, but attended with many advantages to them-
selves.  "He that lendeth to the poor, lendeth to the Lord."


