
                              BOWDEN.                          49

parish is at most five miles.  The time of the erection of the church
is unknown; but the oldest date on the building is 1666.  At pre-
sent the church is in a good state of repair.  It affords accommo-
dation to 380 sitters.  There are no rents paid for church seating,
and, although the congregation is usually accommodated in the
portions allocated to large proprietors, yet it is obvious that the
want of legal seating is an evil, which here, as well as in most other
parishes, often occasions much inconvenience to the villagers and
those having low valuations.
   The manse was formerly much decayed, but it was rebuilt on
its old site in the year 1794, and it is now in a good state of re-
pair.  The extent of the globe is from thirteen to fourteen acres,
and its value about L. 1, 5s. per acre.  The amount of the stipend
is fifteen chaldern, half barley and half oatmeal, Linlithgow mea-
sure.
   There is a dissenting chapel in the village of Midlem belonging
to the Associate Synod of Original Seceders.  The minister's
stipend was formerly paid from seat rents, but as there has been
no settled pastor in the place for several years, it is impossible to
ascertain what these might now amount to.
   The number of families attending the Eitablished church is 113,
and of individuals of all ages about 450.  The number of fami-
lies attending the Dissenting chapel is 74.  Divine service at the
Established church is well attended; it was so formerly in the
dissenting meeting-house at Midlem, but, owing to there being no re-
gular pastor, and to other local causes, that meeting-house is not
so well attended now.   The average number of communicants at
the Established church is 260.
   The average yearly amount of ordinary church collections is L. 15;
and of extraordinary L. 10.  These last are chiefly made for defray-
ing expenses incurred at Sabbath evening schools in the parish.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish, both on the
parochial establishment. The branches taught in these are Eng-
lish, writing, and arithmetic, practical mathematics, French,, Latin.
Greek, geography, &c-.  The salary of the Bowden, or principal
schoolmaster, is L. 30 ; and of the Midlem - L. 21. The average
number of scholars attending the former is 80; and the latter 45.
The annual expense of a child's education is from 8s. to 16s.; and of
a few pupils in the higher branches, it is about L. 1, 4s. At both
schools the children of paupers are taught gratis, and tbis of course
diminishes the amount of school-fees considerably. The pro-

ROXBVRGH.                    D


