
               30                        BANFFSHIRE.

   which the fraternity marked their possessions. A short distance from
   the town is a place called Spittal mire, supposed a corruption of hospital
   mire, perhaps from a house of that description belonging to the
   templars.  It appears that when, on the abolition of the order of
   Knights St John, who succeeded the templars, their possessions were
   erected into a lordship in favour of Sir James Sandilands in 1563,
   many parts of these possessions were found to be so much scattered,
   and let for such insignificant rents or feu-duties, as not to be
   worth the attention of the new proprietors; and, in this way, probably,
   the possessions of the templars in this town have passed
   at length into common burgage tenures.
     All that now remains of the ancient castle is a part of the outer
   wall and of the ditch.  The house where Archbishop Sharp was
   born was pulled down about twenty years ago.  One or two pieces
   of lettered freestone taken from it have been built into the churchyard
   wall, at the burial-ground of the Sharp family.
     The castle was a constabulary or lodging for the King when
   visiting this part of his dominions, and where he, or, in his absence,
   the thane, or constable, or sheriff administered justice.
   These officers being named by the King, and moveable at pleasure,
   the castle seems always to have been public or royal property,
   until the Earl of Buchan, (who married, as formerly mentioned,
   Margaret Ogilvie of Auchterhouse,) was appointed hereditary thane
   or constable. From the Buchan family, the castle was conveyed
   to Robert Sharp, sheriff-clerk of Banff, elder brother of the famous
   Archbishop, (the father, William Sharp, having had it before in
   feu.) The archbishop was murdered in 1679, and after Robert's
   death the castle descended to his brother's son, Sir William Sharp
   of Stonyhill, who resigned it to Leslie of Kininvie, from whom it
   passed to the Earl of Findlater - whose heir, Lord Seafield, still
   holds it.  Lord Seafield, it may be noted, was descended from
   the family of Auchterbouse, who formerly held the Castle.
     The old Castle of Incbdrewer, supposed to have been built
   about the time of James IV. or V., is still so entire as to be habitable
   by the family of a tenant of Sir Robert Abercromby's. Its
   appearance possesses no peculiar feature of interest, and the only
   incedent connected with it is the death of a Lord Banff who was
   burned in the year 1713, under some circumstances not very well
   explained. It is said that, having embraced the Roman Catholic

   <FOOTNOTE>The office of Sheriff was resigned by the Earl of Buchan to Baird f Auchmedden,
   and by him to Lord Findlate, who held it till the abolition of heritable jurisdictions.                      3
                                                      3

