
1278                       PERTHSHIRE.

and it is so carried on as not to relax diligence nor encouraged
vice on their part, but the contrary.  The same kind system, de-
scriptive of the good old country gentleman, has long exisW ait
Ochtertyre, not only in the time of the late Mr Ramsay, but also
under his enlightened and accomplished successors.
  The facts. which have already been stAed in reference to-the
estate of Blair Drummond (which is strictl entailed,) refute the
objections, in as far as it is concerned, which are occasionally
made against entails, and this remark may be more completely
confirmed by referring to the general system of' management.
Through several generations, part of it has been emerging from
the condition 'of a wilderness into a state of high cultivation and,
abundance.  On its improvement, above L.2000 are annually ex-
pended, and it may be noticed that on another entailed estate, at no
great distance, where the improvements are very great, a larger
sum was expended for several years. Bu't in both these instances,
  The proprietors are zealous land improvers, and the intelligence, in-
tegrity, and success of their factors are so well Established, that any
sum for improvements may with ad-vantage 'be put into their hand
The landed proprietors, in general, have it in their power to en.
courage agricultural enterprise, and to increase the comfort and
independence of the farmers, by placing objects of ambition with-
in their reach.  This can be done not only by setting the ex-
ample of skilful improvements in general, but also in so regulat.
ing the size of their,farms, as to give employment to men of
small aswell as of large capital.  It is very encouraging to the
skilful and industrious Arm-servant, for Examples to labour and
economize, when he knows that he way in due time invest his
hArd-earned savings in a farm, where be becomes the master, and
where he way rear his family in industry and comfort.  It is a na-
tional benefit to 'give all the population as. great a stake in the
gTeathaterests of our country as possible; and as our peasantry,
in peace and in wari, are . the main-springs of our wealth and
strength, lot them by 411, means be encouraged, so as to secure
their patHotism and independence.
   This,principle is in operation in this parish: in proof of which
it, be remarked, that, the great number. of small proprietors
who farm their own estates have risen to this distinction by the
very principle here recommended. Nor has it been overlooked by
the more wealthy heritors. It became the more necessary, how-


