
     of Borthwick.

been owing chiefly to the alteration in the mode of farm-
ing, and to the commercial state of the country.  Upon
two or more farms being thrown into one, and one man
instead of two employed in managing the plough, the race of
hinds or cottagers were no longer such objects of attention,
and that useful body of men naturally repaired to manu-
facturing towns in quest of more Iucrative employment.
How far this may in the end prove beneficial or hurtful to
the substantial interests of the country, time will determine.
Since the year 1789, the inhabitants in this quarter have
increased in number about 40, which cannot be accounted
for in any other way, than that now two considerable farms
are let, which were then in the hands of the proprietors.
There are now in this parish 858 souls; 412 males, and
446 females; of these 154 are children under 8 years of
age.  The whole number of the peoople is divided into
204 families, so that something more than 4, or about 4 1/2,
are supposed to be in each family.  In the country parts of
the parish the proportion is much higher; but in the vil-
lages are several houses that contain each a solitary inhabi-
tant, which, when brought into the calcualation, renders the
average just mentioned pretty accurate.  The Seceders of
all denominations amount to 112, of whom only 6 are ser-
vants; but here we have included all the children of Sece-
ders, and as a considerable number of them are not yet of
age to choose for themselves, and it is much more common
in this part of the country for the children of Seceders to
attach themselves to the Church, than for the children of
those who are in communion with the Church to secede,
the proportion of Dissenters now stated must be too high.
Some years ago a Relief meeting house was built in the E.
corner of this parish, and a minister appointed with a small
salary; but he and his bearers soon differing, he could not
realize the tristing living promised, and was obliged to give
 

