
<APPENDIX>

lvii

to the public, that the former should be accomplished before the latter; and
I should be extremely sorry to see your name mentioned among those to
whom the delay is ascribed.  Let me request of you, and I take the liberty
to do it with much earnestness, that you will be so good as send up the Ac-
count of your parish, with as much expedition as possible, addressed to Sir
John Sinclair of Ulbster, Baronet, M. P. Edinburgh.  In doing so, you will
confer a favour upon the public, consult your own reputation, and, if I
may be permitted to add, after such weighty considerations, very much
oblige, Dear Sir, your affectionate humble servant.

     JOHN KEMP.

     EDINBURGH,
     Nov. 21, 1793.

     No. XXII.  Printed Note, circulated by the Duke of Argyll, the Earl
        of Fife, the Reverend Principal Robertson, etc. amongst the Clergy,
        urging them to transmit their Statistical Accounts.

   THE DUKES OF ARGYLL presents his compliments to
Hopes that the letter and the queries, addressed to the Clergy of the
Church of Scotland, by Sir John Sinclair, have been received.  As such
Statistical Inquiries are of great public importance, and may prove, in vari-
ous respects, of essential service to the country, it is requested that every
possible attention may be paid to them.  It is not necessary that all the que-
ries should be answered; only such as are the most material, and on the
points with which you are the best acquainted.  At the same time, the
more information that can be given regarding the population, and the poli-
tical circumstances of the country, the more desirable.  The questions re-
garding the natural history of the country, the more desirable.  The questions re-
garding the natural history, and the antiquities of the parish, are not so es-
sential, and are only intended for such of the Clergy as may have dedicated
their attention to such inquiries.  It is also requested, that you would re-
commend this investigation, when any opportunity offers, to the Clergy in
your neighbourhood, and to your friends in the Church.

   N. B. Several of these notes were transmitted by the Duke of Argyll,
the Earl of Fife, the Reverend Principal Robertson, &c. to the Clergy of
their acquaintance.

<UNREADABLE>

     VOL. XX.

</UNREADABLE>


