
260                   RENFREWSHIRE.

<TABLE>
   Price of Provisions at present:
Oatmeal 2s. 6d. per stone.       Salt butter 8d. 1s. per lb.
Barley flour 1s. 8d. do.         Fresh do. 1s. 1d.    do.
Pease meal 2s. 6d. to 2e. 8d.    Beef 4d. to 7d.      do.
Quartern loaf 9d.                Mutton 5d. to 7d.    do.
New cheese 7d. per lb.           Veal 3d. to 7d.      do
Old do. 7d. to 8d.               Lamb 5d. to 8d.      do.
Eggs per dozen 9d. to 11d.       Potatoes 5d. to 5 1/2d. per stone.

   Servitudes.-The ancient servitudes, onceso oppressive and haras-
sing to the agriculturist, are now in a manner unknown in this pa-
rish; at least the only one of them which remains is that of thir-
lage, exacted by the Seed-hill mill, from certain lands thirled to
it.  The thirlage thur exacted, including all the dues, is about the
sixteenth or seventeenth peck.
   Renfrewshire Agricultural Society.-This society was establish-
ed at Paisley in 1819, under the patronage of several gentlemen
of extensive landed property, and embracing persons of all varieties
of political opinion.  The president is Sir John Maxwell, Bart. of
Pollock; and among the vice-presidents we observe the names of
Mr Campbell of Blythswood, Lord Lieutenant of the county; Mr
Houston of Johnston ; Mr Napier of Blackstoun, &c.  Its exer-
tions have contributed much to the advancement of agricultural
science and its practical applications.  Its members have an annual
show of cattle, when various premiums are distributed; and there
is an annual ploughing-match, when various prizes are also award-
ed.  In May 1835, twenty-three prizes, of value from L. 1 to L. 5,
were distributed at the cattle-show.  Eight prizes were distributed
at the ploughing-match in February 1836.  In August 1836, there
was an extensive cattle-show, when twenty-five prizes were given.
This last show was accompanied with a high degree of satisfaction.
The number of the cattle on the field, their excellent quality, the
fineness of the weather, and the number of spectators, all conspir-
ed to give eclat to the proceedings It was stated by one of the
judges, that the show was superior to the one of last year at Ayr,
before the Highland Society.
   Florist and Harticultural Societies.- The former of these was
established in 1782, and has been of eminent service in promoting
the extensive and tasteful culture of flowers of all colours and
value, by annual exhibitions, competitions for prizes, &c.  The
second has been more lately established (1832,) but it also pro-
mises to be of great advantage in the kindred departments.  The
operatives of this place have been long distinguished for their taste
and ingenuity in the rearing of flowers.  Many of them have gar-
                                 4


