
			   RUTHVEN.                           415

be found on the banks of the Isla, a little above the mause, pro-
bably the most southern spot in the course of the river, where this
humble mountain beauty makes its appearance.

	Geology.--The geological structure is very simple, being well
shown by the section of the Isla. It is altogether situated within
the old red sandstone beds, the newest in Strathmore, and whibh
extend for some distance both to the south and north of the pa-
rish. Their strike is from the north-east to the south-west, and
they dip gently to the north-west, becoming altogether flat at the
northern side of the parish, beyond which they assume the reverse
dip,--the synclinal line of Strathmore running along here. These
beds are of a brownish red colour, and occasionally mottled with
white spots, particularly towards the synclinal line. Some few
quartz pebbles are occasionally to be found in them, but otherwise
they present little variety in their mineralogical structure, further
than that some beds are coarse and others fine in the grain. Some
slight traces of organic remains have been observed in them, of a
similar nature to those of Clashbennie in the Carse of Gowrie.
No other rocks have been observed in this parish; trap dikes, so
common in the district, have not been detected. The immediate
cover of the rocks is a mixture of stones and clay, provincially
called mortar, and which, protruding to the surface, forms the
highest portion of the parish. A little lower down, there is a large,
accumulation of gravel and sand above the mortar, forming suc-
cessive level benches down to the margin of the river. These
gravels, as well as the mortar, consist almost wholly of the debris
of the Grampians, intermixed a little with that of the subjucent
beds. The sandstone beds attord good building materials, and
the gravels are extensively used for the roads,*

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	The parish of Ruthven was long in possession of a branch of
the ancient and illustrious family of Crichton; but that family
having become extinct, in 1742, the remaining pait of their es-
tates was purchased, in the year 1744, by Thomas Ogilvy of
Coul, and is now in possession of Peter Wedderburn Ogilvy,
Esq. a cadet of the family of Wedderburn of Blackness; who
married, in 1811, the grand-daughter of the said Thomas Ogilvy,
and only child of the late James Ogilvy of Ruthven.
	The  Castle of Ruthven, being ruinous, was pulled down many

<FOOTNOTE>For the observations on the geology of this parish, I am indebted to my friend,
Mr Blackadder, civil-engineer, Glemmie.
	FORFAR.                                               E e


