

128			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

for his able and gallant services. His health having become
greatly impaired by arduous duty and numerous wounds, he pur-
chased the property of Cumloden, in the vicinty of the ruins of
the ancient residence of his ancestors, upon which he built a ro-
mantic cottage, to which he retreated to spend the latter years of
his life in retirement. He died at Cumloden on the 7th January
1827, and was buried in the churchyard of Minnigaff, where a
monument of granite has been erected over his remains.
	Land-owners.--the following are the names of the land-owners
in the order of their valued rent:--

<TABLE>
		Earl of Galloway,				L.4476  3  4
		Lady Heron Maxwell,				  1497  6  0
		John M'Kie, Esq. of Bargaly,			   763 12  4
		R. N. Dunbar, Esq. of Machermore,		   351 13 10
		James Stewart, Esq. of Cairsmore, 		   203  0  0
		John Drew of Craigencallie,			    86 10  8
		Dr Ramsay of Dallsh, 				    81  7  5
		Messrs Campbell and Morison of Meiklecarse,	    81  8 10

	Lady Heron Maxwell and Mr Stewart are the only resident
heritors. Lord Galloway occasionally resides for a few weeks.
	Antiquities.--The ruins of the Castle of Garlies, the ancient
seat of the Earls of Galloway, and from which is derived the title
of Lord Garlies, are situated about a mile and a half from the vil-
lage of Minnigaff. At what period it ceased to be inhabited is
unknown. It appears to have been a ruin for several hundred
years. The remains of the walls have acquired nearly the solidity
of rock, the mortar is so hard. The lime appears to have been
produced from burnt shells, portions of these being still discerni-
ble in the mortar.
	On the summit of a steep bank, at the junction of the Cree and
Penkill, within a few yards of the old church, and overlooking
the village, there is an ancient moat-hill, which appears to have
been used in former times as a place of justice. Another of
these mounds is situated in the valley of Palnure, near Bar-
galy, and is now planted. About a mile eastwards from the lat-
ter moat-hill, there is one in an isolated spot on Bardrochurd
Moor. Various tumuli have been opened, and found to contain
human bones and remnants of warlike weapons. In the course of
some planting operations, many years ago, on the estate of Ki-
rouchtree, there was opened a large mound, the top of which was
covered with caly a foot and a half in depth, under which there
was the same depth of gray ashes; beneath this, a vitrified sub-
				4


