
418                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

on the west, by Kilmanivaig; on the south, by parts of the pa-
rishes of Fortingal and Blair Athole. Its form is so irregular
that a description of it would be unintelligible.
   Topographical Appearances.--A stranger entering the parish
from the south or east, would be apt to conclude that he is ap-
proaching a wild region of barren and heath-covered mountains,
unfitted by nature for the habitation of man. The eye sees no-
thing, but

   "Hills peep o'er hills, and Alps o'er Alps arise."

The aspect of the country appears so dreary and gloomy, that
he is ready to imagine he has left behind him every  spot in
which the wit and industry of man can be exercised to any bene-
ficial purpose; and, judging from the prospect before him, he
could hardly conceive how fields to any extent could exist in a
locality where the mountains are crowded together, and seem to
have been thrown on the tops of each other for the want of room.
But, arriving at certain places, where a proper view of the coun-
try is obtained, this delusion is vanished. Instead of the barren-
ness and desolation which he anticipated, he is astonished at find-
ing himself introduced, at once and on a sudden, into a beautiful
level country, having a much greater resemblance to the fertile
fields of the lowlands, than what could be supposed to exist in
the bosoms of so many hills. The hills, at the same time, seem
as if they had modestly retired, and to have taken up their position
at a respectful distance on the back-ground; and a scene, as sweet
and picturesque as it is unexpected and enchanting, opens to the view.
Amongst the first objects that meet the eye, is the Vale of Spey, ex-
tending to the west upwards of twenty miles in length, and about two
in breadth. In the foreground is Cluny Castle, the residence of
Cluny Macpherson, surrounded with thriving plantations of fir and
larch, and other symptoms of improvement. In the back-ground, to
the north, stands the Monadlia, (gray mountain), a prodigious ridge
that rises ou the confines of Lochaber, continuing its eastern
course for upwards of eighty miles, until it terminates in the vici-
nity of Nairn. This pile rises about 3000 feet above the level of
the sea; in some parts, it is thirty miles broad, and divides the Vale
of the Spey on the south from the Basin of Lochness on the
north side. The hills of Drummond are seen in the distance to
the west. These divide the Vale of Spey from that of Luchlag-
gan. To the south of Lochlaggan is the Benalder range, the
favourite haunt or the red-deer or mountain stag, before sheep

                           4


