
			CREICH.                              645

considerable strength. It was defended on the south-east by a mo-
rass, which has lately been drained, and on the other sides by
strong outworks, part of which has been taken down. It bears no
date to mark its age. The proprietor, a few years ago, very ju-
diciously upheld its ruined walls by a repair, clothed them with ivy,
and near to them planted some trees for shelter and ornament. It
is said that, at a short distance from the castle and a little to the
north of the church, formerly stood a brewery, to which was at-
tached a ploughgate of land, denominated Pitfigies.
   The old Parish Church, where divine service was performed so late
as the 9th December 1832, is surrounded b the burying ground
and in the immediate vicinity of the castle. In the interiorof one of
the walls are two niches, on the top of one of which is a coat of arms,
which appears to be that of the Barclays of Collairnie who were,
at a very early period, proprietrrs of Kinsleith, in this parish, and
who sold that portion called Easter Kinsleith, in 1727, to James
Miller, Esq. the great grandfather of the present proprietor.
   Ancient House of Parbroath.- Of this house or castle, which be-
longed to the family of Seton, nothing now remains to m4rk the site
save part of an arch surrounded by a few old trees, which has been
carefully preserved by desire of the late Earl of Hopetoun. It stands
near to the place where the road between the Forth and Tay fer-
ries crosses the road from Cupar to Newburgh. The house is
said to have been surrounded by a moat, over which there was a
draw-bridge, and the park in which they were situated is still called
Ibe Castlefield. There is a tradition that one of the late farm-build-
ings at Parbroath, which was long used a a barn, had at one time
been a chapel, and that at it, and at the church of Creicb, divine
service was performed on alternate Sabbaths. In confirmation of
a chapel having been here, it may be stated that, a few years ago,
when the foundation of a wall was dug up close, by the site of the
old barn, graves were were discovered, which probably formed part
of the burying-ground connected with th chapel.
   It is not unlikely that this chapel may have been the capella
belonging to the parish of Creich mentioned by Sibbald in his
History of Fife.

<TABLE=III.--POPULATION>

	The population in 1755 was 875
                           1791      306, of these were 134 males, 172 females.
                           1811      394
                           1821      403
                           1831      419, of these were 193 males, 226 females.
                           1838      425




