

battle, according to tradition, those who escaped the sword
were drowned in the river, which was then swelled by the
rains, and overflowed its banks.*

<FOOTNOTE>

*It was for their gallant behaviour at this memorable battle, that the fa-
mily of the Hays were enabled, under the name of Hay of Errol, and had
for their arms, argent, three escutebeons, gules, with the yoke and bow inscribed.
The common report is supported by the testimony of Hector Boetius, and
Buchanan, that, on the first onset, our countrymen gave way, and were pur-
sued by the victorious Danes through the adjacent fields.  This being ob-
served by a farmer of the name of Hay, or Haia, and his two sons, who
were plowing in the adjacent fields, they took the yokes and bows of their
ploughs, crossed the river Tay, and, thus accourred, having taken a stand at
a narrow pass, stopped their fugitive countrymen, rallied them, renewed
the battle, drove the Danes into the river, and those that were not drowned,
were cut to pieces.  After this great slaughter, the King went with these
three valiant Heroes in triumphant procession into the town of Perth; and
next day holding an assembly of the States, at Scone, it was decreed to give
the venerable old Champion the choice of the hounds chase, or the falcons
flight, as a possession suitable to the honours conferred on him; and, carry-
ing him up to Kinnoul Hills, where the Danish camp had lately been, that
he might have a prospect of the fine country lying below, great part of which
was to be his inheritance, he made choice of the Falcon's fight.  The bird
took its flight from the top of one of these hills, and it alighted on a stone
by the river of Tay, a mile to the south of the house of Errol, where it
stands at this day, and is still called the falcon's, or hawk's stone.  All the inter-
mediate lands were given in property to this family, but have since been par-
celled out to different branches, and have been sold to others; unless that
part of the estate, which is still held by Hay of Leys, one of the eldest ca-
dets of this noble family.  The country people still show the ridges of where
the brave Hay and his son were ploughing when they joined the battle, and
they were distinguished from the rest of the field by small stripes of grass, or
baulks, on each side, which no farmer ever dared to break up till within these
three years.  They still, also, show you the narrow pass, where the Hays
rallied their flying countrymen, which is now levelled down.  I have seen it
entire, when it much resembled the small Roman stations, which are to be
seen in many places of Scotland, though not so regular.  They point out the
turn again hillocks, where the Danes began to retreat, and the hollow way,
under cover of which the Clans surrounded the Danes.  I have seen a great


