
     of Caerlaverock.

the income, id devoted to the buying of books for the schools,
and poor scholars; building and repairing schoolhouses,
church; and manse; and relieving accidental distress.  The
collections, at the church door, amounting to L. 4 per annum,
are destined for the support of those who, not having been
born in the parish, have no right to participate in the benefit of
Dr Hutton's fund*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*If the situation, circumstances, and manners of the inhabitants of Caer-
laverock are considered, it should seem that a fourth part of the sum, allotted
to the support of the poor, might be sufficient for all the purposes of real and
useful charity.  And, indeed, an attentive observer will reckon it a matter of
doubt, whether the greatness of the parish funds be productive of most good
or evil.  The moralist has some cause to complain, that it dries up the sources
of private charity, and renders the poorer people less willing to assist their old and
needy relations.  These, they seem sometimes disposed to abondon to the care of
the session, who cannot, be the small allowance they bestow, make up to them
the want of that tender assiduity, which proves the cordial of age and poverty,
and which natural affection alone can administer.
The farmer with still greater reason complains, that the idea of a plentiful
fund established for their support, fills the parish, in spite of every effort to
prevent it, with the idle, infirm, and indolent; and renders it difficult for him to
obtain day-labourers.  In sine, the poor themselves are far from being con-
tented with their respective proportions of the funds, which are, not withstand-
ing, distributed with great impartiality.  They are accustomed to lean too much
to them, and to depend too little upon their own exertions:  Nay, it is said,
that a querulous habit is acquired, and even infirmity seigned, in order to ex-
site compassion, and to obtain a more liberal share of charity.
In the opposite scale of good, these effects of the funds are to be thrown:
First, The support of convenient schools; Second, That no distrest arising
from poverty occurs, which obtains not a prompt relief, without any expence
to the inhabitants of the parish.  But, though none of the poor of Cacrlave-
rock are under the necessity of begging from house to house, the parish is as
much as any other in this quarter, pestered with vagrants, and is liberal to
them.
From these facts and observations then, as it has occured to every man who


