
276                   BANFFSHIRE.

water-wheels, the one above the other, on the different floors of
the same house. The one for a meal-mill, and also a saw. mill,
and the other for a flour or barley-mill. Another burn comes into
the sea at Old Haven, with a northerly course. It rises about the
Longman hill, and in its different branches, with the help of dams,
is compelled to thrash the corn of several farmers, in its short
course of some two miles. A singular proof of the height of land
in Gamrie is, that not a drop of water comes into it from any
other parish; the whole rises in itself.
   Geology and Mineralogy. For interesting details respecting the
geology of the parish, we refer to the following: Professor Sddg-
wick and Mr Murchison's papers, Geolog. Soc. Trans. 1827-8.
Mr Prestwick's papers on part of the Banffishire coast, including
Gamrie, ib.: Poissons Fossils from M. Agassiz.: Prize Essay by
Mr Cunninghame, Highland Soc. Trans. 1840.
   An excellent section of the parish is presented along the shore
of the Moray Frith from the mouth of the Doveran eastward to the
mouth of the burn of Tore, of Troup, a distance of ten miles.
   The section is particularly instructive, as it displays all the rocks
known to occur in the parish, and as nearly as possible in the pro-
portions occupied by them in the horizontal section of the plane.
   The principal rock in the parish has been generally believed to
belong to the greywacke group, at least Professor Jameson so con-
siders it. Sedgwick and Murchsion give no opinion, while Mr
Prestwick seems rather inclined to refer it to the primary slates.
The rock consists of alternate layers of greywacke, greywacke slate,
clay-slate very much broken up and contorted, lying generally at
high angles, often vertical, and frequently traversed by quartz
veins of inconsiderable thickness. The general direction or stroke
of the beds is north by east, the dip is sometimes eastward and
sometimes westward; various artificial lines present themselves.
The clayslate of one localitx, Melrose, was formerly wrought as
a coarse roofing-slate and slabstone. These, however, are now
superseded by the Foudland and. Easdale primary slate. The
greywacke is employed as a building stone; its basis is generally
highly silicious, and the enclosed fragments are quartz and fels-
spar, with occasional pieces of clay-slate. Scarcely any other im-
bedded minerals occur. No subordinate calcareous layers occur
within the range. In a single locality, the Longmanhill, one and
a-half miles'south-west of the coast, there appears an upshot of
granite, agreeing perfectly in lithological characters with that of


