
                            ROW.                        77

Of this number during about five months in the year, from the
number of families who come for summer quarters and sea-bath-
ing.
   The only nobleman in the parish is Lord John Campbell, who
usually resides at his seat of Ardincaple. But there is a consider-
able number of wealthy and independent families who have resi-
dences in it, and remain either the whole or the half of the year.
  Language.-It would appear that, two centuries ago, or later,
Gaelic must have been the language usually spoken. The first mi-
nister of the parish was at that time appointed to the charge in con-
sequence of his being able to preach in the Irish or Gaelic. At
present, however, that language has rightly given way to English,
and is not spoken except by a very few families, who have brought
it with them from their birth-place in the Highlands.
   Like most of the districts in the neighbourhood of the High-
lands, smuggling seems to have prevailed some time ago to a con-
siderable extent. But, for some years, this degrading and demora-
lizing habit has been rapidly decreasing, and now it has almost
ceased to be practised. It is much to be wished that the same thing
may be said of poaching.
                       IV.--INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.--With the exception of Glenfruin which is capa-
ble of being cultivated much more extensively than it is, the great-
er part of the land capable of bearing crops to any advantage, is
either constantly or occasionally under cultivation. This, how-
ever, bears a very inconsiderable proportion to the whole extent
of the parish. Within the last thirty years, there has been a very
great improvement in the character and extent of the husbandry;
chiefly from additional draining and fencing. But very mucb re-
mains to be done in these respects, and the farmers both feel the
evil, and look to the proprietor for more encouragement than they
have hitherto had.
  Of late, considerable and increasing attention has been paid to
the breeding of cattle, both for the dairy and for feeding. Those
for the dairy were, till within the last fift years, mostly of the High-
land breed. But now, with the exception of some of the moor-
land farms, they are almost all of the Ayrshire, though not very
pure. The cattle fed for the market are of the West Highland
stock, and both kinds promise to be stilt further improved, in con-
sequence of the late formation of an agricultural association of the
parish of Row, Luss, and Arrochar.


