
                           KILFINAN                          365

where fires were kindled in former times for the purpose of warn- 
ing the country and summoning the people to assemble for the 
common defence, on the sudden appearance of an enemy. There 
are also to be seen the remains of what are called barradhs or
cairns. These were composed of large piles or heaps of stones,
in the heart of which were a great number of tall broad stones set
on end in two rows, and covered above with a roof of other flag-
stones. The largest of these borradhs, which was about two 
miles north from the church, is thus described. It was near forty
yards long, and of considerable breadth and depth. At th e bot-
tom, from the one end to the other, there were several small
apartments, or cells, end to end, each made up of five or seven 
large flags. Each cell was about six feet long by four feet broad,
and about five feet high. One broad flag made up each side, and
another covered it above, as a roof, so as to support the stones
which  were heaped above the whole. The cells were not always 
in a straight line from end to end of the borradh. The pile of
stones has long ago been completely removed for the purpose of
building dikes; but a considerable number of the flags are still
standing, showing distinctly the covered way above described.
I am not aware that any bones or relics of any kind were
found when the stones were removed. The remains of another 
of similar construction, but smaller in its dimensions, are to 
be seen about three miles south from the church. It is not 
known with cetainty for what purpose they were constructed, or
to what use they were applied. It has bees said by some, that
they were places where public worship was performed. In several
places are to be seen large stones standing in a perpendicular po-
sition. These are sunk  to the considerable depth in the ground,
and are sometimes six or seven feet above it. Perhaps they were 
designed originally to commemorate some important action or
event which had taken place near to the spot where they are
erected. In some places, there are to be seen circles of
stones of a similar description, which are supposed to have been
Druidical temples or places where worship was performed.
  Mansion Houses.-The principal mansion houses sre the fol-
lowing: Aird Lamont House, the seat of Archibald James La-  
mont of Lamont, Esq. near the southern extremity of the parish;
Ballimore, a chaste and elegant mansion, built about eleven 
 




