
			       GLASSERTON.                37

tween Borough-head and the Mull of Galloway,--two points about
which it has sometimes been disputed which is really the south-
ermost. The maps, however, have decided in favour of the Mull,
and I believe correctly.
	Topographical Appearances.--The parish is long and narrow,
being at least eight miles in length, and varying from one to three
miles in breadth. It is most irregular in its outline and shape,
and so intersected by the neighbouring parishes, that some Of the
inhabitants of the parish of Whithorn, in going to their parish
church, have to pass through part of the parish of Glassertan;
and, vice versa, the people of Glasserton, in more points than one,
have to pass through the parish of Whithorn in going to their
church. The sea coast of this parish and the north coast of the
Isle of Man lie parallel to each other, the island bearing nearly
south or south-south-west from Glasserton, at a distance of sixteen
or eighteen miles.
	The coast is generally bold and rocky. The bills, or heughs,
as they are called, which terminate the land, are of various heights,
green at top and half-way or more down the declivity. But from
that down to the beach they are precipitous rocks, grey, black, or
weather-beaten, as they are more or less washed by the waves.
They are broken and rugged, often perpendicular, and sometimes
hanging over. In other places, they slope away into the sea, show-
ing here and there their black and pointed tops above the surface.
The sea beach and all within water-mark is a rocky bottom, co--
vered with loose stones of various sizes, some of them rounded and
polished by the motion of the sea, whilst others are shapeless
masses, covered with shells and marine plants.
	There are two three ports where bottoms can unload in fine wea-
ther; but there is nothing, like a safe  harbour in an part of the
parish.
	There are some caves at the bottom of the cliffs, but they are
not of much depth, nor do they penetrate far backwards. There
is nothing remarkable in their history, nor any particular tradition
concerning them, with the exception of one on the Physgill-shore,
in which St Ninian is said to have taken up his residence for a
time; but whether he lived, in a cave through choice or necessity
does not appear. St Ninian is said to have been the founder of
Whithorn Priory, and the first Bishop of Galloway. It is proba-
ble he was a man of abstemious habits, an anchorite in disposition,
and one who, like a true Catholic, believed that, if self-denial was


