
                           NORTH UIST.                        165

      Geology.-The chief rock in this parish is the stratified species,
   called gneiss. Intermingled with this interesting primitive depo-
   sit, other rocks occur more or less abundantly in beds, veins, &c.
   We trust, that, ere long, some one competent will be induced to
   visit us, and examine the numerous interesting geological arrange-
   ments of our district.
     Zoology.-The variety of aquatic birds along the coast, and in
   the innumerable islands of the fresh water lakes, is numerous be-
   yond description : there, thousands of the duck tribe build their
   nests and hatch their young. Of these the largest and most beau-
   tiful is the eider-duck, valuable more for its feathers than flesh,
   the flavour of whidh is coarse, fishy, and rank. The male is ele-
   gantly streaked with white along the sides, and the other part is
   a dusky brown, the last being the prevailing colour-of the female.
     This kind, though now numerous, was unknown, I am informed,
   not many years ago. Besides those that rear their young on our
   shores, vast numbers emigrate and winter with us, such as the
   widgeon and many others. Swans, too, annually pay us a visit,
   and by their early or late appearance, the natives anticipate
   a severe or mild winter. The gray wild geese are inhabitants
   of, and hatch in, the islands and along the shores of the fresh-
   water lakes; whence in August, they come to the cultivated plains,
   in flocks of five and six hundred, and attack the barley fields.
   To obviate their destructive attacks, fires are lighted, clappers
   driven by the wind are erected, and some other devices used, to
   scare them away. In winter,tbey are joined by innumerable flocks,
   of the barnacle goose, and both are seen in flocks of incredible
   numbers. The green plovers in large flocks are here for the whole
   year, and also the curlew.
     The May fowls, a species of curlew, pay us a visit, and remain
   with us during that month. Moorfowl, snipe, and woodcock are
   inhabitants of our hills and moors, and pigeons of our caves; so
   that to the sportsmen there is presented a great variety of amuse-
   ment, at all seasons of the year. To these may be added other
   animals, in compassing the destruction bf which, the sportsman
   seems to enjoy no small delight. Of these, along the shore
   are the otter and the seal; and in the larger islands on the
   fresh water lakes so often mentioned, is a considerable number
   of red-deer. The mode of stalking the last is so peculiar that.
   we are tempted briefly to describe it. The sportsmen ren-
   dezvous at a place previously fixed on, and each with an attend-


