
     of Rathven.

   Herring-Fishery.-The boat's crew, after disposing of
their great fish, generally engage in the herring-fishery on
the Caithness coast for 6 weeks, from the 24th July.  The 
small boats, having 4 men a piece, are used.  Every man
has at least 2 nets, which cost him L. 4.  The boats either
enter on the bounty, or engage for 10s, the barrel, and a
bottle of whisky a-day, in lieu of all demands.  It is cu-
stomary to give the crew 2 s. at the time of engaging, and
as much at the end of the fishery.  Those, again, who
prefer the bounty, receive L. 8 certain, with the usual
quantity of whisky, 5 s. arrival money, as they call it, 2 s.
weekly for their Saturday's pint, and 5 s. at the time of
their departure.  When the fishery sails, this is the prefer-
able plan, but when it answers tolerably well, the for-
mer is most lucrative.  In a good season, a boat may take
40 barrels in night; however, from 50 to 100 barrels is
the usual rate of fishing in favourable seasons.  The gene-

<FOOTNOTE>

carry from L. 60 to L. 70 worth.  The great fish generally bring from
L. 8 to L. 12 a man, and half that sum for the boy.
   The crew of a small boat consists of 5 men and a boy.  In the same
every man's line is of equal length; but in the different
stations they are of of different lengths.  It contains from 600 to 900 hooks,
at the distance of one sathom from one another; and a boy's half a many.
The small boats are use for catching haddocks, whitings, flounders, etc.
Besides these, a good many great fish are caught with the small lines, and
pickled for the London market.  Haddocks are in prime from August to
February; whitings are worst in August; the gray fl. under is best in
harvest; and the spotted, which is inferior to the gray, is best in spring.
Mackerels are caught from the beginning of July to the end of August, by
a line sunk with lead.  Hearings are sometimes plentiful on the coast, and
their season is the same with that of mackerel.  Haddocks, 10 years ago,
were caught within half a mile of the shore: for several years none have
been fund nearer than from 7 to 10 leagues off land, till of late, that they
have again made their appearance hard by the shore.  The income of the
small fish is estimated by the fishers to be at least equal to that of the
great.


