
     of Spynie.

history, had been the design*.  Adjoining to it also were
gardens, though of no great extent, now distinguishable only

<FOOTNOTE>

   BURROWBRIGS and MYRESIDE were feued out by Alexander
Douglas bishop of Murray, in 1609, to his son.  Alexander, and
Mary Innes his wife, who was proprietor also of Spynie and
Murrayston, and died provost of Banff, about 1669.

<UNREADABLE>

   In this parish lived the Dunbars of Westfield, a family which
flourished 400 years in Murray, and the different branches of
which possessed a great part of the country.  A century ago,
there were 26 heritors in the shire, of whom only two now re-
main.  Of the family of Westfield, and not of Mochrum, or
Aimach, (as several 'authors narrate,) was GAVIN bishop of
Aberdeen, son of ALEXANDER DUNBAR of Westfield, and Eli-
zabeth Sutherland, daughter of William Sutherland of Duffus,
and laird of Quarrywood and Leggat, in this parish.  This
Alexander should have been Earl of Murray in 144?, being the
only son of James, Earl of Murray, and laird of Frendraught.
The said Bishop was Lord Register in 1503; Bishop of Aber-
deen in 1518, and built the bridge of Dee, which Bishop El-
phinston began, and mortified the lands of Ardlair in Garioch,
in 1529, to its support, under the management of the Provost,
(Menzies,) and Council of Aberdeen.  He endued an hospital
for 12 poor men at Old Aberdeen, and mortified 50 merks
Sterling to two chaplains, payable out of the lands of Quarry-
wood and Leggat, in which he was insested; and the de???d was
confirmed by King JAMES V. proceeding on the said William
Sutherland's contract to the Bishop. dated Apud Quarrywood, die
quinto mensis Augusti, 1529, in which this remarkable condition
is inserted: 'Proviso infuper, quod fi contingat monelam regni
'Scotiae, feu ejufvis alterius regni, in Scotia curfum habentem, ad al-
'tius praetium levari quam ut nunc in solutione captunt, unde eve-
'rendus ipfe pater, aut heredes, feu assignati, feu quicunque pauperioris
'aut deterioris conditionis officientes, in eo casu obligo et ashingo
'praedictas terras meas, de Quarrywood, et Leggat, possession hus
'quibuscunque dicti annui redditus, ad solvendum pro qualibet
'Marca et viginti duabus denariis, unum,unciam puri argenti
'quod creat ad minus ALEWYNE PENNY FYNE, vel ejus verume
'valorem, in usuale Moneta Regni Scotiae, pro quibus heebit ipsis
'possessoribus dicti annui redditus, ipsas terras, pro se aut fuos officia-
'reos, aut factores, distringere et namare.'-Instead therefore of
2 L. 15 s. 6 3/12 d. Sterling, the reddendo ought to be about 9 L. 12 s.
Sterling.
*It is hardly possible to survey these ruins of ecclesiastical

</UNREADABLE>


