
466			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

since that time increased the property which the Duke of Buc-
cleuch now holds in three large divisions, separating the posses-
sions of the four other heritors, and forming nearly half the sur-
face of the parish. Sir Thomas Kirkpatrick, Bart. of Close-
burn, possesses the estate of Capenoch. It came into his family
by the marriage of his grandfather with Susanna, daughter and
heiress of James Grierson. This most ancient and distinguished
family once possessed not only the estate of Closeburn, but a most
extensive property in other parts of Nithsdale and in Annandale.
Robert-Muir, now containing the Wanlockhead mines, belonged to
them, and also the barony of Ross. Their earliest charter was
granted by Alexander, King of Scots, in the eighteenth, year of
his reign, to Ivon Kirkpatrick, at which time they were a family
of note. The part which Roger Kirkpatrick took in the death of
the Red Comyn at Dumfries, February 10, 1306, is well known.
"I'll mak sicker," the expression he used on that occasion, is sthll
the family legend. From this time they held many of the high-
est offices of trust and honour, and added greatly to their posses-
sions. In 1438, Thomas Kirkpatrick of Closeburn was one of the
conservators of the truce with England. Sir James, the father of
the present representative of the family, before he sold the estate
of Closeburn, had opened the lime-works, both on Closeburn and
Keir, and was thus the originator of those improvements in agri-
culture which have since advanced so rapidly in this neighbour-
hood.
	The grandfather of the present proprietor of Waterside pur-
chased the property from a family of the name of Orr, one of
whom, Alexander Orr, minister of Hoddam, had in 1725 married
Agnes Dalrymple of Waterside, one of the family who had long
possessed it.
	Barjarg was in 1587 given by the Earl of Morton to Thomas
Grierson, along with Penfillan and Penmurtie, which now belong
to the Duke of Buccleuch. Mr C. Areskine, advocate, afterwards
Lord Advocate and Lord Tinwald, married the heiress of this
family and acquired the estate. Dr Hunter, Professor of Divini-
ty in the University of Edinburgh, purchased it and left it to his
son, W. F. Hunter, who assumed the name of Arundell. This
gentleman, when he died in 1827, had made great progress in his
preparations for a work on the history of the county.
	Blackwood was purchased from the Lady Inddrgellie by Wil-
liam Copland, Esq. of Colliston, an ancestor of the present pro-


