
34                              SELKIRKSHIRE.

their winter concealement. The gathering of grouse into large
flocks, the diving of sparrows in dry dust, the fluttering of wild
ducks as they flap their wings, the dismal lengthened howl of sca-
gulls in an inland place, or around lakes, the mournful note of the
curlew, the shrill whew of the plover, the whet-whet-whet of the
chaffinch perhed upon a tree, the crowing of the cock at unusual
times,--all prognosticate rain or snow. When the fieldfare, red-
wings, starling, swan, snowfleck, and other birds of passage, arrive
soon from the morth, it indicates an early and severe winter.  When
gnats bite very keenly, when flies keep near the ground, (shown
by swallows that feed upon the wing flying low,) we look for wind
and rain.  But the most wonderful influence of atmospheric
changes is upon those creatures that burrow in the ground.  The
earth-worm appearing in abundance indicates rain.  In like man-
ner, the mole seems to feel its approach, as a day or two before
he raises more hillocks than usual; and when after a long severe
frost he begins again to work, it will soon become fresh.  The
effcts of electricity are well known both on the atmosphere and
on animals; and the deposition of the aqueous vapours with the
relaxing damp near surface of the earth, which in certain states
takes place, may give rise to this increased activity.
     Additional Prognostic.--Before rain, many plants close their
petals and hang down their heads, as the trefoil, mountain-daisy
and chickweed; a paved floor of clay-slate and cellars become
damp; in lakes and springs and water rises higher, and the effux
is greater.  But the barometer excels all these prognostics; and
be combining the observations of both, one may predict the wea-
ther with considerable certainty.  If it fall a day or two previous-
ly, the storm is likely to last; if shortly, it will neither be so severe
nor protracted.  A similar rule is applicable to the rise of the
barometer.  But allowance must be made for the influence of
certain winds.  With the same quantity of rain or snow, the mer-
cury stands highest with a N. E. and E. wind; then N. and W.
and S. W., and S. in order.  It stands lowest of all when the
wind is N. W. and S. E.  The extremes both of heat and cold
depress, while a moderate temperature raises it.  Thus, after long
frost and snow, it generally rises before a thaw.  Sometimes it is
very low with little rain, or in fair weather.  But in this case te
equilibrium of the atmosphere is destroyed, and nothing is awant-
ing but a sufficiency of aqueous vapour, which may be falling at
no very great distance.  For example: on January 30th 1814,
barometer 28.70, it was mostly clear in this distric; but in Inver-


