                                   MINTO.                        355

      places projects, as if suspended in air, threatening to fall. Those
      fragments are rendered more picturesque from being partially over-
      grown with patches of ivy, and having their cavities filled with va-
      rieties of the fern, with foxglove, dianthus, and other flowering
      plants. With the characteristic form of the trap rocks, the crags
      rise into different points, preventing a succession of platforms, one of
      which tradition has long celebrated as Barnhill's bed, the retreat
      of a noted border outlaw of that name, mentioned in the, "Lay of
      the Last Minstrel." The ruin of an old tower or peel, which for-
      merly belonged to thd same person, crowns one of the heights, to
      which, and to the other eminences easy paths conducted, shaded by
      thriving trees. The view from the summit is highly diversified
      and beautiful. The windings of the "silver Teviot," through a
      pleasing vale, sometimes contracted and again expanding, can be
      traced above and below for many a mile the prospect on the one
      hand being terminated by the fine outline of the Liddesdale hills,
      along with those on the confines of Dumfries-shire, and in the op-
      posite direction by the smoother and more rounded forms of the
      Cheviots. Ruberslaw, the highest hill in this vicinity, rises imme-
      diately in front, with Denholm dean, celebrated by Leyden, on the
      right, and the narrow bed of the Rule on the left; while behind,
      to the north, are distinctly see the Eldon-hills, the Black-hill,
      Cowden-Knowes, and more remotely Smailholm Tower, Hume
      Castle, and the low dark sky-line of the Lammermoors.
           Meteorology.-The hills and trap rocks just described occasion-
      ally attract and detain the clouds which sweep along the vale of
      the Teviot, so that in summer thunder storms `re rather frequent,
      and have been known to be severd. Probably from the same cause,
      heavy falls of rain have taken place, giving rise to local inundations.
      These would appear formerly to have been more common than
      they have been of late years. One took place in 1783, and another
      in 1789, by both of which the pond-head, a strong mass of build-
      ing near Minto House, was carried down. But the most remark-
      able which is remembered, happened on the 9th of August 1806,
      when it rained in, torrents nearly three hours, accompanied, by in-
      cessant thunder and lightning. Formerly, ague was so common a
      complaint that few in any condition of life escaped it, but now it
      has entirely disappeared, owing the draining and other inprove0-
      ments of the land. Typus and scarlet fevers, though not fre-
      quent, occasionally visit us in autumn, and are most prevalent in

      <FOOTNOTE>"On Minto-crags the moon-became glint,
                Wher Barnhill hewed his bed of flint."--Lay of the Last Minstrel.


