

			 PARISH OF LOGIE-COLDSTONE.

		PRESBYTERY OF KINCARDINE O'NEIL, SYNOD OF ABERDEFN.

			THE REV. JOHN M'HARDY, MINISTER.

                           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	THE parish of Logie-Coldstone is principally situated in Cro-
mar, a district of Aberdeenshire comprehending part of five pa-
rishes, and forming an extensive amphitheatre amid that range of
mountains and hills which runs between the rivers Dee and Don
for a considerable part of their course.
	At some remote period, a great portion of this district seems
evidently to have been the site of a large lake or chain of lakes
(two of which still subsist), fed by several rivulets, which now wend
their way sluggishly through it, occasionally inundating the lower
grounds to some extent, when swollen by much rain, or by the
sudden dissolution of the snow, which falls abundantly on the sur-
rounding hills during the winter. Since this evanished lake burst
the barrier which confined it on the south, several tumuli or mounds
have been formed in different places of its site, by the drifting of
the finer particles of sand which covered its bottom, while the flat
ground around them consists generally of coarser gravelly deposits,
interspersed with patches of peat-bog.
         Name, &c.-The parish of Logie was annexed to Coldstone
anno 1618. When a separate parish, it appears to have been ge-
nerally called Logie-Mar, to distinguish it from the other pa-
rishes into which the word Log enters as a compound, such as Lo-
gie-Buchan, Logie-Pert. The etymology of Coldstone (formerly
written, and still pronounced, Colstane by the inhabitants of the
district), cannot be determined with any degree of certainty.
         Extent, &c.-From east to west, the parish of Logie-Coldstone
extends, in some placer, to upwards of 5 miles, in other, to not
more than half that distance. From north to south, that portion
of it situated within tbe district of Cromar does not extend to more
than 4 miles; but, including the portion which lies without the
district on Deskry-side, the extreme length is not less than 7 miles.


