
			TURRIFF.                             1013

scheme be accurately carried out, it cannot fail to produce much
valuable local information, and to answer all the ends of an ex-
perimental farm.
	Savings' Bank.--A bank for savings was opened in August 1817,
and has more than realized all the hopes entertahned by its pro-
jectors.  The depositors are chiefly tradesmen, labourers, and
men and women servants. The accounts are kept, and the busi-
ness almost wholly managed by the treasurer, who is parish school-
master, and who receives, or gives out to those concerned, on
every alternate Thursday evening, any sum from 1s. to L. 20 Ster-
ling. When the savings reach L. 20, the depositors are obliged
to withdraw their money, and, if so disposed, to open a new ac-
count, and operate upon it according to their inclination.  It is
worthy of remark, that several of them have actually transferred
their earnings six times over to the provincial banks of the country,
or otherwise invested them, and have thus, by prudent economy,
been able to make honourable provision for themselves and their
families in a safe and easy manner. The funds in the bank at
Ist November 1841, when the last balance was struck, amounted
to L. 2289, 18s. 2d.; the amount deposited for the year previous,
L. 594, 12s. 8 1/2d.; and the amount withdrawn during the same
year, L. 552, 17s. 4 1/2d.
	Public Banks, &c.--There is a branch of the Commercial Bank
of Scotland in Turriff, one of the North of Scotland Banking
Company, and a sub-branch of the Aberdeen Banking Company.
They are all conducted by respectable agents, and have been
found to be exceedingly convenient, as, before their establishment,
all bank business in the distrist was transacted at Aberdeen or
Banff, which could not be effected but at considerable expense
and risk.
	There are also agents for different insurance companies; and
as the advantages of fire and life insurance begin to be better un-
derstood, a corresponding support may be anticipated.
	Gas Company.--In 1839, a joint-stock company was formed for
the manufacture of gas. The capital, L. 750, is held in shares of
L. 2, 1Os. each. The buildings are conveniently situated, and the
concern, now that the shares are nearly sold, will yield a moderate
return for the outlay of capital, and give a brilliant beautiful light
to the consumers. The quantity of gas consumed in the year
ending June 120th 1842, was 188,000 cubical feet.
	Inns, &c.--In the town there are respectable inns and taverns,


