
678                     ARGYLESHIRE.

moors, as Lochglaissean and Loclishineach, from which the Ad,
the principal stream in the parish, flows. This stream runs to the
south-west through the valley of Glassary, and is liable, during
heavy rains, to overflow its banks, and do much injury to the sur-
rounding fields. It discharges itself at Crinan, and there is a sal-
mon fishery on it, which is under the management of the proprie-
tor.
   The depth of the lakes generally is unknown. That of Loch-
fine is ascertained, however, and while many variations must be
supposed to occur in the land under as above the level of its wa-
ters, it may serve every useful purpose merely to state, that at
Comlodden its depth is 35 fathoms; between Minard and the op-
posite side at Castle-Lachlane, 12 to 15; opposite Lochgair, 40,
and at Airds Point, 15 to 50 fathoms. Lochgilp and Lochgair
are two small branches off Lochfyne, about six miles distant, the
latter being little more than a well-protected bay, while the for-
mer is about a mile and a-half in length, but so shallow as not to
be navigable for boats of any burden during low water.
   "The springs with me, * at least those which are perennial,
rise mostly from the veins of hard siliceous limestone. They are
very clear, but contain a good deal of lime and a little iron. I
have tested them all roughly, and discover little difference in
them; nor do they contain a notable portion of any other ingre-
dient.  I have never found the temperature of those near my
house to vary sensibly from 48&deg;.
  "Tides.-The current of flood and ebb set strongly up and
down Lochfyne, on the Argyle shore. From Silvercraigs, the
ebb sets across to Caoldhu, along which line there is a bank of
rock, on many parts of which there is very shoal water, particu-
larly at a point called An Sgor Mh¢r, opposite to Inverniel. In
Lochgilp, the tide is much less strong. A great change has
taken place in the ebb at the head of Lochgilp during the last
twenty or thirty years. From being a firm sand, it has become
soft and muddy, and is seldnm or never dry. I had to extend my
slip or landing causeway several times, in consequence of the bank
always growing out at the end of it; but this might possibly be
caused by the slip itself."
   Geology.-The rocks are slaty. On the north-east end of the
parish they are micaceous, becoming harder and less ragged in

<FOOTNOTE>I have been indebted to the kindness of Sir John P. Orde, Bart., Kilmory, for
this and much valuable information throughout this report.


