
276                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

not of a large size, but such as afford good sport to the angler
who delights in numbers. There are few places in the south,
where the Sportsman can find better amusement.
	Botany.--It is not easy to conceive a parish of equal extent
more entirely destitute of, wood than Carsphairn. There are few
old trees and the plantations, with the exception of those on the
farm of Dundeugh, are neither numerous nor extensive. Some-
thing has, however, been done, of late, to remedy this defect, by
some of the residing heritors; and small clumps are rising upon
several farms, which, besides being useful, will in some degree
break the monotony of the sbene. Carsphairn is, however, en-
tirely a pastoral parish. The sheep are what the farmers depend
upon for necessaries, for comfort, and for riches. To their flocks,
therefore, their attention is chiefly, if not solely, directed; and
they would not be very willing to see much of the land taken up
with plantations, to the exclusion of the flocks, even though their
landlords should be at the expense of enclosing and planting.
Some, however, are beginning to see that the shelter which plan-
tations afford during a storm, may be a full equivalent for the want
of herbage, and that some benefit may arise from the thinnings
of such plantations. There are some plants on the higher moun-
tains, which are considered not very common.

		II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	The parish of Carsphairn is said to have been separated from
the parishes of Kells and Dalry, and constituted a parish, about
the year 1627. Both these parishes receive stipend from Cars-
phairn, about L. 9 Sterling each,--Kells levying on that part of
the parish which lies on the west side of the Dough,--and Dalry
on the east. The first minister is said to have been a Mr Sem-
ple, who is reported to have been very zealous in the discharge of
his ministerial duties.
	Eminent Men.--Carsphairn was the birth-place of the late Dr
Jackson, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of
St Andrews,--a man with whose mathematical works the learned
are acqu`inted, and who was not more distinguished as a scholar,
than loved and admired as a man by all who knew him.
	Sir Loudon M'Adam, celebrated for his improvements on turn-
pike reads, was likewise a native of this parish. He was said
to have narrowly in infancy escaped when the family mansion of
Lagwine was consumed by fire. The body of Sir Loudon is in-


