
258                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

foxglove; Rubuschamaemorus,cloudberry; Genista anglica,needle-
green-weed, or petty whin.

                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     The manor of Oxenham was enjoyed by Gaufred de Percy
when the abbey of Jedburgh was founded. He granted to the
abbot two carucates of land, ad two bovates,lying adjacent to
the church, with common of pasture and common of fuel belong-
ing to the village.  This grant and also the right to common
pasture on the lands of Newbigging, were confirmed by Malcolm
IV. and William the Lyon.  The forfeiture of Sir Robert Colvill
enabled David II. to grant the barony of Oxenham, with other
lands,to Sir Duncan Wallace, and the Countess of Carrick, his
spouse.  This parish, set free by the Reformation from a rigorous
ecclesiastical domination, acquired its independence.
     It may be mentioned, that the Rev. Thomas Boston, who re-
linquished his parochial charge here, was the first pastor who pre-
sided over a congregation of Relief Seceders in Jedburgb. Not
a few of his former flock continued to attend on his public mini-
strations in that place.
     Land-owners.--There are in all eight land-owners, whose de-
signations, as arranged according to their valued-rents, are here
given: The Most Noble the Marquis of Lothian; His Grace the
Duke of Roxburghe; Charles B. Scott, Esq. of Woll; William O. Ru-
therfurd, Esq. of Edgerston; John Scott, Esq. of Riccalton; John
Stavert, Esq. of Cunzierton; Major Archibald Oliver of Bush;
and Mrs Isabella Scott of Fala.
     Registers.--It appears that the earliest insertion in the parochial
register was in 1700, and that entries were regularly made during
the subsequent ten years; but that since that period it has been
less accurately kept.
     Antiquities.--The ruins of an old chapel at Plenderleath may
still be seen, but its cemetery has ceased to be occupied as a place
of interment.  There is a Druidical circle, sixteen yards in dia-
meter, and occupying an elevated position, which remains pretty
entire.  At no great distance, there are the vestiges of another of
larger dimensions, but in a less perfect state of preservation.  The
stones of which they are composed, being dark compact green-
stone, interspersed with numerous and minute crystals of augite,
may therefore be identified With that prominent and corresponding
rock found in their neighbourhood.  Several old camps, of a cir-
cular form, are to be met with here.  The one occupying the


