
     of Harris.

to Alexander Macleod, Esq; a native of this parish, a re-
lation of the chief; who, having acquired an ample fortune
in the East India Company's service, retired, in his latter
days, with the generous and patriotic intention of bestowing
it on the improvement of his native land.  The present pro-
prietor of Harris is his son, Alexander Macleod, Esq; now in
India, holding a post of considerable consequence in the civil
department of the Company's service, a young gentleman of
excellent character, and of whom much is expected in for-
warding the beneficent purposes of his worthy father.  The
tacksmen of Harris hold their lands, as yet, under the leases
granted by the late Macleod of Macleod.  They have had
full security in their possessions, which have been handed
down to most of them through a long line of ancestory, and
have hitherto lived well.  Some of the leases last granted
were for 38 years, of which there are 18 yet to run.  Those
granted for 19 years expired at Whitsunday last, 1792.  But
the people were continued in their respective possessions on
paying a moderate augmentation of rent.

<FOOTNOTE>

holding leases of their paternal inheritance from the chief for
19 years, and in some instances for a much longer term; But,
whatever the time granted by the leases might have been, there
was little hazard of alienating the possession, till the base thirst
of money had absorbed every consideration of friendship and at-
tachment in the breast of the proprietor.  In consequence of this
unbounded avarice, however, those gentlemen in the Highlands
and Islands, whose leases have run out within the last 30 years;
have, in general, experienced as Little lenity from their chiefs as
the meanest of their cottagers.  On some estates, indeed, a de-
sign seems to have been laid for their total extirpation.  Many
of them were driven to the necessity of seeking refuge in the
wilds of America; whilst others, obliged to submit to the terms
of their oppressors, are in the broad way of sinking their posteri-
ty into a state of poverty, insignificance, and contempt.  On a
few estates, both the higher and lower orders of tenantry have
experienced a milder treatment.


