
           154                           ORKNEY.

           the Assembly's teacher, who enjoys a salary of L.25, besides a free
           house, schoolhouse, garden, and fuel, together with a piece of
           ground for a cow. The total number of children attending the
           above-mentioned schools varies from 180 to 200.
              Library.-A library, which consists of about 170 volumes,
           chiefly on religious and moral subjects, was formed in 1841. The
           readers are pretty numerous.
              There are few or none under fifteen years of age in this parish,
           who cannot read or write. But endowments for the teachers are
           much required.
              Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
           who receive aid from the parish funds, is about 40, and the ave-
           rage allowance to each is 1s. quarterly. In some cases, however,
           more or less is given, as the members of kirk-session think fit. The
           fund is made up of collections at the church door, mortcloth dues,
           and dues for proclamation of banns,--amounting in all to about
           L.7 or L.8 in the year.
              Inns.--There are no less than six public-houses in the parish.
              Fairs.--There are three annual fairs in the parish for the sale
           of cattle and horses.
	      Fuel.-Peats are in great abundance in this parish, and of the
           very best quality, and all that they cost the inhabitants, is the dig-
           ging, drying, and driving home.

                                 PARISH OF HARRAY.
              Extent, &c.-The greatest length of the parish is about 6 miles:
           its greatest breadth about 4 miles; and it is computed to con-
           tain about 22 square miles. The form is irregular. It is bound-
           ed on the west and south-west, by part of the parish of Sandwick;
           on the east, by Stenness and a small part of Firth; and on the
           north and north-east by the parish of Rendall and Firth.
              Topographical Appearances, &c.--In general, Harray is flat and
           rather swampy, and intersected by a great number of burns, which,
           from want of bridges, interrupt the progress of the traveller. The
           soil varies very mucb,--being, in some places, tolerably fertile, and
           in others, very unproductive. Nevertheless, the crops in general
           are good.
             Hydrography.-There are two lakes in the parish, one of which
           is of considerable size, and contains an immense number of most
           excellent trout. It is frequented by great numbers of wild ducks,
           and other aquatic birds.


