
	     ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON.                    241


phyry found among the older rocks of mica-slate. There are also
dikes of trap and porphyry both in the mica-slate and greywacke.
The Kilpatrick braes form the most interesting features in this dis-
trict connected with the igneous formations. These beautiful hills
range nearly east and west, and form a sort of continuation of the
Campsie Fells, from which they are separated by the straths of the
Blane, and the Allander; while on the west they terminate abrupt-
ly in the remarkable eminence termed Dumbuck, a sort of mimic
of the Dumbarton rock. These hills are more or less connected
with the parishes of Old and New Kilpatrick, Dumbarton, Bon-
hill, and Kilmaronock. They consist chiefly of greenstone, amyg-
daloid, trap-tuff, wacke, and basalt, incumbent on alternate strata
of slate-clay and limestone to an unknown depth. Columns of
basalt are found at Auchintorlie, also in the Glenarbuck grounds,
and near Craigton. There is also in one part of the hills what
seems to have been the remains of an extinct volcano. The
castle rock of Dumbarton, like the beautiful and romantic Kil-
patrick braes, is composed of various of sorts of trap. It forms the
southern point of the parish of Dumbarton, and stands on a small
peninsula at the junction of the Leven and Clyde. Like another
remarkable hill, (Parnassus,) this rock has two summits; that to
the west being highest, or about 206 feet above the level of the
sea. The trap of these formations contains a great many of those
aluminous silicious products, which constitute the zeolite family.
The principal species are the mesotype of Hauy, and the Preh-
nite. Besides these there are other new species, such as Thom-
sonite, Hewlandite, &c. A rare mineral, named Edingtonite,
in honour of Mr Edington of Glasgow, occurs associated with the
Thomsonite. The sulphate of barytes has also been found; but no
metal seems to accompany it. This district is rich in mineral
products.
   The trap of Dumbartonshire is part of that irregular mass which
extends in length from St Andrews to Largs, and from Dunbar to
Ayr, and in breadth from Stirling to near Peebles, including the
limits of the great coal-field extending from the German to the
Atlantic oceans. This trap in Dumbartonshire occurs only
among the limestone which lies at the bottom of the coal-fields.
   The felspar- porphyry in the mica-slate generally runs in dikes or
masses parallel to each other. In some instances it effects a slaty
structure, and seems to contain crystals of hornblende and pista-
   DUMBARTON.


