
				RAFFORD.				247

	fourth division shows a number of captives bound together, some
	naked, and apparently females, others clothed in short jackets;
	while a row of warriors above, with unsheathed swords, are shout-
	ing victory. The last division is very obscure; but it gives indi-
	cations of horsemen either returning as conquerers from the battle,
	or retreating as beaten fugitives. 
		"The other, or north side of the stone, has only threee divisions.
	Below are two fegures with human heads, though their 
	bodies are rather of grotesque forms, typical, perhaps, of priests
	bending over something, as in an attitude of prayer; while a smaller
	human figure stands behind each. All these figures have a 
	broad cap on their heads, while the warriors on the other side are
	all bareheaded. In the division above, is a long cross, the arms at
	the top being within a circle. The cross, and the entire spaces
	of the middle division, are filled up by the most ingenious carving,
	representing the intricate and endless convolutions of the 
	Runic knots, and evidently show the elaborate art of the sculptors.
	At the base of one of the edges of the stone are several figures,
	apparently females." The following extract from Gordon's "Iti-
	nerarium Septentrionale" will show the most generally received 
	opinion of the date and origin of this curious relic of the olden time,
	page 159. "that these obelisks were erected for victories gain'd
	over the Danes, I have very good reason to believe, but cannot, 
	from the history of their invasions on Scotland, learn that any vic-
	tory was ever gain'd by the Scots in that country: On the con-
	trary, we have already shown, that in the reigh of Malcomb, when 
	Olavus Scandianus, and Enecus, the Danish generals, were sent 
	into Scotland by Sueno, the pitched their camp in Murray, and 
	gain'd a very considerable victory over the Scots, taking posses-  
	sion of the castles of Nairn, Forres, and Elgin, which obliged
	Malcomb to retire into other parts of the Kingdom. Why this
	obelisk was rais'd or how to explain the several figures thereon, I
	am at a loss, but cannot forbear thinking that it was erected by the
	Scots after the battle of Murtloch; for the Danes having gain'd
	the afore-mention'd victory in Murray, design'd to settle them-
	selves, and families, in that country, being one of the pleasantest
	and most fruitful provinces of Scotland, and accordingly sent
	their ships back to bring their wives and children over. But their
	affairs taking a different turn, by the battle of Murtlach, they were
	oblig'd not only to leave all thoughts of settling there, but entire-


