
150                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

temples, or circles, as they are commonly called.  These appear
to have been more than usually numerous here, although vestiges
only of four or five now remain.  The rest have been destroyed
for the sake of the stones, or to clear the way for cultivating the
ground they occupied.  The one that is most entire and best ex-
posed to public view, is on the top of the bill of Parkhouse. The
principal or altar stone, placed as usual on the south side, and ly-
ing with its ends east and west, is 14 1/2 feet long, 5 1/2 feet broad,
and 41 feet deep.  If a third part of the solid contents or measure
which these dimensions would yield, be deducted for defects or in-
equalities in the stone, the gross weight of it, at 11 cubic feet per
ton, would still exceed 21 tons.  The stone belongs to the primi-
tive trap.  The diameter of the space inclosed, or comprehended
by the circle, is 48 feet.  Only four of the upright stones remain,
and are about 14 feet asunder.
   "At the distance of 500 yards, on the north side of the same
hill," observes the author of the last Statistical Account of the
parish, "were not long ago the ruins of a small village, supposed
to have been the residence of the Druids," (but commonly called
by the country people Pights' or Picts' houses.)  "A number of
little yards were to be seen all around it," every vestige of which
is now obliterated by the process of culture.  "It consisted of
50 or 60 mossy huts, from 6 to 12 feet square, irregularly hud-
dled together. Hence it got the name of the bourachs. The walls
were built of stone and clay; the floors were paved with stones."
   Modern Buildings, State of the Population, &c.-The three re-
sident heritors have neat, commodious, and, for the extent of their
estates, sufficiently spacious houses, with suitable courts of offices,
either entirely built, or extensively repaired and greatly enlarged
by themselves.  The mansion of Pitfour, including furniture, and
what has been laid out in constructing its various useful and or-
namental appendages, improving the park and policies, making
approaches, &c. has cost the present owner, according to his own
admission, and that of his men of business, nearly L.80,000.

                       III.-POPULATION.
   Owing chiefly to the building and increase of two villages within
the last sixty years, viz. Crichie or Stewartfield and Fetterangus,
the former containing, according to a list of inhabitants recently
taken, 573, and the latter, 216 souls; and the settlement of croft-
ers and cottagers in spots which used to lie waste,-the population
of the parish has increased greatly since 1750, and is still in the
                                    3


