
                                 ALVAH.                        159

sit, deficientibus legitimis et propinquioribus beredibur dicti Wal-
teri quibuscunq. de nobis et successoribus nrs in feoda firma em-
phites et hereditate per omnes rectas metas, &c. &e.-warranted
and dated at the Monastery, 2d February 1359-testibus Jolian
ne Campbell de Calder, milite, Archibaldo Campbell, ejus filio, et
berede apparente, et magistro Andrea Barclay," &c. &c.
This Sir Walter Ogilvie was the ancestor of Lord Banff, and
as his lineal descendant is still the most considerable heritor in the
parish, he may, perhaps, with propriety, be more particularly no-
ticed.  He was grandson of Sir Walter Ogilvie of Auctileven, an-
cestor of the first Earl of Findlater, and great grandson of Sir
Walter Ogilvie of Lintrathen, High Treasurer of Scotland i6
1425, and ancestor of the family of Airly.  Besides the proper-
ty granted to him, in the parish, by the charter Just mentioned,
lie acquired from UrquharCof Cromarty, in 1530, the half of Dun-
lugas,* Sandlaw, and the haugh of Newton.  The other lands of
Alvah, excepting Montblairy and Auchinbadie, he obtained from
the Frasers of Philortb.    He had also charters of Scatterly and
Castletown in the parish of King-Edward, of Blackhill in Moray-'
.shire, the lands of Petty, Braitbliern, Strathe, and theCastle of
Howhill in Inverness-shire, Carnousie, in Banffshire, and Mony.
cabok in the county of Aberdeen.  From the Barclays of Mon
coffer he acquired the Mains of Monteoffer and Gaveny.  By his
wife, Alisone Hume, daughter and co-heiress of Sir Patrick Hume'
of Fasteastle, he bad a considerable estate.  He had also exten-
sive property in the county of Berwick, besides smaller estates in
other parts of the country. From Leonard, Commendator of Cu-
par, he obtained the teinds of the parish of Alvah, and from the
Abbacy of Arbroath the teinds of Banff and Gamrie.  His successor,
forsome time, appears to have rapidly increased the family property,
and his great grandson, Sir George Ogilvie, for his eminent loyalty
and faithful services, particularly in the action against Montrose,
and the Covenanters, at the bridge oi Dee in 1639, was raised
to the Peerage, by the title of First Lord Banff, by King Charles L
in 1642.  His lineal descendant, the Honourable Lady Aber-
croinby of Forglen,t daughter of the seventh Lord Banff, still re-
The other half of Dunlugas belonged to John Lord Drummond, 1490; and by,
624,A 511, mortified in favour of the King's College, Aberdeen, for the support of
ued to Sir W. Ogilvie by the College for L. 19, In.
town of Banff, by W, Rose, Esq.  Moutcoffer. -
bercromby died in 1$88, and has been succeeded by
by of Birkenbo$ and leprglen, Hart.
BANFF.                                      L


