
     of Comrie.

other lakes in stratherne.  In a clear day, this mountain is
distinctly seen from Perth, from the Castle-hill of Edinburgh,
and from a rising ground at London Castle, in Ayrshire.  Its
elevation above the level of the sea is about 3,000 feet.  Be-
sides the oaks on each side of Loch-Erne, above mentioned,
there is also an extensive and valuable oak wood on the estates
of Dunira, Tullibannachar, Comrie, and Aberruchil.  A great
variety of other trees, particularly of the fir species, have also
been planted of late, in several parts of the parish, and are
in a very thriving condition.-The only remarkable spring
here is that of St. Fillan+, the Popish saint of Breadalbane,
at the W. end of Stratherne.

   Animals.-The number of sheep is about 16,500; of black
cattle, 3,820; of horses, 726; of deer, in the forest of Glen-

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*This spring, tradition reports, reared its head on the top of Dun-Fhaolain,
(FILLAN'S HILL), for a long time doing much good; but in disgust, (probably at
the Reformation!) it removed suddenly to the foot of a rock, a quarter of a mile to
the southward, where it still remains, bumbled indeed, but not forsaken.  It is
still visited by valetudinary people, especially on the 1st of May, and the 1st of
August.  No lower than 70 persons visited it in May and August 1791.  The in-
valids, whether men, women, or children, walk, or are carried, round the well
three times, in a direction Deisval, that is, from E. to W. according to the course
of the Sun.  They also drink of the water, and bathe in it.  There operations
are accounted a certain remedy for various diseases.  They are particularly ef-
ficacious for curning barrenness; on which account it is frequently visited by
those who are very desirous of offspring.  All the invalids throw a white stone
on the saint's cairn, and leave behind, as tokens of their confidence and grati-
tude.  some rags of linen or woollen cloth.  The rock on the summit of the hill,
formed, of itself, a chair for the saint, which still remains.  Those who complain
of rheumatism in the back, must ascend the hill, fit in this chair, then lie down
on their back, and be pulled by the legs to the bottom of the hill.  This opera-
tion is still performed, and reckoned very efficacious.  At the foot of the hill,
there is a bason, made by the saint, on the top of a large stone, which
wants water, even in the greatest drought: And all who are distressed
fore eyes must wash them three times with this water.

</UNREADABLE>


