
720			AYRSHIRE.

Justice a yearly pension of L. 28 Scots, from the vicarage of Kil-
birnie, but on the 15th of December, a mandate by the Abbot,
ordering said sum to be taken from the vicarage of Dunlop, is ra-
tified by Parliament. At the Reformation, the parsonage tithes
of Kilbirnie were held on a lease from the Abbot and Monks of
Kilwinning for the small sum of L. 8 Scots yearly. In 1567, Mr
Archibald Hamilton was vicar and exhorter, with the thryd of the
vicarage, amounting to L.31, 2s. 2d. He was forfeited in 1571,
for joining with his clansmen, the Hamiltons, in defence of Queen
Mary, and was succeeded by Robert Crawfurd, vicar and reader,
who had the haill vicarage. His successor vas Mr John Harriot,
who died prior to 1619, as in that year, Mr William Russell, mi-
nister of Kilbirnie, appears as a debtor in the testament of Alex-
ander Boyd, one of the regents of Glasgow College.* In 1670,
Mr William Tullidaff was admitted under the first Indulgence, and
in 1672, Mr Patrick Anderson was conjoined with him. Mr Tul-
lidaff did not conform to the wishes of the Court, and was in con-
sequence subjected to many hardships. On 8th July 1673, be
was fined in the half of his stipend for not observing the 29th of
May, the anniversary of Charles's restoration, and in 1684, he and
others of the indulged ministers were imprisoned. At the Revo-
luson in 1688, Mr John Glasgow was admitted and remained in
the charge until his death in 1721, when he was succeeded by Mr
James Smith, who died 11th February 1733. + To Mr Smith

<FOOTNOTE>On the 15th June 1647, Mr Russell complained to the Presbytery, that John
Braidine, one of his parishioners, had called his doctrine "dust and grey meal." The
said John Braidine being summoned before the Presbytery for the offence, "com-
peared 29th June, and ingenuously confessed his fault. The Presbytery, considering
how prejudicial such speeches were to the whole ministrie, after mature deliberation,
does ordain, that first upon his knees he make ane confession of his fault before the
Presbytrie, and yrafter to goe to hir owne congregation, and there in the public place
of repentance make ane acknowledgement of his fault likewise; and Mr Hugh
M'Kaile to goe to Kilbirnie to receive him."--He submitted, and was absolved.
          On his tombstone in Kilbirnie churchyard, is the following epitaph, said to have
been composed by Patrick, second Viscount Garnock, and which, as it will soon be
illegible, is considered worthy of being preserved here.
	"Bethia Barclay erected this monument in memory of her dear husband, Mr
James Smith, minister of the Gospel in Kilbirny, who died 11th of February 1733,
	"And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see
God."
				Buried here lys a worthy man,
				Whose life, alas, was but a span;
				He pleasure took by God's command,
				To lead us to Emanuel's land.
				He was a blessing to our place,
				Where he did preach by power of Grace,
				Bidding us Jesus' footsteps trace,
				And from all sinning strive to cease.


