
                     SPEYMOUTH.                             59

by rabbits. The yearly value of the grebe per acre may be L.1,
3s.
   Education.-Besides the parochial school which is situated in
Garmouth, there is a school in the higher part of the parish, the
master of which receives a salary from the Society for Propagating
Christain Knowledge, as also an allowance from the Duke of
Gordon, who is sole heritor. The salary of the parochial school-master
is L.29, 18s. 9d., and his school fees may amount to
L.19 per annum. There are also three private schools, and, so far
as I know, all the youths are more or less instructed.
   The Garmouth Sabbath schnol was opened in 1822, and in December
1831 another was opened hn Kingston. By the quarterly returns
rendered in February last, the former contained 108 and the
latter 50 scholars. A Sabbath school hbrary was established in
1827, from which the scholars receive books once a fortnight as a
reward for good conduct and merit as scholars. The Garmouth subscription
library was instituted in 1 823, and contains nearly 200 volumes,
chiefly approved standard works. The mechanics' library was
established in 1825, and contains also about 200 volumes. These
three institutions have been the means of supplying much useful and
entertaining information, and have certainly created as well as supplied
the taste for reading, which of late years has characterized
many of the community. It is hoped they will continue to do
much good.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.- The number of poor at present receiving
parochial aid is 43. The means of aiding them arise
from the collections on Sunday, which for the last two years amounted
to L.33 per annum; seat rents in the church L.3, 12s.; half
of the interest of L.140 mortified money, (the other half being assigned
to a teacherin the higher part of the parish,) and the in,
terest of L.45 lately bequeathed.
   Mills.-There are three corn-mills, to any one of which the
tenants may carry their corns. The multure paid is for servibe only;
and for the miller about one-sixtieth part, but the gener`l practise
is to pay the miller for drying and grinding, Is. for nine stone of
meal. The feuars of Garmouth are astricted to the milL of Garmouth,
belonging to the Duke of Gordon, paying one-thirteenth
for multure to the proprietor and some small proportion  the
mille for work. They are likewise bound to assist is keeping the
mill lead in repair.
   June 1835.


