
474	                       LANARKSHIRE.

in the vicinity of the village, which is let on a lease of twelve years;
and is usually taken by the inhabitants of the village at a very high
rent.
	Manufactures.--There is only one small establishment in the
parish, deserving the name of a manufactory; it was erected for the
purpose of manufacturing cotton into lamp and candle-wicks;
and employs but a very few hands. There is no other work
worth mentioning, except a lime-work which is carried on to a con-
siderable extent, all under ground,--together with a small seam of
coal for the purpose of burning it.

				V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Village.--The village of Stonehouse stands near the centre of the
parish, and is a fine, airy, thriving place. The main street is nearly
a mile in length. The houses are mostly one storey, and generally
thatched; though there are a few substantial, well built two storey
houses and slated. The streets are all macadamized, and kept
very clean and smooth; and no filth allowed to be thrown on the
streets, or to remain thereon any length of time. The village
is now rapidly advancing both in population and appearance, from
the very liberal encouragement given to feuing and building, by
Mr Lockhart of Castlehill, the proprietor of more than one-half
of the parish, who generally grants leases of 999 years upon pay-
ment of a very moderate feu-duty; and building is very cheap, as
stones, lime, and other materials are got just at hand. A great
many new buildings are going on at present, chiefly by two build-
ing societies, which have lately been formed, and are now in active
operation. Two new streets are about being opened up,--which,
when finished according to the specified plan, will both greatly
improve the appearance of the place, and also furnish ample ac-
commodation for the increasing population of the village; for the
want of which, some families have been obliged of late to seek ha-
bitations for themselves elsewhere.
	Means of Communication.--The new turnpike road from Edin-
burgh to Ayr passes through the village, and has opened up an
easy communication with the country, both to the east and west,
which formerly was of very difficult access from the want off a turn-
pike road through the parish. By a very high and beautiful bridge
over the Cander water, about half a mile to the east of the village,
on the new line of road already mentioned, the approach to the
village is alike easy from the east and from the west. As the
Edinburgh and Ayr road crosses the be great road from Glasgow to
				   4


