
80                             DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

brought down from the upper part of the river Nith. Large blocks
of granite have been found, although there are no granite moun-
tains within twenty  miles.
	The soil near the: Nith, or lowest, extremity of the parish, is
sandy loam: upon a higher level it is a sandy gravel, to the depth
of upwards of 20 feet, and is well suited for barley and turnip.
Above the greywacke it is more tenacious and less sandy, but
equally well suited for the same crops. On this soil, composed
of the debris of the greywacke, the larch tree arrives at greater
perfection than the Scotch fir, which prefers a more sandy soil;
but upon the red Sandstone soil or sandy gravel the larch is liable
to decay in the heart, and becomes covered with white moss after
it is planted only a very few years. On the transition rock it is
healthy and vigorous, and evinces no such symptoms of premature
disease. The writer is assured by Mr Menteath of Closeburn, that
the larch tree is found to grow indigenously in Switzerland, but
never upon the secondary strata.

                        II.-CIVIL HiSTORY.
	Of the early history of the parish little is known. Of itself the
parish of Closeburn seems originally to have been of small extent,
while that of Dalgarno comprehended a very considerable terri-
tory. The former belonged to the abbey of Holyroodhouse, and
the latter to the abbey of Kelso, and formed part of the patrimony
and spirituality of these establishments.  At the period of the Re-
formation in Scotland, each parish was provided with a reader, and
in 1576, we find from the register of assignation and modification
of ministers' stipends, a minister for the first time established at
Closeburn. *
	The patronage of both churches as well as most of the territory
of these parishes, belonged for a very considerable period to the
family of Kirkpatrick of Closeburn; although by a ratification in
Parliament 1594, King James VI. confirmed a charter granted by
him under the great real to Sir James Douglas. of Drumlangrig,
Knight, dated in January 1591, "of the advocation and donation

<FOOTNOTE>The following are the words of the register :--"Closberne;--Mr. James Ramsay
minister, his stipend, L. 75, 2s. 5d. to be payit out of the third of the personage of
Kirkmade &c.
	"John Thomsoune, reidare at Closberne, his stipend, L. 20, with the kirk land, to
be payit out of the third of Kelso, &c.
	"Dalgarno.--James Williamsoun, reider at Dalgarno, his stipend xvj lib, with the
kirk land," &c.



