
			     NIGG.                              197

A few of the houses are occupied by crofters and as offices to far-
mers. The unfitness of the harbour, and the want of suitable turf
and moss to cure haddocks, &c. seem to have been the cause of
the desertion of this settlement.
	Another natural inlet or harbour, about a mile south of the
Aberdeen harbour, called Cow-cash, on the Baluagask property,
has been frequently pointed out to the proprietor, by fishermen,
as a suitable situation for a fishing village. But the proprietor
has not come as yet to any determination on the matter.
	There is a free open sea along this coast. The water rises at
spring tides thirteen feet, and the height of the stream is, at forty-
three minutes past noon, at full and change. The tide of flood
runs south-west and by south; that of ebb, north-east, half north,
and at the rate of three knots, and at spring-tides four knots in
the hour.
	From six to eight fathoms at the foot of the rock, the bottom
deepens, shelving off sbore, with sandy, rocky, and various ground,
and sometimes rising till it sinks to ninety fathoms, at the distance
of ten or eleven leagues from land; then it ascends on the fishing
bank, called the Long Forties, to 33, 34,and 35 fathoms, a few
leagues over, until it falls into the depth of the North Sea.
	The face of the country is bare, being destitute of wood.  A
great part of the hill of Tullos, part of the Grampians, was plant-
ed a good many years ago, with trees of different kinds, by the late
Mr David Morice on the north side of thd hill, which is sheltered
from the sea. The plantation has thriven well, but on the top and
side of the hill, which is exposed to the sea, it has failed.
	Bays.--In former ages, trees seem to have grown to the edge of the
sea, in the mouth of the harbour, along the river Dee, and in the
valley adjoining to the bay of Nigg. This bay is semicircular, about
a quarter of a mile in diameter, The sea must have flown a consi-
derable way up the low grounds in this bay, at an early period. But
from the great quantity of small stones, perhaps brought down
the river Dee, about a quarter of a mile north, and thrown back
on the land in this bay, with other alluvial matter, it, does not flow
nearly so far as it had done formerly. It is now kept off by large
birsts of small smoothed pebbles, thrown up at different periods.
Some have accounted for these accumulations of small stones, by
supposing (which is not improbable) that the Dee, at one time,
run down the vale of Nigg. Perhaps the burn that runs down the
valley, running through soft ground, at its meeting with the ocean.


