
916                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

dustrious or enlightened tenantry; and there are certainly few dis-
tricts, in which the general style of agriculture exhibits a healthier
or more improving aspect.  The extensive importation of a larger
and more profitable breed of black-cattle has already been noticed,
and some idea has also been given of the value of bone-dust an-
nually applied to the improvement of cultivation, and particularly
of turnip husbandry.  On many of the farms, more especially
where the soil inclines to clay, there is, besides, a considerable an-
nual expenditure for English lime.  For some years, indeed, after
the introduction of bone-dust, lime was applied in smaller quanti-
ties,-an idea having at first generally prevailed, that the necessity
of applying the latter article would be superseded by the effects of
the bone-dust.  This idea, however, has proved to be erroneous;
the disuse of lime having been followed by a marked deterioration
of the pasture grasses.  Accordingly, lime is again applied by our
farmers in much the same quantity in which they applied it in for-
mer times.
   The chief obstacle to expensive improvements of a fixed cha-
racter is to be found in the faulty nature of the Scotch law of en-
tail, which precludes the possibility of giving a sufficient guarantee
to the farmer of remuneration at the end of his lease for such im-
provements as he may have executed.  Where the proprietor of
an entailed estate is in comfortable circumstances, and has the
prospect of being succeeded by a member of his own family, the
evil now adverted to may not be much felt; but where matters
stand otherwise, it exerts an influence in regard to farm-stead-
ings, enclosures, &c. of the worst possible description.  Un-
fortunately a large extent of the land in this parish is in the hands
of an heir of entail, whose circumstances and advanced years, as
he has no heir of his own body, alike forbid the expenditure of
his means in permanent improvements.  While, therefore, the
farms upon his estates which are held on leases of nineteen years,
are in general well cultivated, his tenants obtaining from time to
time a renewal of their leases, and finding it their interest, in con-
sequence, to keep the soil in good condition, little is done either in
the way of enclosing, or towards the improvement of their farm-
steadings, for this obvious reason, that for such expenditure no re-
muneration can be secured to them.-Whatever views may be
taken of the Scotch law of entail, and how desirable soever it may,
be to have it retained in other respects in all its integrity, it is


