
                   DUNOON AND KILMUN.                           595

frequent occurrence of these depositories of the dead indicate that
the times of old were not always times of peace to the ancient in-
habitants. Within the space now occupied by the villages of
Dunoon and Kilmun, and on the lands of Castle Toward and
other localities, and where no indications whatever occur of those
spots having been dedicated exclusively to the use of ordinary se-
pulture, these resting-places of a race unknown are found to be
very numerous. The stone coffin is formed of three rude slabs of
the native schistose slate, one laid flat forming the bottom of the
coffin, the other two placed over this at an angle to make them
meet at top, and no other security appears to have been sought.
The earth is levelled around, and the coffin not much more than
barely covered by the shingly soil, where they are most frequently
found to occur. The skeleton is generally found entire. The
writer regrets not having had personal opportunity of examining
many of these interesting depositories, proclaiming as they do the
passing nature of this world's history. There is reason, however,
to believe, that they are found showing that no special position of
the body was studied, the extremities lying towards the east, west,
south, or north, as convenience appeared to dictate. On opening
one of these graves lately, the skeleton was found beautifully "laid
out," every bone, to the smallest, occupying its natural anatomical
place; the tibial bones indicating a person five feet ten inches high,
or thereabout. The skeleton is found reposing upon gravel or
sea-beach shingle, clean and pure as if washed by the last sea-
tide, while evidently no disturbing force had ever visited "the nar-
row house." Whether this effect may have been produced by the
ordinary process of percolation of moisture from the surface, or
whether, indeed, as does appear the more probable conjecture, the
grave being situated not more than fifteen feet above the present
level of the sea, that this level may have both risen and again
fallen since the period of inhumation, is not easily decided. The
writer feels inclined to adopt the latter theory, and thus a very re-
mote period must be assigned to this mode of sepulture. The
bones are found perfectly entire, tinged of a pretty deep brownish
hue, but friable almost to the touch.
   What appears evidently to have once been a Druidical altar,
or Crom-leac, occurs on the farm of Ardnadam, on the Hafton es-
tate. Popular story had elevated it to the rank of a royal grave,
and of royalty bearing the name most illustrious of all for anti-
guilty,-Adam! but a diligent search at the foundation, proven


