
                         ABERDEEN.                       71

   The extent of the power used by them is about 320 horses'
power, of which 150 are obtained b water, the rest being steam.
   From 2200 to 2500 persons are in the employ of these houses
and the weekly amount of wages paid is about L.1000.
   Stone Trade.-The trade of Aberdeen in stones is ver consi-
derable, as will be seen from the table of exports.  The principal
part of this trade is in paving stones sent to London; but there
have also been, at various times, large quantities of building stones
exported; and some of the bridges over the Thames are in great
part built of, or faced with, Aberdeen granite.  Some of the largest
blocks that have been exported, were those sent, not many years
since, to the docks at Sheerness.  The extreme beauty of the
granite when polished is well known; but its very great hardness
formed an almost insuperable bar to its general introduction, while
the work of polishing it was carried on only by manual labour.
Within these few years, however, Mr Alexander Macdonald has
contrived, by several very ingenious adaptations of machinery to
this purpose, and by some very considerable improvements in the
tools used, to effect a very great reduction in the expense of the
process, insomuch that ornamental articles of polished granite,
such as slabs, chimney pieces, pedestals, and vases may now be
procured from his manufactory here, for about one-third of the
price which formerly they cost.
   Iron Manufacture.-The quantity of iron annually worked in
Aberdeen is very considerable, and it is daily increasing, in con-
sequence of the introduction of new branches of the manufacture,
or of the extension of those formerly existing in the place.  It is
not many years since the making of spinning machinery, and of
steam-engines, was altogether unknown in the town, and there are
now eight or ten machine-makers, of whom five are engaged in the
making of steam-engines; and three, to a considerable extent, make
both land and marine engines. Iron ship-building, too, has been
introduced here within the last two years, and there is at present
a vessel of this description on the stocks, of the burden of 550
tons by measurement, being, it is believed, the largest sailing ves-
sel that has yet been constructed of iron.
   There are in Aberdeen and its immediate vicinitv eight founde-
ries, at most of which the heaviest castings can be executed.  One
of the firms engaged in this trade has a forge hammer and a rol-
ling mill; and there are three establishments at which the hea-
viest anchor-work is performed.  There are also two houses en-


