
810     		   AYRSHIRE.

off in consequence of the general diffusion of merchandise by
steam-boats, which carry to the islands of the west the comforts of
civilized life at all periods of the year. The fair is still of consi-
derable importance as a market for young cattle, which are brought
from the Highlands, and bought by farmers and graziers.
                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	After the plague broke out, Largs suffered most severely, and
the common people were reduced to great distress. Soon after-
wards, some cases of reputed witchcraft occurred in the parish;
but, on enquiry, the charge was found groundless, and the accu-
sation passed away. The following remarkable incident is given
by the celebrated gossip, Law, in his Memorials, p. 245: "Aprile
1683. At the Largs, in the west of Scotland, a man at his plough
knocks down his servant man, taying the horse, immediately goes
home, his wife asking for the servant man, he gives her a rough
answer. She goes out to look after him; ere she returned he
hanged himself. She coming in with a child in her arms, seeing
her husband hanging, fell down on the ground and the child in
her arms, with the fall broke its neck,--a sad spectacle."
	In the early part of the last century, Largs gradually recovered
from its depression; but the population were generally averse to
strangers, incomers being looked upon in an unfavourable light.
After the place became the resort of summer visitors, a new
population was engrafted on the old stock, and the extension of
the town and the building of villas in its vicinity produced a
great improvement. Largs now vies with its neighbours in all
the duties of hospitality and good neighbourbood, and the society
is cheerful and friendly among themselves. The better classes
are attentive to the poor, and, in seasons of distress and privation,
are always ready to give relief.
	The gentlemen of Largs and their visitors have been much in-
debted to Mr Cairnie of Curling Hall, for the sport they enjoy in
summer at bowling upon his beautiful bowling-green, and in winter
for the national, manly, and exhilarating game of curling upon, his
curling-pond, designed and constructed by himself on a new and
scientific principle, by which ice is formed fit for use in one night,
when the thermometer stands at 32&deg; of Fahrenheit, at 14 feet of
elevation above the surface of the ground. Hence this sport can
be enjoy here earlier and more frequently than in the usual
places of resort for this pastime. The game of billiards is another
source of amusement, while, to those who prefer the enjoyment of


