
     of Montrose.

length, in 1779, Mrs Carnegie of Pittarrow, justly celebrated
for her public spirit, suggested the plan of a lunatic hospi-
tal, to be erected in the links near Montrose.  By her in-
fluence, a petition, signed by some persons of distinction in
the town and neighbourhood, was presented to the magi-
strates, requesting their aid for erecting such an hospital;
and soon after, a subscription was opened for that purpose,
which succeeded beyond expectation.  Sixty nine lunatics
have already been admitted into the house, some from
places so distant as Perth, Aberdeen and Edinburgh, of
whom 14 have been cured, 6 removed greatly better, 21
died, and 28 remain in the hospital*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is proposed, as soon as the funds will permit, to fit up sick ward; in
the mean time, 57 patients, labouring under dangerous dreaves, have been
taken into the hospital, many of whom required chirurgical operations.  Twen-
ty six have been cured, 10 relieved, 8 removed incurable. 10 died, and 6 are
under cure; 1324 out-patients have received advice and medicine gratis,
410 of whom have been cured, 389 eheved and 2 died.  Such was the
state of the hospital at the beginning of 1790 As it was erected by sub-
scription, it has been hitherto supported by funds annually granted by the
magistrates of Montrose, by collections at the church a d Episcopal chapel,
by a collection through the Synod of Angus and Mearns, and the voluntary
donations and contributions of the humane and liberal.  Several lunatics
from the parish of Montrose have been admitted, gratis, and, from other
parishes, whence liberal contributions have been received, at so low a
rate as L. 8, L. 7, L. 6, and even L 5 a-year.  But, without further liberal do-
nations, and the continuance of annual subscriptions, the funds must be in-
adequate to support the institution, in such a manner as its friends would
wish.  The medical gentlemen of Montrose, give both advice and atten-
dance gratis; and the treasure is equally disinterested.  The humanity and
frugality of the master and mistress. and the order and cleanliness of the
house, merit the highest commendation.  Several pieces of coarse sheeting
have been made, from the yarn spun by the lunatics in their lucid intervals.
At such times, they are also occasionally employed in painting, reading,
gardening, knitting stockings, spinning, and working with the needle.  A
piece of painting, in the mistress's room, done by one of the lunatics, is, as
such, a considerable curiosity.


