
240                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

lands, to show that he was not about to remove. At length mat-
ters were arranged by the mediation of William Douglas of Loch-
leven. Wedderburn got half of the lands, including the manor-
house, with full right of property; to the other half he resigned his
claim. Without tracing the changes in the possession of Thur-
ston and the other properties of the parish downwards to the pre-
sent day, we may mention that the name of Wedderburn, so pro-
minent in this little scrap of local history, subsequently became
connected with the baronies of Thornton and Innerwick. In 1670
or 1671, Sir Peter Wedderburn of Gosford obtained a grant of the
former, and about the same time he came into possession of the
latter.
   Heritors.-The present heritors of the parish are, Mrs Ferguson
of Dirleton and Biel; Mr Hunter of Thurston; Mr Balfour of
Whittingham; the Marquis of Tweeddale; Sir George Suttie of
Balgone; Sir John Hall of Dunglass; and Mr Allan of Bushelhill.
   Parochial Registers.-These commence with 1608, and consist of
several volumes. They seem to have been generally kept with care
and precision. Of ecclesiastical discipline and superintendence in
the seventeenth and earlier part of the succeeding century, the re-
cord is copious and minute. The following circumstances amidst a
multitude of others are recorded:-That in September 1659, a Sun-
day-fast was appointed by the session, in reference to the anticipat-
ed destruction of the corn-crops by incessant rain, and an apparent
want of piety among the people; that in May 1661, a day of
thanksgiving was appointed for the King's return, the minister, how-
ever, cautioning the congregation against observing it as a sacred
festival or anniversary holyday, and, in that respect, on a level with
the Sabbath; that in October 1662, the minister, not conforming
to Episcopacy, took leave of his people, the two parting from each
other (as the record expresses it,) like mother and child, when the
latter is snatched from her breast; and that in the seventeenth
century, church collections were made at Innerwick for a harbour
at North Berwick, bridges at Linton and Whitekirk, and persons
taken prisoners by the Turks.
   Antiquities.-Innerwick Castle, of which there are still consi-
derable, remain-, was probably built in feudal times, as a security
to the Scottish border. It was an inheritance of the Stewarts
who, for so long a period, held a superiority over the neighbouring
lands, but at length became a baronial stronghold of the Hamil-
ton  of Innerwick. In 1403, in which year the Earl of Dunbar



