
692				FORFARSHIRE.

surface are extremely irregular. The ground on which the town
stands and that in its immediate vicinity, is very uneven, consist-
ing of hillocks or mounds of various sizes, and by their undulating
form and position, and the nature of the sand and gravel of which
they are composed, exhibit proofs of some great and violent con-
vulsion in which water had been a principal agent, or that the
whole had at one time been under water. To the south of the
town the land rises. The hill of Balmashanar, near the town, and
that of Lower, at the southern boundary of the parish, are the on-
ly eminences that may properly be designated hills. On Balma-
shanar, Craignathro, the town's property on the east of the Dun-
dee turnpikes road, and Berrymuirhead, also the property of the
burgh, and situated at the south-west extremity of the parish, se-
veral quarries have been opened, and continue to be wrought.
These quarries are similar in their formation and qualities to those
which are found in such numbers on the eastern division of the
ranges of the Sidlaw hills in this county. From these quarries,
the stones of which the houses in Farfar are built, and the slates,
or rather sandstone flags with which they are covered, and the
pavement for the foot-paths in the town, are obtained. The
slight reddish-coloured stone furnished by the Borrymuirhead
quarry, is particularly durable. From it were taken the stones for
the steeple of the parish. Immense quantities of pave-
ment are dug from the quarries to the south of Forfar, and are
conveyed to Dundee and Arbroath, and thence to different quar-
ters of the kingdom. No other minerals are wrought within the
parish.
	The soil, with exception of a portion of the souther divi-
sion of the parish, which is clayed and wet, is light and dry, and
produces excellent oats, barley, and green crop. The state of
husbandry throughout the district and neighbourhood is highly
creditable to the enterprize and skill of the farmers. The ave-
rage rent in the neighbour of the burgh is L.2, 10s. per acre.
	Botany.--The following particular regarding the botany of the
parish are derived from Mr George Don's Account of the Native
Plants in the County of Farfar. " In the fir-woods near Forfar
grow the Hieracium paniculatum, var. maculatum not yet (1813)
found in any other part of Britain, together with the beautiful
Trollius Europaus, Pyrola minor, and rotundifolia, and also Jum-
ous Forsteri, Melica uniflora, Carex pallescens, C. remeta, C. sylvatica,
C.lavigates, and C. pendula, Triticum caninsum, and Festuos gigantea.
There are farther the Dicranum undulatum and the Hyrium cris-



