
                              CULLEN.                        313

   Avon, and another to the east by Glenlivat. Arrangements are
   also made by the Duke of Richmond for subdividing and enclosing
   the farms; and as His Grace evinces a disposition to promote
   the interests of his tenantry, and improve his extensive do.
   mains, it is expected that he will give orders to plant a considerable
   portion of the waste ground in the parish.

   April 1842.

	                    PARISH OF CULLEN.*
               PRESBYTERY OF FORDYCE, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.
              THE REV.  GEORGE HENDERSON, A. M., MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHX AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-THE etymology of the name of this parish, as well as
   the historical origin of the royal burgh of Cullen, appear to be
   lost in the mist of antiquity. The legendary accounts prevalent
   in the parish, and even to be met with in the writings of some of
   the minor historians, are unworthy of notice. It was originally
   alled -Inverculan, being bounded on the north and west by the
   water of Cullen, which falls into the sea at the western extremity
   of the parish; but it has long borne the name of Culan, Culane,
   or Cullen only.
      Extent and Boundaries.-The ecclesiastical parish consists of
   two parts, viz. Cullen proper, or Cullen quoad civilian and a portion
   of the neighbouring parish of Rathven, annexed to it gurad
   Bacra. The former, which bears the form of a wedge, extends
   from north to south, in length about 14 miles, and from east to
   west, in average breadth, nearly I mile, containing 684 imperial
   acres. The annexation from Rathyen is about 3 miles in length,
   from east to west, and nearly 2 miles in breadth, from north to
   south. Cullen Proper is bounded on the north, by the Moray
   Frith; on the south, by Rathven and Deskford; on the east, by
   Fordyce; and on the west, by Rathven.
      Topographical Appearances.-The topographical appearance of
   this parish presents the richest and most varied landscape of hill

   <FOOTNOTE>The following statistics apply only to the parish of Cullen proper, unless where
   special reference. is made to the annexation.


