
     of kenethmont.

fectly satisfactory, as the eminence on which the church
stands, is towards the foot of the moss*.  This parish is
about 6 miles long from E. to W. and 3 broad from N.
to S.  It is six miles from Huntly, the nearest post-town,
30 from Aberdeen, and 24 form Banff, and the other
towns on the Murray Frith, to the mouth of the Spey.
The parish may contain about 6500 acres Scots, and in the
following proportions nearly:

<TABLE>

                           Acres.                          Acres.
Infield,               960    Plantations,        340
Outfield,             2770    Mosses,             150
Meadow and Pature,     980    Moors and Heath,   1300 

</TABLE>

The soil in general is a light loam; and, when properly
cultivated, produces luxuriant crops.  The surface is di-
versified with hills and eminences, some of them plant-
ed with trees of various sorts, which in a short time will
beautify the country.  Of these, the hill of Christ's kirk
is not the least beautiful.  It is of considerable altitude,
and has two green tops, which have a pretty effect at a
distance.  The parish is well watered.  It abounds in
springs, rills, and streams, sufficient for meal mills.  Some
of these proceed in an eastern direction from one channel to
another, till they reach the Don, which falls into the
sea at Aberdeen; others turn towards the west, lose them-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Kenethmont has a parish in whole, or in part, annexed to it, na-
med Christ's Kirk.  At what period this annexation took place.  I have
not been able to discover.  But that is was once a separate parish, ad-
mits of no doubt.  For the burial-ground is still in use, the ruins of the
kirk remain, and the incumbent of Kenethmont is in possession of the
glebe.  But the name of Christ's Kirk, as a parish, is at present never
used, being applied solely to the farm, which surrounds the glebe and bu-
rial-ground.  It is in the east end of the parish, at the distance of about
4 English miles from the present church.
 

