
12                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

and Camptown, but it is to be regretted that proprietors have not
exerted themselves to preserve them from the ravages of the farm-
er. At Scarsburgh there is a fine circular camp in good preser-
vation, about 60 yards in diameter and with ramparts nearly 20
feet high. There is a Roman Camp near Monklaw, which appears
to have been about 160 yards square. The neighbouring moor is
said by tradition to have been the scene of a battle. But the most
interesting of these ancient remains is the celebrated camp at Linta-
lee, described in Barbour's Bruce, which was formed by Douglas
for the defence of the borders during the absence of Bruce in Ire-
land. In the neighbourhood of this camp, Richmond, the English
warden, fell in a personal encounter with Douglas, having invad-
ed Scotland with 10,000 men, whom he had provided with hatchets
to level Jed forest with the ground. This strong position is form-
ed by the steep and precipitous bank of the Jed and a deep ravine,
and was defended on the side towards the rising ground by a double
rampart, which still remains.
   At Hundalee, Lintalee, and Mossburnford, there are caves dug
out of the rock in the banks of the Jed, which in former times
were used for concealing property and as places of refuge. That
at Lintalee is in the face of the precipice below the camp, and is
now inaccessible. The Hundalee cave consists of three apart-
ments, a large one with a smaller on each side.
   The Roman road passes through the north of the parish, at the
distance of two miles from Jedburgh. It is here in a state of pre-
servation, being paved with whinstones. It crosses the Jed and
the Tiviot, about half a-mile above their junction. Another ancient
road passes over the height from Ancrum, Bridge towards Jedburgh.
At the foot of the Canongate of Jedburgh there is a bridge of
great antiquity, consisting of three semicircular ribbed arches. It
is neatly built with squared, stones, and on its centre there was
formerly a gateway, which, like the ancient cross of Jedburgh, and
many other interesting relics of past ages, disappeared before the
encroachments of the last century. At the end of the New Bridge,
next, Bongate, there is a large stone which appears to have formed
part of an ancient obelisk. It is covered with indistinct characters
and representations of animals, and on the top there is a tenon for
receiving the mortise of the incumbent stones. It is probably part
of the ancient Cross of Bongate.
   Great numbers of ancient coins have been, on many occasions,
found in t different parts of the parish, but, being dispersed in a
great number of hand, it is not easy to obtain a satisfactory ac-


