
     of Rathven.

comforts and conveniencies of life.  Examples of natural
fagacity, and a talent for information and enterprize, is by
no means uncommon among those of every description.
They have penetration enough to discover the road which
bids fairest to lead to the accomplishment of their views,
and steadiness to pursue it.  The intercourse of the fisher-
towns with the country is frequent and easy; nevertheless
the difference in language and in manners is striking.
Here we see men judging and acting for themselves.  E-
very one adopts those plans which best suit his circum-
stances and situation in life.  The fishers indeed, as indi-
viduals, are placed more on a footing of equality; and
their pursuits are uniformly similar.  Of course their lan-
guage and transactions, are the language and transactions
of the community, rather than of individuals.  All adopt
the same measures, and pursue similar plans in executing
them.  The voice of one almost always puts all in motion;

<FOOTNOTE>

containing human bones of a large size.  Having obtained permission to
ransack this grave.  I found it covered with a large stone, 4 feet long
3 broad, and about 14 inches in depth.  On removing this, we found
4 other stones set on their edges, which served as a coffin to part of a
scull, and jaw-bone, with several teeth, and some fragments of a thigh
bone.  The dimensions of this coffin were 3 feet 1 inch in length, 2 feet
wide, and 22 inches deep.  There was no stone in the bottom.  The
bones were removed into a similar chest, a few feet northward of this
one, in the same tumulus; this last one was discovered 4 or 5 years ago,
by a man in the neighbourhood, who was removing a few more of the
stones for building a house.  It is of smaller dimensions than the other
one, and was originally covered with two stones, one of which was car-
ried off.  No bones were found in it.  There are many other cairns near
this one, but none of them have been searched.  They are at no great di-
stance from the house of Rannes, on a farm, lately improved out of moor,
called Wester-side.  The ruins of an old chapel, near the house of Far-
skane, of the house of Findochtie, and of some buildings on the tops of
two hills, on the east and west side of the harbour of Portnockie, the for-
mer called the Green castle, and the latter the Tionach castle, are still 
to be seen.


