
234                      GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.

which is to be regretted, as in Dumfries-shire agriculture has made
larger inroads on this old structure, than in Gallnway, where the
greater part of the lands through which it passes, are less suscep-
tible of being disturbed by the plough.
	" This ancient fence is invariably eight feet broad at the base,
with a fosse on the north or inland side of it, and seemingly, as far
as stones could be procured conveniently, it is built of blocks of
common moorstone, which bear no mark of either chisel or ham-
mer. As it recedes from the stony district, it is built of an ad-
mixture of stones and earth, or wholly of earth as at Hightae Flow.
The builders of this vast rampart, have not taken advantage of na-
tural barriers, such as lochs, rivers, and glens to strengthen its po-
sition as a line of defence, but in Galloway it uniformly includes
the fertile land to the south of it, from which circumstance, and
from the fosse being on the opposite side, it appears to have been
built by a people inhabiting the lower and more southern part of
the district.
  "The era and use of all the other great walls in the kingdom
being well known, it is a singular circumstance that a work of such
magnitude as the Deil's Dike should have been overlooked by
historians: consequently every thing connected with its erection is
involved in the darkest obscurity. It is not mentioned in the
charter of any of the lands through which it passes, so far as I
have, been able to ascertain. Mr Chalmers, the author of Cale-
donia, in a letter which I received from him, dated 16th April
1820, says, "I wish you to understand, my good Sir, that there
are questions which arise out of your communications, which jus-
tify the observations of Mr Hume, that there are questions in his-
tory as difficult of solution as any in the sciences. Such is the
Deil's Dike. Considering all its circumstances, it is extremely
difficult to assign its age, its object, or its builders. In Ireland,
there is nothing like the Deil's Dike; the inference is, that it was
not made by Irish hands. I am disposed to think that this work
is several centuries older than the arrival of the Irish Cruithne or
Picts in Galloway." In Caledonia, Vol. iii. page 237, alluding
to the same subject, he adds, " It is obviously a very ancient work,
and was probably formed by the Romanized Britons after the de-
parture of the Roman armies."
	" The name of this ancient structure is an additional proof of its
great antiquity, as, down to a late period in Scotland, any work of
unknoww origin which seemed to exceed the ordinary limits of hu-
man exertion, was commonly ascribed to either the Picts, to Mi-
chael Scott the wizard, or to the Master Fiend himself."


