
        	 ON THE COUNTY OF DUMFRIES.              575

above L. l00 Sterling. This ought to have been the amount of
qualification; and the act 1803 should now be extended to
schools in burghs. Presbyteries ought not both to be libellers
and judges, because there is no appeal from their sentences, and
therefore they ought never to prosecute; or, if they do, there should
be a privilege of appeal, as formerly, to the higher church courts,
in whom the jurisdiction has been adjudged finally to rest.
	17. Dissenters are not very numerous in Dumfries-shire. The Ca-
tholic population reside mostly near Dumfries, and also the fami-
lies of the Protestant Episcopal persuasion. Secession and Relief
chapels are dispersed in various quarters, and some belonging to
the Consistent Old Seceders, now denominated Cameronians, or
the Reformed Presbytery. In the county town of Dumfries, Dis-
senters are more numerous than in other places, and in a higher
proportion to the Established Church. It is not thought that in
the whole county their number is above ten in the hundred; and
in the parish where this is written, there are not so many as ten
out of a thousand of population; and of these, most part, or the
whole, have been seen occasionally in the parish church. One
congregation in Dumfries, with their minister, have joined  them
selves to the Established Church; and above forty other congre-
gations of the Old Burghers have made a movement of this de-
scription elsewhere.
	18. The church lands of Scotland were at one time considered
equal to one-half of the wh0ole in value; and all this enormous pro-
perty, excepting the insignificant portions of glebe lands, went to
the Crown, and was mostly disposed in grants to the barons. The
Teinds were solemnly declared by Parliament to be " the patri-
mony of the church;" and being valued once for all by the act
1633, the amount of the teinds could to be very great, if decrees
were early taken out and preserved. Besides all this, many of the
parishes were annexed to others and suppressed; and the ministers
being declared to be stipendiary, the Cotrt of Teinds only award-
ed reasonable stipends out of the teinds; the surplus or free teinds
being left gratuitously with titulars having Crown rights, or with
patrons, yet always liable by law, and also in practice, to be ex-
hausted for stipends and augmentations. Heritors might purchase
the free teinds of their lands, at nine years' purchase to the titu-
lars, and six years to the patrons; and yet the free teinds over all
Scotland would endow all the churches, though many new ones
were built, and new parishes erected. This power the Court of


