
                           GOVAN.                           673

the river by a busy manufacturing community; to the disturbance
given to the fish by the steam-boats; and likewise to the formation
of the dikes on both bank of the Clyde, as the drawing of the
nets is in many places thereby obstructed.  Porpoises have some-
times appeared as far up the river as this parish.  One, which was
about ten feet long, was caught in a net at the Broomielaw, on
the 13th of February 1793.  Five others were killed at the same
place in May 1801.  In Carmile Dam, four miles above Glas-
gow, about sixty years ago, a still more uncommon fish, a sturgeon,
was killed, which measured eight feet in length.  It was shown
in Glasgow to the curious for two or three days. *
   Botany.-Along with other plants the following are found
in different parts of the parish :
Pinguicula vulgaris, on the north bank of the Clyde, and in the moss near Shield-
    hall. The Laplanders are said to use it as a rennet for milk.
Iris pseudacorus, north bank of the Clyde. In Arran, its roots are employed to dye
    black, and in Jura, mixed with Copperas, to make ink. Its seeds, roasted ana
    ground, are an indifferent substitute for coffee.
Phleum pratense, very plentiful in the meadow below Partick.  This is an excellent
    grass for permanent pasture, and for presenting a rich sward even among woods.
Agrostis stolonifera, on the banks of the Kelvin.  This is a good grass for mossy
    or wet land.
Poa fluitans, in deserted beds of the Clyde, below Partick.  The seeds, under the
    name of manna-seeds, are sold in Holland and Germany, and imported into this
    country, as a mild nourishing food.  Its herbage contains a very great quantity of
    saccharine matter.  The farmer might find it advantageous to cultivate this grass
    in situations which are frequently flooded, were he to raise parallel ridges from
    which the cattle might gather it out of the water
Poa trivialis, in meadow's on the banks of the Clyde.
Poa pratensis, very common.
Cynosurus cristatus, in dry pastures throughout the parish.
Lolium perenne, very common.
Anthoxanthum odoratum, on both banks of the Clyde.  It is this grass, which smells
    like woodruff, (Asperula odorata), and which give its pleasant fragrance to
    newly made hay. +

<FOOTNOTE>Denholm's History of Glasgow, pp. 97, 428, third edition.
          These grases are not mentioned on account of their rarity, but merely with a
view to direct attention to their characters and qualities.  Moist land, that hardly
maintains a green appearance, when sown only with common rye-grass and clover
would be found more productive were it sown with the following grasses, and with
the quantities stated to the acre:  One bushel of Page's perennial rye-grassg and clovers
bushel of Alopecurus pratensis, (meadow foxtail-grass); six pounds of Poa trivialis;
five pounds of red clover; four pounds of white clover; and two pounds of yellow
clover.  The following mixture, along with the proportions of rye-grass and clovers
which have now been specified, would be found advantgeous in poor dry land : one
quarter bushel of Festuca durinscula (hard fescue-grass) ; two pounds of Cynosurus
cristatus ; two pounds of Anthoxanthum odoratum ; and two pounds of Poa pratensis
For the purpose of making a beautiful lawn, one-eight bushel of Festuca coina
(sheep's fescue grass) ; and two potnds of Phleum pratense, should be substituted for
the red clover and the Fesluca duriuscula.  These suggestions will deemed more
valuable when it is stated that they are given on the authority of Mr Murray, the in-
telligent superintendent of the Glasgow Botnical Garden, to whom the writer is al-
most wholly indebted for the information contained under this head.  Mr Murray
says it consists with his own knowledge, that among the larch woods about Dun-
keld and Blair-Athole, a grass rent of 10s. to 15s. the acre was annually obtained


