
			 CRAMOND.                       595

"vivoque sedilia saxo." At the iron works, indeed, about a
quarter of a mile higher, art has been called in with crane and
wharf to render it more suitable for their own imports and exports.
   The advance of the tide in some parts of the shore is rather
remarkable, particularly in the neighbourhood of Granton pier.
In building this pier the vestiges of an old sea-wall* were discovered
within low water mark; and not much more than half a century
ago the margin of green turf extended a considerable way towards
this boundary.  When the softer strata have been thus stripped of
their alluvial covering, the effect of ebb and flow, by constant
attrition, is to lower even the rock itself, so that a foundation
sunk a few feet in the shale becomes, in the course of not many
years, level with the surface on the side exposed to the action of
the tide.
                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Parochial Registers.-The date of the most ancient parochial
registers is 1636. It is alleged that the books of the parish,
which existed previously to that period, were carried off by Crom-
well. The records of baptisms, marriages, and kirk-session bu-
siness, appear to have been kept with great regularity since 1652,
and, with the exception of the oldest of them, are in excellent
preservation. There are several very curious things recorded in
the session books, illustrative of the severity of discipline exercised
in former times.
   Land-owners.-The principal land owners in the parish are,
William R. Ramsay, Esq., M.P.; His Grace the Duke of Buc-
cleuch; Lady Aberdour; Lady Torphichen; the Earl of Rose-
bery; Mr Hope Vere; Andrew Rutherfurd, Esq., Advocate, M.P.;
Thomas Davidson, Esq.; and W. H. Crawford, Esq.
   Mansion-Houses.-Few parishes in Scotland can boast of a
greater variety of beautiful mansion-houses than Cramond. Of
these we shall briefly notice the principal. About a mile south-
from the church, stands Barnton House, the principal seat of
William R. Ramsay, Esq., M.P. It is situated in a magnificent;
park of nearly 400 acres, beautifully wooded, and most tastefully

<FOOTNOTE>If this sea-wall was constructed by the Duke of Argyle, as is supposed, when Ca-
roline Park was in his possession, it must have been the boundary of the shore about
a hundred years ago. About the beginning of last century, on repairing the pier of
Leith, a portion of a coast line of Roman road was discovered below the foundation
crossing the water of Leith in the direction of Cramond.-See Maitland's Hist. and
Antiq. of Scotland, Lond. 1757, Vol. i. p. 203. Cramond Island, though above three-
quarters of a mile distant from the land, is at low water connected with it by a flat
traet of sand, over which those residing on the island pass and repass.


