
8                    PEEBLES-SHIRE.

of the High Street.  It was a long narrow Gothic building, but
when or by whom built is unknown.  It seems not to have be-
longed to the see of Glassgow, but, according to the Rev. James
Morton, author of the Monastic Annals of Teviotdale, King Wil-
liam confirmed to the monks of Kelso the possession of the chapel
of the castle of Peebles, with a ploughgate belonging to it, and
10s. a-year, granted by his grandfather, King David, out of the
revenues of the burgh, to found a chapel in which to say mass for
the soul of his son Earl Henry. *  Immediately to the west of
this chapel ran the town wall; and a port opened to a deep ditch
or pass, which might be considered a kind of fosse, to prevent an
entrance from the bridge.  The chapel continued for many years
to be the place of the meeting of presbytery and kirk-session, and
frequently for the celebration of marriages, till the building of the
present church was begun, when it was pulled down.  Of the cas-
tle and its chapel, not a vestige now remains.
   A hospitium dedicated to St Leonard for the support of aged
and infirm persons, and for temporary relief to strangers, stood at
the eastern extremity of the parish, on the farm of Eshiels, part
of the Hayston estate.  No part of it now remains.  At the Re-
formation, the church of the Holy Cross became the parish church;
but from the numerous meetings of the heritors for repairs as re-
corded in the session-books, it seems for many years to have been
in very bad order.  It was finally abandoned in 1784, when the
present church was opened for public worship.  Of St Anrew's
church little now remains except the tower. It stands in the midst
of a spacious burying-ground, which, though of great antiquity,
contains no monuments of any great interest.  The Cross church,
when deserted, by being used as a quarry, was fast disappearing,
when a public-spirted citizen, the late Mr John Turnbull, pur-
chased it from the magistrates and stopped the work of desecra-
tion.  The late Sir John hay, whose family vault it contained,
afterwards purchased it, and, planting a considerable piece of ground
around it, enclosed the whole with a wall. The cross, which stood
on that part of the High Street which still bears its name, was
also doomed to destruction, and was sold for building materials.
It was a work of great antiquity, having been erected by one of
the Frazers of Neidpath Castle before the time of Robert the Bruce,
and bears the arms of the Frazers.  After the pedestal had been

<FOOTNOTE>Morton's Monastic Remains.


