864                          FIFESHIRE.

ed in the same manner Perth, Dundee, and other places in the
low countries."
  On the 28th January 1581, the Second Confession of Faith,
sometimes called Craig's Confession of Faith, because drawn up
by John Craig, or the King's Confession, because signed by him,
or the First National Covenant of Scotland, and which is em-
bodied in all the subsequent National Covenants entered into by
the Scottish Church and people, was subscribed by James VI.
and all his household, at Dunfermline.
   Between 1582 and 1585, three Danish ambassadors of noble
birth, and splendidly attended, arrived in Scotland, and were in-
troduced to King James VI., at Dunfermline, where they con-
gratulated his Majesty, in the King their master's name, with a
long discourse of the old amity bond, and mutual friendship, be-
tween the two kings, and their kingdoms. They also presented
their claim, respecting the restoration of Orkney and Shetland to
the Danish crown.
   In 1596, a Convention of the "Estates" was held here, for the
purpose of recalling, the Popish Lords, who had been banished for
a conspiracy; and the Princess Elizabeth was born at the palace,
on the 19th August, first daughter of his Majesty, afterwards
Queen of Bohemia, whose baptism the Convention appointed to
take place at Holyroodhouse, on the 28th of November follow-
ing.
   On 19th November 1600, King Charles I. was born here.
   In 1624, a great fire took place, which nearly consumed the
town; the houses, at that period, being almost entirely composed
of wood, at least from the second story. Its ravages were chiefly
on the north side of the ancient pillory, at the prison, to the east
port. The town was reduced to such poverty by this calamity,
that it was obliged to supplicate assistance from the community
of Scotland at large.
   In 1638, during the months of March and April, in the reign
of CharlesI., the Covenant, as drawn up by Alexander Hender-
son and Johnston of Warriston, was subscribed at Dunfermline,
by the nobility, gentlemen, burgesses, and commons in the parish.
The document containing it is still extant here, and is written on
a very large sheet of vellum parchment. Among the signatures
are Dunfermlyne (Charles Seton, Earl of Dunfermline) ; Sir
Robt. Halkett, Pitferrane; James Durie, Craigluscar; Robert
Ged ; R. Ged younger ; Henry Wardlaw of Pitreavie; William

