
                   DUNOON AND KILMUN.                       615

being'devoted more usually to the purposes of pasture. There Is'
no portion of the, parish in a state of undivided common, the boun-
daries of each property being ascertained. The number of acres
under timber has been already stated under the general head of,na-,
tural history. The extent of copsewood in the parish amounts to,
as many acres as there are of planting. Both planting at copse
are carefully tended with respect to -yearly thinning, periodical
felling, and pruning. The, oak is unquestionably the prevailing
native tree, with other kinds already specified. Larch and Scotch
fir prevail in most of the plantations.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per imperial
acre may be stated at L.1, 4s. in the parish of Kilmun proper, and,
at L.1, 16s. in the parish of Dunoon. The difference in these
two average . rates arises from capital having been more liberally
applied to the improvement of land in the latter than in the for.;
mer parish, of late,years. This difference, it is not improbable,
may soon cease, improvements of this kind being in progress now
in the parish of Kilmun, which promise to be successful.
  The average rate of grazing may be stated at L.3 per ox or
cow grazed for the year; and of sheep, at from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per
head.
  Rate of Wages.-The rates of labour may be stated as under:
farm-servants, with board and lodging, L.7; female house-servants,
do. L.3, 10s. to L.4 per half-year; farm day-labourers, per day,
without board or lodging, Is. 8d.; country artisans, 2s. to 2s. 6d. -
journeymen tradesmen, 2s. 6d. to 3s.
   Live-Stock.-Of sheep, except where Leicesters, South Downs,
and other kinds are reared in limited numbers on gentlemen's
grounds and enclosures, the black-faced is that universally reared as
farming stock. With respect to black-cattle, as has been stated al-
ready under the head Zoology, the Ayrshire breed has come to
prevail, while it is questioned bv farmers of experience whether
the West Highland breed might not make better returns.
   Husbandry.-The proportion of the parochial territory, strictly
speaking, devoted to agricultural purposes, has been stated already.
the whole of the territory besides, except what is occupied by en-
closures and planting, being devoted to the rearing of sheep stock,
or rather indeed, chiefly to that purpose, and partially to the rear-
ing of cattle. The agricultural system pursued on grain farms
has come to be regulated, as it always ought to be, by terms of
lease, in each particular case. The system generally pursued on


