
                                    LONGFORGAN.                      405

       but not entirely, by the increased rate of provisions.  At the for-
       mer period, the annual amount of the collections at church, even
       when there were comparatively few Dissenters in parish, was
       L. 40 ; at present, when they are 900 in number, and when as
       assessment, in one form or another, has existed for years, the col-
       lections amount annually to L. 54.

           December 1837.

                         PARISH OF LONGFORGAN.

            PRESBYTERY OF DUNDEE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

                              THE REV. R. S. WALKER, MINISTER.


                  I.-TOPOGGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name, Boundaries,&c.- THE ancient name of the parish seems
       to have been somewhat different from the present, as appears from
       a grant of the lands and barony of "Longforgund" or "Lonfor-
       gaund," by King Robert Bruce, in the year 1315, to Sir Andrew
       Gray of Broxmouth.  The epithet long, which is quite appropriate
       to the village, and by no means unsuitable to the parish itself, is
       prefixed probably to distinguish it from two other parishes,- For-
       gan, in Fife, nearly opposite to Dundee, and Forgandenny, in
       Strathearn, another district of Perthshire. Forgan or Forgund, in
       the absence of a better or more cartain derivation, has been, alleg-
       ed to signify foreground,-a term, in fact, by which the parish is
       not unfitly described.  The whole of it, excepting one farm, lies to
       the south of the Sidlaws, and, with a slight interription, sweeps
       gradually downwards from that range of hills to the river Tay, by
       which  it is bounded.
          The greatest length of the parish, from north-west to south-
       east, is about 9 miles. But it varies so much in breadth from 4
       miles to 1 1/2, as to contain only abouts 14 square miles, or 8992
       imperial acres.  It forms the eastern extremity of the Carse of
       Gowrie. It is surrounded on three sides, the west, north, and east,
       by the parishes of Inchture, Abernyte, Kettins, Lundie and Foullr,
       and Liff and Benvie; while for its southern limit it has the Tay,
       along which it extends for four or five miles.
          Topographical Appearances and Soil.- This parish presents great


