
642                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

market and High Street; and Maitland says that one of the gates,
still extant in his time in South Gray's Close, was only thirty
paces south from the High Street.
   The burgesses, straitened for room within such narrow limits,
appear very early to have begun erecting houses upon the south
slope of the hill without the wall, and along both sides of the road
at the foot of it called the Common gait, afterwards, by contrac-
tion, Cowgate, and the Grassmarket; and in consequence'of the
alarm occasioned by the battle of Flodden in 1513, these new
districts were surrounded with a wall.
   In 1610 the town-council purchased from the laird of Inver-
leith ten acres of the lands of High-rigs, which they inclosed with
a wall, and which were annexed to the burgh by charter from
King James VI., of date 30th July 1618. These are the grounds
now occupied by Heriot's Hospital, the Charity Workhouse, and
part of the Greyfriars churchyard.  Beyond the walls, and along
the roads leading from the city gates, houses were speedily erect-
ed. The streets now called West Port, Bristo, Potterrow, Plea-
sance, are as old at least as the middle of the sixteenth century.
The Causewayside and Crosseauseway date from the seventeenth.
   At a remote period the houses seem to have been almost en-
tirely built of wood, and indifferently thatched with straw or
wooden boards.  By an act of Parliament of 1621 we find that it
was ordered that henceforth the houses should be covered with
slates, lead, tiles or thack-stones.  And in 1677, in consequence
of frequent disasters by fire, the town council enacted, that no
person presume to build a house with wood, or cover a new build-
ing with thatch, but that, in time coming, all houses were to be
built with stones, and covered with slates or tiles, under the pe-
nalty of 500 merks.  Neither did the public streets seem, in those
times, to have been kept with much neatness, for we find several
enactments against pigs being permitted to roam about them ;
and peremptory orders for the removal of "stalks of heather,
broom,, and whins, erected in closes or wynds, to the great discon-
tent of the people, and danger to the neighbourhood fro,w fires."
   The plague, too, having, on many occasions, made,its appear-
ance in the city, and committed great ravages, caused several
salutary enactments to be made for the comfort of the inhabitants.
Among others, an attempt was made to light the streets by
public lanterns or bowets.  But this not succeeding, in 1684 an
order was issued that a candle in a lantern should be hung out at


