
278                   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

no improvement has been made in agriculture. Several farmers
have laid a considerable quantity of lime upon those parts of their
farms most suitable for ploughing and have, in return, frequently
had excellent crops. In April 1838, the ploughing match of the
Glenkens Agricultural Society, took place on the farm of Holm,
lying near the base of Cairnsmoor,--when about thirty iron ploughs
of the most improved construction started, affording an exhibition
such as Carsphairn never before witnessed on any of its fields.
Silver medals were given,--one by the Highland Society, an-
other by the Glenkens Society.
	There is much land which might be made to produce good
crops. The farmers have generally succeeded their fathers, and
have been accustomed to follow the same mode of management.
Their being continued in their farms by landlords, inferior to none
in the country for intelligence, is a proof that the latter could
not be much benefited by any change in the in mode farming
Much attention has been given to surface draining, and some at-
tempts have been made to reclaim bog lands, not without success.
	Neither attention nor expense has been spared, in improving, the
breed of black-faced sheep. Attempts to introduce the white-
faced breed, and some have been made, have not hitherto suc-
ceeded.
	The flocks may be considered to have, been improved in qua-
lity rather than increased in number, since the time when Mr
Smith wrote the former account of the parish. He states the
number of sheep to be at that time about 30,000, which may be
nearly the average number at present.
	The number of black-cattle is constantly changing.  There are
always a large number of Highland cattle kept during winter,
which are generally forwarded to the English markets during the
following summer.
	Stone dikes are the only fences in the parish, and in no
part of the country is the building of such fences bettor under-
stood than in this neighbourhood.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	There is one small village, near by the church.  Two small
inns afford better accommodation than their external appearance
would indicate. There is in the village one other licensed dealer
in spirits,--and license has been given to a toll-keeper about
two miles distant from the village.
	Post-Office.--A post-office connecting this parish with Ayr was


