

                            COUNTY OF ORKNEY.                    211

      used to build here.  There are many other rare birds of passage,
      or occasional visitors, which need not be specified.  Several spe-
      cies of whale, indeed all that inhabit the North Sea, have either
      run ashore on these islands, or been seen in the neighbourhood,
      and even a sea-horse from Greenland has wandered hither.  All
      other species of fish found around the north of Scotland, are also
      found here, with the exception of the salmon, for which we have
      no inviting rivers.
         Butterflies and winged insects are not numerous; but there is a
      great variety of sea insects, and molluscous animals, some of which
      have not yet been honoured with a name in the catalogues, or a
      place in the collections, of naturalists.   Messrs Forbes and Good-
      sir have lately brought some of them into notice, with the Ne-
      ritina flaviatilis, which has not yet been found in other parts of
      Scotland.   Lobsters and crabs are abundant, and the former are
      sent to the London market.  Horses, cows, and sheep are general-
      ly of a small size.
         Botany.-It will be seen in the Account of Sandwick, that the
      Flora of Orkney contains 610 species of plants, which are probably
      more than might be expected in its high latitude; 133 of these
      are sea-weeds, many of which are very beautiful, and some very
      minute.  The only Orkney plant new to Britain, is the Chara
      aspera.  A few may be mentioned here, which are either rare
      or beautiful; as Primula Scotica, and Primula elatior, Scilla
      verna, Digitalis purpurea,-Valeriana officinalis, Cochlearia Da-
      nica, Epilobium angustifolium, Senecio viscosus, Thlaspi ar-
      vense.  The following are principally Alpine plants, and are
      found in Hoy, and some of them there only; Faccinium myr-
      tillus, Juniperus communis, Narthecium ossifragum, Hypericum
      elodes, Dryas octopetala, Rhodiola rosea, Saxifraga oppositifolia,
      and S. hypnoides, S. aizoides, S. caspitosa, Silene acaulis, Solidago
      virgaurea, Arbutus alphna, A. uva ursi, Azalea procumbens, Dro-
      sera longifolia, D. rotundifolia, Pyrola rotundifolia, Scirpus pau-
      ciflorus; also several cryptogamous plants, which need not be spe-
      cified.
         There are no forests in Orkney; and the climate seems
      very unfavourable to the growth of trees; but the few plantations
      which have lately been tried, succeed so well in sheltered situa-
      tions, as to encourage the hope that more extensive plantations
      would thrive in the most sheltered inland valleys.  The trees that
      succeed best, are the plane, ash, mountain-ash, elm, willow, &c.



