
                           LARBERT.                            359

quainted with architecture, and examined the building in an archi-
teetural point of view. Gordon's drawing of Arthur's Oon, from
which the accompanying figure is taked, is published in his Itinerarium
Septentrionale, 1726. It appears to be the most accurate draw-
ing of the building that has been published. He compared his
measurements with those of Jelf, and found them to agree within
a few inches, except in the external diameter, which differed one
foot. The principal dimensions were, the interior diameter, 20
feet; the external diameter, 28 feet; the perpendicular height,
22 feet. Jelf was informed that the building had an iron door,
and at the round opening of the cupola an iron curb, in form of a
hoop. These had been taken away, several years before he saw
the building.
   Two stone shelves ran round the interior. The arch of the
door was well turned. Mr Jelf's drawing in 1720, and Dr Stuke-
ley's description, represent and state that the arch stones fell
handsomely with a square face into the courses. This is contra-
dicted by Gordon's drawing in 1725, which represents the extra-
dos of the arch stones of the door as semicircular. Gordon's is
probably the true representation, as he had Jelf's drawing before
him, when be examined the building.
   The beds of the stones forming, the cupola were horizontal, as
represented in the accompanying section, and as Dr Stukeley states
in his description. This was contrary to the principles of a vaulted
cupola, in wbich the beds should not be horizontal, but portions
of conical surfaces, haviny their apex in the centre of the cupola.
   The building was of hewn sandstone in regular courses. Each
stone generally was about 4 feet long, I foot thick, and I foot 10
inches broad. In the middle of the upper surface of each stone
was a bole, which was considered to have served for receiving a
lewis, by means of which the stone was raised and laid in its place.
   There was no inscription on the building, which might have re-
corded the purpose for which the building, was erected. Neither
is there any Roman building similar in size and form, by a com-
parison with which, the use of Arthur's Oon might be judged of.
There are certainly several Roman temples of a round form, with
a hemispherical calcupola ; but these temples are large, and decorated

<FOOTNOTE>Gordon state that there was a stone on the inside of the building, from which
it appeared that letters had been industriously effaced; and anothern stone, also on
the inside surface of the wall, on which there seemed to be the vestiges of sculpture,
worn out by the weather, which might be taken for the figure of an eagle.


