
                           SANDWICK.                             55

being separated from the land by a ditch, which is still distinctly
visible.
   I have observed at several places vitrified cairns, similar to
those in Sanday, &c. which Dr Hibbert supposes to have been
produced by beacon fires. I know not that ours have the same
origin ; for since that celebrated antiquarian called uriy attention
to the subject, I have, in several cases, seen similar vitrified matter
produced by burning a whole stack of sandy peats in the open air,
during a strong breeze, which is sometimes done to obtain the
ashes for manure.
  During last summer, a man, who built a habitation for himself on
the common between this and Isbister, in Birsay, found what seems
to have been a Pict's house, in a knowe from which be took the
stones. It consisted of a chain of four circular cells, connected
together by passages too narrow and low ever to have formed an
abode for men. It seems more probable that the rubbish above
the cells was the ruins of their residence, and that these were used
as cellars or places of security.
   Barrows or tumuli are particularly numerous in Sandwick. I
believe there are more than one hundred, though it would be
neither easy nor useful to count them. Eight of these, situated
on the common, have been opened during the last year. A mi-
nute description of each would be tedious; but a brief account
of the most important, which I opened in company with most of
the other office-bearers of the Orkney Natural History Socie-
ty, must be interesting to the antiquarian. The first, which was
the largest of a numerous cluster between Voy and Lyking, was 50
yards in circumference, and about 7 1/2 feet high.- It was formed of a
wet adhesive clay. On reaching the contre, we found a large flag
which formed the cover; and on raising it up, the grave appeared
as, free from injury, and the pieces of. bone as white and clean, as
if formed only the preceding day. At its end, which lay north-east
by east, was an urn inverted, shaped like an inverted flower-pot;
and at its other end, about a bat-full of bones, unmixed with ashes,
which had been burnt and broken small, none being more than
two inches long and one broad, covered by a stone of an irregular

<FOOTNOTE>This building was unfortunately demolished before I heard of if; but the fol-
ling dimensions, which I had from recollection, are probably pretty correct. Cells,
4 feet in diameter, and 4. feet high; passages, 2 feet wide, 2 feet long, and 3 1/2 feet
high; walls 1 foot thick, or more, according to the size of stone, only built smooth
inside, covered with large flags, the lowest across the and the highest acress
the middle of the cell, with one between.


