
			PENICUIK.                                35

days, the rental of the estate must have been but trifling, and yet
the princely mansion which he erected was not left as a burden on
his heirs. The parish church and Ramsay's Monument also re-
main to attest the taste and liberality which distinguished him.
   His brother, John Clerk of Eldin, has been more celebrated,
and is better known as the author of Naval Tactics. As such his
character belongs to his country; nor is this the place to discuss
the merits of a work which has occasioned no little controversy. It
is but justice to the present proprietor of Penicuik to state, that he
is distinguished by the same judgment and enlightened liberal po-
licy as a landlord, which characterized his predecessors, so that the
improvements which were commenced by Sir James Clerk have
been efficiently sustained and prosecuted up to the present time
by his successor. The name of Mr Brotherston also deserves to
be recorded, as having been the first to introduce cotton-spinning
into Scotland, which he accomplished at Eskmills in this parish,
about sixty years since.
   Nor should the name of James Niven be altogether passed over
in an account of his native parish. He distinguished himself as a
traveller and a-botanist, and as such was honoured with the pa-
tronage of several scientific societies and individuali anmong whom
was the actomplished and unfortunate Josephine, who found, in
the culture of flowers at Malmaison, probably as much real happi-
ness as she had ever experienced as Empress of France, at the
Thuilleries. A more detailed account of him may be found in
Loudon's Gardener's Magaxine for March 1827.
   The Chief Landholders.--- The land is possessed by 13 he
ritors paying parish rates. Of these Sir George Clerk is by far
the most considerable, his valuation amounting to one-half of the
whole. There are on only three other properties ofconsiderable
extent besides that of Penicuik, viz. Newhall; Logan House, and
Bavelaw. The nine remaining are inconsiderable.
   Parochial registers,--- The records of the kirk-session have been
preserved entire from the year 1654 to the present time. The pe-
rusal of those volume has not been rewarded by any discovery de-
serving of insertion in this place. Yet the following notice of the
battle of Pentland, which was fought in this neighbourhood, may
intest some readers. It occurs under the date of December 9,
1666. The battle took place on the 28th November. "Dis-
bursed to John Brown, belman, for making Westlandmen's graves,
3s, 4d." This may perhaps be taken as a confirmation of a charge


