
552                    ARGYLESHIRE.

atmosphere, in consequence, probably, of the oxidation of the iron
they so abundantly contain.  The result is, that even the highest
hills are covered with a deep rich friable soil, affording fine herb-
age for the cattle and sheep, for which this district is so celebrated.
Iron is not only found disseminated through the rocks, but occa-
sionally also in the condition of a rich dark red ore, though not
in sufficient quantities to authorize its being worked.  The only
mine within the parish that is known to have been opened, is one
of copper, on the side of a hill, about a mile above Poltalloch.
No very certain account of it can be obtained, but it is believed
to have been discontinued about a century ago.  Several of the
shafts, adits, &c. still remain open, and from an examination lately
made, it appears that the miners followed a vein of remarkably
rich ore, (judging from the specimens picked up on the spot,) un-
til it worked out at no great distance from the surface.  Several
thread-like veins of copper may still be traced along the walls of
the passages, but they are too trifling to encourage the proprietor
to incur the certain expense of ascertaining whether they may
possibly lead to beds of more productive ore.
   There remain two comparatively modern deposits of too consi-
derable interest to be passed over without notice; although one
of them (the peat-moss of Crinan) lies partly in the adjoining
parish of Kilmichael-Glassary.  It is computed to extend over
5000 acres, of which 3000 are in the parish of Kilmartin.  This
extensive peat-moss has been, for many years, under a course of
drainage by its proprietor,--Mr Malcolm of Poltalloch,--so that
its depth and composition are pretty well ascertained.  It may be
reckoned from 2 to 17 feet deep; average about 5 feet.  A con-
siderable part of it consists of what is called flow moss, and has
sunk, by draining, from 3 to 8 feet.  Large roots of trees, princi-
pally oak, alder, birch, and hazel, are not unfrequently found se-
veral feet beneath the surface.  Below this mass of vegetable
matter is found a bed of usually fine gravel, from 2 feet to 2 1/2 feet
in depth; beneath which is a blue tenacious clay, the depth of
which has never been ascertained.  This clay abounds in beds of
large muscles, cockles, &c., which seem to attest the former pre-
sence of the sea; and leave little room for doubt that the salt wa-
ter must have once extended over this wide flat as far at least as
Kilmartin, and the entrance of the valley of Kilmichael-Glassary.
  The other comparatively modern deposit, before alluded to, is
a very remarkable succession of broad and elevated terraces, com-


