
     of Urquhart.

   Ferries, etc.-There are two or three ferries in this pa-
rish, one of them is at its eastern extremity and opposite to
Fowlis, from whence it has its name.  This is not a much
frequented ferry, and is incommodious at low water, from
the shallowness of the shore.  Towards the west end of the
parish on the river of Conan, and beyond where the tide
at any time flows, is the ferry of Scuddule, on the post
road from Beauty to Dingwall.  Besides these ferries, there is
a small boat for foot passengers, which, at high water, plies
between Dingwall and Ferrintosh.  On the tide's retiring,
and when the river is not high, there is access to Dingwall
from this side of the water by different fords.  Some of
these fords have a zig-zag direction, which they retain a-
midst partial variations, to which all of them are very
subject, from the united force of high tides, and frequent
swellings of the river.  These circumstances, together with
the rapid flowing of the tide at particular times, render this
a hazardous passage, which proves fatal to many.  Since
has passed without the loss of some life on it.  Some years
it has brought of 2, 3, or more, to an untimely end.  With-
in the course of 14 months, about 8 years ago, 7 persons
perished in crossing the water of Conan, at different places
within the limits of this parish.  Humanity strongly solicits
the long promised public aid, for erecting a bridge on a 

<FOOTNOTE>

place, from not having access to either Inverness or Dingwall, (the only
towns which can supply it in these articles), without the intervention of a
ferry.  Its situation with regard to a post-office is subject to the same in-
convenience, and occasions a heavy drawback ont he pleasure of public
intelligence and private correspondence.  From the great number of in-
habitants, there can be little doubt, that the establishment of a post-office,
ion this parish, would do more than defray the necessary expense, and,
at the same time, contribute essentially to their accommodation.


