
198			AYRSHIRE.

different times. The last baron leaving at his death an only sister,
or an only child, a daughter, she carried the estate by marriage
to the Eglintons of Englinton, from whence it came soon after to
the Montgomery family, by marriage of the heiress of Eglinton.
Since tbe union of these two families by this marriage, the estate
has continued for several centuries the property of the Earls of
Eglinton.
	On the estate nf Monfode, or Montfode, as it is now written,
there stands an old baronial castle, much injured by time and the
hand of man. The estate of Monfode continued for many ages
the property of a family of the same name; but it passed from
them about a century and a half ago, and no vestige now remains
to tell that they once existed.* It at present belongs to Mr Carrick
Moore, of Corsewall, brother of the lamented General Sir John
Moore, who so bravely fell at Corunna.
	On Knock-georgan are still distinctly to be seen the remains of
an ancient camp or fortification, particularly the ramparts and
gateways. From its circular form it is generally supposed to be
Danish. On another hill there is an artificial mound of the form
of a parallelogram, sixteen yards in length, nine in breadth at the
top; and its sides, which are sloping, about nine yards in height.
The above fortification and mound stand in very elevated situa-
tions, from which there is a prospect for many miles both of sea
and land. Tradition has preserved no information concerning the
persons by whom, or the design for which, they were erected.
	Modern Buildings.--Of modern buildings may be mentioned,
1. The town-house of Saltcoats, a moderately sized building of
two stories, with a handsome spire, clock, and bell. It contains
one spacious room, which is used as a reading-room, and for the
monthly meetings nf the Justice of the Peace Court for the dis-
trict. There are besides a small lock-up, a room for the town
library, and a committee room. The ground floor is occupied with
shops. 2. A branch of the Ayrshire Banking Company has with-
in these few years been established in Saltcoats, with excellent
new premises. 3. The Gaelic cbapel, now finished, situated at the
west end of the town of Saltcoats, facing Ardrossan. It is a neat

<FOOTNOTE>Agnes de Monfode, says Robertson, was married to a Sir John Douglas in the
reign of David II. This is the earliest notice that I have seen of them. In 1417,
Finlam de Monfode de eodem appears on an inquest at Irvine. The last time that
any of them is found in any record that I have seen is in 1661, when John de Mon-
fode of Monfode is named among the commissioners of supply for the shire of Ayr.
                                         4


