
     of Leslie.

   Poor, Funds, etc.-The collections at the church doors
amount, on an average of the last 10 years to L. 18 per an-

<FOOTNOTE>

valuable in this century than in the last?  I suppose if you will pitch upon any
20 years of the last century, and compare them with the 20 corresponding
years in this, you will find the difference next to nothing; for besides, that
from the improvements in agriculture, by which grain is raised in greater
quantities, and has become an article of commerce, it neither rises so high, nor
falls so low as formerly.
   There seems to be but one way, in which the condition of the clergy can be
ameliorated, with she least loss to the public at large, and to the fewest indi-
viduals.  In Scotland, the tithes of several parishes, which belonged to religi-
ous houses are vested in the Crown, and are let in lease for two or three lives;
for which the tenant is bound to pay a certain annual sum to the Exchequer.
At the first establishment of the Presbyterian form of church government
here,the bishops rents also were vested in the Crown, I have no doubt, from a
counter-revolution being not only possible but probable; and which actually
took place.  Again, at the Revolution, these were in like manner vested in
the Crown, and for the same reason: for if King William had been as well
assured of the support of the Episcopal clergy, as he was of the Presbyterian,
the form of church government had not been altered at that time.  So that
these unalienated tithes and bishops rents are the patrimony of the church, and
seem to have been vested in the crown as a deposit; for they were never forfeited
by rebellion or otherwise; and were lodged there, as a provision against an event,
which now, by the treaty of union, and the king's coronation oath, never can
take place.  It is greatly to the honour of the legislature, that it has restored
their family estates to men whose ancestors had forfeited them by rebellion;
and hence, I should think it very unhandsome, upon a proper application, to
refuse to their very best and firmest friends that part of their patrimony, from
which they are excluded on account of no rebellion or forfeiture whatever.
Suppose this restored, who would suffer any loss?  As to the 1oss to the Exche-
quer, what a trifle is it to an empire which has such revenues as ours?  As to
the loss to the collectors, it would be a very serious one, and a mighty hard-
ship indeed, to extinguish no less than about a dozen of finecure places.  With
regard to the tacksmen, whose tacks are good for their term of years, would it
make any difference to them, to pay the tack-duty to the church, in place of
paying it to the exchequer?
I shall mention but one consequence, if the incomes of the clergy be not a-


