
                 PARISH OF HADDINGTON.

     PRESBYTERY OF HADDINGTON, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                       TWEEDDALE.

       THE REV. ROBERT LORIMER, LL.D. } MINISTERS,
       		THE REV. JOHN COOK,   }

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-HADDINGTON, the county town of Haddingtonshire, or
East Lothian, lies in 55° 57 north latitude, 17 miles east from
Edinburgh, on the great post road to London.  The name, though
apparently of Saxon origin, is of uncertain etymology.
   Extent, Boundaries.-The parish is 6 1/2 miles in length; 6 in
breadth; and contains 22 1/2 miles square, or about 12,000 acres Scots.
It was formerly of much greater extent; but in 1674 part of it was
annexed to the smaller parish of Athelstaneford; and in 1692 a
considerable portion, including several baronies on the west, was
taken off to make up the new parish of Gladsmuir.  On the north
it is bounded by part of the lands of Gladsmuir, Aberlady, and
Athelstaneford; on the east by Prestonkirk and Morham; on the
south by Yester and Bolton; and on the west by Gladsmuir.
The parish has chiefly a northern exposure, the land gradually ris-
ing from the vale of Peffer, near the sea, to the height of Brown's
Hill, which looks down upon the village of Gifford.
   Topographical Appearances.-The appearance of the parish
is beautifully diversified by a waving irregularity of surface, thriv-
ing plantations, well enclosed and richly cultivated fields, ex-
tensive parks of verdant pasture, and elegant seats of the nobi-
lity and gentry.  Besides trees disposed for ornament around the
seats of the nobility and gentry, there are plantations of some ex-
tent on the grounds of Amisfield, running up in broad regular
belts to the Garleton Hills, on the south of Stevenson; on the
higher grounds of Coalston; and on the lands of Sir Thomas Hep-
burn, Bart. towards Gladsmuir.  On some parts of Coalaton are
copse woods, composed of dwarf or Scotch oak, the hazel, the
birch, and other indigenous trees, which seem to be a remnant of
   HADDINGTON.                         A


