
                               OXNAM.                         265

Oxnam to Jedburgh, the nearest market-town, is four miles.  Near-
ly the whole of the disposable produce is sold there, the rest being
sold at Kelso or Hawick, where also there are weekly markets, of
which one is ten and the other fourteen miles distant.  A daily coach
from Edinburgh to Newcastle passes through it, and another runs
from it to Edinburgh, and returns every alternate day.  No fewer
than ten persons, provided either with horses and carts, or donkeys,
prosecute a sort of retail trade in bread, groceries, and other arti-
cles.  Numbers of the gipsy tribe frequent this neighbourhood,
especially during the months of summer.  As they are less liable
to be molested on the Roman road than other places, there, accord-
ingly, betwixt thirty and forty have been observed to encamp for
days together.  Besoms, wicker baskets, and earthen-ware, are
what they usually offer for sale.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The church was built in 1738, and is in a
good state of repair, but is inconveniently situated for families dwel-
ling in the more remote parts.  To it belong four communion cups
handsomely formed of silver, of which two were a donation from
one individual, and two from another.  Each pair has inscribed up-
on it respectively the date of its presentation, and the name of the
donor.  The church is capable of accommodating 258 sitters.  All
the sittings are free, no pecuniary charge whatever having hither-
to been made for them.
     The manse was rebuilt in 1831, on a more approved and ad-
vantageous site.  The extent of the glebe is from 12 to 13 acres
and its yearly value about L. 1, 4s. per acre.  The amount of
stipend, exclusive of L. 8, 9s, 8d. of vicarage teind tack-duty, is
120 bolls * oatmeal; and 87 quarters, 3 bushels, one-half quart
barley.
     In general, divine service in the parish church is well attended.
About 120 may be the average number of communicants.  Many
of the population have been long connected with the different dis-
senting congregations in Jedburgh.  The sum of L. 9 may be the
average amount of church collections annually for religious and
charitable objects.  The number of Dissenters varies every, year,
as they are chiefly of the class of farm-servants, many of whom
yearly change places.
     Education.--In the parish school, only the common branches of
education are taught.  Forty may be the average number of scho-
lars attending it.  The salary of the schoolmaster is L. 25, 13s.

               * Each boll consisting of ten stones.

     ROXBURGH.                     S


