
322                        FORFARSHIRE.

ing some miles up the country, which, however, do not appear to
be prejudicial to health, or injurious to vegetable produce.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  Eminent Men.-It may here be interesting to record, that among
the first who threw off the yoke of Popery, and espoused the doc-
trines of the Reformation, we find the distinguished name of Mr
Walter Mill, or, as he is commonly called, Sir Walter Mill, who,
for forty years, discharged the pastoral duties of the parish of Lu-
nan. Since the death of this martyr had a great moral influence
in bringing about a decided change in the religious feelings and
habits of the people of Scotland, it cannot be but interesting to
trace his conduct, as far as history affords us any intimations regard-
ing it. His crime was the renunciation of the errors of Popery,
more especially the mass. For this grievous offence, he was con-
demned by Cardinal Beaton, along with Mr John Petrie, parish
priest of the neighbouring parish of Inverkeilor, to suffer the pu-
nisbment that might be awarded to his crime, whenever he should
be taken. Being at last apprehended, and brought into the pre-
sence of the Bishop of St Andrewr, the good old man, though en-
feebled by age and oppression, yet maintained the utmost compo-
sure and magnanimity. He addressed the Bishop with so much
boldness, that his enemies were amazed. "I served the cure,"
said he, "twenty years before the Cardinal's time, with the appro-
bation of all the parishioners; but when the furious Cardinal perse-
cuted me and many others for the preaching of God's word, I was
constrained to keep myself quiet. I went about reproving vices,
and instructing the people in the grounds of religion, for which
cause I am now taken."
	As no one could be found to act in the capacity of judge in
the case of this venerable personage, and as it seemed necessary to
maintain, at least, a shew ofjustice, he was kept in confinement
two days longer. The Bishop was at length reduced to the ne-
cessity of ordering one of his own servants to perform this office,
who, acting under the advice of his master, found him guilty of he-
resy, and sentenced him to the flames. It is reported, that the ropes
with which he was bound were taken from the Bishop's parlour;
the popular feeling being so strongly excited in his behalf, that no
one could be found in the town who would sell ropes for that
purpose. He ascended the pile with a cheerful countenance, and
while the flames were closing around him, exclaimed, "I trust in
Gnd I shall be the last that shall suffer death in this land for this


