
224                       BERWICKSHIRE.

panied with a flood in Tweed, though there be not a drop of rain
here; but in a few days after, rain frequently succeeds.
   Hydrography and Geology.-The water in the springs of this
parish is of a hard quality, and does not readily dissolve soap.
The people, therefore, endeavour to obtain rain-water for washing.
Some of these springs taste a little of sulphur or iron.-The only
river in the parish is the Blackadder. The dark colour of the water
of this river is owing to the marshy ground in the parishes of Long-
formacus, Westruther, and Greenlaw, where this river and the small
streams that feed it take their rise; and it may be owing to this
that salmon never enter it; or if they do, die, it is said, in a few
days. It produces, however, eels and excellent trout, red and firm-
fleshed, resembling those of Eden-water, which joins the Tweed
three miles below Kelso. The Eden rises also in a marshy dis-
trict, which may be the cause of this similarity of the fish. The
river Blackadder, after leaving Fogo, joins the Whitadder, about
six miles to the east, at Allanton, in the parish of Edrom, and the
united streams enter the Tweed three miles above Berwick.
   The Blackadder flows over a bed of coarse gravel and large
stones, and in many places over strata of bastard whin and lime-
stone, which are raised from two to six inches thick, and make
excellent covers for open drains and conduits. As there are
many perpendicular fissures in these strata, they are easily raised
by wedges and sledge-hammers.
   The banks of the river are seldom steep; and are ploughed to
within a few yards of the stream; but, where they are steep and
nearly perpendicular, there appear alternate beds of the bastard
whin and till, or of till mixed with clay or marl,-the strata in-
clining towards the east or south-east. There are found under
these perpendicular projections large pieces of petrified moss in-
dicating lime,-but there are no quarries or mines of any descrip-
tion wrought at present in the parish. The only one of freestone
is exhausted, and the upper part of it was of bad quality.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-The history of the parish is little known,
and furnishes nothing of importance. Redpath, in his Border
History, says, that in a charter of confirmation given at Rox-
burgh, anno 1159, by Malcolm IV. to the convent of Kelso,
are included nine or ten churches granted by subjects,-among
which churches there are Fogo, with one ploughgate of land, and
Hume, with two ploughgates of land, and a meadow by Cospa-
                               3


