
 210                      PERTHSHIRE.

whenever summer begins, numbers of the children are taken from
school, and sent to herding or some other employment.  So far as
is known, there are no persons in the parish of sufficient age, who,
are unable to read, (except perhaps o.ne or two aged individuals,)
and the greater proportion are able also to write.  All classes are
fully alive to the benefits of education, and anxious to obtain it
for their children.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-Tbe district of Logiealmond be-
ing annexed to this parish only quoad sacra, the kirk-session have
nothing to do whth the poor of that quarter.  In the old parish,
there are only five persons receiving aid from the poor's funds.
  They areallowedfrom Is. 3d. to3s. per week.  The average amount
of collections at the church doors is L. 17 per annum.  The kirk-
session have besides a sum of L. 70 laid out at interest.  There
is no assessment; and any deficiency of funds is made up by a half
yearly donation of a few pounds from the heritors.
  Alehouses.- The number of alehouses, (or as they should ra-
ther be called whisky-shops, for comparatively little m`lt-liquor
is consumed,) has been already adverted to.
  Fuel.-In Logiealmond, peats and wood are almost the exclu-
sive articles of fuel.  In the east end of the parish, coals, princi-
pally English, are used, and which cost at Perth about Is. 10d.
per ewt.

April 1837.
                            PARISH OF COLLACE.
               PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                     THE REV.  JOHN ROGERS, MINISTER.

                      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Boundaries, &c.-This etymology of Collace is uncer-
tain. It is situated 7 miles north-east from Perth, is perfectly in-
land, and surrounded by the parishes of Cargill, St Martins, Kin-
naird, and Abernyte.  Its length and breadth being nearly equal,
and upwards of 2 miles, it contains nearly 5 square miles.
   The gurfilce upon'the whole is rather flat, except towards the
hills, where the ascent is too steep for the plough.  The soil in


