
     of Latheron.

"niently ride it abreast.  A little to the east of the Burn of the
"Ord, which is the march, there is a pleasant green moat, called
"the Dunglass, as high as the top of the rock.  Since the
"heath was burnt, passengers, who observe, may see the vestiges
"of a ditch, digged up from the said Dun, all along the top
"of the rock, until it come to a burn, near the top of the Ord,
"a called Aultnuder, a small rivulet rising from the morasses
"about a mile above the top of the foresaid rock.  The top of
"the Ord is large 9 miles of bad road to the south-west of the
"church."
   This seems to put the matter beyond all doubt, in addition
to which it may be observed, that the mountain of the Ord is
expressly included in the charters of Langwell
   The people of Sutherland are ready to acknowledge that the
burn of the Ord is the boundary, but some in the neighbour-
hood pretend, that they have acquired a servitude of common
over the ground in the neighbourhood, though situated in the
county of Caithness.  But it seems impossible that charters, re-
stricted to lands in the county of Sutherland, can be the means of
acquiring even a right of common, over lands in another coun-
ty, that of Caithness.
   The Burn of the Ord is certainly the natural division be-
tween the two counties; and until the roads were made, the
cattle and sheep of Sutherland could hardly get into Caithness
at that place.
   When the roads were made, it was agreed by both parties to
begin at the burn of the Ord, as the point of division between
the two counties.
   The point was incidentally decided at the Circuit Court,
when the bridge was ordered to be built over the Burn of the
Ord, as being the boundary.
   Within these few years, Mr Howison, who rents the kelp
shores on the east coast, of Sutherland, as is asserted on the au-
thority of Mr Gordon, late of Ausdale, quarrelled his men for
going farther than the Burn of the Ord, being beyond their
right and privilege.
   Many old men now living can sufficiently prove the bounda-
ry in question.  William Campbell, late of Ausdale, an old man
above 80, knew it well.


