
564                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

there is no tradition of its erection ; but it is said to have been
burnt to the ground by the Duke of Cumberland in the year 1746.
The walls are six feet thick, and the cement almost as hard as the
stone.  From it, there is one of the finest echoes in Scotland.
There is also, at a short distance to the east of it, a Druidical circle,
which is very entire.  About a mile to the north of it, the tenant
in Mains of Balquhain, about three years ago, in trenching a piece
of barren ground, called the Gallow Hill, dug up three human
sculls, which, from the name of the spot, were supposed to have,
belonged to criminals or vassals in the fedual ages.
   The Castle of Pitcaple, which is situated on the south bank of
the Ury, is also an ancient building; but a considerable addition
was recently made to it, according to a plan prepared by Mr Wil-
liam Burn of Edinburgh, whose taste in this department of archi-
tecture is generally acknowledged.  There are various historical
traditions connected with the old castle, some of which may be
mentioned.
   The celebrated but unfortunate Marquis of Montrose, after mak-
ing his final attempt to support the royal cause in the northern
part of Scotland, was defeated by the Covenanters in Sutherland,
and obliged to borrow the clothes of a poor Highlander, in the
hope of escaping from his enemies.  In this habit be traversed
the mountains for a few days; but being at length exhausted by
hunger and fatigue, he was induced to throw himself on the ho-
nour and humanity of Macleod of Assynt, to whose castle he re-
paired, not doubting that Macleod, who had been formerly
amongst his followers, would afford him an asylum in this period
of adversity.  Macleod betrayed his commander, and delivered
him up to Generals Leslie and Strachan.
   In the course of their progress southward, they arrived at Pit-
caple, on which occasion this illustrious nobleman, in his misera-
ble costume, was seated on a Highland pony, having his feet tied
underneath with straw ropes.  Before him rode a herald, exclaim-
ing " Here comes James Graham, a traitor to his country."
   The Laird of Pitcaple's wife, who was cousin to Montrose, hu-
manely offered her assistance towards facilitating his escape.  She
showed him a hole in the wall resembling a chimney vent, commu-
nicating betwixt the ro6m where he was detained, and a subterra-
neous passage, and she advised him to creep down through it.  But
on examining the place, he said, " Rather than go down to be
                          3


