
140			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

directions, and the mason should at least lay his stones in an in-
clining position, to carry off the wet, which is apt to penetrate the
wall. In fact, very few of our houses in either of this exposures,
especially of more than one storey, are free from damp. In calm
damp weather, also, we are sometimes visited with dense fogs.
But with these exceptions the air is pure, and frequently bracing.
The ground is dry, or where wet, it has been drained. There
being no marshes or stagnant pools, the climate in general is very
salubrious; and hence few or no epidemics prevail to any extent.
Perhaps the most common complaints are of the inflammatory
jind, arising from sudden transitions from heat to cold, and rheu-
matism.
	Cascades.--There are several cascades in the parish, famous for
the romantic or picturesque scenery which surrounds them. One of
them, called Bell-Craig, on the northern boundaries of the parish,
where it joins that of Moffat, is much visited by the fashionable
parties that frequent Moffat mineral waters. There are three others
not far distant from each other on the Wamphray Water, called
the pot, washing-tub, and Dub's Cauldron. The grandeur of the
scenery about all of these falls is much admired.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks in this parish are chiefly
of the transition or secondary class, though there are some also of
the primitive formation. Their inclinations and dips are various.
The rock which prevails most extensively on the lower hills to-
wards the south of the parish, which are very green, and of a
bevelled appearance, seems to be greywacke, which, when exposed
to the atmosphere, crumbles down into small, hard and dry peb-
bly substances, forming excellent materials for roads. In some
places, a bastard freestone occurs, and also an appearance of lime-
stone.
	There are three kinds of soils: 1st, The deepish holms along
the Annan. 2d, A light loam of different shades, from a bright
red colour to a dark brown or even black. 3d, Meadow ground,
generally covering a light-coloured clay. The subsoil in the low
ground is generally gravel or sand. Among the heights it is till,
rotten whin or freestone.
	Zoology and Botany.--The species of animals and plants are
much the same as those in the neighbouring parishes. As to the
former, it may be remarked, that a species of caterpillar sometimes
hurts the gooseberry bushes, and the grub the oats in spring and
the beginning of summer. It has also been attributed to insects


