
             474                    RENFREWSHIRE.

             Conservative-whig.  Unlike many papers professing to hold these
             opinions, it has, ever since the commencement of the Non-intru-
             sion controversy, consistently and ably advocated the popular side
             of that question.  It is characterized by a manly and fearless
             independence, by a determined opposition to Radical and revo-
             lutionary movements, and by its assailing principles and public
             conduct, without indulging in personalities. It is published on
             Tuesdays and Fridays.
                 Some years ago another periodical of the same kind was print-
             ed and published in Greenock, under the name of the "Greenock
             Intelligencer." Its principles were non-establishment and Radical.
             But it was carried on with great loss to the proprietors, and, not-
             withstanding the utmost efforts on the part of those who Were
             connected with it, it existed for little more than three years.*
               Charitable and other Institutions.-Under this head we have to
             notice, I. The Greenock Hospital or Infirmary.  Dr Walker, a
             respectable medical practitioner in this town, has furnished the
             compiler with a statement of the facts connected with the history
             of this institution, of which the following are the most important.
                 Before the erection of an infirmary in Greenock, there was a
             dispensary for the sick poor.  By its constitution the indigent sick,
             when unable to attend, were visited at their houses by one of the
             medical attendants. It was established in 1801, and continued
             in operation for about eight years, during which period the num-
             ber of poor who availed themselves of this charitable provision
             amounted to 1715.
                 The attention of the public in Greenock was first directed to
             the erection of an hospital by the prevalence of an infectious fever
             in 1806, believed to have been introduced by the seamen of a
             Russian prize-vessel brought into the harbour in that year. In
             1807, measures were taken for the accomplishment of the object:
             in 1808 the building was commenced; and on the 14th day of
             June 1809, it was opened for the reception of patients. About
             the, same time, the Dispensary was united to the Infirmary, and
             ceased to exist us a separate, charitable institution.
                  The building thus erected was capable of containing 32 pa-

	     <FOOTNOTE>During the presnet year another attempt has been made to obtain circulation
	     for a paper of the same opinions in state and  church-politics, by the publication of
	     the "Greennock Observer." It is printed at the Chronicle office, Glasgow. Whether
	     the saving of expense by that arrangement will enable it to maintain its ground
	     longer than its predector, will soon be ascertained. We do no think that it has any
	     chance of success from the progress of Radical politics, which, if they be making pro-
	     gress at off, are advancing at a very pace.


