
         64                              SHETLAND.

	has again been set up by her Majesty's Falconer for Scotland, but
	resisted by the Shetland gentlemen, and a process in regard to it is now
	depending before the Court of Session. Formerly, when leases were
	granted, a sum was advanced by the lessee, termed a grassum, or
	entry money, in order that the lands might be kept at their old
	rent. In addition to the land rent, every tenant was obliged to
	pay one fowl per merk to his landlord, to deliver his fish to him
	at a certain price; and whatever produce of his farm he had to
	dispose of, bad first to be offered to him. The landlord in return
	always supported his tenant in years of scarcity. Rents are now
	paid in money.
	   Until lately, great attention was paid to the division of scathold
	The bailie, or chief magistrate, went along the marches, accom-
	panied by some of the most respectable people of each parish, who
	were well acquaiinted with the division, and with them some young
	boys, on whom they bestowed a good flogging at particular places.
	in order that they might remember the marches; after which, they
	received some little reward. I have heard some old people who
	were present, describe what took place at these ridings of the
	marches, called "riding the Hagra."
	   They also paid great attention to the sheep-flocks, which con-
	stituted their chief wealth. They bad large stone enclosures in
	all their pastures. They made a coarse warm cloth of the wool,
	which is still done by those who have any sheep. In 1797, the
	sheep-flock in this parish was computed at 10,000. It does not
         now amount to 1000. The want of them is very much felt.

         <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

                      Population in 1755,        1412
                                    1806,        1997
                                    1821,        2309
                                    1831,        2797
                                    1836,        3188

		                IV.-INDUSTRY,
	   Soil and Produce.-This parish lies in parallel stratlis, from
         northeast to southwest. The soil is generally a light-brown,
	black loam, or moorish. Each strath has a bed of primitive blue
	limestone, interspersed with quartz. The subsoil of most of the peaty
	ground, has a crust of iron ore impervious to water, and which at
	first resists the plough. After some years' cultivation, however,
	this ferruginous substance vields to the plough. The subsoil can
	then be turned up and mixed with the moss, greatly improving
	the soil. I have not found the iron ore so hurtful to vegetation
         as might have been supposed. But wherever there is a chalybeate


