
                               INSCH.                         753

not been the result of design, but bad been produced accidentally
by the fires which, it may be supposed, the people, betaking them-
selves to the fort for refuge, would kindle inside the wall.  And
another,-that there has been no vitrification, properly speaking,
at all, but that the stones have been made to adhere to each other
in the manner they do by the use of some strong cement poured
in amongst them, and which constitutes the lava-like substance
abounding in the structure.   But it seems an insuperable objec-
tion to this view of the matter, that the stones themselves have all
evidently been subjected to the action of extreme heat.
   Nothing, of course, can be said as to what may be the precise
age of this very ancient structure.  Even the tower, which has
been referred to as comparatively modern, has every appearance
of having been built at a period considerably remote.  As has been
said only one wall of it remains entire, and this having but two
windows, one above the other, and the upper one very much en-
larged by the crumbling of its sides, has a curious effect seen at a
distance, and is known by the name of "Gregory's wall," from a
tradition that King Gregory had resided here.  But it may be
doubted, whether this name is not more applicable to the vitrified
or more ancient structure.  Fordoun has it that King Gregory
died at Dunnideer.  His words are,-"Gregorious autem rex
iste magnificus, postquam annos decem et octo, mensibus aliquot
exceptis, strenue regnasset, apud Dornideare them clausit extre-
mum, et in Iona sepultus insulƒ requiescit."
   The erection of the tower is also ascribed to David Earl of
Huntington and Garioch, the founder of the Abbey of Lundores.
And meation is somewhere made of "the Abbot of Dunnideer,"
by which expression, however, it is supposed, the Abbotof Lun-
dores is meant.
   That Dunnideer, if not formerly a regal residence, had been,
at any rate, a place of great importance, is manifest from various
circumstances, especially from the extraordinary care with which
its safety seems to have been provided for.  In the hollow or
narrow valley to the west of it is the site of the ancient castle of
Meikle Ward House, or, more properly, the Meikle Ward House.
of Dunnideer,-the only remaining vestige of which now is the
fosse by which it had been surrounded; although it is not very
many years since the ruins of the walls were removed; and a little
farther on in the same direction, that is, more to the north from
Dannideer, is a place called Little Ward House, where, however,
   ABERDEEN.                                3 B


