
672                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

habitants.  The drill husbandry is universally employed.  The
manure consists of farm-yard-dung, with from ten to twelve bushels
of crushed bones, per acre, applied in the drills along with it.
The dung operates first, and quickly brings forward the young
plants, while the bones maintain them in a vigorous state during
the latter stages of their growth.  The turnips are carted off the
ground, and consumed in the stalls of the farmsteads.  The prac-
tice of eating off a portion on the lighter soils with sheep has been
adopted by a few ofthe farmers, but has little chance of being
carried to a great extent in this quarter, while the remuneration
derived from the feeding of cattle continues so ample as it has
been for some years.  As the turnips are cleared off, the land is
ploughed, if possible in dry weather, and in the following spring is
sown chiefly with oats, though a portion of the best of it is com-
monly reserved for barley or bear, the latter being in most cases
preferred on account of its superior earliness.  Little more hay is
cut than is necessary for the horses kept on the farms.  The grain
produced is of excellent quality, bear and barley weighing in good
seasons from 52 pounds to 56 pounds, and oats from 40 pounds
to 45 pounds per imperial bushel.  Most of the pasture is rich,
white or Dutch clover being indigenous on the drier soils.  The
grain crops are cut with the scythe, * which performs the opera-
tion of reaping much more economically and expeditiously than
the sickle.  It also takes more straw off the ground, and the pro-
duce is sooner ready for the stockyard, than when the last-men-
tioned instrument is employed.  Thrashing-machines have long
been in general use on the principal farms, some of them being
moved by water, and some by horses.  Indeed, where water can
conveniently be obtained, they are now to be seen here on posses-
sions of as small extent as thirty acres.  Some years ago, Mr Hay
erected one on his farm of Shethin, of which steam is the moving
power, and it continues to answer his utmost expectation.
   Bones were first used as a manure in this parish in 1827.  They
have added much to the fertility of the soil.  From 8000 to 10,000
bushels are now laid on annually.  The latest improvement intro-
duced is furrow-draining, which promises to effect as great an
amelioration on the heavy land as bones have done on the lighter
soils.
   Live-Stock.-Formerly the cattle were of the long-horned

<FOOTNOTE>A scythe handle of a peculiar form, termed a cradle, is universally used here, and
generally over the county.  The implement is known by the name of the Aberdeen-
shire scythe, and performs more work, with greater ease io the labourer, than the com-
mon one.


