
                             INVERKEITHING.                    231


part of the eastern boundary of the parish ; it adjoins to Dalgety
on the east; and is next to Dunfermline on the north and west.
  This parish may be viewed as consisting, in the south part, of
a range of greenstone hills, not exceeding 300 feet above the level
of the sea; of a rising ground with a southerly exposure in the
north part; and of a valley between, running east and west.
There are about six miles of sea coast; a small portion sandy, an-
other rocky and rather high; the remainder intermingled mud and
rock.  The bay of St Margarees Hope, the islet of Inch Garvie,
and the rock Bimar, which last has often been tbe cause of ship-
wreck, are within the parish.
  Meteorology.--More rain falls, a few miles inland, either to the
north or south than here,--it being observed that the clouds, mov-
ing towards the Frith before a westerly wind, divide about Stir-
ling, and keep the higher range of country on both sides of the
estuary,leaving the lower grounds near it comparatively free. Some-
times the rain is so strongly electrical, that the common electrome-
ter for rain will charge a coated jar very smartly in a few minutes.
  Hydrography.--The adjoining Frith has strong currents during
the flowing and ebbing of the tides, with many eddies and counter-
currents, particularly near the Ferry, where it is about a mile and
a half only broad. Between Inch Garvie and the north side, the
greatest depth is about 40 fathoms ; south of that rock it is not
more than 22.  Near Bimar, there is one point where it is said to
be upwards of 50 ; but a mile farther up it does not exceed 11,
with a bank in the middle on which there is still shoaler water.
  There is no submarine moss known to exist on the shores of
the parish, though frequently these are covered to a considerable
depth, with the moss thrown into the water at Blair Drummond,
and floated down with the ebbing tide. There is, however, a con-
siderable concretion of the sea sand going on in several places,
forming flat reefs, some of them covered with sea-weed, and not
much softer than the sandstone rock.
  The water of the springs in this neighbourhood is generally im-
pure, with a few exceptions,--carbonate of lime, and in the upper
part of the parish, iron, being the characteristic contaminating sub-
stances.  The composition of one of them way be seen in Jame-
son's Edinburgh Philosophical Journal for April 1829. There
are none of these springs of note or considerable size, and most of
them fail in dry weather.  The temperature of such of them as
have been tried is 47&deg; or 48&deg;F.  Two burns or streamlets run
through the parish, unite and fall into the harbour.


