
                            DIRLETON.                     219

tober 20th 1724, aged 58 years. John Heriot, farmer in Castle-
mains, left to the poor of Dirleton L. 100 Scots. He died March
19th 1725, aged 60 years. William Nisbet of Dirleton, left to
the poor of Dirleton, L. 1000 Scots. He died May 19th 1733,
aged 35 years. Mrs Carmichael of Saltcoats, with consent of her
husband, the Honourable Mr William Carmichael of Skirling,
Advocate, assigned to this session, July 1755, a bond for L. 100
Sterling, with interest from Martinmas 1753. Mrs Carmichael
gave also to this session L. 50 Sterling, for educating poor chil-
dren in this parish January 1761. At her death in 1776 she left
L. 20 more, to purchase books for poor scholars at Dirleton school.
Mrs Hamilton of Belhaven, who died in 1797, bequeathed a le-
gacy of L. 50 Sterling to the parish of Dirleton, "the interest of
which to be divided yearly at Christmas, amongst the three oldest
poor people on the roll, in any way that is most to their comfort,
over and above what they should have as parish pensioners."
   The weekly amount of church collections averages L. 1, 5s., the
explanation of which will be given under the head Poor Funds.
   Education.-In the Statistical Report of 1627, it is said "we
have neyther provision, nor foundation for a schoole in all the pa-
roche, bot a great necessitie thairof, especiallie in the town of Dir-
iltown, if it could be had."  There are now three schools in the
parish,-the parochial school in Dirleton, and two private schools,
one in Gulane, the other at Kingston. The average number of
scholars is as follows: Dirleton 80, Gulane 50, Kingston 80.
To the last of these a considerable number of the children come
from the two adjoining parishes. The branches of education taught
are reading, writing, and arithmetic, and at the parish school, in
addition to this, Greek, Latin, French, mensuration in all its
branches, together with geography and book-keeping. The pa-
rochial teacher has the maximum salary, L. 34, 4s. 10d. The
school fees amount to about L. 30. The teacher at Gulane is
generously allowed by Mrs Ferguson, L. 5 per annum, a free
school-house and garden. The school at Kingston has been
lately much enlarged and improved, by the liberality of John Dixon,
Esq. residing there. There are thus ample means provided for
the education of the whole parish. That this is fully taken advan-
tage of, I fear cannot be said: nay, I should be inclined to suspect,
that the anxiety of parents for the education of their children is
rather declining. This may be ascribed in some measure to the
depressed state of agriculture for some time. I am not aware,


