
76                      ORKNEY.

  The farms are almost all small, and the farmers tenants at will.
The people are shrewd and intelligent, but strangers cannot fail
to remark a want of in-door comforts, which might be attained by
better habits of domestic economy.

                IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-It is impossible to state, with any degree of correct-
ness, the number of acres contained in the parish of Walls. Almost
none of the. farms are let by the acre; but are taken at so much for
the whole steading and ground. There may be about 700 acres
of arable and 1000 of pasture, besides a great extent of undivided
common. How much of this land might be redeemed from waste,
we cannot say; but that it is practicable, may be infdrred from
what has been already accomplished by the spirited exertion o
Mr Heddle, who is carrying on improvements on a large scale and
at great expense, in the immediate vicinity of his farm of Mel-
setter.
  Wages.-The value of Tabour may be stated as Is. 6d. per them
in summer, and Is. in winter, without food.
The grain produced in this parish is bear and oats. In quali-
ty it is equal to any, and superior to most, in Orkney. We cannot
state the quantity raised, as the small farmers generally consume
the most of what they grow, and no account is kept of it. The
crop of potatoes is sufficient for the consumpt of the inhabitants.
There is no village, properly so called, in this parish, although
the different farms go by the name of towns, and may consist of
two or three steadings at a little distance from each other.
The post is copveyed by a boat, which crosses from St Mar-
garet's Hope, in South Ronaldshay, once a week. This convey-
ance was established, some years ago, for the convenience of the
numerous shipping resorting to the well-known harbour of Long-
hope.

            V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church of Walls is a neat and comfort-
able building, erected in 1832, and capable of containing upwards
of 500 people. The church of Flofta is a much older building, and
tolerably comfortable, but too- small for the population, containing
only about 180. The people of both parishes attend the church
well.
   There is an excellent manse- It is, situated in the south of
Wells, about al quarter of.a mile from the cburch.
The stipend is paid partly in grain, butter,, and oil, which is


