
346                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

in the parish of Holywood. Coaches travel daily along the turn-
pike road both to Edinburgh and Glasgow. Dalgoner Bridge, with
a span of 80 feet, as already mentioned, is the only bridge within
the parish of any extent.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is conveniently situated
in the village of Cottack, at nearly equal distances from the two
extremes of the parish. It was built in the year 1823, and is in
good repair. It accommodates 850, but there are not above 10
free sittings. The manse was built in 1814, and is also in good
condition. The glebe consists of about fifty-one acres, and may be
worth L. 60 per annum. The stipend is the minimum, with L. 12,
12s. in addithon, being a voluntary augmentation given by the heri-
tors in 1793.
	The parish church formerly stood at the eastern or lower end
of the parish, five miles from Dumfries. But in 1649 it was
removed, to its present situation, nearly in the centre of the pa-
risb, and nine miles from Dumfries; but the original edifice was
taken down, and a new one erected in 1823, which is of a Gothic
style, with an elegant square tower in the western end. In Popish
times, there was a chapel in, Gleneslin, at the distance of seven
miles from the site which the church then occupied, and there was
a church-yard attached to both church and chapel. That which
attached to the chapel has now entirely disappeared, and has not
been used in the memory of man, but there is a farm in the vici-
nity which bears the name of Chapel to this day, The burying-
ground, however, which surrounded the old church at the lower
end of the parish, is still in use. In this burying-ground Grierson
of Lag, as already mentioned, and the ancestors of other ancient
families, lie interred: so that there are two church-yards in the
parish.
	There is one Dissenting chapel in the parish, in connection with
the Relief synod, the minister of which is paid by the collections and
seat rents.

<TABLE>

The number of fimilies adhering to the Established Church,                250
		belonging to various Dissenting bodies, Relief, Seces.
	sion, and Reformed Presbytery, including 1 of Roman Catholics,     41

									  291
	Divine service is uniformly well attended in the Established
Church, and the average number of communicants is about 450.
	The average amount of money raised yearly for religious and
charitable purposes, both by subscriptions and church collections,


