
			STEVENSTON.                      457

was "the Mentor of Washington, the framer of the present con-
stitution of America, and, moreover, a man of strict honour and
integrity; equally esteemed in public and in private life."
   There is a third distinguished person, however, connected with
this parish, who, as a sufferer in the cause of religious liberty, in
the persecuting days of Charles II., ranks higher in our eyes than
either of the two we have mentioned, and that is the Rev. Pa-
trick Warner, minister of Irvine. After being licensed to preach
the Gospel, being recommended to the East India Company, he
was sent out as an ordained minister of Fort St George on the
coast of Coromandel. After remaining there for some time, he
sighed to return to his native land, though to share in the suffer-
ings of his persecuted countrymen; and he returned accordingly
in 1677.
   For two years after his return, he and the celebrated John
Welsh of Ayr, son-in-law of John Knox, preached much in the
fields in Carrick and in Galloway, where Mr Warner's brother
was minister of Balmaclellan. After the battle of Bothwell-bridge,
he was in such constant danger, that he found it necessary to flee
to Holland for some time. On his return, though the danger was
scarcely lessened, he continued to preach in private houses as often
as he had an opportunity. In 1681 he married a daughter of the
very pious and eminent divine, Mr Guthrie, minister of Fenwick.
When living in his mother-in-law's house in Edinburgh, the house
was violently broken open at midnight by a party of soldiers, and he
was taken from bed to prison. After lying in prison for a considerable
time, and after several unsuccessful attempts had been made to con-
vict him, he was, on his own petition, allowed to go into voluntary
banishment. He first went to England, but, being there cast into pri-
son in consequence of false accusations; as soon as he was liberated,
he embarked for Rotterdam, where, with his wife and family, he
continued till 1687. Having, then received a call to be minister of
Irvine, he returned to Scotland, and was inducted as minister of
Irvine in 1688. From the records of Presbytery be appears to
have stood very high in the opinion of his brethren; and we find
that, in 1695, the Presbytery, being advised by the Commission of
the Church to elect one of their number to attend Parliament, as
some affairs of the church were to come before it, the Presbytery
elected Mr Warner to go to Edinburgh to join his brethren for
the good of the church. After being minister of Irvine for twenty
years, owing to the increasing infirmities of old age, he retired to


