
                       KILNINVER AND KILMELFORT.           69                   69

<TABLE>
	The yearly average of births is	   .     .      12
	                      deaths,	.     .     .   10
                               marriages,   .      .          7
  The average number of persons under 15 years of age,   .      325
                                betwixt 15 and 30,   .      .   184
                                        30 and 50,         .    246
                                        50 and 70,   .     .    164
                                 upwards of 70,   .     .        46
Number of families of independent fortune residing in the parish,   .   2
          proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards, 8
          bachelors, &c. upwards of 50,     .     .    .     .         28
          unmarried women above 45,            .    .    .     .   .   35
          insane or fatuous,  .    .    .     .     .     .             6                                  6
Three of these are dumb, and one deaf and dumb; blind,       .     .    2

   The language generally spoken is Gaelic, which has lost ground
considerably within the last forty years.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   There is a considerable extent of ground under wood.  The
indigenous trees are oak, ash, birch, elm, alder, mountain ash, and
hazel. Those planted are, Scotch fir, larch, spruce, plane tree,
beech, chestnut, poplar, and lime, which are properly fenced and
pruned, and thrive well.
   The general character of the husbandry is, as nearly as circum-
stances will admit, the same as in the south of Scotland. The
Marquis of Breadalbane, who is proprietor of two-thirds of the pa-
rish of Kilninver, gives every encouragement to his tenants to im-
prove their lands. Other proprietors who farm their own estates,
are not behind in improvements.
   Cattle shows and ploughing matches are annually held in the
parish, and have a powerful influence in stimulating the tenants to
industry.
   Leases are generally from seven to nineteen years.
   There are two salmon fisheries, one at the junction of the river
Euchar with Lochfeuchan, and the other at the foot of the Oude.
The former pays about L. 40 of rent, and the latter L. 30.
   The herring fishing in Lochmelfort has been very successful for
several years. It is a source of great benefit, not only to the par-
rishioners, but also to the whole district.  A great quantity of
kelp used to be manufactured here, which employed many of the
labouring classes; but of late years it has been found a losing spe-
culation, and has been consequently abandoned.
   There is a large distillery in the parish, where a number of
people are employed. It is under such excellent management,
that no bad effects on the morals of the people employed at it are
visible.


