
                          FOVERAN.                         697

   Education.-There is only one parochial school in the parish.
The schoolmaster's salary is L.27; allowance for garden, L.2.
2s. 9 1/4d.; mortification L.1, 11s. 8d.; amount of school-fees,
about L.12.  The teacher participates also in the Dick Bequest.
The average number of children that attend school in summer
may be stated at 3O, and in winter at 50.  The branches of edu-
cation usually taught are, English reading and grammar, writing,
arithmetic, mathematics, book-keeping, geography, and Latin,
the fees for which are very moderate.  The schoolmaster's dwelling-
house, which was lately built, is ample and commodious.  The
school-room is too small.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of regular paupers on
the roll varies from 15 to 20, besides others who require occasion-
al aid.  The usual allowance to the former is at present 12s. per
quarter, which must vary according to circumstances,-the avail-
able funds for the support of the poor arising chiefly from the in-
terest of a bequest of L.1000 by the late Thomas Gordon, Esq.
of Premnay.  The amount of weekly collections at the church
does not exceed L.10 annually, exclusive of occasional collections
for charitable and religious purposes.
   The temperate habits of the people may in no small degree be
ascribed to the circumstance, that there is no licensed public
house or inn for the sale of spirits within the parish, and only one
merchant has a shop license for that purpose.
   May 1842.

                        PARISH OF FOVERAN.

             PRESBYTERY OF ELLON, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

               THE REV. WILLIAM WATT, MINISTER./f*

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, &c.-This parish is situated in the district of For-
martine,  It is bounded on the south, by the parish of Belhevie;
on the west, by the parish of Udny; on the north by the burn of
Tarty, from the parish of Logie Buehan, and by the river Ythan,
from the sands of Forvie; on the east, by the German Ocean.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. Maxwell Gordon.


