
				MUCKART.                               303

of the variations of the thermometer or barometer, or other at-
mospberical phenomena.
   Hydrography.-The only stream of consequence in the parish
is the Devon, which has rather a remarkable course.  Rising toward
the west of the Ochils in the parish of Blackford, it flows at first
in an eastern direction for nine or ten miles, then southerly for
about five, when, after passing the Crook, it turns nearly due west,
and after a further run of fourteen or fifteen miles, empties itself
into the Forth above Alloa, about five or six miles from its source.
Its depth varies very much, according to the season, and accord-
ing to the inclination of its bed. In most places, it may be forded
with safety, unless during a flood; but at the same time, it con-
tains a number of very deep pools, which it.has cut out in its im-
petuous course. It is rather rapid, so long as it skirts this parish;
but after leaving it, and especially when it reaches the carse grounds,
it becomes very sluggish, and presents little that is attractive in its
appearance.
   Being in many places confined in a narrow bed, and descend-
ing from a high to a low level, the Devon, while it bounds the pa-
rish, presents many falls, and much natural beauty. While pas-
sing the fissure above the Rumbling Bridge, to which allusion
has already been made,the whole of its course for half a mile may
be termed a succession of rapids. In some places, it may be seen
bounding from rock to rock; storming at being confined within such
narrow limits, and tumbling into some rounded basin to wind its
way out to encounter some further turmoil. And at others, it may
be seen through the overhanging wood, at a great depth below,
indicating its existence by the Whitened spray upon its surface.
When viewed from the parapet of the Rumbling Bridge, the sce-
nery beneath, on both sides, is such as is not often to be met with.
Raised considerably more than 100 feetabove the level of tbe stream,
the passenger beholds it confined within two vast walls of solid
rock, forcing its darksome way to the comparative calm and quietude
of the scene below. After leaving the Rumbling Bridge, the
Devon, in its course for nearly a mile, is rather smooth. But
then it presents a very uncommon appearance. It suddenly pre-
cipitates itself, by a fall of 30 feet, into a cauldron from which,
when the water is not flooded, there is apparently no outlet. The
shape of the cauldron is circular, and the fall of water causes it to
boil as if some vast furnace were highly heated beneath. From

