
        426                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	France, where he died. His estate was forfeited; but it was re-
	stored along with the other forfeited estates.
           Antiquities.-"In the middle of the parish, there is a rock
	which is upwards of 100 yards perpendicular, and very difficult of
	access; yet on the very summit, there are considerable remains of
	a fortification. The wall is built, outside and inside, with large
	flags or broad stones, without mortar. It is upwards of three yards
	in thickness. The area will measure 500 feet in length, and 250 in
	breadth." (Former Account.) We believe that this rock is at
	least 600 feet above the level of the adjoining, valley. At thd east
	end of Loch Laggan, the ruins of the old church. Are to be seen.
	The walls are still standing, but the roof is gone. Some suppose
        it to have been dedicated to St Kenneth, others to St Killen. *

        <FOOTNOTE>There is an amusing tradition connected with the building of this church, and
	which we shall give here, as it may afford some idea of the ignorance, superstition,
	and the barbarity of the times to which it refers. It is said that this church was
        built by "Allan nan Creagh," or Allan of the spoils, a soubriquet given to one of
	the family of Lochiel. The following anecdote has been gravely told, and gravely
	believed by the good people of Lochaber and Badenoch, as giving an account of the
	circumstances that led to the building of this and of six other churches. It is said
        that Allan was very active, and at first rather successful in levying contributions from
	his neighbours, and in driving off their cattle without ceremony, for his ovvn special
	use. But the tide of plunder does not always run smooth, any more than that of love.
	Allan, having met with some disasters in his predatory expeditions, was resolved upon
	having some communication with the inhabitants of the invisible world, in order to
	find out the cause. There was acelebrated witch in his neighbourhood,called Gorm
	Shuil, or blue-eyed. She was such an adept in her profemion, that she could trans.
	form herself and others into hares, and crows, raise hurricanes from any quarter of
	the compass she pleased, and perform other wonderful exploits, too tedious to men-
	tion. under the direction of this and other similar advisers, Allan, to attain the ob-
	ject he had in view, took a living cat, and with his servant, went at night to a corn-
	kiln, near Toreastle, in Strathlochy. The cat was put living on a spit; and the ser-
	vant commenced the process of roasting it before a slow fire, while Allan stood at the
	entrance leading to the fire, with a drawn sword, to keep off all intruders. The cat
	set up doleful lamentations, when a crowd ofcats immediately gathered, as it were, to
	its rescue;-but they were kept at a respectful distance, by the redoubtable Allan.
        Every cat as it came exclaimed in Gaelic "Solc an carabh cait sin," that is "bad
        treatment ofa cat." "It will not be betterjust now," was Allan's response; and
        every moment be would address the man at the fire, saying, "whatever you may
	hear or see, keep turning the cat." At last, a black cat with one eye came, and
	calmly remonstrated with the guardian of the passage, on his cruelty,-And told him
	that his late reverses were a punishment for his wickedness, in plundering his neigh-
	bours; and that, in order to atone for his guilt, and obtain forgiveness for hhs sins,
	he must build seven cburches,-a church for every creagh that be raised. The cat
	Camdubh (the one eyed cat,) added that if Allan would persevere in big present
	amusement. until the cat with the long hanging ears, his brother, (Cluess leabbra
	mo bhrathair,) should arrive, he would take such summary vengeance, that Allan
	would never see his Maker's face in mercy. This lecture having struck terror into
	Allan's soul, he released the cat at the fire; and did not wait the arrival of the dread-
	ful Clussan lebbra, but retired immediately from the scene, and lost no time in com-
	mencing his church building scheme according to the directions of his monitor-
	he erected, are he died, the seven churches, which are still pointed out: and it is said,
	the the old church of Laggan was one of the seven.
	   In St Mungos's Island, at the entrance of loch Leven, near Glenco, in Argyle-
	shire, there is a burial-place; and there we find another of Allan nan Creagh's

                                  3


