
                           LARBERT.                        349

a branch with a few green leaves on it. The tree had been long
hollow. The capacity of the hollow might be such as to contain
a man or two. As the time when Wallace lived was about 500
years before 1794, and the lifetime of a very old oak way be con-
sidered to be not above 500 years, it follows that the tree, if it ex-
isted in his time, must have been then very young, and therefore,
it had not at that time formed a large and hollow trunk in which
Wallace might conceal himself, as the popular story asserted that
he did. The great hollow oak of 1790, if it was in, existence in
1290, was then very young.
                 II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  Eminent Men.--The parish of Larbert can boast of the follow-
ing men.
  Robert Bruce of Kinnaird, whose memory must be ever dear
to the Church of Scotland, for his bold and uncompromising de-
fence of Presbyterianism against the encroachments of Popery,
and forced Episcopal usurpation. Having made himself obnoxious
to the Court, he was compelled to flee to England. He was after-
wards banished to the country, and, residing at Kinnaird, he be-
came the unpaid minister of Larbert parish, where his ministration
was highly prized. He was esteemed over Scotland as a preacher
of the truth, and after a life spent in the service of God, he expired
at Kinnaird about the year 1632, aged seventy-two years. The
tomb-stone placed over his grave, and inscribed to his memory,
still exists in Larbert church-yard.
  A descendant of this eminent minister of the church was James
Bruce of Kinnaird, celebrated for his travels in Abyssinia.* He
was in that country in 1769, and remained there four years. He
is acknowledged to have been the first European who, in recent
times, visited the source of the Abyssinian Nile.+
  Mr Bruce, in his Travels, informed the public of lands known

  <FOOTNOTE>James Bruce was a descendant of the Rev. Robert Bruce in the fifth degree, I
think; but I have not any note of the number of degrees. Mr Hay, of the family
of Hay of Woodcockdale, in Linlithgowshire, married the heiress of Kinnaird. James
Bruce was the eldest son of that marriage.
  The river of which Mr Bruce visited the source, is the Bahar el Azrek, the Nile
of the Abyssinians, the Astapus of the Romans. It is not the principal branch of
the Nile. The principal and considerably larger of the two branches which join to
form the Nile, is the Bahar el Abiad, the White River, which rises in the Kumri
mountains, and whose source has not yet (1838) been visited and described by Eu-
ropeans.
  The sources of the Bahar el Azrek, the Nile of the Abyssinians, were visited and
described 150 years before Mr Bruce's time by Paiz, a Portuguese Jesuit missionary.


