
918                            PERTHSIRE.

siderable quantities along the banks of the rivers and burns in the
parish. The management of the plantations, with respect to thin-
ning and periodical felling, appears to be good; and of late years
considerable attention has been paid by the proprietors of the district
to these operations. The Scotch fir has been invariably found,
after reaching a certain age and size, to stop growing, and, soon
after, begin to decay, so that this species of tree is generally
cut when it has reached the age of from 40 to 60 years, or, if left af-
ter that period, it begins to get fogged or covered with moss, the
branches lose their dark green hue and become yellow, and in a
very short time the wood gets deteriorated in quality, and exhibits
that bluish colour, after being cut up, which is always perceived in
what is technically called "back-going wood." This is not the
case with the larch, however, which continues to improve to the
last, and even after it has apparently ceased to increase in size,
the wood goes on improving in quality and hardness. For this
reason, the more recent plantations are either altogether composed
of this useful tree, or at least contain a large intermixture of it.
The writer regrets to add, however, that a great proportion of
the larch planted within the last fifteen or twenty years is al-
ready beginning to wither and decay, but whether this is owing to
the bad quality of the seed or to the nature of the soil, he cannot
take it upon him to express an opinion.
   Rent.--The average rent of arable land in the parish is L.1,
10s. per imperial acre. In the upper district of the parish, the
rent is considerably lower, and it is much higher in many parts of
the lower district, while in the immediate vicinity of the town it is
as high as L.3 and L.4 per acre; but the average, as nearly as
can be estimated, is the sum above stated.
   Live-Stock.--There are few or no sheep reared in the parish;
but many sheep farmers are in the habit of purchasing sheep in
the autumn, feeding them on turnips in the fields during the win-
ter, and selling them again in spring in a fattened state. Consi-
derable quantities of turnips are eaten off the ground in this way
by sheep, either belonging to the farmer himself, or to sheep-
farmers in the Highland districts,-to whom he lets the turnips at
a certain rate per acre, varying according to the quality of the
crop.
   Within the last few years, great attention has been paid to the
improvement of the breed of cattle in the parish; and by the in-
troduction of short-horned bulls, and crossing them with the native


