
722                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

defence of Huguemont at Waterloo, will transmit the name of the
second with honour to posterity; while deeds of active benevo-
lence and extensive public spiritedness will embalm the memory
of the last in the grateful remembrance of present and future ge-
nerations. *
   Land-owners.-Two of the chief land-owners, the Earl of Aber-
deen and Lord Saltoun, have been already mentioned.  The only
other two are Sir John Stuart Forbes and Mr Forbes of Boynd-
lie,-men who, by the benevolence of their hearts, by the public
spirit they manifest, have done, and are doing, an immense deal
of good to the community at large.
   Antiquities.-A few years ago, there was standing, in the im-
mediate vicinity of the church, a sort of circular mound, called
the Moat, the work of a very remote era, but at what time, or for
what purpose erceted, we do not pretend to conjecture.
   Barrows or tumuli we possess, as well as other minor indications
of battles and frays fought in our neighborhood.  Connected ap-
parently with the authenticated coast-wise line of march of the
Danish army, through partially diverging from, but afterwards con-
verging to their line of march through the fastness of Auchmed-
den to the bay of Gamrie, our principal tumuli seem to point out
the scenes of successive conflicts and defeats of the retreating
army, and to mark the graves of some slaughtered Danish or Scot-
tish chieftain.
   About three miles farther west, almost in the entrance of the
defiles of Auchmedden, stands the Law Cairn.  This has been
partially explored for the purpose of antiquarian research, but no-
thing was discovered.  Not far distant, however, there were found,
about twenty-two years ago, in the course of quarrying some out-
lying stones, remains of ancient armour, probably Roman.
   In recently digging up the foundation of the old church, (a
building most unquestionably existing long previous to 1598, the
oldest date legible on its oldest pews), there was found deposited
in the north-eastern corner, as the foundation stone, a rough un-

<FOOTNOTE>It may be here noticed, that Major George Phillips. a descendant of the above-
mentioned Forbesses of Boyndlie, born and educated in this parishm, and, after going
so India, and serving there in a most gallant manner, and after realising a conside-
rable fortune, died there about the year 1806, bequething the munificent sum of
L.600 Sterling, the interest whereof to be expended for the behoof of the poor of this
parish.
   It may noticed also that William Anderson, who occupied the humble sphere of a
blackenish in this parish, bequethed to the parish the sum of L. 40 Sterling, the in-
terest whereof to be expended on the education of poor children.
                                        3


