
                                       GREENOCK.                 473

         There are three circulating libraries in Greenock, one countain-
     ing 1500 volumes, another 1000, and the third about 500.
         An association for the study and encouragement of the arts
     and sciences, open to the community at large, especially one for
     the cultivation of astronomy, and other sciences peculiarly in-
     teresting to a maritime town, is much wanted in Greenock. No
     association of this kind at present exists, and it can scarcely
     be otherwise, so long as our only educational establishment
     continues on so narrow a foundation. All men, even in the
     birth-place of Watt, are not self-imbued with mechanical genius
     and a taste for the arts and sciences. The few individuals amongst
     us who have completed the curriculum of a university education
     cannot be expected to inspire a taste for scientific research into the
     rest of the community. Our two burgh schools are quite inade-
     quate to the accomplishment of such an object. But let the
     people of Greenock unite with our civic rulers in extending our
     educational establishment, (why should it not be equal at least to
     the Perth Academy?) and we shall not despair of seeing the town
     of Greenock become as distinguished for its literary and scientific
     Acquirements as for its commerce and enterprise. *
          A Medical and Chirurgical Association was instituted in 1818,
     for promoting professioual intercourse and improvement. The mem-
     bers are medical practitioners in Greenock and the neighbouring
     towns.  They meet at stated intervals for the purpose of reading
     papers, and holding discussions on professional subjects.
         There are two public-reading-rooms, one in Cathcart Square,
     and another in the Assembly Rooms, Cathcart Street.
         The only periodical work printed and published, in Greenock
     is the Advertiser newspaper. Messrs Mennons and, Scott are
     understood to be the editors, as well as the publishers of this
     Journal. It has long kept its ground among the provincial pa-
     pers of Scotland, having been commenced in the year 1799, and
     retained its acceptability till the present date. It is conduc
     with very considerable talent; its politics are moderate, or

     <FOOTNOTE>We must not omit under this head to notice the" West Renfrewshite Horti
     cultural Society." It has existed for fifteen years, and was for some-time encouraged
     Chiefly by the market-gardeners. Of late it has received more general encourage-
     ment, chiefty in consequence of the exertions of John Gray, Eaq. merchant in Green-
     ock, himself a zealous horticulturist. His Royal Highness Prince Albert has ex-
     pressed his willingness to become patron of the society. The committee have re-
     solved that one-half of the nett proceeds of the exhibitions of fruits and flowers shall
     be given to the charitable institutions of Greenock. The donations from these sources
     have amounted this year to about L.50; the other half half of the proceeds is devoted to
     premiums and the current expences of the society. The children of the serious schools,
     are admitted gratis to the exhibitions.-October 1840.


