
                           CLEIS                            51

amounted to L. 30. English reading and grammars, writing, arith-
metic, Latin, Greek, French, mathematics, algebra, navigation,
and geography are taught here. The school at Maryburgh is
supported by Sir Charles Adam, who gives the teacher a house,
school, and garden, and L. 15 a-year. Reading, writing, arith-
metic, and book-keeping are taught here: the fees are the same
as in the other school, and amounted in 1834 to L. 26. The
schoolmaster's wife has hitherto received L. 5 from Miss Adam
for teaching sewing. She has at an average eight scholars, at 3s.
per quarter. The school at Gairney Bridge depends entirely on
the school fees.
   At the examination of these schools in April 1839, the number
of scholars in the parish school was 65; in Maryburgh, 81 ; and
in 1838, in Gairney Bridge, about 30. The people are very sen-
sible of the advantage of education; and no part of the parish is so
distant from the schools as to prevent children from attending. *
   There are no friendly societies here; but some of the people
join with those in the neighbouring parishes. Several of them
also take advantage of the Savings Bank which has been recently
established at Kinross.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at present
receiving parochial aid is 6, at 1s. per week, one at 2s., and two or-
phan children at 1s. each per week. There is also a woman re-
ceiving 2s. 6d. as a temporary assistance, in consequence of her
not being able to prove the father of her illegitimate child. The
funds for their support are, the church collections, L. 21, 6s. 10d.;
interest of L. 265, L. 10, 12s.; and mortcloth dues, which, since
the parish procured a hearse by subscription, are merely nominal:
these, at an average of seven years, amount to L. 31, 18s. 10d.
Out of the fund are paid L. 2 to the session-clerk, L. 3 to the pre-
centor, L. I to the church-officer, 10s. to the presbytery clerk;
5s. to the synod clerk, and 2s. to the presbytery, officer, in all,
L.6, 17s., reducing the above L. 31, 18s. 10d. to L. 25, 1s.
10d. The average of disbursements for seven years is L. 43, 1s.
5d. Till the year 1812, our funds were sufficient for the support
of the poor, and there was even a small surplus. Since that time
the heritors of the parish have, in addition to the ordinary income,
subscribed what was necessary in proportion to their valued rents,

<FOOTNOTE>There are three Sabbath schools, (besides a class ot young men and another of
young women,) one at Cleish, another at Maryburgh, and the third at Gairney
Bridge, consisting in all of about 130 children. There is also a parish library.


