
70			BUTESHIRE.

ful, especially from the centre, which is the highest, where the
view extends all round the island, comprehending the whole sur-
rounding scenery,--the parishes of Largs and Kilbride on the
east; the whole coast of Ayr, Ailsa, rock, and the island of Ar-
ran, together with Little Cumbray, and the two ancient castles of
Cumbray and of Portincross, on the south; the peninsula of Can-
tyre, and the Island of Bute on the west; and, on the north, the
whole sweep of the Clyde, with its vast navigation, and all its va-
ried scenery on both its banks.
	Climate.--From its insular situation, the temperature of the
atmosphere is more equable than on the mainland, for it is neither
so hot in the summer, nor so cold in the winter. The winds which
most generally prevail are from the south and west, both of which
frequently bring rain; those from the north and east bring cold.
The adjacent hills, both in Bute and in the mainland, being
higher than those in Cumbray, more naturally attract the clouds;
hence, in Cumbray, there is less moisture than in either of those
places and consequently, a more genial atmosphere; and there
being neither marshy ground, stagnant water, public works, nor,
indeed, any thing to contaminate the air, it is exceedingly pure
and salubrious. Snow very seldom lies for any great length of
time, and for the same reason, frost is seldom, if ever, very severe.
The climate is, therefore, most agreeable, and hence, the inhahi-
tants are, in general, healthy and strong; less frequently visited
by fever, consumptions, or contagious diseases than their neigh-
bour, and even when they are so visited, the consequences are
less fatal. In common, indeed, with all mankind, the people have
their complaints, but no particular disease can be mentioned as
more prevalent than another.
	Hydrography.--The parish everywhere, abounds, with excellent
spring water, generally rather hard, but, from the very limited ex-
tent of the island, no rivers of any magnitude are to be found. It
is, however, rather a circumstance, that at the top of the
very highest part of the island, there is a hollow place where there
are two small lochs or lakes, communicating with each other,
whence there issues a small rivulet, which, in its descent toward the
sea, being augmented by other smaller streams and springs, at last
becomes sufficiently large to form a mill-dam of considerable di-
their own corn.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The varieties of rock found in


