
			MARKINCH.			    657

the conclusion obvious, that these elevations have been generated
by the action of a tidal wave, ascending in the direction of Loch
Leven, and having a lateral action diverging from the Frith of
Forth, as the central line of direction of the great tidal stream.
Hazarding the opinion, that these hills were formed by the action
of an ebbing and flowing current, we find undeniable proofs of
marine agency in the marl beds which lie within a few feet of the
surface, at the distance of less than a mile from the parish church,
These beds vary in thickness from 3 to 4 feet and consist en-
tirely of marine shells, among which the Mytilus, Buccinum, and
Cardium aculeatum predominate. In connection with this fact,
we have to notice the incredible numbers of water worn-boulders,
of all sizes and dimensions, found upon and near the surface, or
imbedded in the diluvial clay of which the subsoil is composed.
These rolled masses comprehend most varieties of the primitive
rocks, among which, basalt, greenstone, and porphyry predomi-
nate. Granite,gneiss, and micaceous schist are next in the order
of abundance. None of these rocks are found in situ for many
miles, and then only in a westerly direction. The clay in which
these boulders are imbedded, is nearly, if not altogether, devoid
of organic remains, while their appearance clearly betrays long
exposure to the action of a powerful current. Whence, and in
what manner, these boulders were brought into their present po-
sition, and in such incredible numbers, it is difficult to conjecture;
unless we may suppose that they have been transported thither
by a powerful current flowing from the westward, continuous in
duration, rather than of the nature of a sudden, and transient erup-
tion. This conjecture derives countenance from the fact, that
the boulders are imbedded in the clay at various depths,  and that
those of them that belong to the trap family, differ very materially
in their character, from the great trap vein or dike by which the
parish is intersected from east to west, and which is of the por-
phyritic kind, spotted with nodules of sulphuret of iron and with
micaceous laminae. This remarkable dike is traceable from the
Leven, about a mile south of the village, intersecting the Balgo-
nie coal-field, in a straight line to Kingsdale, near Kennoway,
where it is protruded. At the point where it crosses the Balbir-
nie coal basin, near Plasterer's Inn, it is said to form a solid
compact mass, 30 feet in thickness. In approaching the trap,
the coal is thrown up in a remarkable manner, till at last it is cut
of altogether. A bore carried down to the depth of 100 yards
   FIFE				Tt


