
                           CARRIDEN.                             67

   The wall was cespititious, composed of earth or of the materials
promiscuously taken from the ditch. "Non tam lapidibus," says
Gildas, "quam cespitibus." There were nineteen forts erected
upon it at certain intervals, the mean distance from station to sta-
tion being 3554 1/2 yards, or something more than two English
miles, so that an alarm could easily be communicated from one
to another on the approach of danger. Roy makes the total
length of the wall from Old Kilpatrick church to Carriden to have
been 63,980 yards, or 36 miles and 620 yards English, being                                                            9
nearly 39 3/4 Roman miles; a measurement which corresponds very
much with that of Gordon. From Dunglass to Blackness, the dis-
tance is about 40 English miles.
   The origin of the appellation "Graham's" or "Grime's Dyke,"
which is sometimes given to the wall, seems not to have been ex-
actly determined by antiquaries. According to Horsley, "Gra-
ham" in the Gaelic language signifies black, and, from its appli-
cation to a large ditch and rampart that traverses a great part of
Northumberland, which is so designated from its dark and sombre
appearance in passing through the moors, this wall, he conjectures,
may have taken its name from the same circumstance. The pre-
vailing use of the appellation in the possessive case, however, would
seem to restrict it to the name of a person; and the common le-
gend is, that "Grime," nephew to Eugenius, King of the Scots,
with his troops broke through the wall a few miles westward of
Falkirk, between Camelon and Castlecary, and had the achieve-
ment immortalized by having his name given to the wall as its
vernacular designation.
   On the south side of the wall, and running in a great measure
parallel with it, a military way was constructed for the more con-
venient and expeditious communication between the different sta-
tions.  Roads of a similar description seem to have traversed the
country in various directions; and, from south to north, it would
appear that, by means of this kind, a line of connection was main-

<FOOTNOTE>ject. Nenius, who wrote A.D. 620 , says, that the wall commenced at a place called
in the British tongue, "Penguaul. which town, in Scottish, is called Cannall, but in
English (i e. Saxon) peneltum. "-" Cenail" is understood to be the same as Kinnell;
and its signification in Gaelic, denoting the "head" or "ead," is supposid to give far-
ther indication that the wall terminated there. It is imposible to identify the "Ce-
nail" or "Peneltum" of Nenuis, if corrisponding with the modern kinnell, with the
"Penueltum" of Bode, as the, latter was only two, and former is seven miles from
Abercorn; but it is by no means imparobable that in the course of its construction.
the wall concluded. in the first instance, at kinnell, and was, at a subsequent period,
continued on wards to Carriden.  Horsley at first coincided with Nenuis in the opi
nion, that kinneil was the proper termination of the wall, but afterwards seems to
agree with Gordon that it ended at Carriden.


