
484                       LANARKSHIRE.

present race are no less eminent for the manly and generous vir-
tues which become their high rank; and few noblemen in the
kingdom can be more deservedly respected and loved as a land-
lord, a superior, or a friend, than the present Lord Douglas.
	Eminent Men.--For the eminent men of the house of Douglas,
including almost every male of the race who came to maturity, we
must refer to the records of history. One native of this pa-
rish, distinguished by his literary attainments, was Dr John Black,
late minister of Coylton, in Ayrshire, author of the Life of Tasso,
and of a work replete with learning and ingenuity, entitled Palaico-
Romaica, in which he endeavours to prove, with more ability than
success, that the New Testament was originally written in Latin,
from which our Greek version is merely a translation.
	Antiquities.--On the farm of Parishholm, near the skirts of
Cairntable, there are the traces of a fortress, which was probably
a stronghold of the Douglases, commanding the entrance into the
parish from the west. It was here, in all probability, that the good
Sir James lay with his faithful vassals, when he so often took occa-
sion to surprise the English garrison at the Castle of Douglas. About
a mile and a-half south from Douglas Castle, near the great road
to England, are the vestiges of a fort, bearing the name of Tothorl
Castle. This name appears to be a corruption for Thirlwall Castle;
and it was probably built as an outpost by Sir Richard de Thursle-
wall, or Thirlwall, Lieutenant-Governor of Douglas Castle under
Sir Robert de Clifford. A mound still called Boncastle, within
the great park to the east of the Castle, was probably the site of a
similar post of observation. Several years since, an urn was dug
up near Douglas Castle; and near the same spot was found a great
collection of bones. The head of a spear and a very massive ring
of pure gold were likewise found in the vicinity.
	There is in the possession of Lord Douglas a very ancient sword,
resembling a claymore ofthe usual size, bearing, amidst a great deal
of flourishing, two hands pointing to a heart, which is placed between
them; the date is 1329,--the year in which Bruce charged the
good Sir James to carry his heart to the Holy Land. Around the
emblem are inscribed the following lines:

		" So many guid as of the Dovglas beinge,
		Of ane surname was ne'er in Scotland seine
		I will ye charge after that I depart
		To holy grave, and thair bury my heart;
		Let it remane ever BOTHE TYME AND HOUR
		To ye last day I see my Saviour.
		I do protest in tyme of all my ringe,
		Ye lyk subject had never ony kinge."


