
                            EDINBURGH.                          697

Sybils, as well as several other of his works, are in, the colleges of
his native city.
   Alexander, a pupil and brother-in-law to Jameson, was another
artist of some note. To these succeeded the elder Scougal, whose
style is said to bear a great resemblance to that of Sir Peter Lely.
The younger Scougal was almost the only artist in Scotland during
the period of the Revolution in 1688. After this period, two fo-
reign artists settled in Scotland under the patronage of the Duke
of Queensberry. These were Nicholas Hude, formerly one of the
directors of the French Academy, obliged to fly his country on
the repeal of the edict of Nantz, and Sir John Medina, a native
Of Brussels, some of whose portraits are to be seen in the Hall
of the College of Surgeons. After the Union several artists of
some note appeared; Aikman, the friend of Allan Ramsay the
poet; Alexander, a descendant of the Scottish Vandyke; Allan
Ramsay, the son of the poet; Richard Wait and George Mar-
shall, the latter a painter of still-life; and James Norrie, a land-
scape painter.
   In 1753 two celebrated printers of Glasgow, Robert and An-
drew Foulis, had the merit of establishing an academy for the fine
arts in their native city, the first of the kind in Britain, for that
in Somerset House was not commenced till several years after.
This academy, however, as might have been expected, did not in
those days receive that public support which alone could have ren-
dered it permanent. It did some service, however, to the arts
during the few years in which it existed; but with the death of its
patrons, it decayed.
   John and Alexander Runciman learned the rudiments of their
art from Pavilon, a Frenchman, who bad settled in Edinburgh.
These brothers afterwards went to Italy, where they farther studied
their art, and there John died. Before his death, he is said to
have destroyed the greater part of his paintings, with that sensi-
tive feeling towards excellence which characterizes true genius.
In 1771 the younger brother Alexander returned to Edinburgh;
and in this year the Board of Trustees for the encouragement of
manufactures having established an academy of painting, Run-
ciman was appointed master. Contemporary with the Runcimans
was Jacob More, a landscape painter of considerable talent,
who died in London in 1793. Brown, Nasmyth, Gavin Ha-
milton, and David Allan, also flourished at the same period.
In 1785, on the death of Runciman, David Allan succeeded to


