
932                SUPPLEMENT TO THE ARTICLE GLASGOW.

The fraternal kindness, however, which they discover for the
poor, and for foreign churches labouring under persecution,
should be a sufficient answer to such an imputation.  The
true explanation seems to be, that the Protestant church was deal-
ing with men who had come forth fresh from the careless and re-
laxed morality of the Church of Rome ; that the state of man-
ners and society generally was rough, needing strong measures; that
the civil and criminal law was so weak, that an important part of its
duty was devolved on the stronger arm of the ecclesiastical ; and that
our forefathers entertained, and justly, a higher idea of what is due
to church discipline than is common in the easy and luxurious age
in which we live.  For what was decidedly intolerant in their pro-
ceedings I offer no defence, save that they had been taught in the
most intolerant of all schools, and that in these davs Popery was
so mixed up with treasonable or seditious politics, that, in applying
a strong coercive restraint to its professors, the state, and our fa-
thers were doing no more than obeying the first of all laws--self-
preservation ; a law which would testify a similar exercise of power
in the same circumstances at the present day.  For what may ap-
pear unduly severe in the exercise of discipline upon the church's
own members, I have only to say, in addition to what has been
already remarked, that at least it was eminently impartial, and to
a very great degree, in combination with other means, successful
in raising Scotland, in an incredibly brief season, to the highest
pitch of moral and religious feeling of which there is any example
among nations.  If we are startled in reading of kirk-sessions im-
prisoning or banishing serious delinquents, or sending them to the
pillory, or requiring them to appear several Sabbath days in suc-
cession at the church-door in sackcloth, bare-headed and bare-
footed, or ducking them in the Clyde, it is to be remembered that
no rank, however exalted, was spared, and that a special severity
was exercised toward ministers and elders and office-bearers in the
church when they offended.  There was no favouritism. *  In very
many cases it is to be considered, too, that the punishment inflict-
ed by the session, is all which is suffered for that offence.  In such
circumstances, even where civil penalties are incurred, it cannot be,
accounted undue.

   December 184O.

<FOOTNOTE>
    * A Lord Semple's handwriting is found in the record, acknowledging sin, and
for his offence be is required to stand in sackcloth in the presence of the congre-
gation.

