
     of Benholme.

   Character and Manners.-Smuggling, which former-
merly tended to debauch the morals of the sea-faring-people,
is no longer carried on within the bounds of this parish.
Drunkenness and fighting are consequently little heard of.
Any petty squabbles, that now happen, seldom proceed far-
ther than high words.  A few prosecutions for scandalhave re-
formed the obnoxious practice of abusive language, which
was much in use, and taught the generality to bridle their
tongue.  Frugality, sobriety, and industry, are the distin-
guishing characteristics of the country people.  The inhabi-
tants of Johnshaven are not deficient in the two first of these
virtues, though there is still room for amendment with re-
gard to industry.  Among every rank, however, both in
country and town, there is charity enough to "cover a mul-
"titude of sins."

   To Conclude.-About 50 years ago, the Excise officer's fa-
mily was the only one in Johnshaven that made use of tea;
when the tea kettle was carried to the well, to bring in wa-

<FOOTNOTE>

in stone coffins of about 4 feet long, at a place called MOAT HILL, not far
from the mansion house of Benholme.  On an eminence bordering with Gar-
vock, called Kinebet, or, more properly, King's Seat Hill, there is a large heap
of stones or Cairn, where, according to tradition, a King sat in judgement;
among other complaints, many were lodged against MELVILE. of Allardice,
at that time Sheriff of the county, for his oppression.  The Royal Judge,
either wearied with the complainers, or enraged at the offender, said, proba-
bly in a peevish humour; "I wish that Sheriff were sodden and supped in
"brose." Such was the savage barbarity of the times, that the Barons, who
were little accustomed to the formalities of a trial, laid hold on these words,
and put them literally in execution.  The place where the deed was perpe-
trated, lyes at the bottom of the hills, on the side next Garvork, is not unlike
the cavity of a kiln for drying corn, and still retains the name of the SHER-
RIF'S KETTLE.


