
50             		   ARGYLESHIRE.

the northern part of the parish, particularly in the farms of Kil-
bride and Turnalt.
   The prevailing soils are an hazel-coloured loam on a gravelly.
bottom, and a darkish mould on a clayey bottom.  Tracts of
sandy soil `re to be met with in many parts.  The soil of the pa-
rish, as a whole, may be said to be shallow ; but it is, notwith-
standing, fertile.
   Zoology.--There is no rare species of animals in the parish.
Those that are found in it are common to it with the rest of Ar-
gyleshire.  In the latter end of autumn, the widgeon, several va-
rieties of teal, the fieldfare, and woodcock, arrive from the Bal-
tic, and remain till the month of April.  In winters of excessive
severity, a migratory bird, called the velvet duck, has occasionally
been seen along the shore.  Wild geese are frequently observed
in Little Loch Craignish.  Swans also visit the parish, though
rarely.
   Fishes.--Trouts abound in the lakes and rivulets.  On one
lake, char is to be met with; salmon and grilses are sometimes
taken at the head of Loch Craignish.  In the early part of sum-
mer, herrings are caught with a rod and white fly in the sea to
the west.  This mode of fishing them was discovered about twenty-
five years ago.  The herrings which are thus taken are regarded
by some of the natives as a variety of this aquatic tribe.  Though
similar, in external appearance, to the common herrings, they
maintain that their air-bladder is larger, and that others of their
intestines are different.  During the autumn, the common her-
rings are occasionally taken, in the usual way, in Loch Craignish.
There are about twenty boats belonging to the parish employed
in fishing them ; and, on an average of seven years, the revenue
derived from this source way be stated as L.150 per annum.
   Gurnet is got in considerable quantities in the sea to the west
in summer, and the natives have recently become fond of this
fish.  Oil is extracted from its head and intestines.
   Seathe, of various sizes, is the most common fish, and is especially
prized on account of the quantity of oil which it yields.  Cod, lythe,
and remarkably large mackerel are also taken, both in Loch
Craignish and along the western coast and islands.
   Skell-fish--Lobsters and crabs are found on the southern and
western shores.  Oysters of large size abound along the shores of
the islets in Loch Craignish.  The shell-fish, which, in an eco-
nomical point of view, are of most importance, are, mussels,


