
                        ALNESS.                             339

country being commanded by order of council to attend the dio-
cesan meetings, Mackilligen, together with three others, were the
only ministers in the diocese of Ross who possessed the inclination,
together with the strength of principle, to resist the innovations.
These four individuals were, in consequence of their resistance,
immediately Šjected from their charges, but Mackilligen, possessing
more boldness than the rest, remained in Alness discharging his
duties, notwithstanding the threats of bishop and council, which
had ordained that no nonconforming minister should take up his
abode within twenty miles of his former church. "Mr Mackil-
ligen, a faithful and active preacher of the forbidden doctrines,"
says Mr Miller, in his Scenes and Legends, seems to have given
him (the bishop) so much trouble, that be even threatened to ex-
communicate him; but the minister, regarding his threat in the
proper light, replied to it by comparing him to Balaam, the wicked
prophet, who went forth to curse Israel , and to Shimei, the son of
Gera, who cursed David. The joke spread, for as such was it re-
garded, and Paterson, who had only the sanctity of his office to
oppose to the personal sanctity of his opponent, deemed it prudent
to urge the threat no farther. He had the mortification of being
laughed at for having urged it so far. There is a little hollow
among the hills, about three miles from the house of Fowlis, and
not much farther from Alness, in the gorge of which the eye com-
mands a wide prospect of the lower lands, and the whole Frith of
Cromarty. It lies, too, on the extreme edge of the cultivated part
of the country, for behind there stretches only a brown uninha-
bited desert ; and in this hollow, the neighbouring Presbyterians
used to meet for the purpose of religious worship. On some oc-
casions, they were even bold enough to assemble in the villages. In
the summer of 1675, Mr Mackilligen, assisted by his brethren of
Tain and Cromarty, and the Laird of Brea, celebrated the com-
munion at Obsdale, in the house of the lady-dowager of Fowlis.
"A party had been despatched at the instance of the bishop,"
continues the same author, "to take Mackilligen prisoner; but
misinformed regarding the place where the rneeting was held, they
proceeded to his house at Alness, and spent so much time in pil-
laging his garden, that, before they reached Obsdale, he had got
out of their way ; but he fell into the hands of his enemy, the bishop,
the following year, and during his long imprisonment in the Bass,
for to such was he sentenced, he contracted a disease of wbicli he
died."


