
        KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.			319

rous strangers and tourists whom the steam-boats bring to Iona,
and who readily give a penny or twopence to the little,urchins
for a handful of them as remembrances of their visit. The shore
is otherwise bare and rugged, and the strata do not differ from
those already described. At a short distance, there are several
islets and rocks entirely composed of red granite, which circum-
stance renders it probable that the island was formerly joined with
the granite coast of Ross Mull.
	Soil.-A light sandy soil, but very fertile, prevails over the whole
island, except where cultivathon and abundance of manure have
converted it into a black loam. Upon the shores, there are some
small plains exceedingly pleasant, that afford good crops of bear
and oats. The hills are covered in spring, summer, and autumn
with a fine verdure, and their pasture is famed over all the dis-
trict. Some of the hills are arable to the top, but those on the
south end of the island are overrun with heath ; yet tbe small
valleys interspersed among them, are filled with grass of the finest
quality.
	Zoology and Botany.-For the former, reference is made to the
description given previously in the quoad civilia parish, which is
quite applicable to Iona; and as to the latter,-on the north
shore, between Port-na-curach and the hill of Angels, is found in
great plenty the Pulmonaria maritima, or sea bugloss, a beauti-
ful plant, the blossoms of which are pink before they expand, but
immediately change into a fine blue: the Eryngium maritimum,
or sea holly, occurs here in equal abundance; and the fatal Bella-
donna is also to be found. Among the ruins in almost every part,
both of the nunnery and cathedral, grows the Cotyledon umbilicus,
or navel-wort; the Menyanthes trifoliatum, or marsh trefoil, one
of the most beautiful of our native flowers, and distinguished by
its w6olly petals, grows in great plenty in the ppnd above the ca-
thedral. A considerable part of the skirts of Dun-ii is covered with
the Anagallis tenella, or purple-flowered money-wort. The Juni-
perus communia, or juniper tree is common on most of the hills,
though of a dwarfish size. The Salix lapponum, or Lapland wit-
low, a very scarce shrub, grows not far from the marble quarry.
Small quantities of a fine kind of sponge are produced here, and
some rare shells are cast up on the shore. Several Fuci of rare
species are found in the surrounding sea.
	There are no trees nor plantations of any kind in the island.


