
              ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                         279

on which the right foot rests and presses. When the ground is thus
turned over and sown, the harrowing department generally falls to
the lot of the women. Owing to the lightness of the narrow,
which they are able to drag after them, the ground cannot be made,
sufficiently smooth, and to remedy this they commence anew With
the "racan," which is a block of wood having a few teeth in it,
with a handle about three feet in length. As they have few or
no carts, they are under the necessity of carrying manure, peats,
potatoes, and all such commodities in creels upon their backs.
So little do the women care for the weight of the creel, though
full of peats or potatoes on their backs, that, while walking with
it, they are engaged either at spinning on the distaff, or knitting
stockings. Sacks, or canvas bags, are seldom used; instead of
which they have bags which they call "plats," made of beautiful-
ly plaited bulrushes. Of the same useful material they likewise
make their ropes, and sometimes cables for their boats.
   Although the agricultural processes of the small tenants are in
this manner conducted, the tacksmen are possessed of ploughs and
carts, and other implements of husbandry, of the best and most
approved modern construction.
   Improvements.-The only improvement of consequence which
has been accomplished in the parish in the way of agriculture, is
the draining of Loeb-Colum-Cille, formerly alluded to. This
important undertaking, which was the work of several years, and
incurred some thousand pounds of expense, has been effectual-
ly executed, and thereby a surface of about 230 acres has been
reclaimed, of the finest alluvial soil imaginable. A considerable
portion of it is annually cultivated, and the remainder yields an
abundant crop of natural grasses, which is profitably cut down by
the scythe. The process of draining this sheet of water was
conducted in a manner different from the former attempts for that
purpose; and in one place the main trench which leads from the
lake to the sea, a distance of about three-quarters of a mile, is 35
feet deep, 114 feet wide at top, and sloping gradually on each
side, at an angle of 33/d1 40', to a wideness of nine feet at bottom.
   Leases of lands are rincipally confined to tacksmen and exten-
sive graziers. Should the possessions of the crofters be somewhat
enlarged, as is intended to be done with gradual advances leases
will, no doubt, be granted, and every encouragement for improve-
ments allowed. The proprietor and his managers are fully sensi-
ble of the unhappy effects of the lotting-system, and even now,


