
     Statistical Account

fort, on the summit of Craig-Phatric, near Inverness, is a
very remarkable structure.  It has attracted the notice of
the antiquary.  There are different opinions respecting its
origin.  Some maintain, that the vitrification is the effect
of a volcano, others the work of art; but Mr Fraser Tytler,
who treated this subject in the second volume of the Tran-
sactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, endeavours to
prove, that the vitrification is the result merely of accident,
the ruin of an ancient fort destroyed by fire.  Of old, struc-
tures for habitation and defence, according to Mr Fraser Tyt-
ler, were composed of two parrallel rows of strong pallisa-
does, at the distance of some feet from each other, closely in-
terwoven with boughs, and of earth, stones of various sizes,
boughs and trunks of trees filling the intermediate space.
The Riempiuta hypothesis is ingenious.  Some, however,
by this hypothesis, may find it difficult to account for the
prodigious mounds of vitrified matter on the east side of
the rock.  An attentive examination of the vitrified work,
is not favourable to the abettors of the volcanic hypothesis,
who maintain, that the ramparts were built with lava, a

<FOOTNOTE>

It is called in English, Castle Bathers, a corruption of the Gaelic name,
Caistal nan leoirach, that is the castle of "the reclase or retired," a
monastery in Gaelic is indifferently termed Manachinn, the residence of
the Monks, or Leoirnamanach, the retreat or retirement of the Monks.
In Lochness at the north end of it, there is on a small island the ruin of
an old building called Castle Spiritin, evidently a corruption of Spairtin,
that is "the water dashed castle," Spairt, signifies a "dash or splash of
water," Spairtin, "dashes of water."  The proprietor says, that about
200 years ago this castle was the mansion-house of his family, and yet no
account can be given of its origin, but from conjecture.  According to
some it was a royal Pictish castle, and the scene of King Brudius's con-
version to the Christian faith, Adamnan in his History of St Columba re-
lating that this important event was accomplished by the saint in a royal
seat near Inverness.  But according to others, this little castle is of a far
less ancient date.  It was, they say, an appendage of the superb seven
towered castle of Urquhart, universally ascribed to the great family of the
Cummings.


