

376                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

qualities of the timber. When suffered to assume its natural form,
which takes place here, it flings out bold and vigorous side branches,
starting off from the main stem, and then bending upwards with
a free and stately sweep, while the slender spray hangs in long
lines, yielding to the breeze, with its bright lively green, in early
spring beautifully contrasted with the rich brown of the bark, which
is sometimes varied by a white and yellowish licben, and is cut in-
to rougb and deep furrows.  An account of the planting of these
trees has been already given; there are good grounds to believe
that they are at present one hundred years old.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The parish roads extend to nearly
fourteen miles, and have, of late years, been much improved in
keeping; the outlay has generally been from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2
Sterling on each L. 100 Scots, which, as the valuation of the pa-
rish is L. 5163, 4s.Scots, allows an annual assessment of from
L. 80 to L. 100 Sterling.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church,which is the only one,
and is attended by the great bulk of the population, affords ac-
commodation for 350 persons, exclusive of a private gallery be-
longing to the Earl of Minto. The average number of commu-
nicants is 160.
  Poor.-For the last twenty years and upwards, there has been
very little difference either in the number of persons receiving pa-
rochial aid, or the allowance made to them.  The average of per-
sons may be stated at 8, and the sum allocated to each L. 7.
They have, of late, been chiefly aged persons, and non-resident.
The church collections for the poor, together with the interest
arising from a mortification of L. 50, amount to L. 10, 10s. 10d.
yearly.
  Education.-Sewing is taught by a female, who also gives some
elementary instruction to the younger children; besides this, there
is only the parish school, which last year was attended by 112
scholars.  The branches taught are reading,writing, arithmetic,
mathematies, geography, Latin and French.    The  teacher has
the maximum salary, with the interest of a mortification of L. 100,
He acts as clerk to the beritors and kirk-session.
  There are neither ale-houses nor tolls in the parish, nor, for
some time past, has there been any resident pauper on the poor's
roll.

  October 1838.


