
        140                 ROSS AND CROMARTY.

           Poor and Parochial Funds- The number of poor receiving pa-
	rochial aid is 219. The average sum given to each, is 5s. The
	average amount of collections is L. 30. The interest arising from
	legacies varies, together with the mulcts levied from delinquents;
	and out of the combined amount, precentors, beadle, session-clerk,
	and part of the catechist's salaries are paid. The whole amount
	distributed in 1830 was L. 52 Sterling.
	   Prisons.--There is not one prison for a population of 14,000 in
	the island of Lewis.
	   Fairs.-Near Stornoway, there is a square mile of moor inclos-
	ed for an annual tryst or cattle-market, where several thousand
	head of cattle are exposed for sale, and two thousand at least
	change owners, in two days. The prices and demand depend on the
	southern markets. From 20 to 30 drovers or cattle-dealers come
	how the mainland, and some from England. The market or
	tryst always holds on the second Wednesday of July annually, by
	advertisement ; and the packet waits to bring purchasers across the
	Minch.
	   Inns.-In Stornoway there are 18 houses regularly licensed
	for the vending of spirituous liquors. This number comprises four
	respectable inns, namely, the Royal Oak, Crown, Star and New
	Inn; seven are shops, and the remaining seven miscellaneous; but
	which perhaps would be better distinguished under the appellation
	of petty public-houses, the pest of the morals of the people. The
	quantity of spirits imported last quarter, is 802 gallons, and the
	quantity brought in from the distillery in the neigbbouring parish
	is 328 gallons. The stocks on hand are invariably very inconside-
	rable. These two quantities added together, and quadrupled, may
	be fairly estimated, as the consumption for the year 1831, which,
	calculated at the present rate of duty, yields to his Majesty's Trea-
	sury the sum of L. 753, 6s. 8d. The quantity exported per annum
	is about 300 gallons. Annual consumption 4520 imperial gal-
	Ions.
	   Fuel.-The fuel consists of English and Scotch coal, and most
	excellent black peats. Coals are sold at L. 1, Is. per ton; peats,
	to those who have no carts to lead them home, are almost as dear
	as coal. The peat-cuttipg season is one of joy and hilarity. Eggs,
	butter, cheese, and whisky are brought to the peat bank.

            1833.


