
     Kincardine.

ed and subdivided.-Besides the grounds now described as in
the possession of the farmers, there are about 700 acres inclos-
ed and improved grass ground, that are either in the natural
possession of the proprietor, or let in single inclosures from
year to year, at the rate of 18 s. per acre, at a medium.
   All the sheep kept in the parish are in these inclosures.
The ordinary mode of managing them is, to buy ewes big
with young in the beginning of winter, and to fell the lamb
to the butcher, when of a proper age, and the ewe when fat.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Almost all the labouring servants are unwarmed, and live in the farm
houses.  There are two men, a boy and a women servant employed by almost
every farmer; but, if he has children grown up, they supply the place of
servants. The farmer himself works and fares in the same manner nearly as
his servants do.  Commonly they all seat at the same table.  By the farmers
there are few labourers employed, except in harvest, or the hurry of spring
work; threshing is performed before breakfast in the winter and spring
seasons, and, in the short days, chiefly by candle light.  All the grain, excep-
ting a few beans, is this shed by the time the barley is sown.
   Thulage was formerly universal, for what was called grindable victual, i.e.
for all the oats, not used upon the farm for seed or the horses, and
whatever barley or beans were consumed in the family; but now several of the
proprietors of the mills transact with their own tenants for exemption from
thulage.  Nevertheless, no farmer almost ever sells oats, he has them all
manufactured, and sells the meal.
   The nearly wages of men servants from 30 to 40 years ago were L. 2:10;
ten years later they were L. 5.  Now the foreman in the Cuse has frequently
L. 6:9 The second man L. 7 Lads of sixteen who twenty years ago got L. 2
now get L. 5 In the dry-field, the wages of men servants are generally
30 s. lower that in the carfe.  Women servants have L. 2:10 or L. 3-The
wages of labourers, 30 years ago, were 4 d. per day in winter, and 5 d. in sum-
mer:  About that time they were raised to 5 d. in winter, and 6 d. in summmer.-
They were further entitled to two pecks of med weekly at 8 d per peck,
which was somewhat below the market pride.-About 15 years ago, they re-
served half a merk Scotch in winter, and 8 d. in summer; now 9 d. per day
from Martummas to Candlemass, and I s. during the rest of the year, and also
victuals when cutting hay or employed in harvest.  At other times, when the la-


