
46			     AYRSHIRE.

have tended to increase the number of applicants and expectants,
and to induce the needy to seek to establish a legal residence in
the parish solely on their account. The management of the poor's
funds also, being under so numerous a body of directors, has pro-
bably bad the effect of creating in the community a more general
interest in favour of the poor, than in most other places, and of
obtaining for them a higher rate of aliment than they generally
receive in any of the parishes around. Many of these directors
are fluctuating; they are apt to be guided more by impulses than
by general rules; and hence applications for aliment are decided
on more by feeling, in some cases, than by expediency. Add to
all this, that there is hardly a family in the higher or middling
classes of society, that have not their set of dependents or hangers-
on for private bounty, that partake of what they can spare to re-
lieve their wants and render them comfortable, and whom they are
always earnest to recommend to public charities. Now all this ex-
hibits both an amiable and a Christian spirit; but the consequence
of it has been, that one out of every twenty-three of the population
is a pauper, whereas in Glasgow, the proportion is one in every
forty. It must be perfectly obvious, therefore, that such a state
of things must have a tendency to deteriorate the civil and moral
condition of the lower orders, by breaking down their feelings of
independence, and thus by making them respect themselves less,
rendering them less respectable in the eyes of others.
   With these exceptions, however, it cannot be denied that the
inhabitants of Ayr, in general, will bear to be compared with
those of any other town in Scotland, in regard to those quali-
ties that render a people happy, orderly, and respectable. They
are attentive in general to religious duties, and are also steady and
peaceable in their social and domestic conduct.  They have felt,
no doubt, like those of other places, the fermentation and excite-
ment occasioned by the agitation of questions of reform in Church
and State; but these have never been carried the length of making
them forget the ordinany proprieties of life. On the contrary, we
rather think that any bitternesses thereby produced have been less
marked herethan elsewhere. There are few instances of open crime
among even the lowest of the population, and it is certainly much
to their credit that order is preserved, and property secure, without
the protection of any regular system of police. The streets, and
lanes, and suburbs, may be traversed at all hours of the night in
perfect safety, and popular brawls and tumults are of very rare oc-


