
74                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.


the year 1800, it is impossible to classify the ages of persons above
thirty years. It is certain, howewer, these are a number of healthy,
active people io the parish from fifty to sixty, many from sixty
to ehghty; and a few vigorous aod stout from eighty to ninety.
The avesage numces of children in young families, 5; the num-
bes of iosane in the parish, 1; fatuous, a female, 1 ; bliod, a mame
and a female, 2; deag, a male, 1; dumb, a male, 1.
    Language, Character, &c. of the People- The Gaelic language
is spoken in common conversatioo, aod it is io that language that
the people receive religious instruction with most advantage. Their
language has been rather improved of late by means of Gaelic
schools. The English, however, is gaining ground considerably,
especially among the younger part of the population. The
people are more cleanly in their habits than they were forty
years ago.They dress neatly on public occasions, and in the
cloths and cottons of south country manufacture, make a more
showy appearance than their ancestors in the more homely but
more substantial garbs wrought at home. Their ordinary food
consists of the produce of their lots, viz. oat and barley meal, milk,
potatoes, and cabbages,-witli fish, especially herring. Very little
butcher meat is used by the natives; but ` considerable quantity
of tea and sugar is consumed in the parish.
   The people are social among themselves; kind and hospitable to
strangers, according to their circumstances; acute and intelligent,
according to their advantages; moral in their general habits; regular
in attending on religious ordinances; and many among them
decidedly pious. Smuggling is entirely abandoned by them, and
poaching is almost unknown.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-Except about 600 acres on
the sea coast, which are kept in cultivation by the lotters, the whole
of the land of this parish, formerly in tillage, is, with the adjacent
mountains, hills, and glens, laid out in extensive sheep walks.
From the great extent of the parish, and the nature of its surface,
it is impossible to give its measurement in acres with any degree
of accuracy. The different plots of trees in the parish cover
about 800 acres; and of late years, considerable attention has been
given to the woods in Strathnaver, by pruning and thinning.
   Rent of Land.-The awerage rent of the land occupied by the
lotters is 16s. per acre, including their privilege of hill-common


