
     Statistical Account

parish of Blackford, the soil is mostly, and produces heath in
great abundance, together with a strong and coarse grass.
This however is resorted to by the stronger and older part of
the flocks; and these, 'tis said by the shepherds, are seldom
observed to quit their wild retreat, or to come forward in
quest of the tender and more kindly grass, excepting perhaps
when compelled by the rigour of the storm, to seek shelter on
the fore ground, or lower part of the hills.  At the same
time, it must be remarked, that snow never lies for any
length of time, on the face of those hills*.  It is remarkable
however, that at the bottom of a ridge of rock, near to the
summit of the high hill called Ben-cloch, where it is sheltered
from every wind, snow is frequently seen lying till the month
of June.  What is observed to resist so long the summer's
heat, from the singularity of its extended but narrow form
to the spectator's eye who views it at a distance, has re-
ceived the appellation of Lady Alva's web.
   It has never been the practice of the sheep-farmers here,
to breed young sheep on these hills.  Although they have
generally a few scores of ewes on their farms; yet their lambs
are commonly sold to the butcher.  Of late years indeed,
some attempts have been made to rear a few young sheep,
but these bear no proportion to the number of their stock.
The farmers go every year about mid-summer, to the markets

<FOOTNOTE>

*Snow seldom lies here more than two or three days; and even during
that time, the sheep brouze on the young furze, and are in as good condition,
as if they had been fed on hay.  The flocks have so much shelter from the
situation of the hills, and from the plantations, that they have never mate-
rially suffered from the heaviest falls of snow.  In January 1794, so fatal to
the sheep and cattle in the southern parts of Scotland, and in the north of
England, the farmers in the hills of Alva were so fortunate as scarcely to
lose a sheep.


