
       			       BIGGAR.                               365

	Breeds of Live-Stock.--The cattle in this parish, are a cross be-
tween the Ayrshire and the native breed of the district. The Ayrshire
blood, however, predominates, and is becoming purer every year by
the constant introduction of new stock from the west, and by the
favourable effect of the annual cattle shew at Biggar. The Tees-
water breed has also been introduced to a small extent. A good
many sheep are scattered throughout the parish, but there is only
one flock of eleven score regularly kept up. They are of the old
Tweeddale breed.
	Husbandry.--On the very best croft land the usual rotation is
1. oats; 2. green crop; 3. barley; and 4. hay. But by far the most
general rotation is two crops of oats in succession; 3. green crop;
4. barley or oats; 5. hay; and then three, four, and sometimes five
years pasture. The dairy has become a great object of attention
of late years. Irrigation begins to be practised. Inclosing has
made great progress, and is still proceeding rapidly by stone dikes
on the higher grounds, and thorn hedges on the lower; but the lat-
ter are in general ill kept. The implements of husbandry are of
the most approved description. There are two mills for grinding
oats and barley. There are twenty-five thrashing machines, ten
of which are water-driven. One of these, constructed by Mr James
Watt, an ingenious mill-wright in Biggar, deserves particular men-
tion. The water-wheel is 50 feet below the level of the barn or
machinery, and 120 feet distant from it, the two being, connected by
shafts along an inclined plane; a very useful contrivance where water
cannot be commanded except at a low level. This machine per-
forms remarkably well.--There is a bone-mill in the parish, at
which there is an extensive sale. There is besides this a portable
hand-mill for grinding bones kept by the inventor Mr Bell, brewer
in Biggar. It is worked by three persons who can grind 25 bu-
shels a-day. There are ground with it on an average 375 bushels
a-year, the bones being all collected in Biggar and the immediate
neighbourhood. Such an instrument might be useful in every small
town. One may be made for L. 3. A model of it is to be seen
in the Museum of the Highland Society, who awarded a premium
to the inventor.--The farm buildings in the parish are in general
good. On a farm belonging to Mr Gillespie of Biggar Park, of
195 Scots acres, and L. 300 of rent, a now steading was built in
1831, which cost the proprietor L. 1500, and the tenant L. 300 in
carriages. This is probably the most complete farm-steading in
the county.
	A great deal of the land of this parish is in the hands of


