
754                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

the name alone indicates the previous existence of a place of de-
fence; and the northern extremity of the valley, or where it opens
up to the west, is called Ward Head.  Now, the idea that these
names and relics are vestiges of the defences of Dunnideer, seems
probable, from the circurmstance, that it is only on this side (where
it is nearly approached by other hills and rising grounds), that the
place could have been surprised by any sudden attack, as on all
other sides it commands a very extensive tract of level ground.
   It is possible, however, as the valley in which the traces of these
defences occur forms a principal pass to the Garioch from the
north and west,-that they and the fort of Dunnideer itself had
been erected for the purpose of guarding against invasion from
these quarters.

                        III.-POPULATION.
   According to the Statistical Account of the parish, published
by Sir John Sinclair, the population was estimated, in 1755, at
995 souls; in 1795, at 900, showing a decrease of 90 in the in-
tervening forty years, which decrease is ascribed, by said account,
to the scarcity of fuel then beginning to be felt in places distant
from the coast, and also to the increased demand for hands in the
manufactories, which had drawn off some of the rural population
to the manufacturing towns and villages.

<TABLE>
   	  The population in 1831 amounted to	     1338
               	       the males, numbering	      659
                         the females,	            679

This shews an increase, in the space of thirty-six years, (that is,
from the year 1795 to the year 1831), of 438, an increase which
must be chiefly ascribed to the improvement of waste land, and
the more extensive working of the slate-quarries in Foudland, to
both of which a stimulus was given, by the opening of the canal
from Aberdeen to Inverury, and which afforded considerable en-
couragement to labourers to settle in the parish.
   The present population is 1379, which shews an increase of
41 in the last ten years.  This increase has been altogether in
the village of Insch.  Rather more than a sixth part of the whole
population of the parish, or about 220 persons, reside in this vil-
lage, and there is no other besides it in the parish, but only two
or three, small hamlets, and of these there is none containing
above ten families.

<TABLE>
     The yearly average of births, for the last seven years has been    37
                           deaths,                                      23
                           marriages,                                    7


