
                          ABERDOUR.                            271

eastern extremity, and Cowbog at the western, but, would be of
little advantage to the parishioners, were it not for the great junc-
tion road made by Mr Dingwall, already mentioned, and which
is equal to any turnpike.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands at the northern
extremity of the village of New Aberdour, fronting the High
Street, and is very conveniently situated for the greater part of
the population.  There are several farms in the moors, at a con-
siderable distance from the church, some of them not less than six
or seven miles, but the families upon these farms attend other places
of worship that are less distant, and to which they will soon, in all
probability, be annexed quoad sacra.  The church was erected in
1818, and is in good repair.  It was built to contain 800, but will,
if well packed, accommodate 1000.  The sittings are all free.
   The manse was built in 1822, after a lengthened litigation
with the principal heritor, who maintained, inter alia, that, by the
Act 1663, a minister was entitled to no more than L.1000 Scots,
or L.83, 6s. 8d. Sterling, for building a manse, offices, and garden
walls.  The House of Peers, however, were of a different opinion,
and affirmed the decision of the Court of Session, ordaining the
heritors to build a competent manse and offices, the expense not
exceeding L.1000 Sterling, exclusive of the old materials.  The
benefit of this decision, however advantageous to the church at
large, was in a great measure lost to the present incumbent, in con-
sequence of the Procurator and Agent for the Church, (over whom
the minister had no control, as the cause had been taken up by the
church, to be conducted at their expense,) having sanctioned a
plan, which was executed for about L.600, and allowed the clergy-
man, after eight years' delay, and a triumphant victory, to put his.
hand into his own pocket, and furnish himself with about one-third
of the accommodation which was absolutely necessary for his com-
fort.
   The glebe, including grass ground, and the site of the houses,
is between 7 and 8 acres, and may be considered worth about
L.2 per acre.  The stipend is 15 chalders of victual, half meal,
half barley, paid according to the fiars, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for
communion elements.  There are no chapels of ease, Govern-
ment churches missionaries, catechists, Dissenting or Seceding
chapels, Episcopalian chapels, or Catholic chapels within the pa-
rish.  There are a few individuals, scattered through the parish
belonging to other persuasions, but, with the exception of one wea-


