
                             FLISK
                                                           609
met by drawing upon the principal in the bank, and by donation
from the heritos.
  Fairs, &c.-There no fairs, inn, or alehouses ini the parish.
  Fuel.- Coal is the, fuel used. It is chiefly brought in vessels
to the beach from the north of England, at 13s. 6d., or from the
banks of the Forth, at 11s. 6d. the ton. Sometimes, however, it is
driven from the Balbirnie pit, twelve miles off, or from Newburgh
and Balmerino, as sloops will not discharge their cargo on the strand
during winter. The farmer chiefly consumes English, the cottager
Scotch coal.

          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERRVATIONS.
 Since the-fortner Statistical Account was drawn up in 1792, the
population of the parish has decreased from, 331 to 256. The
number of farms is also less, the parish being almos entirely par-
titioned at present into seven large famrs, from 190 to 490 impe-
rial acres each. Bothies have been partially introduced. The
extent of cultivated ground is greater by fully more than one-half
of what it was in 1972, having increased from 1387 to 2120 impe-
rial acres. Sheep are not now regularly kept; at a former pe-
riod, they were. The breed was small. Fed on the natural pas-
ture during the day, they were enclosed in "fathe-folds" during
the night. These folds, changed, every few days, for the sake of
manuring the ground, were built by the shepherd. The fence was
a turf dike, which was thrown down when the ploughing season
came.
  The plough, attended by a driver, as well as managed by a plough-
man, was drawn, in winter, by four cattle and two horses; and in
the end of spring, when they went four cattle and two horses; and in
by two cattle and two horses. The oldest cattle were sold to the
grazier after the barley-seed was sown, and being seven or eight
years old, were of a good size. The plough itself was a rude in-
strument nine or ten feet long, all made of wood except the cul-
ter, sock, and "reeshoe". The wood was supplied by the farmer.
The iron was worth about 6s. The carpenter and smith were
not paid for each job, but received so much corn in the year for
doing the work on the farm. The ploughman was generally a
married man, and had one or one and a half Scotch acres, about
one and a quarter or one and three quarters imperial acres. On



