
794                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

cing no family to those which have, 1 to 17 3/4.  Number of in-
sane, two; partially insane, one; fatuous, one; blind, partially,
two; deaf and dumb, none.
   Character of the People.-As regards the general character of
the people, they are more intelligent, and better informed than
they formerly were.  Newspapers are widely and greedily read,
and some are anxious to improve their minds from other sources.
The value of education begins to be more deeply appreciated,
and where the young have the means of obtaining it, they manifest
much readiness in apprehending the instruction communicated to
them.  In point of morality, the people are generally decent and
well-behaved; the chief excesses whereof they are guilty, arising
from the abuse of ardent spirits, into which a good many occa-
sionally fall, from the facilities with which spirits are to be had.
   In respect to religion, a just and proper value is put by the gene-
rality of the people on its ordinances, and much exertion is made by
those living in the distant corners of the parish to attend church.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of arable acres in the parish, as
nearly as can be ascertained, is about 3360 imperial acres; but
they bear a small proportion to the unimproved, of which there are
probably not less than upwards of 40,000 imperial acres.  Of late
years, considerable additions have been made to the arable portion
of the parish by squaring fields, and draining wet parts; but
such is the rugged and barren nature of the great bulk of the
remainder, that any large additions from it can never be made.
The number of acres under wood is as follows; on the estate of
Finzean, 1800 imperial acres; of Aboyne, about 900 acres; Bal-
logie, about 960; Midstrath, 50; in all, 3710.  Of this large
number, however, many acres are comparatively thin, from the
quantities of timber that have been sold and carried away for
many years.  The great proportion of the plantations is of Scots
fir, many individual trees of which have come to great size, and
produced a fine quality of timber.  The annual value of wood
sold in the parish for many years has been little short of L.1000
Sterling, and often considerably more; and if the proprietors con-
tinue to plant, in proportion to what they cut down, nearly this
sum may be realized for many years to come.
   The average rent of the land I acre is as follows:-
on the property of Finzean, L.1, 4s. 7d.; Aboyne, L.1, 0s. 6d.;
Ballogle, L.1, 2s. 10d.; Midstrath, L.1, 4s. 9d.  Average, taking


