
436                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

been as high as 30.9, and as low as 27.8; but these are extremes
which it approaches but seldom.
  From the number and he heights of the hills, already described as
bounding the parish towards the east, south, and west, there falls
a greater quantity of rain, particularly in the heights of the parish,
than in any similar extent of Easter Ross.  The general tempera-
ture of the atmosphere is, from the same causes  proportionably
low.  From the nature of the soil, however, this is of much ad-
vantage to the lower ground, which, to be productive, requires fre-
quent showers; and the climate, generally speaking, is favourable
and healthy.
  It is remarkable how seldom storms of thunder and lightning,
occur, and especially when contrasted with the frequency of such
phenomena in the neighbouring county of Sutherland.  The au-
rora borealis or polar lights, when visible on the coast of the north-
ern counties, appear to great advantage in most parts of this pa-
risb.  That rare phenomenon, a lunar iris, was visible here about
six years ago; and the beautiful colours of the rainbow, though
subdued and chastened by the pale light of the moon, were dis-
tinctly seen;

		For the gay beams of lightsome day,
		Gild, but to float the rainbow's ray.

  The prevailing and most powerful winds are from the west; a
fact indicated by the inclination of the trees eastward, where the
Soil is light and the locality exposed.  The hurricane which blew
on Christmas-day, 1806, forced in, and totally destroyed two win-
dows in the western gable of the manse, and otherwise damaged
the roof, though the house had been built but a few years pre-
viously.  The east wind is, however, very prevalent, and is colder
and more disagreeable than any other, comparatively sheltered
the parish is on the eastward.
  The district may be generally stated as healthy; and the most
prevalent distempers, as influenza, bronchitis pulmonary, rheuma-
tic, and asthmatic complaints, are often aggravated, but seldom
occasioned by the climate.  Strictly speaking, the diseases caused
by cold and variable climate are anasarca, dyspepsia, paralysis,
scrofula, acidity, typhoid fevers, and cedematous swellings of the
legs.  Such cases, however, are rare in this parish, excepting
dyspepsia and acidity, which are occasioned as much by other
causes as by that of elimate.
  Hydrography.-The Dornoch Frith runs along the whole of


