
                             PAISLEY.                          299

   Medical Faculty.-The medical practitioners in Paisley and
Johnston are at present 34.  There is a "Medical Society"
in the town, for mutual improvement by monthly meetings, read-
ing essays, conversation, &c.  A valuable medical library is at-
tached to the House of Recovery, in whose committee room the so-
ciety holds its meetings.  From the funds of this institution, the
sum of L. 10, 10s. is annually given to the library, as a small ac-
knowledgment of the valuable gratuitous services of the faculty.
   New Coal Company.-A company. has been lately formed for
working the coal in the fields of Hartfield and Meikleriggs, within
a mile of the town.  If the coal is good and in sufficient quantity,
the additional supply thus furnished to the town will be of essen-
tial service to its trade and manufactures.
   Periodicals, &c.-The Paisley Repository, 2 vols.; the " Harp
of Renfrewshire," a collection of ancient and modern poetry, chiefly
the products of the district, with interesting biographical sketches
of the " poets of Renfrewshire;" and the " Paisley Magazine,"
edited by the late Mr Motherwell, and characterized by talent and
varied local information,-may be mentioned as favourable speci-
mens of the periodical and ordinary literature of Paisley.
   Newspapers.-A very respectable weekly paper, entitled, " The
Paisley Advertiser," published every Saturday morning, has sur-
vived considerable opposition, and promises to maintain its present
position from the fairness of its details, the soundness of its prin-
ciples, and the judgment and good sense which generally charac-
terize it.  Its circulation is at present greater than at any former
period.  Another weekly journal, called the Glasgow Saturday
EveningPost, and Paisley and Renfrewshire Reformer, is printed
at Glasgow, and published there and at Paisley at the same hour.
It advocates ultra-radical politics, and is eagerly perused by those
who are attached to these views.  Sixty years ago only one news-
paper was known as coming to Paisley.  It belonged to the ma-
gistrates, and it lay on the council table for the use of respectable
freemen.  Its name, the Edinburgh Couran.  Now, there are com-
paratively few individuals above the lowest rank who do not enjoy
the luxury of a peep at least, into one or more of these influential
organs of public sentiment.
   Libraries.-The " Public Subscription Library" is a valuable
collection of miscellaneous literature.  It now amounts to 4500 vo-
lumes, and it is supported by 200 subscribers.  The " Trades Li-
brary," supported chiefly by the operative classes, is a very extensive


