
     of Portree.

fire to it, allowed none to escape, but all were either smo-
thered to death in their sleep, or miserably perished in the
flames in confirmation of this tradition, a man, not long
since dead, found, about 60 years ago, a large brass kettle
in a dark corner in the farther end of the cave, and bones
of different sizes are still to be seen in it.  It abounds in
Stalactites, which partly hang from the arch above, and
partly fall down; many of them having several holes
through and through, and are great curiosities.  The other
cave is not far distant, and is supposed to be several miles
deep.  It is said of this cave, that, a very long time past,
a piper, and four other men, with two mastiffs and lighted
candles, went in to it for the purpose of investigation, and
to find its depth; but that none of them returned to give
any information regarding it.  The piper, says the story,
was heard at Loch-fad, (more than a mile distant), playing
a tune, purporting, that the candles went out, his compa-
nions were lost, and himself never returned.  This is not
the only cave in Sky, concerning which such stories are
told; but with what degree of credit they should be recei-
ved, every man may judge for himself.  Among the num-
ber of natural curiosities may justly be reckoned the cas-
cade above mentioned.  The stream from Loch-leichan,
which, in that part, is the boundary between the east side
of Snizort and this parish, running over a very high pre-
cipice, as already observed, and breaking, in white foam,
on the top of another rock below, forms a fall of water
beautiful and magnificent in the extreme.  Within the
cascade the rock is gradually hollowed, almost from the top,
into a wide space, where a great number of men might,
with ease, sit round a table, without being in the least in-
commoded by the water falling without.  To this place,
till of late, an easy path led through the declivity on each
side, but now such quantities of loose earth and gravel fall


