
     of Kilconqubar.

Kilconquhar, commonly called Kilconquhar Loch, almost
3/4 of a mile in length, and about ¬ of a mile in breadth.
This loch was originally called Redmire, from which much
fuel was got, as peat and turf.  It had a drain westward to
the sea.  There is a tradition here, that in the year 1624 or
1625, the drain was filled up with sand driven by a violent
gust of wind from the sea, and that the water, thus stopped in
its course, became a lake.  Between 60 and 70 swans used
greatly to enliven and adorn this loch; but they deserted
it about 20 years ago.  There are 9 at present.  In the
loch are several small islands planted with shrubs, formed
for the use of the swans: they hatch in the month of May.

   Country Seats.-There is a variety of beautiful country
seats in this parish, among which Balcarras is conspicous,
situated on an eminence, with a gentle declivity to the

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

* A Species of birds called bald coots, are also on the loch in great
numbers, resembling crows, but have longed legs; they make then nest.
on the flags, and batch in May, and food upon
They left the loch, it reported, about 40 years
again for ten years. Here are wild ducks; herald ducks, as to-
ed here, (perhaps heron ducks), smaller than wild ducks, with a
wing, red head, and gray  feathers a  of duck called
widgeon, somewhat less than the herald duck; and  smaller than
these ducks.  These ducks appcar on the loch in great abundance in
summer, but leave it in winter In the evening, they fly off in a body
to the sea, is is supposed, and return through the night.  The only fishes
in the loch are pixes and eels; of the former some weigh 1415 some
16 lb and are, some 36, some 38 inches long.  There is a drain in the
loch to tire south, where the eels are taken in an ark; they go to the sea
in autumn.  Perches have been seen in the loch, but they are destroyed,
it is thought, by the pikes.-The gray plover and fieldfare come bither
in October, and leave us the beggining of March; the gicen plover, as
it were by concert, comes to us in March, and leaves us in October
The lark, blackbird, thrush, with birds of almost every note and every
feather, haunt a pleasant wood of Sir John Anstruther's on the south of
Kilconquhar loch, where there are charming walks adoined with flowers
and shrubs, and lovely bowers

</UNREADABLE>


