
244                        RENFREWSHIRE.

society was dissolved about five years ago, when an Association was
formed chiefly of members of the Established Church.  That As-
sociation has been able to employ three licentiates of the church
as parish missionaries, who labour in some of the most populous
places of the town and Abbey parishes.  They are appointed by
the session of the parish in which they labour, and under whose super-
intendence they are considered as particularly placed.  The funds
for their support are raised by subscription, and by collections on
Sabbath evenings, when the ministers of these parishes take, each
his turn of preaching in the High Church.
   Sabbath Schools.-Besides the parish missionary Association,
there are in Paisley two Sabbath school societies, one supported
by members of the Established church, and the other chiefly by
persons connected with the different denominations of evangelical
Dissenters.  The original Sabbath School Society, in this place,
was established in the year 1796; and for nearly thirty years was
supported by individuals of all denominations, who were disposed
to give it their countenance.  But in the year 1833 it was found that
the members of the Established and dissenting churches, from causes
arising out of the Establishment controversy, could no longer
co-operate with that harmony, which had hitherto existed among
them ; in consequence of which a separation took place, which gave
rise to the two distinct Associations now mentioned.  Still, however
this separation, we ought to remark, has decidedly increased the
number attending Sabbath schools in Paisley.  There were last
year not less then 4198 in attendance on these schools, being about
2000 more than are found on the list of the Society previous to the
separation.  The schools of both Societies are conducted on the
same principle, and use the same books.  Most of the Sabbath
schools have juvenile religious libraries attached to them.  The
system of local arrangement is adopted as far as practicable, and
a vigilant system of visitation is maintained.
   Ministers' Classes.-Most of the clergymen, both Established
and dissenting, have long been in the habit of instructing weekly
classes of young men and young women of their congregations and
parishes, in the principles of the gospel, by way of free and familiar
catechising on the Scriptures or approved catechisms.  The num-
bers in these classes vary from about 2O to l5O.  The greatest bene-
fit has been found to result from these interesting departments of
pastoral duty.
   Education.-In these parishes, there has Hitherto been a great
                              3


