
   130                      BANFFSHIRE.

   &c. raised from seed procured from abroad, have been introduced
   into the moor plantations on the BaIlindalloch estate, which are
   also doing well.  The whole wood on that property within the pa-
   rish may be estimated at from 1100 to 1200 acres, of which 800
   are planted, and from 300 to 400 natural.    The only other plan-
   tation in the parish is a thriving one, also of Scotch fir and larch,
   on the small estate of Colquoicb.

 			   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   	Historical Events.-The battle of Altachoylachanan or Glenlivet,
   the most important historical event connected with this parish, lias
   already been so frequently described in other publications, as to re-
   quire but a very cursory notice in this place.* This battle, in which
   the Earl of Huntly defeated the Marquis of Argyle, was fought on
   the 4th of October 1594, upon an inclined plain near the Glen-
   rinnes border of the parish, terminating in a flat ridge, which de-
   scends rapidly to the burn of Altachoylachan, and flanked on the
   south by a somewhat precipitous shoulder of the contiguous moun-
   tain.  Here, on ground equally adapted for withstanding his op-
   ponent, and for affording a safe retreat in the event of defeat, Ar-
   gyle, who, it is allowed on all hands, had numbers on his side, wait-
   ed the attack.  His right, commanded by Sir John M'Lean, oc-
   cupied the shoulder of the mountain, above alluded to, and fought
   manfully-but treachery in the centre and left powerfully aided
   his opponent, who had also the advantage of some pieces of artil-
   lery, Besides M'Neil of Barra, Campbell of Lochnell, Argyle's
   nearest heir, and his brother, to whom some also add Sir John
   M'Lean, about 500 were slain on the side of Argyle.  On Hunt-
   ly's, Sir Patrick Gordon of Aucbindown, Gordon of Gight, and
   twelve others were killed, and a much greater number wounded,
   among whom was the Earl of Errol.  About three-quarters of a
   mile from the scene of action, a small knoll on the east bank of
   the stream Coulalt, commonly called Lord Auchindown's cairn,
   two-thirds of it swept away by the flood of 1829, marks the place
   where Sir P. Gordon of Auchindown is supposed to have died.
  	 Somewhat more than a century subsequent to this battle, this
   and the adjoining parishes found a troublesome neighbour in James
   Grant, commonly called James an Tuim, as may be seen by
   reference to the History of the Troubles and Memorable Trans-
   actions in Scotland in the Reign of Charles I., published by John

<FOOTNOTE>See Sir R. Gordon's History of the Gordons also Shaw's History of Moray, and
   Brown's History of Highlands.


