
                            BEDRULE.                        287

branches all springing out near one another. They must at least
be a century old.
   Newton.--This village, in point of size and importance, is next
to Bedrule.  The estate of Newton formerly belonged to a family of
the name of Ker, cadets of the family of Fernihirst.  There was a
house of strength there, which is now demolished.  The foundations
of the old mansion-house, with the venerable avenue of trees, still
bespeak the taste and grandeur of the olden times.  It was lately in
the possession of William Ogilvie, Esq. of Chesters, who sold it to
the present proprietors, Thomas and John Scott, Esqs.  The com-
munion cups of Bedrule church were a present from Ker of New-
ton and his lady, according to the inscription* on each of them,
bearing date 1716.  Newton now forms but one farm, though it
was divided into two in the memory of persons Still living.  But
Stirkrigg, the name of the other farm, is not now discernible, the
farm-house and all its appendages have passed away, and the plough
has obliterated all vestiges of the place where it stood.
   Proprietors and Tenants.--Sir William Francis Ellott, Bart. of
Stobs and Wells, is the chief heritor, being the proprietor of Bed-
rule and Fulton.  Besides Sir William, there are four considerable
proprietors, and four smaller ones.  None of the heritors, are resi-
dent, except George Bell, Esq. of Menslaws, who farms his own
property with great skill and success.
   Parochial Register.--The registration of births, deaths, and mar-
riages, seems to have been kept much better at an early period, than
at present.  The Session Records of this parish go back as far as
about 1660; but the precise date cannot be ascertained, as the leaves
at the beginning have been mutilated.  This book, both for
its singular form and penmanship, and the minuteness and accu-
racy with which every public transaction both of ministers and el-
ders, is recorded, both on Sundays and on week-days, is a valu
able relique of the olden times.  It is of a narrow oblong form, be-
ing a folio doubled lengthways, like a merchants day-book.  The
paper is coarse, and so closely written that every inch of it is oc-
cupied. It is to be regretted that many pages at, the commence-
ment and in some other places are so worn and defaced as to be
illegible.  The registration of births has been very irregularly kept for -
many years past, and though the present incumbent has repeatedly
and earnestly impressed the propriety and duty of parents enrolling

<FOOTNOTE>The words of the inscription are-- "This cup gifted by Newton Ker and his Ladie
to the church of Dedaroule, 1716."


