
248                       LANARKSHIRE.

a public reading-room, where the newspapers of the day, and various
tracts and pamphlets are exhibited.
	There is an Orphan society, supported by donations, subscrip-
tions, and collections at the churches and meeting-houses occa-
sionally, for clothing and educating orphans and other destitute
children.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor on the roll
is about 190 on an average, and the sum distributed monthly is
between L. 50 and L. 60 Sterling, in sums to each individual of
from 2s. to 10s. according to the circumstances. The money is
raised by collections at the parish church and chapel of Airdrie,
from mortcloth dues, proclamation of marriages, and assessments
to make up the deficiency. The assessments may amount on an
average to L. 467. The Dissenters give no part of the collections
at their meeting-houses to the poors funds of the parish, although
their poor are supplied from these funds equally with others.
Among the agricultural part of the population, there is a great
aversion to come on the poors funds; they consider it degrading;
but that spirit is almost extinct among the manufacturing and mining
population.
	Prison.--In Airdrie there is a prison consisting of five cells or
small apartments, which are dry, and in good order, and well se-
cured; and in which riotous and disorderly people are confined,
as a punishment for their criminal conduct.
	Fairs.--There are two fairs yearly in Airdrie for the sale of
cattle; one of them is held in the end of May, the other about the
middle of November; there is also a weekly market every Tuesday.
The number of inns and alehouses is by far too great.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the time of the former Statistical Account, the population
and trade of the parish have greatly increased, and much of the
land is better cultivated. Besides the toll-road and rail-road for-
merly mentioned, the statute labour roads of the parish have been
greatly extended and improved. The quantity of dung now rais-
ed in Airdrie is considerable,--which, with the Cumbernauld lime,
and improved roads, affords the means of improving the land. Still,
however, in the east and north-east parts of the parish, there is a
great want of planting, and much of the land is very bare and
naked, and far from being fertile. If summer fallowing were prac-
tised, it would also be a great improvement; but it is difficult to,
persuade farmers to deviate from the practice of their fathers.


