
                          DRUMOAK.                           891

grain sown out with rye-grass and clover; 5. hay; 6. and 7. pas-
ture; but as top-dressing is difficult to be procured, and as the
light soils are much pulverized by the frequent ploughings to which
they are subjected under this rotation,  it is thought by many too
exhausting.  Several farmers have, therefore, tried a six-shift ro-
tation, under which only one crop of grain is taken before the fal-
low crop-a system which is certainly preferable in many respects
to the former, as much labour and seed are saved, Without any se-
rious diminution being experienced in the yearly quantity of grain,
on account of the improved condition into which it brings the
land.  After a few years trial of this course of cropping, however,
some complained that it did not produce a sufficient quantity of
straw, in consequence of which they abandoned it, and have re-
turned to the seven-shift rotation.  Before the powerful effects of
bone-dust were discovered, the expense attending the carriage of
night-soil from Aberdeen rendered it necessary, in a great mea-
sure, to regulate agricultural operations by the contents of the
farm-yard; but this excellent manure being, now extensively and
successfully employed here in the raising of turnips, the farmer is
enabled to apply the home-manure to his other crops, and when a
portion of the turnips is eaten off with sheep, the light soil is
thereby consolidated, and rendered much more fertile.
   Draining and Embanking.-A considerable breadth of marshy
land has been reclaimed by draining; but the system of thorough
draining has not yet been introduced, although it might be appli-
ed with great advantage to different parts of the parish.  The in-
creased exertions which, of late years, have been made through-
out the country generally, to effect a more perfect drainage of wet
land, have rendered the Dee subject to more frequent and much
higher floods than formerly, so that embanking is now absolutely
necessary for the protection of its haughs.  This operation, how-
ever, has hitherto been confined in this parish to the estate of
Park, on which an embankment, 2320 yards in extent, was begun
by Mr Burnett, and completed by the late proprietor in 1821, and
cost upwards of L.1000.  It was finished in the most substantial
manner, and according to the most approved plans, but was so
breached and otherwise injured by the great flood in August 1829,
that an additional sum of L.1000 had to be expended in repairing
it.  On that occasion it was considerably strengthened, and piers
were projected at the curves to break the force of the stream, so
that no apprehension was entertained of its speedily giving way a


