
     Statistical Account

On two farms adjacent to this village, for several years
past, from 80 to 90 acres of turnip have been raised; and
on several other farms to the westward, from 20 to 30 acres.
A few sheep, and a great number of black cattle, were fed
with these turnips, and sold to the butcher.  Potatoes like-
wise are raised to a considerable extent; for, besides what 
the tenants and their cottages raise for the use of their
families, a number of people in the village and neighbour-
hood rent land from the tenants, and plant it with potatoes,
at the rate of L. 4 or L. 5 the acre.  They esteem this root
both an agreeable and wholesome food, and it is one of the
principal articles on which they subsist for a considerable 
part of a season.  The ploughing with two horses with-
out a driver is a method which is universally adopted in
this country.  Some affirm, that a plough with two horses 
will perform as much work in a day, as one with four
which was formerly used.  Others are of a different opi-
nion.  There are in the parish about 20 tenants, remark-
able for their industry, application, and knowledge in agri-
culture.  Indeed, a set of more intelligent and respectable
tenants are scarcely to be found any where.  One of these
lately wrote an essay upon the best method of raising a green
crop, for which he was adjudged a gold medal, value L. 5,
5 s. by the Trustees for the Improvement of Fisberies and
Manufactures, etc.  He bath since written another essay 
upon the same subject, for which he was also adjudged a
gold medal of the same value.  But it is now said, that in
lieu of these medals, the Trustees intend to compliment 
him with a piece of plate.  There are about 46 or 47
ploughgates in the parish, and each ploughgate is assessed
in L. 1 Sterling, for making and repairing the roads.  The
heritors meet every year, according to act of Parliament,
for the allocation of this assessment, and are extremely at-
tentive to this important branch of police.  On this ac-


