
                              PAISLEY.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Accounts.-We are not aware of any MS. accounts
of the town or parishes of Paisley.  The principal sources of infor-
mation regarding the past history and present state of Paisley are
the following: Crawfurd's History of Renfrewshire, first published
in 1710; republished with additions by William Semple, a native
of Paisley, in 1782; and edited for the third time, with continua-
tion and additions by George Robertson, in 1818;-Description of
the Sheriffdom of Renfrew, compiled about 1810 by William Ha-
milton of Wishaw ; and printed with illustrative notes and appen-
dices by the Maitland Club of Glasgow, 1831 ;-Description of
Renfrewshire by Principal Dunlop of Glasgow, published by the
Maitland Club, 1818 ;-Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. iii.;-Mr
Wilson's Agricultural Survey;-Dr Burns on the Poor;-The
Paisley Magazine 1818;-Historical and Descriptive Sketch of
Paisley prefixed to the Paisley Directory of 1832-3 ;-and Swan's
Description of the Town and Abbey of Paisley, 1835.
   Black Book of Paisley.-The celebrated " Black Book of Pais-
ley" has by many been supposed to contain a history of ancient
Paisley, or at least of its venerable monastery.  It turns out to be
nothing more than the famous " Scotichronicon" of John Fordun,
who lived about the middle of the fourteenth century, and was a
native of the village of Fordoun, in Kincardineshire, from which
he seems to have taken his name.  He undertook the task of
writing the chronicles of Scotland, from a laudable desire to sup-
ply the want of those historical monuments which Edward I. car-
ried away to England.  The work commences at a period nearly
coeval with the beginning of the world, and after two books of what
may be considered as fabulous matter, we have a very respectable
repository of events in Scotland, from 1056 to 1153.  The first
seven chapters of the first book contain " a general description
of the world and its divisions;" and then begins the history of
Scotland.  Geythelus, the son of a Grecian King, is said to have
been banished by his father into Egypt, where he married SCOTA,
the daughter of that very Pharaoh who perished in the Red Sea.
As Moses under Divine commnd led the Israelites eastward, so
Geythelus and Scota are said to have led their followers westward,
where they discovered a " fair island to the north." Geythelus
did not live to visit it, but his son Hyber (hence Hibernia) landed
on it, and called it Scotia in memory of his mother! Thus the
venerable priest claims for his country a sufficiently high antiquity.


