
                            GOVAN.                             683

1651, a discussion on some of the controverted points of the times
was held in his presence, between his chaplains, the learned Dr
John Owen, Joseph Caryl, and others on the one side, and some
Scots ministers on the other. Mr Binning, who was one of the
disputants, nonplused, it is said, the Independents, which led
Cromwell ask, who was that learned and bold young man?  His
name, he was told, was Binning.  " He hath bound well, indeed,"
said he, " but," laying his hand on his sword, " this will loose all
again." *  The late Mr Orme + was of opinion that there is no-
thing improbable in the account of the meeting.  But that such
a meeting took place is absolutely certain.  This appears from
two letters which were written by Principal Baillie, who was at
that time Professor of Theology in the University of Glasgow. ++

<FOOTNOTE>bound to " read some public lecture in the common schools of the College, as shall
be prscribed to him by the officers of the University and Masters of the College."
( Account of University of Glasgow, [written by Dr Thomas Reid, Prof. of Moral
Phil.] in former Statistical Account of Scotland, Vol. xxi. Append. p. 24.)
  For a number of years previous to this, the non-residence of the minister of Govan
was felt to be a grievance, and complained of by the parishioners.  At a presbyterial
visitation on the 1st of June 1596, " It is fund yt yair is na residence of a mist. at
the kirk of Govane, qlk is havelie lametit be ye elderis of ye kirk of Govane."  (Glasg.
Presb. Rec.) " It is fund and lametit," at a subsequent visitation, on the 12th of
February 1606, " yat yair is not ane to teiche ye youthe of ye parochin of Govane
dwelland besyde ye kirk yairof, quha may avaitt on ye effairis of ye said kirk, and do
his dewtie yairuntill, as salbe injoynit to him.  And yis is a ordenit as a refer to be
comettit to ye nixt Synod, That ye Synod may give yair judgemet and declaratiuon anet."
(Id.) Charles I. granted to the College a charter of cnnfirmation and novadamus,
under the Great Seal, dated St James's, 28th June 1630 which was ratified on the
28th of June 1633, by an Act of the Parliament of Scotland.  This charter gave full
power to the College to present a qualified person to the church and parish of Govan
their presentee being astricted to reside in the parish.  The words of the charter are,
" Cum plena et speciali potestate, moderatoribus dicti Collegii de Glasgow presenti-
bus, eorumque successoribus in futurum, elegendi, nominandi, seu presentandi et
acceptandi ministrum pro deservitione curae apud dictam ecclesiam de Gowan, qui
praestabit suam actualem residentiam apud dictam ecclesiam."   (information for He-
ritors of Govan, against Principal and Professors of the College of Glasgow, 1795,
p. 19 Glasg.Presb. Rec. 18th June 1746.)  During the time that Episcopacy was
established in this country, the College of Glasgow appointed " one of their number
to vote at the election of the Archbishop of Glasgow," as Govan had been a prebend
of the cathedral.  Parishes in Scotland, p. 208, Macfarlan MSS. in Bib. Ad.
          Biog. Scot. p. 169. Dumfries, 1835.          Memoirs of Dr Owen, pp. 93-96.
          In a letter dated April 22, 1651, and addressed to Mr Robert Douglas, Baillie
says, after mentioning that Cromwell had unexpectedly made his appearance in
Glasgow, with the principal part of his army, and had gone to hear sermon on the
Sunday, in the forenoon to the Iner Church, and in the afternoon to the Outer
Church, "That night some of the army were trying if the ministers would be pleased
of their own accord to confer with their general.  When none had shown any willing-
ness, on Monday a gentleman from Cromwell came to the most of the breathen severally
desiring, yea requiring them, and the rest of the ministry in town, to come and speak
with their general.  All of us did meet the advise, and after some debate we were
content all to go and hear what would be said.  When we came, he spoke long and
smoothly, showing the scandal himself and others had taken at the doctrine they had
heard preached, especially that they were condemned, 1. as unjust invaders; 2. as
contemners and tramplers under foot of ordinances; 3. as persecutors of the minis-
ters of Ireland.  That, as they were unwilling to offend us by public contradicting


