
148                LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

when or by whom these embankments were made; probably they
were effected by James, first Lord Hamilton. *
   Between Bo'ness harbour and the mouth of the Avon, about
1000 acres of a muddy surface are exposed at low water. These,
if reclaimed from the sea for agricultural purposes, would be a va-
luable addition to the Carse of Kinneil. This part of the Frith
is becoming shallower, owing to the accumulation of mud brought
down by the Avon and Carron, and especially by the Forth; and
the beach is assuming more of a fluviatic, character. Sir Robert
Sibbald says, "These shallows have the name of the Lady's Scaup. *
The Dutch did offer some time ago to make all that scaup good
arable ground and meadow, and to make barbours and towns there
in convenient places, upon certain conditions, which were not ac-
cepted."
   It has been the general opinion that the eastern termination of
the Forth and Clyde Canal should have been at Bo'ness, as this
town and harbour possess important advantages which can never
be obtained at the mouth of Grangeburn. The merchants and
inhabitants of Bo'ness, perceiving that this canal (commenced in
1768) would put an end to their trade with Glasgow, hitherto
carried on by means of pack-horses and carriers' carts, in order to
retain at least a share of it, proposed to make a branch from the
great canal to the harbour of Bo'ness. Two Acts of Parliament,
and subscriptions to the amount of L. 10,000 were obtained; the
canal was cut from the river Avon eastward, within a mile of the
town, and an aqueduct across the Avon was nearly completed;
but, after an outlay of about L. 7500, the work was abandoned,
when not half-finished. The circumstances which prevented the
accomplishment of this desirable undertaking need not be stated;
but they were, and still are, deeply regretted by the inhabitants of
this town, especially on seeing their trade turned into another chan-
nel. Much of it passed by the canal direct to Glasgow, and the
larger vessels discharged at Grangemouth, which was only a creek
of this port, but then became its rival, and was eventually erected
into a separate port.

<FOOTNOTE> About the year 1470, a charter, under the great seal, was granted, "Jacobo
Domino de Hamylton, de terris infra mare lucrandis, versus terras de Kinnele et
Burwardstoun."
    Formerly there was an abundant supply of excellent shell fish near this place.
In 1803, the Newhaven fishermen came hither in a large fleet of boats, and almost
wholly remove an extensive scalp or bed of muscles. A few individuals belonging
to the port pursued them in boats, and recovered part of the plunder, but did not
succeed in restoring the scalp, as the greatest part of the muscles was cast into deep
water, and those which were replaced did not thrive.


