
     Statistical Account

   Situation, Extent, and general Appearance.  These parishes, are
situated in the upper part of Strathern, in Perthshire.  They are of
a triangular form, and of considerable extent; being about 8 miles
long, from N. to S. and about 6 miles broad from E. to W.
The general appearance of the country is romantic.  The
Grampian mountains, on the north, are among the higher in
the neighbourhood.  The lesser hills, in the bottom, are pic-
turesque in their forms, having their tides covered with fine
copse wood, and their heads crowned with firs.  The river Era
flows, in beautiful curves, in the bottom of the valley.

   Soil and Cultivation.-The soil is various, but the greater
part is light and gravelly.  The haughs on the banks of
the Ern, which are frequently overflown, produce rich crops.
The banks next the bottom, have long been cultivated as
infields; that is, ground which receives all the manure, pro-
duced from the lands in the tenants possession.  It is therefore
very rich; but, from constant culture in white crops, is much
infested with weeds, especially if frequent mild rains succeed
sowing.  Late lowing is therefore practiced under the old hus-
bandry; the inconvenience of which is the less felt, as the soil
is dry, well exposed, and well sheltered, and therefore naturally
early.  Another kind of soil, employed in tillage, lies on the
banks above the infields.  This ground is prepared for yield-
ing three crops of oats, by folding the cattle upon it, or by
watering it, by means of the rivulets which run from the
hills:  And, after being thus cropped, it is thrown into grass.
These fields, not being sown with grass seeds, suffer much, from
their toping posture, before they gather a swair sufficient to pre-
vent the heavy rains from washing away great part of the
finest of the soil.  They are now, however, at least in some
parts of the parish, allotted for the winter pasture of the sheep
that are kept on the hills in summer.  The infield grounds,


