
                                PARISH OF URR. *

		 PRESBYTERY OF DUMFRIES, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

		  THE REV. GEORGE M. BURNSIDE, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name and Situation.--According to the former Statistical
Account of this parish, the ancient orthography was Vr, and the
pronunciation Wur or Whur, though it has long been frequently
pronounced and spelt Orr. The lake out of which the river Urr,
which bounds this parish for a considerable distance on the west
side, issues, is called Locb Whur to this dav; and, there are still
some people in this country whose family name is M'Whir.
	Boundaries.--The parish is bounded on the east by the pa-
rishes of Lochrutton and Kirkgunzeon; on the south, by Colvend
and Buittle; on the west, by Crossmichael; and on the north, by
Kirkpatrick-Durham and Kirkpatrick-Irongray.
	The wind is generally from the south-west, and almost `ll the
heavy gales are also from that direction.
	Extent and Mountains.--The length of Urr, nearly from north
to south, is about 16 English miles, and its average breadth about 2 1/2
miles. The total surface of the parish must therefore be about 40
square miles. The only mountains of any considerable altitude are a
range at the head of the parish, called the Larg-hills, where it is
supposed coal might be obtained. The summit of the Larg-bills
is about 600 feet above the level of the sea. Upon these hills lie
the remains of four of the Covenanters who fell there, upon the
bleak heath, victims to the persecution of Grahame of Claverhouse.
A tombstone is erected at the place to their memory, and sur-
rounded with a wall enclosing a small plantation.
	Lakes.--About three miles distant from the Larg hills, and
in this parish towards its boundaries, are situated two lakes or
lochs, of considerable extent and depth. These are Milton and
Achenreoch lochs. The former is about three miles in circum-
ference, and the latter about two and a half miles. They abound

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late Rev. John M'Whir, Minister of Urr.


