
     Statistical Account

   About 3 miles S. from the church, and not far from
the sea, is to be seen the foundation, and a small part
of the wall of a chapel, surrounded by a churh-yard,
on a small field called Ardmarnock, i.e. St. Marnock's
Field.  In this church-yard was found, some years ago,
a stone very prettily cut, and a long inscription on it, as
the people who saw, think, in Latin:  but they were so
senseless as to make use of the stone in building a house
on the farm.  About 300 yards above this chapel, on
an eminence, a cell, and part of another, appears in the
end of a pile of stones or borradh, exactly similar to,
but much smaller than the one I have been describing.
From what remains of this cairn or borradh, it seems

<FOOTNOTE>

riors, and human bones have been often found in them.  Others believe
them to have been concealed beds or skulking places for robbers and
plunderers.  The objection to this is, the confinement in such small
apartments, and the probability of their being found out by the smoke
of their fire, and, in case of being found, the certainty of being put to
death, as there could be no possibility of escape.  Another opinion, fully
as likely, is, that they were places of defence for herds, who were sent
at a distance with the cattle, for the sake of clean grass, to defend them
at night from wolves, and other wild beasts, which at that time over-
ran the country.  For my own part, I must acknowledge, that I am not
satisfied with any of these conjectures, but think it much more probable,
that they were places of concealment, not for plunderers, but for booty.
It is a well known fact, that it was a very general custom among the
inhabitants of the Highlands, and that too at no very remote period,
that a party of what clan should arm themselves, and repair to a dis-
tant country, plunder and carry off the effects and cattle of some other
clan; and if they were fortunate enough to escape the pursuit, and to
bring them to their own country in safety, they immediately slaughtered
them, salted them in their own hides, and concealed them the best way
they could.  Is it not likely enough that the places above mentioned
were contrived for this purpose?  Indeed, any person who has seen
them, must, I think, allow they were as suitable for this design as could
well be imagined; for being surrounded with wood, as they all were,
and covered over with heath or grass, they appeared such a natural pro-
tuberance, that they could not be suspected as artificial.


