
			ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.               1057

stones regularly laid, and the foundation partly imbedded in rock,
but without mortar or cement; and at the base of the hill, in a
corn-field, about half a mile to the north-east, may be traced the
site of another erection, said to have been similar; and connect-
ing, them are to be seen the remains of two parallel dikes, forming
a fenced avenue or roadway. This avenue, thus secured on each
side and in no place under the breadth of fifteen feet, though in
many places more than double that extent, leads to the east over
the adjoining moor of Drumduan, and can be traced for miles, in
the direction of the hill of Fare, where, the writer has been told,
it is connected with similarly raised structures, known by the name
of Pict's houses or forts. The line extends also westward to the
hill of Knockice, and Kinord, and is there too connected with a
number of these Picts' houses, though none of them, like the
one on Knockbeg, has been erected entirely of stone. From
Knockice, the enclosed line branches off towards a ford in the Dee,
and appears on the opposite side in Glentanner, with more of these
ancient rains planted, at intermediate spaces, along it. The same
is observable at Tillphoudie hill (distant from Knockice five miles,)
leading also towards a ford in the Dee, and not far from either
bank are two of these raised forts, placed like lunettes to pro-
tect the passage. Both the diverging lines seem to point to a pass
through the Grampians, directly leading to Catterthun, the great
Caledonian fort, about twenty miles distant, in the braes of Angus,
and thought by some to have been a stronghold of Galgacus.
The main line may be traced nearly parallel with the north bank
of the Dee, for about fifty miles from hill of Fare by Knockice to
Braemar, said to be the Tamea of the Romans, and these paral-
lel dikes (a line Of them branching also northward from Knoekice)
have been represented by some antiquaries as the remains of itinera
of that people. The dikes, however, appear always in connection
with these round forts or pits, which was the form adopted by the
Picts and the ancient Scots for their places of strength.  Those
of the Romans were rectangular, and the stone one on Little bill
(to and from which the iter evidently led,) had been erected with-
out lime or mortar, which would not likely have been the case had
it been of Roman origin. At Knoekice, along the south face and
base of Mulloch hill, *  are the ruins of three rectangular stone en-

<FOOTNOTE>Mulloch, Gaelic, " the top or highest part of the mountain." On this Mulloch
or summit of the hill, there is a cairn 60 yards in circumference, and the average
depth of the stones 2 yards. There is a confused tradition that this cairn marks the

   ABERDEEN.				      3 x



