
     of Edderachylis

of these tremendous rocks, and the fea in the neighbourhood, 
appear covered with them.  There they remain all the sum-

<FOOTNOTE>

nald M'kay begot, who was the first laird of Edderachylis of the name of 
M'Kay. 
Who the earliest inhabitants of Edderachylis of the name of
M'Kay.
Who the earliest inhabitants of Edderachylis have been, is now easi-
ly discoverable.  After the most diligent inquiry amont the oldest and most
intelligent people, all that can be learned is, that two or three centuries ago
this place was but thinly inhabited; and, that the inhabitants were such as
held their possessions by no legal tenure, paid no rent, and acknowledged no
landlord or superior.  The first who are said to have held it in property
were M'Leods, a branch of the Lewis family, or Shiol Torquil:  but prior to
their establishment as proprietors, tradition reports that in the tune of the
Norwegean kingdom of the western isles, these islanders made frequent
descents upon the coast, and sometimes not without bloodshed, while they
attempted plundering the few inhabitants of their cattle, and carrying them
off in their boats.  The last of the M"Leod family, who died the acknowled-
ged proprietor of Edderachylis, and seems not to have been of the family
of Assint, was called Mache a Leister; probably on account of the first or
principal man of the tribe being remarkable for skill in making arrows,
for Mache a Leister is, literally,"the son of the arrowmaker."  Ile having no
children by his wife, brought over from Assint, a nephew of his wife, called
James, the son of Roderick, the son, John Moir M'Leod, to live in family
with him, and succeed him in the possession of the estate at his death,
which accordingly happened; but he, being of a turbulent and factious dis-
position, had quarrels with several of his neighbours, particularly the Mo-
risons of Durness and Afhir, some of whom he put to death.  The Laird
of Fair also, Sir Hugh M'Kay, having occasion to remit a sum of money to
Edinburgh, the bearer of it next day returned to him, after being robbed only
one day's journey from his house, by a party of armed men having their
faces disguished with black paint, whom every one supposed to have been
sent upon that enterprise by James M'Leod of Edderachylis.  As the Mo-
risons of themselves were not able to bring James to task for the injuries
done themselves, they contrived a plan for it, by bringing the M'Kays to
their assistance.  The principal man of the name Morison at that time
in Ashir, had in hise house and family, a bastard son of the Laird of Farr's 
(Donald M'Kay) the same already mentioned, as begot in the island of Loch-
Stack; him he proposed both to the M'Kays and to his own friends, to


