
32                           FIFESHIRE.

suddenly died, when come to about two-thirds of its growth. The
decay was so rapid that little value was secured. Nurobers of in-
sects were found on the trees. This extraordinary effect is pro.
bably to be referred to the want of proper thinning, the poor soil
being unable to sustain so large a crop. The space once occupied
by this plantation still retains the name of the "Dead Wood." In
the thriving plantation of Weddersbie hill, there is, along with the
fir in the better parts of the soil, a judicious admixture of larch and
the ordinary forest trees. In planting Edensmuir, the genuine Scotch
fir ought to be introduced; and everywhere except on the poorest
parts of thd soil, an admixture ought to be supplied of larch and of
the hardy species of forest trees.
	Rent.-The rent of arable land in the parish varies according
to its quality, from 10s. to L. 2, 10s. per Scotch acre.
	Stock.-The Fifeshire breed of black cattle is reared. It is much
crossed with various breeds, chiefly, however, with the short-horned
or Teeswater, and with the Angus polled breed. More attention
should be given to preserving and propagating the pure breed of
the county. It combines in a great degree the hardiness of the
Highland with the size of the southern breeds.
	Husbandry.-The mode of farming pursued in the parish is si-
milar to that of the district at large. The common duration of
leases is nineteen years. And the rents are now generally fixed,
partly in money and partly in grain, according to the fiars of the
county. The farm-buildings are generally good and commodious,
and the fields for the most part enclosed with stone dikes or thorn
hedges.
	Iprovements. Besides that this parish, in common with the coun-
tryat larger, advances progressively in agricultural improvement, seve-
ral extensive undertakings have been executed which have proved very
beneficial. One of these was the embankment of the Eden by the
late Mr Johnstone of Lathrisk, the father of the present proprie-
tor. That river flowing through a level country, very often over-
flowed its banks, and considerably injured the grounds on either
side by washing away the soil. To prevent this, Mr Johnstone
caused a spacious canal to be made for the water, 12 feet wide
at the bottom and 30 feet at the top, secured on the sides by em-
bankments and hedges, which include a space 70 feet in breadth,
so that in time of a flood there is sufficient space for containing
the water, and preventing its overflowing and damaging the adja-
cent grounds.


