
		    ISLAND OP SKYE-KILMVIR.                         251

   acute spherical triangle. It is migratory, and most regular in its
   arrival and departure. About the beginning of May, this species
   of the aquatic tribes appears in vast numbers, literally covering the,
   rocks, cliffs, and eminences of the island, and disappear exactly
   on the 12th of August. They are so rigidly impelled by instinct
   to observe their migrations, that, although thousands are seen on
   this little island on the 11th of August, there are scarcely any to
   be found on the 13th of the same month. Soon after their arri-
   val, they prepare for laying their eggs and hatching their young.
   It is said that the male, contrary to the usual economy of birds,
   undertakes the most arduous part of the process, and labours hard
   to prepare a secure locality for the deposition of the egg. They
   lay in burrows, which are dug horizontally in the ground, not in a
   straight line from the entrance, but in winding little passages from
   10 to 15 feet in length. The male, for the most part, undertakes
   the task of forming this little circuitous tunnel, and for that pur-
   pose he throws himself on his back, in which position he picks
   and digs with his hard sharp bill, and casts out the loose earth or
   mould with his broad webbed-feet.  Where the ground is such
   that they cannot conveniently scoop out a passage, they enter the
   crevices of rocks and cairns, where they form a well-fortified nest.
   They lay only one egg, but if robbed of it, as they generally are
   by the natives, they lay again and again, but never more than a
   single egg. They are easily caught in their burrows, but when
   they find themselves closely hemmed in, and in great danger, they
   resort for security to the remote end of their subterraneous little
   passage, and thrust out their solitary egg, no doubt as a peace-of-
   fering to their relentless pursuers; but although the egg is accept-
   ed, yet the enemies rest not satisfied until the hapless tenants of
   the burrows fall victims to their merciless depredators. *
      Kilmuir is not perhaps so much given to the rearing of sheep
   and cattle as some other parts of the island. This is accounted
   for by the great quantity of crop which is raised, in comparison-
   with what is raised in other districts of Skye.
      Quadrupeds, &c.-The following are frequently met with, viz.
   foxes, wild-cats, (polecats rare,) otters, terriers, weasels, rats, mice,
   toads, lizards, frogs, &c. Serpents, although not numerous, are

   <FOOTNOTE>When the poor puffin finds himself in great jeopardy, and unable to effect his es-
   cape, he pushes out his egg to his pursuer, and cries " fag, fag, fag, na bruth, na
   bruth," which the natives think is pure Gaelic, namely "leave, leave, leaves . bruise
   not, bruise not;" but it is almost unnecessary to say that this earnest and thrice,
   repeated, cry to be left, is cruelly-disregarded.


