
                      APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.          183

From the first mentioned date to April 1715, there is regular
and complete; from that time to 1749, none were kept; from 1749
to 1777, it was kept partially, and from the last date to 1832, it is
regular and complete, in all the three branches.
	Antiquities.--Till within these few years, the traces were visible
of the foundation of a large oblong building, on the moat of Ap-
plegarth, now forming part of the minister's garden. Whether it
had been, as it is supposed, the site of the church visited by Ed-
ward in 1300, or of some humbler and more modern erection can-
not now be ascertained. In trenching the moat for garden ground,
a few rough squared blocks of red sandstone were dug up; and pro-
bably it had undergone the operation of trenching at some former
period, in order to procure building stones. A small portion of
carved stone was found at the same time, and is now in the minis-
ter's possession, in appearance part of one of those ornamental stone
crosses which in former times, were the usual appendages of Romish
churches, and many of which are to be seen still standing in front
of ancient monasteries in the Highlands and Hebrides. Within
200 yards of the manse, and on a small eminence, stood till lately
an arched vault, the remains of one of those border keeps so com-
mon in the neighbourhood of the debateable land. It has now fal-
len in.--About 500 yards farther to the eastward, there were found
eighteen or twenty years ago, about four or five feet under the sur-
face, the remains of a large chest, or rather its iron work, the wood
having long since decayed, consisting of corner-bands, hinges, por-
tions of the lock, &c. all of the fleur-de-lys pattern, besides a piece
of ornamental work of iron, the purpose of which it is not easy to
discover. It has been conjectured, in the absence of every thing
like evidence, that this chest may have formed part of the equipage
belonging to Edward,--as it is stated in the Caledonia, that the
king waited some days at Applegarth the arrival of his baggage.
These articles are now in the possession of Sir William Jardine.
--A venerable thorn called "the Albie Thorn," stands in a field
within 500 yards of the church, which it is said was planted on the
spot where Bell of Albie fell, while in pursuit of the Maxwells
after the battle of Dryfe sands.--A similar memorial marks the
spot, about half a-mile distant in Dryfesdale parish, where it is
said Lord Maxwell himself, at that time warden of the Western
Marches, was killed.--Part of the ruins still remain of the parish
church of Sibbaldbie, now annexed to Applegarth.--Roman sta-
tions are visible in several places. On Dinwiddie hill and on


