
820			    LANARKSHIRE.

Wallace, between 500 and 600 years ago; and it might have stood
as many years more, if we may only judge by the extreme thickness
and rock-like durability of the remaining walls.  But what time had
spared, man barbarously destroyed!  It was dismantle about sixty
years since by orders of the factor upon the estate, the proprietor,
Lady Ross Baillie, being totally ignorant of the contemplated
work of demolition, until it had proceeded too far to be remedied. *
Some of the carved freestones may still be seen as lintels to the
doors of such buildings, upon the farms in its neighbourhood !
A part of the west gable, with the arched window of the large
dining-room in it entire, and a part, of the north side wall, of the
original height, and also a portion of the wall, opposite, still re-
main, to brave " the pelting fury, and pitiless storms" of a variable
and tempestuous climate.  It is said, whether truly or not I can-
not tell, that as, by the deed of entail, the proprietor of the estate
must assume the sirname and bear the arms of Baillie, so he is also
bound by the same deed to keep up, in state and repair, the man-
sion house or place of Lammingtoune, as anciently designated.
Be this as it may, we of the parish do most earnestly hope to see
the day when the present young proprietor of this estate, with a
Scottish spirit, and pride of ancestry, will restore the long dormant
honours of that ancient family, which his cultivated mind and po-
lished manners so well fit him to represent,-by soon either re-
building the castle, itself, or erecting upon one or other of the many
charming situations which Lammingtoune affords, a mansion
worthy of the splendid property to which a kind Providence has
called him.  I may add, that few properties are more capable
of improvement; and certainly no parish in the kingdom has
greater cause to deplore the accumulated evils which spring from
the total want of resident land-owners.
   Historical Notices.-Part of the Highlanders who took up arms
in 1715, in behalf behalf of the unfortunate Prince James Stuart,
amounting to about 400, taking fright on approaching the borders
of England, and refusing to follow their commander, the Earl of
Winton, on his entrance into that kingdom,-resolved on returning

<FOOTNOTE>When the accounts of this demolition reached Bonington, near Lanark, her
ladyship, as might well have been anticipated, was most indignant at the presump-
tuous but well-meant doings of her servant, and instantly despatched a messenger to
Lammingtoune to stop procedure; but alas ! it was too late,-the roof was off, and
part of the building blown up by gunpowder ! The worthy factor thought it would be
most profitable to his employer, to make a quarry of it, out of which to erect stables
and byres!
                                     4


