
                          ABERDOUR                               265

under the superstitious belief that the blood would gush upon the
murderer.  It was observed, that during the time this was going
on, her son carefully kept at a distance, and showed great reluc-
tance to approach the body, and that, when recourse was about to
be had to compulsion, he confessed the murder.  The tradition
farther states, that the murderer was drawn and quartered, and
that his four limbs were buried on the sides of four roads lead-
ing to the church of Aberdour.  So. much for ancient supersti-
tion.
   Modern Buildings.-There are no modern buildings of any note
in the parish, with the exception of the church and manse, of which
afterwards.  The meal mill at Aberdour was lately new roofed and
slated, and there was a mill of the same description lately erected
at Nethermill, for the accommodation of the tenants on the estate
of Auchmedden.  They are built partly of granite, and partly of
a sort of red rockor sandstone, which abounds in the parish, and
which, when harled, is very durable.

                         III.-POPULATION.
   At a remote period, the parish must have been very thinly
peopled, as is evident from the extensive tracts of waste and un-
cultivated ground at the present day, notwithstanding the stimulus
given to improvement by the high price of agricultural produce
during the last war.  Some hundred years ago, there is reason to
believe, that the land upon the sea coast alone was cultivated,
and that what may be called the back-settlements of the parish,
was little better than a barren wilderness.  The population has
progressively increased since the commencement of the present
century.  This increase is partly to be attributed to the erection
of the villaoe of New Aberdour, in the year 1798, and which
contains 300 inhabitants; but arises chiefly from the annual num-
ber of births exceeding the deaths by more than one-half.  Last
year (1834) the number of births was 44, of deaths, 20.  Deduct-
ing from the gross population in 1831 the inhabitants of New
Aberdour, amounting to 302, and those in the fishing village nf
Pennan, which may be stated at 180, there remains 1066 as the
sum total of the population residing in the country.  There being
no regular and complete register of births, deaths  and marriages,
it is impossible to ascertain, with perfect accuracy, the annual
average for the last seven years.  The following is near the truth:
births, 40; deaths, 18; marriages, 14.


