
     Of Ruthven.

in a considerable degree, by restricting his tenants to a rota-
tion of cropping the last time their farms were let.  The ro-
tation is as follows: fields, 1ft, grass, 2 d, ditto; 3 d, ditto; 4th,
oats; 5th, barley; 6th, oats; 7th, fallow, or green crop; 8th,
barley with grass-seeds.  The tenants, from the prejudices of
education, came into these improvements rather reluctantly at
first.  They are now, however, as forward in them as their
neighbours, and begin to experience the advantages of them.
They are restricted from raising wheat or flax, in considerable
quantities, because these have been found to be rather exhaust-
ing crops for the foil.  The parish, however, was always re-
markable for producing fine flax, but more so, it is said, be-
fore the introduction of marl.  A greater quantity, indeed,
might be raised now than formerly, but, in the opinion of ex-
perienced farmers, there is no comparison as to the quality.
The soil is favourable for turnip and trees of every kind, suit-
ed to the climate.  The larix, in particular, grows with un-
common quickness, some of them only 15 years old, having
measured 46 inches root girth.  Oaks grow naturally; and
in a former period some of them were of great size, if we may
judge from two which have remained time immemorial in the
old course of the river isla, about a mile below the church.

   Name and Proprietors.-The etymology of the name is
doubtful*.  It was anciently expressed in the plural, Ruth-
vens, having been divided into two parts, and belonged to two
different proprietors:  That on the E. side of the river Isla was
termed Earls Ruthven, as having been the property of the
     O o 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is pronounced Riven 1/2 and, if a conjecture might be hazarded in a mat-
ter of so much uncertainty, might be supposed to be compounded of the Gaelic
words roy (red), and vean (white), perhaps from the soil in general abounding
with small white stones, or rather from the appearance of the rocks, on the
banks of the river in the N. side of the parish, which are of a red colour, but in
many places whitened over with age.


