
   162                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   east end of the island, if better known, might afford safety to ships
   in distress.
      At the Island of Lingay, ten miles farther north still, there is
   an excellent anchorage.
      The best of these are, durizig the stormy season, dangerous on
   account of the rocks, shoals, 'and breakers by which they are sur-
   rounded, and will only be sought for in cases of extremity and
   danger. In order to afford a chance of relief and safety, it is pro-
   per they should be known.
      Six miles to the west of North Uist lies the Island of Husker,
   about two miles long but very narrow. In this island there is
   likewise an anchoring-place. From its situation, and a short dis-
   tance to the west of it being clear of rocks, it would prove an eli-
   gible station for a lighthouse, which, in connection with that lately
   erected at Barrahead, would undoubtedly be the means of war n-
   ing many ships of the danger of getting embayed and wrecked on
   a dangerous coast.
     If nature has denied to one side of North Uist places of pro-
   tection and security for shipping, she has amply remunerated the
   deficiency to the other. The south-east coast is very bold, bound-
   ed all along by the range of hills or mountains already described,
   except where intersected by inlets of the sea. These inlets, situated
   at nearly regular distances of six miles from each other, form
   safe and commodious harbours. That farthest north, situated at
   the boundary of the pqr1sh in that direction, is Cheesebay, a har-
   bour of easy access from the southeast, and safe for vessels of any
   burden at all seasons of the vear.
     South of this is Lochmaddy, xvhich, by the rising ground on either
   side, and the numerous islands it contains, forms not a barbour
   only but barbours, numerous, safe, and capacious, sufficient to sup-
   ply accommodation for almost any amount of sbipping. It likewise
   affords an admirable outlet for vessels going either north or south.
   It is well-known and is much frequented. It derives its name
   from three bold rocks, called Madies or dogs, nearly in a line, a
   little beyond the entrance of the harbour. Two of these rocks
   are decidedly basaltic, rising precipitously from the deep to the
   height of about eighty feet ; and although within 100 yards of the
   coast, the are of a character and species totally different from any
   rock along its shores. As lighthouses are, in this age, fortunately
   multiplying for the encouragement of commerce, and the safety of
   human life, few stations are more suitable than Maddy More, the


