
260                    PERTHSHIRE.

one to Perth, on which the royal mail travels, passes through it,
the length of seven miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is con-
venient for the population.  It was repaired about thirty-five years
ago, and affnrds accommod`tion for 800 sittings.  The manse and
offices were rebuilt in a neat and substantial manner in 1820.  The
extent of the glebe is seven acres, and its value is L. 20.  The
stipend is 71/2 chalders of barley, and the same quantity of meal.
325 families, and 800 persons of all ages attend the Established
Church, and 16 families attend the chapels of Dissenters.  The
two resident beritors and their families attend the chapels of Epis-
copalians. 323 persons are connected with the parish of Monzie,
and 60 with the chapel at Aumulrie, quoad sacra.  Divine wor-
ship in the Established church is well attended, and the number of
communicants is 600.
   Education.-There are four schools in the parish, in which all
the usual branches of education are taught.  Two of them are un-
endowed.  The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary,
and the legal accommodation.  The school fees average L. 25.
The schoolmaster at Buchanty is provided with a school-house,
and has L. 5 of salary paid from the bishop's rents.  The expense
of education is, for children, Ss.; and for those of greater age and
attainments, L. 1 per year.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 24, and the average sum allotted to each
is 4s. per month.  The amount qf contribution for their relief last
year was L. 60, the half of which arose from church collections,
and the other half from the interest of L. 86 Sterling, and the vo-
luntary assessment of the heritors.
   Fairs.-St Methvanmas market is held at Fowlis annually, on
the 6th of November, and is a useful market for the sale of black-
cattle, and hiring servants.  This was anciently the festival of the
parish, and the anniversary of the saint to whom the church was
dedicated at its consecration, when the people constructed pavi-
lions and booths to indulge in hospitality and mirth, which also
became a commercial mart, and assumed the name of feriae or holy-
day.  Many of our most ancient fairs have a similar origin.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The parish, since the date of the last Statistical Account, has
made great improvements in rural economy.  Waste ground has
been planted and brought into cultivation.  The roads are in a


