
                           KELSO.                                337

of the grammar school, as well as the chief resort (in virtue of his
written sanction) for the stated exhibitions of agricultural stock, &c.
Stipend.--The stipend is 51 bolls of oatmeal and 56 bolls of bear,
with L. 193, 2s. 5d. in money. The Court of teinds awarded, in
their first scheme of locality, a stipend larger than this by about
L. 70 ; but the above is all that the teinds, when surrendered, were
found to yield. Nor would the stipend have reached its present
amount, had not the proprietor of the lands of Maisondieu, ori-
ginally hospital lands, and, as such, supposed to be exempt from
teind--failed to prove that they had been feued cum decimis in-
clusis et nunquam antea separatis, previously to the act of annexa-
tion in 1587. These lands having been left unvalued, the court
found that they were liable to pay one-fifth of their real rent as
stipend.
     Divine Service, &c.--In the parish church, divine service is
performed twice every Sunday throughout the year. The sacra-
ment of the Lord's Supper is administered twice a-year, viz. on the
last Sundays of February and July. The number of elders, each of
whom superintends a defined section of the parish, is at present
8. The number of communicants is about 1200.
     Additional Church.--A deficiency of church-room in con-
nexion with the Establishment has recently been supplied by the
erection of a second church. This church, which is just com-
pleted, is situate on the north-side of the town, in a field which,
from its elevation and exposure, renders the building, with its ele-
gant Gothic tower, one of the most prominent objects in the sce-
nery of Kelso. Besides a church capable of accommodating 800
persons, there is a suite of spacious school-rooms, which form the
ground-floor of the building, and are designed for the use of an
infant and juvenile school; while the surrounding field is fitted up
as a play-ground for the scholars or tastefully laid out as a pleaus-
ance to the church. By the constitution granted by the General
Assembly, it is provided that, on the settlement of a minister, a
section of the town and suburbs shall be disjoined from the ori-
ginal parish quoad spiritualia, and assigned to the new church as
a parish ecclesiastical; and that for the better accommodation of
the poorer classes, one-half of the whole church-room shall be let
at an annual rate not exceedinz 3s. a sitting. The apointment
of the minister is to test, during the infancy of the congregation,
with four individuals named in the constitution; but it is ultimately
to devolve on the kirk-session and male communicants;--the for-


