
                                ARDCHATTAN.                             479

      after rains by the torrents which are then poured into it from the
      rugged mountains on each side of it.
        There are other streams of  considerable magnitude in this sec-
      tion of the parish, 11 rivers unknown to song," but which it would
      be improper not to mention.  Among these are the Guisachan,
      which, as indicated by the name, falls into the sea at Inverguisa-
      chan ; the Carnan, which meets the river Etive at Invercbarnan;
      and, beyond it, the Eolan, another tributary of the same river.
        The Creran, which rises between Corra-vein and Bein-Aulay,
      and flows in a westerly direction at least twelve miles.   In its syl-
      van course it passes through the beautiful fresh water lake of Fas-
      nacloich, and after baviDg scooped out for itself, a little beyond
      that lake, a channel resembling a natural canal, which is navigable
      by small boats for a short distance, it falls into the sea at the head
      of Loch-creran, having previously attained the size of a respect-
      able river.
        The Ure is not much more than seven miles in length, runs in
      a northern direction, and passing westward of Glenure House, falls
      into the Creran a little below.
        The Buie is not nearly so large, nor above three miles long.
      The Buie discharges itself into Loch-creran.
        The Tendal, pronounced TiVil, waters the glen of that name,
      flows in a westerly course for about six miles, and is in several
      places well fitted to command admiration from its picturesque falls,
      its wooded banks, and the splendid and diversified views presented
      wherever a sight of Loch-creran can be obtained from its chan-
      nel or its banks.
        The Dergan * rises in the heights of Glensalloch, and after a
      short northern course, through that glen and the woods above
      Barcalaim-house, it falls into Loch-creran at Inver'ergan.
        There are two other streams of some magnitude, which flow in
      a southerly direction, and empty themselves into Loch-etive, and
      with the mention of these we will conclude the account of our
      rivers.  These are the Esragan-more and Esragan-beg, or the
      greater and lesser Esragan, separated by the mountain called Ben-
      vean, and terminating, the larger at Inveresragan, and the other
      below the farm-house of Blarcreen.  The length of the Esragan-
      more is not above five miles, that of the other is hardly so much.
        Cascades.-The largest, in so far as relates to the body of wa-
      ter, are the falls of Dalness in Glen-etive, and those of Coinletter

      <FOOTNOTE>Dearg-amhwinn, i. e. 01 the red river."


