
                KILMORE AND KILURIDE.                       523

   The pasture is good for black-cattle or sheep. The coast is
indented with bays, and on the west presents a bold and rocky ap-
pearance.
                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Alexander II. of Scotland died in the island of Kerrera. "An-
gus of Argyle hadbeen wont to do homage to the King of Norway
for certain islands.Alexander requested that homage to be done
to himself, and itbeing denied be resolved to force it. While
engaged in this enterprise he was seized with fever and died in
the island of Kerrera, near the Sound of Mull, Sth July 1249, in
the 57th year of his age and 35th of his reign."
   Tradition says that Alexander died in a field in Kerrera called
Dalree, or the King's field, near the Horse shoe barbour, where his
fleet lay at the time.
   Castles.-Dunstffnaye-" If romantic and magnificent scenery,
if the pleasing interchange or mountain and valley, of wood and
water, of sea and land, of island and continent-conjoined with
all those recollections borrowed from the earliest ages of our his-
tory, which are most Gratifying to national feeling,-be viewed as
inducements in selecting the site of a royal residence, it may well
be questioned if Britain could present one more desirable than the
vicinity of Dunstaffnage.
"This ancient palace is seated on a rock washed by The waves of
the Atlantic.It is skirted on the right by that beautiful arm of
the sea calledLoch Etive, wbich runs far inward, and which must
be distinctlyremembered by all who have crossed it at Connal
ferry, so appalling to strangers, where the body of water is so much
confined by the narrowness of the sound, that at particular times
of the tide, it forces itq way through with great noiEe, like an itna-
petuous river over a rocky bed, forming a great variety of small
whirlpools.
   "The form of the name of this seat of royalty has been consi-
derably varied by different writers. - There has not been less va-
Tiety in regard to the etymon given of the name. Dunstaffnage
has been rendered by those best acquainted with the Gaelic ]an.
guage, Dun agus (pronounced) ta inish, as signifying "the for-
tified bill with the two islands," descriptive of the local situation,
the place having been denominated from the two islands which lie
north of the castle."
   "The builder of this castle," says Grose, "and time of its con-
struction are unknown. It is certain of great antiquity, and was


