
                              KELSO.                           327

Kelso: and probably few Kelsonians ever so far forge their filial
love to their birth-place, even when by circumstances eatirely se-
parated from it, as not to connect it in their day dreams of the
future with the fond aspiration, "Sit mihi sedes utinam senectae."

                    IV.--INDUSTRY.
  As might be expected in a parish situate in the centre of a pure-
ly agricultural district, the chief branches of industry are either
agricultural labour, or those departments of the retail trade and of
handicraft which lean upon agriculttre.  One or two manufactures,
carried on with a view to a distant market, such as the carrying of
leather, and the making of coarse woollen cloth, employ a few hands;
but the great bulk of the people are employed in the preparation
or retail of articles consumed in the district, and consist, as in other
country towns, chiefly of labourers, shoemakers, bakers, butchers,
cabinet-makers, carpenters, masons, &c.  The most numerous
class of retail-shops are those of grocers and drapers.  The number
of members of the learned professions is 25; there being 6 minis-
ters of the gospel, 8 medical practitioners, and 11 writers, exclu-
sive of apprentices and clerks.
  Agriculture--Tillage and Pasture.--The total number of acres
in the parish, standard imperial measure, is estimated at 4400.
The whole may be said to be either cultivated, or occasionally, in
tillage, with the exception of the lawn at Floors, part of Spring-
wood Park, and the Race-ground, recently reclaimed from a mo-
rass, and now forming a valuable piece of pasture land.  Even the
first of these has recently come under the operation of the plough,
though of course, only with a view to its eventual productiveness
and beauty, as permanent pasture.

<TABLE>

     The total number of acres' properly in tillage, is about         3800
                               in permanent pasture,                  300
     There are no waste lands; nor undivided common.

  Wood.--The number of acres strictly under wood, that is, in
inclosed plantations, is about 215.  But besides the plantations
there is, especially in the parks of Floors and Springwood, and in
the planted dells of Pinnacle-hill and Wooden, a vast amount of
fine timber which cannot be estimated in acres, being upon land
under grass, or upon steep and broken ground ; to which most be
added the hedge-row trees with wbich the parish, particularly on
the south of the Tweed, is richly ornamented.  The older wood
consists, in great part, of oak, beech and ash ; in the young woods,
fir predominates; but here also the harder timber is the growth
chiefly aimed at, the firs being put in as nurses.  The great bulk


