
544                       PERTHSHIRE.

fine trout. In Loch Rannoch, the trout vies in size and shape with
the salmon itself, although it is universally allowed that salmon
never reach that lake,-being intercepted by the falls of the Tum-
mel. The spawning season of the great and small river trout may
comprehend from the beginning of October to the middle of No-
vember, when the fish descend into their winter-quarters, in the
bottom of the deepest pools.
   The best spawning stream in Rannoch, or, indeed, in the whole
parish, is Ald-Eithach, at the head of that district. The fish wait
the first flood, in the end of September or beginning of October,
to ascend this stream; and trout (not salmon) of upw`rds of a
yard in length, and weighing above 30lbs., are met with, and kil-
led by the spear and torch. The otter, too, sometimes destroys
the very largest of the trout, and they are often found dead in the
water. The mode of his attack seems to be, to seize the fish in
shallow water, by thd breast, close to the gills; for, when found dead,
no other part of it seems injured or touched. At the confluence
of the Erochd with Loch Rannoch, the finest trout imaginable
are caught by the fly or minnow, in the months of December and
January.
   The only river in the parish which the salmon reaches, is the
Lyon, which it ascends as early as the middle of March. Its
spawning-time commences about the middle of October, and ter-
minates by the middle of December. In the Gamhair and Lyon,
and also in many of the smaller streams, there is abundance of
that species of shell-fish, or, as it is called, the horse-muscle or pearl
oyster, in which beautiful pearls are sometimes found.
   Botany.-This parish, from the mountainous nature of it, is
fertile in rare botanical productions. On the tops of the highest
mountains, the botanist may gather, with the greatest delight,
different kinds of plants, such as the various, kinds of Lycopodiums,
as also that beautiful tribe the Saxifrages; and on some of them,
the Sacrifraga reticulata:-the Azalea probumbens the Sibbaldia
procumbens, the Thalictrum alpinum, the Epilobium alpin-
um, the Vaccinium uliginosum the Vaccinium Vitis-idea; and
on the tops of some the hills in the braes of Glenlyon, the
Vaccinium oxycocos; also the Rubus Chamamorus the Arbu-
tus alpina, the Dryus octopetala: and Drosera rotundifolia
and longifolia, (these rwo very common), and the Myosotis ru-
pitola; also rearing its majestic head among the steepest rocks
the Rhodiola rosea, and numerous other rare small plants interest-


