
360                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

also of crystallized quartz.  Many excellent specimens of valu_
able ironstone are almost everywhere to be found in the beds
of the rivers; but the quantity is not sufficient to compensate
the expense of carriage and the labour of digging them out of the
banks.
   A fine specimen of rich lead ore was lately dug up, by Mr
Young of Harburn, when sinking for water, in one of his farms
in this parish.  It was found about sixteen feet below the surface.
But no attempt has hitherto been made to follow up this discovery,
although, since that period, lead ore has been dug up in three
other parts of the Harburn estate.  A small seam of coal was also
found, some years ago, in the upper district of the parish, between
Camilty and Crosswoodburn; and, since that time, several others
have been discovered, one of them between three and four feet
thick, very near the surface; and this estate abounds also in lime-
stone and manganese, with many promising appearances of iron.
The covering of the rocks is of various kinds.  If the rotten rock or
whinstone be near the surface, the soil is dry and fertile ; but when
deep, it is generally cold and wet.  It cannot be said that any of
these fields of rock are covered with alluvial deposits, or with
transported soil, unless what has been for ages accumulated along
the bottom of the Cairn Hills can be considered of this descrip-
tion.  In many spots, the soil may be considered as rich; but,
being exposed to so much moisture, and in so elevated a si-
tuation, the process of vegetation must necessarily be slow; and
the grasses being of a diminutive growth, although of excellent
quality, yield a more scanty supply.
   Botany.--The plants most peculiarly attached to the best
soils are the poas, meadow fescue, Timothy grass, cocks foot,
Dactylus glomerata, meadow soft grass, or Yorkshire white,
Holcus lanatus. On moist clay and mossy soils is to be found
that very valuable grass brought into notice by Dr Richard-
son of Ireland, and, which has been advantageously cultivated
by Mr Young of Harburn and others, in the parish of Mid-Cal-
der, to great extent, and at little expense,--the creeping bent
grass, or fiorin, Agrostis stolonifera.  It grows luxuriantly in a wet
or spongy soil, unsuitable for, other grasses and its growth is most
vigorous in moist, warm, and sheltered spots.  In favourable sea-
sons, when properly cultivated, it yields from four to-five hundred
stones per acre of the most nourishing food for cattle and horses;
and it is not liable to be injured by the wetness of the season like



