
                            NEV ABBEY.                           249

	Antiquities.--Lying within one of the church windows are two
stones, which throw light upon the history of the abbey of Sweetheart.
On one of them are cut in large Roman capitals the two Iast syllables
of the name of its foundress, GVLLA FVDATRIX. On the other
stone, which has evidently been a continuation of the same line
of building, are cut in the same kind of letters M.E.L.XXXIIII, ex-
pressing clearly 1284. But whether this date is to be understood
as marking the time when the abbey was completed, or of the
death of the foundress, does not certainly appear, as there is no
information whether these stones formed a part of tbe Abbey walls
or of a monument erected in or near it.
	The inscription is quite conclusive as to the foundress of the
Abbey, who was Devorgulla, daughter of Allan, Lord of Gallo-
way, niece to David, Earl of Huntingdon, wife of John Baliol,
and mother of John Baliol, King of Scotland. Her husband
died in 1279, and was buried here. His heart having been
embalmed, and put into an ivory box bound with silver, was
solemnly deposited within the walls of the church, near the high
altar, from which the Abbey took the name of Sweetheart. In
the arch of that part of the choir, which is to the south of
the cross, are two key-stones, on which are cut a heart and two
roses, with two crosiers, and this inscrhption, Christus maritus
meus; alluding to the dedication of the church to the Virgin
Mary, as well as to the piety of the widow, who here deposited
the heart of her husband. The refectory of the abbey stood op-
osite the church, and was used for Divine service till 1731,when,
falling to decay, it was, in part, taken down, and a new church erect-
ed. Under the refectory was the kitchen, with several vaults.
The chapter-house adjoined the old church. Above it was the
abbot's house. The dormitories stood to the east beyond the
abbot's house. * All these are now completely demolished; and,
but for the interposition of the late minister, the abbey htself would,
in all probability have been in the same state; for it having fal-
len into the hands of persons who had no antiquarian enthusiasm,
and who estimated their purchase only by its worth as a quarry,
they commenced pulling down the consecrated fabric, to get ma-
terials for building houses in the village. The minister, however,
with very different sentiments, succeeded in obtaining subscrip-
tions to purchase it; and, for forty guineas, saved it from destruc-

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Cardonnel.


