
     of Grange.

<UNREADABLE>

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The advantages that
this parish possesses are, that it is not far from ae p t,

</UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

     3d Period.

<TABLE>

Average annual collections, etc. from 1 st December 1787
  to 1 st December 1791,                                   L.  35 16  9
Average annual distributions to the poor for said period,
  including about L. 5. 5 s annually to the infirmary at
  Aberdeen, and to pay session-clerk road kirk officer's
  fees,                                                    L.  33  6  0
Average number of the poor upon the roll in said period, 35.

</TABLE>

   Besides the above mentioned sources of relief to the poor, there is a
great deal given in private charity, not to travelling beggars only but
the people in general are uncommonly humane and benevolent; and
when any poor person or family is afficted with sickness, or any other
unexpected calamity, the neighbours does not wait to be solicited but
carry meal, or whatever else the situation requires or their circumstances
can afford, and they watch with the sick etc.  Many of the poor also
have bags in the mills, into which every one puts as he can spare, or as
charity dispofes him.  And on the Christmas holidays, the young men go
out in parties through the paris a-begging for the greatest objects; and
several bolls of meal, and some pounds Sterling of money are collected
every year, and committed to the care of the members of session, for behoof
of those for whom it is collected.  This practice has an excellent effect
upon the morals, both of young and old; it disposes the old to acts of
liberality, and draws forth their sympathy towards the distressed, and it
trains up the young to acts of benevolence and charity.  This practice is
also a great support to the funds, which are beginning again to recover,
from their dilapidation in I783 and 1784  The heritors also, being
convinced by experience of the importance of having a fund in reserve
against a time of scarcity, resolved to take the poors money and pay 5
per cent. yearly for it; (whereas before 1783 it was lent our at 4 per cent.
a year, payable only once in two year.) By this means, together with some
legacies, and strict economy, the funds are again accumulated to L. 200
at interest.  The session takes a disposition to the effects of those that are
taken upon the roll, (unless in such years as 1783 and 1784), with the
burden of taking care of them in sickness and in their last illness, and of
defraying their funeral charges, which much not exceed L. 1 Sterling; al-
lowing the relations of the deceased to redeem the effects, by repaying
to the session a ear's contribution, immediately preceding the death of
the pauper, and defraying the funeral charges.

     VOL. IX. 4 D


