
                      MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                     737

    married the Countess and heiress of Loudoun), and Chancellor
    of Scotland.   His brother, who succeeded to the estate, raised a
    regiment during the civil wars, encountered the Protector at In-
    verkeithing, but was signally defeated.  In the history of the son
    of this last-mentioned individual, we find another incident strik-
    ingly illustrative of the character of the times.  Dwelling on the
    borders of the Highlands, he was appointed to the command of a
    company of soldiers, and invested with authority to restrain the
    freebooters of the surrounding district, or to bring the refractory
    to justice.  In the discharge of his commission he apprehended
    a number of the Macgregors, who were subsequently executed.
    This roused against him the vengeful passions of the clan, and
    they resolved to accomplish his destruction.  They accordingly
    assailed the house of Lawers by night, forced their way to his
    bed-chamber, and were about to put him to death there even in
    the presence of his lady.  With difficulty they were prevailed
    upon to allow him time to commend himself to God, by offering
    up prayer in the chapel adjoining ere they took his life.  On
    their way thither, he employed his time so well, and appealed so
    stccessfully to their love of gain, which they were as eager to
    gratify as their revenge, that they agreed to spare his life on con-
    dition of his paying a ransom of 10,000 merks on the following
    Monday, at a tavern in the neigbbourhood.  Faithful to his agree-
    ment, Lawers proceeded to raise the sum,-no inconsiderable
    amount at the time;-the greatest part was collected in halfpence
    and carried on horseback to the place appointed.  But whilst he
    thus fulfilled the letter of his covenant, he also performed more
    than he had promised, or his captors expected.  While the
    money was being paid, a troop of military surrounded the house,
    and made the freebooters whth their chieftain, Captain Oig Mac-
    gregor, prisoners.  Perhaps profiting by the example of ingenuity
    lately exhibited, they offered a ransom in their turn; if so, their
    captor, profiting also by the experience of the past, resolved to
    trust no longer to their tender mercies, but conveyed them to
    Edinburgh, where they were condemned and publicly executed.
       The Ochtertyre family is the oldest resident in these parishes.
    The founder of the family was Patrick, third son of Sir David
    Murray, sixth Baron of Tullibardine, ancestor of the Athole fa-
    mily, who died in 1476.  The present Sir W. Keith Murray is the
    fourteenth in the line of descent from the founder; and it is a
    singular fact, that throughout the thirteen preceding generations,
       PERTH.                                    3 A


