
                           ST LEONARDS.             497

fir such a locality, viz., one or two bathing-machines, which it is
supposed would amply remunerate the proprietor for the expense
incurred by their introduction.
     The Typographical art was cultivated at St Andrews previous
to the era of the Reformation; but the works which, about that pe-
riod, were printed in the city are now very rare, and are only to
be found in some of the most valuable libraries.  Among these, the
Complant of Scotland, printed in 1548, and Archbishop Hamil-
ton's Catechism, printed in 1552, have attracted considerable at-
tention.  When the city fell into a state of decay, after the de-
struction of the principal ecclesi`stical edifices, and the alienation
of the revenues, by which they were supported, the art of printing
appears to have been discontinued.  An attempt to recieve it within
the precincts of the University was made in 1796 by Mr Morison
of Perth, who was appointed to the  office of university printer,
when, with several other productions, accurate editions of certain
of the Latin classics were printed, under the superintendence of
Dr john Hunter, then Professor of Humanity.  But although the
editor was a gentleman of distinguished talents and celebrity, it
was found that the expense of the establusment more than
counterbalanced the profit, and Mr morison was induced to resign
the appoinment, and to withdraw his press.
     A branch of the Bank of Scotland was established in the city
nearly half a century ago, and has been continued to the present
day without any rival; the limited extend of the commercial ar-
ragements of the city and its vicinity requiring no additional
supply.
     December 1837, revised February 1838.

                        PARISH OF ST LEONARDS.

                 PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                  THE REV. J. HUNTER, LL. D. MINISTER.*

          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.--THIS parish derives its names from one of the Saints
of the Roman Calendar, who, in the earlier part of his fife, was
one of the noblemen who frequented the Court of Clovis I. King

<FOOTNOTE>* Drawn up by the Rev. Dr George Buist, one of the Ministers of St Andrews.
            FIFE                                        Ii













































