
100                 DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Markets, &c.- The village of Thornhill was at first intended to
be a market-town, and authority was obtained to hold a market in
it every Tuesday.  But though a weekly market established in this
village would be a great public benefit conferred upon this part of
the country, as well as the village, it has never yet succeeded. It
is supposed, however, that it could be easily made to succeed by
the present Noble proprietor, who would thereby merit the public
gratitude.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church was built in 1781, and is not
inconveniently situate for the parish in general.  At present it is
not in a good state of repair,__the repairs having been delayed in
the prospect of its being soon removed to a situation more conve-
nient for the  inhabitants of the village.  It affords accommodation
for between 500 and 600 persons, and is too small for the present
population; but, by the erection of galleries, may be made to accom,
modate 200 more, and be sufficiently large:  the seats are all free.
The manse was built about the middle of last century, was repair-
ed lately, and though small, is comfortable.  The glebe is about
twenty acres in extent, and is worth about L. 25 yearly.  The stipend
is 16 chalders, half meal, half barley, with L.10 for communion
elements; it was augmented on the 27th January 1830.  Since
which time the stipend, converted to money, has averaged L. 247,
9s. 2 1/4d. per annum.
   Divine service at the Established church is regularly attended
by about 350 families, and the average number of communicants
is about 500.  There is a dissenting chapel in the village, former-
ly of the Antiburgher persuasion, now of the United Associate
Synod.  There are besides,  a few Cameronians, and several of the
Relief persuasion attached to these two congregations, in the ad-
joining parish of Penpont.  The number of families belonging to
the Secession Associate Synod, Relief, and Cameronians, is 133.
Only 15 individuals are  Cameronians.  Of late many of the young
in the families of Seceders have been returning to the Established
church.
   Education.--There is only one established parochial teacher
in this parish. The salary enjoyed by him amounts to L. 34, 4s.
4 1/2d. with a house and garden, and a park of land of about two
acres or upwards, which he possesses rent free.  The average
amount of fees is about L.30 yearly.  Besides the parochial, there
are four schools unendowed in the parish.
                                4


