
154	                KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

sented to Sir Walter Scott by Mr Train, and is now a conspicu-
ous object in the museum at Abbotsford. 6. Mr Train has also
in his possesion two interesting pieces of furniture; the one an
antique bedstead or buistie of the Black Earl of Douglas, who was
assassinated by his sovereign in the castle of Stirling; the other,
a beautiful cabinet of elaborately carved oak, formed out of the
different pieces of an ornamented chimney-piece, the cutting of
which was the amusement of twenty tedious years spent by Mr J.
Gordon, a member of the Earlston family, in the dungeon of
Blackness, where he was confined on account of his religion. 7.
The Carlinwarj loch has yielded up many antipuities. This beau-
tiful sheet of water appears to have been an object of wonderful
interest in ancient times. It once contained two large islands;
one near the north end, and the other near the south end of it.
But great pains have evidently been taken to adorn it with artifi-
cial islands, as there are two small ones that the writer of the Old
Statistical Account says, "have evidently been formed by strong
piles of wood driven into the moss or marl, on which were placed
large frames of black oak." These were discovered in the year
1765, when the loch was drained for the purpose of procuring
marl. They had been immersed "fully six feet under water,"--a
fact which seems to prove that the original extent of the loch was
not much greater than its present, these six feet of water being
fully accounted for by two dams which were then also discovered.
These must have been erected fnr the purpose of depending the
lake by shutting its two outlets towards the Dee. This idea seems
to be confirmed by a tradition which has always prevailed in the
parish, that there was a town which sunk, or was drowned, in the
loch--probably a few houses partially submerged, and rendered
uninhabitable by the confinement of the waters. Tradition says
also, that there were two churches or chapels, once upon each of the
large islands. On an islet near the north end of the loch, there
was found a large iron mallet, or hammer, stained on one end with
blood-rust. It is now in the possession of the Antiquarian Society
of Edinburgh, and is supposed to have been an instrument used
by the ancient Druids in killing their sacrifies. The dams refer-
red to above had been strong works; the one was discovered at
the present outlet of the loch to the Dee, and was built of stone,
moss, and clay; the other was found near the town of castle Dou-
glas, at a point where, in very high floods, the loch and the river
still meet. This work consisted of oak wood and earth. At this
				4


