
		               DAILLY,                      389

change was made upon the interior of the building, by which 70
new sittings were obtained. Thirty free sittings are reserved for
the poor.
	The manse was built in 1801, and had an addition made to it
in 1818.
	The glebe consists of 7 acres of arable land, which might yield
a rent of L. 14 or L. 16 per annum.
	The stipend was augmented in 1818. It now consists of L. 345,
16s. 5d.; 17 pecks and 3 1/5 lippies of barley, and 18 pecks and 2 4/5
lippies of meal. This is the whole of the teinds, conform to the
valuations of the heritors produced.
	Of the families in the parish, 400 may be stated as belonging
to the Established Church. The remaining twenty families are
mostly Roman Catholics. The Dissenters residing here are very
few, not exceeding 12. Their places of worship are in Girvan,
Maybole, or Colmonell. The parish church is well attended.
The average number of communicants in attendance is 420.
	A society for religious purposes was instituted some years ago,
but its meetings were never well attended, and latterly they have
been discontinued. The average amount of church collections,
yearly, for religious and charitable objects, has been about L. 5.
In 1836-7 above L. 14 were collected for the four schemes of the
General Assembly. There was also a collection in the same year
for the Scottish Missionary Society, and there was another, above
L.6, for the parish Sabbath schools.
	Education.--There are four schools in the parish; one paro-
chial, and three private. The branches generally taught in all the
schools are, English reading and grammar, Latin, writing, arith-
metic, book-keeping and mensuration. The parochial teacher has
a salary of L. 30, and the legal accommodations, and his school fees
may amount to L. 25 per annum. One of the other teachers re-
ceives from the landed proprietor, by whom his school was establish-
ed, a salary of L. 5, and he has besides a school-house, a dwelling-
house and garden, and coals. The proprietor of Bargany and the
tacksman of the Bargany coal, pay another teacher L. 5 annually,
and furnish him with a school-room; an apartment for himself, and
a large garden. The only advantage which the remaining teacher
has, is the use of a school-room on another part of the Bargany
estate. The school fees are paid monthly, at the following rates,
--for English, 10d.; English and writing, 1s. 2d.; arithmetic,


