
                                 DUNCARNY.           795


      in many instances either aggravating the previous disorder, or in-
      ducing others equally hazardous.
         It would be useless to specify all the cases in which these waters
      might be advantageously used, as they should be employed in no
      one of any importance without the sanctiont and advice of the phy-
      sician.  A few of the more decided, however, may be mentioited.
         In plethoric babits of the body, and where it. is desirable to
      counteract such a tendency, they may be taken freely. provid-
      ed the presence of no other disease forbids their employment.
      If not sufficiently active, some saline purgative, such as the Ep-
      som or Rochelle salt, should be added.
         When this plethoric state of the body is accompanied with what
      is by no means uncommon, determination of blood to the head,
      threatening apoplexy, their continued use will be highly service-
      able, since there is no form of medicine better adapted for quickly
      lessening the amount of the circulating fluids than the saline, and
      in the state which nature has furnished, it is more likely to be
      perseveringly continued than would be the less palateable pre-
      scription of the physician.
         In some chronic diseases of the liver, particularly that form of
      liver disease induced by residence in tropical climates, the benefit
      to be received from them is in most cases very decided.  They
      afford relief in such cases, by unloading the large vessels in the
      neighbourhood of the disease, and it may be also, in some degree,
      by acting as a counter-irritant.  Other remedies should be con-
      joined; but these, of course, it is the province of the medical
      attendant to regulate, as the quantity and extent to which they
      are necessary, must depend entirely upon the peculiarity of the
      particular case.
         The diuretic properties of these waters (dependent on the large
      quantity of the chloride of calcium they contain) is the subject of
      remark by most individuals who use them, and this peculiar pro-
      perty renders them useful in some forms of calculous disease.
      There is no good reason, however, to suppose (looking at their
      constitution) that they possess any specific control over the disease
      mentioned.  Indeed, if such remedies are required, we possess
      them of far greater influence, and more to be depended on, than
      the one in question.
         Their alterative and diludnt qualities render them of conisider_
      able utility as an adjuvant in the treatment of some forms of sy-
      philitic complaint.


