
                           DUNBAR.                          89

It consisted of a Dean, an Archpriest, and eighteen Canons; and
the revenues of the church of Dunbar, with the incomes of the
chapels of Whittingham, Spott, Stenton, Penshiel, and Heather-
wick, were assigned for their support. The founder annexed to
this college the churches of Linton or Prestonkirk, Dunse, and
Chirnside; and he reserved the patronage of the whole to himself
and his successors. Afterwards, the chapels were converted into
parish churches, but still dependent on the mother church as
prebends of the college. When Heatherwick was made a distinct
parish, it was a rectory called Belton, which was the name of the
estate and also of two villages. It remained a separate parish
until the Reformation in 1560, when it was re-annexed to Dunbar,
and then also Dunbar ceased to be collegiate. The patronage
of the church fell to the Crown with the forfeiture of the Earldom
of Dunbar in 1434. The said earldom and patronage were enjoy
by the Duke of Albany, and at his forfeiture they again fell to the
Crown, in 1483. The patronage of the church of Dunbar now
belongs to the Dukedom of Roxburghe, and it is liferented by
Mary Duchess Dowager of Roxburghe.
   It appears that the church was named St Bae's, after its founder,
according to a traditionary rhyme regarding three female saints, who
strove to build a church nearest to the sea.*
   We find that in a charter by King James IV. it is called Ecclesia
Collegiata Sancti Bae de Dunbar. The building must have been
repeatedly renewed and altered. When last taken down, its style
was a mixture of Gothic and Saxon; and it was in the form of a,
cross. It was inconvenient, and not large enough for the poptl-
lation. The last time Divine service was performed in it was
on Sunday, 7th March 1819. The foundation stone of a now
church was laid on the site of the old one, 17th April 1819; and
on the 20th April 1821, the new church was opened for the ordina-
tion of the present incumbent. It is most conveniently situated
for the whole parish. Almost the whole inhabitants are within
three miles of it, and scarcely any of them beyond four. It contains
1800 personal and has 61 free sittings for the poor of the parish.
The manse was built in 1767. The glebe is four Scotch acres
in extent; and there is no grass glebe. The stipend is twenty;
<FOOTNOTE>* "St Abb's upon the Nab,
		   St Helen's upon the Lea,
		   St Bae's, upon Dunbar sands
		   Stands nearest to the sea"
   + In 1822, a new method of letting church seats was adopted on the part of the
burgh. A price was marked upon certain pews belonging to it, and the Provost nail-
ed them up, that none might enter till they were let. The kirk-session complained


