
90                           WIGTONSHIRE.

long an elder in this parish, who for a minute acquaintance with
all matters of history, surpassed any man I ever knew. A large por-
tion, of the working-classes are Irish. They are by no means
cleanly in their habits and style of living. Their habitations are
too frequently scenes of filth. The pig often shares the same do-
micile with his owner. The Scotch part of the labouring popu-
lation are much more cleanly in their babits,--superior also in
character and intelligence. The ordinary food of the peasantry
consists chiefly of oatmeal porridge, and bread, milk, cheese, po-
tatoes, pork, and herring. Tea and tobacco are in too general
use. It would be better that what is expended on these luxuries
would go to improve the comforts of the people in other respects.
I have often wished that the labourer could enjoy the wholesome
and invigorating beverage of home-brewed ale. Poaching pre-
vails much in the parish, but the poachers generally come from
other parishes.

                                IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The land cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,
may amount to 12,600 acres ; the land never cultivated, constant-
ly waste or in pasture, 18,000 acres. About 800 acres of the
highland district of the parish might be added to the cultivated
land; the climate, however, would have to be ameliorated by belts
of plantation. There is no land in the parish in a state of un-
divided common. About 655 acres are under wood, all planted
and enclosed. There is some natural wood in the glens in the
higher district, but not of much extent or value. The oldest
plantations were made about a century ago by Marshal Stair, and
consist chiefly of beech. At that time, and till lately, beech was
considered the only tree that would suit the soil and climate of
Wigtonshire. This is now found to be a mistake. Beech also is
very unprofitable timber. Ash, oak, elm, plane, and larch are now
generally planted.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land in the parish
is L. 1 per acre. The average rent of grazing is about L. 3, 15s.
for each cow, and 3s. 6d. for each sheep per annum.
	Wages.--The wages of a common labourer in summer, 1s. 2d. ;
in winter, 1s. The wages of a joiner in summer and winter, 2s.;
of a mason, do. 2s. 6d.
	Sheep--The common breed of sheep in the parish is the black-
faced. The sheep-walks not being very good, the stock are ge-
nerally small, and the breed not much studied. The diseases


