
                                  CARGILL.                     1167

    The collections at church, including mortcloth and marriage dues,
    amount yearly to L.25.  Any deficiency is made up by contribu-
    tions from the heritors.
      Inns.--There are two public-houses in the parish.
      FueL.--The only fuel used, except small quantities of brush-
    wood, is sea-borne coal.

      November 1843.

                          PARISH OF CARGILL.

           PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                 THE REV.  WILLIALM C. ROSE, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.--CARGILL takes its name from Caer, signifying in the
    Celtic language a vhllage, and Cill, a place of worship, or burial.
    It was formerly called the West Parish, and is said to have been
    part of the  parish of Cupar of Angus, but has long since been
    disjoined from that, and erected into a distinct parochial district.
    Bishop Spottiswood mentions, that, as far back as the year 1514,
    Andrew Stuart, brother to John Earl of Athole, got the benefices
    of Cargill and Alyth.
       Situation, &c.--This parish is situated in the large vale of Strath-
    more, and is bounded on the north, by the river Isla; on the
    north-east, by -the parish of Coupar-Angus; on the east, by Ket-
    tins; on the south-east, by Collace ; on the south, by St Martins,
    and on the west and north-west, by the river Tay.
        Extent, &c.--It extends from west to east about 6 miles,
    and from north to south about 4,--on an average, forming
    nearly an oblong square.  This parish exhibits a surface diver-
    sified by  wood and water, and variegated by ascents and de-
    clivities.  Rising gradually in the form of a ridge for about a mile
    from the  river Tay,  it reaches a plain of near four miles in
    breadth, which, with some unevennesses, it preserves till it comes
    to the Sidla hills, which form part of its eastern boundary
    Excepting   the woodlands, it is mostly all arable.  Thd soil is
    extremely various and different.  In the lower parts of the parish,


