
196                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.

and South Cote, embraces nearly a third of the whole parish, and
rather more than a third of the whole valued rent of the parish.
The property of Walter Dickson, Esq. including the farms of Ne-
ther Chatto, Sharplaw, and Kirkrow, stands next in extent and
value, and comprises nearly a fourth of the valued rent. Thomas
Turnhbill, Esq. is the only resident heritor, and his property of
Howgate, which he holds in his own possession, amounts to about
a sixtieth part of the whole valued rental of the parish.
   The remaining landed property in the parish is very much di-
vided. The names of the other land-owners, taken in the order
of their rentals, are as under, viz. William Oliver Rutherford, Esq.
Boughtrig; William Scott Ker, Over Chatto; Sir George War-
render, West Side Over Whitton, and Heatherlands; Thomas
Stavert, Philogar; James Ainslie, East Side Over Whitton, and
East Grange; Robert Boyd, a minor, Capehope; James, Alex-
ander, and Pringle Home Douglas, Chester House.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of our parish or sessional
records, comprising entries of the proclamations of the banns of
marriage, baptisms, discipline, division of poors' money, and the
proceedings of the kirk-session, is 1690. The records from this
date to the year 1728 are very imperfect. Since the latter period,
they have been better attended to, and are in general pretty ac-
curately kept. From 1772 to November 1775, there is an entire
blank in the minutes of session. Since 1775, they have been kept
with considerable care, and the entries are regular as far as relates
to the minutes. No accurate account can be given of deaths and
burials, from the imperfection of the registers; and even the births
and baptisms are not regularly recorded. *
   Antiquities.-The traces of ancient camps and other remains
of antiquity are discovered here in a variety of situations. The
ancient Roman Iter, commonly called the "Street," and which can
be traced to the south as far as Borough Bridge in Yorkshire, tra-
verses this parish. After passing a hamlet, which is named from it
Street-house, it crosses the Kale water near to Pennymuir. It
afterwards proceeds to the Tweed by-St Boswell's Green, whence

<FOOTNOTE>It may be worth mentioning, that there are belonging to the kirk-session three
folio volumes, in a state of excellent preservation, of the Acts of Assembly, commen-
cing 16th day of October 1690, with the following inscription in front of the title-page
of volume first: "This and other two volumes of Acts of Assembly, comprehending
all their acts to the year 1753, inclusive, are to belong to the session of Hounam....
Delivered by James Carmichael to the session, at the death of Mr John Rogers,
minister of Hounam, the Donor, this 15th August 1774."


