
     Statistical Account

The next is Sanderay, distant 5 miles from Barray; it is
2 miles in length, 2 in breadth, and contains 9 families.
Pabay, lying at the distance of 8 miles from Barray, 1 1/2
in length, and 1 in breadth, contains 3 families.  Men-
galay, at the distance of 12 miles, 2 miles in length, and
2 miles in breadth, contains 8 families.  The Last is Ber-
neray, which, from its being called the Bishop's Isle, seems
to have once belonged to the Bishop of the isles; it is 16
miles distant from Barray, 1 mile in length, 3/4 in breadth,
and contains 3 families.  These islands are fertile in
corn and grass, but liable to be blasted by the S. W. winds,
which frequently blow here.  They are very difficult of
access, on account of the strong currents running between
them, and landing is sometimes not only difficult, but ha-
zardous.  Close by the island of Mingalay is a high rock,
with very luxuriant grass growing on the top of it.  The
inhabitants of this island climb to the top at the risk of
their lives, and by means of a rope carry up their wedders
to fatten.  This must be the Scarpa Vervecum mentioned
by Buchanan*.  The main island of Barray has a bar-
ren appearance, from the great quantity of rock to be seen
every where, excepting the north end, which for its ferti-
lity, if the climate were equally good, might be compared to

<FOOTNOTE>

*To this, and to the island of Bernera, great numbers of sea-fowls re-
fort every year in the month of May, the same with those in St Kilda,
though not in such variety; they come in the latter end of April or the
beginning of May to clean their nests from the rubbish of last year, then
set off, and after some days return to lay their eggs and hatch, and so soon
as the young are able to take the wing, they disappear, and are not to be
seen till the same season next year.  The inhabitants of these two islands
catch some of them in the rocks, which they think very good eating, and
from which they get very fine leathers; these feathers they sell at 6 d. the
1 b. in the counry, as they never have them in such quantities as to send
them to a public markets.


