
     Statistical Account

   Woods and Orchards.-There is a great variety of planted
trees on the higher grounds, which thrive well, shelter the

<FOOTNOTE>

to it by an inclined plane.-The rivers being scarcely able to
force their way through this desert, on which no four-footed
creature durst venture for a long tract of time, deposited their
tribute of slime, and meliorating particles of fine earth, upon
the banks which produced a strip of rich land along their course.
These strips of fine arable land, on the brinks of the rivers, are
still discernible in all this country, while moss, in many places,
retains its antient possession, between them and the higher
grounds farther back, by which it is surrounded.  It is also
probable, that these banks of earth, formed on the verge of the
rivers, contributed to hold back the water in the morass, and
to increase its depth, or the altitude of the moss, as they grew
higher, by a continual accession of more soil with every inunda-
tion.
   This may be the manner in which all deep mosses are formed.
The thin stratum of moss on dry ground, which is produced
solely by the leaves, and other deciduous parts of heath, is en-
tirely out of the question.  All mosses, of any considerable
depth, are found in beds of greater or less extent, according to
the distance of the rising grounds, or other obstructions by
which the morass was inclosed, wherein they were formed.  It
is an absurdity to alledge, that peat earth grows, any more than
other earth.  No species of earth has vegetable life.  It indeed
produces plants which have vegetable life, and these plants, re-
turning to their first principles, increase the mold.  The plants
which grow on dry ground, when not carried off, add to the
staple of the soil, and form a mold, similar in its qualities to
that on which they grew; and the plants, which are natural to
land-locked morasses, (among which that plant, strictly called
moss, is always to be found), the leaves, and branches, and bark
of trees, where they happen to fall, uniformly produce a black
mold known by the name of peat earth.
   In the middle of the carse of Lecropt, there remained, till of
late, 60 acres of moss, originally formed in this manner, The
people in the adjacent farms were in the practice of cutting
peats from it, which rendered the moss very irregular.  The
low moss at the ides was from 4 to 6 feet deep, and the high
moss in the middle from 7 to 10 feet.  This moss was, about 8
years ago, taken in lease from Mr Stirling of Kier, by a far-
mer in the neighbouring parish.  He was baffled at first in ma-
ny attempts to carry off the moss; but by unwearied perseve-


