
                     RENFREW.                           27

been commenced between the Clyde near Renfrew Ferry and the
town of Paisley.  The only considerable bridges connected with
the parish are two,-the Barnsford Bridges, which is thrown
across the Gryfe and Black Cart, immediately after their junction,
and the Inchinan, Bridge, which is thrown across this united stream
and the White Cart, immediately above their confluence.  This last
consists properly of two bridges united; the one spanning the White
Cart, and the other the Gryfe, but both resting on the point of land
which separates these two rivers.  A timber drawbridge crosses the
canal before noticed, as running alongside the White Cart.
   Ecclesiastical State.-From the irregular form of the parish, no
place would be in all respects convenient to the whole population,
and the present site of the church is in the circumstances as suit-
able as any that could be selected.  The greatest distance, which
parishioners have to come to church is about, three miles,-but
with the inconvenience of having a river to cross; and it ought
to be mentioned, that the town-council allow an abatement of rent,
so as to permit the labouring classes on the north side to cross
the ferry, on the Lord's day, gratis.  it does not indeed appear,
that it was ever the practice to charge parishioners any fare on
Sabbath for coming to church, beyond what is levied on the farms
inproduce.  The great bulk of the population,however,are in and
around the burgh, to whom, therefore, the situation of the church
is all they could wish.  The present church was at least repaired,
and bad an aisle added in 1726; but whether it was then wholly
rebuilt, we have not been, able distinctly to ascertain.  It has under-
gone various alterations, and in 1821 was wholly reseated.  In order
to gain a greater elevation of ceiling, a large quantity of earth was
at the same time removed out of the floor, which is now about two feet
under the level of the soil around the church.  On this and on other
accounts it is damp and uncomfortable.  It contains about 760
sittings, - a number under the legal provision for the parish-
ioners, and greatly short of the amount actually required.  To
meet this, as well as otherwise to promote the spiritual improve-
ment of the parish, a separate service has been for several year                                   years
conducted at eight o'clock every Sabbath morning.
   The manse was built in 1790 ; but was repaired and the offices
rebuilt in 1831.  The glebe is wholly separate from the manse,
and is divided into two portions, the larger being at a considerable
distance.  The whole amounts to upwards of twenty-one Scoth acres:
but the greater part consists of inferior land, which was obtained
by excambion, for the legal amount of rich land near the burgh.


