
			KIRKMAIDEIN.                          203

pigeons. About forty years ago, a pair of eagles had their eyrie
on one of the precipitous cliffs near Dunman, but the ravages which
they committed among the lambs roused the farmers to take re-
venge by setting fire to, their domicile, and thus banishing the de-
predators. An individual of the bee-eater species (Merops opi-
aster), was shot in Logan garden in the summer of 1832.
	The coast abounds with various species of fish the most com-
mon are cod, the red or rock variety of which is highly prized;
sythe, and especially the coal-fish (Merlangus carbonarius), which
has no fewer than five different names among the fishermen, ac-
cording to hts different stages of growth; whhting, mackerel, and
mullet are at times abundant; skate and other flat-fish, occasion-
ally including turbot and sole, and red and grey gurnard, are fre-
quently taken. The common hake, the dog-fish, smooth hound,
(Mustelus laevis), are found accompanying the shoals of herrings.
The gabboch, (Scyllium catulus), braize, smelt, (Atherina hepsetus),
are not uncommon. The Cornish sucker (Lepadogaster Cornubiensis),
the lump-fish (Cyclopterus lumpus), Morhua barbata, here named
good-speed: dragonet (Callionymus lyra), the stang-fish, (Trachi-
nus draco), are also met with. The angler (Lophius piscatorius),
is frequently cast ashore; and there was found in 1837 a single
specimen of a small silvery fish, with rows of dots along its sides,
correctly described by Pennant under the name of the Sheppy ar-
gentine.
	Oysters of a large size are met with, both on the western shore
and in the Bay of Luce; but beds sufficiently productive to be
dredged have not been found. Lobsters and crabs are abundant,
and are sometimes taken by fishermen from Ireland for the Dub-
lin market.
	Botany.--Forming the southwest point of Scotland, this pa-
rish is of great interest to the Scottish botanist, as presenting a
vegetation differing considerably from that of the east coast, and
closely resembling that of the neighbouring coasts of England and
Ireland.
	From the crumbling nature of the rocks, they are covered with
vegetation. On the cliffs along the west side, especially south of
Dunman, the highest, we meet with abundantly,
	Euphorbia Portlandica     Limbarda crithmoides   Atriplex portulacoides
	Crithmum maritimum        Pyrethrum maritimum     Apium graveolens;
	Carlina vulgaris          Statice spathulata
And at one place among the debris at the foot of the cliffs, Dr
Graham, Professor of Botany in Edinburgh, discovered in August


