
                           TEMPLE.                                53

  Quarries and Mines, Th6 quarries abound with freestone, lime,
and coal.
  Manufactures.-The first gunpowder manufactory in Scotland
was erected by Hitchen6r and Hunter at Stobsmills in 1794, which
hassincebeengreatlyextended.  The works are on the property of
Robert Dundas, Esq. of Arniston, and James Dewar, Esq. of Vo-
grie; they are chiefly in this parish, though partly in Borthwick. The
situation is well adapted for carrying on the business. They occupy
nearly three-quarters of a mile, and the different houses required
in the more dangerous departments are all detached, and placed
either between the natural projections of the glen, or artificial
mounds planted with trees; consequently, when an explosion does
occur, it seldom destroys any other building than that in Which it
originated.  They are supplied by a water-power issuing from 1bur
dam-beads, which drive ten water-wheels, one of which is 30 feet
in diameter.  The number of men employed is from 50 to 60.
The Company export gunpowder to almost every quarter of the
globe, and during the late war bad a contract with Government for
a supply.  They gratuitously educate about fifty children belong-
ing to the workmen, and have given pensions to the widows and
families of such as have been unfortunately killed.  The most
systematic care is observed to prevent accidents.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Markets, &c.-There is no market-town in the parish. Dalkeith,
distant six miles, is the nearest; and, is the best grain-market; in
Scotland.  Some farmers, however, occasionally drive their grain
to Edinburgh, where the prices are a little higher.  It is distant
eleven miles.
  The only villages in the parish worthy of the name are those
of Temple and Gorebridge, and a part of Stobhill, the greater
portion of which, however, is in Newbattle,
  The post-office for the parish is at Fushie-bridge.  The turn-
pike road from Peebles to Dalkeith runs through the parish, from
Tweeddale-burn to Carrington-bridge, an extent of about six
miles.  No public carriages travel onthis turnpike road; but only
the carriers going weekly from the villages of Temple and Rose-
bery to Edinburgh.
  Ecclesiastical stute.-After the Reformation, it appears the
cure of Temple was servrd by Willaim Hudsoun, minister, who sti-
pend amounted only to fourscore merks, with the third of the vi-
varage, extending to L. 3, 6s. 8d., in all, L. 7, 15s. 6 8/12. Ster-



