
	                       ORPHIR.                      21

      the fields cleared against the end of September, and a late crop
      is always an inferior one.
         Breeds of Live-Stock.-The black-cattle are, in general,
      such as are common over the county ; and, as an over-stock
      is frequently kept, they have rather a stunted appearance.
      few of what are called the Dunrobin breed have been introdu-
      ced, and though they do not grow to a large size, they have a
      sprightly appearance.  The price, of the latter, compared with
      the former, is usually as L. 5 to L, 3. The native horses are
      generally of a small size.  Those on the l`rger farms are of a
      superior breed, and, compared with the former, may be rated about
      two to one as to price,tbat is as L.8 to L.16. The native sheeps are
      of a small size, live on the common at all seasons, on the hills in
      summer, and along the shore in winter: they are never housed.  At
      Lammas a wedder brings about 5s.  A few Cheviots have been tried,
      but have not thriven well, except on the larger farms. These, in
      their best condition, bring L.1, 1s. each.
         Husbandry.-Tbe one stilt plough, drawn by three horses, was
      used on some of the smaller farms, about twenty-five years ago.  It
      is now wholly out of use.  Though it had a clumsy appearance, it
      had this advantage, that it broke the ground in some soils more
      completely than those now in use.  Though are coming into
      use, and are expected to prove more economical than those made
      of wood.  There are a few leases for nineteen years, but they are
      more generally for shorter periods, fourteen, eleven, or seven years.
      Very few of the farms are inclosed except the larger ones.
           The method of preparing the crop for drying when cut, before
      it is put into the stack, deserves attention. The band of the sheaf
      is made in the usual way and pulled by the root, except when the
      crop is luxuriant, and thdn it is cut.  The sheaf is made of rather
      a large size.  The band is drawn nearer the crop end than the root,
      and when the ends are pulled and crossed, they are then twisted
      and turned with dexterity so as to rest against the sheaf but the
      ends thus twisted are not turned within the band.  The sheaf thus
      formed is set on end by itself, and the root end spread out a little.
      It is so placed, that the root end of the band is on the lee-side,
      from whatever quarter the wind is blowing at the time, and the
      crop of the sheaf gets a gentle pressure to the lee-side also. The
      sheaf thus placed is not apt to fall, and after having stood five or
      six days in this position, in favourable, weather, it is fit for being
      screwed, that is, for bein built into ricks on the field.  These


