
886                         PERTHSHIRE.

parish kirks of their respective localities, as they bad formerly been
so before the Reformation. *
   The parish must have been originally small. But it was con-
siderably enlarged by a decree dated 25th November 1642, dis-
joining Clashjeuglie, Glendymiln, Blair, Plains, and the lands of
Easter and Wester Fordell with their pertinents, from the parish
of Forgandenny, and annexhng them to the parish of Arngask in
all time coming. And on 28th July 1669, it received a further
enlargement, and attained its present magnitude.  On that occasion,
as we learn from Connell on the Law of Parishes, " the minister,
of Arngask obtained a decree disjoining the lands of Hiltown and
Grammore" (Carmore) " from the parishes of Orwell and Strath-
miglo, and annexing them to Arngask, as being much nearer
thereto, MS.  D." We have not bad an opportunity of examin-
ing the authority to which Sir J. C. refers; but while Hiltown is
unquestionably in this parish, Carmore is still considered as be-
longing to Strathmiglo.
   Ministers of the Parish.-Soon after the Reformation, when,
there was a great scarcity of Reformed ministers, John Pittblado,
as we learn from the register of ministers, exporters, and readers,
and of their stipends, sen the yeir of God 1567, (which was printed
for the Maitland Club in 1830,) was reidar at Artigask about the
year 1569, with xvi. li., i. e. L.16 Scots of stipend. And Alex-
ander Wardlaw, as we find from the register of assignations for the
ministers' stipends, for 1574, (an ancient MS. in the Advocates' Li-
brary,) officiated here in the same capacity. It appears from the
Presbytery record that the parish was for a considerable time under
the pastoral superintendence of the ministers of Strathmiglo. I. Mr
George Moncrieff, son of Mr Archibald Monerieff, minister of Aber-
nethy, was the first Protestant minister of Arngask. From a minute of
Presbytery, August 14, 1633, we find that a letter from his relative,
Mr Andrew Murray, minister of Abdie, was produced in favour of
Mr Moncrieff, " desiring the brethren to license the said Mr George
to preach at Arngask kirk, till the said kirk be provided and plant-
ed. The brethren having considered the same gave license to
the said Mr George, till the first day of November, and no fur-
ther, lest, under pretext of his serving the cure, the plantation
thereof be hindered." He was appointed the minister of the pa-
rish in October 1635, and continued in the discharge of his pas-

<FOOTNOTE>Scots Acts of Parliament, Vol. iv. p. 343.


