
	894                         PERTHSHIRE.

	the parochial school.  The teacher of the unendowed school has
	a free house, but is otherwise entirely dependent on the school
	fees.  The parochial teacher's house affords little more than the
	legal accommodation.  His salary is L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d. ; but this sum
	is inclusive of an allowance for a garden.  He receives from the
	heritors L.2 per annum, being interest of money in their hands,
and mortified by a native of the parish, Robert Glass, late mer-
	chant in Perth, for the purpose of " being chiefly applied to the
	means of education of the young."  In return for the above sum,
	and with the view of carrying into effect the intention of the benevo-
	lent donor, he teacbes four children, who are annually selected by
	a committee of heritors, and whose parents may be in indigent cir-
	cumstances, but are not receiving parochial aid.  The total slim
	arising from school fees, if properly paid, may be stated as amount-
	ing to L.26.  There has been a Sabbath evening school, for many
	years, in the village of Duncrivie.  It is principally taught by one
	of the elders, and is generally well attended.  There is a small
	library attached to it for the benefit of the children.
	   Ample as our means of education are, it is gratifying to add,
	that, through the mudificence of John Glass, Esq. we have an im-
	mediate prospect of their extension.  He has recently erected
	upon his property at Newton of Balcanquhal, in the locality which
	gave him birth, an excellent and commodious dwelling-house and
	school-room, and is at present adopting measures for obtaining a
	properly qualified teacher, to whom he intends to secure the hand-
	some salary of L.50 per annum.  The school was opened in Oc-
	tober 1841, but the teacher&s salary, it is understood, is now re,
	duced to L.36 per annum.
	   Library.-A parochial library has been recently established,
	and is under the management of the kirk-session.  It includes a
	variety of excellent publications, chiefly of a theological character,
	and has been formed by donations from a few of the heritors.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
	regularly receiving parochial aid, exclusive of those who obtain
	occasional relief, is 10 ; and the monthly allowance granted to
	each varies, according to circumstances, from 5s. to 12s.  The
	kirk-session, in several instances, also allow a quantity of coals,
	and pay the house rent of the pauper.  The further defray the
	expense of educating the children of paupers, which, at an average,
	amounts to the sum of L.2 per annum.
	  The annual revenue at the disposal of the kirk-session, and


