
506                              ABERDEENSHIRE.

lime wall two feet thick, including all expenses, L.7, 1Os.; a slated
roof, independent of wood-work, L.5, 5s.; a thatched roof, includ
ing value of straw, L.1, 5s. By the square yard, flooring, includ-
ing joisting, 3s. 6d.
   Breeds of Animals.-Horses.-The present principal breed of
these has been brought from the south of Scotland and England
within the last thirty years.  They are of such size that two make
an excellent plough.  A good many are now bred in the parish
but not quite enow to supply the yearly waste.  There are yet
also to be found a considerable number of the old breed of small-
sized horses; a healthy race, and of great endurance for the road.
   Sheep.-There, with the exception of one flock of black-faced
sheep, kept on the hills, at the west end of the parish, consist of
a few improved Leicesters, and Merino crosses, kept on account of
the wool.
   Pigs.-There are very few, of the small Chinese breed; and
they are getting quite out of favour as store beasts.
   Black-Cattle.-These form the most important store-beasts.
The substratum of the present races is the well-known long-horn-
ed black or brown Aberdeenshire breed, a healthy and handsome
race, but small.  The cows, when now properly fed at all seasons,
are great milkers, and their milk peculiarly rich.  This breed is,
however, now rarely seen pure in this parish, although yet to be
got quite pure in some of the neighbouring parishes.  Since the
introduction of abundance of food by the turnip husbandry, the
cultivators have become desirous of having larger animals than
their old native breed ; and they have obtained these by crossing
it with larger bulls, brought from other parts.  The crosses with
the Galloway bull have been preferred, and the cattle have lost
their characteristic horns.  The resident heritors introduced the
pure Ayrshire dairy breed; and many of these, at one time, got
dispersed among the farmers, but do not seem to be held in re-
pute.
   Table of live-stock in the parish, on the l5th June 1831, just
after some of the largest sales of the year had been made;

<TABLE>
		Large cart and. plough horses,     -    150
		Smaller full-grown horses,         -     30
		Horses under four years old,       -     32
							          ---212
		Mitch cows,	                       -    425
		Work oxen,                         -     48
		Young cattle, inclyding calves,    -   1379
                                                   ----1852
		Sheep, all kinds,	                 -    703
		Pigs,	                             -     35


