
				FORDYCE.                         181

	this serpentine, the greatest breadth of which seems to be about
	500 yards, are red and green; and, by the different modes of thier
	association, are produced those numerous and beautiful varieties
	of this rock which have been so universally admired. Veins of
	precious or noble serpentine (so called from its translucency) fre-
	quently occur, also others of calcareous spar, asbestus, amianthus,
	and, in a very few instances, hydrate of magnesia. Diallage, schil-
	ler spar, and magnetic iron ore, are also to be found in small
	quantities.
	   As we proceed along the coast, we find strata of mica-slate and
	clay-slate, with occasional veins of quartz, constituting almost the
	whole line to the lime-kilns of Redhyth ; near to which gneiss (a
	rock which is but of rare occurrence in Banffshire), presents it-
	self for a short distance, and contains numerous crystals of pre-
	cious garnet.  Adjoining to this is to be seen a small deposit of
	red sandstone conglomerate, which rests unconformably upon the
	older rocks, and, like the otlier red sandstones and red conglome-
	rates of Scotland, is entirely composed of fragments derived from
	them.The geognostical position of this rock is the bottom of the
	great independent coal formation; and a well exposed junctional
	section is afforded near the coast. Large veins of calcareous spar
	are at some points to be detected. Between Redhyth and Cra-
	thie Point, we meet with various large beds of crystalline lime-
	stone. It is in general connected with clay-slate; but, from the
	fissured state of the strata, appears to be of little value as an or-
	namental stone. At the old Castle of Findlater is to be seen a
	quartz rock of rather an interesting character, while, between this
	and Logie Head, many other well-marked examples of quartz and
	mica slate are to be found.
	   Returning to the mouth of the burn of Durn, and proceed-
	ing eastward, we first meet eccentrically contorted strata of
	mica-slate, containing a few beds nf marble; so mixed, how-
	ever, with argillaceous earth, as to make them useless for or-
	namental purposes.  Strathfied rocks of the same general de-
	scription form the whole coast to the mouth of the burn of Boyne,
	where a large mass of distinctly stratified limestone comes into
	view, and, in some places, shows most interesting contortions.	It
	may be traced a considerable way up the bed of the stream, and
	forms a part of one of those great bands of limestone, which tra-
	verse the county in a north-east and southwest direction, and
	which, in many instances, may be followed by the geologist into


