
880                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

<TABLE>
Oxyria reniformis, near Park House         Hypericum pulchrum, glebe.
Saxifraga aizoides,     Do.                Tussilago farfara, near Bakebare
Prunus spinosa, glebe.                     T. petasites, near the old church.
Nasturtium officinale, King's Well.        Solidago virgaurea, do. and Park House.
Geranium sylvaticum, near Park House.      Corylus avellana, glebe.
Hypericum humifusum  }                     Mercurialis perennis, near Park House.
H. hirsutum          } glebe.              Botrychium lunaria, near Bogtown.

     Woods.-Within the last thirty years, extensive plantations of
larch and Scotch fir, interspersed with birch and other hard-wood
trees, have been reared upon the different estates, and have added
greatly,to the beauty, comfort, and fertility of the parish.  They
are at present in a very thriving condition, and may be expected,
in a few years, amply to repay the proprietors.  In the policies
of Drum, there are a good many old oak, ash, plane, and elm-
trees, which have attained such a size as indicates that they are
congenial to the soil and climate ; and near the house are two
large and beautiful hollies, the stem of one of which is 7 feet high
from the ground to the lowermost branches, and is 7 feet 6 inches
in circumference.

                   II-CIVIL HISTORY. *
   The estate of Drum, which at present constitutes one-half of
the parish, was originally part of a royal forest, and one of the
hunting-seats of the Kings of Scotland.  The park of Drum
formed part of the chase, and a powerful spring, at the north-east
end of the loch, is still known by the designation of the King's
Well.  This estate has long been possessed by the family of the
present proprietor, Irvine of Drum, being a name which is re-
corded with honour in the national annals.  William de Irwin,
the first of that line, (who belonged to the family of Irwin of
Bonshaw, in Dumfries-shire, and is supposed by some to have
been its chief), was chosen by Robert Bruce, when struggling with
Edward I. for the Crown of Scotland, to be his armour-bearer,
receiving, at the same time, the device which Bruce himself had
borne as Earl of Carrick, viz. three bunches of holly leaves, sup-
ported by two savages, wreathed, with the motto, " Sub sole, sub
umbra virens;" and having accompanied his royal master in his
wanderings, participated in his narrow escapes, and attended him
while performing those deeds of desperate valour which have
thrown an air of romance around his history, was rewarded by
him for his great zeal and fidelity with a grant, by charter under
the Great Seal, of the forest of Drum, anno .1323.+

<FOOTNOTE>The writer is not aware of the existence of any historical account of this parish,
except one in manuscript, which is said to be in the Advocates' Library, Edinburgh,
but with the contents of which he has not been able to make himself acquainted.
    This charter of the forest of Drum (for the park of Drum was reserved by Ro-


