
     Statistical Account

   Fuel.-The fuel commonly used is peat and turf, obtained
from mosses, in general within its bounds.  But the mosses are
greatly exhausted, and some of the gentlemen burn coals in
their houses.-The expence of casting, drying, and leading
peat and turf is very great, and consumes much of that time
in summer, which might be profitably employed on the farm.
-Were it not for the heavy duty affecting coals brought
coast ways, which keeps the price of that article high, and is a
great bar to manufactures; for coals commonly fell at 4 s per
boll at Aberdeen in summer, and in winter at a higher price,
the boll being 36 stone Amsterdam weight; it is generally
believed, that families residing at such a distance as ours from
a sea port, would be cheaper served with coals than the fuel
commonly made use of.-The expence however of furnish-
ing fuel, hath not been accurately ascertained*.

<FOOTNOTE>

sold in retails 16 lb.  Amsterdam to the stone, but in wholesale they are weigh-
ed by the long hundred, 112 lb Averdupois to the cwt or 28 lb. to the stone.
Also 8 stone Amsterdam for weighing the boll of meal,
   The prices of provisions in the year 1576, according to a table said to have
been extracted from the records of the city of Aberdeen.-Bear and meal 10 s
per boll,-oats 5 s. do.-marts 1 l. 10 s. each,-a sheep 5 s.-poultry 1 s. per do-
zen;-a swine from 7 s. to 10 s.-a goose 1 s.-salmon 4 l. per barrel-muir
fowls 4 s. per dozen,-capons 5 s. do.  All Scotch money.
A day labourer in husbandry, without victuals, receives of wages 8 d. per
day-In harvest and for casting, peats 1 s.-a carpenter or common wright
1 s.-a mason 1 s. 8 d.-a taylor with his victuals, 6 d.

*The expence of a married labourer cannot be now exactly known, but it
may be remarked, that, with the accommodation of a house, and as much
ground as can maintain a cow, and raise vegetables to his family, for which he
pays a moderate rent, together with his own earnings, and those of his wife,
if they are sober and industrious, he is enabled to bring up a family without
being a burden on the community.  The Incumbent cannot recollect any of this
description coming upon the poor's funds, unless reduced by the unavoidable
distresses of bad health, bodily infirmity, or old age.


