
278                      BERWICKSHIRE.

the produce of a sum of money left by the late Mrs Carre of Nis-
bet for that purpose. In all, the sum expended in the support of
the poor in this parish is about L. 175 or L. 180 per annum. It
will be seen, therefore, that the increase of the assessment during
last forty years has greatly exceeded that of the population.
   Inns.-There are three inns in the village of Allanton, and one
at Mountpleasant, on the estate of Kimmerghame. They have
decidedly a bad effect on the habits and morals of the people.
   Fuel.-Coals are the fuel used in the parish. They are brought
from the county of Northumberland, a distance of thirteen miles;
and from Eye mouth, a distance of about ten miles. The coals got
at Eye mouth are brought by sea from Newcastle and from Fife.
		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Agriculture in all its branches has been vastly improved since
the time of the last Statistical Account. There are now no infield
and outfield lands,-no moor lands set apart for the casting of turf
for fuel,-noswamps-noague. A considerable quantity of land has
been planted: and the parish roads have been greatly improved, par-
ticularly of late years. In 1759, the first act was passed anent turn-
pike roads and toll-bars in Berwickshire. The next act of Par-
liament on that subject was in 1787, to which there was great op-
position. The general mode of carriage by all the parish roads at
that time was on horseback, with panniers. Such a thing is now
never seen, except, indeed, in the case of muggers, who still tra-
verse this part of the country in gangs during the summer season. *
The roads are so good now in all this part of Berwickshire, that
a ton and upwards is the usual load of carriers drawn by one
horse, and no person grumbles at the toll-bars. Two horses, one
in the trams of the cart, and one in front, are generally employed
by the farmers.
   To show the change of times, I may mention, that I have in my
possession the valuation of one of the largest properties in the pa-
rish, proposed to be sold in 1748, the free rental of which at that
time was L. 320 Sterling. The rental of the same lands at pre-
sent is about L. 2500 Sterling.

<FOOTNOTE>A head constable has been appointed lately for the county,-one of whose duties is
to prevent the itinerating of muggers in the county; and since this appointment very
few muggers have been seen in this quarter.

November 1834.


