
                          BERVIE.                          5

enumerated in the Account of the adjoining parish of Arbuthnott,
to which the reader is referred.
   The greatest elevation, Bervie Bill, is about 400 feet; but the
parish embraces part of the sea coast, and enjoys a temperature
superior to that of the inland districts on the same parallel of latitude.
In a very warm hollow near Gourdon is found Hordeum murinum.
It was seen there in 1824 by Mr Murray, and it is the first lo-
cality north of the Forth. The beautiful Pulmonaria maritima
abounds on the low stony beach. Various species of Carex, and
occasionally several plants from the upland districts, ficia sylva-
tica, &c. are brought down by the river floods; Conium maculatum
(spotted hemlock) used in medicine, abounds in the rich rank soil of
waste corners and lanes of the burgh, although rare in inland
country parishes; Carduus tenuiflorus occurs on road sides.
The warm arable lands contain the pretty scarlet pimpernel; and
Scandix pecten, Saxifraga granulata, Dianthus deltoides, Allium
vineale, Eupatorium Cannabinum, Ligusticum Scoticum, Silene mari-
tima, and Bromus Pinnatus, are found in the recesses of the rocks
on the north bank of the river in Kinneff. Chara vulgaris occurs
in some pools; and in the muddy shores of the neighbouring parish
of Benholme, Aster Tripolium.
   There are some thriving plantations, which consist of ash, elm,
beech, birch, firs, (Scoteb, silver, spruce, and pine), hazel, oak,
larch, &c. The trees are not yet of large size, as it is not many
years since they were planted. The ash, oak, and other trees in
the dens are doing well. Those that are planted in more exposed
situations, and where there is less soil, appear not so vigorous.
                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The events worthy of notice connected with this parish are few.
The landing of David II. in 1342,-the passing of the Duke of
Cumberland in 1745 on his way to the north,-and the gallantry
of a small body of volunteers belonging to Bervie, during the French
war, may not be uninteresting to readers. King David Bruce, by
the violence of a storm, was forced to land at the mouth of the
water of Bervie. He met with very kind treatment from the in-
habitants, which so gratified and pleased him, that be granted a
charter to Bervie, conferring many privileges on its inhabitants.
This charter was renewed by James VI. in 1595.
   At the time of the Rebellion in 1745, an occurrence took place,
which greatly alarmed the inhabitants of this parish, and led the
minister, Mr Dow, to vise his influence for the protection of their


