
428                      FORFARSHIRE.

and marches towards Airly; but the Lord Ogilvie, hearing of his
coming with such irresistible force, resolves to flee and leave the
house manless: and so for their safety they wisely fled; but, Ar-
gyle most cruelly and inhumanly enters the house of Airly, and
beats the same to the ground, and right sua he does to Furtour;
syne spoiled all within both houses, and such as could not be car-
ried they masterfully brake down and destroyed. Thereafter the
fell to his ground, plundered, robbed, and took away from him.
self his men, tenants, and servants, their haill goods and gear,
corns, and cattle whatsomever that they could get, and left nothing
but bare bounds of sic as they could carry away with them, and
what could not be destroyed they despitefully burnt up by fire."
	In the course of last year a silver coin or medal, of Anselm Ca-
simir, Elector Arobbishop of Mentz, was turned up by the plough
in one of the fields of Bellaty, in this parish. It is of the size
and nearly the weight of a crown piece, and is in an excellent
state of preservation. On the one side is a half-length figure of
a venerable-lookin old man, with the inscription ANSELMVS: CA-
SIMIRVS: D: G: ARCHIEPI +. On the reverse is an escutcheon,
complete in all its details, and surmounted by a mitre and cross,
with the legend: S: ROM: IMP: PER: GER: ARCH: CA: P: E:
MOG. The date of this curious relic may be pretty accurately con-
jectured, when it is stated that Anselm Casimir was Arch-Chan-
cellor of the German empire, and Archbishop of Mentz, (Mogun-
tium), in the year 1631, when that city was surrendered to Gus-
tavus Adolphus, (Schiller's Thirty Years' War, Moir's Trans.
Vol. ii. pp. 32-36.) A silver coin, apparently of the reign of
James I. of Scotland, and one of Queen Elizabeth, bearing the
date of 1594, have also been found on the same farm. It may be
remarked, as tending in some measure to account for these disco-
veries, that Bellaty is in the immediate neighbourhood of the re-
mains of Newton Castle. That castle is said to have belonged to
the family of Airlie; but the vestiges of it are now so slight, that
they can hardly be traced.

			III.--POPULATION.

	The population nf the parish has decreased very considerably
since the return to Dr Webster in 1755, which was 1852. This
decrease may, in a greet measure be attributed to the converting
of the several contiguous pendicles of land into one possession, a prac-
tice which has been occasionally adopted since the middle of last
century; and more especially to the abolition of townships, by the



