
168                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

tenantry and others kindly undertake to drive the coals, free of
expense.
   In former times, the parish of Yester was not so extensive as it
now is. It was increased in 1702, by the annexation of part of the
parishes of Barra and Bolton the other part of the parish of Barra
was annexed to Garvald. The old church of St Bathans stands
near Yester House, about a mile from the present church. It is
now used as a burying-place for the family of Yester and their
connections. It is a small but very handsome building, of red
sandstone, and has evidently been renewed at different periods.
The nave bears the date of 1635; but the transept is lore an-
cient, probably by 200 years. The pulpit, which is made of beau-
tifully carved oak, and said to be 400 years old, was removed from
the former to the present church, where it still is.
   From the ancient Taxation, it appears that the church of St Bo-
thans was not of great value: being rated only at thirty merks.
In 1421, Sir William Hay of Yester, converted this church into
a collegiate form-consisting of a provost, six prebendaries, and
two singing boys, who enjoyed the lands, tithes, and other eccle-
siastical revenues of the parish, down to the period of the Refor-
mation. Alicia Hay, daughter of Sir Thomas Hay of Errol, and
second wife of Sir William Hay of Yester, granted for the support
of a chaplain in the collegiate church of Bothans, the lands of
Blanes within the constabulary of Haddington,-also various rents
of houses in the town of Haddington, amounting to L.4, 2s. 6d.
Sir David Hay, son of Sir William, gave also some additional
lands for the support of the chaplain; and in 1539, Robert Wa-
therstone (provost of Bothans) gave for the same purpose, two
houses in Haddington, the rents of which amounted to L.3, 10s.
8d.; also two acres of land on the north side of the town. In Ba-
gimont's Roll, the church of St Bothans is rated at L.40.*  After
the Reformation, the revenue was given in at L.100 Scots. It
has been doubted whether the colleghate church of Bothans and
Yester be the same; but their identity appears certain.+  At
Duncanlaw, on the east side of Yester parish, there was formerly

<FOOTNOTE>In the Roll of St Andrew's, 1547, the Praepositura de Bothans is mentioned as
being situated in the deanery of Dunbar. Reliq. Divi Andreae, Dempster informs
us that the 18th of January was the festival of Bothan.
          The village near the old church was sometimes called Bothans. In 1320, Sir
John Gifford of Yester granted to the monks of Dryburgh an annual rent from his
village of Bothan.


