
86                      ARGYLESHIRE.


MacNaughtan, and built by a Sir Gilbert of that name in the reign
of King Alexander III., solicits the traveller's admiration. Supe.
rior architectural beauty, and historical recollections and associa-
tions, may, for other ruins, procure an ampler measure of interest
and admiration, yet few there are which can, in point of local beau-
ty, enter into successful competition with Fraocheilein Castle.
Based on its own twin, yet tiny rock in the middle of the lake,--
girdled about with the adjacent islands of Inchchonnain, Inishail,
and several others,--commanding a view of the lake e`stward to
its termination at Caolchurn, and, beyond it, of the valleys of the
Urchay and Strae, and westward for a space of eight miles,-- over-
hung, on the northern shore, by the towering summits of Bein-
cruachan, having in full prospect the well-wooded shores of Ard-
teatle and Cladich,--nor less on the opposite banks, the lovely
plantations, and the elegant mansions and pleasure-grounds of In-
ishdraonich and New Inverawe,--few indeed are the ruins that can
enter into successful rivalship with those of Fraocheilein Castle.
Nor lacks it its own historical and poetical associations. Here stood
the Hesperides of Ossian; and here, mortally wounded by the
monster dragon that guarded the forbidden fruit, perished the
chivalrous and youthful Traoch,-but not ere his v‚nomous foe pe-
rished under his powerful arm. * It is alleged that the tenure by
which Sir Gilbert and his heirs held his castle and neighbouring
possessions from his sovereign, was, that he should give him befit-
ting entertainment in the event that he should ever claim it, special
provision being made that the king should be accommodated with
a bed of clean straw. + The key of this ancient stronghold, which
was,for many centuries, the property and residence of Macdhono-
Chie of Inverawe, was picked up among the ruins, nnt many years
ago, by a gentleman in the neighbourhood, who recently handed it
over to Campbell of Monzie, the present proprietor, who has it
now in his possession.
   Much superior in point of extent, and certainly in nowise infe-
rior in any other respect, either to this or any other ruin in the
Highlands of Scotland, and at a distance of about five miles east-
ward, at the extremity of the lake, stands Caolchurn Castle, now
in ruins, still the property, and, for centuries, one of the many re-
sidences and fortresses of the noble family of Breadalbane. This
magnificent pile is based upon a rock, which is said to have been,
at the time of its erection, an island. Standing on the moulder-

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Former Statistical Report.               Ibid.


