
                        ST NINIANS.                     317

nians and Stirling. The spot was marked by a heap of stones
and rubbish, which was removed in 1758. when the road was im-
proved. In the days of Cromwell and Charles II., though no
battle was fought in this parish, it was harassed by the contending
armies marching through it, or encamping in its neighbourhood.
A century has nearly elapsed since it was exposed to the last of
these turbulent scenes. In September 1745, the Pretender
marched through the parish with his army, he and several of his
nobles remaining one night at Bannockburn House, to which
they had been invited by Sir Hugh Paterson, the then proprietor.
On his return from the south, Bannockburn House was his head-
quarters during the month of January 1746, whilst his followers
were lodged in the surrounding villages. A mark in one of
the rooms, produced by a bullet that was fired at the Prince,
is still shown. On the morning of the 17th of that month,
his army assembled on Plean Moor, and thence marched to the
battle-field, west of Falkirk, where they obtained a victory
over the King's troops. On the approach of the Duke of
Cumberland, they retreated to the north, having, 1st February,
blown up the Church of St Ninians, which had been used as a
powder magazine. Besides the destruction of the church, several
persons were killed, and others severely wounded. The steeple
remained entire; and, as the new church was built at some distance
from it, strangers seldom fail to inquire what can have caused
so unnatural a disjunction.
  Eminent Men.--Sir John Graham, styled by Wallace his right
hand, was certainly a person of note, though few authentic facts
have been transmitted concerning him.
   Colonel John Erskine of Carnock was Commissioner from Stir-
ling in the Parliament of 1707, and voted in favour of the Union.
He was also Lieutenant-Governor of Stirling Castle, and planted
the trees at the east of the King's Park.
  Henry the historian was born at Muirton, in the carses.
  Miss Hamilton resided at Crook, when she wrote the Cottagers
of Glenburnie.
   Mr Harvey, the painter, is a native of the village of St Ninians.
   Heritors.--The heritors are a numerous body. The stipend is
localled upon 125; but several of the heritors hold more than
one number, and some of them are so small as to render them
ridiculous. Once and agan, there is one-tenth of a lippie of meal,
and one-tenth of a lippie of barley, of old stipend, with two-twelfths


