
               444                        ARGYLESHIRE.

               tity.  He calls him "Vir magna vitae austeritate et continentia
               celebris."  The same author informs us that he wrote several
               works, preserved in the Library of St Andrews; but, as Keith ob-
               serves, there are none to be found at present penned by his hand.
                 5. The Rev. James Gardiner. This eminently godly man
               was minister at Saddell from 1655 to 1662. He had, from hir
               learning and piety, been appointed chaplain to the devoted Mar-
               quis of Argyle, who suffered upon the scaffold in June 1661, and
               had thus incurred a suspicion which led to his ruin. Ac-
               cordingly, as appears from the register of the Privy Council, he
               was summoned to appear before that tribunal in Edinburgh, along
               with Mr Alexander Gordon, minister at Inverary, and Mr John
               Cameron, minister at Kilfinan, upon the 9th day of December
               1662, to be interrogated. His appearance, pursuant to citation,
               is recorded as having taken place, and upon refusing to satisfy the
               Council, he and Mr John Livingston, minister at Ancrum, had
               sentence of perpetual banishment pronounced against them. His
               "Act," as is the title of it in the register, runs thus, "I, James
               Gardiner, late minister of Kintyre, oblige me to remove myself
               out of the King's dominions, within the space of a month from
               the date hereof, and not to be seen within the same, under pain
               of death, and that in the meantime, I shall not repair to any place
               within the bounds of the diocese of Glasgow, Galloway, or Argyle.
               Stbscribed at Edinburgh, the 11th of December 1662, James
               Gardiner."*
                 The following account is given of him by Mr Boes, minister of
               Campbelton, in a letter to Wodrow the historian, and lately dis-
               covered by Dr Burns of Paisley. "1705, Mr James Gardner,
               a steadfast and sincere Christian, was minister in the parish of
               Saddell, banished to Holland at the Restoration, and returning
               privately to Scotland, died in Glasgow.  He was very useful to
               exercised Christians, both in preaching and conference."
                 6. Campbell, usually called " the Captain of Skipness." Ac-
               cording to the spirit of the times, he studied the art of war under
               that powerful monarch Gustavus Adolphus, the terror of Austria,
               and the bulwark of Protestantism in Europe. Devotedly attach-
               ed to the Presbyterian cause, he took a prominent and decided
               part in the sanguinary struggle between Charles 1. and the Cove-
               nanters. His military genius, which shone in many memorable
               engagement, his firmness and decision in the hour of difficulty

               <FOOTNOTE>See Wodrow, Vol. i. page 313, Burns'elition.

                                    3


