
            172                        CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

               In 1840, there were on the permanent roll, 21 males and 76
            females.     Among them was distributed in permanent relief,
            L.32, 3s. : the sum of L.21, Os. 3 5/3 d. was distributed occasional-
            ly; in all L.53, 3s. 3 5/4 d.
               But these statements by no means give a correct view of the
            extent of pauperism in this parish.  Many are extremely poor.
            Public begging is common both in town and country.  There has
            been put into the hands of the compiler of this report, a list drawn
            up by William Bruce, Esq. provost of Wick, of the poor who go
            round the shops and houses every Saturday "seeking their piece."
            It contains the names of 8 males and 53 females.  At the request
            of the compiler, a committee, composed of the heritors, ministers,
            householders, and tenants, examined, in December 1840, into the
            estate of pauperism within the parish, and reported that there were
            of persons utterly destitute,-

<TABLE>

              In Wick,                            		6 men, 22 females. Total 28

              In Louisburgh,                      		21     29                50
              In Pulteneytown,                     	 	8      43                51
              In the landward part of Wick quoad sacra, 	22     50                72
              In the parish of Keiss,                           5      22                27
											______
	                                                       Total (besides children), 229

              There is no legal assessment for the poor in this parish.  By far
            the largest portion of the funds available for their relief arise from
            collections at the church-door.    The interest of L.300, which has
            been mortified for the poor, is applied to their relief; for which pur-
            pose also, small donations are occasionally received.
              The poor are by no means clamant in seeking parochial relief.
            It is still considered as degrading; and there are numerous in-
            stances of persons suffering great destitution, rather than make
            application for relief; and of individuals in but indigent cir-
            cumstances themselves, taking destitute, persons, who have no
            claim upon them, into their houses and supporting them without
            asking or receiving sessional assistance.    But it must appear evi-
            dent, on consideration of the preceding particulars, that, unless the
            funds of the session are more plentifully supplied, this state of
            things  will not continue much longer.  These means of relief are,
            at present, altogether inadequate to meet even with the veriest pit-
            tance the numerous demands made upon them; and symptoms are
            appearing, that necessity is more and more overcoming the  laud-
            ble reluctance of the destitute to make application for parochial
            relief. To bring on a legal assessment, it needs but the refusal
            of the benevolent shopkeepers of Wick to give any longer the



