
110                           RENFREWSHIRE.

person contributing as formerly according to his property, which is
intended to retard the increase of expenditure.  Of this sum, the
heritors contribute by far the greater part; the feuars and house-
holders paying only L.35, when the heritors pay L.166. *
   There is no prison in this place, though it is much wanted,
and has often been talked of; but there is a very active fiscal, and
a bench of Magistrates or Justices of Peace, who hold a court on
the first Saturday of every month.
   Fairs.-There are three fairs held in this parish in the course
of the year.  The oldest is called the fair of Hill, from the place
where it originally met, viz. on the Market Hill.  It has been
held from time immemorial, on the first Tuesday of November,
old style, but has met, for a long time past in the village of Loch-
winnoch.  Originally, a great variety of clothes, shoes, &c. were
sold at this fair,-at present it is only a market for cattle, and a
time for meeting and settling Martinmas and other accounts.
   The May fair or trades' race, is held on the second Tuesday of
May, old style.  It was begun about the year 1745 or 1750.  The
trades had originally a parade, which has long been discontinued;
but there is still sometimes a race of one kind or another.  There
are some cattle in the market in the course of the day, and many
meet in the afternoon to settle their Whitsunday accounts.
   The farmers' parade or race is held on the first Tuesday of July.
It is of a still later date than the former.  At one time, the far-
mers from all parts of the parish mustered at this parade; but for
some time those on the south side of the loch have withdrawn, and
there is some prospect of its being discontinued altogether. Still,
however, a number of those on the north side of the loch have hi-
therto appeared at the parade.  The horses used to be arranged
according to their colours, with a captain at the head of each com-
pany, and the whole marched under the command of a colonel.
The hats of the riders, are adorned with ribbons, flowers, and new-
shot oats, and somd of them have showy sashes and other orna-
ments.  The trappings of the horses are equally showy.  One
of them carries a largie flag, and they are accompanied by a piper,
and sometimes a band of instrumental music.  Some of those who
ride the fleetest steeds, after the parade is over, try their speed in
horse race.  There are a few cattle at this fair likewise.

<FOOTNOTE>William Brown, Esq, who died in Antigua in October 1835, has left L.4000,
which is to be invested, and the interest to be given over to the kirk-session of
this parish for behoof of the poor.  This sum, it is hoped, will won go far to super-
sede the need of an assessment.


