
66                       KINROSS-SHIRE.

generally taught are, English, writing, arithmetic, practical ma-
thematics, geography and Latin, and sometimes Greekand French.
In the unendowed schools attention is chiefly paid to the four first
branches.  The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L. 34, 4s.
4 1/2d., and the school fees average about L. 50.  The lowest rate
is, for English, 2s. 6d. per quarter ; writing and English, 3s. 6d. ;
arithmetic with the two former, 4s. 6d. ; Latin with any of the
preceding, 6s.; mathematics, book-keeping, with the addition of
any or all of those enumerated, 7s. 6d.  The schoolmaster's house
was built within the last thirty years.  It consists of two stories,
and is sufficient to enable him to keep boarders.  He has besides
all the legal accommodations.
   The people in general are alive to the benefits of education.  There
are almost none between six and fifteen years of age who cannot
read or write; and none above fifteen in that situation so far as is
known.  There is no part of the parish so distant as to prevent
the children attending either the parish school or one of the un-
endowed seminaries.
   The morals of the lowest classes have not improved of late years,
but this is not to be attributed to the greater facilities for educa-
tion.  In consequence of the low price of spirits within these last
six or eight years, there have been more petty crime and drunken-
ness than was formerly known.
   There is a library in the village, instituted in 1797, called the
Milnathort Library.  This belongs at present to about forty diffe-
rent individuals, in, or connected with the parish, who contribute
6s. 6d. annually towards it.  Any one, however, may read the
books by paying 1s. a-month, or 8s. a-year.  The annual funds
for the purchase of books, after defraying the ordinary expenses,
amount, for the average of the last ten years, to L. 13.  It is
managed by a small committee of seven persons appointed annual-
ly, and at present consists of 1270 volumes.  Being the oldest li-
brary in the county, it received, about four years ago, a donation
from the Record Commission Court of London, of all the pub-
lished acts, retours, and other records of England and Scotland,
composing 52 folio volumes.  Besides this, there is also a session
library, instituted 1st January 1832, attached to the Established
Church, and consisting of between 300 and 500 volumes.  It is
kept up by, a collection at the church door on the first Sabbath of
each year; and every individual belonging to the congregation is
allowed to make use of it, on contributing 1s. annually.  The



