
		      LOCHWINNOCH                          89

spouse and also for the salvation of his own soul and that of
Margaret Crichton, his present wife, and of all his predecessors
and succesors, and of all the faithful deceased." This wise and
pious Lord, having fully appointed and richly endowed the Colle-
giate Kirk, died on the celebrated  field of Flooden, on the 9th
September 1513. The walls of the old kirk are still standing.
Its whole length is 71 feet 6 inches; its breadth 24 feet 3 inehes;
and the height of the side walls 15 feet 6 inches. The east end
of it is separated from the west by a partition, is enclosed, and still
used as a burying-place by the family of C`stle-Semple.
   Robert Lord Sempill was called the great Lord Sempill. The
family estates had been vastly increased by his father, Lord Wil-
liam, and he being a person of a martial, spirit, was engaged in
many of the wars of his age. He was present at the battle, of
Pinkie in 1547. He adhered strictly to the interests of Queen
Mary, till the murder of Darnley, after whieh entered into a
bond of association with other noblemen to defend the young
King James. He was present with the Regent Murray at the
battle of Langside, and, in consideration of his many and valuable
services to the King and governments obtained from him a charter
of the abbey of Paisley in 1569, upon the forfeiture of Lord Clud
Hamilton. He engaged in the great feuds between the houses of
Eglinton and Glencairn, or the Montgomeries and Cuninghames,
with the former of which the Sempills had formed various marriage
connections. These feuds lasted from 1488 till 1586. There
were so many families involved in them, and somany lives lost,
that it was more like a civil war, than a family quarrel. During
these perilous times Lord Sempill built the Peel on a small
islet in Castle-Semple Loch. Being surrounded on all sides
by water and welt defended, it  must have  been a very safe and
impregnable retreat. The foundation and a portion ofthe di-
lapidated walls still remain surrounded by a few trees and shrubs.
In consequence of the extent to which the loch has been drained,
the Peel now stands Upon its southern margin, in the line of a
high embankment,by which the land beyoned it is kept compa-
ratively dry during the summer, but which alters and hurts the
appearance of this anoient place. The great Lord Sempill had
three sons, Robert, whe died in his lifetime, Andrew, who was the
head of the Sempills bf Broucheills or Bruntsheills and Millbank,
and John,head of the Sempills of Bektrees. Francis Lord Sempill
was the first of the family who renounced the errors of the church.


