
                          URQUHART.                             49

   Rabbits, owing to the prodigious increase of their number with-
in the last three or four years, have become destructive in no in-
considerable degree to the wheat and rye brairds, and turnips.
The measures taken for abating this nuisance by the gentlemen
who manage this property as trustees, have not yet had all the
effect that could be wished: and perhaps it might be well that
the farmer himself were permitted to use such means as he might
find necessary for protecting his crops from this sort of depreda-
tion.
   Produce.- The average amount and value of raw produce yearly
raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>
               Grain of all kinds,   -   L. 7456  0  0
               Potatoes, turnips,  - -      1854  0  0
               Hay,    -     -     -         150  0  0
               Pasture,      -     -        1500  0  0
                                       L. 10,960  0  0

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market town is Elgin, which is five
miles distant from the church of Urquhart.
   Means of Communication.-The length of turnpike road pas-
sing through the parish is 2 1\4 miles. County roads have been
made where they are wanted, and are kept in tolerably good re-
pair. There is no Justice of Peace resident in the parish, not even
a Constable. To give a small matter to vagrants is found to be
attended with less trouble and expense than to deal with them as
they must often be dealt with in towns.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The only place of worship in the parish is
the parish church, of which the situation is sufficiently convenient,
its distance from the farthest extremity of the parish being scarce-
ly three miles. The church is an old house, but in good repair,
and afford sufficient accomodation for the population. The sit-
tings may be said to be free, excepting those in a small gallery,
for which the kirk-session draw about L.4 of rent annually for
beboof of the poor. A certain space has been allotted by the pro-
prietors of the parish to each farm according to the size, for which
the tenant at his entry pays at the rate of 9s. for a pew, which, how-
ever, is repaid to him at his removal; so that for six sittings, the
number of sittings in a pew, the rent paid yearly is no more than
the interest of 9s.
   The manse, an excellent house, was built in the year 1822.
The extent of the glebe is five acres, the value about L.1; 5s. per
 ELGIN.


