
	24                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	rious kinds, such as salmon, turbot, cod, haddock, mackerel,
	whiting, cuddies, crowners, soles, flounders, skate, dog-fish, and
	herrings in their season. The rocky shore abounds likewise with
	crabs. There were many lobsters fifty years ago; but the greater
	part of them were then conveyed to London, and now the race is al-
	most unknown, as it is only once in a season, perhaps, that a gour-
	mand can have the pleasure of seeing one at his table. There
	are a few oysters of large size in the Cromarty Frith. But they
	are seldom dredged for, and do not promise to multiply. It is
	difficult to account for the rarity of oysters now, when it is consi-
	dered, that under the soil in some of the lower grounds of the
	parish, there are to be found multitudes of oyster shells.
	   Botany.--Among the rarer British plants growing within the
	range of the parish, may be mentioned Draba incana, Geranium
	sanguineum, Juncus balticus, and Oxytropis uralensis. The lofty
	and perpendicular rocks may, however, possess others, which men
	of ordinary nerves have not the courage to approach.
				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   The first era to which reference can be made, in the history of
	this parish, is the tenth and eleventh centuries,-in which the Da-
	nish invasions took place.
	   There is a farm on the top of the rock named to this day C... an
	righ, the King's Path, or the King's Cave; and immediately below
	this farm at the foot of the rock, is to be seen a cave, named the
	King's Cave; and from it, There is a path cut in the face of the
	rock up to the top, named "the King's Path." Half a mile to
	the north-east of the cave and path, there is a little natural har-
	bour, named Port an righ, the King s Harbour. Within half a mile
	of this harbour, there is in the sea a sunken rock about a mile in
        length, named the King's Sons. * At Easter Rarichie, near the
	east end of the parish, there is a detached hillock, said to have
	been a Danish fort, and it still bears evidence of its having been
	applied to some warlike purpose; for round the top edge of it
	there appears something like the remains of a wall or rampart.
	There is a tradition, which may possibly be connected with the
	names and localities here noticed, that a daughter of the royal
	Scandinavian having married the Thane of Ross, was so ill used

        <FOOTNOTE>This rock is said to have got its name from the circumstance of three sons of
	the King of the Sea having been wrecked on it, and drowned. Their bodies were
	afterwards found and buried, one at Hilton, one at Shandwick, and one at Nigg;
	and there is, at each of these places, a monumental stone, covered on both sides with
	hieroglyphical sculpture. and said to have been erected to the memory of the royal
	princes. These stones shall be afterwards described.
						4


