
94                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.

of less size over the smaller streams.  They are kept in good re-
pair, but the old ones are narrow and awkwardly placed.
  Market-Town.--The nearest market town is Biggar, at the dis-
tance of five miles from Broughton village.
  Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated in Killbucho, and
is very centrical for the united population.  The most remote house
in the parish is not five miles from the church.  The church was
built in 1804, exceedingly homely in its exterior, but very com-
frotable as a place of worship, with regard to its internal arrange-
ment, and capable of accomodating 500 persons.  The sittings
are all free.  Each of the heritors has his proportion of room for
his own family and those of his tenants, and strangers are accom-
modated in the least crowded pews.  The church is in a good state
of repair.
  The manse was built in 1815, and cost upwards of L.1200.
The situation chosen for the manse was in appearance the least
eligible that could be selected.  It was in the centre of a morass
that could not be drained.  The incumbent only was satisfied.  It
was objected to by both heritors and presbytery.  Two or three old
thorn bushes tried in vain to hide the nakedness of the scene.
When the manse and offices were finished in a superior style, the
heritors having added L.100 of their own accord tn the expense,
over and above the original estimate and contract, the incumbent
set to work, and with his own hands raised a wood in front, and at
one of the ends of the house, which now almost prevents the moun-
tain tops from being seen from the lower windows.  Some of the
briches, alders, limes, Huntingdon willows, and mountain ashes, are
as thick as a man's waist, and from twenty to thirty feet in height.
The oaks, ashes, larches, and spruces, are also in a thriving con-
dition.  The soil is favourable to the growth of thorn hedges and
shrubs in general.  Fruit-trees do not succeed so well, as the sub-
soil is till, and when the roots reach it the tree degenerates.
  The glebe of Broughton, which was an excamb in lieu of the
old one, is in extent about 21 English acres, and is worth at least
L. 2 an acre.  The glebe of Glenholm consists of six acres, worth
L. 3 each, but at present rented at only L.15.  The glebe of
Kilbucho was sold: it contains about 10 acres, and brought
L. 55].  The interest of the purchase-money is divided betwixt
the ministers of Culter and Broughton, &c.  The principal ought
to have been laid out in land to angment the present glebes, or,



