
     Of Cromarty.

seemed to have been burnt almost to ashes, before they were
put into the urns; some small parts of the bones, which were
not reduced to ashes, had the appearance of having been burnt,
by which means they were preserved from mouldering.  The
coffins of stone contained skeletons, some of which wanted
the head: Others having it, were of a very uncommon size,
measuring 7 feet in length.  On a bank, to the E. of Cro-
marty House, there stand the remains of a place of worship,
called St. Regulus's Chapel, probably it was the family cha-
pel of the Urquharts.  From an ancient record, the subjoined
account of St. Regulus is taken*.
   About 3 miles to the S. of this place, there is a very dis-
tinct appearance of a camp in the figure of an oblong square,
supposed to have been a Danish camp At one corner of it,
there is the appearance of a number of graves, which makes
it probable that many must have fallen in some attack upon
it.  It is generally conjectured that the Danes were wont to
land at this place, and that the inhabitants of the country met
them in a large moor, called Mullbuy, where they often
sought, as graves are to be traced distinctly, for several miles,

     K k 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*"It is reported, that one Regulus, a Grecian, having, in pursuance of or-
ders given him in a vision, put out to sea in company with some of his colleagues,
carrying the arm-bone, 3 fingers, and 3 toes of the Apostle St. Andrew in a lit-
tle box; and after they had long suffered under horrid storms of ill-weather,
cing cast into that part of Fife, now called St. Andrew's, without any thing
saved but the relicks, Horgustus, king of the Picts, entertained them nobly, and
at their desire, erected a church, which, to this day, bears the name of St. Rule,
from Regulus; upon whom that prince bestowed his own palace, with lands
adjacent.  This is said to have happened about the 7th century."   Buchanan
also speaks of the same St. Regulus, under the article Fanum Reguli of the No-
menclatura Latino Vernaculo.  It is not improbable that some of his canons
regular were placed in the chapel here, as they had been in the cathedral of St.
Andrew's.  There are the remains of another chapel in the country part of the
parish.


