

			 LOGIE.				    225

Geum rivale       Geranium pratense Sedum reflexum 
Punus Cerasus   ________dissectum Mimulus luteus

The principal plantations are on the estate of Airthrey on the
Ochils, and are in a thriving condition. There are no very an-
cient trees.

                  II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
As might be expected from its neighbourhood to the important
fortress of Stirling, the parish of Logie is not deficient in the glo-
ries of old days. It was the scene of one of the most splendid,
victories of the Scottish patriot, Wallace, the battle of Stirling,
September 13, 1297. It was on the bill called Abbey Craig that
the Scottish army was posted the night before the engagement,
and the scene of action itself appears to have been about the place,
now called Corntown.
  Eminent Men.--Of important events within the memory of man,
Logie has little to boast; but there are some names connected with
the parish of which it may well be proud. The Earls of Stirling were
originally barons of Menstrie, in this parish. They are mentioned
in history so far back as 1505. The  first Earl of Stirling was Wil-
liam, sixth Baron of Menstrie, born in 1580. He was an accom-
plished scholar and poet, and much esteemed by James VI., from
whom he received the honour of knighthood. In 1621, he ob-
tained a grant of extensive lands in North America, and, settled
the colony of Nova Scotia. Charles I. appointed him Lieutenant
of Nova Scotia, gave him a power of selling that territory in lots
of not more than 150 individuals, who were to be invested with
the title of Baronet, and rank above all knights, except, the Equi-
tes aurati. His Majesty conferred upon him also the privilege of
coining a small copper money called "Turners." He was made
a member of Privy-Council, Secretary of State, Keeper of the
Signet in Scotland, Commissioner of Exchequer, Senator of the
College of Justice: and at the coronation in Holyrood House,
June 1633, was created Earl of Stirling, Viscount Canada, Lord
Alexander of Tillibody, to his heirs-male. He died in London,
on the 12th February, and was interred in Stirling on the 12th
April 1640. He acquired considerable reputation as a poet. Be-

<FOOTNOTE>Is very abundant in the fields. In 1827, the bay crop in this neighbourhood
was very much injured by this plant. It had evidently be sown with good.
   A speciment of this plant is growing on the roof of a house in the village of Cause.
   Floria American Septentionalis, p. 428) is found on the banks of the Forth below
Causewayhead, at a great distance from gardens, and perfectly naturalized.
   STIRLING.


