
                        EDINBURGH.                     663

enough had been converted into a powder magazine, exploded,
and destroyed a considerable part of the building. A second
church was now annexed during the repairs of the old one, and a
spire was dispensed with. The expense amounted to L. 3045
sterling. The churchyard contains the remains of many cele-
brated men,-among whom are Buchanan, Dr Pitcairn, Allan
Ramsay, Dr Black, and Principal Robertson. In 1845 both these
churches were destroyed by a fire which took place from over-
heated flue.
   Tron Church.-This was formerly called Christ's Church, but
from its vicinity to the public weighing beam or tron, which once
stood in this part of the High Street, it obtained its present name.
This church forms one side of Hunter's Square, and stands at
the angle where South Bridge Street intersects the High Street.
It was founded in the year 1637, and opened for public worship
in 1647. Want of funds caused this long delay, and it was at
last finished partly at the expense of the town-council and partly
by public subscription, at an expense of L. 6000 sterling.
   In 1639, David Mackall, a citizen of Edinburgrh, bequeathed
about L. 194 Sterling to be laid out in the purchase of land, the
annual proceeds of which were to be applied to the support of a
clergyman of the Established Church, who should be appointed
to preach every Sunday morning at six o'clock, or other hour
which the magistrates might deem expedient. No appointment
took place, however, till 1703, when two clergymen were appointed,
with a salary of L. 40 a year each.
   At the period when South Bridge Street was opened up, this
church was almost rebuilt, and much reduced in size. At the great
fire In 1824 the spire was entirely consumed, and the present one
was erected in 1828.
   Lady Yester's Church.-This church was founded in 1647 by
the private munificence of Dame Margaret Ker, Lady Yester,
and was built on purpose to supply the deficiency of church ac-
commodation then felt in the city. The original building was
taken down in 1603, and a plain Gothic structure erected in the
same place, opposite the Royal Infirmary.
   Canongate Church.-The abbey church of Holyroodhouse was
entirely the parish church of the Canongate. But James II. of
England, during his stay in Endinburgh, having appropriated the
royal chapel to the celebration of the Catholic worship, the inha-
bitants of the Canongate were obliged to find other accommoda-


