
542                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the sheep land, and also the common cattle pastures; but the lat-
ter particularly admit of much improvement by this means. There
have been few attempts at irrigation or embankments; indeed, the
latter are little required. About twenty years ago, an injurious
system prevailed of breaking up the natural coarse pastures on cold
soils. The crops of corn were at first great; but the land is much
depreciated in value. For some time past, this error has been seen,
and none of this sort of soil is now cultivated; while, as before
stated, the attention of farmers has been directed to the dry upland
ridges, which have been of old under the plough.
	The general lenoth of leases on the property of Mr Hope John-
stone, being three-fourths of the parish in point of extent, is twenty-
one years on the cattle and mixed farms, and thirteen years on the
sheep farms.
	On a number of the farms of the parish, the steadings have been
rebuilt and slated within the last thirty years. But a portion yet
remains to be done. When new leases are now let in this district,
the houses are generally put in good order and slated. In point
of enclosure, there has been a great extent of fencing executed
within the last twenty years. Still much requires to be done, in
order to bring the land to its full value. The elevation and cold-
ness of soil in most situations, and want of wood for paling, are
bars to the success of thorn hedges, now extensively planted; while
stone dikes, which are the immediately useful and permanent fences,
are, in most parts of the parish, difficult and expensive in the erec-
tion, from the scarcity of material of good quality.
	The sheep district of the parishis, and has been, rapidly im-
proving in production. There has been almost no change in the
occupiers, for a long course of time. They are men of sufficient
capital, and much intelligence in their business. The extent and
progress of their enclosures, and good cultivation, their draining,
and the high and improving character of their stock, shew that there
has been nothing deficient on the part of the tenant, and no want
of encouragement from the proprietor.
	With regard to the more numerous, but smaller black cattle and
mixed farms, the tenantry have not been so prosperous. High rents
fixed at the end of the war, (although largely abated,) loss of ca-
pital by low and fluctuating prices, and by unremunerating cultiva-
tion in bad seasons, have retarded the improvements of this class
of farms. Now that it is discovered that there should be little
corn raised in the district, and that the colder soils should never


