
674			AYRSHIRE.

withstanding all this trouble however, matters seem to have been
left just where they began; no decision being recorded, probably
from the parties leaving the parish, as we see, from one part of the
evidence, they threatened to do. For the curious in such matters,
we shall subjoin one or two extracts, on different subjects, from
this interesting volume. *
	The volume from which these extracts are taken contains a re-
cord of a different, and to Scotchmen at large, of a more interest-
ting kind, namely, the Solemn League and Covenant, to which are
attached no fewer than 222 signatures. But of these, which is a
lamentable proof of the low state of education at the time, 179
are subscribed by proxy, because, as is stated, "they could not
wryt themselfs." It appears, however, that the eyes of the peo-
ple were beginning to open to this defect, as we find them making
arrangements two years afterwards, in 1640, for forming what may
be considered the first parish school. The articles agreed on
at a public meeting held for the purpose, and to be subscribed by
the teacher on admission to office, are certainly curious, enough.
The luckless man of letters was to be any thing but a free agent;
for there was scarcely a part of his duty, even the most trifling,
which was not laid down to him by rule, and according to which
he was not commanded to walk on pain of deposition. The hours of
teaching and recreation, the tasks for the children, the deport-
ment to be borne towards them, the kinds of punishment, even
to the particular sort of birch to be used, with the exact parts of

<FOOTNOTE>"Session haldin 8th November 1629. The quhilk day the minister publicklie
out of the pulpit, by the authoritie of the presbytery, did inhibit and discharge all
sorte of charming, and resorting to charmers, consulting with wizards, sorcerers, and
uthers of that sorte, certifeing all and sundrie who did so in time cuming, they
should be chalengit crimiallie yrfore and followit, and persewit with death, as for
the crime of witchcraft.
	"Session haldin 17th, March 1605. John Fergushill, younger in Haly. deferit
ane slanderous taill spokin to him by Agnees Lyonn, spous to Petir Renkin in Park-
heid; she aledgand upon George Lachland her author, as the said George Lachland
aledgit Symon Muir his author, "That the late minister of Kilwinning now depart-
it yis life was eardit (buried,) with his mouth doun, and that he confessit yat ye mi-
nister of Ayr and Irvine, and he, had ye wyt of all ye ill wedder ye year.
	"Session haldin 23d March 1602. The quhilk day. Symon Wallace in Creux
requyrit to schaw ye manner of yat uprote and tumult mald in ye Kirkyard imme-
diatelie eftir ye sermon on Sonday ye 8th of Apryle last was, be him and his adher-
antis and John Diokie in Curraaith and his adherentis. Ye said Symon declarit in
manner following; That he persaiving ye said John Dickie to come by his accus-
tomed manner with convocation of his friendis yat day to ye kirk, and yat yet said John
Dickie had offendit him, he tuik ye sam as done in contempt of him, quharupon
quhen he saw ye said John Dickie he had himm ga out of ye kirkyard, and yat yrupon
ye said John Dickie and his adherentes drew swordes to ye said Symon, quhairupon
ye cutit his ganging staf whilk oulie he had in his han and na ither armor. We
session continuit yes matters to foryer tryel."


