
                         URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER.                375

<TABLE=URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER>
                                    Males.    Females.     Total.
      1821, the population was      1218       1604         2822
      1831,                         1318       1546         2864
     Census 1831-Males above 20 years of age,			661
              Families,    -        -       -                           710
     Average number of births for the 7 years ending in 1890,            64
                   marriages,         -         -                        17
     Houses inhabited,        -       -        -                        618
       uninhabited,           -       -        -                         22
       building,     -       -        -                                  11

   Language.-The language generally spoken by the natives of
the parish is Gaelic; and though English is daily spreading among
us, and is now certainly better understood than at any former pe-
riod; yet it is believed that the original language of the Highlands.
has not lost ground for the last forty years. This may be easily
accounted for, from the fact that almost all the youth are now
taught, to read the Scriptures in Gaelic as well as in English in
the schools. The consequence is, that the Gaelic is not only
preserved, but actually makes progress among us.
   Character of the People.-The cottars, who are still by far the
more numerous class, cannot be said to enjoy in any considerable
degree the comforts of life; but they are in general content with
their situation. The better sort of tenants are, however, fast ad-
vancing in intelligence, and consequently in respectability of cha-
racter and circumstances. Since the period of the former Statis-
tical Account, the people have made progress in religious know-
ledge and in moral conduct. Smuggling, which at one time was
very prevalent, is now happily extinct. A single drop of whisky
has not been distilled in Ferrintosh for years: What a change! But
it is all for the advantage of the morality and circumstances of thet
inhabitants. Neither can poaching be said to prevail, though a case
may now and then occur.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
The great majority of the inhabitants of tbe parish is employed
in agriculture ; either as occupiers, feed-servants, or day-labourers.
And of those who have a handicraft the most hold also a small
portion of land; so that there are very few who are not, occasionally
at least, engaged in husbandry. This circumstance, it is,obvhouo.,Iil
renders it extremely difficult to classify the people. The extent
of the farms varies from 20 to 150 acres. the average being about
50. The possessions of the cottars are small; say, at average,
4 acres.  Of late years, the system of forming large farms out
several small ones has become pretty general; and suitable en-
couragement is given to the tenantry to build commodious dwel-
ling-houses and offices, as well as to reclaim waste ground, and to


