
			FORDOUN.                               103

is wheat made into flour. Almost every farm, of the extent of 100
acres and upwards, is accommodated with a thrashing-mill. They
are driven either by water or horses, according to circumstances.
	Fettercairn Club.--The Fettercairn Club, for the improvement of
the breed of live stock, includes amongst its members a great propor-
tion of the proprietors of the county, and most respectable tenantry
of the district. The club is open to members from any part of the
country, but stock can only be exhibited which has been bred by agri-
culturists in the parishes of Fettercairn, Fordoun, Laurencekirk, and
Marykirk, members of the club. This club has been in existence
for, several years, and is conducted with the greatest spirit and una-
nimity. Since its formation, a most marked improvement is per-
ceptible in the quality of stock, particularly of the native breed of
cattle; and at the annual show, which takes place in August, the
stock exhibited attracts the admiration of every amateur present.
In corroboration of what is stated, it may be mentioned, that at the
Highland Society's general show, which took place at Aberdeen
in October 1834, which was open to all Scotland, but more par-
ticularly to the counties of Forfar, Aberdeen, Banff, Moray, and
Kincardine, one-sixth of the whole prizes were carried off by mem-
bers of this club; and, what is more remarkable, these premiums
amounted to nearly one-third of the value of the whole premiums
given by the Society. It lay also be remarked, that of about fif-
ty-four premiums given for stock at the general show alluded to,
twenty were gained by competitors from Kincardineshire, a suffi-
cient proof of the great attention paid to this branch of rural eco-
nomy in the county.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Villages.-- The Kirkton of Fordoun can scarcely be called a vil-
lage, for, beside the manse and school-house, it can boast of only the
neat and rural "Fordoun Inn," and two or three additional cottages.
Auchinblae, the only village in the parish, stands on the opposite
side of the valley, on a gently rising ground. It contains many
substantial houses, and is altogether a clean and thriving place.
The government is vested in a bailie, appointed by the Earl of
Kintore, who is the superior, and the population amounts to 550
persons, partly employed in manufacturing linen and linen yarn, in
the retail trade, and as artisans and occupiers of the croft land ad-
joining the village. Its distance from Stonehaven is 11 miles;
from the port of Gourdon, 8; and from Montrose, 16; to which
places the communication is easy, either by turnpike or good com-


