
670                        FIFESHIRE.

other public works, may extend to 100 acres; the remainder, say
300 acres, may be regarded as taken up by roads, water-courses, &c.
   In order to insure greater accuracy in this important branch
of statistical inquiry, we have divided the parish into three sec-
tions, each of which will be found to differ from the other in va-
rious respects:-
   1st. That part which lies on the north bank of the Leven, em-
bracing the highest cultivated land in the parish. In this quarter
the soil consists of loam, gravel, or clay, resting upon a porous
subsoil of sand and gravel; here drainage is for the most part easy,
so that the land is in general dry and fertile.
   2d. District lying between the Leven and the Orr. Soil, wet
loam, sand and clay, upon a retentive subsoil, consisting of blue till,
patches of sand, silt and stones.
   3d. District between the Orr and the boundary of the parish to
the south and east. Soil, a thin wet loam, clay and sand, part
moorish. Subsoil retentive stiff clay or till.
   In some parts of the second and third districts the subsoil is par-
tially impregnated with iron immediately below the soil, forming
or crust nearly impervious to water. Where this is the case,
the soil must be considered decidedly bad; indeed, where it exists
in any considerable degree, heath is the natural production. These
soils also contain boulders in extraordinary quantities, principally
trap, some of which are several tons in weight. In many fields of
the same districts, and within fourteen inches of the surface, a suffi-
cient quantity of these boulders can be obtained for filling drains
at so small an interval as nine feet asunder.
   Drainage.-The prevailing mode of draining is that of furrow-
drains from two and a half to three feet deep, filled with stones
turned out in working the soil. When the materials are found in
this way property broken, built and packed in the drain, this me-
thod will be found both economical and efficient, when the drains
are on a hard bottom. Tiles are preferable where the bottom is
soft or where stones are not plentiful, and where the water con-
tains ochre of deposits a sediment.
   Product of the Soil.-The system generally adopted is that of
raising grain and rearing a d feedin-a cattle of the,Fifeshire breed.

<TABLE=Rotation of crops from four to seven years>

             Rotation of crops from four to seven years

        1.                  2.             3.              4.                  5.            6.

Follow or potatoes.  Wheat or barley.    Grass.           Oats
       Do.                Wheat.       Peace, beans
                                       tares, turnips.    Barleys.            Grass.       Oats.
       Do.                 Do.           Barley.          Grass.              Oats.
       Do.                Oats.          Grass.           Do.                 Do.          Oats.


