
120                      BERWICKSHIRE.

tics, but are sober and industrious in their habits, decent in their ex-
ternal deportment, and respectful to their superiors. Before the
practice of draining the marshy lands was introduced, and when
the lower orders were neither so well fed nor so comfortably
lodged, the ague was prevalent in this part of the country, which
malady is now scarcely known. During the last eight or nine
years, several old men died in this parish between 80 and 90 years
of age, and one last autumn, at the advanced age of 108. This
man had been for many years blind, but he was comfortably
provided for by the family of Blenerne, in whose service he
had long been, and enjoyed good health and good spirits till his
death.
   There has been only one illegitimate birth in the parish for
several years.

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-This parish contains 9300
acres, of which 7280 are arable, 1600 moorland or heath, and 420
are covered with wood, chiefly Scotch fir, for the most part re-
cently planted. Of the 7280 acres of arable land, one-half is us-
ually in tillage, the other half in pasture. Of the former kind,
two-thirds, or 2426 acres, are on an average in white crop, and the
remaining third in potatoes, turnips, and bare fallow.
   Improvements.-Though this is principally a grazing district,
yet, during the last thirty years, it has undergone great melioration
in the soil; in consequence of which high advances have been
made in the rents. Some farms which were let for L. 500 during
the previous leases are at present as high as L. 1600; others that
brought little more than L. 200 bring under the running leases above
L. 1000. Under the previous leases, the rental of the whole pa-
rish amounted only to L. 3200: it is at present above L. 8000.
To this extraordinary advance, which some think is in a higher
ratio than in most other districts, several causes may have contri-
buted. The former leases in this barony were mostly for a pe-
riod of thirty years, and many of the tenants, possessed of conside-
rable capital as well as skill and enterprise, spared no expense in
reclaiming waste and barren lands, expecting from such long leases
ample and adequate returns. By such speculations, some have
improved their circumstances, but others have sustained pecuniary
loss, in consequence of the fall on the price of grain since the
termination of the war, and of the great advance of the rents, dur-



