
			PARISH OF KIRKMAIDEN.
		PRESBYTERY OF STRANRAER, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.
		    THE REV. JOHN LAMB, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	THIS is the most southerly parish of Scotland, forming the ex-
treme boundary of that promontory which terminates in the Mull
of Galloway, in Lat. 54&deg;1 39' north, and Long. 5&deg; west.
        Name.-There are various accounts of the origin of the name
of the parish. In Symson's Description of Galloway, it is said to
have been " so called, because the kirk was dedicated to the Virgin
Mary, the print of whose knee hs fabulously reported to be seen on
a stone where she prayed at a place called Maryport, near to which
there was a chapel long since but now wholly ruined."  In Ch`l-
mers' Caledonia, it is said " to have obtained its appellation from
the old parish church, which was dedicated to St Medan, to whom
Some other churches in this shire were consecrated, and was called
Kirkmedan, from the name of the Saint. After being called by
various forms of the name, Kirkmaiden at length became its settled
appellation." There is a third account of the origin of the name,
wholly traditionary, viz. that three maiden ladies of the name of
Adair, belonging to a religious establishment at Kilhilt, in the pa-
rish of Portpatrick, built, or left funds for building, three,churches.
One of these was built at the chapel now in Stranraer: another at
Kirkmaiden, now annexed to the parish of Glasserton: and the third
in this parish; and hence the parish is said to have taken its name.
	No change appears to have taken place in its name or bound-
ary since the Reformation. Antecedent to that event, though at
what period is uncertain, these must have undergone various
changes, as is evident from the number of places throughout the
parish, which, from their names, the ruins of buildings called
kirks, traces of burying grounds, &c. must have been the sites
of places of worship. The chief of these are Kirkbride, Kil-
stay, Kildonnan, Kirkleish, and Kirkdryne or Kirkdrain. At
the last of these places, was the residence of Mr John Callender,


