
     Statistical Account

remains were deposited in the neighbourhood.  Though,
from the remoteness of the event, and the cultivation of
the ground, the spot cannot now be exactly traced, it was
long distinguished by one of those memorials to which
passengers often added a stone, called Lennox's cairn.
   The unfortunate Mary was born in the parish of Lin-
lithgow, about eight days before her father's death; but
removed a year after to Stirling, as thought a more secure
station in these turbulent times.
   Linlithgow has been often remarked as the place where
the Earl of Murray, the regent of Scotland, was shot by
Hamilton of Bothwell-haugh.  The particulars are so well
known, that it would be needless to swell this account
with a detail of them.  It is sufficient to observe, that the
projection of a balcony, the narrowness of that part of the
street, and the regent's position on horseback, were pecu-
liarly favourable to the assassin's purpose.  Having taken
previous measures for escaping, and with a view to ob-
stiruct pursuit, he fled to France, and continued there*.

   Burning of Solemn League and Covenant-This has been

<FOOTNOTE>

*A singular instance of revenge occurred here in the beginning of
last century.  One Crawford, while at school, had been stripped of his
coat by a person in the town, who found him trespassing on his ground.
Having gone abroad, and risen in the army, he returned to Linlithgow
many years after, and avenged the indignity, by stabbing the man who
offered it on the very spot.  Accounts vary with regard to some of the
circumstances that followed, though they all agree with regard to his
being beheaded at the cross.  According to some, after lying concealed
a night or two in the Burrowmuir, he was apprehended, convicted, and
put to death Others say, that some years after, being oppressed with
the weigh of blood, he surrendered himself to justice, requesting only
to be indulged as to the mode of execution.  His tomb is still to be seen
on the S. of the church; and though that be now defaced, is said to
have had engraved on it the figure of the instrument by which he suf-
fered, and which himself procured for the purpose.


