
234                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Considerable improvements have been made by various farmers on
portions of the moss lands within their respective farms; and it may
be proper to mention one tenant in particular, who, by wedge-drain-
ing and judicious cultivation, has reclaimed many acres from a
state of waste and unproductive morass, and converted them into
good arable ground.
	Some valuable land has also been reclaimed along the shore of
the Solway Frith; but this has hitherto been done on a very small
scale, though there can be no doubt that Lord Mansfield might,
with much profit to himself, as well as advantage to the parish,
gain from the tide by that operation a tract of fertile soil little
short of a thous`nd acres. This extensive improvement was spoken
of so far back as the time when Sir John Sinclair's Account was
drawn up, and has of late been again under consideration, but with-
out any prospect of being soon carried into effect; and yet it ap-
pears to the writer that there could scarcely be a more beneficial
investment of capital.*

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Villages.--This is entirely a country parish, lying between the
towns of Dumfries and Annan, from the former of which the church
is distant about ten miles; and from the latter, seven. There are
two small villages in the parish. The one, called the village of
Ruthwell, containing nearly 180 inhabitants, and the other, called
Clarencefield, containing about 100. The village of Ruthwell
was made a burgh of barony by charter of James VI. to Sir John
Murray of Cockpool in 1509, with the privilege of holding fairs
and markets, which has long been disused. It is a place without
trade or manufacture.

<FOOTNOTE>The practice of making salt by filtrating the sea sand or sleetch, described with
sufficient accuracy in Sir John Sinclair's Statistical Account, and detailed by the

writer of this more at large in Dr Singer's Agricultural Survey of Dumfries-shire,
has altogether ceased along this coast since the removal of the salt duty, as it has, by
this means, become much cheaper to purchase salt than to manufacture it after the
method pursued here. The act of the Scottish Parliament, on which the Annandale
saltmakers founded this right to exemption from duty, is dated 12th July 1671, and
proceeds on a supplication by Adam Newall, "in behalf of some people and tenants
in Annandale, who, by their industry and wholesome labour, do, from sand, draw
salt, and who, in regard to the painfulness and singularity of the work, have been
free of public imposition or exaction; until the year 1656, or thereby that the late
usurper, contrary to all reason, equity, or former practice, forced from them an exac-
tion, to their overthrow and ruin, and thereby dispossessed them, so that they are in
a starving condition."  Several attempts were at different times made, to subject the
Annandale salt to the payment of the usual duty, but without success.


