
256                       FIFESHIRE.

trenched with the pick and the spade, planted with potatoes the
subsequent spring, the crop of which repaid the outlay; and now
it is excellent garden ground.
   On the farm alluded to, draining also has been carried to con-
siderable extent, and is still progressing. Surface draining is the
kind appropriate to the nature of the soil there, and also to the
chief portion of land in the parish, where draining is necessary.
On the north side of the parish it consists chiefly of clay or till,-
on some parts, with a thin surface of softer mould. Of course, the
efficiency of the drains depends much on their closeness to one
another. Till of late, that method of draining seems to have been
little understood in the parish, as it has been resorted to only re-
cently, and there remains great scope for the extension of that im-
provement.
   Leases.--The general duration of leases is nineteen years. In
most if not in all cases, it would be advantageous both to proprie-
tor and tenant, to have the leases extended a few years longer. It
would give greater encouragement to the tenant to lay out capital
on permanent improvement, by holding out to his view a more cer-
tain prospect of remuneration for that outlay. The nature and
condition of the farm, the nature and extent of the improvement
it needs, and of which it is capable, ought to determine the length
of the lease.
   Farm-Building and Inclosures.--With the exception of one,
every farm in the parish is accommodated with -buildings adequate
to its value and extent, and in a good state of repair. The same
cannot be said of farm enclosures.
   The parish is almost all inclosed, partly with stone dikes, and
partly with thorn hedges. Part of the former is new and substan-
tial, the rest is less sufficient. As to the hedges, there is not an
enclosure sufficiently fenced, where a hedge is the fence. This is
owing to the very general inattention to the proper method of plant-
ing and,training, together with the no less frequent neglect of
cleaning. Instead of the plants being assorted, and the weak
planted apart from the strong, they are mixed together, and thus
the former are hurt and kept down by the more vigorous growth
of the latter. In training, too, instead of cutting only the lateral
growth till the hedge has advanced to the height, at which it is in-
tended to remain, the to is cut as often as the sides; and in this
way the hedge is converted into a thicket of small twigs, without
stamina sufficient to resist the force of cattle attempting to pene-
trate through it. Cleaning, too, is seldom sufficiently attended to;


