
     Statistical Account

in 200 yards, and plenty of iron-stone in the neighbourhood.
About 20,000 tons of coals are consumed yearly, which
quantity will no doubt be greatly increased, when forges are
completed for converting pig-iron into bar-iron.  Two blast
furnaces are working, and there is prepared a boring-mill
for cannon, cylinders, etc.  About 300 manufacturers and
labourers are employed:  They begin to mould small goods so
early as 10 years of age.  Men's wages, according to their
department, are from 7 s. to 21 s. per week.  After being
smelted in the furnaces, the iron is made into a variety of
cast-iron goods, as pots, pans, boilers, etc.  From the enter-
prising spirit and abilities of the proprietors, there is reason
to expect, that these works will be soon extended to a very
large scale.  Contrary to what one would imagine, the peo-
ple are healthy, and live long.  This warm business seems to
be friendly to population-most of the workmen have nume-
rous families.  The scite of Clyde iron-works appears to have
been a burying-ground of ancient date.  When digging the
foundation of the buildings, a great quantity of human bones
were found, deposited betwixt two flag-stones.  There stones
were so placed, as to form a cavity of considerable extent,
and this cavity covered with a stone of the same kind.  In
the earthen urns were contained ashes, mixed with small
bones, on some of which were evident marks of fire.  In a

<FOOTNOTE>

small Canal will not exceed 75,000 L. and the revenue of the
Canal will amount to considerably above 15,000 L. a-year, when
the trade from Leith, and other articles, such as lime, stones
for building, etc. are included.
   The Derbyshire Canal, 40 miles in length, which goes into
the Trent, is tunneled through two mountains, one of which is
above half in length through hard rock, and only colt 100 000 L.
and the country was also very rocky through which it was con-
ducted; but through the clay grounds in Lanarkshire and in
the Lothians, the cutting four feet deep will not be expensive.


