
     Of Keir.

one of whom resides constantly, two occasionally, and two ne-
ver.  The farmers, in general, when they break up a field,
take two or three white crops from it, after that a green crop,
or a summer fallow, which is succeeded by a crop of barley,
along with which they sow grass-seeds, and lay out the field,
cutting the grass two years, and pasturing it two or three
more, before it is broken up again.  They, for most part, use
the little close jointed Scots plough, commonly drawn by two
horses, and sometimes by three, where the land is stiff, and
has never been well cultivated, and properly dressed before.
Lime is much used here as a manure, and is found to answer
very well.  Many of the farmers spread it upon the surface
8 or 10 months before they plough their field.  Others again
plough their field, and give it a flight harrowing, before they
spread the lime upon it, after which they sow their oats, and
then harrow it completely.  This method seems to answer
better, as, by these means the lime is sooner mixed and incor-
porated with the soil.  The quantity of lime must be adapt-
ed to the nature of the land on which it is laid.  Deep, strong,
stiff land requires more than a shallow, loose, open soil does.
The quantity used for one acre is from 50 to 80 measures of
shells, the measure containing two Manchester bushels.  One
liming is found to serve very well for two courses of crops,
and sometimes three, before the liming is repeated.  and
when it is repeated, half the quantity that was laid on the
field at first, or little more, is found to be sufficient.  It is ob-
served, however, that at the end of every course of crops, the
field is renewed with dung, along with a green crop, or by a
summer fallow*.

     K 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Seed Time and Harvest.  Wheat is sown from the beginning of October
to the end of November.  Oats, pease, and flax, from the middle of March to
the 20th of April.  Barley and potatoes from the 20th of April to the middle
of May.  Turnip from the middle of June to the 10th of July.  Harvest, in or-


