
               KIRKLISTON.            145

  Canals.-The Union Canal passes through the parish, and there
is a splendid aqueduct over the river Almond, at the south-western
extremity of it. The construction of this canal was commenced
in 1818, and finished in 1822; it was intended to form a junction
with the Forth and Clyde Canal.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The following is the list of ministers of
this parish, since the year 1647, the date of the earliest parochial
register.
  Mr Gilbert Hall, 1647, time of his settlement not known. Mr
James Wemyss, admitted in 1663, remained until the Revolution;
Mr Thomas Miller, admitted in 1692; Mr James Houston, ad-
mitted in 1716; Mr John Drysdale, admitted in 1748; Mr James
Lindsay, admitted in 1763; Mr Charles Ritchie, in 1794; the pre-
sent incumbent in 1826.
  The parish church is not in a central situation, being only one
mile from the northern extremity of the parish and three miles and
a-half from the southern; the most remote point from the church
is the southwestern extremity of the parish, distant four miles and
a-half. On this account, its situation is necessarily rather incon-
venient for these portions of the parish, and during winter, and
after wet weather, when the river Almond is generally flooded, and
the usual fords rendered impassable, the people in, the southern
part of the parish suffer great inconvenience in coming, to church,
from the want of a bridge, as they require to make a long circuit,
in order to reach either of the bridges formerly mentioned. The
church is evidently of great antiquity, erected probably in the
twelfth century. It was one of those belonging to the knights
hospitallers of St John of Jerusalem, who had great possession
this part of the country, previous. to the Reformation. Their is a
very fine old door-way in the south side of the building, not used
now, as an entrance to the church, exhibiting a beautiful specimen
of rich Saxon architecture.  The bell is remarkable for the
ness of its tone it is rung every evening at 8 o'clock, and like-
wise every Morning, in summer, at 5; in winter. at 6. The church
underwent a complete repair in 1822 and is, now one of the most
comfortable in the county; it affords accommodation to 700 per-
sons. The area of the church is divided among the heritors, ac-
cording to their valuations, and the portion assigned to each heri-
tor is subdivided among his tenants. There are about 65 sittings,
left unappropriated, for the use of the inhabitants of the villages or
other inhabitants, not otherwise provided with seats.
                                 K


