
			KILBIRNIE.                           689

arts are favourable alike to the physical and moral health, there
is obviously something in such employments destructive of both.
And if experience has proved them to be injurious to men, they
are a cruel bondage and degradation to the feebler sex. It is
enough to make one's heart sick to look upon their wasted figures
and colourless countenances, when compared with those who la-
bour for their immediate bread in the pure light of day. But this
evil, we fear, is, from the nature of things, without hope of remedy.
The moral one, however, may be prevented; and should the root
of it at any time be transplanted into this district, we trust that a
moral and spiritual education will also keep pace with it, that
the people may at least sink no lower, or become worse than they
are.

	December 1841.


                           PARISH OF KILBIRNIE. *

	   PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

	       THE REV. ROBERT URQUHART, MINISTER.


     		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--KILBIRNIE, the ancient as well as the modern name of
this parish, is obviously compounded of the common Celtic prefix
Kil, signifying a church, cell, or hermitage, and Birnie or Birinus,
the name of the saint to whom the church was dedicated. Though
this saint conferred his name on the parish, his festival or anni-
versary, which fell on the 3d of December, has long since been
forgotten, whilst that of St Brandane, the apostle of the Orkneys,
is still commemerated on the 28th of May, under the modernized
appellation of Brinnan's-day, the great annual fair of Kilbirnie.
	Boundaries and Extent.--The parish is bounded on the north
and east by Lochwinnoch and Beith; on the north-west by Largs;
and on tbe south and west by Dalry. It is of an irregular oblong
figure, in length from south-east to north-west between seven and
eight miles, and of the medium breadth of about two miles and a-

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr William Dobie, Grangevale, Beith.
	AYR.                            X x


