
46                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

remains, appears to have been a small, but a neat structure; and
the burial ground attached is now converted into a fruitful garden.
   Eminent Men.-The lands of Athelstaneford, 200 years ago,
belonged to a gentleman named Hepburn. When General Les-
lie's army were encamped on the west of Haddington, near to
Gladsmuir, before the battle of Philiphaugh, Hepburn of Athel-
staneford, attended by his five sons, paid a visit to the General at
his camp; and Leslie was so much struck with the appearance of
one of the sons, that he offered him a commission in his army, which
was readily accepted. Young Hepburn conducted himself in the
Scottish army with propriety and courage; and when peace was
restored to Scotland, Hepburn, fond of the military profession,
entered the service of Gustavus of Sweden, received the honour of
knighthood from that sovereign, and was made Colonel of the
Scottish Brigade. Afterwards, he went into the French service,
and died a field-marshal of France. The Memoirs of Sir John
Hepburn is a scarce but interesting narrative.
   Mr John Walker, who possessed considerable property in this
parish, is celebrated as the person who first introduced the system
of following land, and of thereby raising wheat crops far more ex-
tensively than formerly. He was a person of great intelligence
and enterprise, and set an excellent example of superior farm cul-
ture to his neighbours. He was descended from the family of
Walker of St Fort in Fife, and flourished about the time of the
Revolution. He was great great-grandfather to Sir Francis Walker
Drummond of Hawthornden, Bart.
   The Rev. Robert Blair, author of The Grave, was fifteen years
minister of this parish, and was buried in this churchyard, where
a monument is erected to his memory. *

<FOOTNOTE>A young gentleman, now a minister of the Church of Scotland, walking one
day, some years ago, in the minister's garden, which is separated from the church-
yard, and particularly from the spot where the poet's ashes rest, only by the breadth
of the garden wall, composed the following lines;

                    Hushed in the place of which he sung,
                    Is Blair's arresting solemn tongue.
                    This garden plot was once his room,+
                    Behind this wall is now his tomb.

                    There all is trodden under foot,
                    Here all is blossom, flower, and fruit,-
                    An emblem of what death may crave,
                    What genius rescues from the grave.

   The spot where the old manse stood is now part of the minister's garden; and
the room where the poet sat and wrote was called The Grave, so long as the old
manse stood.


