
     of Swinton and Simprin

square, with a green in the middle, where two fairs are held,
one in June, and the other in October.-At one corner is a
large well-built public house.  A street Mues from the square
east towards the kirk, hard by which stands the manse, raised
by its situation considerably above the level of 3 public roads,
which meet below it.  Every house almost without exception
has its clock, and not a few of the owners have watches be-
sides; a considerable quantity of loaf bread is brought from
Edinburgh, but especially from Berwick, Dunse, Coldstream,
and Norham.  No regular butcher market is held here; but
many black cattle, swine, and sheep are killed occasionally,
and sold to the villagers from the adjacent farms, especially in
the week of the sacrament, the two weeks of the fairs, and
about Martinmass.  The price of poultry begins to rise by the
new institution of an Edinburgh carrier though still it is
not unreasonable*.
   About 1754, three farms in this parish were occupied by
Northumbrian, stewards of Northumbrian farmers; on the
other farms lived a set of plain unpolished farmers, scarcely dis-
tinguishable from their hynds, either in dress, information,
or mode of living.  Now a most comfortable change for the
better has taken place.  Of the present farmers some no doubt
still exhibit that sort formerly known by the appellation of
gude men, the toiling and struggling cultivators of small farms;
but a second fort occupy large territories, early and intimately
acquainted with the theor, the practice, and the commerce

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mens sell from 7 d. halfpenny to 9 d. a duct at 9 d. a goose at 1 s. 8 d. and
25 a turkey from 3 s. to 4 s.  The incumbent's two servant maids cost him 3 gui-
neas; his man servant L. 6: 13 s. and his boy 1 guinea per annum, and these
are nearly an average of the farmers prices; it being understood that wages
are always for many reasons much higher in summer than in winter.  The
average price of grain for some years might be stated at 10 s. 6 d. for a boll of
oats, 13 s. so barley, 18 s for peas, and 30 s. for wheat; all Linlithgow mea-
sure of six Winchester bushels.


