
     of Kiltearn.

prevails.  The shell marl, though of an excellent quality,
does not afford so rich a supply as the other, as there is only
a small vein that appears near the church, and is found in
the same direction about the west end of the parish.  It is
pretty remarkable that this shell marl is found at the distance
of about 200 yards from the sea, and at least 30 feet perpen-
dicular above its level.  There are very flattering appear-
ances of coal in all the western part of the parish, from the
sea to the hills.  Several years ago, one or two attempts were
made to discover a proper mine, but it was not pursued with
that ardour and perseverance which the importance of the
object deserved.  The persons formerly employed only bored
in 2 or 3 places.  They ackowledged that they found coal,
but pretended it lay so deep, that unless the vain was conside-
rable, it would not pay the expence of working; but we can-
not help suspecting that they knewbut little, and presumed a
great deal.  Considering, however, the public spirit and inde-
pendent fortunes of several genlemen concerned, it is to be
hoped that they will once more makea fair trial of the coal
mines in this district, by sinking one or two pits, and employ-
ing some skillful hands for a few months to work in the
mines, and ascertain the value of the coal.  The expence
would not be very great:  The attempt would at least be lau-
dable, and most probably would be crowned with success.  In
a rock on the banks of Aultnacaorach, i.e. the sheep burn, (a
rivulet that falls into Aultgrande), there are indications of
lead ore.  The only trial ever made of it was about 36 years ago,
by one Charles Smith, a common miner, who  smelted a piece
of the ore taken from this rock, which produced good lead.
Near the storehouse of Fowlis there is a chalybeate spring,
which has been drank with salutary effects about 60 years
ago.  There is another spring at Teinleod, above Fowlis
Castle, called St Colman's Well.  Whether it has any me-


