
38                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

the cottars, some small ponies.  The kind of sheep reared is the
Cheviot, to the purity and rearing of which much attention is paid;
and they accordingly are very superior, and obtain high prices.
   Husbandry.-Farming is carried on in this parish on the most
approved system.  The rotations of cropping are the four, five,
and six years shifts.  Trenching and draining have been done to
a great extent on every farm in the parish, at an expense of from
L. 8 to L. 50 per acre. *    The duration of leases is nineteen
years; in one instance, thirty.  The farm-buildings and many of
the fences (which are dry-stone dikes) are substantial.
   Improvements.-It may be with truth affirmed, that a simple
account of the improvements in this parish must have the appear-
ance of exaggeration, and that he only can appreciate them who
had seen the state of the parish forty or even thirty years ago, and
compares that state with the present.  Every farm, every building,
every piece of road, presents an instance of the greatest improve-
ment.  The farms of Culmalie and Morvich are possessed by Mr
Sellar, who, by trenching, draining, and liming, with much labour
and expense, has converted them into specimens of great agricul-
tural excellence.  The farm of Kirkton, occupied by Mr Craig,
affords a most creditable example of industry and skill.  That of
Drummuie, held by Mr Macpherson, and that of GoIspie Tower,
held by Mr Duncan, have been greatly improved, and at a great
expense.  The farm of Rhives had been rendered a remarkably
fine one by its former successive occupants, Mr Young and Mr
Suther; and an addition has been made to its arable land, by the
present possessor, Mr Gunn.  The mains of Dunrobin, being old
and good land, have always been productive; but they, too, have
been improved under the new system; and the same may be said
of the place of Uppat, which completes the number of large farms
in the parish.  These notices are not irrelevant here; for it must
be added, that these farmers have not only the good fortune to
be placed under most liberal landlords ; but that they deserve the
liberality they receive.  They have acquired a title to the gra-
titude of the community at large " by making corn and grass to
grow, where neither grass nor corn ever grew before."
   Quarries.-There are two very good red sandstone quarries
wrought here; there is also one of white sandstone.  Some indi-

<FOOTNOTE>Much use continues to be made of drift sea-weed as a manure; kelp is used at
Dunrobin, and bofie-dust has recently been introduced by Mr Craig, Kirkton, and
has been since adopted to some extent and with success by others. From the very
small quantity of this manure requisite, there is a great saving of carriage.


