
                          INVERNESS.                          3

the greatest quantity of moisture; but the number of rainy days
at this end of the Great Glen is about sixty less than at Fort-Wil-
liam on the opposite shore. Rain is here speedily absorbed by the
light gravelly soil, which is another cause of the comparative dry-
ness of the climate. The great bodies of fresh water, however,
which occupy so large a portion of the surface of Inverness-shire, are
continually sending up immense quantities of mist and watery va-
pour from their surface, and as these become immediately con-
densed and attracted to the sides and summits of the mountains,
Inverness in consequence presents peculiar advantages to the stu-
dent of atmospheric phenomena. In spring especially, great
volumes of mist arise from Loch Ness, (which is itself about 24
miles long, nearly 2 miles broad, and in some places 115 fathoms
deep,) and are hurried by the winds to the eastern sea, whence
they descend in fertile showers on the neighbouring lands. After
a snow storm, these vapoury columns, (particularly about the com-
mencement of a thaw,) assume the most fantastic forms, and as
their warmth gradually removes the white covering of the moun-
tains, long parallel streaks and lines of black appear on their sides
and summits, indicating the course and relative temperatures of the
prevailing currents of wind.
   During winter, our sea coast becomes the haunt of great num-
bers of wild geese, ducks, herons, and cormorants, and occasionally
of a few wild swans, and foreign birds. A few years ago the com-
mon plover was known to nestle in the lower parts of the district,
but now it is rarely seen but in the highest grounds.
   Hydrography.-Most of the observations under this head appli-
cable to the parish of Inverness are already embraced in the fore-
going details. It is only necessary to add, that there are many
perennial springs of pure water in the district, but few medicinal
or otherwise distinguished. The Ness is the only river which flows
through the parish. Its course from its parent lake to the sea is
about 8 miles long; its channel gravelly, and about 60 yards wide,
with a uniform inclination, giving to the river a gentle but equable
flow, and hence it affords peculiar advantages to the erection of
mills and manufactures. Its average depth is in summer about 3
feet, in winter 6 or 7 feet. The water of the River Ness possesses
a purgative quality on persons unaccustomed to drink it.  This pro-
perty appears to be owing to decomposed vegetable matter, and to
result from Confervae and Mosses, which its high temperature keeps


