
402                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

trict are the late Angus.  The Sandy oats now threatens to dis-
place the Hopetoun and potato oats.  The tenants find that the
ground will not stand wheat at every rotation.
   It may be stated here, that, until the introduction of the system
of large farms, and the modern system of agriculture, flax was uni-
versally cultivated in this parish, for which it was even famed.  The
cheapness of cotton articles has had the effect of putting an end
to the cultivation of flax.
   Lime has been in use at least since the large farms have been
formed, and it may be said that turnips are never put down except
with bone dust.  At the season when they are sown, it is sup-
posed that common manure keeps our light soils too open in the
heat which then prevails ; at all events, the bones give the best
produce. From 20 to 25 bolls of lime per acre is the rule followed.
Second liming of a field does not seem to answer so well as was an-
ticipated; and subsoil ploughing and trenching seem not unlikely
to become common on all the farms, before lime is laid on a se-
cond time.
   The majority of the agricultural servants come from the interior
Highlands. Native lads seem to prefer acquiring a trade when they
have an opportunity.
   There has existed for upwards of fifty years, the Pettie and Ar-
dersier Farmers' Society.  Premiums are yearly awarded to those
who are adjudged to be the best ploughmen at a public cormpeti-
tion.  A prize has been added this year, to be given to the lad
whose horses appear best groomed, and their harness best kept.
The description of horses used in agriculture seems to be a cross
between the Highland garron and the finest heavy horses from the
south.  They are both hardy and active, but not remarkably large.
A pair of horses are considered sufficient for every fifty acres of
a farm.  They are in some request for double harness.
   Fisheries.-There are two stake-nets on the property of the
Earl of Moray, and one on the property of Culloden at Altirlie-
Point.  The erection of the former is of recent date, and it is said
they have not as yet been found a very remunerating enterprise.
The annual rent of all these salmon fishings is under L. 60. The
Messrs Hogarth of Aberdeen rent the entire beach belonging to
the Earl of Moray, and Mr R. Mackinnon, Altirlies Point, has for
many years possessed the fishing at that station, with other fishings
in different places of the Highlands.
There are 24 boats belonging to the parish engaged in the
                             3


