
216                      FORFARSHIRE.

volumes of old parochial registers, comprising entries of the pro-
clamation of the banns of marriage, baptisms, deaths, discipline,
collections, and disbursements. These entries, however, are ex-
ceedingly irrefular, intermixed, and imperfect; and marriages,
births, and burials, are entirely omitted; but in 1806 the mode of
entry was altered, and a new arrangement adopted. A new set of
registers, six in number, neatly bound and titled, were introduced
in 1820. Vol. 1. contains an entry of the proclamation of the banns
of marriage, and of the marriage itself; vol. 2. births and baptisms;
vol. 3. deaths and burials; vol. 4. income; vol. 5. expenditure;
vol. 6. discipline. All the volumes, twelve in number, including
old and new, are carefully and regularly kept.
	Antiquities, &c.--In the churchyard are to be found some tomb-
stones of considerable antiquity.  One is distinctly dated 1626,
another 1630.  A few, from the quality of the stone, the form
of the letters, and the strange figures engraven on them, ap-
pear to be somewhat older; but the inscriptions which they bear
are nearly effaced. There are also a few stones exhibiting un-
known characters, apparently very old: and thdrd are two other mo-
numents, somewhat of a colossal kind, designed with much taste,
and executed in a masterly style. But of all the sepulchral mo-
numents, those erected in 1814, by and for the families of Brig-
ton, Kinnettles, and Invereighty, are by far the largest, and
the most substantial.--Not many yards distant from the south
bank of the rivulet, stands a rising ground, somewhat conic`lly
shaped, which, from its having been, time immemorial, called
Kirkhill, is generally supposed to have been at some remote
period the site of a religious house.--After the parish church
was filled with Protestants, the proprietor of Foffarty, aided by
the Papists in the neighbourhood, set about building a popish
chapel on his property, and appointed a priest to conduct the
Romish service, to whom he gave a manse, offices, garden,
glebe, and salary. That chapel was erected on the margin of
a den at the foot of Kincaldrum hill. It was burnt by a par-
ty of royal dragoons in 1745, and remained roofless and ruinous
for many years. The area of the building, and a considerable por-
tion of the walls, were distinctly visible so late as 1816. Then the
ruins were dug up from the very foundation, and carried away to
fill up drains. Mr Bower of Kincaldrum, a Roman Catholic, to-
gether with the male part of his family, removed the stone which
held the holy water, as a precious relict, to his own premises, where
			      4


