
                           MONZIE.                          279

The glebe contains about 11 acres of superior land.  The stipend
is the minimum, the annual sum of L.15, 16s. 8d., being contri-
buted by the Exchequer.
  Number of Communicants, &c.-The number of male heads of
families in communion with the church amounts in the present year
to 153; and the total number of communicants is about 450.
  Church Collections.-The average amount of church collections
for the poor, and to defray incidental expenses, for the last five
years, is L.25, 8s. 2 1/2d.
  The number of Dissenting or Seceding families in the parhsh
is 11.
  Education.-There are two schools in the parish, viz. the pa-
rochial, and a private school at Gilmerton.  The branches taught
in the parish school are, reading, writing, arithmetic, geometry,
book-keeping, geography, Latin, Greek, and French.  The school
salary is the maximum; the school fees average about L.30, and
the parochial schoolmaster has more than the legal accommodation.
His other emoluments amount to L.7, 13s. per annum.
  The expense of education per annum is as under: reading, 10s.;
reading and writing, 12s.; reading, writing, and arithmetic, 14s.;
Latin, Greek, French, book-keeping, or geometry, L.1. If En-
glish grammar is taught with any of the above branches, 4s. addi-
tional are charged.
  All are taught to read and most to write, and the people are
generally alive to the benefits of education.
  There are several hamlets and farm-houses in Glenalmond, so
distant from the parochial school as to derive little or no benefit from
it. These are, first, Easter Lethendy, containing 8 persons; Green-
field, 8; Wester Lethendy, 1; Mill Rodgie, 20; Meikle Downie,
12; Little Downie, 18; Dalick, 35; Easter and Middle Fendoch,
75; total 177. The distance of the nearest of these from the parish
school is about three miles, and the children are sent to the school
of Buchanty, situated in their immediate neighbourhood, but within
the parish of Fowlis.  To these must be added Newton, contain-
ing 11 persons; Curriemuckloch, 13; Dalmore, 10; Coynachan,
5; Auclinafree, 20; total 59.  The nearest to the parish school
is Newton, distant about six miles.  The children are sent for
education to a school at Amulrie, distant from the nearest of
them about one mile, and from others from five to seven miles,
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons regularly
receiving parochial aid is 7, at the rate of 1s. per week, and, five
of these are either old or infirm females.  Occasionally sums are


