
               		NEW KILPATRICK.                         45

various pursuits connected with literature and agriculture, and in
receiving visits from his extensive acquaintance both in England
and Scotland. His Lordship died on the 28th of Marcb 1823, in
the eighty-ninth year of his age." He was succeeded in his estates
by his son, the present Sir Archibald Campbell, Bart., who sat
for many years as a Judge of the Courts of Session and Justiciary
by the title of Lord Succotb, which offices he resigned in 1825.
   Glassford of Dugalstone.--The lands of Dugalstone were for-
merly possessed by a family of the name of Graham, of the
Knockdollan branch of the Montrose family, from whose heirs
they were purchased in 1767, by John Glassford, Esq. one of the
most eminent and respected merchants of his time. His mercan-
tile enterprise is thus noticed by Smollett in his popular work
Humphry Clinker, in which, under his assumed character, he
says, " I conversed also with Mr G--ssf--d, whom I take to be
one of the greatest merchants in Europe. In the last war, he is
said to have had at one time five-and twenty ships, with their cargoes,
his own property, and to have traded for above half a million Ster-
ling a-year." Mr Glassford was a gentleman of enlightened un-
derstanding and liberal mind; of prompt judgment and active ha-
bits, which enabled him to conduct with ease a great variety of
affairs; a generous patron of the arts, and a principal promoter
of all undertakings which had the advantage of the community in
view. He died in 1783, and was succeeded by his eldest son
Henry, who inherited, along with the possessions, much of the
character of his father. He represented the county of Dumbar-
ton in part of two Parliaments; and during the troublesome times
that followed the first French Revolution, contributed greatly to
the exciting and maintaining a spirit of loyalty and patriotism in
this district. * On his death in 1819, the estate of Dugalstone
devolved on his brother,consanguinean the present James Glass-
ford, Esq. Advocate, who is favourably known as author of a Trea-
tise on the Law of Evidence, and other literary productions; and
more widely as one of the most efficient members of the late Irish
Education Commission, in which capacity he distinguished him-
self by his consistent advocacy of Protestant principles.  Mr Glass-
ford has lately transfered his right to the estate of Dugalstone to
his nephew and heir-app rent, Henry G. Gordon, Esq.

   <FOOTNOTE>As an instance of his munificence, we may mention, that for many years he was
in the habit of giving annually  150 carts of coal to the poor of this parish, with a
like benefaction to the pariah of Baldernock.


