
                       LARBERT.                              357

  Larbert.--The Duke of Hamilton is the superior,--Larbert
having been at one time a part of the estates of the Hamilton fa-
mily. Kinneil, including Larbert, was erected into a barony cal-
led the barony of Kinneil.
  Broomage.--Lord Errol is supposed to be the superior.
  Some of these estates have been transmitted by sale during the
last 100 years: a few have not been so transmitted.
  Kinnaird.--Not transmitted by sale.
  Quarol.--Sold about 1755 by Eiphinston of Quarol.
  Steuhouse.--About one-half transmitted by feu about 1760 to
the Carron Company; the remainder not transmitted by sale.
  Woodside.--Sold three times since 1780, viz. about 1780 and
after that; Ist, by Sir G. Dunbar or his heirs; 2d, by Mr Strach-
an; 3d, by Mr Russell.,
  Larbert.--Sold twice since 1790, viz. about 1790 and after that;
viz. Ist, by Mr Robert Chalmers; 2d, by Sir James Riddell.
  Broomage.--In 1775 was undivided, and the joint property of
three owners. It was at that time divided into three parts equal
in value. Each of these parts has since been sold.
  Parochial Registers.--The register has been regularly kept since
the year 1699; but although it is continuous, it is neither volumi-
nous nor remarkable for its Irregularity.
  Modern Buildings.--The church was begun in the year 1818,
and was completed in about two years. The exterior is in the
light or Elizabethan Gothic, after a plan by Mr Hamilton of
Glasgow. This edifice forms an interesting object, from the Stir-
ling road. The materials for building are abundant near the west
end of the parish, and the stone is of good quality, though it is
frequently porous, and by reason of its porous structure it absorbs
the rain water to which it is exposed, so that the walls of a house
built with it, are apt to be damp.
  Antiquities--Arthur's Oon.--A remarkable Roman building,
called Arthur's Oon, i. e. Arthur's Oven, stood on a bank sloping
to the south or south by east, about 300 feet to the north of the point
where is now the north-west corner of the Carron Iron-works.
There is a piece of ground of the extent of about 50 feet square,
which has a well sunk in it, and is used as a washing green by the
inhabitants of the adjacent houses. On this piece of ground, Ar-
thur's Oon stood. The footpath passing up the slope was long
known by the name of the Oon-path. The building was called,

<FOOTNOTE>see the valuation roll of the county of Stirling, published in 1831.


