
96			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

brig imports lime, coal, and bone manure. Exports grain, pota-
toes, and timber. The lime and coals are brought from Cumber-
land, the bone manure from Liverpool and Ireland. Lime from
1s. 1d. to 1s. 3d. her bushel. Coals from 10s. 6d. to 14s. 6d. per
imperial ton. Bone manure, at an average, 2s. 9d. per bushel.
From the extravagant price of coal, repeated attempts have been
made to find it in the neigbbourbood, but hitherto in vain. The
fuel used by people at a distance from the port consists principally
of turf, peats, and the weedings of plantations. A great deal of
furze used to be consumed by the poor, but the severe frost of
1837-1838 almost totally destroyed it. Cotton mills might be
erected with great advantage on the Dee. Falls of thirty feet
could easily be commanded within 500 yards of the harbour, and
were a spirited and well-ordered establishment of this kind set
agoing, it would confer immense benefits on the whole country,
but on no part more than the neighbouring town of Kirkcudbright,
which has long been stagnant for want of trade, and where all the
necessaries of life, and manufactured goods of every description,
are of inferior quality and at the highest prices.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church and manse are situated upon
the Dee at the southern extremity of the parish. The manse was
built in 1798, and is still in good repair. The site is very pleasant,
and the views from some of the neighbouring heights are beautiful
in the extreme. The glebe consists of about ten acres of land, va-
lued at L. 3 per acre. It runs along the river to the east, and is sup-
posed to include a right to the salmon-fishing in that part, but as
yet the question has not been tried. The sum of L. 15, 17s. 10d.
is given by Government to augment the stipend.
	Education.--The public school is placed in the middle of the pa-
rish, and is in good repair. The schoolmaster has a house and gar-
den. His salary is the maximum. The average attendance through
the year is 75. The branches taught are, writing, arithmetic,
English reading and book-keeping. A private school kept by a
female has an average attendance of 20. She has a salary of
L. 10 raised by subscription. A Sunday school is taught by the
same individual. Families residing at the outskirts of the parish
find it more convenient to send their children schools in the
neighbouring parishes, than to those within the bounds of their
own. By a return which I made two years ago to Mr Colqu-
houn of Kellermont, it appeared that, of the whole population I


