
182                        SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

ments have since been carried on at groat expense, and Ww the
glebe might probably fetch a rent of L.50 per annum.
Education.-At present there are three schools in the parish
the parochial, and two supported by the Educational Committee
of the General Assembly. One of the Assembly's schools is at
Skerray, the other at Melness. Last year there were tb ree schools
besides,-two supported by private subscription, which, for seve-
ral causes, have since been suppressed,-the third was a Gaelic
school, granted by the Gaelic School Society, which has been
discontinued by the managers, though only two years in operation,
and particularly useful. When the schools were examined last
spring, there were nearly 400 children in attendance. The
schools at present ill existence are efficiently conducted. The com-
mon branches of education are taught in them all. The paro-
chial teacher is qualified to teach mathematics, Latin, ' Greek,
and French, but there are very few now who prosecute these stu-
dies. His accommodation as to school-room, dwelling-hou'se, and
garden, is excellent.. His salary is the maximum, but fees are ill
paid. The people in general are more alive now to the benefits
of education than they have been, though still there is vast room
for improvement.Irregularity in attendance, and want of proper
school-books, frominability to buy them, are serious drawbacks
to the -proficiencyof the scholars. There is one part of the Mel-
ness side where an additional school is decidedly required. It is
removed at a considerable distance from the place where the As-
sembly school is situated, and is separated by a large rivulet,
which, from want of a bridge, is, for the most part, impassable in
winter. Were a school got for this locality, upwards of forty chil-
dren might attend it.
Literature.-Two years ago, a subscription 'library and a read-
ing club were set on foot, through the strenuous and praiseworthy
exertions of Mr Horsburgh, the local factor. The members of the
library exceed I 00. These, however, do not all belong to this pa-
rhsh., Every member on admission says 5s.., and 2s. 6d. of yearly
contribution. The number of voluffies already amount to 455,
consisting of a choice selection of books in ;beology, history,
poetry, travels, memoirs &P-. Many of them are donations re-
ceived by Mr Horsburgh from his acquaintances in the south, and
sent by others who have taken an interest in this promising insti-
tation.. The gentlemen of the club purchase new standard works,
and instead of exposing them to sale afthe year's end they gra-


