
                           ISLAND OF ISLAY,

                       PARISH OF KILCHOMAN. *

                   PRESBYTERY OF ISLAY, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

                       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name--According to tradition, Kilchoman has obtained its
name from being the burying-place of Chomanus, who is supposed
to have come from the monastery of lona to establish the Gospel
in Islay. The parish is situated on the west side of the island of
Islay.
Extent.--Boundaries.-Its length is 20 miles. It averages
about 5 miles in breadth, and contains about 100 square miles.
At a former period, it was an island, and it is still nearly surrounded
by the sea,. there being only a space of about one mile between
the high-water mark of Lochindaal, and that of Lochgruinard.
These arms, with the intervening space, formed, till two farms
were annexed to it, the boundary on the south, south-east, and
east sides. From the north-east point to the south-west extremity,
it presents a line of coast, extending thirty miles, to the unob-
structed swell of the Atlantic Ocean.-- Each end of the parish
terminates in a point; and at each point, there is a small island,
separated from the mainland by a narrow channel.
   Near to the southwest point, an undulating ridge of hills rises,
which runs in a north-eastern direction until it terminates with a
gentle 

 in the level ground below Sunderland House. To the
north of this flat it again rises, but with a somewhat lower elevation,
and may be traced until it dips into the sea at Ardnave. The
highest hill of this ridge does. not exceed 500 feet. With an
elevation so small, there can be no deep valleys; and the flats are
either covered with moss or formed into lakes, some of which are
within the range of a former level of the ocean.
   A great part of the coast is bold and precipitous. The east side
abounds with creeks, yet the general feature of the sbore is rocky.
From the point of the Rinns to the point of Ardnave, the coast is

<FOOTNOTE>Communicated by the Rev. Alex. Cameron, late minister of the parish.


