
646                           FIFESHIRE.

   It is stated in th last Statistical Account, that the diminution
of one-fifth of the population which bad taken place in the Thirty.
five years preceding 1790, was probably owing to one village be.
ing allowed to go to decay, to the, union of farms, and the use of
two horse ploughs. Since that time, several additional house's
have been built in the other villages, and some are occupied by
nuxnerous families, which may account for the increase.
   There is often a very considerable differene between the po-
pulation of one year and that of another, arising from the changes
of farva-servants and others, some of whom havenumerous families.

<TABLE>

The number of the population residing in villages is   -    -     236
                                        the country,   -   -      187
The. average annu4 of births for the last ten yeari is.  - -      13 3/6
                                          deaths  -   -     -      6 2/5
                                   marriage proclamations, -  -    6 1 3/5

   This last  is the average of all who are proclaimed in the pa-
rish,- whether at the time of a proclamation both parties are resi-
dent or only one.
   The total number of illegitimate births for the last ten years is 3.
   There are eight proprietor of land in the parish of the yearly
value of more than L.50. Of these, four are resi dent, and farm
their own properties.

<TABLE>
                                                      In 1838   In 1831.
     Number of families,                                 94        85
     Inhabited houses,                                   79        74
     Un3inhabited houses,                                 3         2
     Number of families chiefly employed in agriculture  45        38
                    in trade, manufactures, &c.          43        43
               all others,                                6         6

   There is no insane person- in the parish, but there is one who
may be considered fatuous.
   Prevailing Amusements.-The favourite amusement in this pa-
rish is curling. Many of the landed proprietoes, almost the whole
tenantry in the neighbourhood, and others of different professions,
resort to the on Balyfarrow, and enjoy this innocent, healthful,
and invigorating exercise. The Balyarrow Curlink Club is said
to be the oldest in the north of Fife
   Character and  Habits of the People.- They are, industrious,
peaceable, and orderly in their habits. They enjoy in  rea-
sonable degree the advantages of society, and are, civil and ob-
liging. They live comfortably without extravagance and are
contented with their situation. In their food' and in their man,

<FOOTNOTE>There are in the parish, incuding masters, jouneyman, and apprentice, 7
wrights 2 sawyer, 8 msons,  1 blacksmith, 1 saddler, 11 shoemakers, 5 tailors
bakers, 2 brewers, 2 grocers



