
                            ERSKINE                            503

rally more or less chalybeate, and there is one particularly on the
farm of Drumcross, the mineral qualities of which are very strong,
   The Clyde, opposite the mansion-house at Erskine, still retains
its original appearance and beauty, whilst everywhere else it has
been changed and narrowed by the walls, and embankments which
the river trustces have made, under the advice of eminent engi-
neers, for deepening the channel. What changes the Clyde BilI,
now passing through Parliament, may make on the appearance of
the river, and consequently on the amenity of Lord Blantyre's
park and pleasure-grounds, it is impossible at present to say; but
it is a. fact worthy a place in such an account, as the present, that
the Bill has been rendered necessary by a complete change inb the
opinion of the engineers of the present day, with regard to the
best manner of deepening the channel. For nearly a century past,
but particularly for the last thirty years, the plan which the engi
neers recommended, and the trustees followed, was to narrow and,
deepen the channel, in the hope that the body of water at ebb-
tide would effectually scour it,--jetties being, at the same time,
run out from the shore, at convenient distances, to intercept the
sand thus brought down; and all who recollect the former navi-
gation of the Clyde can bear ample testimony to the success of
this plan, from the certainty and rapidity with which the passage
up or down the river can now be made. The engineers of the pre-
sent day, however, have given their opinion very decidedly on the
advantage to be derived from widening the river, and cutting off
as much as possible the angles, or turnings; on the banks, as well
as deepening the channel, under the idea, that the greater the
body of water, conjoined with the fewer resistances it has to contend.
make the ebb-tide scour much. more effectual.
   Geology amd Mineralogy.--The geology of this parish very much
resembles that of the neighbouring parishes of Inchinnan and Old
Kilpatrick. The diluvium is in many places found extending to
the depth of six feet, consisting, chiefly of loose gravel; though
sometimes containing a considerable quantity of clay., lt is inter-
spersed with immense boulders of granite graywacke, &C. which
seem to have had their original habitat to the north-west, in the,
Argyleshire hills. The state in the South-easten part of the pa
rish generally seem to belong to those rocks of the secondary kind
which are known as Carboniferous, or the coal formation.  Some
fine specimens of fossil plants and trees were found in them a few


