
              ADDENDUM TO LOCHGOIL-HEAD.                   715

This, however, adds much to the expense of management, especi-
ally as a careful person must be hired to take charge of them. Two
and sixpence a-head is generally the demand for this winter grazing.
  Though it is to grazing that the chief attention of the agri-
cultural population is devoted, some progress has been made in
draining and improving the lower grounds with obvious advantage,
Indeed one of the most interesting things connected with the pa-
rish, is the regularity with which the high and the low grounds are
proportioned to one another. Almost every farm residence has
as much arable land attached to ht as is sufficient for the support
of the family, and many farms have much more. How far it
would be profitable to pay more attention to agriculture, properly
so called, is a question that may be safely left to the intelligent
occupiers to decide. Certainly to one conveyed hither in an hour
or two from an agricultural district, the idea will occur that the
lower grounds might be turned to more advantage than what they
appear to be; but, upon farther inquiry, he will probably find that
he has not taken into account the expense of the improvements he
desiderates, the smaller returns which at the best the soil would
render, and the casualties to which crops are liable in so precari-
ous a climate. For the purposes of grazing, draining the lower
grounds, and cropping them occasionally would be useful; but this
is an expense which the tenant cannot be expected to be at.
The general duration of leases is 19 years, with one or two
breaks, in favour of the tenant, so that he has nothing to
complain of on this score. The state of farm-buildings has been
greatly improved of late, and may be said to be excellent.  Al-
most every farm is furnished with a good dwelling-house, and a
commodious set of office-houses. Enclosures to a great extent
have also been executed, and are now in progress. It is to be
hoped they will be continued, as the lower grounds would be
greatly ilproved by more of them.
  Quarries.--There are quarries of limestone in several parts of
the parish, and they are occasionally worked by those in the
neighbourhood; but, in general, it is found more advantageous to
use Irish lime, and a good deal has been imported of late years with
very satisfactory results. It is observed that the native lime con-
tinues for a longer period to be beneficial to the ground.
   Fisheries.--The white fishing has repeatedly been tried of late
years, but with no encouraging success, and the expectations of
productive industry from this source are not likely to be realized.


