
                         DUNBAR.                           77

the Honourable Robert Boyle, in disseminating the Irish Bible
throughout the Highlands of Scotland.
   Patrick Carfrae, D. D. was translated from Morham in 1795, to
the church and parish of Dunbar. He was perhaps the most elo-
quent and accomplished preacher of his day. It is well known
that such was the opinion of a very competent judge, the late Lord
Liverpool, who was a regular hearer in the church of Dunbar, when
stationed here with his regiment. Doctor Carfrae possessed in a
high degree all the requisites of an orator; and was one of the
brightest ornaments of the classic age which is gone by.
   A family of the name of Fall established themselves at Dunbar,
and became during the last century the most extensive merchants
in Scotland. They were long the chief magistrates of the burgh,
and preferred the public good to their own profit. They have left
no one to bear their name, not even a stone to tell where they lie;
but they will long be remembered for their enterprise and public
spirit.
   Chief Land-owners.-The Duke of Roxburghe; * Sir George
Warrender of Lochend; Robert Hay, Esq. of East-Barns; Cap-
tain Hay, R. N. of Belton; General Hardyman of Heatherwick;
Mrs Hamilton Nisbet Ferguson of Ninewar; William Sandilands,
Esq. of Barnyhill; John Allan, Esq. of Links, &c. Most of the
estates of these land-owners have long been in possession of their
families respectively.
   Parochial Registers.-Their earliest date is 1658. They have
been regularly kept, and are not voluminous. The burgh register
of sasines begins in 1620, the register of dispositions in 1737, and
the council books in 1656.
   Antiquities, Castle, &c.-The ruins of the castle form a remark-
able, antiquity. They are particularly described by Sir Walter
Scott in his Provincial Antiquities, and Grose has preserved two
views of them. Founded upon a lofty rugged rock within the sea-
mark, and connected with a battery on the adjoining land, by a
wall through which there is a covered passage, this castle was so
strongly fortified both by nature and by art, that before the inven-
tion of gunpowder it was deemed impregnable. The date of the
buildings is unknown; but they are evidently the work of different
ages. Several of the towers communicating with the sea gave, it
great advantages over inland forts. Being conferred on Cospa-

<FOOTNOTE>The estate and mansion of Broxmouth belonging to the Dukedom are, liferented
by Mary Duchess Dowager of Roxburghe.


