
280                      LANARKSHIRE.

on, or cut for green food, the autumn being seldom favourable for
making it into hay. A little flax is occasionally sown for domestic
use. Rye thrives well below trees, and might be profitably intro-
duced into orchards. A great many new, or natural grasses, have
been brought into cultivation; but it remains to be seen whether
this practice will turn out most profitable to the agriculturist or
the seedsman. Potatoes are planted from the middle of April to
the middle of May, principally in drills made by the plough. Many
families in the town take small plots of ground for the season, from
the neighbouring farmers, which they plant with this root. Large
fields nf potatoes are also sold in lots to the town's people when
they are ready for digging. Upwards of twenty-four tons have
been taken from an acre. Eighty bolls were this season produced
on a single acre, about two miles from Hamilton. The rare oc-
currence of famines in the present day is chiefly to be attributed
to the abundance of this root; and yet, Cobbet, to establish a theory,
would deprive the poor of this table, which "God has prepared
for them in the presence of their enemies." The potatoes threat-
ened a failure in some places about the end of the summer. When
the diseased plants were pulled up, the seed was found to swarm
with little black worms or maggots; but whether these animals
were the cause of the disease, or the mere attendants of that cor-
ruption by which it was followed, we are not prepared to decide.
The culture of carrot, turnips, cabbage, &c. is scarcely practised
here, except in gardens. Turnips now sell at 3d. per stone, and
carrots at 6d.
	The modes of cultivation and rotation of crops are so various
that it is impossible to give any idea of the average quantity of
land applied to any particular purpose. The dairy is here an ob-
ject of considerable importance. The milk is mostly made into
butter and butter-milk of excellent quality, and sold in the town.
About 110 milk cows supply the town with sweet-milk. There
are in the parish altogether about 900 dairy cows, besides young
stock. The feeding of calves is also well understood, although
a few still send slink or unfed veal to market; a revolting prac-
tice which, for the benefit both of seller and consumer, ought to
be put down by law. The cows here are a slight variety of the
Ayrshire breed. They are a little longer in the leg, rounder in
the body, and not quite so heavy in the hind quarters; but hand-
somer, and equally good milkers. They are mostly red-brown,
more or lese mixed with white. A moderately good milk-cow gives


