
82                         ELGINSHIRE.

highly useful; and if premiums were to be occasionally awarded by
the proprietors for the best kept cottages and neatest gardens on
their estates, the advantages would be very great, there being much
room for improvement in cleanliness. We have much pleasure,
however, in pointing out Corgyle Cottage, the tasteful residence
of Mr Robert Stewart, merchant, which, both in external and in-
ternal arrangements, affords an example of neatness to the country
around. The school-house of Elchies has also been very prettily
dressed up, and is neatly kept by Mr Charles Grant, the present
teacher. Grant and Robertson are the most common surnames
in Knockando. The late Robert Grant, Esq. of Wester Elchies,
had a small medical garden. Several of the plants still remain,
including agrimony camomile, costmary, crowfoot, elder, garlick,
black hellebore, lavender, marsh-mallow, mint, mustard, rosemary,
rhubarb, saffron, sage, Solomon's seal, savine, saxifrage, sorrel,
thyme, valerian, trefoil, horehound, &c. &c.

August 1835.

             PARISH OF BIRNIE.

    FRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY.

     THE REV. GEORGE GORDON, MINISTER.


     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURALHISTORY.
  Name, &-c.-This parish, in some old writings, is called "Bre-
nuth." No satisfactory derivation has yet been assigned to the
name. *
  Extent and Boundaries.-The outline of the parish of Birnie
approaches an oblong; with its narrower extremity on the north,
and within 2 1/2 miles of the burgh of Elgin, it runs due south for
7 miles, averaging 1 3/4 in breadth. It is bounded on the east, north,
and west, by the parish of Elgin, and is separated from the parish
of Knockando on the south by the junction of the parishes of
Dallas and Rothes. Birnie lies on the north side of the high ground
which rises between the Spey and the flat of Moray. From its
highest elevation, at the Manoch-hill, of about 1000 feet, it has a
gradual fall,-till at its northern boundary it is less than 50 feet

<FOOTNOTE>Shaw derives it from "Brenoth, i.e. a brae, or high land."


