
38			BUTESHIRE.

call most loudly for the interference of the magistracy, are small
whisky shops in different parts of the parish which contrive dex-
terously to elude the scrutiny of the excise; and afford the lovers
of ardent spirits opportunities of indulging in their favourite beve-
rage, without the public notice which they would incur by frequent
visits to the licensed public houses.
	Fuel.--The fuel of the labouring classes is generallt peats.
Every tenant has a right to cut peats in the hills; and their only
expense to him is the labour of cutting and carrying them home.
In the wet climate of Arran, they are a very precarious kind of
fuel; but their quality, is in general excellent, and when secured
in good condition, they are un excellent substitute for coals.
Those in easy circumstances, for the most part, burn coals from
Ayrshire. The freight usually charged is, from Ardrossan 4s.
and from Ayr 5s. per ton of 24 cwt.; and this, added to their price
at the place of embarkation, makes them in general 14s. or 15s.
per ton.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	It must be acknowledged that this parish is in many respects
very far behind the rural parishes on the mainland of Scotland.
But there are probably few parishes in the kingdom, where the
progress of improvement has of late been more rapid. In the year
1793, when the former Statistical Account of the parish was written
it was nothwithstanding its proximity to the very centre of Scotch
commences and industry, in a state as rude and primitive as the
most remote islands of the Hebrides. There were not at that time
six carts in the whole parish. Of regularly formed road there was
net a mile; nor a single bridge built with stone and lime. The
house of the tenantry and common people in general were the
marest hovels; and their clothes of the coarsest home manufacture.
Their land was so unskillfully cultivated that its returns did not
nearly afford them the requisite supply of food. Their cattle,
though form their very diminutive sixe easily supported died upon
their hands in hundreds every severe spring. And they were them-
selves, though like Highlanders in general courateous and respectful
in their manners, greatly deficient in every branch of useful know-
ledge. Many of the old were never taught to read; and the ma-
jority of both old and young could speak little or no English. The
changes in all these respects, which have since that period occurred
in the parish, the preceding pages have sufficiently explained.
	To do full justice to the capabilities of the parish, there are


