
                          ERSKINE.                      517

Lord Douglas and Mr Maxwell of Dargavel, are  gradually clear-
ing away, and about 400 acres of shore ground on Lord Blan-
tyre's and General Darroch's estates.
   Rent of Land.-Grain rents are still common in the parish, and
these are regulated by the fiar prices; but money rents have also
been introduced and seem to be preferred both by tenant and
landlord as more certain. The average rent of arable land is
about L.1, 13s. per Scotch, or L.1, per imperial acre.
   Rent of Grazing.-The average rent charged for grazing is as
follows-for a cow, summer-grazing, L. 4, winter do. L. 6, 10s.
per annum, L.10, 10s. Black-faced sheep per annum, 10s. 6d.;
whitd-faced pets per do. L.1, 7s.
   Rate of Wages.-The rate of wages for labourers, plough-
men, &c., is the same as in the parish of Inchinnan. Ploughmen
with bed, board and washing, per half year, L.9 ; married  do. with
a house and garden per half year, L.12, 1Os.; female, servants per
do. L.4 to L.5 ; labourers per week, 10s. to 11s.; women, 1s. per
day, but in harvest from 1s. 6d. to 2s.; per week, 6s. to 12s.;
quarries per week, 13s. ; wrights per do., 16s.; masons per do,
18s.; but at present, owing to the demand for masons on the rail-
way, their wages are as high as L.1 per week. Mason-work, how-
ever, is more frequently executed by contract at the following
prices-ruble-work per rood, L.7, 10s.; coursed-work per do.,
L. 11; ashlar-work per do., L. 16. Many of the young women are
kept in constant employment by sewing muslins and embroidering
crape shawls for manufacturers in Paisley, by which they make
from 10d. to 1s. 3d. pet day, according to the demand for the fol-
lowing articles: Victoria stitch upon cotton muslin, averaging per
day Is. 3d.; French opening stitch on do. 1s. 3d,;  French vein-
ing on do. 1s.; sewed silk shawls with satin boards, 1s.; Thibet
wool shawls sewed with twined silk, 1s.
   Husbandry.-The first innovations on the old system of farm-
ing in this parish were made about the  year 1715, by Alexander
the tenth Lord Blantyre, and have been very accurately described
by Dr Young in the former Statistical Account. The system of
a rotation in crops, introduced by that nobleman, was in particu-
lar, a source of great annoyance to the farmers, who could,not
at first appreciate the value of such a change. Now, however, that
system its observed, not only on Lord Blantyre's property, but
likewise by the tenants on the other estates. The follower is
the rotation of crops which is followed on the best managed farms:


