
			KILBIRNIE.		  	  707

and has been about 24 feet in height. A court or passage, 59
feet in length, lay between the entrance and the tower, on each side
of which has been a range of two-storied apartments. The tower
is 45 feet long, 33 feet wide, and its height has been above 40
feet. Its upper and now only accessible storey has consisted of a
hall occupying the whole extent within the walls, and the imbow-
ed ceiling of which has been 20 feet in height. It has been
lighted both from the court and from the exterior walls. One of
the windows overlooks the rugged chasm through which murmurs
the Garnock, and from two narrow apertures facing the east, the
eye may yet revel over a beautiful extent of the district bearing
the same name as the old lords of the castle. From the hall, a
narrow circular stair led to the upper part of the building, which
has been surrounded by a parapet wall. The ruins show neither
the arrow-slit nor gun-port of defence so common in similar old
houses. Perhaps the situation was of itself so secure as to render
unnecessary the ordinary means of repelling an attack. The uni-
formity of style in all castellated mansions, erected prior to the dis-
covery of gunpowder, renders it hazardous to be precise regarding
the date of their construction. Few, however, conversant with
such remnants of feudal architecture, would hesitate to assign to the
ruins of this stronghold, an antiquity as remote as that of any re-
mains of masonry in the west of Scotland. It is not, therefore, im-
probable that Glengarnock Castle may have existed in the time
of the Dr Morvilles, though the conjecture of its having been the
residence of these ancient lords of Cunninghame, appears entitled
to nearly the same consideration as that of its having been the cas-
tle of Hardyknute.
	It may be added, in justification of so minute an account, that
the ruins of this castle will soon cease to be an object of interest
to the local antiquary, or to form a picturesque feature in the
landscape. The storms of January 1839 overthrew the north
wall of the tower, containing betveen 4000 and 5000 solid feet of
masonry; and unequivocal symptoms portend, that, at no distant
date, the bed of the Garnock will receive the greater part of the
time worn remains.
	Ladyland House.--The old house of Ladyland, briefly charac-
terized by Pont, circa 1609, as a "strong tower," was demolished
in 1815, with the exception of about 20 feet in length and 25 feet
in height of its north elevation. This fragment is six feet in thick-


