
96			KINCARDINESHIRE.

cross being extended to a remote degree. Many objections are
urged against the general introduction, into the north of Scotland,
of the Durham or short-horned breed of cattle. They no doubt,
upon "good keep," rise to a greater weight, and feed at an earlier
age; but they do require this, and they cannot travel any distance
to market, either in a lean or fat condition. In the London mar-
ket they sell at least 1d. per lb. below the Aberdeen or Angus ox,
and in a dull market, they remain in the hands of the salesman at
least until his Angus fat are disposed of. Care must also be taken
to preserve the purity of the breed, as the produce of a cross is ge-
nerally the most coarse and unshapely animal possible. On the
other hand, the Aberdeen and Angus cattle possess almost every good
property. Their tamper is nearly equal to that of the Durham ox;
if well kept from their infancy, they rise to a great size, and will
fatten when rising only three years old, although, it must be ad-
mitted, not with the same facility as the pure short-horned breed or
first cross from it. When fat, they will travel a great distance to
market, to Edinburgh and Glasgow, at least 100 miles, and when
sold for the road, their first halt is usually in Leicestershire. The
practice, now become common, of sending fat cattle to London by
steam vessels, has already materially influenced the cattle trade in
this district. Instead of the greater part of the growth of the pa-
rish being bought up by dealers in the spring or mid-summer mar-
kets, and carried up to England to be grazed and fed off, many of
the farmers now feed all the cattle they rear. The best of them are
carried to London by sea, where they fetch a high price, the re-
mainder being bought up for the Glasgow and Edinburgh markets,
where they also find a ready sale. In Glasgow, particularly, the
Angus cattle form the prime fat in the market.
	The sheep are entirely confined to the Grampian range; they
are generally of the black-faced or mountain breed, and the usual
care is taken to improve the stock by purchasing lambs or year-
lings at the Linton and Lanark fairs. About 600 black-faced
wedders are bought in by the farmers, and fed off on turnips, and
this practice is yearly extending; they are, as in other districts
fed on turnip, to which bone manure has been applied. About
690 of different descriptions are bought in and grazed, partly in
the glens and partly in enclosed land, during summer, and these
are sold either as fat to the butcher, or to farmers to be fed in winter.
Of late, some of the Cheviot breed have been introduced, the value
of the wool being now an object to the breeder.


