
                            PARISH OF TOUGH.

                  PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                     THE REV. JAMES GILLAN, MINISTER.

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL, HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of the parish is said to be derived from
a term in the Gaelic language, indicating its northern exposure.
In a valuation of the thirteenth century, it is, however, written Tul-
lyunch, of which the present name may be a corruption.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-The parish occupies the northern and
western skirts of the range of hills called Corrennie, or the Red
Hill, where it descends into the vale of Alford, and is of a very irre.
gular figure.  Its length, from the south-west to the north-east, is
from 5 to 6 miles; its breadth, which at one place is more than 3, at
another place, where it is nearly cut across by the parish of Le-
ochel, is scarcely half a mile; and its square surface may be esti-
mated at about 10 miles.  It marches on the north with the pa-
rish of Keig ; on the east, with those of Monymusk and Cluny; on
the south, with Midmar, Kincardine O'Neil, and Lumphanan, from
which it is separated by the hills already mentioned; and, on the
west, with Leochel and Alford.  Along with the parishes of Al-
ford, Tullynessle, and Keig, it occupies that enlargement of the
valley of the Don, called the Vale, or Howe of Alford; but no
part of this parish touches on the river.  The distance from Aber-
deen, the nearest point of the sea coast, is twenty-two miles.
There is no part of the parish less than 420 feet above the level of
the sea; and the hill of Corrennie attains to the height of 1578 feet.
   Topographical Apperances.-The appearance of the surface is
diversified and broken, and presents many varieties of soil; the
prevailing one, perhaps, being a light reddish mould, of no great
depth, but "sharp" and kindly.  The best soils, generally speaking,
are to be found about the first risings of the hills.  The low lands
have a tendency to be wet and marshy, and often suffer from un-
timely frosts.  In the beginning of winter, it is nowise uncommon.


