
                       FORGUE.                            601

about L.2500 Sterling.  That was about the year 1796.  It has
tripled since that period.
   Parochial Registers.-The oldest register extends back to 1637.
There is a register of discipline, one of baptisms, and one of mar-
riages; they are in a tolerable state of preservation, and appear
to bave been regularly kept.
   Antiquities.-There are the remains of several Druidical tem-
ples in the parish.  On the Seedhill of Aucbaber, there is what is
conjectured to be the remains of a redoubt of the Romans.  It is,
about a mile or so distant from their camp, near Glenmellan, (now
Glenythan), is of a circular form, with a diameter of about sixty feet,
and from it, the great Roman road is thought to have passed to the
Spey, through Forgue, Rothiemay, and the intervening parishes.
   A small part of the ruins of the old castle of Frendraught is still
to be seen, and on the green before it are some beech trees of
great bulk and beauty, said to have been planted by the Crichton
family.  The old tower of the ancient castle was burnt down in
October 1630; and in it perished the Viscount of Aboyne, the
eldest son of the Marquis of Huntly, and four others.  The fire
broke out in the night-time suddenly, and with unquenchable fury,
but whether from accident or design, was never clearly ascertained.
Spalding, whose account, however, must be taken with considera-
ble qualification, reports the calamity.
   Modern Buildings.-Haddo, the seat of Mr Duff, is a very pret-
ty place, with an excellent mansion-house, well laid out pleasure-
grounds, and a well-stocked garden.  Cobairdy, the seat of Mr
Simpson, from its fine south exposure, well-fenced fields, and
ample plantations, is a charming residence.  Corse gives proof of
the care and good taste of its proprietor, Mr Henry.  Drumblair,
Templeland, Auchaber, and Boyne's mill, the seats of the other
resident proprietors, have each its claims.  Frendraught, however,
the ancient seat of the Crichton family, is beyond all comparison,
if it had a good mansion-house, and, if the pleasure-grounds and
garden were done up with taste and neatness, the finest place in
the parish.  Frendraught is the property of Mr Morison of Bognie,
who has already commenced a series of improvements on it, both
tasteful and judicious.
   At Glendronach is an extensive, thriving, and rather celebrat-
ed distillery.
   Mills.-There are six mills, at one of which flour may be ma-
nufactured,-all well employed.


