
	1170	                      PERTHSHIRE.

	large camp and several tumuli, through the parish of St Martin's
	to Byres, keeping the ridge of the hill through the estate of Stob-
	hall; and passing near Gallowhill, where it is very discernible, it
	bends its course to the Isla at Windyedge, where the remains of
	another military bridge are distinctly to be traced, and the houses
	adjacent to which are still known to the old residenters by the
	name of Bridgend.  This bridge seems to have communicated
	with different Roman stations which are to be seen on different
	places on the extensive plain on the other side of the river towards
	Blairgowrie, where the Romans fought a bloody battle with the
	united armies of the Caledonians and Picts.  When this military
	road was made is uncertain ; probably by the army at Ardoch, to
	preserve a communication between their different camps, and as
	convenient for their after marches, had they conquered the coun-
	try.*  (Old Stathsthcal Account.)
	  Eminent Persons.--The family of Drummond, which has always
	been ranked among the most ancient and illustrious of the Scottish
	nation, and who had for a long time their chief residence here,
	gave birth to many characters, not more distinguished by their
	high stations than by their personal merit; among a variety of
	these which might be specified, the brevity of this sketch per-
	mits only one to be mentioned.  Annabella Drummond, daughter
	of Sir John Drummond and Lady Mary Montefix.  She was a
	lady of the most exquisite beauty and distinguished accomplish-
	ments, and had the hoonour of being married to Robert III.  King
	of Scotland, and crowned at Scone with him in the month of Sep-
	tember 1390.  She was the ornament of the Court of which she
	was the Queen; and her death about the year 1401, was con-
	sidered and lamented as a public loss.  Queen Annabella was
	mother to James I. King of Scotland, and from her are lineally
	descended all the royal race of the Stuarts.

<FOOTNOTE> Near the village of Cargill were, until lately, to be seen some erect stones of con-
	siderable magnitude, having the figure of the moon and stars cut out on them, and
	probably the rude remains of Pagan superstition.  The corn field where these stones
	stoode is called the Moonshade to this day, or Moonstane Butts.
	   There are several round artificial little hills or conical mounds, in this parish cal-
	led Laws, particularly one at Lawton, the property of James Wright, Esq. which,
	as it is situated in the near neighbourbood of Macbeth's Castle, on Dunsinnan hill, is
	said to have been the place where Macbeth dispensed laws and settled differences
	among his subjects.
	   Near the village of Gallowhill is a field called the Gallowshade, which was a place
	of execution under the feudal system, and in a field about a hundred yards north from
	the school house is a well said to have been used by the executioner for washing his
	hands after being engaged in his bloody work, and which still goes by the name of
	"Hangies's Wall."

						3


