
326                 KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	The second volume of the parish register commenced with May
1823, and is carried on with great regularity till May 1834,--
though in one instance it is rather mutilated.
	The third volume begins June 1834, and is carried on to the
present date with great regularity.
	Eminent Characters.--The history of this parish is rendered
more interesting by being connected with the names of a few emi-
nent men, both in ancient and modern times. Gilbert Brown,
the last abbot of Sweatheart, was descended of the ancient
family of Carsluth, in this parish, now extinct.* He had a
seat in that Parliament by which the Confession of Faith was
passed.+ The celebrity of Gilbert Brown originated in the
controversy between him and the famous John Welsh of Ayr, on
the subject of Popery. A communication from Welsh, to a per-
son of the Catholic religion, the object of which was to under-
mine the principles of that faith, having fallen into the hands of
Brown, he immediately composed what he regarded as a refuta-
tion of it, addressed to Welsh. Welsh was not tardy in making
a reply, which, while it is extremely satisfactory and conclusive,
forms one of the most learned and elaborate works written in that
age. Nor was Brown without his share of talent; and his erudite
treatise, (if a few pages can deserve that name,) is as superior to
the works of any of his Catholic brethren of that period, as it is
inferior in every useful quality to the elaborate production of
Welsh. Welsh wished for a verbal and public disputation on the
points at issue, but this Brown, for his own good name, had the
caution and prudence to decline.
	Brown, a rigid and inflexible Catholic, was, says Dr M'Crie, "a
busy trafficker for Rome and Spain, and a chief instrument of
keeping the south of Scotland under ignorance and superstition."++
Accordingly the Commissioners oftbe Assembly, in a list of griev-
ances, which, in 1596, they submitted to the King, stated among
other things, "that Jesuits and excommunicated Papists were en-
tertained within thd country." Gilbert Brown of New Abbey
was specially mentioned, and recommended to be apprehended,
and brought before his Majesty for his errors. This recommen-
dation, however, was not attended with immediate success; but,
nine years afterwards, he was apprehended by Lord Cranstoun,

<FOOTNOTE>This ancient family became extinct about 100 years ago. Over the armorial
bearings above the door of Carsluth, 1364 appears, probably to mark the antiquity
of the family,--and under them 1581 stands, probably to mark the age of the build-
ing.
       + Keith's Cal. 260.              ++ M'Crie's Life of Melville.


