
518                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

above-noticed were the Highland army, and that the whole
of the Prince's forces were ready to attack him, instantly faced
to the right about in great confusion, and retreated with the utmost
expedition to Inverness; and, not thinking himself safe
there, he continued his route across three arms of the sea to
Sutherlandshire, a distance of seventy miles, where he took up his
quarters.  This affair was humorously called the rout Of Moy.
   The greater part of the moor upon which the battle of Culloden
was fought on the 16th of April 1746, and the spot where
the Prince stood during the engagement, a little to the north-west
of the farm-house of Culchinnock, lie in the parish of Daviot.
   After the Prince's defeat at Culloden, he left the field with a
few attached friends, crossed the river Nairn above the mains of
Daviot, passed by Tordarroch, and proceeded to Gorthleck in
Stratherrick.
   Land-owners.-The land-holders and only heritors in the parishes
are seven in number, viz. 1. John Lachlan Macgillivray of
Dunmaglass; 2. Charles Mackintosh of Aberarder; 3. Alexander
Mackintosh of Mackintosh; 4. Colonel James John Mackintosh
of Farr; 5. Duncan George Forbes of Culloden; 6. Lachlan
Mackintosh of Raigmore; 7. Evan Baillie of Dochfour.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date in the parochial regis-
ter (one small volume) is 1774, and until the year 1820 the re-
cord was kept very irregularly.  The former registers were de-
stroyed, in consequence of the school-house, in which.they were
kept, having been burnt by accident.
   Antiquities.-At the Mains of Daviot, a seat of the ancestors of
the present laird of Mackintosh, there still remains a small por-
tion of the ruins of a fort or castle, which is said to have been
built by David, Earl of Crawford, in the beginning of the fifteenth
century.  This was, in these days, a place of great strength, being
situated at the extremity of the sand-hills already noticed.  It had
a dry ditch and drawbridge, which separated and secured it from
approach by the level ground on the west, and a strong wall on
the other sides, where the height and-natural declivity of the hill
added much to its security.  It was a square building, and enclos-
ed an area of 360 yards; had four circular towers, one in every
corner, and containing three stories, all vaulted.  It had secret
passages in the middle of the wall, communicating with the large
vaulted rooms for the main guard at the principal entry.  It was
a stately edifice, and commanded a very extensive prospect.  The
                              4


