
548                     FORFARSHIRE.

century, the Master of Gray inhabited the castle as a dwelling
house.  After the death of Lady Gray, who lived in it for a con-
siderable period, it was altogether abandoned. On fort-hill, about
half a mile north-west from Broughty Castle, was a fort erected
by the English after Arran's siege in 1548, as a flanking post of
their principal garrison, which it was well calculated to be, on ac-
count of its commanding situation. The works of this fortification
were also demolished in 1550. Not more than sixty years ago,
according to the testimony of old residenters, the wall remained
in some places twelve feet high; but, within these twenty years,
the ploughshare has passed over the site. More lately, a deep
draw-well was discovered on the top of the hill, and several bullets,
pieces of cannon, &c. were found at the bottom. The camp, on
the same ridge as Fort-hill, and rather more than a quarter of a
mile east from it, seems either to have been an outpost of the
castle, or an encampment of the besiegers. Few traces of its in-
treachments now remain. In the oldest part of the sessional re-
cord, it is called the Brachan, (i. e. the whin-covered knoll),
showing that its name of the Camp was then new and little in
use, and, therefore, connecting that name with the siege of
Broughty, and not whth the wars of an earlier period as some have
supposed.
  Modern Building.-Grange, the ancient seat of the Durhams,
(now of Largo), is pleasantly situated half a mile from the shore
at Monifieth. A comfortable new house has replaced the old
one, which was famous for the escape of Erskine of Dun, already
mentioned, and for the meditated and nearly accomplished escape
of the Marquis of Montrose, when he was being carried to
Edinburgh, Esq., author of Remarks on the Internal Evidence for
the Truth of Revealed Religion, &c. Mr Colville of Laws has
recently built, near the vitrification already mentioned, a soat of
considerable magnificence, in a florid style of architecture. In
point of prospect, the site is one of the finest in Forfarshire.

                      III.-POPULATION.
	It appears from the parochial register that the average number
of births, about 1580, was 38 per annum. About 1670, the
average had decreased to 30 per annum; and about 1700 it
was still smaller. The decrease of the population at this period
was owing to the sweeping away of several villages, particularly
                               3


