
172                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

diers, whom he stationed in ambush near the gate. In his large
wain he contrived to conceal eight armed men, covered with a
load of hay. A servant drove the oxen, and Binny himself walked
carelessly at his side. When the portcullis was raised, and the
wain,stood in the middle of the gateway, interposing a complete
barrier to its descent, the driver cut the ropes which harnessed
the oxen; upon which signal, the armed men suddenly leapt from
the cart, the soldiers in ambush rushed in, and so complete was
the surprise, that, with little resistance, the garrison were put to
the sword, and the place taken."  Bruce, who, it is said, was privy
to the design, rewarded the brave peasant with a grant of lands;
and his descendants long survived, bearing in their coat-of-arms a
hay-wain, with the motto, "virtute doloque."
   Linlithgow is memorable as the place where the remarkable
apparition warned James IV. against his expedition into England,
which terminated in the fatal field of Flodden. An aisle in the
church, where the King was, as Pitscottie says, "verrie sad and
dollorous, make and his prayers to God to send him guide success in
his voyage," is shown as the place where the scene occurred.
The probability is, that it was a device of the Queen, then in
the neighbouring palace, abetted by some of the nobles, in or-
der to dissuade James from an undertaking to which she and
many of the nobility were averse. The unfortunate issue of the
war corresponding with the warning given, would, in that super-
stitious aged, lead men to regard the agent in this device as a mes-
senger from heaven.
   In the year 1526, the battle of Linlithgow Bridge was fought
between the faction of the Earl of Angus, who had the possession
of the person of James V., then a minor, and the party which
sought to deliver the Prince from the influence of the Douglases.
The conflict began on the laugh of Manuel, but the main con-
flicit was close by the village of Linlithgow Bridge, which has given
its name to the engagement. The Earl of Lennox, the chief of
the party opposed to Angus, was, after being promised quarter,
slain by Sir James Hamilton. The place of his interment was
long known as Lennox's Cairn.
   The Regent Murray was shot in the street of Linlithgow by
Hamilton of Bothwellhaugh. The house from which the assassin
took aim is still shown, though, from the removal of the old front,
which protected considerably further out on the street than the
present, it must now present a very different appearance. Situ-
ated in the most narrow part of the town, where the street is not


