
                      PARISH OF MEARNS. *
	PRESBYTERY OF PAISLEY, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.
		THE REV. DONALD MACKELLAR, MINISTER.

     	    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE, name of this parish first appears in authentic form
in the Chartulary of Glasgow, and in Prynne, as far back as the
year 1296, the eventful period when Edward I. of England made
his celebrated attempt to wrest from the hands of Scotsmen their
rights and privileges, and to annex Scotland's ancient crown and
sceptre permanently to the throne of England. The power of
Edward's arms was felt and acknowledged throughout the better
portion of the Lowlands of Scotland, and many a wealthy eccle-
siastic and proud noble, were constrained to bow the neck and to
swear fealty to the common enemy. Among the many victims
to the power of England, John Petit of the Meirnes is mentioned
in t.be records of the times as one of the Barons of the day who
swore fealty to Edward I. The spelling of the name of this
parish, like all other ancient names, varies exceedingly, according
to the prevailing fashion at the several periods when the various
MSS. were written, or according to the tastes and opinions of
the scribes who wrote them. The oldest form is Meirnes, as
above, but it is also frequently styled Mernes, Mearnis, Mernes,
and Morness. O'Brien in his 11 Word-Book" derives the modern
name Mearns from the British Maeronas-a name exactly de-
scriptive of this parish, which, in ancient times, an in some
measure at the present day, as far as one of its peculiar features
is concerned,  is still a "district inhabited by herdsmen." From
the time of Camden, down to drawford, the Historiographer of
Scotland for Queen Anne, and the late minister, Dr Macletchie,
this parish has ever been distinguished as a district for pasturage ;
and at the  present day the produce of the dairy, including chiefly
butter and butter-milk, obtains a ready and favlourite market
if the neighbouring city of Glasgow.  A continuation of the
samoe sort of pasturage runs into Stewarton and Dunlop ; which

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. William Patrick, Hamilton.


