
676                            FORFARSHIRE.

but, besides the ordinary white trout, it has a variety of a red co-
lour, similar to that of Lochleven, from which the breed is said
to have been introduced. The freshwater muscle (Mytilus cygneus)
is common in the Dean, and is sometimes also to be met with in
Baikie moss. It is frequently mistaken for the pearl oyster (Mya
margaritifera,) which is common in the South Esk. The wild goose
has forsaken its usual winter haunts along the bottom of the parish
since the draining of the marshes. The Isla and Dean are occa-
sionally visited by various rare migratory birds, of which may be
noticed the golden-eye (Anas clangula,) the morillon (the young
of the golden-eye,) the tufted duck (Anas fuligula,) the Dun-di-
ver, supposed to be the female or young of the goosander (Mergus
merganser.) The kingfisher (Alcedo ispida) has now become more
rare than formerly. The wild swan (Anas cygnus,) has also been
occasionally seen in severe winters, and a flock of cranes (Ardea
grus) visited us a few years ago.
   There is a falcon's nest on a high crag on the western side of
the river, a little above the boundary of this parish, but belonging
by ancient right to the Earl of Airlie. It has been frequented
from time immemorial. The young are still sometimes taken out
and trahned for hawking. Pheasants have been introduced into
the parish, and the ordinary kinds of game are plentiful. Roe
deer are found in the woodlands. Rabbits, after a long disappear-
ance, have of late years become a nuisance, owing to the small
beasts of prey being kept down for the sake of the game. Besides
the weasel, polecat, &c. the Mustcla martes or wood martin, a very
rare animal in Britain, has been sometimes found. A very fine
one was shot by the Earl of Airlie in 1814 in the woods adjoining
the castle. Squirrels have also made their appearance from the
west within the last twenty years, and are now very common.

                            II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   The only historical event of any general interest connected
with this parish is the destruction of Airlie Castle, celebrated in
the fine old ballad of the "Bonnie House of Airlie." The bal-
lad, however, is not to be relied on as containing a strictly faithful
narrative of the occurrence. The following particulars are chiefly
taken from Spalding's "History of the Troubles in England and
Scotland." The Earl of Airlie at that period was peculiarly ob-
noxious, to the ruling party, as one of the most distinguished and
inflexible champions of the royal cause. In 1639, the middle
parts of Scotland were put under his command by King Charles I.
In the year 1640, in the absence of the Earl, who had fled,


