
240                         PERTHSHIRE.

miles beyond the boundaries of this parish. The high grounds on
the north break the cold winds from that direction, and render the
climate more mild, and the country more sheltered in the lower
parts. The soil being dry, and the air mild, the situation of Rat-
tray is thought to be very healthy. The most prevailing winds,
though soft, are from the west; the most stormy, and accompanied
with most rain and snow, are from the east, coming from the sea.
As in other places, there are occasional distempers and fevers in
Rattray; for every person must die; but there are no epidemics
peculiar to the climate.
   Hydrography.-The only river in the parish is the Ericht. It
issues from some springs in the Grampians; and, taking a souther-
ly direction, holds on through Glenshee and Persie, till it reach
the Strone, where it receives the water of the Ardle, a considerable
mountain stream from the north-west; the Ericht and Ardle unit-
ed proceed nearly in the same course as before, pass by Craighall
and Blairgowrie, and round the southermost point of this parish;
about two miles beyond which, they fall into the Islay, and the nice flow-
ing to the west, they join the Tay at Meiklour, by which they are
conducted to the ocean. In winter, and on all occasions of much
rain, the Ericht swells into a flood; and if this flood happens in
autumn, like her more powerful neighbour the Islay, she carries off
large quantities of grain from the low country.
   Mineralogy.-To the naturalist the mineralogy of this parish
might afford matter of curiosity and entertainment. The rocks on
the side of the Ericht above Craighall are of singular and formi-
dable appearance. They rise to upwards of 200 feet above the bed
of the river, and in front are almost as perpendicular as if cut
with a chisel. No use has ever been made of them, and they re-
main as they issued from the hand of nature, enormous masses of
whinstone, and proofs of her gigantic power. As the access at top
is hazardous, there is generally a strip of the surface planted, which
is enclosed by a stone-wall, to prevent cattle from approaching it.
   The soil on the hill grounds is cold, thin, and moorish; yet it
is all let for corn and cattle farms, though, the only grain raised is
oats, as yielding the most profitable return. The soil in the lower
part of the parish is dry, gravelly, and a good deal encumbered with
loose stones. The produce of such ground must depend greatly on
the season. In a dry summer, the crop is very light, and in such
a year as 1826, it was almost nothing, either in corn or fodder. In
a season of moderate rain, the crop is very good, and the grain true


