
                                 KILBRIDE.                        17

count of the island was latelydrawn tip by John Paterson, Esq. factor
to His Grace the Duke of Hamilton; and published in the thirty-
first number of the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture. This aecotint,
while embracing all the topics discussed in the larger work of
Headrick, is particularly valuable as a record of the numerous
improvements recently made or at present in, progress in Arran.
It is accompanied by a neat and excellent map of the island
	Land-owners.--The whole parish, except the farm of Kilmichael,
is the property of His Grace the Duke of Hamilton, who is supe-
rior of the whole island. The farm of Kilmichael belongs to
John Fullarton, Esq., who resides on his property. The two farms
of Corrigills are a recent purchase from the Warquis of Bute.
The Duke of Hamilton's rental in this parish is L. 4412; and
Mr Fullarton's farm is worth about L. 100 of yearly rent.
	ParachiaI Registers.--No register for deaths appears to have
ever been kept in the parish. Those for births and marriages
commence in the year 1723, and come down to the present day;
but till a very recient period they do not appear to  have been
kept with much regularity. The records of the proceedings of
the kirk-session go back Io the year 1704: and at one time they
were pretty voluminous. But the volume commencing with the
year 1750, and most of its successor, were lost about thirty years
ago, by a gentleman to whom they were very improperly lent, to
gratify an idlea curiosity by their perusal.
	Historical Events.--In glancing at these it is impossible to se-
parate the history of the parish of Kilbride from that of the Island
of Arran in general. In its more remote periods, that history is
to a very great extent a blank. From the character of those nu-
merous remains which it everywhere presents, its erect columns,
its clay urns, its Druidical circles, and its sepulchral cairns with
stone coffins, it would appear that the original inhabitants of Ar-
ran were the ancient Britons, who, wherever they were establish-
ed, left similar traces behind them. And its is now admitted by
the best antiquarians, that these were all of them branches of the
greats Celtic family. During the two first centuries after the in-
vasion of Agrieola, the Caledenii, and in the third and fourth, the
Picts,( who were either cognate Celtic tribes or perhaps the same
people under a different name, mixed a little with the Scandina
vian race, appear to have occupied the Hebriden and the High-
lands in general, and therefore the Island of Arran. In the be-
	BUTE				B


