

                    WHITEKIRK AND TYNNINGHAME.                  33

from the contamination, too often arising from the vicinity of large
towns, they are delivered from many temptations, to which a more
exposed and less industrious population are liable. The people
therefore are, on the whole, exemplary, civil in their manners, and
decent in their life and conversation. They enjoy in a reasonable
degree the comforts and advantages of society-shew no disinclina-
tion to labour and would be more contented with their situation
and circumstances, were there more encouragement, than of late
years, to the industry of the husbandman, and consequently a
greater demand for the services of the labourer.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.-Agriculture is an art in which the skill of the hus-
bandman has been here long conspicuous. In the last Statistical
Account the land was described as being in the "highest state of
cultivation."* There is, however, one particular, in which a valuable
change has taken place, and that is in live-stock.
   Live-Stock.-About eight or ten years ago, Mr John Rennie, at
that time resident in an adjoining parish, had the merit of intro-
ducing extensively both the Teeswater breed of cattle and the
Leicester sheep, and a considerable number of cattle are now bred
and fed off at two years old, fetching from L. 10 to L. 15 each.
The sheep stock are bought at the spring and autumn markets. A
few Leicester ewes for early lambs are kept; and to a greater ex-
tent Cheviot and black-faced ewes, with their lambs, are fattened
upon grass for the Edinburgh market. Besides these, a large pro-
portion of the grass lands is pastured with cattle, and Cheviot and
black-faced wedders. Very little hay is made. About 2000 sheep
<FOOTNOTE>* Then, and afterwards, there were several distinguished agriculturists in the pa-
rish; and more recently several premiums have been awarded by the Highland So-
ciety to Mr Andrew Howden, Lawhead, (to whose kindness I am indebted for what
may be stated under this head,) for several very accurate reports on agricultural sub-
jects. The first premium was for a report on the comparative value of farm yard
dung with other manures, in growing turnips. The result of the experiment was,
that well decomposed farm-yard dung was superior to any of the thirteen varieties
which were put to the test, and that bone dust upon light soils, and fish garbage mixed
with earth produced full crops.
   The second experiment related to the sowing of white crops, broad cast, or in drills.
When the land is infested with weeds, or when the crop is likely to suffer from over
luxuriance, drilling is recommended, and only under these circumstances.
   In third experiment, with a view to ascertain whether it be profitable or other-
wise to steam food for cattle, Mr Howden was the first, it is believed, to ascertain
that loss was occasioned by steaming. He received the society's silver medal for his
report on this subject.
   The last communication which Mr Howden made, related to the growth and qua-
lities of upwards of a hundred varieties of the potato. The report contains several
interesting facts, amongst others, that it is safe and profitable to plant the tubers
whole, rather than to cut them, as is commonly done.
   HADDINGTON.                     C


