
         206                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

         son the fishing has been good. The boats, which are manned with
         from two to four men each, are generally about 16 feet keel, and
         rigged with a single lug-sail. The nets are restricted by law to the
         width of a square inch in the mesh,-an absurd regulation, not
         warranted by any experience of its utility, and most glaringly par-
         tial in its operation; for while it prevents the capture of fish of a
         serviceable size, the catching of foul fish, i. e. of herrings full of
         milt and roe, is permitted without restriction; and as the great
         quantities of fish taken on the east coast of Scotland are almost
         all in this condition, it is no extravagant assertion to say, that
         more injury is done to the breed of herring by one night's fishing
         there, than by the capture of all small herrings that have been
         killed on the west coast for a hundred years. The fish is either
         cured by the people themselves, or sold fresh to purchasers from
         the Clyde. The price of the cured fish per barrel is generally
         about L.1, 4s.; of the cran of the fresh fish, (a measure which it
         is computed will fill a packed barrel,) 16s. The chief obstacles
         to a more successful prosecution of this branch of industry are
         the smallness of the boats, occasioned by the want of capital, which
         prevents the fishermen from following the fish from loch to loch,
         and the want of timber of good quality at a moderate price.
            Salmon Fishery.-There is a salmon fishery carried on at each
         of the rivers flowing into the loch, which together pay a rent of
         L.60. That of the Sheil belongs exclusively to the estate of Glen.
         sheil; the fishing of the Croe is divided between Mrs S. Macken-
         zie, and Thomas Mackenzie, Esq. of Applecross, the proprietor of
         the opposite lands. These fishings, in favourable seasons, are ex-
         tremely productive for the size of the rivers; but these are of very
         uncertain occurrence, and the fishings lie under the permanent
         disadvantages of distance from market, lateness of productiveness,
         and expensiveness of management. The fish are chiefly caught
         with the stell-net. Stake-nets have been tried, but nearly abandon-
         ed on account of their expensiveness.
            Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
         the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, may be stated as under:

         <TABLE>

                 Produce of all kinds of grain,                L. 240
                            4390 bar. potAtoes, &c.at 2s. 6d.     575
                             180 cows at L.4,                     720
                           21380 sheep at 4s.                    4276
                             woods,                                25
                             salmon fishery,                      100
                             140 bar. herring. at 18s.            126
                                                               ---------
                 Value of total yearly produce,               L. 6062


