
                                KELSO.                        333

     this constitution is the baron-bailie, who is the superior's deputy,
     and invested, during the pleasure of the latter, with the power of
     his principal. Besides the power of controlling the proceedings
     of the stent-masters already described, he has a right, whenever he
     thinks fit, to require them to exhibit their accounts.  He is al-
     so the judge of all cases of dispute between the corporations and
     claimants for entry.  In addition to which, he holds a weekly court
     within burgh as a magistrate, for the decision of civil cases, when
     the sum in dispute does not exceed L.2, and of criminal actions
     of assault, battery, or petty theft, punishable by a fine not exceed-
     ing L.1. He gives judgment also in possessory actions and se-
     questrations for rent, though his jurisdiction in such cases is found-
     ed upon prescriptive usage rather than on any express instruction
     in his commission; and he is likewise expected "to take a gene-
     ral superintendence in all matters of police."
          Such is an outline of this somewhat peculiar and anomalous
     constitution.  With respect to its actual working, it is not neces-
     sary to enter into detail. The right of nominating a majority of
     the stent-masters, and also of controlling all their acts, invests the
     bailie with a power which, in the hands of an indiscreet man,
     might be prostituted to oppressive ends, and which is in principle
     opposed to the genius of modern institutions.  Yet in practice, the
     system has never occasioned complaint--while the progressive im-
     provement of the town in all that relates to lighting, cleaning,
     supply of water, and general neatness, affords evidence that the
     unrestricted control of the town's funds vested in the bailie and
     stent-masters has not been abused. In fact, where evil has arisen
     to the community, it has been from the defectiveness of the bailie's
     power, not from its excess.  There is no provision for defraying
     the expense of a body of police; nor is the magistrate invested
     with those summary powers which are essential to the immediate
     punishment and prevention of crime. The want of an effective
     police is, accordingly, much felt; and though the bailie does keep
     one police officer, (partly at his own cost,) and is ever ready to
     interpose his authority in order to check riotous disturbances, the
     amount of disorderly conduct in general, and of juvenile delin-
     quency in particular, is not on the decrease. All experience proves
     that it is in such towns ab Kelso that most of the offences tried in
     counties arise; and there can be no doubt, that were the magistrates
     of such burghs invested at once with a summary jurisdiction over
     petty offences, and with a sufficient executive, it would be in their


