
1164                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

The plan of establishing a college in Aberdeen having been com-
municated to him by the magistrates, and the royal authority hav-

ing been obtained, an appropriate site was found in the buildings
and garden which had belonged to the Franciscan friars.  This
property, having passed into other hands, was purchased by the
magistrates for 1800 merks, and, by a vote of the community,
presented to the Earl, who had obtained from the crown a right to
the property of the other monastic bodies in the city.
   The preamble of the foundation charter, which is dated 2d
April 1593, recites, at considerable length, the reasons which
induced the Founder to establish and endow his seminary.  Among
these are, the great want of a literary and Christian education
in the north of Scotland, the advantages that would follow to
the Church and the State, and his own wish to benefit and deserve
well of his country.  The property bestowed on the college is
then described, being the fields, houses, feu-duties, and annual
rents, which, before the Reformation, belonged to the Black, White,
and Grey Friars' monasteries in Aberdeen, together with the lands
attached to the chapels of Bervie and Cowie in Kincardioeshire;
but the latter portion was revoked by a second charter given by
his son and successor, the sixth Earl, in 1623.  The whole reve-
nue was appropriated for the maintenance of a Principal, three
Professors, who were termed Regents, six poor Scholars or Bur-
sars, an Econolus, and a cook, all to live in a collegiate manner
eating and sleeping within the buildings.  The Principal was to
give instructions in theology, and also in Hebrew and Syriac, lan-
guages which the founder expresses a desire of propagating, be-
sides continuing the curriculum of the education of the other stu-
dents, during their fourth year of residence, in various branches
of physical science.  The subjects taught by the first or highest
regent were, mathematics, ethical philosophy, and physics; those
of the second regent were, the logic of the Organon, with exer-
cises in the Greek and Latin languages; the latter, together with
an introduction to dialectics, being the employment of the third or
lowest regent.  This curriculum of four years is minutely laid down,
and is almost exactly the same as in the foundation of Edinburgh

State, Faction, Religion, and Power of the Nobility of Scotland," written in 1583,
and evidently intended for the information of Queen Elizabeth or her ministers.-
"George Keith, Marshall, a young nobleman, of good commendation; his lynnige
ancient, and revenow greatest of any Erle in Scotlande. * * * He was left very
wealthye, and is esteemed honest, religious, and favouringe the best parte."-Banna-
tyne Club Publication, 1842, p. 58.


