
     Statistical Account

fewer servants than formerly, owing to a greater proportion
of their farms being inclosed, and laid down with sown grass,
than heretofore.
   From 1780 to 1789, both-inclusive, 321 baptisms are en-
tered in the register, whereof 168 were males, and 153 fe-
males; 231 were baptised by the established minister, and
90 by Seceders.  This, however, is no proper way of judg-
ing of the real number of births, as the register of baptisms
to kept both inaccurately and irregularly, since 1732, when
the Secession began.  Some poor people, to save the trifling ex-
pence of rod. omit to register the names of their children;
and the Seceders, some through poverty and others out of
superstition, do not register theirs.  Some of the latter car-
ry their superstition so far as to pay the dues, and yet forbid
the registration.

   Miscellaneous Observations*.-The river Leven, which se-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antiquities.-In the parish is the old castle of Strathendric, which for-
merly belonged to a family of the same name, of no small note in Fife.  A
battle has, probably, been fought near it, as 4 large stones, similar to those
usually set up at the graves of persons of renown, who had fallen in battle,
would seem to indicate.  Near these stones flood a round hillock, called the
Gallant Know; which, being supposed to consist only of gravel, was made use
of a few years ago to repair the roads: But in the center of it was found a
piece of pavement, surrounded with large stones, containing some bones, and
two spear heads of copper, the one like the head of an officer's spontoon, and
the other, in the upper part, like a mason's chisel.  A stone coffin and urn
were found near the Gallant Know, beside one of the 4 stones, about 1760.
The old house of Pitcairn, which belonged to the well known Dr Pitcairn,
is in this parish, but now in a fuinous state.  Near it stood a tumulus, in the
center of which, about 1770, was found a stone chest, full of human bones,
(in particular several entire law bones), standing east and west.  At the east end
were found two urns of bluish clay, full of bones evidently calcined, and white
as chalk.


