
     of Harris.

of scarcity, they are obliged to buy of this article a quantity
sufficient to serve their families till the harvest, they would
be generally enabled by their earnings, at the kelp manufac-
turing, to pay their land rents. The kelp is either sold to a
merchant in the country, or sent to market at the risk of
the original owner.  Some years ago, it fetched in the coun-
try from 5 L. to 6 L. per ton.  The price has been much on
the decline for three years back, owing, it is said, to the
quantity of barilla allowed to be imported from a foreign
kingdom, almost free of duty.  Should the price continue to
fall below the present rate, this manufacture must be entire-
ly given up here, as it will certainly be more profitable for
the farmers to use the sea weed as manure for their grounds.

   State of Property and Possession, etc.-What the state of
these countries was previous to the Danish invasions, it is dif-
ficult now to trace for want of authentic historical records.  It
seems highly probable, that the Hebrides, at some remote pe-
riod of antiquity, could boast of a degree of civilization,
wealth, and population, far superior to their state in modern
times*.  In this state of prosperity the possession of them be-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Many strong and convincing arguments may be brought in
support of this opinion.  The introduction of Christianity almost
in the apostolic age; the settling of Columba so early as the 6th
century in the isle of Ji; this island becoming a famous seminary
of learning, and the burying-place of many of our Caledonian
kings; its costly edifices, evincing the perfection attained in archi-
tecture; the multitude of religious houses established in different
parts of the isles; and the vast number of churches, of which the
names and vestiges are still extant, situated at short distances from
one another, all of them well built for strength and duration, and
some ornamented with sculpture, in a stile even superior to the taste
of the Gothic ages; the prodigious variety of ruins of castles, sor-
tresses, and villages, which, either raised on rocks and losty emi-
nences, have proudly defied the rage of the elements and withstood

     VOL. X. Z z


