
426                           EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   In July 1834, the Bible Society (instituted 1813) was merged
in the "Stow Society for Religious Purposes" in aid of the Ge-
neral Assembly's Four Schemes, but not excluding the Bible So-
ciety, to which, or to any of the Assembly's Schemes, members
may destine their own contributions; where this is not done, the
Committee apportion their funds to the four schemes.  The sum
distributed among them in May 1839 was L.15, 10s.  The four
collections appropriated to the same objects amounted to some-
thing about the same sum, making in all upwards of L.30.
   Education.--Besides the parochial school, there are three pri-
vate schools supported solely by school-fees.  In addition to
the usual branches of reading, writing, arithmetic, practical mathe-
matics and book-keeping taught at them all, there is one, besides
the parochial school, at which Latin is occasionally taught.  For
the encouragement of poor parents who are very zealous to have
their children instructed, a school-house has long been furnished
at Cadonlee.  With the same benevolent purpose the late General
Walker built a school-house on his property at Caitha, and one at
Pirntaiton was erected by the late Miss Innes of Stow, 1832.  With
the exception of the school-houses thus furnished by the proprie-
tors, these private or adventure schools are supported by the
school fees alone, which are high when the scholars are few, and
low when they are numerous.  The parochial schoolmasters sa-
lary is L.30 with a dwelling house and garden.  Pirntaiton school,
erected by Mip Innes of Stow, was opened 10th December 1832.
   The present parochial school-house, which is every way an ex-
cellent one, was built in 1828, being the first that ever was in the
parish.*
   Literature.--A congregational library was instituted in 1823.
The books, amounting at present to upwards of 300 volumes,
consist of standard works on religion, and morals, church history,
biography, general history, and travels.
   The Fountainhall Library, consisting now of upwards of 700

<FOOTNOTE>A few sentences regarding the school in former times compressed from our ses-
sion records, may be worth inserting here.  In June 1695, we find the session (then
consisting chiefly of heritors) ordering L.6 Scots, equal to 10s.  Sterling, to pay the
schoolmaster's house from Whitsunday 1694 to Whitsunday 1695.  In January 1699,
the session records (for preservation) an act of the heritors passed 2d June 1697, aug-
menting the schoolmaster's salary to fourscore pounds Scots (L.6, 13s. 4d. Sterling.)
This sum is given "for his maintenance and to provide a commodious school-house,"
and is "all he can ask or crave as schoolmaster, or reader" (in the church,) "to be
paid according to the valued rent, heritors having a relife of half thereof from the
tenants conform to the said act."

                        		 3


