
1120                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

the directorship, to which office he was chosen; and on that oc-
casion, the Marquis Wellesley addressed to him a letter, in which
he expressed himself in the highest terms of his talents and cha-
racter, and the important public service he had performed in In-
dia. By the death of his elder brother, Mr Lumsden succeeded
to the family estate, and having died in London in December 1818,
in the fifty-eighth year of his age, his only son, the Rev. Henry
Thomas Lumsden, became proprietor.
    Dr Matthew Lumsden.-This was perhaps the most eminent
person of his name. He was the youngest brother of John Lums-
den of Cushnie, last mentioned, and having received his education
at King's College, Aberdeen, also sought his fortunes in India.
He turned his attention to the oriental languages, and became
assistant Professor of Persian and Arabic in the College of Fort-
William. In 1805, the fruit of his studies appeared in an elabo-
rate "Persian Grammar," and, in 1808, he succeeded Captain
Baillie as Persian and Arabic Professor. In 1810, he published
a new edition of his Persian Grammar; in 1812, he was ap-
pointed secretary to the Madressa, and superintendent of the
various translations of English works into Persian, then in pro-
gress; in 1813, he published an Arabic Grammar, in two vols.
folio; in 1814, he received charge of the Company's press at
Calcutta, which he retained for three years; and, in 1818, he
added to all his  other duties that of secretary to the Stationery
committee. But his health failed under these multiplied labours,
and a journey to his native country was deemed essential to his
recovery. He travelled to England through Persia, Georgia,
and Russia, and his health being improved, in 1821, he returned
to India, and, in the early part of 1822, resumed the duties of
his professorship in the College of Fort-William, and the super-
intendence of the Calcutta Madressa. Having finally retired
from public life, with the highest commendations from the Ma-
dressa Committee and the Government of Bengal, he returned
to England, and died at Tooting Common, Surrey, on the 31st
of March 1835, in his fifty-eighth year. His own, and many
other oriental works, in the publication of which he was concerned,
were presented by himself to the Library of King's College,
where he and all his family were educated, and from which, as a
testimony of his high acquirements, he received his degree of
LL. D. Other two of his brothers, Colonels David and James,
served in the Indian army, the former of whom, then Captain,
                                4


