
694                  FORFARSHIRE.

Roman camps, the one at Black Dykes, or Battle Dykes, in the
parish of Oathlaw, the other at Haerfaulds, in the Moor of Lower,
in the parish of Inverarity. Between these two camps, there was
a causeway, the greatest part of which ran through the parish of
Forfar; and some indications of this road may yet be traced where
the land has not been cultivated. Nearly at an equal distance
between these two camps, the remains of another camp are dis-'
tinctly visibLe. This camp is about a mile and a-half east from
Forfar, and is of very considerable extent. By some it is alleged
that this is the remains not of a Roman but of a Pictish camp.
A fesse evidently extended from the Loch of Forfar to that of
Restennet, and it is stated (in a paper published by the late Dr
Jamieson, author of the Scot. Dict., and who at one time was a
Seceder minister in Forfar,) in reference to this camp, " that the
ditch and the rampart had been cast by the Picts under Feredith,
for guarding their camp against the attack from the Scots under
Alpin, before the battle of Restennet." Occasionally coins, urns,
and pieces of armour have been found in the ruins where the camp
just mentioned is situated; but none of them has ever come under
the notice of the writer of this article.
	At Restennet there are the ruins of a riory. It stood on the
west end of the lake. It must apparently have been originally
wholly surrounded by water, and must have been approached by
a bridge. It was connected with the Abbey of Jedburgh; and
as the charters, &c. of that abbey were deposited for safety at
Restennet, the conjecture has been hazarded that the phrase
res tenet is the origin of the name. It is stated by Spottiswoode,
that there came to Scotland, about 697, one Boniface, an Italian,
who preached the Gospel, and erected several churches in the
kingdom, one near the mouth of the Tay, a second at Tealing, and
a third at Restonneth. Boece says that although Fergus appointed
Iona to be a repository for the public records, yet Alexander I.,
on account of the great difficulty of the access to Iona, had caused
our annals to be transported to the Priory of Restennet in Angus.
At the death of Alexander III, the monks of Restennet enjoyed
the tenth of the hay made in the meadows of the forest of Platen.
To the Letter of the Community of Scotland, directed to Edward I.
from Brigham, are subjoined, among the names of the bishops, earls,
abbots, priors, and barons, entries under the head priors " de Res-
tinoth;"--and, in 1296, Robert, Prior of Restennet, swore fealty to
Edward Langshanks. From a procuratory of resignation and renun-


