
                           AYR.       	                 31

the poet spent some years of his early life. This farm, one of
his biographers represents as of so churlish and ungrateful a soil,
that the family, so far from realizing any property, scarcely drew
from it a meager subsistence. It accordingly turned out a ruinous
concern, and threw a cloud over the spirits of the whole family.
Burns, from his keener sensibility, felt the depression more than
any of them, and he gives way to his melancholy feelings and
prospects in the following pathetic strains:--

		" In poverty's low barren vale
                  Thick mists obscure involved me round,
                 Though oft I turned the wistful eye,
                   Nae ray of fame was to be found.
                 Thou found'st me like the morning sun
                   That  melts the fogs in limpid air,
                 The friendless Bard, and rustic song,
                   Became alike thy fostering care."

	It is unnecessary, in a work of this description, to point out the
dirtinguishing qualities of a genius so well known to all the world.
To Scotchmen in particular, his poetry will ever carry along with
it a charm, immeasurably superior to what it can convey to any other
people, because it brings forcibly home, in the most touching
and simple imagery, to their bosoms, the scenes, the feelings, the
habits, the pursuits to which they have been familiarized from their
earliest years, and are accustomed to in every-day life.
	We can only regret that a mind so strong and so gifted, should
have so often transgressed the boundaries of prudence and pro-
priety. Many apologies may be made, and have been made, for
his aberrations. He was himself sensible of his errors, and unre-
servedly acknowledged them, as in the following lines:

		"The poor inhabitant below,
                Was quick to learn, and wise to know,
                And keenly felt the social glow,
                                And softer flame;
                But thoughtless follies laid him low,
                                And stained his name."

	John Loudon M'Adam, Esq.--This gentleman, the far-famed
constructor and improver of public roads, was a native of the parish
of Ayr. The leading principle according to which Mr M'Adam
proceeded was,--that a road constructed on a level surface,
with a layer or topping of fragments of primitive rock, about three
inches deep, and broken so small as not to exceed two inches
and a half in length, breadth, and, thickness, would prove the most
smooth, durable, and level of any other that could be formed.
There are other details of the plan, but, this constitutes its basis,
and it has been fully justified by its success and useful results,


