
     of Harris.

Island of Pabbay, was storm-staid there for seven weeks,
to the great detriment of the rest of his parochial charge.
As these islands lie much nearer to, and are of easier access
from the mainland of North Uist, and as that parish like-
wise, under one parlor, is extremely populous and extensive,
it occurred to the visitors, sent many years ago, by the Ge-
neral Assembly of the Church of Scotland, to inspect the
state of religion in the Highlands and Islands, that the north
end of North Uist, with the Harris isles of Berneray and Pab-
bay, was a necessary station for one of the new parochial erec-
tions then intended.  The scheme of erections failed through
want of means to prosecute the design; but it has ever since
been an object with the presbytery of Uist to get a mission-
ary to that station.  The funds of the royal bounty being al-
ready appropriated, there is no hope from that quarter.  The
late accession to the funds of the Society for Propagating
Christian Knowledge, fully enables them to accomplish this
desirable object; and their secretary, having, in the course of
his late tour, seen and approved of the station, there was
every reason to hope for a speedy relief to the spiritual exi-
gence of the people.  But by the regulations of the Society,
no station is to be furnished with a teacher, unless the heri-
tors, or other persons having a permanent interest in the
bounds, co-operate by affording certain reasonable accomo-
dations for the institution.  All that is required in this case
is a church, and, for the missionary, a house with a croft
of arable and pasture land sufficient for the maintenance of a
horse and two cows.  Repeated application has been made
to Lord Macdonald, the principal heritor, hitherto without
effect.  But it is to be hoped, that his Lordship and Mr Mac-
leod of Harris will, as soon as their several avocations permit,
cordially unite in promoting an institution of such obvious im-
portance to the temporal and eternal interests of their tenants.


