
		ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                     351

shires, cultivate their lands ; not only plant, but hoe and dig their
potatoes; and it is difficult or apparently impossible to convince
them, that there is any other which is better suited for these pur-
poses. When oats or barley are put into the ground ploughed by
the cas-chrom, it is barrowed, sometimes by means of a large rake
made for the purpose, sometimes by a light harrow made of the or-
dinary shape, but having wooden teeth, and drawn either by men
or by women. I have seen this kind of harrow drawn by a horse;
but it was fastened in a very primitive, and, to me, a very new
mode. The whole harness consisted of two straw ropes, the, one
of which was attached to tbe head, and the other to the tail of
the animal. The one supplied the place of reins, the other of
traces, collar and hems. The harrow was tied to the tail by this
straw rope, and the horse pulled away, apparently not much in-
commoded by the weight fastened to it.
  In shearing their corn, the people use the common scythe hook;
but in tedding their hay, they use no rakes for gathering it. This
is done either by means of straight poles, or by the bands, and of
course some of the bay is left on the ground, while much time is
very needlessly lost.
  The crofters have no notion of the advantage of following the
rotation system in cropping. The only change is from oats to po-
tatoes, and from potatoes to oats. But they do not always give
such an advantage to the soil as is implied, even in this limited
range. It is by no rnedns uncommon to sow oats for three or four
years running in the same spot, and that without giving it any ma-
nure. When it is getting out of heart, as it almost always does on
the second year, the onlv mode of enriching it that is resort-
ed to, is the heaping it up into narrower compass,-gathering in the
edges of the broad ridges. This will ensure at tolerable crop from tbe
centre of the ridge for another year, but meantime the sides be-
come utterly unproductive. In the course of another year or two,
the centre becomes equally so, and vhen the soil is thus complete-
ly scourged and exhausted, it is left uncultivated for some four or
five years, until it regains strength. But during this process of
renovation it may be said to be totally useless, yielding nothing
but weeds; and even these in very small quantities.
  The oats sown are generally known as black oats, which are very
small in the grain, and consequently yield little meal when ground.
The potatoes also are of a soft and watery description. There is
no attempt at draining or irrigation made. So little do the peo-


