
42			  DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

pear, and do very considerable damage, especially to the Swed-
ish turnips. They are most destructive in dry hot weather,
when there is a deficiency of moisture in the atmosphere for the
purposes of vegetation. The eggs are deposited upon the under
side of the leaves of the most luxuriant plants, on the juice of
which, after having been hatched, they live during the different
stages oftheir progressive existence. Two years ago, I saw a
small field of Swedes almost entirely destroyed by these little crea-
tures ; the leaves were covered with hundreds upon every square
inch, and in the course of about three weeks, except the back stem,
and one or two of the larger veins, they were almost entirely withered
away. In moist or genial weather they are seldom to be met with,
and then, when they do appear, vegetation is so vigorous, that the
plants are able to sustain them, without receiving essential injury.
Hot lime and salt are sometimes employed to destroy them, but ge-
nerally without much effect. The turnip crops, however, are, at
an earlier stage, and just as they begin to appear above ground,
exposed to the depredations of another very destructive insect,
usually, though perhaps improperly, called the turnip fly--the
Haltica nemorum of entomologists: whole fields are sometimes so
entirely destroyed by it, that it is found necessary to sow them a
second time; which seldom succeeds.

<TABLE>
	Botany.--The rarer plants occurring in the parish are the fol-
lowing:
Hippuris vulgaris	Briza media		Paris quadrifolia
Circaea Lutetiana	Festuca Myurus		Adoxa moschatellina
Veronica Anagallis      gigantea             Andromeda polifolia
         montana	      elatior		Stellaria nemorum
Utrieularia vulgaris    Bromus asper         glauca
Lyeopus europaeus	Echium vulgare		Arenaria trinervis
Valeriana dioica	Primula vulgaris	Prunus Padus
Fedia dentata,          Campanula latifolia                  insititia
Phalaris canariensis    Jasione montana +  Geum urbanum, Var. B ++
Milium effusum          Solanum. Dulcamara Aquilegia vulgaris
Aira aquatica           Rhamnus Frangula   Ranunculus auricomus SS
Melica uniflora         Sium verticillatum      Trollius suropaeus
Poa decumbens           Cicuta virosa           Lepidium campestre

<FOOTNOTE>Var. A Smith's English Flora, having some flower-stalks forming an umbel, and
elevated on a common stalk, a few remaining single from the root.
           Common in this neighbourbood, but not found upon the east coast.
           Supposed by Smith to be a hybrid between G. urbanum and G. rivale.
SS The variety in which the petals are deficient is most prevalent. I am not aware
of a single specimen having been found in the parish where more than two were pre-
sent, and even of these generally one is imperfectly formed.


