
54                           RENFREWSHIRE.

works in Houston and Killallan, the absolute necessity, in these
parishes, crowded with public works, and several rising villages,
either to enlarge their contributions, or to assess the parish.
   There seems to be no disposition among the poor to refrain from
seeking parochial relief, or to consider it as degrading; the former
independent spirit of the Scotch seems much on the decline in all
the manufacturing districts; and what is perhaps still more to be
regretted, many children neglect their parents in old age, and even
parents desert their children.
   Fairs.--Fairs are yearly in May, for milch cows, young cattle,
and Highland cattle.
   Inns.--These are numerous, and their effects obvious.
   Fuel.--Coals are abundant at three miles distance, and peats at
two miles; but the former are sold at a high price, owing to the
great demand.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The state of the united parishes at present, crowded as they are
with public works, and a population collected from all quarters, is
very different from its state at the time of the former Statistical
Account, when the people were principally employed in the pur-
suits of an agricultural and pastoral life, and when strangers had
not much mingled with them.
   Improvements in agriculture might still proceed, were leases for
nineteen years granted, not at the price of grain during the last and
long-continued war with France, but at the market price of grain
for several years past, and were some other reasonable encourage-
ments given.
   With regard to what might promote the progress of industry,
and the happiness and comfort of the labouring classes, the writer
is humbly of opinion, that by such an increase of knowledge in re-
ligion, morals, history, and some of the most useful arts and sciences,
as would induce them to persevere in habits of industry, sobriety
and economy, and to cherish the feeling of self-respect, and counter-
act the prevailing spirit of reckless improvidence,-much misery
might be prevented. *
   The large moss in the parish of Killallin belongs partly to the
estate of Barochan and partly to that of Fulwood.  It was divid-
ed by a decree of the Court Session about twenty-nine years

<FOOTNOTE>It was from an earnest desire to promote these ends that the parochial minister
frequently recommended attention to a library of valuable books, from the pulpit,
and that he has from time to time contributed to the library ofHouston and Killallan.


