
                                     BANFF.                                11

            3. Water Birds.- Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo.)  Shag
            (Phalacrocorax graculus, provincially scart.)  Gannet (Sula Bassana
            solan goose,) is frequently to be seen in the bay here.  Golden
            eye duck (Clangula vulgaris,) a winter visitant of the Doveran, where
            it may be seen in considerable numbers. Long-tailed duck (Clan-
            gula glacialis, here called coal and candle light,) frequent dur-
            ing winter in the bay, but never enters the river. In a calm day,
            their singular cries, resembling the words coal and candle light, may
            be heard all over the bay.* Scaup duck (Nyroca marila,) in
            severe winters sometimes appears in considerable numbers on the
            Doveran, where it is known by the name of Norwegian teal. On
            its first arrival from the north, it suffers itself to be closely ap-
            proached, but soon becomes more wary. Common mallard or
            wild duck (Anas boschas,) found in great numbers on the Doveran,
            in Lord Fife's grounds, where no one is allowed to molest them.
            The wigeon (Anas penelope.) The cracker or pintail duck (Anas
            acuta.) The writer of this has never seen but a single specimen
            of this duck on the Doveran, during the course of nine or ten years.
            It occured in 1830, and associated with a flock of the common wild
            duck. Gargany or summer teal (Anas querquedula;) a single speci-
            men only of this duck has been met with within the writer's know-
            ledge. The teal (Anas crecca) is found in winter in great numbers near
            the bridge of Alva. Brent goose (Anser brenta:) a fine specimen of
            this goose was shot, near the sea coast a few years ago. The wild
            swan (Cygnus ferus.) Goosander (Mergusmerganser.) In severe win-
            ters, these beautiful birds may be seen on the Doveran sometimes in
            flocks. The red-breasted goosander (Mergus serrator) has never
            been observed on the Doveran, but a specimen was shot some time
            ago among the rocks at some distance from Banff. The razorbill auk
            (Alca torda,) and puffin (Fratercula arctica,) are frequently to be
            seen in the bay, along the shore; making excursions from those
            stupendous rocks on the adjoining parish of Gamrie, where is to
            be seen one of the most extensive and most magnificent breeding
            places of these and other birds, known by the name of sea fowl.
            Little grebe (Podiceps minor.) Northern diver (Colymbus glace-
            alis;) a specimen, in possession of a gentleman in this town,
            weighed, when killed, twelve pounds. The guillemot, here called
            the queet, (Uria troile,) and the Greenland dove, of black guil-

            <FOOTNOTE>
               Pochard (Nyroca ferina;) - a specimen of the male of this species was killed
            during this winter (rather a severe one) on a mill dam in this parish. White eys
            or castaneous duck (Nyroca leucopthalmos,) a very rare visitant.


