
520                        ARGYLESHIRE.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   It has already been stated that the great body of the people are
employed in works connected with the smelting furnace Bunaw.
As the operations there are carried on with charcoal, the growth
of wood is, as might be anticipated, carefully encouraged, and this
circumstance-exerts an unfavourable influence on the cultivation of
the land. But still agricultural improvements in the district are
progressing rather than retrograding, both on the Company's lands,
which generally are laid out in small patches for their workmen,
and on the other fine farms in the parish, which are not included
in the Company's lease.
   There are about 350 acres of arable land in the parish, with
about a fourth part more of meadow land  while the extent of land
under coppice wood, consisting chiefly of oak, birch, and nioun-
tain ash, is not less than 1900 acres.
   Live-Stock.- The number of sheep in tile district rather exceeds
3000.There are 280 cows and their followers, with 220 head of
cattlebesides, and from 50 to 60 horses.
   The great obstacles to improvement are, the short duration of
the leases, the want of capital on the part of the people, and the
little encouragement given for building accommodations, and for
enclosing draining, and improving tile lands.
   Rent.-The gross rental of the parish is not below L.2000,
though the actual rent paid by the  Lorn Furnace Company to the
proprietor for their lands in the district, including the valuable
farm of Icrachan, on which they have erected the iron-works, and
which is situated in the parish of Innisbail, does not amount to
L.440. The value of each hagg or cutting of the woods (once say
in twenty-four years), and calculated, as stated in the Account of tile
parish of Ardehattan, amounts to L.8260.
   Manufactures-The charring of wood excepted, which is ef-
fected in the usual way, there are no manufactures in the parish,
nor are the moral consequences which result from the getting tip
of that article, such as would justify us in wishing that there were
any more.
   There is a tolerably regular intercourse maintained between
Lorn Furnace and Ulverstone,-vessels from the latter port being
emploved in conveying ore for the furnace, and carrying back the
iron in the form of bars.
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Maret-Town.-There is no market-town in tile parish, the


