
330                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

tune  to possess a body of tenantry distinguished alike by their
intelligence, enterprize, and capital.
     Fisheries.--The salmon-fisheries on this part of the Tweed have
existed from a very remote period.  At the foundation of the Ab-
bey of Kelso, King David gave them to the monks, who seem to
have carefully protected them; though not more carefully than the
land-owners whose property they became when the monastery was
dissolved.  The Kelso fishery yields an annual rent to the Duke of
Roxburghe of L. 30; but this amount of rent is due less to the actual
value of the produce, than to the income which the tacksman derives
from hiring out his boats, &c. to amateur sportsmen.  The fish caught
here are not sent beyond the Kelso market, which, indeed, con-
sumes more than this fishery is adequate to supply.  The fisheries
on the Tweed are under the protection of commissioners and over-
seers, appointed by act of Parliament, with whom it lies to appoint
head and under water bailiffs for the different districts of the river.
The river is open for salmon-fishing from 15th February to 7th
November.
     Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised
is estimated as under:

<TABLE>

     Potatoes and turnips.                                L. 3,900
     Grain of all kinds,                                    11,560
     Hay,                                                      920
     Pasture, including permanent grass in parks, &c.        2,150
     Gardens and orchards,                                     750
     Fisheries,                                                 50
                                                            ________

                                                          L.19,330


     Manufactures.--It has been already stated  that the manufac-
tures of the parish are very limited.  Though the number of
branches is considerable, including the manufacture of leather,
woollen-cloth, tobacco, the weaving of linen, stocking-making, and
the making of hats, they do not give employment conjointly to
more than 150 workmen; nor, if we except the currying trade,
which is carried on by one house very extensively, does any of
them seem to be advancing.  Some of them, as weaving and stock-
ing-making, have indeed all but disappeared from the place.
     Associations.--Though there are no parochial societies for the
encouragement of any branch of industry, Kelso has the benefit
of several local associations of this description, which hold their
meetings, and exhibitions in the town.  Among these, the Union.
Agricultural Society is worthy of notice, from the stimulus it has
given to the improvement of stock, agricultural implements, &c.


