
    16	               SELKIRKSHIRE.

    little success attends the cultivation of that excellent root. Neither
    trenching, nor lime, nor soot, nor soot, proves efficacious. The
    green fly is very destructive to peach trees; and mildew, hurts
    the leaf of the Ribston, and that of several of the finer sorts of
    apples.
    Botany.-Woad (Isatis tinctoria), used as a dye, and teazles,
    or Clothier's brush (Dipsacus fullonum), for raising the nap of cloth,
    have been cultivated here both in gardens and in the fields; but
    little is done in that way, as the climate, in ordinary seasons is un-
    favourable. The latter plant occupies the ground for two years;
    and if it fails of abundant sunshine in autumn to harden and turn
    down the, spiculae of the seed-pod, which gives it the property of a
    combing instrument, the crop is in a great measure lost.
	Almost all the varieties of fir and hard-wood thrive well. The
    soil is of various qualities; and planting is now so well understood
    that there is scarcely an instance of failure. In every case of re-
    cent plantation there is a mixture of fir and hard-wood; the latter
    consisting of ash, elm, oak, beech, sycamore, &c. and as thinning
    is regularly observed, the most thriving trees are left; and this ex-
    perimental process proves infallible, as to the accommodation of
    trees to the soil. Want of depth is the cause why no very re-
    markable oaks appear; there are many fine elms, but the ash and
    the plane attain to the largest, size, and of both very superb speci-
    mens are to be seen in the finely wooded park of Gala, and also
    in the estate of Fairnilee.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Accounts of the Parish, &c.-In Pennant's Tour, printed in 1772,
    are many curious and interesting particulars relative to the anti-
    quities and civil history of this parish. Surveys of all the estates,
    with plans and measurements, were taken from 1790 to 1800, and
    are now in the hands of the proprietors.
	Galashiels was erected into a barony in 1599, according to the
    precept from Chancery bearing that date, and must have been


    ments which he was induced to make for the purpose of ascertaining tile source from
    whence this bane of the turnip crops arose, and his investigations led him to the conclu-
    sion, that the ova of the insect were deposited on the seed, and were attached to it when
    sown. This conclusion is in consonance with what is known of the unerring instinct of
    many tribes of insects, which leads them to deposit their ova where the young When
    hatched may find their appropriate food; and in the instance of the turnip crops, the
    same temperature and situation which promotes the germination of the seed, also
    calls into life the parasitic destroyer of the plant. -Vide Entomol. Mag. i, 364.


