
                         NORTH UIST.                         161

   this time of tbe year, principally depend for their sustenance on
   the stores of the corn-yards ; and if this source prove not sufficient,
   the loss of many valuable cattle is the consequence, and a scarcity
   of provisions among the poorer of the inhabitants in summer.
   The cattle being out-liers, or not housed, in the circumstances I
   have stated, they must suffer. But the remark.does not apply to
   the east side of the country, where there are excellent winterings
   for cattle. The west side of Uist is not, for the reason stated, so
   valuable for wintering as the less fine and more rough pasture of
   Skye and Harris.
      Caves- Of eaves or caverns-there are only two worth describ-
   ing. One of these is at the point of Tighary, situated at a short dis-
   tance from the parish church. It is hollowed, a considerable space
   in the rock, by the action of the waves, which beat with violence
   against the point where it is formed. The outer or external side of
   the cave is naturally yet regularly arched through the solid rock.
   Within this arch, from the superincumbent surface, is an opening of
   about twelve feet diameter. The immense volume of flood poured
   into the cave, too copious at once to recede, rises during and after a
   storm, as if from the bowels of the earth, in splendid magnificence,
   to the height of upwards of 200 feet. It is called Sloch-a-chorry,
   or cave of the kettle. Three miles from this, on the farm of Scol-
   peg, is the other cave, similarly formed, but more extensive and
   capacious, and in consequence not producing the like phenome-
   non ; but exhibiting awful grandeur to suell as admire
            "Cliffs of darkness, caves of wonder,
	     Echoing the Atlantic's thunder." .

     Harbours.- It has been already observed that the greater part of
   the coast washed by the Atlantic is bordered with flat sands. This
   renders it inaccessible and unsafe for vessels of considerable size.
   There are some places, however, on the west coast, wbere vessels
   belonging to the country and others take shelter, and ship. kelp in
   the summer season. These places are Digmore, on the farm of Bal-
   ranald, not far from the middle of the parish. The bay of Houg-
   whary, a few miles farther north, where, at an inconsiderable ex-
   pense, a key,or breakwater might be erected to protect small ves-
   sels while shipping or discharging such produce as might be ex-
   ported from or imported to the very populous district in its imme-
   diate neigbbourbood.
      At a distance of about six miles farther north, at each end of
   the Island of Vallay, there is a safe anchorage. That at the


