
	64                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

	about twenty miles. This want, however, is little felt, the people
	having every advantage as regards the means of communication
	with other parts of the country. The roads (of which there are
	about forty miles in the parish) are excellent. There is a post-
	office, at which a post-gig carrying passengers arrives twice a-week;
	and an idea of the means of communication enjoyed may be had
	from the fact, that the London papers are received at Lairg on the
	morning of the fifth day from the day of publication.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The parochial church, though distant about
	twenty miles from the western extremity of the parish, is exceed-
	ingly well situated for the convenience of the people, as, with few
	exceptions they all reside in its neighbourhood. It was built in 1794,
	and is always kept in a good state of repair. It accommodates
	about 500 people, and no seat-rents are exacted.-The manse
	was built in 1795, and was last repaired about eight years ago.
	   -The grebe contains ten acres of arable land, and may be
	valued at L.8 a-year. At one period, there was a considerable
	extent of hill pasture connected with the grebe; this, however,
	has been lost by reason of a circumstance of common occurrence
	in the Highlands,-the clergy neglected, till it was too late, to
	have their grebes regularly designed.-The stipend amounts to
	L.184, 14s., including L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. The
	parish church is always well attended: and it is worthy of remark,
	that there is no dissenting place of worship in the whole county
	of Sutherland,-a fact which cannot be affirmed of any other county
	in Britain.
	   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish.
	Till lately, there was an Assembly school on Major Munro's
	property, but, owing in a great measure to the thinness of the po-
	pulation, it has been discontinued. This is the only part of the
	parish where a school is required at present. In the parochial
	school, one of the beat in the country, all the common branches
	of education are taught. The following table of fees, appointed
	by the presbytery, will give an idea of the expense of education.
	English and Gaelic reading, Is. 6d.; and quarter; English grammar,
	5s.; writing, 2s.; arithmetic, 2s. 6d.; and Latin, 3s. a quarter.
	The school is always well attended; and the interest which the
	people now take in the education of their children may he learned
	from the fact, that, whilst the persons above fifteen years of age
	who cannot read or write are to the rest of the population of the
	same age as 1 to 4, or in all 260, the proportion in the case of
	those between 5 and 14 is only as 1 to 10 or 30 in, all. The


