
     of Currie.

John the Baptist, and founded by Sir John Forrester.  E-
ven so late as the reign of Charles I. it does not appear to
have been a separate parish, for no mention of it is made
in the Royal decree of the Erection of the See of Edin-
burgh, though all the adjoining parishes are noticed*.
The present kirk is a neat modern edifice, built a few
years ago.  It is situated on a height above the village of
Currie, on the fourth side of the water of Leith, and the
spire, rising out of a clump of ancient plane and ash trees,
that grow on the banks of the river, exhibits at a distance,
when they are in leaf, a very beautiful and picturesque ap-
pearance.

   School.-The salary of the parish schoolmaster here,
with his different perquisites, amount to from L. 16 to
L. 20 per annum, independent of his fees.  He has gene-
rally from 45 to 50 scholars, and no situation about Edin-
burgh, would be better adapted for a grammar school, if
the heritors would be at the expence of a proper school-
house, that the master might be enabled to take boarders,
It is in a healthy country, at a distance from any town,
where bad examples are apt to be set, and it has the con-
venience of a stage passing twice a-week through it.

<FOOTNOTE>

*That Currie, however, though not perhaps a separate parish, had
very anciently been a place of religious worship, is clear from this proof,
that in digging for the foundation of the present church, on the site of the
old one, there was discovered a round hollow piece of silver, having the
remains of gilding on it, and which seems evidently either a part of the
stalk of a crucifix, or of an altar candlestick.  It has a ferew at each end.
Its length is 7 3/8 inches, and its diameter 7 1/8 inch.  In a spiral scroll
from top to bottom, there is the following inscription, "Fefu Fili Dei
miferere mei."  The letters, which are Saxon, are very well engraved,
and each 5/8 of an inch large.  It is at present in the Museum of the So-
ciety of Antiquaries in Edinburgh.


