
                      CATHCART.                            511

attending on Sundys is about 120. There is a Cathcart club
which dines once a year in Glasgow; when, immediately after din-
ner, a hat is passed round from hand to hand under the table. to
receive charitable contributions, in such a manner that no man can
tell what sum is given by his neighbours. The party consists
generally of about twenty, and the sum received averages about
L. 25, which is distributed atnoncr respectable families, which, al-
though poor, are not in the receipt of regular parochial relief.
There are also two Friendly Societies in the parish, which, in the
writer's estimation, are founded on sound principles, and at present
in a flourishing condition. The writer has much reason to be
thankful that in every season of manufacturing distress he can rely
on the prompt liberality of many among his parishioners to provide
relief for the destitute, by affording them employment in works of
public utility, and thus to preserve the honest workman above the
abject spirit of pauperism, wbich monev given without value re-
ceived is too apt to engender.
   Poor. - The number of regular paupers on the poor-roll
is about 30, and the average allowance is little more than five
shillings per month. To meet this expenditure, there are the
collections made at the church-door, which amount to about
L. 45 per annum ; and a voluntary assessment imposed upon
themselves by the heritors, in proportion to their valued rent, to
make tip the deficiency. There are many poor people in the pa-
rish well entitled, by the indigence of their circumstances, to
parochial aid, who, being anirnated.by the independent spirit which
was once a characteristic of the Scottish. peasant, although now
too rapidly disappearing, refuse to receive parochial assistance by
having their names placed upon the poor-roll. There is no
savingw batik or public library in the parish, although attempts
have been repeatedly made to establish both with evanescent
success. Perhaps the proximity of Cathcart to Glasgow accounts
for the failure, and renders it less a matter, of regret. We
have neither inns nor fares, but great abundance of both. withisa
easy reekch.
              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the date of the last Statistical Account of this parish, the
face of the country has undergone very marked improvewent.
Few new mansion-houses have indeed been erected ; but there is
from the soil more than quadruple produce to minister to the
wants of the people, and to supply the superabundant population of
the neighbouring city.
RENFREW.


