
                      ST ANDREWS.                      467

or turrets, interspersed at irregular distances, projecting outward
several feet, and rising a few feet higher than the general level of
the wall.  It was erected by John Hepburn, the prior, soon after
the commencement of the sixteenth century.  There were three
gates by which the enclosure might be entered, which, from their
remains, appear to have been handsome; that, in particular, which
is at the eastern extremity of the South Street of the city.
 The burying-ground for the city and parish was originally in
the immediate vicinity of the parish church, but as the space al-
lotted for the purpose was confined, and in the heart of the city, it
was with great propriety, soon after the Reformation, transferred
to the vicinity of the cathedral, where it still continues.  Many of
the monuments which are to be found in this cemetery possess con-
siderable interest; but none of them are of a date so old as the
era of the Reformation.
 The Castle of St Andrews is situated about 250 yards to the
north-west of the cathedral, on an eminence immediately over hang-
ing the sea.  It was first erected about the beginning of the thir-
teenth century, by the bishop of that period, as a place of residence
for himself and his successors in office.  After standing nearlya
century and a half, it fell into the hands of the English, and was
subsequently besieged, take, and demolished by the Scottish
forces.  It lay in ruins for half a century, during which period the
bishop resided within the monastery, and it was rebuilt by Bishop
Trail near the close of the fourteenth century  It is affirmed that
James III., King of Scotland, was born in it in 1460.  After the
murder of Cardinal Beaton, and the subsequent siege, it was dis-
mantled to a considerable extent; but the injury was in a great
measure repaired, a few years afterwards, by Archbishop Hamil-
ton, and it was occasinally occupied by succeeding archbishops
until the period of the civil wars, when it became uninhabitable;
and the priory having been annexed to the archbishoprick in 1633,
the prelates who held the see after the Restoration, resided within
the monastery in the building denominated the New Inns.  The
castle, when entire,formed a quadrangle, with a court in the inte-
rior of considerable dimensions.  But, with the exception of a part
of the south wall, including a handsome square tower, and a few
other fragments, it is entirely in ruins.  The sea, within these few
years, has made considerable encroachments on the east wing; and
the northern division will probably ere long share the same fate.
 In addition to the manstery of the Augustines, which was rich-











































