
                            HAMILTON.                                   285

year, from sunset to sunrise, with the exception of five nights at
each full moon.
	Supply of Water.--On Saturday, 24th May 1834, an attempt
was made in this town to bring into operation the Burghs Police
Bill (3 and 4 William IV. c. 46, 14th August 1833,) in whole or
in part, but more especially as regarded bringing a better supply
of water into the town. As the franchise in that case embraces
all persons "occupying premises of the value of not less than L. 10,"
a great many individuals came forward and threw out the bill. It
cannot, of course, be brought forward again in less than three years.
It has since been proposed to form a water company, with a ca-
pital of L. 2000, divided into 500 shares, of L. 4 each. The wa-
ter is to be brought in pipes, from two different quarters; the unit-
ed distance of both places being about three miles, and the aver-
age diameter of the pipes in which it is to be brought three inches.
This proposal is not yet carried into effect.
	Means of Communication, &c.--Hamilton is 10 3/4 miles S. E.
of Glasgow, 36 W. of Edinburgh, 15 N. W. of Lanark, 7 N.
of Strathaven, and 8 miles S. of Airdrie. The market-day is
Friday. This town, along with Falkirk, lanark, Linlithgow,
and Airdrie, has the privilege of sending a Member to Par-
liament. There are in the parish about 15 miles of turnpike
road, and about 30 miles of parochial roads. The great Glas-
gow and London road passes through the town; and also an Edin-
burgh and Ayr road. This last was made in the year 1755, and,
if we except the road between Glascow and Edinburgh, was the
first great turnpike road which was made in Scotland. A new
road to Ayr was lately opened, about seven miles to the south of
this. A great improvement is now making in Hamilton on the
London road, for the purpose of avoiding the brae in Muir Street,
and cutting off the awkward elbow at the cross. The new line of
road is upwards of 700 yards in length. Above Hamilton Green
it crosses the rivulet Cadzow by a stupendous bridge of three
arches, each 60 feet span. The top of the parapet wall is about
60 feet above the bed of the burn. The contract is about L. 2050.
A handsome new bridge on the same line of road was lately thrown
across the Avon. A few hundred yards above it, there is an old
bridge of three arches, which is said to have been built at a very
remote period, at the expense of the monks belonging to the mo-
nastery at Lesmahagow. Hamilton Bridger over the Clyde, on the
Edinburgh road, is a handsome structure with five arches. It was


