
                      CORSTORPHINE.                          217

resters, was levelled with the ground, about fifty years ago, some of
the workmen engaged, when digging near the house, discovered a
deposit of gold and silver coins.  Oatman Barclay, their overseer,
distributed some part of the treasure among them, and retained
the rest for his own use.  The quantity he obtained was of so
much value that he immediately left his employment, and continu-
ed to maintain himself on the proceeds of the discovery while be
lived.  This conduct led to suspicion, and be was imprisoned, with
the view of compelling him to give up what he had found, but the
attempt was unsuccessful, for no portion of the treasure was traced
except a few foreign coins which he had sold to a jeweller in Edin-
burgh.  There is in the custody of the schoolmaster a curious old
box, formed out of a piece of excavated oak-wood, having a lid in
which there is a slit for the admission of money, which wag fixed
by large iron hinges.  It has double locks and two key holes, but
the padlock has been broken off, and the hinges are also destroyed.
This box formerly bad a broad belt attached to it, by which it was
slung to the breast of the begging monk, and the object of the two
keys evidently was to secure its contents for the use of the colle-
giate establishment with which he was connected.  In the church-
yard of Gogar there is a large circular basin of freestone, used as
the depository of the holy water in times of Popery.
  Stone Coffins.-From the year 1809 down to 1835, many stone
coffins have been at various times found on the lands of Gogar,
particularly towards the western side of the field formerly called
"The Flashes," on which the villa of Hanley is now built.*   As
no accurate account can now be given of those discovered prior to
1834, we shall confine our description to those found at that Pe-
riod and in 1835.
  In the autumn of 1834, when the House of Hanley was in the
course of being built, an excavation was made on the highest part
of the rising ground, about 100 yards to the north-east of the house,,
out of which sand was taken for the use of the building.  This ex-
cavation when completed was 60 feet in length and 35 feet in
breadth.  In this space, there was laid open and removed abuot
two dozen stone coffins, of a very simple construction. They all
lay east and west, at a depth of only 13 inches from the surface,
and were constructed of from five to eight water-worm flag stones,
similar to those which form the bed of the river Almond near

<FOOTNOTE>In consequence of these remains,this villa, when originally feued, was named
Gogar Camp.


