
	                 STIRLING.                            417

Inchmahome; and invested by Mary with the hereditary prefee-
ture or captainsbip of Stirling Castle; which latter office, however,
had been from 1360 chiefly in the family. His name and seal, ap,
pear; at the deed of Mary's resignation of the kingdom.  On that
event, he was entrusted with the keeping of the young Prince.
On the 5th of September 1571, when the Earl of Lennox had
been slain by Mary's faction, the defeat of whose enterprise was
chiefly owing to his gallantry in hastening from the castle to assail
their retainers, he was proclaimed Regent of the kingdom.  After
discharging this high and arduous office in troublous times for, a
year, he died, still a young man, in 1572.  His son, and successor
in his titles, and in the office of governor of the castle had been
a fellow pupil of James, under the tuition of George Buchanan;
and was entrusted by him with the education of Prince Henry.
The building at the upper end of Broad Street, known by the
name of Marr's Work, which has long been a ruin, but which still
retains traces of elaborate and costly architecture, and, when entire,
must have been a magnificent edifice, was erected by this distin-
guished person.  There are still to be traced upon it some quaint
inscriptions.  Here he resided with great splendour, during the
brief period of his occupancy.  The date 1570 probably deter-
mines the time of its completion.  This was the year. preceding
his appointment to the regeney; and only two years before his
death. The stones in great part were taken from Cambuskenneth
Abbey. While this palatial residence was in the possession of
Annabella, the Regeat's widow, it was occupied for a time in 1598
by James and his Queen, until their own palace in the castle was
made ready for their reception.
  No individual connected with Stirting is better entitled to, a
memorial in its parochial statistics than the Rev. James I Guthrie.
This noble martyr for Christ's crownand cause was the son of Guth-
rie of Guthrie in Forfarshire; and was educated at, the University
of St Andrews, in which he afterwards for some time taught philo-
sopby; and where he gave abundant proof, that he was, an, exect
scholar and excellent philosopher; and so highly distinguisbed bim-
self, "that," says an Episcopalian writer of the, day, "if he had
continued fixed to his first principles," which were antipres-
byterian, "he would have been a star of the first maganitude."
While at St Andrews, by conversation, with Samuel Rutherford
and others and by a careful study of the subjec, be was had to
embrace those principles, which be maintained to the end. He
  STIRLING;                                  D d


