
                        CASTLETOWN.                          445

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The rents of the parish arise chiefly from sheep,
black-cattle and horses, and from tillage.
   Some farmers bring a considerable number of black-cattle from
the markets of Falkirk and Dotine.  They are supported during
the winter by the foggage and coarse hay, and sold generally towards
the end of summer.  Those tried in the country are principally the
Ayrshire and Dutch kind.  The butter which is made, even on the
coarsest pasture, is not excelled by any in Britain.  It is common-
ly observed, that the coarser the pasture is, the butter is the better
and the richer.  Even the mossy ground, though in appearance
barren, is of great use both for black-cattle and sheep.  The plant,
called the moss, rises before any other in the spring, affords ex-
cellent nourishment, and is carefully sought after by the flocks.  In
these coarse lands, there is a constant and regular succession of
different species of grass, which rise in their respective seasons
throughout the year.
   Soil, Produce, and Cultivation.--The arable land at present in
tillage lies chiefly on the banks of the rivers. Many hundred
acres, formerly in tillage, have been thrown into pasture on account
of the high prices of sheep and wool.  The soil of the holm land
is excellent.  It is sometimes of a light, but most frequently of a
very deep and fine loam, and, where it is properly cultivated, it pro-
duces exceeding good crops.  Wheat has been sown, and turned
out very well The ordinary crops are barley, Pease, oats, and
potatoes.  Turnips have been introduced to a great extent, and
succeed very well.
                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is a weekly market at Castletown, which has been in ex-
istence for the last two years.
   Fairs.--There are 2 fairs at Castletown, annually for the sale
of sheep.
   The Eskdale and Liddesdale Farmers' Association under the
patronage of His Grace the Duke of Boccleuch, meet alternately
at Castletown and Langholm, when prizes are awarded to the far-
mers producing the best stock.
   Church, &c.--The church, was built in 1808. it is in excellent
condition, and may accommodate a congregation of 700 or 800.
It is situated at the junction 9 of the Liddal and Hermitage, in
centrical situation, and conveniently for the population, as far, at
least, as one church can be so, in so extensive a parish.  The


