
     1048                       PERTHSHIRE.

     dees of almost all their possessions.  The abbey then founded was
     dedicated to the Trinity and Michael the Archangel.  The re-
     sidents were canons regular of St Augustine, under the direction
     of a prior, and had various privileges conferred on them.  The
     abbey wall is supposed to have enclosed about twelve acres.  Dur-
     ing the reign of Alexander, Scone seems to have been occasional-
     ly a royal residence, and, like St Andrews and other places in
     which monasteries were established, it was a market for foreign na-
     tions. Alexander addressed a writ to the merchants of England,
     inviting them to trade at Scone, and promising them protection,
     on condition of their paying a custom to the monastery.  This
     custom was an impost on all ships trading with Scone, from which
     it appears to have been anciently a port.  About a mile from the
     river there was at a comparatively recent period, a bog called the
     full sea mere, which, according to tradition, had been covered by
     the tide, and in which, when digging for a pond, stones similar to
     those in the bed of the Tay were found.  Whatever may be the
     value of the commonly received fact, as to the transference of the
     fatal stone to Scone, there can be no doubt that many of the

     Scottish kings were inaugurated here.  Here, also, during the reign
     of Culen, there was a great assembly of the states convoked for the
     purpose of organizing the government of the nation. *
       According to Buchanan, Culen was slain on his way to this as-
     sembly, near the village of Methven, by Rohard, or Radend the
     thane, whose daughter he had violated.  At this assembly the
     bold and energetic Kenneth III. was crowned, and several import-
     ant statutes were enacted, which are said to be dated at the "Royal
     Palace of Scone."  I have not, however, been able to verify this
     statement by any inspection of these statutes.   It does not appear
     that any of the competitors for the throne, left vacant by the death
     of Kenneth, were crowned at Scone.  Constantine IV., a son of
     Culen, is regarded as having been crowned first.  He, within a
     year, was succeeded by a son of King Duff, who assumed the sove-
     reignty under the name of Kenneth IV. and is known as Kenneth
     the Grim.  But neither in their coronation, nor in that of Mal-
     colm II., the son of Kenneth III., whose reign, during its earlier

<FOOTNOTE> Que saniores erant e nobilitate, duplici malo circumventi, ac, de summa rerum
     consurtare coacti, conventum publicum Sconam indicunt.-Buch. Lib. vi.
        Ibi rex adesse Jussus, ut una cum ceteris, in tam pracipiti rerum statu, saluti
     publici prospiceret *** Igitur cum Sconam iret, satis magno comitatu, sed, imbelli,
     ac jam ad Methunnum vitum prospinquum proveniseet, a Thano regionis, ob stuprum
     per vim filise illatum, est occisus.-Buch, Lib. vi.




