
     of Anwoth.

cultivated part of the country is a cross breed; that is, be-
tween the moor ram and mugg ewe, or vice versa*.

   Living, School, Poor.-The manse was built about 40
years ago, and is now receiving a considerable repair.  The 
patron is David Maxwell of Cardoness, Esq.  The stipend 
of the parish in ordinary years is about L. 80; a part of 
this, however, being payable in grain, it is sometimes a
little above, and sometimes below that sum.  The glebe
contains about 6 or 7 acres.-The public school is at the 
church.  About 30 or 40 scholars attend in winter, but 
fewer in summer.  They are taught reading English, 
writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, French, practical ma-
thematics, and Latin.  The emoluments of the school are 
L. 11 of yearly salary, 1 s. 6 d. the quarter for teaching 
English, 2 s. for writing, 2 s. for arithmetic, 3 s. for
Latin and French, and 10 s. 6 d. for teaching a set of book-
keeping.  The schoolmaster also receives L. 2, 2 s. a-year, 
(together with 2 s. 6 d. for each proclamation), for being
session-clerk and precentor if he holds these offices.-There

<FOOTNOTE>

*Seed Time and Harvest Prices.-The ordinary time of sowing oats
here is from the 20th of March to the 20th April; and potatoes are 
planted and barley town from the 20th of April to the end of the first
week in May.  In warm and dry seasons, when the crops come sooner to
maturity, the harvest begins rather before the middle of August, and in
concluded in the course of 5 weeks.  In wet and cold seasons, however, 
the harvest is much later.  The ordinary price of beef and mutton is 3 d.
of pork 4 d. of butter 6 d. and of cheese 3 d. the pound of 16 ounces.  The 
Winchester bushel of oats is commonly 1 s. 8 d. and of barley 2 s. 6 d.
The stune of meal is 1 s. 8 d. but at present all these articles, particularly
grain, are much higher.  The common wages for labourers are i s. the day,
but when employed in certain kinds of work they have more.  Masons and 
wrights receive i s. 8 d. or 2 s. the day; tailors 10 d. and victuals.  The
ordinary wages for a male-servant, when he hires for the half-year, are
L. 4; for a maid-servant, L. 1, 15 s.


