
                     PETTINAIN.				543

or Dunlop cheese, which generally meets with a more ready mar-
ket, and brings a fair price.
	All the variety of turnip is cultivated; but the globe, red-top, and
yellow are the most common, the latter having almost supplanted
the ruta baga, which is now very partially cultivated, as it is gene-
rally supposed to require, both land of the best quality, and a larger
portion of manure to ensure a good crop. Carrots have, in a few
instances, and to a very limited extent, been sown, and have been
found very useful, both as an article for domestic use, and as food
for horses. Were this species of crop cultivated to a greater ex-
tent, there is little doubt, that a considerable portion of oats might
be saved, and horses kept in fully as good condition as now. From
the quantity of saccharine matter contained in them, they must be
highly nutritious, and, being given along with a proper proportion
of oats, would tend to keep the animal frame in a healthy state.
        Improvements.-There are few parishes where improvements have
been carried on to such an extent, and with so great advantage to the
property. As a proof of the extent to which draining has been carried,
it many be sufficient to state, that upwards of 20,000 yards, or nearly
twelve miles of covered drains have been put into the ground within
the last sixteen or eighteen years, and this drains are generally
from five to seven feet and a-half in depth, and all of them three feet
filled with stones. Besides these, there have also been executed
within the same period nearly 5000 yards of open drains, and also
a considerable extent of surface drains, to prepare the ground for
planting. A considerable improvement has also been effected in the
way of erecting additional fences. All these improvements were
suggested and carried on by the late Colonel Anstruther, and the
excellent effects which have resulted from them clearly prove that
they were planned with much judgment. It may also be remarked
that, on the property of Westown, a very great improvement has
been effected, by breaking up a portion of land, which was in
some measure lying waste, but which, by the judicious application
of skill and capital, has been made to yield excellent crops.
	Owing to particular circumstances, the duration of leases has
been very short, and consequently unfavourable to the occupier;
for no tenant will, under a lease of six or seven years, embark
much of his capital in the improvement of his farm,  when he has
no certainty of possessing it for a longer period, and when the very
improvement which he has effected may be the means of inducing
others to overbid him, and thus reap the fruits of his skill and in-



