
                          MID-CALDER.                   379

L.65; total income, L.135, 11 s. 3d.: besides an excellent house,
garden, and offices, with the advantage arising from boarders,and
the chance of occasional private teaching, and an evening school.
   Library.-There is one circulating library in the parish, of a
very inferior description, consisting of a few obscure writers in di-
vinity, and some old magazines and novels.
  The only Friendly Society or charitable institution in the parish
at present, is the Mason's Lodge, consisting of 160 members.
The funds amount to L.370, and they give out to sick members
6s. a week, and allow L.5, 5s. to each member towards the ex-
penses of their funeral. This charitable institution has existed
for eighteen years, and is composed of members from different pa-
risbes, and is still in a flourishing condition.
  Poor and Parochial Funds. -The list of paupers upon the roll
varies much according to circumstances. About a hundred years
ago, the number of poor, as appears from the books of deaconry,
generally ranged from eight to twelve. In 1557 and 1758, it va-
ried from fifteen to twenty, besides paupers not upon the regular
roll. Whthin these few years, those who were enrolled as perma-
nent paupers amounted for a short time only to three, but besides
these several others received occasional relief.
  At present there are ten paupers receiving parochial relief, each
of whom is allowed, at an average, about one shilling weekly. In
addition to these, a few others receive occasional assistance, which
is generally laid out in the purchase of fuel and payment of house-
rents. For some years past, however, many children count it no
reproach to have their parents names placed upon the parish roll,
so that the number and expense of the poor has been gradually
increasing. In 1833, the amount of distribution was L.63, 10s.3td;
in 1834, it was L.82, 4s. 11d.; in 1835, it was L-68, 5s. Id. ; in
1836, it was L.71, 18s. Id. Our collections at the church door
may average from L.28 to L.30 per annum.
 Among the many kind and generous friends of the poor of this
parish, none has a greater claim to their gratitude than the Dow-
ager Lady Torphichen of Cramond. Ever since the decrease of
the late Lord Torphichen, in 1815, her Ladyship has annually
remitted to the minister of this parish L.10, to be distributed to
the most necessitous and deserving of the poor, in additional com-
forts, over and above all to which they may otherwise be entitled
from the parochial funds.
  Fairs. -Two fairs are held here annually, one in March, the


