
                                     DUNFERMLINE.                              855
     
        loved master, immediately went to redeem, along with a numerous
        retinue, bearing the heart of the monarch enclosed in a silver
        casket, suspended from his neck by a silver chain. But, in pass-
        ing through Spain, in his progress to Jerusalem, be assisted Al-
        pbonso, the young King of Leon and Castile, against the Sara-
        cens, and after exhibiting feats of valour, be fell in battle when
        his body, with the casket and its precious contents, were conveyed
        to Scotland, under the charge of Sir William Keith, one of his
        surviving companions. His remains were interred in the Church
        of Douglas, the sepulchre of his forefathers, and the heart of Bruce
        was entombed in Melrose Abbey, by the Earl of Moray, then
        Regent of Scotland.
           Now, in order to carry into execution this object, it beboved
        the body of Bruce to be embalmed, and accordingly it exhibited
        full evidence of baviDg been so, as the metrical account also of the
        funeral by Barbour, just quoted, states that it was.
           The sternum or breast-bone was found sawed asunder longitu-
        dinally from top to bottom, according to the awkward mode adopt-
        ed by the anatomists of those days, for reaching the heart, with
        the view of complying with the sovereign's dying command, and a
        small box was discovered in the vicinity, supposed by some to con-
        tain the entrails.
           The whole appearances, too, of the tomb and body, as described, in-
        dicate them to have been those of a person of high consideration, while,
        in the immediate neighbourhood, were found numerous fragments
        of fine white and black marble well polished, carved and gilt, in
        all probability the remains of a monument which had been erected
        over the grave inside the church, and which had been demolished
        at the destruction of the Abbey. Some of these exhibit small
        ornamental columns, and one of them an animal in a reclining
        posture. Along with a few of these in the Antiquarian Museum,
        Edinburgh, found long prior to the discovery of Bruce's tomb,
        and erroneously labelled as having belonged to the tomb of Mal-
        com Canmore, there is a small head, cut in soft bluish stone,
        seemingly calm stone, the same as what many of the other orna-
        ments are made of, with a crown on it. The face is unfortunately
        destroyed, but there are large curls at each ear, of the form and
        style seen in the coins of Robert the Bruce, so that there is every
        probability that this was meant to represent his head. From the
        Chamberlain Rolls, too, it appears that the king himself had or-
        dered, during his long and tedious illness, such a monument to be


