
     of Ruthwell.

able, creates an appetite, and has been found beneficial in sto-
machic complaints.  When mixed with brandy, it changes to
an inky colour, and a piece of silver put into it, is soon cover-
ed with a black varnish.  Many resort to the Brow in the
warm season, believing the well water, and sea bathing, spe-
cifics for all diseases.  Some appearances of coal have been
found in different parts, but the expectations of those, who
have attempted to sink a pit, have always been frustrated, al-
though it must be admitted, that the strata in those places are
similar to what is met with in Cumberland, on the opposite
shore, where coal is found in great plenty; the want of suc-
cess, in this research upon the Scotch side, may therefore pro-
ceed from the inefficacy of the trials, and probably the unskil-
fulness and knavery of those employed in making them.
Limestone was accidentally discovered in the neighbourhood
of Comlongan about 10 years ago, and the discovery being
prosecuted, and the quarry opened by instructions from Lord
Stormont, all his Lordships tenants and the inhabitants of
Mousewald, Toothorwald, and Tinwald, have from hence
been supplied with burnt lime, and raw limestone, which has
contributed to the progress of improvement*.

   Disposition of the Inhabitants, etc.-The temper of the peo-
ple is benevolent and charitable, of which an instance has been

<FOOTNOTE>

*The air, as has been observed, is moist, and often foggy,
which, it is supposed, proceeds partly from the vicinity of the sea,
and partly from extensive mosses and deep bogs that are inter-
spersed throughout the parish.  Intermitting fevers prevail here
sometimes in the after harvest, and are accompanied with pains
in the bones, and a lowness and dejection of spirit, but are sel-
dom mortal.  Upon the whole, the people, notwithstanding the
humidity of the air, are healthy and vigorous, though no re-
markable instances of longevity have lately occurred.  The peo-
ple are in general of the middle size, though some may reach
six feet.


