
                        KIRKMABRECK.                           331

through every region of philosophy and poetry, but his untravelled
heart clung to the hearth of his fathers."
  Dr Brown, as I have already stated, was born in the manse and
buried in the churchyard of Kirkmabreck, "in the tomb of his
fathers." A handsome granite pillar has been erected over his
grave, by his only surviving sister. A public monument has long
been talked of.* A number of subscriptions have already been
obtained; and it is hoped that the day is at hand when justice
shall be done to the memory of one whose fame is as wide as the
range of metaphysical science; and having thus erected a monu-
ment to his country, it is not too much to expect that his country
should now erect a monument to him.
   Samuel Douglas, the founder of "the Douglas Academy" at
Newton-Stewart, was born in this parish. Mr Douglas bequeathed
about L.17,000, to build and endow this academy, for the benefit
of Kirkmabreck and Newton-Stewart, and appointed the minister
of Penninghame and his three senior elders, and the minister of
Kirkmabreck and his three senior elders, as trustees over the in-
stitution in all time to come.
   Several individuals who have risen to affluence and honour in
the walks of commerce were also born in this parish. Amongst
these the names of the late Mr Hughan of Airds, and Mr Kerr
of Argrennan, may be mentioned.
   Antiquities.-There are a number of circles of large standing-
stones in this parish, such as those supposed by some to be the
remains of Druidic temples, by others, courts of justice, and by
not a few, the rude memorials of a battle-field, intended to mark
the spot where the slain had fallen and been buried. There is
another conjecture concerning some of them, which, although less
romantics and less interesting to the antiquarian, may also be given.
In this as well as in many parishes of Galloway, there were, in
olden times, almost no fences. Sheep and cattle were on this ac-
count more liable to stray from their own pasture. It was com-
mon, therefore, to have enclosures or ponds, into which strayed
cattle were put or ponded, till their owners found it convenient to
send for them. These enclosures were generally of stone, and
contained plenty of water for the use of the cattle when shut up.
As fences became more abundant, these ponds became less neces-
sary, and gradually fell into disuse; the ruins of which are still to
be found in this as well as in many other parishes of Scotland.
These ruins are sometimes so far obliterated, as to render it diffi-

<FOOTNOTE>To be erected upon the glebe.



