
     Statistical Account

of the cairns.  But the most curious remain of antiquity in
this parish, is a structure called the Auld wife's lift.  It is situat-
ed near a mile North from the church, on very high ground,
in a little flat of about 100 paces diameter, surrounded by an as-
cent of a few yards in height, in the form of an amphitheatre.
It consists of three stones only, two of which, of a prismatic
shape, are laid along close by each other upon the earth;
and the third, which was once probably a regular paralello-
piped, and still, notwithstanding the depredations of time,
approaches that figure, is laid above the other two.  The
uppermost stone is 18 feet long, 11 broad, and 6 deep, plac-
ed nearly horizontally with a small dip to the North.  Its
two supporters are about the same size.  It can hardly be
matter of doubt, that this is one of those rude structures
erected by the Druids in their sacred groves.  Its situation,
in a very sequestered spot, on an eminence, surrounded by a
grove of oaks, stumps of which trees are still visible, corresponds
exactly to every description we have of these places of wor-
ship.  The figure of the stones themselves, and their position,
bear a strong resemblance to others which antiquarians have
not hesitated to pronounce monuments of Druidism.  The
name by which they are called seems no small confirmation
of the truth of this opinion.  A Druidical stone in Ireland,
mentioned by Cambden, is called the lifted stone; and there
are some in Poitiers in France, known by the name of Pier-
res lev‚es.  But besides that the stones under consideration
have the name of lift, which appears to be the general ap-
pellation of such Druidical stones, the specific part of their
name, viz. Auld wives, is easily accounted for, on the same
supposition.  Upon the authority of Tacitus and Mela, we
know that female Druids, generally pretty far advanced in
years, lived together in sisterhoods, in sequestered spots, de-
voting their time to the offices of the Druidical worship.


