
                        PARISH OF ECCLES.
         PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.
                THE REV.  JAMES THOMSON, MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries.-THE name Eccles occurs in each of the
three kingdoms.  It was a sirname and baronial title of great anti-
quity in Dumfries-shire, and was carried in the beginning of the
seventeenth century, from that county to Ireland, by a cadet of
the Eccles family.  Eccles in Berwickshire seems to have derived
its name from the number of churches or chapels at one time
situated in the parish; for we have evidence that, besides the pa-
rish church, there was formerly a chapel at Leitholm, and another
at Birgham. + The term is plainly derived from the Greek word
signifying a church.
   It appears from the "registrate of the valuation of teinds," made
in 1634, that the parish was anciently divided into four quarters.
1. Magealens or southern quarter, comprehending "Locliton,
Newtoun, Templand, Fairnyrigg and Birgim."  2. St John's or
northern quarter, including  "Mersingtoun, Overplewland, Litle-
thank, Herdrig, Burnhouses."  3. Ladies or eastern quarter, con-
taining "Lawrig, Buthrig, Belchester, Newbigging, Antonshill,
Peill, Stainerigg, Litem."  4. St Cuthbert's or western quarter,
consisting of "Kennetsydhead, Hassingtoun, Nethermains, Whyt-
house, Hardaikers, Stainfeeld, and Dedriges."
   The greatest length of the parish from north-cast to south west
is 6 3/4 miles, and the greatest breadth from north-west to south-east
5 1/2 miles, and it contains 17.413 square miles, according to Mr
Blackadder.
   The river Tweed bounds the parish on the south.  The whole
of the parish, with the exception of some slightly elevated parallel

<FOOTNOTE>This account has been drawn up by Robert D. Thomson, M. D.
    The churchyard at Birgham still exists. The chapel of Leithohn stood at the
west end of the present village.  The site of it is marked by an old ash tree known by
the name of the chapel tree, which grows on the summit of the chapel know. The ad-
joining ground was used as a place of burial, and is now cultivated.  Bones and cof-
fius have been occasionally dug up.


