
			TROQUEER.			229

veal, mutton and lamb, in their respective seasons. A Dispen-
sary has lately been opened in Maxwelltown, for the benefit of
the poorer classes of its inhabitants, under the superintendance of
a young medical practitioner.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church and the manse are situated
within the burrow-roods of Maxwelltown, at a distance of a mild
from the most crowded part of the population. The church is
capable of accomodating 840 sitters. A chapel of ease was
lately built in the centre of the burgh, through the influence of
the principal landed proprietor, and others. The Crown is the
patron of the parish.
	The manse was built thirty years ago. Its situation is on the
banks of the Nith, and it commands not only an extensive view of
the Nith, but of Criffel in the adjoining parish, and of Skiddaw
and some of the other lofty hills in the north of Cumberland.
The stipend is L.322, 12s. money, the teinds having been sur-
rendered by the whole of the heritors, the titular excepted, whose
estate pays nearly two chalders of victual, the one-half meal and the
other barley. The glebe contains nearly eleven acres, all of good
quality.
	A chapel of ease was some years ago erectdd in Maxwell-
town, capable of accomodating 1600 sitters; the stipend of the
minister in L. 150 without a manse.
	Education.--There are three schools in the landward part of
the parish, the principal of which is the parish school, which has
L.30, 16s. of salary attached to it, with L.2, 10s. of interest,
arising from a mortified sum for teaching the children of the cot-
tagers who reside on the state of Dalscairth, and a comfortable
dwelling-house and an excellent garden. The second school has a
salary of L.15 from the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge, with L.9, 12s. from the heritors in compensation for the
keep of a cow summer and winter; and a large garden, a suitable
dwelling-house, and a sufficient quantity of peats for fuel, are fur-
nished by the surrounding tenants gratis. The third school is
supported by the tenants on the estate of Carden, who pay the
teacher wages, and give him bed and board in their houses alter-
nately. In these three schools, about 180 scholars are taught an-
nually.
	There is only one endowed school in Maxwelltown, with a
salary of L.9, 12s. paid by the landward heritors, and L.4, the
interest of L.100 of mortified funds. It has also the benefit of the


