
32                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

   There are three Dissenting churches. One of these is of the
Original Burgher Associate Synod, capable of containing about 550.
The minister's stipend is L. 90, with a house, and about five or six
acres of glebe land. One is of the Relief, capable of containing
about 600. The minister's stipend is L. 120, with a house and
garden. And one of the United Secession, capable of containing
about 670. The minister's stipend is L. 130, with a house, or an
allowance of L. 20. The stipends are paid from seat-rents and
collections. The names of the present incumbents, in the order
in which the denominations have been stated, are Mr James
Gardiner, Mr Hugh Crichton, Mr J. Russell, and all of them are
respectable and good men.
   The number of communicants at the parish church is about 700.
The relative number of those who profess to belong to the Es-
tablishment, and of those who profess to belong to other denomi-
nations, according to a census taken in spring 1836, is as under;
Establishment, 3349 ; Relief, 865 ; Secession, 785 ; Original
Burgher, 272; Roman Catholic, 764; Episcopalian, 53; Baptist,
14; Methodist, 1; Reformed Presbyterian, 1; Unitarian, 1; In-
dependent, 1 ; no persuasion, 17; total 6123. Total under twelve
years of age, 1742; under seven years of age, 1139; total in the
parish, 1163 families, 6123 individuals.
   It may be remarked, in order to give a full view of the church

ing clsses. The number of sittings in the church is 776, of which 7l2 are let. With
the exception of about 40 all are let to parishioners, The seat rents are at very low
rates, varying from 2s to 4s., with the exception of 62 in the front of th00e gallery,
which are let at 10s. each.
  There is reason to bless God, that this new erection has prospered exceedingly. It
is difficult to say how many persons who attended no church have been reclaimed.
But from the fact of the original parish church having been gradually increasing in
the numbers attending, and being now respectably filled, although a void was made in
its attendance of 300 to 400 hearers, it is quite within the mark to say, that 200 at the
least are now regular in their attendance at church, who were very seldom if ever in
the house of God, This can be the more confidently affirmed, as neither the congre-
gation in the new church, nort the increase in the old, have been drawn from the Dis-
senting congregations in the parish. One great advantage of increased accommoda-
tion and low priced sittings, has been, that a much larger number of young people
and children have been brought to both churches than before. One of the greatest
evils of high seat rents over all the country has been, that the number of seats taken,
and the number of communicants on the roll, were nearly equal, so that no allowance
was made for young people and children-a system fearfully calculated to increase
the habit of forsaking the assembling in the house of God in the rising generation.
Since the opening of the church 102 new members have been added to the roll of com-
municants. Two weekly classes for religious instruction were conducted by the late
minister, and although confined to those above 14 years of age, the one was attended
by about 120, and the other by 70 young persons. The present minister is equally
industrious in his classes, and equally successful with his predecessor. It may be
added, that a number of families now maintain family worship, in which this duty was
entirely neglected before the opening of the new church.--(Feb. 1839.)


