
     Statistical Account

ly hill in the vicinity of Fraserburgh, is Mormond, covered with
moss and heath, elevated 810 feet above the level of the sea; and
the more conspicuous, as the country on every side for many miles
is low and champaign.  Here, as at the Wrekin of Shropshire,
"all friends around," is no unusual toast.-In different
places, are fine mineral spring.  An excellent one, of a cha-
lybeate nature, resembling the waters of Peterhead, but rec-
koned by judges more sit for weak constitutions, was discover-
ed, a few years ago, on the south east corner of the town.
A well of freestone has been built, and a neat house erected
over it, for the accommodation of those that chuse to drink
the water.-A lime-stone quarry among the rocks at
Broadsea, was formerly wrought, and not being exhausted,
may be opened again.  The vein of lime-stone runs south;
and, in the same direction, there are quarries for many miles,
at short distances from each other; one, of an excellent qua-
lity, is on the banks of the water of Philorth.  Plenty of gra-
nite is found in the upper division.  Ironstone, of a good qua-
lity, abounds among the rocks; but the scarcity of fuel pre-
vents its being wrought.-Very particular attention has
been paid, of late years, to the roads in part of this district.
They are made, and kept in repair by the statute labour,
which the people perform personally, or by commutation.
But a more proper and efficient plan, it is thought, might
be adopted.  Were turnpikes established, the roads would be in
a better state.  Many wish for this alteration; while others
imagine that such a plan is scarcely practicable in the present
state of the country*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is contended for, by some respectable proprietors in this part of Scot-
land, that there is an absolute necessity either to establish turnpikes, or to
make an alteration in the nature of the statute labour.-They propose in
each parish a commutation into money, somewhat nearer to the present va-


