
                            STIRLING.                           443

as to prevent attendance at some one or other.  Yet the children
in the Abbey, having to cross the river in a boat, and to pay for
being ferried over, are, to some considerable extent, confined to
the one school in that village ; and discouraged from attending
schools in the town, where they migbt have a choice of teachers,
and acquire the higher branches of education. It is not a greater
number of schools that is required, but in many cases better quali-
fied teachers, and an improved system of tuition. This remark is
far from being intended to apply generally; or to derogate from
the high character sustained by several well qualified and success-
ful teachers, who enter with that enthusiasm into the spirit of their
almost incalculably important profession, without which much suc-
cess in any is not to be expected. It ought to be added, that, in
most of the schools in which English is taught, the Scriptures are
read; the Shorter Catechism is repeated; and considerable atten-
tion is paid by the teachers in these, and in other ways, to religi-
ous training. It needs scarcely to be added, that in all the Sab-
bath schools, of which 11 are in connection with the Sabbath
School Society; and 7 are undertaken by ministers, with the as-
sistance of elders, or connected with congregations, the services of
the teachers, and the instruction received, are entirely gratuitous.
   Literature.--Tbere is no parochial library. There are some
congregational libraries. One of tbese belongs to the East Church,
and was formed six or seven years since; one belongs to the Cowan
Street United Secession Congregation; one to the Cameronian
Congregation in the Craigs, &c. These consist almost entirely of
books of a religious character.--The Stirling Subscription Libra-
ry comprehends general literature. It was founded January 1,
1805; has I27 subscribers or rather proprietors, and upwards of
2000 volumes; and, under the present system of management, has
the prospect of receiving an annual accession of from L.40 to L.50
worth of books. It embraces town and country; but has few
subscribers at any considerable distance from Stirling.--Tbe
School of Arts was instituted in 1826. Its object is " to instruct
the members in the principles of mechanical philosophy, and those
other branches of science, which are of essential service in the ex-
ercise of the arts of life." Its members amount to 201 ; viz. se-
nior, 115; Junior 56; ladies, 30. It has a library, and a museum;
and appears to be prospering, and conferring benefit on those for
whose improvement it was established. There are two or three
circulating libraries; and there is a book club, extending to the


