
                          DOLLAR.                               99

education, certain fixed fees for each class thev attended. But as
this arrangement of allowing masters to exact fLes was represented
as creating an invidious distinction between the children who paid
fees to the masters, and those who paid nothing, the system was
changed, and no fees were allowed to be received by the masters;
but the fees fixed by the trustees were appointed to be levied
quarterly by the treasurer of the institution, from the pupils not
entitled to gratis education. The fees paid to the institution are
quite triflin ; and rise by a graduated scale corresponding to
the supposed ability of parents to pay. The highest fees are
paid by boarders, or those who have no domicile in the parish.
The quarterly payments made by them are 5s. for each class
they attend; while those on the lower grade, or the income of
whoseparentsissupposednot toexceedL.30,payonly8d.perquar-
ter for each class they attend; and if there are more than one attend-
ing school in the same family, the rest are admitted at half-price.
Besides the school-fees, each pupil, not on the foundation., pays a
small sum quarterly for coals, cleaning the school and library ; and
this contribution, like the school-fees, is levied upon a gradual
scale, and with the same deduction, if more than one of a family
Are in attendance on school at the same time.
  For some years after the first opening of the Dollar Institution,
besides the education of the parishioners, it had considerable ce-
lebrity as an establishment for boarders from other parts of the
country, the masters being allowed to receive boarders into their
houses, who are admitted to the different classes of the institution
on paying the highest rate of fees. Of late vears, the number of
boarders has much diminished, which may in a great measure be
attributed to the short-sighted conduct of certain wrong-headed
persons among the parishioners. The trustees were anxious to
encourage the boarding system, both because it was beneficial to
tbe-master, and more especially with a view to the benefit of the
parish generally, and particularly to the shop-keepers and trades-
men, to whom boarders give a great deal of employment: but
certain of the parishioners set themselves, in almost every re-
spect, against ihe system which the trustees, on the opinion of the
first counsel of the time, bad adopted, and, amongst otber things,
had the indiscretion to advertise in the newspapers that they hoped
no gentleman would send -his children to Dollar, to derive any ad,
vantage from a legacy, which was destined solely for the benefit
of the poor. This, as may be well supposed, had the worst effect;


