
74                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

the hills, is a cascade 70 feet in height, and forms a majestic ob-
ject when the river is swelled with rain.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--Dr Scouler, the accomplished Pro,
fessor of Natural History in the Andersonian University, Glasgow,
speaking of the general geological features of this parish, says,
that ''Strathblane, along with part of Campsie, forms a strath or
valley, consisting, of a level plain, bounded by hills on each side.
On contemplating the physical appearance of the district, it ap-
pears not improbable, that, at a former period, it was a fresh water
lake; and that, subsequently, the barriers in ihe direction of Loch-
lomond have been broken down, and that its drainage has been
accomplished by that event. The nature of the soil also contributes
to establish this opinion; for it appears to consist of sand, gravel,
and other comminuted fragments of the neigbbouring rocks. As
calcareous rocks are found in some parts of the parish, it is natu-
ral to expect that the waters should be considerably impregnated
with lime; and in one situation, near the manse, these waters are
cementing the gravel into a firm conglomerate.
  "The fundamental rock of the parish seems to be sandstone;
the old red sandstone of Werner. It is, however, observed in
many places by the superjacent masses of unstratified trap. The
sandstone is visible chiefly in the lower parts of the district, where
several sandstone quarries have been opened. The hills in most
places are covered with trap. The trap-rock appears, at a former
period, to have covered the sandstone throughout the whole pa-
rish, and still does so in many places. In travelling from the
manse to Milngavie, we detected many disconnected masses of
trap, which must formerly have been continuous; nor need we
be surprised at this, when we remember the rapidity with which
trap decays in many places, and as we may see the process of dis-
integration going on under our eyes. It would be interesting to
trace the sandstone in a westerly direction towards Benlomond,
and ascertain upon what rock it reposes. It rests, in all proba-
bility, upon clay-slate, and forms the margin of the great coal-field
of the west of Scotland. The Strathblane hills rest upon this
sandstone; but are capped with masses of trap. At the beautiful
little cascade of Ballagan, we obtained a fine natural section of
these hills; a section which is probably 1000 feet deep, and ac-
cordingly clear and defined, as if it were a natural model, a co-
loured specimen of stratification. This deep section consists of
about 230 beds, varying in thickness, from one to two inches to


