
     of North Yell and Fetlar.

   Rivers, Minerals, Woods, Animals, etc.- We have no
rivers here, nor is it possible in nature that there can be
any upon this island, nor indeed in the country; we have 
some burns in the head of our many bays, into which the
salmon trout enter about the 29th of September, in their
going up to our loughs, where they deposit their sperma
during the winter; some of them are exceedingly large,
and weigh no less than 25 lb. a-piece; if they are caught
in the month of July, are nothing inferior to the richest
salmon caught in the kingdom.  We have many mineral
springs, which, from their appearance at the top of the sur-
face of the water, display certain vestiges of a great quantity
of iron one deposited at the bottom.  A little below the
manse of Fetlar there is a pretty large loch, where there is
a kind of black sand thrown up by the N. W. wind on the
opposite shore.  How sand of such a quality comes there 
(there being no iron-stone in its vicinity) was for a long
time a mystery to the writer, till of late he, by accident,
found upon the declivity of a rising ground, about 3-4ths
of a mile distant from the loch, a considerable quantity of
what is called bog-iron, richer and more ponderous than 
any he has seen at Carron, or in any other part of the 
kingdom; he supported that the winter heavy rains wash

<FOOTNOTE>

ease recurred upon him, and we were reduced to the disagreeable neces-
city of setting him apart, where be very soon died.  The rheumatism
prevails here to a considerable degree, as might be expected from the
humidity of the climate, but not to so severe a pitch as might be looked
for.  The dropsy also is very prevalent here, but it is frequently relieved
by using scurvy-grass both externally and internally, (which the Author
of Nature has liberally bestowed upon us), as also by frequent cupping in
the legs.  The free use of butter-milk is a very powerful remedy; the
writer is in no strait to prove, that he was so fortunate as to put a stop to
an anasarca (that was far advanced before he was applied to) for four
years, solely by the use of this prescription.


