
         		      LOCHMABEN.                 387

ward I. of England. Coins of Robert Ill., Henry VIII., Queen
Elizabeth, and Queen Mary, have been found in the parish.
	Barony of Lochmaben or Fourtowns.--In the immediate neigh-
bourhood of the castle lies the barony of Lochmaben, (or, as it is
more frequently called, the Fourtowns,) which consists of four vil-
lages, named the Hightae (the largest,) which contains a popula-
tion of 391; the Heck, 69; the Greenhill, 80; and the Small-
holm, 65. The tract of holm ground around these villages is un-
commonly rich and fertile. The proprietors hold these lands by
a singular and peculiar tenure. From time immemorial, they were
called the " King's kindly tenants," or the Crowns, rentallers."
As the lands belonged to the Kings of Scotland, and formed part
of the original royal domains, or proper patrimony of the Crown,
it is generally believed that they were granted in small pendicles
by King Robert Bruce (Lord of Annandale) to the domestic ser-
vants of the castle, though at what particular period, it has not
been ascertained. The principal obligation incumbent on the te-
nants or rentallers was, to furnish provisions and other necessaries
for the use of the royal fortress; and it is more than probable that
the tenants composed the garrison itself. They had no written
title to these lands, that is, neither charter nor seisin, and in the
ease of transference by a tenant of his right to a single successors
it is effected simply by a deed of conveyance, followed by posses-
sion or enrolment in the rental book of Lord Stormont, which is
done without fee or reward by his Lordship's factor; and the suc-
cession is taken up without service. The constable of the castle
frequently treated them in a very arbitrary manner. They presented
a petition and complaint to King James VI., stating that, notwith-
standing their being kindly tenants and occupiers of His Majesty's
farm lands and tenantry, assigned to His Majesty's House of Loch-
maben, they among other grievances, were subjected to extortion by
the constables of the castle. In consequence of this representation,
His Majesty, by a warrant under his sign-manual, ordered the keep-
ers of the Castle of Lochmaben to desist and cease from molesting,
troubling, orusing any violence against those his tenants, and to suffer
and permit them peaceably to occupy their possessions, as they, the
keepers, should answer to his Majesty upon their disobedience.
	In the reign of Charles II., the tenants were again under the
necessity of applying to the Crown for protection. His Majesty,
in 1664, issued a warrant under his sign-manual, setting forth, "that
he understood the poor kindly tenants of his proper Crown lands


