
324                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

sandstone of a red colour, and very soft. The soil in general is
deep and fertile, in many places inclining to a reddish colour.
There is some wet heavy land, but in general it is dry, and in some
places gravelly and sandy; the greatest part is of a loamy nature.

                      II.-. CIVIL HISTORY.
	Ancient Families.--Mr Crawford, in his History of the Family
of Stuart, tells us, that James, High Steward of Scotland, was mar-
ried to Dunbar, daughter to the Earl of March, then one of the
most potent families in Scotland, by whom he had Walter, his son
and heir, and James, who obtained from King Robert Bruce the
barony of Durisdeer. It was afterwards possessed by one of that
name, who is designed Sir Robert Stuart of Durisdeer; but what
relation he bore to the said James, whether he was lineally de-
scended from him, or was only a singular successor, is uncertain.
Indeed, Sir James Dalrymple, in his Collection, says, I think this
"Sir Robert hath been the son of James Stuart, formerly men-
tioned, for I find a charter by King Robert II. to Robert Stuart
of Inermath of the barony of Durisdeer." The family of Rosyth
was lineally descended from the said James Stuart. Their mansion-
house was the Castlehill, which appears to have been a very strong
place, especially before the use of fire-arms. It was situated at
the bottom of a steep hill, on the north-east, and had a deep fosse
on the south-west side, and could easily have been surrounded with
water; and therefore most probably it was built by the government
for public service, in defence of the country against its enemies,
especially against the English*. Immediately before the place
went into the family of Queensberry, it belonged to Menzies of
Castlehill.
	Family of Queensberry.--The first charter of the family of
Queensberry was granted by James Earl of Douglas, Lord of Lid -
desdale and Drumlanrig, to William Douglas, his son, in which he
gives him the hail lands and barony of Drumlanrig, to be holden
blench of his Lordship, for serving as a knight in his army. This
charter is sealed but not dated;--wherefore, after the said Earl's de-
cease, John Swinton Lord of Mar, and Margaret Countess of Dou-
glas and Mar, his spouse, by their letter on parchment, dated the 5th
of December 1389, with one consent and assent, promise never to

<FOOTNOTE>Hector Boetius, in his History of Scotland, mentions, that when King David
Bruce, who had been taken at the battle of Durham, and kept nearly eleven years
prisoner in England, was ransomed and restored, this castle of Durisdeer, as also the
castles of Dumfries, Dalswinton, and Morton were, upon a paction betwixt the Eng-
lish and Scots, demolished, because they were found troublesome to the English.

					4


