
220                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

parish, but without success, although strong indications appeared
of the presence of that useful mineral, at least to a small extent.
The existence of such large coal-fields on the oppositd coast of
Cumberland, where geological indications are in many respects si-
milar, has induced a very sanguine belief that a spirited search
would in all probability not be made in vain.
	Soil.--The soil is various, consisting, however, generally of a
strong gravel, intermixed with vegetable mould. Towards the
west, on the low ground near the sea, and on the banks of the
Lochar, a sluggish stream, there is a considerable tract of clayey
soil, mingled with sand, whibh has in remote ages obviously been
under the action of the sea, being originally of the same quality
with the sleetch at present washed by the tide. On soil of this na-
ture, the extensive morass of the Lochar Moss, already-mentioned,
is known generally to rest. In one place, shell marl is to be found,
and attempts have been made to convert it to purposes of agricul-
ture, but the expense of obtaining it has been thought to exceed
its profit.
	Zoology.-Of the zoology of the parish little can be said that is
not contained in the former Statistical Account. It is there stat-
ed with truth, that the woodlark and bullfinch, as well as the other
common birds of the district, are to be found in the woods of
Comlongon. To this we shall only add, that various kinds of
pheasants have within a very few years been introduced to these
woods, where they were increasing rapidly so long as they were
protected, but during the last year their numbers have been great-
ly diminished by poachers.
	The fish on this coast are salmon, which are caught in small
quantities at the confluence of the Lochar with the sea, by means
of stake-nets; flounderr of a large size and good quality of which
there is an abundant supply; and occasionally herrings, as well
as a few cod and skate.
	The ordinary kinds of game, such as hares and partridges, are
plentiful. Some grouse are to be met with on Lochar Moss; and
woodcock and black-cock are in their season by no means uncom-
mon; nor is the fox a stranger to Comlongon woods.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The principal land-owner is the Earl of Mans-
field, who derives his origin from the Murrays of Cockpool, an an-
cient family, the chief of which was in the reign of James IV.


