
                          KENNETHMONTH.                         583

one of the family of Balquhain, noted for his gigantic stature, and
famous in northern song and legend for his many daring exploits
and adventures.
   It may not be unsuitable here to mention that a club of gentle-
men of Aberdeen, (the Maryculter Club), who generally pay an
annual visit for a day or two to some of the more interesting loca-
lities of the county, and whose present president (1841) is Tho-
mas Blaikie, Esq. chief magistrate of Aberdeen, selected this pa-
rish as their rendezvous on the 24th of July of this year, on pur-
pose to visit the field of Harlaw.  Among the party were several
of the members of the Town-Council; and the writer of this, ac-
count of the parish had the pleasure of accompanying them over
the scene of combat, and of pointing out Drum's cairn, Maclean's
grave and the other memorials still existing.  Thus, after the
lapse of 430 years, and upon the anniversary day of the battle, a
Provost of Aberdeen led a body of his townsmen to render upon
the spot their respects to the memory of his gallant predecessor,
and the other brave men who bad there died in defence of their
burgh.
   August 1841.

                      PARISH OF KENNETHMONT.

             PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

               THE REV. WILLIAM MINTY, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   THE parish of Kennethmont consists of Kennethmont, strictly
so called, and the parish of Christ's Kirk, which, at a very remote
period, had been annexed to it.  Of this annexation there is no
written evidence nor oral tradition; and both are now comprehend-
ed in the common name of Kennethmont.
   Name.-The name is said to have been derived from the cir-
cumstance of one of the Kings Kenneth having been interred in
the church-yard, which is a small mount. *  The name is some

<FOOTNOTE>This opinion was probably taken from a tradition that a grave-stone (still to be
within the walls of the old church) had been originally placed over the reputed
grave of the Scotish monarch, which is supposed to have been at the church-yard
gate.  On inspecting the stone, no information can be derived from the inscriptions


