
			KIRKMAIDEN.                      213

planted in the hedgerows, but seldom with good effect; unless
where sheltered, they rarely get beyond the stature of a bush, and are
injurious to the fence, without being ornamental to the landscape.
	The greatest and most striking improvement that has recently
been made in the parish, is on the roads. These, only a few years
ago, were in a scandalous state, carelessly formed, or in many places
not formed at all, and as carelessly kept. Many old lines have
lately been improved, new lines of considerable length have been
or are in the course of being formed, and almost all kept compa-
ratively in excellent repair. The fund for upholding the roads is
derived from the conversion of Statute labour. The assessment
for this purpose is L.1, 10s. Scots in the hundred pounds Scots
of valued rent, and 2s. 6d. from houreholders and mechanics,
amounting in whole to L.75 Sterling. There is no turnpike road
in the parish.
	There are many obstacles existing to agricultural improvement.
These arise from want of capital or enterprise in some instances,--
the want of encouragement by the principal proprietors,--the want
of sufficient fences and suitable accommodation in farm-buildings,
--and, above all, the want of leases, or of such as last longer than
a year; for it will generally be found that "short tacks make thrift-
less tenants." The most of these obstacles, however, arise from
peculiar circumstances in which the principal proprietors are placed,
and it is confidently expected, that, along with these circurmstances,
they will soon be removed.
	Quarries.--There is an extensive body of slate-rock in the pa-
rish, which has been wrought in several places to a considerable
extent, but not perhaps to a depth sufficient to obtain the article so
good as it might otherwise yield. These quarries have, for some
years past, been abandoned.
	Fisheries.--Fishing is not followed after with that industry and
enterprise which the favourable locality would lead one to expect.
Few make it their regular occupation; although many of the in-
habitants engage in it occasionally, both with net and line, and
sometimes with very encouraging success. As many as fifteen cart
loads of blockins or of coal-fish have been taken with the drag-net,
during a single tide. The herrings, after having nearly abandoned
the coast for years, are again promising to revisit it, and the people
are now well prepared with nets to receive them. In connection
with fisheries, Logan fish-pond deserves notice, as it is an object
of attraction to all strangers visiting the parish. It is situated on

