
940                         FIFESHIRE.

before they arrive at years of maturity.  Unfortunately there is
no public library in the parish, but steps are now taking to supply
this grievous defect, and place a sound literature in the hands of the
people.  A Sunday school library, which is extensively used both
by old and young, has been established during the last year, and
it already contains many standard works upon practical divinity.
   Poor.-The average number of people receiving parochial aid
is 34.  Besides the regular paupers, 30 or 40 persons in straiten-
ed circumstances sometimes receive a little aid from the kirk-ses-
sion.  The whole expenditure for the poor of the parish, which
contains nearly 3000 people, is, for the last year, L. 143.  The
weekly allowances run from 6d. to 2s. 9d.: 1s. is about the ave-
rage.  The bulk of the paupers are above sixty years of age.
There cannot be a doubt that a reluctance to apply for parochial
aid is disappearing but, at the same time, it is feared that an ex-
cessive desire to foster a spirit of self-dependence among the poor,
has, in this as in other parishes, led to a stinted allowance in
many cases of real distress.  The first voluntary assessment for
the aid of the poor was made in 1800, and the system has been
continued up to the present time; but as some of the heritors
have refused to pay their proportion for the last year, the system
of legal assessment will, in all probability, be immediately intro-
duced.  A yearly sum of L. 40 or L. 50 is derived from mortifi-
cations, sessional dues, mortcloth, &c., while the collections at
the church doors may upon an average amount to L. 20 a year.
It is proper to mention that liberal donations are made to the
poor by Mr and Mrs Bruce of Falkland.
   Inns.-In the parish there are fourteen licensed houses for the
sale of ardent spirits.  We are afraid that stringent police regu-
lations are necessary to keep some of them in proper order.  The
practice of granting such licenses to so many houses in a parish
of this size is highly censurable.
   Fuel.-There is a great abundance of coal in the neigbbour-
hood.  It is brought in carts from the adjoining parish of Mark-
inch, and also in considerable quantities from Lochgelly.  The
Balbirnie and Lochgelly coals are of excellent quality, and if we
include the carriage, cost 9s. or 10s. a ton.

   February 1845.


