
   390                       BANFFSHIRE.

      The produce of the parish for export consists of cattle, corn,
   barley and bear, pork, eggs, butter, and cheese, of which a great
   quantity is sent to the London market. The land is culti-
   vated generally on the six-shift rotation of cropping, two years
   grass, two corn, one potatoes or turnips, and one corn or barley.
   There is no wheat cultivated in the parish; yet, there being two
   flour-mills, its manufacture is carried on to some extent. In New
   and Old Keith, there are 338 feus, to each of which are annexed,
   from two to six acres of land so that every feuar, whatever his
   trade or occupation, produces his own milk, butter, and cheese,
   and, in many cases, a sufficiency of meal for the use of his family.
   In Fife Keith, there are 120 faus, and to each feu are annexed from
   4 to 6 acres of land. In Newmill, there are 100 feus, with five
   acres of land to each feu; and here, the people are more devoted
   to agriculture than in the other two villages, there being in pro-
   portion fewer tradesmen.
      Manufactures.-There is a tannery, which employs two tanners
   and one currier; a distillery, which produces about 20,000 gallons
   of whisky annually; a tobacco manufactory, which requires from
   40  to 50 cwt. annually. There are two mills for carding and
   spinning of wool, and a bleachfield for country use; a mill for
   home-grown flax; six corn-mills, and two flour-mills, which carry
   on a great trade, supplying the country for upwards of twenty miles
   round.  A vein of limestone runs through the parish, from north-
   east to south-west, which is manufactured with advantage at Black-
   hillock, Douglas Brae, and Maisley, producing annually from
   30,000 to 40,000 bolls of lime, which finds a ready market, be-
   sides supplying the surrounding districts both in Aberdeenshire
   and Morayshire, and giving employment to many carters and small
   crofters, both in driving the coals from Port-Gordon to the quar-
   ries, and driving the lime.

  	               V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Villages.-Old Keith is a very ancient place, and, at no very
   distant period, was celebrated for an annual market held in Sep-
   tember, to which merchants from, Glasgow and the other manu-
   facturing, towns in the south repaired in great numbers, where they
   met those from the north,- as far as Orkney, and exchanged their
   various commodities. So great was the concourse of people there,
   that the historian of Moray says, "There was not accommoda-
   tion for them, and they occupied the barns and; out-houses in the
   country for many miles round." New Keith is a clean thriving-like
   village, on a rising ground sloping towards the east, with three


