
442                     FIFESHIRE.

ton, 413; Lower Largo, including Temple and Drummochy, 567;
Lundin Mill, 453; Backmuir of Gilston and Woodside, 316.
  Means of Communication.-Numerous means of communica-
tion are enjoyed by the parish.  A daily post arrives and
departs. The turnpike road passing through it exceeds eight
miles. There is a daily coach from Cupar to Largo, except
in the depth of winter; and at all seasons, one by Largo from
Anstruther to Edinburgh, three times a week; and one also as
frequently from St Andrews to Largo. A steam-boat plies
twice a day in summer and once in winter between Largo and
Newhaven. The harbour, formed by the influx of the Kiel
into the Frith of Forth, is not in good order. Were it repaired,
which might be done without much outlay, it would be one of the
best on this side of the Forth, and were a low water or chain pier to
be constructed, and a more level road made between this port and
Cupar, not only would the neighbourhood be benefited, and the
county town obtain a shipping port within ten miles, but the near-
est and most direct communication would be opened between the
capital and the northeast of Scotland, and a place of shelter af-
forded to vessels in storms, by which much property and life might
be saved.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated most conve-
niently for the majority of the population, but at a distance of four or
five miles from one-fifth of it. It was built in 1817; and in 1826, there
was taken into the new building, an aisle belonging to the old, by
which the spire is supported, bearing date 1623. It affords accom-
modation for upwards of 800, and there are no free sittings except
50, eight for the hospitalers, and the remainder for official persons.
  There are considerable benefactions in the management of the
session. The interest of L. 100, left by Mrs Wood, for the bene-
fit of orphans; the interest of L. 600, left by the late Mr Kettle,
writer in Edinburgh, one-half for the education of four poor child-
ren, to the parochial teacher, and one-half to as many persons as
it will reach, none receiving less than L. 2, who have fallen from
their former means, but are not on the poor's roll; and the inte-
rest of L. 500, to respectable widows, named Jameson, who have,
and only as long as they have, children under sixteen years of age.
This fund, from, the want of applicants corresponding to the de-
scription, now exceeds L. 1100. No individual can receive more
than L. 5 per annum.
  The manse was built in 1770. A large addition, with a com-


