
	                   RENFREW.                          13

be illustrated from other memorials, now on the verge of oblivion.
Nearly sixty years ago, two monuments connected with the history
of that family stood on the Knock hill, an elevated ridge of land
about half way between Renfrew and Paisley, and described in the
former section.  A highly respectable farmer, who was born and
brought up on the Knock, and who was accustomed to see these
from his infancy, guided the writer to their sites, which are now
wholly obliterated.  The following description may therefore be
of use to after generations.  Proceeding first to the highest point
of the road between Renfrew and Paisley, and as it crosses the
Cockle hill, we find a gate on the west side.  Ninety-six yards from
this gate, in a straight line towards the north corner of the Knock
farm-house, there was, at the period referred to, a circular mound
of earth, about twenty yards in diameter, and surrounded by a moat
five yards broad, the mound having been apparently raised by the
earth taken out of the moat.  This mound was commonly known
by the name of the Kempe Knowe.  The tradition is, that there
was at one time a wager between the Scottish and English sove-
reigns; the latter having challenged Scotland to furnish a man
able to fight a noted champion attendant on the English court;
and the former having accepted the challenge.  The King of Scot-
land being much perplexed to find a man competent to the task,
offered " The Inch" as a reward to any who should successfully
encounter the Englishman.  At last Sir John Ross of Hawkhead
offered his services, and arrangements were made on the Knock
hill for the fight.  The moat was filled with water, a large fire was
kindled on the mound, and the parties were expected to grant no
terms.  To escape was to meet death by drowning; and to be
vanquished was to perish,-if not otherwise, by fire.  The English-
man was of large stature and renowned prowess, while Ross was
only a private gentleman, and of small stature, but of great agility
and muscular strength.  Having equipped himself with a dress of
skin, the smooth side out, and rendered farther slippery with grease
or oil, he appeared on the ground with his more bulky antagonist.
After many unavailing attempts to lay hold of Ross, the English-
man held out his own hands, inviting his antagonist to grasp them,
and no doubt trusting to his own superior strength against any ad-
vantage which might thus be given.  The invitation was " palm
my arm."  This, it seems, was the hold Ross most coveted.  He
seized the Englishman by the wrists, and, by a sudden jerk, wrench-
ed his shoulders out of their sockets, and made easy work of him.


