
                                    WICK.                          133

      however, conveyed away; and a little sister escaped, in a similar
      manner, the rage of her twice disappointed father.  Years rolled on,
      and Morar na Shien often lamented his childless condition.  At
      length, on some public occasion, a great festival was held, at which
      Sir Reginald noticed two young ladies, who far outshone the rest
      of the company.  Morar na Shien expressed his admiration, and
      lamented to his wife his cruel infatuation, by which he had been
      deprived of daughters, who, had they been allowed to live, would
      have been about the age of these peerless beauties.  Mary de
      Cheyne hastened to confess her justifiable disobedience to her
      husband's orders, and introduced the young ladies to him as
      his own daughters.  Overpowered with joy, Sir Reginald de
      Cheyne acknowledged them as his, and constituted them heiresses
      of his extensive possessions.  Morar na Shien died, about the year
      1350.  Mariotta, his elder daughter, married John de Keith, the
      second son of Edward the Marischal, by whom she had a son, An-
      drew, who became possessed, in right of his mother, of the lands
      of Ackergill and other estates in the parish of Wick.  Marjory,
      the younger, was heiress of Duffus, and married Nicholas, the se-
      cond son of Kenneth, Earl of Sutherland, who thus obtained the
      castle and lands of Auld Wick, in the same parish.  William, on
      whom his father, Earl William, passing by an elder brother of the
      same name, entailed the earldom of Caithness, married a daugh-
      ter of Keith of Ackergill.
        These various marriages brought the Sinclairs, Sutherlands,
      and Keiths into the parish of Wick; and subsequent events gave
      rise to the following couplet, which is yet often repeated :
               Sinclair, Sutherland, Keith, and clan Gun,
               There never was peace whar thae four war in.
        About the year 1464, serious disputes having arisen between
      the Keiths and the clan Gun, Keith of Ackergill associated with
      himself the Mackays of Strathnaver, whd readily entered into the
      quarrel, and marched against his enemies.  The hostile parties
      encountered each other on the Moor of Tannach, in the parish of
      Wick.  A desperate conflict ensued, but after a cruel slaughter
      on both sides, the Guns were at last defeated.  To terminate
      these bitter and bloody feuds, it was arranged that a meeting should
      take plan with twelve horses on each side between Ackergill and
      the Cruner, as the chief of the clan Gun was styled.  This in-
      terview was appointed to be held in the Chapel of St Tears, not
      far from Ackergill.  The Cruneir, with the greater part of his sons



