
				ST CYRUS                          289

        Quarries.-Trap or scurdy rock is obtained at the expense of
quarrying and carriage, in various parts of the parish, and there
are several quarries od sandstone, which yield an abundant supply
of good building materials. The stone of the Whitecraig on the
lands of Kirkside, is a white sandstone, well fitted on account of
its beauty and durability for ornamental architecture, but too ex-
pensive, from its hardness, for general use in building. The quar-
ries of Woodston and Lauriston afford the principal supply of
sansotne to the district within a circuit of ten miles. The stone
is a reddish soft sandstone, easily wrought, and very durable. Both
quarries, which are within a few yards of each other, though on
differdnt properties, are at present in the hands of one tenant, who
holds a kind of monopoly of the trade. The value of stones ex-
ported from these quarries, is estimated at from L.800 to L.1000
a year. Prices at the upwards, according to size, per foot, for blocks;
ridge-stones, 6d. per running foot; pavement, 3d. per square foot,
dressed; carriage to Montrose, six miles and half, 3s. per ton of
12 cubic feet.
	The tile-stones of Morphy were at one time used ford roofing,
but after a trial, were discontinued, having been found to yield so
rapidlly to the influences of the atmosphere.
	The most extensive lime-works in the county were at East ma-
thers, in this parish. They are said to have been wrought for a
very long period, and to have produced, during a space of eighty
years, an average of 20,000 bolls annually. The limestone lay,
in detached masses, along a portion of the sea shore, and was for
a time quarried at a trifling expense, but the rock passing inland
under a deep bank, the labour of mining became at last so expen-
sive, as to cause an entire suppression of the works about the year
1836, for several years before which time not more than 1000
bolls having been burnt annually.
        Fisheries.-There are several very valuable salmon-fisheries
connected with the properties of Stone of Morphy, Comeston
(and Kinnaber), Kirkride, Woodston, and West Mathers. The
fishing belonging to the last mentioned estate was alienated from
it some years since, and now belongs to Mr Grant of Mount Cy-
rus. The proprietor of Lauriston also derives a small revenue
from a fishing lately established on the coast adjacent to his lands.

<FOOTNOTE>rishes in the county that have a grater proportion of arable land, there are none in
which the powers of cultivation are more vigorously exerted, or in which the lands in
general yield a greater return, or are let at a higher rent."

   KINCARDINE


