
                         LYNE AND MEGGET.                       171

py, and select the breed, or intermixture of breeds, that seems to
be best adapted to it. They are connected with local Associations
that are formed for the purpose of encouraging exertion, by con-
ferring premiums on successful competitors. The husbandry
which prevails in the parish is that which is most approved in the
district. Fallowing, liming, raising of turnips, and artificial grass
engage a suitable degree of attention. Draining is practised
wherever it is deemed requisite. Several pieces of waste land have
been reclaimed. Embankments in various places have been con-
structed along the sides of the rivulets to prevent the injury which
might be occasioned by inundations. No hay or straw is disposed
of by sale; all is consumed in the parish. Indeed hay from artifi-
cial grass is seldom produced. Fields sown with the seeds of clover
and rye-grass are commonly pastured. And, on the whole, agri-
cultural operations seem to be conducted in that judicious manner
which renders the ground most productive to the farmer, and most
valuable to the proprietor.
   The fences which form the enclosures appear to be in a suffi-
cient state. The farmhouses are good and commodious, well-
fitted for the accommodation of respectable tenants. The Earl
of Wemyss has lately caused to be erected in Megget six substan-
tial houses for shepherds, built of stone and lime, and neatly co-
vered with excellent slates, which give an improved appearance to
that part of the parish. Leases generally are for a period of 19
years. Previous to the death of the late Duke of Queensferry,
and for some time subsequent to that event, the doubts which were
entertained concerning the legality of leases which he had given
had an unfavourable influence on agriculture. But which a deci-
sion had been finally given in the House of Lords, which ended
the litigation, and new leases had been obtained from the Earl of
Wemyss and March, increased exertions were soon perceptible.
No symptom of deficiency of capital can be discerned. The far-
mers are active and enterprising, and withhold no expense which
is needful in their operations. The proprietors facilitate their ef-
forts by affording every convenience and means of success which
can reasonably be desired.-There are very few hedges in the pa-
rish, but stone fences in a suitable state are numerous. These
have been lately extended over most of the arable land, forming a
range of convenient enclosures.
   Produce.-The produce of the parish is extremely fluctuating:
and it is not easy to state an average amount. The following calcula-
tion relates to the present period, and cannot be far from the truth:


