
			BIGGAR.                                 357

			"Steal alonit the lonely date,
		In silent search, or climb the mountain rock,
		Fir'd by the nodding verdure of its brow."
	The following are the only plants not common everywhere,
which have been observed in the parish:--Anchusa sempervirens,
Epilobium angustifolium, Ononis arvensis, Sambucus Ebulus, Ra-
nunculus Ficaria, Saxifraga granulate, Genista anglica, Scrophu-
laria vernalis, and Veronica scutellata.
	Some names of places, such as Carwood and Bizzyberry or Bushy.
berry (hill.) would seem to indicate that woods bad formerly exist-
ed which have long since disappeared. Considerable remains of
alder, oak, and birch, have also been dug out of the mosses, and
in many places hazel-nuts have been discovered several feet below
the surface. But whatever may have been the case formerly, the
soil seems but little congenial now to the growth of natural wood.
The lover of Scottish scenery will look in vain for the hazel copse,
or sloe-thorn thicket, or even for a patch of the trailing bramble.
The only underwood is furze, broom, and in one or two places the
wild rasp. This want of natural wood is in some measure com-
pensated by plantations, of which there are about 750 acres. An
erroneous notion once prevailed that the soil was best adapted to
the Scotch fir, and the consequence is, that by far too great a pro-
portion of the parish bristles with plantations of that unlovely tree,
A glance at the large and thriving hard wood trees at every farm
steading ought to have corrected this prejudice long ago; but it is
now happily on the wane. In all the recent plantations, there is
a due mixture of hard wood, which seems to make the same pro-
gress, in comparison with the resinous trees, as in other parts of
the country. The ash and elm are the decided favourites of the
soil, and next to these the beech and plane. The larch in gravel-
ly soils and exposed situations becomes corky in the heart, and
falls into premature decay.
	A method of pruning trees has originated in this parish, which
well deserves public attention. Mr Gavin Cree, nursery-man in
Biggar, the author of this improvement, has explained it at length
in the third volume of the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture. His
plan is to apply the pruning-knife the third, or fourth year after a
tree has been planted; but all that is done for some years is short-
ening the lateral branches, and carefully suppressing all rivalry
with the main stem. When the tree has attained the height of fif-
teen feet, it is subjected for the first time to close pruning. The
lowest tier of branches is cut off the first year, another tier the se-
	LANARK.                              A a


