
     Statistical Account

same with that of the Edinburgh market.  Though the num-
ber of inhabitants is not large in proportion to the extent of
the parish, yet, on account of the great quantity of land in
grass, besides what is allotted to the production of other crops,
the oats raised in the parish are far from being sufficient
to supply the consumption of meal.  The average price of
beef, mutton, and veal, is 4 d. the pound, Dutch weight.  The
price of a hen is from 1 s. to 1 s. 3 d. and chickens are sold
from 8 d. to 10 d. the pair.  Butter is usually at 9 d. the pound
Tron weight.  Cheese varies according to its quality; but the
ordinary kind is 3 d. the pound.  Eggs are sold at 4 d. and in
the season of scarcity, at 6 d. the dozen.  During these two
last winters, herrings have been caught in great plenty upon
this coast, and the fishermen are encouraged to bring very
eonsiderable quantities of them to St David's, a harbour in
the parish, both for the purpose of curing, and of supplying
the people in the neighbourhood.  They prove a very benefi-
cial article of food to this part of the country, and are sold
at an easy rate, being frequently at 6 d. the hundred of six
score.  It is thought by many, that shoals of herrings have,
for a long time past, come into this Frith in winter, without
being generally discovered or looked after; whether they
were in such great quantities as they have been these two
years, it is impossible to ascertain: but a fisherman in
the neighbourhood, has, for many years, caught some dur-
ing the spring.  season, in a net little accommodated for the
purpose, from the wideness of its interstices, and which
he had spread out near the coast, where there were runs of
fresh water, in order to catch salmon trouts.  It is therefore
much to be wished, that fishermen would be diligent in
searching the Frith occasionally every winter, to discover if
there are any herrings in it, and upon what part of the coast
they principally lie, that they may lose no opportunity of be-


