
                                DUNLOP.                     303

in very good order, and are well laid out for the accommodation
of the parishioners. A coach from Irvine to Glasgow passes and
repasses every lawful day, close to the village. Bridges have been
built wherever they were needed, which are all kept in good repair.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church, which is the only place of wor-
ship in the parish, is conveniently situated for the greater part of the
population. It is about two miles and a half from the southern extre-
mity,and a little more than four from the northern. The old church
having become too small for the increased population, the heritors
last spring (1835,) agreed to erect a new one. The building was
begun without delay to erect a new one. The building was
for public worship in December. It is a handsome and commo-
dious edifice, capable of acbommodating about 750 persons. In
the old church, each heritor had sittings proportioned to his valu-
ed rent, which he divided, rent free, among his tenants. The table
seats alone were not allocated in this way. These, reserving four
sittings for the paupers, who very seldom occupied them, were an-
nually let by roup to the highest bidder, and on account of the
want of room, generally brought extravagant prices. Ten shil-
lings have sometimes been paid for a single sitting. The new
church is divided in a similar manner; but, as it affords more ac-
commodation than the parish in its present state requires, those
who have no sittings from being occupiers of land, are able to pro-
cure them at a reasonable rate, seldom exceeding a shilling for a
sitting.
	The manse was built in the year 1781. A considerable addi-
tion was made to it in 1814. It contains a good deal of room,
and when the alterations now in progress are completed, will be a
comfortable and convenient house.
	The extent of the glebe is about 7 acres. Nearly 4 acres of it
are arable. The remainder consists of steep banks, which are fit
only for pasture. It is worth about L. 14 a year. The stipend
is 14 chalders, one-half oat-meal, and the other barley, converti-
ble into money at the fiar prices of the county. The average
value for the last seven years has been L. 215, 4s. The allow-
ance for communion elements is L. 8, 6s. 8d.
	Of the 222 families in the parish, 215 attend the Established
church, and 7 attend dissenting places of worship in the neigbbour-
hood. The total number of Dissenters is 26, including those who
live as servants in families, the heads of which belong to the Es-
tablished Church. Of these, 15 are connected with the United


