
250                              EDINBURGHSHIRE.

considerably diminished, in consequence of the erection of a reser-
voir in the Pentland Hills, for supplying the capital with water.
   Geology and Mineralogy. -The geological features of this pa-
rish present no great variety of character.  The rocks belong ex-
clusively to the stratified or sedimentary class, that is to say, they
have been all formed at the bottom of a deep ocean, by the depo-
sit of various substances mechanically suspended in the waters.
There are in the parish no Plutonian rocks, such as greenstone, ba-
salt, or porphyry.  The sedimentary formations in this parish
consist exclusively of strata more or less thick, of sand, clay, lime-
stone, and coal.  They form part of a large deposit, which ex-
tends through the greater part of the Lothians, and which has
been termed the great coal basin of the Lothians.  It has been
ascertained by geologists, that this coal basin must have been de-
posited at a period in the history of the globe anterior to the de-
position of the strata forming the Durham and Newcastle coal-
field, inasmuch as the latter are found to lie a long way above the
strata in the valley of the Tweed, which can be proved to be con-
temporaneous with the Lothian deposits.
   Coal appears to have been worked in this parish at a very early
period.  There is still extant a tunnel, which runs under Eskgrove
House, through which a part of the river Esk had at an ancient
period been conducted to drive a wheel at Pinkie, used for drain-
ing the coal seams there.* The expense, labour, and difficulty of
making the tunnel must have been very great.  It was begun in
November.  1742, and finished in May 1744.  The north entrance
to it is built up, and may be seen in the plantation within which
Eskgrove House stands.  The south entrance to it has not been
traced.
   The old sea-cliff which runs along the south shore of the Frith
of Forth traverses this parish.  The village and church of Inver-
esk stand on it.  The upper level of it is about 80 feet above the
sea, the base about 65 feet.  The teeth, scales, and bones of large
sauroidal fish have been found in the shale and coal seams at

<FOOTNOTE>This extraordinary aqueduct was constructed by William Adam, architect, of
Edinburgh.  That gentleman erected a coal work at Pinkie in 1739, out of which
he extracted the water by a horse-machine.  This was, however, found to be ineff-
cient; and he determinid to cut an aqueduct through the hill on which Inveresk
Stands.  Preparotory to this grest undertaking, he cut a canal from the Esk to the
foot of Inveresk hill, above a mile in length.  Coming here on a bed of sand, it became
necessary to sink two shafts, one at each extremity of his intended aqueduct, to the
depth of 50 feet.  He then began his duct through the rock.  Between these shafts
the aqueduct is pearly 800 feet in length, 4 feet in width, and 6 in height; and about
100 feet below the surface of the hill on which the village is situated.



