
     Statistical Account

building*; but it is neither commodious, nor in good repair.
The last manse was built in 1763.  But as the undertaker had
only 1000 L.  Scotch for executing the work, it was never pro-
perly finished.  As the incumbent, however, had a numerous
family, he found it convenient to give the old manse some
repair, at his own expence.  The present incumbent had a
small allowance from the heritors, for giving it a farther re-
pair.  Neither the manses, however, nor the offices, are in
good condition.  There are no sectaries, excepting 2 or 3
families of Seceders.

   School and Poor.-The schoolmaster's salary is only
6 L. 13 s. 4 d. Sterling; and, as the emoluments from teaching,
and other perquisites, are inconsiderable, it is not worth the
acceptance of a person of education.  The present teacher's
knowledge extends only to reading English, writing, and the
common rules of arithmetic.  The parish has the benefit of a
Society spinning school.  And as the different parts of it are
much detached from one another, it has been found convenient
to have 2 or 3 private schools, in the remotest corners.  At
these different schools there have been, for the last 3 years,
generally about 90 scholars, male and female.  The only lan-
guage taught and spoken is English.-As the people are, in
general, in low circumstances, the weekly collections for the.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is not known at what period it was built; but from tradition, and from
other circumstances, it was probably some time before the Reformation.  There
is a grave-stone in the church-yard, the inscription of which has a strong re-
semblance to the story of the unfortunate Miss Rae, which was so much the
subject of conversation, on some years ago.  The inscription is,-" Here hes
" Margaret Wallace, daughter of William Wallace, who was murdered by
" Alexander Calder, son of Alexander Calder in Dunnet, because he could not
" have her in marriage.  August the 29th, in the year of GOD 1635."-There
is still a tradition, that the murder was committed on a Sunday morning; and
that the murderer, by fleeing to Orkney, escaped punishment.

     5


