
                        KIRKINTILLOCH.                          175

ed or approximated by various smaller ridges to the south in the pa-
risbes of Kirkintilloch and Cumbernauld, which are of similar struc-
ture, run in the same easterly and westerly directions, and may all
be ascribed to the same geological epoch. The shapes or general
forms of these ridges are considerably modified by the currents
of water which, at an early, period, have apparently flowed between
them, probably froni east to west, which is indicated not only by
the groovings and dressings on rocks, and the abrading effects of
the liquid among the materials opposed to its passage, but is also
rendered extremely probable by the natural lie of the whole dis-
trict, and more especially by the fact, that the surface of the river
Forth is about five feet lower than that of the river Clyde--a
fact ascertained by the levels on the line of the Forth and Clyde
Canal. *
  The principal deposits of coal in the district of Lenzie are only
such as are immediately connected with the carboniferous group
of limestones, and all lie in swilleys, or small insulated patches, of
very inconsiderable length and breadth. These small indepen-
dent basins are generally of an oval shape, and evidently seem to
have been once small lakes or marshes, the strata having been de-
posited on the bottoms and sides, taking the concave form, which,
under such circumstances, we would naturally suppose them to as-
sume. In all of these swilleys, the stratum of coal that is of con-
siderable thickness at the base, becomes thinner, and gradually
fines off towards the edges, and at last totally disappears. This
fact proves that the present basin-shaped position of the strata
was their original one; and that the basin, at the period when the
coal was deposited, was a detached lake or marsh, and not a part
of the bed of the sea. These coal beds are evidently of consider-
able antiquity, and must have preceded some considerable local
convulsions of nature. This is indicated by the fact, that while
the small coal-basins at Holland Hirst in the east, and at Shirva
on the west, both respectively retain their original or native forms
that at Stron, which lies exactly between them, and on the same
line running east and west, the coal has been up-heaved by a great
mass of diorite whinstone, which forms a considerable hill, and the
whole original basin has accordingly been reversed in its shape, or
has become saddle-backed, resembling a cup or basin turned upside

<FOOTNOTE>It is believed that the bed of the Forth has been raised 20 feet. This would
give 25 feet of fall.


