
				  DOUGLAS.                        481

lately acquired a classical, though melancholy interest, as being the
scene of the last historical romance of Sir Walter Scott. Before
the appearance of "Castle Dangerous," the illustrious author paid
a visit to the Castle and town of Douglas,--the last places which
he visited, or perhaps intended to visit, with a view to publication,
--as if it had been his design to close his splendid and fascinating
illustrations of the historical antiquities of his country with the
brilliant achivements of the Douglas, the friend and assistant of
the Bruce in recovering the Scottish crown, and in rescuing the
kingdom from English domination.
	The civil history of a parish distinguished by the residence
of the illustrious house of Douglas must be identified in a great
measure with the most splendid and important portion of the an-
nals of Scotland. Unfortunately it is covered with almost impene-
trable obscurity. Not even tradition has saved from oblivion any
considerable part of the eventful deeds, of which it must often have
been the theatre; and no minstrelsy exists to aid the researches of
the antiquary. During the long struggle which Scotland had to
maintain for her independence, in consequence of the pretensions
of Edward I. of England and his successors, the castle of Douglas
was so important as a stronghold, and as a key to the western
counties, that it was often the object of violent contention. It
repeatedly fell into the hands of the English, and as often was
wrested from them by its rightful owners. In these fearful con-
flicts, it was more than once destroyed by fire, always rising from
its ashes in greater strength and stateliness. So perilous, indeed, was
its occupation to the English governors, that it was designated the
Castle of Danger. Of the bloody scenes that occurred in the course
of these fierce contentions, the names of some places in the neigh-
bourhood of the castle, as the Bloody Sykes, the Bottomless Mire, &c.
still give significant, though obscure intimation. One of the con-
flicts in which the castle was recovered from Sir John de Walton,
by the good Sir James Douglas, is too memorable to be omitted
here. A fair dame of England, whom Sir Walter Scott calls the
Lady Augusta de Berkely, had promised to her numerous suitors
that she would bestow her hand on the man who should keep pos-
session of the perilous castle of Douglas for a year and a day. Sir
John de Walton, with the consent of Edward I., undertook the
dangerous task; and after having discharged his duty faithfully
and valiantly for several months, the lady, perhaps impatient to
put him in possession of the promised reward, sent a letter to recall him,


