
                    	      PARISH OF STONYKIRK.

                  PRESBYTERY OF STRANRAER, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY. *

			THE REV. JAMES ANDERSON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name, Situation, Extent, &c.-THE parish of Stonykirk, more
properly called Stephenkirk, comprising the united parishes of Stony-
Kirk, Clayshank, and Toscarton, is situated on the west of the Bay
of Luce. It is bounded on the south by the parish of Kirkmaiden;
on the west by the Irish Channel, and the parish of Portpatrick;
and by the parishes of Inch and Glenluce on the north.
	The parish is of an irregular figure, extending about 7 miles in
breadth, on the north, and then continuing to contract towards the
south, until its, breadth does not exceed 3 miles. It measures about
33 1/2 square miles, and contains 21,420 imperial acres, of which not
about 650, stretching along the bay of Luce, of a sandy soil, and 60
acres on the west, may now be reported as incapable of improve-
ment. The soil of the rest, particularly of the eastern and south-
ern district, is in general light and dry, and affords an early har-
vest. A tr`ct, extending along the western district, and reclaimed,
in a great part, from a mossy and heathy state, consists of a heavier
and wetter soil, and is in consequence later in the maturity of its
produce.
	The surface is varied by many inequalities; but scarcely any
of these deserves the name of a hill. There are about 1400 acres
in detached spots, scattered over its surface, mostly considered ca-
pable of improvement.
        Topographical Appearances.-The coast, on tbe north-west, is ra-
ther bold and rocky, and precipitous in some places, becoming less so
as it approaches the south. It is indented by three bays, affording
moorings to the fishermen's small craft. The eastern coast is rather
sinuous and stony, and varied by two bays: that of Sandhead is capa-
cious, andaffords anchorage for lime and coal sloops. The lands
extending from the Sandhead eastward, and joining the s`nds of
Luce, (of which they are a continuation,) are marked with the ruins
of many a vessel stranded on them, before the erection of the

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up from Notes furnished by the parish Schoolmaster.


