
			CULTER.                                353

thriving plantations;" that "many thousand trees had also been
planted in different parts of the parish within the last seven or eight
years;" that "the proprietors seemed to vie with each other in im-
provements;" and that "enclosed land was let at an average of
from L. 1, 10s. to L.2 per acre." The improvements thus early
begun have been going on steadily and progressively ever since, as
will appear when we have mentioned some of the more remarkable
changes that have taken place within the period now referred to. Since
1791 the population has been increased by an addition of 171; the
rental has been nearly trebled; a new church has been built; a new
school and school-house, and a new bridge over Culter water,
Since then, an elegant mansion-house has been, erected by Mr
Campbell of Cornhill. The wooden ploughs which were then in use
have almost totally disappeared, and their place been supplied by
others made of iron. The labour of hoeing has been greatly abridged
by the introduction of the drill harrow, an implement then alto-
gether unknown: The church collections have risen from L. 8 to
L. 32 annually; farm-houses and cottages have been either re-
built or undergone a sufficient repair; and agriculture in all its
branches is much better understood and more successfully prac-
tised. Plantations also have been greatly extended, and are still
extending; and, with some exceptions referred to under a former ar-
ticle, are healthy and thriving. For many of these  improvements,
the parish is indebted to the late John Dickson, Esq. of Hartree, the
principal landed proprietor witbin its bounds. He first introduced
many of the most approved modes of husbandry into this district,
at a time when the art was but little understood; and gave an im-
pulse to a spirit for planting at a time when trees were indeed "few
and far between." Mr Dickson, having survived what Dr John-
son calls The frightful interval between the seed and the timber,
died in May last at a very advanced age. The heritors, who are
seven in number, are all resident with but one exception. The
advantages resulting from such a state of society must be obvious
to any one. Money is plentifully circulated; regular employment
is given to tradesmen and labourers of every kind; the church, col-
lections are large, whilst the number needing parochial aid is com-
parativelty small; courtesy and good breeding we diffused on every
side; the richer and poorer classes are brought into frequent and
intimate intercourse with each other; and that kindly bond of con-
nexio is formed  between landlord and tenant, which constitutes
at once the hapiness and strength of the country.
	July 1835.


