
                       STRATHBLANE.                            77

nished by its present distinguished representative, Sir Archibald
Edmonstone, Bart.
  Edmonstone Family.--The name of Edmonstone first appeared
in the county of Mid-Lothian in the beginning of the thirteenth
century. Tradition would, indeed, derive it 150 years earlier,
from an Edmundus of the family of the Counts Egmont of Flan-
ders, who is said to have come to Scotland in the reign of Mal-
colm Canmore, and to have had a grant from David I. of the said
lands, to which be gave his name; but there is no authority for
this whatever; and it seems more than probable that the powerful
race of Seton was the parent stock ; as the whole district round
was in possession of that family, and the arms are identical: and,
as the earliest appearance of the name of Edmonstone is in a
charter where Henry de Edmonstone is styled ''Filius E," this
may have been the very Edmund who thus founded the family;
and gave his name to the lands. In the middle of the following
century, Sir John Edmonstone of Edmonstone appears a person
of considerable importance, and was appointed by David II. co-
roner to the shire of Edinburgh in fee, accompanied by grants of
lands in the county of Banff. His son, of the same name, was a
person of still greater eminence, and as named a commissioner
for negociating with England, on three different occasions, during
the captivity of James I. A. D. 1407, &c. He married the Lady
Isabel, daughter of Robert II., and widow ofJames Earl of Dou-
glas and Mar, who was killed at the battle of Otterburne. By
this marriage he had two sons, Sir David, who succeeded him,
and Sir William of Culloden, ancestor of the family of Duntreath.
Sir David left two sons, of whom Sir James, the elder, died with-
out issue male, and John, the younger, in whom the elder line of
the family was continued, till the middle of the last century, when
it became extinct by the death of the last male heir. This branch
of the family continued in possession of Edmoustone,.in Mid-Lo-
thian, till late in the seventeenth century, when it was sold to the
family of Wauchope, who still retain it; it resided, likewise, at
Ednam, in. Roxburghshire, a grant of Robert III. This last
property has been purchased, within those few years, by the Earl
of Dudley.
  To revert to the family of Duntreath. Sir William Edmon-
stone of Culloden, second son of Sir John, as above, married the
Lady Mary, daughter of King Robert III., who had been married;
three times previously; first, to George Donglas, Earl of Angus;


