
134                   SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

many of the names of places in Sutherland, as well as in other
parts of Scotland.  Thus Kildonan is derived from Kil, a cell, and
Durun or Donan, the proper name of its original inhabitant, whose
memory has been handed down by tradition, with great veneration,
and who is distinguished as Saint Donan. The leading valley,
and most important part of the parish, is, however, as frequently
called Strath Helmsdale, (disregarding the tautology of Strath and
Dale,) as it is called the Strath of Kildonan; but in Gaelic it is
alone known by the name of Stra' Iligh, while the river is called
Aven-Iligh,-and the village of Helmsdale, at the mouth of the
river, Bun-Iligh,-the root or lower end of the Iligh.  All this
strengthens the belief that the river Helmsdale is the " Ilius flu-
men," or river Ilie of Ptolemy, who places that river on the present
east coast of Sutherland, and close to " Verubium promontorium, "
which is unquestionably the Ord of Caithness.  The name Ilie is
therefore older than that of Helmsdale, which must have been in-
troduced, long subsequent to the time of Agricola, by the north-
men, whose inroads and adventures on the coasts of Sutherland
and Caithness, during the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth centuries,
are so often narrated in the northern Sagas, and historically ar-
ranged by Torfaeus.  Kildonan, again, is believed to have origi-
nated after the settlement of Christian missionaries in the north of
Scotland, and is, therefore, in all probability, of more recent origin
than the name Helmsdale.
   Extent, Boundaries, and Topographical Appearances.-This pa-
rish is altogether inland.  It may be said to be divided by a great
leading strath, into which other less important straths or mountain
passes open; and, accordingly, the former account of the parish
states, that " it resembles the form of a tree, stretching out at the
top or height of the parish into branches." This is so far appli-
cable, that the great and leading strath of Kildonan or Helmsdale,
below the church, being in the centre of the narrowest and lowest
corner of the parish, may be compared to the trunk of the tree,
and the smaller straths or glens, called Tilny, Free, and Achnahow,
opening into it at obtuse angles on the west side, and those of Suis-
gill and Kinbrace on the east side, may not inaptly be considered
as the side-branches. Kildonan is bounded on the east by part of
the county of Caithness, having the picturesque and towering

Abbas; the Gaelic of priest is Sagart, from Sacerdos; and the Gaelic of a chapel, or
the primitive resting place of a Christian missionary, was Cill, pronounced Kil, from
Cella, a chapel or cellar.


