
                 804                               PERTHSHIRE.

                     Land-owners.-Sir Thomas Moncrieffe of Moncrieffe, Bart.
                 The present family of Monerieffe is a younger branch of the ori-
                 ginal family of that name.  Matthew de Moncrieffe, great-great.
                 grandson of Ramerus de Monerieffe, (the founder of the family,
                 and who was keeper of the wardrobe to King Alexander I.), ob.
                 tained a charter of the lands of Moncrieffe from Sir Roger de
                 Mowbray, the superior of them.  This charter has no date; a cir-
                 cumstance not uncommon at that period.  Matthew got the same
                 lands erected into a barony by Alexander II., February 1, 1248,
                 therefore the charter must have been received previous to that
                 date. *
                    His lineal descendant, Sir John Moncrieffe, the second baronet
                 of the family, was obliged, from his extremely embarrassed circum-                                                                          y
                 stances, to sell the estate of Moncrieffe, which was purchased in
                 1666, by Mr Thomas Moncrieffe, his cousin, who was created a
                 baronet bv King James VII. of Scotland, by his royal letter pa-
                 tent to him and his heirs male, dated the 30tb of November 1685.
                 He was clerk of the Exchequer and Treasury, and bad realized
                 great wealth by the situations be occupied.  He was founder of
                 that branch of the Moncrieffe family from which the present Sir
                 Thomas Moncrieffe of Moncrieffe is descended.  The mansion-house
                 of Mencrieffe was erected by him in 1679.  It is nearly of a square
                 form, and resembles the structures of that period.  The armorial
                 bearings of Sir Thomas and his lady are cut in stone over the
                 principal door; the latter belonged to the family of Hamilton, and
                 her armorial bearings are impaled with those of the Moncrieffe fa-
                 mily.  It is to this lady that the parish is indebted for the two silver
                 communion cups it at present possesses.  The following inscription
                 is engraved upon them: "DAM BETRA.'HAMILTON, Spouse to Sir
                 Thomas Moncrieffe of that Ilk, left in legacy those two cups to the

                   S 1681.  A charter was given to My David Oliphant of Colcuquhar, eldest son of
                 Mr William Oliphant, under the Great Seal, at Hayston Court, to ratify to him and
                 his heirs the barony of Forgandenny, and also, (inter alia), "All and hail the two-
                 parts of the shady half of that oxgate land of Pitcaithlie, called tbe oxgate of Pitcaith-
                 lie, with tennents, tennendries, service of free tennents thereof, lying betwixt the lands
                 of Pitcaithiie and the lands of Kilgerstoun, within the eparochin of Dunbarnie, &c. &c.
                 also the toun and lands of Ardargie, with the privilege of erecting a burgh of barony,
                 oii the west end of the toun and lands of Forgandenny, or on any part adjacent thereto,
                 whth weekly mercats thereof, to be holden on Tuesday weekly, with the free fairs
                 of the same twice in the year, one on the 10th June, the other the 20th October,
                 yearly, with all the tolls and customs, casualties, and duties, of the said burgh of ba-
                 rony, and as partially mentioned in the infeftment of the same granted by King
                 Charles I. of ever-blessed memory, to Sir James Oliphant of Newton, of date, at
                 Hayrude House, 23d June 1630."-See Actx Parliament of Scotl4nd.

                 <FOOTNOTE>The charter here alluded to is in the Moncrieffe archives.



