
                          PARISH OF CLYNE.

            PRESBYTERY OF DORNOCH, SYNOD OF SUTHERLAND AND
                              CAITHNESS.

                THE REV. GEORGE MACKAY, MINISTER.


                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
          Name.-THE etymology of the name of this parish is not cor-
        rectly known; and though there are various conjectures on this
        point, not one of them seems in any degree satisfactory.
          Extent and Boundaries.-The figure of the parish is irregular;
        in length it extends from the east coast of the county into the in-
        terior to the summit of Ben Ormin, a distance of about 24 miles
        from south-east to northwest; its breadth on the coast side is
        4 miles, and varies from 6 to 8 miles inland.  It is bounded on
        the south-west by the parish of Golspie ; on the west by Rogart,
        on the north by Kildonan ; on the north-east by Loth, and on the
        south-east by the German ocean.
           Topographical Appearances.-The interior is in many parts
        very picturesque, being distinguished from the more tame scenery
        along the coast, by a variety of mountains, glens, and lakes, and
        adorned by natural and planted woods.  The prospect is much ad-
        mired, when entering the glen at Killean.  The Carrol Rock, an
        abrupt precipice overhanging Loch Brora,-Ben Clibrig, Ben Or-
        min and Ben Horn, at once break on the view, which, with the
        reflection in the lake of the rock of Carrol, and the sloping sides
        of the hills covered with plantations and natural woods, present a
        singular and magnificent panorama.
           About nine miles from the coast, Stratb Brora divides into two
        valleys of a still more upland character, at a place called Ascoile.
        The one to the left is skirted with many clumps and a few exten-
        sive ranges of natural wood ; and tbe otber valley, or rather glen,
        to the north is wild and deep.  At this point also, the parish assumes
        a more sterile and Highland aspect, being of a bleak and heathy
        character, with extensive ranges of moors and moss, intersected: by

        <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by George Gunn, Esq. of Rhives.


