
     Statistical Account

of many miles from most of the farm houses; besides, it may
admit of a doubt, whether this operation, as is conceived,
hurts the ground.  May it not rather be reasonably supposed,
that the strong rough sod, which covers the lazy-bed, being
thus laid bare for the winter seasons and left exposed to the
fertilizing action of sun, wind, and frost, is the better pre-
pared for the next year's tillage and feed: On every farm
there is a kiln for drying the corn.  There is no public mill
in the parish.  The principal tacksmen have a small one of a
simple construction, each on his own farm; and the lower
orders of tenantry make shift to grind their corn by means of
quairns, i.e. a couple of light milnstones set in motion with
the hand by means of a staff fixed in the upper stone.  This
expedient is used over a great part of the highlands, in places
far removed from corn mills.  All the bread, thus arduously
procured, is generally consumed before the month of June;
and such as cannot then afford to purchase imported meal,
subsist chiefly on the milk of their cows and sheep, with what
fish they may chance to catch, till their wants are relieved by
the first fruits of their potatoe crops early in harvest.  The
produce of his black cattle is the chief support of the farmer.
Excepting kelp, this may be said to be the only saleable com-
modity by which the rents are paid.  Whatever other articles
may be produced, are found barely sufficient for the support
of his family.  The cows are are a lesser size and poorer qua-
lity than those of Sky and the Continent; but they are a hardy
breed, and might be considerably improved by paying more
attention to the rearing of the young stock, and securing
the pastures with better inclosures.  They are sold in small
lots from each farm to drovers, who ferry them to the Isle of
Sky in the month of July; and from thence they are driven
to market, sometimes to the S. of Scotland, but more fre-
quently to England.  Though there may be in all Harris


