
                            SPOTT.                          225

about a quarter of a mile south west of the village, is upwards of
550 feet above the level of the sea.
   Hydrography.-There is nothing deserving the name of a river
in the parish. The largest rivulet is Spott water, which runs
through the valley in which the church and village are situated.
It is joined, a little farther down, by a smaller brook which runs
close by the mansion-house of Spott, and it falls into the sea at
Broxmouth, where it takes the name of Broxburn. There is an-
other on the south side of the parish called Bothwell water, which
falls into the Whitadder near Cranshaws. Springs are nume-
rous on the banks of the rivulets. The town of Dunbar is sup-
plied with water from St John's well, in the neighbourhood of the
village. Kisthill well, near Bothwell, was once held in repute for
the cure of scorbutic complaints.
   Geology.-The geology of the Lammermuir hills is too well
known to require any lengthened description. They are com-
posed almost entirely of grauwacke, distinctly stratified, through
which trap rocks are to be seen protruded in various places.
There is also a considerable extent of old red sandstone, filling up to
a certain level most of the valleys, especially along the courses of
the different rivulets. There occurs also a considerable portion
of conglomerate, which is composed of fragments of all the rocks
which are to be found in the district. The irregular range of hills
which are to be seen along the northern base of Lammermuir, in
this parish, and the neighbouring parish of Innerwick, where we
first meet with cultivated ground, is chiefly composed of this con-
glomerate, at least so far as the writer of this has been able to dis-
cover. Doon hill seems also to be formed of this. On the south, it
is cultivated to the summit, and on the north side, which is very pre-
cipitous, much resembling some of the trap rock hills which fre-
quently occur farther to the north and west in the county, it is
covered entirely with wood. The ridge of rising ground, which
is lower down on the opposite side of Spott water, is composed of
a red-coloured sandstone, which occurs throughout the whole of
the ridge, stretching eastward to the sea coast at Broxmouth, and
westward as far as the parish of Yester. It is quarried in the pa-
rishes of Dunbar, Spott, Stenton, Whittingham, and  Bara. It
varies a little in colour at different places. Whether it be the
same formation, which occurs at these several places, the writer
is not prepared to say: so far as he has seen, it is nowhere inter-
rupted by trap rocks.


