
				DALRY.                    371

about seven feet high, with a bowl supported by a standard at
each corner, which is the burying place of the Newalls of Bars-
keoch. In the farm of Stronfreggan, there is a large cairn, near
to which, in a rivulet that runs by it, are two large stones, some-
what resembling human figures: one of them is about ten feet
long and quite entire; the other is a little mutilated. In the
farm of Altrye, near the top of a hill, there is a trench which
seems to have been dug, capable of containing about 100 people.
A person concealed in this trench can see to a considerable dis-
tance, without being observed; and the Whigs or Cameronians,
as they are usually styled, are said to have frequently made use of
it during the time of the persecution in Scotland, both as a place
of refuge and of observation. Hence it obtained the name of
the Whig Hole, which it bears to this day. At Benbreck and
Manquhill two contiguous farms, are the remains of buildings,
which are said to have been the residence of an ancient branch
of the noble family of Galloway.
	At Earlston there are the remains of a stately residence, in the
form of a lofty square tower, which has its compeers in many parts
of the country, and bears date over the door 1655, with the initials
"W. G. and M. H.;" supposed to be those of a former proprie-
tor of name Gordon. With some repair and expense it might be
made inhabitable, a strong, oaken roof being in good repair. It is
situated near the river Ken, and surrounded by a lawn and ex-
tensive plantation of oak trees. "Earlston Linn" is an object of
curiosity, and the water of the Ken falling over the rocks and then
boiling up in the deep pools beneath, is heard at a distance. It is
a barrier to the ascent of the salmon, large numbers falling an easy
prey to fishermen with bag-nets.
	Modern Buildings.--The church and manse are situated within
a mile of the southern boundary, and contiguous is a village, com-
monly known by the name of the Clachan, though its proper name
is St John's Town of Dalry: from its modernized appearance,
with its white-washed and slated houses, and neat gardens, it is en-
titled more to the latter than the former appellation. Here the
inhabitants are numerous compared with the rural population.
The accommodation afforded to travellers is but limited. There
is a post office, and coaches pass through the village daily, be-
tween Ayr and Kirkcudbright. The licensed public houses in the
village are six in number.
	Proprietors, &c.--The ancient valuation of the parish is L.7137,



