
220                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

except the Cree, which is navigable for vessels of very small ton-
nage for about four miles, and Bladenoch navigable not so far.
But though not possessed of large and navigable rivers, this county
abounds with the most spacious bays and harbours; Wigton Bay,
which lies on the east, gradually varying from eight miles in width,
till it terminates in the Cree, a distance of about ten miles; and Luce
Bay forming an indentation on the south of the county, to about
the extent of fifteen miles, stretching inward till it reaches the town
of Glenluce, where it terminates. These bays form two remarkable
promontories,--the Borough Head on the south-east, and the Mull
of Galloway on the south-west,--the two most southerly points in
Scotland, the latter being about a mile and a-half farther south than
the former. Lochryan, on the north-west, extends into the coun-
ty about 9 miles, till it reach Stranraer, its breadth varying from
2 to 4 miles. The most important harbours are Carty, Wigton,
and Garlieston, on the Wigton Bay; Isle of Whithorn, near the
Borough Head; Port William and Sandhead, on the opposite
sides of the Luce Bay; Portnessock and Portpatrick, on the Irish
Channel; and Stranraer and Cairnryan, on Lochryan. The fresh
water lochs, though pretty numerous, are small. Dowalton, on
Longcastle, in the Machers, the largest, is only about 2 miles
long, by 1 1/2 broad. The lakes in the county occupy 7 1/2 square
miles.
	Soil and Agriculture.--The soil in the three districts,--the Ma-
chers, the Rhynns, and the Moors, into which Wigton is divided,--
is very different. The soil of the two first districts is, for the most
part, a hazelly loam, dry and well adapted for the turnip husbandry;
but on the barony of Baldoon, in the parish of Kirkinner, and
along the Cree for several miles, between Newtonstewart and Wig-
ton, there is a considerable extent of rich alluvial soil. The moors
are bleak and barren, and in many instances constitute what is
called flow, that is, mossy land partially covered with water. The
most improved system of agriculture is everywhere pursued, though
perhaps the best specimens may be found on the estate of Baldoon,
which is reckoned the Carse of Gowrie of the south. Of the re-
lative proportions of land in crop and in pasture, a correct idea
may be formed from the fact, that out of 288,960 English acres
which the county contains, 101,136, or about 35 per, cent., are
under cultivation; 187,824, or about 65 per cent., in pasture. Land
in Wigtonshire is very little subdivided, and is mostly under en-
tail. It is let in farms of middle size, and generally for a lease of


