
              		   OLD KILPATRICK.                         27


of grazing about 266 sheep. Of this estate Mr Dunn farms
about 1200 acres, himself. It is on his property, also, that the lime
and coal-works already mentioned are situated.
   The estate, although acquired at different times, lies all com-
pactly together, extending along the banks of the Clyde for about
two miles. It is intersected by the Glasgow and Dumbarton,
turnpike road for about two miles, nearly parallel to the Clyde,
and in a diagonal direction by the Forth and Clyde Canal, for
about two miles and a half.
   Besides his own works, there are on Mr Dunn's property the
two important establishments of Dalmuir Paper-Works, and Dal-
muir Shore Soda Works. There is a quay, also, at Dalmuir for
loading and landing goods, which has been in existence beyond
the memory of man.
   Besides the persons occupied in weavin and spinning, Mr Dunn
employs about his works and on his lands, masons, wrights, coal
and lime-workers, quarriers, brick-makers, farm-servants, and
other labourers, to the number of 250. The total amount of
wages which he pays in the parish is about L.30,000 annually.
   In addition to the people employed by Mr Dunn within the
parish, he employs in Glasgow, engineers, mechanics, irom and
brass-founders, to the number of about 200, whose wages annually
amount to about L.9000. Much of the work done by these men
is for the establishments in this parish, as they are employed in
making spinning and weaving machinery, and steam-engines,
partly for sale, and partly for the supply of Mr Dunn's own works.
   Mr Dunn is one of the most remarkable instances which the
history of our country presents, of a person who has risen to great
affluence, whose only patrimony at the first was the knowledge of
a trade, united with great sagacity, great industry, and great per-
severance.
   Manufactures.--Dalmuir Paper-Works, possessed, by Edward
Collins, Esq. All kinds of paper are manufactured here. There
are employed at these works, 5 men, at L.1, 2s. a-week; 58 at
1 ls.; 91 women, at 6s. 2d.;  17 boys, at 5s.;  5 girls, at 4s. 6d.
The value of the -paper manufactured annually, is about
L.30,000. The duty paid to Government is about L.10,000
a-year.
   In this manufacture there has been great improvement. By
the introduction of machinery, a much greater quantity is made
by fewer hands.


