
		      CORSTORPHINE.                     245

meadows, was surrounded by a moat and ditch full of water.   The
Unsettled state of the country in the earlier periods of Scottish
history would naturally lead them to increase the quantity of water
which existed in the meadows as a means of defence, and it is not
improbable that they admitted this additional supply from the
Gogar-burn, at least, the appearance of the lochs in Bleaw's Map
of Lothian would lead to this conclusion.
   In the narratives of the marches of Leslie and Cromwell in
1650, the meadows and the fields at Gogar are described as full
of bogs and marshes.  The lochs had been drained before that pe-riod,
but it is not known when this drainage took place.  Reference
is made to it in an application which James Lord Forres-
ter presented to Parliament in July 1661,* where be complains
that "the whole meadow ground and low-lying lands was undone
by the overflowing of the Gogar-burne, and that partly through
the neglect of those who formerly were accustomed to cast and
keep clear the ditches and stanks through which the water did naturally pass,
and partly by the inbreaking of the said water in the
lands of Redhewes."
   Part of the ground formerly occupied by the lochs became a
common, which was not divided until the middle of the last century,
and then, and for many years afterwards, the whole meadows
produced only natural grass, which was partly pastured by the villagers,
and the rest let to tenants, who sold the grass for the
dairies of Edinburgh.
   In a MS. map of Mid-Lothian, by John Adair, in the Advocates'
Library, dated 1684, the meadows are represented as com-
pletely covered by water, from which it would appear that irriga-
tion was then used, as it is not likely that they would have been
drawn in this manner by a surveyor of so great experience and ac-
curacy, had the flooding been merely accidental, and occasioned
by heavy rains.
   About fifty or sixty years ago, the meadows were for the first
time ploughed, and since that time they have been always under
tillage, although the crops have been frequently destroyed by the
autumnal floods.  This happened in the western meadow, solate-
ly as 1836, when about 20 acres of green crop in the Goyle Myre
were covered for some weeks with water and waterfowl, and not a
vestige of them remained after the water subsided.  This and si-
milar disappointments led the farmers to attempt to effect a more
complete drainage of the meadows, by widening, straightrening,

<FOOTNOTE>Thomson's Acts, Vol. vii


