
310                STIRLINGSHIRE.

   Coal.-The coal mines are exceedingly valuable, and have been
very extensively wrought. They lie on the south-east side of the
parish, in ground considerably lower than that wherein the trap
rocks abound. The collieries of Greenyards, Bannockburn, Plean,
and Auchenbowie, may be regarded as forming one large coal-field.
There are several small seams of little value, but the two best
ones are wrought.  Of these, the lower is the most important,
being both thicker and of better quality than the other.
   The dip of the coal is toward the north-east, and the crop can
be distinctly traced toward the west and south-west. On the
north, however, the dip of the coal is not so well known, but, so
far as can be ascertained, it is either cut off altogether, or sunk to
a depth which has not yet been reached. The angle of dip is
one foot in three on the north side, which seems to form the
boundary line of the great northern coal formations in Scotland.
At Bannockburn the strata dip one foot in eleven; at Greenyards,
one foot in six.
   The sections of the coal, and the depth of the shafts at Green-
yards are as follow:-
                                                    Feet.       Inches.
        Greenyards' deepest shaft, 72 fathoms:-
	Rough or mid coal,	                     0             4
 	Stone division,                              0	           2
	Main coal,	                             2	           3

Hard sandstone and pavement form the roof of this coal.
  At Bannockburn both the thickness and quality of the coal
undergo a very considerable change. The following section shows
the difference:

                         		Feet.	Inches.
	        Upper or roof coal,	 0	  9 1/2
          	Slate coal,	         0	  3 1/2
        	Mid coal,                1	  0
	        Line clay,	         2	  6
        	Main coal,	         1	 10

   The roof here consists of shale and pavement, and the deepest
shaft to the main is 58 fathoms. A shaft, however, is now in progress
on the inclination of dip, the depth of which will be 95 fathoms.
   On the lands of Bannockburn the upper and less valuable seam
of coal has been wrought for the last three years. Its quality is
inferior to that of the main coal, and its average thickness is 19
inches. The strata of rock of most frequent occurrence in the
district where the coal mines are situated, are sandstone and shale.
Bars of ironstone are found in some of the shale beds. There is
also a vein of limestone, of bluish-gray colour, thickly incrusted
with marine shells. The coal mines in this parish are extensive-


