
                                 LEWIS-STORNOWAY.
                                                                    121

            The peat is the best in the world, hard and black; when tho-
         roughly dried, it gives light and heat equal to those of coals.
            Soils.- The soil is of different kinds, some sandy, gravelly, or of
         black earth,-but the greater part mossy,-all lying on a hard red
         clay bottom, so very impenetrable, that the pick will scarce pierce
         it.  Moss, red clay, and sand, especially shelly sand, when pro-
         perly mixed, drained, and well manured, make good soil, and give
         a fair crop.  But the wet winters and springs take the pith out of
         the soil.  The rain is not absorbed rapidly by the red clay tilly
         bottom; and when the field is a flat level, it is quite inundated; and
         where it slopes, the soil is gradually washed away from the top of
         the field to the bottom.
            The plants most frequently found in the arable ground are, the
         sorrel, Rumex acetosella, sealbhag, thistle, carduus, cluaran chick-
         weed, mouse-ear, cerastium, horse-tail, equisetum, and wincopipe.
            The island of Lewis is a full century behind other parts of Scot.
         land, in agricultural and domestic, improvements, the town and in-
         habitants of Stornoway excepted, and a few tacksmen.  With re-
         spect to agricultural improvement, it is the most backward of all
         the Hebrides.  A great deal has been done, during the last twelve
         years, by consuming the moss, draining and trenching; and if these
         operations be continued with vigour, very great improvement may
         be expected.
            Zoology.-Many animals common in other places are unknown
         in this parish, viz. frogs, toads, foxes, and partridges.  One frog
         was thrown, last summer, on the quay, from the bold of a ship
         which brought potatoes from the mainland, and curiosity brought
         many to see the repthle stranger.  Serpents, two feet long and
         one inch diameter, are frequently met with by herds, in the moors.
         They sting or bite, the cattle, by which they swell, and sometimes
         die.  The usual cure for this swelling, is water in which the
         preserved head of a serpent has been put, and which is given to
         the animal affected, and its whole body washed with it.  When
         serpents are killed, their heads are chopped off and preserved for
         this purpose.
             The Linn'an second class of natural history, viz.  Aves, is com-
         plete here.  The six orders are found: Accipitres, or the falcon-kind;
         Picae, sea-pies; Anseres, Grallae, Gallinae, and Passeres.  Eagles,
         falcons, and hawks are numerous; the raven and grey carrion crow
         are destructive to lambs and weak sheep.  I lately saw two ravens
         rest on a sheep's back while the animal was feeding, pierce a



