
724                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

hospital from seven to ten years of age; and remain till they are fif-
teen years. The governors are the master, assistants, and treasurer
of the Merchant Company, five members of the town-council, and
the ministers of the Old and Greyfriars churches. The annual
revenue is about L. 5000; the number of boys maintained in the
institution is 78.
   Merchant Maiden Hospital.-This hospital was founded in
1695 by voluntary contributions. Mrs Mary Erskine gave
L. 12,000 Scotch for the purchase of a building, besides several
other sums. In 1707 the governors, who consist of five members
of the town-council, the master and three assistants of the Mer-
chant Company, three of the city clergy, the Earl of Mar, and
nine persons elected by the merchant company, were erected into
a body corporate by act of Parliament. The original building was
in Bristo Street, but it having been found too small, a new hospi-
tal was erected in 1816, with ample accommodation, at an expense
of L. 12, 260 Sterling. This hospital is for the education and
maintenance of the daughters or grand-daughters of merchant-
burgesses of Edinburgh. The number received is from 90 to 100,
from seven to eleven years of age; and they are kept till they are se-
venteen. They are taught English, French, arithmetic, writing, geo-
graphy, history, dancing, and needlework. The fees for draw-
ing, music, and the higher accomplishments are defrayed by the
friends of those pupils who require them. On leaving the insti-
tution, each girl receives L. 9, 6s. 8d. The annual revenue of the
hospital is about L. 4800; the number of pupils is 95.
   Trades' Maiden Hospital.-This hospital was founded in 1704
for ihe education of the daughters of decayed tradesmen. The
governors were incorporated by royal charter in 1707. About fifty
girls receive their education and maintenance here. The educa-
tion and living are plain, but substantial; and on leaving the hos-
pital, each girl receives L. 5, 11s., and a Bible.
   Orphan Hospital.-This institution owes its origin to Mr
Andrew Gairdner, merchant in Edinburgh, who was treasurer of
the Trinity Hospital. Having collected by subscriptions a small
sum of L. 218, and having obtained the aid of the Society for Propa-
gating Christian Knowledge, a house was hired in 1733, and twenty
children admitted into it. In the following year the contributions
increased; and a piece of ground was procured near Trinity Hos-
pital; on this a new and extensive building was erected, into which
74 orphans were received.
                                3


