
                          DUNFERMLINE.                         901

	Unitarians,                                               35
	Methodists and Friends,               	                  20
	Not known to belong to any denomination, including some
        	Chartists and Socialists, about   	        3433
                                                               ______
       	                                      Total,	      19,778

     Divine service, it is believed, has been generally well attended
   in the different churches, according to the number acknowledged
   to belong to them, till within these last two years, when, chiefly
   from the poverty caused by the long depression of trade, it has
   in most of them considerably fallen off.
     A missionary (Mr Joseph Hay) has been employed during
   these last two or three years in visiting the town of Dunfermline.
   His services meet with much acceptance.  He receives from L.40
   to L.50 of salary, paid by the inhabitants generally, without regard
   to religious denomination.  He belongs to the United Secession.
     Religious Societies.-There are a Bible and a Sabbath School
   Society in the parish.  Sums are likewise raised privately and by
   collections for the support of native missionaries and of Female
   Education in India.
     The Dissenting congregations collect annually for missionary
   purposes.
     The Abbey parish church collects regularly for each of the five
   Schemes of the General Assembly, as well as occasionally for
   other religious and charitable purposes ; the average annual
   amount of which for seven years, viz. 1836-42 inclusive, has been
   nearly L.50.  It besides collected, previous to the commence-
   ment of the legal assessment in 1839, about L.120 annually, for
   the ordinary parochial and extraordinary poor; but since that pe-
   riod, such collections have been reduced to about a third of that sum.
     The St Andrew's and North Churches have also made collec-
   tions for several of the Assembly's Schemes, and other religious
   and useful purposes.
     Education.-The total number of schools, in 1844, in the ori-
   ginal or quoad eivilia parish, exclusive of North Queensferry, was
   32.  There is no parochial, but there is one burgh school.  Of
   the others, there are 15 partly endowed, and 6 uneddowed.  One
   school in town is supported, in part, by a society of ladies.  The
   endowment in general consists either of a salary or a free school-
   room, or one or both of these, and a free dwelling-house.   The
   unendowment schools are entirely on the teachers' own adventure.
   The total number of teachers at all these schools was 37, and of
   scholars, exclusive of those attending evening schools, 2622, or

