
               ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                          281

tron. The glebe consists of 35 acres, including both pasture and
arable grounds, and its value may be computed at L.10 Sterling.
   The church-yard, in which the parish church formerly stood,
is quite contiguous to the manse. It was enclosed eight years ago
with a wall of stone and lime, but, previous to that time, it had no
fence whatever. It contains but few tomb-stones or monuments
of any kind. In favourable weather, the church is generally well
attended, particularly in the winter'season, when the parishioners
are all at home. The number of communicants, male and female,
is about 90. Owing to the poverty of the people, the yearly ave-
rage of church collections hardly amounts to L.3 Sterling.
   The Government church of Steinscholl is situated near the old
burying-ground of Kilmartin. It has as yet no gallery. The
manse is near the church. The district of Steinscholl was eccle-
siastically set apart from the rest of the parish by the presbytery,
who fixed its boundaries, and added to it a small pendicle of Sni-
zort.
   Education.-The total number of schools at present is three;
1st, the parochial school, salary, L.30 Sterling, with house and
garden; 2d, One from the Society in Scotland for Propagating
Christian Knowledge, salary, L.15 Sterling, with house and piece
of land ; 3d, One from the baelic School Society. The proprie
tor gave the necessary accommodations at Steinscholl for a school
from the excellent scheme of the General Assembly, and a teacher
was placed there for the last ten years, until lately withdrawn, un-
der the expectation that the station will soon, be supplied with a
parochial school, under the Highland School Act.
   In the parochial school the following branches are taught:
reading English and Gaelic, English in all its departments arith-
metic, mathematics, geography, navigation, Latin, and Greek. In
the school from the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christ-
ian Knowledge, the common branches of education are taught;
while the Gaelic school, by its regulations, is confined exclusively
tto the teaching of Gaelic.
   In the parochial school, the average number of scholars in sum-
mer is 70, and in winter, 130. The attendance is very irregulars
on account of the inability of the parents to clothe them and to
purchase books; and, besides this, the services of the children are
required at home, when their fathers and grown-up brothers leave
the country in quest of work.
   The children in general are instructed first in the English lan-
   INVERNESS.					T


