
806                         FIFESHIRE.

time," for it has long since defaced this interesting object; but it
is to be hoped that it will be replaced by a monument becoming
the event, aud worthy of the taste and wealth of the present ex-
cellent proprietor of the property.\f
     Letters, &c.-There is a curious letter in the possession of John
Boswell, Esq., tbe proprietor of Balmuto, from James VI. to the
laird of Balmuto, which throws some light on the occasional wants
and character of that singular monarch.
     David Boswell, who lent the King the sum referred to in the
document, was a talented and pious man. There is a fine por-
trait of him in Balmuto, in the attitude of studying the 12th
Psalm, with his favourite adage, "it is ane guid sport to do weel."
His son, Sir George Boswell, "chirurgeon to the King's grace"
and to Anne of Denmark, of whom it is stated in the receipt of
the comptroller, that he was the bearer of the 1000 merks from
his father to the King, was as much distinguished for his humility
of mind and urbanity of manners, as for his professional skill.
There is a good picture of him in Balmuto, in the quaint attitude
of pointing to a skeleton, and on the back of the portrait verses
are inscribed.

<FOOTNOTE>Mrs O. T. Bruce of Falkland. Her uncle, Professor Bruce, the former pro-
prietor, is sald to have long purposed to erect a monument on the King's wud end;
and no point could be more befitting a colossal statue than the rock from which the
King felt.
<FOOTNOTE>The following is an exact copy.
  "Trust freind, we greit you heartly weill. It is not unknown to you of this action
we have presentlie in hands, quhilk is mair precipitant, because of the hastier arrivall
of our dearest spouse than aithor we luckit-for or can have any time to put order to
the preparation thairof, as appertainis to our princely honor, q\p1\pk appearandlie sal be
very far engagit, except we find further favor at the bandis of the men quhais freindship
and guid affectionis we think ourselfs maist assured than we have fund be moyen of our
counsell, or any grill (general) course we have followit, aither be offering their landes in
securitie, wadset, or othr wayes. The occasion quhairof we imput to the scarcetie of
silver in thir quarters. And, thairfor, the assurance we have that you, in speall(special)
of your guid affectioun we knaw ye bear us, will raither hurt yrself very far than see
the dishonor of your prince and native country, with the povertie of beith set downe
befor the face of strangers. We have retiret ourselfs apart Frome or counsell, far by
or accustomit maner, to travell particularlie with you upone quhome we have layed
or count as one of the first of guidwillars, and to that effect hath sent the bearer,
servit towards you to desire of you the loan of a thousand marks in this or ur-
gent necessitie, under sicke securitie as ye can bcst devise, quhairanent we have di-
rectit or said servit particularlie, quham ye sail credit. Assuring you the mair we are
straitit be this put (present) necessitie, qu\pl\pk having one competent tyme we could have
remedit, and spairit you further, the mair deeplie we will imprint the benifit kynd-
ness ye will shaw us at this tyme above all those that ever we have recevait, dr will
recaive at any time hereafter. And thus com\ptts(committs) you to the Eternall, at
Faulkland, ye second day of September 1589.         (Signed)      JAMES R-
     Made up and folded as a letter, and addressed on the back,
                             To our right trust freind, ye Laird of Balmontou."
     The comptroller's receipt for the loan has also been preserved.

