
     of West-Calder.

   Character and Manners of the People.-In almost every in-
stance, the local situations of men form their characters.
The inhabitants of this parish are much excluded from the
commerce of the world, and nearly on the same level with
regard to each other; their attention is directed to few ob-
jects, and hence they are simple and unaffected in their man-
ners; while they possess a wonderful degree of sagacity and
acuteness, in every thing connected with the circle of their
pursuits.  From the great number of small farms, every in-
dividual may look forward to an establishment in life; and
hence his attention to business and industry is excited.
In this state of society, it must be confessed, there is little
scope for that ambition, which impels a man to rise above
his humble sphere; but this situation supposes contentment
and happiness.  From this circumstance too, it may be men-
tioned, as a character of this people, that the advantages
which they cannot secure to themselves, they wish to convey
to their children; and it has been observed, that a greater
number of this parish have been designed for the church,
than, perhaps, of any ten parishes of equal extent in a
highly cultivated country, and in a given time.  The great
bulk of the inhabitants of this parish have a considerable
share of religious knowledge, and a becoming servency in
their devotion.  It is hoped, that they will not be charged
with singularity of manners, when we mention, that there
are not perhaps six families in this parish, who do not daily,
and in a family capacity, assemble together to acknowledge
the Author of their mercies.  Altogether detached from the
capital, they are unacquainted with its vices.  Drunkenness,
and debauchery of all sorts are scarcely known; and there
are very few instances of men continuing unmarried, who
have the means of supporting a family.  This parish has been
particularly blamed with disaffection to the present constitu-

     VOL. XVIII. B b


