
                     OLD KILPATRICK.                      35

The three who have the highest allowances are persons derang-
ed in intellect: one of them in the Glasgow Lunatic Asylum.
   To meet the above expenditure, and other occasional expenses,
such as coffins for paupers, &c. there is an assessment, which varies
from L.250 to L.300 a-year, one-half of which is laid on the
heritors, and the other half on tenants and householders.  There
is also between L.30 and L.40 collected at the church door,
which, after some necessary expenses being deducted, is paid into
the poor's fund.
   Houses Licensed to Retail Spirits.--There are 31 in the pa-
rish. Three of these are toll-houses, which is contrary to ex-
press act of Parliament, and 12 of them are in Old Kilpatrick vil-
lage alone.
   Fuel.--Coal is the prevailing fuel. It is chiefly brought from
the neighbourhood of Glasgow by the canal, and for the last three
years has been sold in the parish at 5s. per 12 cwt. Besides this,
a good deal of Mr Dunn's coal is used, which is sold at 3s. for a
measure, which would weigh about 14 cwt. Peats are used mere-
ly for kindling.

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The changes since the former Statistical Account are very great.
The rental then is called L.5000. The rental now is upwards
of L.12,000. Indeed, there was a period during the war when it
must have been considerably more. The total number employed
at manufactures, was then 1043: the number now is about 2400.
The total population then was 2452: the population now is up-
wards of 6000. The smith and iron foundery, which employed 273
hands, has wholly disappeared, and in place of one of its factories,
there is one of Mr Dunn's cotton-mills,--while of another of its
branches at Old Kilpatrick village, there are no remains.  The
wool mill, which finished 1000 yards a-day, is superseded by a mill
for cotton. The statute labour was then L.63, 6s. 8d: it is now
on an average L.100. There was then one Dissenting, church:
there are now three. Inoculation for small pox was then generally
practised: now it has been totally displaced by vaccination.  Still
there are a few cases now and then of natural small-pox, but gene-
rally mild.

    Drawn up in 1836; Revised in February 1839.


