
228                          LANARKSHIRE.

Episcopalian clergyman in this city since the Reformation in 1560,
and there has been no Roman Catholic bishop or archbishop since
the renovation of the see in 1129, who held his office for such a
length of time. This is a proof of good health and a sound con-
stitution. But, what is of more importance to his parishioners, he
unites evangelical principles with the meekness of a true Christian.
His popularity which increased through a prolonged life, was that
which arises from a faithful discharge of duty. About two years
ago (then in his ninetieth year) he retired from the more active
duties of his station. In 1829 the Crown appointed Dr Black to
be his assistant and successor,--an appointment which gave entire
satisfaction to the minister and the parishioners.
	"At the commencement of the eighteenth century, and during the
greater part of the first half of it, the habits and style of living of
the citizens of Glasgow were of a moderate and frugal cast. The
dwelling-houses of the highest class of citizens in general contain-
ed only one public room, a dining room, and even that was used only
when they had company,--the family at other times usually eating
in a bed-room. The great-grandfathers and great-grandmothers
of many of the present luxurious aristocracy of Glasgow, and who
were themselves descendants of a preceding line of burgher patri-
cians, lived in this simple manner. They had occasionally their
relations dining with them, and gave them a few plain dishes, put
on the table at once, holding in derision the attention, which they
said, their neighbours, the English, bestowed on what they ate.
After dinner the husband went to his place, of business, and, in
the evening, to a club in a public-house, where, with little expense,
he enjoyed himself till nine o'clock, at which hour the party uni-
formly broke up, and the husbands went home to their families.
	"The wife gave tea at home in her own bed-room, receiving there
the visits of her "cummers," (female acquaintances,) and a great
deal of intercourse of this kind was kept up, the gentlemen seldom
making their appearance at these parties. This meal was term-
ed the "four hours." Families occasionally supped with one an-
other, and the form of the invitation, and which was used to a late
period, will give some idea of the unpretending nature of these re-
pasts. The party asked was invited to eat an egg with the enter-
tainer, and when it was wished to say that such a one was not of
their society, the expression used was, that he had never cracked,
a hen's heg in their house. This race of burghers living in this
manner had, from time to time, connected themselves with the
				3


