
                                        CHIEFF.                     523

     leviating; the miseries of the sick, ages and indigent in the town
     and parish of Crieff, especially the most deserving of them; and find
     it has since continued in active operation, doing much good
     in a district where the poor are proverbially numerbus. We ca-
     not afford the space that would be necessary to give a full de-
     tail of the history, means, and management of this society. But
     we may state, in general, that it commenced under the distinguish-
     ed auspices of many of the ladies of upper Strathearn; that its be-                           y
     nefactions are ordinarily distributed in the shape of meal, coals,
     and clothing; that the average number of those who receive
     monthly aid from its funds is between 80 and 90; and that
     the average annual expenditure exceeds L. 100. It is suported
     by private subscriptions, donations, and public collections; and the
     gross,,,amotint collected in the parish church in its behalfis shoiit
     L. 500.
        Friendly Societies.-Not many years ago there were twelve
     friendly societies in Crieff, but four of them have been dissolved.
     Those now in operation are the Masons', Weavers', Shoemakers',
     Gardeners', Hammermens', Fax-Dressers', Ploughmens', and Pa-
     triotic Societies. Those dissolved are the Tailors', Joiners', Strath-
     earn Union, and Friendly Soeieties. The Masons' Society was in-
     stituted by the Duke of Perth, on the 26th  December 1737, and
     their fund is intended for the benefit of the widows and distressed
     members of the corporation. The weavers formed themselves into
     a corporation in the year 1770, and began to establish their fund at
     the same period.  And the other societies have risen suomssively.
     since that time, following the example which was set by the ma-
     sons and the weavers.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-]. Average number of person re-
     ceiving parochial aid, exclusive of four lunatics, who are supported
     at the Perth asylum, III; 2. average sum allowed to each from the
     annual amount of colections At the church funds of the kirk-session
     per month of four weeks, 2s. 4d.; 3. annual amount of collections at
     the church doors, on an average of the three years ending February 1837,
     L. 88, 5s. 0 3/4d; 4, annual amount arising from proclamations of bans,
     on an average of the same three years, L. 10, 11s. 4d. 5 ditto arising from
     bills and interest, on an average of the same three years, L. 14, 6s. 8d.,6.
     ditto arising from donations, on an average of the same three
     years, L.9, 4s. 11d,; 7. ditto arising from mortcloths, on an ave-
     rage of the same three years, L.8, 0s. 6 3/4d.
        In the year 1819, the heritors agreed to assess themselves vo-


