
194			AYRSHIRE

the breakwater at the harbour. On the west side of the baths,
within high water-mark, there are several strata of excellent
ironstone, from two inches to nearly five feet in thickness; but
which lying on their edge could not be wrought but at very great
expense. These strata are separated from one another by slate.
Several specimens of pyrites have also been found in this neigh-
bourhood, but they are rare.
	Geology.--There are many appearances that lead us to conclude
that a considerable portion of the lower grounds of this parish were,
at a period not extremely distant, under the dominion of the sea.
Sub-fossil sea-shells, such as are at present found on the shore,
have been found in gravel pits, and in the earthy banks of Stanley
Burn, as far up as Kirkhall. They have also been found in a sec-
tion of the Castlehill, pretty near the summit. The greatest mass,
however, of these shells that we have seen, is in the sandy bank of
this burn, a little above the railway bridge, and near the Holm
Nursery. In a section of the bank, about 4 1/2 feet above the level of
the stream, and about 6 feet above the present level of the sea at
high-water, there is a pretty extensive stratum of shells, about 2
feet under the surface of the ground, at some places above, and at
other places below, a bed of sand and water-worn stones. The
predominant shell is Mactra subtruncata. We observed also Turbo
littoreus, Nerita littoralis, Trochus cinerarius, Mytilus edulis, and
Tellina tenuis. Some of the Mactrae were filled with sea-weed,
but we could not with certainty determine the species. In one of
the shells we found a specimen of coralline, which could easily be
ascertained to be Sertularia polyzonias. From the various pheno-
mena that present themselves, we have no doubt that the Castlehill
at Ardrossan was once an island. That the water has receded
along this shore there can be no doubt. At the Castlehill, above
noticed, there is still pointed out a spot at which boats were fasten-
ed to the rock. This spot is now distant from the water at high
mark about 400 yards. Pont, the topographer of Cuninghame,
who wrote circa 1620, speaks of a well in the castle that ebbed
and flowed with the tide. He has also tbe following notice: "Nette
Iyle is a small Iyland neir ye Castell of Ardrossan, quher ye Earle
of Eglintoune bath a salmond fisching by netts, from which ye Iyland
is so named." So far has the water receded, that the piece of
ground here alluded to (the Inch) never appears as an island ex-
cept at high water; and it is not at all known by its former name.
	In the low lands of Homebyre, in the upper part of the parish,


