
62                     SELKIRSHIRE.

but the climate being cold, damp, and late, we could not expect
it to ripen; therefore no such crop is ever attempted to be raised.
   Zoology.-It may be noticed under this head, that till of late we
have been but little visited by small birds of the singing kind.  Now,
among the young plantations, we hear the blackbird and the thrush,
and a nameless train vieing- with their notes to outdo the laveroch,,
the ancient songster of the forest.  And we may add that the words
of Wordsworth are sometimes no fiction.

             "The swans on sweet St Mary's lake,
              Float double, swan and shadow."

Sea-trout and salmon, when the rivers are flooded in the winter
season, make an excursion tip the Ettrick, the Timah, and Rankle-
burn, and they often even find their way into some of the smaller
tributaries.  But trout, perch, and pike, are the only natural and
permanent inhabitants of all our waters.
   Botany.-Through the country be alpine, we have not discover-
ed any rare alpine plants in it. Among the long grass interspersed
with spretts may be seen the orchis in many of its beautiful varie-
ties; the meadow cardamine (Cardamine pratenies), with its lovely
llae petals; and among marshes, the parnassian grass Par-
nassia palustris), and butter plant (Pinuicla vulgaris).  The plants
of Eriophorum(Eriophorum vaginatum) or cotton-grass, in the mos-
ses or among the black bent, or heath, are like so many little tufts of
cotton waving in the breeze, or sparkling in the sun.  The luck-
en-gowan, (Trollis Europeous), is met with also very frequently
among the meadow grounds, or thelow sloping sides of the hills.                                                               I         ie-
And the cloud-berry, (Rubus chamamorus),is gathered on some
of the mountain tops. These are samples of the Flowers of the
Forest.
  The grasses found here, as connected with soil, and with the
feeding of the flocks, are more interesting, as they are more useful.
Deer-hair, (Scirpus,caspiosus), is generally found on a thin mossy
soil, mixed with heath; it is only of service for summer pasture.
Stool bent, (Juncus squarrosus), rises where there is a consider-
able mixture of saiid with the soil ; this is in evergreen, and is
preferable to the deer-hair.  It has been called " an excellent
bait," being a hardy perennial.  White bent, (Nardus stricta),
and flying bent, (Aira carulca), are also less valuable, being less
durable, living and dying in autumn with the deer-hair, and leav-
ing a whiteness on the hills like the decay of winter, and straw-
                                  4


