

                        CRAIL.                  967
   Within the town ther is a congregation of the Associate Sy-
nod, who have a church and a ministers's house enclosed in a gar-
den. The members of the Free Protesting Church are alos build-
ing a place of worship.
   Attendance at church is remarkably good, and the ordinary
number of communicants about 800.
   The manse, which is within the burgh at the entry to the
church, with a small garden attached to it, was purchased by the
kirk-session in 1637 for 330 merks, and mortified to the then
minister and his successors in office.  The house, thus bought,
remained entire till 1789, when the greater part of it was taken
down and the present manse erected inits stead, having still a
portion of the old building for bed-rooms and other convenien-
ces ; but in 1829 the last remains of the old house were swept
away, cellars, &c. erected on its site, and a third storey added to
what was then called the new manse.  As it now stands, it is a
good commodious dwelling, and has every convenience that a fa-
mily may desire.  The offices are very poor, consiting only of an
old stable and a gig-house; but the minister is allowed a sum of
money to pay the rent of additional accomodation, till a proper
situation can be found for building a suitable steading.
   The glebe wa designed in 1658, out of lands whic once be-
longed to the priory of Haddington.  It measures a little more
than four Scotch acres.  A small park, not quite an acre in ex-
tent, called the vicar's garden, and believed to have belonged to
that official, is also attached to the living; and in 1799 a field
of nearly three acres was obtained as a grass glebe in exchange
for seven and a half acres of the links of Sauchope, which were
designed by the presbytery.  For property-tax the manse and
glebe are valued at L.64 per annum.
   The stipend, as settled in 1834, is 152 bolls of meal, 110 quar-
ters, 5 bushels, 1 peck, 1 gallon, 11/2 quart of barley, and L.8, 6s. 8d.
for communion elements.
   Ministers of the Parish.--Upon the elevation of Mr Sharp to
the archibishopric of St Andrews, Dr Alexander Edwards, mi-
nister of Denino, ws transported to the charge in 1662, and con-
tinued to discharge the duties ofit till his death, 10th May 1684.
Dr Edwards was succecded by Mr Alexander Lesly, minister of
Ceres,* who was deposed in 1689 for non-conformity.  He was

<FOOTNOTE>*The following extract from the record of the kirk-session shows the mode of
procedure in those days:-"September 14th 1684.  Dr John Wood, miniters of Kil-
rennie, did preach, and Mr Alexander Lesly, minister of Corse, being presented to



