
			CARMICHAEL.                      525

Hyndford, 1727; 17. John, fourth Earl of Hyndford, 1767; 18.
Thomas, fifth Earl of Hyndford, 1788; 19. Andrew, sixth and last
Earl of Hyndford, 1811; 20. Sir John Carmichael Anstruther,
1817; 21. Sir John Carmichael Anstruther, 1818; 22. Sir Wind-
ham Carmichael Anstruther, 1831.
	The other land proprietors are the Right Honourable Lord Dou-
glas, and Maurice Carmichael, Esq. of Eastend. The valued
and real rents of the three proprietors are as follows, viz.

<TABLE>
    Sir W. Carmichael Anstruther's valued rent              L. 1266  13  4
    Lord Douglas's      do.                                     786  13  4
          Mr Carmichael's, including Eastend and Lochlyoch,     266  13  4

                                                            L. 2320   0  0
	The aggregate real rent is L. 4591.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers do not extend
farther back than 1694. There are eight volumes in the posses-
sion of the session-clerk. The register of births and baptisms ap-
pears to have been pretty regularly kept; no register of deaths has
been kept. The record containing an account of the administra-
tion of church discipline is filled, at an early period, with more
minute details of scandal than is consistent with the taste and prac-
tice of the present times. No good purpose can be served by mi-
nttely recording or transmitting to posterity the facts and circum-
stances concerning cases of scandal. The preservation of records
of scandal may furnish the malignant and the envious with matter
of reproach against the innocent posterity of the persons whose
misconduct is recorded, but will seldom afford much useful infor-
mation. The kirk-session of this parish seems to have been guided
by such enlightened views during the incumbency of the late mi-
nister. Evidence in cases of discipline must be taken in writing
at the time, in order to ensure a just judgment; but it is question-
able whether the minute record and transmission of such evidence
tend to edification.
	Antiquities.--Except the perpendicular stones or crosses, of
which mention has already been made, and the remains of a camp,
or station in the south-west corner of the parish there are no other
antiquities which deserve notice. A large stone coffin was disco-
vered a few years ago, near the bridge over Douglas Water, but
nothing was found in it; it was constructed of sandstone. For the
information of the lovers of antiquarian research, it may be also
mentioned, that, in 1834, some workmen, when quarrying stones
for rebuilding a dry stone wall around the plantations of Stonehill,


