
	156         		GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

	bits do not render them fit subjects for the measure.  The most
	of the men that leave Shetland enter the merchant navy, and few
	eventually are heard of.  They make good sailors, and their prac-
	tice at the oar is as near to perfection as this elegant exercise can
	approach.
	   Ecclesiastical State.--There are twelve parishes in Shetland.
	The stipends of the clergy absorb about a fifth of the whole rental,
	and several of them are above the minimum of L. 150.  They
	are all valued at a fixed money rate.  The serious consequences of
	this arrangement, were any important changes to take place in the
	value of the precious metals, will be at once perceived.
	   Methodists, Seceders, Independents, and Anabaptists, are to be
	found, but no Catholics.
	   Poor.--For the support of the poor, each parish is divided into
	certain districts, and a pauper is appointed to each, who resides a
	given number of days in, or receives a certain allowance from, each
	family.  Collections at the churches are also regularly made for
	them.  In this way their maintenance is lightly felt.  Compul-
	sory assessments would, in Shetland, have most pernicious effects.
	The right to a share in Parliamentary representation was first
	granted to Shetland by the Reform Bill.  In conjunction with
	Orkney, it now elects a county Member.  The number of electors
	is 150.
	   Education.--Education is on the same footing as it is in Scot-
	land in general.  Parochial schools are established throughout,
	assisted by those of the General Assembly.  There are few in-
	dividuals, who cannot read; and writing and arithmetic are pretty
	generally acquired.
	   Character of the People.--The people are not remarkable for
	size or muscular strength, but chiefly for hardihood and endurance
	of fatigue; of a temperament rather versatile and sanguine than
	phlegmatic and persevering; more apt for desultory and adven-
	turous, than for regular and continued exertion ; and this in some
	measure arises, doubtless, from the various and somewhat incom-
	patible occupations on land and water, to which they are early
	accustomed ; and from the lottery-like gains of a fisherman's
	occupation.  Their manner and address are mild and respect-
	ful; their enunciation smooth, and the tones somewhat pensive.
	The language is English, with the Norse accent, and many of its
	idioms and words.  The old names of places are Scandinavian.
	They are fond of music and dancing, though they exhibit little
					3


