
     of Trinity Gask.

part of the soil, being a mixture of clay and loam, is well
calculated for producing wheat, which, in small quantities,
is now sown, and it is hoped will soon be in more general
use.  Lint in some places grows very well; and premiums
for cultivating it have been obtained in the parish.  Mr
Thomas Stalker has this year (1795), preserved lint-seed,
from lint produced upon an acre and a half on the banks of
the Earn; which, from its situation, seems to have been de-
posited by the river.  The soil is rather heavy, and of a
blackish colour.  Mr Stalker thinks that the seed will equal in
quality any that is imported into Scotland.  The parish con-
tains, besides about 40 acres of natural wood, chiefly oak, a
good many thriving plantations, which beautify and shelter
the country.  As many horses are reared in the parish as
preclude the necessity of any foreign supply.  The breed of
late is greatly improved.  The cows are rather small, and
are preferred to the larger kinds, as being more adapted to
the soil, as well as the size of the farms.  But were the lands
inclosed, and more attention paid to the dairy, a larger breed
of milk-cows than the present would probably be found to
be more profitale.  From 6 to 12 milk cows are kept on
each farm of a plough-gate of land.  The milk is made into
butter, and skimmed milk cheese, chiefly for the market in
Perth.  Sheep are almost wholly banished from the parish; and
a few hogs are reared for home consumption.  The parish is
supplied with four meal and two lint milns.  The astrictions
by thirlage, to some of these mills, were till of late very op-
pressive; but in most places a remedy is found, by the propri-
etors of land, who relieve their tenants from the burden; or by
the tenants themselves who purchase the right to the multures,
and thereby have the liberty of grinding their corns where
they please.  The grain produced in the parish is greatly
more than sufficient for the consumption of the inhabitants.


