
     Statistical Account

   Character.-In the character, as well as the condition of
the people, the progress of society is very observable.  By
much better education, and a more enlarged intercourse,
than our ancestors enjoyed, the human mind has been con-
siderably opened; and they of this generation, in a variety
of respects, excel those of the last.  The spirit of creduli-
ty, which arises out of ignorance, and which over-ran, the
country, is now greatly worn away; and the belief in
witches, in fairies, and other ideal beings, though not en-
tirely discarded, is gradually dying out.  Much of the old-
rusticity has been rubbed off; more taste, and a better
manner and address prevail, except perhaps among the very

<FOOTNOTE>

most wholly into disuse; and the very servant maids, when they appear
abroad, are dressed now in silk cloaks and bonnet*, in dressed caps, in
printed cotton gowns, muslin aprons, thread stockings, and cloth shoes.
Almost no beef, and very little mutton, was formerly used by the com-
mon people; generally no more than a sheep or two, which was kill-
ed about Martinmas, and salted up for the provision of the family
during the year.  Though the practice of salting up meat is still con-
tinued, both in the town and country, yet beef and mutton are now
almost constantly sold in the market, and all who can afford it, eat fresh
meat through the whole course of the year.  So litle wheat bread was
used in the town of Wigton, about 40 years ago, that one baker could
not find sufficient employment; whereas the use of it is now become so
general, that there are four or five bakers in town, by each of whom a
considerable quantity is sold.  Neither tea nor sugar were used in this
place, except in a very few families in town, and very little of them
even there; these articles are now constantly used by all who can afford
them, both in town and country, and occasionally by the meanest of the
people.  Upon the whole, the better sort of the inhabitants in the town,
now generally occupy pretty good houses, and live rather in a genteel
style; the tenants, in the country part of the parish, though few of them
rich, are generally substantial, and in easy circumstances; and among
the tradesmen and day-labourers, they who are industrious, earn the
necessaries of life.  It must, however, be confessed, that many of them
are still in an indigent state; as almost all the Irish families which have
settled here, are in a condition of abject poverty.


