
                       PARISH OF CROMARTY.

               PRESBYTERY OF CHANONRY, SYNOD OF ROSS.

                THE REV. ALEXANDFR STEWART, MINISTER. *

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Situation, Boundaries, &c.-THE parish of Cromarty lies in the
extreme eastern angle of the old shire of that name,-abutting, on
the south and west, on the parishes of Rosemarkie and Resolis; and
on the north and east, on the Cromarty and Moray Friths.  It is
of an irregularly oblong figure, averaging from 5 to 7 miles in
length, and from 2 to 3 in breadth.  On the east, it presents to
the waves of the Moray Frith an abrupt and lofty wall of preci-
phces; and attains in this direction to its highest elevation, of about
470 feet above the level of the sea, at a distance of little more
than 500 yards from the shore.  On the north and west it sweeps
gently towards the Frith of Cromarty ; but sinks abruptly over the
beach into a steep continuous bank, which, from the shells occa-
sionally dug up at its base, seems at some early period to have
formed the coast line. There now intervenes, however, in most
places, a lower terrace between it and the shore.  Viewed from
the north, the parish presents a bold high outline,-rising towards
the east, where it marks the junction of the Cromarty and Moray
Fritbs, like a huge leviathan out of the sea, and descending to-
wards the west into a long rectilinear ridge, of the character so pe-
culiar to sandstone districts. An irregularly edged stripe of fir
wood covers, for about six miles, the upper line; a broad arable
belt mottled with cottages and farm-steadings. occupies the decli-
vity ; while the terrace below,-near the eastern extremity of which
the town is situated, and which, like the upper belt, is mostly ara-
ble,-advances in some places on the sea in the form of low pro-
montories, and is scooped out in others to nearly the base of the
escarpment
   Name.-The parish is said to owe its name (Cromba, i. e. crook-

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr Hugh Miller, Author nf "Scenes and Legends of the North
of Scotland."

   ROSS AND CROMARTY.                   A


