
			   STRACHAN.                  233

fifteen miles. The bed of these rivers is rocky and irregular.
They rise rapidly to a great height after heavy falls of rain. On
such occasions the Feugh will rise in a few hours from 8 to 12
feet. Its height at bridge of Feugb, about 200 yards from its
mouth, in the great flood of 1829, was upwards of 20 feet above
its ordinary level. These rivers abound with good trout. Grilse
and sea-trout are found in the Feugh during the months of July,
August, and September; also in the Dye at this season.
	The form of the valley of Strachan would indicate that it had
at one time been a loch of water, which had its egress on the east
side by two channels, namely, on the north-east, by the present
channel of the Feugh, and on the south-east, by the farms of
Knock and Garrol. This supposition accounts for the lands in the
higher districts being of greater depth and fertility than they are
near the bottom of the valley, which is particularly the case with
the higher lands on the north side. On that side an accumula-
tion of vegetable matter would naturally take place at the edge of
the lake, by its being sheltered from the tempestuous influence of
the north and west winds, which chiefly agitate our Scottish lakes.
	Mineralogy.--The rocks of which the hills are composed are all
granitic. There is no limestone quarry in the parish, although
limestone is common in the adjoining parishes of Birse and Ban-
chory. Valuable specimens of cairngorum have been found in tbe
channel of the mountain streams.
	Zoology.*--Few alpine districts are better supplied with game
than the Grampian range of Glen Dye, belonging to Sir James
Carnegie, Bart. Besides the common species, namely, the red
grouse (Tetrao Scoticus), the partridge (T. perdix), and black
grouse (T. tetrix), the white grouse or ptarmigan (T. lagopus), and
the dotterel (Charadrius morinellus), regularly frequent Mount Bat-
tack, and occasionally wander to other summits on that tract of
the Grampians. We have been told by a shepherd of the district,
that it is only of late years that the dotterel first made its appear-
ance on these hills; but whether his information be correct or not,
we cannot positively affhrm. Of the other kinds of game the gol-
den plover (C. pluvialis) is very abundant on all the hills and
moors in this parish; and the gray plover (Tringa squatarola) is
occasionally met with on the higher ranges. We notice the wood-
cock only to remark, that it breeds in the woods of Blackhall.

<FOOTNOTE>For the articles, Zoology and Botany, the writer is indebted to Dr Adams of
Banchory.



