
174			         WIGTONSHIRE.

the fist clergyman of the parish after the final establishment of
Presbytery as the national religion in 1690, was an eminent man
in his time. He was the friend and correspondent of Wodrow,
the historian of the Church, to whom he communicated minute
accounts of the heavy persecutions inflicted on the parish of Pen-
ninghame, both as respected life and property; which accounts,
while they appear in an abbreviated form in the work of that ce-
lebrated historian, Rowan also engrossed in the parish records,
where they still remain.  Rowan seems to have acted an emi-
nent part as a member of the church courts; and reveral learn-
ed letters ard addressed to him by the Rev. James Webster of
Edinburgh, respecting the alleged heresy of John Simson, Pro-
fessor of Theology in the College of Glasgow, whose case was so
long before the ecclesiastical courts, and who was ultimately sus-
pended from his office on account of having taught erroneous doc-
trine. A correspondence was also carried on between Rowan and
Simson, on the same subject. Rowan died in 1714.
	The Rev. John Miller, minister of this parish from 1716 to
1746, had a son, George, who attained to considerable eminence.
Having been settled as a planter in Virginia, he attached himself
to the cause of the Royalists on the breaking out of the American
Revolution in 1775. He was, in consequence, obliged to leave
the country, and to forfeit his whole property. But on the return
of peace, the English government, aware both of his eminent abili-
ties, and of the sacrifices he had made, appointed him successively
British Consul at Charleston, South Carolina, and Consul-Ge-
neral for the whole of the United States. He died in 1798.
	But perhaps the most distinguished person that Penninghame
ever produced was thd late Dr William M'Gill, one of the ministers
of Ayr, and author of "A Practhcal Essay on the Death of Jesus
Christ." Dr M'Gill was born of respectable parents at Carsenestock,
in this parish, in the year 1731. His "Practical Essay," being sup-
posed to inculcate principles both of an Arian and Socinian character,
created a strong sensation, not only among the orthodox clergy of
the Established Church, but also among Dissenters. Various pam-
phlets were published in answer to the work; and not a few clergymen
thought it their duty to warn their hearers from the pulpit against
its pernicious tendency. The whole west of Scotland, indeed, was
involved in a religious ferment, which was perhaps heightened
by the wanton attacks of the poet Burns. At last the matter
was brought before the church courts. Dr M'Gill at first strenuous-


