
			SOUTH UIST.				189

   all substantially built of stone and lime, and slated.  There are
   four mills in the parish built of the same materials, and supplied
   with good machinery and copious waterfalls.

			III.--POPULATION.
      From the reports of old people in the parish, it is believed, that
   the population must have more than doubled during the last cen-
   tury, notwithstanding the frequent emigrations which have taken
   place to North America since the year 1772.  The increase has
   been owing to early and improvident marriages, the healthiness of
   the climate, and the facility of parents in giving to their sons a por-
   tion of their lands, small enough for their own subsistence.  There
   are no towns, villages, or hamlets in the parish.
      Mr Macdonald of Bornish is the only resident heritor.  Four-
   fifths of the lands belong to Clanranald, whose rental is about
   L.4500; Boisdale's, L.900; and Bornish's about L.200.
      There are 17 bachelors, and 36 widowers, upwards of fifty years
   of age ; and 98 unmarried women above forty-five.  Average num-
   ber of children in each family, 5.
      There are 17 persons fatuous, 6 blind, 4 deaf and dumb, and 2
   insane in the parish.
      Character and Habits of the People.--The language used by the
   inhabitants is Gaelic, which is spoken with considerable purity,
   and has not lost ground within the last forty years.  The people,
   in general, are not cleanly in their habits.  Their ordinary dress is
   the sailor's jacket and trowsers of home-made woollen stuff, called
   cl•, or kelt.  They use the hat and bonnet indiscriminately.  The
   ordinary food of the peasantry is barley-bread, potatoes, milk, oat-
   gruel or brochan, and occasionally fish, and shell-fish in summer.
   In good seasons, they have abundance of bread and potatoes ; but
   there are too many cottars and poor people who have no employ-
   ment, and can find none, and are consequently a burden on the
   farmers, who not only supply them with patches of land for pota-
   toes, but also support them out of their stock of provisions, when
   they see them in a state of destitution.  The people, both Protest-
   ants and Catholics, are really very kind to the poor, which is a
   fortunate circumstance, as there are no parochial funds for reliev-
   ing their wants.  The inhabitants, in general, are a moral, well-be-
   haved set of people ; but it must be confessed, that pretty thefts
   are carried on to too great an extent among a certain class of them
   owing to the extreme poverty of many, the want of the wholesome


