
					SCONE.                      1073

	4 inches.  Of this, the communion seats, which are free, take up
	106 feet, 8 inches.  In the year, 1834, it was found that the pa-
	rish church, though in good repair, was too small to accommodate
	the members of the congregation, whereupon some of the heritors
	and a number of the feuars agreed to build an additional aisle by
	subscription.  This was done at an expense of above L.280, and
	furnished about 180 additional sittings, besides greatly improving
	the appearance of the church.  The manse was built at the time
	at which the church was removed.  Considerable repairs were
	made on it in 1832-3, but it is deficient in accommodation.  The
	stipend is as follows: barley, 105 bolls, 1 firlot, 1 lippie, one-half
	peck; meal, 113 bolls, 1 firlot, 2 lippies, one-quarter peck.  Money,
	L.61, 3s. 4d. ; for communion elements, L. 10.  The glebe is about
	27 Scotch acres.  Nearly twenty-four of these are let at a money
	rent.
	   There is a Dissenting congregation in connection with the
	United Associate Synod.  The parish cburch is, in general, very well
	attended,as also the Dissenting chapel.  The average number of com-
	municants at the Established Church is about 600.  In 1833, there
	was a society established in connection with the parish church, for
	the purpose of raising contributions in aid of the schemes under
	the direction of the General Assembly, and for procuring Bibles
	for gratis distribution, and at a cheap price.  The collections for the
	poor at the church-door amount to between the sum of L.50 and L.60
	a year; the collections for the schemes to somewhat above L.20.
	For some years, there was a collection for the Infirmary at Perth,
	but the scheme of parochial subscription was adopted last year,
	realizing about L.35.  There are also from time to time collec-
	tions for the Sabbath school.
	   The late Earl of Mansfield and his ancestors exercised: the
	right of patronage up to a recent period.
	   On the 12th November 1828, a summons of declarator, at the
	instance of his Majesty's Advocate against the Earl of Mansfield,
	was raised for the purpose of having it declared, " that the right
	of patronage of the churches and parishes of Redgorton.  Kinfauns,
	and Scone," belongs to, and is invested exclusively in, the Crown.
 	The Lord Ordinary, in 1830, decided in favour of the pursuer.
	This decision was acquiesced in without appeal to the House of
	Lords.  So far as can be ascertained, the following were ministers of
	Scone: Before 1673, Mr John Liddell.  He seems to have died end
	of June 1686.  In 1687, Mr John Murray was minister.  In 1716, the
	  PERTH                                       3Y


