
                           BOLTON.                             273

what is covered by wood, which is also capable of cultivation, and
a few inconsiderable patches on the sides of the streams.
   There is a tract extending from Morbarn Muir through part of
the parishes of Morham, Haddington, Yester, Bolton, Salton, and
Humbie, the soil of which is of a very inferior quality, being gene-
rally a cold thin clay on a tilly subsoil. Part of this tract has been
originally covered by heath, as is evident from what is still to be seen
in the woods. The soil of the rest of the parish is generally good
-a fertile clay with some inconsiderable exceptions; and has been
brought into a very productive state by the improved system of
cultivation which has long prevailed hi this district.
   Botany.-In the different plantations are found all the ordinary
species of forest trees. Eaglesearnie, which is well wooded, has
fine old timber on its grounds, and, in particular, some Spanish
chestnuts of large size near the house. In these woods the prin-
cipal native plants of any note occur; among which may be noticed,
as not so common, Listera nidus avis, and Campanula rapuncu-
loides. Silaus pratensis is seen in considerable abundance.

                      II-CIVIL HISTORY.
   It is stated by Chalmers in his Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 437, &c.
"that the manor of Bolton was early enjoyed by the St Hilaries,
who were succeeded by William de Vetereponte, who married
Emma de St Hilary. Notwithstanding the terrible disasters of the
succession war, in which, as we learn from Rymer and Prynne,
this family was involved, yet was Bolton, with lands in other dis-
tricts, enjoyed by it under Robert I. and David II. In the reign
of James II. it belonged to George, Lord Haliburton of Dirleton.
It was at length acquired by Patrick Hepburn, Earl of Bothwell,
after a long suit in Parliament with Marion, the Lady of Bolton,
(in which his principles and character appear to great disadvan-
tage.) "In 1526 and 1543, Bolton was in possession of a cadet
of his family, by the name of Hepburn of Bolton. In January
1568, John Hepburn of Bolton was executed, as the associate of
the Earl of Bothwell, his chief, in the murder of Darnley. The
manor of Bolton, thus forfeited, was given to William Maitland,
the well known Secretary Lethington. It was confirmed to the
Earl of Lauderdale in 1621. Richard, Earl of Lauderdale, who
died about the year 1693, sold the barony of Bolton, and even the
ancient inheritance of Lethington, to Sir Thomas Livingston, who
was created Viscount Teviot in 1696; and Sir Thomas transferred
the whole to Walter, Master of Blantyre, afterwards Lord Blan-


