
18                     KINROSS-SHIRE.

  The general duration of leases is nineteen years. The state
of farm-buildings, enclosures, &c. has of late undergone a very
striking change to the better: and the same improvement is observ-
able in the roads, fences, husbandry &c. throughout the parish.
Rents of several properties have, within the last thirty years, been
more than doubled. An estate in the parish which was sold forty
years ago for L. 10,000, was purchased last year for L. 35,500.
  Fisheries.-There is but one fishery, that of Loch Leven, which
commences, if frost permit, on the first of January, and closes on
the first of September. It was lately let at the yearly rent of L. 204.
The former rent was L. 230, and this diminution has arisen
from the partial drainage of Loch Leven being regarded as un-
favourable to the lake, viewed as a fishing-pond.
  Manufactures.-Kinross was, ofold, famous for its cutlery; but
now, there is not one individual in the parish employed in that oc-
cupation. The manufacture, also, of Silesia linens, of which we
read in the last Statistical Account, has ceased. Instead of these,
there are gingbams, pullicates, checks, &c. the materials of which
are sent from Glasgow. But, of late, tartan shawls, plaids, and
other articles of dress have begun to be wrought by three com-
panies residing in Kinross, on their own account, with every pros-
pect of a good return, besides a rise of the wages of the operative,
and an increase of employment to our female population.
  There is, in addition to the two kinds of work mentioned, a ma-
nufacture of damasks from Dunfermline.

	The number of weavers of the first description,	  334
                                     second do.                   48
                                      third do.                   14
                                                                 ___
        Making the weaving population in all,                   396

  The average wages of an industrious cotton weaver are, per week,
5s. 6d.; ofa tartan ditto, 14s. The condition of the former is very
fluctuating. Sometimes their wages are very low; nor is it at all an
uncommon occurrence for a greater or less number of them, for days
and weeks together, to have no webs from Glasgow at all. For the
removal, or at least the alleviation, of this distressing situations
heritors and others, whose circumstances permitted, have occa-
sionally come forward to purchase materials of industry, or to pro-
vide out-of-door occupation.
  It is the practice with our weavers, and others of the labouring
classes, to apply, to proprietors and farmers for as much land as
will be sufficient for planting a certain quantity of potatoes, which



