
                                      DALLAS.                             197

	about fifty feet in height, and falls into a basin, which the country
	people call the Kettle; a little farther down it falls into another
	basin, which they.call the Pot. The rocks surrounding it are stu-
	pendous, rising almost perpendicular. to more than 100 feet in
	height. Nothing is wanting but trees banging over their summits
	to render the scene fublime. There is another beautiful little
	cascade, on the Burn of Auchness.
	   The Lossie, the -only river in the parish, rises in Loch Trevie,
	about eight miles above the church, and meanders along the whole
	length of the p`rish, when, at the north-east end, it dashes over
	a rock thirty feet high ; it is surrounded by scenery at once the
	most enchanting and grand, and after passing through the pa-
	rishes of Birnie, Elgin, and Drainle, flows into the Moray Frith
	at the sea-port town of Lossiemouth.
	   Geology and Mineralo.-In this parish, there are several spe-
	cies of rock, the principal of which are granite, felspar, mica, sand-
	stone, slate, and gravel. The variety of the soil is considerable
	along the banks of the river; it generally consists of light loam on
	a gravelly bottom,-higher up, of a black soil and a till bottom;
	and towards the southern extremity of the parish, it chiefly con-
	sists of moor and moss, in the latter of which there are found
	fir-roots, and trees of an immense size, several feet deep, some of
	which have been burnt, the charcoal remaining fresh to this day.
	There are several freestone and grey slate quarries of a very good
	quality in this parish.
	   Zoology.-The extensive range of moor affords excellent shelter
	for game; the principal kinds of which are black-coek (T. tetrix),
	woodcock (Scolopax ritsticola), moor-cock, wild-duck (Anas boschas),
	pheasant (Phasianus Colchicus). There are a great variety. of other
	kinds of birds, among which may be mentioned the swallow, the
	sparrow (Fringilla domestics), the sparrow-hawk (F. nisus), thd.
	hooded-crow (C. cornix), the rook (Corvusfrugilegus), the raven,
	the magpie (C. Pica), the owl (Strix), the wood and tamd pigeon
	(Columba Palumbus, and C. Livia), the corn-crake (Gallinula
	crex), and the seagull (Larus canus), which comes annually from
	the sea coast to hatch in the lochs before-mentioned.
                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Land-owners.-There are three heritors, all having lands in other
	parishes, viz. Sir William Cr. Gordon Cumming of Altyre, Bart,
	the Earl of Fife, and James; William Grant, Esq. of Wetter
	Elches.


