
                        INCHTURE                             827

neap, tides, and from eleven to thirteen during spring-tides.  Oc-
casionally it has risen as high as seventeen feet, and these extra-
ordinary risings usually correspond with the remarkable flowings
in the Thames, which lay many of the lower parts of London
under water, and in the Frith of Forth, as noticed at Granton
Pier, &c.
   The parish is partly bounded, and partly intersected, by
streams of no great magnitude, called '' pows," probably from the
Gaelic poll, a pond, a bog, marsh or mire, some of which names,
portions of them in their passage from the highlands, through
the allvial soil to the frith, at a former period, no doubt well de-
served.  They take their rise among the hills to the north, and
being joined by various tributaries, flow, the one for a considerable
wav on the western extremity of the parish into the frith at Pol-
gavie, forming and preserving the harbour of that name; and the
other, after uniting the burns of Baledgarno, which partially in-
tersects the parish, and that of Rossie, which partially bounds it
for some length on the eastern extremity, where it diverges into
the parish of Longforgan, and reaches the frith some miles to the
eastward.
   There are numerous excellent wells in the parish. The upper
part is particularly well supplied with water ; and it is probable,
were the wells in the lower part deepened, a fair supply, and of
good quality, might be obtained there likewise, the experiment
having succeeded well in other parts of the Carse.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-The parish affords few geological
features of importance and interest, as may be apparent from thd
preceding description of it, nearly three-fourths being almost level,
a sraall portion only being undulatory, and the retaining fourth
hilly.
   The level portion is almost wholly composed of rich alluvial
clay of great deptb, and seemingly resting on a bed of old -red
sandstone.  A small portion, at the base of one of the hills, is of
a darkish hue, indicating peat.  Some of the undulatory portions
consist of rich loam on old red sandstone, elevated above that
supposed to form the substratum of the Carse, by the upheaving
of the trap; * others again are gravelly.  The hills are chiefly the
result of eruptions from beneath, partially only of denudation from
above. All of them are composed principally of trap.  That

<FOOTNOTE>The contact of the upheaved trap and the uplifted sandstone is very manifest.
in the valleys which divide the hills in the parish.


