
88                          SHETLAND.

1822, it was placed in a district to which not one-eighth part of
the parishioners could have access. Without investigating minute.
ly the other causes that may have co-operated, to: prevent attend-
ance on the parochial school$ it appears that, for a series of years,
the quarterly average number of scholars has not exceeded ten, if
it has reached that number.
   To give anything like efficiency to the means of education through
out this widely extended ministry, four additional schools would be
required. Were the means of obtaining an early and a solid edu-
cation extended to a people certainly not void of natural abilities,
nor of acuteness to discern in what direction their interest lies, a
stimulus would be given thereby to industry and activit in those
departments of labour in which they are engaged, and in a practi-
cal knowledge of which, they no doubt rank behind tliose who are
similarly employed elsewhere; while the moral and religious-
aspect of society, could not fail to be improved.
   To the moral and religious improvement of the parishioner,-;, the
two principal resident hcritors have not been inattentive. By Mr
Bruce of Biirravoc, a disposition -has been granted to the minister
for the time being, of six acres of ground for a glebe to an as-
sistant minister in South Yell, with a right of pasturage on the
common during summer to as many cattle as the straw raised on
that ground, can fodder in winter. By Mr Ogilvy of Quarff, as-
surance has been given of his readiness to provide the necessary
accommodations for a teacher, so as to secure a salary of L.25
per annum, at present promised to the parish by the Assembly's
  Committee. Neither of these can be considered slight benefac-
tions, when the heavy assessments of late made on the heritors of
this parish, in older to repair the machinery of the parochial eco-
nomy therewith connected, are taken; into view. , For, at the end
of, December l838, the beritors, in building two churches capable
respectively of accommodating 500 and 380 sitters, and in repair-
ing the manse, contributed upwards of L. 1800 since 1831, and
that fromrental which certainly does not exceed L. 1300 I

                   IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The industry of the inhabitants is alternately directed towards
the cultivating of their crofts, and prosecuting,tbe small, great line,
or herring-fishing; in which all, with the  exception of a few shop-
keepers,and handicraftsmen, are exclusively engaged.
  The number of statute acres is 37,000, of which of a few shop-
are enclosed; 1500 of these last are at present, or have been cul-


