
     Statistical Account

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The people are in general sober
and industrious, and few have no visible means of subsist-
ence.  Many of the farmers are respectable intelligent men,
who know they have a character as such in the country, and
are at pains to support it.  They are generally solicitous to
give their children a good education; and there is a happy
prospect in this corner, that many of the young people will
turn out sensible useful members of the community.  As to
their religious character, there is certainly less apparent seri-
ousness, and less respect to the external ordinances of religion,
than were to be seen in former times  It is to be regretted,
that a proper respect to religion should ever be diminished:
it gives ground to suspect that there is not a real regard to it.
If this increases, and becomes general, the consequences will
be dreadful.  Morals, among the bulk of mankind, will stand
upon a precarious foundation, as they will be without the re-
straints necessary to keep them from going astray.
   There are only 3 public houses in the parish: indeed one
might serve all the purposes of refreshment.  Whisky, so pre-

<FOOTNOTE>

merly, much more work is done by the same hands.  Threshing in the morn-
ing is universally introduced, and winnowing at night, that the light of the
day may be employed out of doors.  Such farmers as have large quantities of
grain, get it threshed at 10 d. the boll, or English quarter.
   Butcher meat of every kind, butter, cheese, wool, and hay, are sold by the
tron stone of 24 lb. avoirdupoise.  The meal stone weighs I7 1-half lb. avoir-
dupois.  The old measures for the county have generally gone into disuse, and
the Winchester bushel is now universally used; 8 bushels make a boll of oats
and barley, and 4 bushels a boll of wheat, pease, and beans; the potatoe
peck contains 8 English gallons.  With respect to oats and barley, the present
measure is considerably better, and, as to wheat, pease, and beans, it is
much worse, than formerly.-Beef, mutton, veal, and pork, sell for 6 s the
stone, fowls for 10 d. and chickens 3 d. each, butter 8 d. and common cheese
3 d. halfpenny per lb. tron; good bear, 20 s. good oats, 18 s. pease and beans,
14 s the boll.


