
136                           SHETLAND.

most destitute quarters of the pm-isb, they ha:ve placed them with-
in a mile from the Established kirk.
Divine -service at the Established kirk is generally well attend-
44; and the average number of commuiaicants may be stated at
500. Neither' Independents nor its are increasing in
numbers; they are rather declining.  Their meetings are pretty
well attended in the evenings, or when there happens to be no
sermon at the parish kirk.
Education.-There are nine schools in the parish, is one paro.
chial, one Assembly, two from the Society in Scotland for Propagat-
ing Christian   Knowledge, and five supported by individual sub-
scription.  The parochial school was built in 1803, and cost
L.105 Sterling. . The accommodations provided are barely what
are appointed by law, in number; but, in quality, would not be
considered by any unconcerned person to approach near to it.
The school and school-house have thatched roofs, which, by some
aorreement entered into between the teacher and heritors, the for-
rner is bound or has agreed to uphold.  For this he is allowed
some fractional art of a penny.  About one rood of barren mossy
ground was set off for a garden, which was valued to the proprie-
tor from whose lands it was taken, at L.6 Sterling, including peat
ground.  All that it is capable of producing, are a few dwarf cab-
bages, or a few sheaves of gray-bearded oats.  The accommoda-
tions for a number of years have been in a state of great disrepair;'
but the teacher is to blame, in not having applied to the Quarter
Sessions to enforce sue repairs as competent workmen should de.
clare necessary.    The schoolmaster has a salary of L.26 Sterling
per annum.  Branches of instruction taught are, reading, writing,
arithmetic, and book-keeping.  Stated fees for reading, Is.; read-
ing, writing, and arithmetic, Is. 6d.; and book-keeping, 5s.  All
the fees received would hardly amount to LA, 10s. per annum.
The fivle schools supported ky individual, subscription are at
Sand, Aith, Clousta, Culswick, and West Burrafirt.b. The three
former are taught by men who, besides common reading can in-
struet their scholars in writing and-the first rules of arithmetic. The
two latter are taught by women who profbas to teach reading only.
At these five places schools, on a permanent footing, are much
needed ; and a.small salary, if certain, would secure the services
of teachers at these stations, qualified for all the duties which would
be required of them. . At present, they are supported by the fa-
Milies in the respective quarters   but as soon as the teachers can


