
     Statistical Account

commonly reduced to mean circumstances.  Young lads,
however, who have married before they have any stock,
or can get small farms (as often happens), by going in-
to the Company's service, are able to remit a trifle to
their families; and when a man and his wife cannot live
in peace together, the parties and the parish are relieved
from such disquiets, by the husband's retreat to the Hud-
son's Bay settlements*.

   Curiosities and Antiquities.-In the parish of Stenness
are several large erect stones, some standing single, and
others in considerable number, and regular figures.  The
greatest number is in a circular form, surrounded with
a pretty wide and deep ditch, of considerable circumfe-
rence.  Many of the stones there are broken and fallen
down:  Their size is not large.  The largest stand be-
tween the kirk of Stenness and a causeway over a narrow
and shallow place of the loch of Stenness.  Four of these
form a segment of a circle; and it is probable there has 
been a complete semicircle, as some stones broken down
seem to have flood in the same line.  The highest of 
those now standing is about 18 feet above the level of the
ground.  At a little distance from these, is a stone with
a hole of an oval form in it, large enough to admit a man's

<FOOTNOTE>

*The want of slax is also a great disadvantage to this place.  Were it
cultivated, and the sheep properly taken care of, there cannot be a doubt,
but the circumstances of the people would be greatly meliorated.  At pre-
sent, both wool and slax must be bought at very high prices.  A lint-
mill would be very useful, and a great encouragement to the raising of
slax, were any considerable proprietor to encourage the cultivation of this
useful article.  But much good might be done by persuading a few of the
most sensible farmers to sow some slax-seed.  The tristing expense of pur-
chasing a little seed, and a hand brake, would operate as a premium. By
this practice, another advantage might be expected, viz. additional work
for the winter reason, which would be for the benefit of the morals, as
well as the interest of the people.
  

