
                           KILLIN.                         1091

of 2s. 6d. each, or L.12, 1Os. a hundred. About a fourth of the
stock is usually wintered from home. Allowing five fleeces to the
stone, the wool will amount to about 6000 stones. The sheep are
the black-faced, and of the best kind. A few Leicesters and South-
downs may be seen in the parks. The cattle are of the pure West
Highland breed. There are also a few Ayrshire cows introduced
for dairy purposes.
   Wages-.-A ploughman gets from L.12 to L.15, and a female
servant from L.5 to L.7 a-year; the wages of a common labourer
are from 1s. 2d. to 1s. 6d. a-day without victuals; masons and car-
penters, from 2s. 6d. to 3s.
   Husbandry.- The husbandry is undergoing rapid improvement.
Draining is carried on to a considerable extent, also blasting, the
proprietor paying one-half of the expense. Could the rivers be
embanked, an immense benefit would accrue to the farmer. The
deepening of the channel has been attempted with some success.
   The farm-houses and offices are still in many places very infe-
rior, but they are gradually giving place to neat slated accommo-
dations. The five-shift rotation, though adopted with advantage
by many, is still disliked by some. The leases generally are from
seven to fifteen years.
   Manufactures.-There is a wool-mill, where spinning and card-
ing are carried on. There are two saw-mills, and two mills for
meal and barley.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-There are no market-towns in the parish. The
nearest is Crieff or Stirling; the former being twenty-seven, and
the latter thirty-eight miles distant.
   Villages, &c.-There are two villages, Killin and Cliftown. Kil-
lin contains a population of 400. It has a sub-office of the Cen-
tral Bank of Scotland, and also a savings' bank. There are seve-
ral shops where goods can be purchased at a reasonable rate.
   There is a daily post to and from the south, so that the Glasgow
papers may be read at Killin at five or six o'clock P. M. of the day
of publication. There is a post three times a-week to and from
Kenmore and Aberfeldy.
   Means of Conmunication.-The roads and bridges are in excel-
lent repahr, and the means of communication very good. There
is a weekly carrier to Stirling, &c. and one monthly to Glasgow
via Dumbarton, also one monthly to Crieff. In summer, there is
a daily or thrice a-week coach running between Killin and Dun.


