
                     CRIMOND.                                 705

since accumulated between them, the sea may be truly said to be
receding along this part of the coast.  The scenery around Strath-
beg is far from interesting or picturesque, as on the side next the
land it is bordered by bogs and marshes, and towards the sea by a
successions of sterile and cheerless sand-hillocks, covered with
bent.  To the sportsman, however, it presents considerable attrac-
tion, from the numbers of wild-fowl that frequent its surface, or
breed among its marshes; and few fresh-water lakes of the same
extent are better calculated for boat-sailing.  In the upper part
of the parish, where a narrow portion of the estate of Logie almost
intersects the parish of Lonmay, there is another loch, called the
Loch of Kininmonth, but more properly the Loch of Logie, as it
lies entirely within the bounds of that estate. It comprises an ex-
tent of twenty-two Scotch acres, and is mostly surrounded by a
low mossy land,  which gives it a bleak and desolate appearance.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-On this head, the parish, it is be-
lieved, presents nothing of peculiar interest.  Granite of excellent
quality, and of a darker blue than that commonly known by the
name of Aberdeen granite, is found on the east side of the
parish; while towards the west, on the estate of Logie, the
red granite is found, but generally in a state of decomposition,
Whinstone is also abundant.  There are the remains of a lime-
stone quarry near Bilbo, on the estate of Crimond; but it has not
been wrought for many years.  Iron ore is occasionally to be
met with.  The soil throughout the parish is generally of a light
loamy nature, upon a clay bottom.  Near the coast it is light and
sandy, easily laboured, and producing in moist seasons heavy crops
of grain, turnips, and grass.  Near the mosses in the upper parts
of the parish, the soil is cold and damp, and retains the wet to a
great degree.  The crops are consequently late and variable, and
liable to be blighted by frosts and mildew.  In late rainy seasons,
such as 1888, they never come to maturity.  There is a large ex-
tent of moss, of very great depth, belonging to the parish, deeply
imbedded in which are to be found trees, chiefly oak and birch,
of great size, and in tolerable preservation, the melancholy remains
of an era when Buchan presented a very different aspect in regard
to wood from its present naked and treeless appearance.  Vestiges
of decayed hazel are also very common.
   Zoology.-the wild animals are such as are common to the dis-
trict.  Grouse and golden plover are found in the mosses; par-
tridge and corn-rail in the cultivated lands.  The starling is an
   ABERDEEN.                                      Y y


