
418			FORFARSHIRE.

is described as an advantageous situation for machinery: "Its
centrical situation to the manufacturing villages of Cupar Angus,
Alyth, and Kirriemuir; its moderate distance from the flourish-
ing town of Dundee,--an excellent freestone quarry,--the plea-
santness and fertility of the country, and the reasonable price of
provisions, added to the waterfalls on the Isla, seem to concur in
pointing out this little parish as a desirable spot for machinery
and manufactures. Something of the kind is much wanted to
quicken the industry of the tenants, and give a ready market
to many articles of farm produce at present of little value. It
is to be hoped that these natural advantages will not always
be overlooked, and that an observing and industrious age will
at length avail itself of circumstances so strikingly favourable."
These judicious predictions have been in some measure fulfil-
led. A manufacturing age soon began to appreciate such falls
of water as those on the Isla, the value of which is now greatly
enhanced by the completion of the Dundee and Newtyle Railway,
which in a manner diminishes by two,thirds their distance from
Dundee, the principal seat of the linen manufactures. Although
the falls of the Isla have not been turned to so good account as
those on the Ericht at Blairgowrie, seven miles west of this, yet
they have not been altogether overlooked. Upon the space of a
quarter of a mile of the Isla, we have two mills for thrashing corn,
a meal-mill, a flour-mill, a saw-mill, and also two mills for spinning
flax. One of these spinning-mills was erected about twenty-six
the other eight years ago. The number of work people, young
and old, introduced into the parish by these spinning-mills is about
18O, who, upon a fair computation, earn as wages L.200 per
month, (not including managers' salaries,) the greater part of
which is spent in the parish, in the purchase of beef, meal, milk,
butter, and potatoes, thus affording "a ready market for these ar-
ticles of farm produce, and quickening the industry of the tenants."

	Much has been said and written of late about the demoralizing
effects of factories, and it has been too much the fashion to de-
scribe the mill-spinning population a the victims of oppression, of
diseases, and of vice. Such may be the case at large works in
large towns; but in a retired country parish like this, it must be
owing to neglect on the part of the proprietors and overseers of
the mills, and not necessarily to the nature of the employment,
that their work people are not as exemplary in their conduct as
the other inhabitants of the parish. The welfare of those em-
				3


