
			RUTHWELL.                                  225

of a country mason, he attempted, to do. In this he was guided
by the form of the capital, which is nearly entire, and whibh, be-
sides, being in all, probability a counterpart of the arms, contains
on two opposite sides segments of a circle corresponding with simi-
lar segments in the stone immediately below,--evidently indicating
that the circle was originally completed, and formed the centre of
the cross.
	The engraving precludes the necessity of a detailed account of
the sculpture, but it may be proper to take some notice of its prin-
cipal features, as well as to give an explanation of the inscriptions
as far as they are intelligible.
	By referring to the plate it will be observed, that the two faces
of the column which contain Runic characters are in many re-
spects very similar to each other. Not only do we find on either
side a vine winding up the centre in fraceful serpentine undula-
tions, with branches enriched with fruit, starting from it at every
turn, in regular and flowing curves, and animals of different kinds
curiously and artfully sculptured, in the act of feeding; but what
is particularly worthy of remark, because evidently done with some
design, the animals on the two sides though in different attitudes;
are of similar kinds, and Succeed each other in the same order.
First, there is an imaginary animal with the head, body and wings
of a bird, and a long flexible tail like that of a quadruped; then
comes a four-footed animal, next a pair of birds, and above there
two reptiles, of the lizard  species, the latter devouring the stem,
while all the rest are feeding on the grapes.
	With regard to the Runic inscriptions, a new light, as has already
been noticed, has been thrown on the subject, by the learned and
ingenious Mr Repp, who has published a Latin letter on the sub-
ject in the Transactions of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland,
to which the reader is referred. A very brief outline of that paper
must at present suffice.
	It appears that only one specimen of Anglo-Saxon Runes has
hitherto been generally admitted as authentic. This is the Exeter
manuscript, noticed by the learned Hickes in his Thesaurus. Mr
Repp has discovered that in the Runic inscription,--on the Ruth-
well monument, an alphabet is used, differing only in a few minute
particulars from that of the Exeter manuscript,--but widely dif-
ferent from the Norse or Islandic Rudnes employed by the Danes-
He has been enabled, by Employing, this Anglo-Saxon alphabet-
to translate parts of sentences, and several detached words such
	DUMFRIES.


