
     of Fraserburgh.

   Almost adjoining to the west end of Fraserburgh, is the fish-
ing, village of Broadsea.  Seven boats belong to it.  These
boats are let to a tacksman.  The fishermen inhabit good
houses covered with tyles: to build which, they receive an
allowance from the proprietor.  They are tenants at will,
paying annually a small quit rent.
   A few yards west of the Wine Tower, (mentioned in the
note, page 10), stands the castle of Kinnaird's head, built a-
bout the year 1600, in the form of a parallelogram, 39 feet by
27, still entire, strong, and lately repaired.  Being on an
eminence, and four stories high, it commands an extensive
prospect.  On the top of this castle, Government, a few years
ago, erected a light-house, containing 20 lamps with reflec-
tors; which, it is believed, will tend materially to the preser-
vation of the shipping engaged in commerce upon this coast,
Kinnaird's-head being generally the first land made by ships
coming from the north sea to the east coast of Scotland, and
from the east sea to the Murray Firth, and to the west of
Scotland and Ireland by the Orkneys.  It is also taken as a
point of departure; and the light is seen a great way off from
the west, north, and east, by which vessels are enabled to
haul their wind in time, to avoid the danger of a lee shore.
   The inconvenience of being obliged to send to Aberdeen,
at the distance of 44 miles, mostly by expresses, for all custom-
house dispatches, is severely felt by the trading part of the
community*.  Another great inconvenience is self, from their

<FOOTNOTE>

*It will not, it is hoped, be deemed improper to suggest, before quitting
this subject, the proriety of introducing into burghs of regality, or of ba-
rony, advantages similiar to those enjoyed by the inhabitants of burghsroyal,
in the cheapness attending their seisins on property within burgh, and moderate
fees on recording these deeds by the town clerks.  Nor is the practice with-
in royal burghs, with respect to the speedy disposal of fallen or ruinous


