
                             TRINITY-GASK.                           337

    the kirk-session for a parochial teacher, ordering his salary of 100
    merks yearly to be exacted of the parish.  The rebellions in 1715
    and 1745 are not noticed in any manner.  In 1774, there were no
    less than twenty-four table services; now they seldom exceed five
    or six.
      The parochial registers are very full in some respects, and equal-
    ly scanty in others.  From 1770 to 1834, they have been very cor-
    rectly and neatly kept, especially whilst under the charge of the
    late schoolmaster, Mr John Macintyre.
       Eminent Men. -I am not aware that any eminent characters
    have been connected with this parish, either by birth, residence, or
    burial.  Dr Kemp, who afterwards became too notorious, was or-
    dained minister of this parish in 1770, and was translated to Edin-
    burgh.  Dr David Ritchie, now of St Andrev&s Church, Edin-
    burgh, was schoolmaster here for several years; and my imme-
    diate predecessor Dr James Burgh, ordained in 1794, died 1834,
    from his great natural talents, learning, shrewdness, kindliness of
    heart and of demeanour, would certainly have made no inconside-
    rable appearance in the church, had he not, for many years pre-
    vious to his death, been incapacitated for much exertion by bodily
    weakness and infirm health.
       Land-owners.-The proprietors of the parish, arranged accord-
    ing to the rental of their properties, are, Sir Thomas Moncrieff,
    Bart.; The Viscount Strathallan; Thomas Graham Stirling, Esq.
    of Strowan; J. G. Home Drummond, Esq. of Abbotsgrange;
    J. Stewart Hepburn, Esq. of Colquhalzie; The Earl of Kinnoull;
    J. B. Oliphant, Esq, of Gask ; Anthony Murray, Esq. of Crieff
    William Muckersey, Esq.
       Antiquities.-The only antiquities are the ruins of an old castle,
    at the eastern extremity of the parish, called "Gascon Hall,"
    said to have been the place where Sir William Wallace encounter-
    ed the ghost of Faudon, as narrated by Blind Harry; but its appear-
    ance would not justify any stbh remote orifin.  No one can fur-
    nish any information regarding it; the idle traditions of the coun-
    try are every one more absurd and contradictory than another.  It
    stands close upon the north side of the Earn; but there are no in-
    scriptions nor monuments of any kind from which its origin and his-
    tory can be ascertained.  The real Gascon Hall is said to have stood
    about a mile and a half north-east from this, amongst the pre-
    sent woods of Gask.  There is also a peculiar-looking stone
    standing on the high ground, about a mile west, and north from the
     PERTH.                                      Y


