
666                    	   FORFARSHIRE.

among these were found three flint arrow-heads. It has been con-
jectured, that the strange looking earth surrounding the cavity
may be earth saturated with the blood of victhmr. About 300
yards east of the church, were dug up, a few years ago, a number
of stone coffins, none of them exceeding 4 feet long. A little to
the south of the mound just-mentioned, is an artificial hillock, cor-
responding to one about a mile distant on the hill of Stracathro.
They have been called cairns; but, from their commanding situ-
ation, embracing a great range of country in all directions, it is
more likely they were used as signal stations.
	Parochial Registers.--The records of the kirk-session commence
in the year 1709, and appear to have been kept with tolerable re-
gularity, with the exception of one hiatus, which occurs between
1713 and 1716. This was occasionedby the disorders consequent
upon the rebellion; at which period, as appears from the records,
the manse was rifled, and the minister expelled. The register of
baptisms commences in 1709, and of marriages in 1764. The en-
tries appear not to be very regular. Tradition says, that the crown
was surrendered by Baliol in the church-yard of Strickathrow; but
the neigbouring parishes of Montrose and Fettercairn claim the
same distinction. It seems not improbable, that the surrender ori-
ginally took place in this part of the country, and that it was after-
wards formally confirmed at Berwick.
	Mansion-Houses.--The principal mansions are: Stracathro
House, the sdat of Alexander Cruikshank, Esq., of Stracathro,
--a splendid building of the Grecian order; Auchenreoch, the re-
sidence of Archibald Gibson, Esq.,--a very commodious family
house; Newtonwill, an old-fashioned, but comfortable mansion,
belonging to the heirs of the late Sir George Ogilvy, of Barras,
which title is now extinct.

<TABLE=LAND-OWNERS>
                                                              Valued rent.
                The Earl of Kintore,                        L. 750  0  0 Scots.
                Alexander Cruikshank, Esq., of Stracathro,    1250  0  0
                Sir James Carnegie of Southeek, Bart,          l00  0  0
                Charles Hay Carnegie, Esq., of Newton,         166 13  2
                Robert Speid, Esq., of Ardovie,                335 11  4
                Archibald Gidson, Esq., of Anchenreoch,         77 15  6
                Alexander Livingstone, Esq., of Newtonmill,    133  6  8
                                                              __________
                                         Total valuation,   L.2813  6  8

		Archibald Gibson, Esq., of Auchenreoch, is at present the only
resident heritor.


