
     Statistical Account

petuates the memory of this infamous practice.  To the
westward of the village, about a quarter of a mile, lies a
circular lake, upward of one mile in diameter, and in some
places of considerable depth.  It is fed by rills from the
surrounding heights, and sends forth a small stream to aug-
ment the Melgam.  Pike, perch and trout are found there
in abundance.  The border of this lake is not garnished
with a single tree, shrub, or bulrush.  Half a mile N. W.
on an elevated heathy tract, are many tumuli, or cairns.
There, perhaps, a battle was fought by some contending
chiefs, but tradition is silent.  Near the W. end of the lake,
there are remains of an extensive enclosure, said to have
been a deer park belonging to Sir Allan Dorret of that
ilk.  The ruins of this gentleman's residence may be traced
on the S. W. declivity of the hill of Formal, near the
bank of the Ha*.

   Population, Agriculture, etc.-A territory so unpropi-
tious cannot be well inhabited.  The population of this
parish has not been recently ascertained.  The report to
Dr Webster, 50 years ago, was 1165 souls.  From the re-
gister of baptisms and burials,  the number of inhabitants

<FOOTNOTE>

   * Some time before the Reformation, he was proprietor of the greater
part of the parishes of Glentrathem and Kingoldrum.  The latter he be.
queathed to the Abbey of Aberbrothick; and the former be gave to his
daughter, who married to one of the family of Airly.  The patronage and
teinds of the chapel which be built or repaired in Glentrathem, were
transferred to the prior and convent of Incomaboroo.  This priory, and
others, were granted by James VI. to John then Earl of Mar, and erected
into a temporal Lordship, called the Lordship and Barony of Cardross, in fa-
vour of the said Earl and his affignees.  That family becoming bankrupt.
it was judicially sold by the Court of Session, A. D. 1746, and purchased
by Mr John Erskine of Carnock, Professor of Law  The teinds and pa-
tronage of this parish were purchased from Mr Erskine by the family of
Airly, A. D.. 1770


