
     of Whittingham.

   Poor.-No person, residing within the bounds of the parish
is permitted to beg; and indeed, there are few individuals, or
families, who stand much in need of public charity.  This is
so remarkably the case, that it may be affirmed, there is hard-
ly any tract of country, in Scotland, so large, so populous,
and well cultivated, where the  number of the poor is so in-
considerable.  This peculiarity is evidently owing to the small
number of cottagers.  The great body of the lower people
consists of hynds and servants, who are connected with, and
supported by the tenants.-The average number of poor on
the roll, for the last 10 years, is only 5.  They live in their
own houses, and the allowances granted them, consists either
in money or oat-meal.  When in money, they generally re-
ceive 10s per quarter; but this allowance varies according to
circumstances.  Besides the pensioners on the roll, interim
supplies are occasionally given to other families, who, by sick-
ness, or misfortunes, are reduced to necessitous circumstan-
ces.  The average of the money, annually expended on the
poor, for the last 10 years, may be estimated at about L. 19.
This sum is raised by weekly collections at the church-doors,
seat-rents, mort-cloths, marriages, gratuities, etc.  When
these funds are deficient, an assessment takes place.  In 1782,
when the prices of all kinds of provisions were so exorbitant-
ly high, that many of the industrious poor were reduced to
great straits, the heritors agreed to supply this useful set of
men with oat-meal, till the middle or end of harvest, (when it
was supposed the prices would fall), at the rate of is per peck.
In order to ascertain the sum necessary for this purpose, a list
was made up, of such industrious poor, as were thought pro-
per objects of charity, and the quantity of meal was calculat-
ed, that would be consumed by every family per week, and
consequently, that would be required by the whole, during 
the time, that this aid was to be continued.  The sum requi-


