
     Statistical Account

   Employment of the Inhabitants.-The women look after
domestic concerns, bring up their children, cook the victuals,
look after the cattle, spin, and knit stockings; they also as-
sist, and are no less laborious then the men in manuring and
labouring the grounds, reaping the harvest, and manufactor-
ing their crop.  The children are taught very early to be
helpful in the affairs of the house; many of the young wo-
men are employed in May and August in cutting sea-weed
for kelp.  The boys are early employed in fishing.  The,
vince of the men is managing their small farms, the fishing,
boat building, and cutting their peats, which are their only
fuel; besides, they are generally tailor, shoemaker, weaver,
&c. to their own family, and many are smith and wright.
There are only 3 persons in this parish who make their liv-
ing by their trade alone; two wrights and one shoemaker.

<FOOTNOTE>

mily, or person, the ordinary method for their supply is, to represent their state
from the pulpit, with suitable exhortations, and appoint a day for a collection to
be made for their account.  It is common to receive from 2 L. to 5 L.  Sterling on
such occasions.  From this account, it is obvious, that in times of general cala-
mity, little more can be done by the kirk-session, or by the inhabitants of this
parish.  From the year 1782, the crops failed, and a great death prevailed a-
mong the horned cattle and sheep, so that these islands, during that period, were
in very great distress, and many must have perished from want, if they had not
received seasonable and large supplies.  In the year 1783, they shared in the
supply given by Government to the northern counties of Scotland.  In 1784, a
considerable supply was sent them by a vote of the House of Commons.  In the 
following years, Thomas Parker, Esq. of Hull, and Alexander Alison. Esq. De-
puty Cashier of Excite at Edinburgh, set on foot subscriptions for their relief;
The former collected 303 L. 16 s.; and the latter 1049 L. 6 s. 7 d. both which
sums Mr. Aluon sent, from time to time, to Shetland, in meal for food, and grain
for feed.  On the night of the 10th June 1971, many of our fishing-boats were
lost at sea, which left many families in the greatest distrels.  An early account
of this reaching Edinburgh collections were made for them there, and the poor
widows and orphans have, at three different times, received of this liberality.
transmitted by Messrs. Robert Strong and Son merchants Leith.


