
     Statistical Account

within their jurisdiction, to be visited by some of their
members, they found in this city above 60 schools, in
which the masters were entirely supported by school wa-
ges, from 5 s. to 1 s. the quarter.  In the greater part
of these, nothing was taught but reading English, the Ca-
techism, and perhaps a little writing.  It may be proper
here to observe, that in the present state of this city, it is
of the greatest importance to prevail on parents, to send
their children to school at 6 years of age;  for if their edu-
cation is then neglected, it is in great danger of being lost
for ever.  The manufactures find employment for chil-
dren between 7 and 8 years of age, and even then their
work will bring from 1 s to 1 s. 6 d. per week.-This
becomes a temptation scarce to be resisted by poor fami-
lies.-The only method, therefore, by which the educa-
tion of the poor can be secured, is by giving it early, and
supporting the Sunday schools, which may prevent such e-
ducation as they got being lost.
With regard to the education of their higher classes of the
inhabitants, there are many public teachers of the living
languages, Writing, Arithmetic, Book-keeping, Mathema-
tics, etc. whose fees are generally from 5 s. to 10 s 6 d.
the quarter, and some of them considerably higher.
   Besides a considerable number of private schools, in
which the Latin language is taught, a very elegant build-
ing has lately been erected for the public grammar school,
in which the course of education is 4 years, and is conduct-
ed by 4 masters, who each carry on their classes the whole
time, having equal salaries of L. 25 each for the three first
years, and L. 35 for the fourth year.  Each scholar pays
5 s. per quarter, besides a present at Candlemas;  and for
some years each of the classes has generally consisted of
from 80 to 100 scholars.  Great care has been taken in
the choices of the masters, both as to their worth and pro-
fessional abilities.  To this, and to the great attention,


