
			PARISH OF PENPONT.

		PRESBYTERY OF PENPONT, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

		  THE REV. GEORGE SMITH, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THIS parish is generally believed to have derived its
name from a hanging bridge (Pendens pons) across the river Scarr,
which separates one part of it from the adjoining parish of Tyn-
ron. If this etymology should be thought to ascribe little ingenui-
ty to the aboriginal inhabitants of the soil, it is not thus chargeable
in respect of their posterity. If any one can believe that the pa-
rish had no name until it was visited by the Romans, or that the
name had then been charged,--or that it was ingeniously applied
by the "masters of the world" from the peculiar structure of the
bridge,--then to him the etymology will appear quite satisfactory.
More probably, however, it is derived from the Celtic words Ben
or Pen, signifying high, and Pont, a sharp crag or pointed cliff.
Any one acquainted with the parish, and the striking outlines of
the whole neighbourhood, will readily consider this to be the more
rational etymology.*
	Extent, Topographical Appearances, &c.--This parish is conti-
guous tp seven parishes, Tynron, Keir, Closeburn, Morton, Dur-
risdeer, Sanquhar, and Dalry. It is probably, from the extreme
point to another, somewhere about 18 miles in length; but the in-
habited part is from 15 to 16. There are not above nine houses
farther off than 7 to 8 miles from the parish church; and the few,
perhaps four, situated beyond 9 miles, are nearly in a line, indi-
cated by the course of the Scarr. The parish is of an irregular
form. The upper part of it is altogether pastoral, and diversified
with numerous hills, varying perhaps from 500 to 1000 feet in
height. Some of them around their bases are adorned with natu-

<FOOTNOTE>The latter idea has been suggested by that accomplished scholar the Rev. John
Wightman, minister of Kirkmahoe. It has antiquity at least on its side; for whe-
ther we look to Glenqubargan Craig as its name-father, or to any rugged cliff in the
neighbourhood, the cliff was at least older than the bridge.


