
                  MAINS AND STRATHMARTINE.                     55

and are not 400 feet above the level of the sea. The valley has al-
ways been considered a pleasant spot, affording a diversified land-
scape of considerable richness and beauty.
  Climate.-As the valley extends to the sea, it is subject to
easterly winds and fogs, and the harvest is not so early, nor is
the climate so genial, as in some of the inland parts of the country.
The Dighty, being the most considerable stream of water in the
vicinity of Dundee, is used as a powerful engine in different ma-
nufactures; but since public works have been erected in the parish,
the picture of pastoral life has been withdrawn, and the eye of the
spectator is presented with a busy scene of human industry, and of
the arts brought into practical operation for the benefit of man.
There are few improvements that are not accompanied with some
mixture of evil; volumes of smoke are now seen issuing from en-
gines along the whole line of the valley; the bleachfields have ren-
dered the water unfit for the use of cattle and for domestic purposes;
the fish have disappeared; the fumes emitted from the works are
offensive to travellers, but still more to those residing on the spot,
whose first sensation in the morning when they awake is that of the
dilation of their lungs from a mixture of muriatic acid and chlorine
gas. The health of the inhabitants, however, does not seem to be
impaired; nor are they peculiarly subject to fever or any other
disease.
  Hydrography.-The Dighty, the only stream of water in the
parish, rises from two lakes in the parish of Lundie, and running
with somewhat of a uniform declivity, fall into the sea, near the
bar of the River Tay, in the parish of Monifieth; its whole course
not exceeding fifteen miles. It seldom overflows its banks, nor does
it fall so low in dry weather as many streams of greater magnitude.
	As the branches or small rivulets that run into the Dighty are
often dry in summer, and the water in the river itself adulterat-
ed, and rendered unfit for ordinary use, pit wells have become ne-
cessary, not only for the accommodation of houses and farms, but
frequently for the benefit of grass-fields.
	There were formerly some bogs and marshes in the parish; but
they have now all been drained, and only a few traces of them can
be distinguished. There is only one spring that claims to be no-
ticed. It is called Sinavey, and issues from the crevice of a perpen-
dicular rock at the castle of Mains. It fills the whole aperture
even in the driest weather, and consequently suffers no diminution.
The water is considered in the neighbourhood as peculiarly sweet


