
     The Statistical Account.

tigued or disgusted in its service; and to whom truth and
utility are accessible, at all times, and from every quarter,
provided they are stated with candour, and urged with mo-
deration.  From those the present proposal solicits protection
and encouragement.  Should it not be deemed expedient to
charge the landed property with the additional salary, it
might be furnished from the public revenue without incon-
venience.  Five or six thousand pounds annually, would re-
quire the imposition of no new tax, nor the retrenchment of
any former expence.  A much larger sum is necessary to esta-
blish a new society, to fit out a voyage of discovery, or to
found a distant colony.  To there objects of national impor-
tance, our sovereign has not been inattentive.  The same
royal patronage and munificence might, with the happiest ef-
fects, be extended to the improvement of schools.  Humbler
in appearance, and less calculated to excite immediate atten-
tion, the advantages and the honours of such a measure would
nevertheless grow like a tree in the silent progress of years;
and in a short time, the labours of every arm would demon-
strate its utility, and the accents of every tongue would testi-
fy its praise.  To a commercial nation it would also be don-
bly valuable.  For, as an excellent writer observes, 'the state
'of a nation's wealth is not to be estimated from the state of
'its coffers, granaries, or warehouses, at any particular time,
'but from the fertility of its lands, from the numbers, sru-
'gality, industry, and skill of its people.'
   That there are many who would concur with the land-
holders, though from different motives, in opposing the aug-
mentation of schoolmasters' salaries, is well known, and much
to be lamented.  Some would object to the measure, as inju-
rious to the interests and the propagation of learning, by ren-
dering the teachers too independent, and thus operating as a
check on their diligence and exertions.  With these gentle-
     VOL. XXI.


