
344                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the liberty of cultivating a small patch of waste land. If these
unhappy individuals, as very frequently happens, under the dread
of starvation, forget the laws of God and man, so as to " put forth
their band to steal," their master knows perfectly that, like the
fox, they will not plunder near their own den,-tbat they will go
to a distance to forage; and he needs not fear that his sheep will
be touched by them, while there are some belonging to any other
person within reach of a long night's journey.
  Thus an avaricious proprietor may at any time increase his rent-
al in this country, by the subdivision of his farms, and for some
years he will succeed in exacting every pdnny of his rack-rent.
Again, if he wish to sell his property, the long rent-roll duly at-
tested will enhance the value of it in the market. If he be de-
sirous of borrowing money, through the same roll he may induce
a money lender, ignorant of the actual state of matters, to advance
on the security of the property a sum double its actual value.
  There are here strong temptations for bard-hearted avarice to
deepen the evil under which the island already groans, to encou-
rage the increase of the already teeming population, and there is
an open door for cruelty on the one hand, and for fraud on the
other; but we are glad to say that there are few who have yielded
to the wicked solicitation,-that the more enlightened of the land-
owners and of the tacksmen of this parish are sincerely anxious to
promote the comfort of their people.
  It must be evident, at the same time, to every thinking man,
that, while some of the land-owners and tacksmen may be to
blame for the present state of things, yet that the main cause of
the evil is to be found in the ignorance of the people themselves.
Were they enlightened, they would not submit to extortion or
to want. They would seek in other quarters of the world the
means of independent and comfortable subsistence. They might
fare much better where they are. But generally they are unen-
lightened-they are deplorably ignorant, and, being so, they are
destitute of the true spirit of independence-of the proper ambi-
tion to better their circumstances. They feel a blind, and, there-
fore, a very powerful attachment to the rocks and glens amid which
they were brought up-an almost invincible aversion to abandon
them. They are improvident as to their marriages, and also as
to the husbanding of the slender resources which are within their
reach. Many of them are utterly careless regarding the future.
  The immediate and most obvious remedy for the evils arising


