
     of Eastwood.

the antiquities of Scotland.  He had made a large collection
of pamphlets and manuscripts.  He wrote a great deal; and
particularly employed himself during the last years of his life,
in writing the lives of the principal learned men of Scotland,
whether gentlemen, ministers, or bishops; who lived before
the period at which his history commences.  Some of his
manuscripts with the materials relating to them, are now in
the library of the faculty of Advocates.  Some of them are
in the repositories of the Church; and some part of them,
his biography in particular, is still in the hands of his descen-
dants.  He was among the first who attended to natural his-
tory in this country; and he left behind him a small museum
of fossils, chiefly collected from his own parish, and also a
collection of medals.  The church history of Mr Crawford
has never been published, and therefore the writer of this
account has been at pains to procure some information re-
specting it.  The manuscript is in the possession of the
church.  It consists of two volumes folio, containing up-
wards of 1400 pages.  Prefixed to the history is a short life
of the author.  From this life it appears, that he was a native
of Greenock; that he obtained the degree of A.M. in the
College of Edinburgh, and that by the patronage of Mr John
Carstairs, one of the ministers of Glasgow, he was sent to
Utrecht.  There he studied two years, wrote several treatises,
chiefly controversial, and maintained some public disputation.
In the year 1671, he was licensed at Glasgow, to preach the
Gospel, by a meeting of Clergymen, held for the pur-
pose in a secret manner, in order to avoid the penalties de-
nounced at that time against the presbyterian non-confor-
mists.  In 1671 he was, with the consent of Sir John Max-
well, privately ordained minister of Eastwood at Paisley.
Enjoying the friendship of the family of Pollok, he often in
those perilous times preached to such persons as ventured

     D d 2


