
510                      FIFESHIRE.

of cattle. The system of husbandry pursued is the rotation of
five and six years.
   The breeds of cattle most encouraged are the Fife, Angus,
Ayrshire, and Teeswater. For the last of these the pasture is not
considered to be very suitable. The sheep are of the Leicester
and Cheviot breeds.
   The general duration of leases is nineteen years, and from the
respectability of the farmers, it may be inferred that these are fa-
vourable to the occupier.
   The state of the farm-buildings is in general excellent. Some
of the steadings have been rebuilt, improved, and enlarged within
these few years. A number of enclosures, chiefly of stone and
lime walls, have been made of late years by Mr Berry of Tay-
field, upon whose property there are also several fields enclosed
by hedge and ditch. On the estate of St Fort, there are also a
number of enclosures. But there is still a considerable deficiency
in this respect throughout the parish.
   Quarries.-The quarries in the parish are all whinstone. They
are wrought for building houses and enclosures. The freestone
is brought either from Angus, or from the quarries on the south
of the river Eden, a distance of about nine miles. The lime is also
brought by sea, or carfed from the lime hills at a still greater dis-
tance than the freestone.
   Fisheries.-There are several salmon fisheries in the parish.
They are carried on by net and coble,-a mode of fishing which is
found to be very ineffectual in estuaries, so that the rents are of
small amount, probably not exceeding L. 150 yearly. About the
year 1797, stake-nets were introduced into the Frith, when in one
season 7000 salmon were caught with a single net, a quantity
nearly equal to a fourth part of the previous produce of the whole
Frith and river. This immediately alarmed the proprietors of
fisheries in the upper parts of the Tay, who had previously enjoyed
a monopoly of the trade, and they accordingly brought an action
before the Supreme Court, to have the new mode of fishing put
down. This they accomplished after a litigation which lasted
till the year 1812, when it was decided that the use of stake-nets
in friths and estuaries fell under the prohibition of certain Scotch
statutes. It is much to be regretted that a question involving so

<FOOTNOTE>The sheep husbandry has been carried on to considerable advantage by some of
the farmers for improving their light lands, particularly on the farms of Kirkton and
Newton.


