
     of Tillicoultry.

by giving them money, buying cloths, paying their house rents
and school fees for their children.  Till within these 4 years,
interest at 5 per cent has been received for the poor's money,
but the rate at present is only 4 per cent.  The annual ave-
rage of the mortcloth money is 2 L. 4 s. Sterling; of the pro-
clamations, 14 s. 10 d; of incidental fines, 13 s. 6 d; of persons
occasionally assisted, 11 s; and of children whose school wages
are paid, 5 s or 6 s.  The lowest stated weekly allowance is
6 d, and the highest is from 1 s. to 15 d.

   Proprietors.-Besides Mr Bruce, there are other 9 heritors,
namely, Lord Cathcart, John Johnston, Esq; of Alva, John
Tait, Esq; of Harvieston, John Harrower, John Paton, Hugh
Hamilton, Marion Drysdale, James Ure, and Robert May.
All the heritors have houses in Tillicoultry, and reside in
them, except Lord Cathcart and Mr Johnston, who have
splendid seats in the neighbourhood.

   State of Property.-The estate of Tillicoultry has been in the
possession of 7 different families since the commencement of
the last century, and has been 6 times sold §.  The advance
of the price, at the two last sales, deserves to be noticed; the
     VOL. XV. D d

^It came into the possession of the ancestors of Lord COLVIL of CUL-
ROSS, in the reign of JAMES III. anno 1483, and continued in that family till
the year 1634, when it was sold to WILLIAM ALEXANDER of Menstry, a
POET of great genius, and afterwards created EARL of STIRLING.  Several
of his poems are printed in DRUMMOND of Hawthornden's Collection, and
his Paranesis or exhortation on government, which is dedicated to Prince
HENRY, the son of King JAMES VI. does great honour, both to the prince
and the peer.  The estate was next purchased by Sir ALEXANDER ROLLO of
Duncrub, in the year 1644; by Mr JOHN NICOLSON of Carhock in Stir-
ling-shire, in 1659; by Lord TILLICOULTRY, one of the senators of the Col-
lege of Justice, and a Baronet, in 1701; by the Hon. CHARLES BARCLAY
MAITLAND, of the family of Lauderdale, in 1756; and by JAMES BRUCE,
Esq; of Kinross, in 1780.


