
410                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

within the present report. The most noticeable plantations in
this district belong to Mr Gordon of Craig, because these (and
especially the romantic Den already alluded to) exhibit forest
trees and hard-wood of considerable variety, and demonstrate how
much may be done, by care and perseverance, in the rearing
of valuable wood, even under the opposing obstacles to be met
with in a highly elevated country.  Of the sorts which have been
successfully cultivated at Craig, the beech, the oak, the ash
and elm, the chestnut, the lime, the sycamore, the silver-fir,
the black spruce, and the larch, are conspicuous.  Mr Gor-
don affirms that, next to first nursing, the whole art of raising
wood consists in thinning; that wherever forest trees or any
sorts of trees are raised either for cutting or for decoration, it is
in vain to expect success unless a steady, regular, and unsparing
course of thinning is maintained.  It is this which enables the
ground to bring to maturity a certain number of plants; it is
this which alone contributes to the indispensable admission of light,
and the free circulation of air; and it is the neglect of this prac-
tice, which exhibits in many plantations, which otherwise would
have been valuable, stunted and unhealthy trees, covered with
moss, disfigured in appearance and ruined in value.  The conge-
niality of the soil in this district is decidedly in favour of the larch
in thin dry land; and of beech, oak, ash, elm, and lime, in richer
situations.  The pinaster, the Weymouth pine, the balsam or balm
of Gilead fir, and the holly, do not succeed here. In all the planta-
tions in this part of the country, three facts are observable, 1. that
the portion which fronts the north thrives the best, at least in the ear-
lier stages of growth; 2. that trees planted on sloping banks prosper
better than those on a flat; and 3. that trees of different sorts in-
termixed, succeed better than when masses of the same descrip-
tion are planted together.  If there be any exception to the last rule,
it is in the case of the oak.
   There, are few trees of remarkable age, size, or figure in these
parishes, if we except two venerable sycamores near to Mr Grant's
house of Druminnor, and a few old ashes round the garden at
Craig; one of these (of large stem, and of which the tradition is
that it was planted in l688,) showed evident symptoms of decay
about fifteen years ago, the tops fading and the trunk spoiling in the
heart.  To save it if possible, the proprietor pollarded the tops,
and caused the opening in the stem to be carefully covered over
with sheet lead, in order to exclude the rains.  The consequence has
been that this ancient tree is again in vigour.


