
                                 PERTH.                        125

      ciations. In some of these the books are numerous and well
      selected.
         The Literary and Antiquarian Society was established in 1784.
      Its founder was the late Rev. James Scott, one of the ministers of
      the city, who, to the mind and manners of a gentlemen, and the
      piety and zeal of a Christian minister, added an unpretending but
      ardent love of literature and the fine arts.  Its primary object was
      to investigate the history, and preserve the antiquities and records
      of Scotland generally, and more particularly of that portion of it
      of which Perth may be considered as the caphtal; but when many
      literary and scientific men proffered their countenance and co-
      operation, Mr Scott and his associated friends enlarged the scheme
      of the society's pursuits, and gave it the name which it now has.
      It has lately obtained a charter or seal of cause from the magis-
      trates.  Since the year 1818 it has issued diplomas. An annual
      general meeting of the members is observed.  On these occa-
      sions, papers are frequently read on literary, scientific, orantiqua-
      rian subjects, and, generally, deposited in the society's archives.
      Among these there are some by Dr Anderson of the Academy, on
      scientific questions, characterized by originality and a profound
      power of investigation.  The society has a museum, consisting of
      scarce and valuable books, manuscripts, and coins; also of subjects
      of natural history, and of various articles of dress, &e. which cha-
      racterize the habits and manners of barbarous nations.  It has re-
      ceived of late many valuable additions from natives of Perthshire-
      and others in foreign countries.  The present Noble President is the
      Right Honourable the Earl of Kinnoul, and its annual meeting is
      held in the museum, which is under the same roof with the public
      library.
       There is in the city a public reading or newsroom.  It is, spa-
      clous, and brilliantly lighted with gas.  It is supplied with'about
      twenty newspapers, English, Irish, and Scotch, and of every shade
      of political opinion.  There are also magazines, reviews, and other
      periodicals.
       There are four weeklv newspapers printed in Perth-tbe Courier,
      which commenced in 1809-the Strathmore Journal, which com-
      menced in 1820-the Constitutional, which commenced in 1835
      -and the Chronicle, which commenced in 1836.  Mr Morison
      publishes annually "the Perth and Perthshire Register, contain-
      ing accurate lists of the nobility, constituency, and institutions
      of the county and city, also the Tay shipping-lists.



