
     Statistical Account

is bounded on the E. by the small river of Balnagown, and by
the sands of Nigg, and bay of Cromarty on the S.  The situation
is truly delightful, having the best cultivated parts of six neigh-
bouring parishes full in view.  Beyond these, the eye extends
over a prospect of 30 miles, from E. to W. along the Firth;
and, towards the S. E. a passage opens between the two rocks
called the Sutors or Saviours of Cromarty, through which a 
considerable part of the country of Murray is visible; and all
the vessels, small and great, that enter into the bay, and an-
chor in this Portus Solutis, are seen from almost every house
in the parish; the whole forming one of the richest and most
beautifully variegated landscapes in Britain.
   The soil of this parish is various: along the shore, which is
that, it is generally light and sandy, but in rainy seasons very
fertile; and, even in the driest summer, it seldom fails of
yielding a sure crop.  About a mile from the shore, and al-
most parallel to it, a sloping bank runs from E. to  W. through
the whole parish: here both the soil and the climate begin to
change, though the bank at its utmost altitude is not more
than 30 feet above the level of the sea.  In place of the light,
warm,and fertile soil below, one meets with a wet, cold,
and surly clay, covered with 2 or 3 inches of black mossy earth;
and in many places a black pan, hard as iron ore, runs in a stra-
tum of 2 or 3 inches thick in the bosom of the clay, and about
8 or 9 inches below the surface, which in a rainy season keeps
the water floating above, prevents early sowing, and some-
time starves the seed in the ground.  This bank, however, has
for the most part been long in cultivation, and is all along
covered with corn-fields, or sown grass, which, with a dry
spring, and moderate summer rains, produce heavy crops.
Behind the bank, and towards the north, a plain 4 miles
long, and from 2 to 3 broad, opens to view; of which about
a fourth part is in cultivation, a fourth part is moss yielding


