
                        DALSERF.                                751

Erected by Kenneth Mathieson, Glasgow."  This testimony is
the more worthy of being responded to, as the bridge, though a
great public benefit, has as yet been the reverse of any source of
profit to the subscribers or their heirs.  The bridge at Milton is
the private property of William Lockhart, Esq. of Milton Lock-
hart.  It is a graceful structure, consisting of three arches, ribbed
in the old style, like those in Bothwell Bridge and old Avon
Bridge, near Hamilton, both of which are of unknown antiquity.
There is a bridge of one arch, of 80 feet span, over the Avon at
Millheugh; another nver the Cander, near Stonehouse, with nu-
merous smaller bridges crossing the rivulets of the parish.
   The land is nearly all enclosed.  At one time, dry stone dikes
were in general use for this purpose.  These have now, in a great
measure, disappeared, their place being supplied by hedges of thorn
and beech.  The hedges on the Duke of Hamilton's lands, along
the sides of the principal roads and around his plantations, are ex-
cellently kept, and every encouragement is oiven by his Grace to
his tenants to attend to the subdivision fences on their farms.
There is still great room for improvement. The subdivision hedges
of the parish are too often neglected and insufficient.  Indeed, un-
less landlords take the trimming and upholding of fences into their
own hands, the expense of planting them is, in too many instances,
just so much money sunk and lost.  They are forthwith allowed
to be trampled down by cattle, and being left unshorn and un-
attended to, except at long intervals, become useless as enclo-
sures, causing a constant and annoying demand upon the landlord
for stob and rail.  Wood grows readily, and hedges are reared
without difficulty in every part of the parish.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is beautifully situated,
but very inconveniently placed for the greater part of the popula-
tion.  It stands on the banks of the Clyde, which is the eastern
boundary of the parish.  Its distance from the farthest boundary
is about four miles.  It was built, as already noticed, in 1655.  It
appears from the Presbytery books, that both church and manse
were repaired in 1721, at an expense of L. 427, 18s. Scots. Some
alteration and repairs of the seating took place, in 1818 and 1819,
so as to make the interior of the church more respectable in ap-
pearance and more comfortable, but without giving any additional
accommodation.  Though old, the present condition of the build-
ing is such as, in the existing state of the law, to justify the heri-


