
                              DRAINIE.                             147

     Lossie, and touches or closes with it at high-water.  The greatest
     depth of water on the Bar at spring-tides is ten feet, in ordinary
     tides sometimes less than eight.       The unfortunate mariner that
     is overtaken by the storm, and who, in hopes of saving his life,
     runs his ship ashore, or is driven on it by the tempest at low wa-
     ter, must inevitably perish.  From the violence of the surf which
     lashes this shallow  coast in every northern storm, no ship can
     live, nor boat give aid or assistance.  The decks are swept of
     every living soul, and the vessel itself, if it holds together, digs
     its own grave in the shifting sand, and in a few clays disap-
     pears from human view.  Such has been the fate of too many.
     Scarcely a year passes that does not tell the mournful tale. I
     cannot assign the cause, why more ships have been lost in Spey's
     Bay since the erection of the light-house on the opposite coast
     at Tarbet point, than ever were lost in the same number of
     years, previous to its erection.  On the northern side of this pa-
     rish, the coast is bold and rocky.  A reef or chain of bidden rock,
     a mile distant from the shore, runs parallel to the Coulard and
     Causea Hills.  In calm weather, this reef is visible from the neigh-
     bouring height, and its course maybe traced by the black curl of
     the water over its surface, and in tempestuous weather by the tre-
     mendous billows that dash and break upon it.  That part of the
     reef called the Great Skerry, is at all times visible.  Providence
     has in mercy lifted the head of this reef above the waters, as if to
     warn mariners of the bidden rocks that flank it right and left.    On
     this fatal reef, more than forty vessels are known to have been
     wrecked within these fifty years past, and many no doubt have
     shared the same disastrous fate, that never have been known or
     beard of.  That the light-house at Tarbet point on the opposite
     coast is of some use, as it guards the mariner against mistaking
     the Dornoch Ferry for Cromarty Bay, is admitted, but not one ves-
     sel ever was or will be lost in the Dornoch  Frith for ten that
     has been and in all probability will be, lost on and  near the
     Skerries.  There is a talk of erecting a light-house on the
     Moray side of the Frith.


