
800                           FIFESHIRE.

ter's salary, L.34, 4s. 5d.; school-fees, L.40, 10s.; other emolu-
ments, L.7, 10s.
     Poor.--Averaghe number of poor, 16,  Average sum given an-
nually to each, L.3, 18s., and a cart-load of coals in winter.  Ave-
rage annual amount of contirbutions for do. L.68, of which L. 36
is from collections at the church-door, and the remainder from do-
mnations, &c.  There has never been any legal assessment for the
poor.

1842

                       PARISH OF KINGHORN.

             PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

            THE REV. FERGUS JARDINE, A.M., MINISTER.

               I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.--THE name Kinghorn is eveidently formed of two old
British or Celtic words, cyn (kin), and quern or gern, which
signify the "Bead of the spouty land, or land of springs,"--
this being descriptive of the position and locality of the town,
which is built upon the bend and acclivity of the ground form-
ed by the Bay of Kinghorn.  Behind the rising ground upon
which the town stands, there is a loch of considerable extent,
which sends forth a streasm that intersects the town; and there are
various myres or marshes. two of which are called the Easter and
Wester Myres, which contribute their respective rivulets to mark
the boundary of the old burgh.
     Extent and Boundaries.--The parish extends over a little more
than 8 square miles.  Its greatest lengrh is 4 3/4 miles, and its
greatest breadth is about 3 1/2 miles.  It is bounded on the east and
north by Abbotshall; on the north and west, by Auctertool and
Aberdour; on the west, by Burntisland; and on the south and
south-east, it is washed by the Frith of Forth.  It has somewhat
the shape of asn awkwardly formed eight figure, from portions of
Abbotshall and Burntisland running into it on the east and west.
It is beautifully diversified both in its marine and interior outline.
The ground rises in some places abruptly, and in others gradually
from the shore, and alternations of hill and valley, of finely



