
   14                           ELGINSHIRE.

   bone manure. It is now used to a certain extent by almost every
   farmer; and Mr Lawson of Old Mills has erected, near Elgin, a
   mill for its manufacture. From fifteen to twenty bushels per im-
   perial acre, without mixture, will produce a heavy crop of turnips;
   but, for a year or two past, a more economical mode of applying
   bones for raising this valuable esculent has been adopted, namely,
   by dibbling, and in this way half the quantity, or even less, will
   raise a very fair crop. In order to render the saving plan bene-
   ficial to the soil, the whole crop thus raised ought to be consumed
   on the ground by sheep,--a practice to which, one great ob-
   stacle at present is the want of a market for the fatted stock,-
   an obstacle which steam conveyance, it is hoped, will soon re-
   move. Wheat, oats, and barley, are cultivated in considerable va-
   riety in the parish. About four years ago the Hopetoun oat was
   first tried by that intelligent and zealous agriculturist, Mr Isaac
   Forsyth of Haughland. This variety does not suit light land, but
   it is now much used on rich soils, and the produce in straw and
   corn exceeds considerably that of any other oat formerly cultivat-
   ed. The Chevalier barley has been recently introduced, and from
   its superior quality is likely to be extensively raised.
     The use of lime has been general for twelve years. On light land
   it is applied at the rate of 120 to 140 bushels, and on strong
   land at the rate of 200 bushels, or even more per imperial acre.  On
   very light sandy soil, though the effects are visible in the green crops
   and grass, it is doubtful whether it will pay, but along the margin of
   the Blackhills and in Pluscarden it operates so advantageously that
   one crop or two will repay the expense.  The farm-buildings gene-
   rally belong to the tenant. The house of the small farmer con-
   sists of one story, and is thatched with straw,--that of the more
   extensive farmer has two stories, is built of sandstone, and slated.
   The farm of Main, and two or threesmall Properties in the vici-
   nity of the town, are enclosed and subdivided with thorn hedges,
   but this species of fence is too slow of growth, and too liable to acci- 
   dent, and requires too much care and attention to be adopted by
   the farmer without encouragement from the heritor, which has not
   hitherto been given. The fields around the Abbey of Pluscarden
   have been enclosed and subdivided by the proprietor with stone
   dikes; and similar enclosures, made at the expense of the tenant,
   are partially to be met with on that, side of the parish; but Mr
   Lawson's farm of Old Mills, near the town, is the only one com-
   pletely enclosed with this substantial and durable fence.  Con-


