
                  	TORBOLTON.      		      743

Towards, the south-western extremity, the breadth is about half a-
mile. The superficial extent is about 12,500 imperial acres. *
	Hydrography.--The river Ayr forms the southern boundary of
the parish for an extent (taking its meanderings into the account)
of about ten miles. It is chiefly remarkable, as compared with
the other rivers of Scotland, for its dark colour, which it derives
from two sources--the alluvial matter which is carried along by it,
and the dark colour of the strata composing its channel and banks.
There has been a very considerable loss of life in the Ayr, owing
to the darkness of its waters, concealing from the view of persons
who had ventured into it, deep places, with which the river abounds,
termed in the provincial dialect "Weels," almost every "weel"
bearing the name of some person who has perished in it. Several
streams rise in the parish. The only one requiring notice is the
"Fail," which rises in Lochlee, and after passing the monastery of
Fail, and flowing through Fail Loch and Torbolton Loch, enters
the pleasure-grounds connected with Coilsfield House, and dis-
charges itself into the Ayr, at a place which has recently received
the name of Failford. The parish abounds with springs. On the
summit of Torcorse-hill, one of the highest spots in the parish,
there is a pond, which continues filled with water at all seasons.
	Three plains, flooded during the winter months to feed, three
small mills, are dignified with the name of lochs, and are called
Lochlee, Fail Loch, and Torbolton Loch. About two years ago
the Duke of Portland, with that enlightened liberality which cha-
racterizes him, relieved his tenantry from their thirlage to Millburn
Mill, and allowed them to carry their corn to that mill or to any
other. The consequence is, that the Millburn mill-wheel has be-
come silent, and Lochlee Loch is being converted into arable
ground. It is hoped that a similar fate awaits the other two lochs
and mills. It is to be regretted that agricultural improvement
should be materially impeded, and a large expanse of deep loam
kept in a state of morass to supply with water those small mills,
which, without injury to any party, could be placed lower down the
Fail, or on the Ayr, where there is abundant water-power.
	Geology.--The parish of Torbolton is occupied by three for-
mations--red sandstone older than the coal, the coal, and the
trap.

<FOOTNOTE>In a work distinguished for its general accuracy, "Aiton's survey of Ayrshire,"
there is a considerable error in regard to the extent of Torbolton parish, which is
stated (p. 716) to contain 22,000 Scotch acres.


