
				DALTON.     		     375

wages of a farm-labourer per day about ls. 4d. The small quantity
of sheep reared in the parish is of the Cheviot and Leicester breed;
and of black-cattle, the Galloway.
	Husbandry.--The general character of husbandry pursued, with
respect to the practice of the farmers, is so various as to be inca-
pable of exact description, but the following may be stated as the
most common: 1st year, oats; 2d, potatoes or turnips; 3d, barley
with grass seed; 4th, hay; 5th and 6th, pasture. Nearly all the lands
occupied by farmers are let nn leases for fifteen or nineteen years.
	Farm-Buildings and Fences.--The state of farm-buildings has
been very much improved during the last ten years; but the fences
and enclosures are of the worst description ; and though there have
been many improvements in reclaiming and draining waste lands
both by proprietor and tenant on some properties, there is still
great scope for farther improvement.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, is as follows:
Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for the food of man or
	the domestic animals,                                                 L. 4500
Of potatoes, and turnips, &c. cultivated in the fields for food,                 1500
Of hay, whether meadow or cultivated,                                            1000
Of crops cultivated for the arts, as flax,                                         20
Of land in pasture, rating it at L. 2, 10s. per cow or full-grown ox, grazed
	or that may be grazed for the season ; 1Os. per ewe or full-grown sheep,
	pastured or that may be pastured for the year,                           3500
Of gardens and orchards,                                                          100
Of the annual thinning and periodical felling of woods, plantations, and copse,   100
Of fisheries in the river,                                                          5
									       ------
		Total yearly value of raw prodnce raised,                   L. 10,725
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets, &c.--There being no market-town in the parish, the
nearest is that of Annan, at the distance of six Miles, and Dum-
fries at nine miles. Annan is the port to which all the grain is tak-
en, and where the barley in general is shipped to Liverpool. There
is but one village in the parish, and its communications with the
market-towns are very convenient, not only by the parish roads,
but by the great turnpike road from Carlisle to Portpatrick, which
runs through the south end of the parish.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the parish church is at
the village of Dalton, and is very convenient, being placed in the
centre of the parish. It was built in 1704, and at present it is not
in the best state of repair. It accommodates about 300 persons.
All the families in the parish, 127, (three excepted who are Seced-
ers,) attend the Established Church; and of these 270 are commu-
nicants. The manse was built in 1806. The extent of the grebe is
ten acres and its value L. 10. The amount of the stipend is eight


