
                       DUNKEL AND DOWALLY.                   991

Dunkeld does not sell readily, from the heavy expense for titles.
Feus in Little Dunkeld are considered more valuable.
	The first bridge over the Tay at Dunkeld existed in the year
830. In 1461, Bishop Lauder laid the foundation of one to be
built, "partly of timber and partly of stone," but there is no evi-
ddnce of its completion. In 1512, Bishop Brown laid the foun-
of another bridge to be built of stone. He finished the
first arch. His executors, in 1514, drove the piles for two arches,
and gave Bishop Douglas L.240 Scots, with which the bridge was
finished for foot-passengers. No account exists when it was de-
stroyed or swept away. Its ruins, however, were visible within
these few years. The danger and inconvenience of the, ferries
at Dunkeld, by the occasional swelling of the river, which has
been known to rise seventeen feet above its usual level, was long
seriously felt. To obviate this complaint, the late Duke of Atholl
commenced the present Dunkeld bridge in 1805, and completed it
in 1809, at an expense of L.30,000,--L.5000 of which was con-
tributed by Government. The pontage, which still exists, lets, on
an averagea, at L.700 per anuum. The bridge was constructed al-
most wholly on dry land, and the river, afterwards changed in its
course, so as to flow through its finely formed arches. it would
be difficult to persuade any one that the channel in which the ri-
ver now flows was not the one formed by itself. His Grace sub.
sequently widened, embanked, and cut miles of turnpike road, and
opened up the Atholl districts. Before 1809, tbe traffic was
mostly all conducted on horseback. There was a post runner to
Dunkeld, btt there was no post beyond it, except his Grace's
runner to Blair. Now, there are nearly twenty carriers that pass
Dunkeld weekly to the Highland districts. There is the daily
mail to Inverness through Athol, and a stage-coach to Perth thrice
a week. In the summer months, there are daily stage-coaches
from Dunkeld to Inverness, Dundee, Lochlomond, Perth, &c.
	Societies.--To guard against the casualties of sickness and, mor-
tality there are the Carpenters, Gardeners, Highlandmen, and Ma-
son's Provident Societies. They have large funds, and,have been
productive of much good. There are two masonic lodges, and a
curling club. Besides a charitable society for the destitute and
infirm of both sexes, there are a Bible and a missionary society.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The cathedral church of Dunkeld, which
was substantially repaired in 1817, is seated to contain 700. The
seats re let from 4s. to 2s. each. The poor have free sittings.
The stipend does not exceed L.180. It is paid, partly by the


