
	58                              PERTHSHIRE.

	   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners in the parish of Perth
	are, The Right Honourable the Earl of Kinnoul, non-resident;
	The Right Honourable Lord Gray, nonresident; The Right
	Honourable Lord Elibank, non-resident; Sir Thomas Moncrieff
	of Moncrieff, Bart., non-resident; John Nicol, Esq. of Few; the
	City of Perth; the Glover Incorporation of Perth.
	   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry in the ses-
	sion register is 1577. It consists of 28 volumes. The date of the
         earliest entry in the register of baptisms is 1561. It consists of 23
	volumes.  The date of the earliest entry in the register of mar-
         riages is 1567. It consists of 10 volumes. The session appears
	to have been a semi-episcopal court till the period of the Revolu-
         tion. Till then the records were ill kept, several volumes were lost,
	and in those that are extant, there are not a few chasms and muti-
	lations.
            The members of session were not the only ecclesiastical office-
	bearers of the parish, but, in conjunction with them, there were certain
         civil rulers also of the city. And the court thus constituted assum-
	ed and exercised an arbitrary controlling authority in almost all mat-
	ters, eiviland sacred, affecting the well being of the community.  On
	some occasions elders and deacons had, on taking office, the oatli
	administered to them that they would be "faithful and diligent in
	their employment." And not only so, but if after their election they
	demurred to accept, they were handed over to the bailies and coun-
         cil to be dealt with by them. Thus in a minutes of date October
	18, 1584,-"Number of elders elected: ordained their names to be
	presented to the bailies and council, that they may desire and
	command the persons written to take upon them the office of elders

         <FOOTNOTE>quence of his leaving no male issue. This sixth Lord Crichton had, we are told
	Douglas, in his Peerage, a charter of the Barony or Sanquhar, (27th July 1609)
	and of the house in Perth, which formerly belonged to John Earl of Gowrie, (19th
	January 1611-12.) There is in the Perth city records an instrument of seisin, in fa-
	vour of William, Lord Crichton of Sanqubar, as heir to Robert, Lord Crichton of
	Sanquhar his father, in the qreat house or tenement of land formerly belonging to
	John Earl of Gowrie, dated 19th July 1619, proceeding upon a precept from Chan-
	cery dated 17th July 1619.
                   From Douglas we learn, also, that this sixth Lord, having engaged in a tilting
	patch with a fencing-master of the name of Turner, the foil of his adversary depriv-
	ed him of the sight of one of his eyes. Believing that this was an intentional injury.
	his Lordship hired two persons, the name of one of whom was Carlisle, to assassinate
         him. This Carlisle shot him with a pistol, 11th May 1612.  The assassins were
	shortly after apprehended tried for the murder and hanged.  His Lordship fled.  A
	rewamd of L. 1000 was offrered for hit discovery and apprehension.  Being apprehend-
	ed, he was put upon his trial in the Court of the King's Bench, Westminster, 27th
	June 1612, and condemned to death, and on the 29th of the same month was hange 1
	on a gibbet, erected in Great Palace Yard, before the gate of Westminster.


