
                             KELSO.                         303

it frequently contains, as in the debris of Broxlaw-hill on the
north bank of the Tweed, red and white foliated and fibrous gyp-
sum ; the fibrous occurring in continuous veins, the red foliated in
irregular and interrupted beds similar to the flint in the chalk
rocks.  The last of these alternating rocks, the marl-limestones,
likewise occur in beds of various thickness, as well as of various
degrees of hardness,--some being very compact and difficult to
break, while others crumble down into cubical or rounded portions
by exposure to the weather.  Their colour is generally of a pale
blue or gray, though at some places beds occur of a darker hue,
and having very much the external aspect of common limestone.
None of them, however, contain any considerable proportion of
carbonate of lime.
  The south bank of the Tweed is not the only part of the pa-
rish which presents sections of sandstone ; but, as the others do
not differ essentially from this, the above description may suffice.
That which appears in Mellendean burn, the march between
Kelso and Sprouston, has the same accompanying shales and marl-
limestones, but is harder and more conglomerate. The sandstone
which forms the foundation of Teviot bridge is still harder, and
has the imbedded substances in considerably smaller quantities.
On the north bank of the Tweed, near Rosebank, a thick bed of
gray sandstone, formerly wrought as building stones, appears, ac-
companied by numerous thinner strata of the same rock, contain-
ing so large a proportion of mica as to be of a black colour. *
  Trap-rocks are pretty generally diffused over all the elevated
parts of the southern division of the parish ; but the best section
is in Wooden den, a romantic ravine through which a small burn
flows northward into the Tweed.  Entering upon the burn a lit-
tle above the point of confluence, you first meet with sandstone,
shales and marl limestones, similar to those on the banks of the
river.  On reaching, however, the point where the ravine begins
to assume a glen-like character, a conglomerate rock of a dark-
brown colour makes it appearance, which, though very much re-
sembling the old red sandstone, proves on examination to be trap
tuff, very much decomposed, and fast crumbling down into gravel
and soil.  This trap tuff (which in a basis of clay, contains modules

<FOOTNOTE>The question as to the particular formation to which these stratified rocks be-
long, is one of great difficulty.  There seems, however, to be a growing permission
among geologists that they belong to the coal measures.  This opinion, though
discredited by the entire absence of the bituminous shales, has at least the support,
(if support it may be called) of the popular tradition, which bears that coal was
formerly found in the district.


