
66                       LANARKSHIRE.

on the farm of Auston Park, consecrated to St Bride, and re-
markable for the abundant flow and purity of its waters.  It ap-
pears to rise from a bed of sand, upon approaching a lower seam
of clay and gravel.  On the verge of the marsh, there are many
springs deeply charged with iron-ore, and seeming to rise either
from that mixture or from coal.
   The only loch in the parish, the Craneloch, lies in an ele-
vated situation in the moors,-upwards of 300 feet above the water
level.  It is about a mile in circumference, surrounded with marshy
grounds and skirted with heath.  All around, nothing is presented
to the eye but a bleak inhospitable desert.  The water is of a
dark mossy colour, of a pretty high temperature, and very deep.
It abounds with pike and perch, which are allowed to enjoy their
solitary waters unmolested.
   Medwin is the chief stream in the parish, and rises in the north-
east corner of it, near the foot of the hill Craigengar.  It pursues
a southerly direction for about six miles, when it suddenly turns
to the west.  It is here joined by a stream, called West Water,
fully as large as itself, which rises amongst the range of hills in
the northern side of the parish.  It continues to run at a very
slow rate along the Yale of Dunsyre, forming the boundary be-
twixt it and Dolphinton, and then that of Walston.  Its greatest
width is about thirty feet, its greatest depth about ten.  It runs
shallow.and rapid in some places, but in general, from the flat-
ness of the ground, its motion is slow and inert.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Dunsyre-hill is composed partly of
blue whinstone; partly of strata of freestone, dipping about an
angle from 7&deg; to lO&deg; towards the north.  The range which diverges
from Dunsyre-hill contains deep beds of pure limestone, resembling
gray marble; some of them eight and even sixteen feet deep.
These beds are frequently cut across by dikes of clay, gravel, and
loose blocks of the same material.  In the channels of some of
the streams whhch run down from the high ground are beds of what
is denominated Coston limestone.  This is apparently a mixture
of sand and lime, which has been subjected to heat, and is extreme-
ly hard.
   Some traces of iron-ore are to be found in these last-mentioned
rocks in close union with the stone; and copper-ore in, some places
has been discernible.  Coal has also been considered as lying
under these strata, and attempts have been made to dig it, but
without success.  A fair trial has never been made.  The line of


