
678                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

II-Bursaries in the presentation of the Principal and Professors.
   1. Macpherson's-The bursary of L.100 Sterling, being the
interest of L.2500, 4 per cent. Carnatic stock, left by Sir John
Macpherson in 1825.  It is destined for the benefit of a student
who must be a native of the Highlands, and understand the Gae-
lic language; and must also be in the last session of his attendance
on a regular course of languages and philosophy.  The bursar en-
joys the benefit only for one year.
   (2.) Stewarts.-Three bursaries of L.10 each, being the inte-
rest of L.1000, 3 per cent. consoles, left in 1810 by the Rev. James
Stewart.  One bursar is appointed each year.  It is required that
he be in the second session of his course of languages and philo-
sopby; and the bursary is held for three successive years.
   (3.) Blair's.-One bursary of L.12.  Candidate to be in the first
year of his academical course at the university of Edinburgh.
Trustees, Principal, Professors of Humanity, Greek, Mathematics,
Logic, and Moral Philosophy.  It is adjudged by the trustees
after comparative trial in Latin and the rudiments of Greek.
   III,Heriot's Bursaries.-Ten of L.20 each, founded by
George Heriot, and in the presentation of the Governors of George
Heriot's Hospital.*  These are enjoyed by boys otherwise un-
connected with the hospital.  Each bursary is granted for one
year only; but when the bursar is deserving, it may be renewed
annually, for a period not greater, in whole, than four years, dur-
ing the regular progress of the bursar through the curriculum,
which qualifies for the degree of A. M. Candidates may apply
at any period of their literary studies; but the bursary will he
granted only for the remainder of their literary curriculum, and
terminates whenever an education strictly professional commences.
Applications are directed to be made to the Treasurer of the Hos-
pital before the first Monday of October.
   IV.-There are other bursaries under the management, and in
the gift, of public bodies: among which may be noticed, Chris-
tie's.-Mortified by Adam Christie in 1698, and in the gift of the
Faculty of Advocates. It is held for four years, and amounts to
L.18 per annum.
   V.-Bursaries in the presentation of private individuals: among
these are,-(1.) Grant's.-Bursaries of L.100 each to each of two
bursars,-from the rent of the lands of Ferneyside, in the parish of
Libberton, purchased with the sum of L.5998, left in 1817 by Dr
Donald Grant.  The patrons of these bursaries named in the deed

<FOOTNOTE>These are exclusive of the bursaries granted from the hospital funds to the pro-
mising boys who had been educated in the hospital.


