
     Statistical Account

end, it may be stormy and very wet in the west part, where
the hills are high and large.  A difference of climate com-
monly takes place every 5 miles, the one farthest west be-
ing the worst; but even here some exception is to be observed.
If the wind blows from the W. for any time, there is often
rain in the east end of the parish, and if it blows from the E.
there may be dry weather in the W., and vice versa.  Some-
times the crop has sooner been ripe, cut down and got in, in
the west part of the parish than in the east.
   The climate, in general, is healthy, yet there have not been
many examples of longevity for the last 20 years, though
many live till they are past 70, and some till 80:  there is one
living at present 80, and another 84.  Epidemical fevers
sometimes occur, and prove mortal, according to the season
of the year in which they take place.  When fevers happen,
they commonly spread, occasioned, perhaps, from the custom
that prevails, of the neighbours coming to visit the sick per-
sons, and staying long with them.  If a person is sick, and there
is appearance of danger, it is usual to see the small apartment
crouded with neighbours and friends, many of whom must
catch the infection.  The rheumatism is become much more
common of late than formerly.  Several have been cut off
by the consumption, and there are several persons now la-
bouring under the cancer.  The small pox and measles have
sometimes proved very fatal.  Inoculation for the small-pox
has scarce been practised in this parish.  A few have been
inoculated this very spring for the small-pox, which have
proved of the most favourable kind.  It is difficult to say, to
what the frequency of the rheumatism is to be ascribed.  The
people now are as well lodged, clothed and fed, as their fore-
fathers.  No difference in their diet has taken place for a
considerable time past, except that the people live more on po-
tatoes for a great part of the year; which, however, are


