
	1224 	                      PERTHSHIRE.

	and church, officers, &c., amounting to a little upwards of L. I0
	a-year.
	   No assessment, either legal or voluntary, for the support of the
	poor, has hitherto been necessary in this parish ; but, as the
	church collections and other casualties are now not half sufficient
	for the purpose, it is but too evident that some such mode of sup-
	port must very soon be had recourse to.
	   Inns.--There is only one inn in the parish, in which very good
	order is kept, and it has had no bad effects on the morals of the
	people.  Whatever may be the faults of our people here, intem-
	perance is a vice scarely heard of among them.
	   Fuel.--The fuel commonly used consists of English coal, at from
	15s. to 17s. 6d. a-ton ; or of Scotch coal, commonly called great
	coal, from the south of Fife, or the other collieries in the vicinity
	of the river Forth, at from 16s. to 18s. 6d. a-ton, according to the
	quality.  This is delivered at the piers in the parish or its neigh-
	bourhood, and costs little for carriage.  A good deal of wood is
	also used for fuel, consisting of the thinnings or prunings of plan-
	tations.

	   October 1843.

				PARISH OF KILMADOCK.

		PRESBYTERY OF DVNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

		   THE REV.  GORDON MITCHELL, A. M., MINISTER.


		      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL, HISTORY.
	   Name.--THE name is believed to signify the Chapel of St Ma-
	dock, Madocus, or Modocus, one nf the Culdees.
	   Extent.--This extensive parish; is about 12 miles in length, and
	9 in breadth, containing at least 64 square miles.
	   Boundaries, &c.--It is situated in the ancient Stewartry of Mon-
	teith, and is bounded on the north, by Muthill and Comrie; on
	the south, by Kincardine and Kippen; on the east, by Dunblane
	and Lecropt; and on the west, by Callander and Port-Monteith.
	   Topographical Appearances.--Its figure, though somewhat irre-
	gular, approaches to a parallelogram.  Situated betwixt the Gram-
	pians and the Ochill hills, with a variety of hill and, valloy, it con-


