
			FLISK.                            603

  Number of fatuous 2; and of blind 1. The last was occasioned
by the small-pox.
  The language spoken is the English.
  The migratory habits of much of our agricultural population are
by no means favourable to their moral and religious character, and
prevent a permanent character from attaching to a parish like this,
where so many belong to this class. With this qualification, it
may be said that the people are respectable, cleanly in their ha-
bits, and enjoy in a reasonable degree the comforts and advantages
of society.
  The ordinary food of the peasants is oatmeal and potatoes,
broth and bacon, the cottars keeping one or two pigs in the year.
Wheaten bread is also used.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.
  The number of males employed in agriculture is 59, including
7 farmers, 7 cottars, and 45 farm-servants. The number employed
in manufactures is 12, all weavers, except 2, employed in making
potato-flour.  There are 2 smiths, 1 mason, 1 forester, 7 day-
labourers, and 1 or 2 who often employ themselves in fishing.
The men connected with the salmon stations, during the fishing
season, do not in general belong to the parish.

<TABLE>
		Male servants, above 20 years old,			26
			       under 20,				19
		Female servants,					18
                                                                       -----
                                                      Total,            63
  Agriculture.-
         The number of acres under cultivation is                     2120
         in natural pasture,                                           134
         under wood,                                                   264
                                                                     --------
                                                       Total,         2518

  The greater part of the unreclaimed portion is on the face of
Lyndemus and Fliskmill Hill.  Patches of it might be cultivated,
but it is more convenient for pasturage as it is.  Eight acres, now ap-
propriated and in wood, (on the farm of Logie,) once formed part
of a common which stretched into the adjoining part of Abdie.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is L.1, 8s. per
imperial acre. It is, in general, partly a money and partly a grain
rent, paid according, to the fiar prices, limited. however, in, some
cases, by a maximum, or by both a maximum and minimum.
  Rate of Wage.-Farm-servants, in bothies, receive L. 10 ; 8
cwt. (6 1/2 bolls Scotch,) oatmeal; 4 pints (1 pint Scotch) milk, and
potatoes for supper, for one-half of the year. Those married have
L.8, house, garden of 300 square yards; milk and meal as



