
48                       DUMBARTONSHIRE.

Hither.to this mound, though sufficiently conspicuous and evi-
dently artificial, had attracted liitle observation, the curiosity
of any chance inquirer being satisfied by the traditionary in-
formation of its being a court-hill, one of those eminences on
which courts of justice were held in the days of feudal juris-
diction. But, a short time ago, the farmer, partly with the
view of clearing his field of an incumbrance, and partly of obtain-
ing soil to top-dress other fields, set about removing the mound,
and had not proceeded far in his operations when he came upon
a narrow flight of steps leading upwards from the level of the field
not to the centre of the tumulus, but towards a point in the radi-
us, distant about one-third of its length from the outer extremity.
This stair being followed six or seven paces inward, was found to
terminate in a flag-stone, on which some ashes or cinders lay, and
which emitted a hollow sound on being struck with the tools of
the workmen. It.was removed, and beneath it there was discover-
ed a narrow oblong trough or cell, walled with stone on every side.
In this, several fragments of armour were found, among which were
apparently the visor of a helmet, the head of a spear, and the blade
of a sword, the first being of copper, and the two last of iron.
Besides these, there.were what may have been a spade or shovel,
much turned up at the edge, two picks of a small size, and se -
veral other articles, the purpose of which has not been guessed-
all of iron. The whole of them are in the possession of the
farmer. There were no bones discovered, and the stone-work
seemed to extend no farther than has been described. The re-
moval of the tumulus, however, has not been continued, and pro-
bably other remains of antiquity may yet be found, as very little
progress hag hitherto been made in opening it up.
   Ruins at Drumry.-At Drumry, near Garscadden, are some
ruins, said to be those of a chapel, which there undoubtedly was
at that place; but which have every, appearance of being part of
a keep or peel; what now remains being a patched tower, over-
hanging a steep bank. At a period considerably remote, the lands
of Drumry belonged to a branch of the Callendar family; and Pits-
cottie notices a Sir Robert Livingston of Drumry, Lord Trea-
surer of Scotland, as having been, beheaded at Edinburgh in 1447,
in. consequence of his having been implicated in the charges against Sir
Alexander Livingston of Callendar, Governor of James II. during
his minority. Another Sir Robert Livingston, of Easter Wemyssand
Drumry, was killed in the battle of Flodden, 1513. His daughter,
				6


