
                      NEWTYLE.                            565

slating for houses. Whinstone is also found in abundance, and
used for road metal.
  Rental.-The gross rental of the parish may be between L.4000
and L.5000; but, as already stated, a great proportion of the rent
of the parish is fluctuating in amount.
  Manufacture.-The staple manufacture of the parish at pre-
sent is Sacking and Hessian sheetings. Coarse linens called Os-
naburghs are also wrought, and occasionally sheeting and shirtings
for private use. Since the spinning-wheel gave place to the spin-
ning-mill, females have betaken themselves to weaving, and there
are now nearly as many women employed at the loom as men.
Weaving is done and paid by the piece. Complaints are gene-
ral as to the lowness of wages; but employment continues to be
afforded to those willing to work. There are two meal-mills and
two saw-mills driven by water.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town.-There is no fair or public market held in the
parish. Butcher-meat is brought into the new village twice a-
week from the neighbourbood.
  Means of Communication.-A turnpike road from Dundee passes
northward between the Kirkton and new village, eleven miles dis-
tant from Dundee,-which is kept in excellent repair. Several
other county or statute labour roads cross and intersect the pa-
rish, The railroad from Dundee enters the parish on the south,
close upon the turnpike road, and passes at a short distance along-
side of it, onwards to the northern extremity of the parish, where,
branching off east and west to Glammis and Cupar Angus, the
turnpike is crossed over by the branch leading to Cupar Angus on
the west. The Dundee and Newtyle, the Newtyle and Cupar
Angus, the Newtyle and Glammis, are separate railway concerns.
	The Dundee and Newtyle Railway was begun at both ends of
the line in 1826, and opened in 1832. The length of the line
between Newtyle and Dundee is 10 1/2 miles, and has cost, it is
said, about L. 100,000. The Hatton inclined plane in this pa-
rish is three-quarters of a mile long, has an ascent of one in twelve,
and is wrought by a fixed engine. * After the opening of the
Dundee and Newtyle Railway, the line was extended, as before
stated, with a gentle declivity sufficient to carry on carriages to
a distance of from one and a half to two miles, towards the Cupar

<FOOTNOTE>There are two other fixed and five locomotive angines employed on the railway
between Newtyle and Dundee.


