
                           DRON.                          865

441.  The number of houses in the parish is about 90 or 95.
There is no village.  Number of illegitimate births in the parish
within the last three years, 3.

                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-About 2600 imperial acres are cultivated.  About
100 acres are in hill pasture.  Every acre in the parish is culti-
vated, both on the high land and the low, whdre cultivation would
make any return.  About 400 acres are under wood.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent of land may be stated at
about L.2 for arable, and 9s. for pasture. The entire rental of
the parish is about L.5000. The agriculture of the parish is in
a high state of improvement. The most recent agricultural im
provement is that of tile-draining, which is carrying to a great
extent, and for which the soil is peculiarly fitted, being for the
most part retentive and clayey, and much of it on a low dead-level,
not drainable by other means.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Ecclesiastical State.-Seventy-two families belong to the parish
church ; about ten families to different Dissenting bodies.  Num-
ber of bothies in the parish, 8, of which the inmates belong to the
Establishment.
  Stipend.-About I chaider wheat, 4 chaiders barley, 10 chal-
ders meal, money, L. 12, 13s. 9 1/2d. ; coals, L.6, 5s.  1 1/2d. Average
in money, L. 175.  No allowance for communion elements.  Teinds
said to be exhausted.  Glebe, about 4 acres, value about L. 12.
  The present manse was built about twenty-five or thirty
years ago, and received extensive alterations, improvements, and
repairs, besides a large addition four years ago, at the ex-
pense of the beritors and the present incumbent. The church
was built about fifteen years ago in a plain and handsome style,
and is an excellent model of a country church.  It is seated for 350
persons, and cost about L.800. The situation of the church and
manse is one of great beauty, on an elevation at the foot of the
line of the Ochils, and commanding a rich, and varied, and ex-
tensive view over the whole lower part of Strathearn, the upper
part of the Carse of Gowrie, and the whole extent of the braes
of the Carse on the one side, and of the Ochils on the other, as far
as the Law of Dundee. An entirely new school and school-house
have just been built by the heritors, in the neighbourhood of the
manse and church, in a handsome style, and on a commodious
plan, at an outlay of about L.600.
 PERTH.                                   3I


