
42                      ROSS AND CROMARTY.

wanting, or at least undiscovered. The lead ore found in the free-
stone rock to the south of the mill of St Martin's, by the late Mr
Gordon of Newhall, in 1786, has ever since been unnoticed. Some
indications of coal were a few years ago observed near the freestone
quarry at Cullicudden; but a closer investigation has never been
attempted. It is highly probable that coal exists in the parish;
but the expensive, though ultimately unsuccessful, efforts of the
late Marquis of Stafford at Brora, in the neighboring county
of Sutherland, pretty clearly prove that both the quality of the
coals, and the enormous expense of mining, are insuperable ob-
stacles to any thing like a profitable coal trade so far north, and
probably even north of the county of Fife. At Cullicudden, a
freestone quarry has been opened, and in operation for many years.
The materials of many public buildings and of stone piers have
been taken from this quarry. The freestone varies both in quality
and colour; in colour, from red to a deep yellow. The quality of
the red freestone is seldom good. If taken, as too often it has been,
near the surface, it blasts, and, by the action of the weather, it very
soon crumbles down. The yellow is rather better, but is often
almost equally friable under the action of a northern climate.
To secure the good materials which this quarry affords, the only
way is to quarry at a considerable depth,-perhaps nine or twelve
feet.
   Zoology.-No animals of the rarer kind are found in this parish.
Moor-fowl or grouse, though very scarce, is to be found on the
Maoile Buidbe. Partridges and hares are very numerous. Rabbits
were introduced a few years ago, by a gentleman who had a tempo-
rary residence in this parish, and have now so much increased as to
have become a public nuisance.  In most cases, they burrow under
ground; but the east end of the parish being overgrown with furze or
whins, when burrowing-is not practicable, they find shelter and nes-
tle in them. Roes are found among such of the plantations as are
not yet cut down,-though not very numerous. The fish caught in
the Frith by stake-nets and yares, are chiefly salmon of excel-
lent quality: they. are sent to the London market. Skate and
whitings or cuddies, are caught by nets laid during the silence of
night. Herring-fry, salmon, and salmon-trout, as well as the cut-
tle-fish, and other species of the rarer kind, are often caught in a
yare, the property of Major Munro of Poyntzfield. Shell-fish is
also found on the rocks, but more abundantly in a small bay or

                          4


