
               466                         RENFREWSHIRE.

               school existed, at first called the "Trades' School," and more re-
               cently the "Seamen's School," because intended for the educa-
               tion of the children of seamen. It was built in 1813, entirely at
               the expense of the late Mr Alan Ker, merchant in Greenock, a
               man of emhnent and enlightened piety and beneficence.  His ob-
               ject was to provide education at a moderate price for the children
               of tradesmen; and the school was maintained by him with this
               view at a considerable annual expense. At his death it was leas-
               ed to the Seamen's Friend Society, as a school for the children
               of seamen. It continued in that position till about eighteen
               months ago, when it ceased to be retained by the society; and
               the family, of Mr Ker, from respect to the memory of their father,
               and following out the object which he ba& originally in view, ge-
               nerously transferred the property of the schoolhouse to the kirk-
               session of the New Parish, as a parochial school. They on their
               part cheerfully accepted the gift, and undertook to provide a
               teacher, and to guarantee his salary.  The school has now been
               open on the new footing for more than fifteen months, and educa-
               tion in the elementary branches is communicated to upwards of
               200. children, with great effect, and at a very moderate price.
                    We must not omit to mention, that Sir Michael Shaw Stewart
               and his son, the grandfather and father of the present Sir'Michael,
               cordially seconded the benevolent intentions of Mr Ker, and de-
               manded no feu-duty for the ground on which the school-house is
               built.
                  It has become common of late years to build school-houses in
               connection with churches. The Relief Church, the Popish Cha-
               pel, Crawfordsdyke Church, Nicolson Street Church, (United
               Secession,) St Andrew's Church, and the Independent Chapel,
               have all of them schools attached to them, or built in their imme-
               diate vicinity. The gentlemen who erected St Andrew's School
               have the honour of being the first to introduce efficient teaching
                    The establishemt and success of these schools, however, and
               of others supported by the charity of private individuals, does not
               supersede the erection of a parish school. An endowed school
               is a privelege secured by law to the inhabitants of all land-
               ward parishes, and seems to be essential as the means of in-
               suring to their children the blessing of a cheap religious education.
               If the population of this town increase as rapidly as it has done
               for some xears pask, the Highlanders' Academy and New Parish
                                          4

