
                        KIRKBEAN.                             243

fired money, besides wages from these who can afford to pay.
Another sum of L.100 has been allotted for this schould by the
writer of this article.
	No additional schools are required. There is one public sub-
scription library, kept by the parish schoolmaster. There is a
sum of L.350 mortified by certain charitable individuals for the
support of the poor.
	Poor.--The number of poor on the roll averages twenty. They
receive their proportion of the funds quarterly, and may, one with
another, receive L.2, 1Os. per annum. Besides the above means
of providing for the poor, there has, for many years, in winter
been a subscription managed by the minister and the tenants; and
thus about L.18 are divided among the poorer-description of in-
habitants, many of whom are not on the parish poor roll. There
is still generally an aversion among the poorer orders to apply
for parish aid, but it is gradually wearing off, and several are
eager enough to be enrolled who might do better. None are per-
mitted to seek for alms out of the parish, and, very few in it.
	Inns.--There are four inns or alebouses in the parish, all of
which seem to be required. They do not appear to have a de-
moralizing effect upon the people.
	Fuel.--The fuel chiefly used is coal from the coast of Cumber-
land, at 8d. per cwt. Some also make use of wood and peat; but
peat is not got in the parish excepting near the top of Criffell.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	The system of turnip husbandry, and conveyance of fat stock,
&c. to the Liverpool market by steam, may be said to constitute
the most striking variations betwixt the present state of the parish
and that which existed at the time the last Statistical Account
was written. It may also be here mentioned that there are now
two tile-kilns, one on the estate of Mr Craik, another on that of
Mr Oswald.
	Owing to the great demand for bathing quarters, and the eager-
ness with which rich and genteel families occupy very indifferent
cottages at Saturness during the summer months, it cannot be doubt-
ed that building a number of neat comfortable cottages there, would
be an excellent speculation. This would even be of great use to
the poor of the parish, as the church collections would thereby be
much improved, the thus the heritors would be secured against
extra demands for their support.
	The farmers and others have, within the last few years, formed


