
             PARISH OF GLENSHEIL.

     PRESBYTERY OF LOCHCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

          THE REV. JOHN M'RAE, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  THE district of Kintail, which formerly constituted a parish of
that name, was, about a century ago, divided into two parishes, to
one of which the original name of the district has been appropriat-
ed,-while the other has received the name of Glensheil, from the
valley which forms its central division.
  Name.-The etymology of this word is so obscure as to give
abundant scope to the fancy of the philologist, being equally capa-
ble of being interpreted the glen of cattle (Glenshelibh,) of hunt-
ing (Glensheilg,) or of rain (Glenshilidh,)-any of which is suf-
ficiently descriptive of the locality, while there is none of them
so exactly represented by the modern pronunciation of the name
as to determine its meaning.
  Boundaries.-The parish is bounded, on the north, by the arm
of the sea calle Lochduich,* which divides it from the parishes of
Lochalsh and Kintail, and the river of Croe; on the east, by the
parishes of Kiltarlity, Urquhart, and Kilmanivaig; on the south,
by the parish of Glenelg; and on the west, by the strait of Kyle-
rea, which divides it from Skye. Its greatest length, which lies
from east to west, is about 26 miles, with a breadth varying be-
tween 2 and 6 miles.
  Topographical Appearances.-The parish consists of two divi.
sions, diStinguisbed by physical characteristics. The eastern and
larger division is of a decidedly alpine character. It consists of
three ranges of lofty mountains, separated by narrow vallies. These
ehains, originating near the head of Lochduich, after running pa-
rallel to each other in a southerly direction, for five miles, turn off
to the south-east, and again trending to the east, join the ridges
which separate the vallies of Strathglass, Glenmoristone, and Glen-
garry. At their western extremities, they rise from the level of the
sea, with a rapid and precipitous ascent, to an average

<FOOTNOTE>Loch Duthich, St Duthec's Loch. Tain has its Gaelic name from the same
saint, " Baile Dhuthich."


