
130                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


writer has been referring, derive the greater part of their annual
subsistence from field-labour, the preparing of bark, &c.
  Agriculture.--There are about 5000 Scotch acres in the parish,
which are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage. There are
about 400 acres which have never been cultivated, and which re-
main constantly waste or in pasture. Of these, very few are
susceptible of being cultivated with advantage. There is no land
in the parish in a state of undivided common. About 1600
acres of land are covered by plantations. There is a very consi-
derable variety of trees, but the prevailing kinds are, Scotch fir,
larch, spruce, and oak. On the estates of the Earls of Zetland
and Mansfield, in particular, the management, as to yearly thin-
ning, periodical felling, pruning, and the like, seems to be very
judicious and successful.
  As to the average rent of arable land, per acre, in the parish,
the writer deems it proper to separate the land into three distinct
divisions: 1st, carse land, (893 acres) ; 2d, good dryfield, (2137
acres) ; and 3d, inferior dryfield, (1970 acres.) The rent of the
first of these three descriptions of land may be said to average
L. 3, 3s. per acre; that of the second, L.1, los.; and that of
the third, 15s. The average rent of grazing is at the rate of L.3,
10s. per ox or cow grazed for the season. As to farm-servants,
the average rate is about L. 12, 12s. a-year of money wages, and
6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal, and 1 Scotch pint of milk, per diem. Coun-
try labourers are commonly paid at the rate of 10s. a week in
summer, and 9s. in winter.
  In Clackmannanshire, the number of public works, and the
amount of the population, being great in proportion to the superfi-
cial extent of the. county, all kinds of agricultural produce sell
comparatively high. This general remark applies particularly to
the price of barley. Owing to the number of breweries about Al-
loa, amd distilleries in the county, there is a very large annual
importation of barley from other parts of the united kingdom.
Hence the price received for this kind of grain, grown in the
county, is in general equal to the amount, both of the price and
of the expense of transportation, &c. of the barley which is im-
ported.
  As to the kinds of sheep and  cattle, it may be mentioned that
it is only among the Ochil hills, or in their immediate vicii3ity, that
much attention is paid, in this district, to the breeding and main-
tenance of sheep; and that the  preference seems to be given


