
     Statistical Account

always persons of piety, erudition, and irreproachable lives.
Justice requires it farther to be said, that the lives and de-
portment of the hearers do no discredit to the example
and instructions of the teachers.  The whole amount of the
Dissenters in Urr is 270 persons.  The difference of religi-
ous opinion has never occasioned much misunderstanding or
bitterness.  The established minister has been in use to visit
(more especially in afflicted families), without distinction;
and, on such occasions, to perform the usual acts of devotion
without reserve, or fear of giving umbrage.

   Charater.-With equal truth and satisfaction it is asserted,
in the face of the public, that the behaviour of the inhabitants
of the parish of Urr hath been, for several generations past,
(and still is) sober, inoffensive and dutiful.  By saying this,
it is not meant to detract from that independence of spirit,
that freedom of opinion, and that acuteness of judgment,
which distinguish the inhabitants of every free country, and
which afford the best support to every respectable government
upon earth.  In a quarter where (till of late) religious con-
troversies used to be agitated with great freedom and warmth,

<FOOTNOTE>

safety, he saved the lives of several of those persecuted people, whom the fury
of the Episcopal clergy, and the time-servers of the court would have brought
to the gallows.  To do the inferior people of this country justice, the family of
Munshes, has not, since the Revolution, been much disturbed in the exercise of
their religion.  Once or twice, it is true, the house of Munshes has been rum-
maged, for books containing the doctrines of ANTICHRIST, and the vestments
and implements of idolatry.  On these occasions, however, we cannot learn,
that the damage of the family was greater than the lois of a Greek Testament,
and of a book called "The faithful Farrier," both of which were burnt on the
Corbelly Hill, near Dumfries, the usual Tophet for such captures.  The out-
landish character, and a picture or two, in the Testament, left no doubt of its
popery; as for the other book, its ingenious title was mis-read "The faithful
"Friar" There have been greater mistakes, both in religion and politics.


