
     of Dalmeny.

the first laird of Dundas; and has in his possession one of the 
oldest original writings in Scotland, being a charter granted
about the year 1120.  The stately castle of the family, erec-
ted on a loafty situation, still remains, but is uninhabited.  2.
The Craigies of Craigy were another antient and considerable
family; one of them being a witness to Dundas's charter just
mentioned.  After some generations they terminated in an
heiress, who, in 1387, married Sir John Stewart, who thence
took the title of Craigiehall, where their posterity continued
till about 1640, when the estate of Craigiehall was sold; but
the family still continue respectable in the parish.  3. The
Mowbrays of Barnbougle have likewise a claim to high anti-
quity; the name of Philip Mowbray of Barnbougle occurring
about 1200.  In that name (of which were several Dukes of
Norfolk, Earls of Nottingham, etc.) the estate remained till
the 1620, when Sir Robert Mowbray sold it; whose repre-
sentative, it is said, is still in the parish, but reduced to the
condition of a common servant.  Barnbougle Castle still re-
mains, and is inhabited, but is no ways remarkable, except for
its fanciful situation within the sea mark, and for its embra-
zures presenting a strong front to the sea.  4. The late Wil-
liam Wilkie, D. D. born in the village of Echlin in this perish,
Oct. 5. 1721, and educated at the school of Dalmeny.  After
revolving the history of antient families in this and other pa-
rishes, many of which have fallen into decline, and may per-
haps pass into oblivion, it may be observed, that the memo-
ry of a man of genius and learning is less subject to parish.
The Epigoniad will probably be always admired.  Without
speaking of the happy choice of the subject, and of the merit
of many of the characters in that Epic poem, it may be
enough to say, that the episode of Hercules, taken by itself,
is sufficient to entitle the poet to perpetual same.  Dr Wilkie
was distinguished for a singular compass of knowledge, and


