
844                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

holders in the village were tenants at will, and subject to many
changes and services required by their respective landlords, who
held of the proprietor.  This arrangement was found hostile to
industrious improvement and ordinary comfort, and to promote in-
difference, idleness, dissipation, and immorality.  When new
leases were required and granted in 1799, these lands were sur-
veyed and measured, and every householder in the village was
supplied with his portion of ground, which he held in lease from
the proprietor fornineteen years.  This arrangement had the most
desirable effects.  The first object with the villagers was to build
comfortable houses, and to put their little patches of ground in
preparation for a renular rotation of crops.  Such laudable exer-
tion in a few years evinced its happy effects, when each villager
might be seen possessed of his cow and horse, as circumstances
required, maintained through summer and winter, and the family
supplied with meal and malt, butter and cheese, and vegetables
equal to their consumpt.
   In the village, there is a commodious and well-frequented inn;
5 alehouses; a daily post and stamp-office ; 8 shops containing,
grocery, and all other articles generally required for domestic and
agricultural purposes.  There is an excellent mill, with approved
machinery, in complete repair, and well managed.  A neat and sub-
stantial bridge of one arch, 22 feet span, was built over the burn
of Tarland, and close by the village, seven years ago, and com-
pletes the communication between Dee and Don-side.  Fronm this
bridge to the end of the Cromar district eastward, a distance of
three miles, a new and straight course for the burn was planned
and executed twelve years ago, and has proved of immense ad-
vantage to t-he neighbourhood, by improving the climate, draining
the low grounds along the plain to the end of the district, and
adding not less than 140 acres of superior rich alluvial soil, which,
for time immemorial, bad been a tract of green pasture, consisting
of moss, mire, and lake, and generally known by the name of Bog-
more.  From the village of Tarland to the city of Aberdeen, a
distance of thirty miles, there was lately made a turnpike road,
passing through the parishes of Coull, Lumphanan, Kincardine
O'Neil, and Midmar.  The cross roads, too, are in good repair,
and much improved since the commutation of statute labour.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church of Tarland was rebuilt in
1762, and is at present in good repair.  It contains about 500
sitters, and is well furnished, at the expense of the heritors.  The


