
                       PARISH OF STOW.*

      PRESBYTERY OF LAUDER, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE.

              THE REV. DAVID WEDDELL, MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-STOW, the name of the parish, appears to have
been originally employed to denote the village or kirktown, and
the religious city connected with it. The word is of Ang-
lo-Saxon origin, signifying place or station. It is from the Bishop
of St Andrews having had a residence here, that the appropriate
name of Stow is said to be derived. The district now called
Galawater,+ of which the greater part is included in the parish of
Stow, was anciently named Wedal or Waedale, from the Anglo.
Saxon words, wae, woe or sorrow, and dal, dale, on account of
some sanguinary affray, of which no accurate account remains.
In old writings, and still in the language of the common people,
the definite article is prefixed to Stow. Thus Harding, instruct-
ing the English what districts they should overrun to ruin Scot-
land, has,
               "And eke therewith the Stow of Wedale."++
   The parish of Stow, extending from Nettlingflat, the most
northerly farm, where is the source of the celebrated pastoral
stream of Gala, which gives its name to the vale through which it
flows, continues to stretch in a south-easterly direction to the ter-
mination of the county of Edinburgh, on the east of Galawater,
where Caitha, the southermost farm, joins with Whitelaw, in the
parish of Melrose, and county of Roxburgh. Opposite to this
the county of Edinburgh is terminated on the west of Gala by
Bowland, from which the parish stretches south-west into Selkirk-
shire, comprehending Cadon-water, and including, as its western
boundary in that direction, the farms of Newhail, Blackhaugh

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. Dr John Cormack.
   The same as Gwala (Pembrokeshire,) "a full strearn," spelled also Galebe, and
Galup, in charters of William the Lion. Chalmers, Vol. ii. p. 969.
   See Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. ii p. 825, &c.


