
     Statistical Account

restrained use of their funds; and for these two years their
usual allowance was nearly doubled.*.

   Language, Antiquities, etc.-Gaelic is the language com-
monly spoken, and universally understood in this parish.
The English is, however, understood by a great many of
the inhabitants.  Public divine service is performed in
both languages.  The names of places throughout the pa-
are evidently of Gaelic origin.-At the S. W, extre-
mity of the parish, in an extensive high but level moor,
there are several tumuli, or large conical heaps of stones.
There is not any tradition as to the particular occasion of
collecting them.  By the directions of the proprietor, one
of them was lately laid open, when 3 stone coffins were
found in it, ranged in a line from east to west +.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There being no manufactures, (that of grain into spirits excepted).
established in this place, nor improvements going on in it of any con-
sideration, together with other circumstances, occasions the number of our
poor being so great.  There are, however, very few places in this coun-
try, into which manufactures, that would afford general employment to
people of different ages, and of both sexes, could be introduced, with such
prospect of advantage, or bid fairer for rescuing number from the penury
and distress, in which they languish at present, from want of employment.
Besides inducements of a more important nature for such an establishment,
there are buildings, which, during the existence of of the Ferrintosh privilege,
were erected by a company for teh purpose of distilling, and now lie un-
occupied.  They are of very considerable extent, situated about the middle
of the parish, and contignous to the shore, where there is occasionally a
depth of water, sufficient for vessels of 100 tons burden.

+As to climate, wages of servants, prices of provisions, and several
other objects of a statistical nature, there is nothing peculiar to be ob-
served with regard to this parish, or different from the accounts already
presented to the public from other parishes in the neighbourhood; only
as to the last of these articles, and mercantile goods in general, a consi-
derable additional expense, and much inconvenience are incurred in this


