
                          TWEEDSMUIR.                              63

all relish for thejoys of life, and soon afterwardr died on the field
of battle in the eighth year of his reign.
   On the opposite side of the Tweed, and close by the road leading
from the church to Mention house, there are the remains of a
Druidical temple, or Pictish court of justice.  Only one stone is
left of a number similar in appearance and size which stood toge-
ther, and which have been removed for the purposes of dike-build-
ing,&c.  It is called the Standing-stone, and is five feet above
the surface of the earth.  From behind it, a person of diminutive
stature, known by the name of Little John, discharged air arrow
at the head of a freebooter of formidable dimensions who greatly
annoyed the peaceful inhabitants, and who, though on the oppo-
site of the Tweed, was unable to elude the deadly stroke. *
A tumulus at the spot where he fell is still pointed out as the
giant's grave ; and certain it is that sixteen years ago a labourer,
in removing the stones of a cairn it the spot, found the grave of
some ancient hero.  " Tire sides of it," says the late incumbent
of this parish, " were regularly lined with smooth thin stones,
and the top well covered with alarge flagof full lenght."  Frag-
ments of an urn of strong earthen-ware found within, a piece                     I        I                                                 I I
of which was brought to the minister at the time.
   About thirty years before this event, a grave of the same descrip-
tion, and containing an urn, was found under a cairn upon Nether
Oliver, the property of the Earl of Wemyss.  And at a later date,
upon the lands of Menzion, there was found another grave, with side
stones about six feet, and a covering stone two feet thick, and five in
length.  Over this mountain there  was no cairn or heap of smal-
ler stories.  At Fruid, Hawkshaw, and Oliver are vestiges of those
ancient castles, towers, or strengths, of which the, strath of Tweed
from this part of Peebles-shire, down to Elibank Tower, and from
thence to Berwick, exhibits so many relics.
   The parish church stands upon air eminence resembling a Saxon
moat, triangular in form, thirty  feet in height.  It has some-
times been called Quarter Knowe, and supposed to have been a
place of Druidical worship.  Forsyth in his Beauties of Scotland
says, that " it is generally supposed to be an ancient tumulus, and
is vulgarly called a Roman work."  Some of the old inhabitants
suppose that it is an elevation left by the confluence of the
Tala and Tweed, which they say at one time overflowed the low.

<FOOTNOTE>This event is thought to have given rise to the well-known story of Jack the
   Giant Killer.


