
	        	KIRKPATRICK-FLEMING.                   287

   Education.--There are two parochial school and two Sabbath
schools.  Kirkpatrick school houses was built fifty-eight years ago, and
is kept in good repair. The late Dr Graham, of Mosasknow, grand-
uncle of its present proprietor, mortified L.5 a-year to the teacher
of this school, for which sum he is bound to educate eight poor
children. The branches of instruction generally taught in each of
the schools are English, writing, book-keeping, arithmetic, geo-
graphy, mathematics, latin, Greek, and French.
   The salary of the teacher of Kirkpatrick shool is L.25, 13s. 3 1/2d.;
amount of school fees L.23; amount of other emoluments, L.12.
The salary of the teacher of Gair school, which was, built in the
north part of the parish about thirty years ago, is L.25, 13s. 3 1/2d.;
amount of school fees L.23; amount of other emoluments L.2,
10s. Both the teachers have the legal accommodations.
   The expense of education per quarter is, for reading, 2s.; for
reading and writing, 2s. 6d.; for arithmetic, English grammar, geo-
graphy, and writing, 3s. 6d.; higher branches, 5s.
   The Sabbath school taught in Kirkpatrick church is attended
by 170; and that which is taught in the school-house of Gair is
attended by 80 scholars. These schools are supported chiefly by
donations from the heritors. A greater number of professional
men, and others holding respectable situations of life, has received
the elements of a liberal education at Kirkpatrick school, than at
almost any other grammar school throughout the whole of this dis-
trict.
   Libraries.--A parochial library, and two libraries for the use of
those children who attend the Sabbath schools, were here insti-
tuted at the commencement of this year.
   Savings Bank.--A savings bank was established in 1827. The
average increase of this bank yearly is L.45. The amount yearly
invested is L.80;--yearly withdrawn L.35; and the investments
are generally made by farm-servants.
   Poor.--The poor are maintained by church collections and le-
gal assessments. Of persons who receive parochial aid, the ave-
rage number is 30, and the average sum allotted to each per year is
L.4, 13S. 4d.
Of contributions arising from church collections, the annual amount is L. 30  0 0
From legal assessments,                                                  116  0 0
                                                                      L. 140  0 0
	The assessment, of which the proprietor pays one-half, and the
tenant the other half, tends to increase.  The  poor being al-
most always compelled by necessity to seek relief from the heri-


