
     of Balmagbie.

not only supplies is inhabitants with the necessaries of life,
but yields, at the same time, considerable quantities of grain
for exportation.  In some of the moor farms the practice of
paring and burning is still pursued. Land so managed ge-
nerally produces two or three good crops, but, in many
cases, the soil itself must be thereby exhausted.  Those,
therefore, who have crops at such an expense, seem to be 
in the situation of a man, who, by spending his fortune, lives 
more fully than be could do by consining himself to the an-
nualrent of it;  but will certainly be disappointed, if he 
expect to maintain himself so long.  Great tracts of heath 
in the moors are set on the spring, to make young grass
grow for the lambs.  The length of the winters, and the 
rains which generally succeed them, seldom allow this ope-
ration to be finished so early as the law requires*.  The 
tenour of leases granted by landlords, (or, as they are fre-
quently called, masters), is not in every respect calculated to 
encourage and neward the industry of the tenant.  Personal 
services are still required.  Assigness and subtenants are al-
most universally secluded.  Some have begun to proceed 
further, expressly secluding the legal diligence of creditors;
and declaring the lease to be irritated in the event of the sta-
tutory bankruptcy of the tenant, or sequestration of his ef-
fects.  The Board of Agriculture lately established, would 
do well to confider what the effects of such a clause as this

<FOOTNOTE>

*To the sportsman, this proves a source of the most serious alarm; as
it sometimes prevents the multiplication of those animals which are, in
his eye of more value than any with the earth is replenished.  For 
this evil there seems to be but one remedy.  As acts of human legislatures
cannot accelerate or retaid the revolution of the seafoods, those who pre-
ser moor-sowl to mutton, should keep their lands in their own possession;
for while they are held in lease, the tenants must be allowed to use the 
means by which their rents may be paid, and their families supported.


