
                       MOONZIE.                            795

The Teeswater or short-horned breed from England was intro-
duced here some years ago, and is still highly esteemed by some
agriculturists. The principal advantage of this breed consists in
their capability of being made fat when only two years of age. But,
notwithstanding this recommendation, it is now beginning to be less
esteemed, and to give way either to the Fife or dodded cattle of
Angus.
  There is only one tenant in the parish who keeps a breeding
stock of sheep on his farm. They are a mixture of the Leicester
and Cheviot. He has lately got some ewes of the Dorsetshire
breed, which are of large size and horned, and produce lambs
twice a-year. A six years' rotation is the mode of cropping gene-
rally adopted. 1. Fallow or green crop; 2. wheat; 3. pease or
beans; 4. barley with grass seeds; 5. grass cut or pastured; 6.
oats.
     The tenants in this parish enjoy particular advantages in regard
to their leases. These extend in general to twenty-five years, and
include no restrictions of an oppressive nature.
     The farm steadings of the principal tenants are of a superior
kind, built upon the most approved plans, and affording every ne-
cessary accommodation. As a proof of the spirit of enterprize and
improvement which exists amongst us, it may be mentioned that,
though there are only four thrashing-mills in the parish, two of
these are driven by steam.
     The soil is every year changing its appearance and becoming
more productive. A laudable spirit of rivalry prevails amongst the
farmers, and leads them to adopt every improvement which may
benefit the land as well as promote their own interest.
     Produce.__Amount of raw produce raised in the parish:
<TABLE>
           Produce in grain 4000 bolls,	        L.4000
           Stock sold annually,	                   700
           Dairy,                                  100
           Potatoes,	                           100
                                                ------
                                                L.4900

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

    Market-Town.-Cupar, which is about three miles distant, is
the nearest market-town. Every article of country produce finds
there a ready sale and a good price. There are several small col-
lections of houses in the parish which hardly deserve the names of
villages. They are the residences of the agricultural labourers
belonging to the difflerent farms, and of a few tradesmen. There
has been no inn in the parish for many years.


