
       714                       PERTHSHIRE.

         There is a Bible Society in the parish; and an account of its
       progress in distributing the Scriptures in a district, populous, in-
       deed, but by no means remarkable for its former want of the
       Bible, may show what can be done among our people when a fa-
       cility of supply is brought near them, and when this supply is
       offered at the reduced price of Bible Societies.  In six years and
       a-half, the exact period which has elapsed since the Society has
       begun, there were sold 1855* copies of the Scriptures, 773 being
       the whole Bible, and 1082 being the New Testament only.  In
       a district where English and Gaelic are both spoken, it may be
       interesting to state the numbers which were sold in these languages
       separately.  There were in English, 1046; and in Gaelic, 809;
       but a fair inference cannot be drawn from this statement as to a
       preference for either language, until the books which have been
       required for schools, and which were almost all in English, be
       subtracted.  Deducting these, which amount to 515, there remain
       569 in English, and 770 in Gaelic, thus showing a preference, in
       family and private reading, for the Gaelic.  There is now reason
       to hope that all our families are well supllied with Bibles and
       Testaments, as 289 of the largest type have been sold; and that
       the younger members have either pocket Bibles or Testaments,
       so that such of them as may enter into service at a distance may
       not be liable to the complaint which has been often heard in pri-
       vate concerning this class of people, and which has sometimes
       been introduced at public meetings, that they neither know nor
       possess the Scriptures.  A farther satisfaction has arisen from the
       establishment of this Society, that many of our emigrated country-
       men are now in possession of Bibles purchased here, several of
       them in the back-woods of Canada, and a few on the shores of
       Australia.  The same Society has sold, at reduced prices, 219 of
       the London Tract Society's books, chiefly Doddridges "Rise and
       Progress," and Baxter's "Call" and "Saint's Rest," besides some
       of their smaller tracts.
         Education.--The schools in the parish are, the parochial, three
       others which are partly endowed, and one which is unendowed.
       Besides the ordinary branches taught in all the schools, geogra-
       phy, practical mathematics, and Latin are taught in some of them.
       The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accommodations and the

       <FOOTNOTE>L. 148, 14s. 1 1/2d. have been drawn from the sale of these Scriptures, and reunit-
       teed, from time, so the Society which furnished them, besides occasional dona-
       tions, amounting in all to L. 33, 8a. for the benefit of selling at the reduced prices.
                                        4

