
564            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

reform, by which the majority of electors in Paisley have long
signalized themselves, merely out of spite to the Government sa-
vingsbanks. If so,--if they have been accused of entertaining high
opinions in politics,--they have paid a high price for them. The
present magistrates of Paisley are, John Henderson, Provost; Da-
vid Murray, Robert Paton, James Barr, John Smith, Bailies.
But, notwithstanding their present depressing circumstances, let
the community of Paisley take courage from the circumstances in
which the people of Greenock were placed at the beginning of the
eighteenth century. Their harbour was first erected, as formerly
hinted at, by a tax of 1s. 4d. Sterling, upon every sack of malt
brewed into ale; but the expense amounting to upwards of 100,000
merks, the magistrates became alarmed at the greatness of the
debt incurred; and we are told that "on Sir John Shaw's agreeing
to take it upon him, they resigned to him the harbour and assess-
ment above Mentioned." In 1740, there was a surplus of 27,000
merks, the foundation of the present town's funds. Thus did the
people of Greenock drink themselves into wealth and importance.
We trust that prudence, and the avoiding of extreme measures,
may yet bring a sister corporation out of all her present difficulties,
not by a malt-tax, but by the force of honourable pursuits and
honest industry.
  A great deal of information will be found respecting this shire in
Mr Wilson's work, before alluded to; in Crawfurd's Renfrewshire,
with its continuation by Robertson; also in Hamilton of Wishaw's
MS.; and Principal Dunlop's " Description of Renfrewshire."
In ancient Scottish story, it stands forth prominent as the ancient
residence of the Stewarts, and the birth-place of Wallace.

          Here Wallace sbone, a race of matchless might,
          Gentle in peace, but terrible in fight!
          The fame of Wallace never can expire,
          While Scottish breasts heroic deeds admire.
          And friendship hither Roes from England drev
          The royal Bruce's fortune to pursue:
          And hence the faithful race of Erskine springs,
          Marr's lords, the guardians of our youthful kings;
          To whom an ancient nation dared intrust
          Their future hopes, and ever found them just.

We have abstained from offering any remarks respecting the na
vigation of the river Clyde, referring to the statistics of Greenock,
Port-Glasgow, Renfrew, and Glasgow. We may here only state
that it has been ascertained from custom.house returns, and other
sources, that upwards of 200,000 tons of coal and timber alone
passed up and down the Clyde last year, and that about 100,000
                                 3


