
578		              LANARKSHIRE.

glas to the Lockharts of Carnwath, and is now the property of va-
rious heritors, who hold of Sir Norman Lockhart.
	Waygateshaw, formerly Wicketshaw, forms part of the barony
of Touchadam, in Stirlingshire. It was long in the possession
of a branch of the family of Lockhart, but was sold in the reign of
George II. by William Lockhart of Wicketshaw. Part of it has
recently reverted to the family, having become the property of
William Lockhart of Milton-Lockhart, but the principal and most
valuable portion, including the mansion-house, belongs to Samuel
Steel, Esq. of Waygateshaw.
	The barony of Milton, now called Milton-Lockhart, to distin-
guish it from another barony of the same name in the lower ward,
was an ancient possession of the Whitefords * of Whiteford. Since
they alienated it about 1640 it has been possessed by several families,
and is now the property of William Lockhart, Esq. of Milton-
Lockhart and Germistown.
	Kirkton, anciently church lands belonging to the Abbey of Kel-
so, was in 1662 erected into a barony by Charles II., in favour of
Walter Lockhart, a cadet of the family of Wicketshaw, at that
time its proprietor. It now belongs to John Hamilton, Esq. of
Fairholm.
	The most extensive barony in the parish is that of Mauldslie.
It was granted, with other possessions, to the Danielstons or Den-
nistowns of Newark, by a charter of Robert II. dated 1374. From
them it passed by marriage in the year 1402, to the Maxwells of
Calderwood, + in whose possession it remained till 1640, + when it
was sold to Arthur Erskine of Scotscraig. From him it passed,
by purchase, first to the laird of Alva, and afterwards to Sir
Daniel Carmichael, second son of the first Lord Carmichael, an-
cestor to the Earls of Hyndford. On the death of Andrew, the
last earl, in 1817, the unentailed part, situated on the Clyde,
was, along with the castle, inherited by his nephew, Archibald
Nisbet, Esq. of Carfin. The upper part passed, with the Car-
michael estates, to the heir of entail and now belongs to Sir
Windham Carmichael Austruther of Elie and Carmichael, Bart.

<FOOTNOTE>The discontents, which eventually led to the destruction of Regent Morton,
were greatly augmented in 1576, by his putting to the torture Adam Whiteford of
Milton, with his nephew, John Semple of Beltrees, on suspicion of a conspiracy.
Aikman's Hist, Vol. iii. p. 18, and Balfour's Annals of Scotland, Vol. i. p. 364.
Aikman by mistake calls him Wineford.
	+ Douglas' Baronage, p. 53.
	+ From a censure in the session books against John Maxwell, younger of Maulds-
lie, the former proprietors appear to have been still residing there in 1662.


