
884                       PERTHSHIRE.

in the vesicular cavities by which this kind of structure is charac-
terized, we find beautiful specimens of agate, calcareous spar, and
zeolite.
   Soil.-The soil, of which there exists a considerable diversity,
is principally formed from the decomposition of the trap or whin-
stone rocks. In general, it is of a black loamy character; and
though some fields are light and shallow, yet many others are
comparatively rich, and capable of yielding abundant crops. There
is not much of it of a gravelly description; but, among the waste
or uncultivated land, there is a considerable extent of moorish or
heathy soil.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Notices regarding the Parish.-In the chartulary of Cambus-
kenneth, preserved in the Advocates' Library, are contained seve-
ral charters relating to the church of Arngask, and certaiti lands
in the parish.  From this source, we learn that, in 1281, Gilbertus
Frislay, dominus de Forgey, gave to God and to the monastery of
Cambuskenneth the patronage of the church of Arngask, with the
piece of land which lies near the house of the priest " in territorio
de Arngosk." Soon afterwards, this grant was confirmed by Wil-
liam, Bishop of St Andrews, with the whole revenues " patipertati
dicti monasterii compacientes." We next find a charter of resig-
nation, in 1282, by Radolphus, dominus de Symmersdbburn, rector
of the church of Arngask. Then appears a document styled
" Institutio ejusdem ecelesiae," &c. and this deed was followed, in
the same year, by a confirmation, by the chapter of St Andrews
and John, the Prior of the cathedral, of the church and church
lands of Arngask.  Henricus de Frislay, dominus de Forgey, in
1295, made a grant of the mill of Arngask, with two acres of land
near it, to the abbey of Cambuskenneth, " prn salute animae suae."
Sir William Frislay, miles, dominus de Forgey, confirmed the
deed of his predecessor, which is ratified by a charter under the
Great Seal of King Robert at Glasgow in 1325. The Frislays
it appears, possessed the barony of Arngask " et dominuim de
Forgey" till about 1332, when the heiress of that name married
Sir Richard Barclay of Kippo. Hugh Barclay, laird of Kippo
and Arngask, by a charter to the Blackfriars of Perth, dated at
Perth 18th September 1389, " granted to them," according to
the superstition of those times, " for the salvation of his own soul
and the souls of his predecessors and successors, in pure and per-


