
                        COUNTY OF RENFREW.                        537

been set off at first not so much by artificial and well-defined boun-
daries, as by the water-courses, all the burns, rivulets, streams,
and the drainage of the fields finding their way by some route or
other to Inchinnan Bridge.  The only exceptions worth mention-
ing are the Kipp, already alluded to, and Lugton Water, which
last, ungratefully forsaking the bosom of Loch Libo, the gem of
lochs in the west of Scotland, leaves the county which gives it
birth, and falls into the Garnock a little below Kilwinning.  It
has been justly remarked, that rivers are the channels which moun-
tain streams would maintain, and these in time sensibly extend the
land by their deposits, and raise the level of the sea on all other
coasts.  The Greenock-bank, or submarine isle, at the mouth of
Clyde, is equivalent to the deltas formed by the mud at the
debouches of mightier and more formidable rivers.  The carses or
valleys of Renfrewshire, great and small, are evidently the tribute
of its waters, as the cultivated soil is all evidently either transport-
ed or deposited; and unless a person were specially directing his
attention to the subject, it is impossible to conceive how much the
"soil grows" in a few years.  The lakes in the valley of Loch-
winnoch and Kilbirnie, now three in number, are said formerly to
have been one.  This is not merely a fact, but it is likely to be
so.  The mastery of the land over the water, now so apparent,
may arise from two causes, drainage, and the accumulation of de-
trital matter, which ultimately becomes soil, and in time, how
long it is impossible to say, the soil may supplant the water alto-
gether. The principal streams of Renfrewshire have their sources
in it lakes or its hilly ridges. The parish of Eaglesham stretches
far to the soutb, between Ayrshire and Lanarkshire, yet if included
in the water-runs of the district, is a faithful and integral part of
Renfrewshire.  It is here that the White Cart first springs into
existence.  At Millhouse in Lanarkshire, Tor-burn and Thriep-
land-burn meet, amid formidable rocks of great height and thick-
ness.  These are all of Osmond-stone.  The Thriepland-burn
comes from the west.  It is the junction of these two burns that
forms the White Cart.  After receiving the Reoch-burn, the
Earu, and a host of smaller tributaries, the Cart hastens with all
convenient speed to the lower country, where it is greeted on its
way by the Levern, and several other streams of importance, and
is ultimately hurried on towards Inchinnan Bridge, deepened and
fitted for the navigation of small craft, at an expense which has
almost ruined the town of Paisley.  The Gryfe, a Stream of very


