
			    BERVIE.                            11

good order of society.  Poaching in game, and in salmon, and
smuggling prevailed, it is said, to a considerable extent amongst
the people of this parish in former years.  But there is now no
such thing beard of as smuggling, and the cases of poaching are
very rare.  The iniquitous practice is sufficiently infamous, of itself,
to stamp the mark of shame on every poacher, and no one who
has a regard for his character will ever engage in it. It may be
mentioned here, as one distinguishing trait in the character of the
inhabitants of Bervie, that they are always alive to the calls of
humanity, and ready to give aid, according to thehr circumstances,
to alleviate the sufferings of their fellow-creatures. And this is,
surely, one grand effect which the gospel has produced, as it is
the benign spirit of Christianity which can awaken and keep alive
in our hearts a fellow-feeling for the distresses and wants of others.

		          IV.--INDUSTRY.
   There are about 50 persons, including farmers and their male
servants, employed in agriculture in this parish.
   When the spinning-mill, which is at present under repair, is set
a-going, there may be about 14 males, including masters and boys,
engaged at both mills.
   The number of workmen employed at the dowlas linen weaving,
including agents, may be about 112.
   There are 8 shopkeepers, 7 shoemakers, 3 tailors, 5 house-
carpenters, 5 blacksmiths, 1 cart and plough-wright, 3 masons,
1 watch and clock-maker, 1 cooper, 2 staters, 1 plasterer, I flax-
dresser, 1 saddle and harness-maker, 1 boat-builder, being, in all
40 masters, who employ occasionally several bands, accordidg to
their extent of business. There are also 3 carriers, and several
carters, 5 meal sellers, and 2 fleshers.
   The number of males employed in the fisheries, as nearly as can
be ascertained, is 70.

<TABLE>

    Agriculture.--
The number of standard imperial acres cultivated in the parish is about     1222
            acres uncultivated, including roads, is fully                    500
	    acres which might be profitably added to the cultivated land is
                  about                                                      150
            acres under planted wood is about                                 70
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land in the parish
is about L.2, 10s. per acre. The rent varies from L.6 to L. 1.
The rent of grazing, as charged by the burgh, per cow is L. 1;
and the rent per ewe as charged by the farmer for hill pasture,
is about 6d. each.


