
			DUNNOTTAR.		             217

loam, more or less deep and cohesive, prevail near the coast, yet
even there a thin covering of moorland soil or the lightest sandy
soils, may be seen under tillage, while in the more inland parts,
where generally the soil is light, clay and loam, comparatively fer-
tile, are not unusual. No calcareous earth, unless what is adven-
titious, forms a component in any of the soils, the sand and gravel
which they contain being what is commonly understood as siliceous.
In many instances, the subsoil is the indurated combination of clay
and gravel known by the name of till, and this more commonly
where the supersoil is scantx, or a recent conversion of moorland
earth. Some of the clayey soils, from long melioration, are of
considerable fertility, but instances of clay soils incumbent on sand
or open gravel, are very rare; and consequently lately cultivated
clays are for the most part of difficult and precarious management.
	Zoology.--In the recollection of persons not yet very old, seals
were numerous on the coast of Dunnott`r. They were then to
be seen in herds, basking on the rocks or sporting in the bays, and
the hunting of them in the caves was practised both for amuse-
ment and profit. Now, they have nearly abandoned the caves to
which they resorted as their breeding-places, and only a solitary
one is to be seen occasionally, skulking for prey at the foot of the
rock. The fox and the foumarte have both become rare in this
parish, and the peaceable brock and harmless urchin are seldom
met with. The otter's cry is hardly ever heard, affording as it was
wont a foreboding to the superstitious. The whitteret or weasel
still frisks about the stock-yard, and the Norway rat overruns the
land, having, however, nearly, exterminated the race of his black
brother. What are said to be wild-cats are occasionally found in
solitary place, but there is reason to doubt whether they are not
merely such as have escaped from a state of domestication. Herds
of rne,deer are to be seen in the woods, or, in the pinch of winter,
visiting the turnip fields, and even the stack yards. Hares are nu-
merous, and the, whole country is grievously infested with rabbits,
from a colony planted in this parish five and twenty years ago, be-
fore which period that animal in a wild state was unknown in this
quarter.
	In the feathered race, the numbers and variety of birds inhabit-
ing or frequenting the rocks and baverns of the sea coast, form the
chief object of attention. The common gull has appropriated
to himself a district of the cliff where he nestles to the exclusion
of all others. The kittiwake or tarrock is migratory, arriving in


