
                         STRANRAER.                           97

ment, have located themselves in hovels erected in the lanes and
outskirts of the town, and depend, in a great measure, for subsist-
ence, on the charity of the inhabitants.

<TABLE>

Number of Families in the parish,                               727
                   chiefly employed in agriculture,               7
                        trade, manufactures, or handicraft, &c, 720

	The average number of births yearly for the seven years pre-
ceding 1831 is 48, as entered in the register of births and bap-
tisms. To this must be added at least one-third more baptized by
Dissenting clergymen, and not entered into the parish register. As
there is no register of deaths kept in the parish, I cannot ascertain
the average number of deaths for the last seven years.

<TABLE>

        Average number of marriages is                          17
                          persons under 15 years of age,      1094
                          betwixt 15 and 30,                   932
                                  30 and 50,                   707
                                  50 and 70,                   478
                           upwards of 70,                      118

	Number of illegitimate births during the last three years, 17.
	Inhabited houses, 489.

        There is no family of noble blood residing in the parish. There
are a few individuals of independent fortune, but the bulk of the
population depend for their subsistence upon some line of business.
There is at present residing within the burgh 1 insane person; 1
fatuous; 2 blind; I deaf and dumb.
        Language.-The language generally spoken is tolerably good.
The lower orders (of whom a great many are natives of Ireland)
have a good deal of the accent of that country. Indeed, strangers
allege that all classes of the inhabitants have a good deal of the
Irish accent. This,no doubt, arises from our proximity to Ireland,
and our very frequent intercourse with the Irish.
	There are no customs, games, or amusements, so far as I know,
peculiar to this part of the country.
        Habits of the People.-The habits of the people, I believe, are
pretty much the same as in towns of the same description. There
is a good deal of poverty, want of cleanliness, and wretchedness
among the population in the outskirts and lanes of the town, who
are mostly the lower orders of Irish. Smuggling, though carried on
to a great extent formerly, if at all, is not carried on now to any ex-
tent. It is to the vigilance of the officers of the Coast-Guard that
this is in a great measure owing. Pawnbroking is carried on among
the Irish residents, but not to a great extent.
                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Manufactures.-The high price fuel prevents the establish-
        WIGTON.                                  G


