
     of Tulliallan.

the principal houses of AMSTERDAM, and the Stadt-House of
HOLLAND were built out of it*.

   Mills.-There are 4 mills in this parish, within 40 yards of
each other, built in a most substantial manner; viz. a meal,
a barley, a flour, and a threshing mill, all driven by the same
water.  Little, if any, of that water arises from springs, for
there are very few in the parish, but from what falls from the
clouds.  Before steam engines were invented, the coal ma-
chinery on the lands of Kincardine were driven by this water,
as they had no rivers nor rivulets by which they could be
wrought.  To remedy this defect, a strong dike was built
between two rising banks, about 40 yards in length, and 22
feet deep, and around all the rising ground, they cast ditches, by
which the water, falling from the clouds, might be conducted
into what is called the Papermill Dam, which, when full, covers
66 acres, and contains water sufficient to drive the mills, and
the coal machinery, for 9 months of the year.  They likewise
built another dam, which, when full, covers 50 acres.  This

     VOL. XI. 4 A

<FOOTNOTE>

*These two last, perhaps, may be thought disputable; but, to corroborate
this assertion, there are still the remains of a long pier, said to be built by a
Dutch company, to be seen.  About 20 yards of it, nearest to the land, are in a
great measure entire.  From this pier to low water, they built two stone dikes,
some yards distant from one another, in which were erected pullies, by which
they hauled out their vessels through the dock formed by the two dikes.  This
dock was 9 feet deep at high water, but is now almost filled up with mud. Conti-
guous to it, there are the remains of a large reservoir, built by them, which filled
when the tide flowed; and, when it was near ebb, they opened a sluice in the
reservoir, of about 9 feet wide, which emptied itself along the pier into the
dock, and carried off the mud which the former tide had washed into it.  A
little west from it, there is another pier (if it may be so called), named the Royal
Exchange Pier, because at it they loaded their vessels with stones for that
building; and at this pier they generally load their vessels at present.


