
                           NEWBURGH.                           63

condition, abound in fruit of the finest quality, and covering an
extent, as they do, of nearly 40 imperial acres, are a source of con-
siderable profit to their proprietors. It is impossible, while touch-
ing on the subject of trees, those easy bought beauties of nature,
not to lament that the hilly ridges on the south and east of New-
burgh should have been suffered to remain so long unplanted.
Let us hope that their present proprietor, into whose hands they have
lately passed, will add to his deserved reputation as one of the
most successful agriculturists in Fife, by adorning with a few clumps
of plantation the sloping eminences of these picturesque hills.

			II.CIVIL-HISTORY.
The town of Newburgh, from the charter already referred to,
seems to be coeval with the erection of the monastery of Lindores.
It was early created a burgh of regality, under the abbot of that
place; and as these monastic institutions were then the sole depo-
sitaries of learning, and the centres whencee civilization and im-
provements of every kind were diffused around, Newburgh unques-
tionably is indebted for its origin, as well as most of its privileges,
to its vicinity to the abbey. The inhabitants are uniformly ad-
dressed as the "Nostri burgenses" of the ecclesiastical authorities
there, and the whole property possessed by the burgh in the
Woodriff and adjacent hills was derived from the same. In the
year 1600, James VI. erected the abbacy of Lindores into a tem-
poral lordship; and in the year 1631, Charles I. granted a char-
ter to the town of Newburgh, forming the community into a pro-
per royal burgh, with all the immunities and privileges that are

<FOOTNOTE>King Alexander III. granted to the abbot and convent of Lindores, "ut ipsi et
eorum successores in perpetuum habeant villam eorumque dicitur novus burgus jux-
ta monasterium de Lindores in liberum burgum ; et forum in eodem burgo quolibet
die Martis cum libertatibus burgi et fori, salvis in omnibus burgorum nostrorum li-
bertatibus."
          On the 4th July 1457, Abbot John granted to the burgesses of Newburgh the land
of Vodrufe and the hill to the south of it, for which they were to pay to the Abbot
homage and common service, use and wont,of forty bolls of barley. Among the sti-
populations for enforcing the conditions of this contract, it is provided, "Si contingat
aliquein vel aliqiuos predictorum burgensium procurare prece vel pretio aliquem
nobilem seu dominum in fomentum et auxilium oppositionis eorum in contra-
rium et prejudicium libertatis et privilegii nostri (abbatis et conventus) et ipse et ip-
si hujusmodi enormia cowxnittens aut committentes perdet et perdent totum et quic-
quid tenet et tenent de nobis et successoribus nostris tam in dicto novo burgo quam
in dictis terris de Vodrufe et de monte."
          For the above and the other interesting charters referred to in this account, I am
indebted to the kindness of Mr Cosmo Innes, Advocate, who is not more intimately
acquainted with this dark page in the history of our country, than skilful in decy-
phering the dingy black-letter MSS. in which these memorials are preserved. I have
also to acknowledge the exertions of my talented friend Mr De Maria, Advocate, who
was the means of discovering for me in the Advocates' Library the whole existing
chartularies of the Abbey of Lindores, extracts from which are here given.




