
               KILMARTIN.                                559

          A cholla mo run seach ain an tur, seach an an tur
          A cholla mo ghaoil seachan an caol seachan an caol,
          Tha mise an laimh ; tha mise an laimh.-i. e.
          Dearest Coll, shun the Tower, shun the Tower;
          My beloved Coll, shun the Sound, shun the Sound;
          I am in band, I am in hand, or, I am a prisoner.
This warning was understood by Macdonell, who, finding that
Duntroon Castle was impregnable, left his faithful piper to his
fate, and with his forces proceeded northward, along the strath of
Kilmartin towards Athnacra, near the ford of Lochawe, destroy-
ing and plundering every thhng, in his way on the estates of Dun-
troon, Rassly, and Kilmartin, and carrying away all the cattle,
with the exception of one dun cow that happened to escape his no-
tice, being hid in a thicket of birch in a hollow below Kilmartin-
This cow is still known by the natives by the name of Bo-Mhaol
othar Achabhean, i. e. the humel dun cow of Achaven.  It was
this cow, by her lowing for her calf, which had been carried away
with the rest of the cattle of the Strath, that is said to have
sounded the first note of lamentation and wailing among the inha-
bitants, when they ventured from their hiding places in the hills,
to behold the destruction of their dwellings, and the devastation
of every thing valuable that belonged to them.
   Duntroon Castle has been put into a complete state of repair by
the proprietor, Mr Malcolm of Poltalloch, so that it is now a com-
fortable residence, and cannot fail to attract the notice of stran-
ger in passing through the Crinan Canal.
    On the bank immediately to the north of the village of Kil-
martin, stand the ruins of the old castle of Kilmartin, anciently
the residence of the rectors of Kilmartin.  The descendants of
one of them, the Campbells of Auchanellan, still retain the heredi-
tary property in the parish, and the ancient Caibeal or burial-place
of the rectors in the churchyard of Kilmartin; and the family are
sometimds called by the natives Slioch an Easbuiq, i. e. the de-
scendants of the Church Superintendent.
Land-owners.--There are seven land-owners, viz. Neill Mal-
colm, Esq. of Poltalloch ; Colin Bell Maclachlan, Esq. of Craigin-
terave; Captain Donald Campbell, R. N. of Barbreck; the Rev.
Dugald-Campbell of Auchanellan; John Campbell, Esq. of Glen-
more; Mrs Campbell of Askenish;  Mrs Johnston of Dunchol-
lagin.
Parochial Registers.--The earliest date in the kirk-session re-
cords is the 25th May 1691.  Down to 1751t it is imperfect;
from that date to the present time, it has been regularly kept.


