
     1066                      PERTSHIRE.

     with the Conqueror that they did not come to Scotland till more
     than a hundred years after the battle of Luncarty ; and that they
     only obtained the lands of Errol from King William the Lion of
     Scotland about the middle of the twelfth century.  It was not till
     the middle of the fourteenth century that they were ennobled."*
       The celebrated William, first Earl of M`nsfield, was born at
     Scone, according to common report, on the 2d of March 1704,
     O.S.   By some authorities, however, he is said to have been born
     at Pertb.   He was the fourth son of Andrew, one account says,
     but, according to Debrett, of David, fifth Viscount Stormont, and
     Margery, daugther of David Scott of Scotstarvet, in Fife.  He
     was removed in his infancy to London; admitted a King's scho-
     lar at Westminster school in 1719 ; entered at Christ Church,
     Oxford in 1723; and called to the bar in 1731.  He soon rose to
     great eminence, and after conducting the defence in a cause in
     which his leader was prevented bv sudden illness from appearing
     in Court, so great an amount of business flowed on him that his
     income rose at once from a few hundreds to thousands a-year.  In
     1743, he was appointed Solicitor-General, and obtained a seat in
     the House of Commons, where his brilliant eloquence and legal
     knowledge raised him to the greatest eminence.  He was made At-
     torney-General in 1754, and two years afterwards he was appoint-
     ed Chief Justice of the King's Bench, and raised to the peerage
     by the title of Baron Mansfield of Mansfield, in the county of Not-
     tingham, becoming at the same time a member of the Cabinet.
     Strong inducements vere held out to lead him to devote his talents
     entirely to politic, but he firmly refused to abandon his position
     as Chief Justice.  For a short time he held the seals of office as
     Chancellor of the Exchequer on the resignation of Legge, and
     was then entrusted by the King with full power to negociate re-
     specting a new administration.  He incurred much popular odium
     on the trial of the publishers of Junius's letter to the King, but
     he did not court popularity.
       Lord Mansfileld's house in Bloomsbury Square was attacked and
     set fire to during the riots of 1780:  The superb furniture, flung-
     into the streets, was destroyed by fire, together with some thousand
     volumes, many capital manuscripts, mortgages, papers, and other
     deeds, besides the rich wardrobe and some very valuable paintings.
     On this occasion, Lord and Lady Mansfield made their escape
     through a back-door only a few minutes before the rioters entered
     and took possession of the house.

<FOOTNOTE> Pictorial History of England, Vol i.p. 220.


