
     of Menmuir.

on the top of this mountain*.  There is a cluster of burrows,
about a mile to the north of the church, which were believed,
by the common people, to be graves of Picts or Danes kill-
ed in battle; but as, upon one of them being opened, bones
were found very entire, one should imagine they belonged
to a later transaction.  A little rivulet hard by has two
passes, called the Scotch and Englishman's ford, which
seems to confirm this opinion, and to fix their date about
the reigns of Charles I. or II. when there were frequent
skirmishes in this country between the Presbyterian and
Royal forces.  There is one burrow detached from the
rest, which is called Beattie's Cairn, and the place ' the
'Mansworn Rigg,' i. e. the perjured land.  There is a tradi-
tion which agrees with this appellation, and affords a stri-
king picture of the spirit of ancient times.  Two lairds
quarelled about their marches, and witnesses were
brought to swear to the old boundaries.  One of these
chieftains, provoked to hear his opponent's servant declare
on oath, that he then stood on his master's ground, pulled a
pistol from his belt, and shot him dead on the spot.  It was
found, that to have his conscience, he had earth in his
shoes brought from his laird's land.  The person who pu-
nished such prevarication, in so summary a manner, was
proprietor of Balhall.  Before the Carnegies bought the
principal estate here, these lands were possessed by a fami-
ly named Collace or Colessy.  Their funeral vault is in the
church yard.  One of them distiguished himself as fol-
     U

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some travellers pretend to have found on its summit several figured
stones with hieroglyphic characters, and likewise a piece of a broken statue.
One, in particular, + makes mention of certain gold coins with inscriptions,
in the possession of some gentleman in Angus, which were got on Cater-
thus.  If the gentleman, in whole custody these curious pieces are, would
lay them before; the Antiquarian Society, it might tend to remove the ob-
scurity in which the history of this mountain is involved.

++Vide Ruddimon's Magazine, August 31. 1775.


