
64                             KINROSS-SHIRE.

They are all in excellent condition. The bridge over the Queich,
at the south end of Milziatbort, is old, ill constructed, and by no
means in good repair. The great north road trustees have not
displayed their usual zealous attention by endeavouridg to obviate
this deformity, while other improvements of minor importance on
this line of road have been carried into execution. The fences in
the parish are in pretty good order.
   The Aberdeen and Inverness mail-coaches, Saxe-Cobourg to
Perth, and Defiance to Aberdeen, travel along the great north road
from Edinburgh every day, but the Cobourg and Defiance do not
run on Sundays. Occasionally, there are other stage-coaches on
the road; and some time ago, one passed through Milnathort from
Cupar to Stirling, but for some years it has ceased to run.
   Ecclesiastical State.- The church, which was built in 1729, is
situated half a mile from the nearest, and five miles from the far-
thest boundary of the parish ; yet, as considered with reference to
the dwellings of the parishioners, (the village of Milnathort con-
taining half of the whole population,) it could not be more conve-
viently situated. There is a mortification by Captain Crawfurd of
Pow-mylne for the benefit of the poor, which amounted, in 1722,
to L. 100.
   The church affords convenient accommodation for only 646 per-
sons, although there are, about 1600 connected with it; of these 599
are communicants. There are no seats unlet, and nearly the whole
belong to the heritors, and are filled by themselves, their tenants, or
servants. The Dissenting heritors let their seats, when not required
by their tenants or servants, for 2s. or 2s. 6d. each. One gallery in
th aisle belongs to the patron, who has permitted it to be let, and

<FOOTNOTE>The following extract is from the parish records:-" 1722. The said 3d of
May the Session met again, and after prayer, Major Henry Balfour of Dunhog de-
positate in the minister his hands, in name and behalf of Captain William Crawfurd
of Pow-mylne, for the use of the poor in the parish of Orwell, born and living in the
parish, virtuously and honestly, the sum of L. 100 Sterling money ; the which
sum to be lent out upon good security, and the a-rent to be bestowed as it
dotnoth into the managers of the said mortification. The managers appointed by
the said Captain Crawfurd, being Sir Thomas Bruce of Kinross and his heirs, the
minister of the parish of Orwell and his succesors, ministers, and Captain Crawfurd
and his heirs, Robert Coventry, fewar in Arlary, Robert Balfour in Orwell, William
Shaw, fewar in Seggie, and George Arnott of Holeton, and failing any of these
four by death, the survivors to choose others in their room, (power being reserved
by the Captain for himself, or his heirs and successors, to ad to the number of ma-
nagers, as he or they shall find meet.) The managers being likewise convened, and
condering this pious, generous, and honourable deed of Captain Crawfurd, recom-
mended it to the minister to write a letter of thanks, in name of the managers, to the
Captain for his singular liberality, and to assure him that all due care shall be taken
that the samen be managed and disposed so as it may answer his good and laudable
design."



