
                                HAWICK.                       393

lanrig, and at a later period, of Anne  Duchess of Buccleuch and
Monmouth, whose unfortunate husband was beheaded  in 1685.
This tower, which was anciently surrounded with a deep moat
drawn from the Slitridge, was the only building in the town which
escaped the devastation of 1570.
   Another of these peels is at present attached to the Castle of
Branxholm, celebrated as the ancient residence of the family of
Buccleuch, and invested with additional interest of late, in conse-
quence of the prominent place which it occupies in the Lay of the
Last Minstrel.  In the reign of James I, it became the property
of Sir William Scott of Buccleuch, and for a long period after was
the scene of great baronial splendour, whilst, from its situation and
the feudal power of the brave barons that successively possessed
it, it was frequently exposed to the most formidable assaults.  It
was burnt down by the Earl of Northumberland in 1532, and
blown up with gunpowder during the invasion of the Earl of Sur-
rey in 1570.  It was rebuilt, however, almost immediately after,
the work being commenced by Sir Walter Scott, and completed
by his widow, as appears from the following inscriptions:--" Sir
W. Scott of Branxheim, Knyt, Yoe of Sir William Scott of Kir-
kurd, Knyt, began ye work upon ye 24 of Marche 1571 zeir, quha
departit at God's pleisour ye 17 April 1574."-" Dame Margaret
Douglas, his Spous, completit the forsaid work in October 1576."
There is likewise the following legend on a tablet over one of the
doors:
     "IN.VARLD.IS.NOCHT.NATUR,HES.VROUGHT,YET.SAL.LEST.AY.
THAIRFORE.SERVE.GOD.KEIP.VEIL.YE.ROD,THY.FAME.SAL.NOCHT.DEKAY.
SHIR VALTER SCOT OF BRANXHOLME, KNYGHT. MARGARET DOUGLAS.
                         1571."
Besides these towers, which have lost somewhat of their origi-
nal appearance by being subjected to frequent  alterations  and
repairs, there is another still standing on the brow of a hill at Gol-
dielands, about two miles distant from the town, which retains very
much of its primitive character, and is probably as perfect as  any
on the border.  It is said to have been the residence, in former
times, of a family of the name of Goldie, whence it seems to have
derived its present appellation. It is of a square form, and from
its massive and venerable appearance, aided by the elavated situa-
tion on which it stands, forms an object in the  landscape as pic-
turesque as it is conspicuous.
   A bridge leading from the  High  Street to the parish church is
also deserving of notice as an object of antiquity. Different in its
   ROXBURGH.                             c c


