
			STEWARTON.                         727

causes of its prosperity, has been already adverted to. The nu-
merous advantages of the locality will, probably, from time to time,
induce the establishment of other manufactories; and it is not by
any means unlikely, that the progress of Kilbirnie in wealth, popu-
lation, and extent, in the lapse of twenty years, may exceed con-
siderably all the late advances, striking as these have been. In
addition to what may be accomplished on the banks of the Gar-
nock, should the projected iron works in the south-east quarter of
the parish succeed, another source of prosperity will be opened,
which no one, a few years ago, could have possibly anticipated,--
while the railway from Glasgow to Ayr will confer many commer-
cial advantages on this, and on all the districts it traverses.

	Drawn up February 1840; Revised December 1841.

                           PARISH OF STEWARTON. *

		PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

	    THE REV. CHARLES BANNATYNE STEVEN, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name and Boundaries.--THE name is evidently formed from
the surname Stewart, first used as a family distinction by Walter
II. in 1204. The district of Cuninghame, with others in the
county, being the property of the Crown, was from time to time
vested in the hands of some powerful family, and Stewarton, among
others, being created into a separate lordship, became the inheri-
tance of James, High Steward, in 1283. In the account of the
charters granted by Robert I., II., and III, there is one by Ro-
bert III. to John Stewart Earl of Buchan, the Regent's son, and
Elizabeth de Douglas, his spouse, daughter to Archibald Earl of
Douglas, of the lands of Stewarton, and Armsheugh, and Dunlop,
in Cuninghame, on the resignation of the Earl of Douglas.
	This parish is situated in the district of Cuninghame, and is
bounded by the parishes of Neilston and Mearns in Renfrew-
shire on the north-east; Fenwick, on the east and south-east;

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr Duncan Macfarlane, Schoolmaster.


