
212                        WIGTONSHIRE.

productively hard,--where light and peaty, too loose for the roots of
grain to retain their hold during high winds. Were the till broken
up, and the water allowed to sink and run off by drains, the clayey
soils would become more friable, the peaty, with a gradual admix-
ture of the subsoil, would acquire a more adhesive texture, lime and
manures would tell with more effect, and all would undoubtedly be
rendered doubly productive. This improvement, though great and
permanent, would also be expensive, and would be most effectually
promoted by the landlord defraying the greater part of the ex-
pense,--seeing it judiciously executed, and receiving interest for
the outlaid capital in the shape of additional rent.
	Thorough draining, consisting of shallow drains running pa-
rallel to each other, at the distance of 15 or 18 feet, has been in-
troduced to a limited extent with the most beneficial results. The
drains are cut about 2 1/2 feet deep, and filled to within 14 or 16
inches from the surface with small stones. The expense of open-
ing and filling such, exclusive of the stones, is about 6d. per rood.
	The land in tillafe is managed in different rotations of cropping;
the six-shift seems to be the best. The order is as follows: 1.
oats after grass; 2. green crop of turnip or potatoes; 3. wheat
or other white crop; 4. grass for hay or pasture, and the remain-
ing years in pasture.
	The duration of leases, where these exist, is generally nineteen
years. Those last given seem favourable to the occupiers; who
are furnished with suitable farm-buildings, and receive a liberal al-
lowance of lime; and whatever drainings they judge necessary are
opened to them, free of expense.
	With regard to farm-buildings, there is great room for improve-
ment. Very few contain accommodation sufficient to allow of the
most profitable farm management, and many of them are in a de-
cayed and ruinous condition. The greater part of the parish is
enclosed, but, except in the vicinity of Logan, with insufficient
fences. These consist of stone walls, turf with whins on the top,
hedge and ditch. Many of the first are badly built, or built
with bad materials; the second are not kept closely furnished
with furze; the last, when properly executed, are by far the
best, effectually securing the enclosure from the first, and soon af-
ter affording shelter besides. The quicks, consisting of thorn and
beech, are planted in a facing of stone about three feet in height,
banked behind with the earth taken out of the ditch,--which bank
is also planted with sets of the hardier willows. Timber trees are


