
792                     FIFESHIRE.

the title as a mark of favour from his sovereign, and, dying with-
out issue, it returned to the Crown. The old house of Colluthie
is said to have been built by Sir William. But this is bestowing
an antiquity on it to which it has no just claim, and which is only
supported by the most vague tradition. The house is a small plain
building, remarkable only for the thickness of its walls and some
arched doors and windows. It was long much neglected, and
nearly uninhabitable, but it has been lately repaired by its present
proprietor, Mr J. Inglis, at considerable expense, and may now
accommodate a respectable family.
     Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are not of ancient
date. The first entry in the minute-book is on November 6th
1693. Baptisms were first recorded in 1713, and marriages in
1769. Since 1821, births and baptisms, as well as marriages and
deaths, have been regularly recorded.
     Antiquities.-When the church was repaired in 1821, there was
found in the east end of it a coffin containing some human bones
in a mouldering state, and a thigh-bone in good preservation. The
side stones of the coffin consisted of two long sandstones, and the
bottom of Dutch square bricks. The upper stone, or cover, on
which there is often an inscription, had, it is likely, been removed
at some early period, but on one of the side-stones there was cut
out the figure of a sword, indicating that the person who had been
entombed there had been a soldier or warrior. It is probable that
he belonged to the Craufurd family, who had large property in
the parish, and were generally military men.
     Several years ago, when some labourers were casting a ditch on
the west side of the farm of Moonzie, they discovered several stone
coffins near the surface of the ground. From the rude materials
of which they were composed, and the exposed situation in which
they were placed, they do not appear to have contained the ashes
Of the illustrious dead, but to have been the repositories of some
ignoble individuals. Some coins have been found in different
places of the parish, but none of any importance either from their
antiquity or intrinsic value.


<TABLE>                    III.-POPULATION.

             The return to Dr Webster in 1755, was      271
                                         1793,     .    171
                                         1831,     .    188
                                         1841,     .    174


