
                           CAMPSIE.                       245


the family in which Mr Bell spent his last years.* I may add
the names of Mr Robert Dalglish, formerly Lord Provost of Glas-
gow, in the affairs of which city, especially of its charitable insti-
tutions, he took, during a long series of years, a deep and effective
interest, and who has long been connected with Campsie; and of
Mr John McFarlan, of Bancleroche, the early companion of Sir
W. Scott, and the author of numerous publications.
  Several of the clergymen of Campsie have enjoyed considerable
celebrity or notoriety, as Lamberton, Beaton, and others, before
the Reformation,--and several since.
  So lately as the year 1744, black-mail was paid by the farmers
in Campsie to Macgregor of Glengyle, who seems, from Lapslie's
account of him, to have had some of that honour which is said
sometimes to be found among thieves. The great Rebelliom had
the happy effect of delivering the people from the need of such
protectors. The powers of a feudal baron were exercised in this
parish so lately as the year 1693, at which period the Marquis of
Kilsyth hanged one of his servants for theft on the Gallowhill, in
the barony of Bencloick.
  The doctrines of the French Revolution were diffused to a great

 <FOOTNOTE> Mr James Bell, the celebrated geographer, was born at Jedburgh, 1769. In
1777, Mr Bell removed with his father to Glasgow, where, after receiving a liberal
education, he served an apprenticeship to the weaving business, and, 1790, he
commenced business as a manufacturer of cotton goods. In the universal depression,
1793, occasioned by the shock of the French Revolution, Mr Bell having a large
stock on hand, in common with many others, lost his all, and for a number of years,
was employed as a common warper in the warehouses of different manufacturers. It
has been said, while Mr Bell occupied this situation, he was frequently more intent
on the metres of Horace, the delineations of Mela and Strabo, and the glowing nar-
ratives of Xenophon and Thucydides, than upon the porters and splits into which his
baskets of bobbins were to be adjusted upon the warping-mill, in consequence of
which his chains, when they came into the hands of the workmen, were found to be
inextricably entangled. About the year 1806, Mr Bell relinquished this unconge-
nial occupation, and betook himself to a more laborious mode of earning his subsist-
ence, but one for which he was better qualified, via teaching the classics to young
men attending the University. This he pursued for some years with diligence and
success, being at the same time himself a most indefatigable and arduous student, es-
pecially in history, systematic theology, and above all, in geography, which he pur-
sued with unwearied enthusiasm. Mr Bell made his first appearance as an author
in 1815, when he was engaged to improve the Glasgow Geography, a work in foar
volumes, which had been well received by the public, and was now, by the labours
of Mr Bell, extended to five volumes. It formed the basis of his principal work.
Some years after this, he again appeared as author in conjunction with a young
gentleman, (the late Mr John Bell of Glasgow,) in a small volume of Chinese geo-
graphy and oriental philology. This work is now rare, but it is said to display a con-
siderable amount of talent.  Mr Bell had long been subject to severe attacks of asth-
ma. Tbese gradually assumed a more alarming character, and compelled him to
leave Glasgow for a country residence. The place he selected for his retirement was
Lukeston, Campsie where he spent the last ten or twelve years of his life.  While
he reisded at Lukeston, he published an elegant edition of Rollin's Ancient History,
interspersed with copious and interesting notes.  Here he also published his princi-
pal work, "A System of Popular and Scientific Geography," in six volumes.  He
was engaged in preparing for publication "A General Gazetteer," when death put a
period to his labours on the 3d of May 1833, in the 64th year of his age.


