
 346                           ARGYLESHIRE.

entering from the top. It occupies an area of about 34tlO square
feet, and the cattle grazing on this farm, use it as a place of shelter
from the inclemency of the weather. in the winter,"aud the heat
of the noon-day sun in summer.
Amongst the numerous islets and rocks which skirt the Ulva
sbores, many covered with verdure, and tenanted by sheep or
black- cattle, are to be seen not far from this cave, and on the shores
of Ormaig, 11 Sceair Caristina," or Chirsty's Rock, regarded by the
people of Ulva with peculiar feelings, as being in olden times the
scene of a melancholy drama. It would appear that a'custom
prevailed in this country, even so recently as forty years ago, of
thd inhabitants setting off to the hills with their flocks at the be-
ginning of summer, and bivouacking in the vicinity of the best
tipland pastures, and where all the families of the district took up
their residence till it became necessary to descend to the low
grounds in the month of August, when the bill pasture became
bare, and when their crops required attendai3ce. Frequently has
the writer of this listened with delight to the tales of pastoral life
.led by the people on these occasions,-wben free from care, they
tended their flocks among the pastures of the upland common.
The men occasionally visited the low grounds to attend their simple
husbandry then in use, or to procure some of the delicious fish
w                                                     Z5
hich abouiid along the coast ; some engacred in the chase, or
followed the game; and rielily did they deem themselves rewarded
for their toil. When returning to the family circle, ttie produce of
the flocks and dairy were put before them, and the feast enlivened
by the pure essence of mountain dew, joined to the beart-stirring
strains of the bagpipe. Nor in this pastoral encampment were
the women idle; much of their time was occupied in the labours
of the dairy, in preparing an abundant stock of btitter and cheese
for winter. When 11 baughtig time" was over, the females used
the distaff and spindle, and, congregating on the sunniest bank,
enlivened the task of providing the tartan clothing for the family,
by the simple yet innocent strains of their mountain songs.*
Travelling one day among the Ulv& hills, ore of these pastoral encamp-ent3
ted o-ut to me, known by the name of Ari-chreag-nah-igbinn, the Shiel!ng
P"aiden's Rock. A countryman, who accompanied me, seemed to regar
of the                                                                      d it
auto peculiar interest, and remarked that it was once the scene of a
woman, visiting her dairy one day, missed a kebbook, o
:and.bgst., Suspecting 4L Y?Ung girl, she accused her ,of the tbeft.
Died ilit charge.' and- vied innocent; but the gudewife, chir'ted
in ardl-r to extort a octifession, seized, the girl, tend, wrapping a
round her neck, dragged her to a''Mall rock near the encampment,
                    

