
     Statistical Account

   Ecclesiastical State.-During the long and intricate pro-
cess about the right of patronage to Bervie, previous to
the admission of the incumbent May 1785, a proposal was
set on foot to build a Seceding meeting-house in this district.
And after incredible pains bestowed in gaining profelytes,
and raising contributions, this proposal was at lenght car-
ried into execution.  A place of worship and dwelling-
house were erected, and soon a pastor was called.  But not
long after his settlement, some proceedings of his own cler-
gy against him not meeting the general satisfaction and
opinion of the people, they split into two parties, the one for
supporting the clergy's sentence, the other the right of the
minister.  Some points in question by the latter, were
long and zealously contended for at law, and the contest sub-
sisted with no small prejudice to the peace and morals of
many concerned, till lately, that a compromise took place,
on the minister resolving to withdraw from his charge.  A
successor to him is not appointed; and in this situation of
things, the number of that communion in the district can-
not presently be ascertained.  According to the best advice,
they never exceeded 120, and of these a few families have
been always Seceders.  They now fall short of this a-
mount, as some of them, is consequence of the late differ-
ence, have returned to the Church.  There are three or
four families of the class of Independents, and but a few
individuals of any other sect or persuasion.  The inhabi-
tants at Milehouse frequent divine worship, especially in 
the winter season. at Dundee, but all attend their own
church at the ministration of the Sacrament.

<FOOTNOTE>

*lar spot in this district which yet remain to be explored.  When time or
accident shall lay these open, it is to be hoped, that more lights will be
afforded the antiquary, for ascertaining the origin and cause of these sin-
gular and hitherto neglected monuments of human workmanship and
design.


