
<APPENDIX>

xliv

   N. B. Nothing could be more disagreeable to Sir John Sinclair, than to
be under the necessity of applying to any other person, than the Minister of
the parish, for the Statistical Account of it; particularly, as it might tend
to lessen the high reputation which the Clergy have already so deservedly
acquired by their Statistical exertions. He hopes, therefore, that your as-
sistance will not be wanting, a moment longer than is absolutely necessary;
and he should be glad to be favoured with your account, directed to him at
London, in packets not exceeding two ounces in weight, as speedily as pos-
sible.  It is not in his power, during the fitting of Parliament, to attend to
the printing of the different returns, but he wishes to have the satisfaction
of reading them over before they are sent to the press, and many respect-
able literary characters in the church, (in particular those, who have taken
an active part in establishing the Society for the Benefit of the Sons of the
Clergy), have undertaken the trouble of revising the press at Edinburgh,
during his absence.
   He has the pleasure of adding, that there is the prospect of a fund being
soon established, for the Daughters as well as the Sons of the Clergy; and
though the Clergy engaged in this important Work, without any interested
motives, it cannot be an unpleasing circumstance, that their labours are
likely to meet with such solid marks of public approbation, and will pro-
bably be productive, not only of personal credit to each individual, but of
beneficial consequences to the order in general.
   It need scarcely be added, that the merit which they have already acqui-
red by their Statistical exertions, must very materially contribute to the suc-
cess of the application now in agitation, for the augmentation of the sti-
pends of the Clergy.  It is indeed an unfortunate circumstance, that the
Statistical Account of Scotland was not completed previous to such an ap-
plication.  However, the greater number of accounts that are received and
printed before the question comes on, the better chance there is for success;
and it is to be hoped, that at least ten volumes, containing from six to se-
ven hundred parishes, will be published before the month of April, when
that business will, in all probability, come under discussion.

   SIR JOHN SINCLAIR begs to hear from every Minister, who has not
yet written him, when his account may be expected.  He will have the
honour of attending the ensuing General Assembly, when he hope some
plan will be formed, for having, in each parish, a copy of the Work.  In
the concluding volume, every necessary correction which the Clergy will
take the trouble of pointing out, shall be attended to, and any additional in-
formation will be inserted, that is judged in any respects of importance.


