

1212                    PERTHSHIRE.

is an oak, 11 1/2  feet.  The boll of this tree is also very long; and
being altogether of a very handsome appearance, and standing
near the highway, it frequently attracts the attention of travellers.
On the north side of the road here is a beech 11 feet; a poplar, near-
ly in front of the house, is 11 feet; and a horse-chesnut, a little to
the west, is 11 feet 4 inches.  Close to the west end of Glencarse
House there is a sycamore, 12 feet 2 inches, and containing nearly
250 feet of wood, exclusive of bark.  Right in front of Glendoick
House, there is a gean tree, 9 feet 8 inches; and another beside it is
nearly of the same size;-being the largest trees of that kind in this
parish.  At a little distance from these is an ash, 11 feet 4 inches.
   These girths were taken at 3 1/2 feet from the ground, except
where there were large protuberances near the root, in which case
they were taken a little higher.
   A, little to the west of Kinfauns Castle, are a few trees of the
Pinus sylvestris, or true Scotch fir.  They are not remarkabld for
size, the largest beidg but 8 feet 2 inches in circumference; but
they may be mentioned, as being the only trees of that kind in the
parish, at least so far as is known.
                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Antiquities.-In the Castle of Kinfauns is kept a large old
sword, probably made near 500 years ago, and to be used by both
hands.   It is shaped like a broad sword, and is five feet nine in-
inches long, 2 1/4 inches broad at the hilt, and of a proportionable
thickness, with a round knob at the upper end, near 8 inches in
circumference.  This terrible weapon bears the name of Char-
teris's sword; and probably belonged to Sir Thomas Charteris,
commonly called Thomas de Longueville, once proprietor of the
estate of Kinfauns.  Sir Thomas Charteris, alias Longueville,
was a native of France, and of an ancient family in that country.
If credit can be given to accounts of such remote date, when he
was at the court of Philip le Bel, in the end of the thirteenth
century, he had a dispute With, and killed a French nobleman in
the king's presence.  He escaped, but was refused pardon.
   Having, for several. years infested the seas as a pirate, known
by the name of the Red Reaver, from the colour of the flags be
carried on his ships, in May 1301 or 1302, (by Adamson's Chro-
nology), Sir William Wallance in his way to France, dncountered
the book him prisoner.  At Wallace's intercession the French
King conferred on him a pardon and the honour of knight-
hood.  He accompanied Wallace on his return to Scotland,


