
80		    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

Falkirk, Lord Loudon, accompanied by Lord President Forbes,
abandoned the town and county of Inverness, withdrew to Suther-
land, and being desirous to pursue a secret route, through the vast
mountains of that county and of Lochbroom, to join the Macdo-
nalds and M'Leods, now wavering in their opinions, and stationed
between Skye and the mainland of Lochalsh and Glenelg; aware
of the danger of such a journey, through a waste, rugged, and hos-
tile country; and well knowing the steady loyalty, and sagacious
zeal of the minister of Lochbroom,-he dispatched a confidential
messenger to Mr Robertson, bearing dispatches to the commanders
of the new levies above-mentioned, intimating his intention of join-
ing them, and the route he was to take, and directing that provi-
sions and accommodations should be furnished for his reception.
The messenger delivered his dispatches at the manse of Loch-
broom, and Mr Robertson instantly forwarded them by a trusty per-
son, who carried them in safety to the place of their destination.
  The news immediately transpired, that a stranger from Suther-
land had arrived at the manse, and Mr Robertson and the messenger
were both arrested, and brought before the commanding officer of
a party of Highlanders, stationed near the manse. But here
he acquitted himself with his usual coolness and presence of mind;
and after a night's confinement, was liberated.  This bold, but suc-
cessful, measure, was the salvation of Lord Loudon and his whole
corp-perhaps the means of the ultimate triumph of the royal
cause.
  In a few days after, Lord Loudon, with his detachment, and
the Lord President, arrived at Lochbroom, and was hospitably en-
tertained for a night, with all his suite, by this intrepid clergyman.
Soon after the battle of Culloden, he waited on the Duke of Cum-
berland, at Inverness.  His Royal Highness received him gracious-
ly, thanked him for his zeaI and services, and ordered twelve stand
of arms to be given to him, to be put into the hands of such per-
sons as be might think worthy of being entrusted with them.  He
also carried on a regular and confidential correspondence with him,
during the whole of his Royal Highness's stay in the north.
  But whatever confidence was placed in this excellent man, and
Whatever favaurs he was entitled to ask for his important services
to. his King and country, he employed all, not for the aggrandize-
ment of his own family, but for the benefit of his deluded, though
often obstreperous and ungrateful, parishioners.  When the trial of
these, unhappy men, who were taken prisoners in 1746, come on,


