
148                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

may amount at an average to L.25 more. It is attended by all the
young persons in the parish, except a very few in the extremities,
who are nearer schools in other parishes, also two or three families
of shepherds, whose children, espacially in winter, are either taught
at home by their parents, or have a yound lad engaged among
them, who goes to each family a short time in rotation, and takes
his pupils along with him. They all appear very much alive to the
benefits of education. There are none, old or young, but can read,
and few that cannot write.
	Literature.--There are no parochial or other circulating libra-
ries. But ome has lately been originated in the neighbouring parish
of Johnstone, from which a few get books; and there is another at
Moffat, to which a number in this parish subscribe. It has been
long established, and contains many valuable books. Neither are
there any scientific or literary societies, unless what is called a de-
bating society, if it may be so denominated, which meets occasion-
ally, and is composed chiefly of tradesmen and labourers in this and
the surrounding parishes.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial is 12, and there are some others who re-
ceive occasional assistance. The greater proportion of the poor
on the session roll are partially supplied by their relations. They
all have free houses, which are kept in repair for them. Potatoes,
and a portion of peat-moss for fuel, are allotted to each of them,
and about one-half of their number have also money allowed for
digging their peats. In summers not well fitted for drying them,
coals or money are given them. In general they receive only
about 6s. or 8s. per quarter of money, with some farther allowances
occasionally in the interval. On the whole, though much money
may not be distributed among them, yet with equivalents, they
are in general kept tolerably comfortable, and none of them have
occasion to beg. There are some besides who have free houses
given them, chiefly by Dr Rogerson. The church collections for
donations from non-resident heritors average L. 10 per annum;
together with the interest of L.25, lodged in the bank of Scot-
land at Dumfries. Without mentioning the large ash timber in
the church-yard which is cut down at intervals, (a few trees of which
last year produced about L. 10,) or the money arising from fines,
proclamations, used of Mortcloth, more than which latter sums are
required to pay the different church officers, there are generally


