
360		               ARGYLESHIRE.

diate vicinity. This southern point is bounded by the sea, whielt
separates it from the Island of Arran, the distance being between
three and four leagues. On the west and northwest, it is bound-
ed by Lochfine ; on the north and north-east, by the parishes of
Stralacblan and Kilmodan ; and on the east, by Loch Riddon and
part of the Kyles of Bute.
Topographical Appearances.-The bills in the 'arisli, though
numerous, are not remarkable for beight. The highest are
those which form the botindarv between this and the adjoining
parish of Kilmodan or Glendaruel. From the summit of 'this
ridge of bills, a beautiful view can be obtained, not only of the
scenery along the Kyles of Bute and the lower part of Locbfind,
but also of several of the Hebrides, rearing their dark mountain-
ous beads out of the western ocean. The hiils generally run in
a direction from north to so - uth, and are interspersed wit valleys
containing low and arable lands.
The parish being bunded on the west, soutb, and east by wa-
ter, has a great extent of coast, parts of which are steep'and rockv
towards the water; and other parts consist of low lands or gradual
deelivities, which are mostly arable. Aloncr the coast, there are
several beautiful bays, though not of great extent, the principal of
which are the following, viz. Kilfinan Bay, immediately below the
]ac where the church is sittiated ; Achalick Bay, about three
miles farther soutb; and Kilbride Bav, near the southern extre-
mity of the parish. There are also several headlands by which
these bays are embraced. The most notable of these is Airdl-
mont, or the promontory of Lamont, previously mentioned. . Near
the north end of the parish, there is a very remarkable-and beati
ful till sand-bank, which just out in a serpentine form almost into
the middle of Lochfine. This bank is said to be about 1800 yards
in length, from the sbore to its extremity at low water. It goes
out in an oblique direction, forming with the land on its south side
an actite angle, and with that on its north side an obtuse
angle. In spring-tides, it is entirely covered at high water, and
at three hours after the turn of the tide till low water, it is
wholly uncovered to within a fevl yards of its extremity. it seem,.,
to have been formed by the force of the ebbing tide, which has a
rtraigbt run of ten or twelve miles before :it strikes the projecting
land which forms the root of this bank, when it naturally sweeps
along and around the little promontory, carrying with it quantities


