
192                      PERTHSHIRE.

ed, except from the north-west, through the middle of the Gram-
pians, without crossing one or other of these rivers,-bridges must
always be an object of great importance.
   There is no bridge across the Tay betwixt Perth and Dun-
keld, the former about two miles and a-half from the southern
boundary of the parish; the latter about eight from its northern
limits. The only communication which we have across the Tay,
therefore, is by a boat impelled by oars; and which can carry four
or five horses, half a score of cattle, or a couple of scores of sheep
at a time.  This mnde of conveyance, however, is not applicable
to the River Almond, over which all our communication with the
south and west takes place.  The Almond is a very rapid river, and
often comes down in a flood of four feet in a perpendicular breast,
in which no kind of boat could live. Accordingly we have three
bridges across that river. Of these, the middle one, called the
Old Bridge of Almond, has now stood for more than two hundred
years. It consists of one arch, founded on two rocks, and was
built in 1619, by a number of gentlemen, the chief of whom was
John Graham, Esq. of Balgowan, the ancestor of Lord Lynedoch,
as appears from the following very curious entry in the presbytery
record.
   "The presby of Perth hauldin in the revestrie of the paroch
kirk thereof the 26th day of Maii 1619, Mr Johnne Guthrie
moder.  Quhilk day comperit Johnne Graham of Balgowan,
and exponit to the presby that the water of Almond being ane
gryt river, quhairn be the violence thereof many ar yeirlie perishit
(as is mair nor notorious,) for remeid quharof he and certaine
uthir gentillmen has concertit with certaine measones to sett ane
stone brige over the same, quhilk is ane wark wery deir and cost-
lie, and cannot be gottin performit without that godlie and well
affectat gentillmen, and utheris, contribute to the building of the
same. And in respect that it is ane necessarie wark for ane com-
mon well and wary costlie, he desiris that the brithiring of the
ministry every ane will deal with-their awn parochineris for helpe
to the samin with als greit diligence as possibly they can, that the
wark may be endit befoir winter come.  Quhilk desyre, as godly
and reasonabill, the brithrin promises to obey, every ane for their
awn pairt."
   The lower bridge is on the line of thd Dunkeld road, from two
to three miles below the former. It consists of three arches, each
of them forming the segment of an ellipse, and was built in 1827.


