
54			BUTERSHIRE.

justice. The stone on which the culprit stood is still pointed out,
and called the Panel's stone. In the neighbourhood is the farm where
he celebrated his feast of shells. His daughter's grave is shown on
the farm of Drumidoon. It is an immense unhewn trough or flag-
stone, resting horizontally upon vertical stones at each end, deeply
fixed on the ground. On being opened, there was only found in it
an urn containing ashes. The urn was broken in the opening, and
the fragments carried off by those engaged in the operation.
The place was evidently one of sepulture, for around it are a
number of vertical stones, which, by their arrangement, clearly in-
dicate their object. About the middle of Glen-in-tshuidhe, and
by the side of the old road, a cairn, now moss-covered, called
suidhe Challum Chille, marks the spot where St Columba sat down
to refresh himself with his disciple, when travelling through the
island, evangelizing its heathen inhabitants. Another cairn, called
Aran, or Ar Fhinn, on the shore of Catacol, marked the spot
where Fingal defeated the Norsemen under Manus, son of the
King of Sweden, whence some say the island took its name. The
present road has been cut through it, and its materials used for its
formation, so that now not a vestige remains to mark its site.
	Religious Houses.--The ruins of the Convent of St Bride, ce-
lebrated by Sir Walter Scott, in his Lord of the Isles, as the lone-
ly residence; of the lady Isabella, were but recently to be seen at
Lochranza. The very foundation has lately been razed and re-
moved, and not a stone now marks the cloisters, where dwelt the
Maid of Lorn. The ruins of an oratory or cell belonging to a
monk called John, and containing the remains of the saint, stand
on the farm of Balnacula. Near it, and in the middle of the
burying ground at Clachan, is the grave of St Molios, "the bare-
headed, servant of Jesus." His first residence was in the Isle of
Lamlash, or the Isle of Milios; but he afterwards removed to
Shisken, and fixed his residence where now repose his remains. He
died here at the advanced age of 120. On the stone which covers
his grave, and which is said to have been brought from Iona, the
figure of the saint, arrayed in the robes of a mitred abbot, with
chalice and crosier in his hands, is not inelegantly sculptured. Till
within the last fifty years, it was customary for females after their
confinement, to repain to the grave of the saint, and there deposit
upon the stone a silver piece, as an thank-offering for their reco-
very. The ruins of another chapel are to be seen on the farm of
Binnicarragan. This seems to have been in former times the


