
			  ST VIGEANS.                        501

four daily refreshments. The use of pork, with the potato diet,
has been introduced since the Statistical Account in 1793.
Then, there were only thirty swine in the parish; now, there are
ten times as many reared for home consumption and exportation
to London.
   Of quarries in the parish, there are only three now wrought;
one for freestone, and two others for pavement. The rental of
the three, about L.150.
   Manufactures.*-In no part of the county of Forfar, Dundee
alone excepted, has the rapid increase in manufactures been more
strikingly exemplified, than in that portion of St Vigeans which
constitutes the suburbs of Arbroath. In the year 1808, there was
only one spinning-mill in the parish,+ namely, Inchmill, driven by
a steam-engine of sixteen horse power, of which only a very small
portion was then employed in the spinning of yarns, the remainder
having been used as a flour-mill. About seven years after this,
the whole was converted into a flax and tow-mill. It is now an
extensive work, employed in driving flax and tow machinery, a
chemical bleaching work, and plash and beating-mills.
   Arbroath and its vicinity had long been famous for the manu-
facture of several descriptions of coarse linens and canvas; but it
was not till machinery had superseded the spinning-wheel, that
the portion of the town lying in the parish of St Vigeans became
the busy haunt of manufacturing industry.
   Intersected by the river Brothock, it was soon found to offer
all the advantages requisite for an extensive system of factory
spinning. A large piece of land, consisting of about thirty-five
imperial acres, called Almerieclose, lying in the very suburbs of
Arbroath, and on both sides of the river, was at once given off by
its proprietor in feus; and, in an incredibly short space of time,
immense factories, with their towering stalks, and whole streets
of dwelling-houses were seen to rear their heads, where, only a
short time before, the waving corn and the smiling orchard at-
tracted the eye.
   The period embraced between tbe years 1820 and 1826 may
be considered as the balcyon era of the linen manufactures in this

<FOOTNOTE>Communicated by George Canning, Esq.
          With the exception of a small mill at Letham, erected in 1793, being the first
or second attempt in Scotland, we believe, to spin flax by machinery. It was driven
by water, and being entirely experimental, it underwent constant alterations. A
small steam-engine was ultimately got to increase the power; but the work, has been
abandoned for many years, and the buildings are now in ruins.


