
     Statistical Account

the roof; of the west branch no vestige remains, and the
east branch, with the steeple, serves at present for the place
of public worship.  This part of the building has a very
beautiful vaulted roof, with veins jutting out from the side-
walls, and meeting in the centre of the roof, where it is
decorated with roses, and other ornaments.  Over the vault,
there is a slate roof, to preserve it from the weather.  The
burden of upholding this fabric, was laid by the proprietor
of the lands of Newark upon the feuars of St Monance,
when he let off the ground on which the town stands, ha-
ving the annexation in view.  But the building seems to
have been in a manner totally neglected by them.  In the
1772, it was in such a ruinous state, that the incumbent
raised a process for reparation before the presbytery, and
obtained a decree for that end against the heritors.  But
the feuars were reluctant, pretending they were not obliged
to uphold it.  This brought on a process between the heri-
tors and them, before the Lords of Session, in which they
were cast, and found liable to uphold the fabric.  During
the process, it received a partial reparation, but nothing e-
qual to what was granted by presbytery; and nothing more
has yet been done, either by the heritors, to enforce the
decree of the Lords upon the feuars, or by them, to testify
their compliance with it; and if they continue long so to
do, this venerable pile must sink into ruins.  What a pity
is it, that such a beautiful monument of antiquity, and
which perhaps has not its fellow in Scotland, should be suf-
fered to go to desolation!  The King is patron of the parish.
The manse was built in the last century, has undergone
several expensive reparations, but is at present in bad con-

<FOOTNOTE>

terwards, both were annexed by King James V. to the convent of St An-
drew's, at the west port of the street called the North-gate, founded by
William Wishart, bishop of that city.-History of religious Houses in
Scotland, by a presbyter under Bishop Ross of Edinburgh.


