
192                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

flows with a velocity of one mile in twenty-seven minutes. After
a course of seventeen miles in a direct line, and about thirty-three
counting the windings, this stream discharges its waters into the
Tiviot, about a quarter of a mile below Eckford church.
   Falling over a rocky precipice of several feet in height a little
to the westward from the village, the Kale forms a cascade, called
"the Salmon Leap," and which, when the stream is flooded, be-
comes an object of interest. An excellent road pursues nearly the
whole line of this stream. Besides the Kale and Capehope wa-
ters, we have a variety of streamlets, romantic in their scenery, and
abounding in trout.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The parish appears to be composed
principally of rocks of the porphyry formation. In these rocks, there
occur cavities and veins more or less filled up with grey amethyst,
rock-crystal, common quartz, calc-spar, heavy spar, agates of va-
rious kinds, and also jaspers. The jaspers and the agates are fre-
quently very beautiful. Hitherto no ores or native metals of any
kind have been met with among the prevailing rocks, although rich
mines of metals have been worked to a very considerable extent in
other countries where porphyry rocks resembling those of this pa-
rish prevail.
   The soil is various, but when cultivated generally productive.
The low-lying land of the vales, and the holms on the banks of the
different streams, consist of a light kindly soil, either of a sandy
earth or light sandy loam, upon a gravelly bottom. In the haughs
adjoining the Kale, the soil is alluvial, containing many rounded
stones, with sand and gravel, intermixed with vegetable mould, and
appears to have been formed by deposits washed down, in the course
of ages, from the higher grounds. It is well adapted to potatoes,
turnips, barley, and almost every variety of crop,-though apt to
suffer much in a severe drought.
   The soil on the higher grounds, though fertile, is of a less kind-
ly quality, from its exposed situation. In general, it is sharp and
dry upon the hills, inclining much to a sandy gravel, on a gravelly
or rocky bottom; or it has a subsoil either of a clayey retaining na-
ture, or of indurated clay, or clay mixed with boulders of porphyry
and gravel, or ferruginous clay or till. A blackish moory earth, with
a wet and tilly substratum immediately under it, is here and there
to be met with. On the high grounds, also, there are sometimes
found mossy strata upon earthy gravel, having a substratum of a
very retentive clay or till.


