
     of Kintail.

hill pasture, which is reduced to ten separate grazings.  Some
of its possessors are connected with other parishes; and, as
they retreat to their winter dwellings after harvest, their num-
ber cannot be minutely ascertained.  The other divisions of
the parish, belonging to Francis Humberstone M'Kenzie,
Esq. of Seaforth, contain 840 souls.-The natives of the pa-
rish are all Mac Raes, except two or three families*.

   Rivers, Hills, and Roads.-There are two rivers in this pa-
rish, the Loigh and the Croe, which arise in small rivulets in
the mountains; the former runs into Lochlong, and the lat-
ter into Lochduich.  Both these rivers were once famous for
salmon; and the fishings were common to the inhabitants, till
they were laid under strict prohibition, soon after 1745.  Stills

     H h 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The first man of the clan had, it is said, in his younger days, many diffi-
culties to encounter, from which he with great dexterity extricated himself.
His father, upon hearing the happy events attending his son, exclaimed,
Bhai inbac ragh aigh, "He is the son of good fortune."-It is generally al-
lowed that the Mac Rae's emigrated from the braes of Aird, on the Lovat e-
state, to this place, though what induced them to prefer the mountains to the
plains, is not universally agreed upon, yet certain it is, that long after their
residence in Kintail, they maintained a firm alliance with the Frasers of
Aird.  The tradition which prevails, that an inscription was set up nigh the
entrance to Lovat house, bearing, "That no Mac Rae must lodge without,
"when a Fraser resides within," is not wholly without foundation.  When
the Mac Raes first entered Kintail, there were several clans inhabiting it,
particularly the Mac Aulays, of whom no vestige now remains.  The Mac Len-
nans, a small tribe in the parish of Glensheal, were the only people that would
not yield.  These Mac Lennans, at the battle of Auldearn, were intrusted with
Seaforth's colours; the novelty of the preferment roused them to action and
stubborn resistance, which proved fatal to the clan, for many were slain; and
their widows, 18 in number, were afterwards married to Mac Raes.-The 
boundaries, which divide the Mac Raes from the Mac Lennans, are marked
by a river which runs into Lochduich; but common observation may easily
trace a line of distinction from the difference in their language and accent.


