
     Statistical Account

him to Birnam wood, where accidentally they were indu-
ced, either by way of distinction, or from some other mo-
tive, to ornament their bonnets, or to carry about with
there, in their hands, the branches of trees.  The people in
the neighbourhood stated, as the tradition of the country,
that they were distinguished in this situation by the spy, whom
Macbeth had stationed to watch their motions.  He then began
to despair, in consequence of the witches predictions, who
had warned him to beware " when Birnam wood should
"come to Dunsinane,"  and when Malcolm prepared to at-
tack the castle, where it was principally defended by the outer
rocks, he immediately deserted it, and flying, ran up the
opposite hill, pursued by Macduff; but finding it impossible
to escape, he threw himself from the top of the hill, was
killed upon the rocks, and buried at the Long Man's 
Grave*, as it is called, which is still extant.  For the pur-
pose of giving a better idea of these circumstances, a slight
and imperfect sketch, drawn up at the time, is annexed.
   Such were the traditions in the neighbourhood of dun-
sinnan Castle, in 1772; and the reader will naturally be
stuck, with the resemblance between them, and the celebra-
ted play, which Shakespeare founded on the history of Mac-
beth.  There is every reason, indeed, to believe, that our
great dramatist was upon the spor himself, and was inspi-
red with such uncommon poetical powers, from having
viewed the places, where the scenes he drew, were suppo-
sed to have been transacted.  In Guthrie's History of Scot-
land, vol. viii. p. 358. it is stated, that, anno 1599, King
James desired Elizabeth to send him, in that year, a com-
pany of English comedians, with which request the compli-

<FOOTNOTE>

*It would be worth while to examine this grave, as some curious facts
might be ascertained from it.  It is proper to add, that not far from it is the
road, where, according to the tradition of the country people.  Banquo was
murdered.  She annexed sketch.


