
                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

gard the prohibition more as a whim of the lairds, than as the
effect of legal enactment.
  Poaching may exist, but it does not prevail. Now and then, a
kilted stripling, finding it no longer possible, to restrain the ardour
of youth, takes up his grandsire's rifle and betakes himself, in com-
pany with some faithful friend, to the mountains, and seldom re-
turns unburdened. But such acts as these are Dot of frequent oc-
currence; and the proprietors have not hitherto, in any instance,
prosecuted for trespass under the game laws.

                    IL-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-In the immediate vicinity of the village of Dornie,
stand the ruins Of the castle Donnan. It is generally believed to
have been built, about the time of Alexander III. of Scotland ; for
it was by him presented, immediately after the battle of Largs, to
Colin Fitzgerald, for his distinguished services in the Royal cause
" by sea and land." The castle has been for ages in ruins, and al-
though now greatly dilapidated, a finer or more picturesque ruin
can seldom be met with. Its situation was judiciously chosen;
and the scenery by which it is surrounded is of the most imposing
description.
  Land-owners.-The land-owners of the parish are, Mr M'Ken-
zie, of Applecross and Inverinate, W. S.; and the Chisholm; and
the estate of the late Sir Hugh Innes, lying in KiDtail, is now under
the management of trustees.
  Parochial Registers.-The parish registers are all of modern
date. The earliest entry is in 1787. They are by no means vo-
luminous, and are now regularly kept.

<TABLE=Population>

               III.-POPULATION.
         Population in  1801,        -1038
		      1811,	-1058
		      1821,	-1027
		      1831,    	-1240

  Any increase of population which has taken place within the
last twenty years, may be chiefly ascribed to the system of appor-
tioning lands in lots of one and two acres, and half an acre; and
such as are not able to take a large- farm, readily engage to pay
from I., 4 to L. 8 for such lots,-upon which, with the help of the
herring-fisbing, they endeavour to lead, what, with regard to many

<FOOTNOTE>Some of the old Spanish rifles, once so celebrated and so common in this coun-
try, are still extant, and are highly valued, if not venerated, by the possessors.
They receive certain names, indicative of certain properties or deeds.   such as
"Maighdeann" (Maiden) "Surgadh - Caoradh' (sheep shank,) "Nighean Ewan'
(Evans's daughter,) &c.


