
     of Eckford.

thickness of the walls (which are 12 feet at an average) the
vestiges of the battlements on the top, the embrasseurs on the
sides, and the remains of a surrounding moat, which was pro-
bably furnished with water from a spring above the present
farm house.  The roof is entirely gone.  The area within
the walls, discernible, is 39 feet in length, and 2o in breadth; the
entry to it was probably from the N. E.  About 7 or 8 years ago,
in digging for stones on the farm of Hospital-land, belonging to
the Duke of Roxburgh, the labourers discovered a tumulus,
in the bottom of which were found two earthen pots; the one
about 3 feet deep, and 18 wide; the other rather smaller;
both containing blackish dust, and small fragments of human
bones:  Upon exposure to the external air, these vessels tam-
bled down and could not be preferred*.  There have also
been found silver coins of Queen Mary, in good preservation,
near the shepherd's house in Easter Wooden, where some
saint vestiges of a tower, it is said, have been traced.  Part of
the walls of a strong building were to be seen several years
ago at Moss Tower+, so denominated from its ancient situa-

     VOL. VIII. E

<FOOTNOTE>

*Near the site of the scaffolding erected on Caverton Edge, for viewing the
annual horse races, and at a gravel put on the road between Caverton and Kelso,
there was found a copper vessel, of about 6 inches diameter, enclosing an exca-
vated wooden ball; and in both these last mentioned places, similar parcels of
black dust and fragments of bones were sound.  In digging for stones in Wood-
en Hill, in the estate of the Duke of Buccleugh, to form an inclosure for a plan-
tation of firs, two or three vessels of earthen substance, of about a foot deep,
were got, containing similar dust, and fragments, supposed to be of children by
their size; and about 4 years ago, in the field called the Dales, near the village
of Eckford, a stone coffin, (or square stones erected, and covered with another
large one) was seen, containing bones of a large size.
+From a passage in the Border History, s it appears, that the Earl of Suffex,
anno 1750, with an English army, burnt and razed this tower, belonging to the

^Redpath's History, page 635.


