
366                         AYRSHIRE.

	That the Romans traversed the parish there can, however, be no
doubt. The great road passes through the parishes of Dalrymple
and Ayr, at no great distance; and a spear head of bronze, shaped
like a saddler's knife, and made by incurvated edges to fit upon a
shaft, dug up in the farm of Drumbeg, and a small image of the
same metal representing justice with her equal weights, found in
the farm of Drumshang, and now both in my possesion, attest
their presence, in the monuments they furnish of their wars and their
superstition.
	Near the Castle of Dunduff, a coin of Albert and Elizabeth of
Bruges and Brabant, about the size of a crown piece, was lately
turndd up by the plough. It bears no date, but as they reigned
about 1630, its existence in that locality may readily be accounted
for in many ways. It was then common for Scotsmen to enlist in
the service of the low countries, and it may have been part of the
earnings of years of hardship, brought back to his native spot by
some veteran soldier. Smuggling was also extensively carried on,
and it was not uncommon also to pay soldiers serving in the coun-
try in foreign money. Tumuli containing bones, of which there is
a good specimen on the farm of St Murrays, are common.
	Abercrummie mentions many remains of Catholic superstition,
which are now almost forgotten. St Helen's Well, to the north of
Baloch Mount, was long famous for the cure of unthriving children,
at the change of the quarter, and more particularly at May-day, and
was greatly resorted to even at a recent date.  Pennyglen's Cross
Well, also enjoyed great reputation for the cure of cows "taken
with mure-ill," and was carried even to great distances, as "by
drinking thereof, they are healed."
	Modern Buildings.--The church is a plain structure, with a
steeple in the worst possible taste. By a recent repair the in-
terior has been rendered comfortable and neat. There is no
other building worthy of notice, but it may still be consolatory to
observe, that, notwithstanding the decline which this would indi-
bate from the former grandeur of Maybole, there is not one of the
ancient houses of the gentry referred to, which is not far surpassed
in accommodation and comfort by the houses of the respectable in-
habitants of the present day.

<TABLE=Population>
                              III.--POPULATION.

        Ancient State.--The ancient state of the population of this pa-
rish must  have been liable to much disturbance and fluctuation.
In common with other parts of Carrick, it was traversed by the Ro-


