
			KILLIN.                       1087

on the banks of Lochure, near Benmore; and Boreland, embo-
somed in the woods of Glenlochay.
   Ministers of Killin.-1. The Rev. Robert Stewart was minister.
of Killin before the Revolution, and till the year 1728. 2. He
was succeeded by Mr Adam Ferguson, who was translated to
Moulin in 1736. 3. Mr James Stewart, who died in the year
1789. 4. His son, Mr Patrick Stewart, had been ordained as-
sistant and successor to his father in 1781. He died 1796. 5.
He was succeeded by Mr Hugh M'Dougall, who died in 1827.
6. Dr Hugh M'Kenzie, M. D., who was translated from Clyne in
Sutherland, and died in 1834. 7. Mr Robert Elder, who was
translated from Kilbrandan, and was called from Killin to St
Paul's in Edinburgh in October 1838, and was succeeded by the
present incumbent in July 1839.'
   In the manse of Killin the present version of the Gaelic Scrip-
tures was begun. The Gaelic Testament was executed by Mr
James Stewart, from whom his son, the well-known Dr Stewart
of Luss, obtained that knowledge of and taste for Gaelic literature
which enabled him so faithfully to finish the Gaelic translation of
the Bible. Killin may then fairly lay claim to the honour of this
great work.
   Parochial Registers.-The register for proclamations commences
in 1687, and the register of baptisms in 1689; and, with the ex-
ception of ten years, from 1717 to 1727, they have been re-
gularly kept to this date. The meetings of session are not re-
corded till 1771. Cases of discipline appear to have been
were very frequent. One person was publicly rebuked eight times,
Fines also were imposed on culprits. These went to the poor's
funds. It appears also, that it was usual to make a collection for
the poor after the marriage-service, as, along with the sum paid by
a party "for the benefit of marriage on one proclamation" there
is, almost uniformly, another entry, "collected at said marriage."
Such entries as the following, showing the charity of the session,
and the number of strange poor which visited the district, are very
frequent: "To a travelling object. To a poor object. To a poor
object from the Isles. To a poor object from the Highlands. To
17 objects from different quarters. To the Presbytery sexton for
three years. Given out for a Gaelic Testament for a poor orphan.
Quire of paper for certificater for the begging poor."
   Clandestine marriages were then frequent, but are now unknown.


