
     Statistical Account

an acre of sown grass in the parish; now, almost every tenant
has part of his farm properly laid down with a crop of rye-grass
and clover.-The rule, which they generally observe, in the
quantity and proportion of grass seeds to each acre, is,-red
clover, 10 lb.; white ditto, 2 lb.; rib-grass, 2 lb.; and rye-grass,
1/2 boll.-Ten years ago, there were no turnips to be seen; and
now, every one who is not doing more or less in that way,
is considered as void of all spirit and skill.  It is found by ex-
perience, that these green crops, not only meliorate the
ground, but are of more present value than the best crops of
barley or oats*.-The occupiers of small farms go on, or
ought to go on, systematically, in the following rotation:  1st,
potatoes and turnips; 2d, barley sown with grass seeds; 3d,
hay; 4th, pasture; 5th, oats.  This rotation, or a rotation
of 4 crops, setting apart the 5th division for perpetual pasture,
keeps the ground clean and in good heart.  The crofts of
Symington are divided, with hedge and ditch, into inclosures
of 10, 15, and go acres, and let from 1 L. 5s. to 1 L. 13s.
per acre.  The larger farms, which are not inclosed, let at
about 10s. per acre.  Of these, only one is rented above 100 L.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The sudden change, in this place, is to be ascribed, in a great measure, to
the example set by the late Major TELFER, who, on retiring from the army;
in order to amuse himself, and advance the happiness of mankind, took a lease,
from his brother, of 100 acres of the most useless part of the state, wholly
covered with broom, and let for a sheep walk, at 8 L. per annum.  In the space
of six years, this barren field was made to produce excellent crops of corn,
turnips and hay; and WOULD NOW, with the steading of houses, let at EIGHT
TIMES THE FORMER RENT.  Lime being got at four miles distance, the expence
was moderate.  This example had, as might be expected, a noble effect.  Some
are still attached to the old husbandry.  All new schemes, however wife and be-
neficial, in this and every other department, will, for a time, be strongly op-
posed by pride and prejudice:  But bigatry in farming, is more easily eradicated
than bigotry in religion, as the bad consequences of a wrong system are more
visible, and sooner, felt, in the one case than in the other.


