
     of Lochgoil-head and Kilmorich.

seems to compensate for their indifference to every other
fishing.  The two last seasons there was a great herring fish-
ing in Loch-goil, and Loch-long, especially in the former;
but scarce any in Loch-fine.  The last year in particular,
there were upwards of 120 boats, and at least 500 men in
both these lochs more than four months; and there is good
season to believe, that L. 5000 Sterling were received for
herring, exclusive of what the fishers use for their own sub-
sistence, and of the great quantity which was consumed fresh
in the country.  It is computed that L. 1200 Sterling of this
money was drawn by the inhabitants of this parish.  Such a
fishing is not frequent in Loch-goil; but, as has been already
observed, there are often great numbers of herrings caught in 
some one or other of the neighbouring loch; though there
are some seasons, in which this fish entirely disappears.
Loch-long, and Loch-goil, from their situation, have one ad-
vantage over Loch-fine.  The herring that is killed in the
two former lochs, may be brought to Greenock, or Glasgow,
in a very short time, without any land carriage; whereas the
herring that is killed any where near the head of Loch-fine,
in order to be sold fresh, must be carried by horses in creels,
from Loch-fine, to the head of Loch-goil, at the distance of
eight or ten miles; thus not only an additional expence is
incurred, but the fish is much damaged by frequent hand-
ling, especially in the warm season of the year.  The herring
that was killed early last season, sold at 2 s. or 2 s. 6 d. the
hundred; after the fishing became general, 1s. the hundred
was the usual price.  Besides the varieties of fish already
mentioned, there are several other kinds found in these
lochs.  Flounders and skate are in great abundance; mullets
also are sometimes to be found; the sun or sail-fish occasion-
ally visits us; this sluggish fish sometimes swims into the sal-
mon nets, and suffers itself to be drawn towards the shore,


