
                             CLUNIE.                           1025

     mer palace of King Kenneth Macalpin.  Close by this beautiful
     mound stand the parish church and manse.
        Curiosities and Antiquities.-In the face of Benachally, which
     looks towards the east, there is a cave of considerable magnitude.
     It is called the Drap, or Drop, from the water oozing through
     the crannies, and perpetually dropping from the roof.  Below the
     Drop, and near the foot of the mountain, is a cove, called Henry's
     Hole, from its having been in former times the hiding-place of
     robbers or plunderers of that name.  A little to the north of
     Stanley Know, there is a rising ground styled the Gallow Drum,
     and about 300 yards south-west of the minister's glebe is another
     eminence, named the Gibbet Know, both which were places of
     execution in the times of baronial jurisdiction.   On the east
     side of the moss, at the foot of Benachally, we find a sepulchral
     cairn which has never been opened; and a few furlongs to the
     southward of this cairn, there is a great number of small cairns.
     There are two immense collections of stones, one on the south-
     west, and the other on the north-east extremity of the parish.
     There are said to have marked the boundary here between the
     Caledonian and Pictish kingdoms.  At the east end of the Hill
     of Gourdie, in the middle of a cultivated field, may be seen a cu-
     rious piece of antiquity, called the Steeds-stalls.  It consists of
     eight mounds, with eight corresponding trenches; perhaps some
     More have been obliterated by the plough.  The mounds and
     trenches are of equal length, alternate, and parallel.  At the
     south end of each trench or fosse, there is a circular concave, the
     centre of which lies in the line of the fosse, and to this circular
     concavity the fosse seems to have formed the entrance. It is
     said that an advanced guard of the Caledonian army was posted
     here, to watch the mntions of the Romans, when they lay en-
     camped at Inchtuthill, about two miles to the southward in the
     plain below.
        Mansion-Houses. - There are two that merit description.
     Forneth, the seat of James, Speid, Esq. stands on the north-west
     bank of the Loch of Clunie, on a fine elevation, commanding a
     small but beautiful prospect of the island, the locb, and the ad-
     jacent grounds.  The Lunan, washing, in gentle meanders, the
     foot of the b`nk, steals softly into the loch, a little below tho
     house.  Gourdie, the seat of David Kinloch, Esq. is a large, con-
     nient, and substantial house, beautifully situated.  The prospect
     from it is delightful.  Immediately under the eye, you see the
      PERTH.                                         3T


