
     The Statistical Account.

found in different places in the immediate vicinity of the
lake.  On the estate of Mr M'Dougall of Hayfield there is
fine and transparent granite.  The pearl muscle, from which
pearls of great value have been extracted, is to be seen in ma-
ny of the Lochowside and Glenurchy rivers.  A rich vein of
marle makes its appearance on the estate of Mr Campbell of
Inverliver.  And there are abundant quarries of limestone, of
stone of the same quality with the Inverary or St. Catharine
stone, and likewise of stone of the same nature with that of
the Water of Ayr, used in polishing marble.  The list of ex-
portations may be closed, by mentioning hides, tallow, and
the skins of goats, sheep, otters, badgers, and foxes.
   As to articles of importation, it may be observed, that the
inhabitants of Lochowside and Glenurchy, many of them
proprietors and gentleman farmers, are as fond of the conve-
niences and the luxuries of life as their neigbours, and as
well able to afford them.  It is plain, therefore, that the pro-
duce of the East and West Indies, added to European com-
modities, not found in their own country, such as wine, por-
ter, beer, flour, herrings, salt, soap, slates, hemp, iron, etc.
would form their imports.
   One article of importation, however, coals, deserves more
particularly to be insisted on; as it would add, in an almost
inconceivable degree, to the other imports, and to the exports,
did the legislature shew so much indulgence, not to say poli-
cy or justice, as to remove the tax upon it.*  The introduc-
tion of this one article, free from taxes, to Lochow, would
give it a degree of consequence and prosperity, which a lover
of his country cannot take even a prospective view of with-
out exultation.  Instead of exporting the raw materials of
timber, wool, etc. the industry of the people would be, in the
first instance, directed to the more beneficial employment of
     VOL. XXI. O o

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since this paper was written, the tax on coals has been happily repealed.


