
     of Duffus.

All the rest of this parish is one continued arable plain, ca-
pable of producing every thing that will grow any where in
Scotland.  The eastward district is a deep rich clay, resembling
the Carse of Gowrie, and is remarkable for superior crops of
wheat, and of pease and beans.  The western district is a
black earths in some places so much mixed with sand, as to
render it of inferior quality; but in other places so remark-
ably rich, as, without any application of modern husbandry,
to produce crops, particularly, barley, for quality and increase
not to be surpassed in Scotland; and reaped as early as the same
crop on the coasts of Lothian, where sowing is in general earlier,
and where agriculture is understood.  The barley of this dis-
trict, when sent to the Frith of Forth, yields as good a price
as the best Stirlingshire or east Lothian barley.  Along the
coast of this parish, there are quarries of fine freestone, and, a
little way up from the coast, quarries of lime-stone; a trea-
sure in agriculture, locked up from us for want of fuel, and
which nothing but the abolition of the COAL TAX can open.
The plain of Duffus, together with the ground of the ad-
joining parishes, is often (perhaps more from richness than
situation) called the Heart of Morayshire,

   Coast.-The coast of this parish is generally flat.  At the
west end, the land is at present only 4 feet above the level of
the water.  At this quarter, during the course of this century,
the water has increased considerably on the land.  Should it
ever rise 4 feet higher than it does at present, it must fall in-
to the lower grounds to the eastward, and overflow a great
proportion of the extensive plains of Duffus, Drainy, Leuchars,
Spiney and Innes.  Yet this possibility is so little regarded,
that perhaps no one ever bought or sold the property of these
districts, a farthing lower from this consideration.  How far
it is expedient or practicable, to ward off so great an evil,

     VOL. VIII.   3 C


