
     of Auchterhouse

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The Kirktown of Auchter-
house stands 100 feet above the level of the sea; and the
prospect hence is very extensive and various.  To the W.,
through an opening of Sidlaw, called the Glack of New-
tyle, appear a considerable part of Strathmore, the Stor-
mont, the Grampian mountains, and that famous hill
Schihallian, at the distance of about 60 miles, rising in

<FOOTNOTE>

and love to his truth; that the love of the Lord may constrain us all to
walk more conscionably and closlie that he would send sorth
more of his right hand unto the desolate congragations, etc.-On Sun-
day, the 27th of September, the minister read, out the pulpit, the
names of those who were excommunicat bee Mr. Robert Blair in the
kirk of Edinburgh, to wit, the Earl of Airly, Sir Alexander Makdonald,
the Lord of-, and some others.-On Sunday, the 7th Januarite
1649, the minister and twa of the elders went through the church, after
sermon, desiring the people to subscribe the covenant.-6th Januare
1650.  On that day, the minister desined the session to make search every
one in their own quarter gave they knew of any witches or charmers
in the paroch, and delate them to the next session.-On Sunday, the
13th of July 1652, Janet Fife make her public repentance, before the
pulpit, for learning M. Robetson to charm her child; and whereas M.
Robertson should have done the like, it pleased the Lord before that
time call upon her by death-March 21st 1658.  The master re-
ported, that the presbytery had given commission to Mr. William Gray
and the minister, to speak my Lord and my Lady Buchan anent yr
servant Mrs. Douglas, yt they would cause her attend God's service on
the Lord's day, or else dismiss her; they promised.-Nov.-1665.  Mr.
William Skeiner, minister and moderator of the presbyterie of Dundee,
having preached, intimat to the congregation, Mr. James Campble, has
suspension from serving the calling of the ministrie, till the synod assemble*
of Dundee, for ane formcation committed betwitt him and dam Marjorie
Ramsay, Countess of Buchanne; for the qlk, by the said prosbyterie's
order, he beganne has repentance on the pillare, and sat both sermons;
and is exhosted to repentance.-December 24. Mr. James Campble,
for one furnication forsaid, being thryce in the pillare; upon evident
signs of his repentance, was absolvit.-December 21.  That day, the
Countess of Buchanne for one furnication committed with Mr. James
Campble her chaplain, beganne her repentance.-February 1. 1602.  A
kirk-sessions are discharged till sarder erders."


