
		  COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.			              363

of ages, has no doubt greatly modified the stubborn character of
the original surface; but much of it will long continue to show
the natural barrenness of the undisturbed strata of lands of the
epoch to which it belonfs. Along the se shore, as also in dif-
ferent limited tracts in the interior, the soil is of, what has already
been described, diluvial origin,-being the less adhesive materials
of the previous strata washed from the higher into the lower lo-
calities while  the ground had been covered with water. The
land of such situations is consequently of good quality, and well
calculated for  all the purposes of modern husbandry. In tile
higher and southwest corner of the district, the old red sandstone
makes its appearance to a limited 'extent, when the land covered
and mixed with its debris, like what occurs elsewhere, forms the
earliest and richest soil of any in its neighbourhood. Had the
rock, however, been lifted to the surface in its original horizontal
position, it would, in respect, to its productive powers, have re-
mained in a state of comparative barrenness; whereas, in being
lifted up, it has been so far twisted and dislocated, as to have
enabled the superincumbent mass of waters to break it up, and
spread abroad its fragments in a rougher or more comminuted
state, and which are everywhere found so highly favourable in
promoting a plentiful and vigorous vegetation. This section corn-
prehends a portion of the coal-measures that extend westward in-
to Mid-Lothian, and is composed of clay, shale, and sandstone
peculiar to the formation of the carboniferous serhes. But the
fertility of the incumbent soil varies greatly, and altogether
pends on the nature and quantity of the diluvial materials with
which it is covered. Where the limestone has been heaved up to
the surface, its strata must be referred to, an earlier era. Yet
there is no perceptible difference in the productive powers of the
soil that covers it, and what has been more recently accumulated
on the strata after the coal formation. Trap-rock abounds along
the sea coast ; clay also, for the ordinary purposes of the potter, is
met with in different situations.
  The third district or geological section comprises the parishes
of Haddington, Athelstanefor, Prestonkirk, Whitekirk, North
Berwick, and Dirleton, and presents a character entirely different
from the rest of the county. These parishes at one period, with-
out doubt, formed part of the same plain, and were overlaid with
such deposits as are common to the secondary formation. But in
numerous situations, the strata have been burst asunder; and the


