
                            LEITH                           781

rity School. There are, also Sunday schools and Bible and Tract
societies.
   Libraries, &c.-There are two public libraries, a Mechanics
Institution, and a Speculative Society.
   Banks.-The Leith Banking Company was established in 1792
but it ceased to exist within the last few years. There are branches
of the Royal and of the Edinburgh and Glasgow Banks; and the
Commercial, the National, the British Linen Company, and Bank
of Scotland have all agencies here. There is also a Savings
Bank.
   Restalrig-The village of, Restalrig lies to the south-east of
Leith and adjoining to it on the east is the village of Jock's Lodge,
where there are barracks capable of containing a regiment of ca-
valry.
   Newhaven.-This village lies about half a mile west of Leith
Fort, and is inhabited chiefly by fishermen who supply the Edis-
burgh market with fish, oysters, &c. These fishermen, like most
of those on the east coasts of Scotland, are a peculiar race of
people, whose habits of life and occupations tend to keep them se-
parate from the mass of the population. They rarely intermarry
with other families, and thus they preserve a peculiar caste of
countenance and physical constitution. This, Newhaven colony
is Pre-eminent over others for its sober, industrious, and peace-
able habits. The women, inured to daily exertion in the open air,
are robust, active, and remarkable for their florid, healthy, and re-
gular features, as also for the neatness and cleanliness of their
personal appearance. The aspect of the male part of the com-
munity is less robust, but they are muscular, healthy, and active.
Here there is a stone pier for the convenience of the fishermen,
and the steam-boats which ply on the Frith.
   On the rising ground in the vicinity of the village are nume-
rous villas with gardens attached. A church was also erected here
in 1838, and Newhaven converted into a quoad sacra parish. The
population in 1841 was 2103.
   Trinity Chain Pier.-The grounds of Trinity extend to the
westward, on which numerous handsome villas have been built.
An elegant Chain Pier was erected here, in 1820 under the direc-
tion of Captain Brown. The supports of the pier are fixed upon
wooden piles; and the depth of the water is at all times of the
tide, sufficient to allow ordinary steam-boats to touch at the end
of the pier, in order to receive passengers. This pier has never,
however, been extensively used, and it is now greatlysupersede
   EDINBURGH.                                     3 D



