
108                               WIGTONSHIRE.


of; but since the trials of it were made, some clay has been found
of much superior whiteness and purity. This stratum is about two
feet in depth.
     In the more elevated situations in the parish, there are several
tracts of peat moss. As is frequent in such situations, the stems and
trunks of forest trees are found in these mosses, of different spe-
cies, and of large size.
     Zoology.-Under this head there is little to distinguish Kirkcolm
from the rest of the west coast of Scotland.  As to quadrupeds,
foxes and badgers have not been seen here for the last thirty years.
There are still polecats in some places.  Rabbits, of which there are
some everywhere, are not nearly so plenty as they once were.
There are many hares, though they have not now strong cover
everywhere to protect them.  Moles are much diminished in num-
ber by the employment of mole-catchers on many farms. Of
birds, the hdath-fowl have long left this parish; grouse very sel-
dom are seen in it; partridges are in abundance; pheasants have
been lately introduced into the plantations of Corswall, and mul-
tiply rapidly. Along the shores, or in the interior of the parish,
wild goose and wild duck, teal and widgeon, the green and the
gray plover, the large and the small curlew, the snipe, woodcock,
and rail, may, at the proper seasons, be found. Starlings and field-
fares now come in much larger flocks than formerly ; and some of
both species build their nests here. There are a few wood-pigeons.
Many of the small blue pigeons build in some of the caves on the
shore; in other caves, rooks and hawks, and owls of different kinds,
bring out their young. Of singing birds, the lark and goldfinch are
less abundant; the thrush and blackbird much more abundant than
formerly., The species of fishes most prevalent on the shores of
this parish are salmon, sea-trout, herring, cod, haddock, whiting,
ling, mackarel, mullet, sea-eel, sole, flounder, skate, turbot, hali-
but, gurnard, lobster, and crab.  The sea-urchin is also often found,
but mostly destitute of its inhabitant.
     Testaceology.-- The following list contains the shells most com-
monly found in Loch Ryan, many of them destitute of the animals
originally inhabiting them, which have perished ; but the list may
not be without, interest: Solen ensis, Solen siliqua, Ostrea edu-
lis,Turbo neritoides, Pecten maximus, Pecten varius, Venerupis
pullastra, Venerupis perforans, Turbo littoreus. This testacea is
very abundant, adhering in a live state to the conglomerate rocks
near Corswall House, where, they are washed by the sea; Bulla.


