
     of Grange.

rish is almost square, being, at a medium, 6 miles from
N. to S. by 5 miles from E. to W*.  The parish ex-
tends N. from the banks of Isla, in 3 long but low ridges,
terminating in the mountains called the Knockhill, Lurg-
hill, and hill of Altmore, which divide it from the fertile
countries of Boyn and Enzie+.  The Knockhill is a very
high conical hill, upon the N. E. corner of the parish.  It
is detached all round from the rest of the ridge, and is seen
at a great distance every way, both by sea and land, as it
rises considerably above any of the adjacent hills, and has

<FOOTNOTE>

*This parish is part of the district called Stryla, or Strath-isla; so call-
ed from the small river Isla, which runs along the south side of it from
W. to E.; dividing a farm or two, on the north side of the ridge of hills
called Ballach, from the rest of this parish; and empties itself into the
Deveron, about two miles east of the parish, after a short course of 12
miles, in which it receives a number of rapid mountain streams, which
cause it frequently to overflow its banks, and damage the crops upon the
haughs; which, for 5 miles of its course, in this and the neighbouring
parish of Keith, are about half a mile broad.  In the the years 1768,
1782, 1787, and 1789, the river did incredible damage to the crops upon
the haughs.  In 1768, the greater part of the crop being cut, but not got
in, a flood swept the whole away.  In 1782, 1787, and 1789 the floods
came earlier in the season, and blasted the crop in shooting; in 1789, in
particular, the haughs were 11 times overflowed, from the time they
were sown, before the crop was got in.

   +Altmore signifies 'The great Burn,' and is the name of a large and
rapid stream, which takes its rise in these mountains, and running from N.
to S. falls into Isla, dividing the parish of Keith from Grange, the whole
length of its course.  Other 3 burns in this parish take their rise in these
mountains, and running from N. to S. parallel to the burn of Altmore,
fall also into Isla; two of them, the burn of Pathnie and the Lime-burn,
run between the 3 ridges or divisions of the parish above mentioned; the
third, the burn of Millagyn, is the boundary of the parish upon the E.
separating it from Marnoch and Rothesnay.  These burns, together with
Isla, abound with very fine trout of different kinds: which are the only fish
found in them, except in autumn, when the salmon, with which the De-
veron abounds, come up Isla to deposit their spawn; but no clean salmon
are ever caught in Isla.  Otters are sometimes found in Isla, and in these


