
1084                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

to be grander than any other work that has been produced by
man since the time of AEschylus, represent Macbeth as killed in
front of the gates of the Castle of Dunsinane? A glance at the
Scottish Chronicle of Hollinshead, from whom our immortal poet
received his information, * will enable us to reply to the question.
	"Malcolme following hastilie," says this chronicldr, "after
Macbeth, came the night before the battell unto Birnane wood,
and when his armie had rested a while there to refresh them, he
commanded everie man to get a bow of some tree or other of that
wood in his hand as big as be might bear, and to march forth
therewith in such wise, that on the next morrow they might come
closely and without sight in this manner, within view of his ene-
mies. On the morrow, when Macbeth beheld them coming in
this sort, he first marvelled what the matter meant; but in the
end remembered himself, that the prophesie which he had heard
long before that time, of the coining of Birnane wood to Dun-
sinane Castell, was likelie to be now fulfilled. Nevertheless, he
brought his men in order of battell, and exhorted them to do va-
liantlie. Howbeit, his enemies had scarcely cast from them their
boughs, when Macbeth, perceiving their numbers, betooke him
streight to flight, whom Macduff pursued with great hatred, even
till he came to Luiifannaine, where Macbeth, perceiving that
Macduff was hard at his back, leapt beside his horse, saying,
'Thou traitor, what meaneth it that thou shouldst thus in vain
follow me, that am not appointed to be slaine by anie creature
that is born of a woman; come on, therefore, and receive thy re-
ward, which thou hast deserved for thy pains;' and therewithall
he lifted up his sword, thinking to have slain him. But Macduff,
quicklie avoiding from his horse, yet he came at him, answered,
(with his naked sword in his hand) saying, 'It is true, Macbeth,
and now shall thine insatiable crueltie have an end: for I am
even he that thy wizzards have told thee of, who was never born
of my mother, but ripped out of her womb;' therewithall he
stepped into him, and slew him in the place. Then, cutting his
head from his shoulders, he set it upon a pole, and brought it to
Malcolm. This was the end of Macbeth, after he had reigned
seventeen years over the Scotishmen." +
	May we not hazard the conjecture that Shakspeare, desirous
that the range of the action in the closing scene of his drama

<FOOTNOTE>Sir W. Scott's Hist. of Scotland, Vol. i. p. 17.
          Hollinshead's Scottish Chronicle, i. 351.


