
                         NEW KILPATRICK.                     63

free from many of the objections to which a legal assessment is
liable; but the success of which depends on the unanimity of the
heritors. We have met with several instances of persons in very
needy circumstances refraining from asking', and even refusing to
accept, parochial relief; but this disposition is not now so general
as it once was. Relief is rather claimed as a right, than regarded
as a degrading charity; yet it does not often happen that any who
are not really in need apply for assistance.
   Alehouses.--There are sixteen houses licensed for the sale of
spirits and ales, and two for the sale of ales alone; being at the
rate of one for 31.5 families. Though the proportion is higher
in many other places, yet the number is too great for the good of
morals; and it is much to be desired that more strictness were ob-
served in the granting of licenses, and greater facilities afforded
for withdrawing them when abused.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the date of the former Statistical Account of the parish,
considerable changes have taken place, both in respect to Agri-
culture and Manufactures. A better method of Husbandry is now
followed, consisting in a regular system of green-cropping, which
implies the frequent application of manure, and an effectual work-
ing and cleaning of the ground. The benefit of this system is,
seen in the character of the wheat-crop ; which, instead of being,
as formerly very precarious, now seldom fails, and is chiefly relied
on by the farmer for payment of his rent. We do not regard the
high degree of perfection, or rather we should say of finicalness
to which the art of ploughing has been,carried, as any advantage 
for not only is less than a reasonable quantity of work done, but
it is not substantially done, deep ploughing, being sacrificed for the
sake of an eye-sweet furrow. For the same reason, we look upon
it as no improvement, that ploughing is now almost uniformly per-
formed with two horses only, instead of three or four. One advan-
tage, however, that hence results, is a great saving in the number of
horses kept, being 75 fewer than before; and this notwithstanding
an increase in the number kept for purposes not agricultural The
number now in the parish is 285, of which 230 are for the pur-
poses of agriculture. The want of good roads, noticed in the
previous report, has been long since remedied the parish being
intersected in every direction with turnpike or other roads, the
former of which are in excellent condition. There is therefore
no longer any difficulty in procuring dung for the land; and it is


