
124                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

botany of the whole valley of Forth;) possessing also the im-
portant requisite of every variety of soil, this county far front
being deficient in a botanical point of view. If the observation be
directed to that part of it which comprehends the parish of Bo'ness,
although promising in its general features, it would scarcely be ex-
pected, on a more particular inspection, to be the best locality for
plants. The maritime species, which, as said before, gradually di-
minish in numbers as the shore of the Frith is traced upwards, will
be seen, on reaching this, to have almost entirely disappeared,
owing to the great accumulation of mud, and perhaps, also, the
diminished saltness of the water. Besides this, there is no ground
sufficiently elevated for producing the plants of high situations.
The Flora of the parish is thus so far wanting in variety. There
are, however, certain favourable circumstances which account for
the large number of plants, on the whole, to be met with. The
scenery is finely diversified with woods and plantations, which shel-
ter in abundance their peculiar species. The river Avon, also,
forming the boundary on the west, appears to have brought down
the rarer plants which are found in ascending its higher course.
The deep rocky dens at Tod's mill accordingly abound with such,
and Scirpus sylvaticus, Melica nutans, Chrysosplenium alternifolium,
Eupatorium cannabinum, Trollius europaeus; and plants by no means
commonly met with may there be gathered in abundance, if the
romantic beauty of the scene, as the river winds amidst its steep
and wooded banks, may allow the eye to rest upon the humbler
vegetation around. The flowering fern, Osmunda regalis, is also
seen in this spot, but does not extend higher up; although frequent
enough on the west coast, it appears in Scotland to shun the
sharper breezes of the east; and the station just mentioned is
probably the nearest to Edinburgh. Tortula rigida, a small spe-
cies of moss, which is chiefly confined to the south of England,
also grows abundantly by the river side at Inneravon. The pre-
sence of these two plants, especially the fern, seems to indicate a
certain approach to a western climate, or is owing to the highly
sheltered situation. The flowering fern becomes more frequent
in Stirlingshire.
   Among the few maritime plants within the bounds may be
mentioned Scirpus maritimus, and Aster tripolium, which are seen
in the summer months plentifully covering the brackish marshes
below Kinneil. The aster is not a rare plant, and is mentioned
chiefly because it was found in the same place by Sibbald nearly
                                  3


