
   224                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   approach of dry weather, when they run back into the sea with -
   equal care and dispatch.
	It appears to be the opinion of fishermen, that salmon do
   not remain in rivers, though they occasionaIly ascend till they
   begin to spawn in the latter end of the month of September.
   When they commence this operation, they continue at all hazards,
   disregarding every danger in deep pools of water in the rivers,
   till the work is completed in the month of December; and then
   they are so much emaciated and enfeebled, that they are per-
   ceived to move slowly and with much difficulty in the water, and
   they never recover their condition till they return to the sea in the
   month of December, some sooner and some later.
	Botany.-There are in this parish some herbs that are bene-
   ficially employed in curing diseases, such as burdock, tussilago,
  (Filius ante patrem). This last is usefully employed in cases of
   cough, asthma, and consumption.
	In the Island of Rasay, as well as about the village of Portree,
   there are small plantations of wood in a very thriving condition;
   indeed, more rapid growth cannot be seen in any part of the low
   country of Scotland. The plantations consist of Scotch fir, larch,
   birch, ash, oak, alder, and some others. Larch is the kind most
   suitable to the soil, as it appears to thrive better than any of the
   other kinds of wood.
	The greater part of these plantations are only a few years old,
   and therefore the trees cannot be of ainy great size. At Rasay,
   however, and near the inansion-house, there are old trees of con-
   siderable size, such as are seen in the vicinity of towns, castles,
   and    in forests, either in the Highlands, or in the low country of
   Scotland. And it appears to be a matter which admits of no
   doubt, that, in a place such as this parish, where there are so
   many localities favourable to the growth of timber, no improve-
   ment whatever could be more profitable, or of greater advantage
   both to proprietors and tenants, than the planting of wood. This,
   however, under existing circumstances, is a matter more to be
   wished for than expected.
		   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
     Land-owners.-The Right Honourable Lord Macdonald and
   Macleod of Rasay, are the only land-owders in the parish
    Parochial Registerr.-A parish register of births and marriages
   was commenced in the year 1800, but discontinued six years



