
			GIRTHON.	  	       295


Scots. (Wodrow's Church Hist. Vol. ii. p. 10.) At another
time, John Logan of Enrig, and John Cannan, in Guffockland,
were each fined L. 240. (lb. i. 278). Graham of Claverhouse,
in 1684, surprised six persons who were concealing themselves
at Auchencloy, near Loch Skero, and instantly shot four of
them. One of them (from Nithsdale) was buried on thet spot
where he fell; and a humble tombstone, lying flat on the ground,
was subsequently erected to his memory,* bearing the following
inscription:--

			"MEMENTO MORI.
	"Here lies Robert Fergusson, who was surprised and instantly
shot to death on this place, by Graham of Claverhouse, for his
adherence to Scntland's Reformation, Covenants, National and
Solemn League. 1684."
	In the churchyard of Girthon, in the tomb, formerly of the
Lennoxes of Cally, and now of the family of Broughton, was bu-
ried Robert Lennox of Drumruck,+ who also suffered for con-
science sake, as the following inscription, on a small upright stone
at the mouth of the vault, testifies:--
	"Within this tomb lyes the corps of Robert Lenox, some time
in Irelandtown, who was shot to death by Grieer of Lagg, in the
paroch of Toungland, for his adherence to Scotland's Reforma-
tion Covenants, National Covenants, National and Solemn
League. 1685."
	Eminent Characters.--Mr William Erskine was minister of Gir-
thon at the period of the Restoration. Having refused to conform
to Prelacy, he was ejected from the parish in 1663, in which year
nearly 400 Presbyterian clergymen, whose names are recorded in
Wodrow (i. p. 324), were ousted from their several charges, from
the same cause. He was sentenced to confine himself within the
parish of Carsphairn. Having ventured to leave his place of con-
finement, and taken refuge in Teviotdale, he was declared a fugi-
tive, in 1671; and in the following year, letters of intercomun-
ing having been issued against him, he was apprehended, and

<FOOTNOTE>On the 16th August 1835, the late incumbent of the parish preached a sermon
(since published,) in the immediatd vicinity of this tombstone, on which occasion a
collection was made for erecting a more suitable monument to the memory of the
martyr; an object which was since been accomplished by means of the collection in
question, and public subscriptions.
         This Robert Lennox, in the year previous to his martyrdom, granted a disposi-
tion of Drumruck, which he had inherited from his father, in favour of David Len-
nox, merchant in Kirkcudbright, and retired to Irelandton, in the neighbouring pa-
rish of Twynholm. Robert Lennox was great grandson of John Lennox, the fourth
of Cally, who died in 1647. (Case of Margaret Lennox of Woodhead. Edim, 1813.
4to. P. 30-3.)


