
62                	DUMFRIES-SHIRE

        Rate of Wages.-A man-servant maintained in the family gets
from L. 5 to L. 7 in the half year, and a female from L. 2 to L. 3,
3s. The farm-servant, c`lled a benefit man, has a cottage  and
kitchen garden, a pint of skimmed milk per day, 30 cwt. of po-
tatoes, also his fuel led home, and about L. 20 in money. When
he maintains himself and his family, he receives from L. 22 to
L. 25. A labourer, per day, receives from 1st March to 1st No-
vember, 1s. 6d, and for the remainder of the year, 1s. 3d., with-
out victuals. Mowers, without victuals, receive per day from 2s.
to 2s. 6d.; and with victuals, 1s 6d. Joiners get in summer from
1s. 6d. to 2s.per day, and masons the same. Smiths generally
contract with farmers at L. 2, 10s. per annum, to keep a plough and
the iron work of a pair of horses in good order, finding the iron,
as well as performing the work, but when there is no contract, each
piece of work is charged separately.
       Breeds of Live Stock.-The common breed of sheep is the Che-
viot breed, crossed by Leicester rams. About 70 or 80 scores of
lambs are annually raised on the hill grounds; and in most of the
farms, the calves are sold to the fleshes of Dumfries when about six
weeks old,at from 30s. to 40s. each, according to the quality of the
veal. It is becoming a practice here to buy Highland draught
ewes, and bring them to the lower grounds,-to take the lambs
from the ewes, and send them to Liverpool, and to fatten the ewes
for the market.
     Husbandry.-The alternate system of husbandry ir prevalent
with us; viz. oats from lea; fallow of potatoes and turnips, the lat-
ter fed off by sheep; wheat or barley, and sown down with grass
seeds; one or more years lying in grass, as the subdivision of the
farm will permit. Some tenants prefer a crop of barley after
wheat; but this is generally considered as bad management, and the
practice is fast falling into disuse. The following order of hus-
bandry has also been obligingly communicated to the writer, and
is approve by very competent judges in our parish. For holm
land, first year, oats; second year, part potatoes and part turnips,
the turnips fed off by sheep; third year, wheat, sown down with grass
seeds; fourth year, grass to be cut for hay. For hardland, the two
first years, the same order as for holm land; the third year, barley,
sown down with grass seeds; the fourth, grass, part for cutting,
and part for pasture. Irrigation is used only to a small extent, but
surface draining is much practice, and is found very useful; but
by sending off the water from the pasture, our rivulets are pro-
                                3


