
     of Roxburgh.

scene opens upon him all at once, the prominent features
whereof are, the Duke of Roxburgh's seat at Fleurs; Sir
George Douglas's at Springwoodpark; the Teviot on the
right and Tweed on the left hand, two beautiful bridges
over these, and Kelso, in all its glory, full in the traveller's
eye, as he passes eastward.  From a particular spot in the
village of Roxburgh there is a very magnificent view.
Looking eastward, the spectator fees nothing wild or uncul-
tivated, and stretches the line of vision along a valley, appa-
rently covered with trees, to the distance of 8 or 10 miles.
A corn or grass field, a house here and there, and the smoke
of various cots and villages curling up from amidst the fo-
rest, diversify and heighten the scene.  A house on the top
of a high hill, with a row of trees on each side of it, makes
a fine termination to the whole.  From the same spot the
spectator is amused with a very different prospect west-
ward, double the length, and bounded by the lofty moun-
tain Carter, and its adjacent hills.  From a rising ground
on the south side of the parish, the curious are gratified with
a romantic view of the Teviot.  After being concealed by
the particular arrangement of its banks, the river appears
tumbling cascade-like from the mouth of Sunlaws caves, and
instantly disappears again.  The cave-mouths, and the river
apparently flowing from them, produce a most singular ef-
fect.  A prospect of the Teviot from Sunlaws hill, wind-
ing through an extensive dale, enriched in the highest de-
gree both by nature and art, well deserves notice as pecu-
liarly pleasing and grand.  The widest and most abundant
range of view which this parish affords, is from a rising
ground or hill called Duns-Law, on the west angle of Fair-
nington estate.  Agreeably to the import of its name, this
eminence is said to have formerly been a station of autho-
rity and strength.  An observatory, or summer-house, built
on the top of it by the Hoon. Baron Rutherford, commands


