
                       ST NINIANS.                    333

  Malt is made at St Ninians, Bannockburn, and Sauchenford.
The yearly average quantity is 28,980 bushels.
                 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town.--There is no market-town in the parish. Stir-
ling, distant about one mile from the village and parish church of
St Ninians, is the market-town of the district; but many of the
agriculturists in the eastern parts of the parish attend the weekly
market of Falkirk ; and the graziers frequently repair both to Ed-
inburgh and Glasgow.
   Villages.--Besides a considerable portion of the suburbs of Stir-
ling, which is in this parish, we have the village of St Ninians,
containing, according to the census of 1841, 1480 inhabitants.
The chief trades carried on in it are nail-making and tanning of
leather, with the manufacture of tartans and shawls to a less ex-
tent. Bannockburn, 1987 inhabitants, chiefly engaged in the ma-
nufacture of carpets, tartans, and shawls. This village has increas-
ed rapidly, within the last thirty or forty years. Cambusbaron,
428 inhabitants; trade, wool-spinning, tartan and shawl manufac-
tures.
   Means of Communication.--The villages of St Ninians and Ban-
nockburn enjoy each the benefit of a receiving post-office ; but the
delivery, in both cases, is from the post-office in Stirling, by means
of a daily runner. The great post road from Edinburgh to the
north by Stirling, traverses the parish from its eastern boundary
to its confines with Stirling, a distance of about six miles; whilst
the Glasgow post-road to the same town passes through the pa-
rish from south to north, a distance of about four miles, joining
the Edinburgh road at the village of St Ninians. The coaches
from the north to Glasgow, by the way of Stirling, and from Stirling
both to Glasgow and Edinburgh, all pass through this parish by
the roads just described. The road from Dunbarton to the ferry
near Alloa runs through this parish, for about twelve miles; and
there is also an excellent road from Carron-bridge to Randieford,
which, to the inhabitants in the higher parts of the parish, opens
up the way both to Glasgow and Edinburgh. There are nume-
rous small bridges, but none of them deserving particular notice.
A project is in agitation for a branch railway from Stirling, to join
the Edinburgh and Glasgow railway near Falkirk, which, when
executed, will traverse the eastern part of this parish. Almost all
the lands in the parish are enclosed, the fences in the carses and
low grounds consisting of thorn-hedges, and those in the uplands


