
                KILNINVER AND KILMELFORT.                        67                            67

   One of these is so well corroborated by other evidences, that it
deserves to be noticed. The notorious Alexander M'Donald,
better known in the Highlands by the name of Alastair Mac-
Cholla, having, in his warlike expedition through Argyle, passed
through this parish, the men fled at  his approach, but women
and children, to the number of several scores, fled into a barn,
where they were discovered, and without the least offence or pro-
vocation, barbarously burnt to ashes. The ruins, where this tra-
gical deed was perpetrated, are still seen, bearing the name of the
bonds' barn.
   Eminent Men.--About ninety years ago, the Rev. Alexander
M'Farlane, then minister of the parish, translated the Psalms, and
Baxter's Call to the Unconverted, into Gaelic, and though several
improved editions have since been published, more in accordance
with the dialect now spoken, still his name deserves to be grate-
fully remembered for his faithfulness and zeal in supplying his
countrymen with these in their vernacular language, when so few
could either read or understand English. He was latterly minister
of Arrochar, Dumbartonshire.
   Within the last forty years, Archibald Campbell, son of the late
Mr Patrick Campbell, minister of Kilninver, was one of the most
eminent mathematicians in his day. He gave early indications of
genius, and prosecuted his studies with success. He contributed to
the Edinburgh Encycloptedia, and also to several periodicals of the
day. His scientific acquirements may be estimated by the ability
with which he wrote on  Annuities and Acoustics. In the pritme
of life, he fell a victim to intense application to his favourite studies,
and was buried at Kilninver.
   Admiral Sir Patrick Campbell, K. C. B., and his brother, Sir
Colin, lately Governor of Nova Scotia, now of Ceylon, are natives
of this parish. They have long filled high and h6dourable situa-
tions in the army and navy, and in their respective departments
distinfuished themselves in a manner worthy of the brave and
patriotic family of Melfort, of which they are descended.
   Heritors.--The principal heritors are, the Marquis of Breadal-
bane, the Duke of Argyle, the Lorn Furnace Company, and John
Campbell, Esq. of Glenmore.
   Parochial Registers.--The earliest date of the parochial registers
is 1758. If any were kept previous to that period, they ara irreco-
verably lost. Till within the last twenty years, there was but one
register for both parishes; but the distance between the two places


