
574                          PFRTHSHIRE.

L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. In May 1835, the stipend
was augmented, and is now 13 chalders of victual, half meal, half
barley, with L. 10 for communion elements.
     A clergyman of the Scotch Episcopal Church officiates every
Sunday at Kilmaveonaig, and the members of his congregation
who are parishioners here may amount to 20.
     There is also a Baptist meeting-house at Bail-an-t-sabhuil. It
is conveniently seated for the accommodation of its members from
this parish, and Moulin, and Fincastle, in the parish of Dull. The
spirit which led to the introduction of this sect into the country,
manifested itself more than thirty years ago, and its adherents are
not numerous. About 20 persons of this parish are Baptists.
     Education.---The total number of schools in the parish is 7,
viz. 1. parochial school, and 2. Society schools. The private
schools are maintained by the inhabitants of those districts which
are remote from the established schools. They are generally well
attended, and are taught by young men whose incomes depend
solely upon their school fees. In the parochial school, Latin and
the other usual branches of education are taught. The number of
scholars is about 80. The school fees are extremely moderate, and
amount to about L. 30 annually. A new dwelling and school-house
were lately built, and a garden Of one rood of land was assigned
for the schoolmaster. He has a salary of L. 34, 4s. 4 3/4d.
     There are about 358 children in attendance upon the 7 public
schools during the winter months. There are other three districts
viz. Bohespick, Glenerichkie, and Glen Garry, in which there is
scarcely the semblance of a school, except for three months in win-
ter. The very difficulties which the people encounter and surmount
in procuring the means of instruction for their children are sufficient
evidence of their anxiety to give them education. And to educa-
tion we must attribute in a great degree the rapid and striking im-
provement in the habits and manners of our people. Instead of
indolence and sloth, and repugnance to every change, by which
they were long characterized, a spirit of exertion and industry is
apparent in our Highland glens.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.---The poor's funds have always been
under the management of the minister and elders of the parish.
Every elder has the more immediate oversight of the poor of the
district in which he resides, and in so extensive a parish, it is ne-
cessary that care be taken to have an elder for every separate dis-
trict. The heritors meet once a year, when they audit the poor's


