
208                               RENFREWSHIRE.

on the 29th of July, 1587, erected by the King and Parliament,
into a temporal lordship, when the whole property of the monas-
tery, with the patronage of the several churches, was granted to
Lord Claud, and his heirs in fee; and he himself was created
Lord Paisley. *  The opulent lordship of Paisley continued in
that family till 1652, when James Earl of Abercorn sold it to the
Earl of Angus, who next year sold the greater part of it to Lord
William Cochran, who was created Earl of Dundonald and Lord
Cochran of Paisley in 1669.  The barony of Kilpatrick, in Dum-
btartonshire, he disposed of to Sir John Hamilton of Orbistoun ;
the lands of Monkton in Ayrshire to Lord Bargany; and those
of Glen, in Renfrewshire, to Lord Sempil, and others. +  Great
part of the lordship of Paisley was, at different times, sold off by
the Dundonald family; and what remained of it was, in 1764, re-
purchased by James Earl of Abercorn, and now belongs to the
Marquis of Abercorn. ++  Since the Reformation, the Abbey has
been successively the residence of Lord Paisley, the Earl of Aber-
corn, and the Earls of Dundonald.  But the Earl of Dundonald,
having demolished the ancient gateway of the Abbey, and feued
off the immediately adjoining grounds for building, the appear-
ance of the place was entirely changed, and the Abbey rendered
unfit for a family residence.  It has, since that time, been let out,
in separate dwellings, to tradesmen's families and, for several years,
has been in a state of great disrepair.  The Abbey Park, with
its orchards and gardens, are now the site of the New Town of
Paisley, having been feued off for building ground by their pro-
prietor in 178i.  Till that period, the magnificent cut stone wall
that enclosed the park remained nearly entire.  But having been
soldto the feuars, most of the stones have been since used in
building their houses, and now (1837) the only portion of it, we

<FOOTNOTE>Pasley of late shewed unto me he was likly to susteyne gret hurt and damage, booth
to hymself and his monastery by the saide twoe Erles, ( " Angwisshe and Lenowx")
if remedy were not founden in tyme convenient, for as he shewed unto me the said
twoe Erles intended to keep thaire Cristenmas in his saide house, and to use every
thing there at thaire libertye and pleasur, booth for hors and man, to the noumber of
ije. persons and therfore desired me to write for hym to the Erle of Angwisshe, and
soe I did, and besides that matters, gave vnto the saide Erle of Angwisshe my poore
advartixnent, according to the contynne of your saide gracious letteres, copy of my
letter with big answer tberunto, pretermitting a grete parte of the effectuall matier
Wherynne I shulde have knowen his mend,  I send also vnto your saide grace."  Il-
lustritions of Scottish History, page 112-113, printed for Maitland Club.
          Chalmer's Caled. Vol. iii p. 827, and former Statistical Account Vol. vii. p.
59. also Hamilton's Description of Lan. and Renfw. p. 74. printed for Mait. club.
1831
          Chalmer's caledonia, Vol. iii. p. 827, and Statistical  Account, Vol. vii. p. 95.
          Ibid.


