
526                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

  Mr Lawrence Douglas became master of the grammar school
of Dalkeitb in the year 1766.
  Mr Alexander Christison succeeded Mr Lawrence Douclas in
1781.  He was born in the parish of Cockburnspath, in Berwick-
shire, in the year 1749.  He is of the number of those meri-
torious persons of whom Scotland can furnish so many examples,
who, at a mature age, by invincible diligence and perseverance, have
supplied the defect of early school education.  By the private in-
structions of Mr William Johnston, teacher of Coldingham, he
acquired with extraordinary rapidity the elements of scholastic
learning, and was thus enabled to become candidate for the parish
school of Edrom, which be obtained by comparative trial on the 3d
March 1775.  On the 19th September 1777, he left this situation
and studied for some time in Edinburgh, where his talents and di-
ligence attracted the notice of the professors.  In May 1778 be was
appointed one of the. wasters of Watson's Hospital.  From tbence5
in 1781, he was removed to the grammar school of Dalkeitb.  Here
he taught with great celebrity for six years; and in 1787 was ap-
pointed one of the masters of the High School of Edinburgh.
His talents, learning, and diligence were so much admired, that,
on the decease of Professor Hill, he was appointed to the Chair
of Humanity in the University of Edinburgh in 1806; and after
performing the duties of his office with great, fidelity, be died on
the 25th June 1820, much regretted.  Mr Christison was remark-
able for his considerate attention to the poorer class of his stu-
dents, and his memory will be long cherished by the numerous
individuals who owe the beginning of their advancement in the
world to his generous and disinterested kindness. *
  Mr Ebenezer Bell succeeded Mr Christison in 1787.  He-was
considered a good teacher of Latin.  He bad long a numerous
school of boarders, from which he realized a considerable sum of
money.  He died on the 15tb February 1826.
  Mr Peter Steele, A. M., was appointed Rector of the Grammar
School of Dalkeith on the 15th of April 1826.

<FOOTNOTE>are :dapted to the capacities of children, after the plan of Mr Ruddiman's Latin Ru-
diments.  Edinburgh, 1754 Printed by Thomas and W. Ruddinian.
  8. Ths, Rudiments of the Latin Tongue; in which the difficulties of all the parts
of out Latin grammars are made plain to the capacities of children.  By James Bar-
obay, A.M., Rector of the Grammar School of Dalkeith.  Edinburgh, 1758,

<FOOTNOTE>Though  hus mind was richly stored with various knowledge, Professor Christison
has left no writings behind him to which his name is attached, with the exception of
the following pamphlet, entitled, " The General Diffusion of Knowledge,. one great
Couse of the Prosperity of North Britain; wkh an Appendix, obtaining a Propossl
for improving the Present Mode of Teaching the Greek Language. Edin. 1802.
He made also a few cintributuins to the "Annals of Philosophy," a periodical long
conducted by the celebrated Dr Thomson, Professor of Chemistry in Glasgow.



