
     of Barray.

pennies, halfpennies, and farthings.  No tenant here pos-
sesses more than halfpenny, for which he pays from L. 3
to L. 4 for single lands, and L. 6 for the halfpenny of 
double lands.  The sourming of the halfpenny that is, the
number of full grown cattle, is 8, young stock and sheep in-
cluded; a three-year old queys, or 3 two-year olds, are 
equal to a foum, and 8 sheep.  So that the stock of the pos-
sessor of a halfpenny of single lands, consists of 3 horses, 4
cows, and 8 or 10 sheep.  The tenants pay their rents by
manufacturing kelp and sale of their cattle.  The proprie-
tor employs a number of them in making kelp upon his 
farm, for which he pays from L. 1, 10 s, to L. 2, 2 s.  and 
for the kelp made upon their own shores, which he also 
has at his own disposal, L. 2: 12 : 6 the ton, which is the 
highest manufacturing price given in the Highlands, so far
as I know.  So that, from the sale of thier cattle, and 
making of kelp, the people live very easy, excepting in 
bad years, when there is a scarcity of bread, they are un-
der the necessity of buying low-country meal.  There are 
5 farms which were let for 19 years at stipulated rents;
the leases are nearly expired*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The distance of this place from market, and its insular situation, has
prevented the price of cattle from advancing in the same proportion as it
has done in places more accessible, and more conveniently situated.
Notwithstanding this disadvantage, the price has advanced to a third 
more at least within these 18 years; for a cow that sold then at L. 1 10s.
would sell now at L. 2,5 s. or L. 2 10 s; and parcels that sold then at 
L. 2, sell now at L. 3; milch-cows sell at from L. 3 to L. 4; whereas,
at the period above mentioned, they sold for L. 2, and L. 2 10 s accord-
ing to their quality.  They are bought by drovers who come hither from 
different places at stated times.  The expense in carrying them from this
to the nearest part of the continent, which lies at the distance of 20 leagues,
is 2 s. 6 d.  the head, besides the buyer's expense and trouble in coming
for them, and the risk of losing some by the way, as they sometimes make 
a tedious passage.    
        

