
                       DYSART.                                143

society does not educate the young people gratuitously; but only
pays one-half of the school fees, upon condition that the parents
pay the other half. Hitherto, it has been supported by individual
subscriptions among the heritors, and by the parishioners at large,
and also by collections at the church doors.
  Besides these, there is a society in the town of Dysart for the
support of indigent old women. It has existed for nearly half a
century, and has been the means of doing much good. Its expen-
diture has been about L. 40 yearly.
  The exact amount of contributions for religious and charitable
purposes cannot easily be ascertained; but, including collections
made at the church doors it is not less than L. 100 yearly. Last,
year it was nearly L. 200. Owing to the dulness of trade, and the
low rate of wages among the labouring classes of society, and ow-
ing to few of the heritors residing constantly in the parish, the col-
lections made at the church doors are not so great as formerly.
  Education.- There are 14 schools in the parish,-two of which
are taught by females,-viz. at Dysart, 4; at Pathhead, 4; at Sin-
clairtown, 2; at Gallaton, 3; at Boreland, I; total, 14. The paro-
chial or rather the burgh school is conveniently situated only for such
children as reside in the town of DysarL The master is elected by
the town-council, who pay his salary, amounting to L. 43, partly from
the burgh funds, and partly from money mortified for this purpose.
He has no dwelling-house nor garden, but he receives an allow-
ance for them from the town. Besides the usual branches of edu-
cation, he teaches Latin, book-keeping, and mensuration. All the
other schools are supported by school-fees alone, except two,--one
in Pathhead, which is endowed, and the master of which receives
L. 120 in the year for teaching 150 children reading, writing, and
arithmetic; and another in Boreland, the salary of which is L. 8,
besides free house, school-house, and coals. The total number of
children attending the above-mentioned schools varies frnm 700
to 800.
  Notwithstanding the facilities for education that this parish af-
fords, it was lately ascertained, that there are nearly 60 persons above
the age of fifteen who cannot read or write. Judging, however, from
the eagerness with which many parents have availed themselves of
the advantages which have been more recently held out, it would,
perhaps, he unfair to say, that the people in general are not alive to
the benefits of education; and the numbeir of uneducated children
in the parish can, in very many instances, be traced to the low wages


