
                         BENHOLME.                            61

the inhabitants resort to Montrose, distant about ten miles from
the centre of the parish, and to Bervie, distant about three miles.
Till within these seven years, Montrose was the nearest market-
town. Within that time, a grain market has been established in
Bervie, and is now much frequented. The grain is shipped at
Gourdon, a small sea port in the parish of Bervie.
        Means of Communication.-The only village in the parish is
Johnshaven. The turnpike road from Aberdeen to Dundee runs
through the parish; and the roads to inland parts of the county
are improving gradually. The length of turnpike road within
the parish, is about three miles. There is no post-office in the
parish, the post-town being Bervie. The Royal Mail between
Edinburgh and Aberdeen passes through the parish, and the New
Times stage-coach between Dundee and Aberdeen. These run
all the year, and occasionally there is a light coach between Mon-
trose and Aberdeen. There are two beautiful bridges of consi-
derable span and height on the present turnpike road, and two on
the old post-road, which are still in pretty good repair.
        Harbour.-The harbour of Johnshaven, the only one in the
parish, is very small. Were this enlarged and improved, it is sup-
posed that the trade of Johnshaven might be greatly increased.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The church is not far from the centre of
the parish, but, being a mile and a half from Johnshaven, it can-
not be said to be very well situated for the bulk of the popula-
tion. A person may walk from the church to the most distant
house in the parish, in little more than half an hour. The parish
is therefore of a very convenient size. The present church was
built in 1832; it is a plain but neat structure, and in excellent or-
der. It is seated for 768 persons, sixteen inches having been al-
lowed for a sitting; but this allowance has been found too small,
so that pews let for six or eight will not hold so many grown-up
people. There are no free sittings.
	The manse was built in 1826. The glebe consists of six acres,
and lets for L. 12, 10s. The stipend amounts to 16 chalders.
There is no chapel of ease, missionary, nor catechist in the parish.
The only place of worship besides the parish church belongs to
the United Associate Synod. The minister, I believe, is paid
chiefly by seat-rents, and by the offering at the church door. His
stipend altogether must be under L. lOO.
	The number of families attending the parish church is 314; of
individuals, 1280. This, according to the common calculation,


