
		            OLD CUMNOCK.                    479

scarlet maple, scarlet chestnut, Italian maple, scarlet oak, white
acacia, Norway maple, snake maple, cedar tree, &c. &c.
  Some of these trees measure nearly 300 feet solid, while many
of them are above 200 solid feet.
                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    The following account of the ancient history of the parish is
taken from Chalmers' Caledonia. Cumnock was of old a rectory,
the patronage whereof belonged to the proprietors of the barony of
Cumnock. In the reign of David II. the barony of Cumnock,
with the patronage of the church, belonged to Patrick Dunbar,
the Earl of March, who resigned them in 1368 to his eldest son
and heir, George, to whom, at the same time, be resigned the Earl -
dom of March. George, Earl of March, resigned the barony of
Cumnock, with the patronage of the church, to David Dunbar,
who obtained a charter thereupon from the King in March 1374-5.
In the fifteenth century, the rectory of Cumnock was converted
into a prebend of the cathedral church of Glasgow, with the con-
sent of the patron, who continued to hold the patronage of the
rectory and prebend. After that event, the church of Cumnock
was served by a vicar, who had a fixed stipend, and the remainder
of the revenues of the church went to the rector, who was a canon
or prebendary of Glasgow. There belonged to the church of
Cumnock, lands extending to two merk lands of old extent, upon
which stands the village of Cumnock. In September 1509, James
Dunbar of Cumnock, the proprietor of the barony, and patron of
the parish, obtained a charter from James IV. creating the church
lands of Cumnock into a free burgh of barony and granting li-
cense to Sir Thomas Campbell, the prebendary of Cumnock, and
his successors, to let the lands of his glebe in borough roods for
building. In Bagimont's Roll, as it stood in the reign of James
V., the rectory of Cumnock, a prebend of Glasgow, was taxed
L. 16, being a tenth of its estimated value;
   Before the Reformation, there was a chapel on the lands of
Borland in this parish, the vestiges whereof are still extant, and
the farm on which it stood bears the name of Chapel-bouse. About
the year 1612, the barony of Cumnock, with the patronage of the
church, was sold by John Dunbar of Cumnock and Westfield, and,
after passing through several hands, it came, in the reign of Charles
II., into the possession of the Earl of Dumfries. The barony
and the patronage have continued since in that family, and be-
long to the Marquis of Bute, who, as Earl of Dumfries, is patron


