
     Statistical Account

   The tides in the river Forth, for several miles, both a-
bove and below Clackmannan, exhibit a phenomenon not
to be found (it is said) in any other part of the globe.
This is what the sailors call a leaky tide, which happens
always in good weather during the neap tides; and some-
times also  during the spring tides, if the weather be un-

<FOOTNOTE>

tion of the rent became absolutely necessary.  By this time, the sediment
of the river, which is blue mud or soft clay, had again accumulated,
and formed a considerable track of fine rich land.  In order, therefore, to
secure the old saltgrass, as well as to make a new acquisition of 50 acres
Mr. Erskine of Mar, the proprietor (who bas been so good as to furnish
an account of several of these facts), in 1776, began a new bank or
wall, much stronger than the former, and finished it in little more than
six months.  The length of the wall is 1380 yards: the height, 8 feet.  It
has a slope to the river of 2 1/2 feet for every foot of perpendicular height;
and the side next the water was covered with sods, or turf, of one foot
in thickness.  The side next the land was sown with grass seeds, and has
one foot of a slope for every foot of perpendicular height.  There were
35,916 cubical yards of earth moved to form this wall, besides 915 yards
for turf; making in whole 36,831 cubical yards, at 5 d. the yard.  The 
whole expence amounted to about 7861. Sterling.  This, however, has
not only effectually secured the old saltgrass land; it has also gained 50
acres of new land; which (deducting the repairs the old wall must have
received) yielded, during the first seven years of a lease, an interest of 4
per cent for the money laid out; and the remaining twelve years, an
interest of 7 per cent.  It will probably amount to 12 per cent, when the
present lease expires, as the land is of the richest quality.  A great error
was committed by the tenant who got the lease of this new land.  In-
stead of allowing it to remain in grass for some years, it was imme-
diately ploughed, and thereby prevented from cosolidating in a proper
manner.  The consequences was, it remained much longer in a wet state
than arable land ought to do.
   This error was avoided, when several years afterwards, another
track of land, adjoining to the above, was in the same manner gained
from the rivers, to the estate of Lord Dudas.  It was pastured upwards
of seven years; and the good effects now appear: it produces the most
luxuriant crops.  The expence attending this acquisition did not exceed
one-third part of the former.  Besides, a part of the wall enclosing it is


