
368                    KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	The stipend of Rerrick amounts to 16 chalders, of which L. 16
is payable in money. The glebe extends to 16 imperial acres,
and may be worth about L.40 per annum. The manse was built
in 1790. An addition was made to it in 1811, and in the present
year 1844, the beritors have again put it into a state of com-
plete repair, and have erected a new steading of offices upon
a convenient site. The manse is in a beautiful situation, im-
mediately contiguous to the ruins of the abbey of Dundrennan,
while the parish church is rather inconviniently situated more
than a mile to the eastward on the road to Orroland.
	Education.--There are two parochial schools in the parish, one
at the village of Dundrennan, and the other at the village of Au-
chencairn. These schools are sufficient for the reception of the
whole children in the parish, with the exception of those resident
in a small district to the west of Bengairn, which, however, is for-
tunately within two miles of one of the parish schools of Kelton.
The schoolmaster at Dundrennan his a salary of L.30, and the
schoolmaster at Auchencairn'a salary of L.21, 6s. 8d. per annum.
Each of the schoolmasters has a free dwelling-house, and the
average amount of annual fees in each school may be stated at
L.70.
	Savings Banks.--There is one in the parish. The average
sum anually invested in it during the last three years has been
L.169, and the average sum annually withdrawn L.62.
	Poor.--The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
is 34, and the average weekly sum allotted to each individual is 1s.
1 1/2d. The average annual amount of contributions for the relief
of thd poor has been for some time past L.99, 5s., of which L.49,
5s. is obtained from collections at the church door,--L.45 is vo-
lutarily contributed by the heritors,--and L.5 is drawn from le-
gacies and mortifications. There has not hitherto been any legal
assessment for providing for the poor in Rerrick, although it is
not improbable this may become necessary in consequence of the
recent investigations by the Poor Law Commissioners.

	July 1844.


