
			  STEVENSTON.			     427

and part of it little more than sea-sand. The upper part of the
parish is stiff clay.
	There is a tradition that the Garnock, which now falls into the
sea in union with the Irvine, in olden time, took a westerly direc-
tion, by Bog and Ardeer, and Stevenston, and fell into the sea op-
posite to Sea Bank. We have little doubt of the truth of this tradi-
tion. It accounts for the origin of the sand-hills; as we find si-
milar sand-hills in other places, formed at the mouths of rivers by
the blowing of sand brought down by the stream; and the drift of
sand here is almost always from the west, the quarter in which we
suppose the mouth of the river, of old, to have been. It receives
countenance from the great facility with which the river might still
be made to flow in what, we believe, was its ancient course;--from the
soil of part of this flat tract, which we regard as its ancient channel,
being a mixture of moss, water-worn gravel, sand, and shells;--and
from another small portion of land in the same course still retain-
ing the name of Insch, the Gaelic term for island; once probably
insulated by the river; but now unvisited by the smallest stream.
The tradition receives some countenance from the fact, that a si-
milar change, though on a smaller scale, is well known to have
taken place on the course of Stevenston burn, which, instead of
falling into the sea, as it does now, to the south of Stevenston,
flowed in a westerly direction behind what is now Bogle Mart
Street, and through the green fields of Sea Bank, falling into the
sea in the neighbourhood of Saltcoats. * And it is no small con-

<FOOTNOTE>It is well known in Stevenston that several lives were lost, and much injury
done, by the drowning of a coal-pit betwixt Saltcoats and Stevenston; but some
ascribe the catastrophe to a high tide, and others to the flooding of Stevenston burn.
On conversing lately with a respectable gentleman, born in Stevenston more than
eighty years ago, and whose father, about 1763, was tacksman of the coal-works,
we learned that there were two pits drowned; one of them by the tide, and the other
by the burn, though he knew not the date of either of these mournful events. The
one which was overflowed by the tide was at the sits near Saltcoats. At a much
later period than the one we speak of, the tide encroached farther on the land. In
January 1796, during a high tide, the sea was so deep on the highway from Sea Bank
gate to Saltcoats, that a person told me that he was obliged to walk all the way on the
top of the wall. The pit of which we speak was between the road and the sea, and,
as it was considered in danger during the time of high spring-tides two persons were
set to watch, and if necessary to give alarm to those who were at work below. On
one occasion, the watchers, having found the charms of an alehouse too powerful for
them, forsook their post; and the sea having risen to an unusual height, overflow-
ed the pit mouth, and, rushing down into the gulf below, gave notice to the col-
liers of their danger when it was too late; and of the six who were at work, not one
escaped to tell the mournful tale. As the pit filled, the imprisoned air forced a way
for itself at various places; and the water was propelled upwards like so many jets,
d'eau. The pillars that supported the roof giving way,the ground sucided, and con-
tinues to be called the sits; and it used till lately to be covered all winter with water.
	But a similar catastrophe happened to another pit betwixt Sea Bank and Steven-
ston. At that time, Stevenston burn flowed down a hollow, still evident in Sea Bank


