
396                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

pairs of horse labourings within distinct and convenient boundaries.
And when granting new leases of nineteen years endurance, over
the whole lands, the reclaiming and rendering thoroughly arable all
the improvable waste ground was conditioned for, and the tenantry,
now secure of their holdings, are going on with spirit and activity.
And when the belts and clumps of planting which the proprietor
has reserved, and is now enclosing, are completed, the district will
assume a different and much more highly improved appearance.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town tn Avoch is the royal
burgh of Fortrose, about a mile and tbree-quarters distant.
   Means of Communibation.- There is a turnpike road through the
southern district of the parish, which leads to Fort-George Ferry
on ther east, to Kessock Ferry on the south-west, and to the royal
burgh of Dingwall on the north-west. The toll lets at L.67 per
annum. In the year 1829, when such appalling devastations were
committed by the floods in the north of Scotland, the bridge of
Avoch was entirely swept away. The burn having for some days
assumed the appearance and the power of a mighty river. A new
bridge was speedily erected with a higher arch. It and all the
other bridges and parapets are kept in good condition.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is very conveniently si-
tuated, on the southern side of the parish, close to the village, in
which nearly one-half of the whole population reside. There are
none of the parishioners residing at a much greater distance from
it than three miles. It was built in the year 1670, new roofed
and enlarged in the year 1792, and the ceiling was lathed and
plastered in the year 1833. It is at present upon the whole in a
pretty comfortable state of repair, and affords accommodation for
more than 600; some of the seats are the property of private indi-
viduals. The remainder in general belong to farms on the estates
of the heritors, for which no payuaent is exacted. The manse was
built in 1822, the extent of the glebe in detached parts amounting
to 5 acres, 3 roods, 16 poles, 2 yards imperial, and may be valued
at L.2 per acre. The stipend amounts to 93 quarters, 1 boll, 2
firlots, 3 quarts of barley, and, to 159 cwt. 108 lbs. of oatmeal, pay-
able at the rate of fiar prices. The average for the last seven
years is L.260. The annual allowance for communion elements
is L.8, 6s. 8d. There is one Dissenting place of worship in the
village, erected in the year 1819. It is an Independent chapel in
communion with the Congregational Union of Scotland. The mi-




