
	               MAYBOLE.                          369

of Drumshang, are of sufficient magnitude and importance to
entitle them to a particular notice. The farm of Drumshang
consists of upwards of 1000 imperial acres, 600 of which are, or
rather were, in the state of moor, and the scanty herbage found
among the heather that covered the greater part of it, may be
inferred from the fact of the whole being valued at from 3s. to 4s.
per acre. The tract selected by Mr M'Janet for his experiments
was a part of this, lying on trap rock, and about 750 feet above
the level of the sea. Little drainage was required, and he there-
fore commenced his operations by stripping off the surface, burn-
ing it, and then spreading the ashes over the soil. He afterwards
laid upon it 20 bushels of bone-dust per acre, and in the usual
way prepared it for, and sowed it with, turnips. They proved a
full and excellent crop, and were consumed entirely on the ground
with sheep. The next season he sowed the whole with oats and
barley with grass-seedr. The oats were an abundant crop, ave-
raging seven quarters per acre; the barley was rather light, yield-
ing only about four quarters. The grass over the whole came up
thick and fine, and is now in pasture, which is considered well worth
L. 1 per acre. The tract thus reclaimed was considerably above
100 acres, and the whole being done in two years, the Highland
Society conferred on Mr M'Janet their gold medal, for the
greatest extent of waste land in Scotland brought into cultivation
within the shortest time. The expenses attendant on such ope-
rations, appear, however, too great to be borne by the tenant, and
the poor return for agricultural produce, threatens to arrest the
speed of the plough, and to diminish rather than increase the
amount of cultivated land.
	In such circumstances, too, an immediate increase of produce be-
comes essential to the farmer, and instead of looking to the tardy
returns of reclaimed waste, be is led to apply his capital to the
more perfect improvement of his arable land by furrow-draining.
This process is very expensive also, costing when done, either
with stones or tiles, from L. 5 to L. 7 per acre. But landlords
seem peculiarly disposed to aid their tenants in this great and per-
manent improvemant, either by advancing the whole capital re-
quired, and charging a per centage of additional rent, or by con-
tributing a proportion of the expense, and leaving the farmer the
whole benefit during the remainder of his lease. From all I have
seen and heard both from landlords and tenants, I consider fur-
row-draining upon clayey and retentive soils as the grand improve-
   AYR.                              Aa


