
     of Cupar of Fife.

Playfield, etc.-During the dark ages, theatrical represen-
tations, called mysteries or moralities, (the persons allegorical,
such as Sin, Death, etc.) were frequently exhibited.  The
place, where these entertainments were presented, was called
the Playfield*.  "Few towns of note," says Arnot, in his

<FOOTNOTE>

*The pieces presented in the Playfield of Cupar, however,
seem not, at the aera of the Reformation, to have had any con-
nection with religious subject, hut were calculated to interest
and amuse, by exhibiting every variety of character, and every
species of humour.  To illustrate the manners which prevailed
in Scotland m the 16th century, and as a specimen of the dra-
matic compositions which pleased our fathers, Arnot, in the
appendix to his History, gives a curious excerpt from a manu-
script comedy, which bears to have been exhibited in the Play-
field at Cupar, and which had been in the possession of the late
Mr Garrick.
That part of the excerpt only, which relates to the place
where the play was presented, is here transcribed.
"Here begins the proclamation of the play, made by DAVID
LINDSAY of the Mount+, Knight, in the Playfield, in the month
of,the year of God 1555 years."
"Proclamation made in Caput of Fife.

"Our purpose is on the seventh day of June,
"If weather serve, and we have rest and peace,
"We shall be seen into our playing place,
"In good array about the hour of seven.
"Of thriftiness that day, I pray you cease;
"But ordain us good drink against allevin.
"Fail not to be upon the Castlehill,
"Beside the place where we purpose to play;
"With gude stark wine your flaggons see fill,
And had yourselves the merriest that you may.
"Cottager.  I shall be there, with God's grace,
"Tho' there were never so great a price,
"And foremost in the fair:
"And drink a quart in Cupar town,
"With my gossip John Williamson,
"Tho' all the nolt should rair," etc.
++The MOUNT, formerly the estate of Sir DAVID LINDSAY, lies
in the immediate neighbourhood of Cupar.

^i. e. Eleven.


