
     Of Cromarty.

   Course of the Tide, and Sea-Weed.-There is a very strong
tide flows in and out between the Sutors; and it is remark-
able, that the sea has made considerable encroachments on
the E. end of the town, and falls in on the W.  There is
tradition among the inhabitants, that the ground on which
the old town of Cromarty stood, being towards the E., is
now wholly under water, and there are strong presumptions
to favour the tradition in part.  It is well known, that what
was formerly called the western extremity of the town, is
now the eastern; neither are there any houses to the E. of
the old cross of Cromarty, which is generally supposed to
have been placed about the centre of the old town.  But
what tends to confirm this tradition most of all, is, that many
of the inhabitants now living have seen several small tracks
of garden ground, which are now either cut away, or cover-
ed by the sea.  A storm from the E. covers the shore of this
place with great quantities of sea-ware, which proves excel-
lent manure of itself, and answers well as a mixture in the
dunghil.  The quantity of kelp made on the shore, does not
exceed 10 tons annually.

   Sutors Bay and Harbour.-The Sutors of Cromarty, so
generally known, are two promontories jutting out into the

     VOL. XII. I i

<FOOTNOTE>

and whitings are found good at all seasons.  All the kinds of fish, except her-
rings, are generally taken by bait.  Cromarty finds market for the greater pro-
portion of fish caught by our fishers. It frequently happens that several of the
boats go up to Dingwall, where the bay terminates, and there find a ready
market for all their cargoes.  It may not be improper to observe here, that this
place labours under a great disadvantage, from the want of a weekly meat-
market, which proves very inconvenient for small families.  Beef is sold, when
cheapest, at 2 1/2 d. the pound; it advances in the spring season to 3 1/2 d. and 4 d.
Mutton much about the same price; pork somewhat lower.  A good fowl is
never below 6 d.  Butcher meat of all kinds is generally very ill to be had dur-
ing the spring season, and until the latter end of July.


