
		ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.                     1067

that spirit of improvement which is generally carried on along a
new line of road, bv which easy access is afforded.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The church is very handsome and com-
fortable, and seated for 628. It was erected this year at an ex-
pense, exclusive of carriages, of about L.900. The manse was
built in 1790, and two new rooms added in 1835. The stipend
is L. 150, of which the sum of L. 12, 16s. 2 1/2d. is paid by the Ex-
chequer. The glebe extends to nearly twenty imperial acres, but
of such worthless soil, that it has never repaid the expense of la-
bouring it. The old glebes of Aboyne and Glentanner, of ex-
cellent soil, were, on the occasion of a central church being built
for the united parish in 1763, excambed for double extent of a
bleak moor, which bad evidently at one period been the bed of
the Dee, and which had scarcely any soil on it. It is only fit for
growing furze and broom, or stunted firs. The minister has the
privilege of a peat-moss, four miles distant, on the top of a very
stedp hill.
         Education.-The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L. 28,
which, with allowance from the Dick bequest and school fees, may
raise his income to L. 80 per annum, with house and garden. The
usual branches of education are taught, and the number of scho-
lars last winter was as high as 140. From the school there
is at present one student at Marischal College and another at
King's, both holding competition bursaries. In the Glentan-
ner division of the parish, there is a school established by the
Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, with a salary of
L. 16, and the usual accommodations from the heritors. The ave-
rage number of scholars, 60: but their fees do not amount to much.
From remote corners of the parish, several children, attend neigh-
bouring parochial schools, to which they are nearer than to that
of Aboyne; and in winter, some are instructed in adventure schools.
The minister, parochial and society schoolmasters, are natives of
the parish.
         Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons on the
poor's roll has nearly doubled within the last few years. They at
present amount to 34. Among them, in proportion to their re-
spective wants, are divided, by quarterly distributions, about L.35
per annum, arising from church collections, amounting on an ave-
rage to L.23; interest of money, L.3; and the balance from volun-
tary contributinns by some of the heritors and others. There are
no beggars in the parish; and the paupers on the roll derive much


