
                         MOY AND DALARROSSIE.                      103

     with a net, as they do not take the fly; and if properly prepared
     they would, we doubt not, equal the potted char of the Cumberland
     lakes.  The trout go up the burns to spawn in the beginning of
     November,-when immense numbers of them are killed with spears,
     -a practice which ought to be stopped by the legislature, as it is
     most destructive to the fish, not only here but all over the High-
     lands.  The char spawn by the sides of the lake in October; and
     this is the time in which they are considered most delicate.  The
     parish is vell stocked with grouse, ptarmigan, &c.; and their usual
     accompaniments, English sportsmen, are not wanting.  In fact, the
     one seems now to be as closely connected with the other, as cause
     and effect, and the only thing which will ever put a stop to it, is
     the annihilation of the grouse-an event which does not seem far
     distant.
       Botany.-The plants in the parish are those common in every
     Highland district ; and, as far as is yet known, there is but one very
     rare plant to be found.  This is the Orobus niger, which was dis-
     covered in the year 1820 by Dr Alexander M'Lauchlan; and a
     specimen was sent by him to Dr Hooker, Glasgow.  The locali-
     ty of the plant is in Craig an Eoin, the rock already referred to, as
     being about a mile to the west of the church of Moy.  Many sci-
     entific gentlemen have searched for it since, but I believe have
     always failed of obtaining it, probably from not being acquainted
     with the exact situation in which it is to be found.  The plants
     used as medicine are chiefly the leaf of the whortleberry, tussila-
     go, &c. and the people generally bind up wounds with a blade of
     common cabbage, or a leaf of tobacco.  In dyeing, they use the
     bark of the common alder, which, with copperas, produces a fine
     black.  They also dye green and yellow with he`ther. They
     likewise dye various other colours, but black, blue, green, and red
     are those universally iised for their clothing.  The common alder
     is prevalent about lakes, and on the borders of rivers,' and in
     marshy places; but the country also affords fir, ash, aspen, larch,
     (lately introduced,) birch, mountain-ash, and some other hard-
     wood trees when planted in favourable situations.  Fir, birck,
     and mountain-ash are, however, the most general.  Of the former
     there are several plantations belonging to Mackintosh of Mackin-
     tosh, which are very thriving; but the largest are on the property
     of Mr Maebean of Tomatin.  He has about 80 acres in full growth,
     and has lately planted trees to the number of one million and a


