
     Statistical Account

posite to the town of Peterhead on the south side of the
bay, about 3 miles distance from the town.  It stands on a
promontory betwixt two very deep sissures, with high crag-
gy rocks on each side, where the sea rolls in a considerable
way with great force, and such impetuosity when the wind
blows from the east, that the spray of the sea is often car-
ried over the top of the house; the chasm on the north side
is within a few feet of the house, which is built on the top
of a precipice; the house is not inhabited, and is in ruins;
the walls are still remaining.  It must appear strange how
such a situation should at first have been chosen, and yet
such situations are frequent on this coast.  Dunnoter, (for-
merly a seat of the Earl Marischal), the old castle of Slains,
Slains Castle, (seats of the family of Errol), and Dundarg,
all stand on the brink of high rocks projecting into the
sea.
   Boddom castle some time formerly may have been a for-
tress; there were several cannon remaining there lately,
and there is one not yet removed.  The house was inha-
bited about the beginning of this century.

   Mill, and Some Ruins.-There is a common meal mill,
situate in an extensive, romantic, solitary den, about 3 or

<FOOTNOTE>

in a charter granted to Sir Gilbert Keith of Inverugie in 1490, are said
to be "Terras de Corsarstown, Buckla, Scotsmill et Raven's Craig."  The
lands of Tortoistown, probably the same with Corsarstown, Scotsmill, and
Raven's Craig, with the superiority of the town of Peterhead, and some
lands round it, which formerly belonged to the Abbey of Deer, were in
possession of the Marischal family till their forfeiture.  The Marischal
family were not raised to the Peerage till 1450, when William, Great
Marischal of Scotland, was called by the King's writ (not by patent) to
sit in Parliament by the title of Lord Keith, and in 1451 by the title of
Earl Marischal.
   A more particular account of that family will be found in the Statisti-
cal Acconut of St Fergus, at neighbouring parish, where the castle of In-
verugie is situate.


