
    362
                              BANFFSHIRE.

   Partridges are abundant.  Black-game is to be found, and wood-
   cocks are numerous in the early part of winter, or end of autumn.
   At Arndilly, these have occasionally remained throughout the
   year, nestling and bringing out their young.  A few plovers,
   snipes, and curlews frequent a large moss in the lower end of the
   parish, and the few remaining swamps, where also the bittern
   has been heard and seen.
   	There is nothing peculiar in the breeds of the domestic cattle.
   The black-cattle are chiefly Highland or Aberdeenshire.  The
   few sheep are Leicesters, on the arable grounds, and Lintons on
   the skirts of the hills.  Therd are no goats.  The brooks have
   all a good store of common trout.  The river here abounds with
   salmon in close time, and would naturally abound with them
   throughout the year, as it did of old; but, during the fishing sea-
   son, the labours of the fishermen, in the lower part of its course,
   are now so indefatigable, and the operation of the cruive dike, si-
   tuated just at the lower extremity of the parish, is now so perfect
   as a barrier, that comparatively very few fish get  up even so far
   as the fishing grounds here ; and the fishery rent of the parish
   and of Rothes, has, instead of rising in proportion to the greatly
   increased value of the commodity, dwindled to a mere trifle.
   When the water is low, even the Sunday's slap is said to be of
   little use for the run of the fish, owing to the construction of the
   dike, and there is a tolerable supply here only when a flood has
   overtopped the dike, or caused a breach in it, and has in some
   degree interrupted the fishing below.  There is generally, how-
   ever, a sufficient number of fish to afford excellent sport to the
   angler.  White or sea-trout, and finnocks, are at certain seasons
   very abundant.
   	Woods.-A noble forest, chiefly planted by operations of various
   dates, extends on the estate of Arndilly, to a length of from seven
   to eight miles, along the banks of the Fiddich and Spey , and
   stretches far back from these streams up on the slopes, and into
   the recesses of Benagen.  The plantations here consist of Scotch
   fir, larch, spruce, and various hard-woods.  There is a consider-
   able intermixture of natural hard-wood, birch, creen, alder, ash,
   mountain-ash, and oak, in the lower parts, near the Spey, and a
   considerable breadth of natural Scotch fir, spreading from the
   plantations towards the top of the hill.  Everywhere, in the valley
   of the Spey, and at Arndilly as much as anywhere, the Scotch


