
150                        ARGYLESHRE.

   It is supposed, by an intelligent gentleman intimately acquainted
with the parish, that the arable land might be doubled with a pro-
fitable application of capital.
   No estimate could be procured of the land under natural wood.
The common indigenous trees are oak, birch, hazel, saucb, ash,
and alder.  Planted the various kinds of firs, planetree, oak, and
ash.  Both plantations and woods appear to be well managed,
though, by several modes, sometimes the young wood is enclosed
for seven or ten years, the tenant receiving an allowance for the
loss of the pasture enclosed, which, being always wintering, is very
considerable.  In other cases, cattle are excluded from the woods
for fifteen or twenty years, and the woodlands then only pastured
lightly, while, in others, the woodlands are enclosed permanently
and never pastured at all.  The last method is most subservient
to appearance, that first mentioned to profit; for, when profit is
the object, the sacrifice of so much low land, where wintering, is
so much wanted, is thought bad management.  The woods are
thinned periodically.  The oak, from the value of its bark, is held
in most esteem.                        I
   There is no arable land let separately.  Some would estimate
the proportion of rent applicable to it at L.1, 5s. to L.1, 1Os. per
acre, others at 10s. to l5s. Probably l5s. per acre may approach
nearest the truth.
   The value of grazings varies according to the nature of the
soil, situation, and other circumstances, some farms being consi-
dered fairly rented at the rate of L.2, 10s. per bead of black-
cattle, and 3s. 6d. per sheep yearly, while others are not consi-
dered profitable at L1, 10s. for black-cattle, and 1s. 6d. for
sheep.  The average rent over the parish is estimated at L.1, 15s.
per head of black-cattle three years old and upwards, L.1 under
that age, and full-grown sheep, 3s. 6d.
   Sheep and Black-Cattle.--The former are the black-faced, the
latter chiefly the Argyleshire breed.  Considerable improvement
has been made om the breed of sheep by means of tups from the
south ; but, it is believed, the sheep stock generally can never,
owing to the poverty and thinness of the soil, and consequent in-
feriority of pasture, be made equal to that of some neighbouring
parishes.  A great part of the land is better adapted for black-
cattle, Consequently a great number are kept, and fully more at-
tention has been paid to their improvement than to that of the
sheep.
   With regard to the management of stock and the cultivation of


