
			   STOW.   			    405

full-grown female, measured from the tip of the nose to the in-
sertion of the tail, 3 feet ] 1 inch, and the tail 18 inches. It was
killed in a pool about five feet deep, below the ford at Pirn, early
in November 1832; and had been then suckling young. This
is entirely at variance with Buffon's account of the otter's sea-
son of bringing forth, which, he says, is early in spring; but
agrees with that of Mr Lots of the Academy at Stockholm, and
the attested observation of Dr Goldsmith, who, though in general
a slender authority in natural history, seems to have paid consi-
derable attention to the character and habits of this animal. The
size of the above-mentioned female, however, is one-third more
than be states to be the usual length. Colour brown, and other-
wise agreeing with the common descriptions.
   The mode in which these otters were killed, shows the great dif-
ficulty of penetrating their skin. They were literally drowned,
being pressed down to the bottom of the pool for six or seven mi-
nutes with a leister (as it is commonly called in the district),
which is a species of sharp-barbed trident (generally, however,
with four prongs), employed in killing salmon. Notwithstanding
the pressure employed, and the time of its continuance, not the
slightest impression was made on the hide. That an amphibious
animal should have been so soon drowned, may appear strange;
but it is to be remembered that its death was occasioned not
merely by its being kept so long under water, but by suffocation, or
something approaching to it, caused by the pressure of the "leis-
ter," by which it was, as it were, pinned to the bottom of the pool,
so as to cause extreme difficulty, if not impossibility, of respira-
tion. These otters are now preserved in the Museum of the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh.
   Ermine or Stoat.-A beautiful specimen of this rare animal was
caught by the shepherd of Bowshank in February 1837, with the
assistance of his dog, in the neighbourhood of the woods of Bow-
land. Length from the tip of the snout to the insertion of the tail
10 inches, tail 4 inches, including the tuft, which is, 11/2 inch. Co-
lour, white, except the tuft, which is a beautiful black. Through
the kindness of Mr Brockie, tenant of Bowshank, the, writer of
this article has been enabled to present this specimen to the Mu-
seum of Natural History in the University of Edinburgh.
   The resemblances between this animal and the weasel are so
great, that some have considered them as of the same species. This,
however, appears not to be the case. Buffon says that the ermine


