
                        LAGGAN.                                 429

is full rent, and if the wool does not pay the rent, that the farm is
too high set. Cows are pastured at from L. 2 to L. 3 during sum-
mer. The rental of the whole parish is about L.4800; valued
rent, L.1801 Scots.
   Wages.-Men-servants receive from L.4 to L. 6.during the
half-year, exclusive of victuals; women from L.1, 15s, to L. 2, 5s.
The ordinary wages of labourers are 1s. per day with, and 1s. 6d.
without victuals; women receive 6d. Carpenters, 1s. 6d.; masons,
2s. per day. Tailors, shoemakers, and smiths charge according to
their work.
   Husbandry and Produce.-The system of farming by a regular
rotation of cropping is well understood in this parish, and would
be practised by the tenantry, if adequate encouragement was held
out to them to do so. But short leases, and sometimes no leases
at all, with rack-rents, and harvest frosts, do not afford such an
encouragement. The produce is bear, oats, and potatoes. In
plentiful years, the growers can get but little for  these commodi-
ties, on account of their distance from a regular market; and in
scarce years, when prices are high, and a market could be got at
home, they have then unfortunately little or nothing to sell.  We
are of opinion, that, during the last two years, more than 2000 bolls
of oatmeal have been imported to this parish from Strathspey,
Athole, and Fort-William.
   Live-Stock.-The common breed of sheep in this parish is the
black-faced. This kind is supposed to be more hardy, and to stand
the winter better, than a Cheviot stock. The number of sheep
that pasture On our hills, we should suppose to exceed 40,000. The
rearing of sheep yields a somewhat sure return, at a comparatively
small expense. At the same time, sheep-farmers are liable to
heavy losses, in stormy winters and unfavourable springs. Black-.
cattle are also reared.  The system followed with respect to them
is to sell the stots to south country drovers, when six-quarters old,
and to keep the queys. None is fed for the butcher, except for
home consumption; and such are fed for the most part on sum-
mer grass.  The small quantity of turnip grown is given to the
cows that are giving winter milk.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The nearest market-town is King-
ussie, distant ten miles; Fort- William is distant forty to the west;
Inverness, fifty-five to the north-east. We have had a daily pgst for
the last three years. There is a regular intercourse with these


