
                             KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                    17

advocate, first Steward-Depute of the stewartry of Kirkcudbright,
passed sentence of death upon Henry Greig, accused of theft,
house-breaking, and robbery. The execution took place in the
vicinity of the ancient Gallow-hill, on an eminence at the side of
the public road. This was the last melancholy exhibition of a
capital punishment that the burgh of Kirkcudbright has been
called upon to witness.
	In the spring of 177S, the celebrated Paul Jones paid a visit
to St Mary's Isle for the purpose of carrying Off its noble owner,
the Earl of Selkirk. Soon after he had effected a landing, he
was informed by some labourers that his Lordship was in England.
He then ordered his men to return to their boat; but, observing
on their countenances symptoms of dissatisfaction, be allowed the
party, commanded by two lieutenants, to proceed to the mansion-
house, and demand the Earl's silver-plate. The various articles
were delivered to them by the Countess of Selkirk, and the party
setting off without delay, reached their ship. The plate was
bought at a considerable price by Paul Jones himself in France,
and returned to her Ladyship in perfect safety.
        Maps &c.-The land-owners have maps, plans, or surveys of
their properties, which tend to illustrate the antiquities of the pa-
rish.
        Eminent Characters.-Exclusive of the eminent characters al-
ready taken notice of, we may mention a few men who have done
honour to Kirkcudbright by their talents and labours.
	In the reign of David II., John Carpenter, a Franciscan or
Grey-friar belonging to the convent established at Kirkcudbright,
was employed to fortify Dumbarton Castle. For this service he
received from the King an annual pension of L.20 Sterling. He
is said to have been an excellent engineer, and "dextrous at con-
triving all instruments of war."
	John Barton, brother of the well known Andrew Barton, and
son of the renowned sea captain of that name, who was slain by
the Portuguese in the reign of James III., died and, was buried
in Kirkcudbright church-yard.
	John Welsh, son-in-law of John Knox, was minister of the
parish. He was banished from Britain for his opposition to Epis-
copal encroachment. By powerful intercession, the King at
length allowed him to reside in London, where he died in 1622.

	KIRKCUDBRIGHT.             	      B


