
         			RERRICK.                        359

bridges, in the extensive plantations, and in the improved agricul-
ture of the district over which his influence and his estates extend-
ed. His important position as Convener of the Stewartry enabled
him to give efficient support to every measure of general utility,
guided, as all his objects were, by enlarged and liberal views on
economical and political subjects. About twenty years ago, Mr
Maitland transferred his residence to his estate of Compstone on
the banks of the Tarf, but he still continued to take a lively in-
terest in the parish of Rerrick ; and during years of declining
health, when he had unavoidably in a great measure withdrawn
from public life and active exertion of every sort, he still devoted
himself anxiously to the work of doing good, by combining the
improvements on his estate in Rerrick with the employment of the
poor. Shortly before Mr Maitland's death, which took place at
Compstone on the 20th of July 1843, he had removed the old
mansion of Dundrennan, and erected a shooting-lodge on the site
of it.
	Nevertheless, it is indisputable that Rerrick suffers from the non-
residence of so many heritors, and it is impossible not to look back,
with somewhat of a feeling of regret, to the good old times when
the hospitable homes of Collin and Dondrennan, of Orroland and
Portmary, were occupied by their respective proprietors, and when,
of course, the interests of the tenantry and the poor formed the
subject of active and personal superintendence. Many of the
principal estates in the parish are now occupied and managed as
led farms for grazing, and with less of agricultural spirit and stir
than we should have seen, had it so happened that we could have
numbered not only among the proprietors, but among the inhabi-
tants of the parish, Sir Robert Abercromby of Birkenbog, Mr
Murray of Broughton, M. P. for the Stewartry, Mr Maitland of
Dundrennan, late Solicitor-General for Scotland, and Mr Welsh
of Collin.
	The village at the Abbey consists chiefly of feus upon the estates
of Dundrennan and Orroland. The houses are pleasantly inter-
spersed with fine old trees, and combine admirably with the pre-
cincts of the Abbey. From Dundrennan to the sea the distance
is about a mile and a half. The road runs through a narrow
valley, and passing, Netherlaw, the seat of Sir Robert Abercromby,
leads directly to the shore, where the rock is still pointed out by
the peasantry from which the hapless Mary embarked on her ill-


