
                                      ASSYNT.                         117

         salary is L.25; the General Assembly's teacher, L.25; the Society
         for Propagating Christian Knowledge give L.15 to their teachers;
         and the Glasgow Society, L.12.  All these teachers are entitled
         to demand fees, which privilege is not of much advantage, them,
         as far as money is concerned.  Many of the people, however,
         make some remuneration, by supplying the teacher with provisions
         and fuel.  The Edinburgh Gaelic School Society allow their teach-
         ers a salary of L.25, without the liberty of exacting fees.  These
         schools are pretty well attended from the beginning of November
         till the end of March.  The branches taught are, reading in Gae.
         lic and English, writing, arithmetic, &c.; a very few are learning
         Latin.  There is much need that the system of education amongst
         us should be improved, and the qualification of teachers raised.
         At the same time, we would acknowledge the obligations under
         which we lie to the charitable and religious associations above
         named.  The Bible is read daily in all our schools, and attention
         paid to the religious instruction of the pupils.
            A reading club has been instituted, and promises well.
            There is no jail.
            Poor.-The number of poor annually relieved, (exclusive of the
         Stoer district,) 73.  Amount annually expended in their relief,
         L.13, 15s. Amount for that purpose arising from church collec-
         tions, L.7,12s. Amount from other sources, L.6, 3s.  The poor
         are divided into three classes, and get respectively 4s., 2s. 6d and
         2s. each.
            Alehouses.-There is a competent number of public houses li-
         censed, and all others are strictly prohibited the selling of ardent
         spirits.  In this respect a decided change for the better has taken
         place.
            Fuel.-Peats are universally used, and much difficulty is expe-
         rienced in seasoning them, arising from the excessive rains with
         which we are often deluged.

            Since writing the foregoing Account, Her Grace the Duchess-
         Countess of Sutherland has been removed, from this world; and
         her titles and estates have devolved upon Her Grace's eldest son,
         the present Duke, who has become twenty-second Earl of Suther-
         land.
            To the late Duchess, the parish of Assynt owed much. She
         uniformly manifested a warm interest in the welfare of its inhabi-
         tants; and it is evident they evinced a hereditary and respectful


