
                        TRAQUIR.                                  39

Well, on Minchmoor, and the Lady's Well, (our Lady's Well?)
on the estate of Kailzie, be excepted ; the waters of all which
are pure and limpid, and dqually fitted for household purposes.
Why the first received the name, or was put under the protection
of a saint, is not known, unless it was, that, being near the church,
and on the side of a public road, the weary traveller, and the
church-going population, might be reminded, on quenching their
thirst at its fountain, of that " fountain which has been opened in
Israel," and of that " stream that maketh glad the city of our
God." *
   Streams.--This parish is watered by some ten or a dozen streams,
of which the Quair is the only one dignified by the name of The
Water, as it alone has any thing like tributaries.  Its whole course,
however, is not above six miles ; but in that course it receives the
waters of five or six small streams, two of which, namely, Glenga-
ber or Fingland, and Glenlude, or New-halls burns, are each of
them nearly equal to itself in size and length of course.   Kirk-
burn waters, the ancient parish of Kailzie, and the Bold and Plora
burns have their source near the Cheese Well, and flow into the
Tweed towards the eastern boundary of the parish.   Fan (Fawn ?)
burn, or, according to Dr Pennecuik, Taf-burn, divides in one
part the parishes of Yarrow and  Kailzie.
   Geology.--The most common rocks found in the parish are those
generally called whin (greywacke;) some of  finer, and others of
a coarser grain.     A considerable quantity of slate also occurs ; but
only one small quarry of it is wrought, and it is now found to bear so
ill the changes  of the weather, that even the noble proprietor of it
frequently uses slate  from Wales for the purpose of roofing. A dike
or vein of porphyry crosses the ridges of some of the hills in this
and the neighbouring parishes, and is highly esteemed for the cur-
ling-stones which it affords.    Of the different ores mentioned in
the former Statistical Account, no traces are now found ; and it
is supposed by many that they had been brought hither either by
the workmen employed, or that they were the remnants of ore that
had been carried to this quarter to be smelted in the then " forest
of Traquair."  At all events, "the mines" have long been for-
saken as worse than unprofitable.
   Zoology.--In the department of zoology, this parish appears to
be rather more distinguished for the want of some species of the

<FOOTNOTE>It is said that the Cheese Well was so named from the circumstance  of the pas-
sengers  dropping into it a bit of cheese for  the use of the fairies.


