
188                         ARGYLESHIRE.

of religion ; but they are, it is hoped, alive to its importance, and
influended by its sacred truths.
   Smuggling, now suppressed, did at one time exercise a baneful
influence, though, from the manner in which this nefarious traffic
was conducted, the same extent of demoralization did not follow
in its train here as elsewhere.  The persons engaged in it seem
generally to have acquired a speculative and unsettled cast of
mind ; but many of them, strange to say, are yet distinguished for
great sobriety, which, with the exceptions that occur here, as in
every community, forms a striking feature in the character of the
whole population.

            		    IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-From the several statements given of the extent,
&c. of the parish, it will appear that the arable rand bears but a
small proportion to the pasture, and thus, even in those farms
in which the greatest quantity of crop is raised, and to the culti-
vation of which most attention is paid, there is seldom more corn
grown than is sufficient for the consumption of the stock maintained.
In so far, however, as agriculture is attended to, a better system
of husbandry has been introduced.  Greater attention is paid, and
especially on one, and perhaps the most improved estate in the
Parish, to the subdivision and better cultivation of the land, and
in securing a more regular rotation of crops.  Efforts have also been
made, attended with considerable success, in improving moss and in
reclaiming other waste lands.  The usual crops are oats, barley, and
potatoes; and in some farms sown grass and turnips are raised.
Five of the estates within the bounds of the parish are managed
by the respective proprietors, three of them exclusively, as sheep
grazings.  There are farms let to persons paying upwards of
L.100 of rent on leasbs, in no instance exceeding nineteen years.
Small tenants, as they are termed, usually hold their possessions
without an lease.
   The most common breed of sheep, as already stated, is the
Linton or black-faced, in some instances crossed with Cheviots.
The cattle are the pure Argyleshire or west Highland breed.
The average rate of grazing, in accordance with which the follow-
ing details are given, may be stated at 2s. 6d. per head for each
sheep and: L.2 for each cow.  The usual rate of servants' wages
is, for ploughmen, single men, from L.9 to L.13, with rations;
for house servants, from L.3 to, L.4 per annum; for day labour-
ers, 1s. 3d. per day; for masons and carpenters, 2s. per day.


