
     108                        PERTHSHIRE:

     the session ordains the lofts to be put up in the kirk." "March
     5, 1593, the session ordains the masters of hospital to cause repair
     the kirk floor."  "June 18, 1599, the session condescends that
     L. 3 be given to the tailors for the reparation of their seat in the
     kirk, which was transported at the desire of the minister."  "March
     29, 1609, James Adamson, master of the hospital, produced
     account of sums of money disbursed by him at the command of
     the session, for bigging of twa lofts in the kirk, the one for the pro-
     vost, bailies, and council, and another for common people, and the
     scholars of the grammar-school, which account being heard and
     allowed, the accounter was found to have super-expended L. 160,
     1s. and 6 pennies, which sum they ordain to be paid to him of the first
     and readiest casualities of the hospital."  "April 1600, the session
     ordains a collection to be made the next Sabbath for reparation of
     the kirk, and for that effect ordains twa baillies to be at every kirk
     door, and the elders to be with them."  "June 10, 1616, the ses-
     sion ordains the pulpit to be repaired, with a new sad green cloth
     fringed with green silk, like the pulpit of Edinburgh."  " January
     21, 1639, whilk day the session ordains the . . . . . of the
     burgh of Perth to put forth their auld seat equal with their new
     seat, and to repair the glass windows forenent both their seats."
     "September 3, 1639, whilk day the session ordains the masters
     of the kirk wark to do nothing of the kirk wark till the spring time,
     but only point and mend the sclates."
       Numerous similar extracts might be produced to evince the fact,
     that the temporalia of the church of Perth was, at the early period
     referred to, under the jurisdiction and management of the ministers
     and elders,-that all things connected with it were arranged and
     disposed of as they pleased.  It is true they had no power given
     them as a kirk-session over the temporalia, but they had the power
     as the appointed hospital managers.
       A complete change has taken place.  The temporalia are now
     entirely under the jurisdiction of the civil authorities of the city,
     and the kirk-session or ministers and elders have not even a sitting
     in the church to dispose of to any individual, however destitute.
     As a matter of curiosity, it may be worth while to inquire how
     this change has been brought about-whether members of the town-
     counchl holding office in the session, which they did for a consi-
     derable time during the semi-episcopalian semi-presbyterian period
     of the church of Scotland, may not have contributed to effect the
     change.
                                       4


