
                           TOROSAY.                             289

reserve any knowledge they may have of it, till they have occasion
to address those who do not understand Gaelic.  So far, there-
fore, as they are concerned, the language has neither gained nor
lost ground, for the last forty years.  How long it may remain in
this stationary condition is uncertain, especially as there are seve-
ral families from the lowlands of late settled in the parish.  These,
having no inducement to study the Gaelic, as they find themselves
generally understood in English, may, through time, habituate the
natives to speak this language, even among themselves.  At school,
children are taught to read in both languages.  Though the teach-
ing of them thus to read Gaelic would seem to tend to its perma-
nency, the contrary effect, in all probability, will ensue.  By being
able to compare both versions of the Scriptures, they daily add to
their vocabulary of English words, so that the Gaelic in this man-
ner forms to them a key for the acquisition of the English.  So
long as the native Highlanders understand Gaelic better than
English, religious instruction must be communicated to them in
that language, even if this circumstance should have the effect of
postponing the day when English shall be the universal language
of the empire.  For, however desirable that event may be, it would
be making too great a sacrifice to attempt to expedite it by suffer-
in the meantime, even one soul to perish for lack of that
knowledge which maketh wise unto salvation.
   The people are remarkably quick in apprehension ; and a great
improvement has lately taken place in their moral and religious cha-
racter.  An illegitimate birth is now a matter of rare occurrence, and,
when it does take place, it is rather remarkable, that, for the last
eight years, one or other of the parties happens to be a stranger.
Poaching and smuggling have entirely ceased.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres standard imperial measure
which are in tillage may be computed at about 7500.  To
the cultivated land of the parish there might, with a profitable ap-
plication of capital, be added 5000 acres more ; but, instead of
keeping this addition to the cultivated land in occasionial tillage, it
would be more profitable to allow it to lie out in permanent pas-
ture.  In such a climate at this, and having but an inferior soil to
work upon, cropping must be but a secondary consideration with
the agriculturist.  As his chief dependence is upon grazing, any
   ARGYLE.                                 T


