

                      KIRKWALL AND ST OLA.                   9

  and more recently, one in connection with the Original of Asso-
  ciate Secession Synod. Thus a majority of the inhabitants are
  Dissenters, and from the great length of time that they have been
  so, and their strong attachment to their respective persuasions,
  there is no probability that, in any circumstances, Many of them,
  will return to the Established Church.  While the churchman
  must regret this state of matters, yet, if a Christian, he will re-
  joice that not one individual in this parish, except through his
  own fault, is deprived of an opportunity of attending divine ordi-
  nances in a Protestant, or even a Presbyterian place of worship,
  and under pastors of good character, and preaching the Gospel
  in its purity. Of how many cities or burghs in Scotland can the
  same be said ?
    The cathedral, which is used as the parish church, though never
  designated or legally divided as such, nor upheld by the heritors
  of town or country, is well attended, notwithstanding that it is
  damp, and, like all such ancient buildings, inconvenient as a place
  of worship. While the population was rapidly increasing, all its
  seats were let, and for the most part occupied. At present, how-
  ever, and for a few years past, from 60 to 100 seats are unoccu-
  pied in the ordinary diets of worship, and 320 are unlet, besides a
  few free seats held as heritable, and a considerable number assigned
  gratuitously to the poor. The rents, rendered necessary for paying
  beadless repairing seat, firing, and lighting, are extremely mode-
  rate, varying from 6d. to 3s. per sitter, which is the highest charge
  excepting one seat, containing eleven sitters which rents at 4s.
    About four years ago, a few individuals in the parish proposed
  erecting a new church by subscription, as they thought that, from
  the circumstance of a great number of the burgh heritors being Dis-
  senters, there was no hope of obtaining a parish church without a
  law-suit. Many of the congregation, understanding that it was to
  be used instead of the cathedral, contribtted small sums
  undertaking; but by far the greater part of the subscriptions were
  obtained throughout Scotland and England. The chapel, situat-
  ed close to the cathedral, and large enough to contain all the
  church population, man, woman, and child, is now nearly finished,
  and if it were to be occupied as a substitute for the old and incon-
  venient cathedral, would prove great benefit to the place. Such,
  however, does not seem to be the intention of its prorietors,
  They applied for a grant from the General Assembly's Extesion
  Committee, to aid in its erection, as an additional and separate place


