
     Statistical Account

tremely dangerous.  There is no prospect of having this de-
fect remedied but by obtaining a turnpike act*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Antiquities may be divided into Ecclesiastical and
Military.

   1st, Ecclesiastical.-At the east end of the town, on the sea
coast, the high road only intervening, are the remains of a
chapel, called St Mungo's Chapel, of which the tradition is, that
it was on or near the place where St Mungo or Kentigern was
born.  He is said to have been the son of Eugenius III. King
of the Scots, and of a daughter of Lothus King of the Picts.
His mother Thametis finding herself with child, out of shame,
and apprehension of her father's wrath, stole privately away;
and, entering into a vessel that she found at the nearest coast,
was, by the winds and waves, cast on land where the town of
Culross is now situated, and there was delivered; and, leaving
the child with a nurse, returned home.  His parents being un-
known, he was brought to Servanus, and baptized and brought up
by him.  This Servanus, or St Serf, lived at that time in an her-
mitage, where the monastery was afterwards built, and was, as
is said, son of a King of Canaan.  After various peregrinations,
he departed this life at Culross, of which town he became the
tutelar faint; and, in honour of him, a whole day annually was
formerly solemnized by the people here.  This was attended
with a variety of ceremonies, particularly parading the streets
and environs of the town very early in the morning, with large
branches of birch and other trees in their foliage, accompanied
with drums and different musical instruments, adorning the
cross, and another public place called the Tron, with a great
profusion and variety of flowers, formed into different devices,
and spending the evening in festivity and mirth.  The day ap-
propriated to this was the 1st day of July; but, when the town
was erected into a royal borough, another festive day was dedi-
cated to what they call riding the marches; which is, the magis-
trates, counsellors, and different incorporations, proceeding on
horseback, in a great cavalcade, and carrying several pairs of
colours, round the boundaries of the town's domains, (which
were formerly considerable); and at a certain period of their
progress, calling over the names of the magistrates and office
bearers, and burgesses, and so proceeding back again into the
town, and concluding the day with feasting, music, and dan-
cing.  The King's birth-day made a third public day; and, as


