
     of Humbie.

   There are 2 schools with the legal salary of 100 merks to
each.  The average number of scholars at both, is 60.
   No person, having a residence in this parish, is permitted
to beg in it, or to leave it for that purpose.  The number of
poor supported by the funds, seldom exceeds 15.  The sum
expended yearly for their support, and for casual charities in
the parish, is about L. 40; and is mostly the interest of a ca-
pital, raised before the year 1750, by collections, when the
whole heritors and their families regularly attended public wor-
ship.  From 3 s. to 4 s. monthly is the allowance, at an ave-
rage, to each pensioner*.
   The inhabitants are industrious, and satisfied with their con-
dition.-It is not in the recollection of the oldest person among
them that an inhabitant of this parish has been punished for
any crime.  Dram-drinking, so prevalent in other parts of
Scotland, is a vice utterly unknown, as might be expected
from a people, among whom no manufacture has ever been
established, and whose sole employment, that of a very few
individuals excepted, is agriculture.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In this, and some of the neighbouring districts, many labourers, mecha-
nics, and farm servants, who are in such circumstances that they could not,
with much propriety, apply to their parish funds for a temporary relief, have
formed themselves into societies, whose object it is to give aid to such of their
members as may be accidently in distress.  Each member pays half a guinea at
his admission, and 1 s. quarterly.  The effects of these benevolent institutions
have already been extensive and beneficial.  They soon would be generally establish-
ed, if gentlemen of property would become members, and contribute a small
sum annually; by which they would prevent applications, in many instances,
to the public funds, and do a most acceptable office to numbers of persons who
are so necessary to society; and are entitled, perhaps, to attention, on ac-
count of the disposition they discover to give, what they can but ill  afford, for
the amiable purpose of protecting one another from the distressing and humili-
ating situation, of holding out their hand to receive public charity.

     X 2


