
     of Morton.

upon a colder bottom.  Farther E. still, the ground rises into
hills of a considerable, though not remarkable, height, cover-
ed partly with grass, partly with heath and rocks.  At the foot
of these hills, on the W. side, where the farm houses are
placed, the croft land is pretty extensive, and of an excelent
quality.

   Proprietors and Rent.-The Duke of Queensberry is pro-
prietor of the whole of this parish, two small farms ex-
cepted*.  The present rent of this parish is about 751 L.
This, however, does by no means give a just idea of the real
value of the land, as the rents of the farms have not been

<FOOTNOTE>

*In former times, a great chieftain had made his residence
here; and to him, no doubt, a large district of country around
this had belonged.  Of his castle, called Morton Castle, there is
still a large ruin remaining.  It stands upon pretty high ground
near the foot of the hills, on the E. side of the parish.  The
present remains measure about 100 feet in lenght, by 27 in
width.  But, from the traces of the foundation, it has evident-
ly been, when entire, about double its present wideness, and
considerably longer.   A great deal of the stones have been
carried away at different times, to build houses and dykes in
the neighbourhood.  The wall of the S. front is still quite entire;
it is between 30 and 40 feet in height, and has a large rounded
tower at each end, of about 12 feet diameter.  In this front, at
the height of about 12 feet, is a row of small windows, about
16 inches square, to each of which are a few steps leading up,
in the inside of the wall.  In the higher parts of the building,
the windows are much larger.  This castle is surrounded (ex-
cept on the W. side) by a deep natural hollow, in which the
water had been dammed up by an artificial mound at each
end.   Considering the advantages of its situation, and the
strength of its walls, which are about 8 feet thick at the foun-
dation, this strong hold must have been almost impregnable by
the antient modes of attack.  According to Pennant, this castle
"was originally the seat of Dunenald, predecessor of Thomas
"Randolph, afterwards created Earl of Murray by Roberts
"Bruce; when this castle, with that of Auchincass, near Mof-
"fat, was disposed of to Douglas of Morton, predecessor of the
"Earls of Morton."


