
     of North Yell and Fetlar.

of Fetlar is of a better quality, and consists mostly of a rich 
black loam, and some sand; which produces barley, oats,
and kitchen roots.  On this island, Polish, Blindley, and 
early barley, have been tried, and they grow fully as luxu-
riant as in their native soil, and equally as large in the 
grain, but they rarely ripen to perfection, and unless cut
down the moment when they acquire any kind of ripeness,
are liable to be shaken by the equinoctial storms; and
when we do save them, the husks are so thick, that we find
our own oats produce more meal than any foreign grain
whatsoever; and they ripen fully as early.  Our turnip,
cabbage, radish, and cresses feeds, grow better than any we
import.  The quantity of arable ground is but small, in
comparison of the ground used for pasture, and is divided 
into what is here called merks.  In the island of Fetlar
there are nigh 800 merk-lands; and in North Yell there are
636 merks; there is no determinate quantity of ground
assigned each merk-land.  In the island of Fetlar there
may be one half acre to each merk-land; but in North 
Yell parish there is not above one-fourth of an acre, com-
puted to each merk-land in said parish, every merk is 
rented at 7 s. 6 d. the merk; but in the island of Fetlar
only at 5 s. the merk, all charges included.

<FOOTNOTE>

the 12th century, at wbich period William King of Scots overthrew the
Earl of Caithness in a great battle, and the countries were annexed to
the crown of Scotland for ever after.  This was the first time that we 
read of any Danes or Norwegians being Shetland.  The poor Picts,
being frustrated in their expectation of their gaining their beloved country,
were reduced to the disagreeable necessity of returning to Orkney and 
Shetland again; and along with them a number of Danish adventurers
took up their abode with the Picts, and made intermarriages with them;
after which the inhabitants of Orkney and Shetland were called Danes
down the days of James the VI. who married the maid of Norway for
her dowry, and both countries were finally confirmed to the kingdom of
Scotland in perpetuum.
     VOL XIII. N n


