
	72                    RENFREWSHIRE.

endowed or parochial teacher, with the usual allowance of L.20
for his salary. This arrangement will no doubt be attended with
a small saving to the public funds, but it can hardly fail to prove
unpropitious to the cause of educations, and consequently in ijurious
to the best interests of the community. The fees,for the different
branches of instruction are not the same in all the schools, but
vary from 3s. 6d. to 10s. 6d. per quarter. In addition to the one
parochial, and six private schools, there is a charitable institution,
commonly called Beaton's school, from the name of its founder
David Bealon, who in 1814, left the munificent beqtest of L.1400,
to be laid out in building and endowing a school for the education
of poor orphan children. Upwards of 150 children of both sexes
receive instruction here in all the common branches of education,
and a number more at the trifling charge of 2s. per quarter. The
teacher has a fixed annual salary of. L. 60, with a free house.
It is difficult to ascertain with accuracy the number of unedu-
cated children in a community, owing to the reluctance which pa-
rents naturally feel to make a discovery which would criminate
themselves. The following calculation, however, is the result of
a very careful inquiry. Persons between six and fifteen not taught to
read, 105; do. taught to read, but not write, 436; above fifteen
not taught to read, 10. This statement, it is to be feared, does
not by any means show the full extent of the uneducated popula-
tiqn, yet it sufficiently proves the importance of an increase in the
means of education and particularly of cheap education, to meet
the wants of the people. It seems absolutely necessary that a
school should be erected in which the children of sailors, and of
the poorer classes generally, might be furnished with useful instruc-
tion at such a rate of wages as their parents can afford to pay.
    Libraries.--The library for the use. of seamen recently insti-
tuted in this place, has been `lready mentioned. There are two
other libraries, the one of a general and miscellaneous nature, the
other a youth's library, which consists exclusively of religious pub-
lications.
    Provident Bank.--In the year 1818, a provident-bank was esta-
blished here under the sanction of the corporation. The following
statements applicable to the year 1834, may serve to shew the ex-
tent of its operations. The money deposited in that year amount-
ed to L.1481 18s. and the sums withdrawn during the same pe-
riod to L.1328, 8s. 7d. When it is considered that the deposits
consist chiefly of small sums lodged by servants and other classes of
working people, it will be seen that this institution must have been


