
                                      ELGIN.                                  19

              are regular carriers to Aberdeen, Banff, and Inverness, and to all
              the adjacent villages. On the other hand sea-carriage is both te-
              dious and expensive. The retailers in Elgin generally supply
              themselves with goods from the London market, which are carried
              in the smacks trading to Inverness, and landed at Burghead, if the
              weather permit. This subjects the dealer to an expense of nine
              miles of land carriage in addition to the freight, besides much
              delay occasioned by the trade only affording employment for a few
              such vessels. In consequence, light goods are frequently ordered
              to be sent by the steam-vessels to Aberdeen and forwarded by the
              carriers. The supply of coals for the town and neighbourhood is
              imported at Lossiemouth, and a good deal of grain is exported, but
              there is so little water in the harbour, that loaded vessels of small
              tonnage can only come in or go out at stream tides. The incon-
              venience and loss to the community arising from the want of a
              good and central harbour, have led to the formation of a Joint Stock
              company for erecting one at Stotfield point, a few hundred yards
              to the northward of the harbour of Lossiemouth. This spot hav-
              ing been surveyed and approved of by an eminent engineer, and a
              plan given, shares to a large amount were speedily disposed of; an
              application was made to Parliament and a bill passed last session,
              vesting the company with the requisite powers of management, levy-
              ing shore dues, &c. and every thing is ready for proceeding with
              the work as soon as the season admits. If this undertaking is suc-
              cessful, of which there is the most sanguine hope, it will be of im-
              mense advantage to the trading and agricultural interests of the
              town and district. A direct communication with London and
              other markets for farm-stock and grain by steam would be imme-
              diately opened, and merchant goods and coals imported at much
              less expense of carriage, and with great regularity and expedition.
              The writer has been led to notice this projected improvement,
              though in another parish, not only on account of its importance to
              Elgin, but because the present harbour and village are the pro-
              perty of the town, and because the magistrates are shareholders in
              the new harbour to the extent of one-fourth of the estimated
              as sufficient to complete it.
                Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church, in the centre	of the
              town, is about eight miles distant from the westmost point of the
              parish, and nearly five from the south-east extremity. As three-
              fourth of the population reside in the town it could not be more
              conveniently  situated. A  missionary on the Royal Bounty being


