
96                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

   With the exception of eight families from the south of Scotland,
all the natives speak Gaelic. Though a considerable proportion
of the young can speak English, yet very few are able to follow out
or understand an English sermon. Indeed, even those who speak
and understand the English well, always prefer the Gaelic ser-
vices. Whether this predilection arises from early associations,
the influence of habit, or the greater ease, familiarity, and simpli-
city in the style of the speakers, they think themselves more edi-
fied by discourses in that tongue. It cannot be said, however, that
the Gaelic language is spoken with such emphasis and purity in
this country as in some parts of the western Highlands; and, though
it has been a good deal corrupted by the younger people who now
speak English, it has not lost much ground.
   The principle amusements are-playing at the ball and shinty on
the fine sands of Balnakiel. The whole population turns out on
old Christmas and new-year's day, and even old men of seventy are
to be seen mingling in the crowd, remaining till night puts an end to
the contest. Indeed, the inhabitant, of this parish have always been
noted for the enthusiasm with which they engaged in these sports.
To keep up the tone of action, they retire in the evening, and
mingle in the dance to the music of the bagpipe, regardless of the
bruises and scars of the contest. Of this sports, Dr M'Leod of
Campsie has given a very humorous and graphical description in
his "Teachdaire Gaidhleach." Hallow-e'en eve is also a festive
day in the calendar, but is not kept with such enthusiasm as for-
merly. Superstitious observances, belief in witches, and other en-
chantments, are gradually wearing away,-though even a grave el,
der may occasionally be met with, who will quote scripture, and re-
late many traditionary stories, as evidences of his faith.
   As to the habits of the people,-it cannot be said that they are
remarkable for cleanliness: the huts they occupy,-the smoke
arising from the fire in the centre of the house, and forming a ca-
nopy over them,-and the cattle entering by the same door with
the inmates,-are not favourable to personal cleanliness. The
change of dress within the last twenty or thirty years has been very
marked, both with males and females. Instead of the tartan or kelt
coat and trowsers, spun and dyed at home, when each family had
their own wool, hardly any thing is to be seen on the young but the
fustian jacket and trowsers, or the lighter tartan of the shops, and
here and there the blue and fancy cloths of Leeds.  The blue


