
350                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

mind with some idea of its original, strength and grandeur.  It is
impossible for us to ascertain when it was built, though it is pro-
bable that it was founded towards the end of the eleventh century.

We do not find any mention made of it in history till the reign of
James II., when we read of Sir William Hamilton being confined
therein in 1455, for engaging in the rebellion which Earl Dou-
glas had raised against that monarch. In 1544, this castle, as
well as many others in the Lothians, was demolished by the En-
glish army, dispatched by Henry VIII., upon the rough wooing of
Mary, the infant Queen of Scots.  In 1650, it was again battered
down by a division of the army of Oliver Cromwell, under the
command of General Monk.  And on the night of the 11th of
December 1688, it was attacked and plundered by a lawless mob,
composed partly of the tenants of the barony and partly of miscre-
ants from Edinburgh: and, on the early part of the same night,
some of the most splendid and beautiful ornaments of the chapel
were defaced by the same ruffians.
  In addition to the above misfortunes, Father Hay, in his manu-
script, mentions another which we shall narrate at length in his
words.  "About this time, viz. 1447, Edward Sinclair of Dry.
den, coming with four gray hounds and some ratebets, to hunt
with the prince, met a great company of rats, and, among the rest,
one old blind lyard one with a straw in his mouth, led by the rest,
whereat he greatly marvelled, not thinking what was to follow;
but within four days after, viz. the feast of St Leonard, the prin-
cess, who took great delight in little dogs, caused one of the gen-
tlewomen to go under the bed with a lighted candle, to bring forth
one of them that had young whelps, which she doing, and not being
very attentive, set fire on the bed, whereat the fire rose and burnt the
bed, and then passed to the ceiling of the great chamber in which
the princess was, whereat she and all that were in the dungeon
wer compelled to fly."
  "The prince's chaplain seeing this, and remembering of all
his master's writings, passed to the head of the dungeon where
they were, and threw out four great trunks where they were.
The mews of this fire coming to the prince's ears through the
lamentable cries of the ladies and gentlewomen; and the sight
thereof coming to his view in the place where he stood, viz. upon
the college hill, he was sorrow for nothing but the loss of his char-
ters and other writings; but when the chaplain, who had saved
himself by coming down the bell rope tied to a beam, declared
how his charters and writs were all saved, he became cheerful, and


