
			KIRKPATRICK-FLEMING.			279

stormy night, with a dreadful crash. *  Within a space of four miles
round this tower, there are no fewer than seven of the same kind.
The family of Flemings, who appearto have been more distinguish-
ed for their gallant defence of their native country, and nobly re-
pelling a foreign foe, than for that predatory manner of life, which,
in these times, was styled the, " spirit and joy of the borders," in
the thirteenth and beginning of the fourteenth centuries, posses-
sed certain lands in this parish, by the tenure of defending them
at all times against their southern neighbours.  At a place called
Redhall, on the left bank of the Kirtle, stood the baronial man-
sion of the " bold Flemings." Towards the conclusion of Baliol's
reign, in one of Edward's incursions into Scotland, the tower of
Redhall was attacked by an English Army.  It was at that time
occupied by no more than thirty Flemings, who, in spite of every at-
tempt, held out against a close siege of three days.  Having nobly
defended it to the last extremity, they all chose, rather than sub-
mit, to expire in the flames which had been kindled by their foes.
Not the smallest trace of this tower, which was entirely demolished
in the beginning of the last century, now remains. +
	Within the burial ground of Kirkconnel a part of the old church,
which is said to have derived its name from Connell, a Scotch saint,
who flourished about the commencement of the seventh century, is
still standing.  The church-yard 6 situated in a rich holm of very
considerable extent.  Here is the scene of the, impassioned and
pathetic tale of " fair Helen of Kirkconnel-Lee," which has been
so often told both in prose and verse. +
	About seventy years ago, a man who was casting peats  near
Cove, found a piece of gold, about eighteen inches under ground,
worth about L.12.  On one end of it was plainly seen the word
Helenus, in raised Roman capitals, evidently effected by a stamp,
and, on the other end, in pricked or dotted characters, were ob-
served the letters M. B.  Some gave it as their opinion, that it

<FOOTNOTE>This is reported to have been the first house in Scotland to which Robert Bruce
repaired, when he was flying from Longsbanks.  Bruce, at his departure thence,
having taken along with him one of the sons of Irving, the gentleman by whom the
houses was then possessed, first made the youth  his secretary, next created him a knight,
and lastly, made him a present of the lands of the forest of Drum, as a reward for his
fidelity and services.
        For a farther account of the antiquities of this parish, particularly the cross of
Merkland, and Dunskellie grotto, see M S. preserved among the Archives of the
Church.
        See Account of Middlebie.


