
                   FALA AND SOUTRA.                            589

it does not now appear to have any medicinal qualities was for-
merly, much celebrated, and much frequented by invalids.

                  III.-POPULATION.
  The population of the united parishes was, according to the last
census, 393.  It was 312 in 1755.  These inhabitants are collected
to the number of 120 in the villages of Fala and Fala-darn, and for
the remainder are dispersed in small hamlets and single cottages
over the different farms.  Their dwellings are most generally of a
very humble description, although in this respect also there is a
tendency to improvement, and the cottages are usually provided
with gardens.  The people are all employed in tending the flocks
or in the cultivation of the soil.  There are no manufactures or
means of profitable occupation distinct from. agriculture. They
usuall contrive, by an exact economy, to maintain themselves and
their families respectably; and they willingly and cheerfully de-
fray the expenses of the education of their children.  They are,
with few exceptions, temperate and orderly in their behaviour.
They have established, by their contributions, an excellent parish
library; and they spend much of their leisure in reading and in-
structive conversation.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
  CultivaHon.-The cultivation of the parish is mentioned in the
former Account as having been " in a great measure owing to the
spirited exertions of the late Mr Hamilton of Fala, who first set
the example of improvement by enclosing part of his estate with
ditch and hedge, and sheltering the enclosures with clumps and
belts of planting,-an example which excited a similar spirit of im-
provement in the neighbouring gentlemen" of that period, and
which has been well followed up by the Earl of Stair, his successor
in the possession of the whole parish of Fala proper, and also by
the various proprietors of Soutra. *
  Rent.-The real rental of the parish, now about L. 3000, was
stated in the former Statistical Account as about L. 1100.  It is
said nor much to have exceeded L. 400 in the year 1727, while
the valued rent of the parish is L. 1326, 7s. 8d.  Scots.  The til-
lage of the parish, rated in the former Account at 17 1/2 ploughgates,
now employs 21 ploughs.  The horses employed then for the
purposes of agriculture were 52, and the number is now about the

<FOOTNOTE>The present proprietors of Soutra are, Mr Brown of Gilston, Mr Dickson of
Woodeot, Mr Ogilvis of soutra, Mr Broun of Kellybaak, and Mr Anderson of
Nether Brotherstones.



