
756                        LANARKSHIRE.

him for life, by a zealous independent, a native of this parish, who
was settled in Paisley, and died some years ago.
   The population of the parish is at present not less than 3000
souls.  The number of Dissenters of all denominations does not pro-
bably exceed 550, leaving, as belonging to the church, 2450.  The
larger portion of the Dissenters belong to the Relief congregation
at Larkhall.  There are some, however, connected with the Unit-
ed Secession, the Reformed Synod, and the Independents, who
attend places of worship in the neighbouring parishes.  Although
there may be now and then a few migratory Irish Cathnlics living
in the parish for a short time, for the sake of employlent, there
is not and seldom has been any Catholic among the permanent
population.  The Episcopalians occasionally residing within our
bounds have always been of the higher ranks, and have never fail-
ed to conform for the time to the Established Church.  The Dis-
senters of the parish belong for the most part to the Larkhall dis-
trict.  There are very few among the population, amounting to
about 1000 souls, to whom the pastoral care of the minister of
Dalserf, is now restricted.  In case the number of inhabitants as-
signed to Larkhall parish should appear disproportionate, it must
be mentioned, that two-thirds of the whole population of Dalserf
live within half a mile of the new church.
   The gross number of communicants belonging to the church
and living in the parish was reported to the Commissioners of Re-
ligious Instruction as being about 800.  The estimate was not
then too high, and cannot be diminished now.  Of this number
about 500 or 520 (exclusive of non-parishioners and strangers)
were in the habit of communicating at Dalserf in summer, and
upwards of 400 in winter.  They are now divided of course be-
tween the two places of worship.  The communicant at Dalserf
now are upwards of 300, and in summer never short of 350.  At
Larkhall, as per General Assembly's Church Extension Report,
the number is 290. This increase in the number of actual com-
municants points out the good that has been done by affording
church room, and a facility of attending upon ordinances.   Public
worship is generally well attended.  At Larkhall the average at-
tendance on Sabbath is 500.  The church of Dalserf, Which be-
fore the division of the parish was, in good weather, always full,
has been very little affected by the formation of the new congre-
gation at Larkhall.  The diminution of the average attendance
never exceeded fifty persons; and any slight blank that may have


