
758                         FIFESHIRE.

superior butcher-meat, the fleshers have been in the practice for,
some years of sending large quantities of meat, of all descriptions,
to the London and Glasgow markets.  No regular fishers are re-
sident here.  The town is supplied with fish from Buckbaven and
other villages on the south coast of Fife. The fish is commonly
carried by land, though boats occasionally expose fish for sale on
the beach; but the vicinity of Edinburgh has a tendency to keep
up the price of this article of food in Kirkcaldy.
   There are a number of large and handsome shops in the town,
in some of which there is carried on an extensive wholesale and
retail trade.  In this respect a great change has taken place within
the last fifty years.  It was not uncommon in the end of last cen-
tury for grocers, drapers, and other merchants from Edinburgh
and Leith to make regular calls on families here for orders, and
many families were supplied with goods in this way.  About the
same time oatmeal was regularly imported into the parish for
consumption from Mid-Lothian, whereas now great quantities of
grain are constantly exported for the Edinburgh market.
Burgh.-The town-council consists of 21 members, who are
elected by a constituency of 250,-tbe number of parliamentary
voters within the ancient royalty.  The council elect from their
own number a provost and admiral, two bailies, a dean of guild, and
a treasurer, on whom the management of the municipal affairs in a
great measure depend.  The burghs of Kirkcaldy, Dysart, King-
horn, and Burntisland return a member to Parliament.
   The town has no police; but the magistrates, the convener of
the incorporated trades, and sixteen inhabitants, chosen by pro-
prietors and tenants, being possessors of heritable subjects, within
the burgb, of the yearly rent or value of eight pounds, are consti-
tuted, by Act of Parliament, a board of trustees, " for widening.,
paving, lighting, cleansing, and otherwise improving and keeping
in repair the streets, lanes, and passages of the said royal burgh,"
" and for bringing water into the same;" and they are empowered
to levy for these purposes an assessment, not exceeding five per
cent. on the rental.  This assessment realizes at present upwards
of L.500, and enables the trustees to light the streets with gas, to
do something to keep them clean, and to supply the town with
water, brought from a distance, and carried throtigb the streets
in pipes.
   Harbour.-" The harbour of Kirkcaldy, though the property
of the town, is under the management of Parliamentary Commis-


