
   212				INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   sufficiency of corn and potatoes for their own consumption, un-
   less in very unfavourable seasons, such as the two last, when
   the, most part of the Western Highlands suffered a destitu-
   tion similar to what they experienced.  They plant their potatoes,
   in general, with the plough, when the ground admits of it; and
   when it does not, they plant them with the dibble, and have returns
   of from fifteen to twenty.  The principal manure is sea-weed,
   which they lay upon the ground at all periods from November to
   the end of May; but the earliest laid on always yields the best
   quality of potatoes.  After their potato crop, crops ofbarley and
   oats succeed.
      Without giving the tenants a more permanent tenure of their
   lands by leases, making their crofts larger, and encouraging them in
   clearing, draining, and enclosing and following a more regular
   system of crofting than what has been hitherto pursued,--it is
   impossible to expect that any great improvement in their manage-
   ment can take place.  The common buildings or dwellings of the
   peasantry are of a most miserable description ; the wall is formed
   of loose undressed stone, without mortar of any kind, the centre
   being filled up with common earth, roofed and covered over with
   divot and straw, bound together by heather ropes.  There are neither
   windows nor chimneys.  For the first, they have round holes in
   the thatch for admitting the light; and one or more holes on each
   side of the house, which are opened or shut according as the
   wind blows; and a hole in the roof fbr emitting the smoke of
   their peat-fires, which are placed in the middle of their bare
   earthen floor.  In one end of this miserable habitation they live,
   with their cows and horses in the other, during the winter and spring
   seasods.  The natives have little or no idea of cleanliness or
   comfort.  They have seldom much furniture to boast of; some-
   times not a chair to sit upon, a bed to sleep on, or bed-clothes to
   cover them from the severity of the night air; yet these very
   people resort to the dram-house as often as they can spare a shil-
   ling for that purpose.  There are, however, some exceptions from
   this, in the conduct of those who have come to Barra from other
   countries.  These have built for themselves more comfortable
   dwellings.  They are more cleanly in their habits and dress, and
   far more industrious and of more sober habits than those they
   found on the spot ; and it is hoped that their example in this
   respect will have-a salutary influence on the manners, habits
   and industry of their neighbours.   Under the late proprietor of


