
         	             PARISH OF KILRENNY.
	
         	  PRESAYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD, OF FIFE

                   THE REV. GEORGE DICKSON, MINESTER.

	       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-THE name of this parish, as found in
	old manuscripts, is variously spelt, as Cilrinnie, Kylrinnye, Kilriny,
	&c. In the former Statistical Account it is spelt Kilrenney,
	while the general spelling at present is Kilreany. It has been
	stated in Swan's Views of Fife that "the name is derived from St
	Ninian, and that as Ninian is still popularized into Ringan, so
	Kilringan could easil be corrupted into Kilrenny." The more
	probable derivation, however, is that given in the former Statisti-
	cal Account. "The name ofthis parish seems to be derived from the
	saint to whom the church was dedicated, viz. St Irenaeus, Bilbop
	of Lyons, whose fame for piety was at that time great throughout
	Christendom. What serves to confirm this origin of the name is,
	that the fishermen, who have marked out the steeple of this
	church for a meath or mark to direct them at sea, call it St Irnie
	to this day; and the estate which lies close by the church is call-
	ed Irniebill; but,by the transposition of the letter i, Rinnie-Hill.
	what adds to the probability of this interpretation, is a tradition
	still existing here, that the devotees at Anstruther, who could not
	see the church of Kilrenny till they travelled tip the rising ground
	to what they called the Hill, then pulled off their bonnets, fell on
	their knees, crossed themselves, and prayed to St Irnie."
	   The figure of the parish may be described rather as rectangular
	Jar than circular, and the extent of it is computed at about 31
	miles in length, and neariv 21 in breadth. It is bounded on the
	east by Crail; on the souch by the Prith of Forth; on the west by
	East and West Anstrutber and Carnbee; and on the north, by
	Carnbee and Crail. Being bounded by the sea on tire south,
	the ground rises to the north, by a gentle acclivity, unbroken by
	any eminence deserving of notice; and presenting to the eye a fer-
	tile and highly cultivated slope. It is divided by hedges and
	dikes into a variety of enclosures, all of which are under the
					3

