
24                            SELKIRKSHIRE.

early becomes a habit; and the same exactness is requisite in all
departments occupied by old or young. The effect is not con-
fined to the factories, but goes with the same persons into all
their other avocations; and hence,in no small degree, the industry,
sobriety, and consequent advantages, which distinguish the popu-
lation of this place.

                   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

     Markets,&c.--The town of Galashiels is a burgh of barony,
governed by a residing magistrate or bailie. Its markets have
fallen into disuse, and its annual fairs are but thinly attented.
The nearest markets are those of Melrose, five miles distant,
and of Selkirk, six. The means of communication, in all direc-
tions, are highly favourable. There is but one post-office, and
the letters are distributed daily through the town by the post-
master, free of chargs. The new line of road for the Carlisle
mail passing through Galashiels is now opened, and several coaches
to and from Edinburgh pass daily. There are, numerous carriers
to all the towns and coutry places around, and the roads are
every where excellent. A ton and half of coal are sometimes
brought by a single cart; ,twenty-five or twenty-six ewt. are no
uncommon load. There is no want of bridges in any part of the
parish. Of turnpike road there are five miles; of statute labour,
fourteen.  A rail road has been surveyed, designed to communicate
with that of Dalkeith, and subscriptions were obtained to nearly
the requisite amount; but the scheme is abandoned for the pre-
sent.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The church, built in 1813 in the semigothic
style, terminated with a square tower, is in the best state of repair.
It is central as to the population, But not as to the breadth of the
parish, being about 200 yards from one extremity, and six miles
from the other . It was built to hold between 800 and 900; but by the
help of branches along the areas, it accommodates about 1000
hearers. It may be explained that this inconvenient seating, and
the want of room that is still to be regretted, arise from this, that
the church was built answerable to the population of the parish, but
that half of the town of Galashiels belong to the parish of Mel-
rose, of which the church is distant upwards of four miles. The
manse, built twenty-three years ago, is an excellent house. The
stipend consists of 15 chalders of the old Linlithgow measurd, or
174 quarters, 6 bushels,1/4 gallon imperial, one-half meal, the


