
                          WICK.                                  137
 
Duffits of Pulteneytown; and James Smith, Esq. of Olrig, is owner
of a small property.
  Of these, Lord Duffus and Robert Innes, Esq. are the only eon..
stantly resident Idnd-owners.  William Horne, Esq. is occasional-
ly resident at Stirkoke.  All the rest are nonresident
  Parochiali Registers.-The records belonging to the Kirk-session
have not been well preserved.  The earlier minutes of session have
been lost.  Those at present extant consist offive volumes.  Of these,
the first, which contains 287 folio pages, commences on the 20th,
of July 1701, and ends on May 13th 1723; the second, which con-
tains 85 folios, begins on May 2d 1742, and ends on September
24th 1758; the third, containing 145 folios, begins on October
1st 1758, and ends on January 13th 1793; the fourth, which
contains 139 leaves, and is a mere ragged fragment of a quarto
volume, wanting both beginning and end, commences on the 29th,
of October 1801, and terminates on February 9th 1816; and the
fifth, in which the minutes of Session are being recorded, commen-
ces on July 12th 1816.  The baptismal registers which have not
been regularly kept, consist of six volumes and commence on the
3d of November 1701.  Up till a late. date the registers of ma-
trimonial contracts, and of births and baptisrns were strangely mix-
ed and jumbled together.  The register of marriages commences
on the 28th of August 1840.  There is no register of deaths.
Antiquities.- Several cairns, on the Yarrows Hills are, perhaps,
with the addition of some Gaelic names of places, the only remains
of the aboriginal Celtic inhabitants of this district.
The carious ruins of the Pechtish habitations are numerously
scattered all over Caithness.  Several of these are in the southern
division of the parish of Wick, Some omupy the mo4i fertile
situations; others again are placed on barren land, where there are
no traces of cultivation.
In their outward appearance,the Pechtish houses look like little
round grassy knells, about twelve or six-teen feet in height. One
at Thrumster, the seat of Robert Innes, Esq., from which the earth
has in part been removed, was found to have been composed  of
two concentric, circular was built of stone and clay, with a con-
siderable interval between them filled up with earth; the whole
forming a rampart of about eighteen feet in thickness. The en-
closed area was occupied with, several cells,; and evident marks of
five fire-places around the inside of tire inner wall were, discovered.
The whole was very inartificially vaulted with flagstones, and cover-



