
84                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

the warlike achievements of heroes who bad particularly singalized
themselves, together with the many relics of bloody warfare still
extant, this derivation has strong claims to a preference to the
former.
  Topoqraphical Appearance.-The general aspect of the parish is
remarkably diversified, presenting a continued and frequently rapid
succession of "hill and valley;" in which respect, it forms a strik-
ing contrast to all the other parishes in the county. In the western
extremity, in particular, the ravines are so deep and precipitous as
to render the access to them difficult and sometimes dangerous;
wbilst in the same quarter, the hills and mountains of various height
and figure are in great abundance. Of the former the Ord of
Caithness Brenahegleish, and Benacbielt are of chief importance,
and of the latter M•r-bhein or Morven, Scaraben, and the Pap,
are most conspicuous. The view from their summits is very ex-
tensive, embracing, in a clear atmosphere, a great part of twelve
different counties, besides a vast range of the Atlantic and Ger-
man oceans. Of the three, Morven, as its Gaelic name indicates,
is by much the highest, and is supposed to be more than a mile
above the level of the sea, whence it is generally the first land
in this quarter seen by mariners, and, as a landmark, is of
great use in stormy weather. It is worthy of notice that, as
indicating wet or dry weather, it possesses the confidence of the
whole county. During harvest especially, all eyes are directed to-
wards it, and it never-deceives. Near its summit, there is a deli-
cious spring, which is very refreshing to the traveller exhausted in
gaining its top. The straths are numerousand very beautiful, par-
ticularly those along tbe rivers of Langwell, Berriedale' and Dun-
beath. Scenery more highly romantic and picturesque than that
on the two former, is not to, be met with in the north of Scotland.
They are admired by every traveller. Their steep banks were
once densely and extensively wooded, and still,there is as much
remaining as to contribute to their beauty, if not to their value.
The whole line of coast is composed of hold and perpendicular
roc 'ks, rising from 100 to 300 feet above the sea; forming
a barrier, to the tremendous surge which frequently rolls in
from the oceans. It is also much indented, in consequence of
the numerous streams that flow from the interior, and. at their junc-
tion, with Oe sea form inlets more or less spacious. These alfford.
a very convenient shelter for the boats engaged in the herring-fish.


