
     of Inveraray.

to the town, employed in foreign trade, and about half
a dozen small vessels, mostly employed in importing meal,
coals, porter, and merchant goods, and in exporting wool,
oak-bark, and timber.  Were the coal-duty abolished, the
wool of the country would, in time, be manufactured at
home.

   Produce.-Corn, hay, and potatoes, are the principal crops
raised in this parish, the soil, in general, being too wet for
barley.  The climat and soil seem well adapted to the
cultivation of turnips, as the fly and droughts, which are so
unfriendly to this plant in other countries, are unknown
here.  The grain raised in the parish is, by no means suffi-
cient for the consumption of the inhabitants.  The town
and parish are chiefly supplied with meal from the Clyde,
Dumfries, or Ireland; and there are annually imported,
from 8000 to 10,000 bolls, part of which is carried to some
of the neighbouring parishes.  Meal, in general, is as high
priced here as in any part of the kingdom*.

   Animals.-A breed of the best Highland cattle in this
country, are reared at Inveraray, where there are also some

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are no regula markets in the parish for bucher's meat.
poultry, or milk.  This inconvenience is the less felt, in consequence of the
accommodations, which most of the principal inhabitants of Inveraray enjoy,
by their having low rented farms from the Duke of Argyll.  From the farm
of Stronshira also, it is intended to supply the town with milk and butcher's
meat, Beef, according to its quality and season of the year, is sold from
5 s to 8 s. per stone, trone weight.  Mutton, lamb and veal, are dear in
proportion.  Butter at 10 d. per lb. and cheese from 5 s. to 6 s. per stone,
to the 1st of January, Salmon from 3 d. to 4 d per lb. all trone weight.
The crews of two boats, supply the town amply, upon very reasonable
terms, with cod, haddocks, and whitings. Men servants, when maintain-
ed, have from L. 5 to L. 7 Sterling, and female servants from L. 2 to
L. 3 Sterling per annum.  Day-labourers earn. according to the season of
the year, from 10 d. to 1 s. 4 d.  Artificers from 1 s. to 1 s. 8 d. per day.


