

 	              MUIRAVONSIDE.                             207

of white sandstone at Hillend. The course then becomes more
gentle, till it enters among rocks mouldering under the grey-
ness of age, presenting an ever-cbanging outline, crested with
heather and overhanging birch,--a scene befitting rather the re-
motest Highlands than the border of the Lothians.  Still lower,
where the flank of the Bathgate hills is cut off by the river between
the castle of Carrubber and Muiravonside House, the banks, preci-
pitous and wooded, are reared nearly 200 feet above the stream,
till they gradually expand with that valley crossed by the towering
aqueduct which leads the waters of the Union Canal towards their
destination.
   Scenes still more precipitous and inaccessible are to be found
on the Avon, as it bursts through the high-groutid of Kinneil into
the alluvial flatness of the Carse.
   All the rock exposed on its course is sandstone, sometimes
coarse, sometimes fine-grained, at others, in thin seims, much
stained with the oxide of iron,--exceptin, that about Muiravonside
House, wbich seems a large detachment of the same greenstone
rock that forms the crest of Cockle Rue, about a mile to the south,
and three veins of trap rock, one at Redford, the others on either
side of Linlithgow bridge. Away from the banks of the Avon, there
are only four detached spots where rock is apparent, and its cha-
racter will be better understood when we consider the minerals of
the parish.
   The alluvial deposits to the north-east of the canal are,
sand, gravel, peat, and marl. The contortions in the sand strata
are'endless; and such as are fond of theories might have a new
one at every fathom, or oftener, if need be, and leave much unac-
counted fo, after all. The variety of surface in the gravel distric is
quite remarkable: it appears in mounds and hillocks of every shape
and direction; sometimes inclosing extensive hollows; then a con-
siderable thickness of marl, and over that, moss. In the mids
of these deposits, was found a fine specimen of the ancient elk,
a horn of which is now deposited in the College Museum of
Edinburgh.
   To the south-west of the Canal, the whole subsoil is clay, of the
stiffest texture. It has lately been trenched along five miles of its
length by the Slamannan Railway, in some places, to the depth
offorty feet, and exhibits very little variety,--the boulder-stones and
dispersed gravel being, with few exceptions, ordinary greenstone.
Rock is scarcely ever found; if at all, it is of freestone,


