
     of Little Dunkeld.

   In the year 1782, when not only the corn crop proved bad,
but the potatoes also entirely failed, L. 30 of the parish capi-
tal, beside, 20 bolls of oats bought with a share of the money
voted by the parliament, were applied to the relief of the poor
upon the roll, and of some of the poorer class of farmers.
   There are two places of worship.  The chapel of Lagana-
lachie in Strathbran, and the church of Little Dunkeld.  The
former was lately rebuilt, and made pretty commodious by con-
tributions from the people of that part of the united parishes;
the latter stands within 60 yards of the great highland road
leading from Perth to Inverness by the serry of Invar, in one
of the finest situations, perhaps, in the world, for a goodly
edifice of that kind.  It is 130 feet long by less than 20 feet
wide, and mean, uncomfortable, and ruinous.  The heritors, it is
believed, are immediately to build a handsome new church.  The
stipend hitherto paid has been L. 70:16:8, including 4 gui-
neas for communion elements; but the Commissioners of Tiends
have lately decreed an augmentation of three chalders of vic-
tual, and a small addition for communion elements, with the
almost unanimous consent of the heritors.
   There is a glebe of about 8 Scotch acres at Little Dunkeld,
and a small glebe at Laganachie.
   There is a parish school at Little Dunkeld; but in so narrow

     3 A 2

<FOOTNOTE>

About the year 1740, there was a handsome building erected for the ob-
jects of the benefaction, near the great road 2 miles below Little Dunkeld.
The house did not answer the intended purpose, and the original destina-
tion was found to be in many respects inexpedient or impracticable.  By accumu-
lation of interest, the capital amounted at last to L. 2600 sterling; the in-
terest of which is now annually applied for the relief of poor people on the
estate indiscriminately, without regard to their religious persuasion.  The ex-
tensive property of this family lies in the several parishes of Dull, Auchterga-
ven, Kinclaven, Caputh, and Little Dunkeld, to which last parish considerable
part of it belongs.


