
256                         RENFREWSHIRE.

tices discouraging to the farmer, and strongly marking the languid
state of agriculture.  The spirit of improvement, however, which,
about that time, appeared in Scotland, reached Renfrewshire; and
a very favourable change has now taken place.  The introduction
of artificial grasses and the culture of potatoes, have produced a
more diligent and accurate husbandry, and banished the pernicious
distinction of croft and outfield. *  Before 1766, there was scarce
any hay sown"- " potatoes about forty or fifty years ago were
brotght in boats from Kintyre to Paisley market.  About thirty
years ago, farmers began pretty generally to cultivate them in the
field."  The writer proceeds to state the mode of farming which
in his day (1791) was practised; and the plans and improvements
which had commenced previous to that period, have since been
prosecuted, so that, at the present day, this parish may be regard-
ed as inferior to none in the west of Scotland, in point of cultiva-
tion.  The parish contains in all about 16,160 acres, which may
be divided as follows.

<TABLE>
The number of acres arable,        -          -          -          12,700
                    uncultivated,           -             -            700
                    in mosses, sites of houses, roads, waters, &c.   1,760
                    in woods and plantations.                        1,000

   The whole may be spoken of under two divisions, the upper or
hilly, and the lower or gently rising, the soil of the former being
free, light, and on a dry bottom, or whinstone, or what is called
rotten rock, which readily absorbs water; that of the latter being
what we described, under Topographical appearances, as thin,
and generally resting on a till bottom, the till being a mixture of
stone and heavy clay, hard and retentive of moisture.
   Rents.-The average rent of laud in the upper dhvision may be
shied at L. 1 per imperial acre ; and that of the lower at L. 1, 15s.
but there are some farms, particularly in the neighbourhood of the
town, which bring from L, 3 to L. 4 per acre.  Of late, grain rents
have to a considerable extent been adopted.
   The average annual expense of grazing a cow may be stated at
L. 4; and that of a sheep at 12s.  But very few sheep are rear-
ed, in this parish.
   Wages.-The rate of wages for a first rate plougbman, found in
bed and board, is reckoned at L. 20 per annum; and that of a first

<FOOTNOTE>"The distinction between croft and outfield prevailed very generally in the old
and imperfect husbandry of Scotland.  The croft, consisting of a few acres nearest
the farm house, was perpetually in crop, and received the whole manure of the farm.
The outfield was the open pasture land, which was occasional ploughed in patches
for oats till they exhausted, and then left to rest."


