
     Statistical Account

distinguished antient times.  But, while it contributes to the
ornament of the surrounding country, and the pleasure of

<FOOTNOTE>

gelist: Its privileges were very considerable, and its endow-
ments liberal.  The monks were exempted from toll, and leave
was granted to them and the abbot, to receive the sacraments
of the church from any bishop they pleased, in Scotland and
Cumberland.  The abbot was allowed to wear a mitre, to
make use of other pontisical distinctions, and to be present at all
general councils.  It is related, that this order was particular-
ly attentive to agriculture, and that, besides husbandmen, they
maintained within their monastery all kinds of mechanics,
whose profits were deposited in the common stock, for the sup-
port of the order.  If this was the case, David shewed good
sense and reason, in patronizing an order of men, who promoted
the improvement of the arts, as well as the interests of religion,
in an age when science and philosophy, feebly, if at all, illu-
minated the kingdom Small fragments of pillars, antique stones,
statues, etc. evidently belonging to the abbey, have been found
at different times, and some of them are still to be seen at a
considerable distance from the fabric, affording a lively, though
melancholy emblem of the all-subduing power of time.
The church of St. JAMES's was situated between the rivers
Tweed and Tiviot, near to Roxburgh Castle, and on the very
spot on which the greatest fair in this country, as well as one
of the most antient, called St James's Fair, is now held.  This
church was dedicated, anno 1134.  No part of it remains above
ground, but the place where it stood is perfectly obvious. The
Duke of Roxburgh, a few years ago, employed labourers to
trace the foundation.  While carrying on this work, they dug
up a tomb-stone, which had been erected to the memory of
JOHANNA BULLOCK.  It was pretty entire; and, besides some
elegant Popish sculpture, had the following inscription in Saxon
characters, Hic jacet Fohanna Bullock, quae obit anno 1371.
Orate pro anima ejus.  Historians mention a WILLIAM BULLOCK,
a favourite with EDWARD BALIOL, and generally stiled the
King's beloved Clerk.  As this name is seldom found in Scot-
land, it is probable that Johanna Bullock was the daughter,
or a near relation, of this eminent person, especially as he fre-
quently resided at Roxburgh, Castle.  There was also found a
considerable quantity of wheat and barley, in a charred state,
scattered on a tiled pavement; as were also several pieces of
glass and brick which shewed obvious marks of fire.  All these


