
                          RATHVEN.                         263

is done in importing and exporting salt, coals, and grain. The
one at Buckie is used chiefly as a landing place for the fishermen,
and a protection for their boats. In summers, coals and salt may
be landed with safety.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is both
centrical and convenient for the greater part of the population, its
distance from the extremities being four miles and a-half, and from
the nearest boundary about two. It was built in the year 1794, and
since that time, has only undergone some slight repairs upon the
roof. Its present state, therefore, is good, and 1000 persons,
allowing eighteen inches to each, can be comfortably accom-
modated.  The sittings are all free, and the right of occupancy
arises from the families living upon the properties of the different
heritors, to whom seats were allocated in proportion to their valued
rental.
   The manse was built in 1778, and underwent considerable re-
pairs in 1827, and at present, including the office-houses, is in
good habitable order. The extent of glebe is seven acres of ara-
ble ground, which may be valued at L.17, 10s.  The amount of
stipend is 120 bolls of barley, and the same number of meal, con-
verted into money at the highest fiars of the county, with L.10
for communion elements. Sir Andrew Leith Hay of Rannes is
patron.*

<FOOTNOTE>
  * Alexander Macdonald, Esq. Register-Office, supplied me with the following in-
telligence relative to this parish.
   "The Provestrie of the College Kirk of Cullane fundat onlie upon the fruittis of
the vicarage of flathven, pertaining to Sir George Duff, Provost, liand in the dio-
cie of Abirdene within the shirefdom of Banff. Being at all times collectit bi the
said Sir George himself, sen his entres thairto. The yeirlie availl estimate to L mer-
kis.
   "Qubairof be payis to Sir A Andro Hay, vicar pensioner of Bathven xx merkis yeir.
lie,--Sic-'subscribitur, Sir George Duff, Provost of Cullane. Provestrie of Culand,
quhilk is the vicarage of Rattven. In the haill, xxxiij ti vj. a. viij. d. ; 3 thairof,
xj ti ij a. ij d. ot., &c.
   "The rentall of the personage of Rathven with the annexis therof, liand within the
diocesis of Abirdene and Murray, respective sherefdoms of Banff and Murray respec.
tive. In the first the teind silver of the parochin of Rathven vijxx vjti. The
malles of the baronie of Rathven, xxxi merki vij a. iiij. d. The fermex of the
Lovnhead aikkeris and mylne multures extenis to vxx bollin beir.  Item, the
kirk of Dundurcus-set for xl tib. Item, the Kirk of Kinlallartie, xxiiji ti. Item. the
landis of Murven, liand in the parochine of Dundurcus, xvj Merkis, Heirof deduct
of ordinar chargis to sex bedmen x1ij merkis. Item, to their habittis, vij ti. iiij s-
Item. to the staller Abirdene. Item, geiven furth of Dundureus to the, Abbay of
Kinlos v. ti, sic subscribitur, G. Hay with my hand.
   Personage of Rathven, the beidmen's pensionnis and daith deducit, In the hail. ijc
vj, ti X s; 3 thairof, iijxx viij ti., xvj a. viii d.; -beir vj chalders, iiij bollis : 3 thair-
of, ij ch., j b. j pc. 3 pt."
   In "the registre of ministers and thair stipends sen the year of God 1607," pub-
lished by Alexander Macdonald, Esq. one of the members of the Maitland Club, we
find that Maister George HAy, minister of Rathven, in the diocie of Abirdene, for the
year 1576, had for his stipend, ij. c. ti.


