
862                   	LANARKSHIRE.

<TABLE>
              102 one year olds. grass of, at L. 1,  .     .  L. 102 0 0
              120 calves,	    do. at 5s.     .      .     .   30 0 0
               67 horses,         do. at L. 3, .     .     .     201 0 0
              660 sheep,          do. at 5s.     .      .     .  165 0 0
                                                              -----------
                                                            L. 6067  5  0
                                          Gross Rent, *    L. 2046 17 11

	             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-The nearest market-towns are Biggar and
Carnwath, distant the one about five miles and a-half, the other
about six miles from the village of Walston.
   There are two villages in the parish, Walston and Elsrickle.
The former, situated, as has been already mentioned, on the north-
ern side of the hill, has been gradually dwindling away for several
years; while the latter, in consequence of feus being granted by
Mr Woddrop, has of late years considerably increased.  Both
are pleasantly situated ; but Elsrickle has a decided superiority
in the trees which shelter and set off its scattered cottages to the
best advantage.  It is a picturesque village, and requires only
attention in allotting future dwellings, and plantation judiciously
arranged to harmonize with the trees already in existence, to
make it the prettiest village in the upper ward.
   Means ofCommunication, &c.-There is no post-office in the
parish ; the nearest was, till lately, about five miles distant.  A
few years ago, however, there was established at Roberton, in the
neighbouring parish of Dolphinton, a sub-office to Noblehouse,
which is a great accommodation to the parishioners on the Wal-
ston side of the hill, being distant about three miles from the vil-
lage; and also to the adjoining parishes.  For this they are in a
great measure indebted to the exertions of Dr Aiton, who brought
the matter under the notice of the proper authorities.  The
turnpike roads in the parish are those from Dumfries to Edinburgh,
and from Carnwath to Peebles; the former extending about a
quarter of a mile, the latter about three miles and a-half.  A
coach runs from Edinburgh to Dumfries on alternate days, and
occasionally in summer every day.  The - Dumfries mail and a
coach from Edinburgh to Lanark run within four miles from the
parish.  A carrier, resident in Elsrickte, leaves for Edinburgh on
Monday evening, and returns on Wednesday evening weekly.  The
bridges are of small span, unsuitable to their position, but sub-
stantially. built.  One of them, immediately to the eastward of

<FOOTNOTE>The rent of the lands sold by John Baillie to G. Lockhart did not average more
than 800 merks yearly while in John Baillie possession.


