
     Statistical Account

bitants of this parish, as tradition relates, were exceedingly
rough and uncivilized in their manners.  The proprietors,
who were very numerous, appear, at least some of them,
(for there were exceptions in the worst of times,) to have
been haughty, resentful, and cruel; nor were they at a loss
for assistants in executing their most mischievous projects;
as their examples was followed, and their commands impli-
citly obeyed by their tenants and dependents.  They had
their feuds and family-quarrels, which they presecuted in
the most violent manner, without regard to time or place.
Even the church-yard on a Sunday was sometimes the
scene of action, where two hostile lairds, with their respec
tive adherents, rushed upon one another with their durks
and their shabbles.  The ministers in particular felt the ef-
fects of their savage barbarity. One minister,(Mr Baxter),
at a very remote period indeed, had his head cut off at the
manse-door with a Lochaber axe, by a laird in his neigh-
bourhood.  Another, (Mr Macsween), towards the begin-
ning of the present century, after repeated insults, was at-

<FOOTNOTE>

water, which takes its rise in the hills in the N. W. quarter of the parish;
Binnew, the holy hill, so called perhaps from a stone on its summit, with
a cavity or hollow in it, wherein, from the frequent rains and damps on
that hill, water was generally seen; and in the times of superstition, this
water was believed to spring out of the stone, and to possess a virtue of
healing various diseases:  Minnagowan, which it is said derives its name 
from the Smith, who survived the battle, fought at the Inch of Perch, be
tween an equal number of the clan Chattan and clan Kai.  This son of
Vulcan, being fortunate enough to escape the dreadful slaughter of that
day, directed his course northward, and it is said, settled for some time at
the foot of the Laight, a hill  which separates this parish from Kirkmichael
or Strathaven; but he afterward removed to Carvie-side, about a mile to
the S. W. of the kirk of Strathdon, where he continued till his death.
The place of his residence is still known by the name of the Smith's town,
and the hill where he cast his peas is called Minnagowan or the Smith's
moss.  The fuel used here is peat, turf, and heath.  The last is com-
monly made use of for drying the corns.
  

