
				KINFAUNS.			1221

	turnpike road from Perth to Dundee, which is kept in excellent
	repair, traverses the parish throughout its whole length ; and three-
	coaches, including the Royal Mail, pass and repass along it daily,
	betveen the towns just mentioned.  Several carriers Also pass and
	repass every week.  There are several cross roads, too, which are-
	likewise kept in good condition.  Two steam-boats, moreover,
	ply daily, in the river, between Perth and Dundee, during the
	summer months; and one constantly plys in winter, when the state
	of the river will permit; and there is a small boat kept at Inchyra,
	a little below this parish, which conveys passengers to and from
	the steam-boats.  There are, besides, two piers, on the side of the
	Tay, within this parish, at which vessels deliver coals, lime, &c.
	and take in potatoes and grain.   One of these piers, however, is
	now rendered nearly useless by the late improvements that have
	been made in the river ; but the pier of Inchyra is not far off,
	and is more conveniently situated for the eastern part of the pa-
	rish than either of the former.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which is the only
	place of meeting for public worship within the parish, is nearly as
	conveniently situated, for the majority of the population, as it could
	be.  It is about two and one-fourth miles from the western, and               r
	two and three-fourth miles from the eastern extremity of the pa-
	rish.  It has been built at three different times.  The oldest part
	which forms the body of the church, h`s no date upon it, but it is
	certainly of very great age. This is a long narrow quadrangular
	building, with very low walls,--so low, indeed, that it bases evi-
	dently never been intended to have galleries in it.  A gallery
	however, has been erected in each end ; but these are so near the
	ceiling, that in some parts a middle-sized matt cannot stand up-
	right.  On the south side, there has been built an aisle, apparently
	at a later date, and which has belonged to the Kinfauns family
	from time immemorial.  A very few years ago, as the church was
	too small to accommodate the parishioners and others who at-
	tended, another aisle was built, close to the west side of the for-
	mer one.  The church is now altogether very comfortable, and
	notwithstanding the great age of part of it, is considered to be
	throughout quite substantial.  It contains 416 sittings, all free.
	   The manse was built in 1799, and received a large addition in
	1840.  It is now one of the largest and most commodious in this
	part of the country,--is throughout in excellent condition, and
	valued at L.28, 12s.


