

186                      LINLITHWSHIRE.

and perusal of periodicals. A small monthly sheet, entitled Dick's
Advertiser, is published in Linlighgow, and circulated through-
out the county, and the eastern district of Stirlingshire.
   Charitable Institutions.-There are nine Friendly Societies in
Linlighgow, the Masons', Dyers', Gardens', Crispins', Tanners',
Trades' Friendly, Oil Fellows, and Rechabites. The main ob-
ject of these Societies is, for the purpose of ailmenting sick and de-
cayed members. Their funds are raised by monthly and quarter-
ly subscriptions of the members. The rate of aliment differs.
One of them sum annually for educating the children of deceased
members between six and twelve years of age. They also give a
sum in the shape of funeral expenses at the death of a member or
a member's wife. The Rechabite Society is founded upon the
principle of total abstinence, a member forfeiting all claim to its
benefits, should he violate the pledge. Several of these Societies
have accumulated money and property to a considerable extent,
and all of them are prosperous. Their term of existence is va-
rious. Some are of long standing, others are very recent. Several
of them have existed as Societies long prior to their becoming
Friendly,-as, for example, the Society of Gardeners has existed for
several centuries, the person who founded it having been Gardener
to the palace in its days of splendour, and the individual by whom
the fine old trees which still beautify its eastern front, were plant-
ed. As Friendly Societies, the oldest is that of the Dyers, which
has existed for eighty years; then the Gardeners, which has exist-
ed for sixty years; the Tanner, also sixty; the Crispins, nineteen;
the Masons, thirty-two; the Rechabites, two years; and the Odd
Fellows, a branch of the Manchester Union, only a few months.
   The Incorporated Trades who have funds, give a small annual al-
lowance to decayed members. These allowances are more cha-
ritable, than granted as a matter of right.
   Poor.-There are at present about 140 persons on the poor's
roll; the number having very considerably increased within the
last two years. The monthly distribution is about L. 24. The
rate per month varies according to the circumstances of the per-
son, from 2s. to 15s. The rent of land belonging to the session,
together with the collections at the church doors, and other dues,
has, till within these last two years, been sufficient for all expenses.
   Prison.-The state of the prison here has been materially im-


