
22                          PERTHSHIRE.

sessing a greater elevation above the level of the sea.  The annual
number of fair days is, according to the observations for six con-
secutive years, 253; and the number of days on which there was
either rain or snow, 112.  Hence, the relation of the former to
the latter is more than that of 2 to 1.
 Thunder.-There is no recorded instance of a thunder-storm
having been attended with fatal effects in Perth, or in its imme-
diate vicinity.  This is to be ascribed to the lowness of its situation,
and the influence of the hills, by which it is ne`rly on all sides
surrounded.  The elevated ground in the neighbourhood, being
for the most part covered with trees, these act as natural conduc-
tors, by which the electric fluid is slowly dissipated, before it has
been permitted to accumulate in such a degree, as to be in a con-
dition to produce violent explosions.
 Aurora Borealis.-The aurora borealis is not uncommon, more
especially in the winter months, when it displays all the varied and
fantastic appearances, which that remarkable meteor usually ex-
hibits in high northern latitudes.  When distinguished by more
than ordinary activity and brilliancy, it not unfrequently terminates
its restless developements, by assuming the appearance of a splen-
did arch of light, about 5&deg; in breadth, spanning the heavens in a
direction that is always at right angles to the magnetic meridian.
 Occasionally the coruscations are tinged with the prismatic co-
lours, in which the red greatly predominates; but the other co-
lours, though faint, are also discernible.  The appearance of the
meteor is generally considered to be a precursor of unsettled and
stormy weather.
 Parhelia.-Lunar rainbows are seldom seen; and parhelia or
mock-suns, have been still more rarely observed at Perth.  Of the
latter, however, a striking instance occurred on the 30th of April
1835, the various phenomena of which were accurately measured
with suitable instruments.  About mid-day a luminous circle, pass-
ing through the sun, and parallel to the horizon, began to make
its appearance.  This circle, which was about half a degree in
breadth, was intersected by a halo encompassing the sun, and
tingdd all round with the colours of the rainbow, the red and yel-
low being as usual, in such meteors, next the sun.  The altitude
of the sun's centre at half-past one o'clock, when the phenomenon
was brightest, was 45/d 15'; and at that time it exhibited the ap-
pearance represented by the subjoined diagram, which is a stereo-
graphic projection of it on the plane of the horizon of Perth : In
this representation N. E. S. W. is the horizon; Z. the zenith; S.


