
				DUNDEE.                           41

it is carried through a tunnel 340 yards in length, to the north side
of the Law of Dundee. There are other two inclined planes be-
fore reaching Newtyle. Up these planes the carriages are drawn
by means of fixed steam engines. This rail-road will be of great
importance in connecting the fertile district of Strathmore with Dun-
dee and the navigation of the Tay. Goods are already carried on
it at one-third the expense formerly paid on the turnpike. The
carriages are nnw impelled by locomotive engines.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The early ecclesiastical state of Dundee is
covered with much obscurity. The principal church in former
times was St Clement's, dedicated to the tutelar saint of the town.
It stood on the site of the present town-house. In the neighbour-
hood of this place stone coffins and other remains of a burial ground
have of late years been discovered.
	The church that has been used as the parish church since the
Reformation was called St Mary's. It was built towards the end
of the twelfth century by David Earl of Huntingdon and Garioch,
brother of William I. Returning, it is said, from the Holy Land,
he was overtaken by a tempest at sea, and when in danger of ship-
wreck, vowed that, if spared, he would erect a church to the mother
of our Lord on the spot where he reached the shore. Having en-
tered the Tay in safety, and gained the land, he was not unmind-
ful of his vow; for his danger and deliverance, together with the
pious purpose which he formed, are all commemorated by the re,
mains of the edifice, which, with its splendid tower, still graces our
town.
	Tradition says that this church was destroyed by Edward I. If
so, it was again destroyed in the time of Edward VI. by the Eng-
lish who were in possession of Broughty Castle. In 1588, the
cross part of the building, which redms to have been in ruins, was
roofed in; and what is now called the South Church, was used,
along with the old church, (the choir of the original building,) as
a place of worship. In 1759, the part which is now occupied by
the Cross Church was fitted up as a Chapel of Ease, and a cate-
chist appointed. In 1789, the Steeple Church was built, and this
and the Cross (which has been rebuilt in 1829) erected into
churches. After the Reformation, there seems to have been two
ministers who officiated in the Old and South Churches. To these
a third was added in 1609, and the arrangement has continued
since. In 1789 two more were added by the erection of the Cross


