
			COLINTON.                            109

aid to the industry of tha parish, within which it is employed
in sixteen mills and one bleach-field.   It has, however, the dis-
advantage belonging to all small streams, that its supply of water
is very unequal.  There are seasons when the water almost
disappears among the stones; and there are times when the
swollen torrent rushes along with the power of a giant.   In October
1832, this stream was very heavily flooded for three days, in con-
sequence of which, twelve dam-heads were injured in its course,
and the bridge at Slateford, which had stood for seventy years, was
broken down.  It was proposed, some years ago, to form a reservoir
towards the source of the stream for the treasuring up of the super-
fluous waters of the wet season, to be again distributed in the time
of need.   But this plan has never been carried into effect. This
stream flows into the Frith of Forth at Leith, constituting
the original harbour of that place, There are also three burns
in the parish; the Murray burn, forming its north-western boun-
dary till it falls into the Leith at Longstone, a little below Slate-
ford; the Braid-burn which takes its rise chiefly in the hills about
Bonally and Dreghorn; and the Burdiehouse-burn, which comes
down from Swanston. There are, besides these, many excellent
springs in the lands of Comiston, Swanston.   and Dreghorn, from
which the inhabitants of Edinburgh were long chiefly supplied with
water.  Maitland, in his History of Edinburgh, states on this sub,
ject, that, in 1621, means were first thought of for bringing in the
water from Comiston to Edinburgh; but that nothing was effec-
tually done till 1672, when a fire-hearth tax was laid on the town
by Act of Parliament, in order to raise the necessary fund. In
1681, Peter Brauss brought in the Tod spring from Comiston,
at the expense of L. 2900 Sterling, and gave so much satisfaction to
his employers that they gave him a present of L. 50. In 1698,
the Hare and the Mowbray springs, with all that might be be-
tween them, were rented from the proprietor of  Comiston for a
season, at L. 18 per annum, and brought also into the good town.
In later times, to add  to the various supplier of haiter, two ponds
were formed on the lands of Spylaw, above  Bonally, and their con-
tents directed into the same channel.  Since, however, the abun-
dant waters of the Crawly spring have been carried into Edinburgh
by a water Company formed in  1819, these ponds have been sa
perseded. Still, with all this abandant supply of water, there are
places in the parish where it is not to be had in sufficient quan-
tity, though there can be little daubt, that, were it properly sought


