
434                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

been levied for some years, being perpetuated for its support.
From this time, the ministers of the first and second charges were
colleagues together in the East Church, the minister of the third
charge preaching in the West, until, upon t he deposition of Ebe-
nezer Erskine for whom this charge had been instituted, that
church was disused as an ordinary place of worship, and only open-
ed on sacramental occasions for the accommodation of those who
could not find access to the East Church.  This state of things,
notwithstanding one or perhaps more petitions of the inhabitants,
continued till 1817, when the third charge was revived, and the
West Church re-opened. The arrangement, in other respects, con-
tinued the same down to 1825, when the then minister or the third
charge, being appointed to the second, remained in the West
Church, instead of being transferred to the East, and, on being ap-
pointed in 1829 to the first charge, still remained in the West
Church.  The arrangement adopted since this last date has been,
that the minister of the first charge is fixed in the West Church,
the minister of the second charge in the East, and the minis-
ter of the third charge preaches in each church alternately as col-
league to both the others.  This anomalous arrangement will soon
be broken up, in consequence of the erection of the new church
now in progress; when each minister will have his own church, kirk-
session, congregation, and parochial territory.  A temporary ar-
rangement, in so far as respects separate kirk-sessions and paro-
chial districts, has meanwhile been adopted, in conjunction with
the minister and session of the Old Light Burgher congregation,
lately united to the Established Church, which can only go a little
way towards the bringing about a right ecclesiastical economy, and
to which it is unnecessary more particularly to advert.  One cir-
cumstance which, along with others connected with the increase
of the population, and the increased necessity of a closer and more
adequate system of pastoral superintendence, urgently recommend
an improvement in the present ecclesiastical arrangements, is the
inconvenient position of the presently existing churches, situatcd
on a high elevation in the very outskirts of the most inaccessible
part of the town, and near to the extremity of the parisb.  This
inconvenience will only be remedied in part by the new erection.
A proper parochial arrangement will never be effected until the
West Church be shut up, and another church be built in the north-
ern quarter of the town.  It has been ascertained by measurement
that the accommodation in the East Church amounts to about
                             6


