
          138                          ELGINSHIRE.

          in the course of a few miles, through scenery of surpassing subli-
          mity and grandeur.
             To the east of Glen-Ennich, and about the centre of the pa-
          rish, there is a bold pass through the mountains, named in the lan-
          guage of the country, Larich-ruadh, or red pass.  Through this
          narrow galley,  a foot-path has been formed with much trouble by
          the removal of immense blocks of granite, which have fallen from
          the adjoining precipices on either side of the pass, with the view of
          communicating with the southern markets by a  shorter route than
          the great Highland road presents.
             The task of bringing cattle through this pass is one of difficulty
          and danger; but a pedestrian, fond of the grand in nature, will have
          his toils amply, repaid, while he wends his way along the base of
          the lofty Ben-Mac-dui.  The shoulder of this mountain forms in
          this direction the boundary of the parish.
             Soil.-Along the banks of the Spey, the soil is a rich alluvial
          deposit, producing heavy crops, but subject in rainy seasons to in-
          undations of the river.  The higher grounds are more secure but
          less fertile.
             Hydrography.-Lakes and streams abound.  Loch-an-Eilean
          and Loch-Gamhuinn to the west, Loch-Ennich to the south,
          and Loch-Morlich to the east, with many others of inferior note,
          are made serviceable, with the aid of numberless streams de-
          scending from the mountains, for the purpose of floating timber to
          the Spey, whence it is conveyed to Garmouth or the Moray Frith.
          The whole surface of the parish is indented with lakes, which,
          while they add to the beauty of the country, greatly enhance the
          value of the forest, by affording a cheap mode of conveyance.  The
          Benie, Luinac, Altruadh, and Druie, are the names by which the
          principal streams are designated.    
             Fishes and Game.-Salmon, trout, eels, and pike, are found in
          abundance in the Spey; and pike, eels, and trout of a very fine
          quality are produced by the lakes.  In Loch-Ennicb, char are
          found.  The forest, half a century ago, was the resort of herds of
          red-deer and roe. Few of these are now met with, the sheep hav-
          ing occupied their place.  Black game, pheasants, partridges,
          hares, rabbits, and especially ptarmigan abound.
             Birds nd Beast of Prey.--The black eagle, the denizen of
          the mountains, occasionally visits the shepherd's flock, and the
          cunning fox still rears her cubs in the inaccesible wilds of Brae
          Riach.  The osprey builds her nest and nurtures her young on

                                              4


