
                                   DULL.                           773

    may be proper to observe, that there is no separate rent laid upon
    the pasture, as it is commonly let with tbe arable ground ; but
    the hill grazing may pdrhaps be estimated at an average of 1s. 6d.
    and in the inland or better sort of pasture, situated within the
    head dike, at 5s. 6d. per imperial acre. The summer grazing of
    a horse upon this latter sort of pasture is about L.2, 8s., and of a
    cow, L.1, 4s. ; but their grazing in the hill or moor comes to
    little more than the half of these respective sums; and the annual
    grazing for a full-grown sheep is about 5s. Leases extend from
    seven to nineteen years duration. A great number of the small
    holders, however, have no leases, but are tenants at will, or occu-
    pants from year to year, which is alike disadvantageous to the te-
    nant, and unfavourable to improvement.
     Real Rental.-The real rental of the parish amounts in the
    aggregate to about L.13,250.
     Prices of Implements of Husbandry, &c.-A full-mounted cart,
    with wheels and iron axletree, costs L.8 ; a pair of wooden bar-
    rows, full-mounted, L. 1, 5s. ; a full-mounted wheelbarrow, 18s.;
    a peat-barrow, 8s.; a full-mounted long cart, exclusive of wheels
    and axletree, L.3, 3s.; an iron plough, full-mounted, L.4, 4s.;
    a rood of mason work, containing 36 square yards, from 2 feet to
    2 feet 6 inches thick, exclusive of furnishing materials, about L.2;
    building dry stone dike of 5 feet high, 3s. per lineal rood ; drain-
    making varies, in proportion to depth and the nature of the ground,
    from 6d. to 1s. per rood ; boring and blasting stones, including
    powder, costs 6d. per foot of three-fourths of an inch bore. Full-
    grown fir-wood is sold at 1s. per cubic foot; hard-wood, viz. oak,
    2s. 6d.; ash and elm, 1s. per do. ; sawing of fir-wood, at pit by
    hand-saw, costs 2s. per hundred feet; larch, 2s. 6d ; and hard-
    wood, 5s. per do. ; while again the price of sawing these at the
    mill is one-fourth less respectively.
     Prices of Provisions.-The price of provisions here as else-
    where must necessarily vary according to the state of the market;
    but the current average price thereof may be thus stated : beef
    costs 6d.; mutton, 7d. ; pork, 4 1/2d.; fresh butter, 8d. per lb.
    respectively ; salted butter sells at 17s. per stone of 22 lbs.; and
    cheese at 6s. per stone of same weight. Fowls bring 1s. 2d. each;
    eggs, 5d. per dozen; quartern loaf costs 9d.; oatmeal, per boll
    Of 140 lbs, 19s. ; barley-meal, per boll of same weight 14S.;
    and potatoes, 5s. per old boll of four firlots or six bushels.
      Quarries.-The only quarries of any consequence in the parish


