
26			    BUTERSHIRE.

the father being, as his family grew up and settled in life, often
divided among two or three of his sons. The decrease from 1793
to 1801, was principally owing to the number of young men who
then went to sea; several hundreds leaving the parish every year,
some for the Royal Navy, others for the ever returned to their
native parish; as many of them were either lost at sea, or fell in
the service of their country, and those who lived, settled in the
service of their country, and those who lived, settled in the
different sea-port towns in the low country. From 1801 to 1821
the same cause continued to operate in keeping down the popula-
tion; but the continuation of the old system of subdividing farms,
with the greater abundance of the necessaries of life arising from
the additional land brought under cultivation, produced in it, upon
thw whole, a slight increase. Its gradual decline from that period
till the important are an extensive emigration to Canada and Chaleur
Bay, which took place in 1830; the care taken to prevent any farther
splitting down of possessions; the decline in smuggling, which, at
one time, afforded a sort of occupation for a great number of young
men; instead habits of industry in the rising generation,
home, go to trades or service in the low county, or engage as
sailors in merchant ships.
	Language, Manners, Morals.--English is well understood, and
more or less spoken in all parts of the parish: but among the ru-
ral population, Gaelic is decidedly the prevailing language. In the
villages, which contain a number of settlers from the mainland,
English is rapidly gaining ground, and is spoken by the rising
generation with the same fluency as Gaelic. From the nearness
of Annan to the Highlander and Lowlander. With the bland
courtesy of the former, and that seemingly artless simplicity which
so often hides under it a great share of shrewdness, intelligence,
and art, they have learned to blend no inconsiderable share of the
bluff and sturdy independence of the latter. The Highland charac-
ter, however, decidedly predominates. The practice of illicit distil-
lation prevailed very generally not many years ago. But the heavy
apex imposed of late on convicted delinquents, and the diminution
of the guipe of smuggling by the improvement of the spirits ma-
nufactures by the licensed distiller, have in a great measure put


