
772                            LANARKSHIRE.

of these streams.  Their waters are also much resorted to by dippers
(Cinclus aquaticus), and a variety of other birds.  The holes be-
neath the rocks afford excellent shelter for foxes, otters, polecats,
and badgers.
   The Tiller-burn rises near the manse at Shotts, and after pursu-
ing a westerly course, falls into the Calder near Cleland House.
   There is abundance of excellent water in all quarters of the pa-
rish, obtained chiefly from open wells.  Iron or chalybeate waters
abound; they are often found associated with sulpluretted springs,
and have probably one common origin.
   Immediately opposite the Monkland Steel Works, on the Both-
well side of the North Calder, a spring strongly impregnated with
alumina, and depositing a quantity of iron-ore in its course, issues
from a valuable bed of aluminous schist, now wrought to great ad-
vantage.  The aluminous principle is so strong as to set the teeth
on edge when the water is tasted.  The water was analysed by Dr
Hugh Colquhoun of Glasgow, and the principal ingredients were
found to be sulphate of iron and sulphate of alumina, with a consi-
derable quantity of sulphate of lime, and a very little sulphate of
magnesia.  As a medicinal mineral water, Dr Colquhoun supposes
it would not be of any value; diluted with common water, it might,
perhaps, be used as a tonic in some cases under the daily superin-
tendence of a medical adviser, and might also be used with ad-
vantage to bathe certain external sores.  Dr Colquhoun adds, I
have no doubt that the mineral spring flows through a stratum of
aluminous schist, from which schist alum might be manufactered;
but whether the manufacture would be profitable, is another ques-
tion.
   The well has been injured by the mining operations.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-A stratum of the new or upper red
sandstone stretches along the whole of the western parts of Both-
Well, and penetrates into several of the neigbbouring parishes,
forming the great key to the geology of this part of Scotland.
This new or upper deposit, which, so far as the writer hereof
knows, has not been noticed as yet, or described by any author in
connection with the mineralogy of the district, * covers a great part
of the south-west edge of the great coal basin of the Clyde.  In
its southern extremity, it reaches near to the village of Quarter,
in the parish of Hamilton ; extends northwards by Chatelherault,

<FOOTNOTE>This Account was drawn up in 1836.
		                      3


