
     of Abernethy and Kinchardine

What they complain of chiefly is, the method followed in 
letting their farms when their lease and expired.  It is 
seldom that the tenants are called on to renew till within
a few months of the term of the removal, and then perhaps, left
for years in suspence, before they are settled with, and
tried for some addition every year; and every year recei-
ving a fummons of removal.  The offers received are gene-
rally kept private; and when they get a lease, it is only
for 15 or 19 years, which they think too short.  The ef-
fects of this method are very bad, both for master and
tenant.  For during the last 2 or 3 years of the lease, they
are under apprehensions of being removed, and of course
plough up what they ought not, or would not, if they were
certain of continuing; and all this while, careless about the
repairs of their houses and buildings.  By these means, they
either hurt themselves, if they continue, by renewing, or
their successor if they remove, and the proprietors interest 
in either case.  Besides, that while people are kept long in
suspence, it occasions much unhappy anxiety, and restless-
ness of mind*.

     VOL. XIII. T

<FOOTNOTE>

*The following or some such rules, is attended to, might be beneficial
both to master and tenants.  1st, That tenants ought to be settled with,
at least a year before the expiration of their lease.  2 d, That no pri-
vate offers ought to be admitted at all.  They are often, when inju-
dicious, unsafe for the master and precarions for the tenant.  Because a
tenant is at a loss how o act, when he knows not what is offered by o-
thers, and of course may offer different times above himself.  A pu-
blic oup would be fairer than private offers, because then a person fees
what he is doing.  Beside that when people are pressed by necessity,
or hurried by their passions, it is dangerous to rely on their offers.  The
method of encouraging people to offer privately or publicity upon each
other, is most hurtful to the very essence of Christianity, by destroying
friendship and good will, and introducing much ill will, revenge and
quarrels.  It is common to hear of peoples threatching to offer for their


