
     Of Kemnay.

very large and very valuable.  There are good many small
parcels of land, which we call crofts, held immediately of the
proprietor, and renting from 1 L. 10 s. to 3 L.  These are ge-
nerally possessed by day-labourers and mechanicks.  No part
of the lands here is let by the acre, and I believe they are mo-
deratly rented upon the whole; and, in some particular cases, 
very low.  I have not, as yet, got an account of the number
of acres which this district contains; and I cannot state pre-
cisely the amount of the rent.  Perhaps it may be between
600 L. and 700 L. yearly.
   The vegetable produce of this parish has already been men-
tioned.  With respect to animal productions, there are in it
about 500 black cattle, of a small size; between 80 and 90
horses of middle size, and about 1300 sheep, all white, with
very few exceptions, whose carcases are small, and their wool
coarse, and not very plentiful, the fleeces weighing scarcely
1 lib. each, at an average.  I cannot state exactly what part
of the produce of this district is carried to market out of the
parish.  But in all ordinary seasons, a considerable quantity
of oatmeal, bear, and oats, is sent to Aberdeen, besides do-
mestic fowls, eggs, cheese and butter, and sometimes fed cattle,
particularly calves, and some sheep, for the butcher*.

   Population.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the popu-
lation then was 643.  At the present time the whole number
of inhabitants is 611, of whom there are 150 under 10 years

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are hares, foxes, some deer that visit us occasionally, and most of the 
fowls which are natives of the north part of Scotland.  The birds of passage
are wild-geese, which appear in autumn, and leave us in spring, the house-
swallow, and the hirundo riparia, which builds its nest in the high banks of the
river, the green-plover or lapwing, the cuckoo, and two of three different
kinds of birds from the sea-coast, which bring forth their young about the banks
of the Don, and then retire.


