
		     BANCHORT-TERNAN.                      329

of the Dee removes a little way beyond its mouth, and has accu-
mulated according to the gravity of the materials in the place
where the islands now appear. The larger has increased within
the memory of several persons alive, and the consequence former-
ly was, that the stream being thrown with greater force against
the northern bank so corroded it year after year as to destroy the
site of several houses, and to approach the wall of the churchyard.
But this work of destruction was delayed in 1811 by the forma-
tion of a stone embankment, which wards off the force of the
stream. Above the junction of the Feugh where the Dee is
crossed by a bridge, its medium breadth, depth, and-velocity with
in the parish may be considered as nearly represented. They are
found in an average state of the flood to be nearly as follows:-
Breadth, 175 feet; depth in the middle of the stream, 6 feet 9
inches; velocity, 1.8 foot per second. The average depth in win-
ter above that in summer is 8 inches. During the latter season
the volume of water not unfrequently decreases more than one-
half. Strong winds from the south and west, by raising waves on
the surface of several lakes from which the river is fed in the up-
per parts of its course, are found to affect the level of its waters
here, often to the extent of one or two feet. During the great
flood of August 1829, it rose 20 feet 7 inches above its ordinary
height.
	The Feugh flows for about a mile within the parish, and at
first presents nothing remarkable in its appearance, besides the
pools and shallows, with the wide margin of sand and gravel, which
characterize most mountain streams; but when it enters the open-
ing in the secondary ridge of hills that skirts the south side of the
Dee, it runs between bold precipitous wooded banks and dashes
from pool to pool over naked opposing rocks, until within a few
hundred yards ot the river it falls in a divided stream down a
ledge from fifteen to twenty feet high, and then reuniting In a
deep basin below, finds itr vay to the Dee amidst similar rocks,
and an accumulation of sand. The great height at which its
sources lie in the neighbouring Grampian, and the comperative
shortness of its  course, subject its volume to so sudden and fre-
quent changes, that an average estimate of its waters is not easily
ascertained. Above the. fall it is seventy feet broad, and one of
the pools is about twenty-four feet deep; two feet may be re-
garded as its general depth. Its velocity is conjectured to be
more than double that of the Dee. A bridge of two principal


