
			ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                           253

	rous, but particularly so upon a dangerous reef of sunk rock call-
	ed Sgeir-nam-m...ol, which runs across part of the channel or
	Minsh, from Hunish point.  Of cartilaginous fishes, the skate is
	reckoned by the natives the most valuable.  The common sea-
	eel is taken in great quantities by means of long lines, and some
	of them are of great size. The lythe is looked upon as fine and de-
	licate in quality.  Some autumns the gurnard appears in immense
	shoals, when boat loads of it are taken in a short period of time.
	The most successful bait for it is a piece of gurnard itself.  Had-
	docks are comparatively rare, but were about half a century ago
	the most numerous of all fishes. The sythe, though dry and in-
	sipid, may be said to be of all fish the most useful to the natives,
	as it supplies them with oil for light, and other purposes. This
	oil is preferable for burning to train oil. The best season for it
	is autumn, when 80 to 100 sythes will yield an imperial gallon
	of oil.
           Fisheries.-At one period, the herring appeared in prodigious
	shoals, not only around the coast of the parish, but in all the
	lochs, creeks, and bays of the island. It then formed an exten-
	sive and lucrative source of traffic, and the benefits derived from
	it, by the country in general, were very great. It was caught at
	comparatively little expense, as the natives could, for the most
	part, make their own nets, and reach their own homes.  In every
	creek and bay large fleets of schooners, brigs, sloops, wberries,
	and boats of all sizes and descriptions, were to be seen eagerly
	engaged in the securing of stores for private families, and of car-
	goes for the southern markets.  Now the irregular appearance of
	this migratory fish, together with the small quantities of it which
	frequent, at the present day its wonted haunts, have deprived the
	natives of one of their best sources of support, and have been in
	no small degree the means of reducing the redundant population
	to poverty, and of unfitting them to meet such seasons of destitu-
	tion as those of 1836 and 1837.
	   Salmon is plentiful on'the coast, but the only place where it
	spawns is the small river which runs into the bay of Altivaig. It
	goes up that stream if a little swollen with rain, about the 12th
	of August, and returns to the sea about Michaelmas. A salmon
        fishery has beta established for the last ten years, on the proper-
	ty of Lord Macdonald in this island, and the bay, of Altivaig has
	proved one of its most successful stations. The whole is present-
	ly rented by John Wilson, Esq. Berwick-on-Tweed, and five years


