
172                        FORFARSHIRE.

21 feet. There are several others of considerable size. There
are also a great many fine beeches, many of which are from 12 to
14 feet in circumference. At Kinnordy there is a considerable
variety of all the different ornamental kinds of wood. At Balna-
both the plantations are chiefly of Scotch fir, with a few larch;
both are of excellent quality, particularly the former. The late
Earl Walter, who planted them, very properly took the precaution
of sending to the Mar forests for his plants.

        		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	Accounts of the Parish.--There is an account of this parish ex-
tant in manuscript, drawn up in 1748 by the late Rev. George
Ogilvy. It embraces the history of Christianity, from its first in-
troduction into Scotland; but it has an especial reference to the ec-
clesiastical state of Kirriemuir, of which he was long the respect-
able minister. This history has been transcribed into the book
which is kept for the registration of baptisms, and is of consider-
able value. As the validity of any but Episcopal ordination was
keenly contested at the time when Mr Ogilvy lived, the principal
object which he seems to have had in view was to prove, by a refe-
rence to acknowledge facts, that our first Protestant ministers had
no other but Presbyterian ordination.
	In 1825, the present incumbent published "Statements rela-
tive to the Pauperism of Kirriemuir." *
       	Historical Events.--Tradition furnishes us with few particulars
respecting the early history of Kirriemuir. There can be no doubt
that the inhabitants of this and of the neighbouring parishes zeal-
ously attached to the Ogilvies, shared in their fortunes, shedding
their blood as often as it was required in their service. When
Donald, the Lord of the Isles, who ranked himself among the al-
lies of England, and made war and peace as an independent prince,
advanced in 1411 to prosecute his claims to the earldom of Ross,
he was opposed by Lord Ogilvy, the sheriff of Angus, who brought
up his own marital clan, some of whom were no doubt inhabitants
of Kirriemuir, and at Harlaw, along with the powerful Earl of Mar
and others, gained the victory Which decided, as Sir Walter Scott
observes, the superiority of the more civilized regions of Scotland
over those inhabited by the Celtic tribes.
	In the famous battle between the Ogilvys and Lindsays, which

<FOOTNOTE>For an account of the many interesting localities of the parish, see the original
MS.


