
                             COULL.                           957

nants sowed grass seeds, or raised turnips or potatoes except for
the pot;-148 horses, 610 cattle, and 1229 sheep were kept; of
the latter the greater part belonged to crofters, and, being allowed
to wander about, were very detrimental to the neighbours.  There
were 47 ploughs, drawn by 88 horses ; 87 cows, and 157 oxen
and young cattle.  The wages of farm-servants were, of men, from
L.4, 10s. to L.6, 10s. or L.7; of women, from L.2 to L.3 per
annum; of day labourers, 6d. with maintenance.  Reapers were
hired for the harvest, the men at L.2 and the women at L.1.  The
inhabited houses were 117, of which 79 were occupied by married
persons, 9 by widowers, 15 by widows, 8 by bachelors, and 6 by
unmarried women.

   August 1842.

                        PARISH OF COULL.

        PRESBYTERY AF KINCARDINE O'NEIL, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN,

           THE REV. WILLIAM CAMPBELL, A. M., MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-Coull, in the Gaelic language, signifies a corner,
nook, or retiring part of the country.  It is a name common over
the Highlands of Scotland, scarcely any large property being
without its Coull, or Mid-Coull, or Wester Coull, &c.  Coull,
interpreted as above, forms a very appropriate name to a parish
lying chiefly in the south-eastern corner of the district of Cromar.
   Extent, &c.-The form of this parish is irregular.  As laid
down in Robertson's Map of Aberdeenshire, it resembles, in some
measure, the outline of Great Britain.  Its average length may
be about 6, and breadth about 3 miles.  It is bounded on the
south, by Aboyne ; on the west, by Coldstone ; on the north, by
Tarland and Cushnie ; and on the east, by Leochel and Lum-
phanan.  A mountain-range, whose summits are named Hill of
Gellan, Mortlich, Leadhlich, and the Hill of Corse, forms, in a
great measure, a natural boundary between Coull and the parishes
of Aboyne and Lumphanan.
   Soil and Climate.-The general character of the soil is good;
a fine loam, in some fields of great depth, and ving on an open


