
			  JEDBURGH.                                  13

count either of their numbers, or of the reigns to which they be-
longed. In the year 1827, upwards of ninety Saxon silver coins
were dug up in a field at Bongate, belonging to three different
reigns, but chiefly to Ethelred, together with a ring curiously form-
ed of silver twine. One of them belonged to the reign of Canute.
Several of these coins are now in the possession of Mr Bainbridge
of Gattonside. Many coins have been found at the side of the
Jed, near the Abbey Bridge, where rubbish from the Abbey and
other parts of the town had been deposited. These, as far as we
have been able to ascertain, belonged chiefly to the reigns of Edred,
Edwy, Ethelred, Edward I, Edward III., Henry I., and Henry III.
Some Roman coins are said to have been found at Stewartfield.
About twelve years ago, a horn was found near Swinnie, contain-
ing silver coins of James I. of Scotland; and in the spring of the
present year, between 300 and 400 silver coins were ploughed up
in a field in front of the farm-house, of the reigns of Henry VIII.,
James V., and Queen Mary. A silver coin, or medal, was lately
found at Leukhall, near Jedburgh, which had been struck on oc-
casion of the marriage of Queen Mary with the Dauphin. On
the one side are the letters F and M combined in one, surmount-
ed by a crown, and surrounded by the inscription, FECIT. VTRAQE.
VNVM. 1558. On the other side are the combined arms of Scot-
land and the Dauphin, with the inscription FRAN. ET. MA. D. G. R. R.
SCOTOR. D. D. VIEN. This interesting piece, which is about the size
of a half crown, is in the possession of the Hon. General Leslie,
Jedbank.
   A camp-kettle was found at Edgerston about ten years ago, and
was presented by Mr Rutherfurd to Sir Walter Scott. Flint ar-
row-heads are occasionally found in the parish, particularly on
Howdean moor, which tradition represents as a field of, battle.
About the year 1815, a stone sarcophagus was discovered in a gar
den adjoining the west side of the High Street of Jedburgh, be-
longing to John Selkirk, upholsterer. It was composed of large
unhewn slabs of stone; being 4 feet 6 inches long, and 2 feet 6
inches broad. On removing the lid, a large urn was discovered
at the one end lying on its side, and at the other, three smaller
were standing, one of which contained a quantity of pure water
Near the large urn were fragments of skulls, and the intermediate
space was occupied by decayed bones. The large urn is said to
have been elegantly shaped. Two of them mouldered awiay on
being touched. One of the smaller, which is still in the posses-
sion of Mr Selkirk, its slightly ornamented. In the same garden,


