
30                           BUTESHIRE.

brides, where improvement was more urgently needed. Till the
year 1815, all  the lands in the island were let in farms of con-
siderable size which a, number of tenants, varying from four or
five to ten or a dozen, occupied in common, and cultivated accord-
ing to what is called the runrig system; none having the same
rig for two years in succession, except after the potatoe crop. The
arable land was divided into outfield and infield. The outfield,
which was that next the hills, got a little manure the year it was
broken up from lea; but none afterwards. The only grain sown
in it was oats; of which crop after crop was raised, till the ground
was thoroughly run out. It was then allowed to rest yielding for
several years nothing but weeds; and as soon as these began to
disappear by the return of grass and heather, it was again broken
up to undergo the same exhausting process of cropping.  In the
cultivation of the infield land, the system pursued equally in-
judicious. No regular rotation was followed; but the general rule
was, l. oats; 2 oats; 3. potatoes and pease; 4 bear with dung; 5.
pease; 6. oats, or mashlam; 7. two years of pasture choked with
weeds unaided by sown grasses, and therefore deficient both in
quality and quantity. The implements of husbandry were of the
rudest description; a harrow often made entirely of wood; on
many farms no carts, but cars or sledges in their stead; and wood-
en, ploughs short in the stilts, clumsy in their whole construction,
and drawn by four horses with a man leading them, and one or
two following the plough with spades, to level the inequalities which
itleft in the furrows.
	In 1815, the whole of this miserable system of rural manage-
ment was changed. The large farms, possesed formerly in com-
mon, were subdivided into small lots, having each its own tenant.
To every farm a small portion of hill (formerly a common also)
was  attached, and the quantity of stock to be placed on it precisely
fixed. A rotation of crops was laid down. The proprietor gave
plants for inclosing the arable land with thorn fences; and allowed
timber, lime, and in some cases a year's rent in money, for the erec-
tion of proper dwelling-houses and steadings; while at once to
stimulate and direct the industry of his tenantry, he planted in con-
venient situations, here and there, a few large farmers of skill and
capital, to whom he gave leases of ninteen years; substantial
slated dwelling-houses and farm-steadings; and all the other ac-
commodations usual in the more improved districts of Scotland.
To improve the breed of cattle and sheep, a number of contigu-


