
				OLRICK.			              65

	   The principal tenants have in general leases of from fourteen to
	twenty-one years, with stipulations as to cropping. The small occu-
	piers areat will, and are wearing out,-the tendency of the present
	system of improvement being to throw the whole lands into large
	farms.
	   Where the farms are large the steadings are substantial and com-
	modious; slates, flags, and building stones of the best quality be-
	ing abundant; the fences are also very good, either stone walls or
	hedges protected with flags. On the small farms the houses are al-
	most wholly built with feal covered with divots,-chimneys few
	in number-and fences of a very indifferent description.
	   The principal improvements made in the parish have been
	done by James Traill, Esq. of Ratter, and James Smith, Esq.
	of Olrig. The other proprietors are non-resident, and do not
	seem to give much attention to their estates. Mr Traill may well
	be called the author of all improvements in the county; which a
	single view of his property in this parish, after surveying Caithness
	will sufficiently testify, either as regards culture, plantations, build-
	ings, harhours, roads, live-stock, or crops; indeed, what he has ac-
	complisbed could scarcely be credited as being the work of one in-
	dividual, and is and Will be a great example to Caithness proprie-
	tors in all time coming.
	   The obstacles to improvements are the state of occupancy by
	small tenants, and the want of capital.
	   The rental of the parish is about L.4000 a year; L.50,000
	laid out on buildings, enclosures, roads, and drains, would not do
	more than put the parish into a fair state of cultivation. It is,
	therefore, easily seen that its final improvement must be a work of
	time. The facilities of procuring manure; the excellent materi-
	als for buildings, enclosures, and drains, got from the refuse of the
	flag quarries, are its great advantages, and will ultimately, produce
	great results. The surface is capable of producing more this
	double of what it does at present; and as a matter of course will
	pay double rent; there is, therefore, little doubt, that ere long, in
	consequence of easy access to the southern markets by the aid of
	steam-vessels, that capital will find its way to call out the dortmant
	and neglected resources of this and evievy other parish in the, coun-
	ty of Caithness.

                                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECOLOGY.
	   The, parish is well accommodated with roads. The county
	line, from Thurso to Wick, passes through it, and there is no
            CAITHNESS.


