
234                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

cration of the Sabbath, are not so common as they were twenty
or thirty yeas ago.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor receiving
aid is 89, and they receive from 2s. to 15s. each, and that only
once a-year. The fund in aid. of the poor arises from the in-
terest of money, from the collection in the church, from occa-
sional gratuities and benefactions by individuals, and from small
sums exacted as fines from delinquents. The number of the poor
has been on the increase annually, for some years past. They are sup-
ported not so much from parochial funds or contributions, as they
are by the charity and benevolence of their neigbbours. The
poorest of the people go about in the parish, and they are fed,
and, in some instances clad, by the liberality of the inhabitants. It
is only the most dire necessity that could ever induce the people
to submit to the degradation of public begging; and nothing is so
repugnant to their minds as to have their names inserted in the
poor-list of tbe parish.
  Prisons.-There is one jail in the parish, and it has been occu-
pied for the last year by sixteen offenders, eleven for riotous con-
duct, four for housebreaking and theft, and one for forgery. The
jail has been most insecure for some time past, and this has been
fully evinced by the circumstance, that some prisoners have broken
through it and made their escape. And certainly it is no matter
of surprise, that every possible effort should be made by them for
that purpose, when the bad treatment to which they are subjected
is taken into consideration. Into the jail they are thrown without
bed, without bedding, without fire, and with but a small allowance
for their subsistence. By the humanity, however, and charity of
some benevolent persons in tbe neighbourbood, these privations have
been partly alleviated, if not removed. The jail has a keeper, who
has a certain small allowance made to him annually for his trouble
by the county of Inverness. And the general superintendence is
committed to the sheriff-substitute of the district of Skye, who
holds his courts in the court room of the jail.
  Fairs.-There are three fairs held in the parish, one in the
month of May, one in the month of July, and one in the month of
November. The two former for the sale of black-cattle, and the
latter for hiring servants, and for transacting other country busi-
ness.
  Inns.-For the accommodation of persons who attend these


