
664                           FORFARSHIRE.

Strath through thirty miles in length, and from four to ten in
breadth; thd back ground being formed by the Cater-thuns and
other ranges of the Grampians; whilst directly in front of the
spectator is the entrance to Glenesk, shut in by Mount Battock,
which rises upwards of 2000 feet above the level of the sea. This
division is for the most part in a high state of cultivation; and is
finely diversified with wood and water. A nearer inspection, how-
ever, produces rather a feeling of disappointment; for though a
considerable portion of the soil is good, it is interspersed with much
thin poor land; and the woods, which, at a distance, add so much
to the beauty of the landscape, are found to consist, for the most
part, of diminutive stunted trees, completely overgrown with lichens,
and consequently in a very unthriving condition. The third di-
vision, comprehending Lundie Hill and its environs, is almost in a
state of nature, and has very much of a wild Highland aspect. It
is almost destitute of wood; although tradition says, it formerly
supplied oak rafters for the old cathedral of Brechin; and there
are 8OO acres on the hill well adapted for planting. The bed of
the Cruik is the most depressed part of the parish. From thence
the ground has a gradual ascent, with few undulations, until it
blends with Stracathro hill on the south-east, and Lundie hill
on the north-west. Along, the banks of the North-Esk and Cruik
the natural scenery is very fine; and in some places, where the
effect is heightened by judicious planting, it may be pronounced
quite romantic.
	The climate is, on the whole salubrious.
	Hydrography.--The parish is abundantly supplied with water
from sprints, rivalets, and rivers. The North Esk is the princi-
pal stream; it traverses the parish for somewhat more than a mile.
The salmon-fishing upon it used to let for L.25 a-year; but since
the introduction of stake-nets, the expense of the fishery far ex-
ceeds the profit. The next river of importance is the West-water,
which seperates is the Cruik, an inconsiderable hill in summer, but owing
to the great declivity of its channel, a formidable torrent in rainy
weather.
	Mineralogy and Geology.--The hill of Stracathro seems to be
composed principally of limestone, underlying a stratum of very
hard pudding-stone.
	The lime quarries at one time yielded a profit of L.500 a-year,


