
842			AYRSHIRE.

he, held till his death. On the death of Mr Percival in 1812,
Lord Moira was commanded by the Prince Regent to form an ad-
ministration but his friends, Lords Grey and Grenville, insisting
on their ministry having the appointment to all the offices in the
royal household, a demand which Lord Moira deemed an infringe-
ment of the rights of the sovereign, he resigned the responsibility
with which he had been entrusted.
	In 1813, he was made Governor-General and Commander-in-
Chief of India, where he displayed in both capacities the full ex-
tent of his wonderful powers. It would be going beyond the nar-
row limits necessarily assigned to a sketch like the present to at-
tempt anything more than a slight allusion to this period in his
history, so full of great and important events. He found India in
circumstances the most critical, and left it in circumstances the
most prosperous. The kingdom of Nepaul, which he found in-
solent and hostile to the British, and dangerous from its position
along an open and extensive frontier, be completely subdued, and
rendered dependent upon the British power for its existence as a
separate kingdom. By a series of the most beautifully planned
and admirably executed military manceuvres, along an extensive
line of operations, he utterly destroyed the Pindarries, so long the
scourge and terror of India, whose predatory excursions, with their
hordes of cavalry sweeping over the peninsula, might be described
in the language of the Prophet Joel, "A fire devoureth before
them, and behind them a flame burneth--the land is as the Gar-
den of Eden, before them, and behind them a desolate wilderness,
yea, and nothing shall escape them." He extinguished every hope
so strongly entertained, in 1813, by the native powers, of their
being able to expel the British from India; and, by moral, as well
as by military tactics, he destroyed every germ of a powerful and
extensively ramified confederacy to effect this long cherished pur-
pose; and yet, during the five years in which he was thus constant-
ly occupied in accomplishing those vast and expensive designs, he
filled the treasuries of the three Presidencies, which he found
nearly emptied, and made returns to England five times greater in
amount than the supplies which he received! While thus actively
engaged in consolidating our Indian empire, he was not unmind-
ful of its eternal interests, of that "Righteousness which exalts a
nation." In peace and in war, no object was nearer his heart, or
more constants resent to his thoughts, than the religious improve-
ment of the people under his care; and in all his efforts--and
				8


