
     of Carluke.

   Agriculture, Grass, etc.-Of late years, the manner of
farming here is very much changed to the better.  On the
lower and more fertile grounds, the gentlemen farmers have,
in some measure, adopted the practical part of Lord Kaimes's
system, so far as is suited to their soil; and make also much
use of the instruments of husbandry prescribed by him.  In
this they find their account: yet the inferior classes of farm-
ers follow them but at a distance; for being unable to expend
so much, they only copy the more easy and less expensive
parts of the gentlemen's example.  So far as they go, how-
ever, they reap great advantage:  For after deriving much
benefit from a prudent rotation of crops, they are able to
lay down their ground in proper order, and to draw about
5 L.  Sterling from each milk cow they pasture, and sometimes
more, if the cow is so large as to be of 6 L. or 7 L, value.  In
the higher parts of the parish, the chief object of cultivation
ought to be grass; and now, in general it is so*.-The milk

     Q 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Of the mode of grass farming, in the fifth and highest region of the parish,
the following plan is particularly approved of.  The farm is first drained and in-
closed, and, if possible, good roads are made, even through the most swampy
parts of it.  Such places as have already a good sward, are laid dry by a sheer
feather plough; the rushes are cut, and the field top dressed with lime or dung.
or both together.  To bring the ground to a proper form, a certain quantity is
broke up each year; plowing it out towards the surrow, and taking a crop of
oats.  Before winter sets in, all that is intended to be fallowed next summer, is
ribbed; that is, every third Furrow is turned up.  This, it is thought, has the
double advantage, of opening an immense number of drains to discharge the
water, and of exposing the ground to the air and frost.  During summer, they
continue to throw out occasionally every 3 d surrow, till the whole is plowed to
the level.  This is called rib-fallow.  They find, they can work it at all times,
and in all weathers (frost excepted), as the fallow is always dry.  Lastly, they
break it across the ribs, and draw it up twice into strainght ridge, from 6 to 8
feet broad, taking care, that no water lodges in any part of the field.  They
sow the ground, thus fallowed, with oats and grass in spring; and at any time
during summer, they sow, with grass alone, such parts of the land as will ad-


