
     of Carnock.

them; a very considerable number of cottagers, being em-
ployed as day-labourers, from the villages of Carnock and
Cairny-hill.  The employing of cottagers has been found
preferable to the hiring of servants, being equally cheap and
far less troublesome*.  It is a fact, that improvements, pro-
secuted in this manner, on several of the neighbouring estates,
have turned out to good account.  And it may be added, that
those gentlemen who thus employ the inferior ranks, do the
most essential service to their country, by not only beautify-
ing and enriching the ground, but, at the same time, giving
encouragement to population and honest industry.

   Improvements.-Within there last 16 years there have been
planted in the lands of Blair above 130,000 forest trees, part-
ly firs of different kinds, and partly hard wood.  There
are two parks on Carneil-Hill, in high cultivation, mak-
ing about 100 acres between them.  About five or six bolls
of lime (mixed with dung or cornpost), are used for an acre.
In the land of Clune, about 50 or 60 bolls of lime were used
for an acre, when first taken in from moor.  Lime being
plentiful,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Day-labourers generally get 1 s. per day in summer and 10 d. in winter, with-
out maintenance.  Men servants receive from 6 L. to 7 L., and women from 2 L
10 s. to 3 L. Sterling, besides their board.  The expence of a common labourer
and his family may be estimated at from 15 L. to 18 L. per annum, which is de-
frayed by the united industry of the parents and their children, from the time
they are able to do any thing.  The wages of a day-labourer will be about 14 L.
Sterling a-year of clear gain, at an average.  At hay-making the men get 10 d.
and the women 7 d. Male reapers during harvest get 10 d. per day, and females
7 d., with their meat.  Ditchers get 1 s. per day without maintenance.- It
may be added, that the wages of tradesmen are in proportion; a house-carpent-
ers get 1 s. 2 d. per day, masons 1 s. 6 d. for 9 months, and 1 s. the other 3; slaters
in summer and 6 d. in winter; and tailors 5 d. per day, besides maintenance.


