
372			RENFREWSHIRE.

		Occupying inhabited houses,	        346
		Male household servants,	          4
                Female,     do.                          94
                Insane, fatuous, blind, deaf, dumb,       7
   Resident families of independent fortune,              5
   Proprietors of land of L.50 yearly value, and upwards,24
       Of whom are non-resident,                         12

  Character of the People.-Our operatives have, it is believed,
deservedly the reputation of rather superior skill and expertness;
and it is well known, that in very bad times, certain influential per-
sons in the town of Paisley objected to some manufacturers send-
ing, what seemed an undue share of their work to this place, with-
out reserving a fair proportion for their fellow-townsmen.  So am-
ple, at the same time, is the native supply of hands, that there is
little immigration from the sister isle, or even from the Highlands
of Scotland ; and accordingly it may be affirmed, we believe, with-
out contradiction, that this parish affords the only instance of a
manufacturing village in the western district of a population ex-
ceeding 2000 souls, with only six Roman Catholics in that num-
ber.  The advantages of education are, by the generality, fully
appreciated.  Not a few who had been deprived of that advan-
tage are solicitous to secure it for their children ; and in more than
one instance we have had the satisfaction of seeing the parent
commence his education, and go on steadily with his children.
Even in harder times, every man of good character, and in ordi-
narily steady employment, has, besides his working clothes, a Sun-
day-dress, and usually a suit of black, when invited to attend the
funeral of a neighbour.  Throughout the landward district, the cha-
racter of the population is highly respectable.  In the extensive
and ancient barony of Auchinames, feued out in 1764, with a
considerable portion of other estates feued some time earlier, no
small number of persons, in the south-west and west divisions of
the parish, occupy their own properties ; while on the estates of
the larger heritors, the farms are usually of such extent, that the
capital requisite for their profitable occupancy, demands a class of
tenantry possessed also of respectable education.  And without in-
sinuating the slightest reflection against those whose connexion has
been more recent, it may be remarked, that, on the estates of
Craigends and Blackstoun,-so closely have the interests of
landlord and tenant been linked together,-the families of the
Messrs Rodger and Semple have held lands under the respec-
tive proprietors for nearly three hundred years.  Here, as else-


