
436                          FIFESHIRE.

the Azalea, both in several varieties, flourish. The Arbutus Andrach-
ne ripens its fruit, and myrtles, in sheltered situations, are well
carried through even severe seasons. A very marked difference
prevails in the temperature of the atmosphere, between north and
south, the latter being always several degrees warmer.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
The most ancient and remarkable account of this parish is con-
tained in Lamont's Diary, extending from 1649 to 1671, and em-
bracing various genealogical and historical notices, with no small
proportion of gossip. The writer was factor on the Lundin estate,
and his work was first printed from his MS. in 1810, by Mr Con-
stable, and again in 1830.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers consist of four-
teen volumes. They commence in 1636, have been regularly kept,
and are often verv curious and full in their details of such parish
transactions as the session took under their cognizance.
   Eminent Men.-Among the most eminent characters connected
with the parish is Sir Andrew Wood, a naval officer, to whom, by a
charter under the Great Seal, of date 1482, James III. granted the
barony of Largo, in acknowledgement of his brilliant achievements
against the greatly superior force of the piratical vessels of England;
and his son James IV. continued to hold him in deservedly high
esteem, and employed him, both in war and diplomatic nego-
tiations. Little is known of John Wood, founder of the hospital
afterwards noticed, and to whom there is a monument in the church-
yard wall, except that he was a cadet of the family of Largo, died
in London in great difficulties, though leaving a large property, and
was buried in Largo aisle, 22d July 1661.
   In 1670, this barony, which, subsequently to Sir A. Wood, had
been possessed by Mr Peter Black, and the Gibsons of Durie,
was purchased from the latter in 1663, by Sir Alexander Durham,
Lord Lyon King at Arms, for 85,000 merks. His brother was Mr
James Durham, minister of the High Church, Glasgow, and dis-
tinguished both as an officer and a divine.
   In the village of Low Largo, was born Alexander Selkirk in
1676. Being disgusted with the notice taken by the session, of a
squabble which he had with his brother, he went to sea, and in
1703, being sailing master of the ship Cinque Ports, bound for the
south sea, he was put or left on shore on the island of Juan Fernan-
dez. He remained here, in entire solitude, four years and four
months, when he was brought to England by Captain Woods Rogers.


