
                             GIGHA AND CARA.                      407

     Parents wish their children to be taught, yet many of them do not
     send them to school, till they are seven or eight years of age, and
     but irregularly even after that age. Many of the children are en-
     gaged in herding for one-half of the year.
     The average number of persons receiving parochial aid, 9; ave-
     rage sum given to each, 18s. per year. The church collections,
     the interest of L.40, and a few fines constitute the fund from
     which the poor are relieved. Only two of the poor on the roll at
     present live in houses, by themselves; the rest live with their rela-
     tions, and the most needful are assisted in various ways by tenants
     and others resident in the island.  None of them ever seek cha-
     rity out of the parish. A few are reluctant to ask parochial aid,
     but the greater number seem to have no such feeling.
      Inns.-At present there is only one inn allowed in the parish.
      Fuel.-The fuel chiefly used is turf, which is becoming scarce,
     therefore many burn coals, which are brought from Ayrshire. The
     carriage of the ton costs 5s. besides the price paid for the coals
     in Ayrshire : 13s. per ton here is about the average price.  Coals
     of an inferior description are brought from the west coast of the
     parish of Campbelton, which may be bad here for 10s. 6d. per
     ton.
                     MISCELLANEOUS OBRERVATIONS.
       In the course of the last twelve years, the tenants and cottars
     have fallen off greatly in their circumstances, owing to the fall in
     the price of agricultural produce, the failure of the potato crop
     and of the fisheries for several successive years, and the with-
     drawal by Government of the bounty on cod and ling fish.  To the
     young men in the parish who are sailors in their tastes and babits,
     the low price of ardent spirits has been injurious. Great progress
     has been made in knowledge and industry within the last forty
     years.  Making good roads, and building more dikes on the dif-
     le'rent farms, and building one or more quays, would greatly en-
     courage industry.

       October 1843.



