
     Statistical Account

   Birds and Beasts.-We have here most of the birds pecu-
liar to the inland parts of the northern kingdom; a cata-
logue of which is unnecessary.  Birds of prey are frequent,
such as the sparrow-hawk, the grey-hawk or hen-harrier,
the kite, and the large buzzard: The eagle has been seen,
though seldom, in the neighbourhood of Ben-achally.  The
singing bird, are numerous; the linnet, the bullfinch, the
blackbird, the starling, and the thrush, etc.  The hollow
moaning of the stock-dove gives a solemnity to the concert
of the groves.  The notes of the wood-lark are heard, de-
lightful, along the banks of the Lunan in spring and autumn,
its nocturnal song has a dying cadence peculiarly melodious,
and has often been mistaken for the song of Philomel.  Of
the migratory birds, we have, in their proper seasons, the
caprimulgus or goatsucker, the land-rail, the golden crested

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

last, it directs its course to the S. E. and, passing by the Roman encamp-
ment near Meiklour, it increase the river, about half a male N. E of
the Praetomum, and nearly 2 miles N. E. of the junction of the and
the Tay The course of the Lunan is about 12 miles long, and somewhat
resembling a bended bow; and, in this course, it forms the five beautiful
sheets of water above mentioned, passes under five stone bridges, turns one
cloth-mill. 3 flax-mills. and 10 corn mills; and divides the Stormont in-
to two parts, nearly equal The trouts of the Lunan are excellent and,
both in point of size, form, and flavour much superior to those of the
hill-brooks  above.  This is owing to its waters being deeper,
warmer, and better sheltered: and to its passing over rich, clayev, and
marly bottoms.  It is difficult to angle upon the Lunan in many places,
particularly above the loch of on account of the natural wood
overhanging the stream At some of the falls of the Lunan, are placed
asks or perforated chests, for the purpose of catching the the cels These fish
run down from loch to loch, in vast numbers, especially with the wester-
ly wind, in the dark nights of October, and are taken by hundreds in
these arks.  The eels are best in that season of the year, and their skins
are then valuable to the farmer for making whangs or bindings to his
flails.  Some of the common people here, on an ankle or a
wrist apply to the skin of which they ascribe a pe-
culiar virtue, in this parish, there is no fish caught for sale.

</UNREADABLE>


