
162                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

from time to time, for the propagation of Christianity in foreign
Parts for the education of youth, and for the purposes of Church
Extension.
   There has been for many years a Bible Society in Buchan,
which has usually held its annual meeting in the church at Old
Deer.
   The number of communicants, hitherto increasing much in
the same ratio as the population of the parish, that may be stated
as attending on any particular occasion of dispensing the Lord's
Supper, is about 1500; but the total number of persons in full
communion is about 1700.
   Poor.-The average amount of collections for the poor, augment-
-ed also of late with the necessity, though not in the due proportion,
may be set down at about L.110.  This, with the interest of some
money placed under the management of the kirk-session, arising from
bequests, donations, fines, &c. has enabled them to distribute for
the relief of the poor, and some small contingent expenses, as fol-
lows, viz. in 1831, L.139, 3s. 3 1/2d.; in 1832, L.155, 0s. 4d.;
in 1833 L.168, 18s. 8d.; in 1834, L.175, 16s. 2d.; and in
1835, L.184, 3s. 7 1/2d.  The average Dumber of persons, or rather
of families getting supply, each of these years, is considerably above
100, varying, according to circumstances, from L.7 to little more
than L.1 to regular pensioners, and descending to still smaller
sums to those who require and receive only occasional aid.
The poor's funds are much assisted by the rents of the piece of
ground mortified by the late Mr S. Burnett of Dens, already no-
ticed, and by the periodical receipt of L.50 from a fund left by
the same munificent gentleman, under the management of the
synod of Aberdeen, for the benefit of the poor throughout all the
parishes within the county.  To complete an account of the means
which the kirk-session presently possesses for helping the poor, it
remains to he stated that, in addition to the interest of a legacy of
L.100 from two parishioners (Mr and Mrs Florence, late at West
Crichie,) for the special behoof of pauper lunatics, most of the
Dissenting bodies are in the practice of making collection an-
nually for the same purpose, and that L.4 a year have been re-
ceived from the proprietor of Pitfour to be distributed among the
indigent on his own estate, and half that sum from the trustees
on the lands of Clachriah, to be disposed of in a similar manner.
  Education.-There are three parochial schoolmasters provisioned
by statute since 1829.  Each of their seminaries is between three
                           4


