
  108                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

  the whole, whether from principle or restraint, few concern them-
  selves in such illicit practices.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
      Agriculture and Rural Economy. -It has been already stated,
  that the parish consists of about 32,200 acres. The number of
  acres which are cultivated and occasionally in tillage, is about
  7000. It is not easy to say how much is arable. There are large
  tracts in the muirland, and along the lower parts of the mountains,
  which are quite susceptible of cultivation.In man districts where
  sheep and black-cattle are now wandering without enclosure, there
  are traces of cultivation by a former generation. But, from the
  modern notions of farming, and the distance from lime and from
  markets, it is considered better to let such land lie in a state of
  nature. There may be about 21,700 acres of hill and muirland.
  The land under wood may be stated at about 180 acres of na-
  tural coppice, and 376 planted.
    Soil.-In a parish of such extent, it is to be expected that there
  will be much diversity of soil; hence, we find every variety, from
  the most barren to the most productive. Along the Forth, there
  are nearly 3000 acres of deep moss, under which there is a rich
  clayey soil, capable of producing the most abundant crops. The
  prevailing soil of the lands on the Endrick, is rich brown loam.
  As you ascend from these low grounds, the soil is light sandy
  dryfield. But the most common soil of the parish is poor and
  tilly, with a retentive cold subsoil.
    Rent, Rate of Wages, &c.-The average rent, per acre, of the
  inferior arable land, may be stated at, from 10s. to 15s.; and that
  of better quality, chiefly in the lower parts of Strath Endrick, at
  L.2,10s. The rent of a cow's grazing on the best land is L.3,10s.;
  of hill-fed sheep, from 5s. to 6s. The rate of wages for plough-
  men and men farm-servants is from L.12 to L.16 a-year, exclu-
  sive of board and lodging; for women, from L.5 to L.9. La-
  bourers receive from 1s. 8d.to 2s. a-day during three-fourths of
  the year, and 1s. 6d. during the winter months. Masons and
  wrights, from 2s. 6d.to 3s. 6d.; and tailors, when employed in the
  houses, 1s. 6d. with victuals.
    Stock, &c.-The Ayrshire breed- of cattle are generally and
  successfully reared in the south and west ends of the parish. The
  north and east districts are much behind in this respect, partly from
  carelessness, and partly from attachment to the old or mongrel
  breed. The sheep with which the muirlands are pastured,are of the


