
                            DUTHIL.                             131

   nich"-God and victory be with you John Macandrew that dwell
   in Dalnahaitnich. Upon hearing this ill-timed compliment, which
   he knew would subject him to considerable danger, if any of the
   freebooters should escape, he indignantly replied-"Mile Molachd
   air do theang' Ian chaim Choilachi"-a thousand curses on your
   tongue, gleyed John of Kyleachy. The result of this dreadful fray
   was the destruction of the miserable reivers, for whose slaughtered
   bodies the hut in which they fell, formed a funeral pile. None
   returned to tell the tale, but the faithless sentinel, who had been
   witness of this onslaught; but who, by the darkness of the night,
   was enabled to remove to a distance from danger./f*
      Connected with the parish by burial, is the celebrated Jacobite
   bard, Ian Manndach or L•m. After the total defeat at Culloden
   of the unfortunate party, whose feats he had so often panegyrized,
   John fled across the river Nairn, towards the hills to the south
   of the field of battle, where he skulked, till hunger compelled

   <FOOTNOTE>Not long after this bloody scene, John, as he anticipated at the time, had sub-
   stantial cause to curse Kyleachy for his ill-timed compliment.  A party of strangers
   had been see skulking through the woods and hills near John's house. Their dress
   betrayed their country, and their skulking, with equal certainty, indicated their
   business. John, notwithstanding his vigilance, was overtaken one day by these men,
   as was looking after his cattle. They asked him if he knew John Macandrew
   -he answered in the affirmative. Being offered a sixpence, if he would conduct them
   to his house, John readily pocketed the bribe and led the way.  On his arrival, he
   told his wife that the strangers wanted his master, and wished to know if he was at
   home.  His wife, with great presence of mind, entered into his views in carrying on
   the deception (he being taken on account of diminutive size for the herd), told the
   men that her husband was not at present within, but that she expected him to return
   soon, and requested them to rest till his return, with which request they readily com-
   plied.  In order to enable her husband to mature whatever plans he might devise
   for extricating himself from his present danger; she, with well-feigned hospitality,
   laid a plentiful supply of bannocks and milk before the strangers.  While the men were
   partaking of his wife's viands, John was amusing himself at the fire side in bending
   a bow, which seemed to be far beyond the strength of his diminutive body, when a
   smart slap on the side of the head from his wife's brawny arm caused John  to start
   from his apparent unconcern; she desiring him at the same time to look after his cat-
   tle, and tell if he saw his master returning; John, with apparent reluctance, sneaked
   towards the door, and climbed up to the top of a close-topped fir tree that stood at a
   short distance from his door, (where he had roosted by night, ever since the slaughter
   at Cr•-clach,) and where he had a bow and a plentiful stock of arrows. No sooner did
   he safely ensconce himself in his eyrie, than he cried out that his master was coming,
   This holding heard by the party within, they hastened out one after another; but no
   sooner did each appear outside the door, than he fell by an arrow from John's how.
   Thus fell Achaluschrach's avengers, as if by some invisible agent.  A few small green
   hillocks, with a plentiful crop of nettles, the natural products at the grave pointed
   out where the mortal remains a those misguided men had been deposited;  but the
   desolating flood of 1829, so graphically described by Sir T. D. Lauder. in his Ac-
   count of the Floods in Morayshire, has completely oblitorated these.  This tragle
   scene has been celebrated by a truly pathetic ballad composed by Auchluscbrach's
   bride, in which all the most prominent incidents connected with his bloody fray, as
   well as her own blasted connubial anticipation, have been delinested, not only with
   fedility, but with a pathos, which will ensure it a place among the poetical produc-
   tions of the country, as long as the forcibly poetical language in which it is written
   will have any admirers.


