182                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

(Mergus merganser), male and female, ascend the Annan during
winter in small flocks, in which, like the golden-eyes, those of im-
mature plumage, and females are most abundant.
	The little grebe (Podiceps minor) is common in the river dur-
ing winter in pairs, or in small parties of five or six. The dusky
grebe (P. cornutus) has been met with once or twice.
	The red-throated diver (Colymbus septentrionalis) has been once
met with in immature plumage, or as the speckled diver of Bewick.
	The lesser black-backed gull (Larus marinus) is to be seen on
the river during spring and summer almost every day.
	The common gull (L. canus) in autumn and winter frequent
the pasture and plowed fields in considerable flocks; the greater
part, in the plumage which gives them the name of winter-gull.
	The black-headed gull (L. ridibundus) breeds here, and comes
occasionally during winter, frequenting the river, or following the
plough.
	The common tern (Sterna hirundo) is sometimes seen fishing in
the Annan in spring and autumn.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Events.--The only historical event worth noticing,
connected with the parish, is stated in the following extract, from
Chalmers' Caledonia, who gives as his authority, "the Royal Ward-
robe Accounts:" "On the 7th of July 1300, Edward I. who was
then at Applegarth, on his way to the siege of Caerlaverock, made
an oblation of seven shillings at St Nicholas' altar in the parish
church at Applegarth, and another oblation of a like sum in the
same church, at the altar of St Thomas a Becket, Archbishop of
Canterbury, in honour of this martyr, whose translation was com-
memorated on this day."
	Resident Proprietors, &c.--Sir William Jardine, Bart. well known
for his attainments in natural history, and particularly for his valu-
able works on ornithology, resides constantly at his seat at Jardine-
Hall in this parish. The land-owners are six, viz. Sir William
Jardine, Bart., John Herries Maxwell, Esq. of Munshes and Din-
widdie, John James Hope Johnstone, Esq. of Annandale, James
Seton Wightman, Esq. of Courance and Larmonbie, Alexander Rod-
gerson, Esq. of Sibbaldbie, and the Honourable David Williamson
Robertson Ewart, one of the Senators of the College of Justice.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest entry of baptisms is in Sep-
tember 1694,--of marriages December 1694 and of deaths 1777.


