
114                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

Rogerson of Dumcrieff; the Duke of Buccleuch and Queensberry;
Thomas Jardine, Esq. of Granton and Selcoth; Miss Munro
Johnstone, of Corehead; Mr Bell of Rammerscales, proprietor of
Bodisbeck; the heirs of Thomas Proudfoot, late of Craigieburn;
Peter Johnstone, Esq. of Harthope; Peter Tod, Esq. of Holm-
head and Reddings; the heirs, of the late Mr Stevens of Larch-
hill; the heirs of the late Mr Tod of Heatheryhaugh; the heirs
of the late Adam Amos, Esq.; Alexander Craig, Esq. of Burn-
braes; and various other persons, owners of land and houses in
Moffat or near to it.
    Parochial Registers.-These have been generally kept with at-
tention, extending back to 1709, as far as relates to the minutes,
and to 1723, as far as relates to the lists; and the heritors, in or-
der to preserve these, have lately been at the expense of getting
them all new bound up in a durable and respectable manner. But
many parents neglect to record the dates of the birth of their child-
ren.
    Antiquities.-In the list of these may be mentioned that part
of the old Roman road up the vale of Annan towards Crawfurd,
which is still visible in part, but which contains nothing, except
what has often been described.  The Romans have, on this line,
put down long paving-stones, as the more durable mode of work-
ing.  There is little recorded of the Frenchland Tower, which re-
mains in tolerably good preservation, and seems rather to have been
the residence of the family to which it belonged, than a place of
strength.
    Another and an older ruin is what is called the Cornal Tower,
on the south side of Moffat Water, and which is said to have been
the property and residence of Johnstone of Redacres, a younger
branch of the family of Corehead.
    Some of the old eminences, called motes, exist in this parish,
but tradition gives no special account of them.

<TABLE=III POPULATION>III.-POPULATION.

          1. In 1755, the population, as returned to Dr Webster, was 1612
          2. In 1791, as reported by the Rev. Mr Brown, above        1600
          3. By the returns for 1811 it amounted to                  1824
          4. By the returns of 1821,                                 2218
          5. By the returns of 1831,                                 2221
   There are always in summer many stranfers residing in Moffat;
and such has been the case for a long period of time. It is the
resort occasionally of others in attending fairs and markets. It is


