
     Statistical Account

of them tend, more or less, to create monopolies against the pub-
lic; nor do they always promote the good of the very societies
they were meant to favour.  The prices of admission to the ex-
ercise of any business in Dundee, though not so extravagant as
in other places, particularly in Aberdeen, are, notwithstand-
ing, taxes frequently found to be inconvenient.  A merchant
pays to the Guildry for freedom to himself and his posterity,
8 L. 6 s. 8 d. and half this rum for freedom to himself only;
an apprentice to a merchant pays 1 L.; a handycraftsman 8 L.
6 s. 8 d. for admission into any of the 9 incorporated trades;
and, except at the times appropriated to public markets, no
stranger can, without a considerable tax, expose his goods to sale
for a single day.-Of persons belonging to Dundee, who have
been condemned, banished their country for life, or executed,
upon account of felonies, the writer of this account cannot,
after much inquiry, find more than three during the whole
course of the present century.  Since Bridewells, or penitenti-
ary houses, have been established in Edinburgh and Glasgow,
Dundee has been much more pestered than formerly, with va-
grants and persons of doubtful character, and swindling and
petty thefts are more frequent.  This will probably produce
a Bridewell in Dundee.  An establishment of this kind is
certainly necessary, and the common prisons, and present in-
flictions of justice, are by no means sufficient to supply its
place.  With respect to our prisons, though among the best
in Scotland, they are destitute of any court or area where the
prisoners may enjoy the open air, This, however, is at pre-
sent, the less necessary, as the laws of the country are suppos-
ed inhumanely, to exclude debtors from the privilege of
breathing the same air with others; and, it is but very sel-
dom, that felons suffer long confinement, in the prisons of
places not visited by the Circuit Courts of Justiciary.
   In this town, there are several public buildings; but, ac-


