
        1146                        PERTHSHIRE.

	therefore, as imposing the least restraint, and offering the greatest
	indtcement to a wide competition, is readily agreed to.  The
	farm-buildings are very various in point of design and accommoda-
	tion.  On most of the smaller farms, they are deficient, while on
	the larger they are excellent.  Those on Keithick, Balgersho, and
	Denhead may be noticed as affording illustrations of the latter.
	   Grazing, as a system, can scarcely be said to belong to the hus-
	bandry of the parish,-the grass-parks of Keitbick being the only
	land under permanent pasture.  They let at about L.4 per acre.
	   Wages.-Farm-servants are engaged for, twelve months; and
	the average wages of a ploughman, qualified to work a pair of
	horses, are about L.12 in money, 35 lbs. of oatmeal per week, and
	three chopins (old measure) of milk per day.  Good day-labour-
	ers receive, on an average, 10s. per week during the period when
	they can work ten hours per day.  After that period, the hours
	of work are counted, and the rate of wages per hour is slightly
	raised.
	   Live-stock.- There is no pure or distinct breed of cattle in the
	p`rish; but, since the institution of the Agricultural Association,
	the emulation excited by the exhibition of stock at its annual
	shows, and the introduction of the short-horn breed of cattle, a
	great improvement has been effected on the existing mixed breed;
	and now many useful animals, of considerable value, are to be met
	with among them.
	   An Agricultural Association was formed, upwards of twenty
	years ago, for the breeding and feeding of stock.  Most of the
	principal proprietors in the district take an interest in it. Its meet-
	ings are held twice a year; and the stock exhibited, though not
	numerous, is generally of very excellent quality.  The number of
	members at present is about 50.
	   Improvements-The chief ilprovement in agriculture consists
	of draining, which is now carried on to a considerable extent.
	The embankment above-mentioned has also rendered the low-ly-
	ing lands much more valuable.
	   An ingenious plan of the late Lord Douglas Gordon Hallybur-
	ton for effecting the drainage of a considerable extent of flat but
	valuable land, is also well worthy of notice.  In heavy rains, the
	standing water could not find any vent, the only drain,-a small
	stream skirting the land,-serving to increase the evil.  In these
	circumstances, his-Lordship planned the following remedy : A
	level was brought tip from a point in the bed of the stream, 1180


