
760                            AYRSHIRE.

and the county, have laid aside the spinning-wbeel, and are em-
ployed at sowed work. The Ayrshire work is beautifully executed
here, and is the chief source of support to many families.
	At Failford, about two and a-half miles from Torbolton, there is
a manufactory for hones and razor-strops. The cases for the strops
are veneered with wood and finished in a very tasteful manner.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The lands of Torbolton, by a charter of novodamus, granted by
Charles II. to John Cunninghame, Esq. of Enterkine, were consti-
tuted into a free burgh of barony, with the power of holding within
the burgh a weekly market on Thursday, and two free fairs annually.
	Two bailies and twelve councillors are elected by the house-
holders on Christmas eve. A town-house and lock-up-house were
erected by subscription in 1836.
	Means of Communication.--There is a daily post to and from
the village, and there are weekly carriers to Glasgow, Kilmarnock,
and Ayr. The parish is traversed from the wdst to the east by
the road from Ayr to Edinburgh, via Murkirk and Douglas Mill,
and from north to south by the road from Kilmarnock to Dalmel.
lington. There is a stage-coach daily to Ayr. The princi-
pal market-towns with which the farmers hold communication are
Ayr and Kilmarnock, the one being, seven and a-quarter, and the
other eight miles from Torbolton.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church of Torbolton is described in
instruments of date 1335, a situate on the lands of WNSANK, also
written in later documents, Unthank,--seven arable acres of which,
and three acres of Caryngolayne, the nearest to the church on the
west side, were given as glebe to the church of Torbolton by John
de Graham, Lord of Torbolton. There is a curious document
extant, * in the shape of a letter, in the old Norman frank of the
time, addressed by John de Grahame, Signeur de Torbolton, to all
who shall see or hear this letter, complaining that Sir John de Lyn-
desay bad maliciously, falsely, and wickedly intromitted with the
church of Torbolton, and with the support and maintenance of Wil-
liam of Douglas, had presented to said church. He then states
the grant of the advowson of the church and lands pertaining
thereto, to his cousin Robert Graham, confirmed by the seneschal,
and ratified by the see of Glasgow, and that the said Sir John, and
whoever should maintain him, should be held `s intromitters against
the law of the church and the civil law.

<FOOTNOTE>Liber de Melros, Tom, ii. 451.


