
100                   	  LANARKSHIRE.

for the heritors and other influential individuals connectdd with the
parish to give it their countenance and support, by enrolling them-
selves as members, and taking an interest in its proceedings. For
their own sakes, as well as for the sake of the community at large,
they ought to do so, as it is now, in this parish at least, the only
remaining bar against the inroads of pauperism.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is from 15 to 20, exclusive of occasional
paupers; the sum allotted to each individual is of course regulated
by circumstances. The least that is given (and truly it is as little
as can be given) is 4s. per month, and the most 15s. In 1832,
the total amount of loney received in belhalf of the poor was
L. 199, 11s. 1 1/2d. The church bollections amounted to L. 12, 13s.
4 1/2d. and, with the exception of the interest of L. 100, and a few
other inconsiderable items, the remainder of the sum arose from
the regular assessment, at the rate of 10d. Sterling, on each
pound Scotch, one half paid by the proprietor, the other by the
occupier.
	Inns.--There are no fewer than four inns or public houses in
the parish, while one would be quite sufficient. Their effect, as
might be expected, is decidedly bad.
	Fuel.--The fuel is coal from the neighbouring parishes of Douglas
and Carmichael. The price is 8d. a-load at the pit, and 10d. a-load
for driving. The distance hs about six miles.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	In the Statistical Account of 1792, it is stated, "there is, strict-
ly speaking, no poors' roll. It is sometimes necessary to press aid
on the necessitous, such is their modesty." From the foregoing
account, it will be seen that matters are in this respect lament-
ably altered. Various causes have no doubt contributed to this
effect. The dissenting chapel at Roberton, by thinning for some
time the attendance at the Ertablished church, necessarily diminish-
ed the amount of church collections, whilst the enlarged scale on
which the lime-works came to be wrought, by introducing into the
parish a poor and thoughtless population, added to the number of the
necessitous, without providing any supply for their relief. These
two circumstances combined gave rise to the necessity of a legal
assessment, and that in its turn, and as its necessary consequence,
has extinguished the spirit of independence, increased the number
of the poor, and dried up almost every source of valuntary contri-
bution for their support.

	May 1834.


