
                       DUDDINGSTON.                       393

of cavalry and yeomanry; also the Highland clans, that had as-
sembled on the grand occasion of his visit to Scotland. Since the
passing of the Reform Bill, Portobello, has been a burgh, and is
governed by a provost, two bailies, and six councillors; and with
Leith, Newhaven, Musselburgh, and Fisherrow, returns a member
to Parliament. Betwixt Edinburgh and Portobello coaches ply
every hour, which keep up a constant thoroughfare betwixt the
two places. Besides Portobello, there are other three villages.         )
viz. Joppa, Easter and Wester Duddingston.
   Means of Communication.-The great road to London from
Edinburgh runs for three miles through the parish. The roads
in every direction are good, and kept in the best state of repair;
and if a more direct line, as is proposed, were opened betwixt
Wester Duddingston and Edinburgh, the means of communication
would be excellent. A railroad for the purpose of conveying coals
to the city passes through the parish, as well as a branch to Leith.
The shareholders allow coaches to run for the conveyance of pas-
sengers to Dalkeith, Musselburgh, &c. which is an extremely
agreeable mode of travelling, and very cheap, as 6d. only is charged
for each individual. There are two penny post-offices, viz. one at
Portobello and another at Wester Duddingston, the latter of which
was instituted very lately.
   Ecclesiastical State.-During the reign of William the Liou,
the monks of Kelso acquired the church and lands of Dodineston,
but from whose bounty cannot be ascertained, since the chartulary
is silent upon the subject. As the lands of Dodineston were situ-
ated at a considerable distance from Kelso, the abbots, let them
on the most advantageous terms. Abbot Henry, from 1208 to
1218, at the end of the long reign of William, granted to Regi-
nald de Bosco, the lands of Easter Dodineston, with the half of
the peatery of Camberun, rendering for the same ten merks yearly.
Abbot Herbert confirmed to Thomas, the son of Reginald, the
same lands and peatery for the same annual rent, he performing
to the King "forinsecum servitium." Abbot Hugh granted to
Emma, the widow of Thomas, the. custody of her son and heir till
he should arrive at lawful ago, for which she paid twenty pounds
of silver. During the reign of Robert I., Abbot William granted
to Sir William de Tushie law the half of the manor of Wester
Dodineston, for which he was to pay twelve merks of yearly rent.
In 1466, Abbot Allan granted to Cuthbert Knightson a part of
the lands of Dodineston in fee, for the yearly rent of four weeks
Within the barony of Dodineston, the abbots appointed baron-


