
                 CORTACHY AND CLOVA.                           437

through the parish is upwards of twenty miles in length, and it
falls into the German Ocean at Montrose.
        Cascade.-The only waterfall on the Southesk river deserving
of notice may be seen about a mile to the southward of Lochesk,
near to the shooting-lodge of Bachnagairn. The fall is upwards
of 60 feet. The narrow channel of the river beside it, formed by
high perpendicular rocks, and the surrounding grounds covered
with trees, partly indigenous and partly planted, give to the place
a truly picturesque appearance.
        Geology.-The rocks consist of red sandstone and pudding-
stone, serpentine, whinstone, mica-sehist, gneiss, clay-slate, quartz,
and granite. Serpentine is well seen at the bridge of Cortachy,
where it crosses the Esk, and cuts through a portion of the old
red sandstone formations, in the same manner as the many trap
dikes of this county. Its course is north-east and southwest. It
is seen again in a ravine on the cavity, near the farm of the Bal-
loch, where its relation to the red sandstone, and a pudding-stone
containing quartz pebbles, are still more clearly exhibited. The
serpentine is sometimes of an olive-green, sometimer nf a dark-
green or blue colour, and traversed by innumerable veins of asbes-
tus. The surface has generally a glazed appearance. In some
places much greenish bronze-coloured diallage is intermixed. The
whole mass of serpentine is not stratified, but is schistose on the
great scale, dividing with some degree of regularity into slabs or
flattish masses, which are parallel to the sides of the dike. These
slabs have wedge-sbaped terminations. * The dip of the red and
gray sandstone is generally to the south. A remarkable exception
occurs, however, at a short distance above the bridge of Cortachy,
where the beds dip to the north; but in this case they form part
of a mass of which the stratification in general is vertical. Lime-
stone has also been found in various places, particularly in Clova,
on the side of the mountain towards the south-east part of the
valley. This limestone is subordinate to the mica-schistic forma-
tion, and is similarly stratified. Some of the limestone has been
quarried, burnt with peat, and used as manure. Although part
of it when burnt was found to contain a considerable quantity of
sand, yet other portions of it, taken from a greater depth in the
rock, when burnt, proved to be of good quality. The burning of
limestone here has hitherto been very, partially attempted, the dif,
ficulty of access to the qtarry, and the labour and expense attend-

<FOOTNOTE>See a paper by Charles Lyell, Jun. Esq. of Hinordy.-Brewster's Edinburgh
Journal of Science,  Vol. iii.



