
250                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

struction in church music to some of the poorer children in the
village.

     The school fees are, 2s. per quarter for reading, with 6d. addi-
tional for writing and arithmetic; and 5s. for Latin; the other
branches being charged in proportion, according to the agreement
which may be entered into between the parents and teacher.  The
average number of scholars attending the parish school is about
90, and the amount of school fees is under L.30 per annum.
     The average number of scholars attending all the schools toge-
ther is about 220, and to each of them there is attached a well-
attended Sabbath school.
     The parents in general seem anxious to avail themselves of these
opportunities of getting their children instructed, and there are
no instances in the parish of individuals upwards of fifteen years
of age who cannot read or write.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
on the poor's roll is about 30, and their aliment is obtained by re-
gular assessments upon the heritors, for which purpose they meet
quarterly and assess themselves, according to the amount of sup-
ply required.  The amount of assessment may be stated at about
L. 150 per annum, paupers receiving from 1s. to 4s. each per week,
according to the necessity of the case.
     In addition to this, however, there are also the ordinary Sabbath
day collections, amounting on an average to L. 15 per annum, over
which the heritors claim no control, and all of which, with a small
exception required for other purposes, is annually distributed by
the kirk-session in occasional allowances of coals, meal, or money,
among paupers requiring more than their ordinary aliment, or as
interim supply to necessitous persons not on the roll.
     The poor in general are far from being backward in seeking pa-
rochial relief, and the feeling of degradation in reference to such
applications is neither so prevalent nor so strong ar it was in for-
mer times.
     Inns.--There are 6 inns or public-houses in the parish.  Of
these, there are two in the village, and two within a quarter of a
mile of it; and, there being no fairs or markets in the parish, there
are at least three of these ale-houses which might well be dispen-
sed with.  Their influence on the morals and circumstances of those
in their immediate neighbourhood, who are in the habit of frequent-
ing them, is very injurious.
     Fuel.--Amongst the lower classes the use of coals is limited,


