
     116                         PERTHSHIRE.

     meantime churchmen, those in Perth at least have reason to be
     glad, that their religion does not cost the community a fraction,
     but has been beneficial to it both in a pecuniary, and in a far more
     important point of view.  The dissenters in Perth have reason to re-
     joice, that the burden of supporting the Established Church which
     they have been taught to consider so galling, has never pressed
     upon either their purses or their persons, or on any thing else con-
     nected with them excepting their imaginations."
       There are in the city two home missions, appointed and super-
     intended by the General Session.  The expense is defrayed by a
     subscription.  One of the missionaries is appointed to offciate every
     Lord's day evening in the Middle Church.
       In 1814, a Sabbath Evening School Society was organized, to be
     conducted upon the localizing system.  The office-bearers, teachers,
     and taught, were of all the religious denominations in the place.  The
     returns of childrdn in the schools were frequently as high as 1400,
     and visible good effects resulted to the community.  But its pros-
     perity was blasted, by the voluntary agitation introduced among us
     some years ago.  It then decayed and disappeared.  In the Mid-
     dle and West parishes, Sabbath schools have been since establish-
     ed, under the superintendence of their rerpective sessions.  In the
     Middle parish, there is one congregational school, attended by 81,
     and eleven local schools, attended by 200 young persons.  In the
     West parish, there is one congregational school, attended by 215.
     The erection of local schools is in progress.  The teachers of all
     these schools are the ministers and elders, and those religious
     friends who are zealous in the cause.
       With respect to Dissenting and Seceding meeting-houses-there
     are both.  The dissenting houses are, one for Independents, another
     for Baptists, another for general Baptists, and another for Glassites.
     The Seceding houses are, one for Old Light Burghers, another
     for Old Light Antiburghers, two for the New Light Burghers and
     Antiburghers, or United Secession, and two for Relievers.  The
     ministers of these places of worship are paid by the seat-holders
     and hearers, out of seat rents and collections.  One of them has
     a stipend of L. 200, another of L.180, another of L.170, another
     of L. 100, and another of L. 90.  The other ministers have no
     fixed sum allotted them.  They depend on " the spontaneous li-
     berality" of their respective flocks.  Almost all the meeting-houses
     are in debt,--some of them to a considerable amount.  But there is
     in some eases a satisfaction connected with the debt, as it forms a


