
800                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

one, including among others the following parishes: Philorth
(Fraserburgh), Rathen, Tyrie, Lonmay, Crimond, Langley (St
Fergus), Deer, Inverugy (Peterhead), Cruden, Slains, Forvie,
Logie-buchan, Ellon, Foveran, Methlic, Tarves, and Bethelnie
(Belhelvie). *  Now, as a considerable number of these parishes
lie south of the Ythan, we must conclude that the deanery, and
of course the earldom, of Buchan extended beyond it also.  It
is known that the Earls of Buchan held their courts at Ellon, as
being most centrical for Buchan and Formartin. +  In the the foun-
dation charter of Marischal College, dated 1593, the Buchanenses,
one of the quatuor nationes, comprehend all the students within
the district bounded by the Doveran and the Don.  From all
which we conclude that this parish lies wholly in Buchan.
   Extent, &c.-The parish of Logie-Buchan consists of two parts
of nearly equal extent, meeting at a considerable angle at the
Ythan, opening to the west.  The length of the north division
is 3 3/4 English miles, that of the south 5 3/4.  Its breadth is from
3/4 of a mile to 3 miles; its mean breadth may be 1 1/2.  It is
bounded chiefly by four small tributary streams of the Ythan,
two on each side, separating it from the parishes of Ellon,
Cruden and Slains on the north, and from Ellon, Udny, and
Foveran on the south.  The number of Scotch acres it contains
is 5084, or 6412 imperial acre t++  Upon the erection of the
parish of Udny in the end of the sixteenth century, it appears
from our Presbytery records that the lands of Logierieve, Alla-
than, and Bonitown were taken from this parish.  Before the Re-
formation there had been a well endowed church, called "Christ's
Kirk," where the church of Udny now stands, and the reconstruc-
tion and endowment of it was a work of great difficulty, and occu-
pied the attention of the Presbytery for thirty years.
   Tarty, one of the highest hills in the parish, is only 135
feet above the level of the sea.  The Ythan enters the parish
through a barrier of rocks (gneiss), which in a calm evening re-
verberate short sentences very distinctly.  At particular stations
the echo is double.  On the south side are some considerable in-
dentations in the rocks; and adjoining these is an opening through
the superincumbent masses, called the "Needle's Eye," the

<FOOTNOTE>See Kennedy's Annals of Aberdeen.
    See a charter of Fergus, Earl of Buchan, in, 1211, a copy of which was in the
custody of the late Dr Skene Keith.  See also the Statistical Acount of Ellon parish.
    By Robertson's recent map of the county it contains no less than 8242.65 Scots
acres.  What egregious folly to pretend to give its dimensions to hundredth parts of
an acre, when there is an error of upwards of 3000 acres in the integer!


