
308			FIFESHIRE.

females, are completely exploded, and the printed gown is now
universally seen. On Sunday, they dress very showily, and the
merino and silk gown are quite common. Each family feeds a
pig or two, and sometimes three in the year, the flesh of which,
with the garden stuffs, forms a very comfortable and wholesome
meal for dinner; porridge and milk are the common breakfast of
males, and tea and oat-cakes or wheaten bread and butter, of
females; tea is generally used in the evening; and for sup-
per, either porridge and milk, or herrings and potatoes; cheese
is often used in the evening, and at dinner and supper. Where
industrious habits prevail, the people may be said to enjoy
in a reasonable degree the comforts and advantages of society,
and are generally contented with their situation and circumstan-
ces. Engaged for the most part in agricultural operations, and not
brought together in great numbers, they are not exposed to those
various temptations with which the manufacturing population in
large towns are surrounded, and are characterized by an independ-
ence of mind, and decency of behaviour, which generally accom-
pany rural life. They are intellectual, religious, and moral, and
show a great regard for all the ordinances of religion. Poaching
does not prevail to a great extent, and smuggling is altogether un-
known.
   During the last three years there were 5 illegitimate births in
the parish.
			IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-Almost all the land in the pa-
rish has the appearance of having been under the plough at a for-
mer period, as it still retains in some places the high ridges and 
low furrows of ancient times; but upon part of Winthank and Gil-
merton, there is still a great quantity of heath, and the land lying
barren and unproductive, with no appearance of the hand of man
having ever been upon it. Land, notwithstanding the cheapness
of agricultural produce, does not seem to be going out of cultiva-
tion, and allowed to lie in pasture, but the reverse, as, within these
few years, a considerable quantity of pasture land has been brok-
en up, and kept, I understand, profitably under the plough, and
more will be added to that which is already in tillage.

<TABLE>
The number of acres in the parish which are cultivated, or occa-	  A.	R.    F.
    sionally in tillage, as far as can be ascertained,			4686	9     6 Scotch
		underwood						 476	1    34
		permanent pasture,					1767	0    13
		waste							 214	1    22
                                                                        _____  ___  ____
		The number of acres in the parish, therefore is,	7144	2    35


