
428                     ARGYLESHIRE.

hands of their followers, who now constitute the lowland class in this
parish, and who still possess peculiarities belonging to the period
of their removal to Kintyre.  Their descendants stll occupy a
number of the best farms in this parish.  They are a sober, hard-
working, industrious class of people, who have very rarely amalga-
mated themselves by intermarriages with the Highlanders.  So
far, indeed, do they carry this unsocial feeling, that they have a
place of sepulture for themselves, detached only by a strand from
that of their Highland brethren.  The names of the principal fol-
lowers of the gentlemen above-mentioned who settled in the coun-
try, were Ralston, Dunlop, Colville, Reid, and Huie.
     In the latter end of last century, the Lowlanders complained of
the occasional absence of the parish minister, and as many of them
did not understand the Gaelic language, they, in the year 1798,
built a church of their own in connection with the Relief Synod,
where English alone is preached.  The Duke of Argyle, principal
proprietor and patron of the parish, gave them ground for their
chapel, and accommodation for their minister.  Although they
joined the Relief body, they do not consider themselves dissenters
from the Church of Scotland.
     Land-owners.- The land-owners of the parish are seven in
number:
<TABLE>
                        Names.                        Rental.
        Duke of Argyle,                            L.5000  0  0
        William M'Donald, Esq. of Ballyshear,        1100  0  0
        John M'Millan M'Neill. Esq. of Carskey,       600  0  0
        Donald M'Millan, Esq. of Lephenstrath,        600  0  0
        George M'Neill, Esq. of Ugadale,              200  0  0
        William M'Donald, Esq. of Sands,              160  0  0
        John M'Larty, Esq. of Keil                    150  0  0
                                                   ____________
                      Total rental of the parish,  L.7810  0  0

     Parochial Registers.-The parochial register extends no far-
ther back than the year 1765.  The old registers were unfortu-
nately destroyed by a fire which accidentally took place in the
study of the gentleman who was then clergyman of the parish, the
Rev. David Campbell; but since that period, the register has
been regularly kept.
     Antiquities.-There are some obelisks in the parish, the erec-
tion of which tradition assigns to the Picts.  Many urns of rude
manufacture, and filled with bones, have been dug up a little to
the east to Machrimore Mill.
     The ruins of a religious house of St. Columba near the shore
of Keil are still pretty entire.  The tradition connected with










