
206                          KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	The farmers hold their lands by leases varying in duration from
fifteen to nineteen years, and pay rents from L.50 tn L.700 per
annum. There are several small patches of less value. The
farms are enclosed by stone dikes, sunk fences, or hedge-rows.
The real rent of the parish, independent of the value of woods and
plantations, as taken in 1830, was upwards of L.8000 per annum.
The valued rent in Scotch money is L.3461 per annum.
	Rate of Wages.--Male servants, who reside in their master's
house, are paid from L.10 to L.12 per annum. Female servants
are paid from L.6 to L.7 per annum. The rate of a labourer's
wages during summer is 1r. 6d. per day, and during winter 1s. 2d.
per day, without vietuals. Women, during summer, earn 9d. per
day; during winter, they are seldom employed at outfield work.
Masons, 2s. 6d. per day; carpenters, 2s.
	The subjoined letter, written by the late John Maxwell, Esq.
of Munshes, to the late W. M. Herries, Esq. of Spottes, and pub-
lished in the appendix to the first and only report of the Stewartry
Agricultural Society in the year 1810, shows the state of society,
the value of land, and the condition of agriculture, in this parish
and neighbourhood, upwards of a century ago. As the report al-
luded to had only a local circulation, and is now entirely unknown,
it is thought proper, for the preservation of so valuable a letter, to
insert it in the Statistical Account. Mr Maxwell was a native of
this parish, and died at Munshes in 1814, at the age of ninety.
four. *

<FOOTNOTE>Mumshes, February 8, 1811.
	DEAR SIR,--The last time that Mr Young of Youngfield was here, he signified to
me, as you had previously done, that John Christian Curwen of Workington Hall,
Esq. had mentioned, that he was very desirous of knowing the state of agriculture in
the stewartry of Kirkcudbright, and in Nithsdale, as far back as my remembrance
goes.
	I was born at Buittle, in this parish, which, in old times, was the fortress and re-
sidence of John Baliol, on the 7th day of Februarx, old style, 1720, and do distinctly
remember several circumstances that happdned in the year 1723 and 1724. Of these
particulars, the falling of the bridge of Buittle, which war built by John Frew in
1722, and fell in the succeeding summer while I was in Buittle garden seeing, my fa-
ther's servants gathering nettles. That same year many of the proprietors enclosed
their grounds to stock them with black cattle, and, by that means, turned out a vast
number of tenants at the term of Whitsunday 1723, whereby numbers of them be-
came destitute, and, in consequence, rose in a mob; when, with pitchforks, gavellocks,
and spades, they levelled the park-dikes of Barnicailzie and Munshes, at Dalbeattie,
which I saw with my own eyes. The mob passed by Dalbeattie and Buittle, and did
the same on the estates of Netherlaw, Dunrod, &c., and the Laird of Murdoch, then
proprietor of Kilwhaneday, who turned out sixteen families at that term. The pro-
prietors rose, with the servants and dependents, to quell this mob, but were not of
sufficient force to do it, and were obliged to send for two troops of dragoons from
Edinburgh, who, upon their appearing, the mob dispersed. After that, warrants
were granted for apprehending many of the tenants and persons concerned in the
said mob. Several of them were tried, those who had any funds were fined, some


