
376                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   Name.-The name Bracholy, vulgarly called  Braichlich, is obvi-
ously derived from the church or district being situated above or
behind the wood, (eaglais a bhraiqhe-choille); a wood at one time
having grown on the declivity to the moss. The etymology of Pettie
is by no means agreed upon. Could we be certain that the name
Lunyn or Lunnin in the Chartulary refers to the farm of Lonie, ad-
jacent to Castle Stuart, to the east of which is a delta of land, from
time immemorial called the Island, or Island Macmartin, (and as i
or inn means an island,)-the names Lunyn and Petyn may perhaps
have their etymons traced to the meadow, (Celtic, Ion), and to
the hollow, (Celtic, pit), or to the promontory, (Celtic, Pait hil-
lock) by the island. The topographical description of Lunnin,
given in the charter granted by the bishop, and confirmed by King
William at Inverness, between 1171 and 1184, corresponds to that
of Lonie, to the east of which is the island. By that charter, the
hermit, John, obtains exclusive right to the island, "quae est in lacu
de Lunnin ab orientali parti." It lends some probability to our
supposition, of Lunnin being Lonie in Pettie, that Bishop An-
drew in his grant of lands to Walter de Petyn names the lands of
Lunnin * after those of Ardtrillen, (Altirlies), part of the present
Culloden property, with which Lonie is conterminous. It mili-
tates, however, against our opinion, that Lunnin is spoken of as a
church in connection with Croyn (Croy), when Petyn and Bra-
choly are spoken of as united churches. It seems scarcely pro-
bable that there would be a church at Lonie, if the church of Pet-
tie was in its present site, and that, too, connected with Croy;
unless, indeed, we suppose that the lake between Lonie and Petyn
was such at one time as to render intercourse between the two
places somewhat difficult or impracticable; except by boat. Indeed,
until Lord Moray, about sixty years ago, opened the main drain,
the whole vale,was a morass. At about the same distance as from the
old church of Bracholy to Dalcross, there is, as we advance on the
hill-side towards Inverness, Chapeltown; and below it on the sea
shore at Altirlie Point, (where there are the traces of a burying-
ground), tradition says that a chapel once stood, and that out of its
ruins the boiling-house of the first salmon-fishers who came to the
Point was built. It would thus appear that there was a succession
of churches on the hill side, and others at the shore, every two of
which were served as one cure.
   Extent.-The length of the parish is about 8 miles along the

<FOOTNOTE>Chartu'ary, p. 23.


