
     of Stair.

   Extent, Soil, Surface, etc.-This district lies between the
rivers Air and Kill; and is about 6 miles in length by 2 in
breadth, though at one place it is completely intersected by the
parish of Ochiltree.  The soil, that of some small vallies along
the sides of these rivers excepted, is a stiff clay.  The general
appearance of the parish, as well as the productiveness of the
soil, has been greatly improved since the year 1735, when the
present incumbent was settled.  At that period, there was no
sence of any kind, excepting one small inclosure of fir near
Barskimming, and some coppices of natural wood.  In sum-
mer, the cattle were herded between the different corn fields;
and in winter, they ranged at large over the whole country:
at present, every farm is inclosed and subdivided; and so com-
pletely have the notions of the commonality changed in this re-
spect, that scarcely any person will agree to take a farm, or pay
an adequate rent, unless the lands are properly inclosed: although
formerly their prejudices against inclosures were so violent, that
dykes and gateways were frequently broken down as soon as
erected.  This, the present incumbent had frequently the un-
happiness to experience when he first began to inclose his pro-
perty in this parish, and in that of Coylton.

   Heritors, and Produce.-The heritors are 6 in number.  To
the activity, exertions, and public spirit of the four principal
ones, (Sir William Miller of Barskimming, General Stuart of
Stair, Mungo Smith of Drongan, and the incumbent), is
chiefly to be ascribed the rapid improvement of agriculture in
this place, and the great increase of the value of their own
estates, which are now successively planted with thriving tim-
ber, inclosed and improved in a very elegant and judicious
manner.  The grain raised in this parish is, oats, bear, pease,
beans, and wheat; turnips and potatoes are also cultivated.
This and the neighbouring districts are remarkable for produ-

     VOL. VI. P


