
                     FERRY PORT-ON-CRAIG.                            83

ern and higher part of the parish, the soil is generally a black loam,
founded upon whin rock and produces excellent crops of all kinds
of grain.  Green crops of every kind are successfully cultivated, and
of late years the farmers have raised great quantities of potatoes
for the London market, which yield them a fair profit when sold at
9s. or 10s. per boll of 32 stones Dutch.
   Flax, which in former times was produced in considerable quan-
tities, and of good quality in the parish, seems now to be totally
abandoned.
   Extent, &c.-The whole extent of the parish, according to a survey
taken in 1831, is 2598.314 imperial acres, exclusive of commons.
There are only four farms, besides upwards of 100 acres let out
in small portions to a number of individuals in the village, who keep
cows and horses.
   The cattle reared in the parish are a mixed breed, embracing the
Fife, Angus, and Ayrshire kinds.  There is also a considerable
number of sheep, chiefly a cross breed between the Cheviot and
Leicestershire kinds.  The number of horses generally kept in
the parish may be reckoned at about forty; and they are chiefly
employed for agricultural purposes.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   It appears that this was erected into a separate parish by an act
of King James VI. in the year 1606.  It is supposed io have pre-
viously formed part of the parish of Leuchars, although it does not
appear that there is any authentic record of this fact.  There is, in
the parish, a field which still retains the name of the chapel, in con-
sequence, as is supposed, of there having been a chapel there pre-
viously to the separate erection of the parish.  The estate of
Scotseraig, which comprises the whole parish, was formerly the pro-
perty of Archbishop Sharp of St Andrews.  The principal farm
was church land, and was at one time feued by authority of the
Pope at the sum of L. 132, 18s. 8d. Scots money, and 4 bolls of
pease.  Tradition says that the feuar was a Mr Scott, of the fami-
ly of Balwearie in Fife, who, to distinguish it from other places cal-
led Craig, prefixed his own name to it; hence Scotscraig, the name
which the whole estate now bears.  A portion of the Archbishop's
room is still pointed out in a fragment of the old mansion-house,
now forming part of the garden wall.  The present house was built
in 1807, and is a large and substantial building.
   Antiquities.-The only interesting object of antiquity in the
parish is the remains of an old building, usually denominated the


