
202                           ARGYLESHIRE.

1748, and the parish church more lately, in l776; since which
time, it does not appear to have been turned to any account.
   There is marble, both white and reddish, or rather of a varie-
gated colour, in the farm of Bailephetrish, situated on the north-
west side of the island.  A quarry was begun here about the year
1791, by an Association designated (I know not whether seriously
or in jest) "The Tiree Marble Company," their operations be-
ing conducted under the management of a foreigner, said to be a
German.  A good deal of marble was carried off, the heaviest
blocks being sent round by boats, and the lightest conveyed over-
land, to be shipped on board vessels at the harbour; but the diffi-
culty of transportation and other attendant expenses were found so
great, that, at the end of three years, the work-was relinquished as
an unprofitable, if not a losing speculation.  Some large blocks
are still lying at the quarry; and I understand some pieces were
wrought for the Duke of Argyle, and are to be seen at his Grace's
residence at Inverary Castle or Roseneath.
   There are no simple minerals, so far as I can discover, found
in the rocks; nor are there any ores or mines on either island,
except a vein of lead ore in the west end of Coll, which, however,
was never wrought.  Near the manse in Tiree, and in a few other
places, some of the rocks seem to have a mixture of iron, the wa-
ter which flows from them being of a reddish rusty colour.
   There are varieties of soil in Tiree; but for the most part it is
light and sandy.  In some parts of the island, there is a good deal of
clayey soil, which is very stiff and difficult to work, and is believed
to rest on a bottom of whinstone rock.  The loamy soil is deep and
wet; but the mossy and gravelly, of both which kinds there is a pro-
portion to be seen, are not deep in general.  In some places, two or
three strata of different kinds may be found lying over one another,
but not always disposed in the same order.  In the mossy ground,
the remains of decayed trunks and roots of trees, and nutshells in
a pretty entire state, have been frequently discovered;-showing
that, though trees will not now thrive, yet they formerly existed
here, as well as in many of the other Hebrides, and that some,
great natural change or revolution must have taken place.
   The island of Coll, I believe, admits of the same variety of soil,
with this difference, however, that the great proportion of it is
mossy or moorish.
   The common kinds of grass are red, white, and yellow clover,
and daisy.  In the more marsliy ground, fiorin is frequently met


