
		PARISH OF MONEYDIE.

	PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

	     THE REV.  J. W. THOMSON, MINISTER.



	     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Extent and Boundaries.-THE parish of Moneydie (spelt Mo-
nedie in the former Statistical Account) is of a long irregular
form, extending from S. E. to N. W. about 10 miles in length,
and varing from 1 1/2 to 3 miles in breadth.  Its superficial extent
may be reckoned about 18 square miles.
  It may be necessary here to explain the reason of the wide dis-
crepancy between these statements, and those of the former Rtatis-
tical Account.  The present parish of Moneydie consists of two por-
tions, viz. the old or original parish, and the new parish or Logieal-
mond, which, about eighty years ago, was disjoined from the neigh-
bouring parish of Monzie, and annexed quoad sacra to Moneydie.
Of these two portions, the author of the former account treated
separately,-giving the statistics of each by itself.  As the two
districts differ so widely from each other in many particulars, some
advantage might no doubt be gained in point of minuteness, by
giving a distinct and separate account of each.  It is hoped, how-
ever, that every important and practical end may be gained, and
some confusion avoided, by conjoining tbe two, and describing the
parish as one whole, distinguishing them only in those particulars
where circumstances seem to render such distinction necessary.
  The parish of Moneydie is bounded on the east by the parish
of Redgorton; on the south by Redgorton and Methven; on the
west by Fowlis; and on the north by Auchtergaven, Little Dunkeld,
and ` detached portion of Redgorton.  The western, or Logieal-
mond section of the parish, lies on the southern face of the first
range of the Grampians, sloping down toward the River Almond,
which forms the march with the parish of Methven.  The eastern
extremity reaches almost to the River Tay, near Luncarty bleach-
field.  With the exception of the Logiealmond hills, which rise
to a height probably of 1800 feet above the level of the sea, there
are no rising grounds of any importance in the parish.


