
134                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.


pretence of toasting prosperity to the child and its family. Now
such a practice is no longer known.
   At funerals, four services or rounds of ardent spirits, with accom-
panying viands, were considered as necessary out of "respect to
the dead." Now, only once spirits or wine is presented, and no-
thing can exceed the becomingness of the funeral rite.
   Again, if elsewhere New Year's Day was a festival, here it
seemed to absorb the mind of the whole people. For weeks, the
youths had been preparing for the great annual game; and in one
of the fields contiguous to the church, assembled many hundreds,
old and young, with music and banners, either to witness. or to
join in the shinty combat of the day. At night succeeded a ball,
which generally did not close till the dawn of the following morn-
ing. Now the game is almost abandoned, and there is no ball. Di-
vine service is performed in church at the ordinary hour, and this
year, the day once so signalized with boisterous festivities, had a
most pleasing aspect even of Sabbath tranquillity.
  This sketch of the change in the manners of the people within
a period of not many years, may be closed with an additional il-
lustration; and those who have had opportunities of judging of the
practice of the district wilt best know how to appreciate its singu-
lar interest. On the Saturday evening of a communion, had ar-
rived the usual supply for the consumption of the following day,
as in former years: particular circumstances had urged the mi-
nister to address his people on the propriety of at once abandon-
ing the old hereditary practice of the district, and not one indivi-
dual resisted his counsel, or entered the threshold of the house of
refreshments. To the end of the service they continued engaged
in their devotions, like a quiet family party assembled to eat the
passover.
   These are some of the changes, among others, that might be
noticed, as significant of an ameliorated condition of society. Re-
lying, however, on the authority of aged people, it might seem that
the future generations are far from the moral and religious stan-
dard of their fathers. A very old man, not long ago, stated to the
writer,that, although the Bay of Campsail be very beautiful, it was
once to him more so; when a little boy, early on a summer Sab-
batb morning, he would go down to the shore and hear the fish-
ermen at anchor in the bay singing the praise of God in their boats,
for each boat then had family worship.
    Be it devoutly hoped that some future statist shall be able to say,


