
     of Clunie.

The island itself may be ranked among the antiquities of
the parish.  It is mostly artificial, if not altogether so.  It
must have been formed with great labour, and in some ve-
ry distant period too, as there is neither record nor tradi-

<FOOTNOTE>

were dug up, about 40 or 50 years ago, by the proprietor of the ground.
The circumstance of Roman spurs being found there, gives the more pro-
bability to our conjecture; because the wings of the Roman army con-
sisted of the 3000 cavalry who, as Tacitus expresses it, "cornibus affun-
derentur," were widely extended on the wings, in order to prevent the
Romans from being attacked in flank.-The grounds here would afford
full scope for both armies to extend their lines in the manner described by
Tacitus; and it is manifest from his description, that the spaces of ground
they then occupied, and over which they must have passed through the
different stages of the engagement, were, in all probability, very consi-
derable-After the Batavian and Tungilan cohorts had begun, "erigere
in colles aciem," the Caledonians would fall back towards their entrench-
ments above the Heer-cairns.  It is possible, therefore, that these cairns
(according to Mr Playfair's idea) may be the very spot, where, as Taci-
tus observes. "Britanni, qui adhuc pugn‘ expertes, summa collium infe-
derant, et paucitatem nostrorum vacui spernebant, degredi paullatim et
circum in terga vincentium c‘perant," when Agricola, by a masterly
manouvre, turned the stratagem of the Caledonians against themselves,
and brought on the general rout.  Then commenced that dreadful car-
nage of which the words of Tacitus are so wonderfully descriptive:
"Passim arma, et corpora, et laceri artus, et cruenta humus," and of
which the Heer-cairns may at this day be an affecting memorial.-The
Caledonians, in their retreat northwards over The Guard Drums, seem to
have faced about on the summit of each Drum and there to have made
a resolute and bloody stand against their pursuers.  This appears pre-
sumable from the number and position of the tumuli on each of these
Drums, and it brings to the mind of the spectator that strong expression
of Tacitus, in which he pays an indirect compliment to the bravery of the
vanquished, "Aliquando etiam victis ira virtusque." It likewise appears
from the disposition of the tumuli along the neighbouring hills, that the
flight of the Caledonians, previous to their general dispersion, was princi-
pally by two different routs; the one N. W. towards the woods of Stra-
thardheil, and the other N. E. towards those of Maus, where there is also
a number of cairns, seemingly coeval with the others.  In some of these
Mr Playfair has lately dug up cinders and some little bits of human


