
168                         STIRLINGSHIRE.

no such regular mode of supply, our elders and deacons would have
to become beggars general for the poor of their respective quar-
ters. The collection, exclusive of extraordinary days, brings from
12s. to 15s. weekly. The Banton church has a collection every six
weeks, for the poor of the district, by consent of the managers,
without any order from the heritors.
   Collections and subscriptions for religious purposes are made
regularly for the schemes of the General Assembly,--besides oc-
casional collections for the Scottish Missionary, the Glasgow Bible
Society, &c. The average amount Of such collections is from
L.4 to L.5. It is but justice to record, that the contributions to
the new church and school of Banton, and the liberal donation of
the chief proprietor to the building of the new school in the town,
will amount in all to nearly L.1000. In the two former of these
works, we have no doubt been indebted to the kindness of various
friends at a distance, who also aid us in supporting the minister,
who was ordained in 1840, and has a bond for L. 80. The want
of an endowment is much felt.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the date of the last Account, several of the disadvantages
therein referred to have been removed. 1. The principal heritor
now generally resides in the parish, though he has been two years
absent in England: and the residence of such a landlord is a mighty
blessing to the poor. 2. The parish has now, what it had not then,
Justices of the Peace,--Sir A. Edmonstone, and his factor; also
a bailie and council. 3. The communication with Glasgow, and
Falkirk, and Stirling is now very cheap and easy, at all seasons
when the canal is open. Ere long, the proposed railway betwixt
Glasgow and Edinburgh, may come within one mile of this parish.
Gas has been introduced into our shops and places of worship.
The church has been heated with stoves. The streets have been
very much improved of late by levelling, removal of out-stairs, and
nuisances. With such a command of water as we possess, and
other advantages, it is rather surprising that we have no great pub-
lic work of any kind. The consolation here is, that morals might
not be improved by such erections and the consequent immigration.

   Revised and completed April 1841.


