
       34                       SUTHERLANDSHIRE.


       at the place of Uppat, five feet under ground, Near the site of
       the old chapel, too, there was lately dug up a large undressed stone,
       with a rude device., as of an ancient galley,- a thick crescent.  The
       date and the object of it are alike unknown.  It now stands a little
       to the east of the castle.
         The ruins of two Pictish towers, as they are often called, are
       described in the former Statistical Account;- the one, situated
       at a short distance to the, east of Dunrobin Castle, and the other
       to the west, now embosomed in a plantation of fir trees.  There
       is another ruin of the same kind near the place of Backies, which
       has not been mentioned, and which, as well as that situated at the
       east, has been greatly demolished.  The ruin in the wood is less dila-
       pidated, and still distifictly -bewrothe e4aracteristics of similar ruins
       in the coast-side Highlands.  The general dimensions,-the cen-
       tral circular compartment,-the gallery between this compartment
       and the exterior wall,-are quite visible.  The absence of mortar
       in the construction is common to these three ruins, as well as to
       all others of the kind. The two nearest were in sight of each
       other; the one at Backies looked into the glen; and they all com-
       manded an extensive prespect of the sea and the land.  It is most
       probable, that these, and Other similar structures, were built and
       used by the  Danes.  The remains of a Druidical temple, or cir-
       cle, are to be seen a little above the road whicb leads from the
       Mound to Morvich, about half way between these places.
         Dunrobin Castle.-Aboutt the middle of the parish, and situ-
       ated on the margin of a bank, and considerably elevated above
       the sea, stands Dunrobin Castle, which was first built by Robert
       Earl of Sutherland, A. D. 1275. Its environs  are a good deal
       wooded, and the surrounding scenery, which is varied and hilly, is
       very interesting and picturesque. The garden which, as viewed
       from the bank, or the castle, spreads itself like, a map at the foot
       of the bank, is in excellent keeping with the antique character of
       the mansion and the place.
         Parochial Register.-The earliest entry in tbe Parochial regis-
       ter here is 29th December 1739.  The register is at present re-
       gularly and carefully kept.
         Modern Buildings.- Besides the farm-houses and offices, there
       are in the village an inn, a flour and barley-mill, a meal-mill, a
       bank-office, and the manse, all of them good,, and built not many
       years ago.


