
            86                         FORFARSHIRE.

            especially as a great majority of the sufferers seem to think, or at
            least wish it to be understood, that they are not themselves blame-
            able. All their evils, they conceive, are to be ascribed to the go-
            vernment of the country; and they look, with a delusive hope, to
            a reformed parliament as a cure for their every sorrow! At the
            same time, it is not to be conceived that these apparently condem-
            natory remarks are universally applicable. Amongst the operative
            class of society in Arbroath, we have found a numerous body of
            men and women whose habits are alike industrious and frugal,--
            who are exemplary in a discharge of the duties of morality and re-
            ligion,--and have evinced a commendable patience in the endur-
            ance of that adversity which may have fallen to their lot. Not a
            little of the theological attainment, Christian practice, and evan-
            gelical zeal existing in the parish, is to be found in this rank of
            life. Several of the most enlightened and efficient of the Sabbath-
            school teachers in the place belong to the same class; and the ex-
            ample they have given of a well-ordered conversation has been
            blessed to many around them.
                The state of society in Arbroath has, we believe, been affected
            considerably by the great number of bankruptcies which took place
            in the year 1826. In that memorable year several of the most in-
            dustrious and honest men in the town, who had realized what was
            to them an ample fortune, were ruined; but, on the other hand,
            many of the failures were altogether inexcusable,--the bankrupts
            having scarcely ever had a penny which they could legally call
            their own. Not a few of this latter class have been driven, appa-
            rently for ever, from the circle in which they once affected to move,
            but into which they ought never to have been admitted. In conse-
            quence, both the connnercial and the moral atmosphere of the town
            have been in some degree purified. These would-be-gentlemen
            have shrunk back to their original obscurity; or, if any of them
            are still occasionally heard of, it is only as the rallying point of
            local excitement amongst the revolutionary and ill-doing portion
            of the community, or as acknowledged superiors in the revelries of
            the pot-house. The cause of religion has gained not a little by
            the fall of the class of persous now adverted to. In the day of
            their glory, all that wore the aspect of genuine piety or Christian
            zeal was avowedly the object of their scorn; and their vulgar slang
            was obtruded officiously wherever they had an opportunity of pre-
            senting themselves. But their unhallowed influence is now hap-
            pily at an end.


