
50                          ROSS AND CROMARTY.

ther, they are almost impassable. And yet, not with standing this
wretched state of the public roads, the commutation money for sta-
tute labour has been, year after year, most punctually and even
rigidly exacted. The blankets have been often taken off the beds
of old bed-ridden people, by the merciless exactors. This state
of things evidently arises from mere mismanagement as well as
from a want of public spirit.
  Schools.-There are three schools in the parish, each of which
is well situated for the convenience of the inhabitants. The pa-
rochial school is in the centre. A very substantial and commo-
dious school-house, with schoolmaster's apartments, has been
lately built by the heritors. The present teacher also holds
the office of session-clerk. The average number of scholars
attending may be about 30. The salary was, in the year 1829,
increased from L.16, 17s. 8d. to L.30. The school fees scarce-
ly, at an average, amount to L.10 annually. There is another
school at Drimcudden, established, in 1823, by the Inverness
Education Society. The school-house and schoolmaster's apart-
ments were built by subscription, and by collections made at the
church doors, at several different times. The society at Inverness
appointed the present teacher, and agreed to pay him a salary of
L.19; but afterwards, when their funds were reduced, in conse-
quence of the increased demand for schools, and a number of
subscribers having withdrawn, they reduced the schoolmaster's sa-
lary from L.19 to L.10. The average number of scholars may
be about 20. The fees are very irregularly paid,-the greater
part of them is paid by equivalents instead of money, that is,
by any commodity which the people who are very poor are best
able to give.  This school at present is in rather an unprosperous
state. The other school is at the village of Jemimaville. This
is oneof the Assembly's schools, taught at present by Mr Gilbert
M'Culloch, and is certainly one of the most efficient and best
taught seminaries in the north. The intellectual system has been
adopted, and with great success. *  Many young men taught at

<FOOTNOTE>For the establishment of this school, the parish is greatly indebted not only to the
Assembly's Committee, for the readiness with which they granted so great a boon, but
also, and especially, to the exertions of Major Munro, the present proprietor of
Poyntzfield, who not only applied to the Assembly's Committee to establish one of
their schools here, but at his own sole expense built the school-house and schoolmas-
ter's apartment, and has repeatedly repaired them, when necessary. Every applica-
tion which he made to the conterminous proprietors for aid in so laudable an under-
taking was fruitless; and if he bad not been at the sole expense of it himself,
the school never had been established.


