               12                     SUTHERLANDSIHIRE.

               strangers travelling by the coach for business or for pleasure, may
               find good entertainment in a commodious and well-kept inn.
                I There are here also five retail-shopkeepers, two saddlers, one
               baker, one butcher, (though not in constant employment,) three
               blacksmiths, three shoemakers, several house-carpenters, masons,
               tailors, and weavers.
                 Within the last twenty years there was a considerable number
               of small uncomfortable feal-houses in the town; but these gradual-
               ly gave way to neat and comfortable cottages, most of them two
               stories high.  The streets are clean, -and the approaches to the
               town from every quarter have been much improved.  The com-
               munication with the town is open in every direction by excellent
               roads and bridges, which are kept in annual repair.      The Maca-
               darnizing system is adopted on the county roads.  Indeed, the
               whole parish is intersected with roads and bridges; and with these
               there is another great advantage,-there are no tolls.      Not a toll
               is to be seen in the county of Sutherland.  Hence, carriages, gigs,
               and carts may be seen on Sabbath days carrying some of the good
               people to church.
                 EcclesIiastical Staie.-The church stands in the middle of the
               town.  It consists of three aisles of the old cathedral,-the fourth
               -has been long in ruins; but these venerable ruins point out to the
               admiring beholder what was their ancient grandeur.
                Dornoch was formerly the seat of the Bishop of Caithness.
               The precise time of the erection of the See is not ascertained.
               Andrew, Bishop of Caithness, had his seat here in 1150: and in
               1222, Gilbert Murray was consecrated bishop.  The latter is sup-
               posed to have built the cathedral.  He died at Scrabster, in Caith-
               ness, where the bisho s also had a residence in 1245; and was af-
               terwards canonized.  A statue of him is still shewn in the church
               ofDornoch,under the name of St Gilbert, but it is not entire.  The
               last bishop, Andrew Wood, was translated hither from the Isles
               in the year1680, and remained till the Revolution in 1688.
                 In the year 1570, the cathedral, (except the steeple,) was burnt
               by the master of Caithness; butit 11 hath been of late re-edified
               and repaired by Sir Robert Gordon, tutour of Southerland, which
               work was interprysed and begun by John Erle of Southerland,
               last deceased, a little before his death." At what time the ca-
               thedral received its present roof, which is comparatively modern,
               I cannot ascertain.  For a long time after it was occupied as a
               Presbyterian place of worship, the congregation met on the


