
                        CARMYLIE.                           355

        Botany.-The plants used in this quarter for culinary purposes,
are those in common use, all over the country.
	The forest trees chiefly planted are the larch, the spruce, and
Scots firs, the oak, ash, elm, birch, and plane, all of which seem
to be in a thriving state. The oak must have flourished here in
former ages, from the massy remains of that tree which have been
dug up in different quarters of the parish.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	The lands of Carmylie, at an early period, were the property of
the Abbey of Aberbrothock, but were not erected into a parochial
charge till after the Reformation. Previous to that time, there
was a chapel, where the church now stands, dedicated to the Vir-
gin Mary, and mentioned in some old records as "our lady's cha-
pel of Carmylie," where the monks from the Abbey of Aberbro-
thock performed divine service.
	In 1609, an act of Parliament was passed, which had been pre-
ceded, it would appear, by decrees of the church courts, ratifying
and approving the erection of the kirk of Carmylie into a paro-
chial charge, and ordaining "the territory to be designed by the
presbytery, to repair thereto in all time coming." *
	The parochial territory designed by the presbytery, in addition
to the lands of Carmylie, consisted of certain portions of the pa-
rishes of Panbride, St Vigeans, and Inverkeilor, which lay remote
from their own parish churches, but contiguous to Carmylie. All
these parishes belonged to the Abbey of Aberbrothock, as ap-
pears from a copy of the rent roll of that abbey as it stood in the
early part of the sixteenth century, in which the several portions
annexed to Carmylie are stated as situated in one or other of the
said parishes.
	The lands of Carmylie seem to have come into the possesion
of the family of Panmure, nearly two centuries ago.
	In 1549, and upon the eve of the  Reformation, James Beatton,
the Abbot of Aberbrothock, granted a charter of the lands of

<FOOTNOTE>In the appendix to Sir John Connell's Treatise on the Law of Parishes, No. ix, the
said set of Parliament is thus quoted: "Act anent the kirk of Camrylie, 1609. Our
Sovereign Lord, with the advice of the Estates of Parliament ratifies and approves
the erection of the kirk of Carmylie in one parish kirk, conform to the acts of the kirk
made thereanent; like as his highness, by advise aforesaid, of new erects the said kirk
in one parish kirk, and ordains the same to enjoy and bruik all the privilages and
commedities righteously belonging one parish kirk, by the law and consustude of this
kingdom; and the territory to be designed thereto, by the presbytery of Aberbro-
thock, to repair and report thereto in all time coming, without projudice to the Lord
Marquis of Hamilton, further than is contained in his erection."


