
                         COLDINGHAM.                    285

four rows of circular trenches. There is also a large Roman
camp on its north-west side, two sides of which have been level-
led; but two still remain undisturbed by the plough. The sta-
tions of the centinels on the brow of the hill may be distinctly
seen.
   Two miles to the west of St Abb's Head is Fast-Castle, built
upon a peninsular rock jutting into the sea. The narrow neck
which joins it to the land had been cut down almost to the level
of the sea, and a drawn-bridge was thrown over it, rendering it almost
impregnable. The building, which is in ruins, forms one of the
most striking and picturesque objects in the county, and is much
resorted to by strangers, both on its own account and for the
splendid view from the hill immediately above it, which presents
the boundless extent of the German Ocean, rolling farther than
the eye can reach, the fertile shores of Fife and the Lothians,
the distant hills of Stirling and Perthshire, the numerous vessels
passing and repassing, the rugged shores and massy rocks of St
Abb's Head,-all forming a scene so vast and diversified-so near
and so remote-that the imagination can add nothing to its splen-
dour. As might have been expected, from the contiguity to the
English border, there were in former days numerous strongholds
in this parish, few vestiges of which now remain. Such was Lang-
ton Tower, Heughhead, Renton and Houndwood, the last of which
was the hunting seat of the prior.
   Land-owners.-The parish is divided among 59 heritors, 11 of
whom have about L. 400 Scots valuation, among whom are For-
man Home, Esq. of Billy; Henry Home Drummond of Blair
Drummond; Sir John Hall, Bart. of Dunglass; Sir Samuel Stir-
ling, Bart. of Renton; Mrs Coulson of Houndwood; William
Hume, Esq., of Fairlaw; William Hood, Esq. of Sunnyside; Wil-
liam Macintyre, Esq. of Templehall; Thomas Weir, Esq. of Bo-
gan Green; William Dickson, Esq. of Whitecross; John Fuller,
Esq. of Hallydown; the Rev. Edward Sandys Lumsden of Lums-
den; Thomas Henderson, Esq. of Press. 13 heritors have from
L. 400 to L. 100, and 35 have from L. 100 to L. 1, 0s. 10d., all
Scots money: 36 proprietors of land have upwards of the yearly
value of L. 50 Sterling. It is much to be regretted that there is
no magistrate in the parish, and few residing heritors, to whom the
poor might apply for temporary relief, the oppressed for assistance,
the ignorant for advice.
   Parochial Registers.-The first entry in the parochial regis-
ter of the parish was in 1694, when John Dysart was the first


