
                         COUPAR-ANGUS.                              1147

  feet 8 inches below the farm subject to inundation.  In dry wea-
  ther the stream was confined to one side of its usual channel, and
  a conduit of 18 inches square, well-built, flagged, and puddled on
  the top, to prevent any water getting in, was constructed below
  the bed of the burn.  Above that, a complete coating of broken
  metal was laid to render the conduit more secure, and the burn
  was then allowed to run in its former course.  The rise is one inch
  in 42 feet 2 inches.  The cost of the whole was L.220.  It was
  constructed in 1831, and has been found, with occasional trifling
  repairs, completely to answer the purpose for which it was in-
  tended.
     Manufactures.-Tbe chief employment of the labouring classes
  is weaving, principally of the coarser articles of linen manufacture.
  In the present depressed state of trade, the remuneration is ex-
  tremely small.  Able-bodied men cannot earn, on an average,
  above 5s. or 6s. per week.  The privations which this imposes are
  borne, with a most praiseworthy spirit.
                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Thdre is a weekly market held here on Thursdays.  The amount
  of business done is less than formerly, owing to similar markets
  having been, some years ago, originated in the neighbouring vil-
  lages of Meigle and Blairgowrie.
     There were formerly villages, containing a considerable popu-
  lation, at Keithick and Caddam.  These are now entirely extinct
  At Balbrogie there still is a population of about 70.
     Coupar is a post-town.  Letters are delivered daily.
     The means of communication are abundant. The Defiance,
  one of the best conducted coaches in the country, passes daily be-
  twixt Edinburgh and Aberdeen.  There is also a railway to Dun-
  dee, on which coaches run four times a day.
     Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated very conveniently
  for the great mass of the people, being close to the end of the
  village.  It was built in 1681.  It was nearly rebuilt in 1780, and
  received a large addition in 1831.  It affords accommodation for
  upwards of 800 persons.
     The manse was built in 178, and has received two additions; ren-
  dering it now a comfortable and convenient residence.   The glebe
  consists of about seven acres; part of it is, at present, let at L.4 per
  acre.  The stipend is sixteen chalders; half meal,, half barley; pay-
  able by the fiars prices, with L.10 for communion dlements.  There
  are four Dissenting places of worship, Episcopalian, United Seces-


