
254			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

ley, with L.8 6&. 8d. for communion elements, From time im-
memorial, the minister has possessed ten dargues of peats in a de-
fined part of the Craig Moos, as a part of his benefice. But
the present incumbent has been dragged into a litigation in de-
fence of this privilege.
	The people are well affected to the Established Church, and
have resisted various attempts to detach them from it.
	The late minister's settlement, in 1769, was literally a violent
one. In	point or character and talent he was unobjectionable;
but, by sinister arts, the people were roused to resist his induc-
tion, and it was not without danger to their lives that the presby-
tery succeeded in ordaining him. By conciliating manner, and
frieddly services to all his neighbours without reference to the
part which any might have acted in regard to his settlement, the
soon mollified his infuriated parishioners, became acceptable to all,
and lived in harmony with them for fifty-one years. As in the
case of the celebrated Dr Reid, the people fought against him
when he came, and would have fought with equal keenness to keep
him, had any attempted to take him away. The lesson has not
been lost upon the present generation.
	The Roman Catholic. chapel is within the diocese of Edin-
burgh.
	There are 235 families in the parish, consisting of 935 indivi-
duals professedly belonging to the Established Church, and 35
families of 115 individuals being to various wets of Dissenters,
including 67 Roman Catholics, or persons commonly reputed
such, The parish church is well attended. The average num-
ber of communicants is nearly 300. Collections for religious pur-
poses are always liberal, but not frequent.
	Education--There are five schools in the parish, three paro-
hial and two unendowed, besides a Sabbath school taught and
supported by the minister and assistants.
	In the  principal school, Greek, Latin, geography, navigation,
arithmetic, mensuration, book-keeping, writing, and English are
taught. In two of the other schools, the same branches, except-
ing navigation and Greek, usually taught. In the remainning
two, classical literature is not required. The salary of the
principal schoolmaster is L.29, 18s. 9 1/4d., and the teacher has a
right to the interest of L.150. One school has L.10, 13s. 10 1/2d.
of salary and the interest of L.15, and the other has the same.
A good dwelling-house is attached to the principal school.



