
                             QUEENSFERRY.                    17

lity. It gives employment to about twenty persons, and adds
considerably to the trade of the port in its imports and exports.
   Since June 1838, a new steamer, the William Adam, has been
put on the passage, the Queen Margaret having proved inadequate
to the work required. The new vessell was built by the Messrs
Menzies, and her engine, of forty horses power, by Mr Maxton,
Leith. Lenght, 98 feet, and breadth, 32 feet. She has proved
a very superior sea-boat, and renders this ferry one of the best
and easiest in the kingdom. She leaves the south side every
hour, and the north side at the half hour, from sunrise to sunset.
The William Adam was honoured by conveying Queen Victoria
and Prince Albert across the Frith, on her royal progress to the
north, on the 5th September 1842. The day was most beautiful;
the water unruffled; the crowds on both shores very great; the
sea covered by numerous steamers and boats, gayly adorned; in-
deed, the whole scene was calculated to make an impression not
speedily to be forgotten. It is understood that the Sovereign ex-
pressed the greatest satisfaction with all the arrangements made
on board the steamer. Mr Mason, the superintendent, took the
helm, while the attentive skipper, Charles Roxburgh, attended
to the other duties.
   Since the William Adam was put on the passage, which cost
L2800, raised by subscriptions among the trustees, the establish-
ment has been greatly reduced, as the steamer, except at the
great cattle fairs, performs nearly the whole duty of the passage.
There are, however, two large boats and two pinnaces, which can
be used when required. The number of working hands amounts
now only to sixteen, with a shore-master, clerk, and two porters,
at each side. The rental paid by the tacknien at this date
amounts to L.1880. It may be useful to notice the expense at-
tending the steamer on the passage, viz. three tons of coal con-
sumed per day, at 8s. 6d.; oil for the engine per do., a quaries
of a gallon; cotton per mnnth, half a hundred weight. The
boilers require to be cleaned every for night, at 14s. of charge;
the furnace bars are renewed every six months; a quarter of a
hundred weight of tallow is used per month; and the expense of
ropes, &c. per week, may amount to L.1. The crew consists of
five men and a boy, whose wages amount to L.5, 0s., per week.
It is pleasant to be able to speak of the correct and steady ma-
nagement of this ferry, when travellers know the very minute when
they can procure a passage, and, by well regulated signals, when
LINLITHGOW.                        B



