
			ARTICLE GLASGOW.				931

their support to the said poor brethren."  They farther ask the
council to appoint six members of session, three to take up col-
lections in the east of the town, and three in the west; the whole
to be done with all possible diligence.
   It may be added, that, as leprosy was not uncommon in these
days, there was a house for the accommodation of persons affected
with this malady, to which frequent reference is made in the re-
cords.  These records speak of the " poor leper folk's house be-
yond the bridge."  It is situated in St Ninian's Croft, Gerbels,
and was repaired by the silver exacted from penitent delinquents
by the session.  Originally it seems to have been supported by the
feuars, and afterwards by the liberality of the inhabitants of the
town generally.  There was also an alms-house, the inmates of
which were required to attend divine service forenoon and after-
noon on the Lord's day, and family worship morning and evening
every day, under the penalty of a forfeiture of the advantages o
the institution if they failed.  I have not observed many no-
tices in regard to education; but there can be little doubt that in
Glasgow, as in other parts of Scotland at that time, there were
most earnest endeavours to promote so important a cause.  There
was a grammar-school, which seems to have been well attended,
as, so early as 1586, we read of " a loft in the High Church being
ordered to be prepared for the grammar-school bairns ;" and we
read of a singing-school having been established in Blackfriars or
the College Church.  Indeed, considerable exertions were used
by the session and town-council to obtain a properly qualified man.
The Principal of the University's name appears on the list of the
committee appointed to find a music-master; and a desire is ex-
pressed to encourage not merely vocal but instrumental music.
We may safely conclude, that when this branch of education was
regarded, other and still more substantial parts (so far as the
means of the community allowed) were not neglected.  In the
appointment of a beadle in 1590, it is agreed that, in as mach as
the office is a public one, and it is most desirable to have a per-
son who can read and write well, therefore steps are to be taken
to obtain the services of one so qualified.
   In conclusion, I would simply advert, and that in the way
of obviating an objection and meeting a prejudice to the se-
verity of the church discipline exercised on the days of which
I have been writing.  This is a very prominent feature in all
the ecclesiastical records of the period, and is apt to be misin-
terpreted, as if our fathers were harsh and unamiable men.


