
               PARISH OF EAGLESHAM.

       PRESBITERY OF GLASGOW, SYNOD OF GLASCOWAND AYR.

          THE REV.  WILLIAM COLVILLE, MINISTER


              1.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-THE name of this parish is a compound of the Celtic
    eagles, a church, and the Saxon ham, which signifies a hamlet or
    village. In an act, James VI. 1609, for "uniting certain kirkis
    in Annandail," we have the "kirkis of Hoddome, Eaglischame, and
    Lus,' designed as forming one parish; the place of the kirk to
    he at Hoddom.  There are also several other places in Scotland
    with the Celtic appellation Eaglis; as Eaglis-carno, formerly be-
    longing to Lord Spynie, and Eaglis-magirdel in Aberdeenshire.
    The popular voice gives a different version of the origin of the
    name.  In traditionary lore, it is asserted that before the village
    was built, which gives name to this parish, there were several
    woods in it, particularly one of great extent on the banks of the
    river, an English mile south of the village.  This wood and the
    rocks in the neighbourhood were much frequented by eagles; and
    as they often pereled on the holm, or low ground upon which the
    village was afterwards built, it was hence called Eaglesholm, or
    Eaglesham.  This statement is utterly unfounded, and evident-
    ly proceeds on a vulgar mistake.  The golden eagle (Aquila
    cltrysœetos,) named by the Gael Solair dhubh, is the only indivi-
    dual of the genuine eagle species that inhabits these isles, and its
    places ofresort are not lowland woods, but remote mountainous
    districts.
      Boundaries and Extent-The parish of Eaglesham is nearly a
    square, being about 6 miles in a direction from north to south, and
    5 1/2 miles from east to west.  It is bounded on the east by the
    White Cart, which separated. it from the parishes of East Kil-
    bride and Carmunnock; on the north, by Mearns or Barn water,
    which separate it from Mearns and the lands of Humbie; on the

                Drawn up by the Rev. Wi11iam Patrick Hamilton.
    RENFREW.                              c c


