
                       ISLAND OF SKYE-PORTREE.                         235

     fairs, as well as travellers and others, there is an excellent public-
     house in the village of Portree. There is another public-house
     in the district of Sconcer. Both these inns are kept by very re-
     spectable individuals, and, in so far as the writer has been able to
     learn, they have no pernicious effects on public morals.
       Fuel-The fuel chiefly used in this parish is peat. Every family
     may cut as much out of a peat bank as will serve them throughout
     the year. This they do in the commencement of the dry weather, in
     the months of April or May. And, as this operation is performed
     by the people at a time when they would otherwise be idle, it may
     be said to cost them no money.

                       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
       On the surface of the parish, the greatest change has been
     produced by the Parliamentary and other district roads throughout
     the parish. In the architectural department, some very important
     variations have taken place. Since the date of the old Statistical Ac-
     count the elegant house of Rasay, the house occupied by Lord Mac-
     donald's chamberlain at Portree, the bank-house built by the National
     Bank of Scotland, the jail, and several other houses erected in the
     village by Lord Macdonald and other individuals, together with
     the church and manse, are all constructed.
       The parish is rather a pastoral than an agricultural district.
     To produce the greatest advantage, therefore, to proprietor and te-
     nants, it should be cut into sizable farms, with distinct boundaries
     to each, and of sufficient extent to support a family.
       These farms should be let on leases of from fifteen to twenty years
     endurance, and given to persons who have a sufficient capital to
     stock, and skill to manage them. But with the present immense
     population, in a place without commerce, without manufactures,
     without agriculture, and without any kind of permanent employ-
     ment for the people, no system that can be adopted will render
     them comfortable.
       To accommodate the people, the proprietors have tried many
     experiments. Previous to the year 1811, almost all the farms on
     Lord Macdonald's property in this parish were hold in common,
     or, as it is termed, on runrig. About that period, finding that
     the people were rapidly increasing in number, and a great demand
     among them for land, with few exceptions, all the farms in pos-
     session of small tenants were cut into lots or crofts, and each of
     these was let to a family. In the course of a few years, a tenant


