
224 			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

nifying the third quire, it being one of the three Catholic quires
in the district, betwixt that of Lincluden on the one hand, and
that of Sweetheart Abbey on the other.
	Extent, &c.--It comprises a space of nearly 8 miles in length,
and 5 miles in breadth; and has for its boundaries, Terregles
on the north; Newabbey the south; Locbrutton on the west;
and the river Nith on the east. This river is wonderfully pure
and transparent, considering th`t it has tides twice a day the
whole length of its connection with Troqueer.
	Topographical Appearances.--This parish may be said to be di-
vided into three distinct parts by three ranges of elevations, which
run almost at equal distances from each other, like waves of the
sea. The first range, which rises with a gradual acclivity from the
river, has been long in cultivation, and is remarkable for its beauty
and fertility. As it lies within the burgh-roods of Maxwelltown,
and contains a large portion of Maxwelltown, with some public nur-
series and gardens of considerable extent, and several houses and
villas of modern architecture, its enclosures bring a high rent,
varying from L.3 to L.6 per acre. The intervening space between
the first and second elevation is also highly cultivated and produc-
tive. The Cargen, which falls into the Nith towards the south-
east, runs along the whole of this valley, much to its utility,
but little to its beauty, as it is a dull, heavy stream. On the banks
of this small river, otters are sometimes seen, which find shelter
among the bulrushes and alder bushes which cover several parts
of its margin.
	The second elevation, which rises to a greater height than the
first, and extends considerably farther to the south, is likewise un-
der the plough, and yields crops of turnips and potatoes, hay and
oats, wheat and barley of the best quality. It may be mentioned
here, that some of the farmers on the higher grounds of this range
have lately tried bone-manure with great success, and much to the
ease of the horses which they employ in husbandry. A large por-
tion of the space between the second and third ranges of hills is
moss and meadow, both of which might be brought into a much
more productive state by skilful cultivation. Indeed, were the
whole of this moss which at present yields only peats of an
inferior quality, and whose surface is mostly covered with coarse
heath, and frequently disfigured with bogs and quagmires, pro-

perly drained and levelled with the spade, it would, at no great
distance of time, repay the expense, and, in the meanwhile, con-


