
158                          ARGYLASHIRE

only as accommodation for the people who can assemble there,
viz. the congregation of Kilchoan.  The Church of Kilmorie was
anciently of considerable extent; its foundations only can now
be traced.  The present house was originally built of dry stone,
at the expense of the last minister; was pointed inside and out
with lime, furnished with windows, and other repairs, at the cost
of the present incumbent, and is supplied with thatch partly by
him and the bearers.
   The population of this district was, at last census, 1430.
   2. The quoad saera parish of Aharcle consists chiefly of the
eastern portion of Ardnamurchan, adjacent to the district of the
parish church, but comprises part of Sunart and of Moidart.
The Government church and manse are situated pretty centrically
at the west end of Lochshiel, twenty-three miles distant from the pa-
rish church.  The minister occasionally preaches on week days at
Kinlochmoidart, six miles distant from the former.  The popula-
tion is 2026; of these nearly 1200 are Roman Catholics.
   3. The mission of Laga is a tract of ten or eleven miles long of
the coast of Loch Sunart, being partly in the parish church dis-
trict, and partly in the parish of Abarcle.  The missionary rents
a small farm from the proprietor, and receives L.60 per annum
from the Committee on the Royal Bounty.  The preaching house,
built entirely at his expense, is a dry-stone thatched house, situ-
ated midway between the parish church and that of Aharcle.
   4. The quoad sacra parish of Strontian constitutes the eastern
and larger portion of Sunart.  The church and manse, thirty
miles distant from the parish church, are situated in the valley of
Strontian, in the midst of the most populous part of the district;
but the minister occasionally preaches at Polloch on Lochspeil,
five miles distant.  The population amounts to 1154 by last cen-
sus.
   5. The district of the assistant, consisting of by far the largest di-
vision of the parish, embraces the greater part of Moidart, and the
whole of Araig and South Morir; and has two places of worship,
one forty-six, the other fifty-six miles from the parish church.  The
first, situated at Polnish near Inveraylort, is a tolerable thatched
house, built by subscription, which, being, inadequate, a consider-
able share of the expense has fallen on the assistant.  The last is
a school-house at Ardnafuaran in Arasaig, built by the late pro-
prietor Ranald George Macdonald, Esq. of Clanranald.  These
stations have been well selected, in order to insure the largest at-


