
504               	FIFESHIRE.

tion, and to have suffered still more, so far as its architectural
beauty and character are concerned, about seventy years ago,
when it received extensive alterations and repairs. In its original
state, it was an edifice of 107 feet in length by 29 in breadth
within the walls. But as this formed an area, of larger dimen-
sions than the congregation of St Leonards required, a partition
wall was erected, by which a considerable space at the western ex-
tremity was cut off; so that the length of the Chapel, as it is now
employed for public worship, is reduced to 78 feet. It is at
present in a good state of repair. The area affords accommodation
for 360 persons, and a gallery, which was erected for the use of the
professors and students, accommodates 120 more. The seating of
the area, after furnishing the requisite accommodation for the pro-
fessors' families, is appropriated to the use of the parishioners, with
the exception of a few pews, which are rented.
   The ministers of St Leonards had no manse nor grebe, nor
any allowance for either, until within these few years, when a
glebe, and ground for the site of a manse, offices, and garden, were
designed for them by the presbytery of St Andrews, from church
lands in the vicinity of the city, and belonging to the United Col-
lege. But the present incumbent, at whose request the designation
took place, instead of taking possession of the ground, which was
under lease, has agreed during his incumbency to accept of a
compensation. The grebe is, of course, of the legal extent of four
acres, and half an acre added for the site of the manse, offices, and
garden; the whole yields a rent of L. 18 to the College.
   The stipend attached to the charge of St Leonards, until with-
in these tiventy-five years, consisted only of 5 chalders of victual,
not, however, derived from the teinds of the lands in the parish con-
nected with the college, these having been originally conveyed to
it cum decimis inclusis, but from the revenues of the  priory of St
Andrews, in terms of an old allocation by the Commissioners of
Plat, at the period when the Duke of Lennox was commendator
of the priory. The incumbent receives, in addition, the rent of
half an acre of land, in the immediate vicinity of the city, mor-
tified, nearly two centuries ago, for the use of the ministers of St
Leonards.  When the act of Parliament assigning: grant for the
agumentation of the small livings in Scotland passed in 1810, a
sum was appropriated to the minister of St Leonards from that
fund to raise the stipend to L. 150 Sterling: but the grain was
then rated at a much higher conversion than the prices of late


