
			LUNDIE AND FOWLIS.                   461

and what remains of the Castle of Fowlis, their former residence,
is now in a ruinous state, and inhabited by a few families, of the
poorest description.
	The parish contains 2348 acres, of which 1493 are arable, l60
wood, 260 good pasture, 264 moorland, the rest gardens, roads,
&c. It is better supplied with hedge-row trees than Lundie,
there is still a want of wood, though the land is admirably adapted
for the growth of it, in proof of which it may be mentioned, that,
a few years ago, four ash trees that stood near the old castle, sold
by public sale for more than L.80.
	There is only one hill in the parish, the Blacklaw, and that
scarcely worth mentioning for its elevation, though it commands
a beautiful and very extensive prospect.
	Formerly, there was a lake in the upper part of the parish, of
considerable extent, called the Piper dam, from a traditionary story
that a piper was drowned in it. But it was drained for the sake
of marl more than sixty years ago, and nearly all that remains of
it is now a reedy marsh, famous for the quantity of wild water fowl
that frequent it at all seasons of the year, more especially in the
winter. It still, however, serves as a reservoir for regulating the
supply of water for a meal-mill, a wool-mill, and several thrashing-
mills on the small stream that issues from it, and falls into the
Frith of Tay at Invergowrie.
	Since the prices of grain have so much declined, a considerable
quantity of land formerly under the plough has been thrown into
grass, and, under present circumstances, there is little prospect of
its being taken up, as it affords profitable pasturage, being well
watered and enclosed.
	The climate of Fowlis is excellent. The quantity of rain is ra-
ther below the average, owing to the showers from the west being
attracted from it by the Sidlaw hills on the north, and the Frith
of Tay on the south. The district is very healthy, and presents
many instances of persons attaining a great age. The whole pa-
rish abounds with gray freestone of the very best quality for every
purpose, but affords few other mineralogical specimens. The den
of Fowlis, a beautiful and romantic wooded ravine stretching
southwards, a mile from the church, is a favourite resort of bo-
tanists, not that it is known to afford any specimens nowhere else
to be found, but because it presents man that are rather rare, in
great perfection; and affords a greater variety than is usually found
in so limited a spot.


