					PERTH.                        65

	prior and convent of the house of the valley Of virtue of the Car-
	thusian order, near Perth."  In the church which belonged to it
	there were some royal sepulchres, in which were interred  King
	James I., Jane his Queen; and Queen Margaret, mother of
	James V.
	  4th, The Franciscan or Grayfriars Monastery.  It was founded
	by Lord Oliphant in 1460, and was situated at the south-east cor-
	ner of the town, near the river.  The ground on which the mo-
	nastery and its church stood was, in 1580, ordered to be in all time
	coming, the common burying-ground for the inhabitants of the
         town and parish.
	  The religious houses and bhapels were,
	  1st, The Nunnery of St Mary Magdalene, with its chapel.  This
	nunnery, with its chapel, was situated about a mile south from the
	town.  The time of its foundation is uncertain.  The lands sur-
	rounding it, With some other lands and annualrents of several
	houses in the town, belonged tn it.  After the Carthusian monas-
	tery was built, the nunnery was suppressed, and its lands and rents
	were annexed to the monastery.
	  2d, The Nunnery of St Leonard, the Abbot, with the hospital
	and chapel.  It was founded before the year 1296 and lay a little
	way south-west from the town.  Lady Elizabeth Dunbar, daugh-
	ter of the Earl of March, who had been privately married to that
	unfortunate Prince, David Duke of Rothsay, and whom he was
	afterwards obliged to reject, devoted herself after his death to a
	single life, and became prioress of the nunnery and governess
	its hospital in the year 1411.  After the Carthusian monastery was
	built, the nunnery was suppressed, and its lands and rents were an-
	nexed to the monastery.  But the chapel continued to stand under
	the patronage of the monks.
	  3d, Our Lady's Chapel.  It was situatdd at the foot of the north
	(High) Street, near to the old bridge.  It was an old building in
         the year 1210, at which time it was in part overthrown with the
	bridge, by a rem`rkable inundation of the river.  Afterwards it was
	repaired.  The old prison is a portion of it.
	  4th, St Lawrence Chapel.  It was situated at the castle gravely
	or on part of the ground which beloged to the old castle.  It was
	founded by the predecessors of Robert III., December 3, 1405.
         Hd gave it to the monastery of the Blackfriars.  The reason as-
	signed for this gift was, that prayers might be offered for the soul
	of his mother, Elizabeth More, " who was resting in,the church
	   PERTH                           E


