
354			FORFARSHIRE.

14 feet reddish sandstone for ruble work		4
2 feet pavement					Slade quarry, about 20 feet lower than
8 inches caum.                                                      Latch.
4 feet rough pavement.				3 1/2 feet red clay.
5 feet caum.					10 feet caum
18 inches pavement.				2 feet partly pavement, and partly rough
8 inches caum.					  sandstone.
20 inches pavement.				2 feet pavement.
18 inches of ragle'-useless,                   4 inches caum.
6 feet pavement, and thick rock for stair	3 feet pavement.
    steps, &c.
Caum.

	Our soil is various. Along the declivities of some of our high
grounds, there is a proportion of dry light-coloured friable soil,
and of fine deep alluvial soil in the hollows along the banks of
our small streams. But the most prevalent is a dark-coloured soil,
having the appearance of fine black vegetable mould, but which
owes its colour partly to its moist state, and partly to its mossy
nature. It is wet and spongy from the causes already noticed,-
and, in rainy seasons, apt to get into a mortar-like state, and, from
its long retention of the moisture, is favourable to the growth of
moss-plants. +
	About one-fifth of that which is now in cultivation is stated as
infield or old cultivated land, in a plan drawn about sixty years
ago. It is in some places from 1 1/2 to 2 feet deep, from the level-
ling of the old ridges, while in others it is little more than the
depth of an ordinary furrow. The average depth may be stated at
7 inches.
	Boulder-stones of the primitive rocks are occasionally found
in the course of cultivation. They are most numerous on the
north-west side of Boath-hill, and are of considerable size, and of
varios kinds, such as gray granite, micaceous schistus, &c.
        Zoology.-The animals and plants to be met with in the parish,
are such as are common to the Seidlaw district; and these are so
minutely enumerated and scientifically arranged by the late in-
genious Mr Don of Forfar, in the appendix to Mr Headrick's Sur-
vey of the county, as to render any account of them unnecessary in
this place, I may mention, however, that the species of plover called
dotterel, that alights on our highest grounds in spring and autumn, in
migrating to and from the Grampians, is now rarely seen in such
numbers as formerly. A few pheasants and a few roe-deer have,
of late years, taken up thier abode in the woods of Guynd.

<FOOTNOTE>i. e.  Partly caum and partly armdatone,
        In consequence, it should seem, of the dampness of our soil and climate, our
goeseberry and current bushes are generally crusted all over with lichens.



