
                   TORPHICHEN.                                    39

ever been written or printed is to be found in Sir Robert Sibbald'
History of the Shire of Linlithgow. There is also a somewhat
confused account of it in a brief history of Linlithgowshire by the
late John Penney, Esq. Information respecting its history and
antiquities may also be gleaned from papers connected with the
family records of the different proprietors, particularly the Noble
family of Torphichen. As these contain materials of some in-
terest, it has been thought proper to bring them together so as to
form a somewhat detailed and connected account.
   The civil history of Torphichen is so intimately connected with
that of the Knights of St John of Jerusalem, who had their Precep-
torate, or chief site and regality there, that a short account of that mi-
litary and monastic order of knighthood will be that of Torphichen
itself. This celebrated order had its origin in the interval between
the first and second crusades, when, for the accommodation of the
pilgrims who visited the Holy Sepulchre, especially of the sick
among them, an hospital was built near the church, and dedicated
to St John the Almoner. As they increased in numbers and in-
fluence the brothers of the hospital first withdrew from the juris-
diction of the Abbot of the Latin Church, and finally became in-
dependent of the Patriarch of Jerusalem. This happened in the
year 1104, which may be taken as the date of the commecement
of the Order of St John of Jerusalem or Knights, Hospitallers, as
they are sometimes termed, in contradistinction to the Order of
Templars. When Jerusalem fell into the, bands, of the Sarcens
the survivors of the Order were compelled to retire into Italy,
where they obtained from Pope Innocent IV. a dispensation, ab-
solving them from their original obligation, and permitting them
to elect a Grand Master and other subordinate officers for their
own government. The sa a distinguished Order afterwards held
possession of the Island of Rhodes, maintaining it against the
Turks in the most brave and determined manner, during which
they were generally called the Knights of Rhodes. When
Rhodes finally was reduced by the Turks in 1522 the knights ob-
tained Possession of Malta in 1530, which they defended against
their old antagonists the Turks, and in the defence displayed pal-
digies of valour and military skill.
   The renown obtained by the Knights of John gave rise in
several other order of knighthood of which Templars were
the chief. The templars, however, excited the indignation of
Philip IV. of France by their licentiousness, or his cupidity by


