
50                      PEEBLES-SHIRE

ion elements.  The average amount of stipend, converted to mo-
ney, for the last seven years, is L. 265, 11s.
   The only place of worship in the parish besides the Established
church is the private Roman Catholic chapel at Traquair House,
which is under the bishop resident in Edinburgh.
   Probably three-fourths of the families in the parish are connect-
ed with the Established church; and the remaining fourth, after
deducting five families of Roman Catholics, numbering thirty souls,
belong to the United Secession and Relief bodies.  A small pro-
portion of these are natives.  The Catholics consist of two Scotch
families, two Irish, and one French.  It deserves to be noted here,
that although the children of Roman Catholic read the word of
God, in the " Protestant version, and in a daily Bible class,"
nay, although most of them learn our catechisms, either volun-
tarily, or by hearing them repeated by others, yet, lit the memory
of man, there has not been one conversion from Catholicism in
this parish.
   Considering the distance of many of our people from their re-
spective, places of worship, we have pleasure in ,saying, that their
attendance is generally good.   The average number of communi-
cants is rather under 200.  In this part of the county almost every
person as soon as he comes to a proper age, is most anxious to be-
come a communicant.
   Collections are now annually made in the church for religious
purposes, but principally for the General Assembly's Highland
schools, and Indian missions.   The probable average amount of
such collections may be about L. 10 yearly.
   Education.--Thdre is only one school * in this parish, namely,
the parochial.  For the last sixty years, at least, no other branches
of education could be learned in it besides reading, writing, and ac-
counts.  Whether the taste for any thing superior to these, now that
they have the opportunity of acquiring it, may arise, time will show.
There are perhaps not two individuals in the parish above the
year, of infancy, who cannot at least read; were this otherwise,
the people would be utterly inexcusable, seeing that the school
fees are so small, being for reading, 2s. ; for reading and writing
2s. 6d. ; and for both, with accounts, 3s. per quarter; and seeing
also that these fees are always paid out of the poors' fund for those
who declare themselves unable to pay.  We need scarcely add,

<FOOTNOTE>Of late, a sewing-school has been opened at Cardrona.


