
     of Inverkeithing.

candidate.  It is much to be lamented, that religion is made
subservient to these purposes, and the settlement of its minis-
ters connected with the politics and the factions of the burgh.
Here the inhabitants have supported or opposed, according as
the promotion of the person was suitable or inimical to their
political views; and they now stand distinguished in the records
of the church, for two successive oppositions, in the last of
which, and that but lately, many of the people declared
against their political leaders, and would no longer obey their
unreasonable and unchristian orders.  However, upon the
whole, the people, with a few exceptions, are religious and
devout, peaceable and useful members of society, and attached
to their king and country, its civil constitution, and its mild,
equitable, and salutary laws.

   Miscellaneous Observation.-The situation of this parish is
healthy and chearful: There are no diseases peculiar to it, the
small-pox raged last summer with great violence, and car-
ried off great numbers of children.  Inoculation is much ne-
glected by the lower sort of the people, and many of them
have an insuperable prejudice and aversion against the practice
of it.  Provisions of all kinds are good and plenty, but some
of them dearer than in Edinburgh.  The roads are well
made: There is a toll bar, a mile from the North Ferry, the
produce of which, with the commuted statute labour, keeps
them in good repair.  Near the North Ferry, there are large
quarries; the stone is very hard and durable, and generally dug
out in perpendicular rows.  Some time ago great quantities
were prepared and shipped, to pave the streets of London,
but none has been carried there for some years.
Frith gradually contracts from Kinghorn; here the shore,
which is high and rocky; suddenly stretches out towards the
south, and brings it within a narrow compass.  The water
is deep, and the tides rapid, owing to the wideness and length

     VOL. X. 3 T


