
300                         KINCARDINESHIRE.

bed of coarse limestone traverses the parish from east to west, and
was formerly quarried at Balmakewan, and on the farm of Burn,
on the estate of Kirktonhill; but the inferior quality of the rock,
and the expense of quarrying and burning, made the works soon
be abandoned. This bed seems a continuation of the same rock
which traverses the high ground in the parishes of Logic Pert,
Stracathrco', and Brechin, where it still continues to be quarried
to some extent.
	Trap and likewise conglomerate appear in the high ground be-
hind Kirktonhill and Balrmaleedie. No ores, so far as known,
have been found. The species of bastard whin or amygdaloid, com-
monly called the Scotch pebble rock, is sometimes found; and rock
crystal frequently.
  Soil-The soil of the parish is various, but the greater part of
it is well adapted for the crops usually cultivated. In some places
it is light, and sandy or gravelly; in many places it contains boul-
ders; but in the low-lying holms along the banks of the Luther
and North Esk, the soil consists of haugh or alluvial land; in other
parts it is a wet and rather poor clay. In the north and north-
east parts of the parish, the soil, which was formerly moorish, has
by cultivation been greatly improved.
  Zoology.-The principal fishes are salmon, grilse, sea-trout, com-
mon trout, and eels. The quantity of the two former in the North
Esk, where they are chiefly to be found, has decreased very much
from what it was a few years ago. This is certainly owing to the
introduction of new modes of fishing, particularly along the sea coast,
by stake and bag-nets, which effectually prevent the fish from enter-
ing the river in any quantity, unless when, by the violence of wind
and flood, the nets have been carried away from the mouth of the
river.
  Botany.-The plants in this parish are of the most common
description. The Linnea borealis was first discovered to be a na-
tive of Britain at Inglismaldie, in this parish, where it is found in
great abundance. About Inglismaldie, also, may be found seve-
ral-varieties of the fern; but the botanical treasures of the parish
bave never as yet been examined with attention.
	The plantations are extensive. The soil is adapted to the
growth of all the ordinary kinds of timber. Few of the trees have
as yet attained great size, not being, in general, above sixty years
of age. Ingtismaldie has long been famed for its plantations of
fir timber, some of which are upwards of one hundred years old,
and for size and quality are inferior to none in the county.


