
                             CANONBIE.                        495

from the east end of the new towards the old bridge, is cut along
the side of a steep bank, covered with wood, forming something in
the shape of an amphitheatre; at the south end of which, another
bridge with two arches is built. These operations, for boldness
of design, and from the labour and difficulty of execution astonish
every passenger. These works were finished at the Duke's pri-
vate expense, and must have cost him many thousands of pounds.
There is also a bridge erected lately over the Liddle above the
Penton Linn, which opens a ready communication to England for
the people of Liddesdale and the western part of Canonbie, which
lies in that direction.
	The Edinburgh and Carlisle mail, besides stage-coaches to Lon-
don and various parts of England, travel through this parish.
	 Ecclesiastical State.--The church of Canonbie was dedicated to
St Martin, and, as it stood upon the banks of the Liddle, it was
often called the church of Liddle. In the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries, it was called," Domus de religiosis de Liddal," before it
obtained the name Cannobie, the cannons' residence. In the
reign of David I., one Turgot de Rossedale, who then occupied
the district on the lower Esk, founded a canory in connection with
this church. He places this canory on the peninsula which is
formed by the junction of the rivers Esk and Liddle, and grantex
to it adjoining lands, with the church of Kirk-Andrews, and
its pertinents. The words in the original grant are," Ex dono
Turg. de Rossedale domum religiosam de Lidle cum tota terra ei
of Jedburgh. The church of Cannobie continued with the ca-
nonry, which was a cell of Jedburgh, till the Reformation disunited
and destroyed the whole. After the Reformation, the patronage
and the tithes, with the whole property of the priory of Canonbie,
were vested in the King by the general annexation act; afterwards
they were granted to the Earl of Home in 1606, which grant was ra-
tified in Parliament in 1621,--when a stipend of 500 merks yearly
was settled on the minister serving the cures of Canonbie and
Wauchope, which had been united by the King's Commissioners.
They afterwards passed to the Earl of Buccleuch in the reign of
Charles I. The Duke of Buccleuch is patron of the parish.


