
266                  KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

the vale, highly picturesque. From several points, particularly
along the upper parts of the farm of Inglestone, on the estate of
Mr. Oswald of Auchencruive, there are delightful views of the
richest portion of Nithsdale, part of Annandale, the Solway, and
the bills of Cumberland. The highest or western extremity con-
sist, of two bare elevated ridges, which rise to the height of about
1500 feet above the level of the sea. The one to the north,
called "Bishop's Forest," is separated from the other, 66 Glen-
bennan," by the Auld water, a rivulet that falls into tbe Cairn,
and gives the name of Cluden to that beautiful stream.  With
their gray rocks and dark-brown heath, they form a splendid
back-ground to the lesser eminences, and the fertile well-culti-
vated plains beneath.
	Meteorology.--The climate varies in different parts of the pa-
rish. In the upper district, the atmosphere is colder and more
damp than in the lower, owing perhaps to the badness of the soil
and the want of shelter from the westerly winds, which are here
the most prevalent.
	Hydrography.--The only stream which, strictly speaking, be-
longs to the parish, is the Auld water, which rises on the, borders
of Kirkpatrick-Durham, sweeps round the base of the Bishop's
Forest, and falls into the Cairn about three miles above the junc-
ture of that stream with the Nith. The course being short, and
the channel narrow and rocky, it is easily swollen, and then comes
down with great rapidity, doing often considerable injury to the
crops upon its banks. That, however, which gives any thing, like
interest to the stream, is a beautiful little waterfall, which marks
its course, just where it crosses the road leading from Dumfries to,
Dunscore and Minnylive, and very near its junction with the
Cairn. The fall may be about 20 feet, and is succeeded by one
considerably less, which deposits the waters in a deep smooth
basin. Across the lower fall, and in front of the higher, nearly
on a level with what may be called its rapids, a bridgd, consisting
of a single arch, is thrown. The whole scene, as seen from the
bridge,--the ivy mantling its sides, the fine old oaks overhanging
the stream, the noisy and agitated waters on the one side, their
quiet and gentle current on the other, heightened as these are by
coming unexpectedly upon them,--have a very pleasing effect,
and arrest the attention of the passing traveller. The Routing
Bridge, as the spot is called, is on the north-western extremity
of the property of Mr Oswald of Auchencruive.
                           4


