
			KIRKOSWALD.				781

teachers' own adventure. The state of division existing in the pa-
rish in ecclesiastical affairs extends its influence even to matters of
education, so that not only is the adult population separated in
their places of worship, but their children resort to different schools.
Of the two parochial teachers, one enjoys an endowment of L. 27,
the other of L.10 per annum.

	February 1842.

                         PARISH OF KIRKOSWALD. *

             PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                   THE REV. JAMES INGLIS, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THIS parish takes its name from Oswald, a Northun-
brian king of the Heptarchy, who built a church on the site of the
burying-ground beside the village--in gratitude, it is said, for a
victory he had there obtained.
        Situation, Erection, Extent, &c.--The parish is situate in that
district of Ayrshire called Carrick. Prior to 1652, it was of con-
siderably larger extent than at present. At that time, the pa-
rish of Barr was disjoined from Girvan, Dailly, and Colmonell
The sea-coast of the parish from north to south is six English
miles in extent; the greater part of which is a sandy beach, with
a beautiful and rich carpet of grass, to the very sea-mark. From
every part of this coast, there is a beautiful prospect of the Frith
of Clyde, land-locked, as it were, on all sides, by the coast of
Cunningham, island of Bute, island of Arran, Kintyre, the coast
of Ireland, and the Ayrshire coast. What adds to the beauty and
grandeur of the prospect, is the noble rock of Ailsa, in the middle
of the Frith.
	Surface, Soil, &c.-- The surface is hilly; but the hills, except in
two places, called Mochrum and Craigdow, never rise to any con-
siderable height. Near Mochrum, there is a loch which covers
twenty-four Scots acres, and another, apparently as large, near
Craigdow. From these lochs, and from numberless springs
which rise out of everv hill, flow many small streams, which wander

<FOOTNOTE>From notes furnished by individuals residing in the parish.


