
			KIRKMABRECK.                              317

	The current is considerable, both in the ebbing and flowing of
the tide.
	Rivers.--The Cree is the only river connected with this parish.
It is said to rise out of Loch-moan, where the three counties* meet,
and for miles it forms not only the boundaries of Penninghame
and Minnigaff, but also of the two counties, Wigton and Kirkcud-
bright, and finally falls into the Solway, after a course, of about
twenty-eight miles. From Newton-Stewart to Creetown, its,
course is singularly eccentric and serpentine,--and, as seen from
Larg hill, it gives a charm to the whole landscape. It is navi-
gable for small vessels to Carty. A poem, lately published, under
the title of "The Rivers of Galloway," has made honourable men-
tion of the Cree.
	Springs.--Chalybeate, springs are found in many parts of the
parish, especially at Muirfad, Cuil, Falbae, Pibble, Ferryburn,
Blackmire,+ &c. The one at Pibble is particularly powerful, and
is occasionall frequented by invalids With much advantage. These
waters have, perhaps, never been carefully analyzed, although the
presence of iron, magnesia, and sulphur, may be easily detected.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The lower district of the parish is
clay-slate or schist of a recent formation. All the different forma-.
tions of clay-slate are to be found in the parish. On some of the
hills the floets trap and greywacke supersede the clay-slate and on
others the gneiss formation, particularly on the south end of Cairns,
more. Traces of the whin dike are also found in different places;
and the strata that form the basis of all our mountains or hills is
granite or syenite, Geologists contend that granite is never stra-
tified. Galloway granite, however, is frequently found stratified;
and in this parish the stratification is most distinct. When the
granite is found in beds, it is perpendicular. In a troubled state,
it has considerable dip, and scarcely any  appearance of stratifica-
tion. In the quarry, the strata vary in thickness from six inches
to five feet;++ and as they appear on the surface, they generally re-
tain the same thickness below. This fact may be of great use in
searching for granite of any particular dimensions; because, if the
tops are bad, as the quarry-men say it is of no use to seek for
good stuff below.SS

<FOOTNOTE>Ayr, Wigton. and Kirkcudbright.
          Symson says; "Near the old kirk of Kirkmabreck there is a well which, as I am
informed, proceeds from vitriol."
          Some strata have lately been found in the quarry much thicker.
       SS Rhind says, in his Catechism of the Natural History of the Earth, that granite


