
			  TURRIFF.                               1007

	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, which is on an elevat-
ed situation, was built in 1794, and though by no means an ele-
gant structure, is convenient and comfortable. From the increase
of the population in the town, it became necessary to enlarge the
church, and in 1830, an aisle was built and seated for 300 per,-
sons, so that now there is the legal accommodatinn for the whole pa-
rishioners. The sittings for those residing in the landward part of
the parish are all free, and the right of possession arises from the
families living on the properties of the different heritors to whom
seats were appropriated in proportion to their valued rents.  In
the town the feuars who were not called on, and did not come for-
ward to contribute towards the building of the church, were accom-
modated by their friends in the country, who had in general more
room than they required, or by the payment of a small rent to the
superior of the burgh for a limited range of sittings which he had
provided for them. They now occupy the aisle on payment an-
nually of 1s. 6d. on an average for each sitting, to the kirk-session,
who, on the petition of the inhabitants, and with the sanction of
the heritors, laid out about L. 300 Sterling of the poor's funds,--
an arrangement which, in every respect, has answered the wished
for purpose, and has proved alike beneficial to a respectable body
of hearers, and a numerous body of their poorer brethren.
	The manse was originally built in 1775, and was thoroughly re-
paired and enlarged in 1822, without any intervention of the ci-
vil or ecclesiastical courts. The glebe and garden contain about
four and a-half acres, which, with a grass glebe of nearly three
and a-half acres, may be worth L. 15 per annum. The stipend
was modified in 1837 by the Court of Teinds, with the unanimous
concurrence of the heritors, and is now 17 chalders, Linlithgow
standard, half meal and half barley, convertible into money at the
fiar prices of the county, with L. 1O Sterling for communion ele-
ments.  There is a respectable congregation of Episcopalians,
consisting of about 265 members, who in 1824, built a very neat
place of worship, and disposed of their former chapel to some in,
dividuals professing the principles of Independency, who meet
every Sabbath for public worship, which is conducted by a worthy
and unobtrusive pastor of their own communion. The number of
persons who are decided Independents or Congregationalists may
be 14 or 16, but others avail themselves of the preacher's ministra-
tions. There are a few families of Roman Catholics, who occa-
sionally meet togetber for worship on the Lord's Day, and are


