
684			AYRSHIRE.

     The harbour of Troon, which is technically considered only a
creek of the port of Irvine, is a work of much later erection. The
original charter was obtained from Queen Anne in 1707 by Wil-
liam Fullarton of that ilk; but it remained for a whole century
entirely a dead letter. According to the former Account, it is re-
ported, that, about, this date, "an offer was made to the proprietor by
the merchants of Glasgow for feuing the adjoining land, and pro-
ceeding with the work; but that their offer was rejected for a reason
which, however ridiculous it may now appear, would be consider-
ed very cogent in those days--lest a rise should take place on the
price of butter and eggs." Thus it remained till 1808, when the
Duke of Portland, who had previously purchased the estate of
Fullarton, entered on the undertaking, which has cost from first to
last about L. 100,000. The harbour, for depth of water and rea-
diness of entrance, is one of the best in the neighbourhood, being
capable of admitting vessels at low water, drawing from 15 to 16
feet. It is rather defective, however, in point of security, especi-
ally when the wind blows from the north-west, as was proved dar-
ing the disastrous gale of January 1838, when twenty-two vessels
were driven from their moorings, all of them being more or less
damaged, and a few totally wrecked. This is a serious evil; but
it is capable of being remedied at an expense not very formidable
for such an undertaking, and it would be of the greatest advantage
to the harbour to have it completed. A wet dock is at present in
course of excavation from the solid rock. There are two dry
docks; the larger, about 300 feet in length, is capable of admit-
ting vessels of the first class. The trade is chiefly in coal and tim-
ber. Of timber, about 3000 tons are imported annually; of coal
conveyed by the Kilmarnock railway for export, the quantity for
the year 1839 was 130,500 tons; and during the quarter ending
7th November 1840, it was 19,480 tons. The vessels belonging
to the port are fifteen in number, amounting to 3800 tons regis-
ter, besides six vessels belonging to the port of Irvine, whose ton-
nage is 1300. The harbour has a good lighthouse supported from
its own funds; and on the Lady Isle, lying towards the bay of Ayr,
but belonging to this parish, the merchants of Glasgow, more than
half-a-century ago, erected two pillars for the direction of vessels.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Till within a few years the people were
very ill provide with chuch accommodation. The parish church,
which was built 1803, adn is in very good repair, contains only
630 sittings; and its distance from Fullarton and Troon--the


