
     Statistical Account

   From the beginning of August to the end of Semptember,
there are 30, and sometimes 50, vessels in quest of herring in
Lochduich; many of these come from the borders of England
to buy with ready money.  Salmon, by reason of the long
duration of snow on the mountains, and the coldness of the
water, seldom appear in this loch before the month of
June, and continue there to the middle of August.  Ling,
skate, cuddies, lythe, and mackrel, are also found in Loch-
duich; though not in such abundance as in the neighbour-
ing lakes.
   In a rivulet before the manse, are found garnet stones; and
at Innerinate lime-stone and asbestos.
   There have been several bards in Kintail; John Mac Rae,
alias Mac Curchi, the last of them, emigrated to America; not
from necessity, for he lived in affluence.  In America, he met
with several misfortunes; which occasioned his composing a
tale of woe, pointing out his own infatuation in leaving his na-
tive soil wantonly.  But what chiefly exalts his reputation as a
poet, was a song he made after a great loss of cattle, little
short of any thing in Gaelic composition.

<FOOTNOTE>

In 1719, 300 Spaniards were poured into this country, to assist those who
wished for a restoration of the Stewart race.-They kept their magazine of
powder and ball behind the manse; but, after the battle of Glensheal, they
set fire to it immediately, left it should fall into the hands of the King's
troops.  These balls are still gathered up by sportsmen; and are found in
great abundance upon the glebe.
   Dounan Diarmod, or Fort of Diarmod is before the manse.  It is of a circular
figure, 20 feet high and of the same breadth.  There is no other spot on the
same plain which commands so great a prospect.  There is a well on the out-
and the best harbour for shipping in all Lochduich.-Diarmod's tomb is
on the N. E. of the fort.  The rough stones of which it is composed are regu-
larly placed by the hand of art, and measure 15 feet by 3.  The Campbells
who resort to the place, often visit and measure the tomb of that Fingalian
hero.

