
     of Latheron.

   Antiquities.-There are several old castles along this coast,
at Berrindale*, Dunbeath, (still inhabited), Knackinnon.  La-

<FOOTNOTE>

*According to tradition, WILLIAM SUTHERLAND was the
last who possessed the castle of Berrindale.  He was called WIL-
LIAM MORE MACKEHIN, i. e. Big WILLIAM the son off HECTOR,
implying that he was of a gigantic size.  He went to Orkney
with one of the Earls of CAITHNESS, and was killed in a skir-
mish there.  Before he set out on this expedition, it is said he
was prepossessed with the opinion, that he never would return
to his native country.  He lay down on the ground above Ber-
rindale inn, contiguous to the burial place, and caused the
length of his body to be cut out in the form of a grave, which
to this day retains the name of the long grave, and measures
about 9 feet 5 inches.

The following Memoir respecting the gigantic WILLIAM,
grandson to HECTOR MORE of LANGWELL, has
been communicated by another hand.

   About the end of the 15th century, HECTOR SUTHERLAND,
commonly called HECTOR MORE, or Meikle Hector, was proprie-
tor of the estate of LANGWELL.  He was descended of the fa-
mily of DUFFUS, and resided in a castle on the rock at the wa-
ter mouth of Berrydale, the ruins of which are still visible He
built a house at Langwell, for his eldest son William, who mar-
ried a beautiful woman, and resided there.-Some little time
afterwards, William's wife was in child bed of her first child,
and Robert Gun, tacksman of Braemore, came over the hills to
Langwell, accompanied by some of his clan, on a hunting par-
ty.  Robert Gun proposed to his friends, that they would pay
a visit to Hector More's son, and his young wife, which they
accordingly did.  Robert Gun, upon seeing the woman in bed,
fancied her.  Upon their way home, Gun declared to his com-
panions, that he would have William Sutherland's wife to him-
self, and that the only means by which he could accomplish his
design, was to take away her husband's life.  His friends, whose
consciences were not more strait laced than his own, having ap-
proved of his intention, they accompanied him the next day
over the hills, and lay in ambush in the woods near William
Sutherland's house, until they observed him come out to his


