
			JEDBURGH.				11

found, together with a number of globular stones, from seven inches
to one foot in diameter, which appear to have been the cope stones
of its turrets.
   Fernihirst was the stronghold of the ancestors of the Marquis of
Lothian, and is situate on the eastern bank of the Jed, nearly two
miles above Jedburgh. It was taken by Surrey in 1523, and re-
covered by the Scots with the assistance of the French auxiliaries
then stationed at Jedburgh, after a desperate conflict, in 1549.
Here the Earl of Westmoreland took refuge from the vengeance
of Elizabeth in 1569. In the following year the castle was taken
and demolished by the Earl of Sussex and Sir John Foster, in con-
sequence of an incursion which Ker * had made with other border
chiefs into the north of England. It was rebuilt in the year 1598,
and its gray turrets are still seen peering above the tall venerable
trees which surround it.
   Besides these fortresses, the parish was thickly studded with
towers and peels. Those at Hundalee and Hunthill, ancient seats
of the Rutherfurds, and at Bonjedward, a seat of the Douglases,
were places of great strength, but they were, along with many
others, destroyed during the last century. A tower still remains
at Lanton, and the ruins of Timpandean, at a short distance from
it, still remind us of warlike times.  Of the six towers by which
Jedburgh was defended after the destruction of the castle, there
axe no remains.  A tower used as the gaol, which stood in the
centre of the street not far from the cross, was removed during the
last century, as also the ruins of Abbot's Tower, the site of which
is now occupied by the Dispensary. The house which was inha-
bited by Queen Mary during her illness at Jedburgh is still entire.
It is a large building with small windows, and walls of great thick-
ness. A broad stone stair ascends to the second story, and a
narrow winding stair leads to the third, and the apartment of Queen
Mary, which is a small room with two windows. Some of the an-
cient tapestry which adorned it is still preserved. This is styled
in the Privy-Council Record "the house of the Lord Composi-
tor." It was purchased by the late Dr Lindsay from the family
of Scott of Ancrum. One of Claverhouse's pistols, presented by
him to an ancestor of Dr Lindsay's, was formerly suspended in
the dining-room, but this is now at Abbotsford.
   Traces of ancient camps exist at Howdean, Swinnie, Fernihirst,

   <FOOTNOTE>Ker of Fernihirst, along with Ker of Cessford, Scott of Buccleuch, and several
others, received the honour of knightbood from the Regent Arran, when David
Panter, in presence of a great assemblage of nobility, was consecated Bishop of
Ross at Jedburgh in the year 1552.-Vide Lesly, Book x.


