
                           INVERESK.                            287

ness of the links, can be played at all seasons, and affords to the
inhabitants a delightful recreation. It is much to be deplored, how-
ever, that an exercise in itself sufficiently stimulating, should fre-
quently be prostituted to the purposes of gambling, and that so many
of the young who are employed as cadies or club-carriers, should
be initiated in the practices of vice partly from the evil example
of those in whose gambling transactions they take a deep interest,
and whom they in this respect on a smaller scale ludicrously imi-
tate, and partly from the mistaken liberality of their employers,
who, by extravagantly overpaying them for their services, not only
furnish them with the means of vicious indulgence, but totally unfit
them for the sober and steady industry of any laborious calling.
   General Character of the People.--Those peculiarities of charac-
ter and habits which were wont to distinguish one district and town
from another are here, as elsewhere, gradually becoming less appa-
rent, from the facilities of communication with other parts of the
country. A considerable number of families in the common ranks
of life can boast of an ancient although humble descent, and hence
there exists a certain feeling of an aristocratic description, which in
a more sequestered situation might have degenerated into conceit;
and for the same reason, one prominent feature in the character of
the middle classes is a laudable pride in the credit and respectabi-
lity of the "honest town." The town population cannot be cha-
racterized as universally distinguished for a scrupulous regard
to cleanliness. Many of the houses are mean and squalid in
the extreme, and, from being crowded together in narrow lanes
or closes without a single foot of garden ground attached to them,
uncleanly habits on the part of their occupants are to a certain ex-
tent inevitable. These mean and comfortless houses exercise a
powerful although indirect influence in degrading the character
and in depressing the social condition of the labouring poor; and
to the want of cleanly and temperate habits amongst them, much
of the distress which they suffer is undoubtedly to be traced. Of
the people generally, however, it may be said that they enjoy in a
reasonable degree the comforts and advantages of society. They
appear contented with their condition, and have a just claim, to the
character of a moral and religious community.
                        IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The parish contains about 3571 acres, almost
the whole being arable. There are few plantations, and with the
exception of the policy of New Hailes, that of Pinkie, and part of


