
     of Dundee.

Some even of the clergy from the south found it necessary to
take shelter in Dundee particularly Messrs. Oliver Colt; at
Musselburgh, Stevenson at Dunbar, and Reid of the West Kirk
Edinburgh.  All these are mentioned in the register, as pa-
rents or witnesses to the baptisms recorded in it.  One of the
children recorded is Anne, afterwards Dutchess of Mon-
mouth; and the house where she was born is still pointed out*.
In this destruction of so many inhabitants, many strangers
were involved, those especially who appeared as defenders of
the town.  The governor Lumisden, of the family of Inver-
gelly in Fife, is said, on the irruption of the English, to have
taken possession of the great steeple; and, being soon after
obliged to surrender at discretion, he and all with him were
massacred in the church yard.  In the same place also, the

     D d 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*It may, perhaps, be an object of curiosity, at least, to an inhabitant of Dun-
dee, to know the names of the persons whose post humous children are recorded,
and, who probably sell in the siege, or after it.  They are John Duncan, Donald
Dunbar, Robert Rutchieson, James Guthrie, Andrew Kinneries, merchants;
Robert Bultie, unmarried, of a respectable mercantile family now extinct; Ma-
jor Robert Lindsay, probably son of one designed late of Kinnettles; Thomas
Annand, taylor; George Barrie, mealmaker; David Elder, weaver; Thomas
Nicol and Alexander Hill, maltmen; William Glenny, seaman; John Nicol
baxter; George Anderson, hammerman; and of persons whose designations are
not given, James Angus, unmarried; James Thain, John Diston, John John-
ston, Thomas Smith, John Kennedy, John Lyon, Thomas Watson, William
Oughterlony, James Stibbles.  As an object of similar curiosity, the following
not inelegant epitaphs, on the tomb stones of two other persons, who seem to
have been of considerable note, are inserted.
"Monumentum ROBERT DAVIDSON, praetoris vigilantissimi, qui, dum fortiter &
"magnanimiter urbis oppugnatione dimicabat, lethaliter ab hostibus, vulneratus, pro civi-
"tate et suis vitam reddidit.  Cal. Septemris, Anno Salutis humaneae MDCLI.
"Monumentum GEORGII BROWN, praetoris meritissims, qui, hoc preasure munere
"per decennium feliciter defunctus, undisque pugnando lethaliter ab hostibus, vulneratus;
"quibus vulneribus per Martem alnguidus, mortem, nature, debitum, pro civitate et pa-
"triae, reddidit, 2do. Nonas Octobris, Anno Dam. 1651.  AEtatis sexagesimo."


