
           418                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	   whether we ascribe the structures in question to the Picts or the
           Scandinavians, as there seems little reason to doubt that these
	   were radically one and the same people." None of these dunes or
	   burghs exist in a perfect form, for they offered too tempting a col-
	   lection of stones for modern buildings to be left unmolested; they
	   were not always placed on elevated sites, though in general they
	   command an extensive view, and were often built in sight of one
	   another.
	      In the churchyard, there is a stone about five feet in length
	   and two in breadth and thickness; it is hollow, and divided into
	   two cells, one considerably larger than the other. The ends
	   and one of the sides are coverdd with carved figures and hierogly-
	   phics; an imperial crown, and a man on horseback in the act of
	   darting a lance or javelin, as also what appears to be a camel, are
	   still plainly distinguishable. It is probable that it is the half of a
	   sarcophagus or stone-coffin; and tradition describes it as the tomb
	   of a prince of Loellin, who died of his wounds in the neighbour-
	   hood, and had his remains deposited there. This sculptured stone
	   was examined several years ago by that celebrated antiquary, Dr
	   Samuel Hibbert, who took a copy of the inscription upon it.
	      There are also several of those circles of stone so frequently
	   mentioned by Ossian, which were sacred to Loda, the favourite
	   deity of the ancient Scandinavians.
	      In building a new wall round the church-yard two years ago,
	   there was a small coin of the reign of James VI. discovered, which
	   is now in the possession of the writer. It is of silver, and about
	   the size of a sixpence. The inscription on the obverse, around the
	   royal arms of Scotland, is "JACOB: 6.D.G.R.SCO:" and on the
	   reverse, "OPPID: EDINB:" surrounding a thistle, surmounted by
	   a crown.
	      The writer also lately found an antique seal, upon which was
	   engraved a lion rampant, the arms of the Rosses. From the place
	   where it was discovered, it is plain that it must have lain there for
	   many years; and, indeed, the rudeness of its construction testifies
	   its antiquity.

                                  III.-POPULATION.
	      The earliest census of the population of this parish, so far as is
	   now known, is thait procured by Dr Webster in the year 1755; the
	   number then beinr 1743, In, 1774, according to the author of the
	   former Statistical Account, the population was upwards of 2000
	   above seven years of age. But by returns made to Sir John Sinclair,


