
			     PERTH.                            91

is permitted to put sheep upon them, only after St John's market,
which is held on the first Friday of September.
  The wage of a common farm-servant for the year is about 6 1/2
bolls of oat-meal, and a Scotch pint of sweet milk per day, and
lodgin. The wages of artisans, such as wrights and masons, are,
besides victuals, about 2s. per day in the summer season, and 1s.
8d. in the winter.
  The price of butter is from 7d. to 10d. per pound; of eggs from
6d. to 9d. per dozen. Very little cheese is made. The price of
common carts, in cluding wheels and axles, is about L.10, 10s. each;
of corn carts without wheels and axle, L.3, 10s.; of ploughs (iron)
L.3, 10s.; of harrows, L.1, 8s.; a thrashing mill of six horse pow-
er costs about L.100.
  Little live-stock is reared, as, from the land lying so very conti-
guous to the city, greater profit arises from the production of corns.
The stock that is reared consists principally of the Angus breed.
Short-horned cattle have been of late introduced and successfully.
No sheep are bred in the parish.
  With respect to the character of the husbandry pursued, it may
suffice to remark, that the general practice is to take a white and
green crop alternately. On dry lands, the green crops consist of
potatoes, turnips, and grass. On strong land, the six course shift
is followed; 1. fallow; 2. wheat; 3. beans; 4. barley; 5. grass;
6. oats or wheat. The farmers are judicious, enterprising, and sub-
stantial.
  Draining has been carried on to a considerable extent. There
is much strong land. A considerable portion of it has been fur-
row drained, and much improved thereby. There are no meadows,
and there is of course no irrigation. The fields lying close upon
the Tay have been embanked and secured from the general floods.
  The duration of leases varies from fifteen to twenty-one years. As the
prices of grain have for some years past been falling, the length
of leases has been unfavourable to the occupiers, in so far as reuts
are paid in money. Most of the rents, however, are now paid, half
in money and half in grain.
  On the estate of Moncrieff, the rents have been converted en-
tirely into grain, on terms which were satisfactory both to the land-
lord and the tenant. In such cases the occupier is of course less
affected by the length of his lease.
  The farm-buildings are generally good. They have been al-
most all of them erected within the last thirty years. There are



