
  FOSSOWAY AND TULIJEBOLE.                           1017

one lying on the south side, and the other on the north side of the
united parish.  These, at the nearest points, are upwards of a
mile distant from each other.  The northern district compre-
hends, besides several farms of considerable extent, the baronies
of Fossoway and Carnbo.  It was once entirely in Perthshire,
but the latter barony was, with the exception of one farm belong-
ing to Stewart of Grandtully, annexed about a century and a half
ago to the county of Kinross.  This district contains a consider-
able portion of the Ochil Hills.  These afford dxcellent pasture
for sheep and cattle ; while at the same time they furnish, in the
intervening valleys, good soil for cultivation.  The hills may vary
in height from about 1000 to 1500 feet above the level of the
sea.  One of them, called Easter Downhill, presents a very pleas-
ing appearance, especially when viewed from the south or west.
It is of a conical shape, clothed with verdure to the top, and skirt-
ed with natural wood around the base, along which, in a deep ra-
vine, the Devon pursues its winding course.  At the bottom of
this hill the bridge of St Serf, on what was the road to Perth by
Dunning, till the present turnpike road was formed, less than
thirty years ago, is still standing, though now much out of repair.
The hill is of considerable height, and the view from its summit
in clear weather is very extensive and varied.  In respect of
height and extent of prospect, however, it is surpassed by Inmer-
downie, which is the highest hill in the parish, and commands at
once a view of the Forth and of the Tay.
  The southern district of Fossoway is wholly in Perthshire.  It
consists of the barony of Aldie on the east; of the barony of Sols-
girth and the lands of Blairngone on the west; and of the baro-
nies of Gartwhynean and Pitfar in the middle.  Here the wide
valley, reaching from the Ochil Hills on the north to the hills of
Cleish and Saline on the south, is divided by the Devon, between
the parish of Fossowav and that of Muckart.  The parish of Tul-
liebole, however, lying chiefly east of the curve formed by the
river, extends over the whole breadth of the valley.
  All of Tulliebole belongs to the county of Kinross.  It includes
the baronies of Tulliebole and Coldrain, and the farms of Brig-
lands.  Though the lands in it and the southern branch of Fos-
soway are low, compared with the hills on the south and north,
yet comparatively little of them are flat.  They rise into ridges of
different heights, stretching from east to west, and thus forms slop-
ing banks more or less steep.


