
284                      PERTHSHIRE.

market-town, Perth, only eight miles distant.  Turnpike roads have
been much improved; but the roads which intersect the parish are
far from being good.  There is one village called Clathey, con-
taining a population of 84 individuals.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church is conveniently situated in the
centre of the parish, somewhat more than a mile from the extre-
mities.  It was built in the year 1800, and is in good repair.  It
will accommodate nearly 400,-all free sittings.  The manse was
built in the same year, and, as the ground of the glebe is inferior to
the former grebe, which was in the neighbourhood of Gask House,
it is much larger, being nearly 20 acres.  The stipend is L. 150
per annum, of which L. 61, 17s. 8d. is paid by his Majesty's Ex-
chequer. There is no chapel of any kind in the parish. There are,
however, six families of Dissenters in the parish; thirty-seven
New Light Seceders.  The rest of the inhabitants regularly at,

tend the parish church, where divine service is uniformly perform-
ed on the Lord's day, and the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper
dispensed twice in the year, the number of communicants being
at present exactly 200.  Collections made on particular occasions
are seldom below L. 6, and seldom exceed L. 10 Sterling.
   Education.-There is no school but the parochial one in the
parish. English reading, writing, arithmetic, and Latin are taught,
at the following rate of fees; reading, 2s.; reading and writing, 2s.
6d.; arithmetic, 3s.; Latin, 4s. per quarter. The people discover
their regard for education, by generally sending their children to
school, and as it is situated near the parish church, none are so
far distant as to be unable to attend.  The school may contain from
60 to 70 scholars, and the master, as to house and garden, has
the legal accommodations, and the maximum salary, amounting to
L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d.
   Library.-There is a parochial library, which was founded in
1824.  It is supported by the contributions of the subscribers, and

at different times the Gask family has increased the number of
books by valuable donations.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of individuals receiv-
ing parochial aid is 6, and the average sum given is 1s. 3d. week-
ly, when they are able to go about and do something for their own
stpport.  Besides this weekly allowance, they are allowed supplies
of coals and meal in winter.  The poor in this parish are much
indebted to the Gask family, who pay particular attention to their
wants, and bestow liberal supplies.  The amount of collections at


