
36                            BERWICKSHIRE.

   Husbandry.-The system of husbandry pursued is excellent,
being the same which has been practised for a considerable time
past in several of the southern counties of Scotland, and in the
north of England. The land in general is light and sandy, well
adapted for the growth of turnips. In cropping it is divided for
the most part into five breaks. These breaks are cultivated in re-
gular rotation as follows:-The first crop is made to consist of oats;
the second of turnips, one-half of which is eaten by sheep on the
land, and the other half is led in to fatten cattle ; the third of bar-
ley, when grass and clover seeds are also sown; the fourth is a
hay crop or pasture; and the fifth is allowed to remain entirely in
pasture.
   Much has already been done in reclaiming waste land, and in
draining. In the latter respect something, perhaps, may still be
done, but it is doubtful if much, or any, of the waste land could
be reclaimed so as to afford profit to the farmer. The farm-build-
ings are substantial and commodious. The arable land is all en-
closed with stone-dikes or thorn hedges, and many of the fields
are now well sheltered.
   During the late war, when all kinds of farm produce were sold
at high prices, a considerable quantity of waste land was brought
into a state of cultivation; and though improvements of this kind
are nearly given up, yet other improvements are still carrying on;
and if any obstacles to these can be said to exist, they are to be
found in the articles of lime and markets, the distance to both be-
ing upwards of 25 miles.
    Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, under the follow-
ing heads, may be rated as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man or the domestic
animals,                                                          L. 10,230 0 0
Of potatoes, turnips, &c.                                             1,788 0 0
Of hay, whether meadow or cultivated,                                   400 0 0
Of land in pasture, rating it at L. 2 per cow, or full-grown ox, grazed,
   or that may be grazed for the season; at 18s. per ewe. or full-grown
   sheep, pastured, or that may be pastured for the year,*            2,927 0 0
                                              		                _________
                                                                   L.15,345 0 0
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Town, &c.-The nearest market-town is Kelso, at the
distance of about eight miles. The only village is West Gordon.
   Means of Communication.-There is no post-office; yet there is
no want of means of communication. The road from Kelso to

   <FOOTNOTE>The ox is calculated for the summer grass, the sheep for the whole year.


