
     of Avendale or Strathaven.

distemper.  Great numbers arrive at the age of 80 years
and upwards.  There are at present two people above 90.
The Aven*, which rises on the confines of the parishes of
Sorn and Galston, runs from S. W. to N. E. the whole
length of this parish, dividing it nearly into two equal parts.
In its course, it is augmented first by a cut from Lochgate,
which is the boundary between this and the parish of Gal-
ston, and afterward by the waters of Givel.  Calder, Lock-
hart, Kype, Pomilion, and a great number of smaller
streams.  There is trout in all these streams, and a few sal-
mon in the Aven; besides an immense number of small
fish, resembling salmon fry, called parrs.  There is abun-
dance of lime in different parts of the parish, and some coal
but very little freestone.  The coal which has hitherto
been found is not of the best quality, but does very well
for burning lime.  There is a miner from the county of
Durham, just now employed in sinking for coal, about 2
miles flora the town of Strathaven.  He has found a seam
between 2 and 3 feet thick, but expects to find a larger, by
going down a little farther.  There are appearances of coal
elsewhere in the parish, and some ironstone.  As coal is
the only fuel used in the lower part of the parish, and as
the price of that necessary article has been doubled in the
course of a few years, it is hoped that no expense will be
spared in searching for it, where there is any probability of
success.  Most of the coal consumed in the town of Strath-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Avon, I am informed, in the Gaelic language, signifies a river.  It is
pronounced Auon, the first syllable like the Greek diphthong av.  From
the circumstance of its being written with an o, and from several rivers
in this island being called Avon, it is probable that the proper name of
this parish is Avondale, though in old charters it is written either Aven-
dale or Evandale.  The church stands in the lower end of the parish, at
the town of Strathaven, which gives occasion to the parish being fre-
quently so called; but Dale is more descriptive of the face of the coun-
try than Strath; and the former seems to be the most ancient name.


