
620                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of this ravine, the first of the elevated terraces of Arthur's Seat is
seen. This rock is composed of greenstone porphyry. A little
onwards is another terrace forming a waving ridge to nearly the
summit of the hill; the rock here is a greenstone. South-east of
St Anthony's Chapel, a vesicular greenstone is found, then suc-
ceeds a dark basalt, followed by beds of porphyritic greenstone
and amygdaloid rocks. Interspersed among these beds are traces
of sandstone and shale; but not to the same extent as is seen on
Salisbury Crags. The centre and summit of Arthur's Seat is
composed of basalt. On the southern summit, regular basaltic
crystals are abundant; and basaltic columns form the southern de-
clivity called Samson's Ribs.
   The open porous structure of the rocks near St Anthony's
Chapel, with glassy, fused-looking matter in the interstices, irre-
sistibly suggests the idea of their having undergone intense heat;
and of their similarity to volcanic products.
   On the southeast precipice of the hill which overlooks the
beautiful little loch of Duddingston will be found sufficient indica-
tions of the strata through which the trap has passed in its ascent
upwards. Much of these strata has been washed away, but there
still remain huge masses of conglomerate, fragments of the sand-
stone strata, and several masses of limestone, which latter bears
strong evidence of having been subjected to intense heat. Arthur's
Seat is 820 feet above the level of the sea. Craigleith quarry is
situated about a mile and a half to the north-west of the city. It
has been wrought for the last eighteen years. It contains an area
of seven acres in circumference, and is in depth 200 feet. It is
composed of a fine grained and homogeneous sandstone of a yellow-
ish colour, resembling in every respect that of the coal measures
throughout the district. In many places there are distinct marks
stratification, where a shale more or less bituminous, and some-
times minute seams of coal separate the sandstone into layers. In
other places, again, the stone is compact and massive, and exhibits
little of the regular stratified form. The strata have a general
dip to the north-east, but many slips and irregularities occur.
The exact position of this sandstone bed, in relation to the coal ba-
sin of the Esk, cannot with accuracy be ascertained. Within the
last twelve years, three large fossil trees have been found lying in
positions across the lines of stratification. One of these trunks was
upwards of 40 feet in length; and all belong to a species of Arautica-
caria, one of the pine family. Besides these fossil trees, numerous spe-


