
62                         PERTHSHIRE.

land. From extant documents, it is clear that the town's lade or
aqueduct, which runs from west to east, must have crossed the line
of that stream. But the aqueduct is proved to be in all respects at
present what it was above 6OO years ago. Long before the year llll,
therefore, the water stream must have existed. To a mere stran-
ger this may appear to be a matter of no importance; but to every
one who is acquainted with the locality it must be one of interest-
ing speculation.
   The facts which I am now to state refer to a less distant period
of time. In the excavations which have, for above these forty years
past, been made for foundations of houses, there have been found
in not a few places, a compact black rich earth, saponaceous to the
touch, but friable when dried, which at one time must have bedn
in a semifluid state. In that earth, various articles have been
found imbedded. In some places there has been found what in-
dicated that cattle had been there kept. A few weeks ago, I ex-
amined an excavation made on the north side of St John's Church
for founding a house. In it there w`r the kind of earth I have just
now mentioned. The following articles were imbedded in it, viz.
small pieces of leather, of various kinds, such as are thrown out of a
sboe or saddle manufactory-such refuse of leather as is found in
currying manufactories,-a spur of an antique shape; a pair of scis-
sors, in length similar to those represented on the tailors' arms, af-
fixed to their seat in the West Church; the rowels are peculiarly
formed; a small copper shield having upon it a bend dexter; pieces
of moss and heath, and straw, and oak, and a few oyster shells; all
which articles must have been deposited through mere accident.
Over the whole of this deposition there were houses, which, through
great age, had fallen into decay, and are now taken down for the
erection of others.
   In accounting for such appearances, which are found in many
quarters of the city, it seems most natural to refer to the repeated
inundations which befell it in ancient times. In these times, the
level of the streets was much lower than it is now. This is proved by
the discovery of causeway pavements, 6, 8, and even 10 feet below
the present ones; and anx one * who reads the narrative of the in-
undation in 1210, given by Fordun, and that of 1621, given by Mr
Malcolm, particularly the, latter, may easily see bow disposed the

<FOOTNOTE>In the year 1666, the causeways between the Highgate and the South Street
port were raised, by order of the town council.


