
                    CROSS AND BURNESS.                   107

hold concerns, such as cutting sea-weed for kelp, carrying up ware
for manure on their backs, and spreading it on the land; and be-
sides, the construction of their houses is very unfavourable, which
are not only not plastered but not even built with lime, and seldom
have any semblance of a chimney even upon the roof,-while, for
the sake of having each part of the house supplied with an equal
share of heat, the fire-place is most commonly planted in the mid-
dle of the floor.  The smoke consequently finds its way in every
direction, and to keep either the walls or the utensils in a state of
proper cleanliness, is next to impossible.  Yet the present form of
houses is much superior to what was possessed by the last genera-
tion; and this form may soon perhaps give way to another in a
higher state of improvement.
   The greatest natural discomfort, however, under which the in-
habitants of this island labour, is the scarcity of fuel.  There are
no peats. in it, nor any to be found nearer than the Island of Eday,
which is fifteen miles distant.  Of course, very few are able to sup-
ply themselves with fuel of tbat description; a considerable num-
ber get a partial supply; making up the deficiency with cow-dung
converted into what are called scons, and the stronger kind of sea-
weed.  Many can afford nothing but the two last, and in cold
weather they are often in a very comfortless condition.  This is
an evil beyond remedy, as there is not the least chance of the
bulk of the population ever being able to lay in a sufficient provi-
sion either of coals or of peats.
   There are no blind, deaf, or dumb in the island, and but two
idiots, and one fatuous person.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
    The island is altogether of an agricultural character.  With
the exception of two weavers and one tailor, there are none who
do not spend the chief part of their time in the labours of the field.
    The subdivision of labour is here only in its infancy.  Most of the
men are able to sew, and at leisure bours make or repair their
every-day clothes.  The wool, out of which these are made, is all
carded and spun on the little wheel by the women, who are for
the most part exceedingly industrious.  And besides the three re-
gular men of handicraft above-mentioned, there are a good many
who work occasionally as smiths, carpenters, and boat-builders;
but they have all farms or shares in farms, to which they chiefly
look for  their subsistence; and even the three who are the most
exclusive in their employments, always shear in harvest and go


