
                             SOUTH UIST.                           195

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         There is a good road the whole length of the parish which is
      kept in repair by statute labour and commutation money.  The
      nearest post-office is at Lochmaddy in North Uist, about sixty-six
      miles distant from the south extremity of the parish.  The county
      town, Inverness, is distant 192 miles from the parish ; but the
      principal communication is with Glasgow and Greenock.  Two
      fairs are annually held in the parish, at Ormaclet and Benbecula,
      in July and September, for the sale of black-cattle and horses.
         There are three principal harbours, Lochboisdale, Loch Eynort,
      and Loch Skipport,-to the first two of which there are good
      roads.  Lochboisdale, near the south extremity of the parish, is
      one of the best, safest, and most capacious harbours in the kingdom,
      and is tbe'resort of shipping to and from the Baltic, in tempestuous
      weather.  Loch Eynort, near the middle of the parish, is also a good
      harbour, but has the disadvantage of being very narrow at the
      entrance, where there is a low flat rock in the middle covered
      at high water: in the inside, there are several excellent places of
      anchorage.  Loch Skipport, about ten miles north of the latter, is
      as safe and good though not so capacious as Lochboisdale, the
      entrance to the harbour being roomy, clean, and free of danger.
      There are three other harbours to the north of Loch Skipport, of
      inferior note, which are very seldom entered by decked craft, ex-
      cepting vessels receiving kelp.  These are, Loch Charrnan, Loch
      Shelliva, and Loch Uisgava.
        Ecclesiastical State.-There is no paris church. About eighteen
      years ago, the late incumbent, with consent of the Presbytery,
      agreed to have the walls of an old house roofed and thatched, for a
      temporary place of worship, until circumstances should render it
      necessary to build a parish church.  Measures are now in progres
      for this purpose, as the present bouse is in a ruinous state. The
      church is to be built near the centre of the parish, about twenty
      miles from the south extremity, and eighteen from the north end
      close by the site of the house now used as a parish church, and
      conveniently situate for about 439 out of a population of 6890.
        There is no manse nor glebe.  The minister receives L.50 a
      year for these accommodations.  A process of augmentation of
      stipend is still pending before the Court of Session, so that the
      amount of stipend cannot be stated at present.
        There are two missionaries in the parish, one at Boisdale, in the
      south part of it, and the other at Benbecula.  They are paid out


