

                                KELSO.                          331

on the border.  It has a monthly exhibition of cattle, sheep, seed-
corn, &c.; encourages ploughing matches; offers prizes for me-
chanical inventions connected with agriculture; and numbers
among its patrons and members all the leading landholders and
farmers in Teviotdale, Berwickshire, and Northumberland.

                        V.--PAROCHIAL ECOMONY.
Market-Town, &c.--Kelso is the market-town of the district as
well as of the parish.  It contains a population of about 4200,
who, as formerly stated, are employed chiefly in the ordinary
branches of retail and handicraft. *  It has a daily market for
butcher-meat, fish, and vegetables; a weekly corn market; and a
monthly cattle and sheep-market.  There are four bank agencies,
and numerous handsome shops.  The principal transactions are
those connected with the trade in corn, and the sale of stock; and
it is worthy of remark, that the business of the corn-market is car-
ried on in the most primitive and inartificial manner, without bills,
and even without accounts; --it being the practice for the purchas-
er to make payment in cash on the market day immediately fol-
lowing that of the stipulated delivery of the article.
     Municipal Constitution.--Kelso is a burgh of barony; but the
sett is so peculiar as to justify us in here preserving some record
of an ancient institute which the progress of municipal law will soon
sweep away.
     Prior to the Reformation, the different lands and manors be-
longing to the abbey formed a regality, over which the abbot ex-.
ercised the authority of a feudal baron.  On the abolition of mo-
nachism, the jurisdiction fell into the crown.  But it was ultimate-
ly transferred, under the title of the Lordship and Barony of Hal-
lydean, to Kerr of Cessford--the first peer of the house of Rox-
burghe.  This transference took place in 1607; and in 1634, Kel-
so, previously included in the lordship of Hallydean, was separat-
ed and created into a free burgh of barony.  The charter of crea-
tion gives power to the superior and his heirs-male, in all time
coming, to "receive and admit free burgesses,"--to appoint
"bailies, clerks, officers, and other members necessary for the

<FOOTNOTE>Honourable mention is made in the former Statistical Account of an ingenious
Optician, John Gibson, who then carried on a considerable trade in Kelso, especial-
ly in telescopes.  There is now no artisan of this description.  But there is at present
an ingenious person who does a great deal of work in a line to the full as unusual in-
small country towns that of making spy-glasses.  This is Mr Heckford, a bird-
stuffer, whose performances, as seen in the Duke of Roxburghe's cabinet of natural
history, and in the museum of the Kelso Antiquarian Society, will bear a compari-
son with those of the best London artists.


