
                        WESTRUTHER.                         73

march, carried off whole herds of the neighbouring cattle, and
when "the good old rule sufficed them,
                             - the simple plan,
               That they should take who have the power,
               And they should keep who can." *
  Within the last few years, several stone coffins have been disco-
vered by the ploughmen in fields which had long lain in pasture.
The skeletons were in a good state of preservation, and the cof-
fins constructed of large and broad stones, which were arranged in
the most regular order. The situation of these graves, coupled
with the fact, that many similar relics have been found in the
adjoining parish of Lauder, seems to strengthen the tradition,
that at some remote period, the date of which cannot now be
ascertained, the cause of Scottish independence was maintained
on the northern heights of Westruther. The well-known Twin-
law-cairns, composed of two large piles of stones, and visible from
a great distance, are the rude and uncemented memorials of the
same contest, and are said to have been reared  + with a special view
to perpetuate the memory of two persons of the name of Edgar,
twin-brothers, and leaders in the contending armies, who, ignorant
of their mutual relationship, resolved to decide the matter by single
combat. ++

<FOOTNOTE>In one of these raids, when, though the attack was chiefly made on the castle of
Blythe, the baronial residence of Sir Richard Maitland of Ledington, the whole of
this parish was scoured, it is recorded that 5000 sheep, 200 nolt, 30 horses and mares,
were taken away by the marauders. It was on this occasion that the poetical knight
wrote his ballad called the "Blind Baron's Comfort."
     The traditionary account of the mode of erecting these cairns is curious. The
stones were procured from a brook at the northern base of the hill, and the soldiers
on both sides, having suspended hostilities on the death of their leaders, ranged them-
selves in a line from the bottom to the top of the declivity, and handed the stones
from one to another, till their simple monument was completed.
     This contest has been celebrated in a poem, which, as it seems to have escaped
the diligence of the collectors of ancient ballads, it may be proper to insert. It does
not bear the marks of a very high antiquity, but it has been known here for at least
a century and a half. I give it as taken down from the recital of an old inhabitant.

                       The Battle of Twinlaw.
		1					    4
In days of yore, when deeds were rife,   A chieftain from the Saxon band
 And wars on banks and braces,            Exulting in his might,
And nought but strife on every side,     Defied the bravest of the Scots
 Which brought on dule and waes.          To come to single fight.
		2                                           5
The Anglo-Saxons restless band           Old Edgar had a youthful son,
 Had crossed the river Tweed,             Who led the Scottish band,
Up for the hills of Lammermuir,          He with the Saxon did agree
 Their hosts march'd on with speed.       To fight it hand to hand.
		3                                           6
Our Scottish warriors on the heath       The armies stood in deep suspense
 In close battalion stood,                The combat for to view,
Resolved to set their country free,      While aged Edgar stepped forth
 Or shed their dearest blood.             To bid his son adieu.


