
                                     METHVEN.                         159

         were commenced about the time this one began its operations, but
         from some cause or other, most, if not all of them, lasted only a
         few years, and then vanished without leaving behind them any
         perceptible trace of their usefulness.  On the contrary, the Meth-
         ven Savings Bank came into existence without a single word to re-
         commend it to the attention of those classes of the community for
         whose benefit it was intended, beyond the contents of a very brief
         hand-bill, and having continued to prosper for twenty-one years,
         without interruption, it has in an eminent degree been the means
         of promoting the comfort and comparative independence of not a
         few of those who have wisely taken the advantages which savings
         banks, properly constituted, are calculated to bestow.  The sim-
         plicity of the mode, and the unostentatious manner in which the
         affairs of this bank have hitherto been conducted, form one
         of the principal causes, if not the very principal cause of its
         success.  It has never been placed under the protection of any
         statute relating to saving banks, for in its nature and operations
         it resembles more a branch of a provincial bank, although on a
         small scale, than may be conceived by the generally entertained
         notion of a parish or savings bank.  The heritors and the minis-
         ter of the parish are directors, and the schoolmaster h`s, from its
         commencement, acted as treasurer or cashier; indeed, it may be
         said, that upon him alone has devolved all the burden of conduct-
         ing its affairs.  The directors meet annually, when the proceed-
         ings of the preceding year are laid before them, and a general
         statement of them docqueted.  All the money deposited is lodged
         in the Perth Bank as soon as the deposits amount to a sum worth
         sending, for any sum not less than 1s. is received.  A deposi-
         tor may withdraw the whole of his money or any part of it at any
         time he pleases, and if there be not money on hand sufficient to
         answer the demand, the treasurer gives him an order upon the
         Perth Bank for the amount required.  The savings bank gives the
         same rate of interest upon every separate deposit of 16s. 8d., as
         the Perth bank gives upon the gross amount lodged with them.
         And yearly, at 31st May, the interest due to each depositor is
         added to his account, both in the books of the institution and in
         his own pass-book.  When a person's deposits amount to L. 20,
         L. 30, L, 40, or upwards, the usual way is to transfer that sum
         from the stock of the savings bank into that of the Perth Bank, in
         the depositor's own name, which is always done with his consent;
         and he thereupon obtains a separate bank receipt, which, in ge-


