
          384                       RENFREWSHIRE.

          west, by the parish of Fenwick; and on the south, by the parish
          of Loudon.
             It is situated in the south-east corner of the county of Renfrew,
          and contains about 23 square miles, and 15,503 standard imperial
          acres.  The whole district is somewhat elevated.  In approaching
          it from,the north or by the road from Glasgow, a high blue ridge,
          is seen running nearly east and west, but the true axis of elevation
          is nearly north-west and south-cast, which gives the whole district
          a flexure or gentle slope to the north-east. The hi-hest hills in
          the parish are Balagich, Dunwan, Mires, and Blackwood, which
          vary in height from 1000 to, 1200 feet.  The highest part of the
          village is about 800 feet above the sea. level ; the best arable lands
          from 500 to 800.  With the exception of Misty Law in Lochwin-
          noch, the above are the hinffiest hills in the county.
             Meteoroloqy.-The above elevations indicate a climate of consi-
          derable severity, especially in the winter months, in a latitude so
          high as that of Scotland. The prevalence of peat mosses, of the
          worst and most irreclaimable description, also serves to deteriorate
          the naturally inclement atmosphere, and to render it more inhospi-
          table.  In the summer season, however, Eaglesham forms a de-
          lightful place of residence ; and in some of the lower grounds, and
          near the town, and on the banks of the principal streams, both the
          soil and climate are equal to any in the county for salubrity,
          fertility, and health.  The piece of ground on which the village is
          built is full of springs, and yields abundance of the best of water.
          But from the same cause the site of the houses is cold and damp,
          where pains are not taken to get rid of the superfluous moisture.
          A great deal of rain-falls in the course of the year,-on an ave-
          rage,29.65 inches,-and from the exposed position of the parish
          the winds are very damp and cold.  Frosts often set in early in
          autumn and continue late in spring.  The ploughing season usu-
          ally begins about the middle of March, and the seed is commonly
          sown. about the second week of April.  The prevailing distempers
          are such as arise out of the peculiarities of soil and climate, such
          as influenza, rheumatism, consumption, &c. Fevers are not com-
          mon, and measles are generally mild.  Small-pox has. returned
          with fearful frequency, but, with abated symptoms, as in other
          placer.  The crisis is generally observed to take place a day or
          two earlier than. in, the ancient and more virulent forms of the dis-
          ease.  The P0esent disease is generally if not always much easher,
          and seldom proves fatal.  The Kilpatrick bills are here universal-


