
                           ROSLIN.                       347

On the west side of the architrave, connecting the second pil-
lar from the east with the south wall, are represented the follow-
ing figures, viz. a bishop in his pontifical garments and insignia,
and giving the blessing, with the right hand lifted up, and the two
forefingers distinctly pointing out,--a man, supposed to be the
proud Pharisee; a drunkard with a flagon at his mouth: a woman
giving a cup to a man; the careless shepherd; the rich fool; the
miser with his hands in his pockets; two lovers; and, lastly, a
devil in the mouth of a crocodile, emblematical of hell, stretching
out his claws towards the other figures.  The figures are survey-
ed with a grin of delight by Satan himself from the west jamb of
the third window, from the east, in the south ground wall.  It is
quite evident that the figures in this range are intended to repre-
sent the principal vices, with the church offering salvation from
them, and the spirits of darkness expecting that they will lead
their votaries to everlasting destruction.  The arch of the adjoin-
ing window represents the nine orders of angels.
   On the opposite side of this architrave, there are represented a
cardinal bishop; a cripple, supported by crutches, leading a blind
man; one person clothing the naked; another visiting the sick;
another visiting those in prison; a female attending the fatherless;
one feeding the hungry; two burying the dead, one at the head
and another at the feet; and St Peter with a key.  It is abundant-
ly evident that the figures in this range are intended to represent
the principal virtues, and the admission of those who practise
them into the kingdom of heaven.  The arch of the adjoining win-
dow is adorned with twelve human figures.
   The Apprentice's Pillar.--This pillar, which is the most easter-
ly in the south row, and stands in the south-east corner of the cha-
pel, is perfectly unique, and remarkably beautiful.  Around the
shaft are four wreaths of flowers, all different from one another,
all exhibiting specimens of the most delicate chiselling, and all as-
cending, in a spiral form, from the base to the capital, at the dis-
tance of eighteen inches from one another.  On the base of the
pillar are several dragons chained together by the heads, and mu-
tually entwined.  On the south side of the capital, Isaac is repre-
sented lying on the altar, with the ram caught by the horns in a
thicket; and on the east end of the architrave, connecting this
elegant pillar with the one to the west, is Abraham standing in
view of his devoted son, with his hands lifted up in prayer.  On
the opposite end is a man playing on bagpipes, and another man


