
                          STROMNESS.                             37

schools depend upon the fees received.  The five female schools are
in the town, and the fees afford very inadequate support to the teach-
ers. In the parish school the branches taught are, reading, writing,
and arithmetic.   In the subscription schools, in addition to these
branches, Latin, Greek, French, and mathematics are taught.
The teacher of the other school in town has a class for Navigation,
which is greatly required here.  In the female schools, the com-
mon branches, viz.  English, writing, arithmetic, and sewing are
taught; and, in one or two of the most respectable, music and
drawing.
   The parochial teacher has the minimum salary.  The subscrip-
tion school teachers receive about L.50 per annurn.
   We believe there are few betwixt the years of six and fifteen
who cannot read. In general, the parents, however poor, make
every effort to send their children to school for a short time, to be
instructed in the elementary branches of education, especially
reading.  With respect to the fatherless, in most cases which
have come under our notice, some benevolent person is found
willing to get them instructed in reading.
   We feel called upon to say, that there are few places in Scot-
land, with such a population as Stromness, where there is such need
of an efficient endowed school.  There being no endowed school
in the town, and the tees of the subscription ones being high, the
poor are precluded from the benefit of proper instruction ; and when
it is known that there are numerous widows (whose husbands have
perished at sea), left with their large families helpless and de-
pendent, unable to provide for their sustenance, far less to afford
them a good education, it must be evident, that, were a proper
school with mi endowment established, it would confer an invalu-
able blessing upon an interesting but long-neglected community,
It is hoped that something may be done for this place by the Ge-
neral Assembly's Education Committee.  The Sabbath school
connected with the Established Church was instituted in the spring
of 1830; and was attended at first b betwixt 200 and 860.  It
has since continued to increase and flourish, find for the last seven
years has been attended by fully SOO scholars on. an average,
There are in all twenty-six classes, which are instructed by male
and female teachers, selected from the most pious and best inform-
ed of the eld&s and members-.
   A Sabbath school, numerously attended, is also regularly kept
in the Dissenting church.


