
                        INNERLEITHEN.                          33

improved of late, excepting in the quality of the wool, * which is
now much coarser.
  It may be added, that the breeds of sheep, cattle, and horses
have received great benefit from the Selkirkshire Pastoral Society,
instituted by Lord Napier about ten years ago, and of which our
resident proprietors and principal farmers are members.
  Quantity of Live Stock.--The number of cattle is 383; horses
80; sheep, 16,040; goats, 50.
  Husbandry.--The state of farm-buildings and enclosures is good;
and perhaps the extent of the former is greater than has ever yet
been found quite necessary.  Leases are of all sorts, according to
the pleasure of the parties.
  Improvements.--The only great improvement in the parish has
been effected by Mr Stewart of Ormiston, or Glen-Ormiston.  By
the most excellent system of cultivation, he has raised the value of
his property, so that the annual return or rent in pounds Sterling
is much more than double the valuation in pounds Scottish; and
that without including the annual value of more than 200 acres in
very thriving plantations,--a fact very rarely paralleled in the re-
cords of the agriculture of this country.
  Produce.

<TABLE>

The average amount of gross produce yearly raised from the arable land may be
  nearly       -        -         -       -         -         L. 8438    0  0
The average return of grain crops being, wheat, 26 bushels per im-
  perial acre; barley, 36 do.; oats, 36 do.; pease, 24 do.
From sheep,    -        -         -       -         -            6215    0  0
                                                            _________________
                                                            L. 14,653    0  0

  The value of the produce of cattle and horses is included, as pas-
ture, turnips, hay; and those are all valued per acre.
  Manufacturers.--A large building for a woollen manufactory was
erected about forty years ago by a Mr Brodie, a native of Traquair.
He carried on the works at his own risk for several years. At his
death the manufactory was let, and has since been in the hands of
several tenants.  At present 50 people are employed in it, and
2500 stones of wool are wrought in it yearly.  The people work
ten hours a-day.  Weavers are paid per week, 14s.; slubbers, 14s.;
piecers, 3s.; shawl-plaiters, 4s.

                     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town and Means of Communication.--Peebles is the

<FOOTNOTE>It seems now to be fully ascertained that fine wool cannot be raised in this
country with profit--fat mutton and fine wool in successive generations of sheep ap-
pearing to be incompatible with each other by some law of nature.
   PEEBLES.                                 C


