
     Statistical Account

both on the north and west.  The lands of East Cambus run
along the banks of the Devon, until they meet with the upper
barony of Tullibody+.  The Upper and Lower baronie of

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

"and, by virtue of the inquest, returned guilty of death; and the commission-
"ers have changed their of death to perpetual servitude, and that
"the said pannels are at the :  Therefore, the said commissioners
"have given and gifted, and hereby gave and gift the said Donald M Donald,
"one of the said prisoners, as a perpetual servant to the Right Honourable
"John Earl of Tullibardine; recommending to his Lordship to cause provide
"an collar of brass, iron, or copper, which, by his sentence or doom, whereof
"an extract is delivered to the magistrates of the said burgh of Perth, is to be
"upon his neck, with this inscription, 'Donald M'Donald, found guilty of
"death for these, at Perth December 5. 1701, and gifted, as a perpetual servent,
"to John Earl of Tullibardine' And recommending also to his Lordship, to
"transport him from the said prison once the next week.  And the said com-
"missioners have ordained, and hereby ordain the magistrates of Perth, and
"keeper of their tolbooth, to deliver the said Donald M'Donald to the said
"Earl of Tullibardine, having the said collar and inscription, conform to the
"sentence and doom aforesaid.  Extracted from the books of adjournal of the
"said district by me James Taylor, writer to his Majesty's signet, clerk of court
"See subscribitur James Taylor., Clk "
Since this account was wrote, it has been found to be a mistake, that this
collar was taken up near the Cambus; for it was dragged by a net out of the
Forth, opposite to Chamberlain' Lands, in the parish of Logie, whereof Sir John
Arskin as superior.  But as the history of this collar was probably unknown
to Mr. WRIGHT, when he wrote the account of the parish of LOGIE, it is insert-
ed here as a curious fact, well worthy of being generally known.

+Here there are some fine crosts, which are supposed to have given the name
of Tullibothy, or Tullibody, (i. e. the croft of the oath), to the barony and village,
which stands at the head of it.  Many new houses have been built of late.
There are the remains of an old church in Tulllbody; the lands of which, with
the inches and fishings, are narrated in a charter by DAVID I, who founded the
abbey of Cambuskenneth, in the year 1147; and are made over to that abbacy,
together with the church of Tullibody, and its chapel of Alloa.  There are no
records of the union of these two churches of Alloa and Tullibody.  It seems
probable, that it was about the beginning of the Reformation.  It appears from
JOHN KNOX, that, in the year 1559, when Mansieur d'Oysel commanded the French

</UNREADABLE>


