
              		 ARDNAMURCHAN.                      157

mansion-house of Arasaig, the dwellings of several respectable
families being contiguous, and the stores which supply the popu-
lation with imported necessaries, being on its shore.
   At Drimandarach, near Boradale, and in Lochaylort, there are
said to be good anchorages.
   In Loch Sunart, there are many places where there is good
holding ground ; but those chiefly frequented are the Harbour of
Strontian and the Creek of Salin, which last has been.  much im-
proved by the pier lately built there.
   These were places of call for a steamer, by which, for upwards
of twelve months, there was, until of late, direct communication
with Glasgow.
   At the extreme point of Ardnamurchan, there is a small creek
into which a sloop, caught by a gale, ran some years ago, and
was preserved undamaged during the winter.  From its situation,
it may be desirable it were better known.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish, ecclesiastically, is divided
into five portions ; the district of the parish church, two Govern-
ment church districts, now parishes quoad sacra, a district under
the care of a missionary minister, and a large extent of country
under that of the assistant.
   1. The parish church district, the western portion of the pe-
ninsula of Ardnamurclian, contains two places of worship; one at
Kilchoan, on t   south, about four or five miles from the point;
another at Kilmorie, on the opposite or north coast.  At these,
since the Reformation, the minister has been in the practice of
preaching alternately.  Remains of ancient churches indicate that
they had been places of public worship for ages prior to that era.
   The principal church has always been that of Kilchoan, at
which the largest attendance can be given, and of course was
built with a view to secure that object, and not with reference,
geographically, to the parish at large.
   In 1831, this church, having been long in ruins, was built of
new on another and better site.  It is an excellent commodious
edifice, capable of containing with ease upwards of 600 persons,
an extent of accommodation, however, which was by no means
desired at that station, it having been given on the ground that
the hearers of Kilmorie, who are all from six to ton miles distant,
could attend there.  The church was built by the heritors, under
protest that it should be considered full,  legal provision for the
Whole parish of Ardnamurchan, but accepted by the presbvtery


