
                          STIRLING.                            433

Denny, &c. once or twice.  There are excellent turnpike-roads
in all directions.  The length of these, however, within the parish
is too trifling to be worthy of notice.  The number of public car-
riages, as mail and stage-coaches, omnibuses, stage-cars, is very
great, considering the size of Stirling.  To these are to be added
the steam-boats, constantly plying between Stirling and Newhaven
or Granton Pier.  Of these, there are in the summer and autumn
never less than two, and often three.  They convey an immense
number of passengers to and from this place; beside those who
embark and disembark at the other towns and villages on the
Frith. The fares by these steam-boats are exceedingly low, and
those by the other public conveyances, moderate. There are two
bridges over the Forth, near to one another to the north of the
town. By the new one, of course, the great north road now runs.
The other ought to have been more particularly noticed under a
former head. It is of very considerable antiquity. The date of
its erection is unknown; but it is probably not less than 300
years old. Archbishop Hamilton was changed upon it in 1571, by
order of the Regent Lennox. It has four arches; of which Ge-
neral Blakeney, Governor of the castle, caused the south one to be
down up in 1745, to intercept the Highlanders. When this arch
was restored, is unknown. It is of antique structure, narrow and
high in the centre; and had originally flanking towers, through
which were gates near to each end; and two low ones in the mid-
dle. The new bridge has three arches; and a wide and level
road-way. The harbour, for the accommodation of vessels in the
port of Stirling, formed by the bending of the river, and a quay on
the convex, which is at this point the south and Stirling, side, is
not very commodious, but quite large enough for the increasing
trade.
   Ecclesiastical History and Present Ecclesiastical State.--The
occasion and date of the erection of the edifice now occupied by
the East and West Churches have been already mentioned.
When the Reformation had taken place, the apparatus and in-
signia of the idolatrous Popish ritual were, of course, removed
along with the abolition of the ritual itself; and the Protestant
worship was set up.  From this period until 1607, the parish
was under the spiritual charge of one minister. A second minis-
ter was then appointed; but it was not till 1643 that a fixed endow-
ment was given by the magistrates, &c. In 1731, upon an appli-
cation from the inhabitants, the third charge was created, upon
which occasion they gave their consent to a multure, which had
  STIRLING.                            E e


