
                         CARNOCK.                            693

considerable derangement in the strata, and chainging altogether
the quality of the coal.  The coals were, till of late, drawn up by
a horse gin; but a small engine, upon the high pressure principle,
which was set up for keeping the pit clear of water, now draws up
the coals also.
   The coal in other parts of the parish, though not wrought, is
not exhausted.  On the north-east, most of the upper seams,
branching off from Lord Elgin's coal-works, in the parish of Dun-
fermline, and cropping out in Carnock, have been wrought out.
The lower seams, however, have not, it is understood, been yet
touched.
   Limestone was formerly quarried in considerable quantities on
the lands of Luscar; but though it still exists there and in some
other spots, none is at present wrought in any part of the parish.
In the neighbourhood of the places where it is known to exist,
there sometimes is found what the workmen call bastard limestone,
or a mixture of whin and limestone.
   Freestone is quarried in several places.  The principal quarry,
however, in the parish, is on the estate of Carnock, where the rock
is of great extent and considerable thickness, and may be wrought
without almost any tirring.  The stone of this quarry, though
somewhat softer than the freestone in the south part of the parish,
is more easily quarried, and may be cut out of almost any length.
Owing to the distance from water carriage, and the abundance of
excellent freestone in the neighbouring districts, the demand for
stones at this quarry is not great, except in the immediate locality.
There are three kinds of stone in the bed which composes this
quarry: the first being white and soft when dug, and gradually
hardening when exposed to the weather; the second being of a
somewhat darker colour, and harder quality; and the third being
of a bluish-black colour, and capable of receiving a fine polish.
This last lies alongside of the others throughout the whole extent
of the bed, and seems to form part of the same rock.  The direc-
tion and dip of the strata appear, so far as they can be traced, to
be uniform throughout; and the fissures, though numerous,
scarcely occasion any derangement in the component parts of the
rock.  Yet the stone passes from the one colour to the other fre-
quently in the smallest discernible space.  The colouring substance
of the black stone is evidently of a bituminous nature; but how it
should have impregnated one part of the bed and not the other is
not easily accounted for.  The outer Portion of the black rock,


