
128                          FIFESHIRE.

but chiefly from the crowded state of the houses, and perhaps from
want of sufficient attention to external cleanliness.
  Prognostics of the Weather.-The following prognostics of the
weather have been collected from individuals employed in the col-
lieries and ironstone works, viz. that before a storm of wind, a sound
not unlike that of a bagpipe or loud buzz of a bee comes from the
metals in the coal pits, but that previous to a fall of rain, the sound
is much more gentle; that about twenty-four hours before a storm
of wind or rain, there is a black damp at the bottom of the iron-
stone pits, and through the waste; a damp so great, that a lamp will
not burn; but that, before frost, the air below is clear, and that a
candle or lamp will burn easily.
  Hydrography.-There are two mineral springs in the parish,
both of which are perennial, and have been in high repute. The
one is to the eastward of the town. It is much frequented by
strangers who come for sea-hatbing, and has been found peculiar-
ly beneficial to individuals labouring under stomach complaints. It
proceeds from the iron mines which are every where in its imme-
diate neighbourhood, and is strongly impregnated with iron. The
stones on that part of the beach over which it runs into the sea are
of the colour of yellow ochre. This spring is generally called the
Medicine Well, and such is the estimation in which it was once
held, that great quantities of the water were taken away, and sold
not only in Fife, but in other adjacent counties. At different
periods, it has been warmly recommended by gentlemen eminent in
the medical profession. The other mineral spring is a little to the
westward of the town. It is impregnated with vitriol; it has been
long celebrated for curing soreness and weakness in the eyes, as well
as sores on other parts of the body; and it is still the resort of
strangers who have those kinds of complaints. Such is its repute,
that it is frequently put in bottles and sent to a considerable dis-
tance, and numbers who have used it do not hesitate to bear testi-
mony to the great benefit they have derived from it. It is gene-
rally called the Alum Well.
    There are two small streams or riyulets which run through the
parish, viz. the Oar, and the Lochty. The Oar, says Mr Chambers
in his Gazetteer, originates in a rivulet in the parish of Dunferm-
line, which, along with others, once formed a small lake called Loch
Oar, which is now drained, and the space converted into productive
land. The rivulet pursues its way, and its joined by a stream from
Loah Fittie, and further down by one from Loch Gellie. Thus


