
942                             PERTSHIRE.

the least important of the advantages which it confers on the pa-
rish and and neighbourhood.
   At the northern extremity of the village of Bridgend, another
nursery, containing about eight acres, has within these few years
been formed.
         		  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.--Mr Lewis Dunbar was translated from the
parish of Dunning, in the presbytery of Auchterarder, to Kinnoull,
7th November 1782, and died there on 22d February 1829. The
present incumbent was translated from the parish of Maderty, in
the presbytery of Auchterarder, and admitted minister of Kinnoull
on 24th September 1829.
   The former church of Kinnoull, rebuilt in 1779, accommo-
dated only 400 sitters; and although in 1795, the last incum-
bent complains, that even then, it was "much too small," it con-
tinued down to the year 1826, without addition or enlargement, the
population still continuing steadily to increase, and nearly one-
half of those connected with the Establishment being thus neces-
sitated to seek accommodation in the various churches of Perth.
In that year, however, the present handsome and spacious struc-
ture, in the Gothic style, from a plan of Mr Burn, was erected
within a few hundred years of the old one, at an expense of about
L.4000. The internal arrangements, and the chasteness of the
exterior, are alike creditable to the architect. It contains upwards
of 1000 sittings.
   The only other place of worship in the parish, is in the village
of Balbeggie, five miles distant, where an Antiburgher meeting-
house was built in 1788, but which was taken down a few years
ago, and replaced by one of more ornate character, containing
about 350 sittings. It is in connection with the Associate Synod.
There is a comfortable house for the minister, with garden, off-
ces, &c. attached.
   A new manse and offices were built in 1829, immediately after
the induction of the present incumbent. They occupy a very fa-
vourable position on the rising ground above the Tay, command-
ing a view of a considerable stretch of the river. Several old
trees, planted about a century ago, skirt the buildings. One of
these, a larch, is rather a picturesque object, from the fantastic
form it has assummed.
   The glebe adjoins the manse, and contains about 4 1/2 acres. It
		       	      4


