
            404                       RENFR7WSHIRE.

            in the Established Church, and, by the faithful and diligent mini-
            strations of their present pastor, the congregation is steadily in-
            creasing. The communicants are on an average 250.                From
            causes already alluded to, but, perhaps, principally from the un-
            godly jealousies of patties, the number of the communicants in the
            Becession church cannot be ascertained. No list was taken for
            the Church Commission; but the population, according to the best
            and most careful estimates, is about equally divided among Church-
            menand.Dissenters. Among the latter is included Roman Catho-
            lics, Episcopalians, and all sectarians whatsoever, and also those
            who attend no place of worship. Mr Carswell's stipend is L.110
            per annum; and Mr Winning's about L.60. The average an-
            nual collections in the parish church for religious and charitable
            purposes is about L. 12.
              Education.-There are three schools besides the parish school.
            Mr Smellie, the parochial teacher, has lately got a very able and
            popular assistant, who has raised the present number of scholars
            to about 80, and his pupils are still increasing. At another school
            90 children are taught, of whom 20 or 30 belong to the cotton
            factory; at a third 15; and at the fourth about 9; in all 184
            scholars.  The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L. 30 per
            annum with about, L. 7 of perquisites. The branches taught, with
            the prices, are for reading, Ss. per quarter; for writing, 3s. 6d.;
            for arithmetic, 4s.; for Latin, 5s. A new schoolhouse was late-
            ly erected, capable of containing 150 scholars.
              Literature._There is a small library in the village containing
            about 240 volumes. The entry money is 3s. and the annual con-
            tribution also 3s.
              Friendly Societies.-There is in the parish what is termed a
            "Penny Society," from that small sum being paid at stated perinds,
            for which a fund is procured for the sick, at the rate of 5s. or 6s.
            per week. There is also a burial society.
             Poor.-The average number receiving parochial aid is about 30,
            at 6s. per mouth each.  The annual sum collected is about L. 140,
            of which sum the heritors and tenants pay L. 120, and L. 20 is
            obtained from the collections at the parish church. The assess-
            ment is entirely voluntary.
              Fairs.-There is one as already stated, on 24th April           0. S.
            at which there is generally a cattle-show, and another on the last
            Thursday of August, established by use and wont, at which the


