
842                         ABERDEENSHRE.

riages are regularly kept in those parishes, and have been so since
the year 1768.  Prior to that period, no register or regular record
of entry exists.
   Antiquities.-About half a mile south from the church of Tar-
land, and in the parish of Coul, there is a small hill or emi-
nence, about 150 feet in height above the level of the Tarland
burn; its summit of conical form, about 100 feet in circumference,
consisting of solid rock and beautiful granite. On this summit
may be seen the distinct ruins of a distinguished Druidical temple,
containing two circles formed of large erect stones, at short inter-
vals, from 4 to 5 feet in height, 3 broad, and 2 feet thick.  The
hill or eminence is known by the name Tomnaverie, a word of
Gaelic extraction, and said to signify " the hill of truth, or wor-
ship, or of justiciary trial." About 100 feet from this summit
westward are two distinct enclosures, each about an acre of stony
and uncultivated ground, which might have served for camps, or
such accommodating purposes as the assembling worshippers re-
quired.  On the east side of the eminence, and about 200 paces
from the temple, there is about an acre of cultivated ground which
was formerly enclosed, and is known by the name of the " hang-
man's yard." From the centre of the temple, pointing to the
north-east, and about one mile distant, there may be seen the
site and ruins ofa lesser Druidical temple, as if intended for more
frequent and ordinary worship.  From the same centre, at the
same distance, and pointing to the north, are to be seen the ruins
of another Druidical temple : and from the same centre, at the
same distance, and pointing to the north-west, and upon the boun-
dary which separates Tarland from Coldstone parish, may be seen
the ruins of another Druidical temple,-all three uniform in size,
and equidistant from the larger temple upon Tomnaverie.  On the
north-west point of the eminence, and close by the large temple,
are to be seen evident traces of strong fire, which has shattered
the solid rock several feet deep.  It may be worthy of remark that,
in the immediate neighbourhood of the lesser temple alluded to in
the northeast, there was lately found in the cultivated soil, a small
stone of very hard texture, about 3 inches long, and 2 thick, taper-
ing at one end, and, though quite smooth, altogether of rugged-
like surface : the other end, impressed with two distinct circles,
beautifully polished, and in high preservation.
   About 300 or 400 yards south from the church of Migvie may


