
     Statistical Account

church-yard of Nigg, said also to have been erected there
by the Danes.  The sculpture upon it is still entire, and is
much the same with that of the other monuments left by
that people, consisting of figures of animals, and of weapons
used either in war or hunting.  It stood till about the year
1725, when it was thrown down, by a remarkable storm of
wind, which at the same time threw down the belfry, and
broke the bell of the church.  The Rev. Mr Cordiner,
who, in his progress through this country had occasion to
view these obelisks, has favoured the public with some ac-
count of them, and likewise given plates of them in
his useful and entertaining book.-Where that range of
rocks, which over hang the Murray frith, terminates, at a
place called Dunskeath, on a small moat, situated above the
sea, once stood a fort, of which mention is made by Sir Da-
vid Dalrymple, in his History of Scotland, vol. I. p. 121.
built as far back as the year 1179, by William, surnamed
the Lion, king of scotland.  The ditch around the castle,
and the entrace to it, may still be observed; but nothing
of the wall, or of the stones of which it was built, remains.
It was built with a view to suppress disorders in the coun-
try, and to disperse and destroy robbers, and other persons,
who came to plunder, as may be collected from its name,
Dunscath, or Dunsca, which is compounded of two Gaelic
words, Dun, a "Fort or Castle," and Scath, "Destruction
"or Dispersion."  The farm adjoining to it is still called
Castle Craig.-In the place of Ankerville, a part of the

<FOOTNOTE>

The King's Sons.  That rock lies not a half mile distant from the shore,
and there is a great depth of water on each side of it.  It stretches 2 or 3
miles in almost a straight line from E. to W. and is not to be seen at high-
water; and this, a few years ago, occasioned the loss of a ship belonging
to the Orkney's bound for Cromarty, which in a fair evening, standing in
too near the shore, struck upon the rock and went down directly, the
crew having only time to save themselves by the boat.  The top of the
mast was seen for several weeks above water.


