
                      GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.                  525

   The southern and western shores of the county are indented
with numerous arms of the sea, which also receive the name of
lochs; as Loch Sunart, Loch Shiel, Loch Morren, Loch Nevish,
Loch Hourn.
   The highest mountain is Ben Nevis.
   The geological structure of the greater part of the county is of
primary rocks, consisting chiefly of gneiss and mica-slate, with
granite, porphyry, and trap-rocks. The lower division of the 
county, bordering the Moray Frith, and extending along the bor-
ders of Loch Ness to the south, and to Beauly on the west, is 
composed of old red-sandstone; the eastern part of Skye, next
thd mainland, is also composed of similar strata; the western
portion, consisting of trap-rocks, and the newer oolitic and lias
formations. The most fertile portion of the county is that where
the red-sandstone prevails, which consists of the valley of the Aird,
extending from Inverness to Beauly.
   Inverness is the capital of the county, and is beautifully situated on
the banks of the Ness. The population of the county, according to
the census of 1841, is 97,615; the Parliamentary constituency, 809.
Although the county covers a great extent of ground, and con-
tains a considerable number of inhabitants, yet, besides Inverness
and Beauly, there are no other towns or even villages of any consi-
derable magnitude, the inhabitants being chiefly agricultural and 
pastoral; and thus living in a detached manner, the Gaelic language
is universally, and, in some remote situations, exclusively spoken;
and in the remote glens and secluded defiles of the mountains,
the ancient manners and feelings of the Celts still linger and are
cherished.
   The rearing of black-cattle and sheep forms the chief occupa-
tion of the inhabitants of the mountain districts. Sea-fishing, and 
especially the herring fishery, engages the attention of the natives
of the western shores, and agriculture is sedulously pursued in the
Aird and other favourable situation throughout the county.
   The county returns one Member to Parliament.
   The annual value of real property in the county, as assessed in
1815, amounted to L. 185,565.



