
70			WIGTONSHIRE.

This lady had an only sister, married to Sir Thomas Dunbar of
Mochrum. James Dalrymple afterwards studied law, passed ad-
vocate at the Scottish Bar, was appointed one of the Lords of Ses-
sion, and on the Revolution was elevated to the office of Lord Pre-
sident. He died in 1695, leaving behind him the highest cha-
racter as a lawyer or a judge. His various publications are well
known; but his "Institutions of the Law of Scotland," has always
been regarded as by far the best work produced in this country in
the department to which it belongs. He was raised to the peer-
age in 1690, and died in 1695. He rebuilt the house of Carse-
creuch, which was his favourite country residence. His oldest
son, who succeeded him, held some of the highest offices, and was
a great promoter of the union between Scotland and England. His
grandson was the great Marshal Stair. The family seat is now
at Calhorn, in the neighbouring parish of Inch.
	The Rev. Robert M'Ward, an eminent clergyman and theo-
logical and controversial writer during the reigns of Charles I.
and Charles II., was a native of this parish. He studied at St
Andrews; and afterwards acted as amanuensis and private secre-
tary to the celebrated Samuel Rutherford, while the latter was in
London as a member of the Westminster Assembly of Divines.
M'Ward successively held several high offices. He was elected
Professor of Humanity in St Salvator's College, St Andrews, in
1650; Professor of Philosophy in the University of Glasgow in
1653; and one of the ministers of that city in 1656. On the
Restoration, he was tried for sedition and treasonable preaching,
and was sentenced to banishment forth of the kingdom, six months
being allowed him to remove. He retired to Rotterdam. He
was for some time one of the ministers of the Scottish Church in
that city; but, owing to the interference of the English govern-
ment, was obliged not only to resign that living, but to leave that
town. He afterwards, however, ventured to return to it. He died
there in 1681. He was supported while in Holland, before and
after holding the ministerial office in Rotterdam, by the conjunct
liberality of his Dutch and Scottish friends. He was the editor
of Rutherford's Letters, which were first published in Rotterdam
in 1664. His other works were, "The Poor Man's Cup of Cold
Water;" "The True Non-Conformist;"  "Banders Disbanded;"
"A Testimony against paying of Cess to the Persecutors;"
"Earnest Contendings for the Faith," and other publications,
all of which were long popular in this country. About seventy of
his letters, addressed to friends in Scotland, chiefly against the


