
     of Dollar.

of Dollar, there is another coal-work, belonging also to the
Duke of Argyll. These works employ in whole about 18
working people; besides a horse gin for drawing the coals.
From these coal-works, and those of Blarngone, (in the pa-
rish of Fossoway, but immediately upon the border of this
parish on the S. E.) very great quantities of coals are annu-
ally carried many miles into Strathern, on the North side
of the Ochil hills.-Iron-stone is also found in different parts
of the parish, and said to be of very excellent quality.  It is
working at present by the Dovan Company, who are now e-
recting a public work at Sauchie, some miles to the west-
ward, in the parish of Clackmannan.* The Ochil hills con-
sist chiefly of whin-stone; but free-stone also is found in dif-
ferent places of the parish.

   Hills, Rivulets, etc.-The only hills in this parish, are
the Ochils. They begin in the parish of Dumblane, imme-
diately East from the Sherriff-muir, and stretch in an eastern
direction many miles into Fife.  In this parish they are of
considerable height; perhaps some thousand feet.  They are,
as already observed, of a beautiful green; afford excellent
pasture for sheep, and produce mutton of the finest flavour.

     VOL. XV.  X

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some time ago, a vein of LEAD was discovered in the Ochil hills, a little
above the town of Dollar; and wrought by a Company for several years.
From this work, a considerable quantity, both of Lead and of Copper Ore,
is said to have been shipped off for Holland. But it is said that the Company,
somehow disagreeing among themselves, gave it up.  Nevertheless, it is be-
lieved, that if a Company of spirit were to make a thorough trial, it might
turn to good account.  SILVER ORE, in considerable quantities, is likewise
said to have been found in the Glen of Care, or rather of Cairn, on the West
of Castle-Campbell; but that it did not answer the expence of working it.
PEBBLES, of considerable value, have also been found upon the top of a hill
above Castle-Campbell, called the White Wisp.


