
     Statistical Account

exceed 1 d. the lb.; and now one of the same quality
will fetch L. 2. 10 s. Sterling.  Every other article of
consumption is heightened in the same proportion.

   Church, Heritors, Rent, etc.-St Nicolas church in this
parish was rebuilt in 1781.  The manse was built in 1763.
The glebe, which consists of 4 1/2 acres was inclosed with a
stone dike by the present incumbent.  It is situated by the
shore, and every three years produces about six tons of kelp.
The stipend consists of 86 mails malt, (each mail weighing
about 12 stones Amsterdam weight), and of 6 barrels
grease butter, which, with the vicarage tithes, including the
gelebe, may communibus annis, amount to L. 70 Sterling.
Sir Thomas Dundas is patron, whose charitable donations
to the Orkney and Zetland Isles, in their indigency at dif-
ferent times, deserves notice, and will leave an abiding im-
pression of his noble, humane, and generous feelings.  Capt.
Alexander Graeme, of his Majesty's navy, whose behaviour
on the Dogger Bank acquired him the esteem of the public,
and his Sovereign's approbation, is almost sole proprietor.
The family, for upwards of 100 years, resided at the family
feat of Graemes Hill, and by their example and encourage-
ment promoted a spirit of industry in the people.  From the
family's first settlement, to this day, the proprietor has not
raised the original rents; and some of the ancestors of the
present tennants have possessed the same farm, time immemo-
rial.  In general, they are a sober, temperate, and active race.
There being no villages in the parish, the people are less
corrupted in their morals, than those in towns and cities.
They are patient, hardy and industrious, decent in their de-
meamor, rational in their religious sentiments, and regular
in their attendance upon divine ordinances.  There are no 
religious sectaries of any denomination.  The valued rent
of the parish is L. 2465:12:10 1/2 Scotch.  The real rent is
supposed to be about L. 700 Sterling, bisthoprick included.


