
590                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

in width, and from twenty to thirty in heighth, called the Needle's-
eye, through which the sea, in an easterly gale, rushes with impe-
tuous violence.  This fissure perforates a round bluff hill of solid
rock, which is covered with a layer of earth to the depth of several
feet, and its sides are smooth and polished with the action of the
waves.
   The extent of coast is somewhat upwards of six miles, the
greatest part rocky, the remainder of a fine soft sand.  The rocks
rise to an elevation of from 170 to 200 feet above the level of
the sea, and are bold and precipitous, forming innumerable little
bays and creeks.  In some places, they are riven asunder and piled
on one another in terrible confusion, ever and anon yawning with
deep and ghastly chasms.  Many of these little bays, if they may
be called so, are thickly studded with bare rocks, some rising to a
great height in naked magnificence, while others heave their huge
and horrid ridges just above the surface of the water.
   Climate.-Upon the whole, there is scarcely any perceptible va-
riation of the climate over the extent of the parish; and it may be
characterized as damper and colder, and in every respect less ge-
nial than in some of the inland parts of the county.
   One of the most painful and agonizing diseases that can afflict
humanity carries off its yearly victims from amongst us, and has
not once left the parish these many years.  This fatal and almost
incurable malady is the stone, which chiefly prevails among the
aged fishermen; and there are four men upwards of sixty years at
present labouring under its tortures.  Some attribute this disease
to the quality of the spring-water, which is very hard, and after
long standing, deposits a little limy sediment; others to the beer
which they drink, a beverage they are particularly fond of, when
they return from fishing; and others, again, to the cold and raw
nights to which their profession exposes them on the bosom of the
deep.  In the autumn of 1832, this parish was afflicted with Asiatic
cholera, which here assumed all its most appalling and frightful
symptoms.  It was imported from Leith in one of the fishermen's
boats, and soon spread over the village with its characteristic rapi-
dity and mortality.  In the short space of six weeks, in a popula-
tion of little more than 350 souls, it swept off no less than 23.
Its ravages, however, were entirely confined to the fishing-town of
Colliston.
   Hydrography.-All along the coast, there are many and copious
springs of the purest, coolest, and most delicious water.  These


