
	378                         PERTHSHIRE.

	or sometimes to rolled gravel.  The writer is not aware that any ani-
	mal remains have been found in these deposits, with the exception
	of those sea shells which are met with in great abundance, not in
	the clay, but in the silt, or thin earthy deposit, which is, 15 or 16
	feet below the present surface, and not more than 5 or 6 feet above
	the ordinary high-water mark.  These shells have not been found
	higher up the Tay than opposite the village of Errol; but in the
	lower parts of the parish they are found, not only in the banks of
	the river, but considerably inland, toward the very centre, indeed,
	of the Carse.  Several different species have been discovered, all
	having their counterparts in the living representatives which now
	inhabit the contiguous shores.  Their existence in such a situation
	does not prove, perhaps, that the bed of the river was at one time
	as high as they now are,-for they may have been carried into their
	present locality by some extraordinary inundation,,but it does
	prove that since they were there deposited, the surface of the dis-
	trict has been greatly elevated by alluvial deposition. Connected
	with the peat, various trees, chiefly of oak, have been found im-
	bedded and in good preservation.  The writer has conversed with a
	man who told him that he recollects distinctly of hearing his fa-
	ther state that, at a period about forty years ago, the latter was en-
	gaged in digging in a piece of very low ground on the estate of
	Megginch, not many feet beneath the surface, when he and his
	fellow labourer found a small anchor, the figure of which was tole-
	rably preserved, but which mouldered down or went to pieces when
	lifted.
	   Such a circumstance as that now mentioned has sometimes been
	adduced in support of the opinion, that the bed of the Tay was at
	one period on the north, as it is now on the south side of the
	Carse.  Any one, however, who carefully examines the whole of
	the particular localities, will perceive that to such an opinion there
	are insuperable objections. But there is proof in abundance, if
	not that the whole district must, at one time, have been an immense
	lake or extended estuary, at least, that the greater part of it must
	have been under water.  The principal elevations in the Carse
	have been distinguished for time immemorial, by names whhbh im-
	ply that they had at first been islands.  During this state of things,
	boats must, of course, have been required for the convenience of
	the inhabitants, a circumstance which might account for such a dis-
	covery as that to which we have now adverted. The gradual man-
	ner, too, in which these circular islands were enlarged, by the gra-


