
76			        BUTESHIRE.

<TABLE>
	The number of individuals under        15 years, is	383
                                   between      15 and 30,     292
                                                30 and 50,     222
                                                50 and 70,     124
                                                70 and 80,      42
                                                80 and 90,      10
                                          above 90,              2
Number of the families chiefly employed in agriculture in 1831, 24
					in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,114
All these are divided into 226 families, containing, at an average,
three children in e`ch; together with 16 men above 50, who are
either bachelors or widowers and 54 women above 45, who are
either widows or unmarried. During the summer months the po-
pulation is greatly increased, there being sometimes 400 strangers
present at one time in the parish, for the purpose of sea-bathing.
	Neither of the Noble heritors are resident in the parish,
nor are there any individuals of independent fortune in the island.
Lord Glasgow, indeed, occasionally resides for a few weeks in a
house formerly called the Garrison, built on Lord Bute's property,
by, the late James Crawfurd, Esq. Captain of the Royal George
Revenue Cutter, the lease of which his Lordship bought, and which
house has since obtained the name of the Priory. This, however,
is but a very temporary residence. There are 15 houses in the
country, and 144 in the village, all of which are possessed, though
a few of them only during the summer months, being purposely
built for sea-bathing quarters. Besides these, there are three
houses building, but which have not yet been inhabited.
	Character of the People.--The habits of the people are
simple; their houses neat and comfortable, built of stone, and
generally slated, and being cast with Irish lime, they appear ex-
tremely clean, lightsome, and cheerful. To each house there is
a-small garden attached, for the purpose of raising vegetables.
Beside this, each family is accustomed to procure from the farmers
in the neighborhood, a few falls of ground, more or less, accord-
ing to the number of the family, on which they plant potatoes
which, with the vegetables from the garden, and other offals from
the kitchen, enables them to feed a pig by way of provision for the
winter. A number of Lord Glasgow's feuars rent a small piece
of land, in the immediate vicinity of the village, two acres for each
family, on which they raise all common variety of crops; this
enables each of those families to keep a cow, and thereby adds
greatly to their happiness and comfort. These little patcher of
land, being separately inclosed, lying all together, and all in the
highest degree of cultivation, exhibit very much the appearance of



