
                     ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                 275

   Dr Beattie ascribes the pretended faculty to the influence of
physical causes on superstitious and unenlightened minds. He
endeavours to trace it to the effects which wild scenery, inter-
spersed with valleys, mountains, and lake, has upon the imagi-
nation of the natives. But were this the case, second-sight would
still exist, as the rocks, valleys, and mountain-scenery still exist
as wild and fantastic as ever, to affect the imagination of the
people. Others maintain that second-sight arose from optical il-
lusions, and others from ignorance, the great mother of all super-
stitions. It is remarkable, when Dr Samuel Johnson visited this
Island in 1773, and beard a variety of plausible instances of the
prophetic powers of the second-sight, that he gave credit to it,
and expressed his surprise that it was disbelieved by the clergy,
while all others were inclined to believe in its existence and truth. *
   Somewhat analogous to the pretended faculty just described,
yet different from it, are certain prognostications of death, which
are seen in the shape of blue quivering lights, resembling the fee-
ble flame of a taper. These have been observed moving along in
the course which some funeral procession Would soon thereafter
take, or perhaps twinkling in or about the bed in which some in-
dividual was soon to die.  Of the existence of such lights, what-
ever their cause, no shade of doubt can be entertained, as they
have been frequently seen by several individuals at the same time,
whose minds were tinctured neither by prejudice nor by the reve-
ries of any superstition.
   Some time ago the natives firmly believed in the existence of
the " Gruagach," a female spectre of the class of Brownies, to
whom the dairy-maids made frequent libations of milk. The,
" Gruagach " was said to be an innocent supernatural visitor, who
frisked and gambolled about the pens and folds. She was armed
only with a pliable reed, with which she switched any who would
annoy her, either by uttering obscene language or by neglecting
to leave for her a share of the dairy production. Even so late as,
1770, the dairy-maids who attended a herd of cattle in the Island
of Trodda, were in the babit of pouring daily a quantity of milk
on a hollow stone for the "Gruagach." Should they neglect to

<FOOTNOTE>Should the reader feel inclined to have more information about the second-sight
and to know the arguments for and against it" let him consult Martin's Book on the
Hebrides; Macleod of Hammer's do. on second-sight; Theophilus Insulanuea
word on do. ; Dr Beattie's works; Dr Samuel Johnson's do. General StewArtIg
Sketches on the Highlanders; Dr Ferriar on Apparitions Sir J. G. Dalyell on the
Darker Superstitions of Scotland, &c.


