
       180                 ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       stuffs of home manufacture.  They had plenty of wool,and leisure
       enough to turn it to the best account.  Inverness or Dingwall were
       at too great a distance, to be visited by females,-many of whom
       never saw a merchant's shop; and they seldom purchased from
       pedlars, whose wares were sold at an extravagant rate.  Now, they
       have no wool of their own.  The wages of the young people are
       raised.  Cotton goods are cheap : and on Sabbath, the people are
       not only decently, but fashionably attired.
         But there is another improvement of much greater importance
       to which we must allude,-and that is the growing intelligence of
       the people.  About fifty years ago, few, comparatively speaking, of
       the inhabitants, could read; and their knowledge hardly extended
       beyond the ordinary routine of their every-day occupations.  But,
       in this respect, an agreeable change has taken place.  A consi-
       derable majority of the younger portion of the population can read
       the Bible; and indeed the whole body of the people may be said
       to pay more regard to the cultivation of their mind than at the
       period alluded to,-though even still, it must be confessed, there
       is much room for improvement, and much ignorance prevails,-
       accompanied sometimes with indifference to education. It is, how-
       ever, a pleasing reflection, that although the progress of education
       is somewhat slow, and its advantages have not, as yet, appeared
       much amongst us,-it is advancing with a sure and steady pace,
       and that we are encouraged to hope the period is not far distant
       when our once neglected but interesting Highlanders may, as an
       educated and well informed peasantry, bear a comparison with any
       of the same class in Scotland, and be, at the same time, distin-
       guished, as they have uniforml been, for the correctness of their
       conduct, and the simplicity of their manners.

         September 1836.


