
     Of Markinch.

ty of John Balfour, Esq. and in Leslie estate, the property of
the Countess of Rothes, being one and the same seam:  and is
called Leslie or Balbirnie coal, according to the estate, in which
the works are for the time.  But as almost the whole of it,
level free, and more than half the underlevel are in Balbirnie
estate, it is generally known by the name of Balbirnie coal*,
and consists of two species, called the little coal and the great
coal.  The quality of the little coal is extremely good.  It is
a cherry coal, has something of the caking quality, as it works
iron very well, and is the only coal in this part of Fife that
will do so; for which purpose the very smallest particles of
it are sold to the smiths on the coast of Fife, from Dysart to
St. Andrew's, and the whole inland part of the country, ex-
tending to 1000 tons annually, besides the quantity of great
coal, in the state aftermentioned.  It varies in thickness from
6 feet to 4 feet.  The distance between roof and pavement is
generally the same.  When a stone is found in the middle of the
seam, the coal diminishes in thickness, as the stone increases,
till at last, if the stone be very thick, the coal is so much thin-
ned as to be hardly worth working.  This field of coal is not

<FOOTNOTE>

*When this coal was first discovered, cannot now be known, but it appears
to have been wrought at an early period near Balbirnie Burns, first by a free
level, and afterward by some sort of pumps, at a place called the Pump Sink,
to the northward of Balbirnie house.  Old pits can be here traced along the
crop, but the period these were wrought, is unknown.  About the year 1730,
George Balfour, Esquire of Balbirnie, a gentleman who had paid considerable
attention to the study of mineralogy, began first to trace the strata by bores
and otherwise, from these old wastes, through great part of his estate to the
river Leven, nearly one mile distant;-then began at the river, and, by a stone
mine across the metals, wrought into the coal, and thus made it level free to a
great extent, about the year 1740.  By this level, it was wrought from that
date, till the year 1780.  In sinking the first pit on the level, a seam was found
18 inches thick of the little coal, and through the whole field it is exactly 21
feet above the main coal every where.  The same gentleman bored 12 fathoms
through the main coal in search of other seams, but found none above 3 inches
thick.


