
                               FORDOUN.                            79

			  II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Some notices regarding the history and antiquities of Fordoun
may be found in the Transactions of the Society of Scottish Anti-
quaries, in Lord Hailes' Annals of Scotland, in the Beauties of Scot-
land, in Chalmers's Caledonia, in Robertson's agricultural survey
of the county of Kincardine, and in Chalmers' Gazetteer of Scot-
land; but the most detailed account of the parish is the former Sta-
tistical Report, drawn up by the late Rev. Alexander Leslie, fa-
ther of the present incumbent.
         Traditions. *--"The most remarkable are those connected with
the residence of King Kenneth Ill. at Kincardine Castle, in this
parish; his murder, and the death of Finella. It is agreed upon
by almost all the Scotch historians, that Kenneth was murdered by
Finella, at or near to Kincardine Castle. The most probable ac-
count is, that the King having put to death Finella's son, who had
been engaged in an insurrection against him, his mother, Finella,
who was of the royal family, and who is still spoken of in the
Mearns as a Queen, vowed vengeance against Kenneth. Her
castle+ or residence, the site of which is still pointed out, lay
near to the royal palace of Kincardine, and on the south end of
the hill which is still known by her name. Near to the palace, and
consequently near to tier residence, was a large park or forest, the
enclosures of which, can still be traced in many places, and which
even now, at this distance of time, goes by the name of the King's
Deer or Hunting-Park. During the residence of Kenneth at
Kincardine, who had come there on his pilgrimage to the chapel
of St Palladius, he is said to have gone one day to hunt in this
park or forest, and that Finella, having got the opportunity she so
much wished for, caused two assassins to way-lay and murder him.
She knew that suspicion would fall upon her, and attempted there-
upon to make her escape through a forest which lay betwixt her
house and the sea, to some place of safety on the coast; but she
was overtaken near to the coast, in a place called ever since Den-
finella, where she was put to death. In corroboration of the above
account of the murder of Kenneth, it may be mentioned that there
was discovered under the pulpit of the old church of Fordoun, a
large piece of freestone, 5 feet 1 inch in length, by 2 feet II
inches in width. On this stone are represented three figures on
horseback, placed in a line, one behind the other, and each arm-

<FOOTNOTE>Notice by Dr Leslie.        Green Castle, or Finella's Castle.


