
			CAMPSIE.		             237


being generally ill built, and generally without drainage. 2.
Though in this respect there is a considerable improvement, still
the people generally are too little impressed with the importance
of cleanliness in their habitations, and of ventilation, as means
of preserving health. 3. In the villages, especially in Lennox-
town, where the inhabitants have increased in a far greater pro-
portion than the houses, the people are too much crowded in their
dwellings The Irish labourers have imported their custom of
pigging,--as many persons occupying a room at night as can find
space to lie in it,--a practice equally inimical to health and to
decency. 4. Though none of the manufactures in this place
appear decidedly injurious to health, as compared with many
others, yet there are many circumstances necessarily involved in
manufacturing employments, which cannot but prove, on the whole,
unfavourable to health; such as the practice of putting children
to work at an early age; labouring in heated rooms; attending
furnaces; working among cold water; breathing a hot atmosphere
in which a great quantity of water vapour and other gases are sus-
pended; mining, &c. Though the masters of works in this pa-
rish manifest, almost universally, a very humane regard to the
health and comfort of their work-people, those causes must, on
the whole, operate unfavourably on their health and longevity.
  On the other hand, it is proper to remember, that persons em-
ployed in manufactures are generally not exposed to cold and wet,
the great springs of disease among the agricultural population.
2. The inhabitants of Campsie are, for the most part, better em-
ployed and better paid than in most surrounding parishes.  3.
The parochial allowances, though probably not so large as the
sanatory and moral welfare of the population demand, are liberal,
compared with those of many other parishes. 4. A large num-
ber of landed proprietors and manufacturing gentlemen are resi-
dent in the parish, most of whom are wealthy and liberal; so that
it is almost impossible that much of that slow starvation should
be found here, which is complained of in many other parts of the
country. 5. Lastly, intemperance, the great mother of disease,
as well as crime, is apparently diminished to a considerable ex-
tent, partly through the efforts of abstinence societies.
  Zoology.--The advancement of civilization in this part of the
country is marked very distinctly by the changes that have taken
place in the animals inhabiting it. Extensive plantations have been
formed, especially around Woodhead, and a vast variety of birds
have in consequence taken up their habitation here, which, forty


