

                      FALKLAND.                             923

the limestone noticed above, and penetrates the hill at the farm-
house of Hanging Myre.  The mine seems to have been carried
to a considerable extent; but no records appear to have been kept
or can now be found of the results of the operations.  Two similar
veins occur in the county, in the parishes of Kembach and Inver-
keithing situated among, the same series of rocks, and having the
same general line of bearing.  The ore in all of them is partly
massive, and partly in very regular hexahedral crystals.
  Zoology and Botany.-The wood of Falkland, which was once
the resort of the fallow deer (Cervus dama), and the hunting-place
of kings, has long ago had no other existence than in the archives
of the past.  This wood, which chiefly consisted of oak, was, even
during theregency of the Queen-Mother of the unfortunate Mary,
in a state of decay;\f and, about a century after, Cromwell cut
down of it what suited his purpose for erecting a citadel at Perth.
The fallow deer, as well as the ancient wood and forest, have dis-
appeared; and the Lomonds are now only ranged by that elegant
native species, the roebuck (Cervus capriolus.)  Five of this species
were killed this season on the Lomond hills.
  Towards the summit of the East Lomond, which rises 1466
feet above the level of the sea, the Vaccinium Vitis Idaea (red
whortleberry) grows plentifully, and bears ripe scarlet fruit abun-
dantly.  On the ruins of the palace, situated at the northern base
of this hill, the Cheiranthus cheiri (wall-flower) grows as in a na-
tive climate; and the abundance with which it covers the rocky
shores near Burntisland, may give it the undisputed claim of being
here completely naturalized, if not native.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Falkland has obtained great celebrity, from having been in
former times one of the favourite residences of the Scottish mo-
narchs.  The first mention made of it in history, is in the book
of the Priory of St Andrews.  Sibbald, quoting from this book,
states, that in the fifth year of the reign of David I., Constantine,
Earl of Fife, and Macbeth, Thane of falkland, gathered toge-
ther an army to prevent Robert de Burgoner from forcing the
Culdees of St Andrews and Lochleven to give him the half of the
lands of Kirkness, in which they succeeded.

<FOOTNOTE>In an act of Scott. Parl. A. D. 1555, the following finding occurs: "it was fundin
be ane assyse, that the said wod of Falkland, for the moist pairt thairof, was auld,
failzeit, and decayit, and meit to be cuttit downe for the comoun weill of the realme,
and to be parkit, hanit, and keepit of new for policie thairof."

