
   328                          BANFFSHIRE.

   cent apartments, furnished in the first style of elegance.  It is
   picturesquely elevated on a perpendicular rock, along the southern
   base of which, the water of Cullen, which animates the beautiful
   landscape, passes here within a hollow rocky channel, sixty-four
   feet deep beneath the mansion walls.  Over this current, a handsome
   single-arched stone bridge, of eighty-four feet span, connects
   the woods, parks, gardens, and pleasure-grounds with the mansion.
   The plantations, within the umbrageous recesses of which
   the mansion is embowered, consist of a great variety of valuable
   wood, beneath the shady foliage of which, an excellent carriage road,
   besides many delightful serpentine footpaths, winds by easy
   acclivities to the summit of the Bin hill, whence there is an extensive
   view of the surrounding country and opposite coast.  The
   pleasure-grounds are upwards of ten square miles in extent, and
   present to the eye a range of scenery, which, for richness, variety,
   and picturesque beauty, is not surpassed by any policy in Scotland.
   Here nature has done much, and the embellishments of
   art, have been liberally bestowed from time to time, by the Noble
   proprietors, especially by the present Earl, whose accurate and
   refined taste has been most successfully exercised, in adding to the
   attractions of this magnificent residence.  In Cullen House, there
   is an elegant and extensive library, consisting of many thousand
   volumes in the several departments of literature and science; and
   the walls of the principal apartments are adorned with a great variety
   of valuable paintings, many of them by the first masters.
   The gardens, vineries, &c. are upon a scale of grandeur, corresponding
   to the dignity and opulence of the Noble proprietor, and
   for beauty of arrangement and luxuriance in the growth of rare and
   costly plants and fruits, are unrivalled in the north of Scotland.
   Modern Buildings.-The only modern building deserving of notice
   is the Cullen Hotel, attached to which, and under the same
   roof, but with a separate entrance, are three public rooms, viz. an
   elegant ball-room, 43 1/2 feet in length, and 23 in breadth; a commodious
   court-room, in which are held the sheriff and justice of
   peace courts; and the council-room of the burgh, a handsome apartment
   of a circular form, 23 1/6 feet in diameter and 16 feet in
   height.  The entire building was erected in 1822, at the expense
   of the Right Honourable the Earl of Seafield, and cost L. 3000.
   It is situated at the public square, and adds much to the appearance
   of the town.


