

                              TRAQUAIR.                          37

a distance, and particularly from a station on the northern bank of
the Tweed, it has the appearance of a considerable valley,-the
hills rising very gradually, in comparison with the neighbouring
mountains, from the mouth of the Quair along its banks, as far as
visible from the station indicated ; and it may be taken as a pretty
strong corroboration of this meaning of the prefix Tra, that farther
up the stream, where the strath is much narrower, it is there called
The Glen.
  The greatest length of the parish in a straight line from cast to
west is probably not quite eight miles, and its greatest breadth,
being from north-east to south-west along the banks of the Quair,
scarcely amounts to five miles.  It is divided from the parish of
Innerleithen on the north by the river Tweed; it marches with the
parish of Peebles on the west for about a mile; and on every other
side is bounded by the parish of Yarrow or the Forest in Selkirk-
shire.  One narrow stripe of the parish and county, indeed, com-
pletely divides the ancient parish of Killzie from that of 'Traquair.
Another point of it comes within 200 yards of the church, stretch-
ing into the very centre of the parish, and reaching within a mile
of the Tweed, its northern boundary; and a third point of the same
parish very nearly cuts off the eastern wing of Traquair from its
centre. On this account, the figure of the parish is wholly unde-
finable, and its extent in square miles not easily computed.  Ac-
cording to Armstrong, it contains 17,290 acres, and may therefore
extend to nearly 30 square miles.
   Topagraphical Appearances.-The surface of the parish is ge-
nerally mountainous; and being situated on the south bank of the
Tweed, its boundaries on every other side being almost inva-
riably the highest ridge of these mountains, it consequently slopes
downwards towards that river, and faces the north; hence arises
in some measure the heathy and dark colour of its surface.  The
valleys on the banks of the Tweed are not very extensive, and vary
in elevation above the level of the sea from nearly 400 to about 500
feet.   The hills in general are steep and lumpish, but not rocky or
precipitous, thus affording a dry and sound, but bare sheep-pasture ;
wholly divested of caves or caverns, or any thing approaching to
the wild or the picturesque, if we except Glendean's banks, " truly
a frightful chasm," extending probably three quarters of a mile in
length, and rising on either hand in noble precipices several hun-
dred feet in elevation.  Minchmoor is described as being "a large
and spreading mountain 2285 feet above the sea's flow;" and


