
	1226			PERTHSHIRE.

	the Loch of Watston, on the estate of Gartincaber, and Loch
	Maghaig, in the braes of Doune.  The latter is formed chiefly from
	the springs above referred to.  It forms nearly a circle, and is about
	a mile in diameter, while its depth  is considerable.
	   Rivers.-Besides the smaller streams, Keltie, Annat, and Ar-
	doch, the river Teith flows through the parish, and the Forth is
	its south boundary.  The Teith rises partly at the head of Glen-
	gyle, flowing through Loch Venachar from Loch Achray and
	Loch Katrine, and partly in the Braes of Balquidder, flowing
	through Loch Voil and Loch Lubnaig, the two streams uniting
	above Callander and joining the Forth two miles from Stirling.
	   Cascades.-Though we cannot claim the neighbouring scenes
	of Bracklin Bridge and Pass of Leney, the " braes of Doune" can
	boast a number of beautiful cascades, formed by the Annat,-one
	or two at least rather considerable; while, not to mention the nu-
	merous torrents of Teith's rocky channel, splendid th6tigh artifi-
	cial cascades are formed by the Deanston embankments.  There
	is also a beautiful fall of water from the canal connected with the
	works.
	   Zooloqy, &c.--The fishes in the rivers are salmon, trout, &c.: and
	pike and perch in the lakes.  The salmon are said to come up the
	rivers for spawning in December, and to return in the end of Ja-
	nuary.  Pearls have long been found in the Teith, in a certain
	shell-fish.  The sea gull frequents the lochs, and the new dam of
	Deanston.  A pure whitemagpie has sometimes been seen.  Ex-
	cellent horses are bred in the parish.  The stag from Glenartney
	is a frequent visitor.
				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   There is in the, possession of James Macfarlane, Esq.  Wood-
	side cottage, a " bond of maorent granted by the Edmonstones of
	Duntreath for the manslaughtdr of James Stewart of Beith, um-
	quhile father to Sir James Stewart of that Ilk and Doune."
	   Eminent Characters.--Connected with this parish by residence
	were, Napier of Merchiston, the immortal Inventor of Logarithms,
	--"the person," as Hume says,  "I to whom the title of great man
	is more justly due than to any other whom , his country ever pro-
        duced;" * and Robert Spittel, the benevolent and philanthropic
	founder of the bridge of Teith, and also of the Stirling Hospital
	which bears his name.

<FOOTNOTE>Ballinton, in this parish, was the seat of the Lords Napier till the middle of last
	century.  A copy of the Confession is subscribed in the session records by Lord Na-
	piar, with other ruling elders and the minister.


