
34                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

to the kirk-session for behoof of the poor, by the late William
Simpson, Esq. younger of Plean. The interest only of this sum
is distributed, in terms of the will of the donor.
   The manse was rebuilt in 1746, and since then it has under-
gone many alterations and repairs, particularly in 1835, when it
received a considerable addition. The house and offices are now
in good order, and contain ample accommodation for a family.
Adjoining is an excellent garden. Being in the town and near to
the church, the manse is convenient for the incumbent and the
parishioners.
   The glebe is somewhat less than the legal quantity of four acres,
but the difference is made up by a portion of adjacent grounds,
which is rented by the heritors and possessed by the minister.
The stipend being payable in grain, varies in its amount, and may
be estimated on an average at L.400.
   There are no Chapels of Ease, but there are two additional
churches, one at Grangemouth and another at Camelon, whereof
potice has been already taken. There is also a church in the
town, formerly of the Old Light Associate Synod, now connected
with the Establishment, to which no parochial district has been as
yet assigned. There is no Episcopal chapel. At present, while
the railway is forming in the neighbourhood, a meeting of Papists
is held monthly in the town, where service is conducted by a priest
from Stirling. The audience is chiefly composed of Irish labourers.
There are several Dissenting chapels, one of which has already
been noticed under the head of Laurieston. In the town, there
are two of the United Secession Synod; one of the Relief, and
one of the Baptist persuasion. Of the three former, the ministers
are paid from the seat-rents, and their stipends may be estimated
at from L. 100 to L.200, including the value of their manses. Of
the latter, the services are conducted by laymen, and the sittings
are free. The Congregational church, a few years ago, became
extinct, and their place of meeting is now occupied by the Baptists.
   The average number of communicants at the Established
Church, twice in the year, is from 600 to 700.
   Divine service there, and also at the Dissenting chapels, is, in
general, well attended, which can scarcely fail to be the case in
such a numerous population. It is to be lamented, that some in
the more respectable walks of life give only a partial attendance,
while multitudes in the lowest ranks of society are altogether care-
less about the matter.


