
544                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

Strathdon there is a regular chain of ruinous castles, and it is a
singular coincidence, that the first four are all placed at equal in-
tervening distances,-Towie Castle, being about three miles up the
Don from Kildrummy; Glenbucket, three above Towie; and
Culquhanny, three miles higher up than Glenbucket; a mile be-
yond Ctilquhanny stands the Doune of Invernochty; and, lastly,
at the head of the strath, the Castle of Corgarff.  The latter three
only are in this parish.  Tradition says Culquhanny Castle was
built by Forbes of Towie (a cadet of the Putachie family, who
married the heiress of Towie), early in the sixteenth century, but it
was never finished.  " The most ancient building still entire," says
the former Account, " is the castle of Corgarff.  It is supposed
to have been built by some of the Earls of Marr for a hunting-
seat.  During the feuds between the Gordons and the Forbeses,
it was burned down in 1571 by Adam Gordon of Aucliendown or
some of his officers, and in it Margaret Campbell, daughter of
Campbell of Calder, then big with child, together with her chil-
dren and servants, 27 in number, were cruelly burned to death.
Having been afterwards rebuilt, it was purchased by Government
in 1746 from Mr Forbes of Skellater, and for several years there-
after 15 or 20 men were stationed in it."  From 1827 to 1831,
it was garrisoned by a captain, subaltern, and 56 men, to support
the civil authorities in the suppression of smuggling.          '
   Doune.-A short way above the confluence of the Nochty and
the Don, there is a very remarkable abruptly conical mound, about
60 feet in height from the bottom of the ditch ; 970 feet in cir-
cumference at the base ; and 562 feet at the top.  It is of an oval
form, and the flat surface on the top measures about half an acre.
It has been regularly fortified by a moat 16 feet deep and 26 feet
wide at the bottom, which has been supplied with water by the
stream Bardock.  It has evidently been One of those gravelly emi-
nences already mentioned, and probably the cutting of the wet
ditch and the more regular formation of the sides is all that is ar-
tificial about it.  Its situation and figure pointed it out as a place
on which to erect a stronghold.  All around the top, the founda-
tions of buildings are visible.  A small portion of wall on each side
of the gateway to the south is still seen, but it is too dilapidated
to judge of whit the thickness bad been.  At the level of the
ground it measures six feet.  There is no account of this remnant
of antiquity.  Some vague tradition states that the church origi-
nally stood here, which merely rests on the former name of the


