
                        CARMUNNOCK.                          607

house, and he has now not only all the legal accommodations, but
the whole educational establishment does much credit to those
concerned. The school-house has a play-ground in front, an ap-
pendage that should always be looked upon as a sine qua non.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of poor on
the permanent roll may be stated at five. Besides these, however,
occasional relief is annually afforded to many whose circumstances
for a time require it, and in no place are the wants of the poor
more zealously attended to, or more liberally supplied. The week-
ly collections at the church door average L. 20 per annum, and
in addition to this source of aid, the poor derive assistance from
several mortifications made at different periods for their behoof, the
interest of which is L. 25 per annum. We have no assessment,
nor is there any prospect of one ever being required. There are
frequent collections at the church door for charitable and religious
purposes, which may amount to from L. 25 to L. 30 per annum.
	Fairs.--There was at one time an annual fair held in the vil-
lage of Carmunnock, on the first Friday of June, but it has now
gone into complete desuetude.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The above statistics have reference solely to the parish of Car-
munnock quoad civilia, except when mention is expressly made of
those portions of territory annexed quoad sacra, a more full ac-
count of which is likely to be furnished by those ministers to whose
parishes they belong quoad civilia. The most marked improve-
ment since the publication of the last Statistical Account is be-
yond question, that which is connected with the agricultural state
of the parish, and its consequent increase of yearly rental. It
might have been mentioned on the subject of longevity, that the
writer of this account was once present at a funeral in the parish,
where there were present the father of the deceased, one of the
grandfathers, and the two great grandfathers; and though this was
ten years ago, they are all alive at the present day.
	July 1839.


