
     Statistical Account

<TABLE=POPULATION TABLE of the PARISH of CALLANDER.>

The number of souls, at present, (1791), in the parish, is about   2100
The village of Callander contains near                            *1000
Of these, there are in Kilmahog                                     250
And, in the country, about                                          750
The number of males is                                             1000
              females                                              1100

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

system, wherever it took place, the barons valued themselves, and were valued
by the state, not by their rental, but by the number of their followers. The
object, therefore, of every great man, in those times, was to have his estate
crowded with inhabitants; and all his farms were split down into many divisions
and subdivisions.  But, upon the decline of this system, the farms were generally
given to one of the most wealthy of the former tenants, and all the rest compel-
led to shift for themselves, or to become cottagers.
   While the farms in the Highlands continued in tillage, these superior farm-
ers stood in need of the cottagers to cultivate the ground as servants and labour-
ers; and they were allowed a small pendicle and some cattle, besides a little
money, in name of wages. But when sheep began to be introduced, these small
possessors were swept entirely away, and all the business of the farm was ma-
naged by a shepherd or two, and three or four dogs. What remedy had the
poor then?  None surely, but either to emigrate, or to crowd into villages, or to
beg.  Those who had money to pay their passage, left their native country,
and carried away their riches; some, who had no money, battered their ser-
vices, for a number of years, to obtain a passage; and others, of less spirit, the
dregs of the people, in this predicament, have remained at home, and have
sought an asylum in villages.
   This is no ideal picture of the times.  That it is more or less the case, in
many parts of this kingdom, and that it is daily increasing, is undeniable.  But
in this part of the country, we feel not the full extent of the calamity.  The
farms, in this parish, are let at a moderate rent; and the practice, of engrossing
many into one, has not hitherto, owing to the good sense of the proprietors,
taken place; although it has come very near our doors. Our grass farms, in
the mountainous part of the district, are thinly inhabited, but not depopulated,
as is the case in the south and west of Scotland.
   These causes have, in a greater or less degree, operated in all the grass

*In this number the settlement of invalids is included.


