
570                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

   In the manuscript Geographical Description of Scotland, col-
lected by the same industrious antiquary, (Advocates' Library,
Vol. i. p. 7,) it is mentioned, that to the west of the field of
battle about half a mile, is a farmer's house, called Legget's Den, *
hard by, in which is a tomb built in the form of a malt steep, of
four large stones covered with a broad stone above, where as the
country people generally report, Donald of the Isles lies buried,
being slain in the battle, and therefore they call it commonly
Donald's Tomb.  So far the manuscript.  It is certain, however,
says Tytler, that thd Lord of the Isles was not slain.  This may
probably be the tomb of the chief of Maclean or Macintosh, both
of whom fell in the battle.  It is more likely to have been Macin-
tosh's tomb, as Maclean's grave, as formerly mentioned, is still
pointed our on the field of battle.  Some of the stones com-
posing this tomb, were in the situation as above described, till
about thirty years ago, when the tenant unfortunately removed
them.  One of them is still shown as forming part of an embank-
ment to prevent the river of Ury from encroaching upon the farm
of Mill of Pitcaple; but what became of the others is unknown.
   To the north of the House of Pitcaple, there are traces of an
ancient camp; immediately adjoining to which, the foundation of
an old bridge across the Ury was, some years ago, discovered.
It is said that Lollius Urbicus, the gallant general of Antoni-
pus Pius, crossed the Don at Inverury, passing Harlaw and Pits-
curry in Chapel of Garioch, near to the latter of which places are
the remains of a Roman post, placed there, as is supposed, to
keep up their communications between the camps of Peterculter
and Glen-mailen, about twenty-six statute miles from each other.
   Chalmers in his Caledonia observes, that there is indeed reason
to believe, that there are traces of roads which may have been
made by Roman hands, farther north than that which went across
the moor at Brechin, where vestiges of it appear pointing to Keith-
ock.  In Aberdeeinshire, between the rivers Don and Ury, on
the eastern side of Benochie, there exists an ancient read, + which
is known in the country by the appropriate name of the Maiden
Causeway. ++  It proceeds from Benochie, whereon there was a

<FOOTNOTE>There is a tradition still prevalent in the parish, that this farm was so named
in consequence of a conference having been held here, between one of the Kings
of the Scotland and a Pope's legate.
          The traces of this ancient road are still visible.
          Some of the Roman roads in the north of England are "distinguished by the
same name of Maiden Causeway.


