
236                        PERTHSHIRE.

	and lawns, trees have been for a long time planted, and pasture
	and wood-land are thus intermixed.  There is no undivided com-
	mon, but a small part of what was such may be profitably im-
	proved by tillage, or planted with trees.  The woods and beltings
	are regularly thinned and pruned.
	   Rent.-Land rent is very various.  The average rent (partly in
	grain and money) of land fit for wheat is reported to me, by fac-
	tors and tenants, at L.2 to L.2, 15s.; that of land fit for bar-
	ley and green crop, L.1, 10s.; and of land of an inferior quality,
	L.1. But of this last description of soil there is little in the pa-
	rish. There is little permanent pasture, except in lawns and
	parks, of much value, and it is either pastured by the proprie-
	tor, or let together with arable land.  The rent may average about
	L.3 to L.4. The rental of the parish is about L.5000.
	   Wages.-Wages, including the value of victuals, (oatmeal and
	milk,) and lodgings of a farm-servant for one year, are stated at L.20
	to L.24, 11s.; and for a woman, living in the house, at L.5 to L.7.
	   Day-laboureirs get 2s. a day from March to September.  Women
	for field work, 8d.; masons and carpenters have from 2s. to 3s.
	in the long day-less in winter in, proportion.
	   Live-Stoch.-Few sheep are bred.  In this parish and the neigh-
	bourhood the Leicestershire is generally most esteemed.  Angus-shire
	cattle are the principal stock; but some are bred from a cross with
	the short-horned (Teeswater) bull, and accounted good feeders,
	and early fattened.  The general duration of leases is nineteen
	years.  The farm-buildings and enclosures are well-preserved.
	Proprietors give encouragement to improvements, and in most
	instances have given deductions of rent since the late war-or
	when times required abatement.  And their kind' consideration is
	generally admitted by the tenants.
	   There is no regular manufactory now in the parish.  About
	fifteen men and women are chiefly employed in weaving coarse
	linen. Machinery has nearly put an end to hand-spinning, and
	old women, especially, get little or nothing to do, and are (many
	of them) reduced to poverty.
	   A Perth manufacturer who resides here has a work-mill, &c.
	for dyeing and dressing cotton cloth, for umbrellas.  The people
	employed (from six to eight) live comfortably, and work only twelve
	hours every jawful day.  About 72,000 yards are finished and
	sent to London annually.


