
     Statistical Account

   Climate, Minerals, etc.-The changes of weather are often
sudden and violent; the winters are severe, and the air is

<FOOTNOTE>

vocate's Room.  While inhabited by the Crichtouns it was an
irregular castle, and with its appendages covered the whole
breadth of the point on which it stands, formed by a deep re-
cess on either side running up towards the hills from the glen
behind: The ground floor in the front of the present building
made a part of one of its towers; it is arched above with slits
for defence on every side, and its wall is so strong as in one
place to have a closet cut out of its thickness.  On the N. over-
hanging the eastern recess, through which descends a rivulet,
some vaults are left underneath the remains of a small round
tower, and over the Western, which is dry, was the chapel and
prison, which last is still remembered to have been used for re-
fractory coalliers.-In the time of Dr Pennycuick, some parties
from General Monk's army are reported to have been detach-
ed to this neighbourhood, and distinguished a stream that en-
ters the glen in several considerable falls about a mile to the E.
It is known by the name of Monksburn; the hill from which it
descends by this tradition, was from hence called Monk's Rigg,
and the glade, through which the Esk winds at its mouth,
Monk's Haugh.  A little below this, surrounded with rising
knolls, and on three of its sides by the wooded banks of the ri-
ver sweeping round far beneath, is a clear and deep lake with-
out any visible supply or outlet.  At the meeting of two glens
farther up, and to the S. of Monksburn, is a singular rock, re-
sembling a tower, called the Harbour Craig, on which are
rudely carved a number of names and dates corresponding to
the time of the Commonwealth, said to have been the work of
some of the Covenanters who took shelter about it.  The build-
ing seems to have remained unaltered till the time of Mr For-
bes, when most of the old castle was pulled down, and the pre-
sent double House erected in its stead in imitation of the House
of Culloden.  What makes these particulars very interesting, is,
that at this time the place was distinguished by being chosen for
the scenes of the celebrated pastoral comedy of the Gentle Shep-
herd.  'While I passed my infancy at New Hall,' says Mr Tyt-
'ler in his edition of King James's Poems, 'near Pentland
'Hills, where the scenes of this pastoral poem were laid, the feat
'of Mr Forbes, and the resort of many of the literati at that
'time, I well remember to have heard Ramsay recite, as his
'own production, different scenes of the Gentle Shepherd, par-
'ticularly the two first, before it was printed.  I believe my


