
                         BENDOCHY.                       1203

The plough, a truly primitive implement, was dragged by a yoke
of eight oxen, or of four oxen led on by two horses.  By means
of this motley and formidable cavalcade, the surface of the soil
was only scatched, although apparently it might have, preceded
the great Deanston trench-plough. Sledges having the wheels
and axle of one piece, were used instead of carts.  The farming
was strangely partial in its character.  All the manure was laid
on the infield.  The outfield was treated as the common foe-
At irregular intervals it was cropped, and then' consigned again
to the unassisted powers of nature, the crop being private property,
but the grass, such as it was, common pasturage.  As a rpecimen
of the rental of the parish at this time, it may be added that the
rental of the Coupar-Grange property was only L.115 Sterling.
The second era is that described in the former Statistical Ac-
count, 1796.  Forty years had effected a great change to the
better.  The farms are now divided, hedge-rows are planted,
wheat is grown, and, to a considerable extent, turnips and potatoes
(bad varieties, however, of these invaluable esculents,) are culti-
vated.  Flax was now grown in large quantities; the parish had
two lint-mills; and the women, rich and poor, were much em-
ployed in spinning the lint into yarn.  The Isla flowed amain,
and, wanting the protection of embankments, the timorous hus-
bandman removed to higher ground his corns immediately when
cut.  There were then only three- thrashing-mills in the parish,
and the means of transpprt and communication were miserably
deficient.  The whole, rental of the parish was L.2467.  The
third period, that of the present day, may be described as the era
of green crop husbandry, of cattle-feeding, of bone-dust, of em-
bankments, of furrow-draining, of improved roads and railway
communication.  The spinning-wheel is mute, and the clatter of
the loom is heard in its stead.  Twenty-five thrashing-mills have
frightened the flail, and that venerable weapon is well nigh obso-
ete.  The rental has risen to L.7087.
   At this moment, it would seem that we are on the eve of great
agricultural changes, and if farmers wish their employment to be
profitable, the sooner they direct their attention to the advantages
of furrow-dreaning, of trench-ploughing, and to the application of
new manures, the better will it be for themselves, and aided by
of draning they ought to be directed encouraged, and that the pro-
duetive powers of the parish way be greatly increased.  Thus, for


