
     Statistical Account

scarcity is probably not owing to sewer fish being spawa-
ed in the river, but to the many fishings carried on in the
lower parts of the Tay now, where formerly there were
none *.
   There are 3 serries in this parish, 2 over the Tay, and
1 over the Ila; but it is in contemplation by the gentle-
men of the country to build a bridge over the Ila, near
the confluence of the rivers, which will supersede the ne-
cessity of the Ferry there, and prove highly beneficial to
the country at large.  The ferries are put under excellent
regulations, the fare paid at them is moderate, and the
passage safe and commondious.
   In former times, the parish of Cargill abounded with
wood much more than it does at present.  The Shortwood-
shaw is mentioned by Blind Harry, in his life of Wallace,
as an immense woody fastness, remarkable for being the
scene of many of that great warrior's achievements.  For
though there be only a few scattered trees remaining there
now; yet in this place, owing to the extent of the woods,
Wallace is said to have eluded the search of a thousand of
his enemies.  There are at present about 400 acres of
planted wood, mostly Scotch firs; and upwards of 100 acres
of coppice, or natural woods, consisting chiefly of birch
and oak.  There are no bills of any note in this parish,
excepting the Round Law and King's Seat, the last of 

<FOOTNOTE>

*Besides salmon, the rivers in this parish produce also a number of
horse or pearl mussels.  About 20 years ago, there was a great demand
for pearls, and many people here were occupied in fishing for them;
considerable numbers were caught for which there was a ready market,
and good price.  The demand however seafing, this species of fishing has
been dropped for some time.  There is now in the custody of the Ho-
rourable Mrs Drummond of Perth, a pearl necklace, which has been in
the possession of the ladies of that noble family for several generations,
the pearls of which were found here in the Tay, and for size adn shape
are not to be equalled by any thing of the kind in Britain.


