
                              AIRTH.                          281

inferred that these once formed part of the bed of the river, and
that vessels were to be seen spreading their white sails to the
wind, where the husbandman now pursues his peaceful occupa-
tions. The Hill of Airth is of a circular form, and may be com-
puted in height at about 100 feet above low water-mark at spring
tides. On its south-east extremity, stands Airth Castle, the seat
of William Graham Stirling, Esq.; nor is it too much to say,
that, from every part of it, the admirer of nature may luxuriate on
scenes exquisitely picturesque and beautiful. The grounds of
Dunmore Park, the seat of the Earl of Dunmore, may be reckoned
at about 70 or 75 feet above low water-mark. They are richly
wooded; and, together with the mansion-house, present an en-
chanting prospect to the steam-boat traveller between Newhaven
and Alloa. The sea coast, forming the boundary of the parish
to the north and east, may be said to extend in length 8 1/2 miles;
and though there are in a manner three harbours, Newmiln, Airth,
and Dunmore, yet there are none of them sufficiently important to
require particular notice.
   Hydrography.--There are several springs said to be medicinal;
one of which is known by the name of the Lady Well; a name
which it is generally supposed to have received in times of Popery,
from being used to furnish holy water for the abbacy, which is
said to have then existed at Airth, in connection with Holyrood.
The only river in the parish is one of no note, called the Pow.
It takes its rise in the adjacent parish of St Ninians, and empties
itself into the Forth, a little above Kincardine Ferry. It is cros-
sed by several small bridges, one of which is still known by the
name of the Abbey Town Bridge.
  Geology.--All the rocks in the parish are of the coal formation,
and form a part of the great coal-field of Scotland. The line of
dip varies. Next to the Forth, it is southerly; but in the south
part of the parish, it is towards the north-east, which is the gene-
ral dip of the surrounding coal-fields. Veins and fissures cut
across the strata, and have the effect of dislocating them; throw-
ing the corresponding strata either up or down, according to the
angle which the vein makes with the strata. The declination which
the line of dip makes with the horizon, is generally about one foot
in six. The rocks are sandstones, of various shades of yellow,
grey, and approaching to white; some of them of excessive hard-
ness. Some of the beds are several fathoms thick. Argillaceous,
rock varies in thickness from an inch to two feet. This rock is


