
                          REAY.                                13

      or Miora-two, Gaelic terms signifying smooth and plain, that
      part of the parish particularly named Reay, being smooth and
      plain, in comparison of the other parts which are in general rug-
      ged and hilly.  But the most probable derivation is, that  Reay
      is a corruption from Urray, the name of a Pictish hero, who
      inhabited the castle, to this day called Knock-Urray.  The an-
      cient orthography of the parish was Re, or Rae, but the modern
      is Reay.  It would appear from the fragment of an old poem, for.
      merly among the northern Highlanders, which was sung in
      honour of Dornadilla, that Reay was a place of some note.  The
      lines are:-
                          " Dun Dornigil MacDuff,
                          Ain n'taodh re Miora do n'trath."
      Eng.-"The dun or castle of Dornadilla, the son of Duff, built on
      the side of the strath next to Reay." But that Reay was anciently
      a place of consequence appears from a discovery made in 1751.
      A water-spout whivh fell in that year five miles above Reay, oc.,
      casioned so great a torrent as to cut out a new channel through
      the sand between Reay and the shore 16 feet deep, which disco-
      vered the remains of a town.  The ends of seven houses, built with
      stone, were seen in a line, and the remains of several others, with
      some pieces of pavement.  The stones being of good quality were
      carried off, and the banks soon falling prevented any farther search.
      Pieces of earthenware were found among the ruins.  Tradition,
      says that Reay was a burgb of regality.  A market cross stood
      there formerly; but it has now been removed to New Reay.
        Topographical Appearances.-Its figure, particularly on the
      south and south-east, is very irregular.  There are no mountain
      ranges.  The only considerable mountains are, part of Ben Greim,
      Ben-na-Bad, Ben Shurery, Ben Radh, and Ben Ruaidh.  There
      are, besides, several bills of considerable height, Knock-na-Barei-
      bhich, Knock-Sleitill, and Muillanan Liadh, &c.  Strathalladale,
      lying in the county of Sutherland, presents the, appearance of a
      valley from top to bottom, extending in length eighteen miles.
      The only flat and low lands lie along the coast.
         The shore at Borrowston presents a number of small caves; one
      in particular, into which, when a stone is east, it emits a, hollow. echo-
      ing sound, resembling that of Gling Glang, which is the name given
      it by the inhabitants.  On the same shore there is also a strong na-
      tural arch, covered with green turf, on a level with the adjacent
      ground, and leading over a chasm about forty feet deep, into which


