
14                           KINCARDINESHIRE.

men;--they are saved the trouble of sending the bulk of their fish
inland,--they are encouraged to industry by the nature of their
engagement with the curers, and by punctual payments on the
spot; and besides, there are a good many hands employed at this
work, in cleaning, smoking the fish, &c. who get their weekly
wages regularly paid. All persons seem to be much interested in
the success of this fishery.
	A turbot and skate fishery is also actively carried on from 1st
May to 15th July, all for home consumption. There are six boats
generally engaged.
	There was formerly a herring fishery in this parish, which was
carried on successfully for several years. The herrings having
gone off this coast, the fish-curers were reluctantly obliged to
abandon the station. Some of them, however, are again to try it
this year; and for that purpose several boats have been engaged
for the ensuing season. Success in this fishery would be of vast
importance to the place, and a rich source of emolument to all en-
gaged in it.
	Produce.--The amount of raw produce, as nearly as can bd as-
certained, may be as follows:

<TABLE>

	    Potatoes, 50 acres,                             L. 500      0 0
            Turnips, 110 acres,                                700      0 0
            Hay, 40 acres,                                     200      0 0
            Grazing, (cattle and sheep,)                        65      0 0
	    Fisheries,                                        2500      0 0
	    Grain,                                            3710      0 0
 	    Quarries,                                           30      0 0
	    Miscellaneous produce,                             700      0 0
                        				     ---------------
							    L.8405      0 0
	Manufactures.--The duck and dowlas linen weaving is carried
on to a considerable extent in the town. It is kept up by mer-
chants in Aberdeen, Dundee, and Arbroath, who employ a good
many weavers under the direction of agents.
	The men, women, boys, and girls who are employed at the
spinning-mills, work twelve hours five days in the week, and on
Saturday only nine hours. The mill-master, who now rents both the
mills for flax-spinning, had some time ago such a demand for yarn,
as to be induced to carry on his work during the whole night as
well as the day; and for that purpose, he engaged spinners for the
night work. But while this was found for a time advantageous
to the manufacturer in point of profit, it proved peculiarly unfa-
vourable to the health and morals of those employed at the mill,
and it was ultimately given up; and no man, who really wishes the


