
     Statistical Account

may be reckoned among the disadvantages, that some of
the landlords give but very short leases, if any, to their
tenants.  The consequence of which is, frequent remo-
vals, frequent augmentations of rent, and frequent checks
to improvements, besides the abject state of dependence,
in which the tenant is held.  Some of the lairds also con-
tinue the old method of exacting services from their te-
nants; the bad effects of which are obvious to the
flightest consideration, especially when the number of
these service-days is not limited.  Notwithstanding of all
these disadvantages, there has been no emigration to Ame-
rica from this parish.

   Curiosities, etc.-We have but few curiosities, except-
ing the caves and rocks in the Island of Staffa, so occu-
rately described in Mr. Pennant's Tour to the Hebrides,
that it is needless to enlarge upon them in this place.  At
Aros, upon the Sound of Mull, are seen the ruins of a
pretty large castle, said to have been built by Macdonald,
Lord of the Isles, who lived some time there:  But, at
what period, or how long, I cannot ascertain*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It was evidently intended for a place of strength, built upon a steep
rock towards the sea, and looks, as if it had been secured on the land side,
by a moat and draw bridge.  In several parts of the parish, are seen huge
pillars of unpolished stone, without figures or letters, from 6 to 10 feet in
height above ground.  In many places, 1 of these is seen alone; in others,
5 or 6 of them together, particularly on the height above Kilmore, and
upon an open heath, in the farm of Teany, where they are disposed into a
kind of circular form.  The single pillars are thought to be monuments
of some persons of note, either slain, or buried there; and the erecting of
them must have been a work of no small labour and ingenuity.  The cir-
cular stones were, probably, places of worship, in the time of Druidism.  To
this day, the word Clachan, i.e. stones, is used in most parts of the High-


