
     964                           FIFESHIRE.

     importance, except what is required for the neighbourhood; but
     there are a post-office, with a daily arrival of the mail, a number
     of shops at which any of the necessaries of life can be purchased,
     a good butcher-market, and a brewery.  Fourteen persons are
     licensed to sell spirits, and two gentlemen act as medical practi-
     tioners.  The Parliamentary and municipal constituency is 51.
       The town is ten miles south-east by east from St Andrews,
     and thirty north north-east from Edinburgh.
       Ecclesiastical State.-It is generally believed that Crail was at
     one time the seat of a priory dedicated to St Rufus, and, when
     the last Statistical Account was written, a ruinous gable with
     Gothic windows was standing, and bore the name of the Prior
     Walls.  That gable was thrown down bv the sea about the year
     1801, and there now only remain some of the foundations of the
     outworks, to point out where it once stood.  The adjoining ground,
     however, retains the name of the Prior's Croft, and a well near
     the old building is still called the Briery or Priory Well.  As
     this is not mentioned among the religious houses suppressed at
     the Reformation, some have doubted the common tradition; but
     Leighton), in his Fife Illustrated, states that, according to General
     Hitton, there is an old manuscript inventory among the Harleian
     manuscripts in the British Museum, in wich the following char-
     ter is mentioned:-"To the prior of Crail, of the second teinds
     of the lands between the waters of Neithe and Nith."  There
     was also a chapel within the Castle of Crail, dedicated to St Rufe,
     which had teinds belonging to it, both. parsonage and vicarage,
     but its name is now only to be found in ancient charters.
       The present church is so old that many believe it to be the
     one in which David 1. worshipped when he lived in Crail; and,
     although its beauty has been much destroyed by the Alterations it
     has undergone, it is still a fine specimen of pointed architecture.
     It consists of a central have, with aisles divided by a row of pillars
     on each side, and, at the east end, a portion of what originally
     formed the choir, in which daily service was performed.  The
     choir was for a number of years shut up; but, in 1828, it was
     re-opened, and seated for the sake of additional accommodation
     to the parishioners.  In all, the church will Dow accommodate
     nearly 10,00 persons, being about the legal allowance for the po-
     pulation.  This church, which, with the teinds, both parsonage
     and vicarage, anciently belonged to the priory of Haddington,
     was, in the year 1517 (upon the petition and endowment of Sir



