
                  	STRACHAN.                                 243

   A parochial society was lately formed for the suppression of in-
temperance, on the total abstinence principle. It numbers up-
wards of ninety members, and promises to do much good.
   Measures are in progress for the institution of a savings bank
in the parish.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--Average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid, 46; average quarterly distribution, L. 25
average sum allotted to each pauper annually, L.2, 3s. 8 1/2d. This
is exclusive of the maintenance of three lunatics in Montrose asy-
lum, at the rate of L. 22 per annum. The poor are sup-
ported from the church door collections; the interest of L.177 of
a fund; Lady Fraser's legacy of L.2 annually ; a few trifling per-
quisites, and the donations of heritors. Generally, they are re-
luctant in applying for parochial aid, and moderate in their re-
quests.
   Fairs.--There is an old annual fair at Cuttieshillock, which,
in consequence of the number of markets in the neighbourhood,
is thinly attended.
   Inns.--There are at present four in the parish, one at Scolies-
cross, about a mile north of bridge of Dye. The proprietor, on
renewing the lease of the farm, has very judiciously put down the
public-house, which will accordingly be shut at Martinmas first.
About two miles farther on the Cairn road is Cuttieshillock, one
of the oldest inns in the north. The house was lately repaired
and much improved. About a mile farther on is an inn at White-
stone, a larue building. The fourth is at church of Strachan, on
the road to Banchory.
   Fuel--The fuel of the inhabitants is almost entirely peat and
wood, the former procured from the mosses of excellent quality,
which abound in the parish, to which all the parishioners have a
right, but which are situated at distances of from two to five miles
from at least two-thirds of the population. A cart load of peats
costs from 3s. to 4s., and of wood from 1s. to 2s.

	February 1842.


