
240                        ARGYLESHIRE.

the prosecution of his favourite studies.  He died in Appin, and
was buried in the churchyard of Lismore.
   The Rev. Donald M'Nicol, who was minister of Lismore before
the last incumbent, was noted in his day for his learning, but par-
ticularly on account of his admirable " Remarks upon Dr John-
son's Tour through the Hebrides."  He was also an excellent
Gaelic poet, and several of his pieces are preserved and repeated
here.
   Land-owners.-The landowner in this parish are, Sir John
Campbell of Ardnamurchan, Bart. who has lands both in Appin
and Lismore;  Robert Downie, Esq. of Appin; Messrs Stuart of
Bailechelish ; Stewart of Ardsheal ; Stewart of Fasnacloich; Sir
Duncan Cameron of Fassfern and Callart; Mr M'Donald of
Glencoe; Colonel Fleming of Kinlochlaich : Colonel Stewart of
Achnacone.; Mr M'Donald of Dalness; and Mr M'Call of Mine-
field.  The above are proprietors in Appin, and the following are
proprietors in Lismore, viz. Sir Duncan Campbell of Barcaldine;
Mr Campbell of Baileveolan; Mr Campbell of Lochnell; Mr
Cheyne of Kilmaron in Fifeshire, and Mr Levingston of Bachil.
The whole of these land-owners, both in Lismore and Appin, ex-
cept the last, have more than L.50 of yearly income.
   Parochial Registers.-The parish registers in this parish are by
no means voluminous, nor do they seem to have been well-kept.
The first volume contains sixty pages of foolscap quarto, sewed
in a cover of brown paper.  The first entry is dated at Kilmaluag,
the 23d day of November 1757, and the volume served exactly
for ten years.
   Antiquities.-There are in this parish several ruins of ancient
castles, but it is much to be regretted that little is known either
of their dates, their builders, or the purposes for which they were
erected.  The first that we shall mention, is the castle of Island-
stalker or rather Elein an stalcaire, which signifies the Island of the
falconer.  The founder was Duncan Stewart, of Appin, who built
it for the accommodation of James IV. who used to frequent these
parts on bunting expeditions.  Duncan of rappin himself was ap-
pointed hereditary keeper of this castle, which is a square tower
built upon a small rock in the Sound that separates Lismore from
Appin, and is the property of Sir John Campbell of Ardnamurchan,
his predecessor, Sir Donald Campbell having purchased it from
Stewart of Appin for a small wherry.  It appears to have contain-
ed three storeys, and has the usual appendage of a prison vault


