
62                   CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

posed to have been the parish church and manse of the united pa-
rishes of Dunnet and Olrick, were, in the night season, suddenly
overwhelmed with sand during the prevalence of a storm, the mi-
nister and his family effecting their escape with difficulty by the
roof; and it is probable that it was at this period that the adjoin-
ing lands of the property of Tain shared the same fate. The dis-
trict is now known by the name of the Links of Old Tain.
   The only other place in the parish worthy of note is Murkle,
on the western boundary; which name is believed to have been ori-
ginally Mort Hill, or the field of death, applied in allusion to a bat-
tle fought between the Danes and natives, in which the latter were
victorious. It is said that the Scottish chief, on seeing a large hol-
low at the head of Murkle Bay filled with the enemy, called out to
his followers, "clear the den," which was responded to with such
destruction of the invaders, that the place got the name of Clear
Den, or Clairden, which it bears to this day.
  Land-owners.-The only two residing heritors are, James Traill,
Esq. of Ratter, and James Smith, Esq. of Olrig, who have done
much for the encouragement and comfort of their numerous te-
nantry. The other non-residing heritors are, the Earl of Caith-
ness; Sir John Gordon Sinclair, Bart.; and the Trustees of the
late George Miller, Esq., who bequeathed the small property of
Swarclet for the benefit of the poor of the parish of Thurso.

<TABLE=POPULATION.>
                        III.-POPULATION.

          By Dr Webster's Report in 1755,                       875 souls.
	 By Sir John Sinclair's Statistical Account in 1792,  1001
          By Government census in 1821,                        1093
          By Do.        Do.       1831,                        1146

And by a census taken up by the present parish minister in
1835, in order accurately to meet some Government queries, the
population was found to amount to 1352 souls, composed chiefly
of farmers, farm-servants, and labourers. This increase is to be
attributed to the erection and prosperity of the village of Castle-
town, (the only one in the parish,) on the property of James Traill,
Esq. of Ratter, and to the employment and liberal wages through-
out the year afforded by him to numerous workmen in raising and
preparing pavement for the southern markets. The number of
inhabitants in this village, which is rising in importance, from the
granting of perpetual feus, and several handsome houses being built
in consequence, may be computed at 320 souls.

<TABLE>

         The average of marriages for the last seven years is      10
                        births,         do.          do.           32
                        deaths,         do.          do.           17
   The latter average raised from the effects of small-pox.


