
        		MONTROSE.                               285

from the teinds, is 19 chalders, half meal and half barley, the va-
lue of which, according to the fiars prices of the county, upon an
average of the last seven years, is L. 295, 5s. 10d., with L. 10 for
communion elements. The stipend in the second charge is paid
from an annuity raised in terms of an act of the Scottish Parlia-
ment, 1690. The act authorizes five per cent. upon the rents of
all houses in the burgh; but, from the increase of the town, it has
not for some time past been necessary to levy to that amount. A
few years ago, the incumbent, and the magistrates who levy the as-
sessment, not being able to agree as to the amount of stipend, an
action was raised before the Court of Session, who fixed it at
L. 340; and the assessment required to realize that sum, including
the expenses of collection, is 2 1/2 per cent. The minister in the
second charge has neither manse nor glebe. The stipend of the
minister in the chapel of ease is L. 150, with L. 12, at each of the
sacraments, for communion elements. The only funds are the
seat rents, and twelve collections allowed to be made yearly.
	There are two Episcopalian chapels in the town, one not in con-
nection with the Episcopal church in Scotland, the other under
the Bishop. There are two congregations in connection with
the United Associate Synod, one of Methodists, one of Baptists, one
of Glassites, and one of Independents. The greater part of these
congregations small, and a proportion of their members come from
the neighbouring parishes. Although there are many who pay little
or no attention to religious ordinances, yet in general the stated
congregations are regular in their attendance upon their respective
places of worship.
	Number of families attending Established church, 2072; fami-
lies attending chapels of Dissenters and Seceders, 441; families
attending Episcopalian chapels, 293. Eight or 10 families pro-
fess to be Roman Catholics: and about 99 families are of no re-
ligious persuation.
        Societies for Religious purposes-There is in the town a So-
ciety auxiliary to the Edinburgh Bible Society; an association in
aid of the General Assembly's Highland Schools, and the Mission
in India, has lately been formed in this parish. There is a Penny
a-week society, the funds of which are annually divided among se-
veral school missionary societies. There is also a Methodist
missionary society.
        Education.-There are in the academy a rector, who teaches
mathematics, geography, and French, two English teachers, two
for writing and arithmdtic, and two for Latin. The salary of the


