
     of Abernethy and Kinchardine.

to a certain person to the west of him, whose power and
influence were so great, that he would have ruined his e-
state if he had refused to comply.  The land of Moray
being, it seems, always a land of plenty, seems to have
been devoted to be plundered.  The people to the west ap-
pear to have claimed a right to a share of the productions of
it.  They used to regret, that their corn-stacks would not
drive like their cattle*.-The humiliation produced by the

<FOOTNOTE>

to a great distance for what his family requires, and therefore it would
seem equitable, that at any rate 20 or 24 bolls meal and hear should be or-
dered; which, with the produce of the glebe, might be supposed to an-
swer for the consumption of the house.

*There is a remarkble correspondence between Allan Cameron of
Lochiel, and the Laird of Grant about 140 years ago, wherein the prin-
ciples of the times are clearly seen.  The correspondence is published in
Sir John Dalrymple's Collection of original papers and letters.  The story
is briefly thus:  a party of the Camerons had come down, to carry a spreath
of cattle, as it was called, from Morray; they unlackily carried off the cattle
of Grant of Moynes in Nairn-shire.  Moynes complained to his Chief, the
Laird of Grant, and he sent a party after them, and after a sharp conflict,
brought back the cattle.  Lochiel writes a letter to his friend the Laird
of Grant, regretting the misfortune, asserting that when his friends went out,
they did not intend to trouble his Honour's land; nor did they know that
Moynes was a Grant, otherwise they would not have gone near him, or
troubled him more than any man in Strathspey, but they went to Moray-
land, be says, "where all men take their prey."  Lochiel mentions the num-
ber of killed and wounded of his friends in the Skirmish; and says, they
were all so much taken up about the curing of their friends, that they
could not attend to any business for the time.  But when that was over, he
was willing to refer the whole to their mutual friend Seaforth, which was
done; and it does not appear, that Seaforth had much difficulty in making
the two chieftains as good friends as they were before.  A little after this
period, the Laird of Grant was obliged to build a stable within his court,
to prevent his own brother from taking away his best horses.  This stable
was taken down about 40 years ago.  The incumbent remembers when
the people of this country kept out a watch in the summer-months, for
protecting their cattle, and these watches kept up by a round of duty, and
reliefs at certain periods.  In this country, where that business was not


