
                        NEW CUMNOCK.                  	       517

	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners in the parish are, the
Marquis of Bute; M. T. Carmichael Esq. of Mains; Sir Charles
Menteath, of Closeburn and Mansfield; D. S. Buchanan, Esq. of
Cunninghamhead; Sir John Cathcart of Carleton and Water-
head; and Miss Stewart of Afton Lodge.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest entry in the parish regis-
ters is dated 1709; but the register has not been regularly kept,
till within these few years.
	Antiquities.--The few antiquities of the parish are, the site of
the Castle of Black Craig,--on the summit of the knoll on which
the castle village stands. The fosse of tbe castle is still very dis-
tinct; but all the stones were removed, about fifty years ago, and
employed in the building of houses. This castle was the proper-
ty of the Dunbars of Mochrum; and is said to have been frequent-
ed by the renowned Sir William Wallace. There are also the re-
mains of an old baronial residence, near the source of the Nith,
now the property of Sir John Cathcart.
	A large number of small coins of Edward 1. of England, and
Alexander of Scotland, enclosed in a small earthern jar, and in a
high state of preservation, were dug up about eight years ago on.
the farm of Whitehill. They are about the value of 5d. each.
Some of them are in the possession of George Ranken, Esq. of
Whitehill, the owner of the lands; the remainder, with the jar in
which they were found, are in possession of the labourer who dug
them up.
	A few years ago, an ancient tumulus on the farm of Polquhaise
was removed. It was found to consist of stones, intermixed with
fragments of human bones; and in the centre of it, close to the
surface of the natural soil, was a sarcophagus of large stones, con-
taining fragments of human bones, with a small quantity of black
earth.
	Modern Buildings.--There are two corn-mills in the parish,
one at Dalricket, and another at Old Mill. Some time ago, a mill
for carding wool was erected by Mr Hunter, at Mansfield village,
where most of the home-spun wool is carded.
	In the year 1832, an elegant new church was erected volunta-
rily by the heritors, owing to the inadequacy of the old place of
worship, to afford accommodation to the, increased population. A
large substantial parochial school-house was built in the course of
last summer, capable of accommodating from 150 to 200 scholars.


