
6                    ELGINSHIRE.

Parochial Registers.-The register of baptisms and marriages,
extending to seven volumes commences in the year 1705, and
though a few years are wanting, it may be reckoned on the whole
as complete a record as is to be found in most parishes. The re-
gister of burials begins in 1770, and is confined to those interred
in the cathedral burying-ground. This inaccuracy, however, is
more apparent than real, as the number of strangers interred in the
cathedral ground are probably very nearly the same as the number
of persons who die in the parish, and are buried in the neighbour-
ing church-yards. These registers are most accuratdly kept.
    Antiquities.-There are various remains of religious hotses in
the parish, the most interesting and magnificent of which are those
of the cathedral. This noble edifice was founded by Bishop An-
drew Murray in the year 1224, on the site of the church of the
Holy Trinity at the north-east extremity of the town, and, as he lived
eighteen years it is probable that if he did not finish, be greatly
advanced the building. "The Wolf of Badenoch,"  having seized,
upon, and kept violent possession of some of the Bishop of Moray's
lands, was excommunicated for this outrage, and in resentment
burnt the town, the parish church of St Giles, the Maison Dieu,
the cathedral, and the greater part of the college in the year 1390.
The cathedral was rebuilt with as little delay as possible, in the
form of a Passion or Jerusalem cross, having five towers, two at
each end, and one in the centre. In the interior it had what is
called the nave for the numerous and splendid processions of Christian
worship under papal guidance,-aisles for the reception of the
multitude to witness these processions,-and a choir for the actual
performance of the sacred rites. On the north side was the chap-
ter-house,cominunicating with the choir by a vaulted vestry. These
essential appendages of Romish worship necessarily occupied a
space of great magnitude, as the following measurement, which is
nearly accurate, will shew: Len th of cathedral over walls, 264
feet; breadth, 35; traverse, 114; height of centre tower, 198; eastern
turrets, 60; western towers without the spires, 84; side wall, 36.
The whole was of Gothic architecture, in the style called "decorated
English;" and although the grotesque is the prevailing character
of the sculpture, many small ornaments, designed with taste,
and executed with the utmost delicacy, are yet to be seen. This
costly and imposing edifice 'stood entire in all its grandeur, until
the governments of the Regent Morton was driven to the miserable
shift of passing an act of council on the 14th February 1568 for


