
              216                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

              Cape Wrath, there is no other stream deserving the name of river,
              except the rather unimportant rivers of Hope and Dionard.  The
              former has a very short course of about two miles from Loch Hope
              to the sea, but catties along with it a considerable body of water;
              and the Dionard, after forcing its way through all the obstructions
              of a particularly rugged mountain strath, silently enters the, head
              of the Bay of Durness.
                The rivers of the west coast having short courses through
              wild districts, are more remarkable for the turbulence of their
              streams, than for their size.  The Inchard is rather a small stream,
              but has sufficient water to afford a salmon-fishing.  The Laxford,
              after a short course from Loch Stack, falls into Loch Laxford, a salt,
              water loch.  This stream is proverbially an excellent salmon river,
              and affords the best angling of any river in Britain, of its size.  The
              Inver is a very rapid and headlong river, issuing from Loch As-
              synt, and falling into Loch Inver, a deep seabay; and the Kir-
              kaig, which divides Ross from Sutherland, is a tolerably large sized
              stream, having its source and its whole supply of water from Su-
              therland, being wholly a river of this county.
                 Lakes.-The fresh-water lakes of Sutherland are very nume-
              rous, and many of them are of large size.  The largest are con-
              nected with, or amidst, the interior range of lofty mountains.  The
              first, as to size, is Loch Shin, the deep reservoir of an immense
              body of water that reposes on the heights of the parish of Lairg,
              and stretches towards Assynt.  This lake, including the small
              Loch Griam, at its west end, and which is almost connected with
              it, is in a straight line, eighteen miles long.  It is one of a remark-
              able chain of lakes, which, with short intervening spaces, extends
              from within ten miles of Bonar Bridge, the highest navigable
              point of the Dornoch Frith, on the east coast, to Loch Laxford,
              an arm of the Atlantic.  The other lakes of this chain are Loch
              Merkland, three miles in length, and only distant from Loch
              Griam about one mile and a-half The next in succession is Loch
              More, or, more property, Loch Rynie, which is only at a distance
              of two miles from tbe west end of Loch Merkland.  Loch More
              is about four miles and a half in length; and at a distance of one

             <FOOTNOTE>The name of this lake, as also Stack and Laxford, are plainly Scandinavian
              names. Mark, signaifying forest, as well as tho march of a territory, or fines terra,
              would, in either sense, be very applicable here; Loch Merkland being within the
              Dirie-more Forest, and the chain of hikes, of whicb it is the centre, having been an-
              ciently the boundary between Ardurness and the old estate of Skelbo. Stack is the
              descriptive  name of the conical mountain that rises from Loch Stack; and Laxford
              (or Lax-flord) is palpably the Salmon Frith.


