
                          PARISH OF UNST.

            PRESBYTERY OF BURRAVOE, SYNOD OF SHETLAND.

             THE REV. JAMES INGRAM, A. M. MINISTER.
        THE REV. JOHN INGRAM, A. M. Assistant and Successor.


            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Boundaries, THE island of Unst, of which this parish
consists, lies in north latitude 60\1 4'5; west longitude 50'.  Its
length from south to north is 12 miles, and its mean breadth three
miles.   Its form approaches to an oblong square, and it contains
upwards of 36 square miles or 24,000 acres.  It is separated from
the island of Yell by Blumel Sound, on the south-west, a rapid
tide-way of about a mile in breadth; and from Fetlar, on the
south side, by a sound four miles broad.  It has the German
Ocean on the east and north, and the Atlantic on its west coast.
  Topographical Appearances.-A considerable proportion of its
surface is dry and level, when compared with many other
parts of Zetland ; and although it has not yet the advantage of
turnpike roads, one can ride from one end of it to the other
without meeting any obstructions.  Hills of a moderate height di-
versify its scenery.  Valleyfield, nearly 700 feet in height, runs
along the western coast, and forms a strong barrier against
the fierce assaults of the Atlantic, which, notwithstanding, dashes
its huge billows against it with such fury, during a north-west gale,
that foam and spray are thrown over it, into the valley on its
eastern side, and strongly impregnate with salt every green herb.
This hill terminates in a long projecting headland, called Herman-
ness (from a hero who is said to have landed, in days of old, on
these shores), the most northern point of the island, and of her
Majesty's dominions.  On the east side of this hill, is a valley,
extending from Uyea Sound in the south, to Burrafirtb in the north,
almost the whole length of the island; and in it there is a continued
chain of loebs,,which empty tbemselves,-one part of them, into
the sea at Uyea Sound,-the other part, at Burrafrith.              The
lochs in the south division, from their dimensions, are called th&
small waters.  The loch of Watly, the first in the northern chain,


