
     Statistical Account

In one place, on the north side of the hill, it appears to have
been dug out formerly, in considerable quantities, when
there was plenty of wood in the neighbourhood; but at
present, in consequence of the want of proper fuel, parti-
cularly coal, it cannot be turned to any material account.
A large vein of fine blue slate extends from S. W. to N. E.
along the foot of the Grampians, intersecting the parishes
of Aughtergavin, Little Dunkeld, Caputh, and Clunie, in
which last parish it seems to terminate.  It is wrought here
to some account, and sold at 18 s. to 20 s. the thousand.  The
Clunie slate does not split so smoothly as that of Esdale
and Laroch, but is thought little inferior in point of colour
and durability.  In some places on the bank of the burn of
Droothy, its laminae are found interspersed with small
masses of the pyrites.  The slate quarries here, though open-
ed four score years ago, have not been carried on with
much spirit or dexterity, and have contributed but little to
the emolument either of the proprietor or of the tacksman.
The vein in some places is merely scratched; and where it
has been struck deeper, the falling in of a little rubbish has
sometimes put a stop to the operations of half a season.  It
may be here remarked, that the strata of the schistus seem in
general to run parallel to Strathmore and the Grampians;
that is, from S. W. to N. E. and to incline towards the
Strath, i. e. towards S. E. in angles of 50 to 80 degrees*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the hilly parts, there is plenty of good peat; though, in some of
the mosses, the uppermost stratum is rather sort and spongy.  Peat is also
found in some of the lower parts of the district; but here it is often im-
pregnated with sulphur or bitumen, and, when burned, throws out ef-
fluvia disagreeable to those who have been accustomed to other fuel.  In
most of our mosses, there are vestiges of oak, birch, and hazel.  Fossil
horns are sometimes found at a great depth in the moss.  The head of the
Urus has been dug up in this neighbourhood, as also the palmated horns
of the elk, together with the horns and skeletons of large deer, supposed


