
                                    GREENOCK.                              421

        He was married twice, and had children by each marriage, but
      only one survived him. His youngest son, Mr Gregory Watt
      died soon after he was admitted to a share in his father's business,
      but not before he had given splendid proofs of literary and philo-
      sophical talents.  A daughter was married but predeceased him,
      leaving two children. He left a widow, the daughter of Mr
      M'Grigor of Clober. She died in 1832.
        The character of Mr Watt has been drawn with inimitable
      beauty by the pen of Mr Jeffrey. After referring to his varied
      and exact information on almost all subjects, and to his astonishing
      memory, and his power of digesting and arranging his information,
      the writer proceeds thus:-
        "It is needless to say that with those vast resources his con-
      versation was at all times rich and instructive in no ordinary de-
      gree; but it was, if possible, still more pleasing than wise, and had
      all the charms of familiarity with all the substantial treasures of
      knovledge. No man could be more social in his spirit, less as-
      suming or fastidious in his manners, or more kind or indulgent
      towards all who approached him.
      His talk too, though overflowing with information, had no resem-
      blance to lecturing or solemn discoursing, but, on the contrary,
      was full of colloquial spirit and pleasantry. He had a certain quiet
      and grave humour, which ran through most of his conversation,
      and a vein of temperate jocularity which gave infinite zest and
      effect to the condensed 'and inexhaustible information which formed
      its main staple and characteristic.                       His voice
      was deep and powerful, though he commonly spoke in a low and
      somewhat monotonous tone, which harmonized admirably with the
      weight and brevity of his observations and set off to the greatest
      advantage the pleasant anecdotes which he delivered with the same
      grave brow, and the same calm smile playing soberly on his lips,
                             He had in his character the utmost ab-
      horrence for all sorts of forwardness, parade, and pretension; and
      never failed to put all such impostors out of countenance by the
      manly plainness and honest intrepidity of his language and deport-
      ment. In his temper and disposition he vas not only kind and
      affectionate, but generous and considerate of the feelings of all
      around him, and gave the most liberal assistance to all young per-
      sons who showed any indications of talent, or applied to him for
      patronage or advice."
        Mr Jeffrey closes his eulogium with these words: "All men


