
                          MORHAM.                             265

gregation are said to have sat, is of a semicircular form, rising
with a gentle slope to the level of the country above. The tra-
dition may be without foundation, as no historical record spe-
cially sanctions it:-it may refer, indeed, to it time as to which
all is dark and uncertain, the era, namely, of the first introduc-
tion of Christianity to East Lothian. But it is pleasing to cherish
the belief of it-to fancy that here St Baldred himself preached,
as it gives the additional charm of a sacred interest, to a spot of
much natural sweetness in itself.
   Proprietors.-The Cess-Book of 1667, gives the following pro-
prietors of the parish at that date,-Lady Bearford, Viscount of
Kingston, Laird of Beanston, Mr James Cockburn.
   The present proprietors are, Lord Wemyss, to whom belong
Standingstoner, * Northrigg, and Mainshill; Robert Ainslie, Esq.
of Redcoll, proprietor of Morham Mains, and Morham Kirkhall;
James Aitchison, Esq. of West Morham; George Carstairs, Esq.
of Morham Bank; Kenneth Mackenzie, Esq. of Rentonhall; and
Captain Cameron, of Beech-hill.
   Eminent Men.-An aisle behind the church contains the bury-
ing vault of the Dalrymples of Hailes. And here are deposited
the remains of the first Baronet, Sir David, already mentioned; of
his son Sir James, who was Auditor of the Exchequer, sad con-
nected by marriage with the Earls of Haddington; and of Lord
Hailes, who died in 1792.
   Parochial Records.-The earliest date in these records in Fe-
bruary 22, 1712. Mention is subsequently made of "old session-
minutes," which must have been of a date prior to 1712; but these
are irrecoverable lost. From that date, they appear to have been
accurately kept, and contain in'the earlier portion, a most par-
ticular notice of parish occurrences and transactions,-births
and marriages, intermixed with accounts of the sessional income
and expenditure, who preached on the Sabbath, or if there was no
sermon, whether the minister preached or lectured, &c. &c. The
following rather remarkable notices occur:-
   1715, October 13. This being the time of the Rebellion, the
cash in the box  was committed to Mr Barelay's care. (Mr Bar-

<FOOTNOTE>So called several immense upright stones, in different enclosures of the
farm, such as occur in other parts of the country, the memorials probably of some
forgotten fond.
   A "big box" and a "little box" were long kept; the former to contain the
larger sums, bonds, bills, &c., the property of the session,-the latter to receive the
collections and occasional contributions in course of the year. The current expen-


