
522                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the wood anemone (Anemone nemorosa,) which adorns the wood-
lands on the banks of the Annan, in considerable profusion. Then,
also, the rather uncommon Adoxa moschatellina is met with.
	In summer, besides the common plants, such as the purple fox-
glove (Digitalis purpurea,) the meadow-sweet (Spirtra ulmaria,)
and the great wild valerian (Valeriana officinalis,) which, in pro-
fusion, ornament the sides of the river, the rivulets, and the moist
ditches,--there are to be seen among some of the hedges, in the im-'
mediate vicinity of the town, the elegant blossoms of the woody
nightshade or bitter-sweet (Solanum dulcamara,) and the beauti-
ful white blossoms of the great bind-weed (Convolvulus sepium.)
In the ditches, the ivy-leaved crowfoot (Ranunculus hederaceus,)
and the great spear-wort (Ranunculus lingua,) frequently occur.
Along the banks of the river and the lesser streams, the water fig-
wort (Scrophularia aquatica)-is often met with. In the wood of
Galabank, the showy-spreading bell-flower (Campanula latifolia)
abounds, a few plants of which are also to be found in the wood of
Craigdale. The Flora of the parish abound with species of the
St John's-wort (Hypericum. ) The mountain-speedwell is plen-
tiful in the woods of Dalebank.
                              II-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Events.--From the absence of historical documents,
it is impossible to ascertain at what period the town of Annan was
founded. In the Old Statistical Account, it is stated that "An-
nan was probably a Roman station,--that it appears to have been
occupied by the Britons of the west, till they were subdued by the
Anglo-Saxons of Northumberland,--and that, upon the overthrow
of that kingdom, it fell into the possession of the Scots, and was,
from the reign of Malcolm Canmore down to that of William the
Lion, reckoned one of the principal border ports." The statement
which has been so often published, and the opinion which generally
prevails, that Annan was constituted a royal burgh shortly after
the accession of Bruce to the throne, appear to be founded merely
on conjecture. During the many transfers of the lordship of An-
nandale which took place after that event, it bannot be inferred, in
any case, that Annan was regarded as a royal burgh. Besides, in
a new charter (the former one having been destroyed in the time
of war,) which was obtained from James VI. renewing and confirm-
ing to the town its former privileges and immunities, it is distinct-
ly mentioned, that, induced by the great privations to which the
inhabitants bad been subjected in protecting and defending the li-


