
               KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                       305

of Ross and Brolas.  All the varieties of land birds are to be found
in this parish which are generally met with in the Highlands,
such as eagles, hawks, kites, wildgeese, pigeons, moor-fowl, black-
cock, ptarmigan, &c.  The sea-fowls are as numerous as the kinds
are various; such as cormorants, scarts, teals, shieldrakes, ducks
of various kinds, &c.  The migratory are, swans, swallows, lap-
wing, woodcock, plovers, solan geese, curlews, wigeons, &c.
  Botany.-Along the shores, the Pulmonaria maritima, or sea
bugloss, is to be found.  Tn the marshy grounds, the Menyanthes
trifoliatum, or marsh trefoil, appears: and the Juniperus communis,
or juniper tred, is common on most of the hills.
  Woods and Plantations.-The only plantations in the parish
are those about Kifinichen and Pennycross, and these not to
any extent.  In the district of Airdmeanach, are to be found oak,
ash, and birch, all natural, but not attaining to any thing of size
or dimensions.
               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The chief landholder in the parish is the Duke
of Argyle; the others are Dugald Maclachlan, Esq. of Killimore;
Colonel Robert Macdonald of Inniskenneth ; Murdoch Maclaine,
Esq. of Lochbuy; Archibald J. Campbell, Esq. of Kilpatrick;
John Auljoe, Esq. of Pennyghail;- Alexander Maclean, Esq. of
Carsaig; and Donald Maclean, Esq. of Kinloch.
  The valued rent of the whole parish amounts to L.207, 6s. 5d.
Sterling.  It contains 371 penny lands, and is thus divided among
the proprietors:

	The Duke of Argyle,                        	L.113  9  6
         Dugald Maclachlan, Esq. of Killimore,           19  0 11
	Colonel Robert Macdonald of Inniskenneth,  	   16  6  0
         Murdoch Maclaine, Esq. of Lochbuy,              13 16  8
	Archibald J. Campbell, Esq. of Kilpatrick,	   11  7  9
	John AulJoe, Esq. of Pennyghail,
         Alexander Maclean, Esq. of Carsaig,             33  5  7
	Donald Maclean, Esq. of Kinloch,
                                                         ----------
                                 Sterling money,       L.207  6  5

  Antiquities.-A monastery is said to have been in the island of
Inniskenneth, but no traces of the building are now to be seen.
The ruins of a small church, said by Buchanan to be a parish
church, and referred to by Dean Munro, and before alluded to,
are pretty entird.
  In the parish there are many of the round towers of Norwegian
or Danish origin; these are all upon the sea-coast and in sight of
  ARGYLE.                                      U


