
438                      FIFESHIRE.

  Antiquties.-A circular tower of the old house, inhabited by Sir
Andrew Wood, and said to have been, previously to his time, a
jointure house of the Scottish queens, still remains. General Dur-
ham has lately put on it a monumental stone, with an inscription
from Sir Andrew's charter. On the banks of the Kiel, a small
stream, are the ruins of the Castle of Balcruvie, once possessed by
the noble family of Crawfurd. In the centre of Lundin House,
which is a modern erection, rises a square tower of great antiquity.
The property of Lundin, which once embraced nearly the whole
parish, was held by individuals of the name of Lundin, so early as
the reign of David I. One of King William the Lion's sons, Ro-
bert, married the heiress, and in 1670, John Drummond, second
son of the Earl of Perth, married the then heiress Sophia, after
which the property remained in the united families of Perth and
Lundin, now repyesented by Lady Willoughby D'Eresby, for a
number of years subsequent to the attainder of the Earl of Perth in
1745, when it was disposed of; and it is now in possession of Cap-
tain Erskine Wemyss of Wemyss Castle, in right of his mother,
daughter of the late Sir William Erskine, Bart.
  To the south and cast of Lundin House are erected three un-
wrought stones of a triangular form, measuring six yards above,
and, as it is thought, as much below ground, the solid contents of
each being 270 feet. They bear no traces of any figure or in-
scriptiOD. By some, they are conjectured to be of Roman origin;
by others, to be the gravestones of Danish chiefs, who fought
here and were conquered by Banquo and Macbeth; and by others,
perhaps, with most probability, to be Druidical remains. Ancient
sepulchres are found near them. They are of red sandstone. Two
pieces of the same species of stone, evidently belonging to each
other, were found some years ago, a mile apart, on the south of
Largo estate. They are now joined, and present the appearance
of a carved cross, of which the transverse pieces are equal, sur-
rounded by a carved circle, touching the extremities of each.
Such stones are said to be extremely rare, one only being known

<FOOTNOTE>He has also erected this summer, on a handsome stage, an iron 32 pounder, belong-
ing to the Royal George, which was wrecked in 1782. This gun, which was recover-
ed in 1836, and presented to the General by the Board of Ordnance, is peculiarly in-
teresting, as Admiral Sir Philip Durham, his brother, a native of the parish, and a
distinguished officer, Commander-in-Chief at Portsmouth, now, and at the time wben
the gun was recovered, was a lieutenant, and on board of the Royal George, at the
time of the wreck, and one of 70 who, out of 12DO persons, were rescued from that
fatal calamity.
          The only descendants of the family of Lundin, bearing the name, are the Lun-
dins of Auchtermairnie, in the parish of Kennoway.


