
                      DORNOCH.                                    11

large farms furnish employment to all in their vicinity who are able
and willing to work.
  Quarries, &c.-There is a considerable freestone quarry in the
neighbourhood of this town, from which stones for building houses
and erecting fences are taken: and there have been several other
quarries recently opened in other parts of the parish ; but none
of these are equal to that in the vicinity of Dornoch, except one
at Embo.
   Fisheries.-There is no regular fishery in the parish.  There
is, indeed, a colony of fishermen at Embo; but they only fish for
haddocks, small cods, flounders, &c. which they sell in the fresh
state.  The women carry the fish in creels on their backs to this
town, and throughout the parish, and sell it as they best can.  The
fishermen also frequently go across with their boats to the shore
of Tain, where they dispose of their fish to advantage.  Of late
years they have engaged in the herring-fishing, by hiring themselves
to fish-curers for the season,-the fish deliverable in the fresh
state at so much per crane, and the nets being provided by the fishermen.
The curers allow a certain quantity of whisky to each
boat's crew.  To the credit of the fishermen at Ernbo, it should
be observed, that, with a few exceptions, they are sober and industrious,
and some of them pious.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Burgh.-Dornoch is the only market-town in the parish, and
the only Royal Burgh in the county. It was erected into a royal
burgh by a charter from Charles 1. A. D. 1628.  The council consists
of fifteen members, including the provost, four bailies, a dean of guild,
and treasurer.  By the constitution and practice of the burgh, four
of the councillors are annually changed.  This is one of five which
compose what is called the northern district of burghs.     It has no
landed property, nor any other source of revenue except the customs
levied at six annual fairs held here, and which are on the decline.
But this mav be accounted for by the recent establishment
of two other fairs, one in the village of Golspie, and another in
the parish of.  Clyne,-and bv the great number of retail-shops
found here and there through- the parish and the county.
  The population of the town is little mare than 500, but appears
to be rather on the increase.  The Sheriff-substitute and Sheriff-
clerk, one writer, two messengers-at-arms, reside in the town.  We
have also a post-office.,The northern royal mail-coach passes through
the town twice every day.  This is an advantage to the burgh, as


