
94				PERTHSHIRE.

(Three-fourths of this, in the shape of grass or hay, require to be con-
	sumed on'the farm, and one-fourth only can go to market.)

<TABLE>
Produce of Crops cultivated for the arts,                            L. 0    0    0
	of land in pasture,                                             750    0    0
	of gardens and orchards, none,                                    0    0    0
 	of the annual thinning, &c. of woods, &c.                         0    0    0
	of fisheries,                                                  1350    0    0
	of coals, quarries, or metals,                                    0    0    0
                                                                     _______________
                     Total yearly value of raw produce raised, L. 14,687    15    0

   Manufactures.--The manufactures of Perth consist principally
of cotton-coloured goods, of which umbrella cloth is the staple.
A great quantity of handkerchiefs, checked and striped ginghams,
imitation Indian shawls, scarfs, trimmings, &c. are also woven.
   The number of weavers is about 1600, some of whom are em-
ployed by manufacturers in Glasgow and Paisley. But a consi-
derable number are employed by manufacturers in Perth, Sbone,
Methven, and Milnathort.
   Most of the umbrella cloths are sent to London, Manchester,
and other towns in England and in Scotland. But the other goods
are generally exported to North and South America, the East
and West Indies. Many of the shawl pieces are for the Turkey
market.
   There has lately been erected a mill for spinning flax and tow
yarns, containing 850 spindles. The number of hands employed in
it are, one manager and four foremen; 18 boys from twelve to fifteen
years old; 47 girls from twelve to fifteen years old; 17 girls
from fifteen to twenty years old; 16 women twenty years old and
upwards; in all 103. The working hours are sixty-nine in the
week, being twelve each day excepting Saturday, on which there are
nine only. There is only one set of workers; but if the arrange-
ments contemplated are completed, there will be two sets, working
eight hours each day, or forty-eight hours in the week. There is
preparation making for additional 400 spindles.
   Tulloch, which lies about two miles to the west of the city, is
memorable from its having been the first bleachfield established
in Scotland. It was established about the commencement of the
eighteenth century, by a gentleman from Ireland, of the name of
Christie. The present proprietor of Tulloch is Rector Sandeman,
Esq., who, with great integrity and enterprise, carries on an ex-
tensive bleaching and printing-work. The number of hands em-
ployed is 250. He has erected an apparatus for the produc-
tion of pyrolignous acid, which is used in his works as a solvent for
various metals and minerals. The charcoal is disposed of to foun-


