
14                             SELKIRKSHIRE.

the water smoothly glides, and presses it against the bank; and
thus the loose gravel, instead of being hurried away, is upheld by
the force of the stream. This expedient is now uniformly adopted
as soon as any encroachment is threatened; and by the employment
of a few trees that may be worth sixpence a-piece, and the labour
of a few minutes, highly improved fields and costly embankments
have been saved from incalculable damage. In this country of
mountain and flood, circumstances must frequently, and in many
places, be similar to those now described:and this will be deemed
an apology for the above notice.
    There are two lakes in this parish; one of which may be a mile
and a-half in circumference, deep, full of marl, and well-stocked
with perch and pike. It is ornamented on one side with plantations
by Sir Walter Scott; but on the other it is lamentably bare, con-
sidering its high and exposed situation, as the name Cauldshiels
implies. The other lake, covering about ten or twelve areas, was
once partially drained in expectation of marl; but as none was
found, the drains have been suffered to close, and the marshy, reedy
surface is again changed to a smooth sheet of water. It is peopled
with cels, which always find their way into any pool, wheather natu-
ral or artificial. This lake is not worthy of notice, were it not for
the beauty it is capable of affording, and the great price at which
such an ornament must be brought where nature does not supply
it. Though low in its situation, and surrounded with soil highly
favourable to the growth of timber, it is yet without a tree for a
companion.
    Zoology.-The rivers hereabound in salmon, common trout some-
times found in Tweed of the extraordinary weight of 12 lbs.,
whitling or sea-trout, bull-trout, a coarser variety of the salmon tribe.
A stray pike may be met with in the deep pools; eels everywhere;
minnow,-important to anglers; and the par, of dubious origin,
(certainly never found except where salmon have access), is so
abundant, that the least skilful anglers have seldom the mortifica-
tion of coming home with an empty basket.
    The new act for regulating the period of close time in Tweed
promises to be advantageous, as its principle is accommodated to
the natural history of the salmon. The river was formerly open
so early as the 10th of January, when the fishes were slaughtered
in great numbers by spearing with torch light; and when they
were so little recovered from the effects of spawning, that the
fishermen of this place, having killed a hundred in one night,
				4


