
     of Cupar of Fife.

stances of longevity, however, in the parish of Cupar, may
be relied on as perfectly authentic*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*JAMES WEMYSS, Esq; of Winthank, who was born in the
beginning of 1696, died in the month of March last, (1793) in
his 98th year.  This gentleman, whose stature did not exceed
the common size, but who was handsome and well made, posses-
sed a very uncommon degree both of bodily and mental vi-
gour.  Through the whole of life, he never failed to rise in the
morning at an early hour; was frequently on horse-back; was
no enemy to the free circulation of the glass, though, upon the
whole, he might justly be said to be regular and temperate.
He possessed, in an eminent degree, the politeness peculiar to the
last age, and long remained a venerable specimen of the antient
school of manners.  He was the only person, the writer of these
statements ever knew, who retained, in extreme old age, the
same use of all the mental faculties, which had been the posses-
sion and enjoyment of youth and manhood.  When he was up-
wards of 90, he not only regularly amused himself, several hours
every day, with reading, particularly history, but could give
a distinct account of the subject to which he was directing his
attention.  He had never, in the course of his long life, been
confined to his bed a single day by sickness.  And even when
he began to feel the gradual approaches of age; and decays of
nature, he was in a great measure exempted from the weak-
nesses and sufferings incidental to this mournful period.  Though
he was born in one century, and lived to see almost the conclu-
sion of the next, and thus ought to have passed through the se-
ven ages of human life marked by the Poet, yet the descrip-
tion of the last stage, given by the hard of nature, was by no
means applicable to the concluding period of his existence.  He
never, indeed, reached the "last scene of all, that ends the
"strange, eventful history of man, second childishness, and mere
"oblivion."  Attacked at last by the resistless power of fever,
he retired to his apartment, and, after a consinement of 4 days,
yielded to the universal law of nature.
   The venerable Sir ROBERT PRESTON, late minister in the first
charge at Cupar, died in September 1791, having nearly com-
pleted the sixty-first year of his ministry.  He was first admit-
ted a minister of the church at Arbirlot, in the county of An-
gus, and out-lived, during the course of several years, all the


