
                 KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                303

and a half in length, and about half a mile in breadth.  In Bro-
las and Airdmeanach, there are six rivers, but having no lakes for
their source, and the run short, they are not considerable except
in time of rain, and then a great quantity of water is rolled down
the sides of the hills with prodigious force, the banks become over-
flown, when it is dangerous for travellers to attempt crossing them
either on foot or on horseback, and frequently they cannot be cross-
ed either way.  Besides these, there are a number of rivulets
which swell in time of rain, and cannot be crossed.  During rain
storms, a thousand streams fall down the rocks of Burg and Gri-
bun, and those of Inimore and Carsaig.  Burg forms a circuit of
several miles facing the Atlantic to the west, and Inimore and
Carsaig a continued ridge of rocks of five or six miles in length
facing the south channel.  The rocks of these being in some
places perpendicular, and in all places nearly so, and some hun-
dred feet in height, the streams rushing from their tops form
very magnificent cascades; and should a high wind be blowing
against them, the water is whirled up in columns like smoke to-
ward the skies, and presents a scene of uncommon sublimity.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-A portion of the parish is composed of
rocks of the trap and oolite formations, and they even form part of many
of the high hills.  The primary strata are to be found in Ross,and in
a small patch on the shores of Loch Scridain.  Professor St Fond
says that Benmore is composed of lava, and Jameson agrees pretty
nearly with his observations.  The lofty crags of the whole shores
are composed of basalt and wacken strata, traversed by basaltic
veins which run in very different directions, and contain much zeo-
lite.  The island of Innskenneth is composed of red-colcured
sandstone and limestone, and on the shores of Gribun opposite,
are to be found argillaceous sandstone and sandstone breccia.
The same appearances are presented at Carsaig, where there is
limestone, and where freestone is quarried of good quality.  Ja-
meson found the granite of Ross disposed in beds, and that it
would split into rhombs, and, what is more uncommon, into co-
lumns not unlike basalt.  Dr Walker, many years previous, ob-
served the same disposition of the granite not only in Mull, but in
many other parts of Scotland.  The whole south side of Ross is
formed of granite and unicaceous schistus, until it arrives upon a
line with Bunessan, where the basaltic rock commences.  Of this
granite the Sceryvore light-house is being erected.
   Mines.-There are several appearances of brown coal upon the


