
                       ADDENDUM TO THE
                   ACCOUNT OF LOCHGOIL-HEAD. *
                       _______________
                        CIVIL HISTORY.

  THIS parish being in the neighbourhood of Inverary, and Sir,
Colin Campbell of Ardkinglas, at that period almost sole proprie-
tor, having made common cause with the Argyle family, the in-
habitants are known to have suffered much from the feuds which
prevailed, before the Revolution, between the powerful chiefs
Argyle and Athol, attached to opposite parties in the state. The
people often speak of the harryings which repeatedly took place,
and of what their forefathers on these occasions suffered from the
`dherents of the Marquis of Athol. They boast, on the other hand,
of the feats of retaliation they achieved; which may be well supposed
to have been the case in a mountainous district, and by people
well acquainted with the passes. Wodrow, giving an account of
the unsuccessful attempt made by the Earl of Argyle upon his re-
turn from Holland in 1685 to recover Inverary from the Marquis
of Athol, mentions that, as a preparatory step, Colonel Rumbold
with 500 men took possession of the Castle of Ardkinglas; and
that the Earl himself, having come up soon afterwards, advanced
to the head of Lochfine, where the Marquis of Athol, with some
regiments he had taken from Inverary, awaited him.  The histo-
rian describes a conflict which there took place, in which Argyle
succeeded in driving the Marquis off the field.  The royal forces,
however, increasing, and the frigates and men of war advancing up
Lochfine, he was afterwards speedily obliged to retire.  The his-
torian farther states, that in that year "the whole shire of Argyle
was dreadfully depopulated; and when Providence was pleased to
send relief to the starving people by a remarkable take of herring,
especially about Lochgoil-head, and the poor people were making
some shift to support themselves, the Marquis of Athol's men
came down upon them, and brake their boats, and destroyed their
nets." Sir Colin Campbell of Ardkinglas was at this period in
confinement, having some time previously been seized in his own
castle on suspicion of having been corresponding with the Earl,
and transmitting money for his use when abroad.  At first he and
some others were sent to prison to Perth, but that place and the

<FOOTNOTE>This Addendum is extracted from a statistical account furnished by the minister
of the parish, which unfortunately came too late to hand.
ARGYLE.


