
     of Castletown.

life.  The majority are of the middle size, but many of
them considerably above, and several under it.  Notwith-
standing the want of roads, and their great distance from
church, (many of them being 8, and even 10 miles distant),
they are remarkable for their general and constant attend-
ance on religious ordinances, and exemplary in their con-
duct during the time of divine service.  They make an
excellent appearance on such, and on all other public oc-
casions; they are clean and well dressed, in coloured vests,
and cloth of English manufacture.  They are distinguished
by their hospitality and humanity, ever willing to contri-
bute to the relief of those in distress*.  Few law-suits have
occurred; no punishments have been inflicted; and few or
no traces of the border or barbarous customs are now to be
seen.  It is impossible to conclude this article without re-
marking the striking contrast between the former and the
present situation of the country.  The inhabitants feel the
happy change, and are sensible of the superior blessings
they enjoy.  It was formerly the scene of fierce conten-
tion, of barbarous feuds, of plunder, and of desolation,
when there was neither security of property nor of life.  At
present we can only trace the foundations of the ancient
castles, the strong holds of their fierce possessors.  Their use-
less walls are thrown down, and converted into sheep folds,
and their swords have become rusted in their scabbards, or
have been almost literally beaten into plough-shares.
"Every one sits in peace under his own vine, and his own
"fig tree, and there is none to make him afraid."

<FOOTNOTE>

*An instance of this very lately occurred:-On a day set apart by
the Synod, for thanksgiving for the favourable harvest, it was suggested
from the pulpit, to collect a sum for assisting in procuring warm clothing
to our brave countrymen in Flanders.  Next Sabbath they were forward,
from the highest to the lowest, to contribute to this humane purpose,
and enabled their minister to transmit a considerable donation to the
Lord Provost of Edinburgh.

