
     of Wick.

   Character of the People.-This parish, and the county in ge-
neral, is justly characterized for its martial spirit.  It has pro-
ved an, excellent nursery for soldiers and sailors.  No where
have recruiting officers been more successful.  Want of ma-
nufactures and other means of employment, make young men,
who are averse to labour in husbandry, and have no good way
of livelihood, readily betake themselves to the army and navy,
more especially when a Highland corps is to be raised.  On
the late alarm of a Spanish war, the town of Wick chearfully
furnished its quota of seamen, and of course procured protec-
tions for those employed in the fisheries*.

   Borough of Wick.-The town and lands of Wick, were an-
ciently a part of the Earldom of Caithness.  On the applica-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The young men and women are fond of dress.  Some, who
before put up with a kelt coat, (a kind of coarse flannel dyed
black) the housewifes own manufacture, common stuff gowns
for the women, are not now satisfied without good English cloth,
muffin gowns, white stockings, silk ribbands, etc. particularly
at fairs, weddings, and other public appearances.  Bonnets have
very much given way to hats; and shoemakers get from 4 s. to
6 s. for shoes, from servants, who, not 20 years ago, had an
allowance of only 1 s. for shoes, whilst women employed in hus-
bandry were allowed but 8 d. This turn for dress, and the many
fairs or markets held in the county, (which being called after
some saint, as the Marymass, Fergusmass, Magnusmass, Peters-
mass, etc, seem to be the remains of holy days observed in Ro-
man Catholic times),* draw servants away from a proper at-
tention to their own business, and make them very unprofitable.
assistants to the farmer.  In regard to amusements, they are ex-
travagantly fond of dancing in Caithness, especially about the
time of Christmas and the new year, when almost every town, or
village, keeps a day in honour of the tutelar saint of the place,
and devotes it to mirth and jollity.

*Some old people, even within these few years, Were so su-
perstitious, that they thought it their duty to retire for their
devotions, to the ruins of St Ercs chapel, and there leave small
gifts of bread and cheese, etc.


