
         	          DAILLY.                          383

annual sale from these lime-works is about 100,000 bolls, each
boll containing two Winchester bushels. The price of a boll is 8d.
Limestone has also been recently found by Mr Kennedy of Dunure
on his estate of Dalquharran, and in connection with his coal; but
the idea of working it has been abandoned.
	Beds of freestone are very numerous and extensive. Some of
them are uncommonly fine, and are much esteemed in ornamental
building. This freestone was used in building the houses of Kil-
kerran, and Dalquharran in this parish, and of Blairquban in the
parish of Straiton. The whitest and most durable freestone is
found along the centre of the coal-basin, and often forms the im-
mediate roof of the upper seam of coal. The most valuable quar-
ries lie along the base of the hills south of the coal-basin, parti-
cularly on the estate of Kilkerran.
	Calcareour marl also abounds on both sides of the coal-basin,
and is found in regular strata. It was formerly much used as a
manure, but the superiority of lime for this purpose, and its abun-
dance in the neigbbourbood, have led to the disuse of marl.
	Many small chalybeate springs, scattered over different parts of
the parish, seem to indicate the existence of extensive strata of
ironstone. Such seams of ironstone as have been seen are gene-
rally found at considerable depth, under the lowest seam of coal.
Those that have been noticed in the roofs are thought to be
rich, but, unless iron should rise to an enormous price, it is not
considered that any advantage could accrue to the proprietor from
working the ironstone. The coal in this parish is said to be par-
ticularly adapted for making of iron.
	The principal ridge of hills on the south side of the valley ap-
pears to consist chiefly of freestone, on which are piled up enor-
mous masses of puddingstone. Those on the north side are pro-
bably of a similar structure. On some of them are found exten-
sive rocks of a basaltic nature in the rude and irregular form dis-
tinguished by the name of trap. In none of these have mineral
veins of any kind of metal been discovered.
	The nature of the soil is as various as the surface is diversified.
Along the banks of the river the holms and meadows, in some
places of considerable extent, are generally of a light but very fer-
tile soil, and capable of the highest cultivation. On the south
side, the soil rests on a bottom of gravel, and is peculiarly favour-
able for pasturage. On the north side, there is a larger admix-
ture of clay in both the soil and the inferior strata.


