
                      DUNSCORE.                             337

eslin, which is 4 miles long, and becomes ery rocky and barren in
the upper extremity. The hills enclosing this glen rise to a conside-
rable height, and that called "Bogrie-hill," which is the most ele-
vated in the whole neighbourhood, is at least 1200 feet above the
level of the Solway Frith, from which it is about fifteen miles distant.
   Meteorology-Climate, &c.-There is a considerable difference
of temperature betwixt the eastern or lower, and the western or upper
district of the parish. In the former, harvest is earlier by a week or
ten days, and the cold in winter is not nearly so intense, vhich may
be accounted for by the land being not only less elevated, but bet-
ter sheltered by intervening hills, from exposure to the prevailing
westerly winds. The climate is very variable, from alternations
both of heat and moisture; but no register of the state of the at-
mosphere has been kept in the district. The weather, however, is
very seldom foggy. The most prevailing wind is from the west,
which is frequently attended with rain. Sea fowl are often seen
previous to a severe storm, and are regarded as a sure indication of it.
In the winter of 1823, during a heavy fall of snow, a flock of Nor-
wegian swans were seen in this parish, and one of them was caught
in a drain on the estate of Allanton.
   The most common diseases of this district are affections of the
lungs, stomach, and liver. Rheumatism is also a very general com-
plaint among the poor and the aged, but fevers and agues, which
prevailed forty years ago, are now very rare. Inflammations, how-
ever, are frequent.
   Hydrography.-The river Nith passes along the eastern extre-
mity of the parish for two miles. The Cairn, which is tributary
to the Nith, crosses the parish near its centre, running in a direc-
tion south by west. This is a faster flowing stream than the Nith,
and after heavy rains, or the dissolving of upland snows, comes down
with great rapidity, affecting its lowest fords in the course of a few
hours. Dalgoner Bridge erected over the Cairn is 80 fedt in span,
which is about the greatest breadth of the river. The Cairn rises
among the hills of Balmaclellan or Dalry,* in the stewartry of
Kirkcudbright, and runs through the parishes of Glencairn, Dun-
score, Holywood, and Irongray, in which, last it is joined by another
stream called the Clouden, which, although much smaIler, communi-
cates its name to the united waters of the Cairn and itself, from
the point of junction, till they fall into the Nith, a few miles below.

<FOOTNOTE>The name Cairn is only applied, from the village of Minnyhive downwards, to
the river which is formed at that village, by the junction of the three separate streams
of Dalquhat, Craigdarroch, and Castlefairn,-Dalquhat having its source in Glen-
cairn, Craigdarroch in Carsephairn, and Castiefairn in Balmaclellan or Dairy.



