
512 	              EDINBURGHSHIRE.

was built at Elginhaugh, and repaired in 1828;-and, with the
exception of the Cowbridge on the Musselburgh road, which is
undoubtedly the bridge of 1594, every bridge in the parish is at
present in excellent condition.
   Railways.-Few undertakings have contributed more to the
commerce, convenience, and health of the surrounding neighbour-
hood, than the Edinburgh and Dalkeith Railway. The company
was incorporated by act of Parliament in 1826;-the work was
begun in 1827;-and the main line between Edinburgh and Dal-
housie, a distance of about eight miles, and the Fisherrow branch,
about one mile, were opened in 1831. The expense was about
L. 130,000. This railway is worked by horses, and was intended
for the conveyance of coal and other minerals, farm-produce, ma-
nure, &c. Passengers were not thought of in the original esti-
mate, though they have became the chief source of profit. The
average amount of tonnage conveyed by this railway is about
120,000 per annum; and the passengers amount to about 300,000.
The Leith branch, which is a separate concern, and belongs to a
different set of subscribers, was opened in 1835. The Dalkeith
branch, which is the exclusive property of His Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch, and was intended solely for the benefit of that town,
was opened in the end of 1838. However desirable, it seemed,
for some time, impracticable to extend this branch to His Grace's
coal-fields, in the neighbourhood of Cowden. But these obstacles
were seen surmounted;-the intervening properties were purchas-
ed, and a magnificent viaduct has been erected at great expense
over the vale of the South Esk. This bridge consists of six
arches;-the two arches at the extremities of the bridge are each
of 110 feet span;-and the four intermediate arches are each of
120 feet span. The arches are built of the best Dantzick timber,
and rest upon stone piers of hewn ashlar. The height, from
the ordinary water-mark to the road-way, is 78 feet;-the whole
length is 830 feet;-and the entire width of road-way between
the railings is 14 feet. The whole structure is of the most taste-
ful architecture, and imparts a highly picturesque character to the
surrounding scenery.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church of Dalkeith stands in
the middle of the town, on the north side of the High Street, and
is quite convenient for every part of the parish, from the remotest
point of which it is not farther distant than about tree miles. It
				   3


