
                            TOUGH.                              613

rental, stated in the last Statistical Account at L.600, now amounts
to L.2200 Sterling.
   Parochial Registers.-There are entries in the Parochial register
as far back as 1706, but it has since been very irregularly kept.
   Antiquities.-There are several of those remains, known by the
title of Druidical circles, in the parish, and among the hills ad-
joining it, and generally, where one of these is found, others of
smaller size are to be met with, in its close vicinity.  The largest
of these lies in a very sequestered situation, and is called the Auld
Kirk of Tough (does this designaction in any degree confirm the
opinion, that the original purpose of these moss-grown remains.
was a religious one?).  It is surrounded by numerous small tumuli,
which suggest the idea of a burying-ground connected with the
place of worship.  There is one on a smaller scale, but more
complete and interesting, on the moor which divides this parish
from that of Monymusk.  The tumuli around it are. without num-
ber; and the remains of ancient walls or causeways may be traced
among the heather, running out from the principal circle, and
connecting it with several lesser ones.  Altogether, it seems to
deserve the inspection of an antiquarian.  At Tullochvenues, in a
small cairn opened a few months age, there was found an urn con-
taining calcined bones, and among them a lance head of bronze,
of an elliptical form.  Stone axes have been dug up in various places.
On the hill above Whitehouse, near its summit, there stands a stone
evidently monumental.  It is upwards of 12 feet in height, and
bears the name of Luath's Stone, from a tradition that a son of
Macbeth's, so called, fell here, in flying from Lumpbanan, where his
father was slain.  Lower down the hill, are some fields, known by the
name of the Bloody Faulds, where some of Bailly's men are said
to have made a stand in their flight from the battle of Alford.
Towards the end of last century, a human skeleton, a sword, and
a shilling of Queen Elizabeth, were found in a marsh near the
foot of the hill, through vhich Bailly's men are likely to bave
passed.  But the most singular relies of antiquity, of which the
parish can boast, are two stone collars, preserved among other
articles of curiosity in the mansion-house-of Tonley.  They are
neatly cut in stone, and bear an exact resemblance to the horse's
collar now in use.  They are 17 inches in length, and 12 iu
breadth at the broadest part, so that they might fit the neck of
a Shetland poney.  These puzzling relics are said to have been
found at Glenroy.


