
			   GLASGOW.                          145

complish in a self-actor,) by John Robertson, an operative spin-
ner, and foreman to Mr James Orr of Crofthead Mill, in Renfrew-
shire. Robertsong through Mr Orr, obtained a patent for his in-
vention, which consisted of other movements, rendering the mule
completely self-acting. Mr Smith, struck with the simplicity and
efficacy of his backing-off movement, which consists in stripping
the coils from the spindles, entered into an arrangement with Mr
Orr and Robertson, and having united the mechanism of his own
patent with that of Robertson and Orr, they have now brought out
a machine, which is considered to be more simple and effective,
and more generally applicable to all mules, than any other yet
brought before the trade, and it is believed it will soon be gene-
rally adopted.
	The adoption of the self-acting mules will bring the business
of spinning much more under the control of the master, and will
aid much in enabling the spinners of Britain to maintain a success-
ful competition against the cheap labour of other countries, who
have less capital and less facilities for obtaining these improved
machines, and less skill for their management, if obtained.
	About six years ago, Mr Smith of Deanston Works, invented
a very simple throstle for spinning water-twist yarn, in the form of
a cop, intended to facilitate the manufacture of water-twist shirt-
ing. This machine works well, and the tension of the thread in
spinning is maintained by the action of two fanner's slades or wings
attached to the stem of a spindle, similar to a mule spindle, and
on which the cop is built; and which, from the uniform, and soft
resistance of the air, gives a never-varying tension. But the most
wonderful improvement in water-spinning was brought to this coun-
try from the United States in 1831, by Mr Alexander Carrick,
a native of Glasgow, who then obtained a patent for the invention.
The inventor, a mechanic, of the name of Danforth, came with the
machine to this country, and it has now obtained his name, being
denominated the Danforth Throstle. This throstle has no flies,
The twisting part consists of a dead or fast spindle, on which a
socket of about five inches long is fitted to revolve, and on this the
bobbin for receiving the thread being spun is placed. On the top
of the spindle is placed a hollow cap of one and a-half to two in-
ches diameter, which covers the bobbin; and the thread, passing
from the roller to the bobbin, is revolved by the motion of the
socket and bobbin round the outer surface of the cap; but the
centrifugal force of the thread causes it to fly out from the cap,


