
     	192                 SUTHERLANIDSHIRE.

	towering and perpendicular height, but for the very narrow space
        that separates them.
     	   The arable portion of the parish, between the hills along its
	northern boundary and. the sea, is generally flat, and its naturally
	rich and fertile soil is well cultivated. The ravines formed by
	mountain streams, which intersect the south side of the hills at
	distances of two or three miles, are striking features in the land-
	scape; particularly one of them, Aultkollie, which is a remarkably
	deep, tortuous, and romantic gully. The sea coast -is, with the
	exception of a few low rocky headlands, sandy and shallow, from
	the western extremity of the parish to Port- Gower; and thenee
	to the Ord, the shore is one continued line of rock or rough gravel;
	but no part of the coast affords any natural protection for shipping.
	   Meteorology.-The changes of the atmosphere have not been
	registered or ascertained by continued observations in this parish.
	The complete range of high hills that forms the northern and
	eastern boundaries of the parish, affords great shelter from the
	cold and piercing Winter, and spring winds from these quarters;
	and consequently, during the prevalence of such winds, the greater
	mildness of,the atmosphere in this parish, compared with that
	along the more exposed sea coast on the Caithness side of the
	Ord, is often remarked by persons travelling between the two
	counties. The opening of the Strath of Kildonan at Helmsdale
	may be an exception to this remark, for there the wind, when high
	and coming down from the strath, is felt with peculiar violence.
	The parish is decidedly healthy, and instances of longevity are
	common; and at present, a small tenant and his wife, whose
	ages are not correctly known, have been united in marriage for the
	long period of eighty years. There are no distempers peculiar to
	the parish; but in 1832, Asiatic cholera appeared very suddenly,
	and for the first time north of Aberdeen, at Helmsdale, during
	the busiest period of the herring fishery, and in that town and
	neighbourhood between thirty and forty persons died of it. This
	mysterious disease was believed to have been introduced into the
	parish by some fishermen who then arrived at Helmsdale from
	the Frith of Forth, where the disease was raging at the time; and
	it is certain that the first person who was seized with it in the pa-
	rish, was a female while in the act of washing clothes, belonging to

      <FOOTNOTE>The writer of this report furnished noticen of the forest traditions connected
	with Glen of Loth for Mr Scrope's. Art of Deer Stalking, which are inserted in
	that work.


