
       188                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       which they have formed in the sides of the mountains. These pieces
       of land are capable of producing good crops of bear or bigg and po-
       tatoes but require frequent supplies of manure. In the hollows which
       occur between rocks or the lower slopes of the hills, the soil is not
       unfrequently deep and fertile.  In the higher mountains, peat does
       not exist in any considerable quantity, nor in the low grounds at
       all, with the exception of a small spot, near the outlet of Glen-
       sheil; but the summit of the hill above Letterfearn is covered with
       this substance.  Clay occurs in a few places, near the sea, and is
       used as mortar.  From the frequency of rain, the greater part of
       the soil, with the exception of the gravelly spots above-mentioned,
       is naturally wet, while the nature of the subsoil, which is either
       rock or compact and impervious till, renders the operation of drain-
       ing laborious and expensive.  The peculiar character of the rock
       also, which frequently protrudes from the soil, constitutes a seri-
       ous obstacle to agriculture.
         There are no mines of any description in the parish.
         Zoology-Quadrupeds.-Among wild animals, the first place
       must be assigned to the red-deer, which are still to be found in con-
       siderable numbers in the eastern parts of the parish.  The roe is
       rarely to be met with.  Hares are numerous, and the grey moun-
       tain species, which becomes white in winter, is found in the higher
       mountains, feeding upon the smooth green herbage which some-
       times occurs near the highest summits.  The badger excavates his
       burrow in the lower slopes of the hills; and from the cairns of bro-
       ken rock which occupy the same situations, the fox has not yet
       been extirpated.  The fissures of the rocks harbour numbers of
       wild cats and polecats.  The marten is not unfrequent in the
       woods, and of the clefts of rocks that border the lakes or the sea,
       the otter is a constant tenant.  Weasels are numerous, and the
       stoat is occasionally seen.  Rats and mice abound, although the
       former have only appeared within the last few years.  Moles are
       very numerous, but the squirrel, hedgehog, and rabbit are unknown.
         Birds.-In the precipices among the higher mountains, the
       brown and black eagles build theie nests, to the serious injury
       of the sheep-farmer, to whose young lambs they are scarcely less
       destructive than the fox.  The osprey frequents similar situations
       near the sea.  The white and brown owls, kite, and buzzard are
       numerous.  Hawks of different species abound, as do also the rook,
       raven, and hoaded-crow, but the magpie is rare, and the carrion-
       crow, the jack-daw, and the jay have not been seen.  The cuckoo


