
14 	                       AYRSHIRE.

         Zoology. *--This parish is not remarkable for any rare animals
Foxes are found in some of the coverts, and are numerous in several
of the neighbouring parishes. They are rather encouraged than
otherwise by the gentlemen sportsmen of the country,--two packs
of fox-hounds being stationed in this vicinity during a considerable
part of the year. Otters are occasionally seen in the Doon and
Ayr, or the lakes and streams connected with these rivers, and the
common seal frequents the sea-coast, though neither are sought
after either for sport or utility. Hares, rabbits, pheasants, and
partridges, although not so numerous as formerly, are still com-
mon, and we have been informed that quails at one time were
abundant. Now, however, if not altogether extinct, they are very
rarely to be met with. Woodcocks, snipes, land and water-rails, and
green and golden plover, are also common in their seasons, together
with several varieties of sandpipers along the beach. The soli-
tary bittern has sometimes been found, and his congener the heron
may be often seen in the small brooks, with his head overtopping
the rushes like a sentinel watching for his prey. The kingsfisher
and water-ouzel are also found on the strewns, and several of the
smaller description of hawks and owls, including the goatsucker and
fern-owl. Fieldfares and snowflakes are to be met with during seve-
ral of the winter months. The starling is a rare bird, but not alto-
gether unknown here. The same variety of birds, both indigenous
and migratory, which is common to the country, is as abund-
ant in this vicinity as elsewhere. In severe weather, wild swan,
geese, ducks, and also barnacle are sometimes seen on the coast,
and widgeon and teal of several varieties, are then also very com-
mon. Sea-gulls, divers, and, in short, sea-fowl of every kind are
numerous on our shores, and, during the spring months, the gan-
net or solan-goose, from the rocky summit of Ailsa, its usual haunt
and breeding-place, is not unfrequently seen, sweeping along the
coast, descending occasionally like an arrow on its prey.
	The Doon and the Ayr have been long celebrated for their sal-
mon-fishings. The former is probably one of the earliest rivers in
this, respect in Scotland. It is generally believed that at no time is it
destitute of salmon in a clean marketable condition. Before the
passing of the late act, extending the close time to the 1st of Feb-
ruary, they, were commonly taken as early as Christmas, and dur-

<FOOTNOTE>Though several of the animals under this head be neither rare nor peculiar to
the locality, yet they may be noticed here, as this may perhaps be the only parish
on the western coast, where they will be found in combination.
                            4


