
     Statistical Account

of the Thames; and this operation requires the labour of three
men, each of whom in good weather will make from 20 d. to
2 s. per day.  The marle is an excellent manure for the im-
provement of waste lands, and answers well in compost
for most of the ground in this country; the rapid improvement
of which is to be dated from its discovery.  It is of two
kinds, both produced from shells and both equally good, but
differing very materially in their consistency.  Both of them
form, in a short time, a dry and apparenty solid mass, and one
species continues so, though carried to a distance, like slacked
lime; the other by agitation of the carriage becomes in a man-
mer liquid, and cannot without a very close cart be conveyed
to any considerable distance.
   The draining of the lake cost Lord Strathmore about
L. 3000, and it has yielded him from L. 500 to L. 700 per anu-
num, but both the moss and the marle are now nearly exhaus-
ted; and some years hence, perhaps, the drain being neglec-
ted, the loch may again rise to its antient boundaries*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Before this loch was drained, and near the north side of it, there was an
artificial island composed of large piles of oak and loose stones, with a stratum
of earth above, on which are planted some aspin and sloe trees, supposed to
have been a place of religious retirement for Queen Margaret.  This now
forms a very curious peninsula.  The vestiges of a building, probably a place
of worship, are still to be seen.  And it is likely there might be some accom-
modation too for the occasional residence of the priest of the place, as the re-
mains of an oven were discumble not many years ago, and also something of
the furniture of a pleasure garden.  It appears that the loch has at some pe-
riod surrounded the rising ground called the manor, and the adjacent hill on
which teh castle of Forfar stood; which hill is not, as the authors of the En-
cyclopedia Britannica suppose, artificial, but a congestum of sand and fat clay,
evidently disposed in various irregular strata by the hand of nature.  Besides
the fish above mentioned, the loch is frequented by water sowl of various kinds
and in the months of July and August.  About sun set it is insested, or rather
fishers upon it are plagued, by shes of the gnat kind, which fasten in great
numbers on every part pf their clothes, and leaving their skips, fly off sportive as


