
                       TIREE AND COLL.                            203

with.  I am not aware that there are any rare or uncommon plants,
unless a kind of purple geranium, found in a plain near the middle
of Coll may be reckoned in that number.
   Zoology.-There are no animals here which can be considered
rare; nor are there toads, frogs; serpents, or venomous rep-
tiles of any kind.  Rabbits, it is said, were formerly to be seen in
this island, but they have been for some time extinct.  They are still
in considerable numbers in Coll.  Hares were introduced about
eighteen years ago, and were likely to multiply fast, had they not
been harassed and kept down by the great number of dogs, and
idle fellows with guns, who were constantly in pursuit of them.
They are supposed to be on the decrease, owing chiefly to
these causes.  There is nothing remarkable in the breed of
cows.  They are commonly of the Argyleshire or West Highland
breed, in a few cases, with a mixture of Irish,-which kind are
easily distinguished by being always ring-streaked, and are consi-
dered rather superior to the Highlanders as milkers.  The few
sheep kept are of a mixed kind, chiefly Cheviot and black-faced.
Pigs are reared in great numbers ; but there are few or DO goats.
the ground being quite unsuitable.  A prodigious number of small
poneys, distinguished for their symmetry and high mettle, were
formerly reared in this island, and were grazed during summer on
the plain of Reef, which was then used as a common.  These are
now totally extirpated.  More than thirty years ago, the inha-
bitants were prevailed upon, I believe, with much reluctance, and
by the interference of authority, to part with them as an unprofit-
able stock quite unfit for agricultural labour; and a stronger kind
was introduced in their stead.
   A few swans occasionally frequent the lakes in winter.  They
generally arrive in December, and remain a couple of months or
so.  Wild geese appear somewhat earlier in the season, and do
not depart till the end of March.  A few woodcock also are
sometimes seen in time of snow.  When these migratory birds
make their appearance earlier than usual in the season, it is reck-
oned a pretty sure indication of an early or severe winter.  There
is a great variety of birds which never migrate, such as wild-duck
of different kinds, cranes, curlews, grey and green plover, pigeons,
snipes, &c. It is observed of most of these, however, that they
are not now seen in such considerable numbers as of old, proba-
bly in consequence of the greater number of sportsmen who con-
stantly scare and molest them.


