
                                  GREENOCK.                           443

    is heated by steam, and the pipes so constructed, that, in the event
    of fire, they can be used with the same effect as fire-engine. There
    are twelve branches in each flat, with hose and pipe attached, at all
    times ready for use if required.  The whole mill could be flooded
    in half an hour, by attaching a force-pump to the water-wheel.  It
    is expected a conshderable saving will be affected on the insurance,
    owing to the blowing and cotton-rooms being fire-proof, and the
    heating apparatus being fitted up as described. The mill is built
    entirely of ashlar. A gas-work and comfortable houses for the
    workers are being erected in its meighbourbood.
      The number of hands required for the work will amount to
    about 350 or, 400 ; the majority females, from 13 to 22 years of
    age; males from 16 and upwards.  The amount of wages paid
    yearly will, be about; L. 6000 Sterling; and the consumption of
    cotton about 70 bales weekly, principally American and Bombay.
      The water-wheel is at present in course of erection by Ms Smith-
    of Deanston, Perthshire.  From his known talent an&experience
    as a practical mechanic, and his liberality as a, contractor, it is
    expected that this wagDificent wheel will be constructed, and. put
    together in such a manner, as will be satisfactory to the mill-
    owners, and reflect the highest honour on Mr Smith.  The wheel
    is 70 feet in diameter, and 12 feet broad within bucket: the  axle
    in the centre is 4 feet 6 inches diameter, and weighs , 11 tons.  The
    two centres , or flanges, on -axle where the arms spring from, are
    11 feet each in diameter, and weigh each 6 1/4 tons. The wheel is
    made of m`lleable and east_iron, and when put together, will weigh
    about 180 tons.  The seat or arke of the wheel is built entirely
    of cube material, each stone measuring from 15 to 130 cubic feet,
    the entire weight of stones being about 4000 tons.
      The advantages possessed and expected by this company in erect-
    ing a work of this description at, Greenock are, a cheap and constant
    supply of water at all seasons ; viz. a power equal to 120 horses, at
    the yearly rent of L.1, Sterling per horse power; a railway con-
    veyance in one hour yo Glasgow, the pricipal market for the con-
    sumption, of our yarn, also a market for the purchsing of cot-
    ton ; and the power of attending the Liverpool markets  by a sail of
    sixteen or seventeen hours; to which may be added an abundant
    population for carrying on the work, and an excellent port for im-
    porting cotton, or exporting yarns to the continent or India.
       It is believed that most of the manufacturers above described
    afford a fair remuneration to the capitalists engaged in the them. If




