
                          PARISH OF BALFRON.

               PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                   THE REV. ALEXANDER NIVEN, MINISTER.

        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

  Name.--The name of this parish may, from its etymology,
mean the Town on the Burns, or the Town of Mourning. In
the former case, the name is descriptive of its locality;--the ori-
ginal clachan or town being situate at the confluence of two in-
considerable streams. In the latter case, the parish may be sup-
posed to take its name from an event of rather an interesting cha-
racter, and which forms a part of its traditionary history. On one
occasion, it is said, when the aborigines had gone to a little dis-
tance to attend on their religious rites, they left their children in
their tents. On their return, they discovered, to their horror, that
they bad been all destroyed by the wolves which infested this part
of the country, in common with other districts in Scotland at this
period; and hence, ever after, the place was called the town of
"weeping or mourning." Which of the two derivations is the
more correct one, we leave to the curious to determine;--non
nostrum est tantas componere lites.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.--The parish runs very nearly east and
west; is about 11 miles in length; and 3 in breadth; bounded on
the east and south-east, by Gargunnock and Fintray; on the
south and north-west, by Killearn and Drymen; and on the north
and northeast, by Drymen and Kippen. The clachan, once the
chief point in the parish, is about fifteen miles due west of Stirling,
the county town, though by th circuitous road it is considerably
farther distant. It is almost equally distant from Dumbarton, the
seat of the presbytery, and Glasgow, the access to which towns
is by well-made and well-kept roads, though the original lines are
far from being those which engineers of the present school would
adopt. The clachan, at one time, was, as has been already said,
the chief, if not the only point of attraction. It still deserves pre-


