
218	                    ARGYLESHIRE.

that a new pier bag been partly built at Heinish, which, when
completed, may be of much service to that quarter of the island.
   The only harbour in Coll worthy of notice is at Arinangour,
about the midle of the island.  it has a pier, and is pretty safe;
but lie's also the disadvantage of a rocky entrance.
   As to, the means of internal communication, we are indebted to
nature for some fine sandy beaches, on which horses and carts can
travel with ease'and comfort; but we have certainly no reason to
boast of what art has effected in this respect.  Some of the roads
attempted to be made are worse than in a state of nature: it is
very difficult, in many places, to carry away the water and prevent
its overflowing them.  The line leading from the harbour to the
mill, one of the most important in the whole island, is in a wretched
condition, and, in winter, sometimes quite impassable to carts.  A
great deal mimht be done under the superintendence of a person
of experience and skill; but it does not appear that the labour of
the people has hitherto been turned to much account, or properly
directed to these objects.  In fact, till there is a chamberlain re-
siding in the place, it cannot be expected that such matters will
be duly attended to.
   Markets are held in both islands in May, August, and October,
solely for the sale of black-cattle. There are no charitable insti-
tutions in the parish; nor is there a jail, though such would, at
times, be very desirable.
   Inns, &c.-There are two licensed inns in Tiree, and one in Coll;
but it is to be observed, that several low illicit tippling-houses,
which have a very pernicious effect on the morals of the people,
have been springing up of late in this island, especially on the
farms contiguous to the Light-house work, as if intended chiefly
for the persons there employed, who have generally some money
at command, and might be expected to be profitable customers.
  Fuel.-Among the natural disadvantages under which Tiree la-
bours, scarcity of fuel may be considered as one of the most con-
siderable- The only peat-moss in the island, which is of very
inferior qualit dates onty a few families in its neigh-
bourhood, and is now nearly exhausted.  The people are conse-
quently obliged to bring their fuel, with great labour and at a
heavy  expense, some from Mull and some from Coll.  I scarcely
conceive how poor families, who have no boats of their own, can
afford the hiring of boats for this purpose, and other unavoidable
expenses attending them.  If any value is set on their own labour,


