

108                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

ern and western boundary, and is then united with the Tyne. At
their confluence, the Salton is decidedly the greater stream of the
two, and ought with propriety to have imparted its designation to
the future course of the river. In both of these streams there is
abundance of excellent trout.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Strata of limestone rock pervade the
whole parish in a direction nearly north-west. The degree of in-
clination of the strata varies from 1 foot in 9, to 1 in 18. Petri-
factions of the ordinary species of shell-fish are frequently found
imbedded in the limestone; and in some places the surface of the
rock is covered with stones of a silicious quality, which, when quar-
ried, are used, with advantage, as flags for pavement. In other
places, the rock is found to be overlaid with bastard limestone, and,
what is somewhat unusual, the strata of limestone are frequently
divided from each other by conjoined strata of free and whinstone.
Under the strata of limestone, there is every reason to believe, from
some experiments which were formerly made, that a fine seam of
coal would be found. The immediate vicinity, however, of many
excellent collieries in the adjoining parishes has hitherto render-
ed any attempt to work it unnecessary.
   The soil is various, consisting of loam, light sand, thin clay, and
strong deep clay; but the clay soils prevail. On the west and
north-west, and alongst the slope of the hill which terminates in
the bed of the Tyne, the soil is peculiarly fertile and productive,
being chiefly composed of the rich loam and clay. Towards the sum-
mit of the central hill on which East Salton is situated, the soil is
less favourable; but towards the southern extremity of the parish,
it again in some degree recovers its former richness.
   Botany.-There are various plantations in the parish, of the or-
dinary species of trees found in such situations. The soil is deemed
peculiarly congenial to the growth of fir and oak. Beech, elm, and
larch are also found well suited to the soil and climate. In the
grounds of Salton, which have many features of natural beauty,
and are laid out with much taste, are some fine specimens of the
thorn acacia, cedar of Lebanon, and hemlock spruce. *

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices, &c.-The first authentic notice of the ma-
nor of Salton occurs during the twelfth century, when it was held,
alongst with other extensive possessions in Scotland, by the afflu-

<FOOTNOTE> There is an orchard mentioned as existing in the lands of Herdmanston so far
back as 119O.-Charter of Richard de Morville to Henry St Clair, referred to by
Chalmers in his Caledonia.




