
     of Kirkoswald.

were several inclosures, and some very fine old trees, about
Cullean Castle.  But the fences were mostly of stone.  Of
these inclosures, the most remarkable was that called the Cow
Park of Cullean, containing about 50 acres, which had been in
pasture for two hundred years, yet there is not, to this day,
to be seen in it the smallest spot of fog.  There was also the
park of Turnberry, containing about 460 acres, which was
inclosed with stone about the beginning of the century, and
has been in pasture ever since*.  All the rest of the parish
was then perfectly open, except the tenants kail yards, which
were fenced in a very coarse manner, with land stones and
turf, and the greater part without any planting.  The te-
nants yards on the coast were fenced with an earthen dyke.
On this was planted ader, (or, according to the vulgar name,
bountree,) which thrives exceedingly, affords great shelter,
and is disliked by all cattle and sheep.  This almost total
want of planting and inclosures, gave a dreary look to the
whole parish.
   The tillage and pasture lands were under equally bad ma-
nagement.  The farms upon the shore, the richest part of
the parish, were then of great extent, each containing above
200 acres.  The farm houses, pleasantly situated near the

<FOOTNOTE>

*About fifty years ago, the late Mr Gilbert Blane of Blane-
field, began to inclose by ditch and hedge, and made a consi-
derable extent of fences in that way, most of them double; and
in the space between the double fences, he planted a great many
forest trees.  But such was the general aversion which the
country people then had to improvements of that kind, that it
was not in his power to preserve them from being pulled out
and destroyed; so that few of these inclosures are now useful,
and little of the planting remains.
   Mr Blane was likewise the first person in the parish who in-
troduced the improvement of land by lime, and gave an expe-
rimental proof that the most barren heath could, by means of
that manure, be converted in a very short time into excellent
pasture.


