
			MINNIGAFF.		           137

tanious and rugged description, is only adapted for pasturage,
there being hardly a twelfth part of it arable. Many of the farms
are of great extent. The largdst contains 4700 acres. It requires
four and a-half acres to graze a sheep, and the rent does not ex-
ceed 6d. an acre. There are several others little inferior in size.
On the arable lands, the rotation of crops now generally prescribed
in leases is, 1st, oats; 2d, green crop; 3d, oats or barley; 4th,
hay; and two years pasture. The turnips are let, the charge is
on the lands by sheep. When the turnips are let, the charge is
from 3d. to 4d. per sheep weekly, an allowance of hay being in-
cluded. In some cases of old leases, the tenants being under no
restrictions, practise what course they choose, very often selling
off the fodder, to serious deterioration of the soil. Draining has
been carried on to a considerable extent within these few years; and
much has been done in draining muir pastures.
	Irrigation is not practised, though there is ample scope for im-
provement in the management of meadows. A great portion of
the meadow hay is composed of short, hard, benty grasses. Were
irrigation resorted to, the produce would be greatly increased, be-
sides being grealty improved in its nutritious qualities.
	Leases.--The genral duration of leases is nineteen years. A
few farms are held on life leases, and several for three nineteen
years, and ninety-nine years, chielfy on Machermore estate. These
long leases have all been sublet, in some cases four or five tacks-
men intervening betwixt the proprietor and the occupier; and be-
ing let at a great advance of rent, and the tenants being under no
restrictions as to cropping or consuming the fodder on the lands,
many of them regularly sell the growing crops, to the great impo-
verishment of the soil.
	Farm-Buildings.--Within these twenty years, the greater part
of the farm-buildings have been rebuilt or repaired, and are in ge-
neral commodious and suited to the respective farms. In the
higher parts of the parish, a few of the steadings are very inferior;
and on the estate of Machermore, the liferent of which is sold,
th farm-buildings, with hardly an exception, are in a very dilapi-
dated condition.
	Improvements.--No improvements have recently been made
calling for particular notice, though in general much improvement
has been effected by draining, and a more improved mode of hus-
bandry. Since the last Account was written, many hundred acres
of waste land have been enclosed and planted on the Galloway


