
                       ABERNETHY.                          851

baronies have passed into the hands of other persons, who hold
them in feu of the Earl of Mansfield, with whom the superiority
still remains." *
   Besides the relics and monuments of other times, to which I
have referred, there are others in the parish which, for some years
have drawn much attention, and have led to the conclusion, that
here there was an important and extensive Roman station at a for-
mer period.
   On the lands of Carpow, and near to the junction of the Earn
with the waters of the Tay, there have been discovered founda-
tions of buildings.  These are within the policy grounds around
the mansion-house of Carpow : and, when the surface of the
ground was scorched by the extreme drought of 1826, attention
was particularly drawn to them and to their extent.
   A recent excavation in these grounds brings to light the foun-
dations of many old walls. They are rudely constructed of stones
and pieces of brick, with what would now be considered a very
superfluous expenditure of lime and cement. One apartment,
pretty entire, of which thd walls are standing to the height of 20
inches, measures 10 feet by 18, and seems to have been neatly
floored with tiles.  Another appears to have been fitted up as a
bath.  It is 7 feet by 10, and the floors and sides are carefully
plastered over with a hard compact cement, apparently composed
of lime and brick-dust.
   Near to this there was dug out, a few years ago, a piece of lead
pipe about an inch and a half in internal diameter, and rudely sol-
dered together with a coarse external seam. It is now, together
with some Romans urns, coins, and fragments of bones, &c. found
in the neighbourhood, in possession of Peter Hay Paterson, Esq-
of Carpow.  While Sibbald refers to ruins as existing in his time,
in this district, he also refers to a Roman road as leading from
thence to Ardoch, and another to Perth. +
   The Castle Law, about three-quarters of a mile south-west from
the village, is a steep, picturesque, grassy bill, rising to the height of
about 600 feet.  On its summit, from which there is a most de-
lightfull view of Strathearn and the Carse of Gowrie, are the ves-
tiges of a very imperfect vitrified fort.  The principal enclosure
seems to have been surrounded by a rude mound of irregular

<FOOTNOTE> Vide Fife Illustrated, by Swan, &c. pages 205,206.
           Vide article in the Transactions of the Society of Anthquaries in Scotand, by
Lieutenant-Colonel Millar, C.B. and F. R.S.L. Vol. iv.  Part I. Edin.  1830.


