
564			     LANARKSHIRE.

compounded of the three Gaelic words, Eglis, a church, Maol,
shaved, hence a saint, and Luac, Luke,--the church of St Luke.
Carluke appears to be compounded of Caer, hill and Luac, the
hill of St Luke,--a name applicable to the elevated nature of the
greater portion of the parish. *
	Extent, Boundaries, Appearance, &c.--The lenght of the pa-
rish, from west to east, is about 8 miles, and its greatest breadth
4 1/2 miles. It is bounded on the south by Lesmahagow, from which
it is divided by the river Clyde; on the west by Cambusnethan,
Garrion Gill dividing the two parishes; on the north, likewise
by Cambusnethan; and on the east and south-east, by Carnwath,
Carstairs, and Lanark, the boundaries between the latter parish
and it being March Gill.
	The different portions of the parish vary much from each other,
both in temperature and appearance. Along the immediate mar-
gin of the Clyde, there stretches a narrow but rich tract of warm
sheltered holm land, expanding, at a few points, into luxuriant
plains or haughs of considerable width; beyond which the banks
of the river rise rapidly to a height of from 400 to 500 feet above
the level of the sea. From the summit of these banks, which is
well defined by a ridge of hard sandstone, there extends to the
village a sort of table-land, at the west extremity of which is the
Law of Mauldslee, a hill of considerable size. On this elevated
level, the land is well enclosed and, though a stiff clay, is in ge-
neral possessed of considerable fertility. Behind the village, again,
the land, which is at first divided and well cultivated, rises gradually

<FOOTNOTE>By the following tradition, the name of the parish is derived from a different
source. The church was formerly situated in the forest of Maulslee, (hence it was
sometimes called the Forest Kirk,) close to the banks of the Clyde. This situation,
being at the extremity of the parish, was found inconvenient, and it was therefore
proposed that the church should be removed to a more centrical spot. This propo-
sal met with strong opposition from a part of the population, who clung to the holy
ground, and, after much difficulty, could only be brought to agree that the new site
should be the Law of Mauldslee, a situation not far from the old one. This, how-
ever, not meeting the views of the opposite party, it was at length determined that the
dispute should be submitted to the arbitration of Providence. With this view a
pow (skull) was taken from the ancient burial ground, and, together with a burning
peat, was laid on the proposed site at the Law. If the pow and peat remained, that was
to be the spot, but if they should be removed by "a Guiding head," the church was
to be erected wherever they might be found. They were removed, and the whole
parish was raised to seek for the pow and the peat. After much search, they were at
last, to the great joy of the people, discovered by Symeon Haddow of Easterseat, on the
spot where the church was eventually erected, about two miles nearer Symeon's house
than the Law. The truth was, that the Guiding Hand was none other than that of
Symeon himself, a secret which was carefully kept within his family for many genera-
tions. Hence the name Kirk-look,--the looking for the kirk. The derivation is,
of course, absurd; but there can be little doubt as to the reference to Providence
and its result.


