
254			      STIRLINGSHIRE.

hoped, that the better practice of other districts in the treatment
of live fences will, by-and-by, come to be appreciated, and that
greater facilities than now exist, will be attained for checking the
propensity to the wanton destruction of property complained of.
At present, owing to the great distance from the county town,
and the expense and loss of time occasioned by seeking redress
for such petty*damages, people generally prefer to submit to them.
     Plantations.-Since 1794 much has been done in this depart-
ment of rural improvement, particularly on the estate of Wood-
head. A great deal more may yet be done with advantage, both
in respect of profit, as the best means of occupying the grounds; of
beauty, as improving greatly the appearance of some parts of the
dimwict; and of amelioration of the climate, by the warmth and
shelter produced, as well as by the interruption to the boisterous
east and south-west winds. Forest trees of the common kinds all
thrive here exceedingly well. The most profitable are the Scots
fir, larch, and spruce, and the sycamore, oak, and ash.
     Manufactures.--This parish is rich in minerals, especially coal.
The supply of water is also considerable. The union of these two
has occasioned the establishment here of numerous and extensive
manufactures. The principal of these are the printfields and the
alum-work.
     Of the former, by far the most extensive is Letinox-mill Field,
which was first established as a print-work about 1786. About
1790 it contained twenty printing tables and six flat presses. At
that period, however, a great many women were employed to pencil
on colour. This method is now entirely abandoned. About 1805,
Messrs. R. Dalglish, Falconer, and Company, became tenants of
Lennox-mill, which had, by that time, been considerably enlarged,
as it contained fifty tables and eight presses. In 1810, the first
surface-printing machine was erected, which was an improvement
on block-printing; and soon afterwards a cylinder-printing machine,
which was an improvement on  the copperplate printing prosses,
similar to what the " surface" was on the " block." In both cases,
what was formerly on a flat surfac , was put on a cylinder of wood
or copper. This, continually revolving, furnished itself with co-
lour, which it, at the same time, transferred to the cloth.
   At present, almost every description of printing is performed at
Lennox-mill and nearly every fabric of cloth printed, from the

out a good deal of ground in new plantations, and has furrow-drained a considerable
number of acres.
                                     3


