
18				AYRSHIRE.

                  Carex depressa                      Centunculus minimus
		Scirpus maritima			Erynguim maritimum
		Hippuris vulgaris			Draba verna
		Sagina maritima 			Lamium album
		Arenaria serpyllifolia  		Papaver dubium
                           trinervis                  Melva sylvestris
                  Anagallis tenella                   Trifolium striatum
                  Scandix anthriscus                  Aira caneseens
                  Convolvulus arvensis                Hypericum Elodes.

				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Ayr Town.--The town of Ayr is seen to great advantage from
any part of the rising grounds, from which the traveller must ap-
proach it on almost every road that communicates with the inte-
rior. It stands on a broad level plain, and can be seen at the dis-
tance of several miles in all directions. But by far the most fa-
vourable view of it is that from the south in the direction of Car-
rick Hill, which commands one of the finest prospects to be met
with anywhere, and the town forms none of the least attractive
points in the landscape. Here it seems a very striking object,--
the handsome new buildings on the side of Wellington Square and
Barns' Street, first appearing to the eye, shaded by the plantations
that adorn the numerous villas that intervene in the suburbs. The
old part of Ayr is almost bid in the back ground, unless in so far
as the irregular tops of the chimneys and gable ends peer above,
or are seen through some open space, giving it a turreted sort of
aspect, and conveying an impression of greater extent than in rea-
lity belongs to it. The county buildings, the lofty tapering new
spire, and the imposing Gothic-like erection of Wallace Tower,
have tended much to beautify and adorn the town, and to add to
the effect of its appearance, when seen from a distance. When
Ayr is spoken of generally, the name is made to comprehend the
congregated streets and buildings on both sides of the river, in-
cluding a population of betwixt 16,000 and 17,000 inhabitants.
This makes it appear a place of more importance than it is, and
equal in point of numerical strength to our third rate towns in
Scotland. It has been united already in one way to this extent,
by the parliamentary boundary laid down by the Reform Act, and
it is in contemplation to incorporate Ayr, Newton, and Wallance
town under one civil juricdiction, combining all their rights and
privileges un der one common interest. This plan seems to be op-
posed at present, on separate grounds, by the magistrates both of
Ayr and Newton; but the obstacles and objections to the junction
may not perhaps be found insuperable by the national Legislature.

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, we understand that in a new Scoth municipal bill,


