

<TABLE>                          AYRSHIRE.

require, among other conditions, a regular rotation of different
kinds of crops, so far as the soil will admit of it.
	Live-Stock.--The Following table exhibits the amount of stock:
                  Sheep,       -      20050
                  Cows,        -       1690} Total cows,3434.
                  Young cows,     -    1744}
                  Horses,      -        372
                       V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--There is no market-town in the parish. The
nearest is Old Cumnock, at the distance of five miles.
	Villages.--In the parish, there are three villages, of which the
population in 1831 was as follows:--
      New Curnnock.                                      161
      Afton Bridgend,                                    242
      Pathhead,                                          361
                                                       _______
                               Total village population, 664

	There is one turnpike road in the parish, and several parish
roads in good repair. On the public road, there passes daily a
coach from Glasgow to Carlisle, and from Carlisle to Glasgow.
 	The roads in the parish of New Cumnock were not well attend-
ed to, more particularly on the east side of the Nith, till the estate
of Mansfield was purchased by Sir G. Stuart Menteath, when, in
order that coal and lime should find a market in the county of
Dumfries, a rail-road of inch bar-iron, of nearly three miles in
length, was laid down to the boundary of the counties of Dumfries
and Ayr. The coal was carried in rail-road waggons, each contain-
ing one ton,and one horse draws four waggons. Upon arriving at
the summit level of the counties, these waggons are emptied into
large waggons of the common construction of road waggons, and the
remainder of the road is a continual descent of nearly four miles,
except in crossing three ravines, which occasioned inclined planes
of one foot of rise in thirty feet. The difficulty of ascending these
inclined planes, is surmounted by laying down stone tracks for the
wheels; upon which sheet iron, six inches wide, and a quarter of
an inch thick, is nailed down, which enables a horse to draw three
tons of coal up these ascents--a plan which Sir C. S. Menteath
has frequently recommended upon the roads throughout Great Bri-
tain about twenty-five years ago, and now in progress of adoption
on the Holyhead road to London, by older of Sir Henry Parnell.
The rail-road for ordinary roads should be laid down with cast
iron, similar to the wheel-tract for carts in Glasgow; upon which
one horse can draw three tons upon an ascent of one foot in every
fifteen feet. It may be said this cannot be done for a long ascent;



