
82                           LANARKSHIRE.

wrought at Easter Mosshat and Urates (or Wolfrod) may be the
same with the Climpy and Wilsontown, though perhaps differently
modified.
   There are no dikes, properly so called, in the Wilsontown coal
field, but there are several slips or hitches, as they are here called,
of some consequence.  The second, from the south-west, may be
distinctly seen in the Burn, a few yards above the bridge at Cleugh.
It throws the strata a long way down to the north-east; and a sec-
tion of the strata between the main coal and the Wilsontown spot-
ted stone is at the above place finely displayed.  At a considerable
distance farther east, another slip or hitch up shows itself to from
eighteen to twenty feet, and here may be seen an instance how
slips sometimes derange the strata; for while on the south-west,
or low side, the distance betwixt the main coal and the craw coal,
next above, is in general about fourteen feet; on the north-east,
or upper side, the space is only about two feet.  Still farther east,
a fourth slip throws the strata again up, perhaps even more than
the last; and here another instance of derangement presents itself,
and that in the stratum of coal itself.  Throughout the field to the
south-west of this, there is a thin stratum of black stone in the
coal, about eight or ten inches above the pavement, on the top of
what is called the ground coal.  This ground coal differs in appear-
ance from the coal above it, called the wall coal.  It is of a clear
shining black, of a loose texture, and breaks into small cubes; where-
as the wall coal is of a much firmer texture, of a splinty nature,
and much of it of a rough fracture.  Besides these, there is be-
twixt the two slips a very little above the black stone, a stratum
of very good candle coal, from four to five inches thick; but after
passing the last mentioned slip, none of these are to be seen, while
a stratum of blackish stone, of a foot to eighteen inche shows it-
self, dividing the bed or seam of coal into strata of nearly equal thick-'
ness and without increase or diminution of quantity upon the whole.
   The fissures or veins are not what practical men call direct, but
sometimes incline to the right, and sometimes to the left.  The
second and third formerly mentioned incline to each other, and
will at last meet, unless, indeed, they are partially deranged, or cut
off altogether by the twisting and bending of the strata at the,hol-
low of the trough, which, indeed, there is reason to suspect, as
the have not been seen in the Climpy  field.
   From what has thus been stated respecting the minerals laid up
at Wilsontown and in the neighbourhood, it will readily be seen
how advantageous the situation is for an iron-work.  Every thing
			      4


