
     of Eddertown.

John Ross, formerly barren moor, are now richly covered
with barley, oats, turnips, potatoes, clover and rye-grass.  The
whole inclosure consists of 200 Scotch acres, of a circular
form, and on the outside of the circle is a deep belting of firs,
ash, and other forest timbers.  The death of that gentleman
seems to have put a stop to any more of the ground being
subdivided and turned into corn land.  Few parishes have
more the means of improvement within themselves; the soil of
the moors is good; there is great abundance of turf+ and peat;
and the burn of Daan, which is pretty centrical, abounds
with lime.  There are great quantities of sea weed, commonly
called sea ware, on all our shores.

<TABLE>

   Population.-The population of this parish is upon the in-
crease.

The present number of souls, of all ages, is about        1000
The return to Dr. Webster, in 1755, was only               780
                                                          ----  
           Increase,                                       220

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

arable ground of this parish, by cottagers settling in these moors.  The late
Admiral Sir John Ross of Balnagowan, inclosed and subdivided, with excel-
lent stone dikes, about 60 acres.

+Here it may not be improper to take notice of the DUTCH way of preparing
TURF.  As soon as the Dutch have fown their spring corn, they begin to pre-
pare the turf for winter fuel.  They first take off the green sod; they then
pour water on the turf mould, and dig it out, by little and little, till they reach
sandy soil.  The hole is made slopping, that a horse and cart may go into it.
This mud is carted out on a field; then spread with a spade, to 3 or 4 inches
thick: then cut cross ways.  Those who wish to have their turf still harder,
squeese the mud, whilst sort, into round forms, resembling loaves or form them
in shapes like brick making, and then let them dry in the fields.  When the
pieces of turf are become a little hard, they are laid in heaps, that they may
dry, and be more effectually sheltered from rain.  From this they are carried
home, and put under a roof.  The turf soil is either brown, red, or black,  but
must not be mixed with sand or clay.


