
                         KILNINVER AND KILMELFORT.                65

and the low and marly nature of the interventing' ground, it appears
to have been at one time an arm of the sea.
   The Parson's Lake, about a mile from the head of Lochmel-
fort, is upwards of a mile in circumference, and is remarkable for.
its beautiful wooded island and ruins. The scenery on the north
side is extremely wild.
   Rivers.--The river Euchar has its source in Lochscamadale,
running westward for about two miles, and then takes a northerly
direction for about the same distance, and falls into the sea at Kil-
ninver.
   From the extent and depth of its source, and the number of
tributary streams which swell it in its course, it is among the lar-
gest in this part of the country. Its banks are finely wooded, and
about a mile from the sea the scenery,is very grand and beautiful.
At this place it flows through a deep ravine of solid rock. A
waterfall of several feet high has formed a very deep pool, which
is a rendezvous for all the heavy salmon which fail to overcome
that physical barrier in their course to the lake. Before the law
respecting fisheries was revised and rigorously enforced, there
were often caught in this pool from 60 to 100 large salmon.
   On the south bank, and immediately above that romantic spot,
once stood the mansion of the ancient and brave M' Dougalls of
Raray.
  The river Oude flows from Lochtrallaig, and is nearly five
miles in length from north-east to south-west. It runs for about
two miles through the braes of Lorn, in the parish of Kilninver, and
joins the sea at an extensive and beautiful bay on the north side of
the head of Lochmelfort.  About a mile from its junction with the
sea, it runs through a district presenting scenery of the grandest de
scription. What renders this spot so interesting is, that the great
public road from Lochgilphead to Oban passes through it. The
rocks on both sides are several, hundred feet high, and in many
places overhanging the road. The Kirkton water issues from
the parson's lake running upwards of a mile south-west, and
falls into the south bay at the end of Lochmelfort. A few yards
from its source, it forms a very fine cascade, forty feet high.
   The range of hills, as already observed which bound the united
parish on the east and south-east, abounds, with limestone which,
in consequence of the facility of procuring peat from: the interven-
ing valleys, is likely, at no distant period, to be turned to a good
ARGYLE.


