
656			AYRSHIRE.

the Britons, in the adjoining fields. The latter, flying to the east-
ward, is said to have crossed the Coyl, at a ford at the farm of
Knockmurran, where he was saved from a watery grave, by getting
on a large stone in the midst of the stream, then swollen by a flood;
and from this circumstance, the place was called "the King's
steps,"--a name it has retained till this day. There may be other
versions of this story, I have no doubt; but it is of no use to de-
tail histories, of which there is no authentic written memorial.
	The castle, or old part of the house of Sundrum, the seat of John
Hamilton, Esq. is the most ancient building in the parish. It is
not known when it was erected; but its position and structure
bear ample proof that this must have been at a very early period,
when the constant feuds of rival chiefs, and the petty wars, which,
on the slightest causes, embroiled the country, taught the ba-
rons of these days the necessity of constructing their mansions,
so as to afford them security in times of peace, and defence in war.
In some parts, the walls are about twelve feet in thickness, and
the window recesses so deep, that they might almost be converted
into closets or sleeping-apartments.
	Gadgirth Castle, which is now supplanted by a house built in
modern fashion, was a place of great note and antiquity. It was
the seat of the family of Chalmers, a gentleman who took an ac-
tive part in promoting the Reformation. Knox, when in the west,
preached in this castle, and found, as did all the Reforming mi-
nisters, a warm friend, and fearless defender in the laird of Gad-
girth. Mr Burnett succeeded to this property, through his mater-
nal grandfather.
	Several years ago, a number of silver coins of the reigns of Eli-
zabeth, James VI. and Charles I. were dug up on the farm of Bar-
gannoch; and more recently, four stone coffins were found in a
field on Barcleuch, near the banks of the Ayr.

            <TABLE=III.--POPULATION.>
	This population in 1755 was 527
			   1791,    667
			   1801,    848
                           1811,   1159
			   1821.   1397
			   1831,   1389
	                   1841,   1484--of which 718 are males--766 females.
	The number living in village or groups of cottages       468
		   scattered over the country,                  1016
	The average number of births for the last seven years,    42
                              deaths,                             22
                              marriages,                          13
	The increase of population since the earliest account has been
owing in part to the subdivision of large farms, but principally to


