
		        	GARVOCK.                         23

center of the parish, is surrounded by rising grounds, on all sides,
except a narrow opening towards S. E., where the romantic ravine
of Den Fennel takes its rise, and by which the Howe of Garvock
sends its superfluous waters to the German Ocean, through the
parish of St Cyrus.* The rest of the parish, immediately surround-
ing this barin, is considerably but gently undulated. A very little
beyond this basin, the ground declines gently toward N. E.; and
on this side of the parish, there are two dens or ravines, through
which two small streams run into the water of Bervie; but these
streams are nearly dry for some time in summer. One of these
ravines, called Den of Davo, or Woodburn Den, is of considerable
depth and romantic appearance in some, places, and part of it has
been, in good taste, planted by Alexander Wood, Esq. on whose
property it lies.
	There is one continued range of hill, partially covered with
heath, which runs along the N. W. side of the whole parish, rising
gently at the east end of the parish, and ending abruptly at the
west end--called the Hill of Garvock, the altitude of which is up-
wards of 750 feet; and the lowest part of the parish is about 250
feet above the level of the sea. This hill rises gently from the
basin already mentioned; but descends rather rapidly on the op-
posite side, forming about a mile of pretty steep ascent from the
Howe of the Mearns. It is the highest point of land on the east
coast of Scotland, within three miles of the sea. About three-
fourths of the parish lie on the S. E. side; and one-fourth on the
N. W. side of this hill.
	From the top of the hill of Garvock, the spectator has spread out
before him, it ir believed, a more extensive, delightful, and splen-
did view, than is to be seen anywhere else in Scotland. From
this he sees at once a considerable portion of the great valley of
Strathmore, which runs nearly the whole breadth of Scotland, par-
ticularly the eastern part of it, always distinguished by the name
of the Howe of the Mearns. The whole charming and beautiful-
ly cultivated vale of the Howe of tbe Mearns--about 16 miles long,
by nearly 6 where broadest--extending through the parishes of
Glenbervie, part of Arbuthnott, the whole of Fordoun, Laurence-
kirk, Marykirk, and Fettercairn, studded with mansion-houses, vil-
lages, fruitful fields, and thriving plantations, lies like an illumi-
nated map at the feet of the spectator. What adds to the rich and

<FOOTNOTE>This Den takes its name from having been the retreat of Fenella, after the mur-
   der of Kenneth III.


