
898                       LANARKSHIRE.

the breed of cattle has arisen from a cattle-show for the parishes
of Eaglesham, Mearns, Carmunnock, Cambuslang, and East Kil-
bride, which was instituted in the year 1816, and is held an-
nually at Kilbride on the second Friday of June.
   The most common period for the duration of leases in this pa-
rish is nineteen years.  Several of the Torrance farms have re-
cently been leased for twelve years.  The state both of farm-build-
ings and of enclosures has improved and is improving.
   Quarries, &c.--There is an ironstone mine at Basket, which be-
longs to Mr Dunlop of the Clyde Iron Works, while the surface is
the property of Mr Downie of Crossbasket.  There are freestone
quarries at Lawmuir, Bogton, Bentball, and on a farm of Torrance
near the village of Kilbride.  Freestone is to be got in many other
places.  There are lime-works at Braehead, Limekilns, Thornton,
Thornton Hall, and elsewhere.  There are two tile-works in the pa-
rish,--one at Springbank, about half a mile to the west of Kilbride;
the other at Millhouse, to the west of Auldhouse, and almost close
to the parish of Eaglesham.  There is abundance of clay in the pa-
rish suited to the purpose of tile-making.  Roman cement is found
in various places, and is worked to a considerable extent.

                    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   By the grant in Queen Anne's reign, constituting the village of
Kilbride a burgh of barony, the inhabitants were empowered to
hold a weekly market on Tuesday, besides four fairs in the year.
The market-day had ceased to be observed in Mr Ure's time, but
the fairs were then tolerably well frequented.  At a subsequent
period only two fairs appear to have been kept, one which was held
in November on the Tuesday after Rutherglen fair, but has now
gone, into disuse, and another, which is still held, in June, on the
same day wiuh the cattle-show.  Both were for the sale of horned
cattle and sheep.
   Besides the town or village of Kilbride and the village of Max-
wellton, the parish may be said to contain five other small villages,
viz. Aldhouse, including Crosshill,-bout the centre; Jackton,
about a mile from the western side on the road to Eaglesham;
Braehead, at the north-western corner; Kittochside, about a mile
to the east of Braehead; and Nerston, about a mile and a half,
as the crow flies, from the north-eastern corner.  Maxwelltown is
not much more than half a mile distant to the east of Kilbride.
   Means of Communication.--There is a post-office in Kilbride-
connected with Glasgow.  There is one public coach which passes


