
346                          FIFESHIRE.

manure. If he afford ground, labour, and manure, he draws 4s. per
100 yards. The best manure,.that which fishing towns afford, is
estimated at 5s. a load.
The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
Farm-Buildings.-The farm-buildings are in general commo-
dious and in good repair. There are some of the recently erect-
ed steadings uncommonly extensive, convenient, and substantial.
The enclosures being in general hedge and ditch, there are few
of them sufficient fences, otherwise there would be a greater pro-
portion of the land occasionally in pasture.
With the exception of the undivided common above-mentioned,
there are no waste grounds to reclaim. Draining has been and is
still successfully carried on.
11'ages.- A good Tabourer receives from Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per day.
Lifting potatoes Is. a-day and dinner. Harvest wages I s. 6d. a-day
from breakfast. The whole harvest for men, L. 2 with bounties,
viz.potatoeandlintground,withsuppermeal. Thewholeharvestfor
women, L. 1, 13s. with bounties as above. Mechanics, such as ma-
sons, wrights, &c. have never under 2s. a day, and 2s. 6d. in sum-
mer. The common rate of wages for farm-servants is about L. 10,
with a house, 6j bolls of oatmeal, 3 chopins of milk, with potatoe-
ground. Female servants receive L. 3 in the half year, exclusive
of tea-money.
Q_arries.-We have a quarry of excellent freestone, but with
too much superincumbent earth to pay the working of it.
,Kshery.-This is one of the principal fishing stations on the
east coast of Scotland, and, including men, women and children,
it may affo ' rd their chief occupation to about 300 individuals. The
children, before they are able for harder work, go in great numbers,
and to a distance of some miles, to gather bait. The women bait the
lines. Tbernen,includingboysfromfourteentoeigbteen,goa-fish-
ing. Theherring-6sheryisthegreatconcernwithourpeople. There
is a partial herring-fishery, comparatively near to our own shores, in
thewinterandspri-rigniontbs. ButitistheCaithnessornortheoun-
try fishing which forms the great object of attention to our people.
From the latter part of June, and to the middle of July, they are
in a bustle of preparation. The number of the boats fitted out
is twenty-six, at fifteen tons each. The complement of men for
each boat is five, in all 130 for twenty-six boats. St Monan's
does not, furnish that number. There may be two men to each
boat, strangers, finding employment in our boats. These are cal-


