
	280				INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	they avail themselves of every opportunity to remedy the evil, by
	encouraging emigration, and by enlarging such allotments of land,
	as are known to be too small, guarding, however, against all harsh
	and inhumane measures for the attainment of the end in view.
	   Produce.-The following is the average gross amount of raw
	produce raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained:

	   <TABLE>
              Grain with fodder, 1618 bolls, at L.1,    .       .       L.1618 0 0
	      32,000 barrels of potatoes, at 1s. 9d.,	.	.         2800 0 0
	      22,000 stones of sown and meadow hay, at 5d.	.          458 6 8
	      Value of Land in pasture, calculating it according to the
		    number of sheep and cattle it would support,           960 0 0
	      Salmon fishery, perhaps about	.	.	.	   100 0 0
                                                                          ________
		     About the total value of raw produce,	.	L.5936 6 8

			    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	         There is no market-town: the nearest is Portree, distant twenty-
	      four miles. A considerable portion of the parish has not the advan-
	      tage of a road. Along the south-east boundary of Kilmuir, a road
	      of about nine miles in length was formed, ten years ago, to the dis-
	      trict of Steinscholl. As yet, however, it passes through but a
	      small portion of that distict. To this most important mean of
	      communication, a little is annually added by statute labour, and it
	      is anticipated that in a few years the three districts composing the
   	      parish will be supplied with roads.
	         The nearest post-town is Portree. There is, however, a re-
	      ceiving-house, or sub-post-office at a place in Kilmuir district,
	      which is about two miles from its southern boundary, and about
	      twenty-one from Portree, whence a runner comes three times a-
	      week. The letters are conveyed to Kilmaluag and Steinscholl dis-
	      tricts by a private runner.
 	         Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was built in 1810, and
	      affords accommodation for about 700 sitters. It is a rectangular
	      building, with a door on each end, the pulpit on the one side, and
	      a heptagonal gallery, with only one wooden stair leading to it. It
	      has no belfry, bell, or vestry, the want of which is much felt.
	      The site of the church is in Kilmuir district, about four miles from
	      the one extremity, and two from the other. It is in good repair,
	      and all the sittings are free. As Kilmaluag district is somewhat
	      remote from the church, the clergyman performs divine service
	      there every fourth Sabbath.
	         The manse was built in the year 1778, and is distant about a
	      mile and a quarter from the church. It was the first manse built in
	      the Island. The stipend is L. 150 Sterling, and the Crown is pa-



