
216			KINCARDINESHIRE.

	Hydrography.--No spring sensibly impregnated with any mi-
neral has been discovered in Dunnottar. Several little burns have
their sources in the parish, and most of them are tributary to the
Carron. The chief of these is the Burn of Glaslaw, issuing from
the den or ravine already noticed as the termination of Strathmore.
Its junction with the larger stream gives the name of Invecurron
to a part of the territory of Stonehaven. The Carron, from its
rise in the parish of Glenbervie, runs a course of only eight or
nine miles. In times of protracted drought, its whole stream, un-
collected, would hardly suffhcd to turn a corn mill, but in floods it
assumes the appearance of a large and rapid river, destructively
overflowing its banks, and occasionally inundating the streets of
Stonehaven. Running water has not yet, in this parish, been ap-
plied as the moving power of machinery of any importance, but
there are situations in which it is considered it might be used
with advantage for manufactories.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The sea coast, ail the way from
Stonehaven to near Crawton, is formed of the rock termed plum-
pudding, having a strong compacting cement. In exposed sur-
faces, the cement has yielded to atmospheric action, and exterior
boulders being displaced, leave cavities which, in precipices, the
sea-fowl appropriate for their nests. On the surface of a ledge of
rock at Crawton, a small portion of columnar basalt appears, and
throughout the parish, large boulders of granite and of gneiss are
not uncommon. In a moor above Fowlsheugh, stones have occa-
sionally been quarried from what is said to be one of the trap for-
mations, and in the moor of Carmount, a stratum of what is un-
derstood to be porphyritic granite affords useful stones for rubble
building. But, apart from the coast, the prevailing strata of rock
are of coarse brown sandstone. Indeed, at the harbour of Stone-
haven, the cliff changes to a stratum of that forlation, which, un-
der a deep covering of red clay, appears to run in a southerly di-
rection, and probably all along bounds the plumpudding rock at no
great distance from the sea. In the bottom of that harbour, there
is a stratum of pipe-clay, but neither limestone nor marl has been
discovered in this parish.
	Soil.--Dunnottar possesses the usual diversity of clayey, loamy,
gravelly or sandy, and moorland soils. They are not distinguish-
ed by any peculiar local arrangement, the varieties occurring in all
parts of the parish, often, indeed, on one farm and in one field; for
although clayey soils, more or less friable, and black or hazelly


