                            RATHVEN.                              257

cess either to the superiority of their neighbours' skill in fishing,
or of his nets, lines or hooks, but, like all in similar circumstances
who are of a superstitious turn of mind, and believe in fate, to
what they called "good chance."
  The boys go to sea as soon as they can be of any service to
their fathers; on that account their education is much neglected,
or, at least, much interrupted, so that little progress is made.  At
eighteen years of age they become men, and, whenever they ac-
quire the share of a boat, they marry, as it is a maxim with them
"that no man can be a fisher, and want a wife."  They marry,
therefore, at an early age, and the object of their choice is always
a fisherman's daughter, who is generally from eighteen to twenty-
two years of age.  These women lead a most laborious life, and
frequently go from ten to twenty-five miles into the country,
with a heavy load of fish.  They seldom receive money for this
fish, but take in exchange meal, barley, butter, and cheese.  They
assist in all the labour connected with the, boats on shore, and
show great dexterity in baiting the hooks and arranging the lines.
When stormy weather prevents the boats from fishing, the men,
are employed in mending their lines and nets, or in making
new ones.  They are stout, well-formed, of good stature, capable
of undergoing great fatigue, and are the most expert and intrepid
seamen in her Majesty's dominions.  The women are, in many
instances, handsome, good looking, and the very picture of health.
Many of the fishermen are sober, industrious, and well-behaved
men, and have laid up considerable savings.  Others are thought-
less, and too frequently spend foolishly what they have earned
with so much danger and hardship.
  Every thing in their power has been done by the session to pro-
mote temperance at marriages, baptisms, and funerals.  Previous to
a marriage taking place, the session exacts a pledge of half a guinea
from the parties that there will be no rioting or fighting.  If there
is, the pledge is forfeited to the poor; if it turns out otherwise, it
is returned on the following Sabbath, provided the older of the
district certify the same.  The fishermen generally are a sober,
hard-working race of men, and those who act with common pru-
dence enjoy all the comforts of life in a reasonable degree.  In
proof of this, the industrious and saying have good houses, mostly
slated, and well furnished, consisting of two three apartments,
The women, some years ago, went to church bare-headed, but now
they put on white muslin caps, or straw bonnets, with red cloaks or



