
38                      RENFREWSHIRE.

the Collections, died while on a visit at the House of Pollok, and
was interred in the aisle appropriated to the Pollock family.*
  Land-owners.-Sir John Maxwell, Bart. of Pollock; and David
Machaffie, Esq. are the chief land-owners.
  Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of the parochial regis-
ter of births 1687; but it is defective,-as few Dissenters are in-
clined to register.  The earliest date of the register of proclama-
tion of marriages is December 1693; but this is likewise defective,
as the parties frequently neglect to return and get the marriage re-
gistered.
                      III.-POPULATION.
  We have no means of exactly ascertaining the ancient state of
the population of the parish ; but it would appear, that towards the
commencement of the last the population was very small,
perhaps not more than a sixth of what it now is.  The burgh of
Pollokshaws was then a small village ; and Thoruliebank, which
now contains upwards of 1300 inhabitants, had then no existence.
The causes of the great increase of the population to its present
amount, 6854, were the establishment of several large public works
in the paris, and the improvements in trade, manufacturers,
The amount of the population residing in Pollokshaws is 4627,-
of which 2169 are males, and 2458 females.  In Thornliebank
the population is 1366, of which 700 are males, and 666 females.
In the country part, there are 861, of whom 414 are males, and
447 females.
  The proprietors of land of the yearly value of L.50 and upwards
are, besides Sir John Maxwell and Mr Machaffie, already mention-
ed,-the Earl of Glasgow; Neil Thompson, Esq. Camphill; John
Maxwell, Esq. M.P., younger of Pollock; Dugald Bannatyne, Esq.
Postmaster, Glasgow; Messrs Crum, Thornhebank;-Martin,

  * A marble monument, erected to his memory, bears the following inscription:-
" Within this aisle lies Walter Stewart of Pardovan, son of Walter Stewart of Par-
dovan, and grandson to Sir Archibald Stewart of Blackhall,-a gentleman well skil-
led in most parts of useful learning, and in the constitution of his country, and emi-
nent for his unbiassed zeal for its ancient rights and real interests, which he shewed
by his very early appearance for the Protestant religion, in accompanying King Wil-
liam from Holland at the glorious Revolution 1688, and afterwards by his services in
our Scotch Parliament, where he for many years represented the burgh of Linlith-
gow,-of such distinguished piety and zeal for our holy religion, that he mortified
20,000 merks to the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge.  He
died March 8th 1719, aged 52 years, at the seat of his affectionate kinsman, Sir John
Maxwell of Pollok, one of the Senators of the College of Justice, and is interred in
the burial place of that honourable family, which, by the permission of the honour-
able proprietor, is likewise destined for the burial-place of his dear spouse, Katharine
Cornwall, daughter of James Cornwall of Bonhard, who has erected this monument
to the memory of her dearly beloved husband."


