
150                         KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

the lake. Various kinds of vermin are also to be met with, as the
owl, several species of hawk, raven, polecat, fox, weasel, hedge-
hog, mole, and rat. The otter has also been seen and snared in
the parish. One was lately taken in the Carliwark Loch that
measured 35 inches from the snout to the point of the tail.
	The River Dee abounds with salmon and trout; and the car-
linwark Loch with the finest pike, perch, and eels. The Unio,
or Alasmodon Margaritiferus, a kind of pearl mussell, is found in
the Dee; and another, but rarer, species of the same genus, the
Anodon Cygneus, is met with in the carlinwark Loch.
	Botany.--Kelton offers a rich field for the botanist. Besides
the more common plants, there may be mentioned as indigenous
to the parish;--

Hippuris vulgaris		Cerastium semidecandrium	Geranium molle
Veronica serpyllifolia		Lythum salicaria		         dissectum
Galium saxatile			Agrimonia Eupatorium		Genista tinctoria
       cruciatum		Spiraea salicifolia		Anthyllis vulneraria
       aparine			Potentilla reptans		Ervum hirsutum
Myosotis collina		Helianthemum vulgare		Hypericum humifusum
Anagallis tenella		Nymphaea alba			          pulchrum
Parnassia pulustris		Nuphar lutea			Hypochaeris radicata
Drosera rotundifolia		Ranunculus lingua		Hieracium pilosella
Narthecium ossifragum		           sceleratus		Gymnadenia conopsea
Alisma ranunculoides		Trollius Europaeus		Epimedium
Epilobium hirsutum		Scutellaria galericulata	Myrica Gale
saxifraga granulata		Lepidium campestre		Asplenium Trichomanes
Stellaria glauca		Nasturtium terrestre		Scolopendrium vulgare, &c.
Arenaria serpyllifolia		Sisymbrium officinale
Cerastium viscosum		Erysimum Cheiranthoides

				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	The ancient history of this parish is enveloped in considerable
obscurity. It informed part of the extensive territories of the power-
ful and warlike British tribe the Selgovae, several of whose places
of strength can still be traced. When Agricola invaded "that
part of Britain which is oppositd to Ireland," along with the rest
of Galloway, Kelton was comprehended in the Roman province
Valentia. The progress and power of that warlike people are still
indicated by existing vestiges of their roads, causeways, and camps,
placed among the hill-forts to keep the natives in check, as well
as by Roman weapons, ornaments, and culinary utensils, found in
this parish. After the Roman abdication, the Britons assumed
their ancient independence, until the Northumbrian Saxons, in
the seventh century, reduced this country under their power. Few
of that people, however, who enjoyed a better country and climate
on the eastern shore, and who had already conquered a greater
extent of territory than their limited population could occupy,


