
                              KELSO.                                      345

<TABLE>

1832-3,     561  *     26     6     1     18     1     7
1833-4,     729  +     39     1     3     42     2     8
1834-5,     678        65    --     3     30     51    5
1835-6,     593        63     1     2     28     --    6

     "In the last series of five years, there have been above 100
cases of scarlatina;--in the firts series none are recordewd.
     "The years 17980-81-82 were very severe upon the lower classes,
as want added its attendant evils to the inclemencies of the sea-
sons. Besides the heavy list of fever and ague, 21 cases of scurvy
occured; and I have no doubt are correctly stated, as two of the
medical gentlemen had served abroad, and were familiar with the
dsease.
     "In comparing the firts and the last series of years, it will be
noticed, that ague has almost disappeared, while fever, though
much diminished in its proportion, still holds its place as the most
common disease of our district. It is at all times difficult to trace
the immediate cause of fever, which probably originates in some
specific malaria; but we have evidence that, once generated, it
may be communicated from one person to another not exposed
to the same noxious miasma which produced it. Marshes and
wet ground alone are not necessary to the Italy would be freed from
or many of the pestilential plains of Italy would be freed from
disease.
     "The cases of asthma have diminished, while fheumatism has
increased. The additional comforts and improved living of the
lower classes, we should have expected, would have produced a
beneficial effect upon both. The removal of ague was likely to
have diminished the cases of dropsy; it is not a very common dis-
ease among us, but as frequent as formerly. It is a curious fact,
that stone in the bladder is almost unknown in the district, with
the exception of one or two families, where it has existed as a he-
reditary disease."
     Benefit Societies.-- Various friendly and benefit sociaties for-
merly existed in the parish, but have all either been dissolved, or

<FOOTNOTE>"Cholera visited Kelso in 1832. The dispensary was used as a cholera hospital,
and no record kept of the other patients for two months. There were about forty
deaths from cholera; and,a s fever prevailed at the same time, the cases of fever were
certainly more numerous than the books show. Several of the cases of ague this
year were occasioned apparantly, from opening drains in a piece of marshy ground."
          "In October 1839, a man and his wife, dealers in fish, were seized with cholera,
and died. In the course of the year various cases of modiefied small-pox were noti-
ced; but in the following season, when 51 dispeneary cases and recorded, there was
much less of modification. Various deaths occured; and the medical gentlemen of
the institution were convinced that the disease was more violent according to the
distance of time which had elapsed from the vaccination of the patient."
ROXBURGH.                         Z


