
     Statistical Account

commodious passage, at all times of the tide, The breadth of
the water here, at high tide, is above half a mile*.

   Glass-House, Tile and Tan-work.-To the west of the ferry
stands a glass-house, for making bottles, which is thought to
be the most conveniently situated of any in Britain.  It can
have whatever, quantity of coals it requires, at a very easy
rate, as they are conveyed from the pits, to the very door of
the glass-house, by a waggon way.  There is a pier adjoining
to the house, by which all materials wanted are loaded and
unloaded.  It is said, that there are proposals making for
building another house.  The extent, to which the manufactory
of glass has been carried, is amazing.  It is not half a century,
since one glass house at Leith, and one at Glasgow, supplied
all Scotland, while the Company wrought the one half year
at the one place, and the next at the other.  Similar observa-
tions might be made on other manufactures, and lead to very
enlarged speculations.-A little to the N. W. of the glass-
house, there is a tile the and brick work, upon a pretty large scale,
and well employed.  Above that, there is a good tan-work.

   Fishing, Islands, Water Fowls, etc.-Before we leave the
river, upon whose banks all these different works are situated,
we must take notice of the fishing.  It is certain, that, for
many years, numbers of people took to the fishing of salmon,
during the summer months, but in a bad stile, with what is
called pock nets.  They were not very suceessful, as might

<FOOTNOTE>

*If the scheme of making turnpike roads, on both sides, takes place, this will
be one of the shortest, and most agreeable communications, opened between the
north and the south, with fearcely any interruption from wind or tide.  Mr.
ERSKINE has lately begun to feu out ground for a NEW TOWN, between John
Street and the Ferry, on a beautiful field, and regular plan.  It promises to be
an airy healthy place; and excellently calculated for those who are carrying on
business at the harbour.


