
     Of Kinghorn.

ings, manufactured annually by the women, with the kitting-
needle, yet it was always but an unprofitable, and poor em-
ployment.  Within these few years, however, a manufacture
has sprung up, which promises fair at present to render King-
horn one of the most flourishing towns upon the coast of Fife;
this is, the teasing, and rolling, and spinning of cotton and flax,
by means of the Arkwright and Darlington machinery.
   Through the middle of the town there runs a stream of wa-
ter, which issues from a lake called the loch of Kinghorn, and
distant from it only about half a mile.  Upon this stream
there have already been erected, and set a-going, 4 mills for the
purposes above mentioned; a fifth is to be built this summer,
and there might still be falls of water found for 1 or 2 more.
The number of hands which these mills will employ, must
amount to some hundreds; but the 2 largest of them, which
were built last season, owing to the shock which has been late-
ly given to public credit, and the consequent stagnation of all
business, have not as yet been completely fitted up, and filled
with machinery by the proprietors.  Before adventuring too far,
they wish to see what turn affairs may take.  Already, how-
ever, the beneficial effects of these works are to be seen by all;
and they are sensibly felt by almost every description of peo-
ple in the place.
   Young women, who before were not able to earn by the
needle, or by the knitting of stockings, or by the spinning of
flax, above 1 s. 6 d. or 2 s. in the week, can now easily earn
between 5 s. and 7 s. 6 d. in the same space of time.  Little
girls, between 8 and 12 years of age, who before were a bur-
then to their fathers and mothers, by engaging at these works,
are not only able to support themselves, but to assist their aged
and indigent parents.  The boys, who before thought of no-
thing but the sea, or of running about idle, or, which was lit-
tle better, of running about the country at the horses's heels,


