
                           BENDOCHY.                            1195

five years; the fourth crop being potatoes or turnip, and the fifth
wheat or barley. All this applies to the lowland part of the pa.
rish; the mode of farming being very different in the Highland
district. Its altitude above the level of the sea forbids the culti-
vation of wheat, and the climate is only sufficient to ripen the
earlier varieties of oats and barley.
   The rent of grazing a cow in the lowland part of the parish is
L.4, in the highland, L.2, 1Os.
Three years ago, Mr Archer erected at Coupar-Grange, a mill
for extracting the farina from the potato. Nothing can be finer
or more beautiful than the flour here manufactured; but I under-
stand that this is by no means so profitable a trade as it was five
or six years ago.
   Quarries.-The lowland part of the parish is well supplied with
freestone, there being four quarries opened at convenient points,
and now that the road from Blairgowrie to the bridge of Cally is
being converted into turnpike, it seems probable that the bed of
clay slate which crosses the Highland part of the parish might be
profitably wrought.
   Fishings.-Tbe salmon-fishing on the Isla and Ericht is not worth
altogether above L.20 per annum. From the care that has been
taken for some years to preserve the fish during the spawning sea-
son, and from the increased numbers that appeared in our rivers dur-
ing the past season, there is a hope that the fishing may become
more valuable, although the extreme vigilance of the fishers on
the Tay forbid the expectation that our rivers ever can be so
stocked with fish as they were fifty years ago.
   Produce.-I have found it impossible to make any calculation
of the value of the different items of raw produce raised in the pa-
rish, so accurate as would warrant any general statistical deduc-
tions to be drawn from it.  As a near approximation to the truth,
the average annual value of raw produce raised in the parish may
be stated at L.28,000. But the table on a preceding page will
enable the reader to form his own opinion on this branch of the in-
quiry.
               V.-PAROCHIALL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in the parish. There is not even
any village in the parish. Assuredly my predecessor had no
parochial exemplificatioin of the evils of centralization, (a sub-
ject to which political writers have had their attention of late so
much directed), and yet these evils seem to have made a deep im-


