
                            MOY AND DALARROSSIE.                       105

	hostile clans, the Cummings had at length driven the Mackintoshs
	for refuge into the island of Loch Moy.  Here they formed the re-
	solution of damming the loch, where the Funtack issues from it, and
	thus, by raising the water, to cover the island and drown them. They
	proceeded with their plan till the Mackintoshs were on the eve of
	destruction, when one of the latter offered, if allowed, to liberate
	themselves and destroy the Cummings.  He accordingly got a raft
	made, and supplying himself with corks or wooden plugs and twine,
	he descended in the dead of night to the dam.  This was lined,
	towards the water, with boards, through which the adventurer bor-
	ed a number of holes with an auger, and in each hole he put a plug
	with a string attached.  All these were attached to one general
	rope, which, when all was ready, he pulled. When the plugs were
	extracted, the water rushed out with fearful force, carried away the
	turfbank, and the whole army of the Cummings, who were encamp-
	ed behind it.  It is said that the daring adventurer perished with
	his enemies, the force of the water being so great, when the dam
	gave way, that it swept raft and man along with it. That this event
	took place at Loch Moy is evident from uniform tradition, from
	the nature of the place where the dam was erected, it being a
	narrow gorge easily admitting of such a construction, and also
	from the fact, that in cleaning the mouth of the lake, some years
	ago, a number of stakes and beams were discovered fixed about
	six feet under the surface of the ground, which were evident-
	ly fitted for cross boards, and which, from their appearance, must
	have lain there from time immemorial. Both lakes may claim the
	honour of this transaction ; but Lochindorb does not seem so well
	fitted for it, and Edward III, was not a man to be taken in such a
	manner.
          Eminent Men.-The only eminent literary individual of whom
	the parish can boast, is Sir James Mackintosh, Knight, a name
	wdll fitted to cast a lustre round any spot in the world. He was
	descended of the ancient family of Killachy ; and although born in
	the parish of Dores, whither his mother had gone to visit a rela-
	tion, he spent the greater part of his youth on his paternal pro-
	perty.  Although obliged to part with his paternal inheritance, and
	remove from the land of his youth, by his numerous literary and
	political avocations, he never forgot it, but during his whole life
	time took an interest in every thing which regarded it.
          Land-owners.-The number of heritors is eleven, most of them
	with very small holdings.  These are Mackintosh of Mackintosh ;


