
                            INSCH.                        761

remote parts of the parish previous to the establishment of the
Assembly school above referred to.
   There are none upwards of fifteen years of age, and that are
natives of the parish, but are capable of reading, although there
way be some aged women who have not learned to write.
   Charitable Institutions.-A Savings Bank has been established.
for some years, called the Insch and Upper Garioch Savings
Bank, being for the accommodation of agricultural labourers and
others in Insch and the neighbouring parishes.  It is in a thriving
condition, and promises to be of great benefit to the classes whose
interest it was intended to promote.  The deposits have been at
the rate of L.528 per annum, while the sums withdrawn have ave-
raged only L.177 per annum.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-the average number of persons
receiving constant Parochial supply is 24.  The rate of allowance
per week varies from 9d. to 2s. 6d.; but is sometimes higher in
the case of widows left with young families, or bed-rid persons re-
quiring hired attendance.
   The annual amount of contributions may be specified as under
Collections at church, L.34; seat-rents in church, L.4, 12s.; le-
gacies, L.1, 10s.; interest of money funds, L.5, 10s.; rent of a
piece of ground near the village of Insch, called the Bass, pur-
chased with poor's funds about 160 years since, L.16, 10s.; mak-
ing in all, besides casual donations from heritors, &c., L.62, 2s.
In the distribution of the funds, the kirk-session are sometimes at
a loss how to act, in order to prevent the risk of extreme distress,
without, at the same time, encouraging habits of idleness and pro-
fligacy.  Fortunately, however, such cases are not very common;
while instances frequently occur of a reluctance to accept relief;
and, generally speaking, the recipients are persons who have be-
come such from actual necessity.
   Fairs.-The two half-yearly fairs that are held have already
been referred to.  The one for cattle, horses, &c. is held on the
third Wednesday of May, and third Tuesday of October, old
style.  The feeing market is held on the Fridays preceding 26th
May and 22d November.
   Inns, &c.-There are no fewer than five public-houses in the
parish,-three of these being in the village, and one closely ad-
joining to it.  Such a number as this is altogether unnecessary,
and their decrease is much to be desired, as there can be no doubt
but that, by furnishing people with additional facilities for indulg-


