
	1070                           PERTHSHIRE.

	are very rare the only registers, then, being those of births and mar-
	riages.  Regular session records have been kept since 1832 to
	the present date (February 1843) together with registers of births
	and marriages, when parties apply to have the birth of their chil-
	dren registered and pay the fee.  Since 1838, a register of deaths
	has also been kept, stating the age and the disease that proved
  fatal when known. *
	   The only apology for the loss of any part of the session records
  appears in the following entry: "Feb. 5, 1716, After sermon,
	session met and was constituted with prayer, and were present the
	Rev. Mr Tho. Schaw, minister, and the elders.  This being,the
	first Sabbath after dispersing the rebels, they having banished
	many ministers of this corner from their flocks, and that confusion
	and disturbance occasioned the loss of the session minutes from
	November 25, 1713, to Fehruary 5, 1716."
	  On the north-west of the parish, there is the large bleachfield
	of Stormontfield, together with the requisite buildings.  There is
	an abundant supply of water, as it is on the banks of the Tay,
	and suitable fields for carrying on the operations.  This field has
	long maintained a high reputation under the present tenant, John
	Maxton, Esq., who makes every provision for the comfort of those
	workmen and their families who conduct themselves with propriety.
	There is accommodation for between twenty and thirty families,
	all the members	of which, able to work, are generally employed.
	The late Earl of Mansfield erected a neat and commodious school
	for the children in the neighbourhood.  Stormontfield, with the
	land for a great extent on the east side of the Tay, belongs to the
	Earl of Mansfield.
				III.-POPULATION.
	  Formerly the population was more scattered over the parish;
	but as the land has been divided into larger farms, the village has
	increased.  Several valuable farms are now in grass, forming the
        extensive parks around and beyond the palace.  The population
	has increased progressively.  The village of New Scone has been
	almost entirely built within the century.  Much of it is occupied

<FOOTNOTE> The session seems to have exercised complete control over education within
  the parish. "Oct. 25, 1676,-This day it is inacted, that no person nor persons
	whatsomever, to wit, naither men nor women, shall have libertie, nor be permitted
	within Scone nor the paroch thereof, to teach nor instruct children, that is to say
	neither male nor female to sylabicat nor reads directly nor indirectly, to the hurt and
	prejudice of the publick school and schoolmaster."  And over the seats in the church,
	" Sep. 13, 1675, This day it is inacted that every seat or chair standing in the kirk
	floore that is found emptie two Sabbaths together, shall be throwen to the church door
	by the kirk officer, except upon reasonable excuse made to the minister."


