
			DUNDEE.                               7

under Edward I. It was considered of such consequence in giving
security for the observance of national treaties in the reigns subse-
quent to that of Robert Bruce, as to rank the third town in Scotland
after Edinburgh. It bore a large share of the taxes in the reign of
James I., and of the 1200 merks imposed upon the adjoining
towns, for fitting out a yacht to bring home the King and Queen 
ê3nê3
äfrom Denmark. The proportion paid by Dundee was 700 merks.
	In the troubled times of Bruce and Baliol, the town suffered
severely. It was twice taken by Edward I., and as often retaken
by Wallace and Bruce. In each of the reigns of Richard II. and
Edward VI. it was almost reduced to ashes. But it experienced
its last and most destructive calamity when it was stormed by
Monck, in the year 1651. It was estimated that not less than a
sixth part of the inhabitants perished, among whom were many
strangers of eminence, and not a few respectable clergymen, from
the south, who had fled thither as to a city of refuge. Besides the
immense loss of lives and property, the greatest part of the ancient
records of the town is said to have been carried off or destroyed;
and, a seven years' dearth happening about the beginning of the
following century, the town did not soon recover from the effects
of these disasters,--indeed, not until several years after the Rebel-
lion in 1745.
	The union of England and Scotland was doubtless productive
of many beneficial consequences to both nations, especially to the
latter; and if by the loss of our Dutch and French privileges it
was the occasion of destroying one branch of our trade, that of
plaiding, or the spinning and weaving of coarse woollens, which
was then the staple manufacture of the place, it opened up a
new source of commerce and wealth, in the manufacture of linens
of various kinds, particularly those of coarser fabric, and which
under the name of Osnaburghs, canvas, bagging, &c. which are
exported to the foreign markets, and from which not a few for-
tunes have been realized.
	The manufacture of cottons was attempted here about 1780,
but was not found to succeed, and has long since been given up.
The manufacture of thread, for which this town was famous for a
period of sixty years, and the manufacture of glass, which em-
ployed at one time about a hundred persons, not having been found
productive, have been entirely relinquished. The manufacture of
linen is now, and for the last fifty years has been, our principal ar-
ticle of trade; its different operations employ the greater part of


