
     of Kilmalie.

leases granted by landlords, improvements will advance very
slowly.  There are some lands in the parish, which are es-
teemed high rented.-The great augmentation of rents must
be attributed, principally, to the mode adopted, of stocking
farms with sheep.  They require a smaller number of hands
to tend them, than black cattle; can graze in places where
these would not venture, and yield a greater produce.  This,
it will be acknowledged, is a strong temptation to proprie-
tors, who value money more than men, to encourage sheep-
farming *.-There are 93 farms in the parish:  The average
extent of each, is 6 1/4 square miles; and the average annual
rent, about 50 L.  Sterling.  Of there 93 farms,. 54 belong to
Locheile, and 18 to Ardgour; - and of these last 18, 2 farms
rent at 100 L, each; 2 at 260 L, each;  and one at 340 L.  The
lowest at 30 L.

   Churches, &c.-There are - places of worship in the parish,
Besides the established minister, there is a missionary, ap-
pointed By the committee for managing his Majesty's royal
bounty, who resides at Fort-William, and another, who offi-
ciates in the parish once a month.  The minister of a mission,
in some neighbouring parishes, also resides in Kilmalie, besides
a preacher of the gospel.  Once a month, a Popish and a Non-
juring clergyman, preach within the bounds of the parish.

     Vol. VIII. 31

<FOOTNOTE>

*A periodical writer has proposed to mingle earn and sheep farms together.
in such proportions, that the latter may purchase the fruits of the former.  The
adoption of this scheme, he thinks, would prevent emigration.  In the south of
Scotland, such a plan might answer; but, in this parish, it is totally impractica-
ble.  For what is the land in tillage, compared to the hill grounds?  The vallies
could easily be cultivated, but what would then become of the grass upon the
hills?  There, the sheep graze all summer and harvest, but must be brought to
the straths to feed during winter and spring; and, consequently, very little crop
can be reared.  The bulk of the people, therefore, must remove, either to
towns or villages in the neighbourhood, or out of the country.


