
      456                    RENFREWSHIRE.

  6. St. Andrew's parish was in like manner disjoined from the
Old parish in the year 1835.
  These three parishes are contiguous and in lines p`rallel with
the river; the North parish being bounded by the river on the
north, and by the South parish on the south, St Andrews lying to
the south of both.
  7. St Thomas' parish was erected by the presbytery quoad
spiritualia in 1839. It was taken partly from the Old and partly
from the Middle parish, but chiefly from the former. The pres-
bytery at the same time annexed a part of the Middle parish to
the Old quoad spiritualia.
  8. In the same year, the parish of Crawfurdsdyke was disjoined
from the East parish, and erected by the presbytery quoad spiri-
tualia. It was taken from the centre of the burghal part of that
parish.
  The population assigned by the presbytery to each of these five
newly erected parishes was from 2000 to 3000 souls.
  In the North parish church it is vested in the male heads of
families communicants, the preses of the managers having a deli-
beratives and casting vote.
  In the South parish-in the proprietors.
  In St. Andrews parish in the male heads of families communi-
cants, from a leet of three selected by the committee of manage-
ment, unless four-fifths of the congregation shall be agreed in fa-
vour of the candidate first proposed, in which case there shall be
no competition.
  In St Thomas' parish-in the male heads of families communi-
cants.
  In Cartsdyke parish-in all the communic`nts, male and female.
  Having enumerated the parishes into which Greenock is now
divided, and the date of their erection, we have next to state the
provision which has been made for them in respect of church ac-
commodation, stipend to the minister, manses, &c. and the names
of the ministers who have presided over these parishes since their
erection.
  The present church of the Old parish appears to have been
built very soon after the granting of the Royal Charter meation-
ad shove; probably in the year 1590 or the year following. It
was originally built for the accommodation of Sir John Shaw's
  In Cartsdyke parish-in all the communicat






