
                              OXNAM.                         257

lot of rams exhibited before the annual meeting of the Highland
and Agricultural Society of Scotland, lately held at Kelso, procur-
ed for its owner, residing at Swinside, the highest premium award-
ed for stock of that particular class.
        All the streams abound with excellent trout. Also salmon have
been taken from the Oxnam here, but by such persons chiefly as
have recourse to the illicit expedient of fishing with spears by torch
light. The crop of beans in 1833 was irretrievably damaged by
the depredations of a dingy-coloured insect. These, settling in
myriads on the stalks, pods, and leaves, either materially injured,
or wholly extinguished the principle of vegetation, and according-
ly the result was a general failure. No means were employed for
their destruction. The black caterpillar, after an interval of thirty
years, again assailed the turnip crop last summer; and, but for the
very careful and expensive picking by the hand, would have entire-
ly consumed it. But for many successive seasons, this kind of crop
has been regularly invaded by insects of a different species. These
fix upon the root commonly of the young plant, and the canker
thereby produced, causes it to put forth new ones, bearing some
fancied resemblance to fingers and toes; and to this circumtance
the disease owes its name. The plant when attacked either withers
and dies, or else exists only in a decayed and mutilated state. No
part of the parish is wholly exempted from its ravages; but these
are supposed to be materially checked and diminished by the un-
sparing use of lime. It has been ascertained by repeated experi-
ments, however, that neither liming copiously, nor yet soil entirely
new, will completely prevent the pestilential inroads which it makes.
This disease has hitherto, indeed, set at defiance the most skilful ef-
forts, either to discover a remedy or to detect its cause. The
ruta baga, or Swedish turnip, appears most effectually to resist its
virulence, and is therefore cultivated to a much greater extent than
it was formerly wont to be done.
        Botany.--As no new or unknown varieties of plants have been
discovered in the parish, the names of such only as are more rare-
ly to be met with are here given: Drosera rotundifolia, round-
leaved sun-dew; Parnassia palustris, common grass of Parnas-
sus; Sedum villosum, hairy stonecrop; Saxifraga granulata, white
meadow saxifrage; Potentilla argentea, hoary cinquefoil; Trifo-
lium ochroleucum, sulphur-coloured trefoil; Polygonum amphibium,
amphibious persicaria; Digitalis purpurea et alba, purple and white


