
     No. 5.] The Statistical Account.

land, set off for the schoolmaster, with a small garden.  The
schoolmaster's house and teaching room are covered with
straw, being both under the same roof.  About 4 years ago
the teaching room became ruinous, and the dwelling house
likewise fell into disrepair.  The then schoolmaster, after long
and fruitless application to the heritors, to get the dwelling
house repaired, and the teaching room enlarged, so as to ac-
commodate the number of scholars in the parish, applied to
the presbytery for a visitation.  His request was granted; but
no heritor attended, nor any agent ford any one of them.  The
presbytery empowered proper tradesmen to inspect the situa-
tion of both the dwelling house and teaching room; and in-
structed them to bring in estimates of the expence of repair-
ing the dwelling house, and rebuilding, and enlarging the
teaching room, so as it might conveniently hold 70, or rather
more scholars, being the number that usually attend in the
winter season.  They did so; and the presbytery decerned
for a school or teaching room of 30 feet long, and 14 feet
wide, with necessary windows, a vent on each end, the floor
to be laid with flags, and the roof covered with slates.  All
this, with benches, tables, and other needful conveniences, a-
mounted to sixty and some odd pounds.  But the Duke of
Queensberry's factor, and Mr Dalzel, who was then selling
off his estate of Kirkmichael, suspended the decree; and the
then schoolmaster, not being able to call and discuss the sus-
pension, left the parish, to the no small regret of those that
had their children under his tuition.  The consequence is,
that though we have got another schoolmaster, the school-
house has been suffered to remain in a ruinous condition, and
he is obliged to hire a house to teach in, and has no dwelling
house for himself and family, but the uncomfortable hut al-
ready described, unless he hire one at his own charge, which
would be exceedingly hard.

     VOL. XXI. D


