
152		     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

ing in it numerous contemporaneous imbedded masses, containing
in some places silicified madrepores."  (Cunningham's Geology
of the Lothians, 7th Vol. Mem. Wern. Soc.)  The other, the
supposed lacustrine formation, has been described by Dr Hibbert
in the  Appendix to his valuable memoir on the Burdiehouse Lime-
stone.   He states that its mineralogical character indicates that it
was elaborated under a very powerful chemical action : and he
specifies the separation of the miscellaneous earthy matters which
compose it into thin laminae, some of them of remarkable tenuity,
and their assumption of a striped (rubane, as it is termed,) dispo-
sition,-the blistered appearances, as if from beat, exhibited by the
mixed ferruginous and carbonaceous layers which are found in the
limestone-the singular wavings which the strata show, not only
on the large scale, but even in hand specimens-and the botryoi-
dal and mammillary structure, which other portions present, as all
"tending to the hypothesis, that the calcareous beds of Kirkton
were elaborated under the action of great heat, or, in other words,
that they bad their origin in deep fissures, intimately connected
with a volcanic focus."  He remarks, indeed, that this is no more
hypothetical matter.  For, "an interposed mass of volcanic tufa
of a green colour, which occasionally assumes the compactness of
greenstone, is developed among the higher beds of the deposit."
This limestone, with its accompaniments, Dr Hibbert pronounces
"one of the most unique formations of which Great Britain can
boast, indicative of thermal waters belonging to the carboniferous
epoch."  This limestone, says Mr Cunningham, " contains the
usual plants of the coal series, and also fossilized wood."  Speci-
mens also have been discovered of a crustaceous animal of very
large dimensions.  Dr Hibbert has identified them with the Eu-
rypterus of North America, described first by Dr Harlan, and re-
ferred by him to the class Crustacea, order Branchiopoda,
The Kirkton specimens, however, are of a different species from
those found in North America, and are distinguished by their ex-
traordinary size. *
   In the limestone beds, lead is found in small, and often interrupt-

<FOOTNOTE>In a note to his paper on the Geology of the Lothians, already quote, Mr Cun-
ningham says.  "to those who are inclined to consider the limestone of Kirkton as of
fresh-water origin from the statements of Dr Hibbert in the 18th Vol. Trans. Roy,
Soc. Ed.'that a decidedly fresh-water limestone is there exposed, which is character-
ised by the absence of all marine shells, coral, &c.' we may mention, that the fact of
its being so characterised is incorrect, in as much as we have found in it specimens
of the productus."


