
                            ARBROATH.                          85

much more attended to than it was thirty or forty years ago. The
shibboleth, by which a native of Arbroath may be detected most
readily, is his pronunciation of any word in which the letters o and
i are found in conjunction, as in the words oil, spoil, anoint, point,
&c. It is impossible to exhibit on paper the sound which a na-
tive of Arbroath gives to these words ; but a stranger who has
once heard it, will never forget it.
	In regard to the general habits of the population, if it be asked
whether the working-classes are cleanly or otherwise, the reply
must be in the affirmative, when compared with the appearance of
the same classes in some of the larger towns. And if the question
be put, whether the people in general enjoy, in a reasonable de-
gree, the comforts and advantages of society, it may be stated,
that most of the old men and women belonging to the class of
operatives are very poor, in consequence of the difficulty of finding
employment in that particular department of work, viz. winding
yarn, and spinning at the wheel, by which they were enabled, some
years ago, to earn a living. Many also in the same class, who
have not passed the vigour of mature age, are in very straitened
circumstances,--especially weavers, whose wages are extremely
low. This is particularly the case where there is a family of young
children who have not arrived at an age to be able to do any thing
for themselves. In a great many, however, of those cages where
extreme poverty is observable, the people are the main cause of
their own wretchedness. The head of the family frequents the
tippling-house, where he spends no inconsiderable portion of his
earnings; and thus the wife and children are left in misery. In
connection with this and as accounting for much of the prevailing
poverty, it may be noticed, that comparatively few young men or
women in the operative class, while they remain unmarried, ever
think of saving any part of their wages; and that most of them
enter into the married state without any previous provision for the
probable expenses even of a humble family establishment. Nine-
tenths of the distress to be found in Arbroath may be traced to
these sources. And if potatoes, with a sprinkling of salt, have in
many instances been almost the only species of food attainable in
families, it becomes a serious question, involving a high moral re-
sponsibility, how far absence from the tippling-house, combined
with previous habits of economy, might have elevated such fami-
lies above the necessity of subsisting on such scanty fare. The
evil, however, exists already ; and it is no easy matter to cure it,



