
                      ROSLIN.                         355

the Bible Society and the Moravian missions.  The amount con-
tributed, however, is small, owing to this circumstance, that al-
most all the public institutions in the parish are supported by vo-
luntary contributions.  And, as the demands among the parishioners
are great, and urgent, little can be given to other objects.
   Education.-There are four schools in the parish, and only one
of them is provided with a small permanent salary.  Two of them
belong to the minister, a third is placed under his superintendence,
and a fourth belongs to R.B. Wardlaw Ramsay, Esq. of White-
bill.  There are also three Sabbath schools, which, together with
the four day schools, belong to the Established Church.  From
the year 1835, down to the present time, more than a sixth part
of the whole population have been in attendance at the four day
schools; and more than a tenth part of the whole population have
been in attendance at the three Sabbath schools.
   The minister visits the whole parish annually, and takes account
of the children who are at school, or who ought to be at it.  In
order to encourage the poor to educate their children, he finds the
following method to work well.  When he meets with a poor man
who finds great difficulty in providing the means of education, he
makes an agreement with him to send one of his children to school,
if he will send another, or perhaps two; and if this party be very
poor, two are sent to school free of expense to him, as long as be
pays for one.  At present, the minister is educating thirty-two chil-
dren in this way; and it may be safely affirmed of the parish it
general, that there is scarcely to be found in it a child who ought
to be at school, and who is not at one.
   Library.-A small library connected with the church, and con-
taining 270 volumes, has been in existence since 1828.  The num-
ber of volumes at the commencement was scarcely one-half of what
it is now.
   Friendly Society.-There is a Friendly society in the parish.  It
contains a considerable number of member.  It is constructed on
sound principles, and is well conducted.  Much benefit is obtain-
ed from it by the community.
   Public-Houses.-There are 7 houses in the parish where strong
drinks are sold.  Four of these are in Roslin village, or in the im-
mediate vicinity.  Were they reduced in number, the public mo-
rals could not fail to be greatly improved thereby.

  June 1843


