
160                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

tingency. Under his auspices, most of the American clergy were
educated; and the United States owe to him many of their most
distinguished patriots and legislators,-above thirty of his pupils
having become members of Congress. In this situation Dr Wi-
therspoon continued with increasing success till the beginning of
the American war,-an event which suspended his functions, and
dispersed the college. He then appeared in a new character.
The citizens of New Jersey elected him as one of the most suit-
able delegates whom they could send to that convention which
formed their republican constitution; where he distinguished him-
self as much in the capacity of a civilian as he had already done
in those of a divine and philosopher. In 1776, he was sent as re-
presentative of New Jersey to the Congress of the United States.
He continued a member of that body seven years, and distinguished
himself by his firmness, enlarged views, and profound wisdom. Nor
did he forget, amid the bustle of political life, his ministerial cha-
racter. After peace was restored, the college was reassembled, and
continued to flourish under the immediate care of a vice-president;
but Dr Witherspoon did not neglect to use every means for its im-
provement. Dr Witherspoon was well prepared for the part he per-
formed in the civil and ecclesiastical assemblies of America, by the
experience he had acquired before leaving Scotland, as leader of the
Orthodox party in the church, chiefly upon the great question of
patronage, which was then the subject of discussion. For more
than two years previous to his death, he was deprived of sight; but
he bore this and all his sufferings with exemplary resignation and
cheerfulness. During his blindness, he was frequently in the pul-
pit, and spoke with his usual accuracy and power. He died on the
15th of November 1794, after a life of great activity, of true piety,
and of eminent usefulness. His writings are well known. They
display extensive learning, a profound knowledge of Scripture, and
an intimate acquaintance with the human heart.*
   This parish gave birth also to Dr Charles Nisbet, President of
the College of Carlisle in America. He was born in March 1728
at Long Yester, where his father held the office of schoolmaster.
After receiving license, he was ordained minister of Montrose;
from which place he was induced to remove by the offer of a Pre-
sidency in America. Though a man of distinguished attainments,
he seems to have enjoyed little comfort, and less worldly prosperity
in "the land of liberty." Although the names "College" and "Pre-

<FOOTNOTE>See the Life of the Rev. John Witherspoon, D. D. LL. D. prefixed to his works.


