
					GLASS.                              207

	sisting of the kinds specified under the branch Botany.  One hun-
	dred acres have been recently planted with pine, larch, and hard-
	wood.  No attention has been paid to the thinning and pruning
	of the former, and the latter is not yet'fit for training.  There are
	some fine old trees of ash and plane about the old mansion-
	houses of Aswanly and Beldormy, and the whole scenery about
	the latter is grand and picturesque. The average rent of arable
	land per acre is about 15s.; some of the poorest worth little more
	than labour and seed, and some of the best worth L. 2.

	   The mode of cropping most generally followed is by seven
	shifts,-three years in grass; two in oats; one in green crop;
	and one partly in oats, and partly in bear or bigg, with grass seeds.
	Wheat has been tried, but without beneficial results.  The extent
	of the farms is small,-from 20 to 150 acres, and there are only
	six of the tenants qualified to vote for a member of Parliament.
	The farm-buildings are generally built with stones and mortar,
	with straw thatch, and all substantial and commodious.

	   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in.
	the parish is computed to be as follows :-
		Of oats and bear, with straw, about               L. 5000
		Of turnips and potatoes, about                       1250
		Of bay, altogether cultivated, about                 1000
                Of pasture, &c., about                               1150
                                                                   --------
                                                      Total,      L. 8400

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situate in a small
	green, on the north side of the river, from which it is distant about
	300 yards. From the western extremity of the parish, it is dis-
	tant about five miles, and from the eastern extremity, about three,
	miles ; in other respects, it is not inconveniently situate. It was
	built in 1782, and is in tolerable repair; containing good accom-
	modation for 550 sitters. All the sittings are free, and appro-
	priated to the several proprietors, and their tenants. The manse
	was built in 1772, and has been partially repaired more than once,
	and now requires considerable repairs and improvements to render
	it comfortable.  The amount of stipend is I5 chalders, half meal,
	half barley, payable by the fiars prices of Banff and Aberdeen
	shires, one-third of the parish being located in the former, and,
	two-thirds in the latter; besides L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
	ments.  The extent of the glebe is about 12 acres, and its annual
	value about L. 20.  The parish church is the only place of wor-
	ship, and isattended by some of almost every family within the bounds
      BANFF.


