
78                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

small portion of his estate touches that portion of the river, along
which the fishery extends. The Earl of Selkirk's land is on the
one bank, and the glebe of Tongland on the most valuable part of
the other. Formerly, it was let by public roup in short leases of
two, three, and four years, and rose in value, at each successive
auction. When last let in this manner, the lease was for four years
at a rental of L.705 per annum,--a large sum, considering that
the fishery is not more than half a mile in extent. At present it
is let for fifteen years by private bargain ; but at what rent, I can-
not pretend to state accurately.
	The salmon are taken in seven different modes,--by doachs or
cruives, by hang-nets, by draught-nets, by shoulder-nets, by drag-
nets, by gaffs, and by the rod.
	Two doachs have been erected, one on each side of the Dee,
with a stone battery or gangway communicating between them,
which stretches completely across the channel. The consequence
is that, except when the river is much swollen, not a single sal-
mon can pass. These erections, especially the stone battery, are
believed to bequite illegal,--a judgment baying been pronounced
by the present Lord Chancellor Cottenham, a few years ago, in
the case of the Earl of Airly against the proprietors on the Spey,
from which it appears that every obstruction in the bed of a river,
to prevent the ascent Of salmon, is contrary to law. By way of
permitting some fish to get up, there is what is called a Saturday's
slap, that is, a part of the doachs is removed once a week for
thirty-six hours, reckoning from six o'clock on Saturday evening;
but, except in particular states of the river, this slap is of little
avail towards its ostensible purpose. When it is low, the salmon
do not run, but remain inactive for weeks, (I have observed them,
for many days, lying in the same identical spot, apparently with-
out having stirred from it,) and, when high, the pressure of the
current against the doachs is so great, that even should the fish.
ermen attempt to remove them, which they cannot always venture
to do, the effort would be beyond their strength. The proportion
of salmon, therefore, that falls to the upland proprietors, compared
with the numbers taken below the doachs, is a mere trifle, and it
is astonishing, that, in a matter which so nearly affects them, they
do,not act with vigour in vindication of their rights.
	By the removal of these obstructions, the value of the fisheries
near the mouth of the Dee, far from being diminished, would pro-
bably be very much increased, and that in the course of a few
years. The proprietors along the whole course of the river and



