
246                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and deepening the centre stank; and this operation, which cost
about L. 150, was performed in the spring of 1837, and has fully
answered its intention, for no water has since lain on that meadow.
In consequence of this improvement, the produce of the parish
must be greatly increased since the time when the last Account
was prepared, and it is expected that a similar improvement will
be made in the drains of the eastern meadow, after the leases of
the farms there, which are now nearly expired, have been renewed.

   October 1839.

                       PARISH OF INVERESK.

     PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND

                      TWEEDDALE.

     THE REV. LESLIE MOODIE, D. D. MINISTER.
     THE REV. J. G. BEVERIDGE, Assistant and Successor.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
    Name.-THE situation of the church and village of Inveresk,
near the confluenee of the river Esk with the Frith of Forth, in-
dicates the origin of the name of this parish, ancientlywritten In-
nerash, Enderask, and UndresKe.  If we adopt the common ac-
ceptation of the Gaelic words Inver and uisge or uisk, the name
Invoresk,signifies the mouth of the river.  The same appellation
in a different language seems once to have been affixed to Mussel-
burger, now the chief town in the parish, which is mentioned in
history, as the Eske muthe of the Northumbrian Saxons: its mo-
dern name it derives from an extensive mussel bank which stretches
out into the sea in its immediate vicinity.  In ancient charters it
is almost uniformly written Muschelburg.
   Extent and Boundaries.-This parish, lying on the south shore
of the Frith of  Forth, at the bottom of a considerable bay, is of a
semicircular form, about 3 miles in length, and 24 in breadth.  It
is bounded on the east, by the parishes of Prestonpans and Tranent;
on the south, by Cranston and Dalkeith; and on the west, by
Newton, Liberton, and Duddingstone.
  Topographical Appearance. -With the exception of a ridge of

<FOOTNOTE>The materials for this Account were partly collected by Dr Moodie:   The Account
is drawn up by the Rev. J.G. Beveridge.



