
			CADDER.                              401

bedded in the ice. It is surrounded by rising grounds on the one
side, equal to any acclivity in the parish,--from which the manure
and even soil is washed, and the burn carries down, in its long and
circuitous course, so much soil, that it needs no dung; but sometimes
the crops are destroyed by the drain not allowing the water to escape
when rapidly collected. Oats grew spontaneously at its brink for
many years. There is a loch in the east end of the parish and district
of Chryston, about a mile directly south from that village, called
Johnston Loch. It is about a mile in circumference, and belongs
to the Forth and Clyde Canal Company. There, is besides, the
Bishop's loch, partly in Cadder, but chiefly in Old Monkland, above
a mile in length, and about a quarter of a mile in average breadth.
It is also one of the chief reservoirs for the Forth and Clyde Canal
Company. Lastly, there is Gartinqueen loch, which is chiefly sup-
plied by a streamlet from the New Monkland parish. Its stream
drives a lint and now also a corn-mill at Croftfoot. It afterwards
joins the issues from the Bishop and Johnston lochs, which are still
further augmented by the issues from two lochs in the parish of
Old Monkland; and the whole is collected in winter to drive the
flax-mill at Drimeavil. It was wont, prior to the erection of both
of these mills mentioned, to be collected at Bedlay by a strong dam,
so as to cover about two acres, to drive the Bishop's corn-mill at
Bedlay. This dam has been allowed to fall into decay, and the
reservoir has been gradually filled up within about thirty years;
and latterly, the bed of it has been lessened by sloping down the
almost perpendicular bank at Bedlay house, and most likely it will
never again be attempted to be re-opened. After this large stream
has performed its duty to the ancient mill of the Bishop, it winds
through the delightful vale between Millbrae and Gartferry, adorn-
ed with almost every species of natural under-wood, and every kind
of deciduous forest trees. After Bothland burn has been a good
while detained in this valley, it is again stopped to turn the lint-
mill of Auchengeich. It then rolls on through haughs which
it has raised and fertilized, till it receives the tributary stream
of Garnkirk and Daviston. After being joined by some other
burns, it falls into the Luggie, which, after it has passed the ancient
town of Kirkintilloch, is merged in the Kelvin.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The general direction of the strata
of the transition rocks in the parish, is from north-east to south-
west. Where the new Monkland meets, and indents into the east
end, there is presented an invariable though unequal front of


