
                           BOINDIE.                          243

sum, from which the interest above stated arises, is lent out in
their name.
  Fairs.-A fair for the sale of cattle, &c. has been lately insti-
tuted at Ordens, in the western part of this parish, appointed to
be held eight times in the year, and promises to be a great accom-
modation for the disposal of fed stock in the winter season.
  Public-Houses.-We have five public-houses or spirit-shops in
Whitebills, and three in the landward district.t Three, instead of
eight, would be a liberal supply for the real wants of the public.
However decent the character of their occupiers, the remaining
five, in a public view, are to be simply regarded as so many li-
censed traps, spread over the parish for the demoralization of the
unwary traveller or neighbour.
  Fuel.-Peat fuel, from the mosses lying to the southward, is still
chiefly used for the upper district, and, to a considerable extent,
even on the coast.  A mixture of peat and wood is generally
used for smoke-drying haddocks.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The agricultural state of the parish has changed very remarkably
since the date of the last Statistical Account.  The small posses-
sions, with their thatched cottages, which were then numerous, have
now chiefly disappeared, and spacious fields surrounding insulated,
and in some instances elegant buildings have taken their place.
The alternate system of husbandry has become firmly rooted.  In-
stead of 60 acres of turnips, we have now 500.  Thrashing-mills,
not one of which had then been introduced, are now descending
even to the class of crofters.  The farmers have grown in wealth
and luxury, and, in a corresponding degree, in a spirit of honour-
able enterprise and activity.
  The fishing population have also been greatly advanced in their
outward condition.
  It is to be lamented that no similar improvement has taken
place in the condition of a large part of the labouring classes, if we
except the increased cheapness of clothing having greatly advanced
the comfort of many of them under this head.  Elderly single wo-
men, for instance, are probably in a worse situation than at the date

<FOOTNOTE>Were the tendency not continually checked, the pauperism ofthe parish would
be greatly increased.  There are a number of persons removed a single grade in their
circumstances above those on the roll who would at once become a burden on the pub-
lic funds.  When widows are left with families, a public subscription is generally
raised, by which, well husbanded, most of them are carried through their difficulties.
   One respectable person, the principal spirit vender in the village, has since
abandoned the trade.


