
                                      WESTRAY.                                131

          The average number of communicants belonging to the Esta-
        blishment is about 320; to the Secession, 200; the Anabaptist,
        120.
          The average annual amount of the three church collections in
        the parish is L. 13 Sterling.
          Education.-The number of schools in the parish is five;-one
        parochial school in Westray; one subscription, belonging to the
        Establishment; two Secession schools; and one Society school
        in the Island of Papa Westray.
          The parochial schoolmaster's salary is L. 28; that of the Society
        teacher's is L. 15; of the subscription schoolmaster's, L. 12. The
        Secession teacher's salary is from L. 3 to L. 5.
          There are no young people in this parish between six and fif-
        teen years of age who cannot read a little, and very few between
        seven and eight who cannot also write. The number of persons
        upwards of fifteen years of age, who can neither read nor write,
        is 52; but these are for the most part aged people.  The people
        in general, are most anxious to give education to their children,
        but averse to be at much expense; nor can the circumstances
        of by far the greater part of them afford it.
          The district of Rapness is at least five miles from the parochial
        schools, and, for the greater part of the year, the road in that quar-
        ter is almost impassable, by reason of an immense tract of peat
        moss intervening. The south-west part of the island is distant
        from the parochial school three miles, and the road in winter very
        bad. The north extremity is also distant from it about three
        miles. A school is needed in the Rapness district, in Skailwick,
        and in the south-west district.
          Library.-There is connected with this parish an itinerating
        library, on a small scale, instituted gratuitously by Thomas Bal-
        four, Esq., relative of Mr John Balfour of Trenaby, and oldest
        son of Captain William Balfour, R, N. Cliffdale. Its object is
        the benefit of the poorer classes of the people who are unable to
        purchase books, or get them from any other source. It is allowed
        to go the round of all the North Isles, and is stationary in each
        only for one year.
           Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons receiving
        parochial aid, amounts to about 70 annually, and the average sum
        allotted to each is about 2s. 6d. The rest of the fund goes to pay-
        ing precentor's and kirk officers' fees, and for coffins to the poor.
            There are no annual contributions in this parish to the poor,


