
			KILBIRNIE.			   705

ters. Legend, In. Virtute. Tua. Libera. Me. It is of pure sil-
ver, or appears to be so:--it feels like malleable iron; the modern
silver coinage like cast-metal.
	Kilbirnie House.--The stately ruins of the ancient house or
Place of Kilbirnie, are situated a mile west of the village, and
overlook a considerable extent of country beyond the valley beau-
tified with Kilbirnie loch, and fertilized by the Garnock. The
surrounding grounds fall gently towards this valley, and are varied
but slightly by a shallow dingle, on the margin of which stands
the ruined mansion.
	The building, which has been erected at two widely different
periods, consists of an ancient quadrilateral tower, and a modern
addition, extending rectangularly from its east side. The tower
is 41 feet in length by 32 feet in width, and its walls are 7 feet
tbick. Its height has been divided into four storeys, the lowest
of which is vaulted and without a fire-place. The second con-
sisted of a hall, 26 feet long, and 18 feet wide, has likewise been
vaulted, and lighted tolerably by a window in its south wall, and
another facing the west. Above the hall have been two tiers of
chambers; but of their subdivision there are no traces left. Access
to the different floors and to the roof, has been gained by a nar-
row spiral stair in the north-east angle of the building. A way
fenced with a parapet has gone round the top, all of which has
fallen down, as well as every vestige of the roof, which was proba-
bly of the high triangular form, common to such castellated man-
sions. It is impossible, from any peculiarities in the masonry of
this feudal tower, to ascertain the period of its construction. The
absence of gun-ports in its walls, a provision of defence with which
every stronghold erected subsequently to the use of fire-arms
was furnished, seems to imply that it was built, at the latest, in
the early part of the fourteenth century, and consequently, in the
days of the Barclays, the most anciently recorded Lords of the ba-
rony.
	The modern part of the edifice was built about 1627, and must
have proved a satisfactory increase of light and airy accommodation
to that afforded by the sombre tower. It extends 74 feet, is
25 in width, and has been three storeys in height, besides the
attics, the pedimented windows of which have risen above the
lower line of the roof, as have likewise the hanging turrets at the
extremities of the principal facade. Much of the exterior walls
of both parts of the building is still entire; and, as is frequently
	AYR.                                        Y y


