
     of North Knapdale.

Of old, the chieftain was not so much considered the master as
the father of his numerous clan.  Every individual of these
followers loved him with a degree of enthusiasm, which made
them chearfully undergo any fatigue or danger.  Upon the o-
ther hand, it was his interest, it was his pride, and his chief
glory, to requite such animated friendship to the utmost of his
power.  The rent paid him was chiefly consumed in feasts
given at the habitations of his tenants.  What he was to spend,
and the time of his residence at each village, was known, and
provided for accordingly.  The men who provided these enter-
tainments partook of them; they all lived friends together; and
the departures of the chief and his retinue never failed to oc-
cation regret.-In more polished times, the cattle and corn
consumed, at these feasts of hospitality, were ordered up to
the landlord's habitation: what was friendship at the first be-
came very oppressive in modern times.  Till very lately, in this
neighbourhood, Campbell of Auchinbreck had a right to car-
ry off the best cow he could find upon several properties, at each
Martinmas, by way of mart.  The island of Islay paid 500
such cows yearly, and so did Kintyre, to the M`Donalds: the
Crown now has converted these cows at 20 s. a head, and tak-
en away this badge of slavery.
   The inconveniences, attending this state, arose from the pet-
ty quarrels between neighbouring clans: these took their rise
from a spirit of plunder and depredation, and from points of
fantastic honour; and they seldom endured long at a time;
the weakest party giving way, and keeping quiet until times
and circumstances made him a match for his antagonist.  It is
remarkable, that no considerable family was ever annihilated
By these intestine broils; a proof, that they were not so de-
structive as, at this distance of time, we are apt to believe.
   At the period now under review, the Scottish kings had no
authority whatever in this part of the country; on the con-

     VOL. VI. K k


