
360                        RENFREWSHIRE

     Crystallized quartz is found in small quantities, and red foli-
ated zeolite has been found a little north of the village at Peonel
Brae, in the secondary greenstone ; as well as Laumonite, a rather
rare substance. Calcareous spar is frequent.
     Soil.-Alltivial deposits covering the old diluvium are found in
the lower or eastern section of the parish. -In some quarters, the
alluvial soil is overgrown with a great quantity of peat moss to
remove which, various attempts have been made, not without suc-
cess, as sball be noticed afterwards. The soil of the west and
northern parts of this parish, on the higher district towards the
source of Locher, and onwards in the direction nf the Gryfe, inay
be generally described as gravelly, or light whinstone soil, peculiar-
ly adapted for green crops. The lower division, viz. on the south-
west and southern quarter, stretching to the vale of the Black
Cart through its entire course, with the lower districts along the
Cvryfe and Loch ' er, are, under proper management, more parti-
cularly adapted, besides the usual grain crops, for the cultivation
of beans and wheat.
     Zoology.-Foxes, polecats, weasels, rabbits, and bares, the sports-
men's amusements, vermin to the farmer, are here found as in the
adjoining districts. Herons sometimes visit our streams. Hawks,
wood-pigeons, and pheasants are found in our plantations; and the
1),tautiftil golden-crested wren is occasionally seen in some of our woods.
Trout and parr are found in our streams, although not of any
great size. Their numbers are greatly diminished, not by fishing
merely, but also by netting, liming, and other reprehensible prac..
tices of the Poacher. Salmon were formerly common; but, from va-
rious causes, are now greatly reduced in number. The fillino, off of
the salmon-fishiiigs in the Clyde, to whatever causes attributable,
must in a still higher degree aff6ct their appearing in our in-
land fishing-ground. These, as well as the sea-trout, come up in
the autumn. While passing the breasts of the mill-dams in the
close searon, great numbers are killed in the following manner A
net is fixed on a wooden fr`me of abotit four fet long and twenty
inches broad, so as to form a bag about two feet deep, suspended by
cords fastened to the four corners, and fixed to the inlair or breast of
the dam.  If the fish cannot completely clear the inlair and rewch
the deep water beyond, he falls back, and is. in his descent, inter-
cepted by the criiive, from which he rarely escapes. By this lawless
practice, dozens of salmon have been sometimes destroyed in a day.



