
                   ANSTRUTHER WESTER.                          629

to be put on the list of regular weekly pensioners. Besides the
collections, however the session are in possession of considerable
funds derived from the rent of land bequeathed for the behoof of
the poor, which enables them easily to meet all the demands made
upon their charity. Several tons of coal are also yearly distribut-
ed among the indigent. The late incumbent, who had great
sensibility, was particularly attentive to the poor; and I have
been informed that intimation has sometimes been made from
the pulpit, that, if any were in want, they had nothing to do
but apply. to the session for relief. It seems to be the general
opinion in this quarter, that there is now less disposition among the
poor to refrain from seeking parochial relief. The spirit of inde.
pendence appears to be wearing out apace, and many, so far from
considering it a degradation to be pensioners on the poor funds
think that they have a right to them, and cannot get enough;
There are, however, some honourable exceptions to the remark
  Fuel.-The fuel commonly used is coal-either obtained
in the neighbourhood, or brought by sea from Newcastle.
Scotch coal may cost 6s. or 7s. a ton at the pit mouth-and
English from 15s. 6d. to 17s. when delivered from the ship.  To
those who can afford the inlay, the latter will be found the cheap-
est and the most comfortable. But Scotch coal is commonly
preferred for the kitchen.
   Fairs, Inns, &c-No fair is held in the burgh; but there is one
inn,-quite enough for the population, and the effects of which are
said to be very pernicious.

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The burgh of Anstruther Wester has undergone considerable
improvements within the last few years. Across the burn which
separates it from Anstruther Easter, a bridge was erected at the
mutual expense of the two burghs in 1831. Before that period, the
Only communication betwixt them for carriages was by a ford, at all
times inconvenient, and sometimes impassable. Besides this, there
may also be noticed, the widening of the main street at the West
Port, from 13 to 30 feet-its Macadamization,-and the formation,
of a neat footway or pavement, at an expense of L. 450, contributed
equally be the burgh and county. The town is also now supplied
with water, the streets lighted, and common sewers and other con-
veniences constructed, whereby,the public thoroughfares and lanes
are kept in a clean and orderly state. A new manse and offices
for the clergyman, and a handsome school and dwelling-house for



