
			GARVOCK.                              47

soil. The pasture lies in a den close by, and watered by a small
stream. A very few ash and plane trees, planted by a former in-
cumbent about eighty years ago, having been cut down in 1804,
there was not a tree to be seen within miles of the manse, till the
next incumbent planted a narrow belt, principally of larch, along
the north-east side of the pasture, which added much to the shelter
and beauty of the place. And the present incumbent has freely
added his mite towards the improvement of the grebe and em-
bellishment of the place, by planting larch, spruce, and hard-wood
in the den about the manse and church-yard, which is rendering
the place a paradise compared to what it was thirty years ago. The
glebe may be valued at L. 10 yearly.
	Besides the glebe, there is a triangular piece of ground, of about
two acres in extent, a few hundred yards from the glebe, and sur-
rounded by land belnnfing to others, which has been in the pos-
session of the minister time out of mind, called the Minister's
Moss. As a moss it was long since exhausted, and laid bare to
the very bones, and for many years has been of hardly any value
even as pasture; but the present incumbent, after putting about
160 roods of drains into it, has turned it into arable land, and has
at present an excellent crop of wheat upon it for his first crop.
	The stipend, by last augmentation in 1820, amounts to L.159,
2s. 4 1/4d. in money; 19 bolls, 2 firlots, 3 pecks, 3 2/3 lippies, meal;
3 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 peck, 1/4 lippy, bear. Average amount for the
last seven years about L. 178. The teinds are exhausted. There
is only one place of worship in the parish. The number of fami-
lies belonging to the Establishment is 92. One family, consist-
ing of an old man and his daughter, attend the Berean meeting
in Laurencekirk. There is one Episcopalian, a female, whose
husband attends the parish church; and one man with his wife at-
tend the Seceding meeting in Johnshaven, but his children were
sent as young communicants last year to join the Established
Church,-so that, in the soil of Garvock, dissenterism does not
thrive. The parish church is generally well attended, considering
the distance of the extremities of the parish; and the average num-
ber of communhc`nts is 200.
	Some years ago, there was a small Penny-a-week Association
in this Parish for missions, schools, and tracts, the annual income
of which never exceeded L. 2, 10s., which was paid to the So-
ciety for the same purpose in Montrose; but, unfortunately, both
have dwindled away.



