
668                         FIFESHIRE.

the reign of Robert III. One of his descendants having obtained
a charter of the lands of Lalethan from Lundin of that Ilk in 1576,
was designed of Lalethan, and afterwards of Balbirnie, acquired
by puchase from a family of the same name.
     Balbirnie House, now the property of John Balfour, Esq., is
situated about a mile to the west of the parish church. The house
is an elegant modern structure, erected by the late General Bal-
four. The principal entrance, which is on the south front, is by
a handsome portico, formed by columns of the Ionic order, with
corresponding pilasters. The whole materials were drawn from
freestone quarries on the estate. The house is pleasantly situated
in a romantic hollow, sheltered from every wind that blows by those
detached and gently undulating eminences, which form so remar-
kable a feature in the scenery of the vale of Leven. These heights,
clothed with some of the finest trees in the country, are rendered
accessible on all sides by means of walks and alleys, so contrived;
as to command at every turn varied and picturesque views of the
surrounding country, from the Lomonds to the shores of the Frith
of Forth, and the coast beyond. The shrubberies around the house,
and along a small brook which meanders through the grounds on
the east, are laid out with exquisite taste and effect, and contain,
in great variety and profusion, such plants and shrubs, native and
exotic, as are hardly enough to withstand the rigors of the winter.
The park, including garden and shrubberies, extends over a sur-
face of 200 acres. As a complete and elegant residence, Balbirnie
is surpassed by few north of the Tweed.
     The only other residence in the parish which deserves particu-
lar mention on account of its antiquity is Kirkforthar, the seat of
George Johnstone Lindsay, Esq. a cadet of the noble and ancient
family of Crawfurd. Kirkforthar formed part of the Lord Lind-
say's ancient estate of Struthers, and became a separate branch in
the following manner: David, Lord Lindsay of Byres, espoused
the cause of King James III. in opposition to the views of his son,
James IV., who was stirred up by the confederated nobles to be-
come their leader in a foul and unnatural rebellion. Lord Lind-
say commanded the father's adherents. The two hostile armies
having met at Sauchieburn, a battle took place, which issued in
the defeat and death of the unfortunate James III. Immediately
after, Lord Lindsay was arraigned of high treason. Although he
was an excellent soldier, and had great experience in the service
of foreign states, yet he was but little gifted with court phraseology,
                                    3


