
     of East Monkland.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The parish is, on the whole,
more beautiful than fertile.  Its chief advantages are the
plenty of coals and peats, water and free stone, good roads,
and cheap living; but one great disadvantage is, the distance
from lime, which is the manure that answers the soil best.
Another disadvantage is, that the College of Glasgow are ti-
tulars of the teinds, which are said to be mortified by an
act of Parliament, and are therefore not saleable.  This, and
several neighboring parishes, are therefore obliged, either to
take leases of their tends every 19 years, and to pay an ar-
bitrary grassum to the college, or else to get them valued by
a process before the Court of Session, which is attended with
great expence.  This calls loudly for redress, as it hurts the
spirit of improving the lands, the College having a right to
the fifth part of the rents, in case of a valuation.  It would,
therefore, be for the interest of these parishes, as well as of
the College, to apply for an act of Parliament to make the
teinds saleable, and to lay out the price upon lands for behoof
of the College, by Commissioners appointed for that purpose;
which would not only remedy this grievance, but secure the
College revenue, encourage agriculture, and prevent many
expensive processes between the College and the landholders.
The parish, in general, is deemed healthy.  No epidemical
distempers are known here.  Many persons now living are
above 80 years of age, and 3 near 100.  The small-pox is
the most fatal disease, as inoculation, by some fatal prejudice,
is not yet become general.  Considering the prodigious num-
ber that Great Britain losses annually by this disease, a pre-
mium should be given by government, for some limited time,
to encourage the general practice of inoculation, amongst
the middling and lower ranks of people.  It appears, that
the ancient Celts or Gauls once inhabited this part of the
country, as many places have Gaelic name, such as Roch-


