
208                       PERTHSHIRE.

460 persons.  Notbing, however, could be more awkward or in-
convenient than its situation.  It is set down at the distance of two
miles from the eastern, and seven from the western extremity of the
parish, where the great bulk of the population reside.  A circle
with a radius of two miles round the church, includes only about
330 parishioners, out of 1050, leaving 720 at an averaqe distance
of 5 miles.  Accordingly, as might have been expected, there is a
Secession meeting-house, planted in the midst of this population,
(in Logiealmond) at the distance of six miles from the parish
church.  Under such disadvantages, it is not to be wondered at,
that, in the course of nearly a hundred years, a large body of the
inhabitants have becomd Seceders.  It may be remarked also, that
there are no Seceders (with one solitary exception) within two miles
and a-half of the church.  The following is a statement of the num-
bers of church people and Dissenters.  Individuals belonging the
Established Church, 724 ; United Secession, 325 ; Episcopalian,
2; total 1051.
  At.Chapelhill, in Logiealmond, there was an ancient place of
worship, which bad lain in a ruinous and dilapidated state since
the beginning of last century, but which it was thought, by a little
repair, might be rendered fit for the reception of a congregation.
A subscription accordingly was set on foot in the district, and
through the exertions of the people themselves, aided by the liberal
contributions of the sole proprietor, Sir John Stewart, and the
Misses Drummond of Logiealmond, the edifice was completed in
a neat and substantial manner, at an expense of about L. 150;
and opened for public worship by the minister of the parish on the
5th of October 1834.  Since that time, divine service has been
regularly performed in it every Lord's day, to the unspeakable
comfort of very many persons, who before, on account of this dis-
tance from church, were almost excluded from the enjoyment of
public ordinances.  The Rev.  Mr Omond, now minister of Mon-
zie, was the first regularly officiating preacher.
  The chapel, which is situated at the distance of four miles from
the parish church, and two miles from the Secession meeting-house,
is seated for about 320 persons; and is completely filled, and to
a great extent, bv persons who formerly, for convenience sake, took
sittings in the Secession place of worship.   A small seat rent is
exacted, averaging 2s. 6d. which, together with the collections at
the church door, constitutes a fund, out of which the preacher's sa-


