
				YETHOLM.                       163


    a small property in this parish, (now in the possession of Adam
    B. Boyd, Esq. of Cherrytrees,) and one of the physicians of
    Charles II., seems to have been a chemist of some celebrity in
    his day. In the old mansion-house of Thirlestane, lately pulled
    down, a room, which he had probably used as his laboratory, con-
    tinued to retain the name of the "warlock's room."* (See Note
    to the 11th chapter of Waverley, Vol. i. regarding the ancient fa-
    mily of Scott of Thirlestane in this parish.)
	Antiquities.-Yetholm churchyard has probably been the buri-
    al place of many an ancient border chief. About two or three
    years ago, a stone coffin was discovered nearly six feet below
    the surface, and unfortunately was broken before it could be as-
    certained what it was. The stone in which the body lay was an
    entire mass. It contained a skeleton of unusual size. Still more
    lately, in the same churchyard, was discovered a square erection,
    consisting of four rough stones, set at right angles, and covered
    by a flat stone above, in which was found only a skull, which
    crumbled into dust when exposed for a short time to the air. On
    the borders of the parish, at Primside mill, under a large flat
    stone in the middle of the road, was found some years ago an urn,
    of very rude workmanship, and containing ashes. It was lately in
    the possession of Mr Oliphant at Marlefield.
	There are two British forts in the parish, one situated on the
    top of Castlelaw, a hill on the farm of Vencheon; the other on
    the summit of a higher hill, called the Camp Hill, on the farm
    of Halterburn. They are fortified with two fosses and ramparts,
    are probably two or three hundred yards in diameter, and from
    their situation must have been very strong, almost impregnable
    fortifications.- On the top of Yetholm Law, there are the remains
    of a very extensive and singular fortification, the general form of
    which is square, but very irregular,-its irregularity, perhaps, occa-
    sioned by the inequality of the ground. It has been supposed to

<FOOTNOTE>The celebrated Jean Gordon, and her grandaughter Madge or Majory Gor-
    don, were both inhabitants of this parish; the former well known as "the prototype of the
    character of Meg Merrilees." the latter probably having "sat to the author of Guy
    Mannering as the representative of her person." (See Blackwood's Mag. for April,
    May, and Sept. 1817.) Madge was married to a man of the name of Young, and
    is still remembered by many in Kirk Yetholm,-a woman of remarkable stature and
    striking appearance. I find that most, or perhaps all, her children are registered in
    the session record of baptisms. From the same record it appears, that in her latter
    days she had been in very destitute circumstances. For several years the sum of
    1s. 6d. seems to have been allowed almost weekly by the kirk-session of Yetholm to
    "Madge" or "Majory Gordon." I, may also mention concerning the family of
    Will Faa, long king of the gipsies in the south of Scotland, (1bid.) that they were
    all, to the number of twenty-two or twenty-four, baptized in Yetholm kirk, and many
    of them are registered. Several of his family still reside in Yetholm. His son "Will
    Faa" has succeeded to his father in the title at least of "king."


