
                           DALRY.                             241

ance as possible, and much discontent is manifested should others
recieve a more liberal allowance than themselves.  There is only
one person in the parish who solicits public charuty by means of
begging, and who does not extend his calls beyond the town.
     Fairs,--There are six fairs held annually; but none of them
are of great importance.  Yhe principal fair is held on St Mar-
garet's day, the last day of July.  About forty years ago, this
was one of the most extensive horse fairs in the west ofScotland;
but so greatly has it degenerated,that a score of horse and two
score of cattle would be reckoned a great fair.  Some of the fairs
has been established of late years by the publicans, ostensibly for
the sale of cattle, lint, &c. but more truly for the disposal of their
whisky, which is always a staple commodity at fairs.  From the
trifling amount of business transacted at these fairs, and the in-
ducements they present to dissipation, characterized, too, as they
often are, by quarrels and brawls, they ought to be abolished,
as nuisances detrimental to the best interests of the community.
     Inns, &c.--There are four inns and five public-houses in the
parish, of which five are in the country part.  Besides these,
four of the grocers retail spirituos liquors.  Their effect on the
morals of the people is most pernicious.  If we except the Largs
road, there is no necessity for a single public-house in the country
portion of the parish.  it is doubtful whether a reduction of their
number in the town would be of any benefit, as such a measure
might only tend to increase the business of the remainder.  One
cause of the prevailing intemperance is to be found in the short
term of apprenticeships.  This seldom exceeds three or at most
four years, and boys who are placed at trades at ten ortwelve
years of age become possesed of more money than discretion, by
the time they are fifteen or sixteen; and in order tosustain a cha-
racter for manliness they resort to the public-houses, and there
spend what ought to have gone to the support of their families.
A temperance society was formed someyears ago, and at its for-
mation was joined by a large number of members, but these not
being able to maintain its principles, have dwindled to a very few,
and the society never having been countenanced by the more influ-
ential portion of the community, has now only a nominal existence.
     Fuel.--Coals are the chief fuel consumed.  Peats are used on-
ly in the vicinity of the mosses, or in small quantities, by the inha-
bitants of the towns to kindle their fires.  Coals are sold at the
     AYR.                                   2



