
636			AYRSHIRE.

	The population of the parliamentary burgh and parish, as already
stated, is 8377; and for this population, church accommodation is
provided in the following ratio. Sittings in the Established Church of
Irvine, 1800; in the Secession Church, 800; in the Relief Church,
915; in the Baptist Church. 600; Mr Smith's chapel, 350. In
addition to this accommodation for one-half of the whole population,
the community is partly indebted to the liberality of the Church
Extension Committee in providing additional accommodation in
the parish church of Fullarton, to the extent of 850.
	Education--In the Academy which has been already noticed,
there are three teachers, and accommodation for pupils to the
amount of 500; in the commercial Academy, for 150; accommo-
dation in Mr Smith's school, 150; do. in Mr Clark's, 120; do.
in free school, 120; do. in smaller private schools, 100; total,
1140. Superadded, with the aid of L. 500 from Bell's Fund, ac.
commodation, in Fullarton school, for 150; total, 1290.
	Poor and Parochial Funds--According to a suggestion made
by Robert Moutgowerie, Esq. of Craighouse, bankerin Irvine,
congregation in Irvine has, for many years, supported its own
poor,--whilst the poor, not in connection with any congregation,
are supported from a fund obtained by assessment, and from rents
of property belonging to the kirk-session, from the fees arising
from proclamations of marriages, mortcloth dues, and other parish
funds. Of this fund, one-half is levied from the landward he-
ritors, and the other half from proprietors and occupants of
houses in town. Of paupers not connected with any denomi-
nation of Christians, the average number is about 75; and the
average expenditure for their relief, inclusive of temporary
and extraordinary cases, is about L.396 per annum. The dis-
bursement of this sum is superintended by a committee, com-
posed of three heritors the provost, and two magistrates, with the
clergymen and two elders from each of the Established and Dis-
senting congregations,--and a committee annually appointed by
those householders who are assessed. These appoint a sub-com-
mittee, and an overseer, who is allowed a salary of L.10 per an-
num. The co-operation of these public bodies is harmonious in
the higgest degree, and in every respect satisfactory to the com-
munity.
	November 1841.


