
			BARRIE.      			    661

great extent. The great bulk of the population, male and female,
are more or less engaged in it, being employed chiefly by tbe ma-
nufacturers of Dundee and Arbroath.
	The only fishing carried on is that of salmon. There are five
stations belonging to three different proprietors.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Ecclesiastical State.--In the Barrie district of the parish, there
are 172 families belonging to the Established Church, and 23 be-
longing to Disrenting or Seceding communions. In the quoad
sacra parish of Carnoustie, there are 236 families belonging tothe
Established Church; 83 to Dissenting and Seceding communions;
three to the Episcopal Church; and one to the Papists.
	The stipend is estimated at L. 143, 12s. 4d. There are L. 4,
3s. 8d. of unexhausted teinds; the glebe contains about five acres
worth about L. 1 per acre. No one can tell when the manse was
built. It was repaired after a litigation with the heritors in 1828.
In its present condition, it is damp, open, and uncomfortable.
	Education.--Besides the parish school of Barrie, there is a
sessional school recently erected in Carnoustie, to which the
Privy-Council Committee on Education granted L. 100. It is
at present vested in the hands of the kirk-session; but it is expressly
provided, that, in the event of the apprehended disruption of the
present Established Church; the school shall belong to the non-
intrusion party. Besides this school there is another in Carnoustie,
of long standing, constituted so that any individual, without respect
to character, residence, or sex, who pays 4s., has a right to vote in
all matters connected with its management. The working of such
a constitution naturally led to results out of which sprung the above-
mentioned school, expressly designed for the education of the young
on Sbriptural principles. There are at present two additional ad-
venture schools in Carnoustie, one of them being for girls.
	The yearly amount of the parochial schoolmaster's salary is
L. 32. The number of scholars varies at different seasons of the
year. During winter it often amounts to 100.
	Savings Bank.--There is a Savings Bank in Carnoustie, in-
tended for this parish and the parish of Panbride. The following
abstract shows it present state: The amount of deposits at pre-
sent is L. 1286, 2s. 5d. which belongs to 74 males, 75 females,
and 6 societies.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--For six years preceding the pre-
sent, the average number of persons receiving parochial aid has
been 25. The average sum allotted to each of these persons per


