
     of Hamilton.

habit of body, an aukward shape, horns too thick at the bot-
tom, or streaked with black, were blemishes which doomed
the animal irrevocably to the knife; none being preserved for
stock, but such as possessed all the characteristics of beauty
and utility.  In this manner were these sheep improved to
such a degree, that their wool was preferred to any then
known in the neighbouring markets.  When inclosing with
hedges became frequent, the farmers were obliged to part
with these little stocks, which injured the young fences, and
gradually sold them off for slaughter; so that no remains of
them can now be traced in this part of the country.
   This parish produces wheat, oats, pease, beans, barley,
hay, cheese and butter, some flax, and a tood many pota-
toes.  Wheat is sometimes sown after pease and beans, oats
or potatoes, but generally after sallow.  The produce com-
monly is from 40 to 70 Winchester bushels per Scots acre;
but, in 1783, 84, and 85, the long severe frosts in the spring
destroyed the young wheat, and for some years after, great-
ly discouraged this branch of agriculture.  The farmers, how-
ever, are again returned to their former practice of sowing this
grain, finding wheat a very beneficial crop, when it succeeds.  The
cultivation of it, however, does not answer well on the higher
grounds; and, all over the neighbourhood, it meets with ob-
structions from the autumnal rains; by which the soil is so
much softened, as to be unfit for the reception of the feed, or
bearing working cattle to cover it in.
   Formerly a considerable quantity of barley of an excellent
quality, was produced here, particularly in the lower parts of
the parish; but the backward springs, and cold inconstant
summers, which have been prevalent for more than twenty
years past, have been very unfavourable to the growth of that
plant, particularly, where the predominant soil is clay.  Hus
bandmen advanced in life, concur in afferting, that the average
     VOL. II. A a


