
     Of Markinch.

enterprise set a business of this kind on foot, it might be
highly beneficial to himself, and to the country around; and
would be well worthy the countenance and encouragement of
the gentlemen in the immediate neighborhood; as, by em-
ploying a number of hands, it would furnish a ready market
for the produce of their estates, and of course heighten their
value.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The church of Markinch is a very an-
cient place of religious worship*.  The King is patron.  The
living consists of 128 bolls of victual, Linlithgow measure,
half meal and half barley, and 500 L. Scotch, in money; in-
cluding 100 L. Scotch for communion elements, besides a manse
and 8 acres of glebe+.  There are no Seceding meeting-
houses in this parish.  The great body of the people conti-
nue stedfastly attached to the Established Church, about one
16th part only having joined the different sectaries.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It was given by Maldivinas, Bishop of St. Andrew's, to the Culdees in the
10th century.  Towards the end of the 12th century, it was mortified to the
Priory of St. Andrew's by Eugenius the son of Hugo, a second son of Gilli-
michel M'Duff, the 4th Earl of Fife, which deed was confirmed by a charter
of King William.  From this Eugenius, the family of the Earl of Wemyss is
supposed to have sprung.  About the beginning of the 17th century, the small
parsonage of Kirkforthar, belonging to Lindsay of Kirkforthar, a cadet of the
family of Crawford, was suppressed and annexed to Markinch.  The ruins of
the church of Kirkforthar are still to be seen: they stand in the middle of the
old church-yard, or burying-ground, which is enclosed by a wall; and there
many of the people belonging to that district still bury their dead.
+In the year 1636, the stipend received a small augmentation on account of
the annexation of Kirkforthar.  Since that period, it has been but once aug-
mented, and the augmentation got, was only 20 L. of money, and the conver-
sion of some oats into meal.  Among the predecessors of the present incumbent
was Mr. Tullidelph, afterward Principal of the College of St. Andrew's.


