
266                         PERTHSHIRE.

almond, on account of its elevation, is cold, and contrasts strik-
ingly with the mild atmosphere enjoyed by the southern portion of
the parish.
  Prognostics of the Weather.-Among the phenomena of the at-
mosphere, that indicate a coming change in the state of the weather,
must not be omitted, thd sound of the waterfalls upon the Shag-
gie, and the roar of the distant Turret. In the vicinity of rivers,
there are times, especially in the stillness of evening twilight, when
the music of the rushing waters, and the fitful sighing of the wind,
break upon the ear with more than ordinary solemnity, arresting
the attention of the listener as if the voice of a spirit spoke. At
such times, if the sound sent forth by the water is clear and loud,
stormy weather may be expected; but should it seem to recede
from the ear, until it is lost in the remote distance, fair weather
will soon follow.  The approach of a storm may also be learned
from observing the motions of the crows.  When these are seen
busily feeding, and hurrying over the surface of the ground, all in
one direction, and in a compact body, a severe storm may be an-
ticipated.
   Whirlwinds and Earthquakes.-The small glen having no la-
teral communication or opening, resembles a funnel cut in the solid
earth, presenting in its sinuosities various obstacles to a free trans-
mission of the air ; it is therefore subject to contrary currents and
eddies of the most violent character.  Recent instances have oc-
curred of travellers on horseback having been blown from the sad-
dle, driven to seek shelter in holes or behind rocks, and there de-
tained for hours, until the fury nf the storm abated.
   Slight shocks of an earthquake, emanating from Comrie, (seven
miles distant) as a central point, are frequently experienced in this
parish; but their severity has been greatly abated within these
thirty years.  It may not be uninteresting to mention, that a shock
was felt at Comrie, on the 25th of August 1834, one of the days
on which an eruption, attended by mnst disastrous consequences,
took place at Mount Vesuvius in Italy.-
   Longevity.-The climate seems to be favourable to longevity,
there being many individuals above eighty years of age; and one
man died in 1825 at the advanced age of 103.
   Rivers.-The river Almond, which rises in the parish of Ken-
more, traverses the parish of Monzie from east to west for a dis-
tance of about twelve miles.  After a course of eighteen miles, it
falls ihto the Tay, two miles above Perth.  The Shaggie, the Kel-


