
                             REAY.                17

  Gospel, an intelligent, judicious, and instructive interpreter of the
  word of God; and from his pen appeared some interesting papers,
  distinguished by perspicuity, accuracy of reasoning, and orthodoxy
  of sentiment.  Perhaps the most remarkable feature in his character
  was the interest be took in young men of talent, and the unweari-
  ed efforts he made to bring them forward from humble life, to
  stations of usefulness and respectability.  His purse, his pen, and
  his whole energies were put forth, in order to foster rising merit,
  and patronize pious and gifted youth.  And there are now those
  adorning important stations in the church, and in our highest aca-
  demical institutions, who fondly and gratefully cherish the re-
  membrance of a time when he, under God, was their only patron,
  and his recommendation their chief passport to the situations of
  importance which they now hold.
     Land-owners.- Sir John Gordon Sinclair of Murkle, Bart.; the
  Duke of Sutherland; Major Innes of Sandside; James Sinclair of
  Forss; Captain Macdonald of Shebster, are the chief land-owners.
     Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in the Parochial regi-
  ters is dated 1745: but the registers were not regularly kept until
  the year 1783.
     Antiquities.-At Lybster, in the eastern part of the parish, stand
  the ruins of a Roman Catholic shapel, near which is a spring of
  water, thought to be the sacred fount; and also in Sbebster lie the
  ruins of another cha el of the same description; close to which is
  a tomb, wherein lies a coffin, formed of four blocks of stone from
  6 to 7 feet long, and 2 1/2 feet broad.  Along the Halladale
  strath are the remains of several circular towers, about 60 or 70
  feet in diameter.  The walls are thick, and artfully built of large
  stones, without mortar.  They do not seem to have been intended
  for dwelling places, nor is it easy to determine to what purposes
  they were appropriated, unless it was for beacons, or watch-towers.
  -which is most probable, as they stand in sight of each other;
  On the top of Benfrectan, in Shurery, is an ancient fort, nearly a
  mile in circumference, the walls of which are upwards of twelve feet
  thick at bottom.

<FOOTNOTE> Benfrectan, or the hill of the watch, is, keep and rocky on three sides, and is con-
  nected with another hill by a narrow rock.  In one of the steep sides of, the rock
  there is a cave, narrow at the mouth, but capacious within.  Shelves of rocks upon,
  each, side have the appearance of side benches.  The length of the cave is about
  25 feet, breadth 9 or 10 feet, and it has a small aperture on the top. It was the
  asylum of two disaffected families for, some time in 1745.
     The hill of Shebster hire the remains of two forts of the same kind, at some dis-
  tance from each other.  Tradition says, there had been a subterranous passage be-
  tween these two buildings, and this is rendered probable by the appearance of the
  graund.
     CAITHNESS.                                B


