
144                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

if ever fir, some of them considerable as to girth, but of no great
length, are found now and then in a tolerable state of preservation
in the mosses.
   Soil.-The soil, as might naturally be expected in such a
variety of surface, is far from being uniform.  In some cases, the
clayey or argillaceous, and in others the sandy, gravelly, or silicious
ingredients prevail.  Small, indeed, is the quantity that can be re-

farded as alluvial.  In several flats and braes, or hill-sides, such
soil as there is seems to have been torn with difficulty from a light
coarse sward overlying a mass of ferruginous matter, impervious to
water, and next to impenetrable; or from an inert ochrey sand, to
wbich it is scarcely possible by any means to impart life and fer-
tility.  It seems utterly beyond the power of man to make a good
or profitable subject of such materials as these, although the intro-
duction of bone-dust as a manure, and one that appears from use
peculiarly well suited for a situation like this, gives the tenant of
a dry and hazelly field an advantage which he did not previously
possess.  It is a pity, however, to see a farmer bestowing a more
than due proportion of culture and cost upon ground where, though
it is easy to make the plough pass, he can expect no adequate re-
turn, while he may have in his possession, and leave neglected,
tracts of wet or boggy land, that may be dried and cultivated at
an expense, doubtless, great in the first instance,-but for which in
the end, especially if those having a permanent interest in the
ground give him a proper degree of assistance, he would be much
better remunerated.  The tops of several bare hills, now covered
with nothing but stunted heath, appear to have been cultivated at
some former period.  There are still visible upon them the marks
of crooked ridges, which in all probability were successively gathered
and cropped, till they became, in spite of any treatment which the
skill or enterprise of the day could employ, absolutely effete, leav-
ing balks or intervals between them from which the mould was en-
tirely scraped off, wider than the ridges themselves.  Though this
be rather an unfavourable representation of the actual state of se-
veral localities, yet it is but fair to state that the parish in general
contains, perhaps, fully as great a proportion of genorous and worka-
ble soil as is to be found in most districts of the country.  In old
times, it was the practice to keep a portion of the land near to the
farm-steading perpetually in crops of barley, oats, or pease, and to
treat the rest as an out-farm, on which they pastured and folded
the cattle, and from which they transferred to the dung-pit such


