
                                AYR.                             23

great degree, and has been executed with great skill, and at a very
considerable expense. From the centre of the lobby, there rises
a circular double staircase, of broad and easy ascent, leading to the
apartments above.
        The lower part of the buildings is laid out in offices for gentlemen
officially belonging to the law courts of the country and burgh on each
side of a long passage running lenghtways from one end to the other.
It is rather ill lighted, and even the offices, aprticularly to the back,
though convenient enough otherwise, are liable to the same objec-
tion. The upper storey consists chiefly of two larghe halls with ante-
rooms for the judges and gentlemen of the court, and retiring rooms
for the jury and the witnesses. One of the halls forms the Justi-
ciary Court Rooms, and can hold upwards of 600 people. Above the
Judges' bench, the royal arms of Britain are finely executed in stain-
ed glass, which have a fine effect. At the east end is the County Hall,
which was inteded originally for a Jury Court Room; but as these
two courts never have occassion to hold their sittings at the same
time, it has not beenfitted up for this purpose. It is a large and
splendid apartment, very richly finished, but, unless for being occa-
sionally converted into a banqueting or ball room, it is nearly su-
perfluous to the county for any public use. It contains a portrait
of the late Lord Eglinton, in the uniform of the Royal Highland Re-
giment, of which he was Colonel, representing the regiment as pur-
suing a trible of Indian savages in the woods of America, during the
American war. It contains, besides, another portrait of Mr Ha-
milton of Sundrum, late Convener of Ayrshire. Both of these
were voted as a tribute of respect by the county, after their death;
--and, though the costume and bearing in which they are painted
are not appropriate, this was owing to the artists having nothing to
copy from, except oroginals of old date.
        Town's New Buildings.--These are very handsome and com-
modious, and reflect great honour on Mr Hamilton of Edin-
burgh, the architect. The site on which they are built, every-
body allows, is unfavorable for showing them to great advantage.
They stand on rather a low situation, and close to the street, and
of course are not capable of being viewed as a uniform whole, from
any commanding position at a proper distance. Several much
more imposing situations might have been selected, but there were
drawbacks in the way, it seems, in point of expense, and private
property interfering, and from other considerations, which prevented
the authorities from fixing on more eligible ground. the buildings



