
                            STIRLING.                          405

many large and elegant apartments; one of which was a hall co-
vered with an oaken roof of exquisite workmanship, ornamented
with a great number of carvings of heads, which, in 1777, when Nim-
mo wrote, were not much decayed, but which have now, for several
years, been removed, and lie scattered in various hands.  Master-
ly etchings of them were, some time since, executed by Mr Lizars
of Edinburgh, and published there under the title of Lacunar Stri-
vilinense, to which I refer the antiquary.
   The Scottish kings often held their court and parliament in the
castle. But it did not become one of the stated royal residences
till the family of Stewart had mounted the throne.  The second
and fifth Jameses were born in it.  Here James V. was crowned;
as was Mary also, when scarce nine months old.  James VI. was
conveyed hither from Edinburgh soon after his birth; and, on the
15th of December 1566, when nearly six months old, baptized
with great pomp, in the presence of many of the nobility and
gentry, and of ambassadors from England, France, and Savoy;
Elizabeth sending as a gift a font of gold, weighing a couple of
stones, which was used on the occasion.  After Mary's resignation
of the tbrone in 1567, the nobility, gentry, and burgbers of the
kingdom met at Stirling on the 23d of July, and, having walked,
in procession to the Town Church, after sermon by John Knox
there, with the usual ceremonies, set the crown on the head of
James, then about thirteen months old.  The infant king was con-
veyed back to the castle in the arms of the Earl of Mar.  The
castle continued to be the residence of this prince during his mi-
nority.  His education was conducted by George Buchanan and
three other preceptors.  The apartment occupied by tbe royal pu-
pil and his celebrated instructor as a school-room, is on the south-
eastern side of the palace, and is approached by a stone stair on
the outside of the building, and without the gate leading into the
inner court of the castle.  Associated as it is with a circumstance
of so much national interest, good taste might suggest its being
kept in a state in which, when visited by strangers, it would ap-
pear more worthy of its history.  In Stirling Castle, James held,
in 1578, his: first parliaLment, after taking into his own hands the
reins of government.  And bere the infant prince, Henry, born to
him of his queen, Anne of Denmark, on 19he of February
1594, was baptized on the 30th of August following, with still

         <FOOTNOTE>There is a copy in Stirling Library.


