
                     ARDCLACH.                             27

led the Loch of Belivat, covering an area of 27 acres and re-
markable for having no known or perceptible stream running into
or out of it. It has a small island in the centre ; and is well sup-
plied with excellent trout, averaging about 2 lbs. in weight, and
of three distinct kinds, one of which is peculiarly remarkable for
the deep redness of its flesh.
   The river Findhorn, which takes its rise in the Monad-leah
group of mountains in Inverness-shire, and, running in a north-
easterly direction, discharges itself into the Moray Firth, at the
port of Findhorn, flows for about thirteen miles through the parish
of Ardelacb, increased in its progress by a number of mountain-
streams, viz. the burns of Torgarrow, Drumlochan, and Tom-
narroch from the south, and the burn of Altnarie from the north.
On the burn of Torgarrow, near the farm of Lynemore there is
a beautiful cascade, and another on the burn of Altnarie, upon
the estate of Letben. The fall of Altnarie is of considerable
height, and the beauty and highly romantic character of the deep-
ly wooded and secluded glen  in which it is situated, renders it a
great attraction to the lover of the picturesque.
   The Burn of Lethep, or Muckle Burn, is a considerable stream,
which takes its rise in the south-west of this parish, and flows
through it for about ten miles, in a direction nearly parallel to
the Findhorn, Which it ultimately joins, within about two miles of
its mouth.
   Geology.--The general character of the parish is sub-alpine,
and the prevailing rocks belong to the primary series. Of these,
some magnificent sections are made on the eastern side of the pa-
rish, by the river Findhorn on whose banks,-particularly at Dul-
cie, Fairness, Altnarie, and Coulmony,-are spots whose rocky
scenery and woodland beauty may bear comparison with the most
romantic to be found in Scotland. The rocks along the course
of the Findhorn are granite, gneiss, and quartz. On the western
limit of the parish, thd burn of Lethen has cut for itself a deep
channel from west to east, through the lowest division of the old
red sandstone formation, and has exposed the schistose sandstone,
containing impressions of plants, apparently marine fucoids, but
species not determined, resting on the conglomerate ; and nodules
containing imperfect, remains of fishes aref also got here. But, at
Lethenbar, on the brow of the bill, a short distance south of the
bed of the stream, the remarkable fish bed,-of the lowest division
of the old red sandstone crops out at the surface.  The ichthyo-


