
                       PORT OF MENTEITH.                      1099

  in Craig-Dhu.  The common heron frequents this lake, but builds
  in a desert isle of Loch- Con, and nowhere else in Monteith.  The
  wild-duck and the diver abound more in the lake of Inchmahome
  than in any of the known Highland lakes; attracted, as would seem,
  by the vast profusion of aquatic plants on a shallow bottom.  The
  cormorant and the swan are occasional visitants.  The otter is an
  inhabitant.
   The lake of Inchmahome contains a variety of fish.  The staple
  is the perch, which, of late years, has been much diminished by
  the steeping of flax, and by the increased use of lime as a manure.
  This lake has trout also, and of the same quality as the Lochleven
  in Kinross-shire.  Its pike has, in man's memory, been much les-
  sened in both number and size by the draught-net, whilst the
  trout has proportion`lly increased in -both respects.  The eel, too,
  which was numerous and gigantically large, has been swept away
  by that destructive implement.   Salmon is said to have come into
  the lake before the erection of mills on the Guidie.
    Botany.-Of the plants of Inehmahome and the vicinity, the fo-
  lowing may be noticed.  The Arum moculatum, or wake robin, grows
  profusely in Inchmahome.  The Typha latifolia is found on the shore
  of Talla, and at the efflux of the Guidie.  The great bulrush oc-
  curs in great abundance on the northern shore of the lake.  The
  Littorella lacustris grows within the water-mark of the western
  margin of Inchmahome.  The Lysmachia, or loose-strife, occurs
  in Talla, but in no great quantity.  The shore of Inchmahome
  abounds in the Lythrum salicaria, or willow-herb.  The water-
  lily, yellow and white, adorns the sbores of both islands.  The com-
  mon reed, once in requisition by the weavers of Glasgow and Pais-
  ley, but, now by the flysbuttle rendered of no estimation, grows
  profusely on the shores of the lake. *
    The principal plantations of trees in the parish have lately been
  made by General Graham Stirling  on his estate and residence
  of Rednock, in forming an extensive park, consisting of a highly
  diversified surface.  They are in a very thriving condition.
     Of lawn tree, the most venerable specimens occur in the
  park of Cardross, anciently the seat of the prior of Inchmahome,
  on whom it is said to have been bestowed by Sir Malcom Drum-
  mond of that ilk, one of the heroes of Bannockburn.

<FOOTNOTE>*For the notices of animals and plants the writer was indebted to the late Rev.
  Patrick Graham, D. D. minister of Aberfoyle who had made botany one of his par-
  ticular studies.


