
        			INCH.					93

too small. It only contairis 400. Its situation is very beautiful.
The woods and lakes of Castle-Kennedy are close adjoining. On
a fine summer evening the scene is exquisitely sweet.
	The manse was pulled down and rebuilt during the summer of
1838.
	The glebe is about 18 acres in extent, and may be valued at
about 15s. or 20s. per acre. I am adding four-acres more by drain-
ing a loch.
	The stipend is L. 258 12s. 3d.
	The number of persons professedly belonging to the Established
Church is 1965. The number of persons belonging to other re-
ligious denominations is 689. The number not known to belong-
to any religious denomination is 30.
	Divine service at the Established Church is well attended in
proportion to the size of the church, but not in proportion to the
population. The number of communicants is 400.
	There is an association in the parish for the purpose of pro-
moting the General Assembly's four schemes. From L. 12 to
L. 20 may be raised annually.
	Education.--There are generally four schools in the parish,
sometimes a fifth during the winter months. One of these is pa-
rochial, the rest are on the teachers' own adventure. The branches
taught in the parochial school are, Latin, Greek, English, writing,
arithmetic, practical mathematics, geography. In the private
schools, the branches taught are chiefly English, writing, and
arithmetic. The parochial teacher has the minimum salary, house
and garden. The school fees are 2s. 6d. or 3s. for reading; 5s.
for the higher branches. The fees may amount to L. 20 per an-
num. The teacher receives about L. 6 as session-clerk. The num-
ber of persons between six and fifteen years of age who cannot read
or write may be 16. The number upwards of fifteen years of age
who cannot read or write 20. The people are in general alive to
the benefits of education. There is one part of the parish three
or four miles distant from any school, but the population there is
very scanty.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 50. The average sum allotted to each
per annum is L. 1, 12s. About L. 90 is annually disbursed by
the session for the support of the poor, for coffins and funeral ex-
penses for the poor, and for paying precentor, session-clerk, pres-
bytery-clerk, synod-clerk, beadle, &c. The amount of contribu-


