
50    			   WIGTONSHIRE.

a clergyman has not the means of knowing their religious tenets
and their speculative opinions.
	Education.--There is an excellent school-house and school-
master's house. The schoolmaster's salary is the maximum, that
is, L. 34 a-year. The school fees may amount to L. 25 a-year.
The school-house is not at the church, but two miles west, upon
the road leading to Monrieth and Port-William. It stands nearly
in the centre of the parish, but certainly not in the middle of the
population, for a circle drawn round it with the radius, of a mile
would not contain many houses.
	There is another school in the north-west end of the parish, at
Ravenstone, to which there is annexed, besides the school-fees, a
salary of L. 15 per annum,--L. 10 of which are contributed by
Mrs Stewart of Physgill, and L. 5 by Mrs Hathorn of Castle-
wigg, who also joined in a general subscription for erecting the
school-house and schoolmaster's house. These are built on the
property of the Earl of Stair, who granted the ground rent-free
for that purpose.
	Education at these schools costs from 2s. to 3s. a quarter for
reading, writing, and arithmetic. The children of the poor are
taught free at the, parish school, at the recommendation of the
heritors and kirk-session. And when applications of this kind are
so numerous, that the session consider them too burdensome to
the schoolmaster, they pay him from the poor's funds, at a lower
rate than the usual wages; and not unfrequently poor children are
sent to school at the expense of charitable individuals in the
neighbourhood. Altogether, the means of instruction are per-
fectly accessible to the poorest individuals; and there is no
such thing to be found in this parish as children of six or seven
years of age who cannot read. The population, however, is too
thinly scattered to admit of infant schools, consequently, their first
instructions are received from their parents at home, chiefly from
their mother; and then, whenever they have strength enough to
travel two or three miles, they are sent to school. The people
are perfectly alive to the advantages of education, and make every
effort to have their children suitably instructed.
	Schoolmasters sometimes complain of the difficulties of collect-
ing their fees; but l believe there is less foundation for this com-
plaint than is generally believed. I have known many who are
exceedingly poor, that would rather want some of their own ne-
cessary sustenance than have their children's education neglected;


