
                           CROSS AND BURNESS.                     103

colonies ; and it has often struck the writer as wonderful, that
young farmers, as well as men of capital, should attempt the
back woods of Canada, or expose themselves to the privations of
dry and scorching seasons in Australia, when such good opportu-
nities for turning their skill to account, and for investing their ca-
pital, were to be found so much nearer home, in a comparatively
mild climate, and among a people proverbially kind to strangers,
and generally as well-informed and as companionable as any in
Scotland.

           NORTH RONALDSHA .*-THE, REV. ADAM WHITE, MINISTER.
   Extent,&c.-THE island of North Ronaldsha, the most nor-
tberly of the Orkney group, is separated from the island of San-
day by a frith of about three miles broad where narrowest; and lies
upwards of thirty miles from Kirkwall, nearly in the direction of
north-east.  In form, the island is very irregular, but never ex-
ceeds two miles in breadth, and, in length, measures about five
miles from the two extreme points, though there are scarcely four
between the two most remote dwelling-houses.  It is calculated
to contain about four square miles.  On the south and east sides
of the island, where the beach is for the most part low, shelving
and sandy, the shape is probably much altered from what it ori-
ginally was, as a considerable extent of ground seems to have
been gained from the sea by the gradual accumulation of sand,
which is every winter drifted tip from the beach, and spreads over
the grounds above.  The west and north-west sides are rocky and
abrupt, though not very elevated, and there Ls, often such a heavy
surf breaking upon the rocks, that the spray renders the land, to
the distance of some hundred yards, quite black and sterile.  To-
wards the north-east, the shores of the island are, in some measure,
protected by two reefs of rocks, called the altars of Lina and the
Shelky Skerry.
    Topograhical Appearance.-The general surface of the island
is rather flat, having only a gentle reise toward the middle. It is
much above the average of the other islands in point of dyrness,
and, with the exception of a small strip about the middle, and an
edging round the shore, kept as a lair for sheeps, it is all in a state
of cultivation. Its superior dryness it owes very much to the large

<FOOTNOTE>* Drawn up by the Rev. Adam White, Minister of the parish.


