
                 PARISH OF STIRLING.

 PRESBYTERY OF STIRLING, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

REV. ALEX BEITH, 1st Charge, West Church,
REV. GEO. CUPPLES, 2d Charge, East Church       Ministers.*
REV. ALEX. LEITCH, 3d Charge, East & West Do.

          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Latitude and Longitude.--STIRLING CASTLE is situated in la-
titude 56&deg; 6' north, and longitude 3&deg; 55' west.
   Name.--The etymology of the name is uncertain.  The names
Stirling and Strivilin or Stryviling were, at one period, both in
use, as we find them both occurring in the same Acts of Parlia-
ment.  The latter name, at an earlier period, almost uniformly oc-
curs; and this in documents reaching back to the beginning of
the twelfth century.  On the other hand, it appears from a pas-
sage in William of Worcester's Itinerary, that, as early as his time, it
was known by the name of Styrlyng.  By Buchanan and others,
who have Latinized the name, it has been called Sterlinum.  On
the present seal of the burgh, there are the words Sterlini oppidum.
On an ancient seal, the castle is called Castrum Strivilense. The
place was also, at a very early period, known by the name of Snow-
don, which is said to signify the fortified hill on the river.
  Extent, Boundaries, Figure, &c.--The parish is 2 miles in its
greatest length from west to east; and 1 1/2 mile in its great-
est breadth from north to south. Its figure is very irregular; de-
pending in some places on the waving line of the Forth, in others
on the deep indentations made in it by the parish of St Ninians.
By this parish it is bounded on tbe west, south, and east; by the
parish of Logie, on the north-east and north; and by the parish of
Lecropt, on the north. It contains, besides the site of the town
and castle, and the numerous gard-ens, &c. connected with them,

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. George Cupples, East Church, Stirling.
    The Rev. Mr Stirling, Minister of Port, who edited Nimmo's  History of Stir-
lingshire,a learned antiquary, and extensively acquainted with the topography of
this district, conjectures that the ancient name was Strila, and gives the following ety-
myology,+" Strigh" strife, and " lagh" bending the bow; Strighlagh, the strife of
archery. Mr Stirling says of himself that, not being a Gaelic scholar, he took great
pains to ascertain from those who were accurately acquainted with the language, the
etymology of the names of places in the county.


