
6                         FORFARSHIRE.

        Botany.-The botany of the parish is also devoid of peculiar
interest. It may be merely remarked, that a veriety of Centaurea
scabiosa with white flowers, Potentilla verna, and P. reptans, Spirea
filipendula, and Allium vineale, are met with on the bank of the
Tay to the west of the town. To the east some rare mosses,
such as Didymodon rigidulum, and Grimmia ovata, (the latter
abundantly on the Hare-Craig,) occur; and within water-mark
the usual species of Algae, of wich Fucus nodosus, F. vesiculosus,
and F. canaliculatus, are the most characteristic. In the fissures
and emptied veins of the red porphyry and sandstone, the Cera-
mium Rothii frequently forms a covering resembling the richest
crimson velvet.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Accounts of the Parish.-There is no history of the town and
parish, properly so called, of later date than the very able one
which was furnished by the late Dr Small in the former Statisti-
cal Account of Scotland. In the life of General Monck, written
by Gamble, his own Chaplain, we learn several particulars of im-
portance respecting it; such as its being a very rich and thriving
place,-having had sixty ships taken in the harbour, which were
sent away laden with plate and money; and condemning the ra-
pacity of the plunderers, the writer mentions, with some degree of
satisfaction, the loss of the whole fleet in crossing the bar of the
river.
	In 1678, there was published, in Latin, a description of the
county of Angus, which is still extant, by the Rev. Robert Edward,
who was a native of Dundee, and minister of the neigbour-
ing parish of Murroes. The only copy of this work that could
be procured was found among some papers in the house of Pan-
mure in 1781. In 1793, it was translated into English, and
has lately been republished in this town. According to this writer,
the harbour, by very great labour and expense, had been rendered
a very safe and agreeable station for vessels-"the citizens emi-
nent in regard to their skill and industry in business." He adds,
"so remarkable were the people of this place for thier adherence
to the true religion, that, at the time of the Reformation, it was
honoured with the appellation of the second Geneva."
        Historical notices.-Although the early history of Dundee is
involved in much obscurity, the town appears to have been long a
place of considerable note. It was occuipied by an English garrison
                                  4


