
324                      ROXBURGSHIRE.

brian burr bristling, like a fence of thorns to prevent the Scotch
accent from penetrating into England ; whilst on the north side,
the latter dialect assumes a breadth of guttural energy, which
effectually protects "the ancient kingdom" against the inroads of
the speech of the smoother-tongued Sassenachs.  Among the
words peculiar to the Marches, the verb to stoothe, which signifies
to lath-and-plaster, is worthy of being naturalized throughout the
island, as expressing by a single term what is now done only by
means of a circumlocution.  That such a term should be in use on
the border is the more remarkable, that the practice which it is
designed to describe prevails less there than in any other part of
the kingdom equally advanced in a taste for domestic comfort and
elegance.
  Popular Amusements, &c.--Though Kelso is less entitled than
it once was to the name of the Melton of Scotland, it is still dis-
tinguished as a resort of the ]over of field-sports.  Whether fox-
hunting, horse-racing, or the "occupation of the angle," be his fa-
vourite diversion, the sportsman has here facilities for pursuing it:
there being a pack of fox-bounds in the vicinity, a beautiful race-
course, and a river than which none affords better sport.  Accord-
gly, though its races form no longer any considerable attraction,
Kelso is still in vogue for fox-hunting and salmon-fisbing; and
during several weeks of both the spring and autumn, parties of
the nobility and gentry, often from the south.of England, take
up their residence in the town for the purpose of enjoying these
sports.  There is also a coursing-club in the parish, which is well
supported : and once a year, the whipmen of the border turn out,
--horse and rider gaily tricked out with ribbons and silken sashes,
--to ride a race, which is the great delight of the rustics and
school-boys, and which is now happily unaccompanied with the
cruelties that in earlier times attended it.
  Of the old border games, foot-ball * is the only one which is still
a favourite. It is still the practice of the rector of the grammar
scbool and of the other teachers in the town to present "the king,"
that is, the boy who makes the most liberal Candlemas offering,
with a foot-ball,which becomes a source of amusement to the whole

<FOOTNOTE>In early times, foot-ball matches were common between the inhabitants of adja-
cent parishes, or of the opposite banks of a stream; and not only serious accidents,                                                  serious accidents,
but sanguinary quarrels often rose out of them.  Sir Robert Carey in his Memoirs,
narrates that Kelso was the scene of a great meeting of Scotch riders, held ostensib]y
for the purpose of playing at foot-ball but in reality with the view of concerting mea-
sures for a hostile incursion into England.
                                           4


