
<APPENDIX>

lxxiii

that none of those provincial accounts have been printed.  Voltaire men-
tions, with great approbation, the account of Languedoe, drawn up by Mon-
sieur de Lamoignon de Baville.  In consequence of the obliging attention
of Dr Nash, of Bevere, in Worcestershire, I had an opportunity of perusing
that work, in manuscript, and was perfectly astonished, at the little useful
information which it contained.  If that was the best, the others must have
been miserable indeed.  The observations made by Voltaire on this under-
taking, are perfectly well founded.  He remarks, "Had what the King di-
"rected, been well executed, the collection would have been one of
"the most valuable monuments of the age.  The design was excellent,
"and it would have been of the greatest use, had it been executed with
"judgment and uniformity*."

   4 Germany.-It has already been remarked, that great attention has been
paid in Germany to Statistical Inquiries.  Baron Brelfield, in his Elements
of Universal Erudition+, gives the best account of any which I have hither,
to met with, of the progress made in that part of the Continent.  The sci-
ence called Statistics, he observes, "teaches us what is the political ar-
"rangement of all the modern states of the known world."  Professor
Godfrey Achenwal of Gottingen, was the first to reduce that important
subject into a true system.  He has made it a separate science, "whence," he
observes, "history borrows great lights, which furnishes the best materials
"for the constitution of a state, which enriches politics, and which prepares
"those of the brightest genius among the studious youth, to become one
"day able ministers of the state."
   The following is a short abstract of the particulars, which, according to
Baron Bielfield, are included in the science of Statistics.  1. A general
knowledge of the states, into which Europe, and the other quarters of the
globe, are respectively divided.  2. An examination of each particular state,
and its revolutions.  3. A description of the territory of the state, and its
foreign possessions.  4. An account of its population.  5. Its constitution,
and arrangement of its public affairs.  6. The rights and privileges of its
Magistrates.  7. The rights of the people, in regard to national assemblies,
&c.  8. The titles, courts, ceremonials, etc. of the Sovereign.  9. The
arrangement of the Cabinet, more especially the management of foreign af-
fairs.  10. The direction of its interior, or domestic concerns.  11. The
national church.  12. The judicial department.  13. The principal regula-
tions with regard to its police.  14. The resources of the state, whether
     VOL. XX.   i

<FOOTNOTE>

*See Voltaire's Age of Lewis XIV. vol. ii, p. 127, 128. edition 1752.
   +Translated by Dr Hooper, and published in three vols. Svo. anno 1770.
See vol. iii. cap. 3. p. 168.


