
246                              ELGINSHIRE.

  Land-owners.-The land-owners are, according to their valued
rent, Robert Tulloch, Esq. of Burgie; Sir William G. G. Cum-
ming of Altyre and Gordonston, Bart.; the Earl of Moray; and
the Earl of Fife.  The valued rent is L.2628, 4s. 11d.; the real
rental about L.3784.
  Antiquities.-The most remarkable piece of antiquity in the
parish is the celebrated obelisk called Sweno's Stone, which stands
on the property of the Earl of Moray, about half a mile eastward
of the town of Forres.  It has been so often described, and its ori-
gin has been the subject of so many conjectures, that nothing new
can now be advanced.  Warlike instruments of various kinds have
been dug up in the field where it stands; but no distinct tradition
exists of a battle having been fought on or near the spot.  The
following accurate description of the obelisk is taken from Rhynd's
"Past and precut State of Moray, (pages 127, 128, and 129).
   "The Forres Pillar, commonly called Sweno's Stone, is situat-
ed about halt a mile to the east of Forres, on the north side of the
highway, and occupies the position in which, in all probability, it
originally was placed.  The stone steps around the base are mo-
dern, and were placed as supports to the pillar by a late Countess
of Moray, Lady Anne Campbell.  It has a hard sandstone 23 feet in
height above ground, and said to be 12 feet more below ground.
The breadth at the base is 4 feet; the thickness about 15 inches.
On the south side there are five divisions, each filled up by nume-
rous figures cut in relief.
   "The first division represents a number of persons as if engaged
in deep council, and holding conversation, in groups, probably the
back ground representing the walls of some hall or fortification. The
second division exhibits an army of horse and foot on the march,
the cavalry being in the van, and at full gallop, the infantry fol-
lowing with spears in their hands, and shields. In the third divi-
sion are appearances of a battle, both single combats, and general
fighting. In one corner are several decapitated bodies lying, piled
the one on the other; while at the top of this division troops are
seen entering the gates of a city, or it may be besieging it. The

<FOOTNOTE> of the youth in the place, his school was resorted to by great numbers from Forres,
many of whom have since done credit to his training by their advancement in the
world and occupying places of trust; whilst his piety and wisdom secured to him,
among the people, a measure of moral  influence rarely attained even by the ministe-
rial character.  He is here held up principally with the view of proving to those in
similar situation, how reach good may possibly be done within their sphere, and
how certain is the reward of exertion, not confined to their official duty, but embruc-
ing every object connected with the spiritual good of the community.
				3

