
26                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

been dictated by necessity to the wealthy and to the poor, for when
"the English advanced from Berwick to Jedburgh, in September
1521, with 10,000 men, there were six strong towers within the
town, which continued their defence after the walls were surmount-
ed.  These were the residences of persons of rank, walled round,
and capable of strong resistance."*
     Conventicles.--During the persecutions in the reign of Charles
II., when ministers and their people were prohibited by law, the
one from preaching, and the other from hearing, the word of God,
the moors in Lilliesleaf parish, from their retired situation, were fre-
quently the resort of numerous conventicles; and for this offence,
numbers in this parish appear to have been punished with death,
imprisonment, or banishment.+
     Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, Mark Sprot, Esq.
of Riddell, and William Currie, Esq. of Linthill.  The parochial
registers were regularly kept so far back as 1648; but having been
allowed to get wet, apparently from lying in a damp situation, they
are now partly illegible from decay.  They appear to contain no-
thing of public interest.
     Family of Riddell.--"The family of Riddell have been very
long in possession of the barony called Riddell, or Ryedale, part

     * Tales of a Grandfather, by Sir Walter Scott.
     + In 1670, "His Majesty, understanding that divers disaffected persons have been so
maliciously wicked and desperate as to convocate his Majesty's subjects to open meet-
ings in the fields, and considering that these meetings are the rendezvous of rebellion,
and tend in a high degree to the disturbance of the public peace, doth therefore statute
and declare, that whosoever, without license and authority, shall preach, expound scrip-
ture, or pray at any of these meetings in the field, or in any house where there be
more persons than the house contains, so as some of them be without doors, or who
shall convocate any number of people to these meetings, shall be punished with death
and confiscation of goods."  Severe penalties are then denounced against the persons
attending such conventicles; rewards are offered to informers; and to stimulate the
activity of the magistrates, the heavy fines exacted upon conviction are awarded to
them.--Cook's History of the Church of Scotland, Vol. iii. p. 326.
     "In 1678, William Turnbul brother to Walter Turnbul, in Bewlie, appeared be-
fore the council for being present at house and field conventicles, and, refusing to de-
pone upon the circumstances of them, is banished to the plantations."-Wodrow,
Vol. i. p. 525.
     "In 1679, many ministers were put to trouble for conventicles, several were im-
prisoned, among whom Mr Archibald Riddel, Brother to the laird of Riddel."--Wod-
row, Vol. ii. p. 124.
     Mr Riddel was eminently distinguished for Piety and devotion to the service of God,
by preaching in these troublous times, to the people of various conventicles, in different
places as well as Mr Blackader.  "Some time before the communion at east Nisbet,
Mr Blackader kept a very great conventicle at Lilsly (Lilliesleaf) moor in Forest-
shire.  They had knowledge that the sheriff and some of the Lifeguards were ranging
Lilsly moors, on the fore part of the day, upon which the meeting shifted their ground
within Selkirkshire, thinking themselves safe, being out of his bounds," whither they
were followed by the sheriff's and his soldiers, whose ardour, however, was cooled by the
firm deportment Of the multitude, their fidelity and care of the minister, and the
courage of the sheriff's sister, who was present, and had been an attentive hearer of
the word preached.


