

2			DUMBARTONSHIRE.

The western part is the highest, being about 206 feet above the
level of the sea. The eastern peak is not quite so high. There
are houses within the walls of the castle, which are capable of con-
taining about 200 men.
  Rivers.-The only river in the parish is the Leven, a beautiful
stream, which takes its rise in Lochlomond, and after a smooth
even course of seven miles over a bed

         "With white round polished pebbles spread,"

forming the western boundary of the parish for several miles, it
discharges itself into the Clyde at Dumbarton Castle.
  Climate, &c.-The climate is on the whole moderate, though
rather damp and variable. Very heavy showers are frequent in
spring and autumn. The winter is generally temperate, frost and
snow not continuing for any great length of time. The prevailing
winds are from the west and south-west. In spring, easterly
winds sometimes continue for a long time, and often do much in-
jury to the early vegetation.
  Towards the close of the year, dense fogs for days hang over
the south part of the parish. At that time, the influenza is very
prevalent, and often proves fatal to infirm and delicate people.
Scarlet and typhus fever prevail very much, sometimes, indeed, to
a most alarming degree. The small-pox, hooping-cough, and
measles, are also very common; but the small-pox is usually very
mild, and few deaths occur from it, as vaccination is very gene-
rally practised.
  The soil of the parish is generally fertile, but rather shallow.
On the south side, there are several fields of very rich soil.
There are many different kinds of soil; in some parts, it is very
clayey, in others full of gravel. There is a very plentiful supply
of limestone at a place called Murroch glen; and on the moor of
Dumbarton, there are quarries of red freestone. The stone when
taken out of the quarry is soft, but it soon hardens when exposed
to the air.
  Zoology-Large flocks of wild ducks (Anas boschas), and teal
(Anas crecca), are common. Besides these, several different kinds
of the diver tribe visit the parish. Among the rarer birds are the
kingfisher (Alcedo ispida), the bittern (Ardea stellaris), the black-
backed gull (Larus marinus), the little awk (Alca alle), and the
wild swan (Anas cygnus ferus). The roebuck is sometimes found,
and wild rabbits and hares are tolerably plentiful. Adders are nu-
merous on the high grounds.


