
232                           FIFESHIRE.

  Geology.--With the slight exceptions of a few hill tops and
steep faces, almost the whole of the parish is in a high state of
cultivation. In the southern part, the soil is a decomposed green-
stone, light on the eminences, but very fertile. More in the in-
terior, it is clayey or sandy, having chiefly sandstone for its sub-
stratum, but still excellent in quality. On the higher grounds in
the north of the parish, it consists of a ferruginous sand or clay,
or of moss, very poor, and not susceptible of much improvement,
the effect of labour and manure upon it being in a great measure
destroyed by the first wet season. There is a good deal of al-
luvial soil on the banks of the streamlets running through the pa-
rish, and in some places near the sea, a few acres of deposits of
sand or clay.
  From the state of cultivation in which the parish is, there are
often, in the interior part of it, no exposures of the subjacent strata
for spaces of a square mile together. There are, however, some
very good sections along the east and south-west sides of it, where
it is washed by the sea; on the north-east, where it is bounded by
a rivulet with steep banks; and in several quarries.
  The stratified rocks are wholly of the coal formation of the
secondary series, in many places broken through, distorted and
overlaid by various modifications of trap rock, usually greenstone.
  In the north part of the parish coal exists, but it crops out
about a mile north of the town, and, in the greater part of the
parish, the strata underly the coal, and consist of the mountain
limestone, sandstone, slate-clay, clay-ironstone, bituminous shale,
and a stratified whitish slate-clay or marl; these being deeply
buried in many places beneath the trap rocks, with alluvial matter,
chiefly clay. The small islands and rocks in the Frith, which are
in the parish, are wholly of greenstone.
  The stratified rocks, in the southern part of the parish particu-
larly, bear the marks of having been acted on by a disturbing force
producing disruption of the strata, and inclination of them in va-
rious directions, this inclination often changing abruptly within very
short distances. This disturbing force appears to have been inti-
mately connected with the masses of trap rock which penetrate
the strata in many places, and it has generally acted by depres-
sing the strata, and causing them to dip all round towards the cen-
tre of the mass of greenstone, in very few instances by upraising
them, and giving them a dip away from it.
  Few simple minerals are contained in the rocks of this neigh-
                                3


