
186			AYRSHIRE.

Galston, to which of those methods the preference ought to be
given. In the meantime, it may be expected that his Grace's
system should at length produce the straighter and more useful
wood; while it is generally supposed that the protracted struggle
for ascendancy among the plants must considerably enfeeble and
retard their growth. It is but justice, however, to state, that some
oak woods around the old mansion-house of Cessnock, which were
planted upon this system about twelve years ago, discover a
luxuriance, of growth which is very striking, and can scarcely be
surpassed in plantations of the same species of tree upon a similar
soil, whatever may be the system of management. For the fir
tribe his Grace's method does not seem to be so beneficial.
	Farm-Buildings.--The state of the farm-buildings in this parish
is in general good, and suited to the wants and habits of the far-
mers; and where it is otherwise there appears to be a rapid advance
in the way of improvement. The fences are in many places very
indifferent, while in others they have been greatly improved, and
even rendered excellent by the practice of frequent scutching or
pruning,
	Husbandry.--The system of agriculture almost universally fol-
lowed in Galston is one which, however it may be condemned by
the modern school, has at least the praise of being long establish-
ed, and  highly esteemed by those who practice it. It consists in
taking two successive white crops, (almost always of oats,) and
one crop of rye-grass hay, and allowing the land to lie in pasture
during the remaining five years,which complete the rotation. It
will readily be inferred from this statement, that the produce of
the dairy is the object of primary consideration in this district, and
accordingly it may be stated, upon a moderate computation, that
at least 210 tons of cheese are annually produced in Galston.
	Live-Stock.--The breed of cows found in this parish is that
which is commonly known as the Ayrshire breed, on the selec-
tion and rearing of which, as well as upon the general manage-
ment of the diary, the farmers bestow great attention. The sheep
on the few farms where that kind of stock is kept belong to the
common black-faced breed.
	Produce.--It is impossible to ascertain with absolute correct-
ness the gross amount of raw produce raised in this parish even                          
for a single year, since but few of the farmers are accustomed to    
keep regular accounts, and some of them are rather averse to com-
municate the results even when they can. The following state-
				 3

