
				ROTHESAY.			107

when crossed by dikes of trap or greenstone, those to the north
are composed of schistus, intersected likewise in various directions
by similar trap dikes, some of which can be traced in a continous
line from the one formation to the other. a rocky elevated ridges,
running parallel with Lochfad, which lies at its base, from the most
westerly part of the parish at ardscalpsie, terminates at its eastern
extremity in Achimore and Barone hill, about a mile and a-half
from the town of Rothesay, which commands a most extensive
and delightful prospect, and is therefore a favourite resort of
strangers.
	Scattered along the whole exteded shore of the parish, there
are numerous patches of dry, gravelly fertile soil, and in the val-
ley of kames, running from Kames bay, on the east, to Ettrick
bay, on the west, there is a considerable extent of rich, deep, al-
luvial soil; but the general characteer of the arable land of the pa-
rish may be said to be a sandy loam resting on a retentive subsoil,
ill adapted in its natural state to teh modern system of farming,
but capable, as has lately been proved on a large scale, of being
converted, by the judicious application of draining, &c. into a most
useful green cropping land. In general it has now ample justice
done to it by the farmer. Draining, which in such soils is the
foundation of all other improvements, is prosecuted most success-
fully, and to a very great extent. Lime also, which is procured
from the neighbouring parish of Kingarth, is generally and libe-
rally applied. Bone manure has been used for some years
in raising turnip; and rape dust has lately been tried with suc-
cess.
	The rotation of cropping generally followed, and that to which
Lord Bute's tenants are restricted, is oats, then green crop, then
oats or barley, or wheat, with grass seeds, and then four years in
grass.
	From the entire absence of any even the slightest allusion to
the state of agriculture in the last report by Dr M'Lea, fifty years
ago, it is difficult for the writer to institute anything like a just com-
parison, but, giving credit to Mr Aiton in his survey of the county
of Bute, supported by the concurement testimony of many credible
eye-witnesses, the difference within that period in amazing;
changes having been effected, and results produced within the last
twenty years, which, there is reason to believe, have not been su-
passed in any other district of Scotland. This it would be in-
justice not to state, is mainly owing to the enlightened liberality


