
     Statistical Account

tion of which the farmer is sure to reap the pleasure and ad-
vantage*.

   Cultivation.-Agriculture here, within the course of 25
years, has experience, a very great change; and is now ar-
rived at no small degree of perfection.  It is generally owing
more to want of money than skill, that farmers do not raise
good crops, and always adapt their crops, to the nature, si-
tuation, and improvement of the soil.  The present mode of
farming, and succession crops, vary according to the nature
of the soil, the taste and capacity of the farmer.  Here they
generally sow wheat and mushlie, but more of barley, Chester
bears oats, and pease: nor do they neglect the culture of
turnips; and if the soil be sufficiently drys they are sure to

<FOOTNOTE>

*The great variety of soils that appear in different places of this parish,
and not only in the same farm, but in the same field, might he rendered by
much labour and industry, of the greatest advantage to the cultivator; as
they are manifestly adapted to the great variety of seeds that are, and ought
to be sown:-some of which, require a light, others a gross earth, or an in-
termediate soil:-some are indeed so sandy and light, that all the juices
which are lodged in them by the air, immediately evaporate; and the corn
that requires a strong nutriment, could never subsist in such a situation.  To
remedy which, an intermixture of clay or rich earth, is absolutely necessary.
On the contrary, there are other soils so unpleasant, so tough and clayey,
that scarce any feed can penetrate through them.  To remedy this, much
ploughing and draining, sand and lime, and a compost of dung, with earth of
a contrary nature, will operate above description.  There are others again,
that preserve a medium between these two extremes, and are qualified for
different productions, as they more or less correspond to the nature of land
or clay.  Wheat, for instance, in this country, never thrives but in a rich
and humid soil, which is very fat and marshy; and barley, Chester bear, and
oats, though they delight in a sandy soil, yet they never fail to prosper in
the richest; if sufficiently covered over, with well pulverized earth, in a dry
season.


