
     Of Kinghorn.

great part of the land of this parish is now enclosed, either
with hedge and ditch, or, what is called Galloway-dike.  The
farms are, in general, from 80 L. to 200 L. a-year, consisting
of between 60 and 150 or 200 acres.  The best arable ground
in the neighbourhood of the town, has, of late, let at 3 L., and
some of it at 3 L. 10 s. an acre.  At a distance from the town
the average rent is about 1 L. 10 s.  The best pasturage lets at
2 L. 5 s., and the inferior kind, from 15 s. to 1 L. 1 s the acre.
The valued rent of the whole parish is 13,280 L. 18 s. 2 d.
Scotch; the real rent about 5000 L. Sterling.

   Horses, Black Cattle, Ploughs and Carts.-There are in this
parish 250 horses, including young horses reared by the far-
mers in the country.  About 70 of these horses are kept by
people in the town for post-chaises, for letting out to hire, for
carrying coals, and for labouring a few acres of ground,
which most of them endeavour to get in the neighbourhood.
There are 651 cows, and young cattle (exclusive of cattle grazed
in parks during the summer), 99 carts and 93 ploughs, almost
all of the Small-construction, and drawn by a horses; the old
Scottish plough having now fallen into general disuse*.
     VOL. XII. H h

<FOOTNOTE>

*Wages-From the rapid increase of manufactures in this, and some neigh-
bouring parishes, the price of labour of every kind has risen to an uncommon
height.  The wages of a male servant kept in the house, are from 8 L. to 10 L.
a-year; those of female servants are generally 5 L.  A labourer, for the day, gets
from 1 s. to 1 s. 6 d., finding his own provisions:  For mowing and reaping, from
1 s. 4 d. to 2 s., and sometimes 2 s. 6 d. Or, with breakfast and dinner, from
1 s. to 1 s. 6 d.:  And women from 9 d. to 1 s., with the same provisions.

   Effects of discontinuing Cottagers in Agriculture.-One bad effect of this has
been already alluded to; the decrease of the population of the country.  This
effect begins now to be felt, and lamented by the farmer, particularly in the
neighbourhood of manufacturing towns.  In this whole parish, where this de-
 

