
     of Ardchattan and Muckairn.

Scotch, including L. 40 Scotch for communion elements, and
39 3/4 bolls of meal, with a glebe of 4 1/2 acres.  There are 3 pla-
ces of worship, Ardchattan, Muckairn, and Inverguesechan
in Glenetie: at the last a missionary, employed by the com-
mittee for managing the royal bounty, preaches alternately with
Glenco and Glencreran.  Captain Duncan Campbell of Loch-
nell is patron.-There are 2 parochial schools, one in Ard-
chattan and the other in Muckairn, with a salary of L. 10 ster-
ling to each, and the former also receives the interest of L. 1000
Scotch.  A school is established in the lower part of Ardchat-
tan parish by the Society for propagating Christian Knowledge,
with a salary of L. 13 sterling; and the schoolmaster's wife has
from the Society L. 3 sterling, for teaching young girls to spin,
and knit stockings, which is of great benefit to the parish.
There are, besides, 3 or 4 private schools in remote parts of
this district, supported by the neighbouring tenants, whose
children have not access to the public schools.  The number
of scholars at all these, at the lowest calculation, amounts to
200 in winter.-The number on the poor's roll is 45; and
there is no fund for their support but the weekly collections and
dues of mort-cloths, the yearly amount of which does not ex-
ceed L. 17 or L. 18:-a sum very inadequate to the wants
of the poor*.

     Z z

<FOOTNOTE>

*A part of the walls of the old priory of Ardchattan, founded in the 13th
century by John M'Dougal of that ilk, is still standing.  The present pro-
prietor's dwelling house was formerly a part of the monastery, and his offices
occupy a great part of the ground upon which it stood.  What now remains
of the priory is converted into burying ground, in which are two monuments
in niches in the walls; each has a stone coffin, and one of them is ornament-
ed with a font, and inseription in the Runic character.  On two gravestones are
effigies of priests in their pontifical robes, with inscriptions in the same charac-
ter.  There is a tradition, that in a parliament held in this monastery by


