
          BROUGHTON, GLENHOLM, AND KILBUCHO.                 87

the year 1700.  Large portions of them have been lost; but they
are now, and have for some years past been, exceedingly well kept,
and it is in contemplation to make them more complete by a rigor-
ous enforcement of insertion.
  Antiquities.--Of the circular fortifications or enclosures called
camps, there are traces of no less than nine.  The most remark-
able is, for reasons unknow, called Macbeth's castle.  It was sur-
rounded by two concentric walls and ditches.  The exterior cir-
cumvallation was about half a furlong in circumference.  It was
probably a place of refuge for women, children, and cattle, during
the incursions of the border marauders, or it might have been a
baronial or reudal judgment seat.  The lesser circular strongholds
appear to have been beacons or alarm posts, as they were all placed
in such a line of communication as to telegraph, as it were, tidings
of invasion or threatened outrage with the least possible delay.
  On the side of a hill in Kilbucho, called Aiken or Oaken Brae,
where there is not a single vestife of wood at present, an axe, dif-
fering a little in shape from those now in use, and greatly corrod-
ed with rust, was turned up by the plough a few years ago.  It
had doubtless been employed in felling the wood, especially the
oaks, which grew there in former days when this country was al-
most an entire forest.  A kind of battle-axe of mixed metal was
ploughed up near the same spot, and an instrument of a similar
metallic composition was discovered in the vicinity of Polmood, a
hunting-seat of our ancient Scottish kings.  It has perhaps been
the lock of a cross-bow, as it has a spring and a trigger.  A third
axe was very lately found in Cloverhill, parish of Broughton, with
a hose to receive the shaft.
  Near the confluence of Biggar water with the Tweed, on the
estate of Racham, in the midst of a knoll or tumulus, stone coffins
containing human skeletons were discovered about forty years ago.
One of the bodies was of gigantic size, and had golden bracelets
round its arms.  At Logan a rude stone coffin was lately found,
in which were the remains of a human being; and at a place near
the church, called the Gallow Knowe, a similar discovery was
made.  The bones are supposed to have belonged to a criminal
or vassal executed there in feudal times.
  A wedge or ring of gold of considerable weight was dug up by
a farmer in the parish of Broughton.  He sold it to a goldsmith

<FOOTNOTE>See original MS. for some details as to the remains of churches, and of the man-
sion-houses that belonged to the proprietors before-named.


