
                        CORTACHY AND CLOVA.                     443

	In the mossy ground on the farm of Rottal, about five miles to
the north of the castle of Cortachy, the  trunk of an oak tree was
dug out in 1833. It measured 43 feet in length, and 3 feet in
diameter. It was considerably decayed about the middle. The
two ends were sound, and each measured about 15 feet in length.

The wood was thoroughly dried, and portions of it were made into
beautiful pieces of furniture.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Eminent Characters.-Farmily of Airlie.- Many persons belong-
ing to the Noble family of Airlie, who took an active part in the
public transactions of the times in which they lived, as legislators
and warriors, were connected with Cortachy bv birth, residence, or
burial. An account of the genealogy of this Noble family, and of
such persons belonging to it as held a prominent position in public
affairs, is considered particularly deserving of notice in a Statistical
Account of this parish. The following short account has been
furnished to the writer by a gentleman who was possessed of the
best means now attainable for acquiring correct information in re-
ference to the genealogy and history of this Noble family, and
whose attention has been particularly directed to these matters:
	Few names claiming a Gaelic origin can be so distinctly traced
to a remote period as the Noble name of Ogilvy, now represented
by David, Earl of Airlie, the twenty-first in direct descent from
Gilbert, (third son to Gillebrede, Maormar of Angus,) who assum-
ed the surname of Ogilvy on obtaining, from King William the
Lion, the lands so designated soon after 1165, and who, witnessed
the donation of the church of Mon fode to the Abbey of Aber-
brothwick, by his brother, (Gille Chriosda, the servant of Christ,)
Gilchrist Maormar, or Earl of Angus, in or before 1207.
	Chalmers, in Caledonia, traces the progenitors of Gillebrede as
Maormars,of Angus prior to 939. Gillebrede was a hostage for
the release of William the Lion, so called from substituting the
Lion for the dragon as the national arms, in 1174, and died in
1180, leaving issue by a daughter of Cospatricus Comes, ancestor
of the noble house of Dunbar and March, inter alios, three sons,
1st, Gilchrist, Earl of Angus, whose male heirs failed in 1225;
2d, Magnus. Earl of Caithness, whose male heirs failed in 1330;
3d, Gilbert de Ogilvy, in whose direct heir, now, Earl of Airlie,
is vested the male representation of these two ancient titles. Gil-
bert's descendant in the fourth generation, Sir Patrick de Ogilvie,
in 1309, adhered steadily to. King Robert I. The lands and ba-
rony of Cortachy were acquired in 1369-70. Sixth generation;


