                             UNST.                            39

tent of their property, are, William Mouat, Esq. of Garth, proprietor
of nearly one-half of the parish; Thomas Edmondston, Esq. of
Buness; the Right Honourable Lord Dundas; James Ogilvy,
Esq. of Greenwell; Thomas Leisk, Esq. of Uyea; and Gilbert
Spence, Esq. of Hammer.  There are twenty-tbree other small
proprietors, possessing from 20 down to 3 merks of land.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are of very mo-
dern date.  The first entry is made in October 1776.  No doubt,
records must have existed, at a much more remote period ; but
after the most diligent inquiry, not the least vestige of them can
now be traced.
   Antiquities.-Around the island, and so situated, that the one
can be seen from the next in order, is a continued line of ruinous
buildings, called Pict's houses, or castles, or burghs,-round tow-
ers, open in the top, with massy walls, built of large stones.  Some
of them stand in the midst of small lochs; some on projecting
headlands on the margin of the sea; and others on level ground,
and surrounded by two or three ditches or moats.  According to
tradition, tbey were used as watch-towers, for the purpose of com-
municating, by means of smoke, intelligence of the approach of
an enemy; and this could be speedily done over all Zetland.  At
Muness, in the south-east quarter, there is a ruinous feudal castle,
now the property of William Mouat, Esq. of Garth, which bears
over the main entrance the date 159% together with the follow-
ing inscription :
           List ye to knaw this building quha began,
           Laurance the Bruce, he was that worthy man,
           Quha earnestlie his ayris and affspring prayis,
           To help and not to hurt this walk alwayis.

This Laurence Bruce is said to have been of the family of Cults-
malindie, in Perthshire, and to have fled hither, in consequence of
having slain a neighbour in an affray.  The castle is an oblong
square, 60 feet by IS within the wall, and 24 in height.  At each
of the four angles, is a tower. Two. of these are hanging; the
other two rise from the ground.  On the hill of Crucifield, are
some concentric circles of earth and stone, with eminences raised
in the middle, where, perhaps, in the days of Paganism, the priest
of Odin had performed his unholy rites.  .  .  .   Two ancient obe-
risks, or standing stones, are to be seen, the one near Greenwell
a rude, unshapely mass; the other near Uyea Sound, higher and


