
280                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

accounts.  It appears to have been originally a country seat, ap-
pertaining ex officio to the Abbots of Dunfermline; and, after the
Reformation, to have become private property.  In 1593 the Ab-
bacy was annexed to the Crown, but the lordship of Musselburgh
was excepted, and when afterwards a charter of infeftment was
ratified in favour of the Earl of Lauderdale of the same lordship,
that of Pinkie was exempted,* favour of the Earl of Dunferm-
line.
   An inscription in front of the building-" Dominus Alexander
Setonius hanc domum aedificavit, non ad animi, sed fortunarum et
aqelli modum, 1613"--can bear no reference to the foundation of
the building, but a vanity attached to some additions made to it.
From a minute examination, we are convinced that many parts
of the house must have been built long anterior to the time of the
first Earl of Dunfermline, who died here in 1622, and whose body
was afterwards laid out in state in the church of St Michael at
Inveresk.
   The primary mansion, which appears to have been intended as
entire by itself, is the most northern part of the present edifice, and
comprehends the massive square tower with its picturesque tur-
rets.  The walls are of great thickness, and the ground floor is
strongly arched.  It contains, besides a number of quaint and cu-
rious apartments accessible only at angles of the staircase, the
spacious room, styled par excellence "the King's Room," --from
one of the Abbots havin entertained his sovereign there, and which
bears, in its stuccoed roof, the marks of an antiquity consider-
ably antecedent to the seventeenth century.t The more south-
ern portions of the building, containing the painted gallery and
other fine rooms, are evidently not so ancient; nor indeed are the
floors on the same level, although doors have been opened through
the original gable.  But even to this second addition we cannot
assign a date posterior to the removal of the Scottish Kings to
England--as we are told that this gallery, which is 120 feet long,
was used as an hospital for the wounded after the battle of Pinkie;
and its roof, painted in compartments throughout, exhibits all the
traces, of tbat mixture of mythology, heraldry, and romance, which

<FOOTNOTE>Sheriffhall was at same time excepted in favour of the Earl of Morton-
Vide Inquisit.  Special.  Vol. v 655.
     Traditional fama whispers to us, that during one season, the holy Abbot gave up
Pinkie House us a summer residence to James V.--and that here the gay and gal-
laut monarch enjoyed the society of his beautiful favourite Margaret Oliphant.



