                            DUNLOP.                         305

	Education.--There are at present four schools in the parish, one
of which is parochial. The branches of education taught in the
parish school are, English reading, writing, arithmetic, book-keep-
ing, practical mathematics, and Latin. The same branches are
taught in the private schools, with the exception of practical ma-
thematics and Latin. The parish schoolmaster's salary is L. 27, 16s,
including L. 2, 2s. 9d. in lieu of garden. The school fees amount
on an average to about L. 17 a year. The school-house was built
in the year 1641, as appears from the following inscription over
the door:
                             "1641.
	"This school is erected and endowed by James, Viscount Clane-
boyes, in love to his parish, in which his father, Hans Hamilton,
was pastor 45 years, in King James the Sixt his raigne.
                             IcLV."
	It is still in pretty good repair; but though it affords to the
schoolmaster what may be called legal accommodation, it does not
afford such accommodation as a well-qualified teacher ought to
have. If, as the inscription intimates, the school was ever en-
dowed by Lord Claneboyes, all knowledge of the scource whence
the endowment was derived is now lost.

	The rate of school fees per quarter is as follows:

<TABLE>
		                 Parish School.   Average of Private Schools,
         English reading,             2s. 0d.                   3s, 0d.
    Reading and writing,              2   6                     3   6
    Reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3   0                     4   0
      Do.      Do.     with Latin,    4   0
    Practical mathematics,            4   0
	In this parish children are gerenerally sent to school, when they
are between five and six years of age, and kept at it,	with ncca-
sional interruptions in seed time and harvest, till they are about
thirteen. In the month of November 1834, an inquiry was made
as to the number of children attending school, for the purpose of
making out the returns on the state of education, ordered by
the House of Commons. It was then found that 164 were at
school, (all day scholars,) and that only one individual above fif-
teen could not read. She had come here a few months before as
a servant, and has since gone, away. These circumstances suffi-
ciently shew that the people in general are alive to the importance
of education, and disposed to avail themselves of the opportunities
of obtaining it. The establishment of a school at the distance of
about a mile and a half from the upper end of the parish, would

	AYR.                          U


