
                            FETTERESSO.                       261

	There are several salmon-fisheries in this parish let to tenants.
The principal is in the bay of Stonhaven, where the process is
conducted by cobles, and stake and bag-nets; at Muchalls and
other places, almost entirely by the last of these modes. There
are no river fishings. Only a small part of the salmon is consum-
ed in the neighbourhood, the greater part being sent to the Lon-
don market. Even in favourable seasons, the quantity procured is
not great, as may be supposed from the rents not exceeding L.100
a year.
   Brewery.--A brewery, long established in Stonehaven, supplies
the town, and a wide circuit of the adjoining country with beer, &c.
	Distillery.--A distillery was commenced on the Cowie, close
by Stonehaven, in 1824, known as the Glenury Royal Distillery.
From time to time, it was extended until capable of manufacturing
upwards of 6000 quarters of barley annually. The buildings are ex-
tensive and substantial, and the utensils of the best description.
The proprietors having offered the work for sale, distillation bas
lately been carried on but to a limited extent.
   Manufactures.--There are two mills on the Carron, at Stone-
haven. One, not now occupied, has been used for spinning both flax
and wool. The other continues to be employed in wool-spinning,
principally for persons in the country districts. It is on a limited
scale.
   Only a small quantity of cloth is manufactured by individuals
for family use. Still some is made, chiefly of home-grown wool,                            9
and there are weavers for such work in several parts of the pa-
rish. In Stonehaven and neighbourhood, many, several years                                                Y,
ago,  were occupied in weaving dowlas, duck, and sacking, for ma-
nufacturers in Aberdeen and Montrose. The number does not
exceed now 85, including females and boys, and they are far from
being constantly employed. Even when they are employed, after
working from, very early in the morning to very late at night, a
man, in the full vigour of life, often cannot earn above 10s. a-
week.
    Woollen yarn is still given out monthly for knitting into stock-
ings, by an Aberdeen company, but the payment allowed is
wretchedly low.
		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Means of Communication.--The first and greatest work in im-
provement in the roads in this parish, was the executing the turn -
pike road from the south to Aberdeen, about the year 1797.


