
320                        FIFESHIRE.

amygdaloid, trap-tuffa, wacke, and clay-stone porphyry. The trap-
tuffa and amygdaloid are beautifully reticulated by innumerable
veins of calcareous spar, varying from a thin film, to several inches
in thickness. The basalt is disposed in elegant columns, consisting
of small jointed pentagonal masses, which are piled upon one another
in a regular and vertical order. These columns are sometimes
collected into groups, which are separated from each other by
seams or rents. The spaces between the jointed concretions are
composed of a looser matter than the concretions themselves; and
it is by the falling out of this less compact substance that the
structure of the whole is so beautifully developed. Large masses
or aggregations of columns, sometimes separate, and fall down into
the sea, by the action of which they are broken into smaller frag-
ments, when they are rounded and polished into a variety of forms.
This basalt has a greyish-black colour, opaque, with a small con-
choidal fracture, and is hard enough to cut glass, or to strike fire
with a steel.
   Earlsferry point exbibits the same interesting appearances, be-
tween which and Kincraig a small bay intervenes, where at low
water the stratified rocks, and edges of the coal-field may be
observed, in immediate contact with those of the trapean class.
Sandstone, shale, and slate-clay occur here, all of them much al-
tered, but especially the shale, which is greatly indurated, having in
some places the colour and texture of fire-brick. The slate-clay
is converted into flinty-slate, and in such specimens the vegetable
impressions are completely effaced. The shale contains a con-
siderable quantity of ironstone nodules; patches of sandstone, in
the form of flattened globular concretions, also occur, which are
invested with a bituminous or carbonaceous coating. The sand-
stone affords abundance of the stems or trunks of trees, from an
inch to several inches in diameter: the cortical part of these is
entirely covered with regular impressions of leaves, ranging round
them inspiral lines, and in the interior, an included portion re-
sembling a cylinder may be observed, usually of a higher colour
than the rest of the mass, and traversing it in a direction parallel
to the axis of the stem. If this portion is to be considered as re-
presenting the pith, the plants possessed of it according to Stein-
hauer, may justly be supposed to have constituted an intermediate
order between the Palmacese and Coniferse.
   Immediately to the east of this interesting series of rocks, the
				4

