
806                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

Pitmedden," (who then had lands in this parish), "lay in Aber-
deen four days, upon the charges of the poor Old town people,"
while the Marquis of Huntly was there.
   The family of Aucbmacoy continued steady in their attachment
to the house of Stuart, and, in particular, the services of Major-
General Thomas Buchan deserve notice.  He was third son of
James Buchan of Auchmacoy, by Margaret Seton, daughter of
Alexander Seton of Pitmedden.  He was born about the middle
of the seventeenth century, and after serving in subordinate ranks
in France and Holland, in 1682, was appointed by King Charles II.
Lieutenant-colonel, and in 1686, by James VII., Colonel of the
Earl of Mar's Regiment of Foot in Scotland.  Having received
the thanks of the Privy-Council for various services, he was in
1689 promoted by King James to the rank of Major-General, and
after the fall of the celebrated Dundee at the battle of Killiekran-
kie, and the repulse of General Cannon at Dunkeld, obtained the
chief command of King James's forces in Scotland. *  Although
in that high command, he fortunately failed in retrieving the for-
tunes of the fallen monarch, yet there are letters to the General,
and other documents, in the custody of the present Mr Buchan of
Auchmacoy, from King James, his Queen, their secretary Melfort,
and others, which demonstrate their undiminished confidence in
his military skill, and his attachment to their cause. +
   There can be little doubt that General Buchan, though not in
command, was present with the Marquis's troops at the battle of
Sheriffmuir, on the 13th November following: but when the
Marquis, to save his life and estates, withdrew from the rising a
few months after, it is doubtful whether the General followed his

<FOOTNOTE>At this time Simon Lord Lovat served under him.
     In evidence of this, from among other correspondence, we shall copy verbatim
a holograph letter to the General from the Marquis of Huntly, not many days before
he set out to join the Earl of Mar's army.
    "S\pr,--lt was with singular plessur I heard from Dr Gordon of yr kind frank-
nes to go with me in our King and cuntray's caws, where\pin so many other brav
gentilmen ar venturing thir livs and fortuns in Indevor to serv thir King, and reliev
thir poor opres\pd cuntray from ever being in slavery, thes motivs hav induc\pd our
noble predeccessors, to doe things brav as history can boast of of any cuntray, and I
hope the noble vew wil be acomplishd\pd ere long.  I intend to bee in motion next
woke with my people, who as I shal wil be all ready and willing to yield to yr com-
mand, conduct, and experience.  You have given such proofs of yr loyalty that all will
be fond to have you with them; besides it will be very much for the good of our
King to hav such worthy, brav, experiened offeshars on his side as you ar.  I shall
send you twenty-four hours advertisment wher to meet mee and mine.  More you
cannot expect in such a busy time, therfor ends at present this letter, with ashurances
of my being,--S\br, Yr most affect\pat and most hum\ple Servant,
       Gor\pn Cal\ple,                                       (Signed) HUNTLY."
    22d Septr 1715.


