
     of Unst, in Shetland.

put upon the quarter, (as it is called) the minister gives
notice of the application from the pulpit; and if nothing be
urged against his character or circumstances, as rendering him
an improper object of the charity, he immediately obtains
his request.  The weekly contributions made at the church,
together with the more liberal one at the celebration of the
sacrament, are expended in the purchase of clothes, and o-
ther necessaries, for the poor, who are maintained upon the
quarters.  None are suffered to go about begging.  Chil-
dren, if in moderately comfortable circumstances themselves,
are obliged to support their aged parents, when they fall
into extreme poverty; but are assisted from the funds in the
hands of the kirk session, with money for the purchase of
clothes to them.

   Population.-The number of inhabited houses in this
island is at present 300.  The whole number of the inha-
bitants, as returned to Dr Webster in 1755, was 1368.  In
1780, it had increased to 1853; and at present, (in 1791)
amounts to 1988*.  The females are more numerous than
the males.  The annual births have been, upon an average,
for these last 10 years, 78; the marriages 14; and the
deaths, besides losses at sea, 21 yearly.  The number of 

<FOOTNOTE>

*If the numbers have increased, however, within these last 30 or 40
years, it is owing chiefly to the introduction of inoculation for the small
pox.  For more than 100 years past, this epidomical distemper used
to visit the island nearly every 20 years, and to carry off, with the rage of
a pestilence, great numbers of all ages.  In 1770, inoculation became ge-
neral here among all ranks.  In 1783, a general inoculation  was repeated
through the parish with the most flattering success.  Consumptive and
rheumatic complaints have become much more frequent within those last
15 or 20 years than formerly.  Convulsive sits have been very prevalent
through this island, chiefly among the female sex.  But, happily, this awful
and afflicting disorder is becoming daily less frequent.  In the years
1740, 1766, and 1783, excessive scarcity was felt here.  But even in these
periods of samine, none are known to have absolutely died for want.


