
640                    FNRFARSHIRE.

   There are 130 work horses, and 50 young horses.
   Rent of Land.-Grazing an ox, L.3, 10s.; a cow, L.3; a horse,
L.3, 10s. Since 1800, the progress of agriculture has been so
great, that there is at least a third more cultivated land than there
was then. Draining, the application of time and bone-dust, have
also increased the capabilities of the land that was previously til-
led. The produce of the parish may be said to be triple of
what it was at the commencement of the century. The rents of
many of the farms have also increased in the same degree. The
Earl of Airlie and the other heritors have given every encourage-
ment to their tenants to prosecute agricultural improvements.
   The farm-steadings throughout the parish, in general, are infe-
rior to none in the county. The dwelling-houses of the farmers
are plain, but substantial.

                     V. - PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Village.-The village is situated near the church. There are
no public buildings in it. The houses are very ruinous; but it is
likely they will soon be rebuilt.
   Market-Town.-Kirriemuir is the market-town for part of the
produce. Forfar and Dundee are, however, frequently resorted
to. These places are respectively seven, twelve, and twenty-one
miles distant; but the journey to Dundee is facilitated by the
Newtyle Railway.
   Meanr nf Communication.-There are no turnpike roads in the
parish. The roads are maintained by Statute Labour, and are
every year receiving a decided improvement.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is not conveniently si-
tuated. It is eight miles and a-half from the northern extremity of
the parish, and only one and a-half from the southern boundary.
It was built in 1802, and may accomodate 450 people. The
manse was erected much about the same time. It has since received
a large addition. In architectural beauty, it is strikingly deficient.
There is only one Dissenter in the parish. The attendance at
church is very good. The number of communicants is 433.
The stipend consists of L.121, 12s. 8d., and 44 bolls of grain.
   Education.-There are three schools in the parish; one paro-
chial and two private. The teacher has a salary of L. 29, 18s.
9 3/4d.; the legal accomodations and his school fees may amount
to nearly his charge may be 80. The other teachers have no other
source of income than the fees of the scholars.


