
1088                       PERTHSHIRE.

  Antiquities.-We have already mentioned the fine old ivy-co-
vered castle of Finlarig.* In Loch-dochart there is a ruin, said
to be one of the seven towers built by Sir Dunean Campbell.
This castle w`s once taken by the M'Gregors, who approached
it on the ice, and having surprised the inmates, put them all
to the sword. There is at Strathfillan the ruins of a building, 120
feet long and 22 broad, which is said to have been a cathedral.
Parts of the walls are still standing. The time when it was built
is very uncertain. There are several Druidical circles. One may
be seen near Kinnell. Old coins have been frequently dug up,
some of which are now preserved at Taymouth.
  At Str`thfillan there is a deep pool called the Holy Pool,
where, in olden times, they were wont to dip insane people.
The ceremony was performed after sunset on the first day of
the quarter, O. S., and before sunrise next morning. The dip-
ped persons were instructed to take three stones from the bot-
tom of the pool, and walking three times round each of three
cairns on the bank, throw a stone into each. They were next
conveyed to the ruins of St Fillan's chapel, and, in a corner
called St Fillan's bed, they were laid on their back, and left tied
all night. If next morning they were found loose, the cure was
deemed perfect, and thanks returned to the saint. The pool is
still visited, not by parishioners, for they have no faith in its vir-
tue, but by people from other and distant localities. We have
not heard of any being cured; but the prospect of the cerdmony,
especially in a cold winter evening, might be a good test for per-
sons pretending insanity.
  The bell referred to in last Account was about the size of a
hand-bell, and was an ancient relic of the chapel. It was stolen
by an English antiquarian about forty years ago. Popish tradition
endowed it with the power of returning to its resting-place; but it
would seem England is deemed a congenial home. At the mill
of Killin, there were long kept a stone called Fillan's Chair, and
seven small round stones that had been consecrated by the saint,
and endowed with the power of curing diseases. Each of them
had its peculiar merit. They got a fresh bed every Christmas
eve from the straw and weeds cast ashore by the river. Five of
them are still preserved at the mill, where they may be examined
by the curious.

<FOOTNOTE> Beside it is the Breadalbane mausoleum, embosomed in the dark shade of trees
of venerable age.


