
                                PARISH OF DYCE.

                   PRESBYTERY OF ABERDEEN, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                        THE REV. W. R. PIRIE, MINISTER.

                       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATVRAL HISTORY.
   Situation, &c.-The parish of Dyce lies from five to eight miles
north-west of Aberdeen.  The origin of its name is unknown.  Va-
rious suggestions have been proposed on this subject, but none of
them sufficiently probable to deserve notice. *  It is bounded by
Newhills on the south and south-west; Kinellar nn the north-west;
Fintray on the north ; New Machar and Old Machar on the east.
Its length is about six, its greatest breadth about three miles.
   The figure of the parish is nearly oval, slightly curved at the
narrower extremity, and lying from north-west to southeast.  The
north-west or broader end of the oval is formed by a low-hill,
called Tyrebagger, which extends downwards to the south-east
nearly three miles, or half the extreme length of the parish, after
which, rapidly descending, it merges in the adjacent plain.
   Climate.-The climate is salubrious, though variable, which
probably, in some measure, accounts for the prevalence of rheuma-
tic complaints.  Scarlet and typhus fever also, occasionally prevail,
but can generally be traced to infection.
   Hydrography.-The river Don bounds the parish on the north
and east.  It rises in Strathdon, and, after a course of about sixty
miles in a southeasterly direction, falls into the German ocean
two miles east of Aberdeen.  The haughs or low grounds along
the banks of this river are exceedingly valuable.  They are rich
alluvial deposit, and grow crops of remarkable luxuriance.  It
may also be noticed, that the Don is much more apt to be flood-
ed than formerly, in consequence of the rapidity with which the

<FOOTNOTE>It is said in a former Statistical Account of the neighbnuring parish of Kin-
tore, that "Dyce was in the earliest times called the chapel of St Fergus, near Moss
Foetach."  The authority for this statement is not given.  There is, however, a marsh
in the neighbourbood, called Moss Foetach, and there can be no doubt that Dyce, as
well as several adjoining parishes, were in Catholic times chapels or vicarages con-
nected with the Cathedral of Old Machar.


