
			BENHOLME.                                  59

<TABLE>

The number of persons in 1831 under 15 years of age was           496
			      betwixt 15 and 30,  		  316
				      30 and 50,    		  338
				      50 and 70,                  256
			       upwards of 70,                      78
                unmarried men above 50 years of age,               44
                           women above 45,                        117

	There are 6 persons insane and fatuous; none blind, nor deaf
and dumb.
	Illegitimate births in the course of the last three years, 9.
	Only one individual of independent fortune resides in the parish.
The property of each of the land-owners affords a rent far above
the sum of L.50.
	The great body of the people may be described as moral in their
habits. Although there is a general and, I trust, a growing
respect for religion on the part of many, yet I cannot say from per-
sonal observation that there are many people of eminent piety.
Experiment`l religion, I fear, is but little known in this part of the
country. But by means of evangelical preaching, of parish libra-
ries, and of Sabbath schools, it is hoped, that, by the blessing
of God, the religious character of the people will speedily im-
prove.
	It is to their credit that poaching is but little practised, and
smuggling altogether unknown.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture.-There are in this parish about 4000 acres of cul-
tivated land, and about 1064 acres of land uncultivated, of which
about 160 might be profitably improved and brought into cultiva-
tion. There is no undivided common in the parish. There are
about 325 acres under wood.
	With the exception of some about Benholme and Broth-
erton, the wood is mostly young. The trees planted are chief-
ly fir, ash, beech, and oak. Of all kinds, larch seems to
thrive best, but is said not to thrive for more than about forty
years, when its top begins to wither and die, probably from the
roots meeting with something unfavourable in the soil. Many
of the trees are covered with lichens, chiefly of the genera Rama-
lina and Usnea, to an extent which seems prejudicial to vegetation,
and indicates perhaps an unsuitable climate. The trees in the plan-
tations are in general thinned annually.
        Rent.-The average rent of arable land may be from L. 1, 12s.
to L. 1, 13s. per imperial acre.
        Leases.-The general duration of leases is for nineteen years.


