

74                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

Here even now the rising grounds on each side almost meet to-
gether, and in all likelihood the natural barrier having, from some
cause or other, given way, the waters of the loch receded to their
lowest level, and thus the carse was formed.
   The drainage of the loch, which has lately been effected, had
engaged the attention of many of the proprietors in the neigh-
bourhood for half a century; but it was only within the last twelve
years that any attemp was seriously made to get this object ac-
complished.  An act of Parliament was at lenght obtained; and
though the operations have now been completed at an expense of
some L.40,000, it is very questionable whether the advantages,
supposed to arise from the measure, have not been greatly exag-
gerated.  A few proprietors may probably feel its good effects;
but, in general, the ground recovered, which may be about 1000
acres in all, is poor.-that on the eastern side, which comprises
the greater proportion, being composed of a covering of whitish
sand, having generally a subsoil of bluish tilly sand, of a most
unproductive quality.  If any material advantage arise from the
operations, it must be to the land-owners along the river, who
have obtained a greater facility for draining; or to the mill-pro-
prietors, who, indeed, will chiefly reap the advantage; and appa-
rently endless disputes have already arisen as to the proportions of
the expense which each party interested has to pay.
   The features of the county, in general, are not very imposing,
yet still they have a few charms; nor do we know any thing more
beautiful than the view to be obtained from the rising ground on
the eastern side of Loch Leven in an autumnal morning, when the
mist which has enveloped the whole county may seen gradually
ascending from the lake, under the influence of the rising sun, and
unfolding to the eye of the traveller, the calm unruffled surface of
the waters, with the gray and lonely castle-connected with many
a strange tale in our history-reposing in its bosom; as the mist
clears away, the hills are seen girding on the whole, which pre-
sents at such a moment a picture highly interesting and sublime.
   The following shows the state of the population at different pe-
riods:-
<TABLE>Population in 1755,   .    5944
                     1791,   .    6181
                     1801,   .    6725
                     1811,   .    7245
                     1821,   .    7762
                     1831,   .    9072




