
138			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

property, and several hundred acres on that of Lady Heron Max-
well. New roads have been formed and old ones improved;
though it is to be regretted that portions of the parish roads
have not been more judiciously designed.
	Quarries and Mines.--There are no quarries, properly speak-
ing, within the parish. Boulder stones are numerous, as to
supply whatever materials may be required for building purposes;
and granite of the finest quality, and of any size, can be produced
in abundance from the masses of this rock at Craigdhews. The
lead mines are distant about two miles from the villages of Minni-
gaff, on the boundary of the Kirouchtree and Machermore es-
tates. The lead was first discovered in 1763, and was shortly
afterwards wrought. For many years the mines were very pro-
ductive, producing many hundred tons of lead annually. For
a considerable period they were wrought by an English company;
but latterly, having become unproductive, they abandoned the
works in 1839, and the buildings erected for smelting the ore are
now in ruins. Since that period the mines have been partially
wrought to a trifling extent, only three persons being occasionally
employed, and the produce not exceeding twelve tons annually.
Eight fathoms is the utmost depth that any of the mines have
been sunk: whether there be any quantity of lead to be found
beyond this depth, has not been ascertained.
	Fisheries.--The proprietors of the lands along the Cree have a
right to fish for salmon, &c. in that river. In spring great quan-
tities of sparling are caught. The rents of the several fisheries
amount to L. 140.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce, as nearly
as it can be ascertained, is as follow:--

<TABLE>
	  Grains of all kinds,                               L.3,000 0  0
	  Potatoes, turnips, &c.                               2,500 0  0
          Hay, meadows, and cultivated,                        2,750 0  0
          Land in pasture,                                    14,500 0  0
          Gardens and orchards,                                  100 0  0
          Annual thinning and periodical felling of woods,     1,000 0  0
          Fisheries,                                             400 0  0
          Mines,                                                 132 0  0
							    -------------
                                                            L.24,382 0  0

	Manufactures.--There is a small manufactory at Cumloden of
coarse plaiding and blankets. It gives employment to five men,
and a few women and children; in all about twelve hands are em-
ployed. Those engaged recieves a fair remuneration for their la-
bour. About sixteen hands are employed in cotton weaving. The


