
2                          RENFREWSHIRE.

in length, and 2 1/2 at its greatest breadth,-the amount of surface
being about 9 square miles.  It is bounded on the north by the pa-
rishes of East and West Kilpatrick, both in the county of Dum-
barton; on the east chiefly by the parish of Govan, in the county
of Lanark; on the south by the Abbev parish of Paisley; and on
the west, or rather the north-west, by the rivers Black Cart and
Gryfe, which separate it from the parishes of Kilbarchan and
Inchinan.
   Topographical Appearances.-The general outline is irregular,
and is farther broken by the intersection of several navigable rivers.
Fully one-third of the whole is on the north side of the river Clyde;
this being the only part nf the county which crosses that river.  A
similar proportion of what remains is separated from the rest by
the White Cart, and a navigable canal which runs for a short dis-
tance alongside of it.  Communication with this district of the
parish is maintained by bridges, and with the north side of the
Clyde by boats.  Row-boats are employed for foot-passengers, and
a large vessel open at both ends, and moved along a chain by a
hand-windlass, for cattle, carts, and carriages.  The general ap-
pearance of the parish, in its two southern divisions, is that of an
almost perfect level, and very much in the centre of an extensive
plain; stretching southward to the hill country above Paisley;
westward into the parishes of Kilbarchai), HoUStOD, and Erskine;
northward to the base of the Kilpatrick range; and eastward to-
wards Glasgow.  In this general division of the parish, there is only
one noticeable acclivity, which, from its insular situation, commands
an extensive view, and is dignified with the appellation of Knock,
a low hill.  On the north side of the river Clyde, the surface is
more unequal. The hilly undulations, which skirt the base of the
Kilpatrick range, shoot down and overlook the lower grounds; and,
running eastward towards Glasgow, are formed into a succession of
low conical bills, several of which are within this parish.  The most
considerable of these is Jordanhill, which rises perhaps 180 feet
above the level of the river.  Between and around these, the lands
are low, flat, and alluvial ; resernbling-those on the south side of
the river.  On both sides are several handsome mansion-houses,
with plantations corresponding, which greatly diversify and enrich
the general landscape.  There is a small hill above Scotstown
gate, from which the central and richest portion of the view is best
seen and; for a more distant and general view of the parish and


