
660                       LANARKSHIRE.

works are in full blast, for seven days in the week, except Gart-
sherrie and Summerlee, where no work is done on Sabbath.  The
loss of so many days in the year might, at first sight, seem to be
a great sacrifice to the respectable and conscientious proprietors
of these works, but in reality it is not.  The men work with more
spirit and effiect through the week, with the knowledge of a day's
interval from labour before them, and the moral habits are ad-
vanced so sa to render all concerned better servants, and more va-
luable members of society.  Where this boon is granted, the pro-
prietors also get their choice of the best hands; indeed, where
steady men are not employed, this boon, for obvious reasons, can-
not beg granted.
   One of the great causes of the unprecedented advancement of
the iron trade in this district is the abundant command of the black-
band of ironstone, united to the no less important introduction of
the heated air-blast.  Without the black-band, the furnaces could
not produce the same quantity of iron in the same time, and at
the same cost and by the substitution of heated for cold air, in
keeping up the blast, the saving of coal or fuel has been also very
great.  The progress of this, like the progress of some at other
great discoveries, is somewhat obscure, and has not as yet been
sufficiently investigated, or fairly and fully set before the public.
In the history of the hot blast, as applied to the smelting of
iron, as in the history of the steam-engine, the merit does not ex-
clusively belong to one individual, but was the result of varied skill
and varied application.  A digest of the actual progress of this in-
vention, which can be attested by documents and abundance of
parole evidence, is as follows:
   1. Mr. Sadler, chemist to the the Admiralty, was the first to notice
the effects of heated air, and describeds fully "a furnace for extri-
cuting oxygen, and other general purposes," also "an apparatus
for heating the stream of air," with "observation on the air-ves-
sel of fire-engines, to show in what manner it may be applied to
blowing engines."  The treatise itself is published in Nicolson's
Philosophical Journal for April 1798, and is decidely a treatise
explaining the application of heated air to furnaces.
   2. Mr. Stirling, one of the ministers of Kilmarnock, in Decem-
ber 1816, obtained a patent for his "invention of diminshing the
consumption of fuel," &c.  In that portion of his specification which
applies to furnaces, his plan is to "cause it to pass through long
narrow hues to the furnace."  The great principle of Mr. Stir-


