
     Statistical Account

   Religious Houses.-In Spottiswood's Account of Religious
Houses in Scotland, notice is taken of the Franciscans, or Gray
Friars, having been established at Kirkcudbright in the 12th
century.  Brother John Carpenter, who is said to have been
an excellent engineer, and dextrous in contriving all instru-
ments of war, was one of the persons professed in this place.  But
there are no records here, that can throw any light on the his-
tory of this order, whilst they continued at Kirkcudbright.
The ancient records of this country, especially what belonged
to the church, were carried off at the Reformation, by the
Popish clergy, and lodged either in the Vatican at ROME, or
in the Scotch College at PARIS.  The present church, however,
seems to have been built on the same spot of ground, which was
formerly occupied by the Fratres minores, or Grey Friars*.

<FOOTNOTE>

the country; then attacked Dumsries, which submitted to become subjects of
Edward.  He sent also a summons to Kirkobrie (as he calls it), to come and
make oath to the King's Majesty.  Upon refusing, he marched with his party,
and came to the town a little after sun-rising.  "But they, who saw us coming,
"barred their gates, and kept their dikes; for the town is diked on both sides,
"with a gate to the water-ward, and a gate on the over end to the sell-ward."
However, according to Sir Thomas's account, the town, though attacked, was
not taken.  Afterwards, indeed, they sent their commissioners to Dumsries, and
engaged to serve the King's Majesty of England.  This historical anecdote,
shews that the town, at that time, was tolerably well fortified.
*From the ancient records of the burgh, there appears, by a contract, dated
24th March 1570, to have been given to the magistrates, "the place and kirk
"in the town of Kirkcudbright, qubilk sometimes pertained to the Friars minors
"of Kirkcudbright; also ane kirk within the burgh, called St. Andrew's Kirk,
"with the kirk-yard, Chappelanes, and yeard thereof; ieserving to John
"M'Clelland and John Mitchell, the chalmers and yeards, which they occupy
"at the date hereof, for their liferent."-After the restoration of episcopacy in
Scotland, notice it taken of a great rumult having happened, in 1663, upon
the admission of a curate into the parish of Kirkcudbright.  The Lords of hi
Majesty's privy council appointed commissioners to go to Kirkcudbright, and
examine into the matter, and convene before them all such as were concerned


