
106               CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

  Castle Campbell, with its romantic scenery, has been so often
described, that we can add nothing new on the subject.  Its ma-
jestic ruins are situated on a knoll or eminence-occupying a nar-
row glen of the Ochill hills. The view of the castle from the pub-
lic road, as we pass through Dollar on our way either to Stirling or
Kinross, is peculiarly striking: but it is impossible to form an ade-
quate idea of the grandeur and variety of the scenery, without ad-
vancing nearer to the castle. After leaving the old bridge in the
village of Dollar, and advancing northward along the banks of the
rivulet, which descends from the Castle-as we approach Camp,
bell wood, (as the people here call it,) and which covers the whole of
the ravine-through which the stream forces its way--the castle is
now more distinctly seen, and seems more elevated than it did
when seen from the public road. It now appears perched on the
top of a lofty knoll, or conical hill-embosomed in the surround-
ing mountains. The acclivities on each side of the ravine are cover-
ed with continuous woods, which gives the whole a truly pictu-
resque appearance. Several attempts have been made to reach the
castle, by tracing the bed of the stream upwards; but they have
all proved unsuccessful. After great fatigue and risk, some have
forced their way upwards to the place where the two streams, that
surround the castle, make a junction; but beyond this, the over-
hanging rocks in the bed of the stream, and which nearly meet at
the top, form an insuperable barrier. But though the castle is
inaccessible by the bottom of the ravine, it may be approached on
foot, both on the east and west side of the wooded hollow. The
road on the east side, through the village of Dollar, is the only
approach for carriages, or rather carts. It is a steep and rugged

<FOOTNOTE>to one of these three parts, there is no difficulty. It was acquired by Colin, first
Earl of Argyle, in right of his wife Isabella, who was one of the daughters of the said
John Lord Lorn and Innermeath; and ve rather think the eldest daughter, from
the circumstance of the castle being situated in that portion of the lands which fell
to her share, as appears from what is said in a charter of confirmation by James IV.
The third of the lands which came into the possession of Duncan Campbell of Glen-
urehy, through his mother Margaret Stewart, daughter of Lord Lorn, &c., became
part of Argyle lands, by a deed renunciation on the part of the said Duncan Camp-
bell, of all rights he had to the third part of the lands of Dollar; which renunciation
he made in favour of Colin, first Earl of Argyle, of date 1481, as appears from the
inventory of the Argyle title-deeds. We cannot find any deed conveying to Argyle
the third portion, which belonged to Marion Stewart, wife of Campbell of Ottar;
but there can be no doubt that Argyle acquired this third part also, either by dispo-
sition or force; for in a charter of confirmation by James IV. of a charter by the
Bishop of Dunkeld, it is expressly stated that the bishop gives to Archibald, Earl of
Argyle, all and haill the lands of Campbell, alias Dollar or Gloom. This charter of
confirmation is dated 11th May 1497. The preceding remarks, we hope, will help
to solve the question how and when Castle Campbell, with the lands of Dollar or
Gloom, came into the possession of the family of Argyle.


