
	28	                           ORKNEY.

	rish, but two, which may be avoided by keeping two cable lengths
	from the shore; one of these shoals is visible at two hours' ebb.
	As the coast can be seen at a great distance, and there are no
	shoals but these two, which are not dangerous, there are conse-
	quently few vessels wrecked on this doast.  The velocity of the
	spring-tides in Hoy sound, is seven miles in the hour, that of neap-
	tides, three miles.  It is high or slack water in Hoy sound at ten
	o'clock on the days of new and full moon, and in the harbour of
	Stromness at nine o'clock.   The flood sets from the north-west.
	An hour before flood is perceived in the channel of Hoy sound, a
	stream sets from the north, along the west coast, keeping this side
	of the sound, and continues in this direction; at half-ebb, another
	stream sets from the south, alone, the south side of the sound, and
	continues till high water.  These streams, when known and at-
	tended to, facilitate the entrance of shipping into the harbour of
	Stromness."
	   Since the date of the Old Account, it appears that the increase
	of wrecks has been considerable.  A light-house is greatly need-
	ed for the guidance of vessels through the Sound of Hoy: and we
	are happy to learn that this has attracted the attention of Her Ma-
	jesty's Commissioners.
				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   It may be mentioned, that the greater number of vessels which our
	enlightened nation has sent out to explore the world, and extend the
	knowledge of geography and the boundaries of science, have, in ge-
	neral, remained some days in the harbour of Stromness.  The Dis-
	covery ships wbich were commanded by Captain Cook, on their
	return from that memorable expedition which proved fatal to that
	illustrious navigator, lay here two weeks; and the officers presented
	some of the inhabitants with various curiosities, which they fondly
	preserve as precious mementos of friendship.  Sir John Franklin,
	distinguished alike for his piety and heroism, both in going out and
	returning from, his northern expedition, remained here for some time.
	This parish was also the first place where Sir John Ross planted his
	foot on British earth, on returning from his last northern voyage,
	when it was thought by the nation at large, that that gallant officer
	had perished in the expedition.
	   Land-owners.--The principal land-owners are, Thomas Pollex-
	fee, Esq. of Cairston; William G. Watt, Esq. of Breckness.
	There are also Crown lands.  The number of heritors altogether,
	is 78.


