
                          HALKIRK.                              69

ever, is such tbat the greater part of the county may be seen from
its summit. From time immemorial till within the last seven or
eight years, it was customary to have an annual market on the very
top of this hill. From the name of the market, the Jamesmas,
it is evident that it had its origin during the prevalence of Popery
in Scotland. This market is now held in a place equally centrical
and far easier of access, and will be afterwards mentioned under
another head.
   Hydrography.-There is a considerable number of lakes in the
parish, from twenty-two to twenty-four, including small and great.
The loch of Calder is about 3 1/2 miles in length, and from one
mile to half a mile in breadth. The next in magnitude is Loch-
more, which differs very little in size from the other. Both these
lochs have a very pleasing effect on the scenery. In travel-
ling towards either of them a person does not see them till
they burst at once on his view, and they form a striking and a
lively contrast to the moss and the heath with which they
are surrounded. There are two rivers which pass through the
parish. By the inhabitants of this parish, the principal of
those rivers is called the river of Halkirk, but at Thurso, near
which it enters the sea, it is called the river of Thurso. The
source of this river is Alltan na cat, or Cat'sbrook, which is about
eight miles south-west from Lochmore and in Sutherlandshire.
Though this brook is considered the source of the river, there are
several lakes, upwards of twenty, which pour their waters into the
river. Some of these lakes are in this parish, and some in the
mountains which divide this county from Sutberiandshire. As
this river flows through a wide extent of country it receives into
its channels and discharges into the sea a great quantity of water.
After much rain or a rapid thaw it overflows its bank, and, du-
ring the harvest months, has at times done great damage to grass
and other crops which lie within its range. Its course is nearly
through the centre of the parish; and, taking into calculation its
various windings, its length from the source to its junction with
the sea is from 40 to 50 miles. The other river, that of Forssy,
divides this parish from Reay on the north-west, and join the sea at
Forss, in the parish of Thurso. This river, after great falls of raint,
comes down in torrents, and does much injury to corn and grass in
low situations near its course. It is from 15 to 20 miles in
length. Trout and salmon are taken in both the rivers, and
trout of various kinds in the lakes.-There are two springs in the


