
350                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

had been covered with heath or moss, and the subsoil had been
separated from the soil by the iron incrustation already described.
In these situations the soil is various, being in most cases clay and
gravel, sometimes the one and sometimes the other predominating,
arising chiefly from the decompositon of granite and flint inter-
mixed with remains of moss.  The deposits of gravel, flint, and
clay, mixed with rounded stones or pebbles on the hills, have evi-
dently resulted from the action of water, as they exhibit all the
appearances of similar deposits on the shores; and these deposits
are separated from one another by incrustations of iron, lying at
various angles, and not frequently inclosing the deposits of gra-
vel, &c. by curved lines.  The matters of the separated strata
are often very different, as clay, gravel, flint, &c.  The plants
which had grown on the mosses and moors were chiefly heath,
bent, and the coarser grasses.  Upon penetrating, howeer, into
the subsoil, and mixing it with the top soil, after complete drain-
age, clover and some of the better sorts of grass make their ap-
pearance.
   Zoology.-Notwithstanding the very little shelter from wood,
there is considerable variety of wild animals found in this parish.
The domesticated animals are not different from those found in
other parts of the country.  Among the feathered tribe, the com-
mon hen, duck, goose, turkey, peacock, and pigeon, are reared in
abundance.  Among quadrupeds there are swine, sheep of the
Cheviot and Highland breeds, and occassionally goats, as well as
many varieties of the dog and cat.  Of the larger animals there
are horses, and black-cattle of the Aberdeenshire breed.  These
last are well known as the cattle of the district, and have been
longe esteemed for the various good qualities as the polled Buchan
breed.  The Teeswater or short-horned breed has lately been in-
troduced.  The long-horned are occassionally to be seen, and many
Orkney and Shetland ponies and black-cattle are imported.  The
latter are generally fed, and the beef is superior to that of the na-
tive breeds.  Assess are occassionally employed for the carriage of
milk and other purposes.  Of game, the hare, rabbit, moorfowl,
partridge, and snipe are the most common.
   The following list of birds, killed within fifteen miles of Peter-
head, and other animals found in its vicinity during the last ten
years, has been kindly furnished by Adam Arbuthaot, Esq.  Prepar-
ed specimens of most of these have been preserved in Mr Arhuth-
not's musuem,-a large collection of natural curiosities and speci-
                            4


