
     Statistical Account

this parish was divided among 18 or 20 different proprietors.
The principal heritor, at that time, was Captain John Ur-
quhart, who was a branch of the old family of the Urquharts
of Cromarty; a lineal descent of which, from Adam, has
been whimsically attempted, by Sir Thomas Urquhart, who
represented the family of Urquhart about the middle of the
17th century*.  There are now but 8 proprietors in the pa-
rish, except the Lairds of Cromarty and Udal, the property
of all the rest put together is but trifling The former, re-
sides constantly in England, the latter, lives upon his proper-
ty.  It is worthy of remark, that the estate of Udal has been
in possession of the same family for a period of 200 years.
The present proprietor, Mr. Anderson, has planted a consi-
derable extent of it with firs and forest trees, which come on
very well.

   Ecclesiastical State, Stipend, Poor.-There are two clergy-
men in the parish; the parish minister, and the minister of
the Gaelic Chapel.  There was no Gaelic preached in this
place, until the erection of the chapel; and the principal rea-
son of introducing it was, for the accommodation of Mr.
Ross's numerous labourers, and others who came from the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The property of this family was once very extensive in the county of Cro-
marty, and comprehended much more than what is now called the estate of
Cromarty.  Sir John Urquhart, who died about the year 1659, left his affairs
in great disorder, which obliged his son Jonathan to bring the estate to sale
The purchaser was George M`Kenzie, Viscount of Tarbat, afterward Earl of
Cromarty, being the first who bore that title.  The Earl of Cromarty gave the
estate to his 2 d son Sir Kenneth M'Kenzie.  Sir Kenneth was succeeded by his
son Sir George, and shortly before his death, the estate was brought to a judicial
sale, and purchased by the above mentioned Captain Urquhart of Craigston.
By him it was sold to Mr. William Pultney, who made sale of it to Mr. George
Ross, the late proprietor, and whose nephew, Mr. Alexander Ross, is now pro-
prietor of most of the lands in the parish.


