
476 			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

on the coast. The rents together amount to L. 60. Herring fish-
inG is carried on, every season, by the Campbelton fishermen.
Eleven boats, each of about twelve tons register, have this summer
sailed for the fishing stations at Helmsdale and Burgh-head. In
a successful season, it is a source of considerable profit; each boat
taking not unfrequently 200 crans or barrels in five or six weeks.
For each cran they are paid from 1Os. to 13s. In the white fish-
ing, these fishermen likewise embark; and after supplying the pa-
rish with haddock, cod-fisb, skate, whiting, flounders, and occa-
sionally turbot, halibut, and sole, they carry the surplus to the In-
verness market. For short voyages along the coast in the summer
time, the fishermen have sharp-built and fast-sailing yawls. By
their industry, many of these men have been enabled to save some
money; but the hazardous nature of their calling, renders highly
commendable their present intention of establishing, in conjunction
with the fishers of Pettie, a branch of the "Shipwrecked Fisher-
men and Mariner's Society."
   Navigation.-Three vessels, of about 100 torts burthen each,
which are employed in the Sunderland trader belong to a family
in the village.
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Campbelton is the only village and market,town in the parish.
Inverness is distant ten miles, and Nairn seven miles. The population
of Campbelton proper, according to the census of the present year,
is 730; of the back-street, which, though belonging to the pa-
rish of Pettie, is dove-tailed and connected with it in civil and mu-
nicipal interests, 228,-making in all 958. There is a post-office
in the village, and, besides the mail, two stage-coaches pass daily
to the south and north. The great post-road from Inverness to
Aberdeen passes through the village, as does also the military road
from Fort-George to Perth, projected by General Wade, and be-
gun in 1753. Ab outtwenty-four feuars in Campbelton possess
votes in the election of a Member of Parliament for the county, and
the number of qualifications may be increased. The County Con-
stabulary Committee have lately established a policeman; and the
county Prison-Board have, at a recent meeting, come to the resolu-
tion of erecting a lock-up-bouse. A small debt court is held every
month. There is no harbour. This is a great desideratum, as,
independently of the usual traffic in coals and lime, the beach is
much frequented as a shipping place for pit-props and other tim-
ber from adjacent properties as well as for grain, from the sur-


