
                          SANDWICK.                         47

Graemsay from the mainland, and is less than a mile broad, in-
terrupts the  examination of this rock; but there can be no doubt
of its being continued under water. In some places, it has no
appearance of a slaty structure ; in others, it has so distinctly,
though not regularly stratified, and is properly gneiss; and at one
place, discovered by Professor Jameson, it passes into mica slate,
containing garnets. Hornblende rock is also found in this tract,
but there is no extensive exposure of it. In general, it consists
of a grey granite or gneiss, which is traversed by veins of quartz
or felspar, but more frequently the latter, and exhibits the usual
phenomena of such a district, in the interruption and shifting of
the veins. A few years ago, L.300 were laid out in quarrying
some of this gneiss, and cutting it into paving-stones for the Lon-
don market, but it did not succeed. In one place, the workmen
came in contact with a rock containing a little galena and pyrites,
but, with this trifling exception, it contains no ores nor useful mi-
nerals. Between this rock and the schist, there is a belt of con-
glomerate, at such places as are exposed, of 50 or 100 yards
broad, containing pieces of gneiss, quartz, and felspar, imbedded,
from a microscopic size to that of a turnip. This belt contains
nothing worth remarking, except small veins of galena at one
place, which are of no value. It gradually loses the conglomerated
structure; and the succeeding strata, though they sometimes al-
ternate, generally assume more of the character of those that rest
on them till at last they pass into
   II. Sandstone Flag, or Secondary Slate or Schist.-This rests upon
the conglomerate, and dips from it wherever I have been able to find
it in contact. The best exposures on the west side of the granite
are on the north shore of Graemsay, point of Ness, in Stromness,
and south-west coast of this parish, where the strata slope west.
On the east side of the granite, it is only the strata in immediate
contact with it that dip east; for, in the coursen of 100 yards, they
gradually dip more in conformity'witb the general dip of the coun-
try; but they may be seen dipping east on the shore of Graemsay,
and at the point of Garson, in Stromness; and again they dip
north-east, at the Burn of Cairston, and at the north-east boundary
of the granite in this parish.
   Of this slate almost all the Orkney Islands are composed, or
at least most of the low land and shelving shores, while many of
the surrounding hills and precipices are formed of the superimposed
sandstone. It forms a great part of Stromness, and almost all Sand-
wick and Birsay. It can hardly be described aw one rock, as it is


