
     of Birse.

arch is grievously felt.  This would give more easy ac-
cess to the Aberdeen market, and for coals.  Our distance
from market, and the difficulty of procuring manure, is
much against us.  Aberdeen is not only the nearest market
and manufacturing town, but even the nearest post-town;
a circumstance much against this country.  It is in our sa-
vour that we have plenty of moss of the best sort, though
not of easy access, as peat and turf is the fuel used in the
parish, with wood, particularly brushwood.  That our
country abounds with different forts of timber, and all of
an excellent quality, is certainly an advantage.  We have
also plenty of granite-stone, and the best materials for build-
ing;  and it is but justice to the tenants, to say that they
are every day erecting better houses than they formerly
occupied.  But whatever our local advantages be, there is
one great disadvantage under which we labour, that often
counteracts and outweighs them all, namely, the difficulty
of procuring, pleasing, and paying labouring servants.  This
evil is severely felt by all ranks in this country, and, if
matters do not soon take a favourable turn, must effectu-
ally ruin the tenant.  Considering the insolence and beha-
viour of servants in general, words must fail to describe the
evil.  Another evil that is pretty severely felt, is the ser-
vitude at the mill.  To be liable for the sixteenth peck
there, of all the produce, besides pretty high payment for
grinding, over and above the multure, must check the ar-
dour of the improver.  The multure, at some of the mills,
is converted; at others, the grievance exists; and conse-
quently, in that quarter of the parish, improvement of
land does scarcely exist.  The payment of either certain
handfulls or dishfulls of meal to the miller for his work, is
not very convenient.  The equitable ways is certainly to
weigh the quantity paid, and this ought to be fixed by law.
It is also submitted to the public, whether any person has a


