
	122			PERTHSHIRE.

	  The following stipends are paid out of the common funds of the
	burgh :-To the rector of the academy, L. 100; his assistant,
	L. 25; the rector of the grammar-school, L. 50; his -assistant,
	L. 25 ; , the master of the school for modern languages, L. 25 ;
	the master of the writing school, L. 25; the master of the draw-
	ing school, L. 25; the two masters of the English reading schools,
	L. 25.
	  The regulated fees for teaching during session of ten months and
	a half are; the mathematical classes, four hours, L. 4, 6s.; Latin
	and Greek, four hours, L. 2, 12s. ; modern languages, one hour,
	L. 3, 2s. ; writing and arithmetic, two hours, L. 2, 6s.; drawing,
	one hour, L. 3, 2s. ; English, four hours, L. 1, 8s.
           There is a teacher of music, who has a salary of L. 15, but his
	fees and hours are not fixed.
	   Salaries paid to the masters of other schools in the parish are:
	to the master of the Trades' School, L. 76; the master of the Ma-
        nufacturers' School, L. 20; * the master of the school for the poor,
	L. 50; the master of the Guildry School, L. 26; the mistresses of.
        the infant schools, 1,. 50; the mistress of the female school, L. 2O. *
	  I have not been able to ascertain with sufficient accuracy the
	number of persons, young and old, who cannot read and write.  But
	I am able to state, from personal knowledge, that the number of
	those is great, whose instruction in reading is l`mentably defi-
	cient.  They are reported to be taught to read, and are rated ac,-
	cordingly.  But in general, theirs is the reading of half-educated
	children.  Of the simplest book they cannot make out a page,
	without difficulty and much hesitation.  They cannot comprehend
	aright, therefore, the import of what they are reading.  This un-
	happy state of matters, among many of the labouring classes of
	the community,'may be ascribed to two causes.  The first is the
	strong temptations which are held out to poor parents of numerous
	families, by manufacturers and certain master tradesmen, to employ
	their children, ata very early period of life,-which temptation many
	of them have not moral principle to resist.  Thus we often find
	children employed in spinning-mills and in weaving shops, sent
	thither by their parents ere they have been above a few months at
	school. There are indeed evening-schools with good teachers

<FOOTNOTE>not presume to learn any boys to write," and " the jilnitor of the gramnlar School was
	appointed to,visit the women's schools, and put the council's, in torce."
	  Each scholar pays 1d. per weck ; the average number of scholars is between 90
	and l00.
	  With Half of the fees, and half of the price of the work done.


