
			LARGS.                            809

pense of L.350, built a commodious school and schoolmaster's
house, and has endowed the school to the extent of L.30 yearly,
vesting the nomination of the teacher and the general manage-
ment and superintendence of the institution in the family of Bris-
bane, and the minister and kirk-session of Largs. His sole ob-
ject is to secure to the children of the working-classes, education
in the common branches of learning, at a reasonable rate. This
adds a fresh laurel to the well-earned fame of the honourable
founder, and it is hoped will prove a grateful monument to his me-
mory for many ages. The school is well attended, and gives fair
promise of utility. There are in the parish three other schools,
besides one at Fairlie, and a female school, which are well taught.
The total number of scholars is 428.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The funds for support of the poor
arise from the collections at the church door, the seat rents of the
addition made to the church, and fees of proclamations. The
average amount is about L.247. The number of paupers on the
permanent roll is 40, besides 13 orphans. The highest allowance
is 10s., the lowest 5s. monthly. There are others who receive oc-
casional supply.
	Libraries.--There are two circulating libraries, which contain
the standard histories, and the popular works of the day. There
is also a congregational library attached to the church, and a so-
ciety for the distribution of religious tracts.
	Gas-Work.--A gas-work was erected in 1838, the capital being
formed of shares of L.5 each. The streets and houses were first
lighted in 1839, and the parish church has recently been fitted up
and gas is now used at all evening exercises held there,
	Banks.--There is a branch of the Western Bank of Scotland,
and one of the Paisley Commercial Banking Company, which
have been found of great utility, as, previous to their being esta-
blished, the inhabitants were obliged to travel to Greenock or to
Beith with all their bank transactions.
	Fairs.--As previously mentioned, the ancient church of Largs
was dedicated to St Columba, whose festival was commemorated
on the 9th June. This fair is still held here on the second Tuesday
of June, O. S., and is vulgarly called Combsday. It used to be fa-
mous all over the West of Scotland, and multitudes came to it,
especially from the Western Highlands. The night previous to the
fair was spent in frivolous amusement, which frequently ended in
riot. This is no longer the case. The attendance has greatly fallen


