
              170                            ORKNEY.

              sides, may be eighteen miles in length.  At three places, viz. the
              isthmus connecting this parish with Deerness, a small creek of
              Deersound near the church, and a part of Inganess bay, it is san-
              dy, and at the southern and eastern boundaries, it is rocky and
              precipitous.  At the former of these, the face of the rock is nearly
              180 feet of perpendicular height; and at the latter 95, where it
              is not so remarkable for its elevation, as for its picturesque appear-
              ance; some parts standing in detached columns, and'presenting
              a dauntless front to the fury of the ocean.  The rest of the sea
              coast, though occasionally varied by projecting cliffs, generally
              consists of a low beach, affording sea-weed for the manufacture
              of kelp.
                One of the chief natural curiosities of this place is a deep cavern,
              which in the neighbouring district is called the gloup.* It is situated
              a few yards from the precipice on the east coast, is eighty feet deep,
              and fifty-six by thirty wide; and the water in its bottom commu-
              nicates with the open sea by a passage through which a boat may
              enter, at certain states of the tide and weather.  Additional inte-
              rest is given to this place by the circumstance, that Sir James Sin-
              clair, natural son of Robert Sinclair, Earl of Orkney, threw him-
              self into it, and perished.  He was prompted to this horrid act, by
              fear of the vengeance of his sovereign James V., whose displeasure
              he had incurred, by representing the Islands of Sanday and Eday
              as insignificant holms, and thus fraudulently attempting to obtain
              possession of them, as a reward for his good services in discomfit-
              ing the Earl of Caithness and Lord Sinclair at Summerdale.
                Meteorology.-- Though in rare instances, Fahrenheit's tbermo-
              meter in the shade has been known to fall to 16&deg; and rise to 74&deg;,
              yet the following may be taken as the average annual and month-
              ly heights calculated from observations made twice every day, for
              seventeen years--from January 1812 to December 1828.  Ave-
              rage annual heigbt 44&deg;.64

              Monthly height, January,   .   86&deg;.4   Monthly height, July,     .   54&deg;.5
                              February,  .   37 .2          Do.       August,   .   54 .3
                              March,     .   38 .2          Do.       September,    51 .5
                              April,     .   41 .3          Do.       October,  .   45.
                              May,       .   46 .           Do.       November,     40.
                              June,      .   52 .3          Do.       December,     39.

                 The climate is subject to frequent and rapid alternations of tem-
              perature, as might easily be shown by a table of observations for

<FOOTNOTE> The term gloup seems to be generic, as it is elsewhere, in these islands, applied
              to other caverns of a similar description; and may probably be derived from the Ice-
              landic word gloppa, which is used with reference to the crater of a volcano.


