
                   COUNTY OF RENFREW.                          543

in Ayrshire at Muirkirk, in all respects resemble the Renfrewshire
coal-field. No person who has paid attention to the coals in the bot-
tom or among the lower members of the limestone formation at Pon-
feich, Glespin, Auchenbeg, and Brokley, can fail to identify them
with the coal-fields at Hurlet, How-wood, and Bridge of Weir. It
is true no limestone is found at Quarrelton, Garpel, Kerse, and some
other places where coal is found in Renfrewshire. But this proves
nothing. As well might we assert, that because the ten principal
seams of coal in the upper coal-field are not found every where
in the middle ward of Lanarkshire, that there the upper coals
are not all to be found. Members which, taken as a whole, are
necessary for completing the integrity of a particular formation,
are not found in all places in that formation. The absence of
limestone in some instances seems to have greatly staggered the opi-
nions of Mr Montgomery, but unnecessarily; and certainly there
is no ground for the remark, " Although that part of Scotland
where coal is found is often called from that circumstance, the
coal-field of Scotland, yet the name is in one sense ill applied;
for it is apt to convey an erroneous impression of its being one
continuous coal-field; whereas in reality it is composed of nume-
rous coal-fields, lying within a certain tract or zone." This is part-
ly true, and partly not. Almost every coal-field has some pecu-
liarity, some member or members superfluous, and some deficient.
But, notwithstanding, there is a connection between distant fields.
To give the general theory here, we may remark, that, supposing
we were to bore in the centre of the upper coal-field, we would, af-
ter piercing through the coal metals in the upper formation, come to
the coals connected with the limestone; and were we to penetrate to
the bottom of that lower formation, we would reach the field of
which the Renfrewsbire coals are a continuation on the one band,
and those of the upper ward, of Lanarksbire, a regular and continu-
ous extension on the other. It is where the whole of these coal me-
tals are cropping out, that we come into contact with them at Pon-
feich and Hurlet. Having established the relative positions of the
coals of Renfrewshire, it may save much idle research and super-
fluous expense, to assure the landlords and proprietors of property
in that county, that it is in vain to attempt to find the upper La-
narkshire seams of coal in Renfrewshire. They are all run out be-
fore reaching them. Wherever posts of limestone are found, we are
quite in another field. The coal-field of Renfrewshire extends
from near Bishopton, along the Clyde, till beyond Glasgow; a dis-
   RENFREW.                                   N11


