
			NEWTON-UPON-AYR.                      93

be extinguished, if the Municipal Corporations' Bill now depending
before Parliament, pass into a law.
	Land-Owners.--The freemen are proprietors of all the land in
the parish, with the exception of ten acres. The greater part of
the ground occupied by the town is also held in feu from them.
William Forbes, Esq. of Callendar, has the right of superiority
over the main street: but the jurisdiction of the magistrates ex-
tends to it, as well as to the other parts of the town.
	Survey of the Parish.--Plans of the grounds belonging to the
freemen have been repeatedly made. The latest was drawn up in
1829, by Mr James Milliken of Ayr.
	Parochial Registers.--These have been regularly kept since the
erection of Newton into a separate parish, which took place in
1779.
	Antiquities.--Under this head mention may be made of a large
building called Newton Castle, which formerly stood in Garden
Street, and was for a long period the seat of the Wallaces of Crai-
gie. They removed to it from the Castle of Craigie (whose state-
ly ruins may still be seen in the parish of that name) in the be-
ginning of the sixteenth century, and continued to reside in this
parish till Sir Thomas Wallace of Craigie, the fifth baronet, built
Craigie House, which stands on the north bank of the Ayr, a short
way from the town. The writer has seen a view of Ayr, taken about
130 years ago, in which Newton House appears very prominent-
ly--a castellated building of moderate height, surrounded by gar-
dens and numerous trees. Beyond it, the houses of Newton are
seen; apparently very humble dwellings, all thatched, and none
of them exceeding the height of one storey. This old castle was
taken down sixty or seventy years ago, and now there only remains
part of the wall which enclosed the garden. Among its, ruins, there
was found an antique mathematical quadrant, and the barrel of an
old gun, or rather wall-piece, seven feet long, and very heavy:
both of which are preserved in the library belonging to the Ayr
Mechanics' Institution. *
	Modern Buildings.--The only public buildings in the town are
the parish church, a plain edifice, standing near to the site of
Newton Castle, and behind the Council-house. The latter, which
is an equally plain building, was, erected forty years ago, and is sur-
mounted by a steeple of no great height. The principal street in

<FOOTNOTE>Garden Street, in which Newton House stood, was, a few years ago, transferred
          to St Quivox, and is now included in the newly constituted parish of Wallacetown.


