
526                          RENFREWSHIRE.

the sea, by the secondary trap, of which all of the eminences in this
district of Renfrewshire are composed.  They are in many places,
particularly in the neighbourhood of Wemyss Bay, intersected
and upheaved by narrow dikes of the trap rock.  In the immedi-
ate neighbourbood of these dikes, the sandstone is hardened to a
remarkable degree, and partially discoloured, incontrovertible evi-
dences that the trap which composes them was originally injected
in a fluid state.  The rocks in this parish have been quarried to
a very considerable extent The most abundant stratified rock
is conglomerate, but there is a finer kind of sandstone in the upper
part of the parish, which is well adapted for building.  Many of
the trap dikes supply metal for the roads of excellent quality.

                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.--Sir Michael Robert Shaw Stewart; Robert
Wallace of Kelly, Esq.; and William M'Fie, Esq. of Langbouse;
and in the Gourock district, Lieutenant-General Darroch, the
valuation of whose property is L. 600,-are the chief land-owners.
  Mansion-houses.--The mansion-houses are, 1. Ardgowan, the seat
of Sir M. R. Shaw Stewart; 2. Kelly, the seat of Robert Wallace,
Esq.; 3, Langhouse, the seat of William Macfie, Esq.; and 4.
Gourock House, the residence of General Darroch ; 5. Fancy Farm
House, at present unoccupied; 6. Ashburn, the residence of An-
drew Ranken, Esq.; 7. Ciourock Castle, the seat of J. F. Zollar,
Esq.; 8. Leven House, belonging to Mrs McInroy ; and Leven,
the seat of Mr Crooks.
  Antiquities.--There is an old towers the venerable remnant of
the ancient mansion-house of Ardgowan: also, a very old and vene-
rable looking bridge lying across the Dunrod burn, a stream flow-
ing down to Innerkip.  These are both curious relics, and well
worthy of preservation.

                          <TABLE=III.--POPULATION>

           Amount of population in 1801,      -      1367
                                    1811,     -      1632
                                    1821,     -      2844
                                    1831,     -      2088
                                    1841,     -      3403

  The Village of Grunnock, including Ashton, contains a popula-
tion of 1200.
                        IV.--INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.--In the Gourock district of the parish, the num-
ber of acress cultivated or in tillage, and on the. Gourock estate, is
about 2000; uncultivated, about 1500; capable of cultivation.


