
     Statistical Account

what the parish produces.  There is not much tea nor 
sugar expended here.  The women, on Sundays or holi-
days, come out neatly dressed in calicoes, calimancoes,
or neat stuffs, with grey or brown cloaks, scarlet cloaks,
and a great number of beautiful scarlet plaids; their li-
nen fine, clean, and neat.  The reason of the superior
finery of late among the young people, may be attri-
buted to the following particulars:  1st, They have a
good part of their own earning to themselves; 2dly,
New methods of earning are daily occuring, and the
price of their annual labour produces much more than
it did 20 years ago.  The old men and women are just
in the style of their forefathers.  As they are sprung
from the Norwegians, they still continue to wear good 
strong black clothes without dying, called by the ancient
Norse, Vadmell, and by them wrought in a loom called
Upstagang; but now wrought in the common manner.
   Property in this parish is just as in other parishes,
now and then shifting from hand to hand; and when land
is sold, especially in small parcels, it fetches very high
prices; in general, at 40 or 50 years purchase, some-
times a great deal more, and seldom less*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The people in this parish are very humane, generally, by helping their
poorer neighbours, both at the mills eye, and at their own houses; so that
our poor, whether old or past work, or young orphans, not come to it, are
not a very great burthen upon us.  Very few ships are wrecked upon this
coast, because it is dangerous; but one instance we may mention, of real hu-
manity, was in the case of a sloop belonging to Leith, which had one man im-
pressed, the master knocked overboard, and none but two apprentice boys left
to govern it, who were far from being able to hoist the mainsail.  The sloop,
thus left in distress, was noticed by our Birsay boats, who immediately went
aboard of her, and part of the crew of one of them carried her into Strom-
ness, where they anchored her safely; and the vessel being claimed, our lads
had but a most trifting reward for their trouble, only about a guinea, though
the Stromness pilots would have taken much more for taking her in through
Hoy Sound, and perhaps claimed salvaged also.


