
 		           ST ANDREWS.                       461

	priory, and its castle, and the establishment of the university and
	its colleges. A considerable number of them left behind them
	specimens of their literary talents. Thus Turgot, who is styled
	by Martine, the tutelary saint of Archangel, and who was Bishop
	0f St Andrews about the commencement of the twelfth century,
	composed in Latin a variety of historical works, chiefly referring
	to the affairs of Scotland. Of one of these, viz. his Chronicle of
	Scottish Affairs, Fordun's Scoto- Chronicon forms the continuation;
	and whoever is anxious to ascertain the titles of the literary pro-
	ductions of the other prelates, may have his curiosity gratified by
	consulting Dempster's Ecclesiastical History of. the Scottish na-
	tion, where he will find them detailed under their respective names.
	In the same production, he will find an enumeration of the writings
	of such of the priors of St Andrews, professors of the university,
	and other individuals connected with the ecclesiastical establish-
	ments, as turned their attention to literary pursuits. Of these the
	most celebrated as literary characters were Andrew Wyntown,
	one of the canons of the Augustinian Monasterv toward the close
	of the fourteenth century, and the author of a poetical chronicle
	of Scotland, composed not in the Latin language, which was the
	usual vehicle of the period, but in the vernacular language of
	the country; and which existed in manuscript only until 1795,
	when it was printed; and John Major, Principal of St Salvator's
	College towards the middle of the sixteenth century, whose
	history of his country, in six books, though written in a rude
	style, and though it embraces many erroneous and fabulous state-
	ments, displays at the same time much boldness of spirit. This
	writer freely censures the usurpations of the Roman hierarchy,
	together with the indolence and sensuality that were, at that pe-
	riod, so generally prevalent among the members of the ecclesiasti-
	cal orders. His theological works, which were voluminous, parti-
	cularly his Decisiones Sententiarum, were field in high estimation
	by the theologians of the age.
	   After the Reformation, the splendour of the religious establish-
	ments at St Andrews was greatly curtailed,-a large portion of
	their revenues having been alienated to different purposes. The
	succeeding prelates were in consequeute of a less, influential cha-
	racter, and less distinguished by their family connections. But
	in general, they were men of respectable talents. The most dis-
	tinguished among them as a writer was Spottiswood, the historian
        of the Church of Scotland.  Of the members of the university
        who distuinguished themselves between the Reformation and the                                   

