
			PORTPATRICK.                   137

white. Rabbits abound within a mile of the coast. The grey
rabbit is the most common, but the black are numerous. Some
have been killed partly grey and partly white, and one was recent-
ly killed partly black and partly white.
	The progress of cultivation has greatly diminished the numbers
of the red grouse (Lagopus Scoticus.) Of the black-cock (Tetrao
tetrix) a few are killed every year by the regular sportsmen, and
many more, it is to be feared, by the poachers. The common par-
tridge (Perdix cinerea) is rather thinly distributed. The game-
keeper at Dunskey has remarked that, during the absence of the
mother from the nest, the damp seems to affect the eggs, so as
frequently to cause induration of the membrane which lines the
interior surface of the shell, so that the young birds cannot escape
and die. The quail (Coturnix vulgaris) is an occasional visitant
from Ireland. The pheasant (Phasianus Colchicus) has been in-
troduced, and thrives tolerably well in the more sheltered planta-
tions around Dunskey. They have been found both young and
old, nearly pure white. The heron (Ardea cinerea) frequents the
coast, but does not breed here. The smaller birds that engage
the interest of the sportmans are the woodcock (Scolopax rusticola,)
the common snipe (Scolopax gallinago), and the jack-snipe (Sco-
lopax gallinula.) The starling (Sturnus vulgaris) appears in
considerable numbers once a year, and sometimes twice, and has
been known to breed. Whilst the ring-dove (Columba Palumbus)
is frequent met with in the woods, the rock-dove (C. aenas)
abounds among the cliffs and in the caves of the shore, along with
the hooded-cow (Corvus cornix,) and the jack-daw (C. mone-
dula.) A bird frequent among the jackdaws, which the game-
keeper has not seen elsewhere, is described by him as rather
larger, with very fine jet-black plumage, bill and legs red, build-
ings its nest in dry holes in rocks and caves. The peregrine fal-
con (Falco peregrinus) breeds in the neighbourhood, and may be
seen in the parish during the whole year. The wind-hover or
stannel (F. tinnunculus) breeds, and is seen plentifully the
whole year. The merlin (F. AEsalon) breeds, and is also plenti-
ful at all seasons. The kite (Milvus vulgaris) may be seen some-
times in the winter, but is not common. The hen-harrier (Circus
cyaneus) appears at he end of the harvest but rarely. The spar-
row-hawk (Accipiter fringillarius) breeds and is very common
everywhere. The short horn owl (Otus brachyotos) breeds, and may
be found at all seasons, but not plentifully. The barn-owl (Aluco


