
                                 WESTRAY.                         125

        escape merited punishment for a crime in which be certainly was
        a principal accomplice, be was forced to take shipping and fly to
        this remote part of the kingdom. Should this circumstance fail
        to convince some who may still feel disposed to give credence to
        the above opinion but too hastily adopted, what Ben, the early
        historian has said, who wrote forty years prior to these occur-
        rences, in the Scottish annals, should serve to set the question, in
        as far as relates to these two individuals, for ever at rest. His
        language is, "In Westray there is an excellent castle, but not yet
        completed;" so that, in his day, it was still an unfinished building-
        The most probable thing is, that it was the undertaking of some
        Scandinavian prince or nobleman, who, either from misfortune
        had not been able to finish the work, or who had died during its
        progress, and whose death had put a stop to its completion. We
        would merely say, that it is a pity the proprietors, in after times,
        should have ever allowed one stone of so venerable a fabric to be
        taken down, or any part of it to be demolished.
           As there are, in many parts of the country, obelisks or standing-
        stones, so is there in nearly the centre of this island, one square
        stone, standing not quite upright, but in an inclined posture to-
        wards the south, with the lower part deeply fixed in the ground.
        The part above ground is eleven feet in height. On what occa-
        sion, or for what purpose it was erected, tradition is almost silent.
           There is on the south-west side of this islaud, close by the sea
        shore, and about a mile from the manse, a ruin of a chapel named Cross
        Kirk, originally a place of Roman Catholic worship, but latterly of
        Presbyterian, until about sixty-five years ago, it became ruinous, and
        a new church was erected on the other side of the island, in a more
        convenient situation for the people, especially for those in the re-
        mote district of Rapness. However, the burying-ground at the
        old ruin still remains to be the cemetery of the east parish, there
        being nothing of that kind at the new and more recently erected
        place of worship.
           In the island of Papay, besides the chapel of St Tradewell al-
        ready mentioned, there is a ruin of a religious house, distant about
	a quarter of a mile from the one now in use. It is called the
 	Kirk of How, and was also a place of Roman Catholic worship. It
	is situated on a beautiful rising-ground, and the small cemetery, en-
	closed by a low stone dike, and covered over with a green sward,
	seems still to be considered as sacred ground, being allowed to re-


