
     of Rosemarkie.

It has been always called the Court Hill.  In ancient times,
it was probably the place where courts were held, for the ad-
ministration of justice.

   Cathedral, etc.-Only a small part of the ancient cathedral*
now remains.  This seems to have been a wing that ran from E.
to W., with an arched roof, about 100 feet in length, and 30
in breadth.  It had a communication, by entries or porches,
with the main body of the cathedral.  It was preserved and
repaired, by some of the bishops, since the Restoration, as a
place for public worship; but now it has gone much to de-
cay+; and as the roof is in danger of falling in, it is quite
deserted.  It is still used as a burial place by the M'Keazies,
and other old families in this country.  No inscriptions are to
be found about it worth notice, excepting one on a large old

     3

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Though the Bishop of Ross was originally styled Episropus Rosemarkiensis.
the cathedral church stood in the town of CHANONRY in a spacious square.
Here the bishop resided, with a number of his clergy; so that there is scarce a
house in the burgh, of any great value, but was formerly a manse belonging to
some of the chapter, as appears by the ancient charters and insestments.  The
episcopal see was founded by David I. king of Scotland; but there is no certain
account at what period the cathedral was built, though it is said to have been
fine one, with a losty steeple.  Bishop Leslie also takes notice of the palace,
which stood at a little distance from the houses of the canons; and he represents
it, in his time, as a splendid and magnificent building.
+It is highly probable, that this cathedral, at the Reformation, had suffered
the fate of many others, though it be a current tradition in the place, that the
greater part of it, together with the bishop's palace, already mentioned, was
pulled down in the time of Oliver Cromwell.  By his order, the stones were
carried by sea Inverness, about the distance of 8 miles, for erecting a fort
there, called Cromwell's Fort, whereof the ditch and ramparts are still discern-
ible.  No chartulary belonging to the bishopric has been found in Scotland.  It
is probable that Lesly, the last Popish bishop of Ross, and the zealous advocate
for the unfortunate Queen Mary, when he was forced to go abroad, carried all
the writs of the diocese with him, either to France, or to Brussels,
he died; and where these pa may still be mouldering in dust and
solitude.

</UNREADABLE>


