
             158                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

             passes through Keiss, and close to the lower end of the Loch of
             Wester, near which it is joined by tbe new line from Bower.
             Crossing the Water of Wester by a bridge of two arches, this
             road joins the one from Castleton, at a short distance to the west of
             the House of Keiss. Its length within the parish is seven miles, and
             that of the new Bower road nearly four; the road from Castleton, in
             the parish of Olrig, enters the parish of Wick at Kirk, and, cross-
             ing the Moss of Kilminister, where there are two or three trifling
             bridges, continues in a pretty straight line till it approaches the
             town, where it bends to the south, and, passing, the manse and the
             church, joins the main-street of Wick, at a distance from Kirk of
             eight miles. Before it reaches the manse, it is joined from the west
             by the road from Wattin through Sibster-Wick. This road mea-
             sures seven miles, and is not yet completed through the townland of
             Winless. From the Castleton road a branch is sent through
             Louisburgh along the coast by Papigoe and Broad Haven to
             Staxigoe, a distance of about two miles. The Parliamentary,
             road from Thurso enters the parish of Wick three-quarters of a
             mile to the west of Bilbster House, and runs in a tolerably straight
             line down the south side of the River of Wick, till it joins the south
             road at Rosebank, a distance of six miles and a half. The south
             road, on passing from the town, crosses the river of Wick on a
             plain stone bridge of three arches, which cost L.1700, and runs
             in a winding direction through the estates of Hempriggs, Thrum-
             ster, and Ulbster, till it leaves the parish at the Mission House of
             Bruan, a distance of about eight miles. A new county road leaves the
             north Parliamentary road at Stirkoke, and, passing through Tan-
             nach, joins the south Parliamentary road at Thrumster, a distance
             of about four miles and a half. A road runs from the south Parlia-
             mentary road to Sarclet, a distance of about two miles. All these
             roads are of the very best description. The whole extent of road
             in the parish is very nearly, fifty miles, of which the Parliamentary
             line measures fourteen.
               Harbours.-The harbourets of Sarclet, Broad Haven, and
             Staxigoe, have already been mentioned. A small harbour has
             been made at Keiss. The only harbour originally on the coast of
             this parish, was the mouth of the River of Wick, into, which the
             M'Farlan MS. says, that vessels of between thirty and forty lasts
             burden could enter. In 1810, the British Fishery Society com-
             pleted a harbour in the Bay of Wick, at an expense of L. 14,000,
             of which L.8500 were defrayed by Government, capable of con-
                                                4

