
                     DUNOON AND KILMUN.                     589

paid to the rearing of sheep-stock has diminished the number of
the more powerful of these, though the eagle may still be seen
claiming its right to the fastnesses presented in the uplands, and
especially along the southeastern side of Loch Eck. The minor
kinds are also diminished in number, by the attention paid to the
preservation of game. Of game, partridges, grouse, and black-
game are pretty numerous; the last-mentioned said to be increas-
ing. Ptarmigan are found on the highest bills in the parish,
though their number is but small, and their race thought to
be almost extinct. Pheasants were introduced several years ago,
and have become pretty numerous in the several plantations
and pleasure grounds. The snipe, the gray and green plover,
the woodcock, and the landrail, in their season are numerous.
Of birds of passage, the two last-mentioned and the cuckoo, the
common swallow, the lapwing, the water-wagtail, are numerously
seen. The heron is frequent along the coast; it haunts the
marshy grounds in the parish, and frequently nestles. Not many
years since, they formed a regular beronry in a clump of Scotch
firs, not far from Hafton House, but they have latterly again
abandoned it. The curlew is very frequent, and may be seen al,
most daily in considerable numbers, especially at the inland ex-
tremity, and along the sbores of the Holy Loch. It does not ap-
pear to be considered as game ; nor is it nor the heron, in this
part of Scotland, considered as fit for the table, while, in other
parts of the country, both are highly esteemed. The kinds of
aquatic birds frequenting the coast are not very numerous. With
respect to the sea-coast, indeed, the constant traffic and passing
of steamers is more than sufficient to scare such tribes. Large
numbers of aquatic fowls during the winter are frequently seen to
frequent the Holy Loch, at its inland extremity, but seldom
are allowed to remain long unmolested.  On the small loch at
Dunloskin, the water-hen or water-coot may be frequently observ-
ed, interesting in hts apparent love of solitude, and of solitary, play-
fulness ; but it is still more remarkable for its architectural skill,
and is said to build its nest on the water, floating and moveable.
From the season of the year at which it is seen frequenting this
lake, it most probably builds, though, neither its young, nor any
specimen of its nest have been discovered. The ordinary species
of smaller birds are common and numerous; while the thrush, the'
blackbird, aud the robin contribute their share, with the skylark


