
			PARISH OF TUNDERGARTH.
		PRESBYTERY OF LOCHMADEN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.
		THE REV. THOMAS LITTLE, A.M. MINISTER.

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE name of this parish has been com-
monly rendered " Castle of the Garden; " but more probably it
is nothing more than the British and Irish Ton-der-garth, which
literally means " the enclosure at the oak-bill," The form of the
parish is very inconvenient ; its extreme length being about 12 or
13 miles, and its breadth varying from about 1 1/2 to 2 miles. It
lies on the left bank of Milk-Water, the windings of which form
two triangles, both obtuse. It is bounded on the west by the
parishes of St Mungo and Dryfesdale, and the united parishes of
Hutton and Corrie; on the north-cast by Westerkirk; and on
the south by Middlebie and Hoddam.
        Topographical Appearances-Its surface is undulating, and pre-
cipitous throughout. There are no hills of any altitude deserving
particular notice, with the exception of Grange Fell and Crieve,
which are about 900 feet above the level of the sea. The valleys
are so deep by attrition and other causes, as to form very strikingly
marked features in its varied landscape. In its whole lenght it is beau-
tifully picturesque along the banks of the Milk, affording many very
fine subjects for the pencil, especially in the neighbourhood of the
manse, and some places farther down. The climate partakes gene-
rally of the character of the district, which is proverbially moist.
        Geology and Mineralogy.-There are no indications of coal in
this parish, nor is there any trace of sandstone. The formations
are composed of transition rock, alternating, with transition-slate
and clay-slate, occasionally passing into greenstone; subordinate
to all which is greywacke in very thick beds. These are the ge-
neral characters of the rocks where they appear, from the south-
west end of the parish for about eight miles. There is no iron-
stone, or limestone, or basalt. The amygdaloidal range passes to
the south on the borders of the parish from Torbeckhill by Burns-
wark, Newfield, &c. overlying coarse-grained sandstone, colours


