
                            MELDRUM.                          475

south, the east, and the west.  From several points of this ele-
vation, extensive views are obtained of the districts of Formartine
and Buchan, on the one hand, and of the cultivated valley of the
Garioch on the other, bounded on the west by the lofty and well-
proportioned mountain of Benochie.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The length of the parish from north
to south varies in different points from 5 to 8 miles, and its
breadth from east to west varies from 2 to 5.  It is consequently
of an irregular figure, and contains about 11 2/3 square miles.  On
the south, it is bounded by the parish of Bourtie; on the north,
by Fyvie and Tarves ; on the east, by Bourtie and Tarves ; and
on the west, by Daviot and Fyvie.  A ridge of hills, none of
which is of any great height, commencing at the northern extre-
mity of this parish, stretches towards the north-west, but possesses
no striking characters.  The soil on the south and southwest
aspects is rich and fertile ; and the summits are generally covered
with heath, but not of that luxuriant description which is common
on the bills in the higher districts of Aberdeenshire.  The pre-
valent winds during summer, autumn, and the later part of spring
are westerly; and the severity of the northern blast in winter is
no doubt moderated by the chain of hills already alluded to.
   Climate.-The climate is temperate, but variable in spring;
hence, during that season, pulmonary complaints are common,
and others which are dependent on sudden changes of temperature.
   Geology.-Hornblende rock is found in large detached masses
in one part of the parish.  It admits of the finest dressing, and
might even be polished like marble; but the expense of obtaining
it, on account of its very hard and compact structure, is such, that
it is seldom employed for the ordinary purposes of building.
Whinstone is common in different places ; and rock-crystal is
found in the hill of Betholnie.  Limestone was discovered several
years ago in this parish, near the boundary line which separates
it from Tarves, and was wrought with success for some time; the
operations, however, have since been discontinued; but in Tar-
ves they are still carried on advantageously, close to the borders
of this parish.  The soil of the northern extremity is inferior to.
that of the other districts of the parish.  In the former it is more
friable, of little comparative depth, and incumbent on a subsoil of
rock or gravel.  In this division, also, there is a portion of the
soil of a mossy nature, and the climate is inferior: throughout
the whole of it, the harvest is a week later than in the remaining


