
     of Glenorchay and Inishail.

period, besides what has been effected by the statute labour,
and by a yearly assessment of above 600 L. Sterling on the va-
lued rents, many expensive bridges and various lines of roads,
have been completed by large subscriptions.  Glenorchay is
every where well accomodated with good roads and conveni-
ent bridges.  The great military road from Stirling to Tayn-
drom and Inverary, passes through the parish, from one extre-
mity almost to the other:  as does also, for many miles, the
military road, from Tayndrom to Fort-William.  In the ori-
ginal formation of these roads, the obvious and proper line
has not always been selected.  The traveller often feels, to
his cost, that the road was brought to the gravel, and not the
gravel to the road.  A more enlightened and liberal system
of road-making is now adopted; and, it is hoped, that the
line will be altered from its present incommodious acclivities
and descents, wherever a more easy and level road can be
formed.  From the inn of Dalmaly, to the bridge of Aw, a
very judicious alteration in the line of public road has been
lately made, at the expence of above 400 L. Sterling.  This
beautiful line winds, for miles, through woods and dells, pre-
senting such varied and agreeable views of water, of islands, of
towering mountains, and sloping hills, as give an uncommon
grandeur and sublimity to the landscape.  Part of the road
lies through a narrow defile, "amidst such irregularities of
"nature, such deep chasms, and such impending rocks, as
"indicate some vast convulsions of the earth, to have happen-
"ed at some remote period of time*."

     VOL. VIII.   X x

<FOOTNOTE>

*About a quarter of a mile below the mouth of the fiver Aw, in view of the
road, and close by the water edge, is seen a huge stone, which, to a traveller of
a humane and serious cast of mind, will afford master of pleasing contemplation.
A few years ago, in a cottage at the bottom of a steep hill, whose summit is one
range of projecting rocks, a near and crashing noise was heard, resembling a clap
of thunder.  The cottager, from a window, behold the face of the hill covered


