
                        LIFF AND BENVIE.                    571

proaching in character to a conglomerate. Towards the upper
part of the series, it chiefly assumes a schistose character,some-
times of considerable tenuity, and, at other times, forming excel-
lent pavement, precisely similar in character and appearance to
the well known Arbroath pavement of Carmylie Quarry, and ge-
nerally intermingled with beds of slate clay, locally termed calm.
This schistus deposit is of considerable depth. Its position and
character are well seen in the den of Balruddery, in the ddn of
Fowlis, and near Liff. The gray sandstone, forming the lower
part of the series, is evidently of enormous depth, and is quarried
to a great extent at Millfield, on the banks of the Tay, and at
Lochee, at which places blocks of immense size can be cut. The
red sandstone varies from a brownish-red-coloured stone, some-
what similar in texture to the gray sandstone, to that of a deep
brick-red-coloured stone of softer texture, having, in many in-
stances, yellow spots or nuclei interspersed though it, similar to
those which occur in the red sandstone of Clashbinnie Quarry,
near the west or upper end of the Carse. One of the most fa-
vourable localities for observing the point of contract, and there-
fore, order of superposition of the sandstones, is in the den of
Balruddery, where the red sandstone is found superimposed on
the gray sandstone schists, and contains yellow spots precisely si-
milar to those of Clashbinnie. The transition from gray to red
is more or less gradual in different localities. This transition may
be distincly traced near Liff Church. The organic remains of
the red sandstone have been found in the deep brick-red coloured
sandstone of Clashbinnie, whilst those of the gray sandstone de-
posit have been found in the slate-clay of the den of Balruddery.
	In examining these strata, it is necessary to attend to the effect
produced on them by the trap rocks, which in some instances,
alter both their position and appearance very considerably. These
trap rocks consist chiefly of greenstone, as at Castle Huntly, in
the Carse of Gowrie, and in the Sidlaw range of hills, but, in
many instances, also of porphyritic rocks of reddish colour, and
also of porphyritic greenstone. Thus, in the den of Balruddery,
which is a very important point for observation, considerable diffi-
culty occurs in tracing the continuous character and position of
the gray sandstone schists, in consequence of the occurrence of
igneous rocks, of a porphyritic nature, in several places in the
form of dikes, which break though the strata, and give them a
red colour and altered apperance when near the point of contact.


