
94                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

is in some places so narrow as scarcely to admit of two carriages
passing abreast. The only public carriage that travels on this road
is the Caledonian, or, as it is commonly called, the Highland coach.
It runs three times a-week for nine months of the year, and for the
other three, only twice a-week.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is ex-
tremely inconvenient to the greater part of the population. It is
situated in a corner of the parish, at the distance of eight miles
from the one, and only two miles from the other extremity. It was
built in the year 1798, and was substantially repaired two years
ago. There are seats for 500, all free,-which affords sufficidnt ac-
commodation for as many of the parishioners as can attend public
worship in the parish church; but had the church been centrical-
ly situated, the accommodation would be deficient. The manse
was built in 1810, and was repaired last year. The grebe is very
small. At the admission of the present incumbent in 1806, there
were scarcely three acres of arable ground; but by trenching, grtib-
bing and liming, the arable land may Dow be estimated at about
ten acres. The stipend IS ODe of those augmented by the Govern-
ment, and CODsequently amounts only to L. 150 per annum, exclu-
sive of L. 8, 6s. Sd. for communion elements. There is a Govern-
ment church at Inch, within four miles of the church of Alvie; and
the district assigned to it includes a portion of this parish called Da-
voch of Invermarkie, containido, a population of nearly 200. There
are no sectaries in the parish, with the exception of two Roman Ca-
tholics and one Baptist. Owing to the inconvenient situation of the
church, alreadv adverted'to, it is not so well attended as it would
have been oth'rwise, more particularly in the winter season. The
number of communicants, exclusive of those residing in the district
connected with the Government church at Inch, is 100. The
number of male heads of families in communion with the Church,
exclusive of the district connected with the parish of Inch quoad
sacra, is 38.
   Education.-There are only two permanent schools in the parish;
the parochial school, and a school supported by the Committee of
the General Assembly. There is a private school taught at Raitts,
-a remote district of the parish, only in the winter season, and sup-
ported by the parents of the children attending ; a situation in
which a permanent school is much required. The branches of
education taught in the parochial school are, Latin, English read-
ing, English grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, and
geography. The same branches are taught in the two inferior


