
                                PARISH OF DUNBARNY.

                    PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                      THE REV. ALEXANDER CUMMING, MINISTER.



                              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
                   Name.-THE name of this parish is written Dunbarnie, Dun-
                berny, Dumbarny, or Dumbarnie. In ancient times its usual
                orthography was Dunberny. It is supposed to be compound-
                ed of the two Celtic terms Dun, a hill, and Bearn, or Beairn,
                or Beirn, which signifies a breach or fissure. Accordingly, in for-
                mer times, the church, as well as the most considerable village in
                the parish, were situated on an eminenee close to Dunbarny
                House, fronting the Craigend cottages, where a gap or aperture
                in a ridge of hills exists, through which the road between Edin-
                burgh and Perth now runs.
                   Extent.-The dxtreme length of this parish from east to west
                is 4 miles; its greatest breadth, north to south, is 4 miles; its
                average breadth, 1 1/4 miles. Its superficial extent may be esti-
                mated at 5 square miles.
                   Boundaries.-It is bounded on the north, by the parishes of
                Rhynd and Perth; on the east, by the Rhynd and Abernethy; on
                the south, by Abernethy and Dron; on the west, by Dron, For-
                gandenny, and a detached part of Forteviot. * Its form presents a
                very irregular and waving outline.
                   Topographical Appearances.-This parish is intersected by the
                river Earn, which, though it pursues a winding course, upon the
                whole, rolls its current in a direction from east to west, and its ge-
                nerally level form is diversified by Moncrieff or Moredun Hill,
                which towers to an altitude of 756 feet above the surface of the

                <FOOTNOTE>It may excite the surprise of a reader not well acquainted with this district to
                 be told, that any part of Forteviot bounds the parish of Dunbarny on the west. It
                 ought, therefore, to be stated, that an insulated tract of Forteviot, embracing the
                 M`ilor and the Hiltown of Mailor is in immediate proximity to Dunbarny, join-
                 ing it at Craigend, which is seven miles east from the parish church of Forteviot.
                 The inhabitants of that district have been, for generations, in the habit of attending
                 Dunbarny church, although they are properly under the pastoral superintendence of
                 the minister of Forteviot.


