
     of Crimond.

   Church*, School, Poor, &c.  The stipend is a chalder of
bear, a chalder of meal, 700 merks Scotch in money, with
50 merks for communion elements, and a glebe of about 5
acres of very good ground.  The Earl of Errol is the present
patron.  The church was built in 1576; at least this date is
above one of the doors.  It is probable, however, that it had
only been repaired that year, as there is still a font stone in
the E. end.  The manse was built in 1763, and new offices
about 4 or 5 years ago.-A new school-house, with rooms for
the master, was built in 1971.  The schoolmaster's salary is
100 merks Scotch, and, including all perquisites and school fees,
will not amount to above 11 l. or 12 l. a year.-The poor are
supported by the weekly collections, and the interest of 130 l.
Sterling.  Of this, 100 merks Scotch were mortified by a pro-
prietor of Logie, about the beginning of the century, and 50
merks by Mr. Leslie, late minister of Crimond, about the
year 1740.  These two sums, by being lent out at interest.
amounted, in 1748, to 700 merks Scotch; and, in 1782, with
some small savings, to 1701.  Sterling: A practical proof of
the accumulation of money by compound interest+.

     VOL. XI. 3 G

<FOOTNOTE>

a small part of their estate (near a moss if possible) to be let in small crosts of 2
or 3 acres to day-labourers and artificers, and to grant them leases.  By these
means many would settle in the country, the best nursery of the human species,
and it would always be easy to procure labourers and artificers, which is fre-
quently not the case at present.  This difficulty of procuring day-labourers, la-
bouring servants, &c.  prevents many improvements from being attempted.  IT
would also be of consequence, that such crosts were very small, because it they
were large, they would either take up too much of the possessor's time, or the
necessary attention would not be paid to them.
*Mr. WILLIAM LAW, probably the first Presbyterian minister at Crimond
after the Revolution, was deposed, soon after the beginning of the century, by
the Synod of Aberdeen, for what they were pleased to call heresy, he having as-
serted in a Synod sermon, "That virtue was more natural to the human mind
"than vice."
+since that period the capital has decreased.  The poor are literally support-


