
			DALZIEL.                                  459

and to do justice to the inquiry, they ought to try the fruits in all
the different ways in which they are used.
	In the spring, when a cold east wind prevails, and a long drought.
the caterpillar often does extensive damage to the orchards in
Clydesdale, particularly to those situated in the upper ward of the
county. Those in this parish are never injured by that destruc-
tive insect. This perhaps is partly owing to their being sheltered
from the east by rising ground, and by extensive woods, and in no
small degree, I apprehend, to the nature of the soil, for it is always
observed, that those orchards where the soil is light are the first
attacked, and suffer most severely. Various are the expedients
which have been tried to destroy this insect; but the only effec-
tual mode yet discovered for checking the ravages of the cater-
pillar is regular cultivation, and carefully picking them off the
bushes and trees so soon as they appear, in so far as that may be
practicable.
	Kinds of Fruit.--Gooseberries and currants are cultivated in
some parts of the orchards, chiefly as an under crop, but not to a
great extent, the nature of the soil here not being favourable to
their growth. The kinds of fruit chiefly propagated are apples,
pears, and plumbs. These are very numerous, in regard to kinds;
some of them late and others early. To mention the names of all
is unnecessary, as the same kinds have received different names in
different parts of the country. The kinds propagated in greatest
numbers are those which are esteemed the best in quality, or in
greatest demand in the market. With a few exceptions, large
baking apples are now found to be most valuable. The plumbs
grown are either common, i. e. are propagated from the sucker, and
are planted about two feet from the hedges, inclosing the orchards,
or they are grafted ones, such as are usually grown on garden
walls. There are magnums and Orleans here as standards, fifty
years old, which, when planted by the writer's father, were only
known in this country as wall fruit. It was therefore viewed by
gardeners as quite chimerical to try them as standards; but the re-
sult was so favourable, that for many years, they have been plant-
ed in the same way in the Clydesdale orchards. *

<FOOTNOTE>The following is a list of those propagated and approved.
	Early eating apples: Milford, Tam Montgomery, Early Almond, Thorl pippin,
Dumbarton.--Harvest apples: Wheeler's russet, Orange or Holland pippin, Friars'
pippin, Dalzell manse codlin, Silver Saturday, Red Colville, autumn do.--Winter eat-
ing apples, Hamilton pippin, Dunside or Orbiston, Ribston. Camnethan pipin,
iddington, Leanon pippin, Winter Hoalland pippin, Egg apple, &c Basking apples:
Yorkshire green, Early and Late Fulwood, Carse of Gowrie, Norfolk beafon, Dutch



