
???                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

  great zeal and judgment; and, by completing the plantations,
making good roads, remodelling the farms as they fell out of
lease, straightening marches, laying off fields of proper size and
form, enclosing, draining, building neat slated cottages, &c. he
has accomplished so much, that the aspect of the lands of Corse
is entirely changed; the climate meliorated ; and thus a property
that previously had every appearance of neglect, is now so much
improved and ornamented, as to form one of the most beautiful
and valuable estates of its size in this county.
   There is a wool-carding mill in the parish, at which blankets
and coarse woollen cloths are also manufactured.  Knitting of
stockings is carried on ; but the profits from this manufacture are
now become exceedingly small.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-We have neither Seceder, Episcopalian,
nor Roman Catholic,-the whole population being of the Esta-
blished Church.  Occasionally, some young folks of the Roman
Catholic persuasion come into the parish as farm-servants.  These
generally attend the parish church, and some have become con-
verts to Protestantism ; and, after due examination, been admitted
to the communion.  The minister's stipend amounts to L.105
Sterling, and four chalders of victual, payable in kind.  The glebe
consists of nearly four acres of very fine soil, worth about L.2 per
acre.  There is a process at present in dependence between Sir
John Forbes, Bart. and the minister, in regard to the proportion
of stipend payable by him, as proprietor of the lands of Corse.  By
the last locality, these lands were burdened with a payment of
nearly L.60 Sterling in value, in money and victual.  An old va-
luation of the teinds of Corse has recently been brought to light,
in which the teinds are declared to be 100 merks Scots ; and a
process has in consequence been commenced for the reduction of
the last locality.  The manse was built in 1832, is commodious,
well-finished, and in excellent- condition.  The heritors, rather
than repair the old, at considerable expense, preferred to build a
new house; and they have erected a very good new manse for less
money than was required, in a neighbouring parish, for repairing
and making an addition to au old one.  The church is a plain
substantial building.  It was erected in 1792, has no gallery,
but is sufficiently commodious.  The church bell is of consi-
derable size, and well-toned.  It was cast in Holland in the


