
452			AYRSHIRE.

                    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   We have already mentioned that, in the twelfth century, More-
ville, Lord of Cuninghame, and High Constable of Scotland, gave
to a family of the name of Loccard the barony of Stevenston, com-
prehending the present parish, and the lands of Corsbie in west
Kilbride; and the lands of Gill and Munich in Dalry; and the
parish, according to Chalmers in his "Caledonia," took its name
from Stephen, one of Loccard or Lockhart's sons. From the
Lockharts it seems soon to have come into the possession of the
Loudon family, from whom the name of Saltcoats-Carnpbell is still
given to that part of the town which is in this parish. * We do not
know with certainty how long it belonged to the Loudon family.
There is a tradition that Kerila Castle was for some time the resi-
dence of the Abbot of Kilwinning, but we have not been able to
ascertain the truth of this.
   It is certain, however, that before and after the Reformation
the parish belonged to the Earl of Glencairn. We have lately
seen a lease for 999 years, granted by Glencairn, signed and seal-
ed by him in 1545, at Kerila. + It is one of nine given about
that period to nine fishermen in Saltcoats, by which each of them
was to have some falls of ground, still called the Nine Yards,
in that town, and also pasture for a cow and a follower, on the
moor betwixt Rough Castle and the Sea-loch, on condition
that they every spring, in their two boats; carried the Earl's fur-
niture from the Creek of SaItcoats to Finlayston, and brought it
back again in the fall, when the family returned to their residence
at Kerila; and, moreover, that each of them gave him yearly half
a barrel of herrings. The ancient hall of Kerila Castle was or-
namented with the coats of arms of the Scottish nobility, taken,
according to tradition, from the Abbey of Kilwinning, when it was
partly destroyed at the Reformation.
   But this parish soon passed from the Glencairn family. By
a charter kindly put into our hands by R. Cuninghame, Esq.
of Auchenharvie, we find that the barony of Stevenston be-
came the property of Sir Thomas Boyd of Bonshall, in the year
1609.  Nor did Sir Thomas long enjoy it; for by title-deeds in
the charter-chest at Grange, which we have been allowed to
inspect, we find that in 1627, Sir Thomas Boyd of Bonshall,
with the consent of Dame Grizzel Cuninghame, his spouse, con-

<FOOTNOTE>Some ofthe best lands in the parish still hold of the Loudon family.
          This old lease is in the possession of Robert Weir, Esq. of Kirkhall.


