
52                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

  Topographical Appearances.-There is nothing in the parish
that deserves the name either of mountain or hill, with the excep-
tion of Gourdon Hill, which rises to the height of about 400 feet,
at the boundary between this parish `nd that of Bervie. The
whole parish, when viewed from the German Ocean, seems to as-
cend gradually from the sea shore till it join the high-lying lands
of Garvock. Along the shore, is a plain that extends the whole
length of the parish. This plain varies much in breadth. In some
places, it is not much more than a hundred yards broad; in others,
its extent is much greater, and at one point it reaches inland fully
a quarter of a mile. This low-lying plain is bounded by an accli-
vity of equal length with itself, at some places abrupt and steep,
at others rising with a more gradual slope. The surface of this
acclivity is frequently furrowed with high ridges across the slope,
and there cannot be a doubt that it formed the ancient boundary
of the German Ocean. From the top of this bank, whose height
may vary from 70 to 100 feet, the ground, with considerable va-
riety of surface, gradually rises in elevation, till it reach, as above
stated, the lands of Garvock.
	There is one cave in the parish, in the face of the acclivity just
referred to. It is of no great size or extent, not being above 8
feet in height at the entrance, and as many feet broad, and does
not reach inland above 40 feet, becoming narrower and lower to-
wards its extremity. Whether it is artificial or was hollowed out, by
the force of the waves when it was within the range of their ope-
ration, does not seem to be ascertained. The mouth of the cave
may be from fifty to sixty feet above the level of the sea.
	The sea coast of the parish may be about three miles in length.
It possesses little interest, being overlooked by no cliffs or head-
lands. It is in  general rough and rocky, without much sand, ex-
cept at two places; and there, to a very limited extent. It is there-
fore unfavourable for bathing. The rocks, which generally form
the shore, are little elevated above the level of the sea, wbilst be-
tween them and the cultivated ground, is at most places a barren
tract of large boulders, forming, perhaps, the most remarkable fea-
ture of the whole coast. These boulders are of many different
rocks; but quartz seems to predominate. Granite is not unfre-
quent.
 	The coast is indented by-two small bays, that of Johnshaven,
and that of the Haughs of Nether Benholme.
  Meteorology.-The west or south-west maybe called, the pre-


