
                                    ANWOTH.                       381

jects around him, particularly three large stones, to witness be-
tween them and him, that, however they might continue to be-
have, he had done his duty. Two of these stones still remain,
and are known under the name of " Rutherford's witnesses." The
history of the removal of the third is curious, and savours much
of superstitious feelings that have not yet entirely disappeared. A
person employed in building a fence wished to avail himself of
these stones, when a fellow-labourer remonstrated with him on the
subject, and warned him of the danger of laying a sacrilegious band
on objects so sacred. This warning be scornfully disregarded,
and he removed one of them, uttering expressions little respectful
to the earnest piety which had given them distinction. The re-
sult is said to have been such as had been feared. The man soon
after came to a violent end, which was viewed as a judgment from
heaven, in consequence of the alleged unhallowed and profane Act
of which he bad been guilty. One report says, that the person
having declared, in answer to the warning he had received, that
be would remove the stone ere he broke his fast, was choked with
the first mouthful he attempted to swallow. The tradition, in one
shape or another, is pretty generally believed by the less educated
portion of the people. The inhabitants of Anwoth still bold these
" witnesses" in veneration. *
	It may be mentioned that, in 1574, the well-known Robert
Campbell of Kinyeancleuch (Ayrshire,) accompanied by John
Davidson, afterwards minister of Prestonpans, paid a visit to Rusco
Castle, the residence of Sir John Gordon of Lochinvar, grandfa-
ther of the first Lord Kenmure. Kinyeancleuch was seized with
fever soon after his arrival, and died there in less than a fortnight's
illness.
	Maxwell, laird of Stroquhan, Dumfriesshire, was drowned in
the rive Fleet, in 1699, under the following circumstances: He
had been on a visit to Brown, a gentleman resident in Bushy-
Bield, for whose daughter, Jane  Brown, he was said to entertain
an attachment. He is also said to have been unsuccessful in his
addresses to the young lady, who afterwards became the wife of
the Rev. Patrick Johnston, minister of Girthon, and was the
great-grandmother of the present Right Hon. Sir Alexander John-
ston of Carnsalloch. At all events, he is represented to have left
Bushy-Bield abruptly, and on the evening of the same day, he was,

<FOOTNOTE>Life of Rutherford, ut supra, pp. 348-9. and 358-9.


