
                            LIBERTON.                               13                                           13

This has arisen chiefly from the want of proper schools; the long
want of a church in Gilmerton, and of sufficient moral and religious
instruction for other portionds of the floating population of this ex-
tensive parish; from the dreadful prevalence of whisky-shops; and
the vicinity upon us, and, in many ways, tends to lower the tone
of our society. The prevalence of a practice amongst the higher
classes in Edinburgh of hiring unmarried country girls to nurse
their children is, in an obvious way, one of the most fruitful parents
of vice in this parish. I can scarcely believe that the persons who
employ these girls are sufficiently aware of this, although the mi-
nister and elders cannot shut their eyes to it. We are doing our
utmost to remedy these evils, and with some success.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
Agriculture.- This is one of the most important agricultural pa-
rishes in Scotland, although the number of acres habitually under
cultivation is only 3998. Besides these there is in grass about 370
acres, and under wood or in gardens and shrubberies perhaps 350
acres more, making in all 4718 acres. The cultivated land is divided
into thirty-four farms, varying in size from 40 to 268 acres, the
majority, however, being upwards of 100 acres, and six of them be-
ing upwards of 200 acres. In some instances, two or even more
of these farms are cultivated by the same individual, making the
quantity of land held to be more than 300 acres.
   Soil, Rotation of Crops, &c.- The soil of the parish is various, 1.
The greatest proportion of it, in the lower districts, is a rich loam,
made so by manure and draining, the soil being naturally bad. This
portion is at present in the highest state of cultivation of which our
climate will admit, the proof of which will be found in the amount
of the rents paid, and the high price its grain bears in the market.
The rotation of crops which formerly prevailed, was, 1. potatoes or
turnips, 2. wheat or barley, 3. grass, 4. oats. But, owing to the fail-
ure of the grass crop, when so often repeated, a rotation of five crops
was adopted, viz. 1. potatoes, 2. wheat, 3. barley, 4. grass, 5. oats.
But there are so many variations, that no fixed rule can be given.
2. The next kind of soil is a thin clay, with a retentive subsoil, which
prevails in the higher districts of the parish, but which is in a rapid
course of improvement by means of draining. Mr Jamieson of
Straiton, and Mr Allan of Broomhills, are at present draining ex-
tensively. The rotation of crops observed upon this soil is, 1.
fallow or potatoes, 2. wheat, 3. grass, 4. oats. 3. In the imme-


