
               44                      RENPREWSHIRE.

               to the benefits of education, but there are others, whose poverty
               only prevents them from giving their children that education
               which they would wish. A number of the children of the poor
               are educated at the expense of the parish. Of the other teachers
               three pay rent for their respective school-rooms. The teacher at
               Thornliebank has a large and commodious school-room from the
               proprietors of the public works, together with a comfortable dwel-
               ling-house; but he is otherwise wholly dependent upon school fees.-
               There are, besides, in the parish, three Sabbath schools, attended
               by about 600 males and females; but of these it is believed a con-
               siderable, proportion attend eithdr day, or evening schools through
               the week.  The expense incurred by these is defrayed by occa-
               sional collections.
                 Litenature.-We have no parochial or. circulating libraries at
               present in the 'arish.  A public reading-room was sometime ago
               opened in Pollockshaws, but not meeting with sufficient encourage-
               ment, it has been discontinued.
                 Friendly Societies.-There are the following friendly societies:
               1. The Old Society of Weavers, instituted 1749. The number
               of members is about 200; contribution, 4s. per annum; bedfast
               aliment, 3s. per week; and walking aliment, 2s. 1d. To super-
               annuated members, or such as are past working, bedfast aliment
               29. 1d.; walking aliment, 1s. 3d.
               2. Ayr and Renfrewshire Friendly Society of Weavers, insti-
               tuted 1799; members about 200; rate of contribution and aliment
               the, same as in the old society. The average annual expenditure
               about L. 30.
                 Young Society of Weavers, instituted 1774; rate of contri-
               bution and aliment nearly the same as above.
               4. Funeral Friendly Society, instituted 1827; rate of contribu-
               tion, a man with a family, 4s., a single man, 2s. L.2 are given to
               defray the funeral charges of a member. The number of mem-
               bers is about 100.
               5. Gardener's Friendly Society, instituted 1830; rate of con-
               tribution, 6s. per annum; members, 44; bedfast aliment, 5s. per
               week; walking aliment, 3s. per week.
               6. Cowglen Friendly Society, instituted 1809, 67 members;
               contributions 5s. per annum; bedfast aliment, 6s. per week; walk-
               ing aliment, 4s.
                 Poor and Parochial Funds.- The average number of regular
               paupers upon the roll is 81; and averagr allowance to each per


