
         388                       RENFREWSHIRE.

         family, are frequently- found in the whin rocks on the Cart.  These
         rocks are entirely surrounded by the coal formations except to the
         west, where they come in contact with the old red sandstone, near
         the sea shore.
           Although the soil of the district reposes entirely on trap, yet it
         varies considerably, and is far from being of equal quality.  The
         soil produced by trap rocks is generally reckoned secondary only to
         alluvium; but unfortunately that soil in this parish, is only to be
         found in the more elevated districts, where the trap has been up-
         heaved from the action of fire, and therefore attains an elevation
         very unfavourable to cultivation in a northern climate.         Indeed,
         these igneous effusions are seldom less than 500 or 600 feet above
         the level of the sea, and of course we seldom havean opportunity
         in this country of trying the virtues of a trap soil'-in a truly favour-
         able situation, or under the most advantageous circumstances.
         Much of it occupies the summits or bleak sloping acclivities of
         hilly ranges, such as Balagich, Dunwau, Mires, and Blackwood;
         and others, although more favourably situated, are still too high for
         cultivation.  These heights, by the operation of natural laws, draw
         clouds and moisture, and are exposed to every surly blast that
         blows.  These, and such like causes, with all their necessary dis-
         advantages, are felt to operate more, or less throughout the greater
         part of the parish.  The higher or western parts consist chiefly of
         dry heath, or of deep peat mosses, with a number of fine green
         bills, mixed with them, with a great deal of natural meadow every
         where interspersed.  The tenants in thispart of the parish plough
         little. Their great dependence is on their sheep, and the rearing of
         cattle.  The lower part of the parish, lying along the banks of the
         Cart, and to the west of the river, is a light soil, above a rotten
         whinstone rock, and, when allowed to rest four years, produces two
         excellent crops of corn, with a very light manure of lime or dung.
         As the trap rocks where gre'enstone abounds decompose slowly, the
         soil in. many places is - far too shallow for agricultural purposes,
         These whin rocks are every where full of cracks or fissures, and
         send out waters and copious springs in all directions. The conse-
         quence is, that bogs and deep mosses abound in all places adapted
         for the reception: and detention of water; and plants, favourable for
         the growth of peat-mosses, flourish in such localities with much
         luxuriance. In many of these bogs -and mosses the larger plants
         have been absorbed in the destructive profusion of the smaller, as


