
24                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

town.  Soon after, the Laird of Macleod was sent by the Earl of
Loudon with about 200 men to drive the rebels from the town, but
he was defeated in a skirmish near Inverury, and the town con-
tinued to be occupied by the rebels until February 1746, when it
was, evacuated on the approach of the royal army under the Duke
of Cumberland.  His Royal Highness reached Aberdeen on the
27th February, and remained in the town till the 8th April. *  A
part of the royal army returned to Aberdeen after the battle of
Culloden; and the citizens not being so alert in illuminating their
houses as some of the officers thought they should have been, they
ordered the soldiers to break the windows, which was accordingly
done; but the magistrates resented this aggression, and imprison-
ed one or two of the officers.  Ultimately the matter was accom-
modated by the officers paying about L.60 for the damage done.
   In 1767, the harvest being unfavourable, and the price of meal
consequently high, the populace broke open and robbed one of the
meal cellars in town, and threatened to hang its owner, under the
impression that he had wilfully raised the price beyond what was ne-
cessary.  In order to quell this riot, the magistrates were obliged
to call in the aid of the military and it was not till one of the
rioters was killed and several wounded, that the mob was dispersed.
   In 1782, the alarming deficiency of the crop led the citizens to
adopt precautions to avert the threatened famine, and accordingly
a subscription was opened, and a committee appointed to purchase
corn to be distributed to the inhabitants.  By their accounts it ap-
pears that, up to the end of July 1783, they had imported 2205
sacks, of various kinds of meal, 619 quarters of barley, and 9082
bolls of grain.
   Attempts were made in 1786 to redress certain abuses connect-
ed with the administration of the funds of the Scottish burghs, and
in these attempts several of the citizens of Aberdeen took a princi-
pal share; but the bill which was introduced into Parliament for
this purpose was thrown out in 1789.  These attempts were re-
newed in 1792, and a select committee of the House of Commons
was appointed to report on the matter.  This report was present-
ed in June 1793; but the odium which was cast upon reform by the
democratic principles of the "Corresponding Society" and the
"Scottish convention," induced the prudent abettors of burgh re-
form to discontinue their exertions.
   The harvest of 1799 was extremely unfavourable, and the utmost

<FOOTNOTE> The Duke during his stay in Aberdeen resided in the house which is now used
as the House of Refuge.


