
     			  ST CYRUS.                            275

road of the sea, towards the close of the last century, The facts
ascertained from persons still living, and who were inhabitants of
the village at the period referred to, are these: The village stood
on a low beach, a little to the east of the headland of Rockhall.
It was protected, on the other side, by a ledge of limestone rock,
running across the bay in front of it, and acting as a break-water
against the incursions of high tides, to which it was much expos-
ed. This rock was quarried for lime, and as its removal proceed-
ed, the sea was allowed to expend its fury on the beach. By this
action, continued through several years, a large part of the vil-
lage was carried away, and in order to check its further inroads, a
stone rampart was erected, which is still kept up for the protection
of that portion of the village,which remains. The new vil-
lage (Tangleha,) is built on the old line of the coast, a little to
the South of Milton. Mr Lyell's narrative is given below. *
	An illustration of the agency of running water is also derived, by
Mr Lyell, from this parish. "In the bay of Montrose," he says,
"we find the North Esk and the South Esk, rivers pouring an-
nually into the sea large quantities of sand and pebbles, yet they
have formed no deltas; for the tides scour out the channels, and
the current setting across their mouths, sweeps away all the ma-
terials. Considerable beds of shingle, brought down by the North
Esk, are seen along the beach." Eastward of the mouth of the
river, there was, about sixty years ago, a broad range of bents, up-
wards of a mile in extent. In subsequent years, this range was
entirely carried away by the sea, and it is again gradually, but very
percdptibly forming, by the addition of a fresh ridge of sand and
sea-grasses, in the course of every five or six years.
	Soil.--The soil is very various; but its general character is that
of being rich and productive in a very high degree. There is a
deep deposite of clay mingled with numerous small boulders and
angular fragments of different rocks over a wide range of the pa-
rish; and, where this deposite exists, it would seem that the ferti-

<FOOTNOTE>On the coast of Kincardineshire, an illustration, was afforded at the close of
the last century, ofthe effect of promontories in protecting a line of low shore. The
village of Mathers, two miles soutb of Johnshaven, was built on an ancient shingle
beach, protected by a projecting ledge of limestone rock.  This was quarried for
lime to such an extent, that the sea broke through, and, in 1795, carried away the
whole village in one night, and penetrated 150 yards inland, where it has maintain-
ed its ground ever since, the new village having been built farther inland, on the
new shore."


