
198                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

there have been many innovations within the last forty years.
Silk gowns and silk cloaks are quite common among the females
of the better class-and too much of the " hard-won Penny fee"
of the maid servant often becomes the prey of the hawker, to gra-
tify a passion for outward adorning.  The broad blue bonnet, once
so generally worn in this parish, has been almost entirely superseded
by the bat, at least in holiday, dress.  The bellman, and a very
worthy patriarch, who has never been of those " who are given to
change," are the only persons who exhibit at church this part of
the ancient costume.
   Amusements.-It was long the practice in this parish for mas-
ters and servants to go to the Links together at Christmas to play
golf-but the taste for that ancient and healthful diversion, as
well as for other rural pastimes, has greatly declined.  There are
now very few golf-players in the parish.  The season of Christ-
mas is still marked, as a parenthesis in the monotony of every-day
avocations, by servants being allowed an entire day of leisure for
themselves- by the improved quality of the bread and beer which
cover the board on that occasion-by the custom almost yet uni-
versally in use of welcoming Christmas morn by liberal libations
of drinking sowins, or, as they are called by the old people, knot-
ting suwins-and by the gathering of friends and neighbors around
-the social hearth.  That the humblest householder in the parish
may have his Christmas cakes, a distribution of meal, the gift of a
benevolent individual, is annually made by the kirk-sessino,  on
Christmas day, to the poor on the roll.
   The ordinary food of the peasantry is meal and milk, vegeta-
bles and fish.  About the season of Christmas the poorest fami-
lies have generally a little butcher-meat.  The use of tea among
the females has become so common that it is regarded almost as
a necessary of life, and other more real and substantial comforts
are often sacrificed to obtain this enervating luxury.  Having
known the parishioners from my earliest years, I believe I do not
lay myself open to the charge of exaggeration or undue partiality,
when I say, that they are in general a generous and warm-hearted
people, kind, affectionate, and contented in their domestic rela-
tions-upright in  their dealings-hospitable and friendly in their
social intercourse and proverbially open-handed in their bounty
to the poor.  They are intelligent and, well informed; and in
their political sentiments, with few exceptions, deeply imbued with
the spirit of consevation.  They are regular in their attendance
                               3


