
110			 ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the highest offerer, without due regard being had to his circum-
stances, provided he agree to an extravagant rent, which a man
that has little or nothing to lose will not scruple to offer. The
working of this system is extremely injurious to the proprietor,
and to honest men of some capital, who really Intend to pay the
rent for which they stipulate. The tenant enters on possession,
and perhaps struggles on for a year or two, applies for a reduction
of rent, which must be conceded, or the farm again brought into
the market in a deteriorated state.  If the reduction is sufficiently
great to enable him to exist, he may languish on to the end of the
lease, if not, he must relinquish the lease after he has ruined the
land, and, in either case, the farm must be re-let at a rent far in-
ferior to what a good substantial tenant would have originally pro-
mised and paid during the currency of a long lease.
    Produce-The average amount of raw produce raised in the
parish annually may be as follows.
Wheat crop,								   1,2847  13   71/2
Barley,							          1,298   5   0
Beans and pease,							      862   0   5
Oats,									    2,551  10   0
Clover hay,								      364  10   0
Pasture land, valuing the ox or cow's and sleep's grass as formerly stated,  516   0   0
Potatoes and turnips,							                 924   0   0
Gardens and orchards,							                  76   0   0
Produce of timber and annual thinning of plantations,			           150   0   0

						                Total amount,		  L 9589  19  01/2

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Melrose, distant
nearly five miles.
    Villages.-The plough occasionally turns up the hearth or foun-
dation stones of the ancient village of St Boswell's, which long
since, like the hands that raised it, has crumbled into dust, with
scarcely a memorial of its former existence. The village of Les-
sudden lies about three quarters of a mile to the north-west, and
can boast of considerable antiquity.  But, what is of much greater
consequence to the present generation, nothing can exceed the
amenity of its situation, and the salubrity of its air.  It derives
its name from Edwin, the celebrated sovereign of Northumber-
land, or more probably from some earlier prince of the same
name, who had formed a settlement here and built a fortlet.  In
the former Statistical Account, the name is said to have been
given to this village by Bishop Aidan, whose place, Less or
Lis, it was. But the chartularies of the twelfth, and the two
following centuries, as cited by Chalmers, (Caledonia, Vol. ii.
				3

