
                     LESLIE.                                113

Mineralogy.-There are in the parish quarries of trap or whin-
stone, but very hard, and the working of them expensive; although,
since building has so much increased, it is wrought to a consider-
able extent. There are also some coal mines and quarries of lime-
stone. The coal is in the eastmost part of the parish, but is not
wrought to any great extent. The direction of the strata is from
east to west.
   Alluvial deposits covering whinstone, for the most part gravel
and sand, to a great depth, run along the south side of the parish,
-beginning at the west point at Auchinuir Bridge, and extending
nearly the whole length. The village of Leslie stands upon a ridge
of gravel and sand, rising about 100 feet above the bed of the river
Leven. Many of the ridges of gravel and sand that are found on the
south part of the parish do not seem to have been accumulated all
at once; for in many of these there are alternate strata of very fine
sand and brown loam. In a pit that was opened for sand for build-
ing the new house of Strathendry, there were found in the year 1826
some pieces of wood imbedded in the sand nearly twenty feet from
the present surface but in such a state of decomposition, that the
species to which it belonged could not be recognized.
  Zoology.-Before the erection of bleachfields, Leven was the best
trouting stream in the county. Salmon were taken in the loch.
Trouts of a very large size, and of the highest flavour, were taken
in the carses. They were of the weight of 8, 10, 12, 14, and 16
lbs. each. A pike was rarely taken in one of the old turns of the
river, which measured 4 feet 2 inches long, weighing 56 lbs. Avoir-
dupois. Eels used to be caught in great quantities in their pas-
sage from Loch Leven to the sea. Indeed, on this account, the
lands of Strathendry, were before the Reformation subject to an
annual tax of some thousand eels to the Abbey of Inchcolm. The
eel fry come up in millions in May and June, and when full-grown
in the loch, marshes, &c. they run to the sea in autumns especial-
ly about Michaelmas.
  Botany.-The plantations of Leslie House are remarkably fine.
The species that thrive best seem to be ash, elm, common beech,
oak, and the silver-fir. The larch does not thrive so well; it grows
freely for a time, but soon rots at the heart. On the estate of
Strathendry, there is but very little old wood. The ash, elm, and
sycamore, are the kinds that thrive best. The common larch also
grows to a large size, and keeps free from heart rot. The beech
avenue at Leslie House is well worthy of attention the trees are

    FIFE                                H


