
                         ARDERSIER.                          477

rounding country. A Harbour would be agreat boon to the fisher-
men of the village, a very industrious class of people, who, from
their remoteness from a pier, are precluded from participating in
the gratuities given by the Fishery Board to others of their voca-
tion resident within a mile of a harbour.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Although Ardersier be now, and very na-
turally, comprehended within the bounds of the provincial synod of
Moray, yet, for some years even subsequent to the Revolution, it
was connected with the synod of Ross. Previous to the Reforma-
tion, it had belonged to the diocese of Ross. In what manner it
came to be claimed by the Bishop of Ross, we do not know.
Perhaps, previous to the irruption of the sea at Fort-George,
part of Ardersier might have been geographically more connected
with Ross than with Moray : Be this as it may, we find that both
the bishops laid claim to the parish, as pertaining to their respec-
tive sees : and that it was necessary, in 1226, to terminate the
dispute by a formal arrangement, according to which the Bishop
of Moray agrees to relinquish his pretensions to Ardersier, and
the Bishop of Ross, to renounce claims which he had advanced to
Kiltarlity, as part of the diocese of Ross. In the chartulary of
Moray, (Charter 75), we have the formal composition of their dif-
ferences as to these parishes, and the engagement of the Bishop
of Ross to pay to the cathedral of Elgin " unam petram cerae,
pro confraternitate et orationibus et aliis beneficiis ibidem faciendis
habenda." Among the witnesses to this agreement is the name
of Mauritius, who combined in his own person the offices of
"canon of Rosmarkyn, and parson of Ardrosser." Ardersier was
the seat of the sub-dean of Ross. We find that, after the Refor-
mation, it was successively attached to the presbyteries of Ross,
Dingwall, and Chanonry, till the year 1707,. when it was con-
nected with the Presbytery or Forres, or the Presbytery of Inver-
ness, which about this period were divided into two presbyteries
while they had been previously united. In 1711, the records of
Chanonry state that Ardersier is now of this date reunited to
Chanonry. In 1773, Ardersier was, by an act of Assembly, dis-
joined from Chanonry, to make part of the newly erected Presby-
tery of Nairn, within the synod of Moray, to which it has since
continued to be connected.
   The earliest notice of the incumbents of this parish which we
have been able to obtain, is the following, which occurs under the
head "Ministers in Ross"-in the Register of ministers exhorters,


