
     Statistical Account

who promised him success; and that the victory was facilita-
ted by the appearance of a cross in the air, in the form of the
letter X, as soon as the battle began.  The village over
which this miraculous apperance was seen, still retains the
name of Martle, a contraction of miracle.  Achaius King of
the Scots, by whose assistance Hungus obtained this victory,
(for he sent him 10,000 men, under the command of his son
Alpinus), in commemoration of the foresaid appearance of St
Andrew's cross, afterwards instituted an order of knighthood
in honour of St Andrew, who, in times of Popery, was reck-
oned the tutelary saint of Scotland.  This happened about
the beginning of the ninth century.  It is not certain at
what period the original church of this place was built; but
it is well known, that, towards the end of the 12th century,
the parish churches of Athelstaneford and Crail in Fife, with
their tithes, were annexed to the monastery of St Martin, in
the parish of Haddington, by Malcolm IV.  This was pro-
bably done in honour of the memory of his mother Ada,
Countness of Northumberland, who founded that monastery.
   Athelstaneford is divided from the parish of Haddington
on the S. and S. W. by the small rivulet formerly mention-
ed, called Lug Down Burn.  This rivulet rises in the Garle-
ton Hills, and falls into the Frith of Forth on the N. side of
Tynningham Bay.  On the N. this parish is separated from
that of Dirleton by another small rivulet, called Peffer.  This
rivulet rises in the N. E. corner of the parish, and divides
into two streams at its source.  The lands are so flat in that
particular part of the country, that one of these streams rums
in an easterly direction, and, after mingling its waters with
Lug Down Burn, empties itself into the Frith of Forth
the other runs due W. into the Frith of Forth at Aberlady
Bay.  The ground rises gradually from this rivulet to the
southern extremity of the parish, where the village of Athel-


