
36                   SELKIRKSHIRE.

chalybeates on Bowerhope. The oxide of iron found in many
of the mosses, and seen in the water that flows from them.
     Lakes.-The principal lake in the parish, or indeen in the south
of Scotland, is St Mary's, connected by a stream with a smaller one,
which has the pleaonastic appellation, Loch of the Lowes (lochs.)
The former is seven and a-half miles in circumference, and in
some places thirty fathoms deep; the latter one mile and a-half,
and eleven fathoms. Both, to high-water mark, are exclusively
the property of the Right Honourable Lord Napier, who has
beautified some parts of them by plantation. It is evident that
they have originally formed one lake, whose margin extended a
considerable way to the N.E. The difference of level is only
fifteen inches; and the narrow neck of land which now separates
them has been raised by opposite currents of the Corseeleugh
and Oxcleugh Burns. In the introduction to the Second Canto
of "Marmion," there is a graphic description of the sorrounding
seenery. It partakes not of the rich or romantic, but has a cha-
racter of soft repose,-derived from the unbroken slope of the
hills, the winding of the water as it washes their base, and the
stilly solitude on every side. The margin of the lake is skirted
with a few old trees, that serve but to remind us of the ancient
forest. At a short distance, too, are the relies of Catholic and
feudal times, which harmonize with such a scene, as we trace the
vestiges of St Mary's Chapel, with its lone church-yard,-"then
gaze on Dryhope's ruined tower, and think on Yarrow's faded
flower."
     In the table-land to the south are a number of small lochs,
Shaws, Clearburn, Hellmoor, and Akermoor, whose size varies
from a mile t a mile and a-half in circumference. Some of them
contain inexhaustible deposits of shells-marl; one has been drain-
ed, and the marl successfully used in agriculture. Our vallies
seem formerly to have been, like many others in Scotland, a chain
of lakes. The most marked trace of this kind is ar Newhouse,
where the Ettrick has worn its way in the course of ages. The
rocks rise almost perpendicularly,-and, overgrown as they are
with furze, and overhung with copsewood, present a view of Nature's
rude magnificence.
     Rivers.-In noticing the rivers of the parish, we shall confine our
attentions to that from which it derives its name, though it includes al-
so part of the Ettrick and Tweed. "The hills whence classic Yar-
row flows," from the boundary with Dumfries-shire, and send a




