
544                             AYRSHIRE.

seriously to the disadvantage of the rising generation. The Ayr-
shire plaid is very generally worn by females. It is a noticeable pe-
culiarity in their style of dress, and its simple drapery, when clean,
is a comely ornament to their persons.
     Games.--The observances of Fastern's E'en were discontinued
last year. These were principally races, and considered to be of
great antiquity, having been practised annually for the last five cen-
turies. Bowl playing is much resorted to in the summer season.
The ancient national game of curling has for a long period formed
a prominent recreation in the parish, during frost in the winter
months. We find it taken notice of as prevailing among the in-
habitants, so early as the year 1644; and the curlers of Kilmarnock
have long been, and still are, famed for the completeness of their
equipments, and the proficiency they have attained in the more
scientific departments of the game. There way be from 200 to
300 keen curlers in the parish, and during the long-continued
frost of 1838, the palm of victory was carried off by "Auld Killie,"
from all the surrounding parishes successively.
	There is a great deal of poaching, but no smuggling, It must
be, admitted that pawnbroking is on the increase, owing, perhaps, in
no small degree, to the adversity occasioned to such a population
by any stagnation in trade. In addition to one licensed broker,
there are several unlicensed, who, being less scrupulous in their
operations, are in many respects hurtful to this community.

		               IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture--The parish has almost universally a rich soil, and
is nearly all arable; and even that which is not arable, might, with
a little expense and care, be rendered good pasture. In the east
and north-east end, plantations of considerable extent are met with,
but in the southwest, not one of any size is visible, which is the
more to be wondered at, as they not only adorn, but enrich a coun-
try by their intrinsic worth, and the shelter they afford. The en-
tire appropriation of the fields and the now almost universally used
and well-dressed thorn hedge, have left no undivided common.
	Rent--Of the 8340 acres in the parish, 7470 yield an annual
rental of from L. 1, 10s. to L. 1, 12s. per acre, through in some
cases, near the town, fields are let at a much higher rate; the re-
maining 870 do not bring more than 11s. per acre. The total
rental is about L.12,000.
	Grazing.--The charge of grazing varies of course with the
quality of the pasture, but the average is L. 4 for an ox or cow.


