
                         PARISH OF COLINTON.

               PRESIBYTERY OF EDINDURGH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                                   TWEEDDALE.

                      THE REV. LEWIS BALFOUR, MINISTER.


          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-This parish originally bore the name of Hailes, and
 was probably so called from that being the name of the property,
out of which land had been appropriated for the glebe, and for the
site of the church and manse. Afterwards, the name of Colinto
was bestowed upon it, probably in compliment to the principal
family in the parish, which possessed the lands bearing that name.
Though the parish is described by the name of Colinton, without
any addition, on the communion cups, which were purchased in
1680, the name Hailes is applied to it in the church records
till 1697, when it is  written "Hailes, alias Coluygtngtoune." This
form is used, most generally, when any date is given, till 1747;
after which, eexcept in one or two instances, the name of Colinton
alone is employed. On one of the plates used at the communion,
is this, inscription, "1758.   Caollintoun, alias Hailes' Kirk." Hailes
is said to be a plural word signifying "mounds or hillocks;" a
meaning which .aptly enough describes the lands to which it is ap-
plied. Colinton may mean the town of Colin ; or it may bee derived,
we are told, from a Gaelic word signifying "a h0llow;" or from a
French word, (colline), which bears the opposite meaning o0f hil-
ly, and so coincides with the. original name of Hailes. The po-
sition of ,the church is aptly described by either of the names, for it
is the chuarch in the "hollow," and at the same time am09ng "the
hillocks."
   Extent, &c. -The parish lies to the westward of Edinburgh.
The point nearest to. that city is about three miles from the Ge-
neral Post-Office ; and the chhurch is about five miles distant
from the same place. The parish is an  irregular four-sided figure,
extending in its greatest, length about 3 1/2miles from north to south ;
and in its greatest  breadth, about 3 miles from east to west ;


