
     of Kilmalie.

so far, as to ascertain its value.  That these veins are good,
and worth working, is highly probable, as they run in a line,
east and west, with those at Strontian.
   There is abundance of limestone in the parish; and, at Bal-
lachulish*, belonging to Mr. Cameron of Locheile, there is a
fine appearance of a slate quarry, close to the shore of Loch-
leven, which there forms a pretty bason, where a quay could

     3 G 2

<FOOTNOTE>

* "Near the farm houses," of Ballachulish, "there is a limestone, or marble
"rock, of a beautiful ashen grey colour, and of a fine regular uniform grain, or
"texture; capable of being raised in blocks, or slabs, of any size, and capable of
"receiving a fine polish.  This singular rock, is finely sprinkled throughout,
"with grains and specks of fine bright mundick, or pyrites; and likewise, with
"grains and specks of beautiful lead ore, of a fine texture, which, to the eye, ap-
"pears to be rich in silver.  This would make a bright and beautiful metallic
"marble.
   "In the farm of Blarmachfhuildaich, belonging to the Duke of Gordon,
"about 3 miles south of Fort-William, in the bed of a river, there is a very sin-
"gular marble, consisting of a black ground, and flowered with white.  This
"stone, is of a fine close grain, or uniform texture, but not very hard; and the
"flowering in it is light, elegant, and beautiful, like fine needle-work; or rather,
"resembling the frosty fret-work, upon glass windows, in a winter morning;
"and this flowering, is not only upon the outride, but quite through all parts
"of the body of the stone.
   "A great part of the hill of Benevis, is composed of porphyry.  It is a re-
"markably fine, beautiful, and elegant stone, of a redish cast, in which the pale
"rose, the blush, and the yellowish white colours, are finely blended, and
"shaded, through the body of the stone, which is of a jelly-like texture, and is,
"undoubtedly, one of the finest, and most elegant, stones in the world.  About
"three fourths of the way up this hill, upon the north west side, there is found
"a porphyry, of a greenish colour, with a tinge of a brownish red.  This stone
"is smooth, compact, hard, and heavy, of a close uniform texture, but of no
"brightness, when broken.  It is spotted with angular specks, of a white quartzy
"substance.
   "The elegant redish granite, of Benevis, is, perhaps, the best, and most
"beautiful in the world; and there is enough of it, to serve all the kingdoms of
"the universe, though they were all as fond of granite, as ancient Egypt*."
* Sir Williams's Natural History of the Mineral Kingdom.


