
294                             EDINBURGHSHIRE.

<TABLE>
        Exports 1830-31.             Imports from 20th September 1838 to 20th
Bricks,           11,000                          September 1839.
Oats,                180 bolls.      Total Foreign, (regd. ton.) 5737
Coals,               241 tons.             Coastwise,            6371
Staves,           2900                                               12108
Tiles,            500                      Exports for the same period.

                                       Total, (registered tonnage) 2266  2266

                                                                        14374
   The foreign imports for the last year have consisted chiefly of
grain, oil-cake, rags, Norway timber, bark, hides, and bones for
manure; those coastwise, of grain, bark, pavement, slates, stones,
wood, mineral salt, fuller's earth, and potter's clay.  The exports
have been principally coals.

		 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Villages.--Besides the populous towns of Musselburgh and
Fisherrow, there are several villages in the parish. Near the
eastern boundary are Westpans and Walliford, the former chief.
ly inhabited by colliers, containing a population of nearly 300; and
on the west are the villages of Old and New Craighall, contain-
ing together a population little short of 1000, also inhabited by
colliers.
  Means of Communication.-Tbe London road, which intersects
the parish throughout its whole length on the north, affords an easy
means of communication with Edinburgh on the one side, and with
the towns of Haddington and Dunbar on the other.  There are also
excellent roads leading to Dalkeitb, and the lime-kilns to the
south.  The London Mail passes daily through Musselburgh;
also coaches from Dunbar, North-Berwick, and Haddington; and
there are Musselburgh and Railway coaches to Edinburgh almost
every hour.  The Edinburgh and Dalkeith Railway, opened for
the conveyance of passengers in 1832, passes near the western
boundary of the parish, and is joined by a branch from Fisberrow
at, the distance of about a mile from the harbour.  A spirited at-
tempt was made- some years ago to ply a steamer between Fisher-
row and Berwick, but failed, owing to the inconvenient nature of
the harbour as a landing-place.
   Harbour.---Tbe harbour evidently had been originally construct-
ed to afford safety for fishing-boats, and is only adapted to vessels
of small size; a considerable number of that description frequent
it, both foreign and in the coasting trade.  It stands on the land-
edge of an extensive flat of loose sand, which is drifted into it with
the run of the tides ; and as there is no run of water from the land
to wash it out, the sand accumulates two or three feet higher with-



