
428                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	There is also a Farming Society, which meets at Langholm once
a-month. Each member pays an annual subscription of L. 1, 5s.
from which a fund is raised for premiums,--which are given at the
annual competition to the best breeders of stock within the dis-
trict.--There is a Savings bank in this parish.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor, including
children, who are upon the poors' roll, is 62,--bosides a very consi-
derable number (between 30 and 40) who receive occasional relief.
The sum distributed last year, including all kinds of charity, was
nearly L. 400 Sterling. Of this sum, L. 8 per annum are allowed
to some; to others Dot more than L. 2. Two fatuous persons re-
ceive each annually L. 6, 14s. The average, as nearly as possible,
may be L. 4 per annum to each poor person. Poor rates were hn-
stituted in this parish in the year 1773, and the assessment for
last year was L. 320. The rate is 8d. per pound, or nearly 31/2 per
cent. The average weekly collection at the church door amounts to
15s. The dues of proclamation of marriage are, for three times in
one day, L. 1, Is.; two days, 8s. 8d.; and for three days, 5s. 6d.
Fines for immoral conduct, irregular marriages, &c. all go to the
poorfunds,--except the session clerk's fees for proclamation. About
L. 90 have at different times been bequeathed to the poor of this
parish for the education of poor children, and other religious pur-
poses, which sum the session has placed out at interest upon good
security. No public begging is allowed in this parish, or even
within the bounds of the presbytery. It is the general belief, that
over Scotland the independent spirit of abstaining from seeking
parochial relief is fast dying away; but whether it is so in the pa-
rish of Langholm it would be hazardous to risk an opinion.
	Inns.--In this parish, which contains a population of 2676 souls,
there are no less than eight respectable inns and twelve inferior
alehouses,--a number much lore than sufficient to supply the
wants both of travellers and of the inhabitants. No doubt, these
houses must tend to the deterioration of the morals of the people;
still the general character of the people is decidedly sober and re-
ligious.
	Fuel.--Peat is abundantly supplied, from inexhaustible mosses,
within two miles of the town, at 1s. 6d. and 2s. per cart load; and
coal, from Canobie, is purchased  at the pit from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per
cart load of 24 Carlisle pecks, and is laid down at Langholm from
4s. 6d. to 5s. the load.
	November 1835.                        4


