
	               BALLANTRAE.                       419

of 456. The average number of marriages for the last four years
is rather above 9; of births, rather above 43; both exclusive of Dis-
senters, who have their own registers. When the former Statistical
Account was drawn up, there were only 770 inhabitants in the
parish, so that the population has nearly doubled in forty years.
The increase of population is entirely to be attributed to the great
additional quantity of land brought into cultivation, which has given
increased means of subsistence, and required not only more hands
to cultivate it, but also more tradesmen and shopkeepers to supply
them with implements, clothing, and the necessaries of life.
	Character of the People, &c.--The people, with a few exceptions,
are comfortably fed, clothed, and lodged. They have an abun-
dant supply of excellent fish, almost all the year round, and possess
as many of the comforts of their station as those of their degree
in most other parishes. They are so contented with their situa-
tion, and so attached to their native place, that few of them leave
it but with great reluctance. Fifty years ago, smuggling prevailed
to a great extent, but for many years past there has been no such
thing. Poaching, both in game and in salmon-fishing, is also dis-
appearing. In general, they are a moral and religious people.
	The number of illegitimate children in the last three years is 10.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	By far the greater number of families in the parish is employed
in agriculture, either directly as cultivators, or indirectly as labour-
ers, or tradesmen supplying implements of agriculture. There
are a few families employed in weaving cottons for manufacturers
in Glasgow; and a good many are tradesmen at one season, and
fishermen at another.
	Rate of Waqes.--The price of labour for the best hands is
from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d. a-day in summer without food, and from
1s. to 1s. 4d. a-day in winter. Some who constantly require
labourers agree with them for 1s. 4d. a-day both summer and
winter, and others for even less; but in both these cases it
is understood that the labourer is to have constant employ-
ment, if not for a whole year, at least for a very considerable
portion of it. Women get 8d. a-day for field labour; joiners
charge 2s. a-day; masons 2s. 6d. without food. An iron plough
costs about L. 4, a narrow L. 1, 8s., a cart about L. 8, the shoeing
of a horse about L. 1 a-year. A cottager's benefit varies from
L. 19 to L. 23 a-year. Few men-servants reside in the farmers'
families; those who do are generally young lads and their wages


