
254                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

country. His system was, at the very first, singularly complete;
for not many great real improvements have since been made upon it.
   The soil varies in the different districts. There is, indeed,
every variety known in the country. The most productive is
found in the eastern part of the lands of Fetteresso and Ury, the
southern part of Cowie, and eastern of Muchalls. There is some
good soil, too, on the Rickarton property, and around the house
of Elsick. In other parts of the parish, it declines from moderate
to the very worst. Even in thd least naturally good, great indus-
try is exercised, and improvement effected. To this, the exten-
sive mosses in the western district contribute. Many settlers in
their neighbourhood occupy themselves in preparing peats for sale
in Stonehaven; and in carrying on this branch of industry, sus-
tenance, often too poor indeed, must be provided for the horses
employed. Year after year, moorland, to a limited extent, is re-
claimed in the northern properties. Even when profit from fuel
is not the object, waste land is coming gradually into cultivation,
particularly on the estate of Rickarton, which, of late years, has,
through judicious management, risen more in rental than perhaps,
in proportion to former value, any property in the country. Ex-
cept on it, and part of the great common of Cowie, there is not
now much uncultivated ground, the improvement of which is likely
to be remunerating.
    Much has been done, and very much is still needed, in draining
the land. Great attention is paid to the selection of grain for
seed, and in procuring manure from Stonehaven, and even from
Aberdeen. Important aid in this respect arisds from bone-dust,
the use of which is, year after year, more extended. In many
cases farm manure is not so well managed as it ought to be; and
the opportunity, which might be extensively embraced of construct-
ing dunghills on the excellent Meadowbank system, is neglected,
or so conducted as to be ineffectual. Without the removal of the
antiseptic principle by fermentation, moss remains, though mixed
with animal manure, in its orioinal state.
   Possessions vary greatly in extent. The highest rent paid by
an individual tenant does not exceed L. 450, and there are not
many rents exceeding L. 200. A great part of the tenants have
but one plough each.
   For some time past, but little wheat has been sown. This year
(1841) the extent was about forty acres. In the neighbourbood of
Stonehaven, a good deal of land of a clayey description is occu-


