
376                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

mon for the rates to reach so high as 3s. or 4s. in every pound
Sterling of rent.  It ought also to be mentioned, that the cases of
pauper lunatics, supported at asylums by their respective parishes,
contribute greatly to augment the assessments, as, even in the most
economical style, this cannot be done but at a considerable ex-
pense.  It may also be stated, as a fact of some importance, that
there is scarcely an instance known of a pauper of this county wan-
dering about as a mendicant soliciting charity; though the dis-
trict is inundated with vagrants of this description, who come
from those parts of Scotland which pride themselves in having
no compulsory provision for the maintenance of the poor.  Con-
siderable sums are frequently expended, certainly not always very
judiciously, by parishes on litigations in pauper cases.  The en-
couragement of friendly societies-a rigid examination into the
merits of every application for being admitted to the poors' roll-
a determined resistance to the principle of able-bodied persons re-
ceiving parish aid-and the continuance of that moderate and spare
pecuniary allowance common in Scotland, seem the best methods
for keeping the poor rates low, and for preventing those pernici-
ous effects which they have produced in England.  It is to be hop-
ed that the change lately introduced into the administration of the
English poor laws may check their baneful and deleterious influ-
ence, retard the growing evil, and prevent the lower orders of this,
and the other border counties from being assimilated in this re-
spect to the peasantry of the south.
   Character and Habits of the People.-The general character
of the population, as described in the parochial reports, differs
in few respects from that of the inhabitants of the other agricul-
tural districts of Scotland.  Like other gentlemen of the same
rank in Scotland, the landed proprietors are distinguished for their
attachment to the civil and religious institutions of the country,
for their zeal to promote the interests of agriculture and to ad-
vance local improvements, for their attention to their tenantry, for
their willing co-operation in extending the benefits of education
and religion, and for their benevolence, to the poor.  Those of
them who reside constantly upon their estates enjoy the respect and
esteem of those among whom they live; and several of them, by car-
rying on extensive improvements on their properties, take the best
method of obtaining the favour of the lower classes, and at the same
time of promoting their interests, by giving them employment.
   The tenantry of the county are a highly respectable body of men,


