
		           PERTH.                               99

of Council in 1586, in causa, the magistrates of Dundee versus the
magistr`tes of Perth, in which the latter plead, why they should
not pay certain duties claimed for repairing the shore and bulwark
of Dundee, that their need was equally great "of sic exactions to
support the common weil of thair awin burgh, mair requisit to be
bott and helpit, nor the said shore and havin of Dundee, speciallie
the brig haiffing twyst fallin doun and decayit, and laitlie being
erectit of tymmer, is readdy to fall without present help," &c.
From this time till 1617, the bridge was under repair, and a con-
siderable portion of it built anew. Among the records of the House
of Pittheaveless, there is an order from the King and secret coun-
cil, 7th February 1599, for allowing the magistrates of Perth to
take stones out of the quarry of Pittheaveless for repairing the Bridge
of Tay, on payment of fifty merks yearly, until it be finished. The
progress of the work, the obstructions which occurred, and the
means resorted to for obtaining the necessary funds, are entered
faithfully and fully in the city records. In 1617 it appears to have
been finished, as in that year 3000 merks were paid as the price of
the last arch.
	The high national importance attached at that time to this
bridge, appears from the charter which James gave, during its re-
pair, to the town, confirming their whole rights and privileges, dat-
ed at Holyrnod, 15th November 1600. In it he designates the
bridge "a most precious jewil of our kingdom, and a work pro-
fitable and primely necessary to our whole kingdom and dominion,
and for the suppression of rebels and such as are viciously affected,
most commodious; and also keeping the one-half of the kingdom,
with the other half thereof in faitb, obedience, duty, and office, to-
wards us their kings, in our kingdom and dominion." But in the
year 1621, and about four years after the completion of its re-
pairs, it was, as has been already stated, swept away by a flood.
Numerous attempts were made to rebuild it. James himself,
and Charles Prince of Wales, and many of the nobility and
others, subscribed with that view. King Charles II., in 1662, ra-
tified all grants given by King James VI. and King Charles L., his
grandfather and father, of the sum of 40,000 merks for rebuilding
the bridge. There is preserved in the Antiquarian Society Mu-
seum the following list of subscriptions,--Holograph--Richmond
Knox, 2500 merks; Geo. Hay, 1000 merks; -Mar, 1000 merks;
Roxburgh, 800 merks; Erskine, 400 merks; Gray, 800 merks;
Carnegy, 400 merks; Buccleugh, 800 merks; Asprynie, 400 merks;


