
     of Kilsyth.

   Mr James Robe was admitted minister, 24th April 1713.
He had received a presentation from the Viscount of Kilsyth.      

<FOOTNOTE>

confesses the charge.  Perhaps he was the more ready to do so, because the
Presbytery at the same meeting took Mr William Livingstone his son on tri-
als for the living.  The reason assigned for their doing so, was, that he per-
ceived himself to be inwardly called to the ministry.
   Accordingly in the year 1599, having on July 3. received a presentation
from Lord Livingstone, (I suppose the Earl of Callendar), he received in-
auguration, on the 17th, imposition of hands, collation and confirmation.  At
this time he was a considerable heritor in the parish; being proprietor of the
lands of Monaeburgh.  The boundaries of that estate are not well known, but
it is certain that the grounds upon which the village stands were a part of them.
For Sir William Livingstone of Kilsyth, one of the Lords of Session, purchased
them from the parson for the express purpose of extending the village, which
stood at that time on the banks of the Ebroch.  Those new feus were granted
along the Garrel Burn, which meets the Ebroch nearly opposite the centre at
the village; and of course the new town was called Burnside.  The person
seems to have been a man of considerable influence at that time, and in the year
1604 he used all that influence with the greatest zeal in opposing the restora-
tion of the bishops.  For which cause, and for his nonsubmission to the canons
and ceremonies, he was deposed, and by his Majesty's authority, deprived of
his ministry both at Monaeburgh, and also at Lanark.
   After this period there seems to have been a vacancy for some years.  At
last, in the year 1615, Mr Archibald Graham was admitted minister.  Soon
after his admission he disposed of a part of the glebe, though it appears that
he did not pocket the money; but in all likelihood allowed it to go to repair
the church.  At all events, we find that he expended a considerable from in
repairing the easter gabel, building a Selfry, and purchasing a bell. This
bell was only taken down this summer, and had a date upon it corresponding
to this, viz.  1626.  All that Mr Graham required in acknowledgement of this
donation, was, that his name might be cut upon the vane of the belfry, and
A.G.  the initials of his name still remain as a memorial of his liberality.
Mr Graham seems to have breathed much of the spirit of his predecessor.
For even in the year 1636 he had not practised the canons and constitutions.
And therefore he was called before the high Commission Court to answer
for his conduct.  That court seems to have been much incensed, for though


