
     Statistical Account

   Provisions and Labour.-The price of barley, oats, meal,
etc. are regulated by the fiars of Clackmannan, the head
town in the county.  The price of butcher meat is usually
from 3 d. to 4 1/2 d. per lib.  Dutch weight; a good hen sells at 1 s;
chickens from 4 d. to 6 d each, according to their age and
size; eggs from 3 d. to 4 d. per dozen.+  The ordinary price
of butter at present is 6 d. per lib; cheese 3 1/2.  The wages
of men labourers are from 10 d. to 1 s. per day; in har-
vest, they receive 13 d. or 14 d. per day; and for cutting
hay, 1 s. 6 d.  The wages of women who work without
doors, at hay-making, weeding potatoes, etc. are 6 d. per
day; except in harvest, when they receive 10 d. per day: out of
which wages, both men and women furnish their own pro-
visions.  The average annual wages of farm servants, of
men that are able to hold the plough, thresh the barn, etc.
when they eat in the house, are 6 L; and 2 L. 10 s. for wo-
men.  A mason's wages are from 1 s. 8 d. to 2 s. per day;
a wright's, or joiner's wages, from 1 s. 6 d. to 1 s. 8 d; a tail-
or's wages, 8 d; and a slater's, 2 s. per day.

   Bleachfields and Mills.-There is a very fine bleachfield in
this parish beautifully situated on the banks of the Dovan.  It
was erected by Mr WILLIAM HAIG, the present proprietor, in
the year 1787.  The machinery, which is excellent, is driven
by water from the Dovan, while the canals, boilers, etc. are
plentifully supplied, at all seasons, with the finest filtrated
water from the hills The trade of this field has much in-
creased since its first commencement.  For the first and
second years, there were scarcely 6 acres of ground under
cloth.  Whereas, in the present year, 1793, there are 20 acres
covered with it.  The greatest part of the cloth, bleached at
this field, is the diaper, or table linen of Dunfermline, the

<FOOTNOTE>

+Till within these two or three years, a hen might have been bought for
9 d; chickens for 4 d. per pair; and eggs for 3 d. per dozen.


