

                          MELROSE.

the higher branches of education 6s. 6d. and 8s.   The numbers of
scholars is about 70 or 80.   Of the children only a small pro-
portion can be benefited by the parochial school, which is three
miles distant from one extremity of the parish and eight from
another; but is extremely useful, and in high estimation as an
upper seminary, to which the young people can be sent when
farther advanced, as they are from the distance of several miles.
   Since the facilities of education were increased, a most decided
change in the morals of the people in this part of the country has
become visible.  The number of delinquencies requiring church
censure which occur has, as the old compared with recent re-
cords of the Court of Session shew, diminished from seven and
ten a-week to three  in the year.  This is a strong and  well ascer-
tained fact; and it may be added, that the people universally have
become more steady in their habits, more mild in their man-
ners and dispositions, and more exemplary in their general cha-
racter, moral and religous.   Education in this part of the coun-
try has enabled the people to find in reading a cheap and inno.
cent amusement at their own fire-sides, increasing the comforts of
home.  It has brought them more under the influence af all the
motives to good conduct; it has rendered them less liable to be
deluded by those false and extravagant views of things which are
the main source of "sedition, heresy, and schism:" and, accord-
ingly, in this part of the country, there is no sect whose doctrine dif-
fers materially from that of the Established  church.   The people at
present, in consequence of education, both live, lodge, and dress in a
far superior style to what they enjoyed forty or fifty years ago; they also
save more money now  than they did then; and yet the rate of wages,
compared with the state of the markets, was at the period double
what it is at present.   The what can this be owing?  To nothing  but
the good management, judicious economy, and orderly habits
which have been produced by the improved intelligence of the
people.  It would appear, therefore, that education, besides its
other high advantages, really enables the people to live more com-
fortably at a cheaper rate, which is exactly  the reverse of what
some  speculators are inclined to maintain.
  Literature.- There is a Subscription Library in Melrose, with
small religous literature, also; and it may be truly said, that there is
of general literature, also; and it may be truly said, that there is
not a cottage which does not possess  a small store of books.   There
are no periodical publications of any kind printed within the bounds
of the parish, but it is illustrated by works of a higher order which





