
	564			ARGYLESHIRE.

<TABLE>
                          Brought over,       L.9349     3     0
    Hay, 26,000 tons, at 7d. per stone,          758     6     8
    Wool, 1393 stones, at 6s. per stone,         417    18     0
                                                 --------------
                                    Total,  L.10,525     7     8
                                                 --------------
                  Real rental,                L.5101     0     9
                  Valued rent,                   327     0     0

   Wages.--The rates of labour are, viz. farm-labourers, from, 8s.
to 9s. per week in summer, and 7s. in winter; ploughmen, with
board, about L.12 a-year ; shepherds, with board, from L. IO to
L.12; maid servants, with board, for house and farm work, about
L.6 a-ydar ; tradesmen, from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per day.
               V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There are four yearly Markets held in the parish, viz. two at
Kilmartin on the first Thursday of March and the fourth Thurs-
day of November, principally for horses, engaging servants, and
settling of all country transactions; and two at the Ford on the
first Thursday of August and the first Thursday of September,
principally for horses; besides which, considerable sales are made
of lambs, sheep, and wool, though none are exhibited.
   There is a private runner from Kilmartin to the post-office at
Lochgilphead, every day, Sunday excepted, where there is a daily
arrival and despatch.
   There is also a regular steam communication between Loch-
gilpbead and Glasgow, and the intermediate ports, once a-day in
winter, and twice every week-day in summer and autumn.
   The road from Lochgilphead to Kilmartin is kept in excellent
order, a large outlay having been expended on the improvement
of it within the last few years.
   Lochcrinan is a good harbour and affords safe anchorage ; it is
much frequented by vessels in stormy weather.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated about four
miles from the south-west extremity of the parish, which is the
most populous part; and eight miles from the north-east end,
where there are nnly a few sbeep farms, which are thinly peopled.
upon the whole, the situation of the church is the most eligible
that could be selected. It affords sittings for 520; the accommo-
dation is most comfortable. Gaelic and English are preached
every Lord's day, and the people generally attend well when the
weather is moderate. All the sittings are free. The average
number of communicants for the last seven year is 168.
   There are two families Baptists in the parish, and six families
Separatists, some of whom occasionally attend the church, but are
not members of the congregation.


