
 524
                                            PERTHSHIRE.

              luntarily ina sum equal in amount to what is collected at the church
              doors; this agreement was fully implemented for a conside-
              rable number of years, and a majority of the heritors are still
              found to adhere to it. But some have withdrawn; others have
              allowed themselves to fall into arrears, which they dedine paying
              up; others again are dissetisfied with a system, which permits some
              to go free while the rest are submitting to the burden, and they
              the condition onwhich they will
              make the payment of all arrears the condition on which they will
              continue to abide by the compact; and the. probability, therefore,
              is, that the parish  of Crieff is, at this moment, on the verge of a
              legal assessment for the poor.
                 The average value of the monthly allowance grated to each
              of those who are receiving aid from the funds of the Female So-
              ciety, may amount to 1s. 11 1/2d. But a very emperfect idea would
              be formed of what is actually done for the poor of Crieff, if. pri-
              vate charity were not taken into account. They obtain a great
              deal themselves, both in the town and country, by private beg-
              ging. They have the privilege of going about, if they be re-
              sident, from house to house, and many householders have a list
              of poor vhom they regularly serve, once in the week, in the
              fortnight, or in the month, as it may suit their convenience.
              The Right Honourble Lord and Lady Willoughby De Eresby
              are in the habit of distributing clothes, coals, and meal, at stated
              periods, to the poor who are resident in that part of the town
              of which his Lordship is superior.-Lady Baird Preston of Fern-
              tower, and Miss Preston, are also very liberal in this way and
              in many others. They support a soup-kitchen, where a portion
              of excellent broth is regularly dealt out, three times a week,
              and coals once a month, to each of 60 individuals. They
              have many pensioners who receive weekly allowance in money.
              And are extra donations, which were received in the course of last
              winter, added greatly to the comfort of the poor during a season of
              peculiar distress and severity. The family of Ochtertyre have,
              for many years, nbeen steady friends to the destitute in Crieff. And
              it would not be an easy task to enumerate the whole of what is
              dese for alleciating the poverty of the parish.
                 With regard to the feelings of the poor themselves, it is believ-
              ed that name of them,-and these perhaps not the least destitute,-
              do refrain from asking parochial relief, because they think it de-
              grading. But the feeling does not appear to be, by any means, a
              general one; on the country, that spirit of independence, which



