
			  TORBOLTON.                       755

shape, being wider towards the one end than at the other. Such
is also the case with the flag-stones which covered the pits. Two
of the pits run northeast and south-west; the third stretches
north-west and south-east. These pits or graves are so situate
relatively to each other, that straight lines, connecting a point in
the centre of each of them, would form an equilateral triangle, the
length of each side being eight feet. The Druids, who, in the
period of heathenism, were the priests, the judges, and the magi-
cians of the west of Europe, regarded the making of processions
in certain geometribal figures, and the placing of stones in certain
numbers and forms, as being in importance inferior only to their
horrid practice of offering up human sacrifices. "They were ex-
pelled," says Selden in his Janus Anglorum, "from France by
Tiberius, from Rome by Claudius from Britain by Christianity."
	Eminent Men--Coil--The name of Coil is so interwoven with
the traditionary history of the west of Scotland, that we cannot
but take special notice of him among the eminent men connected
with the parish in which he found a grave. He was king of the
Britons or Welsh, but had extended his conquests over a conside-
rable paft of Scotland. It has been maintained by some, that his
daughter Helena was the mother of the first Christian emperor,
Constantine the Great.
	Owing to forgetfulness of King Coil, there has been much
eager disputation as to the correct reading of an adage of unknown
antiquity, which sets forth something characteristic of each of four
districts of the west country. The most northerly part of Ayr-
shire is called Cuningham. "Cuning means a butter churn, and
Cuningham, the churn district." *
	Carrick also had anciently high celebrity. Speaking of Car-
rick, Maister John Bellenden says: "In this region are money
fait ky and oxen, of quhilk the flesh is rycht delicious and tender.
flows ay be nature of the self in manner of oulie." +
	That which has givdn its distinctive name to the central dis-
trict of Ayrshire, is mentioned both by historians and poets.
"Kyle namit fra Coyll Kyng of Brittons," or, as Burns has ex-
pressed it,

          "Twas in that place o' Scotland's isle,
          That bears the name & auld King Coil."

<FOOTNOTE>Robertson's Ayrshire Families, Vol. i. page 247.
          History and Cronikles of Scotland De Maister Hector Boece. Translated Be
Maister John Bellenden. Edin. 1535.


