
2                         PERTHSHIRE.

Kinnoul Hill, which is immediately contiguous to the town, may
be the height referred to. B. and P. were and still are used by
the Celts indiscriminately, and Bert, Berth, and Perth, are evi-
dently contractions for Bertha.
   The parish of Perth Contains altogether about 3410 imperial
acres, and exhibits a considerable diversity of soil and aspect. Up-
wards of two-thirds of it consist of rich arable land; and of the
remaining third about 750 acres are planted, and 350 acres are
in a state of hilly pasture, the rocky nature of which seems to bid
defiance to the farther encroachment of the plough.
   Boundaries, Topographical Appearances.-The shape of the parish
is somewhat incurvated, the extreme length, following the varying
direction of the curvature, being about five miles, and the greatest
breadth about a mile and a quarter. As the Tay washes the concave
side of the arch by which the parish is bounded on the north and east,
the general slope of the ground is toward the same quarter of the
horizon. On the east and south-east, it is bounded by the Tay
and the parish of Rhynd; on the south by the parish of Rhynd and
Aberdalgie; on the west by the parish of Aberdalgie, Tibbermore
and Forteviot; and on the north and north-east by the parish of
Redgorton.

   The mountain ranges which occur in the parish form the west-
ern extremity of the Sidlaw hills, and are of limited altitude, the
highest point (Moncrieff hill) rising only to the height of 756 feet
above the mean level of the ocean. The surface of the parish is
nevertheless diversified with numerous swelling ridges of moderate
elevation, which- graduate by insensible degrees into rich and fer-
tile plains in a state of the highest culture, and bearing abundant
crops of every species of grain. Though the hills skirting the
parish are of the limited height already noticed, the view from
their summit is at once extensive and varied, presenting on all sides
prospects of unrivalled fertility and beauty, in which every object
that can adorn the landscape is finely and harmoniously blended.
The view from Moncrieff hill, in particular, is acknowleged to be
one of the finest in Scotland.
   The soil of the parish consists, in the upland district, of a rich
loam, which has resulted from the decomposition of the trap tuff,

<FOOTNOTE>Kincarathie, (Gaelie) Cean-car-tatha, the head or turn of Tay; Abdie, Abbey-tatha,
the abbey of Tay.. N. B.-There is no Celtic word for abbey. The word spelled
tatha in Gaelie sounds as ta in English.


