
<APPENDIX>

   No XX.  Copy of a Letter sent from London, by Sir Henry Welwood
   Moncriess, and by Dr Hardy, to the deficient Clergy, urging them
   to send their Accounts, 6th April 1793.

     Reverend Sir,

   SIR JOHN SINCLAIR has requested me, to urge you to send him the
Statistical Account of your parish, as soon as possible.  It is of real im-
portance, that he should be able to complete the volumes in the course of
this year, which can only be prevented, by his not receiving the Accounts
he still wants, from you and a few others among our brethren.  Allow me
to solicit your attention to the subject, and to request, that, at all events,
you will endeavour to have the Account of your parish transmitted to Sir
John, by the time of the ensuing General Assembly.  I have the pleasure
of adding, that the Work is in high reputation here, and does much credit
to all the parties concerned in it.  I am, reverend Sir, your faithful and
obedient servant.

     LONDON,
     6th April 1793.

   N. B. Please communicate the substance of this letter to any of the
Clergy in your neighbourhood, who have not as yet transmitted their Sta-
tistical returns.
   N. B. Fifty-seven copies of these letters were sent, partly subscribed by
Sir Henry Welwood Moncriess, and partly by Dr Hardie, who were then
in London on some ecclesiastical business.

   No XXI.  Copy of the Letter written by Dr Kemp, to 19 of the defi-
   cient Clergy, in the Highlands of Scotland, 25th November 1793.

     Dear Sir,

   I am sorry to find, among a list of deficients of the Statistical Accounts of
parishes, your name mentioned, in a list sent to me by Sir John Sun-
clair.  He is most anxious, to have that interesting and important Work,
brought to a conclusion as soon as possible, and hopes it may be accomplish-
ed about Christmas next, when he also expects the Agricultural Survey
of the whole kingdom may be completed.  This Survey commenced only
in September last; the Statistical in May 1790; it will have singular aspect


