
		  ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.                    1053

Forest, extending to about 4500 acres, still exists in Glentanner.
It is now very open, but if preserved, the most of the hills and
valleys would soon be again covered with natural alpine fir; and
it is observable that this tendency to extend itself is generally to-
wards the east; the prevailing wind, at the time the seed is ripe
and falling, being from the west. The plantations about Aboyne
Castle contain 2144 acres, consisting chiefly of Scotch fir, but
with a considerable proportion of larch, oak, ash, beech, elm, and
other species of hard-wood and ornamental trees.
	The plantations on the Balnacraig property amount to about
1400 acres. They are almost exclusively of Scotch fir, and very
advantageously situated on the banks of the Dee, for transmission
of the timber to Aberdeen. The whole of the woods in the pa-
rish are flourishing, and give every indication that the soil and
climate are congenial for their support.

                           II.-CLVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-The chief characters of eminence connected
with this parish have been the Earls of Aboyne and members of
that Noble family; but an account of the more distinguished of
these is to be found in the general history of Scotland.  It may
not, however, be out of place here to state, that George, fifth
Earl of Aboyne, succeeded to the Marquisate of Huntly on the
death of George, fifth and last Duke of Gordon, eighth Marquis
of Huntly, on 28th May 1836. The pedigree, as on that occa-
sion proved before the House of Lords, shows that the late Earl
and his son, the present Marquis, have been seized in the estates
of Aboyne since 1732, the unusual period of 110 years; and that
since the lamented death of the last Duke, S. P., the Marquis
has become chief of the Gordons, a clan ever bydand; and that
the loyalty which held the Crown on James II.'s head, "animo non
astutia," has never been wanting in their chief.
	Adam Gordon of Aboyne, second son of George, second Earl
of Huntly by his Countess the Lady Jean Stuart, daughter of
James I., became Earl of Sutherland by marrying, Elizabeth, sole
heiress of John, thirteenth Earl of Sutherland.  This Countess
Elizabeth died in 1535, and her husband, Earl Adam, in 1537,
both at Ferrack, (now Ferrar) in Aboyne; and were buried there.
(Sir R. Gordon's History of the Sutherland family, page 103.)
	William Bisset of Aboyne, and chief of the tribe, was accused
of burning the House at Haddington, in which, l242, Patrick,
Earl of Athol, and two of his servants were consumed. Bisset


