
                                    PERTH.                            137

        prisoner's earnings, including aliment, washing, and a sum of mo-
        ney given to each at his dismissal, was L. 10, 4s. 9d., or 1 3/4d. each
        per day.
           This is an experiment which has wrought well, and reflects
        much credit on Bailles Graham and Dewar, with whom it ori-
        ginated, and under whose judicious and vigorous superintend-
        ence it has been conducted.  It was warmly opposed by some
        members of the town-council, when these gentldmen at first sug-
        gested it as a measure of prison discipline entitled to consideration.
        Upon what principle the opposition proceeded, one may not pre-
        sume to say, but the result distinctly shows that it could not be one
        of a sound saving economy,-for while the prisoners in the common
        jail cost the town upon an average 5d. each per day, those who
        are here confined cost the town only 1 5/4d. per day.  Those who
        are entrusted with the charge of a public jail should consider that
        their duty is not the mere keeping of the inmates in safe durance
        and economically, but also and principally to make them the sub-
        jects of a rational moral discipline, with the view of sending them
        back to society corrected and reformed.
           Some Ladies in the city and neighbourhood have, with a most
        praiseworthy zeal for the good of the female prisoners, formed
        themselves into an association for visiting and instructing them.
        As classification is hmpossible in the present state of the prison,
        there being a want of the requisite apartments little good can be
        expected in the meantime to result from their exertions.  But
        their zeal and active virtue may bring about what other agencies
        have failed to attain-stch a system of prison discipline, as may
        operate successfully, on the moral condition of the objects of their
        compassion.
           In the unoccupied portion of the old prison * there is abundant
        room for the erection of as many cells as have been got up for the
        police male prisoners; and it is in contemplation to have them
        constructed for the reception of female police prisoners.
           Courts.- The Justiciary Court meets in Perth twice in the year,
        spring and autumn.

        <FOOTNOTE>This old prison is obviously a building of great antiquity.  Its architecture and
        general appearance verify the tradition, that it was a part of St Mary's or our Lady's
        Chapel, before the Reformation.  Between it and the river, and close by the old
        bridge stood the chapel, which Fordun says was destroyed (funditus) in 1210, along
        with the bridge.  The existing building was most probably reared up in its stead,
        but removed for safety a little farther from the river'r edge.  It is all that remains
        of the Popish chapels in the city.  In  1578-9 the masters of the hospital got per-
        emptory instructions to "warn the possesors of it to remove, and to insist diligently
        in pursuit thereof."


