
                      MONZIE.                        273

   Fendoch Camp.-But the chief object of interest to the anti-
quary is the camp at Fendoch, called in Gaelic Raenfhandoch,
i. e. Fendoch point.  Its traditionary name is the Roman Camp,
and there is no reason to doubt the accuracy of the appellation;
and that it is in reality the work of the Roman legions under
Agricola, or one of his successors.  It is situated upon a table-land,
at the lower extremity of that remarkable pass called the Small
Glen, already described, and within view of the fort upon Dun-
more.  The River Almond, issuing from this defile, turns to the
left, so as to form a right angle with its former course; and with
its steep banks constitutes a natural defence to the camp on the
north side.  The west is protected by a marsh; the south by a
small stream called the Burn of Fendoch; and the east by a na-
tural declivity.  It may probably cnntain 45 acres of ground.  It
would appear that, at the period when the former Statistical
Account was published, the trenches were entire, and in some
places six feet deep; but both rampart and trench are now fast
disappearing under the operation of the plough.  The rampart upon
the north side, after running for a considerable distance in nearly
a straight line upon the brow of the table-land, suddenly descends
into the plain below, incloses a spring of excellent water, again
climbs the bank, and pursues its rectilinear course.  This is the
only spring within the camp. Near the side of the river, there
is a small elliptical enclosure, formed of turf and stone, measuring
12 paces by 8. The moor on the east side of the camp bears
marks of having once been the arena of conflicting armies, and was
covered till lately, to the extent of several acres, with cairns; and
when these were removed to form a new road, some fragments of
urns containing bones were found underneath.  Several of these
cairns measured 10, 13, or 14 paces in diameter.  On the right
hand side of the road leading to Buchanty, and at no great distance
from the cairns, is a small eminence called "The Gallows Hill,"
and a few yards distant from it is a small enclosure of turf of
nearly circular form.  It is evident that the former, from its name,
is a vestige of comparatively late antiquity.
   Ancient Relics._ An old man is still alive in the village of Mon-
zie who recollects of having found, when engaged with some com-
panions in a hunting excursion, in his younger days, several heads
of spears, in the vicinity of the camp; but they were disregarded
as things of no value.  There is a silver coin, evidently Roman
in the possession of Mr James Young, Crieff, which was found in
          PERTH.                              S


