
                           ABERDOUR.                            261

dark mossy water being in some places of considerable depth, and
frequented at certain seasons by great flocks of geese and ducks.
This is the only loch or lake of any description in the parish.
There are no large rivers, and almost all the small streams or ri-
vulets discharge themselves into the Moray Frith, which forms
the northern boundary of the parish.
   In the Den of Dardar, near Pitjossie, there is a cascade, which
sometimes in the winter season, and after a heavy flood of rain
has rather a grand and striking appearance.  The water dashes
from the top of a rock into three successive basins, and upon
reaching the bottom, glides smoothly into the Moray Frith, at the
distance of about 100 yards.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The geology and mineralogy of this
parish would afford materials for a small volume, and the task
could only be undertaken by a scientific man, after visiting and
minutely examining the localities.  The rocks which bound the
shore are highly interesting, of stupendous height, and various
formation.  A coarse sandstone prevails along the coast, often
passing into conglomerate of various degrees of coarseness, and
connected with a greywacke slate.  This sandstone, I am inform-
ed, is accounted at present of the oldest secondary formation,
and is destitute of all traces of organic remains.  This is the
case also with the slate.  The outlying blocks of loose stone,
or boulders, are primary trap or granite.  A few years ago, in
the neighbouring parish of Gamrie, there was an accidental
developement of fossil fish, imbedded in rolled masses of clay or
limestone; and it is the opinion of an eminent geologist, who
has favoured me with a communication upon the subject, that in-
teresting facts might be brought to light, by searching the dens
or deep ravines which run inward from the coast in this parish,
and in which it is not improbable that something similar might
be discovered.  With these brief remarks we shall leave the sub-
ject to those who are capable of doing it justice.
   Zoology.-At one period, there was a pair of eagles that regu-
larly nestled and brought forth their young in the rocks of Pen-
nan, but, according to the tradition of the country, when the late
Earl of Aberdeen purchased the estate from the Bairds, the for-
mer proprietors, the eagles disappeared, in fulfilment of a pro-
phecy by Thomas the Rymer, that there should be an eagle in the
Crags, while there was a Baird in Auchwedden.  But the most re-
markable circumstance, and what certainly appears incredible,


