
282                         BANFFSHIRE.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers extend no far-
ther back than 1704. Since that time minutes of the kirk-ses-
sion's transactions, and of the collections and distributions for the
poor, have been regularly kept. Registers of baptisms are also
preserved since that time; but in these there are very frequent
omissions, owing to the neglect of parents; and parties are very
frequently subjected to inconvenience and loss afterwards in con-
sequence of these omissions. A register of marriages has also been
kept and preserved since 1757; but no regular accotnt is kept of
deaths in the parish.
   Antiquities and Historical Events.-These may be taken toge-
ther, as there is no modern historical event worth mentioning con-
nected with this parish. The greatest object of antiquity is the
Old Church, which universally-received tradition relates as hav-
ing, been built at the time of the landing of the Danes in 1004.
The following account of the place and its tradition was furnished
by the writer to the Aberdeen Magazine, 1832, and is believed
by the inhabitants to be substantially correct.
  "It is not alone by the natural beauties of the place that tbis
scenery becomes a field peculiarly adapted for the fancy to sport
in. These green hillocks, grotesque knolls, rugged rocks, and
deep gulleys-these vales which have rested for centuries in peace,
were once the scene of deadly conflict; for it was here that our
far-off ancestors had to stem the torrent of invading Danes; and
this brook, now meandering peacefully over the smooth pebbles,
once flowed red with the blood of the slain. That green conical
mound that tops the east bank of the den, is the castle hill of Fin-
don.It was garrisoned with a part of the Scotch army stationed
here to watch the landing of the Danes; a party of whom effect-
ed alodgement on the opposite bank, in the place where the Old
Church now stands. The alarm was immediately given, and com-
munibated by means of fires on the mounds, (several of which
mounds yet remain on the highest eminences of this and the neigh-
bouring parishes), which communicated the intelligence rapidly
through the kingdom, and quickly brought up reinforcements.
Still the Scottish chief(the Thane of Buchan) considered the
issue of an attack rather dubious, and, in order to add the,enthu-
siasm of religion to that of patriotism among his followers, made a
solemn vow to St John, in presence of the whole army, to build a
church to him on the spot were the invaders were encamped, on
                                 3

