

130			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

in their anxiety to ascertain its contents, which they imagined
might be treasure.
	The following communication has been kindly furnished by
Joseph Train, Esq. of Castle Douglas:--
	"This was the field of many of my antiquarian gleanings. I
obtained from the farmer of Buchan one of the instruments of tor-
ture called thumbikins. It had been kept there since the Cove-
nanters were shot at the Caldons. It is now in the museum of
Abbotsford.
	"The Kist Vaen described in Caledonia (Vol. iii. p. 233,)
was discovered in this parish; and many of the Pict kilns de-
scribed in the same work, may yet be deen in the parish. On the
upland f`rm of Craigencallie, they were, about twenty years ago,
very numerous; and on the farm of Risk, there were seven within
the compass of an acre. On the corse of Slaiks, in the parish
of Kirkmabreck, they are still more numerous. They are ge-
rally about fifteen or sixteen feet in length, and about half that in
breadth, forming an elliptic figure resembling a pear. The ridge
or side wall is from two to three feet high at the broad end, and
at the narrow end, it is nearly level with the surrounding earth at
the entrance. The ridge seems to have been formes of earth;
but, on removing the suface, it is found to be composed of very
small stones, evidently the fragments of blocks broken by ignition.
	"The kilns are invariably placed on the south side of the hill, on
the margin of a brook, or where one has been, with the door or
entrance facing the water. The only tradition in the country re-
specting them is, that they were erected by Picts for the pur-
pose of brewing ale from heather, which is perhaps not unfeasible,
as these ancient inhabitants of the chemical process of that ope-
rations.
	"The learned author of Caledonia says, the practice of brewing
ale from heather is of a more recent age than the Pictish period
of the Scottish history; but he thinks the Irish cruithne may have
used these kilns for that purpose. (Cal. Vol. iii. p. 234.) Sir
Walter Scott t`kes another view of this subject. In a letter dated
Abbotsford, 20th December 1816, he says, 'The Picts' kiln
seems to be a very curious relic of antiquity. Is it not possible it
may have been employed for burning lime? We know that these
ancient people were traditionally renowned for their skill in archi-
tecture. They certainly seem to have been farther advanced in



