
72			   FORFARSHIRE.

of the villages above-mentioned; but there is an open loading-
place, where vessels of from 60 to 80 tons burden may deliver their
cargoes, which are chiefly of coal and lime. During the sum-
mer there is a considerable trade in this way; but in winter it is
entirely at a stand, as no ships could with safety put into so un-
sheltered a situation.
	There is the convenience of a post-office at Muirdrum, a small
village on the great line of road between Dundee and Arbroath;
and a daily post by the mail-coach both to the north and south; be-
sides three other public coaches regularly at different hours of the
day, and carriers generally twice a-week to Dundee and Arbroath.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church here is undoubtedly very old,
though it is impossible to specify the date when it was built. It
appears that the original form of the house was a cross. The
arms to the south and east, as they first stood, were removed, and
the one to the east was rebuilt in the year 1681. The external
Šfabric is not so handsome and regular as might be wished, owing to
the addition now noticed, and the great irregularity of the windows
both in size and situation; but within, it is in excellent repair, and
even elegant. In the year 1775, it was completely repaired. It
accommodates nearly 600 sitters.
	The average number of communicants annually for the last twelve
years is 508; and the church is in general well attended. The
number of Seceders in the parish is 53; of Episcopalians, 5; of
Independents, 2.
	The stipend is, of wheat, 18b. 3f. 3 1/2 lip.; of barley, 78 b.
2f. 1p.; of meal, 105b. 2f. 1p.; of money, L. 43, 15s. 5 1/2d.;
and in lieu of pasture, L. 1, 13s. 4d. The teinds are now exhaust-
ed; and of course there is no allowance for communion elements.
The total amount of the stipend, converted to money, on an ave-
rage of the last three years, is L. 245, 4s. 4d. a-year.
	The glebe consists of 4 acres, 1 rood, and some falls of good
land. The manse was built in 1765; repaired in 1799; and it
received a large addition in 1811.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish, with excel-
lent teachers. One of these is parochial, the teacher having a sa-
lary of L. 34, 4s. 4d., and fees to the amount probably of L. 30
a-year. The other is merely for girls to be instructed in needle-
work and English reading.  But besides these, there is a small
private school in the upper part of the parish, for the benefit of
such as are too remote from the parochial school. There is also


