
                             HUMBIE.                         103

                          IV-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-About 7000 acres are in a regular course of cul-
tivation, and nearly 200 more might,cultivated along the face,
and towards the base, of the Lammermoors; but, along both to the
high climate and the difficulty of getting manure, these lands are
very seldom ploughed; and even when ploughed, it is chiefly for
the sake of renovating the grass. There are in the parish about
2400 acres of hill and moor land.
   Humbie wood consists of 400 imperial acres of oak and birch
with some beech and firs; and being contiguous to Salton wood,
it presents a range of beautiful and extensive scenery to the travel-
ler from the top of Soultra-hill. Plantations, belts, and clumps on
other estates extend to 100 acres more.
   Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land varies from L. 2, 5s.
to 14s. per acre, which may make the average L. 1, 5s. The rate
of grazing has greatly fallen of late years; but hinds' cows are still
rated at L. 5 for summer's grass and straw during winter. These
are almost the only animals grazed at a fixed price per head, as
farmers who have not sufficient pasture of their own take grass
parks for the season. These are now let at from L. 2, 10s. to L. 3;
some years ago they brought from L. 4 to L. 5 per acre. This
may,the reason for valuing the grazing of cattle breeding to be
fed off on turnip, according their different ages and weight, at the
low rate of from L. 2 to L. 3 per head. On clover or good old
natural grass, the grazing of a sheep is worth from 12s. to 16s.,
estimating its size and quality.
   Live-Stock.-Great attention has been given to the rearing of
sheep, and improving their breed; and the success has been pro-
portional. The black-faced seem to, in less repute, and the
Cheviot, or a mixed breed between them and the Leicester, is pre-
ferred. Much improvement has also been made in the breed of
cattle as well as in feeding them for the market.
   Husbandry.-At present, rape-dust is much used for raising
wheat, and bones for raising turnip, where there is a scarcity of
dung. But perhaps the greatest and most effectual improvement
in husbandry has been the practice lately introduced of grazing the
farm, in regular rotation, for two or three years.
   This county still retains its high reputation for agriculture; but
the farming capital is greatly diminished within the last ten years.
Farm-houses and steadings are generally substantial and on a libe-
ral scale. Great attention is bestowed on fences both by proprie-




