
472			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

poors' fund is 10, at an average of 1Os. per quarter. Occasional
distress is also relieved. At present there are four orphan children
belonging to the parish, boarded at L. 3, 10s. per annum. In addi-
tion to the quarterly distributions, coals and clothes are given in
cases of urgent necessity. The church collections for these pur-
poses amount to L. 29, 2s. on an average of the last nine years;
during which time also a legacy of L. 25, left in 1827, by Mr
Hunter Arundell of Barjarg, has been expended, and the he-
ritors have twice of late given a voluntary contribution. At an
annual spiel on the ice, as much is frequently collected from the
players and spectators, as to purchase six or eight carts of coals,
and twice that quantity when they are driven gratuitously. The
good old Scottish love of independence and aversion to come on
the poors' roll still exist in considerable force. Great efforts are
often made by individuals to prevent themselves and relatives from
becoming a burden on the parish. The kirk-session are extremely
careful also to discourage all but the most necessitous applicants.
	Inns.--There are a small inn, an alehouse, and a dram shop in
the parish.
	Fuel.--Coal is brought from Sanquhar, fifteen miles, at 8s. per
ten measures, or thirteen cwt. There is not much peat, and the
wood is too expensive to burn. The decayed branches of the
trees, however, (and the loppings form a considerable item,) are
the fuel of some of the cottagers.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the date of the last Statistical Account, vast improvements
have taken place. The roads have been made, and are now kept
in excellent order. All the small lochs and marshes have been
drained,--the meadows and arable land doubled,--the rivers em-
banked,--the sheep are now only half as numerous; but all other
farm stock have greatly increased. The people in general, both
farmers and cottagers, are much better lodged, their diet is improv-
ed, and greater attention is paid to cleanliness and comfort.

	January 1836.


