
                              CAERLAVEROCK.                359

petty debts are contacted without due calculation, and the as-
sistance given is frequently more than mortgaged. The amount
of collections in the church is about L. 18 per annum; but the
great source of parochial relief is derived from the Hutton bequest.
In 1708 Dr Hutton mortified L. 900, for pious and educational
purposes, and L. 100 was afterwards added to defray the expenses
of management; which by the deed of mortification is intrusted to
the session of the parish, whose accounts are to be annually audited
by the presbytery of the bounds. The whole sum of L. 1000,
soon after it came into the hands of the session, was laid out in
the purchase of the barony of Barcloy, in the parish of Colvend,
which now yields an annual rent of nearly L. 400 per annum.
The parish afterwards received L. 310 more in donations from
different persons, the whole of which was subsequently laid out in
the improvement of Barcloy. The annual income of the parish is
thus expended; to the grammar-school at Bankend, L. 40 ; to the
English school at Blackshaw, L. 20; to ditto at Highmains, L. 20;
to the maintenance of five poor boys as bursars at the school of
Bankend, each of whom receive annually L. 3, 4s. 6d. for four
years, L. 16, 2s. 6d.; privately distributed in terms of a donation,
L. 2 ; publicly at two different times, L. 160 ; to a superannuated
teacher, L. 15.
	Formerly the whole of the surplus revenue was given to the
poor. About two years ago, old complaints, to which all the pre-
vious ministers of the parish bad been much exposed, were reviv-
ed as to the management of the session. Upon this, the present
incumbent resolved to place himself under legal advice. The ses-
sion accordingly procured the professional opinions of Mr Cockburn,
then Solicitor-General, and Mr John Cuninghame. Their opinions
not entirely coinciding, and such endowments being better under-
stood in England, Mr Russell of the Chancery Bar was also con-
sulted. These gentlemen all agree in commending the general
management of the present trustees, as well as of their predeces-
sors ; of the propriety of which, the simple statement, that L. 1310,
the amount of the different mortifications, now yields an annual in-
come of almost L. 400, is of itself a sufficient proof. They, how-
ever, condemned the indiscriminate mode in which the poor had
been provided for. Indeed, it is obvious, that, by relieving all the
poor of the parish, the bequests have been not so much a boon to
the poor as to the heritors. There being a special clause in Dr
Hutton's deed of mortification, limiting the charity to those born


