
    16                      PEBBLES-SHIRE.

    same establishment waulking and dyeing are carried on. Stocking-
    making is also a branch of manufacture here, but of very limited ex-
    tent. Cotton webs are sent from Glasgow, but afford a very poor
    remuneration to the weavers, few of whom can, with the utmost
    diligence, earn more than six shillings a-week.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Town.-Peebles, the capital of the county, and the seat of
    the presbytery, is situated on the north side of the Tweed, in
    latitude 55o 38' 40", and 3o 6' west longitude, the meridian of
    Edinburgh passing through the town. It is 21 miles south from
    Edinburgh, 22 from Selkirk, and 54 from Glasgrow. The town is
    divided into the Old and New, the former standing on a high ridge
    of ground, with the Tweed forming the southern boundary; and ex-
    tending to the east on a lower tract of ground; it is bounded by the
    Eddlestone or Peebles water. The New town, with the exception
    of a few paltry houses on the south side of the Tweed, lies in a
    peninsula formed by that river and the Eddlestone water. This
    water runs in almost an opposite direction to the Tweed, and falls
    into it, contrary to the course of most rivers, forming an acute angle,
    with the apex pointing up the stream. The New town presents the
    strange anomaly of being bounded on the south by a river running
    due east, and on the north by another river running due west.
	The burgh of Peebles, till the passing of the bill which altered
    the representative system, joined with Selkirk, Linlithgow, and
    Lanark, in returning a member of Parliament. It was then thrown
    into the county. The town-council consists of a provost, two bai-
    lies, a dean of guild and treasurer, with twelve councillors. The
    number of electors amounts to about 94. The revenues of the
    burgh amount to about L. 643, from the following sources.:

<TABLE>

    	  Rents of lands,               L. 333   2 6 1/2
          Rents of mills, houses, &c.    168  14 2
          Customs, &c.                   120   5 0
          Feu-duties,                     10   9 8 1/4
          Interest on fences, &c.         10  17 9 1/2
                                      L. 643   9 2 1/4

	The amount of debt in October 1833 was L. 5426, 2s. 5d. The
    income at present is more than sufficient for all expenses, and even
    for discharging part of the debt. The town is very well supplied
    with water, and lighted with gas from the burgh funds. The
    weekly market for grain in bulk has within these few years been
    revived, and the magistrates, with a becoming liberality to encou-
    rage the farmers to bring their grain, make no demand for customs.
	Roads and Bridges.-From the excellence of the materials of
				3


