
	6                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

         The number of Professional persons and other educated men,                       57
                    oflabourers not agricultural,                                        218
                    of other males,                                                       61
                    of male servants, of whom only three are above 20 years of age, is    13
                    of female servants,                                                  254

				IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture.-
         The number of acres, standard imperial measure, which are either cultivat-
            ed or occasionally in tillage, is about                                   12,000
         The number ofacres which have never been cultivated,                         10,000
         The number that might, with a profitable application of capital, be added to
            the cultivated land of the parish,                                          7000

	   There is no undivided common. The number of acres under
	wood is 40. The trees planted are, plane, fir, ash, elm, oak, and
	mountain-ash: the management of which is on the whole tolera-
	bly good.
	   Rent.-The average rent of arable land in the parish is L.1
	per acre. The average rent of grazing is at the rate of L.2 per
	ox or cow grazed, and 6s. 6d. per ewe or full-grown sheep pas-
	tured for the year.
	   Wages.-The rate of labour for farm-labourers is Is. 6d. per
	day, and for country artisans from 2s. to 3s. The rate of mason-
	work is L.2 per rood.
	   Live-Stock.-The common breed of sheep are the Leicester
	and Cheviot, and of cattle the Highland and Teeswater; to the
	improvement of both of which much attention has been paid.
	   Husbandry.-The most approved system of husbandry pursued
	is that called the five crop shift, being a rotation of turnips, bear,
	hay, pasture, and oats. Great improvements are taking place in
	the reclaiming of waste lands, and in draining, which is practised
	to a considerable extent on the most improved farms, and is yearly
	extending to others.
	   Leases.-Leases generally extend from seven to nineteen years
	in the larger description of farms. The smaller farms are in ge-
	neral occupied without leases to the great injury ofthe land, and
	also of the tenant.
	   Farm-buildings are improving-rapidly, and are in general in a
	comfortable state. Inclosures are increasing, but not in the same
	ratio.
	   The principal improvements which have recently been made in
	the parish consist in the dividing, draining, and enclosing of com-
	mons, and in the building of comfortable cottages for the settlers
	on their respective lands.
	   The great want of capital may be stated as the principal obsta-


