
	6                SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

	became vacant, the registration was much neglected. Since the year
	1817, however, both registers have been kept correctly.
	   Great inconvenience, and even loss to individuals, having been
	experienced from the want of a register of deaths, to which refe-
	rence could be made,-a register of that description has been kept
	by the minister of the parish since January 1821, which, if con-
	tinued by his successors, may prove useful to succeeding genera-
	tions.
	   Antiquities.-The picturesque remains of the old castle of Skel-
	bo, formerly the residence of the family of Sutherland, Lord Duf-
	fus, still remain. This castle was built on an eminence, rising ab-
	ruptly from the sea side, near the Little Ferry.
	   The castle of Skibo, once a residence of the Bishops of Caith-
	ness and Sutherland, was demolished in the last century. Within
	its walls the celebrated Marquis of Montrose was confined subse-
	quently to his being taken in Assynt; and from Skibo he was con-
	veyed to Edinburgh, where be was executed.
	   In memory of the event which gave its name to the burgh, a
	stone pillar was erected on the spot, supporting at the top a cross,
	encompassed by a circle, which went under the name of the
	Earl's cross. The lapse of ages had, however, somewhat defaced
	this monument. But it has been repaired, and is still standing.

				III.-POPULATION.
            By the Government census of 1821, the population of the town
	and parish was found to be 3100. By the census of 1831, it was
	3380 ; and would have been 300 more had there not been a par-
	tial emigration to British America to that amount from the parish
	during that and the previous year. It is but justice to the landed
	proprietors to add, that this emigration was purely voluntary on
	the part of the emigrants; that most of them left the parish in
	comfortable circumstances; and that the situations which they left
	open were soon occupied by others. The population, it may be
	safely asserted, is still on the increase.
	   The increase of population may be accounted for by persons of
	various classes coming from the east ahd south country, and settling
	in the parisb,-by a general inclination to marry young: when
	out farm-servants, of whom the number is considerably increased
	by the erection of large farms, get barracks for themselves, they
	marry: when a young man gets a croft of land,, be marries;
	when a fisherman becomes possessed of a quarter share of a boat,
	he builds a house, and marries. Second marriages also, of which


