
			   SKENE.                       1101

taught, including Latin, geography and book-keeping. The salary
is L.30, with an allowance of L.2 for a garden. The teacher has the
benefit of the Dick Bequest, and also L.20 yearly from the funds
of the late Dr Milne of Bombay, for teaching 25 poor schloars.
	Since the time of the great increase of the population, there have
been two private or unendowed schools set on foot by the parish-
ioners, one in the east, and the other in the west end of the pa-
rish. The average attendance of scholars at both these schools is
from 60 to 70 throughout the year. There are also two small
schools taught by female teachers, attended by about 50 younger
children. The school at Garlogie mills has been already no-
ticed. There are seven Sabbath schools in the parish, well attend-
ed. These facts prove that the people generally are fully sensible
of the benefits of useful and religious instruction to their children.
        Libraries.-There is a parish library, supported by regular an-
nual contributions of 1s. by each reader. There are now upwards
of 600 volumes. There is also a library connected with the Sab-
bath schools, supported by an annual contribution of sixpence from
each member of the society. There are now upwards of 900
small volumes entered upon the catalogue. The books are given
out to the scholars by the teachers at ` monthly exchange.
         Society.-There is a Juvenile Missionary and Bible Society in
the parish, which has contributed about L.12 yearly for the last
three years to the Assembly's Schemes, besides giving a donation
to the Aberdeen Bible Society, and Bibles and New Testaments
to the poor children within the parish.
         Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on
the roll is 36, besides orphan children, and others who receive oc-
casional assistance. The ordinary poor receive from 6s. to 10s.
quarterly. A few bed-rid paupers have received from 2s. to 3s. 6d.
weekly. The sources of supply are, collections in the church,
L.50 in the year; interest of money, L.16; proclamation of banns
and mortcloth dues, from L.2 to L.3; all of which having been
found insufficient, the heritors have for several years past made
up the deficiency by a voluntary contribution of from L.45 to L.60
a year. Part of the allowance to the poor on the roll is given in
mea 1, andthe rest in money.
         Inns, &c.-There are two inns on the middle line of turnpike-
road, where travellers and carriers may be comfortably accommo-
dated. There are 6 grocers' shops within the parish, and 4 meal-
mill. There are 3 blacksmiths, 6 cart and plough-wrights, and
1 mill-wright.


