
648                   ARGYLESHIRE.

ture. Lochgruinard, which forms the boundary of this point, co-
vered more land at a former period than it does now, and the pro-
cess of filling up seems to be progressing. We have already alluded
to the reclaiming of a portion of the head of the loch by the late
proprietor. This he partly effected, by raising an embankment to
keep off the tide, and partly by directing the course of the river
which discharged its waters into it, by a new channel into Lochin-
daal. Drains of sufficient depth and extent were formed to re-
ceive the surface water, and to contain the streamlets which fall
from the ground adjacent, during the period of full tide. The
outlet of these drains is secured with a sluice, which opens and shuts
by the pressure of the water. Several hundred acres of rich loam,
incumbent on a bed of shells and clay, yielding abundant crops,
have been by these means redeemed. The part of this basin that
was above the reach of the tide, and farthest removed from the
bank of the river, is deeply covered with moss.
  Zoology.--The Dean Munro, in his account of the Hebrides,
has noticed that Locbgruinard abounded with seals. In the sum-
mer and autumn, a few may still be seen, though their number is
evidently decreasing. Otters are found about the lakes and shores,
and the whole coast abounds with various kinds of fish. Cod,
ling, coal-fish, turbot, soles, and plaice, are in their season caught
on the different banks. Shoals of herrings are annually seen on
the coast, and at times some enter Lochindaal, but do not remain
so long as to become a source of profit to the fishermen who live
on its shores. Oysters, mussels, buckies, cockles, limpets, lob-
sters, and crabs, are to be bad on various parts of the coast. In
the months of May, June, and July, the people use mussels and
cockles to a considerable extent as articles of food; The crabs and
limpets, with a species of worm found in the bays, are sought after
by the fishermen for baiting their hooks.
   The insects most destructive to vegetation are, a small fly that
attacks the young shoots of the turnip; a caterpillar, that feeds
on the gooseberry and white currant bushes; and a small aphis,
that fastens on the fruit-trees and hedges. A strong infusion of
hellebore' sprinkled on the bushes, arrests the progress of the ca-
terpillar, and a weak solution of soap is equally fatal to the apbis.
   Flocks of wild geese, barnacles, teal, and widgeon, with wood-
cock and swans, take up their abode in the marshes and open wa-
ters during the winter months. In summer, the lapwing, the


