
     Statistical Account

and the half square, and is intersected by the Esk, which, al-
lowing for some small windings, runs through it almost due
south.  It contains, exclusive of Halfmorton, about 14,320
acres; of which, 12,600 belong to the Duke of Buccleugh;
1500 to Mr Maxwell of Broomholm; 200 to the heirs of 
the late Mr Lothian of Staffold; and the remaining 20 to
Mr Little, proprietor of a half of one of the 10 merk lands
of Langholm.

   Soil, Climate, Diseaseas.-The soil of this parish varies
much in different place.  Much the greater part of it con-
sists of hills, beautifully covered to their summits with ver-
dure,and let out in sheep farms at, from near L. 200 to
L. 25 a-year.  The land upon the banks of the Esk and 
the Ewes is flat, and in general consists of a light loam.
In some places it is rather gravelly.  All along the 
course of the Esk, the fields are well cultivated, and
yield, or are capable of yielding, luxuriant crops of oats,
barley, turnips, clover, and rye-grafts, and also some excel-
lent wheat, particularly the lands on the E. side of this
beautiful river, which are well shelthered by woods and

<FOOTNOTE>

Morton in Nithsdale, as is commomly supposed, in Annandale, was sup-
pressed, and the half of its annexed to Wauchope, then small parish,
which annexation still continues by the name of Halfmorton.  The other
half was united to Canonbie.  Before the year 1743.  Langholm, with the
other four parishes in Elkdale, Ewes, Westernick, Eskdalemuir, and Ca-
nonbie, belonged to the Presbytery of Middlebie; but upon a represente-
tion to the General Assembly, of the inconveniencies which the clergy in
this quarter laboured under, from bad roads, and their great distances from 
the Presbytery seat, &c. they were, by an act of that Venerable Court,
May 21, 1743, disjoined from the 6 parishes in Annadale, viz.  Annan
Hoddom, Dornoch, Middlebie, Kirkpatrick-Fleeming, and Gratney, and
ercted into the presbytery of Langholm, with the addition of Castletown,
in the country of Roxburgh, which previous to the period, belonged to
the presbytery of Jedburgh. 


