
446                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

measles, 8; oplithalmia, 8; hernia, 7; contusion, 6; Hysteria, 6;
scabies, 6; scarlatina, 5; abscess, 5: and the results were, cured,
199; relieved, 20; died, 26; remaining, 19.
  There are a few Friendly Societies ; but I have not obtained
information as to their description, or economical effects.  From
what I know of the condition of the poorer classes here, I appre-
hend the benefit derived from them, in promoting industrious ha-
bits and a spirit of independence, is inconsiderable. *
  Poor's Funds.--Besides the funds provided for the relief of the
poor by church collections, and other means adopted by the kirk-
session, such as funeral dues, sales of lairs in the church-yard, al-
location of a portion of the proclamation fees in certain cases, &C.,
there is what is called the Poor's Scheme, for raising money by
annual voluntary contributions, in aid of the ordinary parochial
funds administered bv the kirk-session.  The managers of this
fund are the ministers of all denominations, and a number of other
individuals annually elected by the contributors.  The magistrates
give it their countenance and support; and the provost, when pre-
sent, presides at its meetings, which take place within the council
house once in the month.  The average number of persons receiv-
ing a stated weekly allowance from one or other of these two funds,
was, during the last five years 178; and the average weekly allow-
ance to each was Is.  Besides the stated allowances, there are oc-
casional donations given to paupers, not regular pensioners, especi-
ally from the session funds.  Coffins are provided by the session
for paupers at the rate of 10s. each, and sometimes grave-cloths.
Clothing is given from their funds, to a considerable amount in the
year, to poor children, and to a few poor and aged women; and
several children are educated at their charge.  The whole annual
amount of funds raised for the relief of the poor and administered
by these two bodies, taking the average of the last five years, was
as follows:--Session funds, viz. church collections, L. 250, 18s,
010/18d,; miscellaneous, L. 11, 6s. 10d.; legacies, L.27, 10s.;
Poor's Scheme funds, L. 235, 9s. 6d.; amounting in all to L. 525,
4s. 4 10/18d.  There does not appear to be any reluctance on the
part of the poor to avail themselves of parochial relief.  Any feel-
ing of this nature seems to have been for some time extinct.
  Prison.--The number of prisoners committed to Stirling jail,
from the commencement of the present year, till the 19th of Oc-
tober inclusive, was 231; of whom belonged to the parish, 65;

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was in types, a proposal has been circulated for the institution
of a Savings' Bank on the National Security system.


