
67                        TWEEDSMUIR.

he does not receive victuals from his master. A very capable servant-
woman gets at the rate of L.6 per annum. Mechanics charge
2s. 6d. per day with victuals, and 3s. without victuals.

Shepherds.--That very useful class of men receive as wages
45 sheeps. 9which may be valued at 7s. each,) 3 loads, or 6 bolls,
of meal (per annum,) a cow, and dwelling-houses, with a gar-
den or potato plat. In some cases, where the charge is exten-
sive, two or three milch cows are allowed; and if a shepherd has
to employ a son, or any young man, as an assistant, a propor-
tion of meal and sheep is granted for his wages and maintenance.
Being more in the capacity of stewards or overseers than servants,
our shepherds have much confidence reposed in them by their
masters, or rather employers, and enjoy advantages and comforts
corresponding to the importance of the station they occupy. They
are seldom removed from their situation; their fidelity insures it
to them till old age unfits them for the discharge of its duties, and
often it descends from father to son.

Husbandry.--Smearing of sheep is universally practised, and tar
and palm-oil forming a cheaper preparation, and no less efficacious
than others that have been recommended, is now very generally
used, though, to prevent the undue preponderance of the first
named ingredient, many add a considerable proportion of butter
and train-oil. Light stocking is carefully attended to, and ewe
milking is almost entirely abandoned. At the great show of the
Highland Society at Dumfries, Mr James Welsh of Earlshaugh,
who is the present tenant of Caterhope, gained the hughest pre-
mium for black-faced, and Mr William Aitchison, present tenant
of Menzion, for Cheviot. The former has for upwards of two
years past tried the experiment of crossing the whole of Carter-
hope ewes with the Leicester breed of tups, which is found to
succeed well. The price obtained for 600 sold at Liverpool las
year was 14s. 6d., whcih he considered a good return.

In this parish there are 16,000 sheeps, of which 9,000 are Che-
viot or white-faced, and the remaining 7,000 are black faced. The
former were introduced about thirty years ago, and, on account of
the superior quality of the wool, are allowed to give the best return,
especially when reared on land grassy and dry. But as the letter
are generally supposed to be a hardier race, some give them the
preference as best adapted for high, wet, and badly sheltered situa-
tions, though the opinion of some of the moset intelligent, judicious,
and experienced o our store-masters is decidedly against this notion.


