
			CARMICHAEL.                      533

terprise and perseverance. The attention which is bestowed, not
only in carrying forward the literary studies of the pupils, but upon
their religious and moral training, their health and their comfort
in every respect, is deserving of the highest commendation. There
have been pupils attending the academy from different parts of
the three civilized quarters of the earth. The salary attached to
the parochial schoolmaster is L. 32, with more than the legal ac-
commodations. The emoluments of the other schoolmaster con-
sist of L. 10, with house and garden, and school fees.
	The school fees, per quarter, are for English, 2s. 6d.; English
and writing, 3s.; arithmetic, 3s. 6d.; English grammar, 4s.; Latin,
5s. The amount of fees received by the parochial teacher is about
L. 10 per annum. There are none between six and fifteen years, so
far as I know, who cannot read or write; and none above fifteen who
cannot read, with two or three exceptions. The people are alive
to the benefits of education, and every facility is afforded to those
who are in straitened circumstances, either by the liberality and for-
bearance of the teachers, or by aid out of the public fund. The
number of scholars exclusive of boarders, attending the two schools,
and some neighbouring schools in adjoining parishes varies from
130 to 140, being one-seventh part of the population.
	There are no parochial or circulating libraries in the parish,
no schools of arts or mechanics' institutions, no public reading
rooms, or newspapers printed or published; but several of the la-
ter are read. Indeed, some one or other of them finds access to al-
most every family, and it is to be feared, in some inst`nces, is a
substitute for a more profitable species of reading.
	Savings Bank.--There are no charitable or Friendly Societies in
the parish; but a parish Savings bank was established in 1814, and
has been productive of very beneficial effects. It has always been
under the management of the writer of this account. It has not
been limited to deposits from servants and mechanics within the
parish, but has received deposits from several in other parishes.
The present amount of deposits is upwards of L. 1800. Last year
about L. 290 were deposited, and rather more than the same sum
withdrawn. The depositors are considerably above a hundred
in number, and all are of the description of persons for whose be-
nefit parish banks are intended.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid, not including those who are occasionally
relieved, seldom exceeds 12. The sum allowed monthly to each
        LANARK.


