
			LITTLE DUNKELD.				1007

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	  There are but few remains of antiquity in the parish. As is the
        ease in several other Highland parishes, there are to be seen the relics
	of Druidical circles, whre our rude ancestors performed their superstitious
	rites; and for these remains the people have still a veneration.
	On the farm of Balinloan, there is a remarkable stone, of
	large size, called Clack a mhoid, or the stone where the court was
	held. It is said that a baron in the neighbourhood held his court
	here for the trial of offenders, with power to "hang and drown;
        (Comas croiche ages poll;) and tradition says, that the last baron
	who exercixed there functions was not undeserving of one or other
	of these ends himself. There are two very large trees near the
	church, on the bank of the Tay, and said to be the remains of the
	once celebrated forest of Birnam; the one is oak, the other plane-tree,
	and each about 18 feet in circumference. They are objects
	of curiosity to strangers, and are interesting from their antiquity,
	being the twin survivors of a numerous family long ago departed.
	  In a plain on the banks of the Bran, four miles fron Dunkeld,
	are to be seen the ruins of the Castle of Trochery, once a residence
	of the Gowrie family. A small circular part of the wall is
	still standing. From its weather-beaten appearance, it must have
	withstood the shock of many a pitiless storm; but its pride and
	glory have long since passed away, like those of its original owners,
	showing nothing but the melancholy wrecks of time.
	  Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, the Duke of Atholl;
	Sir William D. Stewart; John Stewart, Esq. of Dalguise; and
	Mr. Campnbell of Kinloch.
	  The valued rent in Scots money is L.4805, 16s. 4d.; and the
	real rental is said to be about L.11,620 Sterling.
	  Parochial Registers.-The register of births and baptisms begins
	in 1759; and the register of proclamation of banns for marriage
	in the same year.
	  Mansion Houses.-The principal of these is Murthly Castle,
	the seat of Sir William D. Stewart, Bart. (of Grandtully), situated
	about four miles below Dunkeld, on the south side of the Tay. There
	is a new mansion lately erected in front of the old castle remarkable
	for beauty of design and elegance of architecture. They shall
	of the house, or mason-work, was completed ten years ago but
	the rest remains in an unfinished state. The present proprietor
	has expended a considerable sum in levelling the ground in front
	and transplanting rows of ornamental trees, which, if they thrive


