
		         DUNNOTTAR.			225

of the remaining portion of the area of the parish, about 1740 acres
consist of tracks of moorland, or patches of natural pasture, in-
terspersed among farms. Of these 1740 acres, about one-half may
be considered capable of being cultivated.
	Rent.--The average rent of arable land is about L. 1, 7s. the
imperial acre, the range being from 15s. to L.3, 3s., with the ex-
ception of some land near Stonehaven, which, enhanced by its lo-
cality, rents as high as from L. 10 to L. 16 per acre. In a few in-
stances, rent is made dependent on the fiars prices of grain, fluctu-
ating annually as these prices rise or fall, a mode of adjustment
which may inconveniently affect the tenant, as it may happen, from
deficiency of crops in bad seasons, that his rent is in an inverse ra-
tio to the amount of his receipts at market.
	Leases.--The usual term of leases is nineteen years. In some
instances, a shorter term is conditioned, but in no case is a lease
for a longer period now granted. Formerly, when, instead of the
present great demand and competition for farms, it was difficult to
find tenants, leases on lives, or for two or three times nineteen
years were very common. Of such leases only one now remains in
this parish, which was granted in 1784, upon a life still surviving. *
	Live-stock.--Sheep farming is not practised in Dunnnttar. Of
late, some attention has been paid to the breed of farm-horses and
cattle. The former are of middling size, active and hardy. They
have been improved by crosses from stallions of the Suffolk, Clydes-
dale, and other approved breeds, but the original defects in the blood
of the mares have not yet been eradicated. The cattle are chiefly
of the black polled breed. The average weight of oxen reared
and fed in the parish may be about fifty stones imperial, but feeding
is not practised here very extensively, most of the tenants selling
their stock when two years old, off the grass, or from the straw-
yard. Pigs, not long ago to be found only at corn-mills, are now
reared and fed in considerable numbers by the farmers and cotta-
gers. They are in general of the improved short nosed-breed, and
the pork is cured chiefly for the London market.
	Husbandry.--A complete reformation of the practice of agri-
culture in this parish followed the great improvements introduced
and accomplished on his estate by the late Mr Barclay of Ury. +

<FOOTNOTE>It may be noticed as a curious fact, that, in this case, the tenant, when the lease
was granted, had a family of eight healthy children, and that the only survivor now
was the fourth child, on whose life the lease was taken.
	    An interesting account of Mr Barclay's improvements is to be found in Robert-
son's Agricultural Report of Kincardinshire.

            KINCARDINE.    			P


