
430                       LANARKSHIRE.

been extensive and commanding, but it is now highly rich and beauti-
ful. About sixty years ago, there were some remains of this ancient
castle; but now no vestige of it is to be seen. The stones of it
were employed in building the farm houses called Hallside, from
its standing in the neihbourhood of the great hall. The te-
nant in possession of it, at the time that the last Statistical Re-
port was written,dug from its ruins many carts of stones some of
which were hewn,and had iron crooks in them, upon which doors
bad been hung. Amongst the rubbish, human bones have been
found, once a pewter plate, and on many occasions ancient coins,
of which the dates or reigns of the sovereigns to whom they be-
longed have not been ascertained. On the summit of Dechmont-
hill, there are still some faint traces of the foundations of ancient
buildings, and in one place the Urtica urens or common nettle
grows in abundance, which is seldom or never found except in the
vicinity of human habitations. The ruins of these buildings were
considerable about fifty years ago; but since that time, the stones
and rubbish have been removed for making dikes and repairing
roads. A former possessor, when digging on the summit of the
hill, discovered the foundation of a circular building, about
24 feet in diameter. The stones had been carefully joined to-
gether, but no signs of mortar could be observed. They were
freestones; and must have been carried with much labour from a
distance, as the stones, which are found in great abundance upon
the hill, are all whin.
	Dechmont stands in the centre of the Rutherglen and Cathkin
tumuli, and was the place where our forefathers lighted their bel-
tane fires. A thick stratum of charcoal has been discovered, which
had lain concealed,from time immemorial under a stratum of fine
loam, near the summit of the hill. When the country people saw
it, they expressed no surprise, because the tradition was familiar to
them, that it was here where the former inhabitants of the country
had been in the habit of lighting their beltane. The Lady Chapel
of Kirkburn, formerly stood on the ravine a little below the church.
It was founded and endowed in 1379, by William Monypenny,
rector of Cambuslang. Lands were purchased for this purpose
from William Dalyell, out of the estate of east Farme of Ruther-
glen, at an annual rent of six merks Sterling. The whole was ra-
tified by a charter of Robert IL, dated 8th December 1379. This
chapel was held by Sir John Millar at the time of the Reformation
who reported its value at seven merks yearly. The land still bears
the name of Chapel; but no traces of the ancient buildings remain.


