
                               ERROL.                               397

               There are four or five Episcopal families in the parish, but
          there is no Episcopal chapel.
          The number of families attending the Established Church is
          467; and the number of persons of all ages belonging to it is 2025.
          The Episcopalians generally attend the parish church.  The num-
          ber of families attending the chapels of the Dissenters is, as near-
          ly as can at present be ascertained, 218; and the number of per-
          sons of all ages belonging to them is 906, exclusive of the very
          few who are not known to belong to any denomination.  Divine
          service, both in the Established Church and in the Dissenting
          chapels, is generally well attended.  The whole number of commu-
          nicants belonging to the Established Church, is 996.  The ave-
          rage number of those vho actually communicate every year is, in
          the month of June, 815 ; and in the month of November, nearly
          700.
              Societies.-Of societies for religious purposes, there is, in con-
          nection with the Established Church, a parochial association, the
          object of which is not only to lend its annual assistance to the New
          Perthshire Bible Society, but also to promote the four schemes of
          the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland.  The contribu-
          tions of the parochial association have consisted partly of collec-
          tions made in its behalf at church.  The average yearly amount of
          these contributions has been nearly L.20.  The average amount
          of church collections for charitable purposes, exclusive of the ordi-
          nary collections for the poor, has been about L.12.
                 Education.-The total number of schools in the parish, exclu-
          sive of Sabbath schools, is five.  Among these, there is only one
          parochial school.  Two of the others are partly endowed, the one
          by the proprietor who built it oh his property, and the other by a
          society or body of subscribers.  The endowment, however, in both
          cases, consists only in the teacher's enjoying the privilege of a free
          house and garden, as well as the school-house.  The fourth school
          is altogether unendowed.  The fifth is a small school-house in
          which very young children are taught mere reading, and the girls
          the additional art of knitting, by an elderly widow.  The branches

          which the parochial schoolmaster is appointed to teach, are, Eng-
          lish reading and grammar, writing, arithmetic, geography, practi-
          cal mathematics, book-keeping, French, Latin, and Greek.  In
          the two schools partly endowed, the same branches are appointed
          to be taught as in the parochial school, with the exception of
          languages; and most of these are what the masters, though not re-


