
78                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

trick, it was the principal baronial residence of his descendants, and
afforded the means of enabling these warlike lords to maintain power
and authority, little less than royal, through a long succession of
rude and turbulent ages. In 1296, the eighth Earl of that family,
adhering to the English interest, his wife Margory Comyn surren-
dered his Castle of Dunbar to the Scots, when Edward I. sent Earl
Warrene to press the siege of this important place, which led to
the battle. of Dunbar. Edward II. after his defeat at Bannock-
burn in 1314, sought refuge in this castle, and went from thence
by sea to Berwick. The ninth Earl razed his castle of Dunbar,
that it might not fall into the hands of the English, and was oblig-
ed by Edward III. to rebuild it at his own expense. It was often
besieged, and as often bravely defended; but perhaps the most bril-
liant period of its history was about 1337, when it was defended
by Black Agnes against the Earl of Salisbury. In 1434, George
the eleventh and last Earl of Dunbar and March, was for his fa-
ther's treason disinherited of his estates and seignories, which, with
the hereditary castle of Dunbar, passed to the Crown, and were
given to the Duke of Albany.
   Jane Seymour, dowager of James I. the most beautiful and ac-
complished woman of her age, died in the Castle of Dunbar in 1446,
and was buried at Perth. The Duke of Albany, on his flight from
Edinburgh Castle in 1475, landed at his Castle of Dunbar, and pro-
ceeded thence to France. He returned and regained possession of this
castle, and was compelled to fly from it a second time in 1483, when
he left it in the hands of the English, who surrendered it to James
III. in 1486. An act of Parliament passed in 1488 directs the
Castle of Dunbar to be cast down and utterly destroyed, in such
manner as to render it incapable of repairs in time to come, "be-
cause it has done great skaith in time bygone, and it were great
danger to the realm if it were negligently keep in future." This
act was not carried into effect till nearly a century afterwards.
   Four times did this stronghold receive within its walls the un-
fortunate Queen Mary. In 1565, after the assassination of Rizzio,
she fled to it that she might be safe from the conspirators; and in
the same year Both-well, who had assisted her escape, was appoint-
ed its keeper. The Queen and her court on a tour along the Tweed
by Berwick arrived at this castle on the 17th November 1566, and
remained there six, days. After the murder of Darnley in 1567,
Bothwell's guilty associates having recommended him to Mary for
a husband, he marched at the head of a the thousand horsemen, ar-


