242                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

procured by those intended to be benefited. The custom was, for
two individuals, furnished with a certificate by the minister, to go
through all the respectable houses in the parish, inviting the inha-
bitants to this festivity, and, through these agents, such as could not
find it convenient to give their personal attendance, were expected
to bestow on the family in question a charitable contribution.
Meetings of this kind, however, being frequently attended with
irregularities, were discouraged by the present incumbent; and the
drinking having in consequence fallen into disuse, simple contri-
butions raised by persons offering their gratuitous services, or hired
for the purpose of collecting them, have been happily substituted
in their stead.
	Inns and Alehouses.--In this parish the writer took much pains,
and incurred considerable obloquy, in endeavouring to suppress un-
necessary public-houses. Notwithstanding all his efforts, however,
there are still three licensed houses of this description within the
parish, where one would be quite sufficient.
	Fuel.--The fuel usually employed by the inhabitants is peat,
procured from that branch of the Lochar moss which skirts the
parish. It is of tolerable quality, and may probably cost some-
what more than a shilling a cart load, when carried home, and stack-
ed up for use. Coal is also used by the better classes, of which
sixty or seventy tons may be yearl consumed in the parish. It
is procured, as already mentioned, from the opposite coast of Cum-
berland, and costs from seven to eight shillings the ton of four-
teen cwt.

			MISCELLANOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The funeral rites are now performed in this part of Scotland with
a decent solemnity; but till lately, the demoralizing practice of pre-
senting several services, as they are called, of spirituous liquors pre-
vailed very extensively among the middle and lower classes in this
district. The custom was the more, inveterate, as on such occasions
the minds of the relatives of the departed are apt to be unhing-
ed, and less capable, perhaps, of acting with decision than at other
times. The present incumbent fell on a simple expedient, by
which this practice has been completely abolished. Having en-
gaged, the co-operation of some of the leading men in the parish,
he drew up a subscription paper, binding the subscribers, among
other less important regulations to give only one sarvice when they
had the melancholy duty of presiding at a funeral themselves, and
had the me


