
876                  ABERDEENSHIRE.

with alders and on three sides it is bounded by a thriving planta-
tion of larch, birch, and Scotch fir.  The average depth of its
water is now, reduced to about four feet, the late proprietor having
allowed Sir Robert Burnett to draw off four feet in order to dry
a low tract of ground belonging to him at its western extremify.
This is much to be regretted, as the water on many parts is now
so shallow that a very few summers must cover them with aquatic
plants, which, at no distant period, will convert this beautiful loch
into an unsightly morass. *
     Geology and Mineralogy.-Nothing of much interest to the
geologist and mineralogist has hither to been discovered in this pa-
rish.  The only rocks which appear above the surface are gneiss
and granite; and these are at present so little exposed that they
cannot be subjected to accurate examination.  Boulders of the
same kinds occur abundantly, and are employed in the erection of
fences and farm-steadings.  On that part of the glebe which is
called the Keith's moor, flint of a black and yellow colour is found.
   Soil.-The soil is various, but mostly of an inferior quality.
That which lies along the river side is light and, sandy, recumbent
on gravel, and consequently dry and early.  In other places, it is
thin and moorish, and frequently rests on till, or an equally hard
and retentive moor-band.  Some spots, however, which have long
been under cultivation, are loamy, and, when properly treated, carry
abundant crops.  There are several mosses in the parish from which
the inhabitants dig fuel; but, with the exception of that part of the
red moss which lies in it, and is of great depth, they are all near-
ly exhausted, and much of them might be profitably converted into
arable last.  Many, oak, alder, birch, and fir trees, the wreck of
the noble forests which once adorned this part of the country, are
found imbedded in them.  And as these relics are often disco-
vered with their roots attached, and lying in an easterly direction
tyey must be regarded as memorials of some westerly storm's de-
structive effects, of which, amid the revolution of centuries, even
tradition itself has lost the record.
   Zoology.-The woods of Park and Drum are frequented by roe-
deer.  Foxes and polecats infest the sa me coverts; but their de-
predations seldom extend to the poultry-house, as they can always
prey with more safety on the common hare and rabbit, which are

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Keith, in his survey of Aberdeenshire published in 1811, (before the above
mentioned-drainage took place), estimated the extent of this loch at 300 acres.--
P. 72


