
     Statistical Account

poor and depressed, are not querulous, but peaceable and well
disposed.  The higher ranks still retain, comparatively, a consi-
derable portion of the manners of the old barons.  In some
instances, those peculiarities of behaviour are apparent, which
an exclusion from the public eye, and a remote situation, are
ready to produce.  So that we are reminded, at times, of the
remark of a celebrated dramatist:  "In the cities and popu-
"lous parts of the empire, there prevails such a uniformity of
"level manners, that I have been obliged to beat about amongst
"the out-skirts of the country, for characters, at once natural
"and singular, with which to fill my drama." Our middle
ranks, compared with those of other countries, are yet incon-
siderable.  They are not fully occupied with business,-have
no stile of manners appropriated to their station,-but are
fond of the company and manners of their superiors, and con-
verse more frequently, than is done in other places, about
modes and fashions in dress and manners.  A superior degree
of Shrewdness, has been commonly affixed to the character of a
north-country man, which is well expressed in the common
adage, "you are too far north for me." The remark is more
applicable to our neighbours of the Aberdeen and Inverness
districts, than to us; compared to them, we, in Morayshire,
are a blunt and plain people.  Our people are as yet sober, and
little addicted to the intemperate use of spirits.  The suppres-
sion of smuggling, so happily effected of late by the vigilance
of government, has banished foreign liquors, and introduced
very generally the use of whisky of our own distilling, which
is both wholesomer and cheaper.  Beer, however, is still too
little used, for which whisky is a most improper substitute.
It is submitted, whether the price of this unnecessary article
ought not to be kept so high, as, if possible, to prevent it from
being in too frequent use among the lowest ranks.  Dislike
for diversity in religious opinions, and modes of worship, to-


