
                  SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                    125

due attention to the milk-vessels. So that one of the old country
acts would require sometimes still to be enforced, which ordains,
"That no butter be rendered for payment of land rent, or for
sale, but such as is clean from hairs and claud, and other dirt."
The lairds, as part of their land rent, and the tenants, for their
own use, consume the greater part of the butter that is made in
the parish; and the little that is sold will bring from 5d. to 6d.
per pound of sixteen ounces.
   Into the butter-milk, or "bleddick," is poured a quantity of boil-
ing water, by which means the curd is separated from the serum.
The former, called "kirn," is supped with sweet milk; the latter,
called "bland," is used as drink, and is sometimes kept for several
months, when it acquires a strong acidity.
   Ponies.-The Shetland poney is now so generally known as to
require no particular description. It is of every colour, white,
black, brown, grey, dun, cream, chesnut, and piebald, and of every
size, from 28 to 44 inches. There are a great many of them kept
in the parish, but very little work is performed with them. Few
bring home even their peats with them, preferring the old prac-
tice of bearing them home on their own backs in a "casie."*
Ponies are sometimes employed in carrying feals from the hill, to
mix with cow's dung for composts; but are kept principally for storing.
It is a rare occurrence to see an individual riding to church. In
good keeping, it is well known that many of the Shetland ponies
are of high mettle. "When the shelty is in his winter or spring
garb, it is difficult to suppose that his progenitors were the same
animals which travellers have described as prancing over the arid
tracks of Arabia;-the long shaggy hair with which he is clothed
has more the appearance of a polar dress, or of some arctic livery,
specially dispensed to the quadruped retainers of the genius of
Hialtland." + Instead of the sleek skin and handsome appearance
which he displays with so much spirit in the summer months, in
winter he is covered with a shaggy coat,-his symmetry disappears,
and all his motions are dull and languid. Notwithstanding all the
privations he undergoes, he frequently lives to a great age. I
have seen some upwards of thirty years old, and even at that
age capable of performing a pretty long journey. No attention is
paid to the breed. On the contrary, if one is remarkable for pro-
portion or size, as it will fetch the best price, it is the one which

<FOOTNOTE>Casie, a straw basket used for carrying peats, manure, &c.
          Hibbert's Zetland.


