
                          ABERCON.                              27
the grassy acclivities of the hill being, interspersed with scattered
trees and groups of evergreens. The summit is crowned with a
high round tower, forming a conspicuous land-mark. Dudding-
stoun House, a modern erection, of a heavy castellated character,
stands on high ground in the south-east of the parish, and com-
mands an extensive view. Hopetoun House, the principal residence
of the family of that name, holds a pre-eminent place among the
mansions of the land. Originally planned by Sir William Bruce
of Kinross, it was commenced in 1696, but not completed until,
many years after, under the superintendence of Mr Adam. The
front is very extended, consisting of a corps de logis, with advanced
wines terminating in octagonal dome-roofed towers, and connected
with the body of the house by sweeping colonnades. The archi-
tects have sedulously avoided all prominence in the minor details,
enhancing materially the general effect. The decorations, though
not obtrusive, are yet sufficiently rich and numerous to prevent
heaviness or insipidity. The stables, contained in the north wing,
are on a scale of princely magnificence. The internal accommo-
dations are extensive, although convenience has been somewhat
sacrificed to the production of an imposing fapade. The library
is rich in early specimens of printing, and illuminated conventual
manuscripts. An ample collection of paintings has been formed,
including works of many ancient masters, both of the Flemish
and Italian schools. Occupying an elevated plateau, the front
view, from the house eastward, embraces the opening of the Frith,
with its picturesque shores and rocky islets, North Berwick Law
closing the vista. The grounds within the plaisance are kept in
high order, formerly laid out after the French symmetrical taste.
The more formal arrangement has been broken down, but the
quaint clipt yew-trees and grassy terraces have been sufficiently
spared, to soften the transition from the style of the house and its
architectural accompaniments, to the irregularities of form and
outline, characteristic of the more modern alterations. The gar-
dens are extensive, well sheltered, and of varied exposure. Much
and successful pains are bestowed on theirk culture. The walks
within the grounds, more especially along the verge of the steep,
sea bank, abound in interesting views, whilst the abundance
tall evergreens readers the bleak aspect of a Scottish winter less
perceptible. The eastern and principal approach Proceeds up
the centre of an open levelled esplanade, but the western leads
through an overarching avenue   noble elms, forcibly illustrating


