
     Statistical Account

a beautiful verdure at all seasons, and rises into a conical
summit, called the eastern Lomond.  On the eastern side of
this hill the ridge gradually slopes, and is partly verdant
and partly heathy.  On the west the descent is steeper, to
the gap or opening which separates it from the western Lo-
mond, and which extends above a mile nearly on a level.
Upon the northern front of this intermediate space, the
eastern part of it, which swells beyond the line of the ridge,
rises in 4 tires of hills, resembling so many segments of a
circle.  The lowest is totally covered with a short heath,
interspersed here and there with a abrupt and rugged masses
of freestone rock.  It is well named the Black Hill.  From
its summit, as you approach the foot of the second, the sur-
face becomes verdant; but the face of the hill, which is
called the Stony Fold, is covered with loose heaps of blue
moor-stone, very hard, and of the finest grit.  They are
found in various shapes and sizes, from that of the smallest
pinnings, to the most solid binding masses employed in
building.  The sides and top of this hill are clothed with
a close and beautiful verdure, from which it is named the
Green Hill, and is reckoned superior, as a sheep walk, to
all the surrounding pasture.  Of similar form, but less mag-
nitude, are the two remaining hills, by which you rise to
the common ridge which divides the Lomonds.  Their
grass, too, is of coarser quality than that of the Green Hill,
but still very fit for pasture.  The western part of this in-
termediate space, and which is divided from the eastern by
a deep ravine, stretches from the circular into the rectuli-
neal appearance; and from the first ascent, which is higher,
more abrupt and broken, runs to the summit of the ridge,
by three different ascents, bearing some resemblance to ter-
race walks in a hanging garden.  From the summit of the
hill and ridge, the southern aspect has little variety, but a
gradual and uniform descent, till it joins the parishes of


