
36                                  AYRSHIRE.

the circumstance is worthy of notice, for the purpose of showing
how much the sea has receded since that time. The church-yard
having been close by the church, the violence of the western storms
appears to have been so great, as to uncover the bodies of the dead,
by blowing or washing away the loose sand in which they were
buried. In order to avert this evil, King Robert granted a char-
ter in 1381, offering as a reward to those who would devise means
of protecting the town church, and cemetery from the blowing of
the sand, such parts of those waste lands as they might be able,
by their labour and expense, to render habitable, to be held by
them and their heirs, in free burgage for ever, on payment of
a penny, for each perch or rood so cleared. It does not appear,
however, that the reward held out bad the desired effect. The
samd annoyance was afterwards complained of by the inhabitants,
as is shown by an application to the Duke of Albany, who was
Regent during the reign of Robert III., for liberty to srataiten the
Sandgate Veunel, in order to guard against the same evil, which is
represented as threatening the destruction of the town. Liberty
having been granted, an order to build the houses closer to one
another was given by the magistrates in 1425. That such an an-
noyance to so great an extent should have existed is apt to appear
not a little strange at the present day, but from the above existing
deeds, there can be  no doubt of the fact. The receding of the
sea and the building of the fort walls have totally removed the
evil.
	Monastery of Dominicans.--Ayr appears to have been at all
times amply provided with pastoral superintendence; and, under
the Roman Catholic religion, it enjoyed more than might now
seem necessary for its, population. A monastery of Dominicans, or
black or preaching friars, as they were variously called, was found-
ed by the Bishop of St Andrews in the year 1230, and a charter
granted in its favour by Alexander II. dated at Forfar in 1242.
This charter is confirmed by Robert Bruce, at Girvan, in the
twenty-third year of his reign. This. monastery was the first
of the Dominican order that was established in Scotland, and its
revenues became considerable, both by orhginal endowment and sub-
sequent donations. The Wallaces of Craigie appear to have be-
stowed upon it considerable benefactions; and one Allan Lauder
gave to it, in perpetual aliment, part of the lands of Dankeith, for the
soul of wife Alice CAmpbell and all his posterity. There are
several other gifts and mortifications which were made over to this
				4


