
522                      FIFESHIRE.

dipping towards it. This limestone is 11 feet thick, of a whitish
gray colour, and compact structure. It is supposed to extend to the
trap at the foot of Duncarro Hill. The strata above consist of two
feet of inferior limestone termed sklut. It is unlike the other
skluts, and is entirely composed of organic remains, united by a
calcareous cement, the prevailing fossil being the encrinite, found
in all positions, dislocated and studded all over, giving it the ap-
pearance of a conglomerate. There are also found in this sklut
the shells of the Producta in great abundance, a few Terebratula,
some fish teeth and scales. Above this sklut are 14 feet of shale,
4 feet of schistose sandstone; 2 feet 6 inches of shale; 15 inches
of coal; 2 feet of brown inferior limestone; 8 yards of various
strata, hitherto unascertained; then coal 2 feet 4 inches thick;
4 yards of various strata, then another coal 2 feet 6 inches thick,
then a different kind, i. e. the 6 foot coal inclined at a high angle,
and then the 10 foot coal, almost all vertical. The limestone is
wrought by tirring in Ladedda quarry, and from eight to ten men
are employed in the work. It is impossible, in a work of the pre-
sent nature, to give a full account of the lime and coal which
a found in the parish of Ceres; but it will be apparent, from what
has been already written, that there is here a very extensive field
either for theorists or practical speculators; and if the demand
for coal continues to increase, it will likely be found to be neither
a bold nor a very profitless speculation to re-open some of the
coal-works that have been allowed here to get into disuse. Those
who wish to study the subject fully are referred to a valuable
article in the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture for June 1836,
written by Mr David Landale. I have borrowed liberally from
his article.
     No coal or limestone has hitherto been discovered on the north
side of Ceres water. There is at Baltullo milli, near Ceres, a seam
of the "wright's black coal," which is used for markig. The
seam is from 18 inches to 2 feet thick. The dip is nearly the
same as that of the limestone on the south side. Some of this
black coal was sent to America, and L. 7 was received for one
ton of it. The proprietor of the ground does not wish it to be
wrought, and has closed up the quarry.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY
     Ceres appears to have been made up, in past generations, of a
number of distinct baronies. In the parochial registers, of date
1631, there is particular mention of the various deacons who be-


