
                    PORT-GLASGOW.                           63

commonly Port-Glasgow,--a name simply expressing the design of
its erection, as the Port of Glasgow.
    Extent.--In its form, this parish approaches nearly to a square
and does not exceed an English mile either in length or, breadth. It
has for its boundaries the river Clyde on the north, the east pa-
rish of Greenock on the west, and Kilmalcolm both on the east and
the south. The land presents a very irregular appearance, consist-
ing chiefly of hills which rise immediately behind the town in two
successive ridges to a considerable height, and which covered with
wood and verdure, exhibit a beautiful object to travellers passing
along the river, and richly reward the labour of an ascent, by af-
fording an extensive view of the surrounding country, not surpas-
sed in grandeur and loveliness even by the most admired scenes of
which England, and perhaps Europe can boast. From the top of
these hills, and nearly on a level with it, the parish extends in a
southerly direction to the distance of about half a mile and is divid-
ed into seven farms, some of them considerable in size, but all of
them in a very imperfect state of cultivatioin, and naturally Of a cold
and barren soil. By far the most valuable portion of the land of this
parish lies along the bank of the river, to the extent of about 300
yards from the water's edge; the whole of which has long been con-
verted into garden ground, and furnishes a supply both of vege-
tables and fruit, excellent in, quality, and in quantity much more
Abundant than is required for the use, of the inhabitants.
   Climate.--The Proportion of wet weather here as in other places
along the coast, has been ascertained to be considerably greater
than in those districts which lie farther removed, from the sea. In
addition to other causes of a more general nature, the high lands
in the immediate neighbourhood may have some influence in con.
tributing to the moisture of the atmosphere. Certain it is that the
heights above the town have the effect of intercepting the sun's rays,
and do not permit them to fall on it during nearly six weeks in too
winter. It would be difficult to specify any diseases which can be
said to be peculiarly prevalent in this parish. Few places of equal
extent contain a greater number of very Old people; a circumtance
which sufficiently indicates the saubrity of climate
   River.--The breadth of the river here does nor exceed two miles;
and the greater part of it is dry at low water. But the channel of the water suffi-
cient to keep afloat vessels of the largest dimensions, with their
full cargo in perfect security. In ordinary tides, the water rises to


