
     Statistical Account

the neighbourhood of Arras, in the county of Artois.  In
ancient charters, they subscribe themselves Abbates de Stryve-
ling Alexander Miln, Abbot of that place, was the first
President of the Court of Session, instituted by James V. anno
1532.  The Abbacy now belongs to Cowan's Hospital in
Stirling, having been purchased from the predecessors of Mr.
Erskine of Aloa, on whom the property of there lands was
conferred at the reformation.  It is probable, that Stirling
grew to its present size, very loon after it became the tempo-
rary residence of royalty; and, from the most accurate atten-
tion to its situation and circumstances, it may be concluded to
have undergone very little change, either in size, or in the
number of its inhabitants, for the last 600 years, till very
lately.  But to give an account of the antiquities of Stirling,
however desirable, would only be to wander into a labyrinth
of conjecture, Mr. Nimmo, in his history of Stirlingshire,
has laid all upon this subject, that can be dated with any de-
gree of certainty.  There is no regular annal, or register, re-
specting it, previous to the middle of the 15th century; and
the only one that reaches back to that period, or near it, is
the register of sasines, commencing in 1473.  The council
records commence in 1597.

   Situation and Improvements.-The situation of Stirling is ro-
mantic.  Raised on a rock in the middle of an extensive plain,
in the near neighbourhood of a winding river, which seems
unwilling to part from it; and, having the full view of finely
cultivated fields, bounded on the south by rising woodlands, and
on the north by the Ochil hills, it is scarcely possible to imagine
any landscape more beautiful or picturesque.  Added to its
situation, which is singularly beautiful, it has of late received
many improvements, exceedingly conducive both to the com-
fort and convenience of the inhabitants.  Water has been
brought from a considerable distance to supply the town.


