
            PARISH OF BEDRULE.

PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TERVIOTDALE.

THE REV.  ARCHIBALD CRAIG, MINISTER.

     I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-- THE name of the parish, as well as that of the stream
near which it is situated, appears to be of Gaelic origin. From
the modern spelling, one might be led to suppose that the village
is so called, from its being in the hollow or what once formed the
channel of the river.   But neither the position of the village, nor
the old spelling, will Warrant, this conclusion.  It was formerly writ-
ten Bedderull, Bedderoull, and Badroull, and the inhabitants still
pronounce it as if written Betherull.  Rule, or more properly Roull,
is composed of two Gaelic words, and has no reference to or connec-
tion with St Regulus--Ruchd-- Thuil, pronounced as if written Ruch-
oul, contracted, into Roull, signifying the rumbling-noised river,--a
meaning very descriptive of the stream, which, especially near the
village, and till near its confluence with the Teviot, runs with a
hoarse sound, over a very rough rocky channel composed of boul-
ders and fragments of freestone rock, loosened by the  action of the
stream, through a long course of ages.  Bad in Gaelic signifies a tuft
of trees of ordinary extent, separated from a large neighbouring wood,
or a collection of houses in a spot distinguished by its aptitude for
building, compared with the surrounding localities, a meaning pe-
culiarly applicable to the situation both of the old and new villages.
Thus the whole word will be Bad-ruchail, pronounced by  a true
Celt very nearly as the vulgar Betherull.* The true orthography
then seems to be Badroull, as it is found in the ancient distich,

                 "And Auld Badroull had on his Jack,
                  Wi'a'the Turnbulls at his back."
And the name of the village in Gaelic means the village by the
roaring stream.
     Extent, Boundaries.--The parish of Bedrule is situated nearly
in the centre of Roxburghshire.  It is bounded on the east by the

<FOOTNOTE>I am indebted for this etymology to Dr Mackay, minister of Dunoon, the learn-
ed editor of the Gaelic Dictionary.


