
730                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

ferent nature, a plain proof of violent convulsions in the bowels of
the earth at some period.
   Allocial Sand.-On the farm of Pulquhite is found, at various
depths below the surface of the ground, from 6 inches to 35 inches.
a bed of rough sand, evidently broken down, and formed of Be-
nochee granite, and deposited there by the agency of water, in
which is had previously been suspended.
   Mountain Subterranean Moss.-On the northern part of the
same farm, at a place now called Mutton Hillock, is a moss about
three feet below the surface of the ground, extending to the dis-
tance of 30 or 40 yards from north to south, and, in some places,
more than 8 feet deep.  The superincumbent soild has been brought
from a distance after the formation of the moss, as it consists of
a variety of materials,-coarse gravel, flint stones, (of which an
immense quantity is dispersed over a great part of the Garioch,)
and stones of various sizes and kinds, some of them fragments
of slate-stone from the adjoining hill of Culsamond.  The field
in which the moss alluded to is found, in a plane inclined to the
south-east, and the slate-rock is to the north-west of it.  It may
therefore be inferred, that the direction of the great mass of water
which superinduced this disposition was from north-west to south-
east.
   Ironstones and Iron-ore.-A considerable quantity of iron-
stones are found on or near the surface of the ground, and also a
large vein of ironstone stretches from west to east, through the
whole length of the district, passing through the parishes of Insch,
Culsamond, and Rayne.  Some of the blocks were sent to Car-
ron, and, it is said, produced plenty of good iron.  The water
which runs over these iron-rocks carries away part of them, which
it deposits in various hollow places, forming bog-iron ore.
   Reg.-Iron Ore.- At the bottom of the inclined plane already
mentioned, there were found, in cutting a ditch, about eight feet
below the surface, large quantities of this swamp-iron ore mixed
with culvarized oak-wood, part of it in various stages of decompo-
sition.  The mixture was of a beautiful light blue colour, in con-
sequence of the decayed wood being impreguated with the iron.
Mineral Wall of Soughunloan.-Some years ago, a mineral well
was discovered here, but it has not as yet been much frequented.
It is said to have been of ??? in acrofulous complaints and in cal
culus.

