
     of Dundee.

pice of gravel, apt to be undermined by the sea, and en-
croached on by the wind.  In all the tract of ground, west
from the town, there are but one or two places where small
vessels can come to land.  The harbour of Dundee lies to
the south of the rocks, on which the principal part of the
town is situated; and here the ground slopes to the water more
gently, and the harbour is capable of receiving vessels of 300
tons.  Eastward from the flat ground, where the ancient part
of the town was built, and along the estate of Craigie, the
shore again becomes rocky, but in several places small ves-
sels may come to land.  Beyond this estate, the coast falls low-
er, excepting at one promontory called the Hare Craigs, and
at the Ferry, near Broughty Castle, it becomes a flat links, with
a fine gravelly beach, where larger vessels may safely ap-
proach.  In the tides there is no peculiarity.  As the cur-
rent in the north sea flows south, we have high water about
half an hour sooner than at Leith, and at the harbour the rise
from low to high water is, in the highest streams, about 18
or 20 feet.  Some rocks lie off the harbour, but, excepting
4, which have buoys, or beacons, they rise above the surface
of the water.  The current of the Tay, especially after land
floods, is rapid.  Many sand banks lie to the eartward be-
tween this harbour and Errol, and they are all on the north
side of the river.  The principal channel of the Tay is on the
Fife shore, and it is only by this that vessels of any burden
can go up to Perth or Newburgh.  Continual incroachments
are made by this river, on the low lands of the Carse of Gow-
rie, and the Inch of Mugdrum, opposite to Errol; and the soil
which is washed away, comes down with the tide, and is de-
posited all along our shores, especially in the harbour.  A
bason, which they shut at high water, and open when the tide
has left the harbour, was, for a long time, the only resource
for clearing away the soil, which is thus deposited.  The

     C c 2


