
     of Kilsyth.

ged in the clay above the lime; and it resembled much an
elephant's tooth, at least it was of the colour of ivory, and as
smooth.  It was precisely of the form of a large tooth or
small crooked horn, about an inch and a half diameter at the
base, and tapering till it terminated in a sharp point.  The wa-
ter that oozes through the fissures of this post of lime is clearly
of a petrifying quality.  And all these apertures are filled
with clay and petrified shell.  Where this post is thickest,
which is at a place called Westside, it has been wrought for
some years by mining, and has been burnt in draw kilns.
As the roof is good, the post generally 7 or 8 feet thick, and
divided into square cubes by horizontal and perpendicular fis-
sures, it is wrought to much advantage, at a very moderate
expence.  It may be wrought for ages, for the post seems
inexhaustible.  And it is nearly 700 feet above the level of
the valley, and must therefore always be level free.
   As it consists almost entirely of shells, it is of course, of
the best quality; and contains the greatest quantity of calca-
reous earth, and the least proportion of sand of any lime per-
haps in Scotland.  Therefore the demand for it is great, and
increases every year.  Considerable quantities of it have been
sent to Glasgow, by the great canal.  But the greatest part
is employed in this parish, and in the parishes of Kirkintul-
loch, Cumbernauld, and Cadder.  Upwards of 1000 chal-
ders have been sold this summer; though the work is proper-
ly speaking, in its infancy.  It is sold at so low a rate as 8 s
the chalder, or 6 d per boll, and is the cheapest lime in this
neighbourhood, though it is the best.  The boll is equal to
three firlots of corn measure.
   Below this, about a quarter of a mile, and in the course of
the same burn, there is another post of lime.  It is of a very
free grain; and of a dusky marble colour, capable of a fine
polish.  But as the post is thin, not exceeding 45 inches,
     VOL. XVIII. c g


