
52                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

the number of Dissenters is stated to have been thirty-four. Dis-
senters are not numerous within the bounds of this Presbytery, ex-
cept in those parishes where the inhabitants cannot find accommo-
dation in the parochial churches. The people in general are re-
gular in their attendance on Divine ordinances, and decent in their
deportment.  The number of communicants is about 385, and
sometimes 400.
   Bducation.-There are three schools in this parish.  The pa-
rochial school is in the village of Athelstaneford, and the school-
master has received a liberal education. The branches taught at
this school are English, writing, arithmetic, geography, and the
Latin and French languages.  The schoolmaster's salary is the maxi-
mum; he is well accommodated with a house and garden, and the
school room is one of the best within the county.  The school fees
are fixed at a low rate, and the number of scholars during winter
and spring are between eighty and ninety, and they are in summer
about seventy.
   There is another school in this village established by the heri-
tors, for girls, taught by a woman, who instructs them in the first
principles of the English language, and in needle-work. The
number of young persons who attend this school is about twenty.
   The Earls of Hopetoun have, for more than a century past,
established a school on their lands in this parish, at which the
common branches of education are taught.  The schoolmaster has
about L.10 of salary, and a house and garden; and the number of
his scholars is generally thirty-five in summer, and sixty during
the winter.
   In all these schools the principles of the Christian religion are
carefully attended to.  Lord Hopetoun's schoolmaster has been
wont to keep a Sunday school in that part of the parish where he
is settled, and a school of the same kind is kept in the village of
Athelstaneford.
   The people of this parish give their children the common
branches of education taught at the parochial school; and although
there be an influx of strangers at every Whitsuntide, yet the mi-
nister is not aware of any in this parish above six years old but
have been taught to read.  The kirk-session pay for the education
of orphans, and a benevolent lady who resides in this parish pays
for the education of those whose parents are in mean circumstances.
   Libraries.-A parochial library was established here about thirty
years ago; and the people are also well supplied with Mr Samuel


