
          1252                        PERTHSHIRE.

          The kite (Milvus Ictinus) is rarely seen so far from the lakes
          and mountains to the north and west; but the long-eared owl
          (Otis auritus,) the common ivy or brown owl (Strix Aluco,) and
          the barn owl (Strix flammea,) are common.  Rooks are very nu-
          merous, in consequence of there being large rookeries on the es-
          tates in the neighbourhood, especially at Ochtertyre and Blair-
          Drummond.  The hooded-crow (Corvus cornix,) the jay (C. glan-
          darius,) and also the jackdaw and magpie, are natives.  A white
          crow was latel shot in this neighbourbood; and a magpie, almost
          white, was entrapped by the gamekeeper at Blair-Drummond.
          Both have been preserved.
            This parish is periodically visited by the landrail (Crex stre-
          pera,) by the bat, the goatsucker (Caprimulgus Europoeus,) by
          starlings, and a few golden plovers.  We have also the fieldfare,
          redwidg, and missel-thrusb, the two former of these remaining till
          the middle of March or beginning of April (the missel-thrush re-
          maining permanently,) when they migrate to Norway or Sweden,
          and are succeeded by the common thrush, after it has been some
          months absent.
            As the following list of smaller birds contains generally the dif-
          ferent species of those which visit this parish periodically or are
          permanent, it may perhaps with propriety be admitted into this
          Account, especially as many of the more common kinds are pur-
          posely omitted:
<TABLE>
          Certhia familiaris     Silvia salicaria       Parus ater
          Muscicapa grisola      Regulus cristatus      ----- caudatus
          Silvia phoenicurus     Saxicola cenanthe      Pyrrhula vulgaris
          ------ cinerea         -------- rubicola      Fringilla montium
          ------ troehilus       -------- rubetra       --------- linaria
          ------ hypolais         Anthus pratensis      --------- spinus
          ------ aibilatrix      ------- arboreus       --------- carduelis
          ------ atracapilla      Parus palustris
          The crossbill  (Laxia curvirostra) is rarely seen here, but a
          great number appeared during the winter of 1838, especially at
          Lanrick Castle, and after continuing some months in the planta-
          tions of spruce firs, on the seeds of which they feed, they disap-
          peared in the spring.  During their stay, however, specimens of
          the male and female were shot and are carefully preserved.
            The common sandpiper (Tringa hypoleucus,) and the water
          ouzel and dipper, (Cinclus aquaticus) frequent our rivers; and the
          king-fisher (Alcedo ispida) also is occasionally seen, displaying his
          brilliant plumage as he skims swiftly along the streams, or perches
          watchfully on the twigs which overh`ng his favourite fishing pools.
          The varieties of water-fowl are very limited.  Seagulls of differ-


