
				CAERLAVEROCK.                       357

to their relative situation and size. The office-houses are in a still
worse condition; some of them, indeed, give obvious indications
that they will soon be numbered among " the things that were."
The glebe, including manse, office-houses, and garden, is 19 acres,
1 rood, 23 falls Scotch measure in extent. It is of excellent qua-
lity, although part of it is liable to be flooded by the Lochar.
The stipend is L.177, 5s. 91/2d. in money, and a teind of fish. It is
said, the teinds are not fully exhausted; but the addition is so very
trifling, that the present incumbent has never thought it worth
while to inquire into the matter. The stipend is all paid in money.
The late incumbent compounded with the proprietor, and for the
sum of L. 5 Sterling per annum gave up all right to the teind of
fish. Should the decision of the Court of Session, to which allu-
sion has been formerly made, be finally reversed, and the fishing
by stake-nets let on a lease, the rights of the clergyman will be
worth something considerable, perhaps L. 30 per annum. The
possibility of a law-suit occurring has hitherto prevented any ope-
rations requiring much outlay of capital; and, of course, the fish-
ing has not yielded what it otherwise would have done, or may do.
It is proper to state, that the point in dispute is,--where the river
Nith terminates and the Solway Frith commences.
	We have no place of worship of any description, except the pa-
rish church. About two years ago a Sabbath school was institut-
ed by the present incumbent, in which he officiates as teacher.
Another Sabbath school is also taught by Mr M'William at Black-
shaw. Almost all the inhabitants attend the Established Church. Of
late, however, a few individuals, who had taken umbrage at the con-
duct of the session with regard to Dr Hutton's mortification, have
employed the occasional services of a Dissenting preacher, who of-
ficiates in the upper room of a tavern. There are three or four
Roman Catholics, and as many regular hearers in Mr Clyde's Dis-
senting chapel, in Dumfries. Divine service is well attended in the
parish church, and the respectful demeanour of the congregation
during its performance has been the subject of gratifying remark
to all who have been called to officiate in the pulpit. The num-
ber of communicants is above 420. There have been two collec-
tions in the parish church during the last eighteen months,--the first
for the Scottish Missionary Society, when nearly L. 4 was rais-
ed; and the other for the India Mission, when the collection did
not exceed L. 3 ; but unfortunately the weather was at the time
very unfavourable.


