
146			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	Although it thus appears that a great deal of rain falls in the
course of the year, yet the porous nature of the soil secures its
speedy absorption. Frosts are seldom of long continuance, and
snows are felt only in their beneficial influences. The strongest
winds and the heaviest rains come in the direction of the sea, from
the west and snuth-west; although in early spring, the east wind
sometimes blows without intermission for many days, with the
most piercing keenness. No diseases however, are peculiarly pre-
valent in the parish, the general softness of the climate being no
less friendly to the human constitution than favourable to pasttr-
age, and the operations of husbandry. An occasional case of
small-pox, scarlatina, and typhus fever may occur, but these dis-
eases never spread their ravages far, nor are they ever of long
continuance. The blessing of health is enjoyed in an eminent de-
gree; it is no uncommon thing to meet with inhabitants who, in a
lifetime of fourscore years, have never been confined to bed by
sickness for a single week, and there are at present living in the
parish a man and a woman, both of whom have attained the ex-
traordinary age of ninety-seven years.
	Hydrography.--Springs and streams of the most excellent water
abound in the parish. The river Dee, which has here attained to
nearly its greatest volume, being only a few miles from the Tongland
rapids, below which it is met by the tide, runs along the whole west-
ern boundary of the parish. Immediately above the bridge of
Dee, and again at a small distance below it, the river separ`tes,
and by the confluence of its divided stream, forms two large and
beautifully wooded islands. Several streamlets descend from the
mountains and intersect the parish in different directions. The
Slackburn and the Auchlane burn, from Bengairn, after run-
ning parallel for a few miles in a northerly direction, turn their
courses westward, and fall into the Dee, the former above, and
the latter below the ancient village of Rhonehouse. Three
other burns descend from the Skreel, one of which flows in a
northerly direction, past the village of Gelston, and falls into the
Carlinwark Loch; the other two run in a south-easterly direction,
one on each side of the hill of Gelston, and having at length
united, fall into the Solway Frith near Orchardton. One of these
--the Yerroch--runs through a beautiful and romantic pass,
and, for several miles, forms the boundary between the parishes of
Kelton and Buittle.
	Loch.--Near the north corner of this parish there is a small


