
750                        LANARKSHIRE.

in general.  Without stating the extend of the parish roads, which
is rather indefinite, it may be mentioned that, for many years,
there was a heavy load of debt on the Statue Labour Fund, and
that, consequently, these roads were very ill kept.  Of late, there
is a decided improvement in this respect.  The merely farm and
service roads of the parish, from running through beds of clay, and
not being metalled, are in general, in a very wretched state, and
in the winter months nearly impassable.  Of late a good roads has
been made, by subscription, through the farm of Bent, which af-
fords communication between the parishes of Lesmahagow and
Dalserf, in their interchange of coal and lime.  The Duke of Ha-
milton has also within these few months, made a good new road
through the farm of Overton, so as to connect his new colliery at
Netherburn with the Lanark road on the banks of the clyde.  It
is probable that both these new openings, from their obvious pub-
lic utility, will be adopted by the parish road trustees.  These
trustees, from the provisions of the act on this subject, are very
few in number, and the interest of the public is often very imper-
fectly attended to.  It is a pity but a thorough revision were
made of the Statute Labour Act.  The London Mail passes
through the parish at stated hours on its way to and from Glas-
gow.  There is also a daily stage-coach from Edinburgh to Ayr,
another between the towns of Strathaven and Stonehouse and
Glasgow, and a third between Glasgow and Lanark.  The village
of Dalserf is about 18 miles south-east of Glasgow; 34 west of
Edinburgh; 37 east of Ayr; and is about half-way between Ha-
milton and Lanark, or 7 1/2 miles from each.
   There are two excellent bridges over the Clyde, connecting the
parish of Dalserf with the opposite bank, namely, Garion and Mil-
ton Bridges.  Garion Bridge, near Dalserf, consists of three arches,
of 65 feet span each, the roadway being 20 1/2 feet, and the height of
the parapet from the bed of the river 34 feet.  A large stone, built
into the toll-house, contains the following inscription:-" In tes-
timony of respect and gratitude to General Sir James Stewart
Denholm of Coltness and Westshiel, Bart., in whose patriotic zeal
for the improvement of his country this bridge originated, and by
whose liberal contributions, united with those of Mrs Catherine Bir-
nie Mitchelson of Broomhill, and the Rev. John Scott, D. D. mi-
nister of Avondale, it was happily completed in the year 1817, at
a time when there was no safe passage across the Clyde from La-
nark to Bothwell; the other contributors erected this stone.
                          4


