
                    KILFINICHEN AND KLIVICEUEN.             333

  Among the ruins of the monastery were the sacred black stones.
They are no longer to be found; but the spot where they were is
pointed out. On these the ancient Highland and island chieftains,
when they made contracts and alliances, used to make oath, which
was considered without incurring the greatest infamy.
  Bishop's House.-Upon the north side of the monastery, stand
the remains of the house which was the habitation of the Bishop
of the Isles, after the Isle of Man was separated from them. This
event, as already mentioned, happened in the time of Edward I.
of England. On the arrival of the bishop in Iona, the abbots
allowed them the use of the abbey church, for they had there no
cathedral of their own.
  Reilig Ourain, or the burying-place of Oran, a vast enclosure,
and the great place of interment not only for the monarchs
whose remains were deposited here, but for the chiefs and poten-
tates of every isle and their lineage, who were all ambitious of lying
in this holy spot. This place is, in a manner, filled with grave
and monumental stones, either covered with weeds and moss, or
half-buried in rubbish. The Iona Club, in 1833, by permission
of the President, his Grace the Duke of Argyke, made some search-
es in this ancient cemetery, for such tomb-stones as might have
been concealed by the accumulation of rubbish; and the result
of their operations was, that a considerable number of finely
carved tomb-stones were brought to view, which none of the in-
habitants had ever before seen. These were placed upon the
surface of the cemetery. Several of them bear inscriptions, which,
although not at present very legible, may ultimately be decipher-
ed and give some useful imformation.
  Oran's Chapel.-The chapel of St Oran stands at a little dis-
tance from the Cathedral, and to the south-west of the building,
which is said to have been the first building attempted by Colum-
ba. It is 60 feet long and 22 broad within the walls, and
filled with monumental stones. This was the burial-place of
the Macdonalds, Kings of the Isles and Lords of Isla, of the Mac-
kenzies, Macquaries, Macleans, Macleods, and other great fami-
lies.*

<FOOTNOTE>There is here one monument still entire having a ship upon it with hoisted sails,
a standard, and four lions with the following simple inscription "Hic jacet Corpus
Angeusii Filii Domini Angusii MacDonuil de Yle," i. c. Here lies the corpse of An-
gus, the son of Angus MacDonald Lord of Islay. This is probably the monument of
that Angus who was Lord of Islay in the reighn of Robert the Bruce, and the steady


