
			BALMAGHIE.                              183

There was also found, the preceding summer, a stone, balls about
nineteen inches in diameter, which was presented to the Dumfries
Museum, and may be seen in the Observatory at Maxweltown.
	Upon the estate of Duchrae, in the northern part of the parish,
there are the marks of a small military station, which was probably
occupied by a detachment of the Roman army. *
	Land-owners.--The landed property in the parish is divided
among sixteen proprietors. Of these, several possess only a single
farm, but in every instance the yearly rental is considerably above
L.50.
	Balmaghie House, the residence of Captain James Murray
Gordon, R. N., patron of the parish, is situated on the southern
part of the parish, and not far from the Dee. Part of a more an-
cient building is incorporated with the present mansion, but no
part of it is of modern erection. The grounds possess in a re-
markable degree the indurating character so peculiar to Gallo-
way, and, advantage having been taken of this in laying out the
plantations, the effect is very pleasing.
	Upon the estate of Duchrae, and near the junction of the Dee

<FOOTNOTE>The following interesting communication has been received from Mr Joseph
Train of Castle-Douglas:--
	"The only relic nf the family of Douglas in Galloway that has reached our times,
so far as my information extends, is part of an oaken bedstead. well authenticated to
have been the principal one in the Castle of Threave, and said to have been that of
Black Douglas himself. "It is one of the old closer kind of beds to be seen yet in
some remote farm-houses in Galloway. The back and ends are of wood, and it seems
to have had sliding doors in front, but they are gone. The parts that remain are en-
tirely covered with carved figures of men and beasts, so rudely executed as to hespeak
its high antiquity. Busta of the various Earls of the family in their robes and coro-
nets are placed in the foreground, and surmounted by troopers caparisoned agreeable
to the Act of James I., Parliament 9, Cap. 122. Ilk laik landed man havand ten
poundies in gudes and geare, shall have for his bodie and for y defence of y realme and
ane sufficiedt action, (a leathern jacket strongly stuffed, anciently worn under a cot of
mail,) ane barnet and ane glove of plate, with ane speare and sworde, ane harbeirhon,
(babergeon) and gude iror, jack for his hodie, with ane knapishag, (a bead piece)and
twa gude Hawkerties, (armour) for the legr.' The infantry are evidently equipped
in strict accordance with the Act James I V., Parliament 6, Cap. 87. 'Mairover
the king commands that ilk inan havend the value of ane kow, in gudes and gear,
shall have ane bow with ane schaife of arrows and ane speare.' The dragoons are
mounted on weasel like chargers, each man in full panoply, and all performing differ-
ent evolutions,--one is in the act of shouldering his spear, an other drawing his clay-
more, and a third cutting down the enemy. The first foot soldier bears the handrengie
(standard), to which is attached a forked streamer with a lattier, or St Andrew's
cross. The national banner is supported by a sturdy bilman,--next comes an archer
with his bow bent, and carrying in his belt his schaife of arrows, and their various
Rantmen and Gillies. The piper is a conspicuous person in this motley group, by the
size of his cheeks, which appear extended to an extraordinary size by pressing wind
into his instrument. He is accompanied by a Paganini-like personage playing on
a one-stringed fiddle. The drummer, too, is a person of distinction--be is, repre-
sented as on a marsh, his drum being unbraced and slung over his shoulder by a
belt; but a variety of sword and Morris dancers seem more actively, employed, being
represented in all the zany buffoon attitudes of such performers. Although this an-


