
296                          FORFARSHIRE.

for the use of the garrison. It is now impossible to ascertain the
exact height and thickness of the walls, owing to the rubbish, both
on the outer and inner sides, being covered with a thick crusting
of moss and turf. Even in their present state, however, they are
in many places upwards of ten feet high above the ground.
	The masonry of these walls is now exposed in comparatively
few places, owing to that covering of turf which has already bedn
noticed. But enough is visible to demonstrate that they must
have been subjected to the action of a very powerful fire. Indeed,
a stranger that knew nothing about the place, carefully looking at
it, and walking over it, could hardly fail to be struck with the very
different and unusual sound which the stones have under the feet.
It is exactly the sound produced on walking over a heap of large
einders. Large pieces of the walls, consisting of stones of different
varieties, run together in a kind of imperfect vitrification, may be
seen lying about. Some parts are more or less vitrified than
others, and several of the stones have been comparatively little af-
fected by the fire. Among these, mineralogists have discovered seven
or eight varieties of stone, which are not to be found on the hill
at all, and which must have been brought together for this purpose.
The most fusible stones are placed indiscriminately in the wall
with others, in order to bind them together. Dr Jamieson states,
that the stones are placed in regular courses and banded, but that
they have been very irregularly affected by the fire. This, how-
ever, cannot be very distinctly ascertained in its present ruinous
condition, when so much of it is completely concealed from the
sight.
	It has been maintained by some, that these vitrifications are
merely the rerults of the great beacon fires, which were wont to
be lighted up on the summits of those hills, to alarm the surround-
ing tribes, in the time of danger and invasion. It is hardly possi-
ble, however, to look at a work of such magnitude as the present
on the Hill of Finhaven, and hold this opinion. To suppose
that a work of such extent as that which we have now described
was erected merely for the purpose of a beacon-fire, is preposterous.
That such signals may have been exhibited from it is perfectly
true, as they were at that time the only methods in use for alarm-
ing the country. But here is a work evidently raised at a great
amount and expense of labour and skill, constructed upon military
principles, for the holding of a numerous garrison, with walls and



