
                    PARISH OF DUFFUS.

               PRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY.

             THE REV.  ALEXANDER BRANDER, MINISTER.


              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name,Extent; &fc.-THIS parish, the name of which is supposed
   to be derived from the Gaelic word "Dubuist, signifying "black
   lake," and having reference to the lake of Spynie now drained, or
   to some other lake of which no vestiges remain, extends along the
   south side of the Moray Frith for nearly 6 miles, and having an average
   breadth of about 3 miles.  Its figure is that of an irregular
   parallelogram, bounded to the north by the sea, and on the other
   points by the adjoining parishes of Drainie, New Spynie, and
   Alves.
     Topographical Appearances.-Along the coast, and for half a
   mile inland, the surface is for the most part a meager green "benty"
   pasture.  All this ground had formerly, it is believed, been a rich
   cultivated soil, but was overblown with sand from the western beach,
   at the same time probably that the large estate of Culbin in Nairnshire
   was entirely destroyed by a similar calamity. The sand has
   long ceased to blow; and a great portion of this space, as well as
   of land more partially covered, has been brought into culture by
   the joint efforts of enterprise and industry.  All the rest of this
   parish is arable, and in a state of complete cultivation. It presents
   in its general aspect an entire and unbroken level, with the exception
   of an eminence called the hill of Roseisle, and an artificial mound,
   upon which stand the ruins of the castle of Duffus,-which two acclivities
   serve, in a considerable degree, to diminish the tameness of a
   landscape, which, though at certain seasons rich and, even beautiful,
   offers little of, the grand or picturesque to gratify the eve of
   taste.  It exhibits, however, what is perhaps better an&more pleasing
   to the eye of benevolence, fertile, rich, and well-tilled fields,
   occupying the industry, and supplying the wants of many peaceful
   and happy families. In the western district of the soil is a
   black earth in s6me places a good deal mixed with sand, but in gene-
     ELGIN.                            C


