
240		       STIRLINGSHIRE.

position. Several trap dikes are found to intersect the coal mea-
sures of this district, by which the coal is frequently thrown out of-
its position, relatively to the horizon, and sunk or elevated to the
extent of several yards from its original situation. One dike of
great extent thus intersecting the coal measures is to be seen in
the bed of the Glazert, at Kincaid Printfield, in the eastern part
of the parish, and near to Kinkell, about a mile farther to the west.
From traces of this dike having been discovered in a line to the
east, in the neighbouring parish of Kilsytb, and to the west, in
those of Kilpatrick and Renfrew, it is exceedingly probable that
it may be found to traverse the whole coal basin lying between the
Friths of Forth and Clyde, in a north-east and south-west direc-
tion, and, therefore, intersecting the coal, which dips from north-
west to south-east, nearly at right angles. A very fine section of a
dike of compact felspar, about twenty feet in height and five feet in
breadth, is to be seen in the Kirkton Glen, in the west end of the
parish, elevating the strata of limestone, slate-clay, and ironstone,
which bear upon the dike, and dip on either side of it at a con-
siderable angle. The slate-clay, where in contact with the fel-
spar, is consolidated into a hard splintery mass resembling jasper.
   The coal formation consists of the usual alternating rocks of
freestone, limestone, argillaceous ironstone, aluminous clay-slate,
&c. with beds of fossil shells, such as usually occur in the tipper
members of this series.
   From the unequal and undulating nature of the surface through-
out the whole of this district, it may readily be supposed that the
thickness of cover overlying the coal strata must vary considerably
in different situations.
   The limestone in this district is wrought for agricultural and
building purposes, and is of the very finest quality, being almost
altogether a pure carbonate of lime, as will be seen by the follow-
ing analysis of a portion of that stone, viz.--


<TABLE>
		Carbonate of lime,	93.00
		protaxide of iron,	 2.90
		magnesia,		 1.30
         Insoluble earthy matter,             2.21
         Iron pyrites,                        0.59
					 ____
				       100.00

   This limestone lies about two feet above the coal, and is three
feet ten inches in thickness. Another stratum is found at nine
inches under the coal. It is provincially called the white lime-
stone. From its situation, it hitherto has not been wrought to any
extent; but it also is of very excellent quality; and from the


