
886                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

possesion of the family of Drum till 1737, when th/e1 entail hav-
ing been reduced, they were sold to Mr Duff of Culter.  From
his family they passed, in 1807, into the hands of Thomas Bur-
nett, Esq. Advocate in Aberdeen, and Purse-bearer to her Ma-
jesty's High Commissioner to the Church of Scotland ; who sold
them, in 1821, to William Moir, Esq.; from whom they were pur-
chased, in 1839, by the present proprietor, Alexander John Kinloch,
Esq. who ranks as our third heritor, and is resident in the parish.
   Culter.-That part of the lands of Culter which lies in this pa-
rish, and forms the last and smallest division of it, belonged also to
the family of Drum, and was purchased from them by Mr Duff,
along with the lands of Park, in 1737.  Robert Duff, Esq. the
present proprietor, ranks as our fourth heritor, and is non-resident.
   Land-owners.-The four proprietors just mentioned are the only
land-owners in the parish, viz. Alexander Irvine, Esq. of Drum;
Sir Thomas Burnett, Bart. of Leys; Alexander John Kinloch,
Esq. of Park; and Robert Duff, Esq. of Culter.
   Eminent Characters.-This parish has the honour of being the
birth-place of James Gregory, the celebrated inventor of the re-
flecting telescope, and the first who employed the transits of Mer-
cury and Venus in determining the sun's parallax.  His father,
the Rev. John Gregory, was minister of the parish, and stuffered
much during the troubles for his outstanding against the Cove-
nant, having been fined 1000 merks, imprisoned, plundered, and
deposed.  His mother, Janet Anderson, from whom lie apparently
inherited his mathematical talent, was sister to Alexander Anderson,
Professor of Mathematics in the University of Paris, and daughter
of David Anderson of Finzeauch, who constructed the lofty spire
of St Nicholas Church, Aberdeen, and performed the mechanical
feat of removing Knoch Maitland,-a large rock which obstructed
the entrance to the harbour of that city.  Their son, James Gregory,
was born here in 1638, and was educated in Aberdeen.  A short
time after he had completed his course at Marischal College, and
when only twenty-four years of age, he published the Optica pro-
mota, a work which excited the attention of the scientific world,
and rendered his name illustrious.  He then went to Italy to pro-
secute his studies at the University of Padua, and published there,
in 1667, Vera circuli, et Hyperboles Quadratura.  Upon his re-
turn to London, in the following year, he was chosen a Fellow of
the Royal Society, published his Exercitationes Geometrica, and
was appointed to fill the Mathematical Chair in the University of
St Andrews.  While in that situation he married Mary Jamieson,


