
62                        FORFARSHIRE.

are two flour-mills, one of which, built two years ago by the Baker
Corporation of Dundee, is of large dimensions, and in which steam
is used in aid of the water-power. Several of the oatmeal-mills
were displaced to make way for these manufacturing establish-
ments; five of them, however, yet remain, which, being better
constructed than formerly, are quite sufficient for manufacturing all
the oatmeal consumed in the neighbourhood. A saw-mill, and
several of the thrashing-mills are likewise driven by water.
   The hours of labour in the spinning-mills are from six in the
morning to eight in the evening: the hours at the bleachfields
are from six in the morning to seven in the evening; and in both
cases two intervals during the day are allowed for meals.  The
work at the bleachfields cannot be considered as very heavy, as
the materials to be moved are light, and the labour, in general,
performed in the open air. There are, however, sometimes extra
hours of working; but the wages are increased in proportion to the
time employed; and while this labour is optional, it is expected
that only the strong and healthy will engage in it.
   Though the wages given at the public works furnish the means
of procuring the necessaries of life, and employment to those who
may not be engaged in agricultural labour,-though a ready mar-
ket be thus afforded for the produce of the soil, and the wealth
of the country be greatly increased,-it is very questionable whe-
ther these advantages be not counterbalanced by greater and very
obvious evils.  The Irish and Highlanders that are sometimes
employed at the bleachfields are not of such habits as to improve
public morals.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market Town.-As the parish reaches to the outskirts of Dun-
dee, it is conveniently situate in regard to a market town. It is
to Dundee that all the produce of the parish is carried for sale;
and it is there that all the articles required by the parishioners are
purchased. Besides the two market days, Tuesday and Friday,
there is an intercourse every day with the town. The articles of ma-
nufacture are constantly passing from the one place to the other;
labourers from Dundee are employed every day at public works;
children from the parish attend the seminaries in town; and coun-
try lodgings in this parish were at one time eagerly sought after by
the inhabitants of the town during the summer months.
   Means of Communication.-Three turnpike roads pass through
                            3


