
116 	     		     FORFARSHIRE.

   Zoology.--In the river South Esk, which forms the northern
boundary of the parish, there is abundance of salmon, grilse, sea-
trout, &c. In the month of May, a great quantity of beautiful clear
small trout called smouts make their appearance. It is said that they
are the salmon fry spawned the preceding autumn, and are then go-
ing down from the river to the sea, where they arrive at maturity. A
vast variety of aquatic birds frequent the basin or back sands, es-
pecially in the winter season, viz. wild gdese, ducks of various kinds,
gulls, sea-magpies, curlews, herons, &c. The wild geese arrive
in great flocks about the end of October, and generally remain till
March. They frequent the fields on the low grounds throughout
the day, where they feed upon the wheat stubble in autumn, and
the green wheat in winter; and they return to the basin at night.
The ducks, on the contrary, remain in the basin through the day;
but when the night falls, they go to the land, and feed upon the
stubble fields. In severe storms, swans are also to be seen in the
basin; but they do not remain long. There is a great abundance
of partridge in the parish, and some quails and pheasants.
   Botany.--The only rare plant in the parish is the Atropa Bella-
donna, or deadly nightshade, which grows in the Den of Bonny-
town. Its berries are of a dark-purple colour, and highly injuri-
ous when taken internally. Their juice forms a beautiful ink of a
bluish colour, which is durable on paper, if used when pressed
from the berry; but, if kept in a phial, it in a few days loses both
strength and colour.

           	    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   The parish, as already mentioned, consists of two estates, Old
Montrose and Dysart, which are separated half a mile from each
other by a part of the parish of Craig intervening. Old Mon-
trose was the property of the gre`t family of Montrose till the reign
of Charles II. when it came into the possession of the Earl of
Middleton. Since that time it has passed through many hands,
and is now the property of Sir James Carnegie of Southesk,
Baronet. From its name, one would suppose that there had been
a town here before the present town of Montrose-was built; but of
that there is no tradition. Bonnytown, formerly a separate pro-
perty, but now a part of the estate of Old Montrose, was once the
residence of the family of Wood. The foundation of the castle
they inhabited is still to be seen; and of a moat or broad deep
ditch by which it was surrounded and fortified, the vestige still re-


