
46                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

present parish church stands; one at Cill-Santninian, near Temple;
one at Cillmhichael, a short distance west of Drumnadrochit; and
another in the height of the country at Corrymony, called Claodh
Churidan, the burial-place of Curidan. In Glenmoriston, the sequestered
and picturesquely lying burial place called Clachan au
Inair, that is, the burying-ground of the lower district, is situated
at the mouth of the valley, and another higher up is denominated,
in honour of an old saint, Clachan Merechard, the word Clachan,
literally a stone, being the distinctive appellation for a fane or
church. Numerous sepulchral cairns and circles of upright stones
or ancient Pagan temples exist in the district, but none so large as
to merit a particular description.
   Connected with antiquities, it is necessary to be borne in mind,
that, owing to the inaccessible state of the country, and to the distance
at which the chiefs of the clan Grant resided from it, this
district was, till after the suppression of the Rebellion in 1746, in
a very unsettled and rather lawless condition. At that time, also,
the population was beginning to be excessive, and the resident gentry,
from the want of employment for the young and daring minds
with whom they were surrounded, had such difficulty in keeping
them in subjection, that by some the breaking out of the Rebellion
was regarded almost as a relief to their restlessness. But if such
was the state of the districts bordering on the lowlands, those farther
to the west were still more unhappy and unsettled; and the inhabitants
of Urquhart, who, besides the tending of cattle, had also
begun to devote themselves to agriculture, were exposed to frequent
depredations from the clans inhabiting the districts around
Glengarry, Loch Eil, and Kintail.
  It may be added, that the burn of Aultsigh was, in the early part
of the seventeenth century, the scene of a conflict, which is one of
the most memorable connected with the parish, betwixt a party of
the Macdonells of Glengarry, and the Mackenzies of Ross-shire.
   This has been commemorated in a celebrated pibroch called
" the Raid of Cill-Christ," said to have been composed by the
Glengarry piper during the conflagration of the church which occasioned
the conflict.
   Land-owners.-The heritors or absolute proprietors of the lands
in this parish are, Sir Lewis Alexander Grant of Grant, Baronet;
Earl of Seafield, whose seat in this district is at Balmacaan, in the
lower valley of Urquhart: James, Murray Grant, Esq. of Glenmoriston
and Moy; Patrick Grant, Esq. of Lakefield; and Thomas


