
196                 	KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

ranton differs a little in form from the rest, having one side curved
inwards, whereas the others are all of a circular or oval form, and,
what is very singular, each of three moats has a road-way to the
summit by a sloping passage towards the east.
	" Within a distance of two miles may also be seen thirteen large
sepulchral cairns, in some of which stnne-coffins containing hu-
man bones, have been found; and on a steepy crag, overhanging
the margin of Loch Roan, are the remains of an ancient hill-fort,
yet calldd by the country people the Auld Kirk of Loch Roan.
	" In an adjacent field, there were ploughed up, a few years ago,
two ancient spear-heads, and lately, in the farm of Kitnotrie, was
turned up, by the plough, a Roman battle-axe of bronze, of fine
workmanship. It is now in the possession of Mr James Na-
pier of Greenlaw.
	" Near Glenlochar Bridge was also turned up, by the plough,
several years ago, the head of a caparisoned war-horse in bronze,
evidently of Roman manufacture. This unique remnant of anti-
quity is now in the possession of Colonel James Gordon of Cul-
vennan.
	" In the farm of Hallferne was found lately, near the large moat,
a beautiful Druidical amulet, such as the country people call an ad-
der bdad. It is of a circular form, nearly. an inch in diameter, and
is composed of a pale-coloured glassy substance, having on the sur-
face all around a waving stripe nf yellow. Popular credulity hav-
ing, in olden times, derived the origin of the ' quht stane of cris-
al,' from a mysterious combination of serpents, its virtues were
considered universal, whether as an antidote, palliative, or cure.
By the kindness of Mr Clark, the present occupant of the farm of
Hallferne, this relic has fallen into my possession.
	" There have been found, at different times, near the same place,
several round flat stones, each five or six inches diameter, perfo-
rated artificially in the centre. Even within the memory of some
persons yet alive, those perforated stones were used in Galloway
to counteract the supposed effects of witchcraft, particularly in
horse andd black-cattle. The canie wife o' Glengappock put a
boirt stane into ane tub filled withe water, and causit syne the haill
cattell to pass by, and, when passing, springled ilk ane o' them
with a besome dipped in it.' One of these perforated stones, as
block and glossy as polished ebony, is also in my possession. It
was recently found in the ruins of an old byre, where it had evi-
dently been placed for the, protection of the cattle. It appears to


