
92			AYRSHIRE.

their husbands. It would appear that the common property has
been divided among the forty-eight freemen, from time to time,
from the first erection of the burgh. But the first "daill" or di-
vision of which there is any record, took place in 1604, and was
to subsist till 1615. Owing, however, to the want of entries in
the community-book for a considerable period after this last date,
we have no account of another "daill" till 1655, which was also
to subsist for eleven years. But from 1666 till 1771, a new par-
tition was made every seven years, and the allotments made are
regularly recorded. In this last mentioned year, in order to put
an end to the evils which had been experienced from the short
period of possession which they had heretofore enjoyed--the free-
men resolved that the division which then fell to be made should
continue for fifty-seven years. And, when this period expired in
1828, it was determined that the continuance of the lots which
were then ballotted for should be for 999 years. In 1833, it
was farther agreed, that feu-rights of their lots should be granted
to such of the freemen as might wish to bold their lands in that
manner.
	The extent of the lots possessed by the freemen vary from six
to ten acres, according to the quality of the land. Their value
was formerly small. But since coal was discovered in the lands,
and more particularly since their respective possessions were ren-
dered more permanent, their value has greatly increased: and of
thirty freedoms which have been sold within the last forty years,
the prices have varied from L. 70 to L. 500.
	Newton is included within the parliamentary boundaries of the
burgh of Ayr by the Reform Act, so as to form one constituen-
cy with it in returning a Member to the House of Commons. No
actual list of the L. 10 proprietor, or occupiers has been taken,
but there are 218 occupants of L. 5 yearly and upwards, and it is
computed that about 100 of these have tenements at or above L. 10
yearly.
	The council of the burgh consists of two bailies, one treasurer,
and six councillors, who are annually elected by the freemen from
among their own number. Although their powers are extensive,
they have of late years only exercised jurisdiction in processes of
sequestration for rent, and petty breaches of the peace; and even
this limited jurisdiction is now seldom exercised. The constitu-
tion of the burgh in this respect will be altered, and possibly may


