
	232                        PERTHSHIRE.

ous even for horses.  This road is now become a sort of thorough-
fare between the Carse of Gowrie and Strathmore, and is of public
advantage, as well as private benefit.

May 1837.

				PARISH OF MEIGLE.

		PRESBYTERY OF MEIGLE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

			THE REV. JAMES MITCHELL, MINISTER.


		  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Situation, Extent, &c.-THIS parish is in the centre of Strath-
more, bounded on the Dorth-west and north, by the rivers Isla and
Dean; on the east and south, by the parishes of Essie and Nevy, and
Newtyle ; on the south-west and west by those of Kettins and Cu-
par-Angus.  It lies in 56&deg; 36 north Lat. and 5" east Long. from
Edinburgh, being in length 4 1/2 miles from west to north-east, and
from 1 to 2 miles broad.  It probably derived its name from its
local situation,-the church and manse being built on a plain be-
tween two marshes or " gills," which might thus have given rise to
the word Midgile or Meigle.
 Strathmore.-Strathmore, " the great strath or vale," reaches
from near Perth to Brechin, about 40 miles long, 4-6 broad,
bounded on the south and south-east by the Sidla Hills, and on
the north and north-west by the Grampians.  There are no caves
in the parish, and no part of it is hilly.  The gentle eminence on
which Belmont Castle stands (says Dr Playfair) is 204 feet above
the level of half-flood mark at Panbride, near Arbroath.  The
village of Meigle lies quite contiguous to the church, and is watered
by the burn of the same name.
 Geology, &c.-Two quarries of red sandstone have bden wrought,
and used for building.  The dip inclines to the west.  Marl was dug
in great abundance in the Gill, on the south.  It was covered with
peat-earth.  The remains of the marl are now mixed with the moss
by cultivation.  But where a bed of marl is found (as under the road
to Dundee) it is very soft and white, retaining scarcely any remains
of shells.
 Along the side of the marl-moss (called Myres,) and occa-


