
			CONTIN.                              237

	   Salmon, Pike, and trout are caught in these lakes and rivers.
	   Geology.-The prevailing formation in this parish is gneiss with
	its various subordinate rocks; the old red sandstone also occurs,
	but only in the lower parts of the parish.
	   Wood.-A considerable extent of the lowland district is cover-
	ed with wood, part of which has been planted. At one period, a
	large proportion of the parish must have been wooded ; for many
	roots and trunks of trees are still found imbedded in moss, in si-
	tuations where there is not so much as a shrub now to be seen.
	Even in the recollection of persons still living, there were forests
	of Scots fir, remarkable for the richness and durability of their
	timber. These have been cut down, but there remain some plan-
	tations of larch and fir; and the soil is congenial to oak, ash, elm,
	birch, plane, alder, and beech also. Of the latter, some venerable
	and stately trees at Coul are highly ornamental.
 				II--CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Land-owners.-The number of land-owners is II, of whom only
	one (Sir George Mackenzie) resides in the parish.
	   Parochial Reqisters.-With the exception of an old mutilated
	fragment, and one very imperfect register, there is no public re-
	cord of any kind, of a remoter date than 1805. Marriages and
	births were not regularly entered until 1826; but since then a re-
	cord of these has been kept in due form.
	   Eminent Men.-Of AEneas Morison, the last Episcopal minister
	of Contin, many interesting anecdotes are still related, illustrative
	of his wit and benevolence. This excellent man suffered very harsh
	treatment for refusing to conform to presbytery. He was rudely
	ejected from his own church, to which he had fled as a sanctuary;
	and he closed a long, and bonourable, and useful life in great in-
	digence. It may be noticed, also, that Mr Murdo Mackenzie, the
	second Presbyterian minister in the parish, appears to have been a
	man whose prudence, sagacity, and decision of character fitted him
	well for the times in which he lived, and the circumstances under
	which he acted.  Here, too, the name of the late Rev. Roderick
	Mackenzie, minister of Kilmuir Wester and Suddy, who was for
	sixteen years minister of Contin, is well entitled to a place, for his
	remarkable benevolence of disposition,--his active exertions to pro-
	mote the views of deserving youth,--and the paternat interest he
	ever manifested in all that concerned the welfare of his flock.
  	   Antiquities.-At the eastern extremity of Loch Achilty, is seen
	one of those circles formed of stone, within which the Druids are


