
		     BALDERNOCK. 			  171


mines afford an inexhaustible supply of pyrites and alum-ore,
which has induced the Hurlet and Campsie Alum Company to
establish here a copperas work, as a branch of their extensive ma-
nufacture.

		    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  The proprietors are numerous, and the soil has often changed
its landlord. The principal heritors at present are, Messrs Glass-
ford of Dougalston; Hamilton of Bardowie; Marshall of Lavrock-
hill; Stirling of Keir; Gray of Glenorchard; Lennox of Wood-
head; Hendry of Barraston; Gordon of Craigmaddie, &c. &c.
  Parochial Registers.--The records of session bear date 1690.
They have been very irregularly kept.
  Antiquities.--On the heights of the parish, and towards the
north-west, the ruins of a tower of unknown size and antiquity,
and once the mansion-house of the Galbraiths of Bathernock, lie
behind Craigmaddie, the seat of H. Gordon, Esq. On the farm
of Blochairn, are several oblong and circular cairns, memorials of
ancient feuds, where, tradition says, in a battle with the Danes,
one of their princes was slain. These cairns consist of heaps of
loose stones thrown on a circumference, sometimes of eighty yards,
beneath which are parallel rows of flags upon edge, three or four
feet wide, and divided into cells, six or seven feet long, lid-
ded with flags; and some of them contain, when opened, large
coarse urns, with pieces of human bones. Near this, a mile
north from the church, on the same property, are the Auld-
wives' Lifts, consisting of three stones of similar size, standing on
a flat of about 100 paces in diameter, surrounded by an amphi-
theatre a few yards in height. The two under stones are of a
prismatic form, placed along, close by each other, on the earth.
The third, probably at first a regular parallelopiped, and still ap-
proaching that figure, is placed on the top of the other two, and is
eightfeet long, eleven broad, six deep, lying nearly borizontally with
a small dip to the north. On a sequestered eminence, once sur-
rounded by a grove of oaks, the stamps of which are still visible,
these stones are said to resemble, in figure and position, other
Druidical monuments, and their name to correspond with that of
the Lifted Stone in Ireland, mentioned by Cambden, and those in
Poitiers in France called pierres levées.

		     III.--POPULATION.
  The population has, for some time, been decreasing, and is still
on the decline.


