
210                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

                     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town, &c.--The nearest market,town is Aberdeen,
There are two bridges over the river Dee, in this parish, viz. the
old Bridge of Dee, of seven arches, built by Bishop Dunbar, three
hundred years ago, and a suspension bridge about a mile below,
nearer Aberdeen, called Wellington Bridge, erected in 1829 at
the sole expense of the heritors.
	Ecclesiastical Stute.--The old church (which was situated in the
north-east extremity of the parisb) having fallen into decay, a new
one was erected by the heritors in a centrical situation, in the year
1829, the distance of which from any part of the parish is not
more than two miles and a half. It is a handsome church, will a
square tower for a bell and clock, built on an eminence, and seen
at a great distance. It cost L. 1800. The Crovn is patron. It
affords accommodation for 900 sitters,--a larger number than
usually resorts to it. It was built with a view to the increased po-
pulation of the parish, which it was supposed would take place in
consequence of the suspension-bridge across the Dee; but that in-
crease of population has not yet been so great as was expected.
	The manse war built in 1759. It has frequently been repair-
ed and enlarged. It is two miles from the new church.
	The extent of the present glebe is about ten acres of ground, as
good as any in the parish, and of the value of L. 5 per acre. Some
acres of the glebe being marshy, and often covered with water,
were drained and very much improved, at considerable expense,
by my predecessor, Dr Cruden, who lived for forty years after, to
enjoy the profit of his improvements, and left thd glebe in a high
state of cultivation to his successor. The stipend being one of
the small living of the church, is made up to L. 150 by the aug-
mentation of L. 67, 16s. 6d. yearly from the Exchequer.
	There are no chapels of ease, nor any Dissenting meeting-houses
in this parish, and very few Dissenters of any kind. Divine ser-
vice at the Established Church is generally well attended. The
average number of communicants is 603.
	There are not more than two or three Dissenting families in the
parish.
	Educatinn.--There are four schools in the parish.--1, Paro-
chial school. The schoolmaster has the modium salary, a pretty
good house, and small garden. Amount of school fees about L.20;
emolument from session clerk's fees and perquisites, L. 6,--2,
School at Cove. The schoolmaster has a small house and gar-


