
                           DALGETY.                         191

shore. It was formerly a Chapel of Ease to the monastery on the
Island of Inch Colme, when the seat of the Earl of Moray be-
longed to the abbots of that monastery. On one of the small gal-
leries is rudely emblazoned the heraldric arms of the Earl of Dun-
fermline, a family now extinct. Chancellor Seaton, who was creat-
ed Earl of Dunfermline in 1605, lies interred in a part of the area
of the church, along with some other individuals of distinction.
   A substantial and well-finished new manse and offices have also
been built within the last five years. They are situated on the glebe,
and are a few minutes walk from the new church. The grebe is
12 acres in extent, and lets for about L.1, 12s. per acre. The
teinds of the parish are exhausted; their amount is about 15 chal-
ders.
   There are no dissenting chapels in the parish, and those of the
parishioners who do not belong to the parish church, attend a
Burgher meeting-house either at Inverkeithing or at Crossgates.
The latter place is very conveniently situated for the colliers, being
only about a mile distant from most of them. The number of in-
dividuals attending the Established Church is about 400.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish. The paro-
chial schoolmaster has the maximum salary and the legal accom-
modation. The other school is supported entirely by the fees of
the scholars, and a free school-room. The expense of education
at the parish school is, 8s. for reading; writing, 10s.; and arith-
metic, 12s.,-which are the only branches taught. There are no
persons in the parish from six years and upwards who cannot read.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons upon
the poor roll is from 25 to 30, and the sum distributed is from 1s.
to 1s. 6d. per week. The annual disbursement is about L.40. It
does not appear that compulsory assessments have ever been intro-
duced into this parish. The three heritors have been in the habit
for a considerable period of assessing themselves to make up any
deficiencies in the poors' funds. Besides the weekly collections,
there is the interest of L.130 arising from legacies left by indivi-
duals to the poor of the parish. Since the new church was open-
ed, however, the weekly collections have been more than sufficient
to meet all the demands upon the poor funds, though the number
of paupers is rather upon the increase. The heritors had former-
ly to contribute about L.10 annually. At present the rare, though
much-wished for state of things here obtains, viz the voluntary
Sabbath day offerings of the parishioners supporting all the poor,


