
                          COULL.                            961

year 1644, and presented to the church by Mr Ross of Mill
of Coull.
   Sir John Forbes, Bart. of Craigievar, is sole patron of the pa-
rish.  The patronage and teinds belonged, at one period, to the
Abbey of Arbroath.  At the Reformation, they fell to the Crown.
The patronage afterwards passed into the hands of the Earl of
Panmure, from whom it was purchased by the family of Craigie-
var, and it has been in their possession about 150 years.
   Education.-The parochial is the only school in the parish.  Mr
Theodore Allan, the schoolmaster, who is also a licentiate of the
church, is a well qualified, zealous, and very successful teacher.
The intellectual system is followed, and particular attention is paid
to the religious instruction of the young.  No additional school
seems to be called for, although, at the extreme points of the pa-
rish, the children are rather far from school.  The schoolmas-
ter's salary is L.26, with allowance of L.2, 2s. for a garden.  He
receives annually from that admirable and well-managed charity,
the Dick Bequest, nearly L. 40.  The school fees amount to
about L.18, the session-clerkship held by the schoolmaster,
brings upwards of L.2, and there is a good dwelling-house
containing five apartments.  About forty years ago, the salary
of the parochial schoolmaster of Coull amounted only to fifty
merks Scots, and the school-fees were of inconsiderable value.
   Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
is 12, the average annual allowance to each L. 1, 12s., and the
average annual amount of funds for support of the poor is, from
church collections, L.14, from interest of money, &c. L.3.  When
these are exhausted, recourse is had to a small fund kept in the
bank, amounting at present to L.60, but which is rapidly under-
going a process of reduction.  The amount of the church collec-
tions has doubled within the last twenty years:

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   A remarkable circumstance connected with this parish is the
annexation, quoad sacra, of so large a part of it to the neighbouring
parish of Leochel.  It was evidently done for the convenience of
the inhabitants of Corse, but it is not known at what period the an-
nexation took place.  It appears from the old parochial registers
of Leochel, that the inhabitants of Corse were, about two hundred
years ago, considered as in that parish.  And the records of the
Synod of Aberdeen, year 1651, bear, that Me Andrew Gray, mi-
nister of Coull, who had attempted to intermeddle with the people


