
                             MONIMAIL.                         45

glebe contains five acres, and is worth L. 12 per annum. The sti-
pend is 16 chalders, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
  The number of families attending the Established Church is
238, and the number of individuals belonging to them is 1057.
The families of Seceders, &c. are 31, and the number of persons
162. There are 3 families containing II individuals of Episco-
palian principles. Divine service is generally well attended,-allow-
ance being made for bad roads and distance. The average num-
ber of communicants is nearly 500. There was until lately a
Bible and Missionary Society, collecting from L. 10 to L. 15 per
annum. The plan of congregational collections is now adopted;
and hitherto the amount raised has not fallen off. Cases requir-
ing the administration of discipline occur but seldom. Of the more
flagrant offences within the last seven years there has been one
murder, the murderer being a stranger; and five persons have been
convicted of adultery, three of whom were dissenters.
  Education.-There are five schools in the parish. The paro-
chial teacher has the full salary and the accommodation prescribed
by law. With school fees and some other small emoluments, his in-
come may be about L. 65 or L. 70 per annum. There are two
other schools taught by male teachers, partly supported by private
subscription and partly by fees, the emoluments being about L. 18
per annum. Two female teachers are similarly maintained, hav-
ing about L.15 each. The branches taught are reading, writing,
arithmetic, mathematics, grammar, geography, Latin, and in the
female schools knitting  and sewing. The school fees are 2s. or 3s.
per quarter. The people are fully aware of the benefits of educa-
tion. Very few, indeed, are ignorant of reading, though a good many
have not been taught to write. No additional schools are required.
The number of scholars during the winter season averages 150; but
the classes are not so well attended in summer. Children of eleven
and twelve years of age are sent to learn trades or to herd cattle,
and consequently the amount of education that many of them re-
ceive is very small.
  Libraries.-There are two parish libraries,-one contains a pretty
good selection of books of general literature; the other consists
exclusively of religious publications.
  Friendly Societies.- There is a flourishing friendly society in the
parish, which has done a great deal of good. Another was broken
up a few years ago, having been established on erroneous principles.
The nearest Savings bank is at Cupar.


