
                          EDINBURGH.                           721

In front of the semicircular part of the building are the working
cells, fifty-two in number. They are secured by open iron rail-
ings in front, so that the inmates are overlooked by the keepers in
the centre lodges. Behind are the bedrooms separated from the
day cells by a long passage. Of these, which contain one prisoner
each, there are 129. Various kinds of work suited to the different
prisoners are carried on in the cells. In the area below are a
school and chapel. An additional wing was added some years
ago containing twenty cells. This building, as above stated, is
now incorporated with the general prison. Considerable auditions
to the general prison, including a debtors' jail, are at present in
progress.
             VII.-CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS, &c.
   Trinity Hospital.-This Charity was founded in 1461 by Mary
of Gueldres, consort of James II., for the maintenance and cloth-
ing of thirteen poor persons. After the Reformation the reve-
nues were bestowed by the Regent Murray on Sir Simon Preston,
then provost of Edinburgh, who gave them to the citizens, to be
appropriated as before; and this bequest was subsequently ratified
by James VI. This hospital was situated at the north corner of
Leith Wynd. It was one of the oldest buildings in Edinburgh. The
interior was preserved in its original state, while all the conveni-
ences of modern life were added. The building, however, being
in the line of the North British Railway, was purchased by that
company and pulled down in 1845, the inmates, for the present,
being boarded out, and otherwise accommodated till Moray House,
Canongate, be prepared to receive them. The revenues of the hos-
pital, amounting to about L. 2000 a-year, are derived from lands in
the parishes of St Cuthberts and South Leith, and from money in
bonds. The inmates are decayed burgesses of Edinburgh, their wi-
dows, sons, and daughters. The right of presentation is vested in
several public bodies, and in certain families in Scotland. The
average number of inmates is about 50, besides 100 out-pension-
ers, who receive about L. 6 per annum. The objects of the cha-
rity must not be under fifty years of age, and unmarried.
   Heriot's Hospital.-This hospital was founded by George
Heriot, goldsmith in Edinburgh, and afterwards goldsmith to
James VI. on his accession to the English crown. This, indus-
trious tradesman, from small beginnings, amassed what in those
days was reckoned an immense fortune. The exact amount is


