
                          KILLDRUMMY.                          977

towers, differing in magnitude and form, rose for the protection of
the intervening buildings, which appear to have been but two
stories in height.  Two of these towers were for the security alone,
of the only gate placed in the western wall, occupying the whole
space between them ; the walls were four feet thick, built of run-
lime, and the outside courses of freestone, regularly squared; the
western wall was reared on the verge of the acclivity at first de-
scribed, which rose, however, in such a gentle slope, as to afford
space for the garden, which, though warm and finely sheltered,
would, in the present age, be accounted too small.  The northern
side was secured by the steep banks of the brook, and round the
east and south were deep artificial ditches, the whole fortification
occupying nearly three Scots acres ; besides a draw-well.  There
may be still traced from the interior of the fortress, a subter-
ranean vaulted passage, of height sufficient for horses, opening in
the bank, now much above the present bed of the brook, although
it is believed, its channel was then on a level with the exterior
opening of this covered way.  In the middle of the eastern wall,
the chapel may be still distinguished by the peculiar form of the
window above the altar, consisting of three very long and very nar-
row slits.  Tradition reports, that the chapel was occupied as a
magazine of forage, during the noted siege by the forces of Ed-
ward I. in the year 1306 ; that when Robert I. and his wife and
daughter, were understood to have made their escape, by means
of the covered way to the county of Ross, the besiegers despaired
of success, when a piece of red hot iron thrown through this win-
dow into the forage, occasioned such distraction by the conflagra-
tion, that the castle was won by surprise and storm.  (Vide Old
Account.)

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
       Amount of population in 1801,   -   430
                               1811,   -   467
                               1821,   -   496
                               1831,   -   678
                               1841,   -   627

   Number of illegitimate births within the last three years, 6.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The average rent of land per acre is from L.1
to L.1, 10s., according to quality.  Real rental of the parish,
from L.1200 to L.1500 per annum.  The parish is entirely agri-
cultural.
   The Kildrummy oat is well known as a light, thin oat, having,

