
             196                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

             which it is carried, in boats, to this country.  The price there is6D.
             per boll.
                Strathspey timber of natural growth is generally used in the
             farmers' houses; but in those lately erected on Mrs S. Macken-
             zie's property, planted fir from Brahan has been employed.
                The houses occupied by the lotters are.of a very inferior de.
             scription.  They are invariably built of dry stone, i. e. without any
             kind of mortar, roofed with couples of unsquared alder, the lower
             ends of which are built into the wall, joined together by a few
             horizontal spars fastened with trenails, on which are laid the small
             sticks called " kebbers," which support the thatch.  The latter
             consists of a layer of thin parings of turf, neatly laid on in the man-
             ner of slates, and afterwards covered with heather, ferns, or rushes.
             The interior of the building is divided into three compartments, in
             one of which the family sit, eat, and sleep; another contains the
             potatoes; and the third, through which the entrance leads, is con-
             verted, in winter, to the purposes of a byre, containing the cows and
             stirks.
               The onl apertures, besides the door, are a window, on the prin-
             cipal apartment, the upper part of which is sometimes, though
             rarely, glazed, and the lower fitted with wooden shutters; and a
             hole, on the roof, for the emission of the smoke.  The fire is light-
             ed on the earthen floor, and supported by a large stone set on end:
             over it, depends, from the sooty rafters, the wooden crook, by which
             the pot is suspended.
             . There is a " genealogical account of the Macraes," written by
             a Mr John Macrae, minister in Dingwall, who died in 1704, a copy
             of which, in manuscript is in the possession of Lieut.  Col.  Sir
             John Macrae of Ardintoul, containing some curious information
             respecting the early history of the country and its inhabitants.

                                    III-POPULATION.
               During the disorderly period of feudal independence that suc-
             ceeded the downfal of the Norwegian authority, the inhabitants of
             this parish, in, common with those of the Highblands in general,
             took an active part in the commotions of the times; and in every,
             contest, in which'the Mackenzies of  Seaforth were angaged with
             the neighbouring clans, the Macraes proved themselves faithful and
             efficient adherents of that family.  They were also, under the chief
             of that name, concerned in the wars of the Stuarts, and fought at
             Auldearn, anil Sheriffamuir, as well as at Glensheil, but took no part
             in the struggle of 1745.
                The period that preceded and succeeded this last era, so im-


