
			ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                       239

	stands an isolated pyramid of rock, called the Needle. By
	considerable exertion the tourist gains the top of the pass, and be-
	holds with indescribable wonder the scene which opens to his
	view! Instead of seeing, as be would expect, some narrow cave,
	he beholds a spacious opening before him, in the centre of which
	stands the above-mentioned platform. By descending a abort dis-
	tance, and threading his way by a small path, he is instantly led,
	to the beautiful green plain which it was all along his object to at-
	tain. He now feels utterly bewildered, and quite at a loss what
	to examine first, or to admire most! He beholds the rocks frown -
	ing aloft, and the rugged cliffs ranging themselves in circles around
	him. Rocky pyramids,. like a bulwark, encompass the fairy plain
	on which be stands. All is felt to be a dreary solitude; yet there
	is a pleasing beauty in the silent repose. The golden eagle is
	seen soaring aloft. in the blue firmament. A panoramic view of
	the distant sea and district below is visible, only in detached frag-
	ments, tbrough the rugged clefts and chasms between the sur-
	rounding pyramids. The rocks which compose these huge co-
	lumns are so streaked and variegated, that the visitor's imagination
	cannot fail to delineate hundreds of grotesque figures, of the wildest
	description, on their surface. The nature of the day on which this
	interesting place is visited has a great effect upon its appearance. It
	is so studded and encompassed with columns and pinnacles, of all
	heights, sizes, and figures, that their flickering shadows, on a sun-
	shine day, have an enchanting effect on all who behold them I
	Light and shade are then so uncommonly divided, and so con-
	stantly changing positions, that the place, in consequence, is
	greatly enhanced in beauty. But should a dense mist envelope
	the spot, as is frequently the case, the scene is greatly changed.
	Instead of being lively and enchanting, a night-like gloom falls
	over it, like a shroud of darkness! The thick mist slowly floating
	through the pyramids, and concealing their rugged pinnacles from
	the view, gives a siombre appearance to the whole ! The visitor's
	imagination will lead him to, think that the gloomy pyramids be-
	fore him bind earth and Heaven together! He cannot but ad-
	mire; yet, at the same time, he is filled with a sort of awe, which
	causes him to ascribe the marvellous works which lie, shrouded be.
	fore him, to the wonderful doings of that Omnipotent Being who
        created all things !
	   The cultivated part of the parish is a kind of circular belt along
	its shores, about two miles of average breadth. It is naturally di-


