
     of Aithsting and Sansting.

   The increase of the people is owing to the number of out-
sets, and splitting of tacks, by which means the number and
poverty of the people are much increased.  There is one
farm now possessed by 7 tenants, and 3 outsets, which, in
1742, had only 2 tenants;-many others, where the number
of families is tripled.  Formerly, the landlords in this parish
were little concerned in the ling fishing.  Many persons now
alive remember when there was not one six-oared boat in the
ministry; and the first master of a boat to the Ha-af, or
ling fishing, from Sansting, is still alive.  Many of the tenants
had large flocks of sheep and cattle, and found their profit in
staying home to look after them, and others went to North-
mavine fishing for fees; and, if they paid their rent to the
landlord, nothing more was asked.  The landlords now find
it necessary to prosecute the fishing on their own account;
and to increase the number of seamen, is their great and
constant endeavour.  With this view, outsets were increased,
greatly to the detriment of the pasture and sheep flocks.
The rentalled lands were subdivided, and set on this express
provision, that they should fit out a sixth share of a boat to
the ling fishing; and every encouragement was given to
young men to marry, and settle in the country.  The reve-
nues of the parish are certainly increased; but the number
of women and children, who can do nothing for themselves
or the landlord, in much greater proportion.  The stock of
cattle and sheep is perhaps nearly the same; but, being divi-
ded among a much greater number of people, any material
loss, such as happened in 1784, is much more severely felt;
and the production or profit of that stock cannot go so far in
supplying the necessities of an increased number of people.
The fishing is not nearly so plentiful now as before; but the
quantity of land under cultivation, has perhaps increased in
equal proportion with the people, (i. e. a much greater quan-

     VOL. VII. 4 F


