
                             DUNSE.                                253

receiving the convexity of the other, and the interstices being filled
up with small stones. On the east and south of the principal
tower, were the foundations of several oblong buildings, and of a
single round one. To the south of the whole were trenches of
considerable depth, surmounted on both sides by walls of stone and
earth, one of which, after running in a westerly direction for fifty
or sixty yards, turned northward, and followed the sweep of the hill
till it reached the river.
   From the description now given of the principal tower of
Edinshall, (never entitled to the name of a tower from its height,
but only from its circular form,) it will be perceived that this build-
ing is similar in construction to those called, burghs in Orkney and
Shetland, and Duns in the Highlands of Scotland, where the re-
mains of many of them are still to be seen. *  Indeed, the only dif-
ference consists in the nature of the spaces in the interior of the
walls,-which in Edinshall seem composed of separate cells, while in
the similar buildings they are continuous passages; but this dis-
similarity is apparent ouly, because the upper part of the walls
and the roof of the hollow spaces in Edinshall having fallen down,
had partially filled up the passage, which went entirely along the
interior of the wall, and had thus divided that passage into what
seemed to be separate compartments. This supposition derives
confirmation from the fact, that most of these cells had no en-
trances, and it may safely be assumed that they were not origi-
nally constructed in that form.
   Now it is known that the buildings called Burghs or Duns
were the workmanship of the ancient Scandinavians, and that the
kind of architecture of which they are examples was common to
that nation with the Saxons and other northern tribes. Hence it
may be inferred, that Edinshall was built by one of those tribes;
and, as it bore the name of Edwin, the most celebrated king of the
Northumbrian Saxons, and as it was situated within his territory
ries, which extended from the Humber to the Forth, we may con-
clude that be was the builder of Edinshall. In that case, it must
have been erected between the years 617 and 633, the period of,
Edwin's reign.
   This conclusion derives confirmation from other circumstances.
In King Edwin's time, the mode of architecture of his tribe

<FOOTNOTE>See description of Castle Moussa by Sir W. Scott, Waverley Novels, note, Vol.
xvii. p. 335, also Pennant's Tour, Gordon's Itinerarium Septentrionale, p. 166, and
Encyclopedia Britannica, voce Dun.-Mr Blackadder informs us, that Edinshall was
precisely similar to the Highland Duns, several of which he had visited.


