
168                            KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

not having gone on in tbe same ratio, but having actually decreased
since 1831, is accounted for by the failure of a cotton manufac-
tory formerly carried on in Castle Douglas. This work was esta
blished by Sir William Douglas, as a means of increasing the
town, of which he was the superior, and may almost be said to
have  been the founder. The introduction of the power-loom,
however rendered it impossible to carry on with advantage such
a trade in places like Castle Douglas, where there is neither
coal nor a sufficient power of water, and it has consequently been
abandoned. The town has nevertheless thriven beyond the ex-
pectation of its patron. Men are yet living who remember the
time when Causeway-end was only a small cluster of cottages, the
population of which did not amount to more than twenty. Now,
Castle Douglas is a handsome modern town, built upon a re-
gular plan containing a population of 1848. It is situate upon
a gentle declivity, at the bottom of which is the Carlinwark Loch.
The streets are wide and spacious, crossing one another at right
angles. The town is thus divided into rectangles, the internal
space in each division being laid out in gardens, one of which is
attached to every feu. This town, the suddenness of whose rise
rivals the rapid growth of towns in America, has already attained
an importance that, in most cases, is the growth of ages. In an
agricultural point of view, it far surpasses any other town in Gal-
loway and, with the exception of Dumfries it is second to
none in the south of Scotland. It possesses many natural ad-
vantages. It is situated in the centre of the county, and the
great road from Dumfries to Kirkcudbright and Portpatrick passes
through the heart of it. At the instance of Sir William Don-
glas, it was erected into a burgh of barony under its present title,
by royal charter in 1792. Till then it had been called Carlin-
wark, and in remoter times, Causeway-end. By the charter of
erection, the burgh was governed by a bailie and six councillors,
who were chosen from among the resident burgesses, and continu-
ed in office three years. A new and extended charter was obtain-
ed in 1829, by which the burgesses were invested with the privi-
lege of electing triennially, on the first Wednesday of September,
a provost, two bailies, and seven councillors-tbe qualification be-
ing residence within the burgh, and a right by feu to a piece of
ground within the same. The property of the burgh amounts to
L.550; the debts to L.150. The average annual revenue is L.20;
the expenditure L.15. Justice of peace small debt courts are held


