
                           ST NINIANS.                      307

only harbour. Though we have no other great river, it may per-
haps be marked as a singularity, that we have streams flowing in
every direction. At Randyford, the Endrick runs to the West, and
empties itself into Lochlomond, whilst about halfamile to the south
the Carron runs to the eastward, and discharges its waters into the
Forth at Grangemouth.  The Earl's Burn, and five or six lesser
streams, run south, and increase the waters of the Carron. The
Bannock, with an equal number of smaller rivulets, take a north-
erly direction, and fall into the Forth; whilst several small rivu-
lets, rising about the middle of the Drylands, run duly east, and,
uniting together, pass through the parish of Airth, and fall into
the frith nearly opposite to Tulliallan.
   A little to the west of the Earl's Hill, there is a large artificial
dam, for collecting water to supply the works on the Carron.
On the evening of the 25th of October 1839, the waters burst,
forth, and did considerable damage; but whether it was owing to
the earthquake, which was distinctly felt in many parts of the pa-
rish that night, has not been clearly ascertained. The only lake
in the parish is Loch Coulter, about two miles in circumference;
shallow to the west, but very deep to the north-east.
  In 1755, during the great earthquake by which Lisbon was
destroyed, Loch Coulter was greatly agitated, and it was then, it
is supposed, that a large stone, in weight about a ton, was raised
from its bed, and carried towards the sbore. Several years ago,
a neighbouring farmer, availing himself of a hard frost, seized
upon all the stone that was above water, so that now no part of it
is visible, and the cairn of stones with which it is surrounded is ge-
nerally covered with water.
   Auchentillilin's Spout on the Carron, and Gilmour's Linn in
Touch Burn, are our only cascades. They are both beautiful;
but, neither from the quantity of water, nor the height of tbe fall,
not above 20 feet, are they deserving of any particular description.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-This extensive parish presents geo-
logical appearances of very considerable interest. The flat dis-
trict, or carse, which extends from the banks of the Forth to the
rising ground on the south, a mean distance of about two miles.
appears at a former period to have been completely submerged in
water. The vast quantities of marine shells which are scattered
in beds over the whole of this portion of the parish, furnish incon-
testible proof, that the land, which now yields the richest Crops,

      <FOOTNOTE>The accounts given of the Carron Bog are a good deal exaggerated.


