
     The Statistical Account.

disadvantageous ground, they would be of no avail.  All
the rest of his men he conveyed to the opposite wing;
putting the horse under the command of Lord Gordon, and
himself conducting the infantry.  He had thus no main ar-
my, but the shew of one under covert of the dykes.
   The army of the Covenanters, as Montrose had happily
conjectured, no sooner saw the royal standard displayed, than
they dispatched their choicest cavalry, with their veteran
troops.  Montrose, unable to adopt this course, from the li-
mited number of his troops, resolved to make an assault at
once with all his men on the left wing.  No sooner had he
projected this, than some person, on whose fidelity he could
conside, came and whispered ha his ear that M'Donald with
his forces, on the right, were discomfited and put to flight.
Not alarmed with the tidings of this disaster, to prevent the
dejection of his soldiers, he, with admirable self-command,
exclaimed to Lord Gordon, ' My Lord, M'Donald has al-
'ready routed the enemy on the right: shall we merely lock
'on, and let him win all the honour of the day?' Instantly
he led on to the charge.  Urrie's horse could not withstand
the shock of Gordon's, but immediately wheeled about,
leaving the flanks of their army bare and defenceless.  The
foot, though deserted by the horse, while at any distance,
maintained the combat with the most obstinate valour, by
the superiority of their number, and the excellence of their
armour; but coming at length to close combat*, they threw
down their arms, and betook themselves to flight.

<FOOTNOTE>

*We are informed by Spalding, commissary-clerk of Aberdeen, (whose
manuscript history has been lately published,) that this defeat was attributed
by the vanquished, to one Crowner or Major Drummond, who unskillfully
wheeled about upon their own foot, and thereby broke their tanks, and so
occasioned many of them to be killed; for which he was afterwards con-
demned by a council of war, and shot.


