
156                       FORFARSHIRE.

same branches are taught, and the same fees paid, as in other
schools. The people there have built a commodious house and
school-room for the teacher. I cannot learn whether they afford
any salary. The number of scholars varies from 65 to 85. They
are not all from the district of Dumbarrow, but a considerable pro-
portion of them from the neighbouring parishes of Kirkden and
Carrayllie.
	Library.--We have a library at Letham, containing from 400
to 500 volumes. These treat of religion and morality; of civil
history, especially that of our own country; of agriculture; na-
tural history; and various branches of the mechanical sciences.
This library was made up, partly by donations of books from va-
rious individuals, partly by annual subscriptions of persons in this
parish, and in those parts of the neighbouring parishes of Kirkden
and Rescobie, which are contiguous to Letham, partly also from
collections in the churches of Dtnnichen and Kirkden.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--It appears from the session books,
that there were L.l00 at one time accumulated for the use of the
poor. But it also appears, that when times of distress occurred,
the heritors would give nothing until this stock was exhausted.
For a considerable time, the funds arising from collection, mort-
cloth dues, proclamation of banns, and fines, amounted to from
L.45 to L.48 per annum, by which the session contrived to sup-
port the poor, with a little aid, in times of distress, from the late
Mr Dempster. At last, on the occasion of its being found neces-
sary to send to the lunatic asylum at Dundee a deranged woman
whose maintenance and clothing cost about L.20 per annum, this
sum was raised by subscriptions; which mode of collecting conti-
nued several years. It was afterwards found necessary to establish
an asssessment, since which time the collections have fallen very
much off. The assessment was the more necessary, as we were
obliged to send another person to the Asylum at Dundee.
Meanwhile the session, on account of certain calumnies that were
raised against there, were induced to resign the active manage-
ment of the poor, which is now vested in a committee appoint-
ed by the heritors. Some of the poor receive 1s. or a peck of
meal, a-week; one receives 2s. and another family 3s. Vith the
exception of a few individuals, they are very averse to come upon
the poors' funds.
	The following is an account of the receipts and expenditure of
					4


