
                         ALLOA.                                       15

Superstition has been particularly active in suggesting causes of alarm
world; and, where man should have seen only beauty and wisdom, he has often
found terror and dismay. But all these vain imaginations are flitting away before
the light of revelation, reason, and experience.
     (5.)The caterpillars of the magpie or gooseberry.moth, which in some seasons com-
mit extensive depredations on gooseberries and currants, may be killed by the smoke
of live coal or peat, in a flower-pot or other vessel, placed under the bush, having an
old cloth or carpet thrown over it. The smoke will ascend and be confined to the
bush, from which the caterpillars will fall, apparently lifeless, in four or five minutes,
but would recover if not collected with a hoe and destroyed. This plan should also
be used in the earlier stages of the caterpillars ;-and it will likewise kill Aphides.
     (6.)This species of cockroach, sometimes erroneously called the black beetle, is sup-
posed to have been originally imported from Asia, and is thoroughly domesticated in
many houses here, particularly those near the harbour, to the great vexation of the 
inhabitants. These insects are among the most disagreeable annoyances to which
the dwellings are subject; and, when their multiplication is permitted, the ravages
they commit are very extensive. The sapient Sancho Panza declares that there is a
remedy for every thing but death; and it is truly fortunate for mankind that the in-
crease of this pestilential race may be repressed by aid of their own voracity.  They
may be poisoned by meal, and one-third of white or bed lead, or with arrenic subli-
mated, &c. mixed with molasses: and they may be entrapped by putting some food
for them in a deep glass or tumbler, and covering the outside of it with cap-paper.
Crickets may also be caught by the same means.
     (7.) Of the Coecus, or cochineal tribe, two are very destructive in gardens, the C.
Persicoe, or peach coccus, and the C. mali. or apple-coccus, sometimes called the Lon-
don bug, the history of which is at present involved in much obseurity.  It throws out
a large quantity of cotton-like matter.
     The above applies only to the apple-coccus. If the peach-coccus cannot be eradi-
cated, its numbers may be greatly reduced by brushing the twigs of the tree early in
the spring with a hair brush.  When they are very numerous, and on the points of 
the twigs, these are sometimes cut off and carried out of the garden.  this causes the
loss of the fruit in a great measure for that season; but the tree will be thrown into
such health as to be in the finest order for the ensuing year.  Should any females of 
this insect be found on the trees about the beginning of May next season, they should
be carefully removed by means of a blant knife having a very thin blade, and deposit-
ed in a vessel to be carried out of the garden.  With every female which is taken at
this period, about 3000 eggs are destroyed.
    "Knowing," says the ingenious Mr Waterton, "that the bug could not exist, if
totally deprived of air, I resolved to bury it alive; and this I effected by an applica-
tion at once the most easy and simple that can be imagined.  It costs nothing.  I
mixed clay with water, till it was of a consisteney that it could be put on the injured
parts of the tree, either with a mason's trowel or a paintr's brush. I then applied it to
the diseased parts of the tree, and it soon smothered every bug.  A second coat upon
the first filled up every crack which showed itself when the clay had become dry:
and this resisted for a sufficient length of time the effects both of sun and rain."
     (8.) The Aphides, or plant-lice, are very destruetive to various growing crops; and
yet their history is very little known.  The very name is omitted
most extensive catalogues of British insects.  The bean dolphin, or collier, an insect
of this genus, though named, is neither figured nor described. These facts are not 
very creditable to our literature.  Their natural enemies are the coccianella, and the
smaller soft-billed birds, (Sylviadoe), yellow wren, gold-crest, tit, &c. which garden-
ers and others often unjestly accuse of devouring the erop itself, when they are busy
in search of plant-lice.  These, and many other birds, do more good than harm in
gardens, and the shots intended for their destruction do more harm than good, as
any man of observation may see in the broken bushes and mutilated bark of trees on
the one hand, and the insectivorous propensities of the birds on the other.

     Botany.-This parish comprehends,
                           -" the boundless store
             Of charms which Nature to her votary yields;
             The warbling woodland, the resounding shore,
             The pomp of groves, and garniture of fields:"
but its botanical treasures have been imperfectly explored. The

