
882                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

                   " Gude Sir Alexander Irvine,
                  The much renounit Laird of Drum.
                 Nane in his dais wer better sene,
                Quhen thai wer semblit all and som.
                 To praise him we sud not be dumm,
                 For valour, wit, and worthiness;
                 To end his dais he ther did cum,
                   Quhois ransurn is remedyles."

It is said, that when hastening to Harlaw at the head of his vas-
sals, and accompanied by his brother Robert, he halted upon the
hill of Auchrony, in the parish of Skene, from the summit of
which the house of Drum was visible on the one band, and the
field of battle on the other, and there seated on a stone, which
still bears the appellation of Drum's Stone, he advised Robert
(if he himself should be slain), to marry his sister-in-law on his
return, with whom, as he assured him, he had never consummated
his marriage.  Robert having escaped the slaughter, married the
lady according to this advice, and, upon succeeding to the estates,
changed his Christian name to Alexander.  He was one of the
Scottish Commissioners who went to London in 1423, by appoint-
ment of the States, to effect the liberation of James I. from his
long captivity in England, and received the honour of knighthood
from that Prince in 1424.  During the confusion which followed
the murder of the King at Perth, the inhabitants of Aberdeen,
whose interests the family of Drum had always been ready to pro-
mote, solicited the services of Sir Alexander for the defence and
protection of the city, and, in 1440, the burgesses unanimously
consented to his being appointed Captain and Governor of the
burgh, an office which the exigency of the times rendered expe-
dient, and which invested him with an authority in the town su-
perior to that of the chief magistrate.  This honourable situation
was held by Sir Alexander for two years, and there is no other
instance upon record of the existence of the office in Aberdeen.
His second son distinguished himself so highly at the battle Of
Brechin in 1452, that he received a charter of the lands of Beltie
from the Marquis of Huntly, under whom he served, as a reward
for his services on that occasion.
   At the turbulent period when James V. ascended the throne,
and while the reins of Government were held by the Earl of
Angus, we find this family still pursuing the same honourable
course, and maintaining the high name by which they had hitherto
been distinguished for the King bestowed upon the eldest son
of Sir Alexander, a gift of non-entry to the lands of Forglen,
dated 4th December 1527, and bearing to be given " On account


