
38                               WIGTONSHIRE.

good, penance was still better. The people in this part of the
country have corrupted his name into St Ringan; and the hole
where be lived is known by the name of St Riugan's Cave.
It is a place of small dimensions, and does not penetrate more
than twenty feet into the rock. Its roof is about eight or ten feet
high. The stones in the roof are wedged like an arcb, and water
drops from the crevices. It stands a few feet above the level
of the sea, and looks towards the east. It is a cool enough re-
treat in a warm summer day; but in winter, with an easterly wind,
it would be exceedingly cold quarters.
	General Aspect and Surface of the Country.--It is broken and
uneven, with scarcely anything like a level field to be seen; and
yet there is little of what could be called hill and dale, but small
knolls, and a constant succession of heights and hollows.
	Almost every field has more or less waste land in it; and yet
some are excellent either for crop or pasture. Indeed, there
are fields in this parish equal to any in the county for feed-
ing cattle; and yet they would find no favour in the eyes of a
stranger, merely from their broken and uneven surface. But the
richness of soil in the hollows, and the shelter afforded by the
knolls, sometimes covered With furze, which still adds to their shel-
ter, are advantages which make up for the apparent waste. These
heights, wben not covered with furze, are thickly clothed with a
coarser sort of grass, which, not being eaten in summer, affords
a great deal of excellent foggage for the winter.
	The south side of the parish, along the shore, is the highest
ground, and may properly be called hilly. The Hill of Glas-
serton, the Fell of Carlton, and the Fell of Barhullion, are hills
of considerable magnitude. As to their height above the level of
the sea, I have not the means of ascertaining it with precision. I
should suppose it to be from 400 to 600 feet. They are mostly
green, with rocks occasionally breaking through the green surface.
Such is the sea, shore on the south side of the parish. On the
northern boundaries, there are bills also, but they are of a different
description and consist of different materials. They are till from
top to bottom, with a smoother surface, more curved and regular in
their shape. The soil, however, is poor and spongy. They are
always wettest at top, with a subsoil so close and impervious, that
it is very difficult if not impossible to drain them. These hills
are enable but not fertile, on account of their tilly subsoil. Both
grain and grass is chilled and stunted by the moisture, which can-


