
682                         FORFARSHIRE.

men engaged as farm-servants is 85; as shepherds, 5; and in
feeding cattle, &c. 12. There are 75 looms in the parish, and
the same number of weavers, of whom 21 are at present out of
employment.
   The number of marriages during the last twelve months is
stated at 7; of deaths, 6; and of births, 20. Eight illegitimate
children have been born within the last three years.
   There are 54 cottar families, with houses and yards only; 15
persons who occupy two or three acres of ground, enabling them
to keep a cow; and 19 who keep single cows without land.
   Only one of the heritors is occasionally resident. All their
rentals exceed L.50 a-year.
   The people are in general moral industrious, and intelligent;
and, with the exception of those employed in weaving, who, from
the lowness of their wages and the scarcity of work, are often re-
duced to great distress, they are, for the most part, in circum-
stances of comfort, and contented.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The parish contains 6848 imperial acres under
cultivation, 1365 in wood, and 387 in pasture, waste, roads, &c.
The valued rent amounts to L.3310. The present real rent, a
frdat part of which depends upon the fiars' prices of grain, ave-
rages above L.7000, including the value of the grounds around the
seats of the proprietors. The farms range in size from 600 acres
of arable land to pendicles of two or three acres, rented by wea-
vers and tradesmen. The rents vary from 10s. to L.1, 10s. per
acre, the average being reduced by the great quantity of inferior
laud recently brought under tillage.
   The state of agriculture in this parish has been materially im-
proved since the commencement of the century. At that period,
some of the Airlie tenants were among the first in Strathmore to
set the example of an improved mode of husbandry;--and their suc-
cessors still maintain a high place among the agriculturists of the
district. The whole is now kept under good management, accord-
ing to the system of tillage which is found to be most suitable to
the nature of the soil. A six years rotation is generally followed.
The land is kept three years in grass, when it is broken up for
oats;  then turnips, followed by barley; after which, it is sown
down again to grass. When potatoes are taken for the green crop,
wheat is sown instead of barley. Other rotations are occasionally
adopted, all, however, embracing two or more years in grass. The


