

my of AGRICOLA in his 7th expedition.  It is nearly a regu-
lar square of 24 acres.  Here the half of the Roman army
are supposed to have encamped, while the other remained at
Campmuir, a village near two miles S. W. from this place.
There are no vestiges of a Roman way, nor any Druidical
circle or cairn in the parish*.  The Beach Hill opposite to
Coupar, Stob-cross opposite to Balbrogie, and the Witch Know
opposite to Cronan, are evidently raised by art, though tradition
is silent respecting the cause.  On the first of these a Roman
urn was found; and it is said, that justice used to be adminis-
tered here, in ancient times, in the open air.  The following
names of places, in the vicinity of Coupar, are said to be de-

<FOOTNOTE>

NALD CAMPBELL of the family of ARGYLL.  At the Reforma-
tion, this man is said to have divided, among 5 natural sons, all
of the parish that belonged to the Abbey, viz. Balgeirsho, Ke-
thock, Denhead, Cronan, and Arthurstone.  Some time before
the Reformation, this house began to fall into decay; and, at
last, a number of furious reformers from Perth completed its
ruin.

*Lately, in digging at the west end of the church, there
were found upwards of a dozen of stone coffins.  Some were
formed of one entire stone; others were made up of two pieces
brought together in the middle.  The inside imitated the shape
of the human body, being widest at the shoulders, narrowest at
the neck, and having the place for the head rounded.  In some
there were found several skeletons in the natural positions, with
layers of earth placed between them.  The covers of most of
there coffins consisted of several flat stones; but no date, or cha-
racter of any kind, was observed, whereby a conjecture might
have been formed of their age, or the persons therein deposited.
The cover of one was of an entire stone, at the foot of which
there was faintly visible some rude kind of ornament, and on the
right side a capital English D was observable.  One, being mea-
sured, was found to be 6 feet long within, 18 inches broad at
the shoulders, 11 3/4 inches wide at the feet, and 15 inches deep.
One appeared to have been, originally, too narrow, as the sides
thereof were widened, seemingly to let down the arms of the
corpse.  Several small figures, cut out of stone, and representing
warriors, have been also dug out from among the rubbish.


