
     of Twyneholm and Kirk-Christ.

the conversion money at the present rate is totally inadequate,
some other method must be adopted.  Upon these accounts,
the above mentioned noble person proposed a bill to the
county for their approbation, drawn up on the most liberal,
and at the same time the most equal plan.  Opposition was
made to it through mistake, through prejudice, and through
party, and a clamour raised against it, which obliged it to be
dropt for the present; but till some such plan is adopted, our
roads will go to ruin, and will never be conducted upon a
liberal plan.  The bridges are four; one over the Tarf, near
the foot of that river, one over the Kirk-burn of Twyneholm,
upon the military road nigh the church, and two others over
smaller streams.

   Antiquities+.-There are the remains of two old buildings
in this parish, both of them belonging to the Earl of Selkirk.
The one, called the Castle of Cumpstone, is placed in a pleasant
situation, nigh to the junction of the rivers Tarf and Dee, sur-
rounded with a small spot of natural wood, the only one in-
deed in the parish.  The other old building is situated in the
farm of Nuntown, opposite to St Mary's Isle.  There are two

     VOL. XV. M

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

+A gentleman who lived in this parish, and possessed an estate in it, and
who died some years ago upwards of 80, acquainted the writer, that in the
old burial place of Twyneholm, which was situated about a gun-shot from
the present, nigh one of the???oons, and not far from three of the moats,
(bat of which no vestige now remains, it being part of a corn field,) there was
turned up by labourers employed by him to remove part of an old fence, a
round piece of gold which he supposed to be the handle of a coffin.  This
piece he sent to Edinburgh, and received for it only three guineas, the person
that bought it alledging that it was not gold; but, as he observed, if it had
not been of that metal, the dealer would not have given so much.

</UNREADABLE>


