
     Statistical Account

There are 12 poor families who occasionally get supply; and
a common beggar is scarcely known in the parish.  Rather than
beg, the people would live in great misery at home: but the pa-
rish is much distressed with strolling importunate strangers.
   In 1782 and 1783, the crops were fully as good as in ma-
ny other parishes, though there certainly was a great deficien-
cy.  Besides the Government supply to the poor, the kirk ses-
sion, with the approbation of the heritors, bought a good deal
of meal, gave of it gratis to the poor, and sold it at a reduced
price to others.  By this means, the poor's funds were great-
ly diminished; but, happily, none perished for want.  The he-
ritors were at pains to procure good seed for their tenants, who
have not yet recovered the loss of those bad years*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are three castles in the parish.  1st, The castle of Corse, now in ruins;
built in 1581 by William Forbes, father of Patrick Forbes, Bishop of Aberdeen.
Tradition bears, and the common people still believe, that the Devil visited
the Bishop in this castle; that they differed; and that the Devil, on his de-
parture, carried away with him the broad side of the castle; on the stone-stairs
whereof, they still pretend to point out his footsteps.-2d, The castle of
Craigivar; which, as is imagined, was begun in the beginning of the 17th cen-
tury by Roger Mortimer, then of Craigivar.  He only built it half way up,
which, it is said, hurt his circumstances; and he sold his estate to Mr William
Forbes, brother to Bishop Forbes of Corse, who finished the castle in a very e-
legant manner, according to the fashion of the times, in the year 1626.  It is
seven stories; two of which are vaulted.  Though not at present inhabited,
Sir William Forbes keeps it in good repair.-3d, The castle of Lenturk.
now in ruins, is supposed to he older than either of the other two.  It appears
to have been built early in the 16th century.  It has a large deep broad foss
around it; and, in those days, has been a place of strength.  It has been pro-
bably built by-Strachan of Lenturk; who, in the reign of James V. ve-
ry unjustly accused John, master of Forbes, of high treason, which, though not
proven, made him lose his head.  Tradition bears, that in July 1645, Wil-
liam Forbes of Skellater, having no good will to.-Irvine, then laird of
Lenturk, came down hither from Strathdon with his men; shut the laird up
in the castle prison; lived at large in the castle, and on the estate, till the


