
                         FALKIRK.                      33

   Railway.--The line of the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway
passes through this parish for about eight miles, entering from
Polmont on the east. It is to have a branch to the town of Fal-
kirk, which is within half-a-mile of the main line. The ope-
rations commenced in this neighbourhood early in 1839, and with-
in the parish they consist of works of considerable magnitude,
Among these, way be mentioned a bridge consisting of seven arches,
of great height, going at once over the burn at Castlecary and
over the turnpike road there, and a viaduct of three arches, one of
which, being 130 feet span, crosses the Union Canal near to its
western termination. A tunnel also is, at present, in the course of
formation, which, when finished, will extend to 845 yards under
ground, will be 26 feet in width, 22 feet in height, and arched
with brick. It is expected that this great undertaking, understood
to cost a million of money, will be finished in 1842.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish, church is advantageously
situated for the inhabitants of the town, and none of the villages,
with the exception of Bonnybridge and Grangemouth, (which last,
as already stated, has been erected into a parish quoad sacra) are'
more than a mile and a-half distant. In some of the country parts
of the parish, the population may be still five miles from the church.
But for upwards of a century past, considerable parts of it have
been annexed quoad sacra to the neighbouring parishes of Slama-
nan and Cumbernauld.
   Ancient documents show that, at one time, Denny, Slamanan,
Muiravoside, and Polmont, formed parts of the then existing par-
sonage of Falkirk. Of the period when the three first of these
parishes were disjoined, no record has been found; but Polmont
was created a distinct parish in 1724.
   The church of Falkirk was founded by Malcolin Canmore in
A.D. 1057. It was rebuilt in 1810. The ancient fabric consisted
of four lofty arches, with, extended aisles in-the form of a cross
the centre forming the area or body of the church, and surmounted
by a steeple. The present church contains sittings for 1500
hearers. It is a square building, with windows of a Gothic form,
and a circular gallery. The internal arrangements are convenient.
The old arches and steeple were allowed to remain, and the former
area now serves as a porch for the present church. The greater
part of the pews were apportioned amongst the heritors; and one
of them was set apart as free sittings for twelve poor persons.
   Benefaction.-Some y‚ars ago,the sum of L.500 was bequeathed
      STIRLING.                              C


