
576      			FORFARSHIRE.

are to be seen at the extremity of Invergowrie Bay, within a short
distance of the land.
        Botany.-the romantic delLs and glens which abound in this
neighbotrhood are, in the season, richly clothed with the most
beautiful plants and flowers, yet there is nothing very peculiar or
rare in the botany of this parish.
	It may be mentioned, that in the Den of Balruddery, referred
to above, the Viola hirta and the Astragalus glycyphyllus are to be
found, both stated by Hooker to be "rare in Scotland," although
a more extensive observation has proved that they scarcely merit
this honour. A more curious and a much rarer plant is also to be
found in this locality, viz. the Tragopogon. This plant is inte-
resting from its extreme sensibility to the "skiey influences." If
the weather is fair, its flowers open at early dawn, and shut again
about ten o'clock in the morning; so that, if the observer wishes
to see its large yellow corolla expanded, he must bestir himself,
and watch his opportunity. Its roots seem at one time to have
been used as an esculent. Old Gerarde describes them as in
"delicate taste farre surpassing either parsenep or carrot."  The
Sambucus ebulus grows in the old burying-ground at Invergowrie.
From the fact of its being found occasionally in such situations, it
is probable that the ecclesiastics in other days grew it for its me-
dicinal properties. The Veronica anagallis, which is far from com-
mon in this part of the country, will be found in the burn of Benvie.
        Pl`ntations.-This parish and the surrounding district are well-
wooded. On the lands of Camperdown are very extensive plan-
tations, all of which, with the exception of young larch trees, are
very thriving, and contribute greatly to the beauty of the land-
scape, as well as the improvement of the climate and temperature.
	The estate of Gray abounds with fine timber of various kinds,
and of considerable age,-elm, plane, ash, beech, oak, and fir trees,
of all sorts, &c.
	The subjoined table of measurements, very accurately made,
may interest a certain class of readers:

<TABLE>

                                                                             Girth,
                                                                          Feet.   In.
Cedar near Gray House, at I foot from the ground,                          18      1
 22d September, 1884, the above tree was measured, and found to con-
   tain 310 solid feet. It is 59 feet in height.
Ash in the orchard of Benvie, at 1 foot from the ground,                   20      5
       Do.      do.           at 2 feet from the ground,                   17     10
       Do.      do.           at 4           do.                           14      3
Larch in den opposite the church of Lift, 100 feet in height, and perfect-
  ly straigh, 3 feet from the ground,                                       8      9


