
       			  DOUGLAS.                            479

lence. In one of the heavy gales of last winter, about four acres
of plantation were stript completely bare, as by a tornado; besides,
trees innumerable were. blown down in every part of the woods.
The air, however, is pure and salubrious; the parish is remark-
able for the general health of the inhabitants, many of whom reach
extreme old age. Within the last fourteen years two men have died
at the age of ninety-seven, and some have exceeded ninety.*
	Soil, &c.--In the arable part of the parish, the soil is in general
good, capable of bearing rich crops of any kind of grain. In the
strath, it is mostly a free black mould; in some places, more light
and gravelly; and in others, spouty, the undersoil being a cold till.
Clay soil occurs to a considerable extent. Even in the moors there
is a great proportion of deep loam, which, in a more favourable cli-
mate, would amply repay the labours of the agriculturist; and it
has often been remarked that there are few places where the moor
lands are so inviting to the enterprise of the cultivator. Many
parts of the moors, however, are occupied with moss orwith morass.
	Although the parish may be considered a hilly district, none of
the hills are of great elevation, except Cairntable, which rises to
the height of 1650 feet above the level of the sea. Auchinsaugh
hill is likewise of considerable altitude; but is more remarkable
as being the spot where the Cameronians met, towards the close of
the seventeenth century, for the renewal of the solemn league and
covenant.
	Hydrography.--The only stream of any consequence is the
Douglas, which issues from the foot of Cairntablia, about nine
miles above the town, and falls into the Clyde, after a course of six-
teen miles. It receives several tributary rivulets, as the Monks,
Pidourin, and Poniel waters on the left bank; the Kennox, Gles-
pin, Parkhead, and Craigburn waters, on the right. All these
streams formerly abounded with trout; but they have been of late
years so much poached with set lines, nets, and every other means
of destruction, that they now afford but indifferent sport to the an-
gler.
	Mineralogy.--This parish abounds in mineral wealth. It has

<FOOTNOTE>Longevity appears hereditary in some families, an ancestor of one of whom,
named M'Quhst, toward the beginning of last century, died at the advanced age of
110, having lived during part of three centuries. There are at present in the pa.
rish two couples, who have been united for fifty-seven years, who were married on
the same day, and whose aggregate ages amount to upwardse of 312 years, One of the
husbands, now upwards of eighty, has been fourteen years in the service of the present
minister, and is still so active, that he can walk, without difficulty, from twenty to
thirty miles a-day.


