
         148                         BANFFSHIRE.

         450 to 460 of Fahrenheit, with the exception of the well at Kem-
         plemire, of which the temperature is as high as 500.  The forma-
         tion of calcareous concretions has been ascribed to drinking from
         this last-mentioned fountain; but from a recent chemical analysis,
         the water does not appear to be distinguished by any quality pro-
         ductive of such a disorder.-None of the chalybeates are worthy of
         particular notice, with the exception of the Red Gill well on the
         bill of Brownside, and a spring rising on the Hill-head of Mont-
         blairy.  Each of these has been found to hold a greater quantity
         of iron in solution, than either the  Red-well in Boyndie, or the well
         of Tarlair in Gamrie.  From a qualitative analysis recently ob-
         tained, it appears that the Red Gill well contains a large quantity
         of the protoxide of iron held in solution by excess of carbonic
         acid, with an average quantity of chloride of sodium, carbonate
         and sulphate of lime.  The Hill-head spring contains fully as large
         a quantity of iron as the former, held in solution as a protoxide by
         excess of carbonic acid, with rather less carbonate and sulphate of
         lime, but with fully as much salt.  The writer has obtained ana-
         lyses of several of the other springs, but the Tesults are marked by
         no peculiarity worthy of insertion.   The whole of the springs ap-
         pear to arise, in general, between the clay-slate and greywacke,
         which constitute the prevailing rocks within the parish.
            The only river is the Doveran, which has only three tributaries
         of any consequence within the parish.  Two of these flow from
         west to east, and join the rivIer at Auchenbadie and Mill of Mont-
         blairy, the other flows from east to west, and joins the river at
         Boat of Ashoagle.  The breadth of the Doveran varies from 90
         to 320 feet.                                        I
            Geology and Mineralogy.*-This parish presents but few fea-
         tures interesting in a geological point of view.  The surface, al-
         though varied and irregular, and raised tip into small hills and
         rising grounds, and intersected by hollows and chasms, yet affords
         but an occasional view of the solid strata.  In the higher grounds,
         and in those places where the soil has been opened up, and quar-
         ried for building, the solid strata are occasionally discovered, but
         in other places they are covered up by deep diluvial beds, the
         thickness ofwhich it would be difficult to determine.  The hol-
         lows, ingeneral, are not traversed by any stream of magnitude
         sufficient to disclose the nature of the adjacent rocks : hence our

         <FOOTNOTE>For this section, and for information on oiher points connnected with this re-
         port, the writer has to acknowledge his obligations to James Christie, Esq. Banff.


