

120				OBKNEY.

for the most part, of sand, peat, gravel, clay, marl, and sometimes
loam. Rolled blocks are not unfrequently found in valleys and
meadows, where, in all probability, some mighty flood has swept
them down from the higher grounds in their vicinity, to their pre-
sent state of imbedment.  No remains of animals, except of the
marine kind, are found here in the alluvial deposits, and of these only
cockle and mussel, and shell of the razor-fish, are seen and in great
plenty imbedded in sandy soil, at considerable distance from. and
above the level of the sea.
   There is almost every species of soil in Westray.  In the north
part of the island, the soil most prevalent is sand ; but there are
also to be seen in different parts of the same district, clay, gravel,
and loam.  The last mentioned chiefly consists of small spots of
ground, which have been long under culture, and improved too by
the transportation of earths in a composite state.  This, I think, will
be found invariably the case where loam in any quarter of the
island is seen.  In the south west district, which comprehends
Frebbay, Midbay, and Outo'-town, the soil in general is sandy, in
some places gravelly, especially on the farm of Tookquoy; and
small spots of loam occur in most of the little farms in that neigh-
bourhood.  In the east and south-east districts, comprehending
Cleat, Skailwick, and Rapness, the soil is alternate clay and peat-
moss with partial exceptions of gravel.  The clay in all these
quarters is, for the most part, of a very cold and wet nature, by
reason of its proximity to the rock.  Hitherto, we have taken no-
tice of such soils only as are under culture, and it may be said
with truth, that these in any quarter scarcely go beyond the skirts
of the island, and do not constitute above one-tenth of its superfi-
cial contents.  The interior consists of an immense tract of common
hill and dale lying in a state of nature, and separated everywhere
from the cultivated lands by a turf dike, within which all the flocks
and most of the bestial of the island, milk cows only excepted,
are shut, during the summer and autumn, until the crops are
removed from the ground and lodged in the barn-yards, when the
styles are again laid open and the flocks left to range at pleasure.
In many places of this extensive common, the soil is excellent, being
in general of a rich whitish clay, and capable of being cultivated
to advantage.  But there are also large tracks, where the soil is ex-
tremely poor and wet, upon which little improvement could be
made, to repay Ahe trouble and expense of the cultivator.


