
     Statistical Account

   The number of poor is great, and the funds for supporting
them are, comparatively, but small.  There are commonly be-
tween 60 and 80 upon the poor's roll; and for maintaining
these, the whole sum to be distributed annually by the church-
session, does not amount to 40 L.  This sum arises partly from
the interest of legacies left for the behoof of the poor; and
partly from the collections that are made for them at the door
of the parish church.  The legacies amount to 500 L., 400 L.
of which was bequeathed by the Rev. Mr. Henry, minister
of this parish, before the late Dr. Webster; and 100 L. by a
gentleman of the name of Shanks, who lived in Kinghorn,
for both which, the church-session receives annually (at the
rate of 4 per cent interest) the sum of 20 L.  The yearly col-
lections do not come to quite so much; and of this the land-
ed proprietors contribute but a very small proportion, as the
greatest part of them do not reside in the parish, and as most
of those that do, dwell at a distance from the parish church.
The most which any pauper in the parish receives, (and in-
deed which the church-session have it in their power to give,
as the heritors have not as yet agreed to assess themselves for
the maintenance of the poor) is 1 s. a-month; and perhaps
3 s. 6 d. more at each of the quarterly distributions.  This

<FOOTNOTE>

This house was at first connected with what is called the Presbytery of Re-
lief; upon which footing it stood, till within these few years, when the propri-
etors of the house, finding their meeting upon the decline, and the seat-rents
and collections unequal to the expense of supporting a clergyman, and of pay-
ing the interest of the money which they had advanced, they very prudently
agreed to change their ground, to join themselves to the Burgher Seceders, and
to give a call to a of that licentrate denomination.  The bulk of what remain-
ed of their scattered congregation went along with them, and they were joined
by others of the same class or sect, residing in the town and its neighbourhood.
Amidst all these manoeuvres of their leaders, however, the name of a patron was
not heard of.  And it was all very well.


