
258                       FIFESHIRE.

more than three miles through the parish, and through the most
populous part of it--the two villages. About six years ago, a coach
commenced running between Kirkaldy and Glasgow on that road,
leaving Kirkaldy at half an hour past six, o'clock in the morning in
summer, at seven in winter, and returning in the afternoon about
six o'clock.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the church, with reference
to the boundaries of the parish, is central, but inconvenient for the
greater part of the population. The villages, which contain by
far the greater part of it, are a mile distant from the church. In
1833, it was thoroughly repaired, and much improved. Its in-
terior is finished in a plain, but neat style. It affords accommo-
dation for 280 sitters, and the sittings are all free.
   The manse was built in 1812 in the cottage style, and of Gothic
architecture. It is substantially built, handsomely finished, and
affords sufficient accommodation. The plan was furnished by Mr
Gillespie Graham, architect.
   The glebe, including the site of the manse and the garden, con-
tains six imperial acres or thereby, of good dry arable land. The
money rent, together with the value of services performed by the
tenant, is equal to L. 5, 5s. per imperial acre. There is no grass
glebe. The stipend is the minimum, the funds are exhausted, and
the sum of L. 81, 9s. is paid annually from the Exchequer, to make
up the stipend to L. 150.
   The number of families attending the Established Church, 92;
number of families attending the chapels of dissenters and seceders
23. The younger branches of two of these families attend the
Established Church. Divine service at the Established Church
is generally well attended. The average number of communi-
cants there is 185. The average amount of church collections yearly
for religious and charitable purposes L. 12, 14s.
   Education.--There are 3 schools in the parish;--the parochial
school, a private school, and an infant school. The branches of
instruction taught in the parochial school are, reading, English,
writing, and arithmetic. Greek and Latin are very rarely requir-
ed. The branches taught in the private school, are the same as
in the parochial school. In the infant school, are taught reading
English, writing, arithmetic, needle-work, and knitting. The
salary of Ihe parochial schoolmaster is L. 29, 18s. 10d. The
teacher of the private school receives a gratuity of L. 15 per an-
num. from Miss Boswell of Balmuto, at whose expense he is fur-


