
96                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

                             Brought over,     7,050
  Extent of waste or irreclaimable pasture,    69,750
                                             _________

                                              76,800


Woods.-Tbe planted woods are almost entirely the work of
the late Duke of Montrose, and consist chiefly of oak and larch.
The management of the natural woods was greatly improved by
his Grace. They are divided i6to twenty-four bags, or cuttings,
one of which is sold by auction every year. The whole are cut
down in the space of twent - four years. That period has been
found most suitable for felling copse-wood, as the bark has then
arrived at its most perfect state for tanning, and as the wood adds
little to its growth, for some years afterwards. The old stools are
'cut over and neatly dressed, close to the surface of the ground,
that the young shoots may send out roots to draw nourishment di-
rectly from the earth. Blank ' s are filled with young plants where
the ground is wet, all the surface drains are scoured, and new ones
added, if necessary. The young wood, for six years, is carefully
fenced from cattle : afterwards, it is twice thinned and pruned.
At every cutting, some of the fairest trees, especially ifgroWD from
seedlings, are, preserved as standards,-greatly to the ornament
of the country, and to the advantage of the proprietor. The sales
of natural wood, for the last seven years, have averaged L. 950,
while those of planted.woods have averaged L. 1300,-amounting
together to L. 2250 yearly, exclusive of timber used for houses
and farms on the estate. A saw-mill, and one of Ryan's patent
tanks are in fU]lr speration for the use of the estate, and all timber
used in buildings is steeped in the solution.
  Manufactures.-A manufactory of pyrolignous acid has been
established for, several yearsat Balmaha, which annually consumes
700 tons of small wood, not measurable. The wood costs 7s. per
tont laid down at the works. All kinds of hard-wood are used;
but oak is preferred. The products are acid and dye-stuffs, which
are used in the print-works around Glasgow.
  Farms.-There are ten farms, varying in rent from L. 1500 to
LAO. There are a few possessions of smaller size, and the work-
men employed under the proprietor have each a house, garden,
and pasture for a cow, with liberty, to gatber winter fodder from
the grass of plantations. The lower part of, the parish is amble,
consisting of alluvial soil on the bank of Endrick, and of inferior
soil, of various kindsq clays gravel, and moss, rising towards the
mountain range. The rent may be stated at L. 1, 5s. per acre.
                               3


