
     of St Andrew's

come into market are generally bought up by those who 
have already some property in the vicinity.-In the city of 
St Andrew's is a grammar-school, in the patronage of the 
town-council.  The rector enjoys, rent free, a house, in 
which may be, and sometimes have been, accommodated
25 boarders.  A garden, sufficiently large for the family,
and a salary of L. 16: 3: 4 Sterling, paid out of the funds
of the corporation, out of which also are paid all the repairs
cumbent, who entered on his office about Candlemas 1791,
has already recommended himself so much to the general
esteem, and to the favour of the patrons, that they have 
freely conferred on him an yearly addition of L. 100 Scots, 
making his salary L. 25 Sterling.  The number of his boar-
ders is always increasing.  The school-fees have not been
raised for time immemorial; 2 s. 6 d. a-quarter, and a 
gratuity at Candlemas, at least equal to the quarterly pay-
ment.  The scholars, in general, pay at least 5 s. a-quar-
ter, and a Cadlemas gratuity, according to their rank and 
fortune, from 5 s. even as far as 5 guineas, when there is 
a keen competition for the Candlemas crown.  The king,
i. e. He who pays most, reigns for 6 weeks, during which 
period he is not only intitled to demand an afternoon's play
for the scholars once a-week, but he has also the royal pri-
vilege of remitting all punishments.  The number of 
scholars is from 50 to 60.  The master has no other per-
quisites but his house, garden, salary, and school-fees.  The 
corporation allow him an extra L. 7, in part payment of an
assistant

   There is also in the patronage of the town-council ano-
ther school for English, writing and arithmentic.  The pre-
sent school was built, chiefly at the expense of George
Dempster, Efq; of Dunichen, late provost of the city and 
member of Parliament for the district.  The master's salary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            esteem, and to the favour of the patrons, that they have 


