
80                       SELKIRKSHIRE.

than the Gala, is properly the river of the county, dividing it nearly
in the middle, and having a course of about thirty miles within it.
The Yarrow flowing out of St Mary's Loch, ends its short and
sweet career in the Ettrick, near the town of Selkirk.
  Mountains.--The best idea that can be formed of the moun-
tains of this parish, may be gathered from what they appear once
to have been, viz. one large high bed of greywaeke and clay-slate,
now cut by the larger rivers into long-shaoed divisions, and cross cut,
by the smaller streams, to a less depth, and into smaller and rounded
divisions.  In the rocky pool there can be no question as to a recent
cut having been made; and there stratum answers to stratum on
the opposite sides; so is it with the whole valley wide or narrow.
The dip of of the strata is various, but the direction, from N. W.
to S. E. is so uniform that it might serve for ` guide to the wan-
derer in mist. There are exceptions, however, to this uniformity
miles aboove Selkirk, the rocks forming the banks of the Ettrick,
rise to a surprising height and perpendicularity. There the strata
deviating from their plain courses are strangely incurvated; an ap-
pearance likewise presented at Newark, where the Yarrow, in the
same manner, has quarried its rocks for the bencfit of the minera-
logist. The component matter of the hills, at the western extre-
mity of the county, on the borders of Peebles-shire, where ex-
tensive layers of porphyry alternating with thin strata of slate and
granite are found, appears alos to be changed. The whole county,
from its great multitude of hills and streams, affords the best illus-
trations of the coincidence of vallies, and of the exact proportion
that subsists (the rocky substances being so much the same) be-
tween the desconding torrents, and their respective grooves.
        Turnpike Roads and Carriages.-The Edinburgh and Carlisle
road by Galashiels and Selkirk runs eleven miles within the county.
The public carringes on this road are the London mail, and one
daily Stage-coach. Belonging to the same line of road are nine
miles of turnpike from Crosrlee by Yairbridge to Selkirk,
No coach passes this way, the road being hilly, and that by Ga-
lashicls being preferred. From Hollilee, on the borders of
Peebles-shire, to Galashiels are nine miles of turnpike. On
this road there is one daily coach from Glasgow by lanark to
Kelso. From the borders of Peebles-shire, in the parish of Tru-
quair and passing through Etterick, is a road of twenty-five miles
lately made turnpike; but partly maintained by Statute labour.



