
356				FORFARSHIRE.

Gnynd, the portion annexed to Carmylie from the parish of St
Vigeans, in favour of John Beatton of, Balquharry, for services per-
formed by him, and amongst others, "the defence of the monas-
tery, against the invaders of the church liberties in these times
when the Lutherans are endeavouring to invade the same." *
	In 1559, these lands came into the possession of James Beat-
ton, Archbishop of Glasgow; and in l597 of John Beatton of
Balfour, as nearest of kin to the archbishop.+
	In 1634 a contract respecting the feu-duties payable out of these
lands was executed between James Marquis nf Hamilton, the
Lord of Erection, and John Ouchterlony of Guynd, ancestor of
the present proprietors.SS
	According to the custom in former times, among families of dis-
tinction, of taking their surnames from their estates, the surname
of Carnegie was assumed from the lands and barony of Carnegie, +
the portion annexed to Carmylie from the parish of Panbride.
	The barony of Carnegie continued in the possession of the fa-
mily of Southesk, until about seventy or eighty years ago, when
it was included in an excambion of lands which took place about
that time, with the family of Panmure. ++
        Eminent Men.-The late Dr Small, one of the ministers of Dun-
dee, and author of a work in astronomy, entitled "Kepler's Dis-
coveries,"  was a native of this parish.
        Land-owners.-The lands belonging to the Right Honourable
Lord Panmure constitute the greater part of the parish, the valu-
ed rent of them being about three-fourths of the whole valued rent
of the parish. The second heritor is John Ouchterlony, Esq. of
Guynd; and the third is Alexander Smail, Esq. of Conansythe.
        Parochial Registers.-There is a fragmant of a parochial regis-

<FOOTNOTE>Document qouted or referred to in process regarding the stipend of Carmylie,
1808.
        It is thus noticed in Douglas Paerage, "In the reign of King David II., Sir
Walter Laule granted to John, son and heir of the deceased John, son of Christian
de Belinhard, a character of the lands of Carnegie, in the baromy of Panmure in For-
farshire, and from thence John de Balinhard took the name of Carnegie."
	In Crawford's Peerage, the same account is given, and it is added, "that Duthacus
de Carnagie, a descedant from him, acquired, in 1401, a part of the lands of Kinnaird
from Richard Air; and in 1409 purchased the other half from Marioca de Kinnaird,
and in the same year had a charter confirming to him the lands of Kinnaird, which
was the title of his successors till they were raised to the honour of the poorage.
	Duthacus was killed in the battle of Harlaw in 1411. From his descended Sir
Robert Carnegie of Kinnaird, who, in 1547, was one of the Senators of the College of
Justice, and afterwards ambassador to England and France, and died at an advanced
age in 1586.
        An annual market, which, from time immemorial, had been held on a part of the
barony called Glass-tor (Grey hill) has been held since the encambion alluded to, on
a moor in the nieghbourhood of Kinnaird, and is still called Glastorlaw market.



