
     Of Forgue.

spondence with gentlemen in this country, and from some re-
cent publications.  But this, not belonging to a statistical ac-
count, I shall leave it to others.
   We must not pass by the improvements and plantations of
Captain George Morison, late of Haddo.  Haddo lies on the
N. W. side of the burn of Forgue, about an English mile
below where the church stands, keeping the course of the ri-
vulet.  The house stands on a gradual sloping bank, a few
yards from the burn, built after the modern taste, and af-
fords genteel accommodation for a largely family.  On the
haugh between the rivulet and water course to the mill, lies
the garden, fenced with a high stone wall, and well stored
with a great variety of fruit trees and bushes.  At no great
distance from the house, there are several patches of thriving
plantations of fir, alder, birch &c.  The fields are well cul-
tivated, and yield good crops.  Taking the whole in one
view.  Haddo is one of the most pleasant situations in this or
the neighbouring country, and is justly admired for its va-
riegated prospect, by every person of taste and discernment.
Some of the other heritors have begun to plant, enclose, and
improve their fields; but their improvements are in an infant
state*.

   Antiquities.-Till lately, the Roman antiquities have been
little attended to in this country.  By many, it was even be-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Wages and Prices.-The wages of servants have increased greatly within a
few years.  A capable ploughman receives from 6 L. to 7 L.  It is said, that some
of them draw 8 L.  A female servant 2 L to 3 L. a -year.  To a man in
harvest 1 s.; to a woman 9 d., with victuals; to a day-labourer from 6 d. to 8 d.,
with victuals; to a mason 1 s., 2 d.; to a wright 8 d.; and to a tailor 6 d. to 8 d.,
with victuals.  The price of provisions has increased considerably since 1780.
A hen which fold at 4 d., now gives 8 d. and 9 d.  Beef and mutton fell from
2 1/2 d. 3 d. to 4 d. the pound.  Butter fells at 8 d. the pound, 22 ounces; and
cheese from 4 s. 6 d. to 5 s. the stone weight.


