
350                  	     	KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

Assembly, but a sub-committee was appointed to confer with Mr
Hepburn and his friends concerning the said memorial. Upon
the whole, there is reason to believe that he was a great and good
man, though he may have, in some instances, manifested his zeal
in an indiscreet and intolerant manner. It is reported that Mr
Hepburn collected all the Popish books that he could find in the
parish, and burned them publicly on a hill, called Corse Hill, near
the church; and tradition adds, that he made the most bigoted
Papist in the parish below the fire. It is more certain, however,
that, in his zealous adherence to the Protestant succession to the
Throne of Great Britain, he raised a volunteer corps in this and
some neighbouring parishes, and marched at the head of it, for
the purpose of assisting Government against the Popish rebels in
the year 1715. The standard he then used is still in Urr manse.
It is a large white flag, and upon it is emblazoned, in a kind of
gilt coloured characters, " For the Lord of Hosts." The drum
which was used in his corps, was also long kept in the parish ; but,
about thirty years ago, it fell into a state of total decay.
	From the presbytery records, it appears that Mr Hepburn died
in March 1723.
	The presbytery's records give a detailed account of many in
the parish being attached to Mr Hepburn's peculiar views, and
the difficulty the presbytery had to settle such a successor to Mr
Hepburn, as might be ultimately satisfactory and profitable to all
parties. They appointed Mr Patoun, one of their number, to re-
quest the Lord Advocate not to issue a presentation in favour of
any one, but to allow the presbytery and parish of Urr to manage
the matter for the edification of all, and this request seems to
have been complied with.
	Mr Christopher Wright succeeded Mr Hepburn, as minister in
the parish of Urr, in October 1723. Mr Thomas M'Kinnel suc-
ceeded Mr Wright in 1736. Dr James Muirhead succeeded Mr
M,Kinnel in 1770 or 1771. The celebrated oriental scholar,
Dr Alexander Murray, afterwards Professor of Oriental Languages
in the University of Edinburgh, was ordained assistant minister
in this parish in 1806, and to be successor to Dr Muirhead, who
died in 1808. John M'Whir succeeded Dr Murray in the year
1813.
	Registers.--The ancient parochial registers and other session
records of Urr are in a very imperfect, mutilated, and almost ille-
gible condition. All the volumes to the year 1813 are more or
                                    6

