
	1184                      PERTHSHIRE.

	drawing up his catalogue of Angus-shire plants, Don's researches do
	not seem to have extended so far westward.  To the east of this
	his practised eye has left little to be discovered by future observ-
	ers.  I give the plants not in Linnean order, but as the botanist
	would find them, were he to perambulate this parish, beginning at
	its western extremity.  At Hill of Couttid, near the boundary of
	the parish, the Hieracium sylvaticum, a rare plant in Strathmore;
	and in the fields on the same farm, the Dianthus deltoides.  On
	the arable, gravelly soil at Mayriggs, Teesdalia nudicaulis and
	Cerastium arvense ; and on the moorish pastures the Vicia angus-
	tifolia and Astragalus hypoglottis.  Along the margin of the
	Monk Mire, the Radiola millegrana, Bidens cernua, and Saxi-
	fraga aizoides.  Botanists seem to have supposed that this latter
	plant was to be found exclusively in subalpine regions.  The
	Monk Mire is not probably above 150 feet above the level of the
	sea.  No Alpine stream runs into it, and yet this saxifrage grows
	in great abundance on its western shore flowering a month earlier
	than in the Highland part of the parish.  The Epilobium hirsutum
	grows in the drain leading from the Monk Mire, and is by no
	means common in this quarters.  In the dry fields about the manse
	the Ornithopus perpusillus is very abundant, and very fine.  In
	the churchyard the Hyoscyamus niger occasionally appears.  In
	ditches on the farm of Knowhead, Lythrum Salicuria ; and in the
	fields on that farm, Lepidium campestre and Smithii.  Along the
	banks of the Isla I have gathered the Aira caespitosa in a viviparous
	state.  In the Isla the predominant pond-weed is the Potamogeton
	perfoliatum and on itr banks the Scirpus sylvaticus grows.  About
	Coupar-Grange, the Barbarea vulgaris ; at Ryehill, the Chelido-
	nium majus.  On the banks of the Ericht, the Trollius Euro-
	paeus, Silene maritima, and Chrysosplenium alternifolium.  Like-
	wise the Galium boreale.  I have found this plant, however, in
	the neighbourbood not near any river, and in other similar loca-
	lities, and am convinced that it does not possess that exclusively
	alpine character which the books give it.  In the island below
	the Boat pool, the Veronica montana, Adoxa moschatellina, Stellaria
	nemorum, and Campanula latifolia grow.  On the road sides, above
	Cotyards there is a patch of the Galium erectum ; at Greymount,
	Smyrnium Olusatrum; and at Hill of St Phink, Pyrola minor, and
	Trientalis Europea, very large and fine.  In the Highland part of
	the parish the vegetation is of a subalpine type, the Alchemilla
	alpina, Viola lutra, Meum athamanticum, Sesleria caerulea, Poly-



