
                       PARISH OF CROMDALE.

            PRESBYTERY OF ABERNETHY, SYNOD OF MORAY.

              THE REV.  JAMES GRANT, MINISTER.


      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
 Name.-THE name of the parish is evidently derived from two
Gaelic words, crom, signifying curved or crooked ; and dail,
signifying a plain or meadow.  Close by the place where the
church and manse are situated, the river Spey forms nearly a
semicircle; and hence Cromdale, or tbe crooked date  The parisbes
of Inverallan and Advie are united to Cromdale; but at what
time the union took place is not ascertainable.
   Extent, &c.-The united parish which, in its shape, is extremely
irregular, extends to about 18 miles in length on the north side
of the Spey, and about 9 on the other.  Its greatest breadth is 10,
miles.  Itis situated in the counties of Inverness and Moray, but
the greater part lies in the former county.  It is bounded on the
east, by the parishes of Inveravon and Knockando ; on the west,
by Abernethy and Duthill; on the south, by Kirkmichael; and
on the north, by parts of the parishes of Edinkillie, and Ardclach.
   Topographical, Appearances.-There is a  complete mountain
chain of very considerable height, and covered with heath, on the
southern part of the parish, which divides it from Kirkmichael,
called." Cromdale hill" This chain extends in an eastern and western
direction, a distance of seven or eight miles.  The north side of
the river forms . rather a contrast to that already described.  Its
sloping hills, for several miles along the course of the river, are
clothed with deep forests of pinet larch, oak, &c.  It may here be
mentioned, that, within the last sixteen years, 1500 acres have been
planted on the south. side of the river, towards the lower extremity
of the parish; and it is intended, by the noble and spirited proprietor,
to follow out the same system, to plant every acre  on
which timber will grow, and which cannot, be added to the cultivated.
part of the, parish with a profitable application; of capital.
Soil.-The soil of the parish, in general, is good, and yields rich


