
                         EAGLESHAM.                        393

this parish.  His father, John Pollok (aged 82 years) is still
alive.  His mother was Margaret Dickie, from the parish of Fen-
wick.  Her ancestors had for many generations been proprietors
of a property called Horsehill, in the above parish.  The name of
the former proprietors was Gemmel, the last of whom, the grand-
mother of Mr Pollok, was a female who marrhed a person of the
name of Dickie, of which marriage the mother of the bard was a
daughter.  This family suffered greatly during the persecution,
and it was chiefly from the details of these sufferings, collected
from the lips of his mother, that Mr Pollok was led to the com-
position of that very intdresting sketch, " The Persecuted Family."
No trace of the period of Mr Pollok's birth is to be found in the
parish records.  It appears, however, that he was born in the year
1799, at Muirhouse, a farm of about 100 acres, scarcely three miles
west of the village of Eaglesham, then and still in the possession
of his father, John Pollok, a tenant of the Earl of Eglinton.
He was baptized by Mr Thomson, Antiburgber minister at Mearns.
Mr Pollok obtained his early education at Langlee, at a school
supplied by various teachers, who taught only for a stated period
during the summer months, and returned in the Winter to college.
He was also for some time at a school at Newton Mearns.  At
first, he seems to have had no idea of pursuing the clerical pro-
fession.  For some time he assisted his father on the farm, but,
finding the laborious duties of an " upland farmer" to be too ar-
duous for his feeble constitution, be resigned the sickle and the
plough, and went to reside at Barrhead with David Young, a bro-
ther-in-law, for the purpose nf learning the carpenter trade ; but,
after fabricating with his own hands a few chairs and other trifling,
articles, he seems also to have sickened at the idea of sacrificing
himself to the pursuit of a mere manual employment, and we ac-
cordingly find him next residing with his uncle, Mr David Dickie,
at Fenwick, where he learned Latin and Greek under Mr Fairlie,
the present parish teacher.  Mr Pollok afterwards studied at the
University of Glasgow, where, after the usual curriculum, he took
his degree of Master of Arts.  He studied theology in the same
city under Dr Dick, the Professor of Divinity for the United Se-
cession Church.  At this period he seems also to have attended
the theological lectures of Professor MacGiII in the university.
In the spring of 1827, he was admitted by the United Associate
Presbytery of Edinburgh, a licentiate of the Secession Church,
along with his brother, who still remains a preacher, belonging to


