
                            GREENOCK.                               491


    vious explanation of the disproportionate increase of the poverty
    and wretchedness of the lower classes.
       Fuel.-lt is almost unnecessary to observe-, that coal is the spe_
    cies of fuel universally used in this parish, except in the moorland
    part of it, where peat or turf is in common use.  The coal is im-
    ported from Glasgow, Ayrshire, and other places.

                     MISCELLANEOUS -OBSERVATIONS.
       On a general review of the facts stated in the preceding account,
    it appears that, with the exception of improvement by draining and
    better cultivation'on the arable ground, and the erection of more
    commodious farm steadings, very little alteration has taken place
    during the last forty-five years,-tbe period which has elapsed since
    the writing of the last Statistical Account-on the rural or landward
    part of this parish.  But the increase of the population and wealth
    of the town and suburbs, during the same period, has been immense.
    In 1793, the population was about 14,000; it is now more than
    double that amount.  It was then confined almost entirely to the
    level ground in the vicinity of the river; it is now spreading itself
    rapidly over the rising ground above.  The harbour revenue was
    then little more than L. 800 per annum ; it is now L. 12,000.
    There was then only one banking establishment in Greenock ;
    now there are six.*   The real capital was comparatively small,
    and the principal part of the trade in the hands of merchants in
    Glasgow ; the real capital is quintupled, and our principal ship-
    owners and merchants are resident in Greenock.  The writer of
    the last Statistical Account complains that sea-port towns are
    by no means favourable to manufactures, and mentions a rope-
    work, several cordage and sail-cloth manufactorles, soap and candle-
    works, and two sugar-houses, as the only considerable manufactories
    of which Greenock could then boast.  Now its manufactories are
    multiplying and increasing to such an extent, as to place it at no
    mean height in the list of the manufacturing towns of ScotlancL.  In
    1793, there, were two parish-churches and two chapels wof evise;
    including the latter there are now eight churches connected with
    the Establishment.  Two commodious places of worship with se-
    veral smaller edifices, have been added during the same poriod to

    <FOOTNOTE>

       * The Greenock Bank Company, the first native bank, was established in 1785.
    MrJames Millar, afterwards Professor of Mathematics in the University of Glasgow,
    was the first cashier.  The Renfrewshire Bank began to transact business in 1802.
    The branches of the Glasgow Union Bank of Scotland, Royal Bank, and Western
    Bank, have all been opened within the last ten years.  It is in costemplation to es-
    tablian another banking establishment under the designation of the Greenock Union.


