                          LIBERTON.                          3

limestone, by their composition, which is of a brecciated cha-
racter.
   The limestone is disposed in regular beds, and is of a light
grayish colour below, and dark blue above. The shale, partly in-
terposed between the limestone, and partly lying above, is of a la-
minar and highly bituminous nature. This limestone contains in-
numerable minute shells of the genus Cypris, a species of Unio, and
several other fresh water Mollusca. It is also full of beautiful and
most perfect impressions of cryptogamic plants, such as several spe-
cies of Sphenopteris, Lepidodendrons, Lepidostrobus, &c. Entire im-
pressions of small fishes, and numerous scales and fragments of
bones, chiefly of the ganoid order of Agassiz, are also abundant,
together with bones, scales, teeth, and faecal remains of Sauroid
fishes of very large dimensions. This same limestone, characte-
rized by its fresh water remains, is also seen cropping out at More-
dun. The Gilmerton limestone appears from its position to lie
above the Burdiehouse strata, and its organic remains, unlike the
other, are exclusively marine. This bed is also about 27 feet
thick. Below, is a hard compact limestone, with numerous remains
of encrinites; above, are layers of a coarser limestone, called by the
workmen blaes, alternating with layers of bituminous shale. In
tbese layers Producti, Spiriferi and other sbells are abundant. This
limestone also dips to the east and south-east at an angle of about
25o, and lies below the great coal basin, which commences imme-
diately to the south.
   Both limestones are very pure, containing about 95 per cent,
carbonate of lime, and they have been extensively quarried and
burnt for useful purposes.
   At Niddry quarry, the same tilting up of the strata is visible,
and here they consist of sandstone, shale, coal, and limestone. The
same section extends onwards to Joppa, and terminates in the Frith.
   At St Catherine's is a well which contains a quantity of mineral
oil or petroleum, obtained most probably from the spring flowing
over some portion of the coal beds. This bituminous matter floats
copiously on the surface of the water, and is also partially, dissolved
in it. The spring is reckoned medicinal by the country people,
and may have some slight efficacy in cutaneous eruptions.
                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Account of the Parish.-There is a very elaborate account, of
this parish, written by the Rev. Thomas Whyte, who, was ordain-
ed minister of Liberton in 1752, and published amongst the


