
<TABLE>

				YETHOLM.                            165

	In 1755, the population was 699	     In 1811,	1138
	   1786, . . . . . . . . . 1070         1821,   1280
	   1801, . . . . . . . . . 1011         1831,   1289

    The increase of population in the country parts of the parish is
owing, entirely, of course, to the great improvements in the system
of agriculture, and the consequent greater demand for labourers :
the quantity of land now under cultivation in the parish being
much more than doubled since the end of last century.  The
same cause has also affected the population of the two villages, the
greater part of which depends for employment on the farmers.
Other subordinate causes might be mentioned, as the great temp-
tation to, and prevalence of, smuggling, from the vicinity of the
villages to England,-an occupation from which a fifth or sixth of
the population some years ago derived their means of subsistence;
and the facility of persons in decayed circumstances procuring a
room or lodging in the villages, where, after a residence of three
years, they very frequently become burdens on the parish.
    The average number of children in a family is 31/2 or 4; but
among the gipsies not less than 6 or 61/2. I have no means of as-
certaining the average number of births,  deaths, and marriages for
the last seven years; the registration of baptisms having been much
neglected, and no registry of deaths being kept at all.
    Character, &c. of the People.-The people, in general, enjoy re-
markably good health.  About the middle of last year (1829,) there
were sixteen persons between eighty and ninety years of age; and in
the churchyard every sixth or seventh person whose memory is record-
ed seems to have died betwixt seventy and ninety years of age.  With
a few exceptions, the labouring classes seem, in general, to be in
tolerably comfortable circumstances.  The villages alone give em-
ployment to two or three butchers, and four bakers. As by
far the greater part of the population, however, derive their sub-
sistence from their employment by the farmers, whatever depresses
the agricultural interest must tend more or less to injure them, by
throwing them out of employment.  Accordingly, during the last
two years which have been so trying to farmers in general, the
relief required to be extended to the poor has been much increased.
The illegal practice of smuggling, till lately so prevalent in this
neigbbourhood, and so openly practised, must no doubt have had
a very demoralizing influence upon a considerable portion of the
population; otherwise I am disposed to regard them, in general, as
a quiet and well disposed people.
    Gipsies.-Kirk Yetholm has long been known and somewhat
celebrated as the residence of the largest colony in Scotland, I


