
64                               BUTESHIRE.

of them can accommodate more than half a dozen vessel, nor ad-
mit them, except at full tide. Should they approach the
any other time they must stand off till it flows, and, however tem-
pectuous be the weather, they have no nigher place of shelter
to ruu to than the one the left. It is therefore, with consider-
able danger and damage that the communication with these ports
is carried on. Commodious harbours that could at all times of
the tide admit vessels of thirty tons, are very much required at
both these places and, might be constructed at no very great ex-
pense.
	Roads.--An excellent parliamentary road extends from Black-
water Foot to Brodick. Two other roads, almost equally good, ex-
tend, one from Blackwater Foot, along the shore, to Largybeg, the
other from Benecarigan across the island, to Lamlash. This last
was made by the inhabitants, at the expense of the Duke of Ha-
milton, generally by those of them who had fallen behind in their
rents during Lbe transition state of agriculture, and who by this means
plaid up their arrears. The former of them was made, and both are
upheld, by the statute labour and three additional days, which,
by their leases, the tenantry are bound to work at roads, mill-
dams, and watercourses. The labour is directed by an overseer,
who calls out the different districts in rotation, superintends the work,
and goes that it be properly executed. Bridges have been erected
ever all the rivers and streams, on his Grace's property, with the
exception of Blackwater, Machey, and Iorsa, which lie on its
confines, and contiguous to that of Mrs Westenra. On this the
roads are very indiffirent, and there are no bridges.
	There is no post-office in the parish. The nighest are those of
Brodick and Lamlash, both subordinate to Saltcoats, from which
the mail is conveyed to both twice a week in winter, and daily in
summer, by a steam packet belonging to the island.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was rebuilt on its ori-
ginal site at Kilmorie in 1785. It is a long, low, narrow build-
ing, with Gothic windows, and a gallery in both ends. The latter
erected in 1824. An aisle or outshot, with gallery, was added in
1810. It accommodates 832, and all the sittings are free, and
most of them unappropriated. Its situation is far from central.
It is six miles from the southern, and twenty-four from the north-
thern extremity of the parish. The country around it is pretty
dessely inhabited, but there are other parts, about eight mules dis-
tant, that are equally as. There, also, there is a church where Divine


