
40                              PEEBLES-SHIRE.

more common animals, than for its possession of those that are
more rare.  " The largest kind of raven, and the true hunting
hawk, still annually hatch their young in Glendean's banks;" but
the common magpie, and the far more interesting laverock or lark,
are exceedingly scarce.  The present writer has not observed above
two or three pairs of the former in the space of thirteen years; and
has not been regaled above once or twice in the same time with
the song of the latter.
   Botany.-The knout or cloud-berry is said to be the only plant
at all rare observed in the parish.  Our forests have disappeared,
but the present proprietors are anxiously endeavouring to restore
them in the form of plantations.  Almost every sort of fir and of
forest timber has been planted; but it would appear as if, of the
latter, the ash and beech, and, perhaps, the elm and plane, are
the most congenial to the soil and climatd.    A few very favourable
specimens of all these are now  growing in the churchyard  and im-
mediate neighbourhood; and there is, at least, one very fine tree
of the silver fir species, in the grounds of Traquir House. " The
bush aboon Traquair" is now reduced to four miserable birch trees;
and such are the chances and changes of the times, that the field
in which they grow,-the once famed scene of love and poetry,-
is now very generally termed the hospital, from the circumstance
of its having been reserved, at one time, as the field into which
the ailing of the flock and of the herd were driven for pasture.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-" Mr Borthwick, in his Feudal Dignities,
mentions Sarah of the Glen, Peebles-shire, amongst the ladies who
swore allegiance to Edward I. of England in 1296." Tradition
affirms that Captain Porteous, so celebrated for giving the name to
the mob in Edinburgh in 1736, was born at Easter Glen, in this
parish. *
   Traquair House was the first place where the famous Marquis
of Montrose rested the night after the battle of Philiphaugh.  Hume
the historian affirms that he had reason to expect the assistance of
the then Earl of Traquair; and tradition  adds,  that his Lordship
mounted, on the morning of the day of the battle, the 13th Sep-
tember 1645,-his blacksmith carrying a bag of gold for the use
of the Marquis.   In the meantime, before they reached the

<FOOTNOTE>It is said that Porteous, when a boy, having killed the favourite hen of an old,
woman who then resided on the neighbouring farm of Fethan, she, in her wrath,
" wished that there might be as many folk at his death  as there were feathers on her
poor chucky."


