
           230                        PERTHSHIRE.

           price per head for pasturing oxen is about L. 1, 10s.  Farm-ser-
           vants are hired by the year.  They receive about L. 12 in money
           with sixty-five stones of oatmeal annually, and three imperial pints
           of milk daily; day-labourers in summer get I s. 8d. per day, and in
           winter Is. 4d.; artisans, such as wrights, masons, &c. about 2s.
           -no victuals being provided.
             Raw Produce.-The raw produce consists chiefly of grain, po-
           tatoes and turnip.  Potatoes, for a number of years past, may have
           averaged 2s. per cwt.: turnips when sold off the land from L. 6 to
           L.12 per acre; grain prices vary a good deal. This year best wheat
           is L. 2, 4s. per quarter; barley, L. 1, 6s. 6d.; oatmeal 14s. 6d. per
           boll.  Grain is the principal production of the parish, and all the in-
           habitantr may be said to be more or less engaged in agriculture.
           Rearing of stock is little attended to; the ground which is not arable
           being unenclosed and of inferior quality.  The grain raised is gene-
           rally of the first quality.  The arable land is almost all fit for carry-
           ing crops of wheat.   The quantity of grain of all sorts raised is
           about 3250 quarters; of potatoes 1800 bolls (of 5 cwt. per boll;)
           of turnips about  100 acres; of hay about  10,000 stones; of flax 50
           stones; of fruit, apples and pears, the average value is nearly L. 60
           Sterling.  The total yearly value of raw produce is about L. 7700
           Sterling.
                              V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
            MarAet-Towns.-There are no market-towns. Markets are,
           however, held on a small scale in some villages at no great distance.
           Perth and Dundee are the chief places of resort for the sale and
           purchase of commodities.  Each of these tnwns is distant from us
           ten or eleven miles, and the great road passes within half a mile of
           the parish.  There is a port on the Tay, about four miles off, from
           which much of our grain is shipped, and at which coals, lime, &c.
           are laid down.  This ir a great convenience.  There is a post-
           office within rather less than three miles.
            Ecclesiastical State.-The church is conveniently situated.  It
           was built only a few years ago, aud is abundantly large as well as
           comfortable.  The manse is quite new, and is substantial and
           commodious.  The grebe consists of 7 or 8 acres, and is of good
           soil, though with the disadvantage of a northern exposure.  The sti-
           pend is as follows: Imperial quarters wheat, 2.994768; ditto bar-
           ley, 68399616; bolls meal 91.5,61392; money L. 8, 6s. 8d.
            Dissenters-There are no dissenting chapels in this parish.
           Only one of the inhabitants is a Seceder.  The rest belong to the



