
     of Kirkwall and St Ola.

their children baptised on the very day which they had pre-
viously fixed in their mind for that purpose.  To these pre-
judices, arising from ignorance, there are still connected seve-
ral of the meaner kind of vices.  If they are detected in tel-
ling a lie to promote their own interest, in over-reaching
their acquaintance in making a bargain, or even in pilsering
their property, they are not so much ashamed as to argue a
great degree of civilization.  Murmuring at their own poor
condition, complaining of, and wishing to conceal every thing
they can call their own, and a constant endeavour to throw
the thick veil of mystery over every transaction they engage
in, form the most prominent features of their characters.
Of these foibles and vices, however, to which, it must be
confessed, the meanest of the people are but too much ad-
dicted, no traces almost are to be met with among those of
better condition.  The ladies here are as agreeable in their
persons, as they are polished in their manners: They disco-
ver much good sense, and equal virtue; and, when they are
raised from their father's family to that of their husband,
they are no less remarkable for their faithful affection as
wives, than they are for their parental attachment as mothers.
Neither are the men of the same rank much inferior; for
such of them as are engaged in trade, are generally reputed
fair in their dealings.  Such as are bred for the navy, rise to
considerable rank; and those gentlemen that live at home
upon their estates, and that have been fortunate enough to
obtain a liberal education in their youth, need not be afraid
to bear a comparison with those of the same rank in other
parts of the kingdom.  To form the minds, and mark the
characters of the inferior ranks of people here, the illicit
trade which till lately has been carried on to no small extent,
has, without doubt, contributed very considerably.  Former-
ly, the money they had, which indeed was but little, ran al-

     VOL. VII. 4 B


