
20			KINCARDINESHIRE.

	A Society, called the Benevolent Society of Odd Fellows, was
instituted a few years ago, having the same laudable object in view
as the Friendly Society.  As it is but in infancy, its full benefits
cannot yet be known.
	There is no savings bank in this parish. The nearest is that of
the parish of Kinneff, about two miles and a-half distant from In-
verbervie. It is understood to be prospering, and small sums are
sent to it from this place.
	Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons on the poor's
roll is 15; and each receives, monthly, an allowance, varying, ac-
cording to circumstances, from 8s. to 3s. and 2s. 6d.
	There are a good many dependent families and individuals who
do not wish to be put on the roll. They accordingly receive from
the parochial funds occasional supplies in the time of their need.
	The proportion of the fund which arises from church collections
is annually about L.30; the interest of lefacies is about L 30;
and there are occasional donations given by the heritors of the pa-
rish and others for immediate distribution, varying from L.50 to
L.5.  There is not at present a single pauper in the parish that
is subjected to the demoralizing practice of begging from door to
door.  The poor, therefore, belonging to this place, have great reason
to be grateful to God for such an ample provision to their temporal
wants, and to rest satisfied and contented in their humble sphere
under His kind providence. The princely benefaction of L.500, by
the will of the late James Farquhar, Esq. of Inverbervie; to the kirk-
session for behoof of the poor of the parish; and the gift of L.50
from the late Mrs Croll, to be added to the fund, place the poor
(under all ordinary circumstances) beyond the reach of want.
	Fairs.--Two fairs are held annually on a common belonging
to the town. They were established many years ago. The one
always holds in May, on the Thursday before the 19th of that
month, and the other on the Thursday before the 19th of Sep-
tember.  The first is well attended, and considered an excellent
cattle market. The other, in September, is not so favourable for
businesr, as it generally interferes with the harvest. In 1834, the
magistrates, of Bervie, with the sanction of the heritors of the pa-
rish and the neighbourhood, established three additional markets
in the burgh, for the feeing of servants, and for the sale of fat and
other cattle. They fixed on the Wednesday before the 22d of No-
vember as a market for the feeing of servants and the sale of cattle;
the Wednesday before, Christmas, old style, and the Wednesday


