
60                       DUMBARTONSHIRE.

handsome private bridge lately built for a new approach to Gars-
cube House. The great aqueduct, by which the Forth and Clyde
Canal is carried over the Kelvin, stands in the angle, where this
parish meets with Govan and the Barony. Over the Allander
there are three single-arched bridges, and several others over smal-
ler streams. All of them are of stone, and they are generally in
good condition.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church is centrically situated, and is
little more than three miles distant from the remotest inhabited
parts of the parish. It was built in 1807, and is in good repair.
There is accommodation in it for about 7bO persons. , None of
the sittings are let for hire, but all of them, except 20, are appro-
priated by the different heritors, according to their valuations, and
are occupied by their tenants, free of charge. Those not appro-
priated are reserved for strangers and the poor. A handsome
new manse, in the English cottage style, was built in 1837, on a
plan by Mr Herbertson of Glasgow. The glebe, including
garden ground, is about 5 Scots acres in extent, and is worth
L.10 Sterling a-year.  There is no grass glebe; but the statu-
tory allowance of L.20 Scots is received in place of it. The sti-
pend consists of 17 chalders of rain, half barley and a half oat-
meal; together with L. 100 Scots for communion elements, and
L.1, Is. 73/4d. Sterling, drawn, "conform to use and wont,"
from the lands of Kilbowie, in the parish of Old Kilpatrick. Tak-
ing an average of the Dumbartonshire fiars for tb6 three years pre-
ceding 1834, and deducting 91/2 per cent. as the difference between
the Dumbarton and Linlithgow measures of barley, the whole
amount of the stipend is L. 266, 13s. Sterling.
   There is a Relief meeting-house at Milngavie, and in the neigh-
bouring parish of Old Kilpatrick are two Seceding houses, one
connected with the Original Burgher, and the other with the
United Secession, which afford accommodation for a considerable
number of inhabitants of this parish. The stipend of the Relief
minister at Milngavie is L.110 Sterling a-year, paid from the
seat-rents and collections; besides which he has a free dwelling-
house and garden.
   The following is as near an approximation as can well be made
to a correct classification of the inhabitants according to their re-
ious denominations:-Attacbed to the Establishment, 338 fa-
milies, or 1784 persons; Seceders or Dissenters, 215 families, or


