
                       KILSYTH          151

one of his Majesty's Privy-Council and Vice-Chancellor of Scot-
land. He died about 1627.
  The Rev. Mr John Livingston, justly celebrated for his remark-
able success in a sermon preached at Shotts, on Monday after
the communion there, about the year 1628, and which gave rise
to the practice in the Church of Scotland of observing a day
of thanksgiving after the dispensation of the Lord's Supper, was
a native of this parish. He was born in 1603, and nearly re-
lated to the Viscount of Kilsyth. Livingston was amount the most
learned and laborious of the brethren, who are justly described as
"the band of faithful ministers, who, about the year 1643, were en-
couraged to take their lot in Ulster in Ireland, and whose labours
were remarkably blessed to the converting of many."* They were
the founders of the Presbyterian Church in that province, which
is now recognized as in communion witht the Church of Scot-
land. Livingston was one of the five eminent men who went to
Ireland to aid "the seven brethre, constituting the first band of
ministers who laboured with apostolic earnestness to remove the ig-
norance, formality, and prefaneness which characterized the greater
part of the early colonists." He was settle at Killinchin, within
the discese of Down, ordained by Rev. William Cunninghame of
Tullaghfernan, (now Tully), and two or three other ministers,-Mr
Andrew Know, Bishop of Rapho, being present. He was afterwards
minister successively of Stranaer, and of Ancrum in Scotland, and
was obliged to flee, in persecuting times, to Holland, where he died,
He suffered more than any of the other brethren of that period,
for his unshaken attachement and adherence to the Presbyterian
cause. His Life was originally printed in 4to, in 1727; reprinted
in 18mo. 1754.
  Sir Archibald Edmonstone of Duntreath, Bart, the chief pro-
prietor here, is the author of a well-written and interesting account
of his travels in Egypt.
  W. A. Cadell, Esq. of Banton, second proprietor, is the author
of two very accurate volumes of travels in Italy.
  The present venerable and eminent Professor of Anatomy in
the University of Glasgow, Dr James Jeffray, is a native of this
parish, and has publised a valuable medical work.
  Henry Marshall, Esq., Inspector of Hospitals, a native of this
parish, is the author of several interesting publications.

<FOOTNOTE>* Reid's History of Presbyterianism in Ireland, Vol. i. p. 98.





