
     of Athelstaneford.

   Poor.-There are no beggars in this parish; neither is
there any memorial of there ever having been any assessment

<FOOTNOTE>

roused the spirit of the young hero, and he immediately joined
the party.  He soon distinguished himself by his military talents,
and rose to the rank of colonel of the Scotch Brigade.  In that
command he performed many important services, and often re-
ceived public praise from Gustavus for his gallant conduct.  He
afterwards went into the French service, and died a Field Mar-
shal of France.  But, though few possess talents to distinguish
themselves by such splendid atchievements as Hepburn, or have
opportunities of rising to such eminent rank, yet there are men
who, in the humbler paths of life, have opportunities of per-
forming services of great general utility, and of essential impor-
tance to the improvement of their country; and, if it is a just
observation, as it certainly is, That the man who makes "two
"blades of grass, and two ears of corn grow where only one
" grew before," deserves to be ranked among the benefactors
of mankind, it would be improper not to merit,on in a publica-
tion of this nature, (meant to mark the progress of improve-
ment in this country), the following character.  His name,
which deserves to be handed down to posterity, was John Wal-
ker.  It is not certain that he was a native of this parish; but
he possessed land, to a considerable extent, both in this and a
neighbouring parish, and was the first farmer in this country
who either fallowed an acre of land, or sowed a boll of wheat,
on what is commonly called outfield land.  He took the hint
from an English gentleman travelling in this country.  When
he began the experiment, many of his neighboors laughed at
his seeming folly, while his more immediate connections were
alarmed at the circumstance of his not sowing his fields, and
considered it as a symptom of poverty.  His crop exceeded his
most sanguine expectations, and justified the wisdom of his con-
duct; and his neighbours had the good sense to follow his ex-
ample.  This experiment was made in the parish of Prestonick,
on the estate of Beanston, now the property of the Earl of
Wemyss, and happened towards the end of the last century.  Some
years after this, perhaps more than 20, the sowing of clover and
other grass seeds was introduced into this country by the Earl of
Haddington, grandfather of the present nobleman.  These were
the first, and will probably prove the moot important and per-
manent, of all improvements in modern husbandry.  Robert
Blair, Esquire, present Solicitor General for Scotland, who fills


