
                        CORSTORPHINE.                       221

although at the period of the last Statistical Account, oxen were
used on one or more of the farms.
   The rotation of the crops and management of the farms are so
similar to the practice in other parishes in the county, in the ac-
counts of which they are fully described, that it is quite unneces-
sary to enlarge on them here.
   Horticulture.-The village of Corstorphine, like other ancient
ecclesiastical stations, is surrounded by rich plots of garden ground,
which have been long in a high state of cultivation. Part of this
ground is let at L. 8 per acre, and on it great quantities of fruit,
strawberries, and vegetables, are produced for the Edinburghmarket.

		  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-There were formerly two villages in this parish-
Corstorphine and Gogar; the latter, however, now does not de-
serve the name. Corstorpbine towards the end of the last cen-
tury, and beginning of the present, was a fashionable summer re-
sidence for the inhabitants of Edinburgh, having its annual balls
and other amusements. The principal attraction to it at that period
was the mineral spring before described. Besides these summer visi-
tors, there were other strangers who chose Corstorphine for their re-
sidence. These were young men of Norwegian and Swedish fami-
lies, who were boarded with the schoolmaster of the parish. When
Mr Simpson, the present schoolmaster, was appointed, in 1812,
he found it necessary to acquire the Norwegian and Swedish lan-
guages, and he continued to have under his charge several Nor-
wegian boarders, until the present heavy duty was imposed on Bal-
tic timber, after which period the intercourse between this part, of
the country and Norway ceased.
   The appearance of the village of Corstorphine has been great-
ly improved since the date of the last Statistical Account, by the
erection of a handsome villa, and a number of neat cottages, in
1832, by the late David Johnston, Esq. merchant in Gibraltar,--a
native of the village, who had acquired a fortune abroad, and
spent the last years of his life in superintending these' improve-
ments. The healthiness of the climate, and this additional ac_
commodition, has again made Corstorphine a resort for country
quarters during the summer season ; and were it thoroughly drain-
ed, as it might be at a very trifling expense, no situation in the vi-
cinity of Edinburgh would be superior to it, either for salubrity or
convenience of access.
   The principal traffic carried on in Corstorphine is the purchase


