
     Statistical Account

lemn gloominess of the light, the clang of the sea birds that
nestle in it, and the mournful dashing of the waves against
the adjacent rocks.  Numbers of seals are found in this cave.
The tides follow the direction of the coast nearly from east to
west.  There are no currents worth mentioning.

   Antiquities.-At Melnoss there are the remains of an an-
tient building; but so ruinous, and so covered with earth,
that its original from cannot be distinctly traced.  It is called
Dun Bhuidh, the Yellow heap, and supposed to the erected by
Dornadilla, king of the Scotch.  The skeleton of two men
were found buried near it some years ago.  One of them
measured in length above 7 feet.  Upon being exposed for
some time to the air, they mouldered into dust.  At the
distance of about half a mile from melness, there are seve-
ral heaps of stones, and ruins of small circular buildings,
scattered at various distances, on a rising ground near the sea.
The circular buildings are said to have been solds, erected to
guard the younger cattle from the wolves, with which, it is
supposed, the country was once insested.  No account is gi-
ven of these heaps, though, from the size and situation of
them, it should seem a battle had been fought on the spot.
On the east side of the bay lies Tongue, one of the seats of
Lord Reay, a beautiful spot, laid out into gardens, surround-
ed with beautiful trees, which, in some points of view seem
on the one side to wave their tops among the cliffs of Pen
Laoghal; and, on the other, to lose themselves in the runs
of Caistal a Bbarruich, a structure so antient, that there is no
consistent tradition concerning it.  Perhaps it was possefied
by John Mackay Abarach, the greatest name for heroism in
this part of the Highlands; and, what renders this conjec-
ture the more plausible, there is a cave in the rock upon
which the castle is build, called Leabuidh Ecin Abaruich, i. e.

them, it should seem a battle had been fougth on the spot.
On the east side of the bay lies Tongue, one of the seats of


