
     General Appendix to

and water carriage, to the inland parts of the county.  This
is the great object of the proposed canal.
   It is intended, moreover, that the canal should be joined
at Comrie by a turnpike road, leading from Stirling, by Dum-
blane and Glenlichorn, and through Glenlednick, to Loch-
Tay side: so that, irr this manner, a complete communication
would be opened through a country of some hundred miles
of extent, containing upwards of 100,000 people.
   When it is considered that a tract of country so extensive,
and so populous, is now only in the dawn of improvement; it
seems obvious, that the intercourse to and from it, which is at
present considerable, must increase in such proportion, as to
produce a certainty of the most ample returns for such sums as
may be laid out in establishing the communications proposed
   When, moreover, the immense advantages of water car-
riage are attended to; the convenience and facility thereby
acquired, insomuch, that, by means of a single horse, one
hundred times the quantity can be conveyed by water as by
land; and that, in the different commercial countries of Eu-
rope, canals have been found by experience to be one of the
great means of their prosperity; it is believed no doubt can
remain of the utility of the proposed undertaking.
   Articles of Importation.-These would consist of coals;
lime,* iron, hard wares, tar, butter, flax, flax seed, foreign
timber, porter; bear, flour, meal, and grain of every kind;
broad cloths; wines, sugars, teas, and other grocery goods to
a great amount.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Nula.  The average price of the best English coals at Perth, during the
summer, is from 3 s. to 3 s. 6 d. per boll of 40 stone Dutch weight, or about
1 d. per stone; at Crieff and Comrie, from 2 d. to 3 d. per stone, or from 5 s. 4 d.
to 6 s. per boll.
   The average price of the best English lime shells, at Perth, is from 1 s. 10 d.
to 2 s. per boll; at Crieff and Comrie from 2 s. 9 d. to 3 s. per boll of the lowest
quality.


