
     Of Barony of Glasgow.

girls each; one in Camlachie, only for boys; and one at
Shettleston.  The school-wages paid in the villages are 2 s. 6 d.
or 3 s. the quarter; and at one school, 4 s.; and in the country,
in general, 2 s. a-quarter.  Many children also in the neigh-
bourhood of Glasgow attend schools in the city, for different
branches of education.-The number of poor upon the roll
of the session last year, (1790), amounted to 186.  And the
sum expended for their relief was 247 L. 8 s. 4 d. which, at
an average, is 2 s. a-month nearly to each.  The least given
to any person is 1 s. a-month, and none received more than
5 s. a-month, excepting one woman, who is insane, for whom
12 s. a-month is paid by the session; and some children, who
are boarded till they are able to do something for themselves,
at the rate of 3 L. 12 s. 8 d. a-year.  The session also pays for
their education, as they do for all the children of the poor up-
on their *.

     Q 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The session indeed are particularly attentive to this, being fully persuaded
that a proper education and habits of sobriety and industry are of the greatest:
importance to the comfort of the individual, and the benefit of society.  The
funds, provided for the support of these poor, under the management of the ses-
sion were,

<TABLE>

The collections at the church-doors, amounting to                     L. 143   14   2 1/4
For proclamation of banns for marriage,                                       46   10   9
Interest of money,                                                            22   10   0
For a few seats in the parish church belonging to the session, and
    some other incidental sums,                                               14   14  10 1/2
And an assessment paid by the heritors,                                       25    0   0
                                                                         --------------------------
                                                                          L. 252    9   9 1/4

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

   The session are so much convinced, that regular assessments for the support of
the poor, have the most dangerous tendency, that they exert themselves to the
utmost to prevent the necessity of them.  It is but a few years since they were
obliged to have recourse to them, and they hope soon to be relieved from the
necessity of resorting to so dangerous an expedient, as they expect a commo-


