
     of Birse.

or wells; and besides, the fireams and rivulets issuing from
them, it is watered by the Dee on the north; the Avert
towards the south; the Feugh, the water or burn of Chat-
tie, and the burn of Birse, running through the three
straths of the parish The Dee abounds with excellent fal-
mon, grilse, sea trout, sterlings (here called dowbrecks,)
trout and parr, with some pikes and fresh water slounders
with finnicks.  Dee is said to produce pearl shells, but
pearls have rarely been found.  Feugh is the mort consi-
derable river.  It also produces salmon, and most of the
forts of fish above mentioned.  It would abound with them
all, were they not stopped by a considerable water-fall near
its influx into the Dee, opposite to Banchory ternan, and
which prevents the salmon from getting up unless when
the river is flooded.  The Feugh receives A ven before it
leaves the parish of Birse and the Dee, when running through
the parish of Strachar; it is a very rapid river, and often
overflows its banks.  The Aven, the Chattie and the burn of
Birse, abound with trout of all sorts, also eels.  No rivers
or rivulets afford the angler better sport than these*.

   Agriculture and Produce.-It must be confessed that a-
griculture in this country is rather in an imperfect state;
many of the people continue rivetted in their prejudices a-
gainst the modern improvements in husbandry.  All, how-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Towards the spaw mg season, salmon grilse, and sea trout, come up
in great numbers into the rivers and burns, and even into the branches of
them.  The spawning season is thought to be from the middle of Octo-
ber to the end of November; during which time fishing, which, by the
by, is always with the rod or spear, is prohibited.  We have, however, a
species of salmon, called by the country people candavargs, that frequently
do not spawn before the month of April or May; these, therefore, are in
perfection when the others are not.  They are grosser for their length
than the common salmon, and often (of a huge size) upwards of 20 or 30
pound weight.  They are said to come from the coasts of Norway.


