
     of Mary-kirk.

thought its waters of a sanative quality, brought their rickety
children to be washed in its stream.  Its water was likewise
thought a sovereign remedy for sore eyes, which by frequent
washing, was supposed to cure them.  To show their gratitude
to the Saint, and that he might be propitious to continue the
virtues of the waters, they put into the well presents, not in-
deed of my great value, or such as would have been of the
least service to him, if he had stood in need of money, but
such as they conceived, the good and merciful Apostle, who
did not delight in costly oblations, could not fail to accept*.

   Antiquities.-The antiquities of this parish are few in num-
ber, and of no great importance.  It is, however, to be ob-
served, that the traditions which bid fairest to claim the title
of antiquity are these.  A few year, ago, when part of the
church was to be rebuilt, there were found in the heart of the
wall, a few stones about 6 feet long.  The stones were in the
form of a coffin.  One of them was carved round the edge;
had the impression of a large broad sword, suspended at no
great distance from the top, the whole length of the stone.
Opposite to this sword, was engraved a figure of an eliptic
form, from which proceeded a lance or spear, nearly the
same length.  There stones, it is supposed, were taken from

<FOOTNOTE>

*The presents generally given, were pins, needles, and rags taken from
their cloaths.  This may point out the superstition of those times; and many
no doubt, will boast much, that they are born in a more enlightened age; but
while they may, be entertained with the insignificant gifts of their ancestors,
let them take care, that they themselves be not among the number of those,
who render to God no returns for benefits received; or if they do, make it
obvious by their conduct, that they pay little or no regard either to his posi-
tive or moral precepts.  Such a conduct in the eye of reason, will be ac-
counted as ridiculous as the offering a pin, a needle, or a rag in sacrifice.


