
       190                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       fihes,the important genus of the cod deserve the first notice.  Of
       this tribe, the common cod, the baddocks, the bib, the cole-fish, the
       whiting, the hake, the ling, and the pollack or lythe are well known.
       The five-bearded cod and the tusk have been found.  The smooth,
       the spotted, and the viviparous blenny are numerous on the rocky
       shores; as are two species of flounder, on the sandy shallows.  The
       common wrasse and sea-perch are often taken; and the elegantly
       marked bimaculated wrasse is sometimes caught.  The common mack-
       erel is numerous, as is also the scad or horse mackerel; but neither is
       much esteemed. The grey gurnard visits the loch, in great numbers,
       in autumn; the red is also sometimes taken.  Both on the sea shore
       and in the rivers, the salmon and the white trout are abundant.
       The lakes abound with the yellow spotted trout.  The grey mul-
       let is sometimes caught; but the herring is the staple fish of the
       parish.  It usually enters the loch, early in August, at which time
       it is always full of roe and milt, or lean, and feeding on its own fry,
       which at this season it devours so greedily, as to he frequently
       caught upon the hooks baited with a white feather for catching the
       young cole-fish.  The next shoal which enters the loch, about the
       end of August, is generally of fine quality, fat and large.  From
       this period, the fish usually decrease in numbers, and fall off in qua-
       lity till the beginning of December, when they gradually disappear.
       It is not a little remarkable, that, at the period of the season in
       which the herring is in the finest condition, there is nothing to be
       found in its stomach.  This is probably the consequence of its
       feeding at this time upon animalcules, which are either invisible
       from their diminutive size or transparency, or are so quickly digest-
       ed as to have escaped observations, probably upon the luminous
       kinds which always accompany it.
         Reptiles.-Tbe only reptiles are frogs, toads, and lizards.  No
       serpents have occurred in the parish.
         Insects.- The insects of this parish have not attracted much atten-
       tion; consequently no rare or interesting kinds have been observed.
       Wild bees are numerous and of several species, forming their hives
       in the deep soil or in the mossy pasturek.  The scarlet and the
       white butterflies are very abundant.  The gooseberry caterpillar is
       the only insect complained of as destructive to vegetation, and the
       midge as troublesome to man.  The fly which deposits its eggs in
       the back of the sheep, has scarcely found its way this far north,
       and it is hoped that the wetness of the climate will prevent it from
       extending its ravages.  The same cause probably preserves the


