
                                       PARISH OF ROSENEATH.

                       PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                                  THE REV. ROBERT STORY, MINISTER.


        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--The name is found variously written in documents of
different ages; but latterly it is generally spelt Rosneath. * There
can be no doubt as to the meaning of the first syllable Ros, con-
fessedly a Celtic word, signifyinG a point,--a generic term simply,
and not expressive of the elevation or depression, or of any parti-
cular shape of the headland to which it refers. Respecting the
adjunct, neath, however, etymologists widely differ. Some derive
the name from Rhos-neth, the promontory or peninsula of the small
dingle; and such an origin is probable from the fact, that in the
southern extremity, there is a dingle, which, to persons approach-
ing it from the east or west, must always have presented a strik-
ing feature in the aspect of the peninsula. Nothing could be more
natural to the aboriginal Celts, emerging from the vast glens of
the contiguous mountains of Cowal, than the exclamation, this
is the little dingle!--and -if tradition, tracing the route of the
Cambuskenneth pilgrims to Icolmkill, be correct in representing
Kilicreggan, (in the immediate vicinity of the dell, and then the
seat of a religious house) as one of their resting-places, they could
not fail in approaching it, to detect in the dingle a miniature resem-
blance of the larger hollow of Glenfruin, which might lead them
to repeat and sanction, if not to originate the name. Others con-
sider it to be derived from Ros-neoth, the bare unwooded pro-
montory: such, however, in the judgment of Celtic scholars, are

 <FOOTNOTE> In the twelfth century, it is found witb its modern orthography, Rosneth, in
the grant by Amelic, the brother of Maldoen, the Earl of Lennox, of all its temporali-
ties to the monks of Paisley. Afterwards Rusneth--Rosneuth, nevet--negt obviously a
contraction, and Nenet, probably from the mistake of a letter by the transcriber of the
document. Then again Nevino persona deNeveth and Gilmothe filio sacristi de Nevneth,
Michael Gilmodyn persona de Nenet, are signatures to charters which identify the va-
rious orthographies with the name of one place. Renyt is another variety, and equal-
ly with the others differing from the Saxon or Celtic orthographics, assumed to be still
more ancient.


