

				INVERAVEN.                            139

	a good road, each carrying it on, upon his own property, --lead-
	ing by the east side of Aven to Glenlivet and Kirkmichael, which
	has proved of the utmost advantage in opening up the communica-
	tion with these places.  There are also a pretty good road, some
	miles up the Aven on the west side, and a couple of similar branch
	ones from the toll-road towards the Spey; but, with the exception
	of the approacher to Ballindalloch and the church, there is scarce-
	ly another mile of goof or even passable road in the parish.
	   Bridges, &c.-- The number of bridges in the parish is but small,
	compared to its extent and its wants. The old one over the Livet
	at upper Downan, mentioned in the former report, having been al-
	most destroyed by the flood of 1829, a fine new arch was built, last
	year, on a more eligible site some hundred yards farther down the
	stream; and the one at Tomnavoulen, about three miles higher up,
	which was also so much destroyed by the flood of 1829 as to be of
	no use except for foot-passengers, has recently undergone repair.
	On the Ballindalloch portion of the new Avenside road, there is a
	very handsome arch over the rapid burn of Tommore. The only
	other bridge of any consequence, is that at Craig-Achrochcan over
	the Aven, mentioned in the former report. Neither of the two latter
	received any injury from the great floods of 1829. On the Spey,
	there is no bridge on either hand, nearer than those at Grantown and
	Craigellachie, which are about twenty-four miles asunder; nor is
	there any good ford either in this or the neighbouring parish of
	Knockando, the best being that at Balnellan, which is very deep.
	Besides several private, there are two public boats, -- one at Blacks-
	boat, and the other at Balnellan, immediately above the mouth of
	the Aven.
	   No public coaches pass through, or are in any way connected
	with the parish. One was tried some years ago, from Keith to Gran-
	town, but it did not succeed. The mails are carried daily from
	Keith and Craigellachie to Bridge of Aven, where there is a re-
	gular post-office, called Ballindalloch, with a subsidiary one at
	Drumin; from whence, there is a runner three times a week to To-
	mintoul.  Letters to Grantown are sent by Keith, where they lie
	from ten to twelve hours, and are carried upwards of sevently miles,
	to save the paltry expense of a direct post for fourteen miles.
	   Ecclesiastical State.--Previous to the Reformation, Inveraven was
	a parsonage dedicated to St Peter, and the seat of the Chancellor
	of the diocese, having the vicarages of Knockando and Urquhart


