
                      ABERNETHY.                          843

nethy came. to be included, was founded in the twelfth century,
by King David I., seemingly out of the great national bishopric
of St Andrews, according to the manuscript missal.
   Of the early history of the monastery established at Abernethy,
and of the institutions of the Culdees, who had one of their prin-
cipal seats in this parish, we possess scanty information.  From a
confirmation of some lands which were given to the Culdees of
Lochleven, we learn, that, towards the end of the eleventh cen-
tury, there were schools at Abernethy, in which was taught the
whole circle of the sciences, as far as they were known in dark
ages, and among a barbarous people.  Among the witnesses are,
the rector of the school of Abernethy, three priests of Aberne-
thy, and a fourth, who is styled priest of the Culdees.  Almost
all the names are evidently of Celtic origin, and indicate that the
Saxon had not yet supplanted the ancient language in that part of
the country.*
  In the following century, Orme, the son of Hugh, proprietor
of various lands in Angus and Fife, received the lands of Aber.
nethy from King William the Lion ; and from these lands, be
and his posterity assumed their surname.  A charter of the same
King and of Lawrence de Abernethy, conveyed to the Abbey of
Arbroath, as a free and permanent alms-gift, the church of Aber-
netby and its advowson, with all its pertinents, the chapels of Dron,
Denboig, and Errol; the lands of Balloch, Pittenlower, (Pitlour),
and tithes of several kinds.   But, among other things, there are
excepted the tithes of Mukdrum, Kerpull, (Carpow), Balchere-
well, Baltolly, and Innernethy ; which tithes, as well as the lands
themselves, were the property of the Culdees.  The charters
were confirmed by the bishop of Dunblane, within whose dioces
the church of Abernethy lay.  But the avarice of the Abbey of
Arbroath ; the poverty, as it seems, of the see of Dunblane;
and the growing dislike of the hierarchy towards all the institu-
tions of the Culdees, soon operated to the disadvantafe of the
monastery of Abernethy.
  About the year 1240, the altarage of the church, with the lands
Of Pittenlower, and a moiety of those of Balloch, were transferred
to the bishop of Dunblane; and, in return, the bishop engaged
to provide for the service of the church of Abernethy; to esta-
blish a vicar in his own cathedral, in the name of the abbot and

<FOOTNOTE> Register of St Andrews, in Jamieson's Culdess, App. No. 5.


