
     Statistical Account

from Logie.  The United Parish is something of an oblong,
or rather elliptical form, though by no means regular; its
greatest length from E. to W. is more than 4 English miles,
and its greatest breadth from S. to N. about 3 miles.  The
lower part of it lies along the banks of the river North-
esk, which, by a beautiful curve, divides it towards the
north and east, from the parishes of Marykirk and St Cy-
rus.  The upper part is pretty high, generally bending
with a gentle declivity to the river, though good part of it
likewise has a southern exposure.-The soil, chiefly in the
lower parts, is a deep clay, yielding, even in an uncultiva-
ted state, plenty of natural grass.  That, in the higher
grounds is partly a light loam, and partly of a black moor-
ish cast, with a clay bottom, spontaneously producing in its
natural state, or when left uncultivated, a short heath, inter-
mixed with furze and broom.-The air is in general sharp
and falubrious, though now and then rains and fogs from the
sea, perhaps, in some measure, contribute to render it un-
wholesome.  The most prevalent distempers are fevers, which
sometimes prove highly infectious and epidemical.  This
was particularly the case in 1787-8, when, in little more
than the space of a twelvemonth, about 30 individuals
died of a malignant fever, which generally produced a de-
lirium about the 4th or 5th day, and cut them off in less
than a week after.  Perhaps an officious, though ill-judged
attention, shown by the people in visiting their sick neigh-
bours, tended to spread the contagion, which might be ag-
gravated by the want of a due regard to cleanliness, and to
the admission of fresh air.  It was remarked, that though
several young persons who were seized with that fever re-
covered, no one advanced in life, or even above the age of
30, experienced a recovery.  The other diseases most com-
mon are, gravel, rheumatism, and consumptions.  The
small-pox also at times make considerable ravages, and, no


