
     Statistical Account

house-holders with numerous families, who may stand in need
of it.  The annual sum collected for their relief, including
the rents of some feats in the church, which belong to the
poor, and also the interest of L. 150 sterling at 4 1/2 per cent.
may amount to L. 25 sterling.  An annual collection, amount-
ing to about L. 3 sterling is made for the infirmary of Aber-
deen.  There the sick and infirm parishioners are received,
upon bringing a recommendation from the session; and they
have the benefit of lodgings, board, and medicines, until they
are either cured, or found to be incurable*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are no remains of religious houses but St. Arnty's kill; probably
St Arnold's cell, already mentioned as standing between the church and the
castle; and the remains of a small chapel upon Kingorny, said to be erected
upon the very spot where King David Bruce, landing from France in 1342,
with his queen and retinue, had high mass performed for his return: and it
is thought to have been a royal chapel for some time after.  Near the castle of
Kinneff, and beyond a small headland about 100 paces N. E. there are to be
seen the remains of an old work, upon the top of a peninsular rock, called the
castle of Cadden.  It seems to have had a ditch and draw-bridge to protect it
from an attack by land, where there remain some vestiges of masonry; the rest
seems to have been an earthen mound thrown up about the top of the rock.
About 200 paces farther N. E. is another peninsular rock, having the remains
of a draw-bridge to the land side; upon the top of this rock are still extant
the remains of a small house and other buildings, said to have been inhabited
by a private gentleman, about 150 years ago; and is named the castle of
Whistleberry.  And, about 200 paces N. E. from this last mentioned castle,
are the remains of a third strong hold, very much like the first in every re-
spect, but much larger.  It is called Adam's castle.  With respect to the cas-
tle of Cadden and Adam's castle there are no traditionary accounts.
   Perhaps it may not be improper here to mention, that in 1652, when the
castle of Dunnottar was besieged by Major General Morgan, commander for
the English parliament, the regalia of Scotland were brought from thence
to Kinneff, where they were kept until the restoration by Mis Christian
Fletcher, the wife of Mr Granger, then minister of Kinneff.  Of this cir-
cumstance tradition gives the following account, viz. Mrs Granger, attended


