
     of Eclles.

heritors, who do not exceed 100 L. per annum.  Our tenants
are in number 56; and many of our gentlemen retain as much
land in their own hand, as accommodates their families with
the necessaries of life.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The incumbent has had great difficulty
to ascertain the extent of the ancient Nunnery.  It appears to
have been nearly a square of 6 acres; extending rather farther
to the S. and W. than to the E. and N. The only vestige
remaining of it is two vaulted cells+, which the late Sir
John Paterson converted into two cellars, for holding wine,
ale, etc.-The old church was a Gothic building, in the
form of a cross, vaulted and covered with large flag stones,
dedicated to St. Andrew, the tutelar saint of Scotland, and
ornamented with a cross, and a very elegant steeple.  The
building might have stood for many centuries, and it was
with the greatest difficulty it was taken down.  But as it was
too small to accommodate the inhabitants, the proprietors of
the parish took it down about 20 years ago, and built a very
handsome modern church on the same ground, 75 feet long,

<FOOTNOTE>

+The burial ground contiguous to these vaults is all flagged with fine stone,
A feet beneath the surface; which is a clear proof that there have been many
more cells, of a similar kind to the former; and as the ground when turned up,
exhibits only a mixture of sand, lime, and earth, it appears to be nothing but
the rubbish of the fallen vaults.  It is said, that the principal entrance to the
nunnery was from W., where there was a very spacious gate, beautifully
sculptured, and adorned with a variety of figures.  Before the front door of
the mansion house of Eccles, a stone coffin was dug out, above fix feet long, and
covered above with flag stones.  As it had been buried above 200 years, every
part of the body was reduced to ashes.  As the inside of the stone was pretty
smooth, and the whole portrait of the person visible (though in ashes), Sir John
Paterson had the curiosity to collect the whole, and (wonderful to tell!) it did
not exceed in weight one ounce and a half!


