
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

factured in the same manner.  In the first branch a very im-
portant improvement is, of late, introduced; a carpet can
be wrought consisting of 88 different parts, which is much
more than can be done in most other places in Scotland.
What can tend more directly than manufactures to raise this
country to such a pitch of elevation, as, at least, to keep sight
of the sister kingdom?  And to see the genius, power and in-
terest of her native sons combine in a noble effort, must warm
every heart possessed of the smallest spark of patriotism*.

</UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*The great road from Dumfrice to Averuns through the town of Sanqu-
har  The late Duke of Queensberry must not out this line of road through
his estate, for, at least, the space of 22 miles, at the expence of L 1500.
He also cut out the cross road from this along the Minnoch to the utmost
boundary of the country, that leads to Lomburgh, which cost L 600  He
his Grass L. 500.  These, among many other instances of his patriotic form,
unless his memory to this part of the country, and he illustrates examples
worthy the imitation of all great and good men.  The road along Mennoch
to Wanlock-head, being in a deep sequestered glen, in many pieces cut out
brushwood, tender it the admiration of strangers, beautifully remark and
delighted to the traveller.  The statute-labour was converted by act of Par-
liament at 12 s. per 100,arks in 1777.  Toll-bars are now erected on the
road leading from Dumfries to Ayr, and its direction, in many places, has of late
been altered evidently for the better, by which it is rendered more level and
easy for carriages of every description  The estate out of the expediency
and utility of turpike roads, though people habituated to antient customs
dislike every kind of innovation; but
least equal facility, they are not only reconcealed to, but highly approve of them.
There is a new line of road suggested, by a cross out through this country to
ried into execution, would open a much shorter and easiest communication
from Ireland and that country to Flinburgh The advantages of this are to
many and obvious, as to supersede the necessity of any specification.

</UNREADABLE>


