
20                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

castle hill had orders to ring a bell whenever they should see the
fire.  The expected attack, however, was not made.  James IV.
paid several visits to Aberdeen, one of which, though very brief,
was remarkable.  It was on the 30th August 1507, when the
King rode in one day from Stirling through Perth and Aberdeen
to Elgin, on his way to the shrine of the St Duthac in Ross-shire. *
   In 1525, the town was the scene of a bloody affray, caused by Seton
of Meldrum, Leslie of Wardhouse, and Leslie of Balquhain, who
entered the town on the night of the 1st October with a number of
armed followers, and attacked the citizens, eighty of whom were
killed and wounded; but the assailants were repulsed, and the town
forthwith put into a state of defence.  About the middle of the
previous century a public clock had been placed in the tolbooth;
but so little progress had the mechanical arts made in Aberdeen,
or indeed in scotland, that in the beginning of this century, when
it required repair, it was found necessary to send it to Flanders
for the purpose.
   In 1514, in 1546, ad again in 1647, the plague raged with
considerable violence in Aberdeen, and for the safety of the other
inhabitants, the sick were lodged in huts erected in the links.
   When the Earl of Huntly rebelled against Queen Mary, and
the battle of Corrichie was fought, in 1562, the town seems to
have been equally in terror of both parties, but the occupation of
the place by the Royal army immediately before the battle, and
the defeat of the rebels, decided the question, and the Queen's
army was joyfully received on its return with the prisoners, and
the town was at that time the place of the Queen's residence for
nearly three months.
   At the earliest period of which any record remains, the govern-
ment of the town was intrusted to an alderman, (afterwards
called a provost,) four bailies, and twenty councillors, who were an-
nually chosen " cum consensu et assensu totius communitatis;"
but by a statute passed in 1469, the election of the magistrates
was vested in the council, and that of the new council was devolv-
ed on the preceding council; and about the beginning of the six-
teenth century, a custom began, of the councillors once elected
retaining their office for life, while the election of provost became
little more than a form, the office being engrossed by one or two
powerful families in the town or neighbourhood, in proof of which
it may be mentioned, that one individual filled the civic chair for

<FOOTNOTE> Leslaei de Gest. Scot. 1. viii p. 331, ed. 1675.

