
     of Kirkpatrick-Fleeming.

   About 30 years ago, when a person was casting peats
in a moss, belonging to Mr Irving of Coves, he found a

<FOOTNOTE>

A little to the south, there are two other tumuli of considerable size, and
most probably of the same nature.  About a mile to the N. W. there are
several, 2 of which were opened only about 2 years ago.  In the one, with-
in a chest of the same kind as that mentioned above, was found an urn
of elegant workmanship.  This urn was filled with ashes, standing with
the mouth up, and covered with a stone.  At a small distance from the
urn, and within the chest, were likewise discovered several iron-rings,
each about the size of a half crown, but so far destroyed by rust, that on
being touched, they sell into pieces.  About three quarters of a mile
to the westward of this, there is the appearance of a Druidical temple;
and upon the farm of Branteth, in the parish of Kirkconnell, there is
likewise the vestige of another Druidical temple, or place of sacri-
fice.
   There is upon the estate of Cove, an artificial cave or house, wrought
into a rock.  This rock overhangs the river, above the bed of which it 
is elevated nearly 30 feet, and is at present inaccessible.  Its interior
form is oval, the greater diameter of which is about 16 feet; the lesser,
9.  From its floor to the roof, is nearly 7 feet.  The ancient British are
said to have used places of this kind as granaries or stonehouses.  In later
times, however, they were used as places of strength and security.
   The old tower of Woodhouse, though not inhabited for many years
past, is still standing.  This is reported to have been the first house in
Scotland to which Robert Bruce came, when flying from Edward Long-
shanks.  From thence, he carried one of the sons of this family, whom 
he afterward made his secretary; and who having attended him in all his
troubles and prosperity, to his death, was created a knight; and as a re-
ward of his fidelity and services, was presented with the lands of the fo-
rest of Drum.  The family, then in possession of this tower, were Irvings;
and in a branch of the same family, it still remains.
   A little to the northward of this tower, stands the cross of Merkland.
It is an octagon of solid stone, elegantly dressed and cut.  Its elevation
above the socket upon which it stands, is 9 feet; that of the socket, a
feet 4 inches.  Its from is conoidical; the circumference, at the base,
being 3 feet 2 inches, and at the neck 2 feet 2 inches.  The head con-
sists of 4 fleur-de-lis, cut out of the solid stone, so as to form a square,

     VOL. XIII.  M m


