
560                          FIFESHIRE.

reaching an elevation of about 200 feet above the level of the val-
ley. The deposit may therefore be considered as of enormous
thickness. Some of its beds assume a breeciated or conglomerated
aspect, containing nodules of quartz, and rounded portions of the
primitive rocks; also innumerable quantities of clay nodules, which
are soft, unctuous, of a bluish yellow colour, and generally of a
globular or semispherical form. In this portion of the deposit, the
scales, teeth, and bones of fossil fish are abundant. Some of the
scales found at Hospital Mill quarry, measure nearly three inches in
length and two inches in breadth. These interesting relics all belong,
according to Dr Anderson (Edinburgh New Philosophical Jour-
nal, January 1838,) to the Gyrolepis giganteus of M. Agassiz;
And the discovery of them in this deposit has led him to regard
it as belonging to the old red sandstone formation, of which it
constitutes the upper member. It is undoubtedly a continuation
of the Dura Den, Drumdryan, Wemyss' Hall, and Cupar Muir
sandstones, in which several new genera of fossil fishes, as well
as insects, have been discovered and described by Dr Anderson in
the paper referred to. The direction of this deposit is to the
south-east, its dip is at an angle which varies from 7&deg; to 12&deg;, and
its ranlre is westerly.
  The mountain limestone is the next rock which occurs in the
order of superposition. This rock crops out at a considerable
elevation above the valley, and like the former ranges in a wester-
ly direction, dipping towards the south-east at an angle of about
10&deg;. It may, therefore, although the junction of the two cannot
be observed, be considered as lying perfectly conformable with the
yellow sandstone. The main bed is about 14 feet thick, very hard
and crystalline in its texture, and of a dark bluish colour. It ex-
tends about a mile and a half in length, in the course of which se-
veral dislocations occur, which are termed rums by the workmen.
These portions of the rock differ considerably from the rest, and
almost approach the character of a conglomerate, which, along with
the arch-like appearance of the rums, clearly indicates the nature of
the cause by which they have been occasioned, as well as the close
proximity of the trap beneath. Besides this main bed of limestone,
there are other three, one of which is two, anothereight, and the third
six feet in thickness. The organic remains in this deposit are encri-
nites of several species, orthocerates, terebratula, producta, spiri-
fera, corallines, madrepores, and small microscopic shells. It yields
                                 3

