
                             WICK.                          141


       artificial ditch across the neck of the peninsula, through an arched
       passage into the court.
         The situation of this castle is naturally strong, and its occu-
       pants could have set at defiance assailants armed with the weapons
       of ancient days. A garrison could not have been pressed by fa-
       mine, so long as they commanded the sea, for they could always
       obtain provisions through the secret passage, and the goe would
       afford secure accommodation for such small craft as they  might
       employ for traffic with the neigbbouring shores.
         In 1606, George the Wicked, Earl of Caithness, obtained an
       act of Parliament changing the old name of Girnigoe into that
       of Sinclair.  Both names, however, are applied to the ruins, which
       are always called Castles Sinclair and Girnigoe, the latter name
       being applied to the more ancient portion.  A drawing was taken
       of these castles by Daniell, before Castle Sinclair became so rui-
       nous as it now is.
         The tower of Ackergill, anciently written Aikrigill, which
       stands on the bosom of the Bay of Keiss, is a noble and impres-
       sive structure.  It is perfectly rectangular, eighty-two feet in
       height, and battlemented.  The wells are extremely massive, up-
       wards of thirteen feet in thickness; and the whole building is ve-
       nerably grey with the hoar of great antiquity.  It is in excellent
       repair; and is at present the residence of the Honourable George
       Dunbar, Master of Duffus to whose father it and the Castles
       Sinclair and Girnigoe belong.
         By whom, or at what time, the tower of Ackergill was erected,
       is altogether unknown.  The lands of Ackergill belonged to Morar
       na Shien, with whose daughter Mariotta they went into the pos-
       session of the Keiths, and, after passing through the hands of the
       Sinclairs and others, came at last into the family of Duffus.
         On the northern side of Keiss Bay stand the ruins of the Castle
       of Keiss, opposite the Castles Sinclair and Girnigoe. It con-
       sists at present of the remains of a paltry tower.
         This stronghold was formerly called tbe Fortalice of Radder.
       It anciently belonged to the Earls of Caithness.  At present, it
       is the property of Kenneth Macleay, Esq. of Newmore and Keiss.
         Near Thrumster House is a standing-stone, respecting which
       there is an ancient tradition in this district, that Margaret the
       Maiden of Norway, heiress of the Scottish Crown, was wrecked
       on this coast on her return to Scotland and buried, under the
       "Standing-Stane o' Thrumster."


