
                        ABERDALGIE AND DUPPLIN.                 877

     preserved with singlar regularity, and but few omissions, down to
     1656.  This manuscript, if deciphered, might prove interest-
     ing.  The records disclose a lamentable picture of the state
     of the country during Cromwell's usurpation.  Mr Playfair was
     superannuated during the keen debates between the Resolu-
     tioners and Protester, and incapable of taking an active part in
     these troublous times.  After many difficulties, Mr Francis Hay,
     Laird of Balbousie, and sole heritor of Aberdalgie and Dupplin,
     granted a competent stipend for a colleague and assistant to Mr
     Playfair, when, in the end of the year 1656, a call was moderated
     in favour of Mr George Halyburton, who was ordained in August
     1657.  Mr Playfair died about 1658, when Mr George Halybur-
     ton, (named Junior to distinguish him from his cousin, minister of
     Perth, and who afterwards, conforming, became Bishop of Dtn-
     keld in 1662, and died in 1664,) became sole minister till 1662,
     when he was ejected and deposed, along with five other ministers
     of the Presbytery of Perth, and about 300 ministers of the Church,
     for nonconformity.  He married Margaret Playfair, daughter of
     the Rev.  Andrew Playfair, his predecessor.  These were the pa-
     rents of the eminent and pious Thomas Halyburton, who was
     born in Dupplin in 1674, and afterwards minister of Ceres, and
     Professor of Divinity in St Andrews, in 1710, and who died at
     the early age of thirty-eight years.
        Upon Mr George Halyburton's ejection, in 1662, Mr George
     Hay, Laird of Balhousie, Aberdalgie, and Dupplin, where gentleman
     of exemplary piety, and a great sufferer for nonconformity, pro-
     vided him with a house and refuge near Dupplin, where Mr Haly-
     burton dwelt with his family in great privacy, till his death in 1682.
      During the prevalence of Prelacy, succeeded, 23d August
     1663, Mungo Weemys, son of David Weemys, the conforming
     minister of Scone.  about 1675, succeeded David Lauder; and,
     February 19th 1679, John Hardie, who was early deprived of his
     office after the Revolution.
       After the Revolution, in 1688, David Shaw was ordained 23d
     September 1691, at which period the kirk-sesshon records are re-
     sumed, after a blank of thirty-five years, and are continued with
     great regularity till about the time of Mr Shaw's translations to
     Auchterarder, which took place in October 1718.  Mr Shaw was
     succeeded by Mr James Mercer of Clavage, well known as the
     bitter opponent and accuser of Ebenezer Erskine of Stirling for
     his synod sermon, delivered at Perth in October 1732, which


