
1184                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

building of the College Church in a style suitable to that of the
university, will probably be carried into effect in a few years.
   College Library, Museum, &c.-The library, which will this
year be transferred to the fine apartment destined for it in the new
buildings, consists, for the greater part, of old books, which have
been, on the whole, well preserved.  It originated in a collection
of volumes which was made at the Reformation, among which are
numerous manuscripts of parts of the writings of Augustine, Je-
rome, Gregory, and other fathers of the church, which belonged
to the monasteries in the city, and were taken charge of by the
magistrates on the breaking up of these establishments.  Before
the foundation of the college these and other books, mostly on
theological subjects, were kept in the church of St Nicholas, chiefly
for the use of the Reformed clergy, and were called the Town's
Library, and Bibliotheca Ecclesiastica.  In 1624, the large be-
quest of Mr Thomas Reid, above-mentioned, transferred his li-
brary to the college, where it was united to the books given by Dr
Liddel and those of the Bibliotheca Dcblesiastica.  The librarian's
salary, for which Mr Reid also left 6000 merks, was then about
600 merks, the common interest of money being ten per cent.
Some smaller donations of books were made; and in the oldest
catalogue extant, dated 1670, the books of each donor are distin-
guished.  The number of volumes at present is not above 12,000.
   The magistrates appointed the librarian till 1673, when the right
of electing him was claimed by the principal, the four regents, and
the rector of the Grammar school, terms of Mr Reid's will, and
after a four years' law-suit a decision of the Court of Session con-
firmed the claim, and the above-mentioned persons have since exer-
cised it.  From the salary having been for a very long period reduced
to L.14, 3s. 4d., it was found necessary, in 1754, in order to pre-
vent dilapidations, that each of the regents should in turn take im-
mediate charge of the Library, giving personal attendance for three
years.  The collection is accessible to all under graduates, and to
masters of arts, on condition of a single payment of 7s. 8d., and
a deposit of money, which is returned when required; and literary
men or others, not authorized to claim in these respects, are always
allowed the loan of books on the responsibility of individual pro-
fessors, subject to an annual return in October, when all the vo-
lumes lent are called in, and the whole inspected.
   It is greatly to be wished that the funds of this library were
increased, the only sources whence now books are purchased being


