
258                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

made into hay; 6th, pasture. Except in the case of land which
has, for many years, been under pasturage, two grain crops in suc
cession are not taken; and the five course shift is generally adopt-
ed. When raising wheat, the rotation is, of course, different. In
laying down land for permanent pasture, Mr Barclay adds to clo-
ver and rye-grass many additional seeds, according to the nature
of the soil. The first expense is considerable; but a close sward
is formed, even in the second year, and on ground of but indif-
ferent quality; and the grasses coming forward at successive sea-
sons, from early spring to late autumn, there is a continued supply.
The greater part of the turnip crop is consumed on the ground by
sheep. Of these, he has generally a flock of upwards of 1000.
They are of the Leicester breed, procured originally from Eng-
land. The mutton of this species is not extensively used in the
country. It finds market principally at London, to which the
sheep are sent by steam-vessels from Aberdeen. The wool is sold
to Leeds manufacturers. The sheep, at two year, often reach
in weight to 25 lbs. per quarter, and the fleeces to 8 lbs.*
   Perhaps the most important matter in farming proceedings, in
which he is engaged, is the rearing of Teeswater, or short-horn
cattle. He introduced this breed in the year 1824, having se-
lected bulls and heifers from the most celebrated stocks in the
counties of York and Durham. He has, ever since, continued unre-
mittingly to attend to it, and is considered to have at present one of
the finest and thoroughly pure stocks in Britain; the number being
seldom under thirty or forty cows and heifers, besides other classes.
The introduction of thir breed forms an important era in cattle-
rearing in the north of Scotland, over most districts of which pro-
duce from Ury is now to be found. Indeed, many animals have
been sent from it into England, Ireland, and several places on the
continent. Notwithstanding the annual sales have gone on for
many years, and the breed is now so widely spread, the prices
continue very high.  At the sale of last autumn, the bull calves
of form four to nine months old averaged L.40 a head. These cir-
cumstances prove the estimation in which the breed is held. If it
be the case, as is asserted, that the beef of the best Scotch cattle
fetches only about 5 per cent. above that of the Teeswater; that
the Scotch cattle cannot be properly fed for the butcher, until
three and a half years old, while the short horns can be made fat
at two and a half, or less; that native bullocks weigh, at two and

<FOOTNOTE>For some years, Mr Barclay has successfully crossed Southdown ewes with the
Leicester breed, keeping a considerable flock of the former.


