
                    LISMORE AND APPIN.                    237

stripped of their foliage.  In Appin all sorts of wood seem to
flourish; but the soil in Lismore, from its richness, appears more
congenial to hard than to soft timber; and, accordingly, the few
trees that ornament the island are of hard wood, such as plane,
beech, and ash.  Formerly, there were in Lismore several small
proprietors, and around their mansion-houses and gardens were
planted rows of trees of the above descriptions: these are now be-
come tall and stately, and being scattered in small clumps here
and there over the island, they break, in a pleasing manner, the
continued uniformity of green surface, of little knolls and dells
which forms the general characteristic of the place.  The last in-
cumbent planted on the glebe a few larch trees, but they appear
stinted, the rich soil in which they are settled not being suited to
their nature.  Up to about the middle of the last century, the hill
sides of that district were thickly covered with full-grown natural
wood, which must have given a splendid appearance to the coun-
try; but unfortunately, over these woods the Lismore people had
a servitude, in virtue of which they were entitled to carry off yearly
six loads of a felucca or six-oared boat, of any kind of wood they
pleased, except straight hazel and rowantree.  The former would
probably be preserved on account of its fitness for making hoops
and fishing-rods, and the latter for its beautiful red berry, which
was considered as wholesome fruit, or, perhaps, on account of its
sacredness as a charm against witchcraft,-a virtue which, accord-
ing to ancient superstition, it was supposed eminently to possess.
The reason which dictated this reservation, we cannot now deter-
mine further than by conjecture ; but one thing is sure, that the
Lismorians made the best of their privilege, and carried off from
the woods of Kingerloch their six boat loads yearly, as their legal
due, and were by no means scrupulous about making further drafts,
until at length, the forest being unable to withstand the combined
efforts of time and of spoilers, entirely disappeared, hazel, rowan-
tree and all ; and as the servitude is still in existence, the proprie-
tor has no encouragement to plant, as he could not prevent his
best trees from finding their way to Lismore in a six-oared boat. *

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, I have been informed that the right was constituted in
the year 1686, under a deed granted by Duncan M'Lean, younger of Kingerloch, in
favour of the Earl of Breadalbane, who was then proprietor of lands in Lismore, and
who in his turn assigned it over to Patrick Campbell of Barcaldine in the year 1734,
when the Earl's lands in Lismore were excambed for certain lands belonging to, Bar-
caldine both in Lorn and in Perthshire.
   The servitude is now redeemed; the present proprietor of Kingerloch having
agreed to pay Barcaldine a sum of money as an equivalent, and to commence plant-
ing in spring next.


