
     of Kilmalie.

which proved a seasonable relief to many indigent families.
There are red cod, lythe, seath, skate, flounders, mackarels,
whitings*, and a few haddocks.  If the weather be moderate,
lythes and seaths may be fished every day of the year.  Their
prices vary, according to their sizes, from 2 d. to 5 d. the do-
zen.  They are killed with small rods, and a hook, having a
feather, resembling one of the herring fry.  Cod, skate, and
flounder, are caught with long lines, and baits of herring, or
of muscles.  There are a great many eels and sturgeons.
Seals, and porpoises, and other sea animals, are frequently seen
to chace the salmon, and whales, the herrings.  Last harvest,
three whales appeared in Locheile, of a great size:  one of them
seemed to measure about 600 feet.  The same season, a shark,
3 years old, came ashore.  That species of shark, called the
dog-fish, is very numerous.

   The sea fowls are, gulls, herons, cormorants, curlews,
ducks, teals, pies, marrots, solon geese, eagles, and many
others.  Of the migratory kind, are the pictarnies and wid-
geons.  The last appear in the latter end of harvest, or early
in winter, and take their passage to some other seas in spring.
The former arrive in the beginning of May.

   Hills-Are numerous in the parish, and mostly clothed
with rich heath, and a mixture of grass, to the very sum-
mit.  They are also of considerable height, but the most re-
markable is Benevis, which is an object that attracts the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Lord Lyttleton, in his journey into Wales, says:  "But what Bala is most
"famous for, is the beauty of its women:  and, indeed, I there saw some of the
"prettiest girls, I ever beheld.-The lake produces very fine trouts, and a fish
"called whiting, peculiar to itself, and of so delicate a taste, that, I believe, you
"would prefer the flavour of it to the lips of the fair maids of Bala." A hun-
gry man might, but, surely, an amorous lover would not.  Whether the whiting,
of the lake of Bala, be the same with the whiting of our seas, is uncertain; but
these have a sweet flavour, and are a delicious morsel.


