
     Of Canoby.

   The remains of a Roman station appear about 3 quar-
ters of a mile to the E. of Gill-knocky, on the rising
ground; being the first of the chain that runs through
Eskdale, the length of Castle-Over, or the upper camp, in
Eskdalemur; all dependent upon the principal station on
the estate of Netherby, so called from being the nether
station; and which, at this time, bears the name of the
Moat, situated on the S. side of Liddel where it runs into
the Esk.  A variety of Roman coins, and stones which Ro-
man inscriptions, have from time to time been dug up in
that neighbourhood, and are in the possession of Sir James

<FOOTNOTE>

the smallest vestige of mason work, and therefore could not have been
the fire of that chieftain's castle, which, from the name, has been com-
monly supposed.  It has, however, the appearance of having been a
temporary station, to which the inhabitants might have fled with their
most valuable effects, when any invasion was apprehended, which other-
wise they were unable to repel.  It is in the form of a premontory, giv-
ing a curve to the river Esk, which washes its three unequal sides; and
being steep and rocky, is scarcely accessible but on the land side, which
has been fenced by a deep fosse; over which, very probably, a draw
bridge had been thrown.  It may not be inconsistent with this part of
our investigation, to observe, that John Armstrong is the only character
of note, in later or more remote periods of antiquity, connected with 
this parish, whose memory has been preserved.  He was the terror of 
the W. marches of England; having forced the inhabitants of Cumber-
land, Westmoreland, and a great part of Nrothumberland, to become his
tributaries, or to pay him blackmail; that is, a sum of money annually,
to be exempted from his depredations.  At length,his power having 
grown too great for a subject, he became an object of jealousy to the
king; who levied an army for the avowed pupose of punishing Gill-
knocky and his followers, and marched at their head to the parish of
Ewes.  There, John was summoned to attend the king, upon the pro-
mise of his security; and having accordingly obeyedthe summons, in
violation of the public faith, pledged for his personal safety, as observed
by Buchanan, he and his attendants were hanged at Carlenrick-rigg,
two miles to the N. of Mosspaul, on the road between Hawick and
Langholm.    


