
194                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

removed, meanwhile, their workmen almost entirely to the neigh-
bouring parish of Falkirk.
  The soil is of divers kinds. In the Carse, it consists of clay,
of great depth, and of fine quality; being entirely without stones,
and obviously an alluvial deposit, both from the number of marine
shells with which it abounds, and from the general elevation of
the surface not being above the rise of the tide. In the dryfield,
it is chiefly of a gravelly or sandy nature, though in some places
it is composed of clay, and in others of moss.
  Zoology.-The population is too dense to admit of game being
plenty. But all the common varieties are found, and some of those
which might scarcely be expected in this district, such as the red
and black grouse, and the wild duck. The squirrel is frequently
met with,-more rarely the other. Besides the more ordinary de-
scriptions of birds, there are the jay, the sparrow-hawk, the com-
mon owl, and the water hen, while we have occasional visits of the
wild-goose and the heron. In the Avon, numbers of sea-trout of
good size are caught in the spring and autumn ; but salmon very
seldom.
  Botany.-The wild plants are numerous but not rare. I am
not aware of one which is worthy of being specified, except the
Osmunda regalis, or flowering fern, which is found on the banks
of the Avon. All the species, both of fir and of hard-wood, thrive
well, but the last are chiefly grown. An attempt has been made
to introduce some of the varieties of the Canadian apple, viz.
the Pomme griss and the fameuse, by Mr Logan of Clarkstone,
but not with much success, in consequence of our summers being
generally too cold to bring the fruit to maturity.

                      II-CIVIL HISTORY.
  As the parish is but of recent formation, it affords few materials
for history. It was disjoined from that of Falkirk in 1724. Its
names bowever, must be at least, of long standing, for among the
titles of the Duke of Hamilton, be is called Lord Polmont. I
know not of any notices of the parish, save in the previous Statis-
tical Account, and in Nimmo's History of Stirlingshire; and, in
both, the notices are brief and meagre.
  Eminent Characters.-Dr Henry, one of the ministers of Edin-
burg, author of a History of Great Britain, resided here, for
several years, during the summer months, and was buried in the
churchyard in 1790, where there is a monument to his memory.
  Land-Owners.-The principal of these are, the Earl of Zetland;


