
292			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

which consists of a deep rich loam collected by those rivers, and is
exceedingly fertile; Secondly, the large plain in the body of the
parish, which is composed of a light and gravelly soil, and produces
very rich crops both of corn and grass; Thirdly, the northern di-
vision of the parish, where the ground rises from the plain in a
gradual and gentle ascent, finely exposed to the south and south-
west. The soil here inclines to clay, lies on a cold till, and cop-
per rock, and in quality is much inferior to the low lands.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The principal of these are, General Sharpe, His
Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, Mrs Dirom of Mount Annan, and
Alexander Scott, Esq. of Knockhill.
	Parochial Registers.--There is no register kept of the deaths
which take place in this parish, but the births, baptisms, and mar-
riages are regularly recorded, and have been so,--tbe first two from
the year 1814, the last from the year 1746, up to the present
date.
	Antiquities.--Hallguards, a most romantic place on the east
bank of the Annan, was the ancient site of the castle of Hod-
dam, which is said to have been in former times the seat of one
of the Bruces. It was demolished some centuries ago, in com-
pliance with a border treaty. Burnswark and its vicinity abound
in most distinct vestiges of Roman works.*
	The only other curiosity connected with this parish worthy of
notice, is a stone imbedded in the walls of one of the porches of
the church, about four feet and a half in length, and a foot and a
half in breadth. This stone appears from the inscription to have
been originally used as an altar by the soldiers of the German co-
hort, whose title it bears. Several medals and coins, and antique
pieces of armour, have occasionally been found in different parts
of the parish. One very curious gold coin, in particular, was
found in the stream that runs through Ecclefechan. It is much

<FOOTNOTE>See Chalmers' Caledonia. These works, no doubt, have given the name to the hill
on and around which they are to be traced. Btrnswark was formerly spelt Birrens-
wark, but of the derivation of the name no satisfactory account has hitherto been
given. May it not have come from the Latin word hiberna, this being the name by
which stations of the kind were distinguished by the Romans? Within a few miles
from this spot in Middlebie there is a Roman camp called the Birrens, and in various
parts of the world remains of the same nature occur bearing names exceedingly like
this in the sound, and, without doubt, derived from the same root, whatever that
may be.


