
                            ST MADOES.                         617

to those above referred to, and from having combined with them
very vivid impressions of what strongly resemble thighs or legs
they bad most probably pertained to the swimming apparatus of
some creature of the Saurian genus, which indeed had greatly dif-
fered from any of that tribe that has hithertn been discovered,
either in the new red sandstone or oolitic rocks. The slab now
referred to, I may mention, was found in a different part of the
quarry from that in which the organic remains, previously noticed,
were found; and, moreover, when I went to the quarry, after dis-
covering the impressions on the slab, to make inquiries about the
locality from which it had been taken, I saw a mass of smashed
fragments containing similar impressions, which, had it been pos-.
sible to collect them, I have no doubt, would have covered a super-
ficies six times the size of the slab. The other specimen of the
same class was discovered a few weeks ago, and while it posses-
ses all the distinguishing characteristics of the former one, the or-
ganisms contained in it had clearly belonged to a much younger
creature, being but a-sixth part of the size of the former, and much
more delicately formed, both as to outline and covering. From
the size of the specimen, or pieces which form it, this creature,
though young, could not have been less than five or six feet long.
Whatever on more minute comparison and investigation, by M.
Agassiz, (for he alone of living men is qualified to give a correct
judgment regarding these fossil remains,) they may turn out to
be, they are exceedingly important, if, as supposed, they exhibit
organisms of a class of breatures apparently higberlin the scale of
organization than any that has as yet come to light from the old
red sandstone, or its associate formations.
     With a single exception, there has no specimen been discover-
ed of organic remains belonging to the vegetable kingdom. That
exception affords partial impressions of a  plant seemingly of the
equisetaceous class. It was found in the Cot-town quarry, and
is now in the possession of Sir John S. Richardson, Bart
     Deposits.__In as far as there have been any opportunities afford-
ed of judging, the deposits considered as underlying the cultivat-
ed soil are, over the whole extent of the parish alluvial, differ-
ing in character according to the positions which they occupy.
the level parts, on the south and north, where what is termed Carse
soil forms the surface, they consist of an adhesive clay sometimes
assuming a stratified aspect, but generally the contrary, with here
and there a bed of fine whitish-coloured sand. It is but seldom


