
1196                         PERTHSHIRE.

pression on the mind, as the following sentences show. "Be-
ware of making cities too great. They are capable of making
sudden tumults. It was not France but Paris that overturned
the Government, and left every man to do that which was right in
his own eyes. To prevent the exorbitant growth of cities may be
done by individuals, but is not to be attempted by statesmen. The
most despotic and cruel of all governors were the mobs of Athiens
and Rome. From such inhuman masters, good Lord deliver us!"
(Old Statistical Account.) The remarkable addition that has
been made of late years to the means of communication, and the
extraordinary facilities of transit now enjoyed, have increased the
danger pointed out in the above extract, and should teach us that
it is to be warded of in some other way than that indicated. There
is another class of evils resulting from the system of centralism,
which it may be more relevant to notice here. The allowing the
cot-houses to fall into ruins, and the consequent emigration of the
peasantry into towns, has been injurious to the parish. On the
fine estates forming the Grange of Aberbothrie, there is but one
cot-house, and generally throughout the parish, from the same
cause, there is a lack of agricultural labourers. Nor is this all.
There cannot be a doubt, that in rural districts the industrious
poor, when in difficulty or sickness, receive much greater aid and
attention from their wealthier neighbours, than in densely popu-
lated towns. Supposing them equally inclined and able, a farmer
can do much more for the two or three poor families connected with
his farm, than a merchant or manufacturer can do for the two or
three hundred workmen dependent on him. In the country,
moreover, the labouring poor enjoy much greater advantages in
the education of their children, while the guardians of their religi-
ous interests have it much more in their power to see that these
advantages are actually made use of. The nation has reached
that stage in its social condition, which seems to render it neces-
sary that the benefits attending the cottage system, in a moral,
political, and commercial point of view, should receive the imme-
diate and grave consideration of the proprietors of the soil.
   The market and post town for that part of the parish lying west
of the 0Ericht, is Coupar Angus, which is wo miles from the church.
The post-town for the rest of the parish is Blairgowrie, with the
exception of the estates of Polcalk, Greymount, East and West
Tullyfergus, which are nearer Alyth.
   In the lower part of the parish most of the grain is sold at


