
642                   LANARKSHIRE.

The North Calder is a considerable stream, with fine wooded
banks.  It rises near the farm of Braco, in the parish of Shotts,
and falls into the Clyde at Daldowie.  There are various other
small burns, which are all lost either mediately or immediately in
the Clyde.  There are several lochs in the parish, but their banks
are tame, and they have no picturesque beauty.  Bishop Loch
covers a space of about 80 acres; Woodend Loch, 50 acres; and
Lochend, 40 acres.  Very large pike are sometimes caught in
these lochs, occasionally as heavy as 12 1/2 lbs.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The Monklands are famous for
their coal, iron, and other valuable mineral stores.  These, as in
other places, evidently lie in basins, the thickest seams above the
lime, and the inferior seams of coal intermixed with, or lying be-
tween, various basins of limestone.  The coals wrought in the
Monklands are all above the lime, which is at a great depth here,
but in proportion as they approach the lime, as it comes to the
surface, the lower and inferior seams of coal are only found.  The
following are the principal seams of coal known to exist in this
district, i.e. of workable coal.
   1st. The upper coal, coarse and seldom workable. Its average
distance above the ell-coal is from 14 to 16 fathoms.
   2d. The Ell or Mossdale coal, 3 to 4 feet thick, of inferior es-
timation in this parish, and generally too thin to work; but in
some places a thick coal, and of excellent quality.
   3d. The Pyotshaw, or rough-ell, from 3 to 5 feet thick, and
from 7 to 10 fathoms below the ell-coal.
   4th. The Main coal.  It often unites with the above, and forms
one seam, as at Drumpellier, in this parish.  These two seams
are thus sometimes in actual contact, and in other instances se-
parated by a wide interval of 6 or 7 fathoms.
   5th. Humph coal, seldom thick enough to be workable in this
parish, and generally interlaid with fragments of freestone, about
10 fathoms below Main coal.
   6th. Splint coal.  About 4 fathoms below the Humph, and of
very superior quality.  It varies from 2 to 5 feet in thickness, and
is mostly used smelting iron.  This seam, when of any consi-
derale thickness, is justly esteemed when got by the proprietors
here a great prize.
   7th. Little coal, always below splint, the distance varying from
3 fathoms to 6 feet.  It is from  3 to 3 1/2 feet in thickness, and is
a free sulphury coal of inferior quality.


