
132			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

cairn are very large, and are laid in regular course from the bot-
tom to a considerable height, and become gradually smaller as
they are laid from the centre.
	"The cavity of the Grey Cairn, on the Drum of Knockman,
is exactly similar and of equal extent to that just described.
There is another large accumulation of stones, called the White
Cairn, on the mark of Glencaird. Part of it having been carried
away, a cave was therby laid open, 18 feet in leght, 5 feet in
breadth, and 4 feet deep. Several of the stones by which this
cave is formed, are upwards of a ton weight each. Nathaniel
M'Kie, the Laird of Glencaird, and his two sons, are said to have
concealed themselves in this cave during the latter part of the per-
secution, and therby escaped the fury of Claverhouse, whose
wrath they had incured by harbouring some people who were
surprised at a convecticle in the neighbourhood.
	"The Shrine of St Ninian, at Whithorn, was visited by pilgrims
from the most remote parts of Englands, Irelands, and Scotland.
Even down to the time of the Reformation, the relics of the saint
were believed to work miracles. A direct line of cairns, from the
Nith, from the Doon, and from the Irish se`, can yet be traced to
Whilthorn. These cairns, it is said, were commenced at a remote
period at the different station where pilgrims were allowed to rest,
each of whom was obliged to add a stone to each cairn; which,
in course of time, accumulated to the vast heaps on which stran-
gers now look with astonishment.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest existing register of births
commences in 1694,--there occurs a blank from July 1696 to
December 1699,--and again from October 1709 to June 1718;
from which period it has been kept to the present time, though a
great portion of its contents have been very meargerly recorded.
The register of marriages also commence in 1694,--a blank oc-
curs from 1696 to 1699--and from 1709 to 1736; from the lat-
ter date to 1771 it has been kept with more or less regularity;
from 1771 there is a blank of thirty-eight years; from 1809 to
1821 it has been very irregularly kept. After an interval of
seventeen years, the registration of marriages was resumed in 1839,
and there is every probability of the register being now faithfully
kept. There is no record of deaths. The records of the transac-
tions of the kirk-session commences in 1694; the previous records
appears to have been destroyed during the incumbency of Mr Wil-
liam Maxwell, the Episcopal curate. A blank similar to those in
				 I

