
		CRAILING.                               179

    nor are there any particular diseases which prevail amongst us. I
    know not whether it be worth while to state, that during one season
    two or three fatal instances of croup occurred among the children
    at Nisbet. As this afflictive malady is apt to be induced by humi-
    dity, it is just possible that the vicinity of the Tiviot in a wet season
    may be ranked among the exciting causes.

		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Parochial Reqisters. -The parish registers do not reach farther
    back than the beginning of last century, nor do they contain any
    facts worthy of notice.
    Eminent Men. -This parish, however, is not unconnected with
    events well calculated to invest it with historical interest. The
    circumstance of its having been the scene of the ministry of Cal-
    derwood, the church historian, and the birth-place of Samuel
    Rutherford, is sufficient to render it a spot hallowed by associa-
    tions dear to all true-hearted Scotchmen, nay, to every lover of
    pure religion and rational liberty.
	Both these facts are well ascertained. The evidence in respect
    to the latter, i. e. the birth of Rutherford, is not so circumstantial
    as could be wished; and one cannot help regretting that no local
    incidents have been preserved connected with the early days of that
    great and good man, who bore so conspicuous a part in the struggles
    maintained by our church against the assaults of regal and spirit-
    ual domination. Yet the claims of Nisbet to the honour of his
    birth-place rest on grounds amounting to highest probability.
    Wodrow mentions, that "he was born of mean but honest parents
    in Tiviotdale." The tradition of his birth at Nisbet was so gene-
    ral, that within these few years the house in which he was born
    was pointed out, or at least a house situated on the same spot;
    and Rutherford himself, in a letter, written in 1655, to the Rev.
    John Scott, minister of Oxnam, a neighbouring parish, says, while
    regretting his being unable to pay a visit to that quarter, and speak-
    ing of the state of religion there, "My soul's desire is, that the
    wilderness, and that place to which I owe my first breathing, may
    blossom as the rose." He was born most probably in the year
    1600, although the date cannot be precisely determined. *
	Of Calderwood's connection with this parish the information is
    more abundant. He was settled as minister in 1604. From his
    own history we find, that, in 1608, he, along with George John-
    ston, minister at Ancrum, declined the authority of Law, then

<FOOTNOTE>See Account of the Life of Rutherford, by Thomas Murray, F. A. S. E.


