
                           ECKFORD.                          221

form a landscape peculiarly picturesque and delightful.  But not
less striking is the valley of the Kale, which embraces a narrower
track of country, and which, from various points of the parish, may
be viewed to great advantage.  This valley is interesting in a high
degree, and more especially where it begins to open up in the di-
rection of Marlefield on the west, and Linton on the east.  Whether
from the historical associations with which it is invested, or from
the natural character of the scenery, or the beautiful range of hills
which form its back ground on the south and east, it cannot be
contemplated by the intelligent observer but with delight.
   Climate.--The atmosphere here is for the most part mild and
salubrious.  The winds which chiefly prevail are from the west,
but gales in severe storms, in general, blow from the south-east.
Ague, once an epidemic in the district, is now quite unknown.
Its disappearance may be traced to the improved system of drain-
age, which is now so successfully pursued in this quarter, and to the
consequent diminution of those noxious exhalations which were
wont occasionally to issue from the lower grounds.
   Hydrography.--There are two rivers which flow through this
parish, the Teviot and the Kale: the Teviot takes its rise among
the heights which separate Dumfries-shire from Roxburghshire,
and after running in a north-easterly direction about thirty-nine
miles, in the course of which it is augmented by a vast number of
tributary streams, it disembogues itself into the Tweed near Kelso.
This river, immediately on entering the parish, proceeds in a north-
erly direction, and leaves the ancient Barony of Ormiston, consist-
ing of 680 acres, on its northern extremity.  The Kale issues from
among the Cheviots in the county of Northumberland, and, after
a rapid course of eighteen miles, it discharges its waters into the Teviot
somewhat to the north of Eckford church.  This is a much smal-
ler stream than the Teviot, but more impetuous in its current.  It
runs through the parish in a north-westerly direction, and divides
it nearly into two equal parts.  In some places, its banks are bold
and romantic in a high degree, and beautifully overhung with wood.
Both these rivers are occasionally subject to sudden inundations,
which, by breaking down embankments occasion considerable detri-
ment.--There is one small lake in the parish, measuring about 13
acres in extent.  It lies at the bottom of Woodenhill, a little to the
south of the village of Eckford moss, and forms the bed of a marl-
pit, which was once wrought in the district.  It is in some places


