
1030                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

naturally fine situation, the late Mr Ramsay and his father have
done much by planting and otherwise, to render Straloch one of
the finest places in the country.
	The only other mansion-bouse is that of Elrick. It is a com-
fortable residence, suited to the size of the estate, and well shel-
tered by thriving plantations. The proprietor, Mr Burnett, from
the state of his health, usually resides in Italy.

<TABLE=Population>
                                III.--POPULATION.
                      Amount in 1801,              925
                                1811,              923
                                1821,             1133
                                I831,             1246
                                1841,             1262

	There are 2 fatuous persons in the  parish, both males; and 2
blind, both females.
      	Character of the People.--The people are, for the most part,
sober, industrious, and intelligent. They are not inferior, it is
believed, to the parishes around, either in the knowledge or practice
of the Gospel,--are most regular in their attendance on the ser-
vices of the sanettiary,--are liberal, to a degree, in their contribu-
tions for the support of the poor,--and, of late, have shown them-
selves ready to attend on ministrations of a more private kind on
week days. On the part of the young, especially, an uncommon
and growing, desire is manifested for instruction, both in the things
that pertain to the life that now is, and in the things that pertain
to the life which is to come.

                              IV.--INDUSTRY.
       	The inhabitants of this parish, with comparatively few excep-
tions, are employed in agriculture.
        Aqriculture.--The superficial extent of the parish may be esti-
mated at about 8390 imperial acres, of which about 5570 are ara-
ble, 958 in pasture, and about 810 under plantation, consisting
chiefly of larch and fir, with a considerable intermixture of hard
wood. Of the remaining acres, from 300 to 400 might be ad-
vantageously cultivated.
       	RentaL--The average rate of land per acre has not been accu-
rately ascertained; but may be stated in round numbers at L. 1 per
imperial acre. The valued rent of the whole parish is L.3254.
      	Wages.--Farm-servants receive about L.12 per annum, exclu-
sive of board. The period Of engagemnent is usually six months.
The system of feeing markets prevails in this part of the country;
but efforts are being made to establish district resister offices,

                                   4


