

210                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

   Botany.--The whin, the broom, the wild-rose, and the honey-
suckle were the great possessors of our eastern soil, about half a
century ago, when they yielded to the improving skill of the late
Mr Forbes of Callendar, in whose ample farm roads they still
abound. Such a thicket was the country then, that, when cattle
were once turned out, it was no easy matter to trace them in their
wanderings; but the example of that landlord, and access to
Edinburgh mantire by the Canal, have entirely changed the bo-
tanical aspect of the parish.
                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   In several returns of the earldom of Linlithgow, which were
made in the seventeenth century, this parish is reckoned among its
patronages, and it is declared in ancient times to have been an-
nexed to the parish of Falkirk. The date of disjunction is un-
known; but the names of Bruce, Urie, Campbell, Bennet, Boyd,
Bertram, and Macall, ministers, predecessors in the church of
Moranside, from 1660 till 1834, attest its independent existence
throughout the greater part of Protestant times. It is named a
separate parish in 1606, the date of the oldest presbytery record.
   The origin of the most ancient remains in the parish is involved
in deep obscurity. They consist of a series of fortified eminences,
extending from Harlelaw, near Easter Manuel, by Castlehill, to,
Sight Hill. The last two present a steep face of about 150 feet
in height to the valley of the Avon, upon which a triple trench
had been formed, presenting now the appearance of three parallel
roads towards the north-east, as if the attack were expected from
that quarter. Whether they were raised by the original Cel-
tic inhabitants against Danish invaders from the Lothians,* or
to retard the advance of the Romans or the Scots towards Came-
lon, long, defended against both,+ it is impossible now to dete-
mine with any certainty. The quantity of stone-coffins found at
Linlithgow Bridge, Castle, Hill, Sight Hill, and Brakes, on the
Hanks and in the rear of these defences, leave no doubt that the
place was one of carnage. It is not believed that any remains
decidedly Roman have been found nearer than Justing, Haugh,
half a mile to the eastward of Avon.
   At Ballenbriech, on the Avon, three miles to the westward of
the parish church, there are ruins, as tradition says, of a Popish
chapel. Those of Manuel are sufficiently known to have belong-

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers's Caledonia.
          Holenshed.


