
44                        ROSS AND CROMARTY.

information to be derived from the churcb session records, is
wanting; these repositories of past irregularities having been com-
mitted to the flames, soon after the induction of the late incum-
bent. The only historical event worthy of notice is the plague of
1694, so fatal in the south of Scotland, and which found its way,
it is said, the same year to this parish.  It raged with unrelenting
fury; whole villages were depopulated, and the living were so much
wearied with burying the dead that they ceased at last to perform
that office at all. *
  Eminent Men.-Eminent characters, in a parish comparatively
so remote and obscure, may scarcely be expected; yet they are not
entirely wanting, though their honour was not that which " is of
this world." Mr James Fraser of Brae, whose memoirs Present
us with a simple but vivid sketch of a mind deeply imbued
with vital piety, and the force of truth, and whcih are already so
well known to the religious world, was a native of tbis parish,
and the only son of Sir James Fraser of Brae, one of the heritors,
and third son of Hugh, seventh Lord Lovat.  The house in which
he was born in 1639 is still standing, and is occupied at present by
a tenant on the estate of Newhall.  Several passages of Scripture
are carved, in capital letters, on the west gable.  This eminent
man, from his earliest years almost to the close of his well-spent
life, was the object of human malice and persecution, in no ordi-
nary measures
  We willingly assign a place, among the characters now re-
ferred to, to the Rev. Hector M"Phail, who was minister of this
parish from 1748 to 1774,-a man of primitive simplicity, fervent
piety, and most eminently successful in his ministerial labours.
His resolution was, never to meet any of his parishioners, or in-
deed any individual whatever, whether high or low, young or old,
without opening up to them, and pressing upon their consideration,
that wiEmitry of reconciliation with which he was intrusted, and
which he had the happy talent of doing in a manner as striking and
impressive as it was easy and familiar. Many persons still living

<FOOTNOTE>Two affecting incidents connected with this terrible isitation are handed down
by tradition. One is, that, when persons found themselves attacked by the disease,
aware that their bodies after death would remain unburied if they did not themselves
take some previous measures, so long as they had any strength remaining, they ac-
tually dug their own graves, and laid themselves down in them until they expired!!
Another is, that a poor maniac, the only survivor, not only of his own family, but of
a whole village! after waiting beside the body of his mother, the last victim ofi the
plague in the place took up the oorpse at last on his shoulders, carried it to neigh-
boaring village, and left it standing upright against a wall.


