
     Of Cromarty.

neighbouring parishes to the manufacture of hemp.  Accord-
ingly, the place of worship was built solely at the expense of
Mr. George Ross, in the year 1783; and he obtained a grant
from the Exchequer of 50 L., paid annually from the bishop
rents, as a living to the Gaelic minister.  The manse under-
went a partial repair, at the admission of the present incum-
bent, and is a good substantial house.  The church was roof-
ed anew, in the late incumbent's time; the old roof, at that
time, taken off, was all of oak, said to have been cut down
from the hill of Cromarty, upwards of 140 years before.
The living was augmented by the Court of Teinds, during
their last session, having got an increase of 28 L 13 s. 7 d. Ster-
ling.  The state of the living now stands, as follows: 8 chal-
ders of victual, and 38 L. 8 s. Sterling of money.  The glebe
may be valued at 12 L. a-year.  The Crown is patron both of
the parish church and the Gaelic.-The number of poor, up-
on the town's roll, amounts to 77, and upon the country's,
to 33, making in all 110.  The funds, for their relief, are as
follow: In meal there are 9 bolls, 6 1/2 pecks, payable from
mortified lands left for the behoof of the poor 138 years ago,
by one M'Culloch of Good-tree.  Along with this, there is
the annual interest of 12 L. Sterling, of a fund; five guineas
given annually, for a course of years back, by a Lady for-
merly connected with this place, and about 4 L. Sterling an-
nually, of seat rents.  The weekly contributions, at both
congregations, have considerably increased within the two last
years, and may be estimated annually, between 30 L. and 40 L.
Sterling; so that between meal and money, there will be a
sum amounting to 60 L. Sterling annually, for the above num-
ber of poor, which is distributed among them, in two parts,
at those seasons of the year, when the necessaries of life are
purchased at the easiest rate.  It is worthy of remark, that
in the year 1783, there was upwards of 30 l. Sterling col-

     VOL. XII. K k


