
                        UDNY.                                 137

more; and when they once receive relief, it too frequently breaks
the spring of industry, and renders them quite dependent.
   Fairs.-Three fairs are held at Green of Udny, chiefly for dis-
posing of black-cattle.  The fairs are well attended.
   Inns.-There are 7 inns, by far too many, as they have a very
bad effect on the morals of the people.
   Fuel.-Formerly peatr vere the only fuel, procured at a great
waste of time and labour, though little or no money was laid out for
it.  Now, about one-half of the fuel is coals, bought at Aberdeen
and Newburgh, at about 4s. the imperial boll of 36 stones.  Coals
are much cheaper than peat.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   At the time of the former Statistical Account, forty-six years ago,
a great proportion of the parish was covered with broom, whins, and
bulrushes.  These are now extirpated, and the eye meets with nothing
but cultivated and mostly enclosed fields.  Fewer hands are now
employed in agriculture than were formerly, in proportion to the
extent cultivated.  The improved method of working, especially
the thrashing-machines, as every farm above fifty acres has a thrash-
ing-machine, has greatly diminished human labour. The conse-
quence has been, that many of the labourers have repaired to
Aberdeen, or where they could find employment, which accounts
for there being more births than burials in the parish.  About
forty years ago, there were ten meal mills in the parish.  The
spare grain was all milled and sold in Aberdeen.  There are now
only three meal mills in the parish.  These have not constant em-
ployment.  The farmers mill little more than what is sufficient for
their families.  It is found more advantageous to sell grain than
meal.
   In the parish are 8 blacksmiths, 8 shoemakers, 5 tailors, 5
wrights, and 3 masons.  Most of them work by the piece.  There
are 2 gardeners, who work at ls. 6d. per day, with victuals.  Farm-
servants compose the chief body of the people.  They are sober,
industrious, and trustworthy.  Some of the tradesmen are dissi-
pated.  There are 6 merchants in the parish upon a small scale.
They all retail groceries and coarse cloth.  Most of them sell
spirits, which circumstance has a strong tendency to hurt the mo-
rals of the people.  The farmers take most of their groceries from
Aberdeen.  Many of the cottars and small tenants barter their
butter and eggs with the country retailers, for groceries.
   A few weeks before Whitsunday and Martinmas, markets are


