
498                          RENFREWSHIRE.

plenty in the neighbourhood, even, it is believed, for the taste of the
sportsman, and their predatory incursions are far from encourag-
ing the people to increase the number of their poultry. There are
still a few trout in the river to reward the patient angler, who can
derive pleasure from an occasional nibble, and those who, love the
gastronomic delicacies of the eel, when subjected to culinary skill,
cannot complain of insufficient materials for the indulgence of their
inclination.-This parish has long been a favourite place of re-
sort to the botanical student, from the great variety of its natural
vegetable productions. On the banks of the river are to be found
the finest specimens of the greater number of those wild flowers
which are indigenous to Scotland. Those botanists who are ac-
quainted with Sir William Hooker's Flora Scotica know well how
frequently reference is made to the borders of the Cart. The
author of the last Statistical Account of Cathcart complains grie-
vously of the war waged with the ancient forests of our country,
and of the consequent scarcity of trees here as in other parts of
Scotland. In so far as this parish is concerned; the ground of
former complaint is now removed ; as, besides the venerable re-
mains of native woods still surviviDg the general wreck, we have
very many thriving plantations growing up in every direction, and,
by their judicious arrangement, adding at once to the ornament of
the country, the productiveness of the soil, and the comfort of the
inhabitants. The soil is very various in quality. In the lower
lands it consists of a deep rich alluvial loam with a gravelly sub-
soil, and the higher of clay, occasioning a great variety in the fer-
tility of the several farms within the parish, notwithstanding its li-
inited extent, and consequently a great disproportion in the value
of the several estates to their territorial dimensions. In all parts of
the parish, however, in, consequence of those improvements which
science has suggested being universally adopted, and in conse-
quence also of its proximity to Glasgow, that great metropolis of
manure, the soil is rapidly improving; and acres, forty years ago,
untouched by the plough, are now-giving annually to the people
the most abundant crops of grain of every kind.
               		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is an account of this parish to be found in the History
of Reufrewshire, published by Crawford in 1710.
   Family of Cathcart.-More than 700 years ago, the parish be-
came the property of a family which is now represented by a noble-
man bears at once the surname and the title of Catbcart, and who


