
     of Alloa.

to the Cambus, they continue to fish with tolerable success.
General Abereromby now lets the fishing for 40 L. per annum,
which formerly only gave 5 L.  Upon the west, and not a mile
from the house of Tullibody, the river Devon discharges it-
self into the Forth; and vessels of tolerable burden can load.
and unload, at a pier, built at the mouth of the Devon.  Sloops
and large boats, loaded with grain, come up near to the village
of Cambus, to supply the mills, and a brewery, and to carry
off the manufactures of both.  A high dam-head, erected for
driving the corn and bailey mills on each side of the river,
forms a great obstruction to the salmon getting up the Devon.
They are seen often attempting this, but they seldom succeed,
except in high tides.  An oil mill has lately been erected on
this river, which is said to perform a great deal of work.  One
the other side of the Devon, there is a rich flat piece of ground,
called West Cambus, belonging to Lord Alva.  It consists of
160 acres of ground, which is let in two farms, one of which
has the corn mill.  The tenants pay kain, cess and school-
master's salary, over and above their rent.  The lands of Ban-
death, Kersie, and part of the Frosk, which all lie on the other
side of the Forth, are bound and thirled to the mill of West
Cambus*.-West Cambus is bounded by the parish of Logie,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some years ago, between the Cambus and the Frosk ford, there was drag-
ged up a brass collar, with this inscription on it:  "ALEXANDER STEUART,
"found guilty of death for theft, at Perth, 5th December 1701, and gifted by the
"Justiciars, as a perpetual servant to Sir JOHN ARESKEN of AIVA." This collar
is now in the possession of the Antiquarian Society of Scotland, with the follow-
ing copy of the justiciar's gift, which is taken from the original in the Duke
of Atholl's charter hours:
"At Perth, the 5th day of December 1701.  The commissioners of Justi-
"ciary of the south district, for securing the peace in the Highland, considering
"that Donald Robertson, Alexander Stewart, John Robertson; and Donald
"McDonald, prisoners within the toolbooth, and indicted and tried at this Court,


