
                           AYR.                                  43

by William the Lion. The sides of this bastion, like those of the
other four, which are yet to be traced, vary from 120 to 135 feet
in length, and their angles are regular, according to the system of
fortification now in use.
	Proceeding parallel to the river, along the rampart, but on a
plane about fifteen feet lower, we arrive at a second bastion, con-
nected with the former by a curtain 237 feet in length. The works
now trend towards the west, and a second curtain, 266 feet long,
conducts to a third bastion. These appear to have formed the
main part of the fortifications, and have been erected with great
care and at very considerable expense. The rampart is everywhere
faced on the outside with a wall, strongly and exceedingly well
built, of hewn-stone, inclined at the proper angles, and entire.
The whole is sustained on arches, which have formed convenient
securities for garrison stores and provisions. The breadth of the
rampart is in this place 120 feet. The works now sweep almost
directly west, running parallel to the sea-line, and, when first exe-
cuted, had occupied the whole of the dry ground on this side-
Though the sea has now retired to a considerable distance, leav-
ing a fine sandy beach, yet some of the oldest inhabitants remem-
ber when the walls here were washed by the tide at high-water.
This seaward curtain is 512 feet long; and though the rampart
continues of the same height, viz. about 20 or 25 feet above the
level of the sands, yet it has been narrow and without arches hav-
ing been composed of solid earth, faced with the same solid ma-
sonry as already described. At the termination of this sea-wall,
and joining the western angle of the fortification, is a fourth bas-
tion, which, though smaller than the others, has been constructed
with equal care and skill. From its position near to what, must
have been formerly the mouth of the river Doon, which we have
already attempted to prove, this point must have been very strong.
A curtain, 272 feet, running nearly south, conducts to a fifth bas-
tion; but here the original rampart can no longer be traced,
though the garden-walls of the adjacent houses are built upon its
foundations, and clearly show its position. The sixth and last bas-
tion has occupied the southern angle of the fort, but of this no
part now reimains, A long curtain and deep broad ditch had form-
ed the principal defences towards the town, joining the south to the
eastern bastion, whence we started in this descriptive circuit of the
fortifications. Of this side of the citadel, the only remains are
the hollow of the ditch, and the gate of the front wall. The lat-


