

			    ST QUIVOX.                   119

in the adjoining parished of Newton and Prestwick. In the pa-
rish of St Quivox the uppermost seam of coal has been nearly ex-
hausted by workings, which were carried on about fifty or sixty
years ago. The lower seam has been only within these few years
fitted, and thered may remain to be worked about 1000 acres. The
coal field is terminated on the north by a great dike or slip, which
passes near the church of St Quivox, running in a direction nearly
nort-west; although trials have been made over this dike, no
workable seam of coal has been found. There are no other mi-
nerals in the parish which are considered to the of value.
   Yellow trout are found in the water of Ayr, and afford good
sport to the angler, but there is no salmon fishery of any import-
ance.
   The fruit trees are much infested by a small caterpillar, (Aphis
lanigera,) of which the larvae appear to be deposited in the bud
by the parent fly in autumn, and which destroys the blossom and
leaves when they expand in spring, producing a devastation which
is vulgarly called blight. Of late years the young wheats and
turnips have ruffered greatly from the wire-worm, which attacks
the roots in April and July, and often destroys the white crop.
It prevails chiefly in the dry light soils, and seems to be increased
in the vicinity of the town by the use of ashes as manure.
  No adequate cure for the evil has been discovered; but the con-
suming of the turnip on the ground by sheep, by consolidatind the
soil, seems to impede the operations of this destructive insect. The
crows, larks, and pheasants, devour vast numbers, of these worms,
but they destroy also the young plants, by plucking them up in
search of their prey. The crows in general discover the presence
of the insect by the unhealthy appearance of the blade, and pull
only the injured plant. But whe they happen to alight in great
numbers and in hungry state, upon a field of young turnips, which
have recently been thinned, they frequently destroy the whole crop
in a very short time.

      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The principal land-owners are, Mr Oswald of
Auchencruive; Mr Forbes of Callendar; Messrs Hunters and Com-
pany, Bankers, Ayr; and Mr Campbell of Craigie.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registes do not extend
farther back than the ye`r 1780, but since that period they have
been kept with great regularity.
  Antiquities.-Several small earthen urns were lately discovered


