
                          EDINBURGH.                      651

         III.-PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND MONUMENTS.
   The Castle.-The highly picturesque rock on which the Castle
is built is a mass of basaltic greenstone, which rises, with almost
perpendicular sides, to an elevation of 443 feet above the level of
the sea. There can be little doubt, from the bold and commanding
situation, as well as from the inaccessible nature of this eminence,
that it was the original point of attraction, around which. the an-
cient borough began to rise, and around which as a centre the in-
creasing city still continues to extend. On the south and western
sides, indeed, the rock is so perpendicular, and the base so hollowed
out and marshy, that previous to the use of artillery it must have
been from these quarters inaccessible. On the east side, a long
sloping terrace, guarded by a gate and portcullis, communicates
only with the city. The flat summit of the rock includes an area of
about seven English acres. On this highest part the oldest buildings
of the Castle stand. These are in the form of a quadrangle 100
feet in length. The eastern part of this square was appropriated as
royal apartments, where the monarchs occasionally took up the ir resi-
dence in times of trouble. In the front wall there is a date, 1566,
which probably indicates the period of some additions or improve-
ments. In a small room on the ground floor, in the south-east
corner, Queen Mary gave birth to James VI. on the 19th June
1566. The roof is divided into four compartments, with a thistle
at each corner, and in the centre an imperial crown, with the ini-
tials M. R. The south side of the square, now converted into
barrack-rooms, contained a large hall, where the Scottish Parlia-
ment anciently sat, and on the north side was a church.
   Crown-Room.-In an upper room, in the north-east corner,
the crown and regalia were deposited, on the 26th March 1707.
Here they lay in a large oaken chest, unregarded, for many years;
and indeed strong doubts were entertained whether they were ac-
tually deposited in this chest or not. To clear these doubt, a
commission was appointed by the Prince Regent in 1818, chiefly
on the representation of Sir Walter Scott, with powers to open the
chest. The commissioners forthwith proceeded to do so, and
brought to light the long-hidden regalia. The crown, which is
formed of pure gold, is nine inches, in diameter, and six inches in
height, from the under arch to the top of the cross, by which it
is surmounted. The cap is of purple velvet, turned up with er-
mine; and the crown is studded with various kinds of jewels, chiefly
diamonds, amethysts, and pearls. It bears the initials J. R. V.


