
84                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

<TABLE>
1. Number of families in the parish,                                            337
          of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                           89
                     chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,     48
2. Number of unmarried men, bachelors or widowers, upwards of 50 years of age    20
          of unmarried women, including widows, upwards of 45,                   43
3. The number of persons at present under 15 years of age                       631
                                    upwards of 70                                59

There are 5 landed proprietors of the yearly value of L.50 and
upwards. The average number of children in each family is 4.
There are 2 insane, and 3 fatuous persons.
    Character of the People.--The people in general are sober,
cleanly, frugal, and industrious; decent and exemplary in their at-
tendance on religious ordinances; peaceable and friendly. They
enjoy in a reasonable degree the comforts and advantages of so-
ciety, and are contended with their situation and circumstances.

                          IV.--INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The number of acres in the
parish under tillage in 5683, and in pasture 23,006,--4428 of
which are arable. Although the greater proportion of the ground
between the river Nith, or western boundary, and the moun-
tains on the eastern boundary, which fifty years ago was in a state
of nature and covered with stunted heath, is brought into culti-
vation, either for grass or corn,--a considerable extent, perhaps not
less than 2000 acres, of the higher ground might yet be improved
permanently for pasture, by means of lime, and outlay. There are
about 1500 acres of natural woods and plantations.
   The natural woods consist of oak, ash, alder and birch; and
the plantations, oak, ash, elm, beech. Scotch fir, spruce fir,
and larch. As more attention is paid to thinning the plantations
in the early stages of their growth than is usual in Scotland they
are in a very thriving condition. About 1200 of these acres un-
der wood belong to the chief land-owner. He lately finished cut-
ting down a plantation of 90 acres of Scotch fir sixty years old,
which he disposed of for L.10,000. It grew on the poorest sandy
soil, not worth sixpence per acre, when the trees were planted.
   Rent of Land, &c.--The average rent of arable land per acre
is L.1, 5s. and of grazing, is L.4 per cow grazed, L.2 per ox, and
4s. 6d per ewe, or full-grown sheep.
   Rate of Wages.--The wages of a farm male-servant, board in-
cluded, are L.20; and female-servant L.13 for the year. When


