
46                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

    Bone-dust manure has been applied extensively for the last two
years to land in preparation for a turnip crop, and with success
fully equal to expectation.  In some cases, it is sown by a machine,
but chiefly by the hand, along the hollow of the drills, previous to
their being laid together for the reception of the seed.  This
manure is generally applied at the rate of two quarters per acre.
It costs L. 1, 1s. per quarter.  It is found particularly convenient
where dung is in short supply, especially on high lands at a dis-
tance from the farm-xard; and, by means of it, land in tillage can,
in many cases, be kept in good order, and under a more profitable
rotation, than in any other way.
    Obstacles to Improvement.--A very great obstacle to improvement
is the distance from lime,--which is twenty-four miles from the
nearest kilns.  The prime cost and carriage to the land amounts
to from 12s. to 13s. 6d. per cart-load of two bolls, Lothian mea-
sure.  Eight such cart-loads are considered a fair allowance per
acre; but, owing to its great expense, it is not often applied to that
extent.  Lime is, however, now generally-in use in this quarter;
and, from the good effects produced by it, even when used in a
smaller proportion, it is much to be regretted that there are not
greater facilities in procuring it.  It has been suggested, that, in
cases where landlords are so fortunate as to secure judicious and
enterprising tenants, it would be to their mutual benefit were the
landlords to pay the cost price at the kiln of what lime the tenants
may lay upon their farms in a given time.  Such arrangement
would encourage and enable tenants to pay higher rents for their
farms, and would also put it in their power to apply a larger por-
tion of their capital to other beneficial purposes. *

<FOOTNOTE>some time ago proposed to be carried betwixt Dalkeith and Galashiels, and for which
purpose the ground along Gala Water was surveyed, may soon be again taken up in
a more decided manner, and carried into effect without delay.  It is the opinion of
competent judges, that such an undertaking would make a good return to the sub-
scribers; and there cannot be a doubt, that it would prove of incalculable advantage
to an extensive and interesting farming district, by affording great facility in the con-
veyance of corn, wool, coals, lime, bone-dust, timber, slates, and various articles of
merchandise; while to the important and improving manufactories at Galashiels,
Selkirk, Jedburgh, Hawick, &c., such conveyance would give new health and vigour,
by accelerating the transit of raw materials and manufactured goods.

<FOOTNOTE>To this plan it is objected, that it holds out an inducement to men without capi-
tal to offer higher rents than can be drawn from the land, and, consequently, to drive
the well-provided and more deserving tenant, who is willing to give a fair value for
land, entirely out of the market.  The first-mentioned class, it is said, having little to
lose, have not much dread of an adverse turn of circumstances; while, on the other
hand, they are in hopes of deriving benefit from a favourable change of times, from
the kindness of the landlord in making reductions of rent, or from over-cropping the
land thus injudiciously put into their hands.  This objection is worthy of serious con-
sideration; and we know not of any way by which the evil expressed by it can be avoid-
ed or lessened, except by the landlords using all possible care in the selection of their
tenants, and giving due encouragement to men of character and capital.



