
286				DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Means of Communication.--The road from Carlisle to Glasgow,
and to Edinburgh by Moffat, runs through the middle division of
the parish, five miles in length; and in the western corner, near
Langshaw, crosses the road, which runs from Annan to Edinburgh
by Langholm and Selkirk, in a northerly direction, four miles in
length. A road which was opened up some years ago from Annan
to langholm, by Stapleton, Beitenmont, and Chapelknow, runs
from the south-west in an easterly direction, nearly four miles in
length. The Glasgow mail passes this every morning from Car-
lisle to Glasgow, and every afternnon from Glasgow to Carlisle.
	Four bridges have, been thrown across the Kirtle, and connect
this parish with Middlebie on the northwest. There is one also
over the Kirtle at Beltenmont, and another over a rivulet at Cleugh-
side, which joins this parish, to Dornock on the south-west, with
two on the Glasgow road. All these bridges are in excellent con-
dition.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the church, though sur-
rounded by the most densely peopled part of the parish, is not con-
venient for the inhabitants of the northern division, which is distant
from it about five miles. It was partly rebuilt fifty-six vears ago,
and then put into a state of complete repair. But at present its
interior part is in such a miserable condition as again to require a
thorough repair. By a decided majorit of the heritors, it is thought
that a new church should immediately be built. The sittings are
all free, and can accommodate about 600 individuals. The manse
and offices have been greatly improved within the last twenty years;
and the glebe, which consists of 6 5/4 imperial acres of superior, and
17 1/8 of interior land, is worth L. 20 a, year. As the teinds are ex-
hausted, the present incumbent agreed some years ago to receive
from the heritors a fixed sum of L. 210 yearly. There is no chapel
of any kind here. The number of families attending the Establish-
ed church is 290, and of persons of all ages, 1595. Thirteen fami-
lies, or 71 persons of all ages, attend dissenting chapels. Of that
number, those who are of the Relief persuasion attend a chapel at
Waterbeck, in Middlebie; and those who belong to the United Se-
cession church attend either a chapel at Ecclefechan, in Hoddam,
or one which was lately erected at Rigg, in Graintney. Divine ser-
vice at the Established church is well attended by both the higher
and lower orders. The average number of communicants is 300.
The average amount of yearly contributions for religious and cha-
ritable purposes, is L. 14; of church collections yearly, L. 30.


