
                           [   141  ]

                     CORRIGENDA TO DOLLAR.
      Dollar.--Since the preceding account of Dollar was printed,
certain evidence has come to our knowledge, which leads us to be-
lieve, that a slight error has been fallen into in the note on page
105, relative to the ancient titles to the lands and Castle of Gloom
or Campbell, which it is proper to correct. We have there given
our reasons for believing tb at Colin, Earl of Argyle, married the
eldest daughter of John, third Lord of Lorn and Innermeath,
which reasons appeared satisfactory, and they are supported by
Douglas, who, in his Peerage, states that Colin, Earl of Argyle,
married Isabell, the eldest daughter of the said Lord Lorn.  In
the Black Book of Taymouth, which is a family manuscript kept
at Taymouth Castle, and which was commenced about a century
after the marriage, it is, however, stated, that Sir Colin Campbell
of Glenurchy, who was the uncle and guardian of Colin, first Earl
of Argyle, married the eldest daughter of the said John Lord
Lorn, whose name was Janet and not Margaret, as she is called
in the note; and this statement we have reason'to believe is true.
The uncle, Sir Colin, was married some years previous to his ward,
the Earl; and it is not likely that the wife of the latter would be
older than her sister, the wife of the former; and in some old
papers connected with the Argyle and Glenurcby families in the
seventeenth century, Argyle is charged with ingratitude for hav-
ing forgotten that Sir Colin Campbell, the husband of the elder
sister, had consented to hold his third of the lordship of Lorn,
&c. (the right to which in the brother or heir-male of John, third
Lord Lorn and Innermeath, was given up by an agreement to the
heirs-female), of the husband of his wife's younger sister, to increase
the dignity of the family of Campbell, of which the latter was the
chief, which statement is not denied in the papers for the Earl of
Argyle. This family arrangement accounts for the Castle of
Gloom being on that portion of the lands that fell to the Countess
of Argyle, although she was not the eldest sister. The main
point in the note is untouched, and seems to be indisputable, viz.
that Castle Campbell came into the possession of the Argyle
family in consequence of the marriage of Colin, first Earl of.Ar-
gyle, with Isabell, daughter of John third Lord of Lorn and In-
nermeath, grandson of John first Lord Innermeath and Lorn,
who married the daughter of John de Ergadia, the former pro-
prietor of Lorn.
   P. 80, 1.12 delete "is reckoned a good breeding stream for
salmon."
   CLACKMANNAN.                                 L


