
			KIRKMICHAEL. 			 71

meaning fort. Not far from the same spot was found, several
years ago, a large round leaden dish, which contained two pieces
of iron, much corroded, resembling a masons trowel and tool.
This led to the supposition that it had been used for holding mor-
tar. A hole was pierced on each side, to which a handle might
have been fastened.
        A number of small silver coins of Alexander III, of Scotland,
and Edward I. of England, were discovered upon the 10th No-
vember 1821, in a piece of soft ground, about half way between
Nether-Garrel and Courance. A year or two afterwards nearly
a quarter of a mile from the same place, was found a small silver
coin of James I. of Scotland. Several of these coins, and the
brazen decanter found lately, as described above, are in possession
of one of the heritors.
	Many of the ancient circular British encampments apppear in
the parish. Upon some of these being opened, ashes have been
found; likewise several broken querns, or hand-mills, formerly used
for grinding corn; and in one of them, upon the farm of Gilrig,
with a partition crossing it, and which seems to have been occupied
during later times, there was dug out a sword having a basket-hilt
but so much covered with rust, that it was impossible to form any
accurate opinion respecting its antiquity. There was also seen a
number of pipes of burnt clay, with heads somewhat smaller than
that of the tobacco-pipe now in use, swelled at the middle, and
straiter at the top.
	Modern Buildings.--A very handsome and elegant mansion-
house has been erected by Mr Lyon, on his estate of Kirkmichael,
and is just finished. It is built in the old manorial style, after a
plan made by Mr Burn of Edinburgh. It is surrounded by a very
considerable extent of fine old timber, and the pleasure-grouds
are embellished by beautiful flower-gardens, and two fine artificial
pieces of water. Mr Lyon has also made a very excellent walled
garden and hot-house.
	There are two mills in the parish; one, upon the barony of
Ross, for oat, wheat, and barley; and another upon the estate
of Kirkmichael, adapted merely	for oats and barley.

			III.--POPULATION.

	The amount of the population of the parish cannot be traced
any farther back than 1759. At that time, the number of inha-
bitants was 730: in 1791, it was 950. The increase, was supposed


