
                               MARYKIRK.                     301

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

         Eminent Men.-The Strachans of Thornton were men of con-
siderable distinction in the service of their country. The late Dr
Crombie, who was also proprietor of Thornton, and patron of the
parish, was a man of eminence, and of great repute as an author.
His works on Natural Theology, and particularly his Gymnasium,
are deservedly held in high estimation.
      Land-owners.-The landed proprietors are, the Farl of Kin-
tore; Sir Alexander Ramsay, Bart.; Robert Taylor, Esq.; Alex-
ander Crombie, Dsp.; the Honourable General Hugh Arbuth-
nott, M.P.; Lieutenant-Colonel Fraser; and Sir John Stuart
Forbes, Bart.
      Parochial Registers.-The registers of baptisms and marriages
have been correctly kept since 1699. The records previous to
that date appear to have been lost, from the following minute:-
"The register of the baptisms within the parish of Aberluthnot
since the 31st of August, being the admission day of John Thom-
son, minister, the former books not being found. 1699." The
books connected with the parish are not voluminous.
  Antiquities.-As is remarked in the former Statistical Account,
"the antiquities of this parish are few in number and of no great
importance." To the little there said, little can be added; in-
deed the traditions there set forth are now scarcely known to any
of the people. Since the date of the former account, several stone
Coffins have been discovered on the farm of Cobbleheugh,in which
were found the remains of skeletons of a very large size. The
Thornton Aisle, which bears the date of 1615, is still standing.
The inscription on the beautiful monument which it contained, as
well as the monument itself, are now nearly defaced. The whole
interior of the aisle has suffered much from the depredations of
the youngsters in the village, and the roof, which seems,at one
time to have been finely pahnted, has been destroyed almost en-
tirely by the same mischievous hands. Part of the old cross of
the village is still standing.
      Modern Buildinqs.-Of the modern buildings in the parish,
the bridge over the North Esk, a little below the village of Mary-
kirk, be first noticed. It was begun in 1811, and finished in
1813. It is a neat substantial building, consisting of four circu-
lar arches of equal size, and has proved of the greatest utility to
the whole district of the county. The bridge over the North Esk,
on the road leading from Aberdeen to Edinburgh, is of great an-


