
                                  EDENKILLIE.                      185

            open combat, after the dreadful slaughter of his followers in the
            engagement above alluded to, had recourse to ambuscade and
            stratagem to harass the besieging party, and to supply father's.
            garrison with provision. At length the plaze of his concealment
            was discovered, which was a deep cavern in a wild narrow glen,
            called Slaginnan, Gallice  Slohk-nan-cean, about half a mile from
            the castle, when he was taken by surprise and murdered. His
            head was then cut off and thrown into the fortress, with this ter-
            rible taunt to the old man, "Your son has provided you with
            meal, and we now send you flesh to eat with it." "It is a bitter
            morsel, indeed," said the veteran warrior, as he took it up, kissed
            it, and wept over it, "but I will gnaw the last bone of it before I
            surrender !" The castle and estate of Dunphail some time after-
            wards became the property of Mr Dunbar, and now belongs to
            Mr Cumming Bruce.
              The Doune Hill of Relugas is described in the last Statistical
            Account as follows:-" It seems to be a fortress, of still greater
            antiquity," viz. than the Castle of Lochindorb, "and used as such
            far beyond the period of authentic history. It appears to have
            been a place of strength, to Which the inhabitants of the country
            retired, with their Battle, upon the invasion of the Danes, to Which
            this country of Moray was so frequently exposed. It is a conical
            bill, round a considerable part of which runs the rapid river of
            Divie, in a deep rocky channel; and, when not defended by the
            river, it is encircled by a deep fosse or ditch, with a strong ram-
            part on the outside, mostly composed of stones, same of which
            have the appearance of vitrification." It is probable that, in the
            early history of the country, the Dounis of Relugas was one link
            of a chain of signal stations used for the purpose of communicating
            by fires up the twin glens of the Findhorn and Divie. The Ro-
            mans also seem to have occupied it at one time, for Sir Thomas
            Dick Lauder, by digging, found some fragments of Roman pottery on
            the summit of it, which are still in his possession. They were sup-
            posed to have had a line of posts from Forres to Brae Mar, and thence-
            to Perth, and this was unquestionably one of them ; and in this very
            line, and at no great distance, a spear and two bronze hatchets
            were found on the property of Sluie, which are likewise in the pos-
            session of Sir Thomas.
              Modern Buildings,- The mansion-house of Dunphail, which is
            an elegant edifice, and has been described as one of the happiest


