
274                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   The chapel of Loretto underwent a speedy repair, but what
war and wasting fire had spared was soon destined to utter demo-
lition in the zeal of the Reformation ; and in 1590, the materials
of that edifice, to which so many thousand pilgrimages had for
centuries been made, were carried away for the construction of the
present Tolbooth, adjoining the more modern Town-hall and
Assembly Room. Dr Carlyle remarks* that " this is said to
have been the first religious house in Scotland whose ruins were
applied to an unhallowed use, for which the good people of Mus-
selburgh are said to have been annually excommunicated, till very
lately, at Rome."
   Of this building, which must have been of considerable dimen-
sions, no vestige now remains, save a cell measuring 12 feet by 10,
covered by a circular wooded mount. In the roof is inserted a
strong iron bar, with an oaken pulley attached, but for what pur-
pose seems doubtful. In 1831, the present proprietor of the villa
of Loretto, the Rev.  Thomas Langhorne, caused part of the
earthen floor to be dug up, when a number of human skulls were
discovered, some of which were in complete preservation, and re-
main so.  Over the entrance is an antique carved stone, but from
the date on it, 1634, it must have been placed there at a period
subsequent to the destruction of " the cliapelle of Lauret." The
present villa of Loretto, which is extensive and commodious, ap-
pears to have been built during the last century, and is surrounded
by delightful gardens and orchards.
   The great Randolph, Earl of Murray, the compatriot and bosom
friend of Douglas, so celebrated in his history as " the good Lord
James," and the second in command under Robert the Bruce at
the battle of Bannockburn, died in a house near the East Port of
the town, on the south side of the street.  It consisted of two rooms
on the ground floor, with arched roofs.  Each ofthese apartments
Was 14 feet square, and the arch 8 feet from the floor.  This ve-
nerable domicile, which existed at the era of the last Statistical
Account, was demolished about thirty years agro, and its site is now
occupied by the Aitcheson's Haven Operative Masonic Lodge.+

<FOOTNOTE>fying this circumstance, and attached to the work, was stolen away a good many years
ago, supposed to be by the person who had the charge of cleaning the machinery. The
work is still in good preservation.
         Vide former Statistical Account, Vol. xvi. p. 6.
         Morrison's Haven is situated immediately beyond the eastern boundary of the
parish, and its history, as Chalmers says, may be given in a few words: " In 1526,
James V. empowered the monks of Newbottle, the discoverers of coal in the same vi-
cinity, to construct a port within their own lands of Prestongrange. They erected


