
                              KILMORACK.                             371

of the stipend since its augmentation, in 1815, is, in money L.212,
5s. 6d., 9 bolls of bear, and 24 bolls, 2 firlots, 1 peck, 2 1/2 lippies
of meal, which includes L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
The number of communicants connected with the parish is 84;
but, including those from the neighbouring parihes, it amounts
to about 300.  Collections are occasionally made for the Gene-
ral Assembly's missionary schemes; and there is a contribution
made to the Inverness Royal Infirmary once in three years.
   Education.-The number of schools is three-two parochial,
and one supported by the Chisholm; but the parish has also the
benefit of two schools which belong to the neighbouring parish.
The salary of each parochial teacher is the minimum, with the legal
accommodations. In some of the schools, the amount of school-fees
does not exceed L.8 or L.10, while in the principal they fall little
short of L.20. The branches taught are, English and Gaelic read-
ing, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, the elements of Algebra and
mathematics, Latin and Greek. The immense advantage in respect
of education which the Strathglass district of this parish, for the
space of twenty-three miles, possesses over many parishes in the
Highlands, is entirely owing to the munificent generosity ot the
family of the Chisholm,-a family which it is impossible to men-
tion without gratitude, for the benefits it has conferred on so large
a portion of this dark and unenlightened district. There is still,
however, a great deficiency of school accommodation in the village
of Beauly.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 6J ; but occasionally, assistance is given
to many others. The averave sum alotted to each of those
upon the poor's toll is 6s., 8s., and los. per anum. The
only funds possessed by the parish are the collections at the
church doors. They never amount to more than L.12 Sterling
per annum ; occasional donations are granted by the heritors.
Few af the inhabitants go out of the parish in search of relief, and
these only when compelled by necessity.
   Fairs.-On the Muir of Ord, is now held the most important
cattle fair the north of Scotland, for the purpose of accommodat-
ing dealers from the soutb, and every part of the country.  The
following have been appointed as the days on which the market
holds: 1st market, the Muir of Ord, on third Wednesday of
April; 2d, second Wednesday of May; 3d, second Wednesday
of June; 4th, third Thursday of July; 5th, third Tuesday of


