
	     LIBERTON.                          27

L.53, 9s. Id.; 1836, L.61, 11s. 11 1/2d.; 1837, L.50, 0s. 11 5/4d.;
of which two last sums, if the extraordinary collections above-
mentioned be added, the amount of collection will be, for 1836,
L.90, 15, ll l/2d.; and for l837, L.87, 0s. 3 5/4d. The mortcloth and
other dues were, in 1835, L. 37, 6s. 6d. ; 1836, L. 35, 14s. 5d.;
1837, L. 25, 11s. To this may be added the collections at the
new church of Gilmerton, amounting to from L. 32 to L, 35 a-year,
part of which are given to the poor.  There is also distributed the
interest of L. 1000, left by Captain Horne in the hands of the
Magistrates of Edinburgh, for the benefit of decayed labourers in
this parish, and the rents of other property belonging to the kirk-
session.
   The assessment has the effect of drying up the sources of cha-
rity, and emboldening paupers to cast themselves and their chil-
dren on the poor's funds.   The old Scottish plan of voluntary con-
tributions was certainly the best for supporting the poor.  But it is
only practicable in small parishes, with an efficient minister and
staff of elders.  Nothing can remove the evil of assessments now,
(which would be ten times greater, but for the efforts of the kirk-
session,) but the subdivision of parishes, the diffusion of sound in-
struction and Christian principle amongst the people, and the re-
moval of whisky-shops.  Crime, drunkenness and poverty are al-
ways found together, and expending money upon the poor, except
for the purpose of making them better, will as soon cure the evil
as pouring oil upon a flame will quench it.  It would be well if the
attention of the proprietors of Scotland were called to this mighty
evil in our overgrown parishes, for unless something is done to
break them up, and to apply a moral remedy, which is the only
effectual one, and by far the cheapest, the clergy and kirk-sessions
must, as in large towns, throw away the reins which at present
they bold with difficulty.  There is no part of our duty in large
parishes so laborious and thankless as the management of the poor.
   Ale-houses. -- There are 32 shops for the sale of spirits in
this parish, which is just thirty too many, and the effect is
pernicious as possible.  It is just so many persons scattered over
the parish with their families and relations, whose  living depends
on the success with which they can prevail upon their neighbours
to drink.  One man is paid for teaching sobriety. but thirty-two
have an interest in defeating his efforts and human nature is on
their side. At the same time some of these publicans are very re-
spectable people and the blame chiefly rests with those who let


