
                            STRONSAY AND EDAY.                     163

      for about half a century.  This fish is caught during the months
      of April, May, and June, a little without the low water-mark, by
      means of small boats with two men in each, employing for this
      purpose small nets with flesh or fish used as bait.  The lobsters,
      when caught, are transferred to chests floating in some sheltered
      place, from which they are taken generally every week, and con-
      veyed to London by welled smacks.  The. cod-fishing for export
      commenced in the year 1828, and is prosecuted in the neighbour-
      ing seas with small sloops, for the most part decked.  The herring-
      fishing was begun here by Mr David Drever, farmer at Huip, in the
      year 1814.  And soon after, Mr Laing of Papdale, in connection
      with a company in London, afforded such encouragement, that the
      harbour of Papa Sound, admirably fitted for this purpose, and in the
      vicinity of the finest fishing-ground, soon became the great resort
      of boats from the North Isles, and indeed from all Orkney.  Mr
      Laing, the proprietor of the adjacent ground, has built a consider-
      able village for the accommodation of fishermen who have come
      from distant Places to reside here, and likewise a commodious pier
      for the curing and loading of the fish.  The herring-fisbing com-
      mences towards the end of July, and continues for six or eight
      weeks, during which time the number of boats employed has been
      sometimes about 400, and most of these are manned by four, and
      some by five men.  There are also anchored in Papa Sound from
      25 to 35 vessels, (sloops and brigs,) mostly from the south-west of
      Scotland, attending on the fishing.  And in addition to coopers
      and others, there are several hundreds of women employed in
      cleaning and salting the fish.  Numbers of persons also resort to
      the station to traffic with the curers and fishers, while visitors come
      to witness the busy scene, so that the fishing-season is a memora-
      ble part of the year in the parish of Stronsay.  It may be added,
      that it is difficult to specify the average quantity caught by one
      boat, but it varies from the smallest number of crans to about 200.
      A common number is from 35 to 70.
        It may be added, that shoals of small whales occasionally run
      aground on these islands, or when seen off the coast are hunted
      ashore by the people with boats.  One of these shoals, fifty in
      number, came ashore at Rousholmn, in November 1834, which
      yielded oil to the amount of about L.100.  And in the beginning
      of the present year, another shoal, 287 in number, came ashore
      on the west side of Eday, which yielded a return of L.398.  These


