
   2                         ELGINSHIRE.

   New Spynie, now intervenes betwixt the river and its former chan-
   nel. A highly cultivated and well-wooded secondary slope, rising
   in the form of a crescent from the north bank, greatly beautifies,
   and at the same time shelters, the town from the North-west, North
   and North-east, winds. The south side of the town is preferred
   for building, and many handsome houses and cottages, have been
   recently erected; but the effect of the whole is marred by a total
   want of plan; the Proprietor having left each Feuar at liberty to set
   down his house according to his own taste or caprice.
      Meteorology.-No regular register of the barometer and ther-
   mometer has been hitherto kept in the parish; but it may be stated
   generally, that both of these range higher than in any of the northern
   counties of Scotland.\f* The prevailing winds are west and south-
   west, and the climate of the town and district is particularly mild and
   salubrious. In the year 1830, 93 deaths were recorded, of which
   one-third were above sixty years of age, viz. 8 from sixty to se-
   venty; 16 from seventy to eighty; 7 from eighty to ninety
   and 2 from ninety to one hundred. There are comparatively
   few winters when snow lies more than two or three weeks after
   the commencement of the year, and for some winters past it
   was scarcely seen for as many days in succession. The summers
   are dry and warm. When the clouds, loaded with the vapour of
   the Atlantic reach the head of the Moray Fritb, they are attrac-
   ted on the north by the Ross and Sutherland hills, and on the south
   by the lofty mountain range where the Nairn, the Findhorn, and
   the Lossie have their sources; and the farmer, in what is called the
   How of Moray sees many a cloud pouring its waters to the north
   and south which would be most grateful and refreshing to his parch-
   ed fields.  The drought of July is most injurious to the spring
   crops.
      None of the prevalent diseases can be ascribed to any peciili-
   arity in the climate.  No ease of Indian cholera has occurred in
   the parish.
      Hydrography.-The landward part of the parish is generally
   well supplied with springs,of excellent water; but the town is de-
   pendent on pump-wells, the water of which is more or less impreg-
   nated with the strata through which it rises,-or on river water,
   brought in casks drawn by horses or carried by servants, at a great
   expense of time and labour.

<FOOTNOTE>A barometer, thermometer, and rain-gage have been provided at the Elgin In-
   stitution,andplwed under the charge of Mr Allan, the accurate and intelligent house-
   governor, and the observations on each wiU be given to the public in a tabular form.


