
<APPENDIX>

li

   Under the head of omissions, I am sorry to be under the necessity of rank-
ing, my not having hitherto received the Statistical Account of your pa-
rish; which, on many accounts, I have been impatiently expecting for some
time.  I have the pleasure of adding, however, that the deficient Accounts
are now so much reduced in number, (amounting only to about 20), that
I look for the greater part, and indeed, I trust, the whole of these, in the
course of this or the ensuing month, which will enable me to have, not only
the Accounts themselves, but also the general result and analysis of the
whole, printed before the meeting of the ensuing General Assembly.  I am
persuaded, that you will see the necessity I am under, of urging you again
upon this subject, as it would be in the highest degree disgraceful, to suffer
another year to commence, without having this Work completed, (which
would be the case were it unfinished in May next), or to leave even a single
blank in so great an undertaking, which I consider to be an eternal monu-
ment of the talents, public-spirit, and industry of my countrymen, during
the present era.  I remain, with esteem, Sir, your very faithful and obedi-
ent servant.

     JOHN SINCLAIR.

     WHITEHALL,
     23d Jan. 1796.

     No. XIII.  Circular Letter to the deficient Clergy, to whose Parishes Sta-
        tistical Missionaries had been sent, 25th January 1796.

     SIR,

   In a letter I have lately received from J. P. Andrews, Esq; who propose,
to continue Doctor Henry's History, applying for some information as to
the state of Scotland, at the period respecting which he is now writing; he
adds, on the subject of the Statistical Account of Scotland, "A book
"which I have perused with equal pleasure and astonishment, I may almost
"say, envy, since the southern part of the island ought to blush, at never
"having produced a formal Work."  I am persuaded, that it is impossible
for you, not to wish to have some share, in so handsome, and so just as com-
pliment, to the Clergy of North Britain, and to partake in an undertaking,
which must be an eternal monument of the industry, talents, and public-
spirit, of your countrymen, during the present era; and therefore, though I
have already obtained materials for drawing up the Statistical Account
of your parish, yet if you will undertake to transmit to me an Account of
it yourself, in the course of the month of February next, I certainly will
give it the preference.  It is impossible for me to give a stronger testimony


