
   		   LIFE AND BENVIE. 			  588

sembly's Education Commitee to the amount of L.12, 10s. annu-
ally (as presently paid), and otherwise supported by school fees,
on very moderate terms.
	2. There is a school of industry, under the patronage of the
Countess of Camperdown, which has been in operation for a year
past, and promises to be of great use to young females. It is vi-
sited regularly by twelve ladies in the village in their turn, and is
supported by subscription and very moderate fees from the scholars.
	3. There are several other schools in the parish, supported en-
tirely by fees from the scholars attending them. The number at
school in the parish, in April last, was 501.
        Poor.-In consequence of the poor of the village of Lochee be-
ing under the care of the kirk-session of Liff and owing farther
to the great increase0 of population in that village, and a propor-
tional increase of pauperism, it has become necessary to have re-
course to the legal mode of provision by assessment, which was
first imposed during the last year (1841). Matters being in a
transition state, in reference to the management of the poor, it
may be sufficient to state the following particulars:
	The number presently receiving parochial aid is 49; the ave-
rage sum allotted to each is 7s. per month; temporary or acca-
sional aid during the past year, L.25, 7s. 6d.; houre,rents dur-
ing do. L.21, 7s. 10d.; three patients in the Dundee Lunatic
Asylum, and one boarded in the country, from L.60 to L.70.
	The amount of collections at the church, L.52, 8s.; assess-
ment, L.250; dues from hearses, mortcloth, &c. L.31, 11s. 6d.;
from the managers of Lochee church, L. 15. *
	There may still be found, lingering in the minds of some, a
feeling of reluctance to have recourse to parochial aid; but such
cases have become fare. On the contrary, there is a great desire
among the poor, generally, to get upon the roll, and that effected,
the great struggle is, who shall get most.
	Connected with this subject, there is one fact that deserves no-
tice, viz. the frequent desertion of families by one or both of the
parents. The kirk-session of this parish has, at present, the chil-
dren of five families thus cast upon them. And although, in some
instances, it is perfectly known that the father is earning good
wages at no great distance, such is the existing state of the law,

<FOOTNOTE>From 1832, when a minister was appointed to the Lochee chapel, up to 1840.
the kirk-session of Liff received from the managers of that church or chapel from L.30
to nearly L.35 per annum for behoof of the poor. An assessment having been im-
posed, the sum above stated was paid from Lochee for the year 1841.


