
236                             AYRSHIRE.

seat is let, and, owing to the unavoidable competition, the rent of
many of them has been trebled within these few years ;  and many
families unable to procure seats have been compelled either to ab-
sent themselves from the public worship of God, or to take sittings
in the dissenting chapels.  Owing to the peculiar manner in which
many of the sittings were acquired, and the mode of letting others,
every attempt hitherto made to procure the enlargement of the
present church, or the erection of a new one, has proved unsuc-
cessful.  We are far, however, from despairing, that the acknow-
ledged deficiency in chucrh accommodation, no less than the in-
sufficint, if not dangerous, condition of the building itself, will, in
due time, induce the heritors to erect another, not only with in-
creased accommodation, and better adapted for the comfort of the
parishioners, but also in a style more in unison with the wealth of
the parish, and more in accordance with the taste of the age, than
the present structure.
   The principal benefactions on record are, in 1810, L. 50 by Mr
Service of Holms-of-Caaf ;  in 1811, L. 40 by Mrs Hunt of Ash-
grove ;  in 1812, L. 252, 10s. by Mr John Aitken, farmer, Kirk-
bank, parish of Johnstone, Dumfries-shire ;  in 1829, Mrs Ferguson
of Irvine, daughter of Mr Service, bequethed L. 50 to the poor,
which was partly expended on oatmeal during a period of severe
depression in trade.
   The manse was built in 1766, and has undergone extensive re-
pairs at various periods, althought it is still a damp and indifferent
building.  The yearly value of the glebe, which extends to 8 im-
perial acres, is L. 24.  The stipend  * for some years has averaged
about L. 220, with L. 10 for communion elements.  There are
two dissenting chapels in the town ;  the one attached to the United
Secession, and the other to the Original Burghers.  The minister
of the former has L. 113, and the latter L. 80 of stipend.  The
income in both is derived from church collections and seat rents ;
and in failure of these, from contributions levied on the congrega-
tion.  The United Secession congregation had a manse for their
late pastor, which was sold at his death, with a view to clear off
part of the chapel debts.  The number of families belonging to
the Established Church is 500 ;  the number of persons above twelve
years of age, who attend public worship is 1722, and of communi-
cants 1020.


<FOOTNOTE>  * There have been only two augmentations of stipend since the year 1650.
                                    3


