
242                      BANFFSHIRE.

it must exercise an important influence in obviating the unfavour-
able circumstances, already adverted to, to which the children of
a fishing population are peculiarly subjected.  The number at-
tending school, including infant and dame schools, and an evening
school, about 220; Sabbath schools, Ord district excluded, about
170; Bible class, ditto, about 80.
  The writer does not know any of the community between six
and fifteen who cannot read or write.  There are a few individuals
above fifteen, who, to all useful purposes, labour tinder this inabi-
lity.  This applies to the resident population.  Persons are fre-
quently met with among the migratory class of farm-servants whose
education has been totally neglected.
  Library.-A parochial library, consisting of an excellent collec-
tion of works in religion and general knowledge, has been in exist-
ence a good many years. It contains 164 volumes. The sub-
scription is now only 6d. half-yearly.
  Friendly Society.-A Friendly Society was in existence in
Whitehills; but it was broken up and the funds divided on the
passing of the act for new modelling this class of institutions.
  Savings Bank.-The parish schoolmaster acts gratuitously both
as parochial librarian and as receiver of deposits for the Banff
Central Savings Bank, on the national security system.  The fish-
ermen usually deposit their savings in considerable sums, after the
berring-fishery, in the common banks, and the other great labour-
ing class, who might have something to lay by, are generally
strangers in the parish, and therefore not likely to make deposits
in it, even were they inclined to save,-hence the privileges of this
institution have not been extensively embraced.
  Poor's Funds.-About 40 persons have been accustomed to re-
ceive stated parochial relief.  At present, the number on the roll
is 35.  About five persons generally are in the receipt of a weekly
allowance at the rate of Is. each.  A quarterly distribution takes
place, at which sums of 4s. and 5s. are allotted to the wbole poor
on the roll.  The I funds arise from, church collections annually,
L.36, 10s.; interest of money, L.32, 13, 4d.  This does not in-
clude Mr Stuart's bequest, recorded above.*   It is a peculiarity
in our parochial economy, that the poor funds of the fishing and
the general population have always been kept distinct from each
other.  The seafaring community occupy a gallery by themselves,
which admits of the separation of their contributions.	Part of the

<FOOTNOTE>There is also an annual distribution of nine bolls of meal given by the proprietor.


