
646                       ARGYLESHIRE.

abounds in small trout ; and, from the extent of surface which it
exposes to atmospheric influence, and from the smallness of the
streams flowing into it, its water is nearly as light and pure as dis-
tilled water.
   The only stream approaching in size to a river, flowed into Loch-
gruinard. But the late proprietor, Mr Campbell of Shawfield,
conceived the idea of embacking a large portion of the head of
this estuary, which made it necessary to cut a channel of about a
mile and a-half in extent for this river, and thereby turn its
course into Lochindaal. From that time, it ceased to be a sal-
mon stream ; and the few sea-trout which frequent it, ascend only
in the end of autumn.
    Geology.--The prevailing rock is clay slate alternating with
greywacke and thin beds of quartz rock. The inclination is to
the east, and the dip varies considerably in different places, from
the almost horizontal to the vertical. The strata are occasionally
intersected by beds of basalt, greenstone, and porphyry.
   At Sanaig, on the north-west coast, the clay slate is seen to al-
ternate with fine-grained greywacke slate in a bed of upwards of
100 feet in depth, and over this is placed a thick bed of quartz
rock. Here a series of cliffs, nearly perpendicular, occurs, extend-
ing a distance of above two miles : it is full of deep fissures and
caverns, which afford every facility for obtaining a satisfactory view
of the stratification.
   At Octofad, on the southeast side, the clay slate alternates with
gneiss. This stratification may be traced for several miles, and
round the point of the Rinns northwards, on the western side, till
beyond the farm of Lossit. Both rocks are well defined, and do
not appear in any instance to pass into one another. The clay
slate retains its strongly-marked blue colour, while the gneiss is
of a dingy red or brown colour. In several parts of the west coast,
where the rocks assume a precipitous form, they show great de-
rangment in their stratification; the strata generally retain an al-
most horizontal position, yet many masses have been so far dis-
placed as to exhibit a perpendicular stratification. No limestone
bas been discovered; but, as if to compensate the agriculturist for
this want, every creek and bay contains inexhaustible beds of bro-
ken shells, intermixed with particles of clay slate and quartz.
  Every description of soil may be found in this extensive parish.
From the point of the Rinns, on the west shore of Lochindaal,
there is a succession of low rock and rich alluvial land, terminat-
                                   3


