
                           STIRLING.                              413

liquors, the pint.  The Stirling Jug, as this pint measure is called,
is kept with great care in the council-house in Broad Street, where
the magistrates and councillors hold their meetings.  This Jug
was for a time amissing; and after a very curious and sagacious
search by the Rev. Alexander Bryce; minister of Kirknewton, was
discovered in a tradesman's shop in the town.  It is made of a kind
of brass or yettlin, in the shape of a hollow cone truncated, and
weighs nearly 15 lbs. Scottish Troy.  The magistrates have, to a
certain extent, a civil and criminal jurisdiction.  For the govern-
ment of the town, it is divided into four districts or wards, over
each of which a bailie presides.  They have four officials called
town-sergeants for preserving the public peace; in which they are
more effectively assisted by a regularly organized body of high
constables.  The officer at the head of the county police has his
station here.  The revenue of the burgh is derived from the cus-
toms at the Bridge and Port, the markets, the shore, and the fish-
eries; and averages about L.2300 per annum.  The custodier of
this revenue is the Chamberlain, generally a respectable legal
practitioner in the place, who is really the Treasurer, the other
being so only in name.  The charges upon this fund are ministers'
stipends; salaries to schoolmasters; lighting the streets; supply-
ing water; repairing and renewing the streets; and keeping up the
jail, supplying necessaries to the inmates, and paying the salary of
the jailor.  In this last item, the county of Clackmannan aids to a
trifling amount; the county of Stirling not at all.  The Town-
house in Broad Street is the property of the burgh; a large and
handsome building, with a lofty and beautiful steeple, containing
a clock, a fine deep-toned bell, and musical bells, which play a
tune immediately before the striking of each hour.  In this build-
ing the council hold their meetings; as also the sheriff, the coun-
ty gentlemen, and the Lords of Justiciary in their circuit, their
respective courts.
    Modern Improvements and present condition of the Town.--From
various circumstances there is reason to believe, that Stirling had
been nearly stationary in extent, population, and general condition,
from about the time of the Reformation down to nearly the middle
of the last century.  To the castle it had been indebted for its birth,
and to the Court, for the magnitude and importance to which
it had attained; and when the latter was withdrawn, and the for-
mer ceased to exercise any influence upon its fortunes, the impulse


