
332                           FIFESHIRE.

get from L lo to L. 12 with victuals. Women servants get L.
or L. 7 per annum and board. Labourers,-men have Is. 6d. per
day; women 8d. -per day at ordinary work, and Is. 6d. in harvest.
Masons and carpenters get from 2s. to 3s. per day.
  Farm Buildings.-Farm houses and offices are generally abun.
dantly commodious, and kept in good condition.
  Fences.-In the lower part of the parish, where the soil is rich
and constantly under. crop, there are few enclosures; they are con-
sidered to be hurtful by harbouring birds, and by occupying land
which would otherwise be made productive. In the tipper part,
where the land is more frequently pastured, it is generally enclos
ed with stone dikes, which are kept in good repair.
   Manufactures.-There are no spinning mills nor public manu-
factures in this parish; 235 persons are employed in weaving, 120
males, and 115 females. The webs are generally got from Kir-
kaldv Kirkland, or Dundee, ready for the loom. Manufacturers
in each of these places have agents here, for giving out, and tak-
ing in the work. The kinds of cloth worked here are doulasses,
checks, and sbeetings. About fifteen young men in Earlsferry
are employed in weaving sheetings from 3 to 4 yards broad, at
which they can earn from 3s. to 4s. a day. .
  The average earnings of all the weavers, male and female, in the
parish may be about 8s. per week, or L. 4888 per annum. A
great proportionof the men employed in weaving have also been
bred to the sea.From thirty to forty used annually to go to the
whale-fishing in summer, and return to the loom in winter. From
that fishery having been so unsuccessful of late years, few now go
to it.- About twent or thirty now go in the months of July and
August to the herring fishing on the north-east coast of Scotland.
All the manufacturing part of the population reside in the vil-
lages., There is not a weaver in the whole of the landward part
of the parish.
  Tan and Currying-works.-There, is a tan-work in Kilconquhar,
and a currying-work in Colinsburgh, carried on by the same com-
pany, in which leather is manufactured to the value of L. 14,000
or L. 15,000 per annum. From twenty to twenty-four men are
employed in these works, to whom about L. 15 are paid weekly in
wages.

<FOOTNOTE>The following list will give a view of the professions and occupations of part of
the inhabitants who have not been mentioned: I surgeon; I writer; 3 cloth-mer-
chants; 13 grocers; 12 gardeners; 9 bakers; 3 butchers; 16 tailors; 29 shoemakers;
20 wrights; 18 masons; 13 blacksmiths; 1 tinsmiths; 2 saddlers; 3 coopers; 2 slat-
ers; 1 stationer; 1 house painter; 22 sailors; 12 public-houses; 90 persons employ-
ed at coal works.


