
			    STONEHOUSE.                      47l

the Clyde, about a mile to the east of the town of Hamilton.
It is reckoned one of the best trouting streams in Scotland. In
the proper season for fishing, multitudes of people from the sur-
rounding towns and villages are seen busily plying on its banks.
Salmon also used to be very plentiful in the Avon, in the proper
season; but about twenty years ago, the mill-dam at Millheugh
having been greatly raised in order to procure a greater supply of
water, few or none can overleap it; and it is now a rare occurrence
to hear of or see a salmon in Stonehouse. The banks of the Avon
are exceedingly romantic, and from Stonehouse to Hamilton, an
almost uninterrupted range of rocks overhangs the river on both
sides, the summits of which are generally covered with natural
wood of ash, birch, oak, elm, &c. The bed of the river, in many
places, is almost choked up with large masses of rock, which from
time to time in the lapse of centuries have fallen from the superin-
cumbent strata, and obstruct the waters in their passage; so that,
in the rainy season, when the river is much swollen, the waters
foam, roar, and thunder amongst these huge blocks of stone, in
the most fearful and terrific manner. On the banks of this river,
is a sulphureous mineral well, called the Kittymure-well, much
resorted to in former times by persons afflicted with scrofula, scurvy,
and other cutaneous diseases; it is still partially resorted to.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Heritors.--The principal heritors or land-owners in the parish
are, Robert Lockhart, Esq. of Castlehill, the proprietor of more
than one-half of the parish; His Grace the Duke of Hamilton;
Mr M'Niel of Raploch; and Mr Rowat of Bonnanhill; but none
of these have any residence in the parish.
	Antiquities.--Under this head may be mentioned the remains
of two old castles, still visible on the banks of the Avon, known by
the names of the Coat or Cat Castle, and Ringsdale Castle, both
built on precipitous rocks overhanging the river; but, except their
names and ruins, nothing more remains of them, as history and tra-
dition are entirely silent concerning them.
	There also existed, at some remote period, a very strong mili-
tary position or encampment, at the junction of the Avon and Can-
der water, still known by the name of the Double Dikes, which com-
prises an extent of betwixt three and four acres of land, surrounded
on all sides by high perpendicular rocks, except at one point where
the two waters approach so near each other, as to leave a space
of not more than 40 or 50 yards from rock to rock; which narrow


