
                            GOLSPIE.                         39

cations have appeared of coal veins; but it has not been thought
expedient to open them.
   Produce.-The average grossamount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, is as follows.
Produce of grain of all kinds, cultivated for food for men and the domestiO animals,

                                                                         L. 5800  0   0
Potatoes, turnips, cabbages, beet, and other plants, cultivated in
  the field for food,                                                       1250  0   0
Hay cultivated,                                                             1000  0   0
La;d in pasture, rating it at L. 1, 10s. per cow or full-grown ox,
  grazed, or that may be grazed, for the season ; at 2s. per ewe or
  full-grown sheep pastured, or that may be pastured, for the year,         1430  0   0
Fisheries yearly, haddockg, &c. L. 230, herrings, L. 200,                    450  0   0
Muscles yearly,                                                              100  0   0
                                               Total yearly value,     L. 10,080  0   0
  Fishings.-The only salmon fishery, in the parish, is on the Fleet
below the Mound.  It commences in June, and is carried on by
stake nets.  The quantity of fish caught there is- not large. There
is no herring fishery station in the parish.  It is at Helmsdale,
Wick, and Portmahomacb, that the fishermen of this parish take
and sell their herrings.  The above calculation of the fisheries
is probably under their real value.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Marhets, Villages, c.-In this parish there is, strictly speak-
ing, no town, and the nearest market-town is Tain, distant about
twenty miles; a ferry intervening.  There is, however, a village,
bearing the narne of the parish.  Originally, there were only a
few fishermen's huts of the meanest description on the site of the
village; but within the last twenty years it has, with the aid of the
noble proprietors, become a neat village of considerable exteriL
It contains several retail-shops of various descriptions.  There am
also mechanics of various kinds, and upwards of twenty profes-
sional fishermen, together with many labourers of both series, who
earn their livelihood by working on the neiglibouring farms.
   Means ofCommunication.-A trading smack plies regularly once
a-month between the Little Ferry, in this parish, and the port
Leith, touching also at Helmsdale and Aberdeen. * There is here
too, a regular post-office; and a daily mail-coach passes through
the village on its way to and from Thurso.  From this post-office
there runs twice a-week a Diligence gig, conveying a mail, and
fitted up to carry two passengers, to Lairg in the interior, distant
eight miles; from which place, and on the 5ame day, two other


<FOOTNOTE>There is a steamer to com=q,ce plying, next spring, between the Moray Frith
and London; and this steamer is to touch at the Little Perry.


