
		             BLAIRGOWRIE.                 925

Colonel Chalmers of Glenericht, to give access to his country
seat.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the town of course de-
termined that of the parish church, which, as already stated, is si-
tuated close to it. In a parish of such extent, it necessarily fol-
lows that the church is inconveniently placed as regards some
part of the population; but, as its site is nearly equidistant from
both the northern and southern extremities of the parish, it is
quite accessible to the great majority of the inhabitants. It is
true the districts of Clayquhat and Cally are from four to five
miles distant from the church, while the detached districts of
Blackcraig and Wester Cally are upwards of seven miles distant;
but although, owing to this circumstance, the inhabitants of
these districts are, in general, unable to attend the parish church,
their comparative proximity to the chapel of Persie, (a chapel
of ease for the accommodation of the inhabitants of detach-
ed parts of Bendochy, Blairgowrie, Alyth, and Kinloch parishes,)
materially lessens the inconvenience which would otherwise re-
sult from their remote situation. The most distant points of
these districts are not more than three or four miles from the
chapel of Persie. The parish church was erected in 1824,
on the site of the old church, (which had become much too
small for the accommodation of the rapidly increasing popula-
tion,) and it is of course in good repair. It is calculated to hold
about 1000 people, although in the scheme of division of the seats
among the heritors, the number it would hold was computed at
only 900. There are no free sittings, with the exception of a very
few which are reserved for the poor. The manse was built in
1771: but in the year 1838, the whole house and offices, with the
exception of the wing containing the dining and drawing rooms,
were taken down and rebuilt, and several additional rooms added
to the dwelling-house. Both the dwelling-house and offices are
now, therefore, in the most complete and sufficient state. The
repairs and additions cost upwards of L.500. The glebe, includ-
ing 5 acres which were given in lieu of a right of pasturage for-
merly enjoyed by the incumbent, extends to about 9 1/4 acres, and
its average annual value may be about L.18. The stipend is
partly money and partly "victual," in the following proportions,
viz. mnney stipend, L.109, Is. 7 1/2d ; meal, 71 bolls, 2 lippies, 2
pecks; barley, 62 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 lippy, and 3 1/2 pecks, convertible
into money at the highest fiars prices of the year.


