
354                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

degree answered the benevolent purposes contemplated by its
builders.
   Means of Communication.-There is one post-office, where there
are arrivals, and from which there are despatches of letters three
times a-week. The length of turnpike road is about thirty-five
miles. There are no canals or railroads. The barbours have
been noticed in an early pa1rt of the account.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated in the centre
of the parish, and is accessible to as many of the parishioners as
will fill it; but it is very remote from nearly two-thirds of the po-
pulation, many of them being eleven miles distant from it. It was
built nine years ago, and is both substantially and tastefully finish-
ed. It is seated for nearly 600. All the seats are rent free.
   There is no manse in the parish, the beritors allowing L.57 an-
nually in lieu of it. The extent of the glebe is very great, being a
mile and a quarter long by a mile broad; but, owing to the poverty of
the soil, the annual value of it is not more than L.30. The stipend
paid by the heritors is L.96. The deficiency is made up by the
Exchequer. There is a church, built by the Church Extension
Committee, situated in the district of Flasheddar or Arnizort,
about twelve miles from the parish church. It contains 330 sitters,
and is a very great convenience to the district; but no minister has
been appointed to it. There is a Government church, as already
mentioned, in the distriet of Waternish, which forms a parish quoad
sacra, having a population of 1700. There are neither mission-
aries nor catechists in the parish, though both are very much
needed. There is no Dissenting chapel of any description. All
the parishioners profess to belong to the Established Church, ex-
cept four families, who attend an Episcopalian chapel, which is
situated in the neighbouring parish of Bracadale.
   The sacrament, of the Lord's Supper has not been dispensed
at the parish church for the last eleven years until 1840,
when only 35 communicants partook of the ordinance. In
the Government church of Waternish, there was about the same
number. It may be noticed here, that there is in this parish, as
in almost every other parish in Skye, a set of men who regard
"sealing ordinances" as of very little importance,-who seem to
think that their efficacy depends to a great extent on him who ad-
ministers them, and thus will receive them from the hands of a
minister whom they approve of in every respect, but will, on no
account, receive them from a person to whom they have an objec-


