
                        DIRLETON.                     215

Produce, &c.-The crops raised are,-Turnips about 200 acres,
one-third white, the remainder Swedish. Barley about 200 acres,
the greater part Chevalier; 3 bushels per acre are generally allowed
for seed. Wheat about 1300 acres,-Hunter's generally preferred,
but the woolly-eared, Belton red, and some other kinds, are sown
to a limited extent; form 9 to 14 pecks per acre allowed for seed.
Oats about 700 acres, two-thirds Angus, the rest chiefly the po-
tato sort; 4 bushels per acre for seed. Beans and peas, and tares;
about 600 acres of these are generally grown; 4 bushels per acre
allowed for seed. Of potatoes, 100 acres are annually raised,
about 20 acres are yams; the rest the common varieties,-10 or
12 cwt. per acre are allowed for seed. Carrots, lucerne, and
mangel-wurzel have been cultivated to a very small extent. Clo-
ver and rye-grass, about 700 acres are annually sown; two-fifths
of these are cut for hay, and green food, the rest is pastured. 4 lbs.
of white, and 8 or ten lbs. of red clover, with occasionally a pound
or two of yellow, and 2 pecks of rye-grass, is the quantity of seed
allowed per acre. The rotation of crops is on the fine dry soil, the
four-course shift, viz. turnips, barley, grass and oats; on all the
other kinds of soil, the six course shift is followed, viz. fallow,
wheat, grass, oats, beans or peas, and wheat. There is occasionally
a partial deviation from these. Bones are used but to a small extent
for manure. About 100 tons of rape cake were used last year.
A very considerable supply of sea-ware also is got after a storm
from the east.   The last Statistical Account states, that at that
time this was burnt, and yielded about 12 tons of kelp yearly.
This manufacture has been discontinued Since that period.
   Draining.-The draining of the parish is in course of being made
very complete. Springs have long since been laid dry, and tiles
are now extensively employed for carrying off the surface water.
On the soft moorish land, a drain is made in every second furrow,
or 36 feet asunder. The result has been most satisfactory. Two indi-
viduals last year made, each, drains to the extent of about 12 miles.
   Live Stock, &c.-The stock consists of cattle and sheep; of the
former there are about 468 fed in the parish annually, besides 114
milch cows; of the latter, about 100 scores of the Cheviot, Lei-
cester, and black faced breed. There are about 300 pigs annually
fed, the most of which are used by the farm-servants. Of horses,
there are 204 draught horses, and 18 for the gig and saddle:
about 22 are bred annually.
   The steam-engine for thrashing is coming into general use, there
being now nine in the parish.


