
     of Kinneff.

the latter 3 s. per boll of 24 stones.  Twenty years ago, the
farmers brought peat and turf from the hill mosses, at 12
miles distance, and were thus employed during the whole sum-
mer.  It is no wonder, therefore, that rents were then low:
but, as that season is now employed in the cultivation of their
lands, they find themselves reduced to the necessity of burning
coal fires; and few of them regret the change.  They, however,
complain of the heavy duty on Scotch coals as a hindrance to
agriculture, and a grievous burden on manufactures, and poor
people of all denominations.  There are still some broom and
whins on the dry waste grounds, which the poor people grub
up for present use in summer.

   Stipend, School, and Poor.-The value of the living, includ-
ing the two glebes of Kinneff and Caterline, may be about
L. 80 sterling; and there has been no augmentation since the
year 1650*.  The schoolmaster has a salary of 200 merks
Scotch, by decreet.-The church and manse were built in
1738, and both repaired in 1784.-The average number of
poor upon the roll, who regularly receive alms, may be 15.
The session, moreover, give occasional supplies to industrious

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1709, the parish of Caterline was re-annexed to the parish
of Kinneff, it having been formerly a part of that parish, by which the living was
encreased 300 merks Scotch.  The parish of Bervie of old made a part of the
parish of Kinneff:-For, by a decree of the Lords Commissioners for tiends,
in 1608, the parish of Bervie is descerned to remain a part of the parish of
Kinneff; and, because there was no bridge on the river of Bervie, the minis-
tet of Kinneff agreed to keep a suffragan minister at Bervie.  In 1650, the
heritors agreed to augment the minister of Bervie's stipend, and also the sti-
pend of Kinneff; because the minister of the latter had given all that part of
his stipend, which was paid out of the lands on the S. side of the river Bervie,
and L. 47 Scotch more, to the suffragan of Bervie.  This was the last aug-
mentation of the stipend of Kinneff, and it left the living less than before.


