
38                  CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

reign, Queen Mary, whom He retained until the year 1548, when
the estates of the kingdom ordered him to carry her to the Court
of France. His son John, the sixth Earl, was appointed to an
office of similar trust to that of his father, and had charge of
James VI., afterwards King of England, when an infant. He
was greatly distinguished by James VI., and was the friend and
fellow-labourer of Napier of Merchiston, the Inventor of Loga-
rithms.
  John, the eleventh Earl of Mar, was unfortunately engaged in
the Rebellion of 1715; and adhering to the fortunes of the Pre-
tender, followed him to Rome, and afterwards to Paris and Aix-
la-chapelle, where he died in 1732. His attainder took place in
1716. His Lordship was twice married; first to Lady Margaret
Hay, daughter of the Earl of Kinnoull, by whom he had two sons;
John, who died in infancy, and Thomas Lord Erskine. He mar-
ried, secondly, Lady Frances Pierrepont (sister to the celebrated
Lady Mary Wortley Montague), daughter of Evelyn, Duke of
Kingston, by whom he had one daughter, Lady Frances Erskine,
who married her cousin, James Erskine, son of Lord Grange,
through whom the line of the family is kept up.
  Whatever errors his lordship may have committed, it cannot be
denied, by any one who reads the papers he has left behind him,
that he had the general improvement of his country greatly at
heart. It deserves to be generally known, that plans of the North
and South Bridges, and the new town of Edinburgh, were found
in his portfolio, after his death. His Lordship was the original
projector of the Forth and Clyde Canal; he also planned the new
town of Alloa, which is rapidly extending.
  John Francis, late Earl of Mar, who died in 1825, had the
titles and honours of the family restored to him in 1824. He
endeared himself to his tenantry and dependents, by a life devot-
ed to their happiness, and an unremitting attention to the pro-
sperity of Alloa. Every view of his character entitles his name
to be transmitted to posterity, with the most estimable and venera-
ble characters of his times, and with a distinction to which no ex-
ternal rank or honour would have added any thing;
              "Hine tua me virtus rapit, et miranda per omnes
              Vita modos; quod, si deesset tibi forte creato
              Nobilitas, eadem pro nobilitate fuisset."-LUCAN.
John Francis, the present Earl of Mar, grandson of the preceding,
is the premier Earl; and as Viscount Fenton he is the premier


