
744			AYRSHIRE.

	Red Sandstone older than the Coal.--Entering Ayrshire from the
north by the coast road, the strata are composed of old red sand-
stone, and are to be seen at Ardrossan, dipping under the coal
measures. Towards the southern limit of the county, a short way
beyond Dalmellington, we have the red sandstone resting on the
graywacke, and supporting the coal measures. In the centre of
the county, the red sandstone developes itself extensively, occu-
pying the eastern portion of Torbolton parish, and part of the pa-
rishes of Craigie, Mauchline, Stair, Sorn, and Auchinleck. It
is this rock which forms the bright red cliffs which add so much to
the picturesque beauty of the scenery at Auchinleck on the Lugar,
and of Coilhome wood and Barskimming on the banks of the Ayr.
	The age and position of the sandstone relatively to the coal,
seem deserving of attention, because of the extent occupied by
this deposit, and because the expectation has been entertained by
some that, by penetrating through it, coal may be found. It has
great uniformity of appearance, and has a thickness of upwards of
l00 feet in many places, as at the localities on the Ayr and Lugar
already named. On the south bank of the Ayr, at a place called
Clune dam, the red sandstone has a thickness of only a few feet,
and here the strata with which it is associated become visible.
	There are, l. Stratified trap.
	No. 2. Grey sandstone somewhat indurated.
	No. 3. Dark red slaty argillaceous sandstone.
	No. 4. Soft, loosely aggregated, red sandstone.
	No. 5. Soft, loosely aggregated, red sandstone. This is a very
beautiful rock, being chiefly composed of minute translucent, sphe-
rical, carnelian-coloured granules.
	No  6. Variegated slaty and argillaceous sandstone.
	No. 7. Micaceous argillaceous sandstone passing into an iron-
stone slate-clay.
	No. 8. A rock of a somewhat similar kind, but containing more
iron.
	No. 9. Red argillaceous sandstone.
	No. 10. Overlying unstratified amygdaloidal trap containing much
iron, and some carbonate of lime. The dip of the strata, from 1
to 9, inclusive, is to the south-east, at an angle of 25&deg;, the strike
to the south-west, at an angle of 10&deg;.
	The prevailing rock of the central district of Ayrshire (the num-
ber 7 of the above series) alternates with some of these strata in


