
                              BANFF.

                        IT.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Documents.-There is a manuscript, entitled "History of the
Town and Parish of Bariff," written about the end of the last cen-
tury, by the late William Rope, Esq. of Mountcoffer, a gentleman
noted for his singular acquaintance with the history of landed pro*.
perty and proprietors in the north of Scotland.  It is, now in the
possession of his son, Patrick Rose, Esq.  Sheriff-clerk of the count
ty, who has kindly allowed the use of it to the writers, both of this
and the former Statistical Account of the parish-into one or other
of which accounts much of its contents have been transferred.
   A variety of papers relative to the former circumstances and
transactions of the burgh have also been left by the late, William
Reid, )Esq. town-clerk : with the use of which the compiler of this
Account has been favoured.  A good many of these relate more
exclusively to municipal concerns; the others are chiefly extracts
from Mr Rose's manuscript, with additional remarks.
   Parochial Requisites- The earliest date of the parochial registers
is 1620.  The registers are pretty voluminous, and seem to have
all along been kept with regularity.
Surveys, 4c.- There does not appear to have been any survey ever
made of the parish, as a parish.  The estates of each of the different
proprietors have been surveyed, but none of them lately, with the.ex-
ception of that of Sir Robert Abercromby.  There is a six-sheet
map of the counties of Aberdeen, Banff, and Kineardine, with parts
of adjoining counties, on'the scale of an inch to an English statute'
mile, published in 1822 by James Robertson, A. M. F. R. S. It
has a table. of the superficial contents of each parish, and of the
height of the most remarkable hills.  It also delineates the varie-
ties of surface,'&c.  There. is also a four-sheet map of the coun-
ties of Aberdeen and Banff, on a scale of two-thirds of an inch ta
a British statute mile, by Alexander Irvine Ross, land-surveyor,
published in 1826. Perhaps there may be other maps.              
Transactions.-The history of the parish is rather destitute of
interest.  Beyond the various revolutions of property, it presents
few materials for narrative.   Certain of the lands of which it con-
sists, seem anciently to have constituted part of two different tbane-;
doms--that of Boyne and that of Mowbray.  The thanedom of
Boyne belonged, in the time of Robert Bruce.., to- Randal    
Ph I
of Moray, and subsequently passed to the Ogilvies, a branches

the family of Desk(ord.  The thanedom of Mowbray (whia W


