
                PARISH OF CHANNELKIRK.
          PRESBYTERY OF LAUDER, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.
             THE REV. JAMES RUTHERFORD, MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries,&c.-THE ancient name of the parish was
Childer-Kirk, i. e. Children's Kirk, having been dedicated to the
Innocents. More recently its name was Gingle-kirk. It is so
written in our old parochial records; and it is still commonly so
pronounced. Its etymology is uncertain; probably it may have
had a reference to the nature of the soil, which is chiefly of a
gravelly sort. This parish is of a circular figure, nearly six miles
in diameter; consequently its extent in square miles is about twenty-
eight. It is bounded on the east, and partly on the north and
south, by Lauder; by Stow on the west, and partly on the south;
and on the north by Fala and Humbie.
   Topographical Appearances.-The parish consists of hills and
valleys, with a small portion of flat land. The hills may be all
considered as part of the Lammermoor range which terminates
here. The greatest is Soutra, elevated about 1000 feet above
the level of the sea. The vale of the Leader or Lauderdale com-
mences here, stretching to the east, the Lammermoor hills being
its northern boundary. On the south, this valley is bounded by
the ridge of moors which separate it from that of Gala.
   The climate is healthy, probably owing to the gravelly nature
of the soil, its almost universal declivities, and the general prac-
tice of draining, which frees it from stagnant water and marshy
grounds, and to the prevalence of strong winds, which blow al-
most incessantly. It is, however, subject to frequent and sudden
changes of temperature, and the cold and snows of winter are
often severely felt. Inflammations are the most common dis-
tempers.
   Hydrography.-This district is well watered by many streams
of the purest water, which flow copiously from all the hills, and
fall into the rivulet of the principal valley, which, about the centre


