
 			CARMYLIE.                                    373

	All the families of the parish, with the exception of two, attend
the Established Church; and nearly all, the parish church. There
are 5 members of the United Associate Synod; 3 independents;
1 Baptist, and 1 Episcopalian. Divine service is well attended,
and the regularity of The parishioners in this respect is very ex-
emplary. The annual average number of communicants is 500, in-
cluding about 35 from neighbouring parishes, who are remotefrom
their parish churches.
	Owing to the depressed state of the poor's funds for many yearr,

and the consequent difficulty of meeting the demands for parochial
relief, without having recourse to compulsory assessments, there
have been but few collections in the church for extra-parochial
purposes, either religious or charitable; and the annual average of
which for the ten years preceding 1831, may be stated at L.2. *
	Education.--Besides the parochial school, there is a private
school, built by subscription, situated in the south-west part of the
parish. The branches of education generally taught in the pa-
rish school are, English, reading, and grammar, writing, arithme-
tic, and Latin; and in the private school, reading, writing, and
arithmetic. The yearly salary of the parochial teacher is the maxi-
mum, L.34,4s., and the annual average amount of school fees, (in-
cluding paymemet for some articles of stationery)is from L.18 to L.19.
The teacher of the private school has his school-room rent free,
but has no salary. The number of scholars, and consequently the
amount of fees, vary with the teacher for the time. The present
teacher states the annual average of his school fees for the last two
years, at about L.20. The parochial teacher has the legal accom-
modations.
	I am not aware of any young persons between six and fifteen
years of age, who have not received or are not now receiving instruc-
tions in reading;,-nor of any persons in the parish up wards of fifteen
years of age who cannot read. There may be many of the latter

Meal from carmylie,                23 1 0 2 1/2
Do. from Inverkeilor,               2 2 2 3 1/2           B. F. P. L.
                                   ------------          25  3  3  1 1/2
Wheat from Inverkeilor.                                   8  2  0  0
Annual average value of teind of Bryanton, Inverkeilor, payable to the minister of
Carmylie, after the parish minister receives his proportion, L.1, 19s.

<FOOTNOTE>In 1834, L.14 were either collected in the church or contributed in the parish.
towards the erection of a Chapel of Ease in a neighbouring parish.
        Since 1831, another private school, in a populous part of the parish, which had
been built by subscription some years ago, and latterly discontinued, has been re-
pend. The branches taught, and the school few, are the same as in the other pri-
vate school.


