
                     KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                      1277

     other, called the Mill of Torr, is in the eastern division.  This
     mill is convenient for the farmers, and is under good management.
     The buildings are good and suitable, the whole process of grind-
     ing and sifting is done by machinery, and the wheel is driven by
     water power.  The miller dries and grinds the oats at 9d. per
     boll.  The roads to this mill are so good and level that a horse
     can with ease carry an extra load.  The will is the property of
     Mr Drummond, who keeps it in repair.
       Three mills, which were called the Mill of Burnbank, Mill of
     Muck, and Mill of Cambusdrennie, no longer exist.  The last
     was either'built or rebuilt about 1690, as a stone bearing that date
     was lately found where it stood.   Either then or some years af-
     terwards, George Drummond, or his son James, accomplished
     what was at that time a great undertaking by forming a water lead
     along the whole lenght of the north side of the moss, to the extent
     of three mile, for conveying the water of the mill of Muck to the
     mill of Cambusdrennie.
       A modern mill certainly executes moire work than two did for-
     merly, and the diminished consumption of oatmeal, and the im-
     prevement in machinery, may, in a great measure, explain why
     there are fewed mills now.
       Some years ago, Mr Drummond erected a saw-mill near the
     church of Kincardine, which cuts timber by circular saws; and
     is of great convenience and utility to the proprietor and to the
     people in the neighbourhood, who get their timber cut for farm
     and other purposes at a trifling expense.
       In addition to these improvements it may be proper here to re-
     fer to an elegant range of cottages which some years ago were
     built on the estate and near the house of Blair Drummond, for
     the accommodation of the people who are, from father to son,
     employed on this estate.   These cottagers have houses and
     large gardens free of rent; receive assistance in planting their po-
     tato crops, 10s. to 12s. of weekly wages, during
     the year.  When the plantations are thinned, they have the use
     of the crops, &c. for firewood.  Their condition is one of compa-
     rative, ease and comfort, enhanced by the old having the happi-
     ness of seeing a portion of their offspring rising up to all their
     placess, and also by the hope of spending their own last hour in
     the place and house of their birth.  The system is generous on
     the part of the proprietor as well as comfortable to his people,


