
629                           EDINBURGH.

and well accoutred, to attend him.  At the same time the town-
council presented him with a service of silver plate. Soon after wards
be made his entrance into Edinburgh from Stirling, where he had
chiefly resided, in great state, and was received by the citizens with
acclamatiobs of joy, amid imposing and expensive pageantry. The
King, arriving in the neighbourbood of the city, dismounted at
the West Port; where he was received by the magistrates, and
conducted into the town under a magnificent canopy of purple
velvet. At the West Port be was saluted by a person representing
King Solornon, attended by a numerous train in Jewish habits, and
with personages representing the two women striving fbr the child.
Thence proceeding to the West Bow, there was there suspended
a large polished brazen globe, from which a Cupid descended in a
car and presented to the King, the keys of the city gates, which
were of silver, in a silver basin.  A concert of music accompanied
this ceremony ; and, arriving at the Tolbooth, be was harangued
by persons representing Peace, Plenty, and Justice, in the Greek,
Latin, and Scotch languages. On entering St Giles church, an-
other personage enacting Religion addressed him in Hebrew. On
arriving at the market cross, a Bacchus mounted on a gilt hogs-
head was distributing bumpers of wine among the people, amid
the sound of trumpets,and the loud acelamations of the citizens.
At the Nether Bow was erected a painting of the Nativity and ac-
companying it the genealogy of the Scottish kings from Fergus L
During the procession, the streets were strewed with flowers, and
the Castle guns proclaimed a welcome.
Previous to the Reformation, the Bible was to the laity a seal-
ed and forbidden book. Now, however, we find a proclamation
by the common Council, strictly enjoining all householders and sub-
tantial inhabitants of the city to1eep Bibles in their houses, for
their better information in the scriptures, under the penalty ap-
pointed by act of Parliament.
The Presbyterian religion, had, however, from the very first,
to contend with many difficulties. At this period, the two prin-
cipal were the plots of the disappointed and disaffected Catholics,
and the jealousy of the King of the least approach toc any en-
croachment or curtailment of his prerogatives. By one party, the
clergy were decried as assuming too much power, and claiming
for the Church too exclusive a jurisdiction; whites, on the other
hand, the ecclesiastics and their lay adherents no doubt thought.


