
                                     ERROL.                          375

           the indurated layer or coating of clay which adhered to the stra-
           tum beneath.  This under specimen was unfortunately broken up,
           instead of being preserved, as a sort of counterpart to the other.
           The specimen containing the fish itself was soon heard of, and
           purchased by the Rev.  Mr Noble, of St Madoes, to whose resi-
           dence the quarry of Clashbennie is almost contiguous.  A full size
           drawing of it was roon obtained and sent to the Secretary of the
           British Association, at Bristol, which assembled in the end of Au-
           gust 1836, and was exhibited at one of the meetings, where it ex-
           cited much interest The specimen itself was afterwards convey-
           ed to London for the inspection of the English geologists, by
           whom it is understood that a more exact drawing and description
           have been transmitted to the distinguished Professor Agassiz of
           Neuchatel, with a view to his determining the genus and spe-
           cies of this fossil fish.  The opinion of that celebrated naturalist
           is not yet made known, and till such opinion be furnished, it would
           ill become an ordinary observer to say much on the subject.
              We shall attempt, however, to convey to the reader some idea
           of the general appearance of this sigular creature, although it is
           difficult to do so by the help of words alone.  It will be observed,
           from the dimensions already stated, that its breadth is nearly equal
           to half its length, its head being small in proportion to the body.
           In these respects, the figure bears some resemblance to that of a
           tortoises resemblance which is rendered the more striking by
           something like the rudiments of pectoral fins, and two striated fins,
           one on each side of the tail, pointing outwards and downwards.
           Besides these peculiarities, the body of the fish is irregularly co-
           Bevered with broad circular scales fully an inch, and somd of them
           nearly an inch and a half in diameter, the surface of which is
           somewhat ribbed or grooved, and the substance of which seems to
           consist of a white enamel, such as is often found in smaller speci-
           mens.  As far as can be recollected of these scales, they do not
           precisely correspond with the description of any one of the four
           orders into which M. Agassiz divides the class of fishes.
               Singular as it may appear, when we think of the scaly covering
           now described, the general impression, after attentively examining
           this fossil animal is, that it is the abdominal or under part of the
           fish which is presented to the eye of the spectator.  The medical
           line, it is true, can be traced for nearly the, whole length of the
           body, and the slight depressions which runs along that line. with the
           parallel rounding or elevation on each side of it, would half incline


