
			DRYFESDALE.                          459

exposed. In some good years, he pays L. 30 to the proprietor for
one day's collection. The person that takes it was never known
to be a loser by it. The common is a round hill of about 100 acres
in extent. The soil is barren; in some places overgrown with
whins; a large portion of it is of a spongy nature, but from its al-
titude it presents on the fair day a very imposinf spectacle. Be-
sides the lamb-market on the hill, there is an annual fair in the
town, at which the whole county for twelve miles round is gene-
rally assembled.
	Inn.--Hn Lockerbie there are two inns; at one of which, chaises
and horses are to be hired; besidds some small alehouses. These
houses are, on public occasions, frequented by many for the trans-
action of business, for receiving payments, &c. and on any of these
days the people seem to be more regular and sober.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERRVATIONS.
	The appearance of the people, as respects their manners, dress,
inclination to be employed, and aversion to idleness,--shews at
once that, since the time of the former Statistical Account, there
has been a progressive advance in these particulars. The improve-
ment in agriculture is also proved satisfactorily by the great ad-
vancement in the rent of land since that time, viz. from 13s. 4d.
the acre per annum to L. 2. The enclosed parks about Lockerbie,
then set at 17s 6d., are now let at L. 3, 10s. 6d. It may also be
observed, that at that time there were sixty farms in the parish
let at from L. 25 to L. 100 yearly rent; there are now only about
fifty, each let at from L.,60 to L. 500. The population in the
town of Lockerbie has increased 714; but in the country part of
the parish there has been a decrease of 31,--which decrease may
be owing, perhaps, to many of the small farms having been joined
into one, and to the dilapidation of many cot houses and villages
already mentioned. There is one great obstruction to every kind

of trade in this part of the country,--the great scarcity of fuel.
This is occasioned by ` want of proper internal communication.
There are in lockerbie--20 grocers, 1 hardware, and 4 cloth-
shops, 5 surgeons with 2 apothecaries shops, 2 midwives, 5 writers
4 messengers, 8 weavers, 13 tailors, 7 joiners, 2 wheel-wrights, 9
blacksmiths, 4 nailers, 3 watchmakers, 4 bakers, 3 fleshers, 1 bar-
ber, 3 cloggers, 2 saddlers, 2 tanners, 4 stocking-farmers, 1 cabi-
net-maker, 8 shoemakers, 12 stone-masons; in the country part
there are, 4 millers, about 100 ploughs, 400 horses, and 50 farmers.

	January 1836.


