
626                       FIFESHIRE.

he had carried it by appeal to the House of Lords, he would have
been successful.
   The stipend consists, lst, of the whole teinds of the parish, viz.
63 bolls, 3 firlots, 31/3 lippies of bear; 20 bolls of oats; 26 bolls,
3 firlots, 2 pecks, 11/2 lippie of oatmeal; 3 firlots, I peck, 1/4 lippie
of beans; and L. 18, 16s. of money, which, on the average of the
last five years, and deducting L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements
amounts to L. 103, 13s. 1ld.; 2d, an allowance granted by Ex-
chequer L. 24, Is. 1Od.; Sd, the suin of L. 16, 13s. 4d. paid
out of the Bishops' rents. This last sum, however, was lately
withdrawn by Her Majesty's Commissioners of Woods and Fo-
rests; but in place of it the late incumbent had just obtained, un-
der the small Stipend Act, an addition equal in amount from the
Exchequer. With regard also to the. sum paid out of the Bishop's
rents, his legal advisers were of opinion that it ought not, at any
time, to have been taken into account in allocating his stipend,
and that Her Majesty's Commissioners of Woods and Forests were
exceeding their powers in depriving him of it, he having himself
enjoyed it for upwards of thirty years, and his predecessors, at all
events, since the date of the Union. "But," he adds in his com-
munication to the Commissioners of Religious Instruction pathe-
'tically, and considering what has since occurred almost propheti-
cally, "it may be prudent for a man at my time of life, with such
a stipend and a family to provide for, to suffer patiently, rather than
attempt going to law with Her Majesty's Commissioners of Woods
and Forests." It is possible that his successor may feel himself
justified in trying the question.
   The number of Dissenters in the parish is just 15, in addition to
4 Episcopalians.  Almost all the families, and almost all the indivi-
duals are connected with the Establishment; and, in proportion to
the population, divine service at the church is generally well attend-
ed. The number of communicants borders upon 200. A Bible and
Missionary Society exists in the parish.  Average amount of con-
tributions for religious and charitable purposes L. 6. There was
lately colleetion, amounting to  L. 2, for Church Extension,
L. 7, Is. 6d. for the Colonial Churches. These, perhaps, are fully
the average of what might be expected in any one year.
   Education.-The parochial school; is the only one in. the parish.
In it the branches taught are, reading, writing, airithmetie, geo-
graphy, Latin, French, algebra, pure and practical mathematics.
The schoolmaster has the maximum salary of L. 34, 4s 4d.  In
                             3



