
194                   BERWICKSHIRE.

among the young men form the only portion of their out-door diver-
sions which seems entitled to be regarded with, any interest; but
it is an important fact, that much of the time which used to be
spent formerly by our peasantry in such, or in far less commend-
able pastimes, is now regularly, or at least chiefly, devoted to read-
ing. The people are generally sober, industrious, and frugal.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The parish contains about
5383 acres under a regular system of cultivation, and 65 or 70 acres
which still lie waste, or are in pasture, but which might be added
to the cultivated land with a profitable application of capital. There
is no land unappropriated, and only about 25 acres under wood,
which has been planted.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre is 31s.,
and the average rent of grazing is at the rate of L. 3, 10s. for an
ox or cow, and 10s. 6d. for a Leicester ewe or full-grown sheep.
The real rent of the parish is about L. 8000.
   Rate of Wages.-The rate of wages, winter and summer, for
farm-labourers, may be stated at 10s., and for country artisans,
about 14s. for the week.
   Husbandry.-The husbandry pursued in the parish is of the
most liberal and enlightened description. Draining has, for a con-
siderable time, met with the attention which, owing to the nature
of the soil, it requires; but this, important improvement may still in
several places be carried profitably to a greater extent. The farm-
buildings and enclosures are generally in good order, and suitable
to the extent of the farms.
   The only improvement of any general importance which has re-
cently been effected, is the deepening and widening of the bed of
the Leet, which used to overflow its banks occasionally, to the great
injury of the contiguous grounds, as, from its being almost quite
level, the water became stagnant upon it in many places.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is stated under the fol-
lowing heads:

<FOOTNOTE>Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man or the domestic
animals.

   Flax has been little cultivated in this parish for several years part. It is the cus-
tom in most parts of the country to allow every married farm-servant or hind the
tenth part of an acre, to be sowed with flaxseed. The flax, with the exception of
the weaving, was all manufactured at home for the use of their families. Now, owing
to the low price of linen, they generally plant patatoes on that ground.


