
                       DUNFERMLINE.                         905

sors," and failing widows of this description, such other honest
women as the patron shall please to prefer.  Each of the widows
was to have a chamber in the hospital, and six bolls of meal
yearly, or one half oats, the other bear, at the option of the
patron.  The eighth (auchtand) part of the lands of Masterton
was burdened with the provision of these twenty-four bolls victual.
  Friendly Societies.-In 1815 there were twelve Friendly So-
cieties in the parish, and the number increased afterwards; but a
few years ago most of them were found to have been formed upon
a very insecure basis, and they are now almost all extinct.
  Those which remain are the following:-
  1st, " The ancient Society of Gardeners, in and about Dun-
fermline."  This is understood to be the most ancient Gardeners'
Society existing.  The exact date of its institution is unknown,
but it existed, as appears from its records, as early at least as the
16th October 1716.
  2d, Dunfermline Philanthropic Society.-This Society was
constituted 17th March 1815, and its articles were confirmed at
Cupar on the 4th March 1817, and revised 1st November 1835.
With the exception of the Society of Gardeners, this is the only
one in town which has survived the fall of the numerous similar
societies which previously existed, in regard at least to the sick-
ness schemes.
  3. Dunfermline Equitable Friendly Institution.-This was be-
gun 9th February 1827, and confirmed at Cupar on the 28th
March 1831.
  4th,  There are many other strictly funeral societies, one of
which, entitled " The Woodhead Street Benevolent Funeral So-
ciety," was instituted 26th January 1821, and confirmed 2lst May
1833.
  5th, There are also " Yearly Societies" in the town Of Dun-
fermline, both for sick and funeral purposes, the constitution of
which is peculiar.  Each member pays not less than 1s. weekly,
the whole of which he is entitled to receive back at the end of
the year, if not previously paid.  These societies are safe, and
have been found very beneficial to the working classes.
  6th, There are also societies called " Menages," on the same
principle as the yearly societies, but without the provision for sick
and funeral expenses.
  7th, Malcolm Canmore Lodge of the dependent Order of Odd
Fellows was instituted here on the 19th April 1842, in connec-

