
                       	  MAUCHLINE.			159

	Extent, Boundaries.--The parish of Mauchline lies in the cen-
tre of the county of Ayr, is about 8 miles in length, and from
2 to 4 in breadth, containing about 24 square miles. It is bound-
ed on the north, by the parishes of Craigie and Galston; on the
east, by the parish of Sorn; on the south, by the parishes of
Auchinleck and Ochiltree; and on the west, by the parishes of
Stair and Tarbolton.
	Topographical Appearances.--The parish is in general flat, ex-
cepting Mauchline hill, which rises a little to the north-east of
the town, and runs in a ridge, from east to west, about a mile in
the parish, terminating at Skeoch hill, in the parish of Tarbolton.
From the hill, there is a very extensive prospect, not only over a
great part of Ayrshire, but as far as Cairnsmure, and other hills in
Galloway, and Benlomond, Jura, Arran, Kintyre, &c. This hill
forms part of what is commonly known by the long ridge of Kyle.
It rises about 1000 feet above the level of the sea.
	The air is milder and more temperate here than towards the
eastern coast of Scotland. Owing to its proximity to the western
coast, it is rather wet; but, upon the whole, not unhealthy, neither
are there any diseases peculiar to this parish.
	Hydrography.--There are numerous perennial springs in the
parish, particularly where the town is built, but as none of them
have been analyzed, their chemical properties are unknown.
	The only loch in the parish, called Lochbrown, is about three
miles north-west from the town. It covers sixty acres of ground.
It would have been drained many years ago, had it not been for
the sake of two corn-mills which it supplies with water. Wild-
ducks, geese, and sometimes swans resort to it.
	The river Ayr runs through this parish, about a mile south of
the town. In its course, it passes between steep rocks of red free-
stone, from forty to fifty feet high. How this passage was form-
ed, whether by some convulsion of nature, or by the water gradu-
ally forming a channel for itself, cannot now be ascertained. The
scenery is beautiful and romantic. On its banks there are various
caves cut out of the solid rock, similar to those at Auchinleck, of
which Dr Johnson has taken notice in his Tour to the Hebrides.
One of them is known by the name of Peden's Cave, where it is
said Alexander Peden (whose name is so familiar to the inhabitants
of the west of Scotland) often concealed himself durink the un-
happy time of the persecution.
	About half a mile above Barskimming, the seat of Lord Glen-


