
              KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                 309

middle of May. In good years, the crop is cut down in Septem-
ber; in bad seasons, some of the crop has not been cut down un-
til November.
  Live-Stock.-This parish, as well as the whole of Mull, is dis-
tinguished for a hardy breed of black cattle, that can be easily
fattened, and whose flesh is fine-grained, juicy, and well tasted.
The larger farmers keep a few low country cows for furnishing
milk; but to this use alone are they confined.  The horses are
hardy and full of mettle, and sure-footed upon the roughest roads.
There formerly were goats; but about fifty years ago, they were
banished from the Duke of Argyle's property, and only a very
few now are to be seen in other parts of the parish.  The sheep,
until within the last forty years, were of the small Highland breed;
but now the hills are covered with Cheviots and low country
sheep.
  Kelp.-This manufacture bas entirely disappeared, with the
exception of a very little made at Inniskenneth and Gribun.  Be-
fore barilla was allowed to enter our market duty free, and thereby
exclude the kelp, there were no less than 150 tons annually ma-
nufactured in this parish, and of course it, in common with the
Highlands in general, have felt, and do still feel, the loss ; for
kelp cannot now be sold so as to bring the wages of the workers,
as the former consumers of kelp prefer, to work from barilla and
other substances admitted duty free.  In previous years, this ma-
nufacture employed and gave bread to many thousands in the
Highlands and islands, and the price it drew brought money to
the country, and this being again circulated through the kingdom
at large kept that money at home, which now goes to enrich the
foreigner at the poor Highlander's expense; a measure of policy
which cannot be too strongly condemned,-for whether it arose
from ignorance on the part of Government-, or from any other
cause, the Highlands have, since the admission, duty free, of ba-
rilla and other substances, presented scenes of much distress,
bankruptcy, and poverty.
  Fisheries.-To render beneficial to the natives the bounty which
Providence freely offered them at their doors, the Duke of Ar-
gyle, about fifty years ago, divided a farm in Ross, convenient for
the white fishing, into a number of crofts.  His Grace planted fa,
milies there, and sent people to instruct them in the proper modes
of curing and fishing.  They likewise were provided with boats and


