
     Statistical Account

of Culblean, and as the Earl of Athole fell that day, it may
have been here*.

   Glengairn Parish.-Glengairn is a corruption of 3 Gaelic
words, glean, "a valley or hollow," and garbb ambain, "the
rough water," which are very properly applied to the water of
Gairn, the channel of which, in many places is exceedingly
rocky.  The church stands on the N. side of Dee, and at the
influx of the Gairn into that river about 2 miles W. of Tul-
loch, and nearly the same distance N. of the church of Glen-
muick.  This church seems to have been dedicated to St.
Mungo, from an annual meeting of the parishioners on the
13th of January.  Some say, that this was a separate charge
about the middle of the last century, when a Mr. Alexander
Gordon, a proprietor in the parish, was minister; but neither
the glebe, nor where the manse stood, can now be pointed
out.  This parish is the least, and most compact of the 3.
The greatest part of it lies upon both banks of the Gairn,
extending 6 miles N. W. of the church, where the upper
parts of Tulloch begin and separate it from the parish of
Crathie.  A small part of it lies on the S. side of Dee, call-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the fore mentioned hill of Culblean, there is a most remarkable hollow
rock, which from its shape, bears the name of the Vatt, and through which
a rivulet runs.  In going up to visit this natural curiosity, a stranger is much
struck with the narrowness of the entry to the Vatt (being less than an ordi-
nary door) and the large spacious area, in which he immediately finds himself
enclosed by rocks from 50 to 60 feet high, and from the fissures of which tall and
healthy birch trees are growing.  There is one particular clift of the rock
which the eagle generally occupies as a safe and secure asylum for hatching and
nourishing her young, and where her nest is always to be seen.  The rivulet
falls down at the upper end through broken shattered rocks, and when flooded,
adds greatly to the picturesque appearance of the whole.  The most remark-
able hill in this, or the 3 parishes, is Morven, which in Gaelic signifies a large
hill; and the well known crags or Pass of Baltazar, where the tremendous im-
pending rocks threathen the astonished traveller with immediate destruction.


