
     1062                        PERTHSHIRE.

     and decorations of the private rooms prepared for her Majesty and
     the Prince, are of a beautiful and magnificent description.  Be-
     fore the Queen's departure, the magistrates of Perth sent a depu-
     tation to the palace to solicit the honour of her Majesty's sigua-
     ture in the guildry books of Perth, where James VI. and Charles
     II. had written their names; the former thus: "1601, Parcere
     subjectis, et debellare superbos.-James R."  And the latter as
     follows: "Nemo me impune lacesset, July 24, 1650.- Charles R."
     Sir Robert Peel carried the book to tiie Queen, when her Ma-
     jesty and Prince Albert recorded their names.
       Among the remnants of antiquity withhn the palace niay be men-
     tioned an old bed of dark -brown Genoa velvet embroidered, which
     is said to have been worked by Queen Mary.  The Queen, when
     at Falkland, is supposed to have given the bed to one of the ances-
     tors of the family, to whom she showed great favour.  It was pro-
     bably conveyed to Scone at the time when the Balvaird branch
     succeeded to the title of Viscount Stormont.  The bed and furni-
     ture of a room are preserved, which was called the King's room,
     and in which there is a tradition that James VI. slept, but it was
     more probably the "bed-chamber" of Charles II., of which notice
     is taken in, the account of his coronation.   The bed and furniture
     are handsome, and more conformable to his age than to an earlier
     period.  The bed on which the celebrated William, first Earl of
     Mansfield died, was put up in the room in which he is said to have
     been born.
       Village.-The village, or "royal city," of Scone was built in the
     immediate neighbourhood, and partly during the era of the monas-
     tery.  One street was named the chanter gate.  Near this street
     there were some trees that are said to have stood in the garden of the
     monastery.  Among them were some remains of a wall.  At the end of
     the chanter gate was the gallows knowe, and in another direction the
     prison-house, which would suggest that extensive rights were attached
     to the place.  Some of the houses of the village, which had belong-
     ed to the abbey, were appropriated to the courtiers who accompanied
     James VI.,wbo is said to have been wont to come to Scone for the
     purpose of hunting. One house was called, at a comparatively
     recent period, the Earl of Errol's stables. He probably attended
     on the king as hereditary grand constable of Scotland.  Part of a
     wall which stood between the palace and the village still remains,
     together with an ancient gateway.  A little to the east of this is
     the cross,the only vestige now of the village. It consists of an up-
     right pillar, 13 feet high slightly ornamented at the top, standing

                                      4


