
                         EDINBURGH.                          645

by Craig, an architect. By the year 1778 so successfully had the
new building scheme succeeded, that the eastern part of Peincos
Street and Queen Street and the whole of St Andrew Square were
erected. In process of time the buildings were extended west-
wards and terminated by Charlotte Square.
But the taste for new buildings being now excited among the
citizens, the extension of the town to the north was rivalled by a
similar extension towards the south.
A private individual made a purchase of the grounds to the mouth
of the Cowgate, and built thereon Browns Square and George
Square; the latter of which was begun in 1766.
The rapid rise of these southern buildings now also suggested
the idea of opening up a communication to them by means of a
bridge across the Cowgate.  At first-tbis plan was opposed by the
city corporations. But it was ultimately carried by an act of Par-
liament, and South Bridge Street was opened for passengers in
1788. In forming South Bridge Street, the lanes called Niddry's
Wynd and Merlin's and Peebles Wynd, were pulled down; as
also one of the oldest stone houses in E&inburgh, which belonged
to Sir Simon Preston of Craigmillar, the Lord Provost df Edin-
burgb. In this house Queen Mary took refuge after the defeat
of her party at Carberry Hill.
The building areas on each side of this bridge, now cleared, of
the old houses, were in' so great demand, that higher pricos were
paid than perhaps for any spot of ground in Europe. Some of
these areas sold at the rates of L. 96,000 per acre, L, 109,000,
and some L. 150,000 per acre.
In 1783 the Earthen Mound was commenced. It was formed
bv the accumulated rubbish and earth dug out of the foundations
oi the houses of the New Town. This earth was carried to the
spot free of expense by the proprietots of the houses, as being the
most convenient way of disposing of the otherwise useless soil.
The erection of the Register Office, the Uaiversity building,
and the Courts of Session and Exchequer, with the Libraries of
the Advocates and Wrlt*rs to the Signet, all followed in succession,
while new streets in various parts, of the town, year after year, made
their appearance.
In 1814, a plan, which had long before been contemplated, of
opening up a direct communication with the London Road by the
south side of the Calton Hill, was put into execution.  A consi-
derable portion of the hill was cut through at a great expense, and


