
694                     PERTHSHIRE.

    Imperial acres which are reported as improvable, but as in some si-
                      tuations wood is displaced to make room for
                      crop, if this system is found to answer, a much
                      greater space may be recoverable for tillage,     284
     Acres in a state of common,                                        768
           under wood,                                                 2899
           under moor,                                                15533

   The larch plantations of the Duke of Athole cover the greater
part of the ground which is described as under wood.  In this
situation, they are in the highest degree healthy and thriving; al-
though I should judge from appearance, that thinning is in some
cases not sufficiently attended to. In woods of such immense ex-
tent, this object is perhaps scarcerly attainable, and the thinnings
are in some degree according to the demand for materials for
fences, &c.
  Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land in the parish varies
from L.1, 5s. to L.2, 10s. per acre. The haugh lands, on the
banks of the Tay and Tummel, give the highest rent, although
by no means formed of the rhbhest soil in the parish, which is
commonly found on the slope ascending above the haughs.  The
haughs have of course the advantage in point of dryness, easy cul-
tivation, and early ripening; and, when enriched by strong dis-
tillery manure, are usually distinguished in the award of premiums
for crop.
   Live Stock.-The breeds of horses and cattle are too generally
of the mixed and non-descript character, long established in the
district. Spirited examples of a better and more improved style
of breeding have been set, however, of late, both by some of the
proprietors and tenants. Horses for improving the breed have
been introduced under the auspices of the Weem and Athole Agri-
cultural Club.  Leicester sheep have, in some instances, replaced
the more ordinary breeds with great success. The Ayrshire
breed of cattle is preferred on the best farms.  An attempt
has been made this year to improve in feeding qualities the
Ayrshire breeds, by crossing them with a short-horn bull ;
but of course nothing can be said decisively as to the result in ro
short a time.
   A cow may be grazed at from I,1 5s. to L. 1, 15s. a ewe in
the parks. at, 5s., and on the hill, at 3s. per year.
   The following may be given as a specimen of the prices of la-
bour. - Fatm-servant's wages, L. 14 ; maid-servant's do, L.6, per
year, day labourer Without victuals, ls. 6d. ; with, ls 2d.; fe-
male labourer, 8d.; journeyman mason, 2s. 6d.; carpenter, 2s.;


