
			AVOCH.                       387

and grinitic masses, we find that hollow to have been a very ancient
one, for it appears to have been partially filled with a vast accumu-
lation of fine sand and communicated gravel, enclosing boulder-
stones of various sizes, disposed in layers, not horizontal, but in-
clined towards the centre of the valley. Streams from the adjoin-
ing hills have since greatly cut up these gravel beds, which, from
their great depth, present most fantastic forms, many of the banks
being cut into large cones, both acute and truncated, while others
present sharp ridges, leading up to battlemented impending masses
perched like old castles over the deep and winding moats which
encompass their bases. Some of these gravel beds are, at least, 250
feet high, and exhibit bare sections most instructive to the geologist.
  Zoology.--In the burn of Avoch, the common trout and eel are
to be found; and in the Frith, opposite to Avoch, oysters, cud-
dies, flounders, and occasionally small herrings, are canght. When
the small herrings appear, cod generally abounds. Halibut is also
to be found in the Frith. There are two salmon-fisheries, one on
the estate of Avoch, the other on the estate of Rosehaugh. In
Munlochy Bay, mussels are to be found in great profusion. This
bay is much frequented during winter by swans, the great northern
diver, and an immense variety of ducks.
  Botany.- Few parishes in Scotland contain such a rich and ex-
tensive flora as that of Avoch. But it will be suffecient to give the
following list of those not common in many districts in Scotland.

<FOOTNOTE>
  Linnean Name		English Name.	        When in flower.

Adoxa mosehatellina	Tuberous moechatel		April. May.
Allium ursinum		Broad-leaved garlick		June.
Astragalus glycyphylluz	Sweet milk vitch 		      July.
Avena pratensis		Narrow-leaved oat-grass  	Do.
Carex capillaris, rare 	Dwarf capillary carex 		June, July
------binervis		Green-ribbed carex		June
Circea alpina		Alpine enchanters nightshade	July, August.
Drosera Anglhca		Great sundew			Do.     do.
Echium vulgare		Common viper's bugloss		June, July.
Equisetum variegatum,rare Var. horsetail 		      July, August.
-------hyemale		Rough horsetail			Do.     do.
Eriophorum pubescens,rare Down-stalked cotton-grass	April, June.
Eupatorium cannabinum	Common hemp agrimony		July, August.
Fedia olitoria		-----salad or lamb's lettuce	April June.
Galium boreale		Crow-leaved bed-straw		June, July.
Geranium sanguineum	Bloody cranesvill		      Do.     do.
Helianthemum vulgare	Common rock-rose		      July, August.
Hyoscyamus niger	      -------henbane			July.
Juancus Baltius, rare   Baltic rush			      Do.
Knautia arvensia 	Field knautia			      Do.
Listera ovata		Common bird's nest
Pingulcula alpina, rate	Alpine butterwort		      May, June
Sinapis alba		White mustard			July.
Trollius Europeus 	Mountain globe-flower		June, July
Vibarnum oplta		Common guelder-rose or water-elder Do. do.
Viola sylvatica		Wood vetch			      July August.


