
24                        STIRLINGSHIRE.


streets. It was originally called New Merchiston, having been
feued out in 1756, by Francis Lord Napier. It received its pre-
sent name in honour of the late Sir Lawrence Dundas, who be-
came its feudal superior, and it still holds under his descendant,
now Earl of Zetland. There are three schools; also a church in
connection with the Reformed Presbytery, built in 1788. The
place is elevated, and commands an uncommonly beautiful view of
the Carse of Falkirk, and more distant mountain scenery.
  For the sake of arrangement we classify Grangemouth among
the villages; but in reality, it merits the denomination of a town,
being a sea-port, and the centre of a district lately erected into a
quoad sacra parish.
  GRANGEMOUTH */f
Clyde Canal with the Carron, a little above the union of that river
with the Forth. The town derives its name from the Grange burn,
which, winding past the Grange, or home farm of the ancient and
now demolished Abbey of Abbotshaugh, formerly emptied itself
into the Carron, close by the site of the town. Recent improve-
ments, by giving a new direction to the course of the rivulet, have
deprived the name of its original significance. A new cut of nearly
a mile in, extent was opened in 1838, to connect this stream with
the Forth in a more easterly direction, and thus to secure its for-
mer outlet for the formation of the extensive wet-docks which are
now in progress. The town was commenced in 1777 by Sir
Lawrence Dundas, in the prospect that its connection with the
canal would raise it into consequence as a sea-port. The streets
are regular, having been built upon a plan, and the appearance of
the place, from the flatness, of the surrounding country, the canal,
and the frequent sea-dikes, suggests the idea of a Dutch village.
  The canal is the object of principal importance. When it
reaches Grangemouth, it has traversed a distance of twenty-nine
miles from Port Dundas. The rise from Grangemouth to Lock
20, which is the summit of the navigation, is 156 feet. The rise
is effected by means of locks of 20 feet in width and 74 in length,
every one of which has 8 feet of fall. Its width upon the sur-
face is about 60 feet, and at the bottom 27. Its depth is 9 feet.
The canal terminates at Grangemouth in extensive wood-ponds,
in a basin and harbour. It admits vessels of ninety tons burden.
  The wood-ponds are receptacles for the timber which is im-

<FOOTNOTE>The account of Grangemouth has been furnished by the Rev. Mr Taylor.



