
228                         ARGYLESHIRE.

course, and served for a considerable time, after the battle of Cul-
loden, as a hiding-place for a gentleman of the name of Stewart,
who served with Prince Charles in 1745.  There are several small
caves in the island of Lismore.  On the west side of the island
the shore is exceedingly bold, the rock rising in many places per-
pendicular from the water's edge, and to the height of about 50
feet.  In the face of the rock, and about half a-mile from each
other, there are two caves of a square form, and about 20 feet
wide.  The entrance of each is comparatively small ; and one of
them is occupied by a boat-builder as a working-shop, and the other
is tenanted only by wild pigeons, wbich take shelter in it from the
storm by day, and make it their home by night.  Between the two
caves already mentioned, there is a smaller one, or what would
appear to be the mouth of one ; and opposite to it, on the other
side of the island, there is a similar one ; and tradition says, that
these caves are the ends of a subterranean passage running across
the island.
   Coast.-The whole sea coast of the parish is upwards of eighty
miles.  The extent of the coast of Appin, from Shian Ferry, at
the mouth of Lochcreran on the south, to the head of Lochleven,
on the north, is thirty-eight miles; and from the mouth of Loch-
creran to the head of that loch on the east, are eight miles.  The
shore is sandy, and the coast generally high, but not rocky.  The
coast of Kingerloch is about sixteen miles long, and is sandy, bold,
and rocky.  The coast of Lismore, which is twenty-four miles in
extent, being the circumference of the island, is toward the north-
east end low and sandy, and the general character of the rest of
it is bold, with deep water at the very edge, which, from its dark
appearance, seems to have a muddy bottom.  On the coast of
Appin, beginning at the south point, the first safe anchorage, for
vessels of small tonnage, is the mouth of Lochcreran, where coast-
ers frequently take shelter.  The next is the Bay of Airds, close
to the former, and near Aird's House, the residence of Sir John
Campbell, Bart. of Ardnamurchan.  This is a small retired bay,
which is well sheltered from all minds except the southwest, to
which it is a little exposed.  Here there is frequently an excellent
take of herring, and the people of Lismore and Appin, and of the
neighbouring parish of Ardchattan, often secure considerable
quantities of them.  A few miles north from this is the Sound of
Shauna, a narrow strait that separates the island of that name from
the mainland of Appin, opposite Appin House, the residence of


