
				DOUGLAS.                   489

at present. As a burgh of barony, it possessed a regular ma-
gistracy, to whom the lords of the manor appear to have delegated
some of their most important feudal prerogatives. Among these
was the power of life and death. So late as the year 1675, we
find the bailies compelling two persons, who, under the pretence of
being travelling merchants, had infested the public markets as va-
gabonds, to come under an obligation, "upon condition of their li-
berty forth of the tolbooth of the burgh of Douglas, to depart
furth of said burgh and lordship of Douglas, and never thereafter
to return to the same, nor no place within the bounds and jurisdic-
tion of the Marquis of Douglas, during all the days of their life-
time, under the pain of death, and that immediately to be execute
upon them, without any jury or process of law to be sett or holden
for that effect." The Gallow-hill, an eminence at a short distance
east from the town, was probably the place to which the unhappy
victims, whom the magistrates doomed to death, were led forth from
the dungeon to execution.
	Within the recollection of some old persons yet alive, Douglas
was a place of considerable business. Two or three notaries, or,
as they were called clerks, resided in the town. Its weekly mar-
kets were regularly attended by the farmers for the sale of stock;
and its numerous fairs were not only attended, as they still are, by
a great concourse of people, but were well supplied with the va-
rious articles of rural traffic. Now, no law practitioner is seen
there but on an occasional visit. Its weekly markets are little more
than nominal; and neither at them nor the annual fairs is any
kind of stock ever exposed for sale. This decrease of business
has proportionally affected the respectability of the inhabitants,
very few of whom are now above the rank of mechanics or labour-
ers: and it were difficult to find a village of equal population so
destitute of genteel or respectable society.
	Roads.--This parish enjoys the advantages of excellent roads.
The great road from Edinburgh to Ayr, by Carnwath, Muirkirk,
and Cumnock traverses its whole length from east to west; and
the great london road from Glasgow by Carlisle, one of the finest
in the kingdom, passes through it for about 7 miles from N. W.
to S. E. and S. The road to Ayr is the most direct from the ca-
pital, and is kept in excellent repair; but as a new road has some
years since been opened through a more populous part of the coun-
try, this is comparatively but little frequented. The late Lord


