
658                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Hermitage. A mutilated portion of the time-worn walls of this
chapel remains; but no history to tell at what period they were
founded. There was a monastery dedicated to St Anthony in
South Leith, of which this chapel was an appendage. St An-
thony's Well, celebrated in Scottish ballad, is a spring of water a
little to the west of the ruin.-Monastery of Carmelite Friars,
and Hospital of Greenside, founded by the town-council in
1526, and dedicated to the holy cross; in 1591 converted into
a leper hospital, and seven lepers admitted into it in one day.
-St Giles' Church. St Giles, the tutelar saint of the city, is said
to bave been a native of Greece, and born in the sixteenth century,
of illustrious parentage. He afterwards travelled into France,
founded a monastery in Languedoc, and lived a life of great sanc-
tity. In the reign of James II., Preston of Gorton procured one
of the real or supposed arm bones of this saint, and presented it
to the magistrates of Edinburgh, which precious relic was kept for
many years enshrined in a case of silver. It is probable that the
`church of St Giles was founded some time previous to the year
854. It is distinctly recognized in a charter of David II. in 1359.
It was at first simply a parish church, of which the Bishop of Lin-
disfern was patron. To him the abbot and canons of Dunfermline
succeeded in the patronage; and to these again the town-council
of Edinburgh. In 1466 it was erected into a collegiate church
by James III. The chapter consisted of a provost, curate, sixteen
prebendaries, a minister of the choir, four choristers, a sacristan,
and beadle. It contained no less than forty altars, dedicate to
various saints, and erected by corporate bodies in the town, and
other individuals. The church is a Gothic structure, 206 feet
in length by 110 feet in breadth. In the centre is a square
tower, terminated by open stone work in the form of an imperial
erown. The height of this tower and spire is 160 feet. At
this reformation this church was spared at the request of the
magistrates; but all its trumpery, including the arm-bone of
St Giles and its silver case, were sold for the benefit of the
corporation, and for remodelling the church. Soon after this
period the church was divided into four separate places of wor-
ship; and in 1585 the bell of the Abbey of Lindores was pur-
chased for L. 55 Scots, and placed in the spire. It was in this
church that in 1643 the Solemn League and Covenant was sub-
scribed by the committee of estates of Parliament, the commis-
sion of the church, and the English commissioners. Formerly


