
                            DIRLETON.                        211

in 1224, to the satisfaction of both parties, by the Bishop of St
Andrews, the diocesan. 3. During the reign of Alexander III.
Alexander de Vallibus founded a chapel at Dirleton, in honour of
All Saints, engaging that this chapel should not derogate from the
Mother Church of Golyn.-At Dirleton, there was founded a col-
legiate church, with a small establishment, by Sir Walter Halys-
burton; its endowment seems to have been inconsiderable, amount-
ing at the time of the Reformation to L. 20 only.-At Elbottle,
(a name now given to a plantation north of Archerfield, and which
is an abbreviation of the Saxon word Eldbotel, signifying the old
dwelling,) there was a convent of Cistertian nuns, a cell of the
great establishment of those nuns, founded by David I. at Ber-
wick-upon-Tweed.-There was, it is said, another cell of the same
establishment at Golyn, near the church, probably, however, iden-
tical with Elbottle. These nuns appear to have acquired a right to
some of the tithes, and other ecclesiastical dues of the parish of Golyn.
   The ruins of the old parish church of Golyn are still in good
preservation. A view of these is given in Grose's Antiquities,
where it is stated that the last Vicar of Golyn is said to have been
deposed by James VI. for the high crime of smoking tobacco, a
weed which his Majesty deemed fit only for diabolical fumigations.
No authority, however, is given for this assertion. Near the
Chapel's Waas, at the cross roads between Dirleton and Prem, on
the south, and between Fenton and Kingston on the east, nume-
rous tumuli have been found; these were generally formed of two
pieces of pavement, one on each side; the same number above and
beneath, with one at each end. Bones imbedded in black earth
were frequently found in these graves, which were almost all of short
dimensions, being about three feet long. The stone of, which they
were formed is not to be found in the parish, unless it be within,
the sea shore, near the Island Eyebrochy. A stone-hammer,
thought to be of great antiquity, was lately turned up in a field; it
is about 8 inches long, and 3 broad at the eye. In draining a
pond near West Fenton, a piece of pipe about a foot long, insert-
ed in a stone, was found: no account could be given of it. Not
very far from the same place, at the junction of the Mill-burn and
the Peffer, in a field called the Fisher's Nooks, the foundations of a
good many houses have been laid bare, from which, and from the
name of the field, it is conjectured that the sea may in former times
have reached this point. It is now several miles distant from the
coast.


