
					SCONE.                     1065

	old Statistical Account, this hill waS between 60 and 70 yards
	north from the old Abbey church.  Of this church there were
	scarcely any vestiges when that Statistical Account was writ-
  ten.  "Such changes," it is there said, " does time introduce,
	that on that spot where our ancient kings were crowned, there now
	grows a clump of trees."  The church, of which the aisle remains,
	seems to have been built on the Mote-hill by the first Viscount
  Stormont about the year 1624.  "The people in the Highlands
  it is said, "call the Boothill at this day Tom-a-mhoid, i. e. the
  hill where justice is administered."  Is the "gallows knowe" con-
	nected with this ? or the fact that Macbeth, the earliest sheriff in
	the shire of Perth, was styled Sheriff of Scone ?
	  On the farm of Bonhard, which lies on the eastern side of the pa-
	rish, are two circles of large stones.  Each circle is about 7 yards
	in diameter, and contains nine stones, placed at unequal distances.
	They are said to be Druidical temples.  There are also tbe re-
	mains of an old castle in Lower Springfield, the greater part of
	which is now in ruins.  It has been twice burned to the ground.
	  Eminent Characters connected with the Parish.-Of the eminent
	characters connected with the parish by birth, residence, or burial,
	may be mentioned the gallant Hay, so distinguished at the battle
	of Luncarty, who is said to have been born here.  At no very re-
	mote period, the inhabitants were wont to point out the remains of
	his humble habitation.  They are now entirely obliterated.  Ac-
	cording to tradition his name was originally Deluce, for the change
	of which to Hay, a ludicrous and silly reason is assigned, in con-
	nection with his fatigue after the battle.  The families of Errol
	and Kinnoull are generally said to have had their descent from this
  individual.  According to the common story, this "husbandman,
	who chanced to be busy at work in a neighbouring field, having,
	accompanied by his two sons, armed only with their plough-beams,
	opposed a chief division of their countrymen, when flying from
	the fight in a moment of panic, and " drove them back to victory."
	In thhs, it is said, originated the nobility of the Hays of Errol.
	" The armorial bearing of this family, which exhibited three escut-
	cheous, supported by two peasants, carrying each the beam of a,
	plough on his shoulder, is appealed to in proof of the story; but
	it is just as likely that the story may have been invented to explain
	the arms.  At all events, the arms are of much less antiquity than
	the battle of Luncarty, at the date of which event armorial ensigns
	were unknown.  It is well established that the Hays are a branch
	of the Norman de Hayas, whose ancestor came over to England


