
                MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.                 1187

There are also the usual auxiliary apparatus, two reflecting tele-
scopes, and a fine refracting one, double achromatic, by Dollond,
of 4 feet focus, and 21 inches aperture, with a divided object-glass
micrometer, by the same artist.
   These instruments were procured by donation or purchase in
1780 (the Earl of Bute giving the transit and equatorial,) when
Dr Copland originated a subscription for setting on foot an Ob-
servatory, for which the town gave a site on the Castlehill, where
the building was erected.  In 1795, Government requiring the site
of the Observatory for a powder-magazine to the barracks then erect-
ing in its vicinity, it was removed to the north wing of the College,
and a grant of money given in exchange, the greater part of which
was expended on the new arrangements necessary, and the remainder
reserved for its maintenance, under the management of the Prin-
cipal and Professors.  A collection of books in astronomical and
triathernatical science is connected with the Observatory, purchas-
ed with a small fund appropriated to that peculiar purpose by Dr
Liddel, who founded and endowed the mathematical professorship.
The late Andrew Mackay, LL. D., was keeper of the Observa-
tory for some years after its institution; the present keeper is the
Professor of Mathematics, but no salary has ever been attached to
the office.
   Eminent Persons educated at Marischal College, or closely con-
nected with it.-Robert Howie, the first Principal (1593-98,)
author of several theological treatises; translated to Dundee by
the General Assembly, and afterwards appointed Professor of
Theology at St Andrews, and successor to Andrew Melville.
   Peter Blackburn, the first in the list of Regents, an office which
he had held previously in the University of Glasgow; Bishop of
Aberdeen, 1603-15.  He was the author of a treatire against
James Gordon the Jesuit, and is termed by Wodrow "a judicious
and famous divine."
   Robert Gordon, nineteenth Baron of Straloch, was the first
graduate in arts of the university, probably in 1597, and eminent
as a geographer, poet, and antiquary.  He was the author of the
Atlas of Scotland, published by Blaeu in 1648, some of the county
maps of which were constructed from his own actual surveys.  He
died in 1661, in his eighty-first year.
   Gilbert Jacchaeus, or Jack, M. D., was an eminent writer on
various branches of physical and metaphysical science, and became
Professor of Philosophy in the University of Leyden, where he
died in 1628.


