
                                    PERTH.                               37

	plague being there; and an order was issued to close up them houses
	of James Ross and others, they to remain therein during the coun-
	cil's will, for having purchased certain goods from John Peebles of
	Dundee, who died of the pest.
	   In an old manuscript volume, I find the subjoined account of the
	plague in 1645.  It appears from an entry in the city records of
	1667, that in 1645, a house without the Castle gavel port was
	burnt by order of the council for the purpose of "preventing the
	spreading of the plague." It is remarkable that no hhstorian of the
	time attempted to give any circumstantial account of this devastat-
	ing pestilence.  The engrossing political condition of the country
	may have in some measure occasioned that.
	   Cholera.-In 1832, the Asiatic cholera visited Perth, as it did
	many other towns in Britain.  As in the visitation of the plague, the
	most effectual means that could be devised were adopted by the con-
	stituted authorities to avert or mitigate the malady.  A meeting of
	the influential classes of the community was called.  The meeting
	divided the town and suburbs into sections.  To each of these a cer-

         <FOOTNOTE>" In Perth it raged with great fury, whole families was seized therewith.  At
	first, when one person in a family was seized, he was carried into a separate place in
	the house, where he was visited by the physicians.  Such as recovered were of singu-
	lar use in assisting the sick, it being always the case, that if once they recovered, they
	never fell into a relapse, for which reason they were called cleansers.  But the cala-
	mity still increasing, and the contagion spreading, not only one person, but severals
	in a family, nay, whole families, and several families in a lodging, were taken with
	the distemper.  Wherefore a new method was fallen upon of shutting up the dwelling-
	houses where the distemper was, and allowing none to enter them except the physicians
	and cleansers. All communication between them and the inhabitants who were whole
	was entirely stopt.  But this method being found inconvenient, by reason that per-
	sons evil disposed among the cleansers entered the houses of the whole, `nd thereby
	spread the infection through the town, it was thought proper for the future to put
	those out of the town at some distance who were sick.  Accordingly they went out
	and builded huts for themselves in different places around the town, particularly in
	the South Inch, the Vicar Knoll in the grounds of Friartown. Witch hill, near the pa-
	rish kirk of Kinnoul, and the grounds near the river Almond, at the mouth thereof.
	in all which places there are as yet the remains of their huts which they lodged in.
	The persons who died were buried deep in the open fields, none being allowed to be
	buried in the precincts of the town, or if they were, it was in a certain place alloted
	for that purpose, as in the west side of the South Inch.  The wearing apparel, goods
	and gear of the persons affected were burned, and their houses shut up for some time,
	and their money was afterwards given to persons employed to boil it, who returned
	the same to the relations of the defunct.  This calamity not only raged in the town, but
	was severely felt through the adjacent country,-great multitudes in the neighbouring,
	parishes dying of it.  Three thousand of the inhabitants died of it during the time, be-
	sides many who died afterwards, it not ceasing for several years,though not raging with
	such violence. It almost depopulated Perth; manx houses in different places being
	shut up, which afterwards in back parts went to ruin; and what houses stood to the
	streets uninfected, were inhabited but by few. Several houses were infected in a
	great degree to the front, and even some streets were entirely forsaken, particularly
	one between the church and the Meal Vennel.  And the inhabitants being few in
	number, had no courage to carry on trade or manufacture, and buildings for many
	years."


