
           180                     PERTHSHIRE.

           Modern History.-St Serffs, which, as has been stated, was
        one of the three parishes which were united together at the Re-

        day of December, 1619, Alexr. B. of Dunkeld Modr.-The quhilk day Mr Young,
        minister at Regorton, informus the Presby that Colin Pitscottie appeirant of Luncar-
        die, recentlie in the month of Novr, last, by past, the 23 day thereof, cruellie murtherit
        umqubill Alexr. Lambe in Benchill, under silence and cloud of night, commitit be
        him in the dwelling-house of Walter Quhytock, smith, within the parochin of Regor-
        toun, diocese of Dunkeld, sheriffdome of Perth.  The presby ordains the said Colin
        Pitscottie be summond literatorie to compeir befoir the Presby the 8 day of Decer.
        instant, at the tyme of meitting, to heir and see him ordeinit to satisfy the discipline of
        the kirk, for the removing of the sclander arysing of the said murther, wt certifi-
        cation quhidder fie compeir or not the Presby whll proceed agains him, wt the censure
        of the kirk.
           The Presby of Perth (ut supra) 22 day of Decr. 1619.
           Qubile day is producit ane summons duely execute and indorsit, bearing that
        Coline Pitscottic appeirand of Loncardy is lawfullie summonit at his dwelling-house
        in Myretown of Loncardy, to compeir this day befoir the Presby, to answer to the
        discipline of the kirk, for removing of the sclander arising from the foirnamit murther,
        wt certification, an he compeir not, the presby would proceed to the sentence of ex-
        communication againse him, as the said summonds and execution thereof in them-
        selffes at length bearis.  Quho being oft and diverse tymes callit exprimly at the said
        revistrie door, lawful tyme of day, and noght compeirand, be himselff nor na utheris
        in his name, the modr. and brethren finding him to continue in his disobedience,
        ordains the censures of the kirk to proceed against him, and to that effect public ad-
        monitiones to be given him in the kirk of Redgorton, that he pretend na excuse, and
        with the admonitiones, public prayeris to be joined, that God may bring him to the
        knowledge of his sinne, and repentance therfoir, that be incur not the fearful sen-
        tence of excommtnication.  The first admonition to be given him next Sabbath.
           The Presby. of Perth (ut supra) 16 day of Feb. 1620.
           Quhilk day Wm Young reports that he gave the first public admonition on Sonday
        last to Colin Pitscottie, foirsaid, wt prayeris joyned therewt, ordains him to pro-
        ceed.
           The Presby ofperth (utsupra) Ist March 1620.
            Quhilk dai Wm Young declares that he admonishit not Colin Pitscottie on Son-
        day last, in respect that the said Colin's fathir promisit to send his letter subscrivit
        with his awin band.  The Presby finds fault wt the said Wm Young, that he proce-
        dit not againse him, without that he had received his letter befoir Sonday last.  There-
        fore ordainshim to proceed on Sonday nixt, and giff him the second admonition.
            The Presby of Perth, (ut supra) 19 day of Julii 1620.
            Qubilk day compearit Coline Pitscottie appeirand of Loncardy, and confersit the
        murther of umqubil Alexr. Lambe, in Benchill, committed by him in the month of
        November last, he begane his repentance publicly befoir the brithrin, and promises for
        removing of the sclander to declair his repentance publictlie ae sall be injoyned to
        him.  He meined himself to the britbrin, that he has sutche urgent affairs vith
        friends, that he may noght be in this countrie for the space of six weeks, and, there-
        fore desyrit that his public repentance myght be delayed to his return.  The modr,
        and brithrin grantis him the space of ane month, and ordaines him to compeir again
        befoir the presby the 16 day of August nixt to corn, qubilk be promisis to do.
           The Presby of Perth (ut supra) the 18th day of October 1620.
           Quhilk day compeirit Jobne Pitscottie of Loncardie, and declarit that Coline Pit-
        scottie, his sone, was noght in this countrie, nor will not be Afoir Mertimes next, and
        most humblie besought the modr. and breithrine, to continue the proceedin of the                                                                                           . 9
        proces and censures of the kirk agains him.  And faithfully promises that at Mertimes
        next he sall compeir, and sall obey their wisdoms in declaring his repentance, for re-
        moving of the sclander of that unhappy fact of the mtrther of umquhill Atexr.  Lambe
        committit be him.
           The Presby after advysment upon the said John Pitscottie his promis continues
        all proceeding ugaines him until the said terme of Mertimes nixt.
           The Preshy. of Perth (ut supta) the 21 day of Novr. 1620.
           Quhilk day comperit Coline fitscottie appeirand of Luncardie, and confessit his
        offence in committing of the murther of umquhil Alexr.  Lambe, and promises for, re-
        moving of the sclander to mak his public repentance as sall be ordeinit to him.  The


