
                                       CLYNE.                             155

	fortified with a ditch of circumvallation, every way inaccessible, but
	by a narrow neck of land between it and a neighbouring hill; it
	contains about eight acres of land, and could be easily defended
	against any number of assailants."  An ancient cemetery at Kil-
	calmkill, marks where the heroes of those days rest.  The grave of
	the chief, in which large human bones were found, is yet distin-
	guished by four stones and a cover.  Various tumuli lie scattered
	over the interior, marking their battle-grounds, and where the slain
	were buried ; but their names and their deeds have passed into
	oblivion.
	   The next object of antiquity is an artificial island in Loch Bro-
	ra, already alluded to, and which has been correctly described as
        below, in a note to the former Report.

                                  III.-POPULATION
	   The population of the parish has varied little since the year
	1792, owing to the change which has taken place in the system
	of farming, the glens and inierior being converted into sheep-walks;
	the inhabitants being removed to the sea coast, and some of them
	having emigrated to North America.  The coal-works com-
	menced in 1812, and caused a considerable increase of the popu-
	lation, which appeared by the census taken in 1821 ; and as they
	ceased to be worked in 1828, the number decreased previous to
	the next census in 1831.
		By the census taken in	1792, the population was 1660
					1801,	    .	   .	 1643
					1811,	    .    .       1639
					1821,	  .      .       1874
					1831,	     .     .     1711
					1840,	  .      .       1756

        <FOOTNOTE>The figure of the island is an oblong square, consisting of two inferior  square of
	70 feet diameter.  It was divided into two parts; one-half appropriated for lodgings
	in time of war ; the other half laid ont for the advantage of a garden.	 The walls
	are still pretty high, and ascend perpendicularly from the surface of the water, without
	a vestige of tlie island behind them, and are only accessible by two stairs which front
	the south and east; so that with plenty of stores and the fishing of the loch.
	abounding with salmon, trout, and eel, the place was rendered impregnable when
	properly defended.  Among many reports of the good purposes of this island, there is
	one tradionary story repeated with pleasure by the inhabitants to this day.  They tell
	that, on a certain occasion, the neighbourhood was suddenly invaded by a numerous
	army of Caithness men, which they were not prepared to resist.  Upon this occasion
	they fled to the island for an asylum,  where they were secure from the assaults of the
	enemy.  Upon this, the invaders were enraged, that they attempted daming up
	the narrow mouth of the loch, at which the river breaks out, and had made such pro-
	gress in the work, that the islanders were obliged to take to their boats in this night
	time, to accomplish their escape; but, being pursued, they would have all perished,
	had it not been for the seasonable assistance of the clan Gun, who had marched from
	Strathulie upon hearing of the danger of their countrymen.  The Caithness- men, in,
	consequence of this assistance, met a total defeat ; and the part of the river or
	loch, at which they had been employed, retains to this day the name of Daman or
	Davan, which signifies a dam."


