
788                       FIFESHIRE.

from the surface, contribute much to enrich the soil, which, in
many places, might at first seem sterile from its proximity to the
rock.
     At some places, amygdaloid is to be found containing balls of
agate or Scotch pebble in concentric layers.
     The only exception to the rocky material constituting the sur-
face of the parish is from the presence of those masses, often many
tons in weight, rounded and water-worn, of which I noticed one
lately an the side of the road near Colluthie. The parent rock
of all these, which is numerous on many other moors in Fifeshire,
I need hardly observe, is far to the north-west.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
     Sibbald, in his History of Fife, seems to be of opinion that
Moonzie was early visited with the light of the Gospel. He re-
lates that St Regulus, in the fourth century, having landed at St
Andrews, and formed a Christian establishment there, travelled
through the country, and built several wooden churches in differ-
ent places,-one of them at Monechata or Monichi, which he
thinks was the parish called Moonzie. Jameson, in his History of
the Culdees, asserts that Sibbald is mistaken in this opinion, and,
from the similarity of the names, concludes that Monechata or
Monichi must be understood to be Monikie in Angus. But when
we reflect on the great changes which the names of places under-
go in the course of time, we see no reason in this case to consider
Sibbald's interpretation either incorrect or improbable. In a list
given by Sibbald of the churches and chapels in Fife in the
reign of William the Lion, "Moonzey" is included.
     Land-owners.-The greater part of the parish, consisting of the
farms of Moonzie, Lordscairnie, Torr, and Bridgend belongs to
the Earl of Glasgow, who succeeded to this property lately on the
death of Lady M. L. Craufurd. The estate of Colluthie is the
joint property of Messrs John and Henry Inglis. The estate of
Moonzie or Lordscairnie came into the possession of the Craufurd
family at a very early period. Sir David Lindsay, the seventh of
the family after their settlement in Scotland, and who was one of
the Magnates Scotiae who signed the celebrated letter to Pope
John, asserting the independence of Scotland in the time of Ro-
bert Bruce, was the first of the family who possessed the property.
He Married Mary, one of the co-heiresses of Sir Alexander de
Abernethy, and received along with her the estates of Cairnie,
Dunbog, and Country hills in Fife, besides other lands in other
counties.\f Sibbald, in his History of Fife, mentions that they

<FOOTNOTE>Reg. Mag. Sig. 36.

