
728			PERTHSHIRE.

vine, where it forms a series of beautiful cascades, and falls 500
or 600 feet in the distance of an eighth of a mile.
     Geoloqy and Mineralogy.-This department of the subject will
be best illustrated by the following communication from the pen
of Dr Thomas Thomson, the distinguished Professor of Che-
mistry in the College of Glasgow, with which the writer has been
very kindly favoured.
     "The parish of Monivaird is situated chiefly in the range of
low hills that skirt the Grampians, upon the south-east side, in
Perthshire.
     "The Grampians constitute a range of primary mountains,
which begin a little to the south of Aberdeen, and pass in a south-
westerly direction across the whole of Scotland, till they termi-
nate in the sea at the Mull of Cantyre. The portion of the
Grampians connected with Monivaird consists of clay-slate moun-
tains, containing here and there thin beds of quartz and limestone.
No veins have been discovered, and clay-slate rocks are usually
poor in extraneous minerals.
     "Separated from the Grampians by intervening vallies, there
is a range of picturesque hills connected with the parish of Mo-
nivaird, which form a kind of amphitheatre round Crieff; these
are Cnock Mary, Turleum, Lochlin, Tom-o-Chastel, Laggan,
Cnock, Glower-o'er-him. They are very varied in appearance and
form,-are all richly covered with wood, and it is to them chiefly
that the beautiful landscape to the south-west of Crieff, stretching
through Monivaird onward by Comrie-scarcely equalled in any
part of Great Britain-is owing. These hills are composed of grey-
wacke rocks, wich assume various appearance; sometimes old red-
sandstone, in beds very nearly perpendicular; sometimes a very
coarse red conglomerate, composed chiefly of hornblende-porphyry,
very like the rocks at Glenco, but sometimes very nearly like com-
mon greywacke.
     "The cement of the old red sandstone is sometimes clay, some-
times clay-slate. The grains are free, and it contains much
mica. Quarries of it, may be seen in the hill of Laggan. It is
frequently employed as a building stone. The veins of lead-ore,
which have been so long wrought at Leadhills and Wanlockhead,
occur in a rock of the same nature as the one here described; but
no metallic veins of any kind have been detected in the transition
racks of Perthshire.
     "The flat country comstituting Strathearn is composed of beds


