
666                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

beral yearly donations of the Earl of Kintore, would still have been
amply sufficient, notwithstanding the increase of paupers, to afford
the means of relief to all common cases of poverty from old age or
adverse dispensations of providence.  The cause which has chiefly
operated to augment the disbursements of the kirk-session, has been
the heavy charges of regular board, unavoidably incurred by re-
cent circumstances.  The cases here referred to are those of or-
phans, deserted children, and imbeciles.  Most of these cases, of
which there are six, have arisen within a few years.  The number
of ordinary pensioners on the roll is 40.  Paupers of this class,
embracing the aged and infirm, receive a very inadequate provision.
Occasional supplies are given besides to families and individuals
under temporary pressure from sickness or accidents.  The year-
ly expenditure at present may be thus stated:

<TABLE>
           Weekly allowances as board,	               L.42 13  0
           Quarterly allowances,                           48  0  0
           Occasional supplies and incidental expenses,    11 10  0
                                                         -----------
                                                        L.102  3  0

To meet these charges the kirk-session derives revenue from
the following sources:

<TABLE>
     Ordinary collections, on an average of three years,   L.48  0  0
     Rent of Session's property in Inverury,	             24 15  0
     Interest of money tent,                                  3 15  0
                                                           ----------
                                                           L.76 10  0

   Such being the unfavourable state of the poor's funds of this
parish, the kirk-session felt it to be their duty to draw up a report
of the same on the 16th of March last, which report or statement
was given in to the agents of the heritors.
   Lord Kintore's annual donation of L.25 is distributed separate-
ly among about seventy objects of charity, including all persons
on the ordinary roll, and a great number of indigent families and
individuals besides.
  Davidson's mortification, amounting to L.9 a year, under the
management of the magistrates and minister, is restricted to the
poor of the burgh.
  Savings Bank.-In 1837, a National Security Savings Bank
was established in Kintore.  This institution has proved remark-
ably successful.  It appears from the last annual statement, dated
20th November 1841, that the number of depositors was upwards
of 300, and the amount of deposits above L.4000.

   Revised 12th May 1842.


