
516                	LANARKSHIRE.

divided more or less, by several distinct and convenient enclo-
sures.
	Dairy husbandry should be principally looked to, in the cultiva-
tion of the land, and cropping should be followed no longer than
is necessary for preparing the land to be laid out in pasture. No
return of oats or bear, during the currency of a lease, remunerates
the farmer. Turnips should be sown more extensively; and the use
of bone dust enables every one to do this, while frost never destroys
them. And additional divisions of the land by fences will render it
quite convenient to eat off the turnips with sheep.
	The great, expensive operations of straightening Blackburn and
two or three other streams, of draining "flow mosses," and of plant-
ing for shelter, ought to be executed under the eye of the pro-
prietors, and at their expense. Or, if it be imagined the planta-
tions might be injured from the carelessness of the tenants, let it
be a part of the agreement that, whatever trees any one may have
planted, shall be taken from him at a valuation at the end of his
lease. Let direct encouragment be given to the industrious and
enterprising, either in the form of a premium for every acre re-
claimed, or for every signal improvement introduced, or by a re-
newal of the lease, upon more moderate terms, than would be, of-
fered by other competitors for the farm. Let the two proprietors,
who are most interested, exert themselves to have the coal road
made along the side of Glespin lane, and to meet the principal pa-
rish road a little below Eastertown; from which, a mighty advan-
tage would accrue to the inhabitants in getting cheap boal, and an
equal advantage would be enjoyed by these proprietors themselves,
as the old coal road might then be shut up, and the flocks on Craw-
fordjohn, Mosscastle, and Andershaw farms would be permitted to
feed undisturbed by travellers. Let a stone bridge be thrown over
Duneaton below the village and towards Leadhills, and another
over Blackburn,--a better road being made to meet the Glasgow
and Edinburgh roads; and then few causes for complaint about
roads would exist.
	Prejudices in favour of local practices are fast dying away; the
intelligent and cautious look anxiously around them, and can as-
certain what is most conducive to their own interest; and were due
countenance given them, the proprietors might rest assured, there
are many at present in the parish, who, while contemplating, in the
first place, the welfare of themselves and families, will adopt such
views, and carry forward such measures, as shall finally promote the
improvement of their property.

	June 1836.                       3


