
190                     BERWICKSHIRE.

Such habits, when fully formed among a people, do not pass a
immediately upon the removal of their causes, and it was not,
therefore, until long after the union of the crowns, that the pro-
ductive energies of this fine portion of Scotland appear to have
begun to be adequately cultivated by a skilful and settled hus-
bandry.
   Family of Swinton.-But the most interesting fact connected
with the civil history of this parish is that of its having formed,
with only two very brief interruptions, the property of one family
since the days ofthe Heptarchy, till the present time. Authentic his-
tory furnishes us with no account of the origin of the family of Swin-
lon of Swinton. It is found in this place and appears to have been in
prior possession of it shortly after the incorporation of this district
with the kingdom of Scotland. About 1O60, Edulf de Swinton, who
had assisted Malcolm Canmore to recover the Scottish throne,
obtained from that monarch a confirmation of the property of the
whole parish of Swinton, by one of the first charters granted in
Scotland, and which is still preserved in the Archives of Durham.
The estate seems after this, to have been alienated from the fa-
mily during the period of the reigns of Edgar, and Alexander, his
sons, as each of these sovereigns present the lands of Swinton to
Coldingham priory. *  It was restored to them, however, by the
youngest son of Malcolm-David, who grants two charters in
their favour of the lands of Swinton, "to be held as freely as
any baron held theirs." +
   Of the succeeding members of the family, several are mention-
ed with distinction by the English and Scottish chroniclers. To
the valour of + Sir John Swinton in particular, Fordun chiefly

<FOOTNOTE>It may be regarded as a proof of the strong right which is founded upon long
possesion, that the church bad to give up property. The would seem indeed,
never to have had undisturbed possession of it-for Alexander in 1107 along with
his confirmation to St Cuthbert and his monks, of the whole lands of Swinton, for-
bids the prior and monks of Durham to answer in any Place relating to these lands,
unless in his presence and by his orders.-Bedc, Hist., Smith's Appendix 20.
   +Anderson's Inquiry, Chart. Durham. A stone statue of Allan Swinton, the
fifth baron, lies in an arched open niche of the south wall of the parish church, on
the right hand of the pulpit with this inscription: "Hic jacet Alanus Swinton miles
de Eodem."  This Allan is witness to a deed by Patrick Earl of March, to Nisbet
Of Dirleton, and to several by William the Lion.
    There is in Rymer, (1400) a safe conduct to this Sir John and his retinue for
coming to the presence of Henry II., then in the north. He seems to have been
disgusted at the undue power which Douglas enjoyed, and to have intended to join
in the defection of the Earl of March, who had transferred his allegiance to the Eng.
lish king, in consequence of the breaking off of the match between his daughter and
the Duke of Rothsay, in order to prefer the daughter of his rival, Douglas. Sir J.
Swinton had either not effected this journey, or he had speedily withdrawn his ho-
mage-for his death at Hamilton took place two years after. -
                                       4

