
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

teacher of English, 6 s.; to the master of the 2 d, 12 s.; the
same fees to the master of the 3 d; the fees to the master of
the 4th, 1 guinea; and to the master of the 5th, 1 1/2 guinea.
Over and above these fees, there is a small sum paid by
each student to the rector.  The number of students a-
mounts already to above 200; for this is only the 2 d ses-
sion.  This institution promises to be a very flourishing se-
minary.  It has every advantage to recommend it.  The
town is healthful and pleasantly situated, and here are no im-
proper avocations.  Board too is very reasonable, and the
masters are very well qualified for their several depart-
ments, as well as diligent in their attendance.  The
year is divided into two sessions.  The 1st to begin
from the 16th day of July, and to end on the 20th of
December; the 2 d to begin on the 5th of January, and
to end on the 10th of June.  The directors of the academy
are, the provost, the 4 bailies, the dean of guild, the she-
riff of the county, and the moderator of the presbytery of
Inverness, for the time being; subscribers to the amount
of L. 50 each, during their lives, and subscribers to the a-
mount of L. 100 for their own lives and their heirs; with
5 gentlemen of the county, annually elected at the Michael-
mas head-court.  At the desire of the Highland Society of
London, there is a class opened for teaching the Gaelic lan-
guage, with a salary from them of L. 15 a-year, to which
the directors have added L. 16.  There is besides a pro-
spect of an addition to the Gaelic teacher's salary from the
Highland Society of Edinburgh.  There is likewise a dan-
cing school, and a music school well attended.  They are
under the patronage of the magistrates.  They are detach-
ed from the academy.-There are besides, in the town and
parish of Inverness, other 10 schools; 4 of which are esta-
blished by the Society of Scotland for propagating Chri-
stian knowledge.  In these 4, there are no less than 230
scholars.  In the other 6, there are about 200.

</UNREADABLE>


