
518		    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Home, minister of Houndwood. We have not been able to ob-
tain any direct documentary evidence of the fact of his transla-
tion to Dalkeith; but collateral circumstances render it highly
probable.*
   2. Mr Archibald Symson.-The name of this distinguished mi-
nister is first mentioned in the records of presbytery under the
year 1588. He was the son of Andrew Symson, schoolmaster
and minister of Dunbar, and Violet Adamson, sister to Patrick
Adamson, Bishop of St Andrews. Of this family there were six
sons, who,-with the exception of the eldest, who died young,-all
became eminent preachers;-and three sisters, who were all mar-
ried to preachers. Under the tuition of a parent not less, eminent
for piety than for talents and learning, we may readily believe that
this family enjoyed the highest advantages in regard to education.
We find, accordingly, that Patrick, the second son, had attained,
even when a youth, to an uncommon proficiency in classical stu-
dies, which he was sent to England to perfect; and we may easily
suppose that Archibald was no less eminent. He informs us, that
when a young man his verses attracted the notice of the famous
Sir John Maitland, Chancellor of Scotland, who thenceforth be-
came his patron;-and that this same statesman, by whose influ-
ence mainly the Act of 1592 was passed in favour of the Scottish
Church, was also the person by whom the church of Dalkeith
was first put into its present Presbyterian form;-and that in
this transaction he himself was in some way or other particularly
concerned.+ Archibald Symson was appointed ordinary mi-
nister of Dalkeith in 1590,+ and appears to have disharged his
ministerial functions with the greatest fidelity. After the decease
of his former patron, be acquired the friendship of Chancellor
Seton, Earl of Dunfermline, on whom he has pronounced an affec-
tionate and eloquent eulogium. It was at the earnest request of
this nobleman that he entered on the composition of his "Hiero-
glyphica Animalium," &c. which be meant to be an abridged
practical view of the elaborate work of Pierius Valerianus on

<FOOTNOTE>Row's Historic of the Kirk of Scotland, page 8, Wodrow Society, Edition 1842.
     His words are these: "Dum vix excessissem vicesimum tertium aetatis annum,
mihi feliciter obligit Joannes Metellanus, Thirlsteam Regulus, Scotiae Cancellarius,
qui me in suam clientelam receperat, pauculis tautum versibus invitatus, religionis
purse amantissimus, qui Ecelesiam Dalkethensem primus, idque meo nomine, in publicis
vegui comitiis instauravit.-Dedication of his Heiroglyph. Volat. Edin. 1623. He
probably here refers to the dissolution of the deanery of Restalrig, and the erection
of the patronage of Dalkeith, which took place in 1592.-Acts of Scot. Parl. Vol. iii.
page 551.
     Records of Presbytery.


