
496	        	   FORFARSHIRE.

Brothock valley, on each side of the stream, a series of remark-
ably formed gravel ridges, several of them a mile in length,
running from north to south, with a slight curve to the east
in their southern terminations. Springfield House is situated
on the conspicuous end of one of them on the east bank, and
Kepty hill is the most prominent termination of another on the
west bank of the stream. This latter is about 40 feet high.
These ridges consist of boulders, gravel, sand, and clay strata.
What might have been the original agent in their formation, can-
not be inferred with certainty; but they all exhibit such an ap-
pearance, as if a great debacle from the north sea, in rushing past
the high land to the northward, had, in turning up the valley of
the Brothock, deposited in the eddies of its more shallow parts,
its burden of stones and gravel swept from other surfaces; and
there are three appearances which greatly countenance such a sup-
position; for, 1st, the strata or layers of which they consist, dip in a
direction contrary to tbe descent of the present stream; and, 2dly,
at the extreme northern talus of each ridge, a large mass of small
sand is found deposited. Bridgeton is situated on one of the points
of these tali, North Tarry on another, and the Wardmill hill forms
a third; and on the western side of the stream, the manse stands
on one, and the farm of Cairney furnishes three or four more in-
stances of these similar formed tali. The rock of the church-
yard seemed to have furnished an obstacle, behind which was de-
posited in the former lake, a similar ridge, though of lower eleva-
tion. About two miles farther up the valley, a similar series of
ridges on both sides the stream are apparent, though not so ele-
vated, yet their forms and substances are the same, abutting on
eminences of land to the south, and declining into sandy points
at their northern termination. The mansion of Letham Grange
is situated on one of these; in digging the foundation for which
pure gravel like that on the sea shore was cast up.
   It is remarkable that the alluvial or more recent diluvial strata
at the mouths of the three streams, the Southesk, the Lunan, and
the Brothock, are all similar in their formation. On the surface,
first, a stratum of gravel, then a thick one of small sand, under
which lies a stratum of brick-clay, then several feet of sand, and
beneath all a thick, stratum of brick-clay. This is finely exhibited
a Wardmill Hill, and at Red Castle on the Lunan. The valley
also of the Brothock and the plain of Inverkeilor are nearly on the
same level, about ninety feet above high, water. Hitherto no or


