
     Of St. Vigeans.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-Upon the side of the small
river Brothock, and near the church, a brewery was erected
in 1787, and in the same place a distillery in 1799, both be-
longing to one person.  The still is 40 gallons, and pays 40 L.
a-year to the Excise.  The distillery consumed 500 bolls of
barley in 1792, when there were 2 (40 gallon) stills; and the

<FOOTNOTE>

distant 100 yards from the front of the rocks that hang over the sea.  The pot
is of the shape of an inverted urn, 50 yards in diameter, but towards the west
it loses a part of its circular form, and the ground ascends in a gentler slop than
the other parts of the circle, for 54 yards, till it terminates in an angular point,
at the place where it reaches the level of the adjacent field.  The entry to it
from the sea is 130 feet below the top of the rock, and the depth of the pot is
120 feet, below the level of the ground round the edges of it.  The opening
from the sea is grand and awful, being about 70 feet high and 40 broad.  The
water from the sea runs into the pot by a subterraneous passage, which gradu-
ally contracts till it enters the bottom of the pot, where it does not exceed 10
or 12 feet in breadth and height.  When the sea is rough, the wind easterly,
and high water, the boisterous element bursts in at the mouth of the pot, with
amazing impetuosity, and roars, and boils, and sioths, till the waves of the sea
fall back, and allow it to retreat, which it does with great violence, and a loud
noise, which, on account of the depth of the cavity, is not heard at any great
distance.

   About half way between this place and Auchmithy, there is a large excava-
tion in the rocks, in the form of a semicircle, and about 160 feet wide in the  
front towards the sea.  It has a large pillar of rock in the middle of the en-
trance, almost in a line with rocks on each side.  The extent is so large,
that a fishing boat with four oars can sail round the pillar, without being in
danger of striking on the rock.  There was a chapel dedicated to St. Ninians,
situated about 2 miles from the church on the sea-side, near the place where the
coast begins to rise, between Arbroath and Auchmithy.  No vestige of the cha-
pel now appears, but a part of the burying ground remains, through the middle
of which a road has been lately cut, and the ends of several cossins of stone are
visible.  St. Ninians well, near the church-yard, was in former times of great
repute for the cure of several diceases, but now totally neglected.  One of the 
annual fairs of Arbroath was dedicated to this saint; it should be held on the
first Wednesday after Trinity Sunday, but it is some time ago fixed the third
Wednesday of June.


