
			CULTER.                               343

wood; Orobus sylvaticus and Tussilago petasites, near Culter water;
Saxifraga granulata, near Wolf-Clyde Bridge; Scleranthus annuus,
top of Crosscroin; Malva moschata, road near the village; and
Rubus Chamaemorus, towards the top of the Fell. At Culterallers
is the only piece of copse to be found either in the parish or
neighbourhood. It consists of several acres, and has the following
trees growing in a natural state: The sloe, the birch, the alder,
the hazel, the hawkberry or bird-cherry, the rowan or mountain-
ash, and many different kinds of the willow. In only one place
(Kingsbeck-burn) is the juniper to be seen. Trees that have
been planted are of the common kinds, but these are too numerous
to be given in detail. Some attain to a very large size. At Nis-
bet is a very fine plane of the following dimensions: height of
trunk 10 feet: girth of trunk at 3 feet from the ground 12 1/2, feet.
The branches cover a circle 66 feet in diameter. This is no con-
temptible tree, standing, as it does, at an altitude of about 650 feet
above the level of the sea.
	Fine Old Maple Tree.--The following description of this tree
is taken from Sir Thomas D. Lauder's Edition of Gilpin's Forest
Scenery:--"A maple at Culter, in Clydesdale, measured in the
year 1800, at the height of three feet from the ground, was found
to be 8 feet in circumference: at the height of three feet it divides
into two arms, one of which at two feet above the trunk measures
6 feet round; the other at the same height above the trunk mea-
sures 4 feet 2 inches round." These were its dimensions in 1800,
as taken by Dr Walker, then Professor of Natural History in the
University of Edinburgh. Its dimensions in the year 1835 are the
following:--At the height of three feet above the ground the cir-
cumference is 1O feet; of the larger arm at two feet above the trunk
the circumference is 7 feet, 6 inches; of the lesser arm at the same
height the circumference is 5 feet. The branches cover a circle, the
diameter of which is 57 feet. This very fine tree stands directly
in front of the mansion-house of Mr Baillie of Culterallers, and
is understood to be the largest of the kind in Scotland, with the
exception of one at Roseneath, belonging to the Duke of Argyle.
From a comparison of the above measurements may be seen what
has been its increase for the last thirty-five years.
	The tree that holds the predominance in this parish and district
is the Scoth fir; and the result here, as in other places where it
has been planted in a light soil and very exposed situation is, it
thrives very well for about twenty or thirty years: it then begins.


