
				CADDER.                              407

the present estate) is and must be seised in it, else his titles are not
valid. The whole of the parish, except the old entailed estate of
Cadder and the Midtown of Bedlay (says the writer of the former
Account) belonged to the subdeanery of Glasgow. From this ec-
clesiastical tenure are derived the names of several places in the
parish, such as Bishop's bridge;--the Bishop's moss between Hun-
tershill and Springfield; and the Bishop's loch (now subject to
the glorious uncertainty of the law) between Cadder and old
Monkland.
	Another antiquity in the parish was the house, a few years south-
west from the mansion-house of Robroyston, where Sir William
Wallace is said to have been betrayed by his kinsman Sir John
Monteith, on the 11th September 1303. Every vestige of the
house in which he was betrayed is now gone.
	Part of the Roman wall, built by Lollius Urbicus, forms the north
boundary of the present glebe, intervening between it and the ca-
nal. It was above thirty-six miles in length, and the ditch forty-
seven feet wide and twenty-two feet deep.
	When Cadder pond was cleaned and repaired in 1813, a coin
or medal of Antoninus Pius was found in an excellent state of
preservation, but with a little piece broken or worn off. It was
supposed to be of gold. It was given to the late Charles Stir-
ling, Esq. In the following year, when levelling the lawn in
the front of Cadder House, part of the foundations of the old
tower were discovered, and a vessel full of gold coins, which the
workmen carried away with them. A few of them were reco-
vered in Glasgow. They were generally about the size of a shil-
ling. The number found must have been at least 350; they bore
the inscription Jacobus. *
	Modern Buildings.--Among the modern buildings in the parish,
a drawing-room added to the house of Cadder deserves to be
mentioned, for the skill of the architect, David Hamilton, and the
taste of the proprietor, Charles Stirling, Esq. It may also be no-
ticed that John Knox dispensed the sacrament of the Supper in
the hall of the houre of Cadder. Mark Sprott of Garnkirk, Esq.
has built a neat modern mansion in the parish. The other man-
sion-houses are at Gartloch, Springfield, Bedlay, Robroyston,
Gartferry, and Glaudhall.

<FOOTNOTE>
     Some other minor antiquities are noticed in the MS.


