
				OCHILTREE.			111

up their children to habits of industry and integrity; that they give
a regular attendance on the public services of religion, and gene-
rally manifest a correctness of conduct in the different relations of
life highly creditable to their principles and character.
			    IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The extent of land under cultivation, or occasion-
ally in tillage, is about 10,242 imperial aacres. of hill pastures, plan-
tations, and waste lands, 5145 imperial acres. Perhaps 1000 acres
might be added to the present cultivated land, but such an improve-
ment, in order to be advantageous, should be made at first on a li-
mited scale. and under the most economial management. With-
out adverting to the kind of soil the distance from lime and the
probable additional value imparted to teh land, it is not unusual for
theorists to commence their operations on a large scale, and thus
create disappointment to themselves, and bring ruin on those with
whom they may be connected.
	Rent of Land, &c.--The rent of land called arable ranges from
10s. to L. 2 per acre, but the true average of the whole is about
15s. per acre. The grazing of a cow or ox is L. 3; of a sheep, 5s.
per annum.
	Wages.--The wages given to mem- servants who are fit to do all
kinds of work about a farm, average L. 12, 10s. per annum; and
to female servants of the same description, L. 7 a-year. These
servants lodge in their master's houses, and get their food and wash-
ing. Day-labourers get in summer about Is. 8d., and in winter
Is. 3d. per day, without food; masons and wrights get about 2s. 6d.
per day, when working from home. For building house and walls
the charges is L. 1, 10s. per rood; and 3d. per foot for hewn work.
	Live-Stock.--The sheep kept are mostly of the black-faced
kind, with a few of the Leicester, Bakewell, Southdown and
Cheviot, with crosses from all these descriptions. There are a
few of the black Egyptian breed, at Burnton, and other farms
in the parish, which are much admired for their fime wool.
The breed of cattle is of the Ayrshire dairy kind, and the farmers
are beginning to take greater care in the improvement of their
stocks, by the selection of superior bolls, and attending more par-
ticularly to the keeping of the cows in the winter and spring.
	Husbandry.--The arable lands in the parish are divided into
farms of various extent from 10 to 300 acres; and, according to
the usual system of management, a third or a fourth of the farm is
put into white crop at the same time. Before breaking up any


