
                          LINTON.                       151

son in Scotland, and shortly after died  at Linton tower, and was
buried in the choir of Linton church. Some of the representatives
of this house, while they resided in their barony of Linton, were
renowned for their patriotism. Walter de Somerville, the third
Baron of Linton, magnanimously maintained the rights of his coun-
try against the aggressions of Edward I. He was one of the few
barons who supported Wallace, and seconded his efforts to recover
his country's freedom. Under Wallace he commanded the third
brigade of cavalry at the battle of Biggar. He also appears to have
been among the first who joined the standard of Bruce, * to whom
previous to his death, he solemnly entreated his son to remain a
faithful adherent. The latter, accordingly, John de Somerville, was
not disobedient to his father's injunctions, and steadily maintained
the interests of the house of Bruce till his death. His remains
were consigned to the tomb of his ancestors in Linton church.  +
   Antiquities.-The ancient fortalice or tower of Linton, of which
there are now scarcely any vestiges, and which was formerly the resi-
dence of this family, stood on an eminence now covered with trees,
near the church, which overlooks it. About twenty years ago, a large
iron door was dug out of the cavity, which still remains to mark the
site of the dungeon. It appears to have been surrounded by a fosse,
the water of which was supplied from an adjoining rivulet. It shared
in the devastations common to similar fastnesses in the border;
for during the reign of Henry VIII. the warden of the English
marches, in a hostile invasion of the Scottish territory, besieged
and set fire to it; and Surrey, in a letter to the same sovereign on
a similar occasion, mentions his having razed it to the ground. " +
   The Kerrs of Graden in this parish were distinguished in border
warfare. Graden Place, their residence, still manifests the traces
of an ancient fortress, surrounded by a moat. During the border
feuds and depredations, while the two kingdoms were separated, this
parish suffered in common with the adjacent country. Occupying
part of what was formerly called the "dry marches," it formed
one of the principal thorough fares betwixt the two kingdoms. A
narrow aperture between two hills along the verge of Linton loch
appears to have been regarded as an important pass, and there are
still obvious marks of its having been once closely guarded. The
small eminence on which the church is built seems to have af-

<FOOTNOTE>See Tyler's History of Scotland.
    We also find him mentioned among the prisoners taken by the English, after the, Bruce was defeated at Methvin.
    See Cotton Manuscript, and Monastic Annals of Tiviotdale, p. 29.


