
     of Unst, in Shetland

freight, and the exorbitant duty which has very unreason-
ably been laid upon Scotch coals, exported beyond the Red-
Head of Angus, render this article of fuel by much too dear
for genaral use, through the Shetland isles.  Even peats cost
no little labour and expence; for although all the hills ap-
pear to have been originally covered over, in a great measure,
with peat earth; yet, upon the whole east side of the island,
except only in the south east corner of Muness, this natural
fund of fuel has been, by degrees, entirely exhausted.  The
hills of Vallafield and Saxaforth are, at present, the princi-
pal resources.  But many of the inhabitants are at a very
inconvenient distance from these.  Some find it more com-
modious to import their peats from the neighbouring island
of Yell.  Others, especially the gentry resident about Balta
Sound, are obliged to employ from 10 to 20 horses, for the
space of six weeks, every year, to carry home their annual
provision of peats.

   Heritors and Rent.-The property of the island is at pre-
sent divided among 37 heritors*.  Of these 26 are resident.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The tenures of landed property, the subdivisions of the lands, and
the forms in which the rents are paid, are; in some respects, peculiar here.
The lands are understood to be divided into merks.  A merk of land,
however, does not consist uniformly of a certain area.  In some instances,
a merk may be less than an acre; in others, perhaps, equal to two acres.
Every merk again consists of so much arable ground, and of another part
which is fit only for pasturage, but the arable part alone varies in extent
from less than one to two acres.  Several of these merks, sometimes more,
sometimes fewer, form a town.  The towns vary in extent, like the merks
of which they are composed.  All the lands, not lying in common, are in-
losed. (although ankwardly enough indeed,) by what are called town-
dikes.  These wind about with the utmost irregularity of form, in zig-zag
directions, sometimes inclosing only one town; sometimes uniting several
within the same enclosure; and, in certain places in the island, extend-


