
                                 ARDCLACH.                       31

   party of Sir William G. G. Cumming, Bart. of Altyre; and the
   lands of Glenernie, which were possessed for several generations
   by the Frasers of Glenernie, a branch of the family of Lovat, and
   now belong to Charles Lenox Cumming Bruce, Esq. of Roseisle
   and Dunphail.
     The history of the parish is but little interwoven with the civil
   history of the county. It appears, however, from some old unprinted
   Statutes of the Parliament of Scotland, to have sbared largely
   in the troubles of the Covenanting period, and that, after the battle
   of Auldearn in 1645, the lands of Brodie of Lethen, who had
   strongly attached himself to the cause of the Covenant, were burnt
   and plundered by the victorious Marquis of Montrose, after he had
   besieged without success the old fortalice of Lethen. Afterwards,
   says the same statute, which was passed on the 15th of March
   1649, "the late Marqueis of Huntly and his sones, with twa thowsand
	fute and horse, beseidged the Hous anew the space of twelfe
   weikes; but, being disappointit and enragit throw the loss of many
   of yr men, at last did utterlie burne over againe the haill lands,
   yrupon ther was above ye number of eight scoire persons, and left
   not ten of them to remaine." The same estate was again laid
   waste in 1653, after another unsuccessful attack upon the old tower
   of Lethen, by a detachment under the command of Sir Mungo
   Murray, of the army of the Earl of Glencairn, who then held a
   commission in Scotland from Charles II., to whom Lethen's Covenanting
	principles rendered him obnoxious, notwithstanding he
   had not only assisted the State with loans of money, but had fought
   personally in the army raised by the Scottish Covenanters for the
   King, both in the engagement at Lestwick, and at the battle of
   Dunbar.

   <TABLE=LAND-OWNERS>

     Land-owners.-The valued rent of the parish stands as follows:
     James C. Brodie. Esq. of Lethen and Coulmony,       L. 1268 11 10
     George Montgomery Ctiningliame, Esq. of Fairness,       438 19  7 3/4
     The Earl of Cawdor,                                     261  0  8
     Colonel Gordon of Cluny and Kinsterry,                  152 10  8
     Sir William G. G Cumming, Bart. of Altyre               108  0  0
     Charles L. Cumming Bruce, Esq. of Dunphail,              77  0  0
                                                          _______________
                              Total valued rent,         L. 2326  2  9 3/4
      Parochial Registers.-The registers of the parish commence
   with an entry of date 8th October 1648, and are voluminous and
   regularly kept.
      Antiquities.-There is a curious obelisk, situated in a haugh on
   Glenfairness, on the river side, and about a mile, below the                                                                                     16K
   bridge of Dulcie.  Characters somewhat similar to those on Sue.


