
			  BORTHWICK.                        173

flags, curiously joined, and in some places laid diagonally. It
was burnt in May 1775.
   We have formerly noticed that there are some portions of the
very ancient Castle of Catcune still remaining within the grounds
of Harvieston.  The ground in its neighbourhood shows that the
building has at one time been extensive.  The situation is retired
and beautiful, but the architecture seems to have been rude and
unornamented.
   On the brow of the elevated farm of Halfla Hill, there were
some years ago two stone troughs, placed on square pedestals.  One
of the troughs may still be seen in the churchyard of Borthwick.
They were popularly called the Roman Altars, but antiquaries can
find no resemblance to any thing Roman in them.  Over the moor
which forms the south part of the parish, there are cairns which,
when opened, have been found to contain, rude urns filled with
burnt bones.  Stone-coffins, too, have been dug up in some parts
of the parish.
   Currie-mill may also be mentioned, on another account, as
among the antiquities of the parish.  It was built, says tradition, by
the original possessor of the surrounding domain, so that the Lord
of the new castle might not be without hearing of the clack of its
wheel.  It continues a separate property to the present day.
   Proprietors' Seats.--There are six proprietors in the parish--
all of whom, except one, are resident.  They are, Dundas of Ar-
niston--Mitchelson of Middleton--Dewar of Vogrie--Brown of
Currie--Borthwick of Crookston--and Cranston of Harvieston.
The mansion-house of Crookston is the only one not in the parish,
it being in the neighbouring parish of Stow, where rho chief pos-
sessions of the proprietor lie.  He has two farms in Borthwick pa-
rish, on one of which the castle is situated, of which, therefore, he
is the present proprietor.
   Arniston House is on a scale suited to the extensive possessions
and influential character of the family.  It is not a very ancient
structure--but has a general aspect of baronial dignity and afflu-
ence--and its architecture is massy and imposing.  It has long
been celebrated for its open-hearted hospitality--and is very ge-
nerally named with veneration and gratitude, both on account of
the character of its inmates--and for the scenes of festive and
manly enjoyment of which it has been the scene.
   The land belonging to this property is not naturally of a very rich
or productive quality-being rather spongy in its texture, and


