
     Statistical Account

   Rivers, Crichup Linn.-The river Nith forms the natural
boundary between the parishes of Closeburn and Keir, 
Closeburn lying upon the east, and Keir upon the west of 
that river.  But probably, on account of the river's having
changed its course, there are two pretty large farms be-
longing to the parish of Closeburn, which now lie upon  
the western side.  This beautiful river having been already 
taken notice of, in the Statistical Accounts of some other 
parishes, it is unnecessary to say much about it here.  It
runs 5 or 6 miles along the western side of this parish, 
through extensive holms, now highly cultivated.  These
holms, on each side, terminate in sloping banks, covered 
partly with natural wood, and partly with thriving planta-
tions.  Several genteel houses have lately been built at small
distances, and within view of one another.  The whole to-
gether affords a prospect as rich and beautiful as is to be seen 
almost in any country.  The fifth in the river Nith are, sal-
mon, gilses, sea trouts, hirlings, and burn-trouts.  Besides 
the Nith, there are several smaller waters or burns, as they
are called, in the parish, in all of which there is a good
deal of burn-trout.  The only one of these, which deserves
particular notice, is, that which is called Crichup, remark-
able for its singular course.  It takes its rise from a moss,

<FOOTNOTE>

avenge themselves for the oppression they think they suffer in this respect,
they are said in the spring, and beginning of summer, whilst they tend
their stocks, to look out for the nests, and destroy the eggs of the game.
In this way, they are said to do more hurt to the game than ever they
could do with their guns.  There are, however, other reasons for the
scarcity of game.  A great deal more heath is burnt now than formerly;
consequently, the moor-game are more exposed to the birds of prey,
which are their greatest destroyers.  The sown-grass affords an yearly
shelter to the partridges.  They, therefore, very commonly make
their nests in it; but before they bring out their young, the grass
is generally cut, and their eggs of course destroyed.  All these causes
probably contribute to render the game more scarce than in former
times.


