                         EASTWOOD.                        43

    number of communicants in the parish church is only about 360.
    Many of: the rising generation never apply for admission to the
    Lord's table. The number of families professing to belong to the
    Established church is 3674; to the Original Burghers, 309; to the
    United Associate Synod, or New Light Burghers, 219; Roman
    Catholic families, 124. 162 families acknowledge that they at-
    tend no place of worship, and belong to no denomination: and
    many more are supposed to be in the same predicament who do
    not own it.
      We have no Societies at present in the parish for religious pur-
    pose. A Bible, Missionary, and Educational Society has been
    once and again attempted, and for some time carried on; but it
    gradually fell off, till at last it has totally disappeared. The pa-
    rish has been assessed for the support of the poor for a number
    of years past; and ever since, our church collections have been
    greatly diminished, and perhaps do not average much above 7s, or
    8s. per day.
       The minister has a class of young persons who attend him week
    ly for the purpose of receiving instruction in the principles of re-
    ligion; and a FeIlowship-Meeting, has lately been formed, which
    promises a revival of religion among the young.
      Education.-There are five schools in the parish, in each of
    which there is only one teacher. The parochial teacher has the
    maximum salary, and the legal accomodations of school-room,
    dwelling-house, and garden. The brandhes of education usually
    taught are, reading, writing, arithmetic, geography, English gram-
    mar, Latin, and occasionally algebra and practical mathematics,
    The general expense of education per quarter is 3s. for reading;
    reading and writing, 3s. 16d.; Latin, &c. 5s. The greatest member
    attending the parish school is 51 males, and 59 females. The
    probable amount fees paid to the schoolmaster is L.36 per an-
    num. The same branches of education are generally taught in
    the other schools; and the greatest number of males attending is
    363, and females 246; in these numbers is included a great pro-
    portion of evening scholars, who are connected with the public
    works, and therefore cannot attend any day-school. The fees are
    the same as those of the parochial school. It is not easy to state
    exactly the number of the young between six and fifteen years
    of age who cannot read or write; but there is reason to fear that
    it is considerable. There are but too many seem not alive


