
                          ALFORD.                         491

in these will be observed black and carious, and they may be
crumbled with facility between the fingers.
   The climate is healthy ; and at no season of the year can
there be said to be any peculiar prevalent diseases.  We are lia-
ble to the inroads of the contagious discases, small-pox, mea-
sles, hooping-cough, and scarlet fever; we have also occasion-
ally typhus.  The progress and character of this latter, and
of scarlet fever, when they appeared here to a serious extent
about twelve years ago, were examined by Dr Alexander Murray,
who then acted as our medical practitioner; and he gives autho-
rity to state, that typhus did not prove so fatal here as it did at
that time in other districts for he lost only one or two out of fifty
patients ; but that scarlet fever proved very destructive ; for, out
of 200 patients, 1 in 10 died.  These and similar facts subse-
quently observed, led him to infer that typhus is milder, and scar-
let fever more severe than these diseases respectively are in towns.
He states also, that the peculiar inclosed character of this valley
furnished him with an excellent opportunity to examine the man-
ner of the dissemination of typhus; and that, upon a careful exa-
mination, there was unequivocally traced to contagion as large a
proportion of cases of that disease as of scarlatina, small-pox, or
other diseases, which are admitted by all to arise from contagion,
and from no other cause.
   Hydrography.-There are numerous small perennial springs
of excellent water, especially in the two western hilly regions.  A
few springs also occur that are slightly chalybeate.  In digging
recently for a pump near Haughton, on reaching the rock in situ,
a fountain was opened, which gives out a nauseous gas, and has
a strong mineral taste, which excited attention.  Some chemical
tests, to which it was subjected, indicated that it contains sulphu-
retted hydrogen, but the matter is not yet fully investigated.
   There are no lakes in the parish ; and a circumstance deserv-
ing of notice is, that there are none connected with the Don or
any of its branches; while the tributaries of the parallel river
Dee, at no remote distance, either drain or pass through nume-
rous lakes.
   The principal river is the Don, which has its source in the pa-
rish of Strathdon, about thirty miles westward.  It is here about
100 feet broad, and flows with a rapid shallow stream, over a
pebbly bottom ; having dry grassy banks to the margin of the
water.  Next in order is the Leochal, which falls into the Don,


