
466                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   There can be little doubt that the ancient Castle of Dalkeith
was of greater antiquity than the fourteenth century. Yet the  
earliest historical notice of it we have met with, occurs in the fol-
lowing passage of the Chronicles of Froissart: "When the King
of England (Edward III. 1327-1377), had run over and scoured
the plains of Scotland, and had remained there for three months,
not seeing any come to oppose him, be garrisoned many castles
which he had taken, and thought by these means to make war
upon all that remained. He then made a handsome retreat towards
Berwick, and in his way he took the Castle of Dalkeith, which
was the patrimony of the Earl of Douglas, situate five miles from
Edinburgh. He appointed a governor and a good garrison."*
This event, which Froissart places in 1333, must have taken place
some years later,-Dalkeith Castle being most probably at that
date, along with the manor, in the possession of the Grahams.
   By the marriage of Marjory Graham with William Douglas of
Lugton, about the middle of the fourteenth century, as we have
already mentioned, the manor of Dalkeith, and the extensive pos-
sessions of the Grahams, were transferred into the hands of the
Douglasses, the progenitors of the family of Morton, with whom
they remained for about 300 years. William de Douglas of Lug-
ton, Lord of Liddesdale, was the eldest son of Sir James Douglas
of Lothian, and the fourth in descent from Archenbald, the third
of the family of Douglas.+  He obtained from King Robert I.
(1306-1329), in or before the year 1329, a charter, entitled,
"to William Douglas, son to umquhill Sir James Douglas of
Laudon, of the barony of Calder Cleir, and Kincavill, in the vici-
nity of Edinburgh."+  He was among the prisoners taken at the
battle of Halidon Hill in 1333. He received various charters of
forfeited lands from David II., one of which is entitled "Carta to
William Lord Douglas younger, of the baronie of Dalkeith, in
vicecom. de Edinburgh."  He granted a charter to his nephew,
James de Douglass, of all his lands at Aberdour, in Fife, dated at

<FOOTNOTE>Chronicle of Froissart, translated by Johnes, Vol. i. p. 37. See also Lord
Hailes's Annals of Scotland, Vol. ii. pp. 199,200, note.
     Some confusion has arisen from ascribing to this individual the heroic achieve-
ments of his relative and namesake, William Douglas, the Knight of Liddesdale,
commonly called "the Plower of Chivalry," who was a natural son of "the Good
Sir James," and whose achievements adorn the annals of this period. This subject
is fully discussed in Chalmers's Caledonia, and in the Provincial Antiquities of Scot-
land, vol. i. Art. Dalkeith.
      Robertson's Index, page 23, 8.
      Sir James Balfour's Annals, sub anno. See also Lord Hailes' Annals, Vol. ii.
Append. page 368.
      Robertson's Index, page 40, 11.


