
                          PARISH OF EDNAM.

PRESBYTERY OF KELSO, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE.

                     THE REV. JOSEPH THOMSON, MINISTER.



                         L--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
                Name, Boundaries, and Extent.-EDNAM, contacted from
               Edenham, signifies a hamlet on the river Eden, and is descriptive
               of the situation of the village. In its form this parish approaches to
               a square; its greatest length being 3 1/4 miles, and its greatest breadth
               3 miles.  It comprehends nearly 6-1/2 square miles. Ednam is
               bounded, on the north by Eccles; on the west, by Stitchel, part of
               Nentborn, and Kelso; on the south, by Kelso and Sprouston ; and
               on the east, by Eccles and Sprouston, from which last mentioned
               parish it is separated by. the river Tweed.
                  Topographical Appeararices.-Ednam hill, the only one in the
               parish, shelters the village on the east.  It rises to no great height,
               being arable to the top, but commands a very extensive view of the
               surrounding county.  The scenery in this parish, though not mark-
               ed by any very striking feature, is highly. pleasing.  The vale of
               the Eden is extremely beautiful, and on each side of it is a gently
               undulating surface, ornamented with tree in clumps and in hedge-
               rows, and covered with the fruits of a rich and cultivated soil.
                  Climate.-No distempers prevail, which can be traced to local
               causes; and the general state of health in this district its such as
               to evince the salubrity of the climate.
                  Rivers.-Except the Tweed, which runs in a north-easterly di-
               rection, the Eden is the only stream belonging to Ednam.  This
               small river has its source in the parish of Gordon; after passing
               through the parishes of Earlston, Smailbolm, and Nenthorn, it forms



