
                           MOULIN.                             661

stage coaches run every lawful day between Perth and Blair Atholl.
During these months our roads present a scene of most live-
ly description. Travellers from all parts Britain, as well as
from foreign countries, visit a place so rich in inspiring associa-
tions, and so justly elebrated for the beauty and, sublimity of its
scenery. We are highly delighted to see them, but, deeply regret
that they could not find it convenient to avoid Sabbath-day tra-
velling, which prevails to a great extent, and which is most offend-
sive, and may prove injurious, to the religious feelings and religi-
ous habits of our people.
   Turnpike.-The old military road was converted into a turnpike.
There is a toll-bar about the middle of the pass of Killiecrankie.
The present rent is L. 213.  The length of the turnpike road in
the parish is seven mhles.
   Parish Roads.- Of late a very laudable spirit has,been manifest
ed on the part of our road trustees.  The improvements contem-
plated, and now in a great measure completed, will add essential-
ly to the comfort of travelling.  The statute labour roads between,
Pitlochry and Kirkmichael and on both sides of the Tummel
reflect great credit on the road trustees, and especially on those
of them who have sacrificed much valuable property to accommo-
date the public. These roads diverge in different directions from
Pitiochry, and though not much frequented by strangers,  are, in
many respects, little, inferior to the turnpike. They are necessari-
ly in several parts steep; but one can have no idea of the magni-
ficent scenery of alpine character which, in, every direction, is pre-
sented to the eye. "Hills over hills, and alps on alps arise it from
fill the mind with the loftiest conception, and to raise if from
viewing nature up to nature's God."
   Bridges.-In 1832, a substantial bridge of two large spans was
built, by subrcription, across the Tummel-. nearly a mile west from
Piltochry. An error, which is not likely soon to be remedied,
was committed in the unfortunates locality in which this bridge was
erected. Had it been built at Portnacraig, a spot which seems
formed by nature for that purpose, it would h`ve found much
more convinient. As it is, our present spirited road trustees might
find it no unprofitable investment of capital, to open a turnpike
between this district and Strathtay, beginning at the White-fall
bridgem and ascending the "Monadli-meadhonach"-in a zig-zag
direction, decending the south side of the hill by a westerly incli-
nation, and leadinf to Weem, Aberfeldy, and Taymouth. As the


