
272                       LANARKSHIRE.

high, with an additional wing to the west, for servants' apartments,
100 feet in length. A new corridor is carried along the back of
the old building, containing baths, &c. The front is adorned by
a noble portico, consisting of a double row of Corinthian columns,
each of one solid stone, surmounted by a lofty pediment. The
shaft of each column is upwards of 25 feet in height, and about 3
feet 3 inches diameter. These were each brought in the block
about eight miles from a quarry in Dalserf, on an immense waggon
constructed for the purpose, and drawn by thirty horses. The prin-
cipal apartments, besides the entrance hall, are, the tribune, a sort
of saloon or hall, from which many of the principal rooms enter;
a dining-room, 71 by. 30; a library and billiard-room; state bed-
rooms, and a variety of sleeping apartments; a kitchen-court, &c.
The gallery, 120 feet by 20, and 20 feet high, has also been tho-
roughly repaired. This, like all the principal rooms, is gilded and
highly ornamented with marble, scagliolo, and stucco-work. The
stables and offices, now erecting between the town and the Palace,
are every way worthy of the splendid edifice of which they are an
appropriate accompaniment. The palace stands close upon the
town, on the upper border of the great valley, about half a lile west
of the conflux of the Clyde and Avon. As a curious statistical
fact, we may state, that there were employed in building the addition
to the palace 28,056 t,ons, 8 ewts. and 3 quarters of stones, drawn
by 22,528 horses. Of lime, sand, stuco, wood, &c. 5534 tons,
6 cwt., 1 quarter, 7 1/2 lbs., drawn by 5196 horses. In drawing
22,350 slates, 62,200 bricks, with engine ashes, and coal-culm to
keep down the damp, 731 horses were employed. Total days dur-
ing which horses were employed for other purposes, 658 1/2. In the
stables, there are 7976 tons of stones, drawn by 5153 horses. Of
lime, sand, slates, &c. 1361 tons drawn by 1024 horses; besides
284 days of horses employed for other purposes. The stables,
according to plan, are only about half-finished.
	Picture Galler.--The interior equipments of Hamilton Palace
are not less tasteful or magnificent than its exterior, and are a fair
counterpart of the gorgeous pile in which they are contained. The
collection of paintings, now greatly on the increase, has been long
considered the best in Scotland. Daniel in the lion's den is a no-
ble picture, and has often been described and admired. The por-
traits of Charles I in armour on a white horse, and of the Earl of
Denbigh, in shooting  dress, standing by a tree, with the muzzle
of a gum grasped in bis right hand, and the butt of it resting on


