

286                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

habitants in the remote parts of the district were also warned by
these doleful and protracted peals, floating on the air, that a fel-
low-creature was about to be consigned to his kindred dust.
   A barbarous custom prevailed at funerals, of drinking whisky
in the burying-ground immediately after the interment.  This in-
decent behaviour was, at one time, carried to a shameful excess,
causing even broils and squabbles.  Although the practice is not yet
entirely extinct, yet, by means of the united endeavours of the
clergy to root it out, and the example of respectable families, it
is greatly on the decline, and when it does take place, it is carried
to no excess.
    Perhaps the most interesting custom which prevails in the pa-
rish is the manner of fulling, or waulking cloths, which is always
performed by females in the following way:  There is a long
frame of wood, made for the purpose, longitudinally ribbed or
furrowed, and in some places composed of wattled-work.  On each
side of this frame, nine, ten, or twelve young women place them-
selves at equal distances, and in a kneeling posture. The piece
of cloth is then placed on the frame at its whole length, or per-
haps doubled. This done, all the females commence work, by
firmly rubbing it against the frame, giving it, at the same time, a
circular motion, that all parts of it may share equally in the fric-
tion. The whole work is enlivened by the united efforts of all in
singing an •ran-l-aidh, or rustic song, corresponding in time to
the quick movements of their hands. The work goes on so re-
gularly, and the various voices are blended together in such com-
plete unison and harmony, that a stranger would be highly de-
lighted with the scene. In the same manner also, the natives
sing when rowing a boat, or in harvest, while reaping their fields.
It is rather surprising how nature inspires them with such skill in
the modulation of their rustic strains, that their music often ap-
pears as if composed by connoisseurs in the science. They ob-
serve flats and sharps with much precision, and also not unfre-
quently change their tunes from major to minor keys, and vice
versa.
   An ancient custom still prevails, of.marrying in no season of
the year except in winter. Summer is consequently not the fa-
vourite season of Hymen.
   Most names and surnames, which are common in other High-
land districts, are found here. When the natives have cause, in
course of conversation, to speak of a neighbour, they hardly ever



