
	                   CARLUKE.                          587

live calf beneath the step of the byre door, was actually put into
execution, within a few years, by the servants of a respectable
proprietor in the neighbourhood. The customs formerly observed
at weddings * and burials,+ have, during the present generation,
become almost wholly extint.
	The habits of the people are now, in the highest degree, cleanly
and tidy. Indeed, the houses of no village in Scotland can ex-
hibit a more comfortable, and, at the same time, substantial ap-
pearance than do those of Carluke.

<TABLE=Industry>
                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture.-
The parish is fully six miles by four when squared, which gives a surface of imperial
  acres of                                    15,360
Of which in woods and plantations,			600
      orchards,                         110
      roads,                             80
      water courses, exclusive of Clyde, 21
      undivided common,                  86
      sizes of houses,                   10
      waste land,                       400
                                               1,307
                                              14,053
	There is the greatest possible difference in the value of the
land. In the highest parts, in some places, it may not be worth

<FOOTNOTE>Of wedding amusements. that of " creeling the young guidman," used to be
one of the most favoured. On the day following the marriage, the friends of the
young couple being assembled, a creel was bound with cords to the back of the bride-
groom, who imimediately set off at full speed, followed by those assembled, all striv-
Ing to overwhelm him by pitching stones into the creel. The sport continued until
the bridegroom had freed himself by speed of foot, or the bride had succeeded, in
cutting the cords with a pair of scissors. The joke was, to insert the ' girdle clips'
amongst the cords.
	+ The following order was, not very long ago, invariably observed at the funeral
of all persons, who aimed, in any degree, at respectability of station. In " bidding
to the burial," no hour was mentioned, as ten o'clock in the morning was understood
to be the time of assembling, and two or three o'clock in the afternoon, that of " lift-
ing." The intervening time was occupied in treating with ' services,' the various
individuals as they arrived; these ' services' being interspersed with numerous
lengthened prayers and graces. The mingled worship and entertainment terminated,
and the people proceeded to the church-yard, only after a scout, stationed on some
rising ground in the neighbourhood gave intimation that no additional mourner was
seen approaching the place of meeting. The following was the regular succession
of the "ervices."
	lst Service, bread and cheese, with ale or porter.
	2d   do.  Glass of rum, with " burial bread."
	3d   do.  Pipe a ready filled with tobacco, handed round in a riddle. To prepare
these pipes, was one of the duties of the women who sat at the late wake.
	4th  do.  Glass of Port wine with cake.
	5th  do.  Glass of sherry with cake.
	6th  do.  Glass of whisky.
	7th  do.  Glass of wine (kind not specified) with cake.
	8th  do.  Thanks returned for the whole.
	After which, services recommenced as soon as a new individual made his ap-
pearance.


