
                              PAISLEY.                      215

columns, and are enriched with a variety of mouldings.  Within these
finely sweeping arches, are include two pointed ones, cinque-foiled
in the head, and separated from each other, by a short but delicately
clustered column, with an ornamental capital.  The space between the
heads of these minorarches, and that of the principal arch above them,
is open to the body of the structure, and beautifull cusped.  From
the summit of the spandrils, between each pair of arches, a se-
mi-hexagonal projection just out aboat 3 1/2 feet, supported by
two ranges of blocked corbels, receding downwards.  These pro-
jections or platforms terminate, each in a sculptured grotesque fi-
gure, which seems groaning under the weight.  We are disposed
to think, that the flat summits of these singular projections, while
they served to form the clerestory walk or gallery, which passed al-
ternately behind and in front of the pillars, were also intended to be
used as stands for torch-bearers at the celebration, by night, of fu-
neral or other rites.  the arches and other appendages of the
triforium are, so far as we have heard, peculiar.  Above the trifo-
rium rises the clerestory, the arches of which, opening also to the in-
terior of the edifice, are simple, pointed, and narrow, but of just pro-
portions, with elustered piers and plain mouldings.  The original roof,
which has given place to a simple coved one, was finely groined
with sculptured bosses, at the intersections of the ribs, of which a
specimen is still to be seen, towards the west end of the southern
aile.  Near the roof of that aile, are two very small trefoil-head-
ed niches, in which, as is supposed, images at one time stood.  The
modern eastern window, in the inside, is filled with stained glass,
and beneath it, is a large white marble monument, erected by the
county of Renfrew, in memory of the late Wiiliwn M'Dowall of
Castle Semple and Garthland, Esq., who represented this coun-
ty in five different Parliaments.  Other monumental, tablets, a few
of modern, but many more of ancient date, and much defaced, are
arranged upon the walls of the building, or form part of the pare-
ment of the area.
   The nave, which is now the church of this extensive parish,
underwent a therough repair in the year 1789.  The pulpit, which
is attached to the centre pier on the northern side is of oak, and
siderable height; the pulpit and canopy are enriched with nume-
rous carvings.  The gallery is disposed around the whole edifice,
and cernamented with the armorial bearing of the principal heri-
tors.  For the comfort of the sitters, stoves were introduced into
   RENFREW.                                P


