
     Statistical Account

May, with which the crop grass is generally laid down after
turnips or sallow; and turnips are sown, from the 1st to the
20th of June.  The hay crop is cut in July; barley in the end
of August, and oats and pease about the middle of September.
There are about 300 acres of wood, some of it full grown,
but the greatest part of it was planted within the last 30 years,
and is very thriving.

   Advantages and Disadvantages, etc.-It is an advantage to
the parish that it is situated within the distance of 10 miles
from aberdeen, where there is a constant demand, ready mar-
ket, and a reasonable price for every article which the farms
produce.-As the brewers at Aberdeen, import a great deal
of bailey, the demand for that article, is by that means lessened.
-The parish hath the advantage of a good public road pas-
sing through its center, which enables the inhabitants to bring
coals, etc. at a moderate expence from Aberdeen.  It is also
pretty wall supplied with moss, which affords peats and turfs
for fuel.  On the other hand, it may be mentioned, that its
vicinity to the large and populous city of Aberdeen, renders
every article sold within the parish, very high priced to those
who must buy; and that the country people are so much in
the way of attending the weekly market, that they generally
lose one day in the week, in order to dispose of an article,
which when sold, will scarcely bring them 1 s. 6 d. never con-
sidering the loss of time and labour.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common people speak the Scotch language, and in what is com-
monly called, and well known by the name of, the Aberdonian Dialect-
Some of the names of places are said to be derived from the Gaelic, although
most have their names from local situation - As Straloch, a shath where a
loch of water has been.  Cunningar, where rabbits abounded.  Savile land, a
farm at the end of a marsh.  Highlands, a farm on a rising ground.  Monycab-
buck, said to be a corruption of many roe-bucks, a place once frequented by
deer.  Kings-Seat, so called, from a large stone in form of a chair, where it is
said, one of the kings of Scotland had stopped on a journey.


