
98                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

with an allowance of meal and potatoes sufficient to support them
until the crops are secured.  Farm-servants obtain from L. 6 to
L. 8 a-year, according to their qualifications, and 6 bolls of meal,
together with potatoes and a little milk. Women for household
are from L. 3 to L. 4 with their victuals, &c. in the family.
     Breeds of Live-Stock. Much attention is now being paid to the
improvement of tbe breeds of sheep and cattle. Cheviot sheep of the
finest description are reared on the farms of Langwell and Dunbeath,
and frequently obtain prizes at the shows at Inverness. On several
corn farms, crosses between the Leicester and Cheviot breeds are be-
coming common. The same system is pursued in respect to cattle,
and the crosses most in repute are between the Teeswater and
good Highlanders. For this description there is a ready demand
at good prices, and, in all probability, the great attention now paid
to the rearing of stock is only in its infancy. The great facilities
now afforded for the conveyance of stock by steam to the Edin-
burgh and London markets with such regularity and rapidity, is
fast drawing forth the resources of this county generally, and every
parish in particular.
     Husbandry.-Althougb the greater portion of the land is occu-
pied by small tenantry, with whom the cultivation of the soil forms
but a secondary concern, yet there are several extensive and well-
managed farms in the parish, on which crops of the best descrip-
tion are raised. The six-year shift is that in most general use,
viz. turnip, bafley or bear, two crops grass, one cut and the other
pastured, and two crops oats, one of potato or Hopetoun, and the
other of Angus or dun oats. Wheat is sometimes raised of good
quality; but in the general run of seasons it has not been found a
profitable crop, owing chiefly to the want of sufficient warm wea-
ther to bring it to maturity. Pease and beans are also tried, and
sometimes succeed; but they may be considered a very precarious
crop, owing to the wet weather often experienced during harvest,
when it is extremely difficult to secure them in a good state.
     Draining has of late been practised to a very great extent on
the principal farms, and with evident advantage. For example,
one small field of about four acres has been drained this year at
an expense of about L.20. Even furrow draining has been tried
on a small scale and in all probability will become more general.
Lime has been found most serviceable on dry lands, and has been
a good deal in use; but the depressed state of farm produce for
many years back has operated as a great discouragement to the


