
                        ARDROSSAN.                    193

of short continuance. The quaint though equivocal commen-
dation of the climate by a medical practitioner is, "that fevers
won't live with us." The great resort of valetudinary people here
in the season of bathinf is an evidence of the general opinion of
its salubrity. And the great age to which many of the people at-
tain is an indubitable proof of it.
	Hydrography.--There is no stream in the parish deserving the
name of river. Two small streamlets, the Stanley and Monfode burns,
descend from the higher grounds to the shore on each side of Ar-
drossan; and a third, the Munnock, or Caddel Burn, considerably
larger, in the upper part of the parish, falls into the Caaf, which di-
vides the parish on the north-east from Dalry. There is abundance
of springs, and the water good. Near the shore, however, and espe-
cially in the town of Ardrossan, the water is hard and somewhat
impregnated with the carbonate of iron, which makes it, though
wholesome enough, not so useful for cooking and washing. At
a very small expense, water of an excellent quality, and in sufficient
quantity, could be brought from the high grounds, to supply both
the town and harbour of Ardrossan. There is a small chalybeate
spring between Saltcoats and Ardrossan, but it has never been
analysed, and its virtues are unknown.
	Mineraloqy.--Coal is said to be found throughout nearly the
whole parish; and in the northern part and neigbourhood of
Saltcoats, it has been wrought to a considerable extent. At pre-
sent there is no coal wrought. There are three limestone quar-
ries in the upper part of the parish, which are wrought more or
less. Two of them are the property of Lord Eglinton, and the
other of Archibald Cuninghame, Esq. of Caddel. The tenants
on their respective properties are kindly allowed the use of these
quarries gratis. The lime is of a good quality, and the quarry on
Girthill being level free, the stone is dug at present for about a
shilling per ton. Freestone, both red and white, is very abundant.
At the town of Ardrossan, there is a large quarry of the former,
of which the quay and many of the houses in the town are built.
In this quarry, Robertson says, that petrifactions of wood were
met with, apparently of fir; in some cases with the bark entire.
Since the formation of the railway the facility with which stone of
a superior quality can be procured from the Stevenston quarry
has almost superseded the working of the Ardrossan freestone.
At Ardrossan, too, are found various kinds of whinstone; whole
rocks of which have been blown down and carried away to form
	AYR.	               N


