
			TYNRON.                             475

place of safety. "The steep hill (says the author of the manu-
script) called the Dune, is of a considerable height, upon the top of
which there has been some habitation or fort. There have been
in ancient times, on all hands of it, very thick woods and great about
that place,--which made it the more inaccessible, into which King
Robert Bruce is said to have been conducted by Roger Kirkpatrick
of Closeburn, after they had killed the Comyn at Dumfries, which
is nine miles from this place, whereabout it is probable that he did
abide some time hereafter; and it is reported, that, during his abode
there, he did often divert to poor man's cottage named Brownrig,
situate in a small parcel of stoney ground encompassed with thick
woods, where he was content sometimes with such mean accom-
modation as the place could afford. The poor man's wife being
advised to petition the King for somewhat, was so modest in her
desires, that she sought no more than security for the croft in her
husband's possession, and a liberty of pasturage for a very few
cattle of different kinds on the hill and the rest of the bounds, of
which privilege that ancient family by the injury of time hath a
long time been, and is deprived, but the croft continues in the pos-
session of the heirs and successors lineally descended from this
Brownrif and his wife; so that his family, being more ancient than
rich, doth yet continue in the name, and, as they say, retain the
old charter."
	Antiquities.--There are the remains of a Roman road leading
from the Doon to Drumloff, and crossing the Shinnel above Sten-
house,--along the line of which Roman urns have been found
filled with calcined bones. A few silver coins were discovered con-
cealed beneath some stones at Pingarie Craig,--principally of the
reign of the Roberts, and coined at Edinburgh. Formerly, there
were three Roman cairns in the parish, all of which were opened; in
the one at M'Question, which was the largest of the three, were found
a stone coffin with fragments of bone, and a hammer made of stone;
in the one at Land, there were also found a stone coffin, with frag-
ments of bone and a stone hammer; in the one at Pingarie, nine
stone coffins were found, and fragments of bone, the whole of which,
with the surrounding stones to the distance of some feet, were fused
into one mass. The Rev. Peter Rae, in his manuscript history of
the Presbytery of Penpont, mentions a fourth cairn. "I am in-
formed, (says he,) that, in the Appin Hill, there is a high mount
called Lamgarroch, upon the top of which there is a great cairn of


