
                           MOY AND DALAROSSIE.
                                                                   115
     years to see education take its full effect, and attended by those
     beneficial results which it is calculated to produce.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor is great for
     the population; and the sum to meet their support is in general
     very low.  The average number of poor is 40; these are divided
     into classes, which receive according to their necessities.  They
     receive at an average, the first class, 12s. per annum; second do.
     10s. do.; third do. 7s. do.  The annual collections amount to
     about L.13, 14s.  11d. exclurive of donations.  These generally
     amount to about L.8 per annum; besides which, the sum of L.54 has
     been bequeathed for the use of the poor, viz. L.1O by the late Lodo-
     vick Macbean, Esq. of Tomatin, and L.44 by the late Eneas Mac-
     bean, Esq.  Junior of do.  This is all the support the poor have; and
     in bad years goes but a very little way.  They are, however, gene-
     rally very unwilling to seek relief from the session, and they only
     ask it when necessitated to do so for the means of subsistence.
        Fairs.-There are seven fairs held in the parish, viz. six cattle
     trysts, being one during each of the summer and autumn months,
     and one lamb market, on the third Friday of August.  These are
     held at the.  Inn of Freeburn, which is situated about the middle of
     the parish, and are generally well attended by dealers,-the time for
     holding them being regulated so as to suit the dealers, when on
     their return from the great northern markets.
        Inns.-There are three inns in the parish; two of the houses are
     good, and the third merely a dram-house.  They are all on the line
     of the Highland road, and are in summer well supported,-the num-
     ber of travellers being then great.  These are of no advantage certain-
     ly tothe morals of the people, but they are not productive of much
     evhl; the country people do not frequent them much, and drunken
     quarrels are rare, except perhaps at markets.
        Fuel.-The common fuel used is peats.  These are found in abun-
     dance all over the parish, and the quality is as good as is to be found
     any where.  They are cut in the end of May, and in the month of
     July are fit home and stacking.  The expense of cutting is
     trifling,-about L.2, 10s. for a quantity which would supply a large
     family during the year; but there is the additional trouble of leading,
     which for that quantity would require ten days with three horses,
     bringing them from the distance of two miles.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

     In husbandry, there is no doubt the parish is susceptible of
     immense improvement.  The soil is excellent, and all it wants is


