
              1028                      PERTHSHIRE.

              intention of the benevolent donor, is annually expended in coal
              for the boboof of the industrious poor of his native parish.  The
              farmers drive the coal from Perth free of expense

                 February 1843.


                              PARISH OF TIBBERMORE
 
                   PRESEYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                        THE REV.  WEIR TULLOCH, MINISTER.
   

                        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
                Name.-TIRE name which is commonly given to this parish by
              strangers is Tibbermu'r, and sotnetimes Tippermuir ; but the pro-
              per name is undoubtedly Tibbermore ; for we find it Written in a
              charter granted by William the Lion, Tibbermoria; in Fordtin's
              History, Tybberrnore.; and in a very ancient tombstone in the
              wall of the church, T-ibberrnire.  This word signifies a great well
              referring, in all probability, to a perennial spring that once issued
              from behind the chtirch, and was long known by the name of "the
              Lady Well," but which has lately been carried away by the drain-
              ing of the adjacent field.
               Extent and Boundarie.-The parish is about six and a-balf
              miles in length, and from one to three in breadth.  It contains about
              4700 Scots acres; and is botinded on the north by the Pow and
              the Almond, which separate it from Methven and Redgorton; on
              the east by the Tay and Perth ; on the south by Aberda.Igie and
              Forteviot; and on the west by Gask.
               Topographical Appearances.-This parish lies behind the high
              ridgi,e Which bounds the north of.  Strathearn, and falls with
              at gradual declivity down to a level plain which is watered kV
              the Pow and the Almond.  The greater part of it, therefore, has
              a northern exporure.   On the west there are several old planta-
              tions of Scotch fir, the wood of which is said to be of excellent
              quality.  There is a considerable extent of uncultivated moor, and
              a peat-moss, from which the farmers on the barony of Cultmalun-
              die have a night to cut turf for fuel.
                 The eastern portion of the parish is studded with a number of
              neat comfortable houses, the seats of resident proprietors, most of


