
                             GOVAN.                         675

in his own monastery, after labouring to convert the inhabitants
of Kintyre, at whose hands he received martyrdom. *
   Andrew Melville was the first minister of Govan after the Re-
formation.  In consequence of the death of the Popish incum-
bent, the rectory and vicarage of Govan became vacant, during
the minority of James VI.  The nephew of Melville tells us, that
the Regent Morton offered this " guid benefice, peying four-and-
twentie chalder of victuall," to his uncle, who was then Principal
of the University of Glasgow, on condition that he would not
press upon the church his views of eccleshastical polity; and in the
hope of ultimately gaining him over to his party, that the Regent
kept the living undisposed of for nearly two years.  Morton dis-
covered, however, that Melville had too noble a mind to be wrought
upon by a sordid consideration.  He therefore conveyed the tem-
poralities of the parish to the College of Glasgow, devolving upon
the principal the duty of serving the cure, with a view, says his
admiring and affectionate nephew, " to demearit Mr Andro, and
cause him relent from dealling against bischopes; but God keepit
his awin servant in uprigbtnes and treuthe in the middis of manie
having tentationes." +  Andrew Melville, along with some other
ministers, and the magistrates of Glasgow, has been charged with
having formed a deliberate design to demolish the cathedral, as a
monument of idolatry, and for the purpose of obtaining materials
with which to build other smaller churches.  And the barbarous
intention, it is affirmed, was frustrated by the resolute conduct
alone of the craftsmen of the city.  This story is not well authen-
ticated.  There is no reference to it in the burgh records; nor is
it once alluded to in the records of the privy-council, before whom,
it is said, the chief actors in the "little disturbance" were cited to
appear.  It rests solely upon the authority of Archbishop Spots-
wood, whose prejudices way have rendered him credulous, and
who is known in other instances to have shown no indisposition to
give an unfavourable view of the conduct of the men with whom,
at one period of his life, he had appeared zealously to co-operate. ++

<FOOTNOTE>Forduni Scotichron. Tom. i. p. 130.  Extracta e Chron. Scot. pp. 33-34,
MS. in Bib. Coll. Glasg.
          James Melville's Diary, p. 42.
          In consequence of an application for information as to this point to Thomas
Thomson, Esq.  Deputy-Clerk Register, that gentleman, with his usual courtesy,
informs me that he has discovered nothing whatever on the subject of Spotswood's
" little disturbance" in the records of the privy council of that period.  With record
to the weight that ought to be attached in this case to the unsupported testimony of
Spotswood, Dr M'Crie has pointed out, in the history which the archbishop wrote,


