
88                          RENFREWSHIRE.


  FamiIy Of Sempill.--But by far the most remarkable fAmily in the
ancient history of this parish was that of the Sempills, of whom
pretty full account is given by Semple and Crawfurd, continued by
Robertson. I have seen a fuller and more accurate account of the
family in MS, by Dr A. Crawfurd, but I cannot enter so fully into
the subject as even the printed record, and shall only notice some
of the most important circumstances scattered over the whole his-
tory of this family. They seem to have been vassals of the Stew-
arts, who at one time possessed the whole barony of Renfrew, and
were progenitors of a long race of kings. In this manner, they
were brought into notice at court, and made a figure in the his-
tory of the country. Walter High Steward of Scotland married
Marjory, daughter of the most illustrious of Scotland's kings, Ro-
bert the Bruce, whose son, Robert Stewart, succeeded his uncle,
David II.,in 1371. The barony of Renfrew was called the princi-
pality, and was afterwards conferred as a separate maintenance upon
the prince who was heir-apparent to the throne; and for this rea-
son one of his titles still is "Baron of Renfrew."
  Robert, tbe first of the Sempill family, of whom any record re-
mains, lived in tbe reign of Alexander IL, who ascended the throne
in 1214. His sons, Robert and Thomas, were great patriots, and
friends of Robert the Bruce. John Semphill, the seventh of the
family, was a man of great talents and distinction. Amongst other
public transactions in which he engaged, he was one of the
Scottish commissioners appointed to negotiate with the Court of
England for tbe liberation of James L, whom he met and con-
gratulated at Durham when he was returning home. He was
made a knight by James II. about 1430. Renfrewsbire was dis-
joined from Lanarkshire in 1406, and Sir William Sempill, the
second baronet of thd family, was made Sheriff of this country, and
obtained from James III. the baronies of Ellistown, Castletown,
afterwards called Castle-Sempill, now Castle-Semple. Sir Tho-
mas Sempill was killed in 1486 at Bannockburn, in the service of
his sovereign, James III, who after a fall from his horse, was
treacherously put to death in the manner minutely and graphical-
ly described by Sir Walter Scott in his TaIes of a Grandfather.
His son, Sir John Sempill, was created Lord Sempill by James IV.
in 1488. It was this Lord Sempill who built the Collegiate-
Kirk of Lochwhynyeoch to the honour of God, and of the blessed
Virgin Mary, for the prosperity of his sovereign James IV., and
Margaret his Queen, for the soul of Margaret Colville, his former


