
                            PREMNAY.                              693

having the acclivities on both side, well cultivated, and interspers-
ed in some places with hedgerows, which, in summers have a very
lively and agreeable appearance.  The parish church stands on
the north side of the Gady, and about a mile from the east end of
the parish.  Opposite to the church on the south side of the Ga-
dy, TIllymuick rises, a bleak, lumpish hill, of no great elevation
or extent, having the lower part of the north side of it cultivated.
Still farther southward, rises the mountain of Benachie, the west
end of which lies within the boundaries of this-parish.  Although
this mountain is only about 1500 feet above the level of the sea, yet,
as it rises rather abruptly from its base, and as there are no other
hills of much elevation in its neighbourhood, it forms a very conpi-
cuous and rather interesting object in this district of country.
From its tops or paps, of which it has several, may be seen
with the naked eye, in a clear day, the German Ocean, for
many miles along the eastern coast, the Moray Frith, and the
Caithness hills beyond it.  The Brindy hill stretches along to
the westward from the foot of Benachie, cutting off a small
portion of the arable land which lies on the south side of it
from the rest of the parish, and forms part of the ridge of hills
which separates the district of Garioch from the vale of Alford,
The parish is rather destitute of growing timber, there being only
three or four small plantations within it, and these of no great value.
There are, however, some fine old beeches at Licklyhead, the old
family seat of the estate of Premnay.
   Soil and Climate.-The soil on the south side of the Gady is
various.  On the slope along the base of Tillymuick and Ben-
achie, the soil is poor and on a hard and retentive bottom.  On
the slope along the base of the Brindy, it is on a clay bottom
chiefly on a rocky or gravelly bottom, and, except in very dry
seasons, is very productive, and well adapted for the turnip hus-
bandry.  The climate is dry and early.  The extent of arable
land in the parish is about 3200 acres imperial.
   Hydrography.-The two principal streams connected with the
parish are the Gady and the Shevock.  The former enters the
parish near the church of Leslie, on the west, and continues its
course for a distance of about four miles to the eastern extremity,
and receive a number of small streams as it passes along the base
of Benachie, which swell it very rapidly in a thaw and in time
of rain.  The Shevock runs along the north side of the parish for


