
     of Rathven.

glected, claims the public attention in an eminent degree.
It is susceptible of being improved into one of the best and
safest harbours in Scotland, equal, in every respect, to Cro-
marty, except in extent.  It seems to have been moulded
by the hand of nature, for a safe and easy retreat in tem-
pestuous weather to vessels in the Moray frith, that are
unable to make Cromarty on the opposite shore.  The di-
stance between them is 60 miles due east and west.  It is
said that Government once ordered a survey of Findochtie
to be made, but from what motive I never heard.  I em-
ployed one of the fishers to take the breadth of the en-
trance into this beautiful bason, at a rock called the Bea-
con, on the west, and low-water soundings at a neap tide,
in the central point, where the water is most shallow; and
from an exact mensuration, the entrance was found to be
90 yards wide, and the water 21 feet deep.  Hence, it is
capable of receiving a ship of the line, and capacious e-
nough to contain all the vessels belonging to the Moray
frith.  Language can hardly paint it in a more advanta-
geous light than it deserves.  It attracts the observation,
and arrests the attention of every beholder.  I am well as-
sured that it might be made a most complete harbour, for

     VOL. XIII. 3 F

<FOOTNOTE>

expense, on a rock, part of his property, a bulwark, which they concei-
ved could not hurt his interest.  This petition was unfortunately pre-
sented at a time, when the Baron, by reason of a circumstance in which
be was deeply interested, took little or no concern in business of any
kind.  It has therefore, in all probability, escaped his notice, or it is
most likely, that he would have granted a request that could not possi-
bly be hurtful to him, and might be beneficial to his own people.  It is
imagined, that L. 322 would build a tolerably harbour at
the burn mouth; L. 100 would make it a good creek at all seasons; and
even L. 100 would make it safe or small craft in summer only.  Buckie,
is advantageously situated on a central part of the coast, near Keith and 
and has frequent communication with the parishes of Mort-
lach, Boharn, Botriphnic, Glass, Glenlivet and Gabrach. 
 

