
232                         HADDINGTONSHIRE.

teacher. In both schools, all the ordinary branches are taught. The
parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary or what is equivalent,
and all the legal accommodations. The expense of education is in the
parochial school, 2s. 6d. per quarter for English reading; 4s. for
writing; and 5s. for arithmetic. It is not supposed that there is any
one in the parish of a proper age who cannot read. All the young
people learn to write; nor, is it supposed that there are many, if
there be any at all, of the older inhabitants, who cannot write. Of
this a pleasing proof was afforded a few days ago, at the modera-
tion in a Call to the gentleman who has been recently presented
to the vacant charge of this parish, on which occasion upwards of
50 persons, male heads of families, in the rank of ordinary plough-
men, signed the call, in presence of the Presbytery, in a legible
and respectable hand.
   Libraries.-The only library in the parish is a branch of the
East Lothian Itinerating Libraries.
   Friendly Societies.-The only society of this nature is one to
which there are several similar in the county,-the object of
which is to assist a hind in replacing his cow, when she unfortu-
nately dies. The members pay 8s. or 10s. annually. No member is
permitted to kill his cow, even when rendered useless by accident-
al injury.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Tbe number of persons who re-
ceive parochial aid, is from 12 to 16. The average allowance to
each in ordinary circumstances, such as widows, and aged infirm
persons, is 6s. per month. The poors' funds are from weekly col-
lections at the church door, which amount to the average sum of
L. 6, 6s. per annum; from an assessment which averages L. 50 per
annum; and from the interest of L. 200 Sterling, and 400 merks
Scotch, or L. 222 Sterling, originally mortified by Lord Alexander
Hay of Spott, for behoof of the poor of the parish, which at pre-
sent amounts only to L. 5 per annum.
   Ale-houses.-There is but one ale-house now, and there was
but one at the period of the last Statistical Account; nor does it
appear that they have ever been more numerous.
   Fuel.-The fuel used in the lower district of the parish is coal,
procured at Dunbar, to which place, it is brought by sea from Eng-
land and Fife, or at the coal-pits in the western part of the coun-
ty. The former costs in general, from 7d. to 1s. per cwt., but
it varies in price; the latter costs just now at the pit 5d. per cwt.


