
354                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

taught by the regular teachers, assisted by others who cheerfully
join with them in sowing the good seed of the kingdom in the
minds of those young ones, trusting that, through God's blessing,
it will take root and bring forth fruit unto everlasting life.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor on the roll
who regularly receive assistance is 32. The funds for their re.
lief are derived from the stated Sabbath collections, the interest
of certain sums bequeathed to the kirk-session for behoof of the
poor,-the mortcloth dues, and an assessment on the heritors
and tenants. The average allowance to each pauper is rather
more than L.4, 10s. The disposition on the part of the poor to
seek relief is on the increase. Aged parents wish to ease their
children, and children to be freed from the obligation to help
their parents. There is, within the last few years, a strong ten-
dency towards a state of things that is inconsistent both with the
feelings of nature and with the law of Christ. It is proper, how-
ever, to state, that there are some honourable exceptions.
  Inns.-There are three public-houses in this parish, and one
store where malt liquor are sold, to be used off the premises.
  Fuel.-There are three coal-mines wrought in this parish, so
that the inhabitants have access to that necessary of life at a mo-
derate price.
		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

  While it affords great cause of thankfulness that the inhabi-
tants of this parish are so generally distinguished for propriety of
conduct and regularity of attendance on the public ordinances of
religion, yet there is one exception of rather a serious character.
It is no uncommon thing for married women in the lower classes
to be remiss in their attendance on the House of God. Of course,
it is admitted that there are times and circumstances in the con-
dition of families, when the mothers cannot be absent from them
without inconvenience, or perhaps injury. The notice here taken
does not apply to those occasions, but rather to times when there
is reason to fear that absence from church proceeds from coldness
or carelessness in the things of God. Neither is such remissness
peculiar to this parish. On the contrary, it is believed that it pre-
vails to a greater extent in some other parishes in this county
and perhaps also in other parts of Scotland. It is not difficult to
form some estimate of the injurious consequences to the well-being
of society, and to the prosperity of religion, which must flow from
this source. If the mothers in Israel do not themselves repair to
the pool of ordinances, that they way drink of its health-giving,


