
120			    AYRSHIRE.

in levelling a sand-bank at Content, supposed to be Roman. They
are now in the possession of Dr Memes, Rector of the Ayr Aca-
demy. There are spacious mansion-house at Auchencruive and
Craigie. Both are finely situated on the banks of the Ayr, and
the gardens and grounds at Auchencruive, laid out with much taste,
are objects of attraction to strangers.

      III.-POPULATION.
In 1755 the population of the parish of St Quivox amounted
to 499 souls. But soon after that period, Sir Thomas Wallace
of Craigie began to feu at the bridge end of Ayr, and at present,
besides an agricultural population of 1071, Wallcetown and
Content contain 4277, making in all 5348 souls. This increase
has arisen from the coal-works in the parish, and in the neigh-
bouring parish of Newton, from the general growth of the ma-
nufactures of the country, and from the demands for labourers, in
consequenses of agricultural improvements. The inhabitants of
Wallacetown and Content belong chiefly to the poorer class of
Irish settler, and consist of colliers, labourers, and weavers em-
ployed by the manufacuturing houses in Glasgow and Paisley.
There also a considerable numbers of artisan, carters, publi-
cans, and shopkeepers, besides an undue proportion of strangers
from Ireland, who have only a precarious means of subsistence,
and are induced to take up their temporary abode here, by the
cheapness of lodging, and the liberaty of the public of Ayr in
supplying their wants.
	There are only five proprietors of land, all of the yearly value
of L. 50 and upwards,-and Mr Oswald and Mr Campbell are
the only residing heritors,

<TABLE>
         numbers of families in the parish,                         1145
                         chiefly employed in agriculture,            162
                                 trade, manufacture, or handicraft   479

      IV.-INDUSTRY.
	The whole of the parish is in tillage, with the exception of about
250 acres covered with plantation of various ages, consisiting of
the ordinary kinds of forest trees, which are carefully thinned, and
are in thriving condition.
  Rent.-The average rent of land may be stated at about L. 2,
5s. per acre. The grazing of a milch cow is from L. 4 to L. 5;
a two years old L. 2; L. 1, 10s.
  Live stock.-The Ayrshire breed of cattle are in feneral use,
being preferred even for fattening, as it beleived that they rise
to more weight in proportion to the food they consumes, and are
			       3


