
	1148                       PERTHSHIRE.

	sion, Relief, and Original Secession.  Divine service in the Es-
	tablished Church is generally well attended.  The number of
	cotnmunicants is between 600 and 700.
	   Education.-There is one parochial school and two unendowed
	schools.  All the usual branches of education, with Latin, Greek,
	and French, are taught at the parochial school.  The salary of
	the schoolmaster is the maximum, L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d., and the
	amount of school-fees is about.  L.70.  He has the legal accom-
	modation undoubtedly, viz. two rooms, including a kitchen, but
	little more.  The school-room is also bad, in point of size, situa-
	tion, ventilation, and repair.   A majority of the heritors are at
	present desirous of building a new one.
	   Charitable Institutions.-There are two Friendly Societies, one
	of masons, the other of gardeners.   Both have for their object,
	the granting assistance to members during sickness, and an an-
	nuity to their widows or children, when destitute.  A small sum
	is given also to defray ftiiieral expenses.  There are about 50
	members belonging to the one and 80 to the other.  There is al-
	so a Ladies' Society for assisting Indigent Old Women.  To these
	a small monthly allowance is given.
           Savings Bank.  A Savings Bank in terms of the Act of Parlia-
	ment regulating these institutions, was opened in 1839.  It pro-
	mises to answer well the purpose for which it is intended.  Since
	its commencement, the sums paid into it amount to L.2220; those
        taken out to L. 1145, leaving a balance in the bank of L. 1075.
           Poor and Parochial Funds.  The number of persons receiving
	a stated allowance from the poor's funds, during the last year, was
	48.  These received, on an average, 5s. per month.  Those who
	received occasional aid amounted to 19.   About L. 20 was dis-
	tributed among them.  There are, besides, three lunatics in the
	Dundee Asylum.  For these, about L. 54 is paid per annum.
	The sum required for the maintenance of the poor is provided for
	by a voluntary assessment among the heritors, and by the collec-
	tions at church door, mortcloth dues, &c.  The assessment for
	the last eight or nine years has been voluntary.     Previously to
	that time, it was compulsory.  But at the period mentioned, with
	the view of getting quit of an assessment altogether, it was pro-
	posed a nd unanimously agreed to by the heritors, that they should,
	by voluntary assessment, maintain the whole of the poor at that
	time on the roll; leaving the kirk-session to provide, from the
	collections and other funds, for those who subsequently to that
					4


