

     220                 ADDITION TO THE ACCOUNT OF

     at this mill, nor, I believe, at any other mill in the county,-but a
     kiln is an appendage to every farm-house and also to every manse.

                              III.-POPULATION.
          It is stated in the old Account that, "although there are up-
     wards of fifty farmers who pay from L. 6 to L. 12 Sterling of
     yearly rent, and who have brought up from five to ten children of
     both sexes, yet there are not four of them who have the assistance
     of a son at home of twenty years of age.  From fifteen to that age,
     the youths, from a disposition to leave their native country, take to
     a sea-faring life, and most of them never return," and it is added,
     that " the females give material assistance in farm-work."  The
     case is much the same at present.  It is to be observed, however,
     that this continual emigration of the young men proceeds not
     merely from a restless disposition which disinclines them to settle
     at home, but it is with them a case of necessity-there being no
     employment in the farm for them.  Most of the youth have
     no other means of living but engaging as hands on board of
     coasting-vessels and revenue-cutters, or vessels trading to the Bal-
     tic and foreign countries, and few of them ever return.  The po-
     pulation must in this way be, at least, kept stationary.
          Every householder, both tenant and cottar, has a share of a
     fisbing-boat, by which he supplies his family with fish of various
     kinds. The coal-fish, termed here, when young, sillocks, and
     when a year old, keuths, furnish both agreeable food and excel-
     lent oil, and are found quite at band in the Sound, a little off from
     the sbore, most part of the year ; and on going out of the
     Sound, a mile or two eastward of Roseness, there is found abun-
     dance of haddocks, cod, ling, skate, flounders, balibut, &c.
          It is only with a view to domestic provision, however, that any
     engage in fishing.  None are fishers by profession.  They are a
     community of small farmers, with such a proportion of the ordi-
     nary handicrafts among them of shoemakers, tailors, smiths, car-
     penters, &c. as can find sufficient employment.

                                 IV.-INDUSTRY.
          Agriculture.-From the period at which the old Account was
     drawn up (1795) to 1829, agriculture had been making slow advan-
     ces beyond a rude state.  The plough with one stilt-the harrows
     with wooden teeth, bad gradually given place to better, implements.
     But the sowing of oats and bear in uninterrupted succession, without
     any alternation of green crop, except a trifling extent of potatoes,
     continued still to be the general practice.  A change of seed was


