
668			AYRSHIRE.

that is water; the village being shut in from the sea by the inter-
vening hills, while there is scarcely a stream deserving the name
of a rivulet in the parish. This defect, however, tells more upon
the eye than upon the comfort of the inhabitants; for, the soil be-
ing generaIly retentive, excepting towards the shore, springs are
everywhere abundant, and the water is in general good, though in
some places strongly impregnated with carbonate of iron.
	Climate.--There is nothing very remarkable or peculiar in this
respect, beyond what is characteristic of the district in which the
parish is situate. We are not quite sure that it will altogether jus-
tify the wit of the English gentleman, who, having procured a few
Ayrshire cows, declared, "that he was obliged to have water pour-
ed over them daily to preserve their health," but it is certainly
very moist. As a compensation, however, it has the advantage
of being proportionably mild, so that snow seldom lies for any
length of time; and, upon the whole, it may be considered as fa-
vourable to health and longevity.
	Geology.--The parish, as a whole, belongs to the coal-forma-
tion, and constitutes a part of the great coal measures of Ayrshire.
Freestone, of course, is found in abundance. There are only two
places, however, where it is wrought, at Craiksland and Collennan.
The quarry at Craiksland yields a very fine and durable stone,
which may be raised of almost any size. As there is little demand
for it in the neighbourhood, it is chiefly exported, and in consider-
able quantities, to Ireland, for purposes of ornamental architecture.
A steam-engine has lately been erected at the quarry, for sawing it
into slabs for pavement, which has succeeded according to expecta-
tion. On the estate of Curreath, hone-stone is found in abundance,
and is said to be of a very superior quality. But it has never been
wrought to any extent, though liberal offers have been made to the
proprietor to this etfect. Immediately above the hone, there is
the appearance of a small seam of black chalk, but whether it
exists in any quantity has not been ascertained. Coal, for a great
number of years, has been wrought to a considerable extent in two
places in the parish--Shewalton, and Old Rome; formerly called
Rumford. At the latter work, the depth of the shaft is 37 fa-
thoms, and cuts through four different seams, which, lie in the fol-
lowing order:
	At the bottom of the shaft is a seam of blind or charred coal,
3 feet 4 inches in thickness; 13 fathoms above, there is one of
common coal, of the same thickness; 8 fathoms above that, one of



