
               RAFFORD.                              251

  It would appear, that, about this is time, the family settled at Al-
tyre, inasmuch as, that, in 1398, Alexander Comyn is witness to
an excambion of the lands of Mondole, Balnageith, &c. for the
lands of Leuchars in Fife, by the Duke of Albany. 1408, Alex-
ander Cumyne gives a band man rent to Thomas Dunbar Earl of
Moray, for his guid will to his marriage with his sister Euphemia.
In 1456, Thomas Comyn surrendered the mill of Altyre to the
Prior of Pluscarden, on being threatened with excommunication,
though he had always been informed that it previously belonged
to him, jure hereditario.
  In 1672, Robert Cuming, laird of Altyre, gave his band to the
Council of Scotland, for the peace of the Highlands.
  In 1657, he married Lucy Gordon, daughter of Sir Ludovick
of Gordonston, through whom the estate of Gordonston devolved
on Alexander Penrose Cumming of Altyre, on the death of Sir
William Gordon of Gordonston, Bart. in 1795.
  He thereupon assumed the name and arms of Gordonston, and
was created a Baronet of Great Britain in 1804.  This succession
was afterwards confirmed by the House of Lords, after a long and
ineffectual litigation.  The family is now represented by Sir Wil-
liam G. G. Cumming, his son.
  There is a hill at Altyre which still goes by the name of the
Gallow-Hill, where, in former times, the sentences passed at the
Baron Court of Altyre were executed.  An examination of the
"Barron Court" Book serves, however, to show that the proceed-
ings partook more of the observance of form and of dispassionate.
endeavours to investigate the truth than we are wont to ascribe to
this court, and that, although punishment was inflicted in a way so
prompt and summary as to stand in bold contrast with the lenity
of the judicial code of this day, yet the accused was not altogether
without protection.  They do not appear to have attained to the-
perfection of "Jeddart justice."  We subjoin a judgment of the
"Barron Court of Altyre, holden near the place thereof, be the
Right Honorable Alexander Cuming of Altyre, and William Cum-
ing, younger of Craigmiln, his bailzie, upon the 16th day of Sep-
tember 1697 years.  "John Macgillichallom, theiff and robber,
haveing been indicted, as within written, and haveing acknowledged,
as is within espresst, the persons of assyze finding him guiltie, the
sds judges appoints and decerns the said pannell to be hanged
upon Teusday next to the death, upon the gallowes erected upon
the Gallow Hill of Altyre, and yt betwixt the hours of two and four

