
                                   CULLEN.                             325

   himself one of the most substantial benefactors of his species. His
   Lordsbip died at Cullen House, 3d November 1770, in the fiftysixth
   year of his age.
     Sir James Clark, Bart., First Physician to Her Majesty, is a
   native of this parish ; and, at the parochial school of the neighbouring
   parish of Fordyce, received the elements of that education,
   which, by successful cultivation, has deservedly raised him to
   the highest professional eminence.  Although he has been long
   absent from the place of his nativity, he has uniformly evinced a
   lively interest in its welfare, by frequent and substantial acts of beneficence ;
   and to his friendship, not a few of his countrymen have
   been mainly indebted, for their prosperity in life.
     Land-owner.-The Earl of Seafield is proprietor of the whole
   parish, with the exception of nine and a half Scotch acres, mortified
   for charitable and educationa purposes.  There are few parishes in
   Scotland so fortunate in their proprietary as Cullen.  His Lordship,
   who resides chiefly at Cullen House, deservedly sustains the
   character of a patriot and philanthropist, in the true and proper
   meaning of the terms; evincing the most lively interest in the improvements
   not only of the lands in his own natural possession, but
   in every part of his princely estates, and stimulating the exertions
   of his tenantry, by the most liberal yet judicious encouragement.
     Parochial Registers.-These have been well preserved, and are
   in good order.  With the exception of a hiatus of eight years, viz.
   from 1762 to 1770, the records of the kirk-session contain an uninterrupted
   history of its proceedings, from 1640 down to the present
   time.  The register of baptisms and marriages commences in
   1682, and is quite complete from that date.
     Antiquities.-On the eastern bank of the water of Cullen, and
   overhanging the Sea-town, an eminence, called the Castle hill,
   rises in a conical form, to the height of upwards of 200 feet above
   the level of the sea.  In remote ages, it appears to have been
   crowned with a vitrified castle or fort, which had been guarded by
   a triple wall and ditch.  These have long since been demolished,
   but traces of them are yet distinctly visible. This castle, like
   many others along the coast, has been the subjec to of much speculation
   among antiquaries and historians.  They appear to have
   been, in general, situated upon promontories, mounvtains and other
   lofty eminences.   Their massive walls were cemented with vitrid
   matter, (instead of lime), which is alleged to have been produced
   by a powerful heat and flux, (perhaps. kelp), and which, falling

