
		     BORROWSTOWNNESS.			      135

   The inhabitants of Bo'ness are in general shrewd, intelligent,
and enterprising; and, as many of them are early trained to the
sea, natives of the parish may be found in the most distant parts,
of the world. The farmers on the barony of Kinneil are a most
respectable and exemplary part of the community. The general
character of the colliers has improved much of late years.
		     IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The Duke of Hamilton is proprietor and superior of the whole
parish, with the exception of a farm of 169 imperial acres, morti-
fied for behoof of the minister.
   Aqricultre.-Excepting the natural wood near Kinneil House,
the wooded banks of the Avon, and various strips of planting in-,
tersecting the parish for ornament or shelter, the whole surface is
arable. The average rental my be stated as follows:

<TABLE>
	 430 acres of carse land, at L.3, 3s. per acre,  L.1354 10 0
	2230 acres of dryfield, at L. 1, 16s. do.          4014  0 0
	 270 acres under plantation at 12s. do.             162  0 0
	2930            Total	.	.	.	.L.5530 10 0

   The whole valuation of the parish stands in the cess-books of
the county at L.3559, 8s. Scots.
   The carse land is of excellent quality. The dry-field consists
of various kinds of soil. The greatest part is thin, lies on a tilly
bed, and requires extensive draining, which has been, and still is,
carried on to a considerable extent on modern principles, and with
beneficial results.
   The rotation of crops for carse land is that called the six-shift
course; 1st, oats; 2d, summer-fallow; 3d, wheat; 4th, beans;
5th, barley; and, 6th, clover-grass, which is cut for hay. The
rotation for dry-field is the same, where the land is stiff, and on a
retentive bottom; but where the land is free, and not retentive of
moisture, a green drilled crop is substituted for summer fallow.
In this case, the ground remains in pasture a year or two after the
removal of the hay crop.
   Leases, &c.-Although a few are for a shorter period, the leases
are usually for nineteen years, by which means the farmer is en-
couraged to employ his capital in the improvement of his farm,
and his industry is stimulated. The farms are gendrally let upon
corn rents, convertible according to the frias prices of the county
for the crop and year for which the rents are payable. By this
mode of adjusting the rents, agricultural distress may be said to
be unknown in the parish.


