
                    OATHLAW OR FINAVON.                  299

fully situated on a bank of the south side of the Lemno, which
runs immediately at the foot of the castle. There is now remain-
ing of it little more than the two sides of a high square tower,
much rent and shattered. It does not appear to have been at any
time of great extent. The period of its erection is quite uncer-
tain. No dates are anywhere visible on its walls, but it most pro-
babl belongs to the twelfth century.
	This castle is chiefly conspicuous in the history of our country,
as the residence of that Earl of Crawford who took such an active
part in the conspiracies which were formed during the turbulent
reign of James II., and who, from his ferocity, was commonly cal-
led the "Tiger Earl." The iron spokes on which he used to
hang his prisoners are still to be seen on the castle walls. In the
year 1445, during the lhfetime of the old Earl, his father, he was
engaged in a desperate feud with the Ogilvies of Inverquharity,-a
family belonging to the neigbbouring parish. He had held for
some time the office of Justiciar or High Bailie of the Abbey of Ar-
broath; but the peaceful monks having found the "Tiger" some-
what obstreperous in his conduct, deposed him, and elected Ogilvy
of Inverquharity Justiciar in his stead. This was the occasion
of the quarrel. The Ogilvies were joined by the Earl of Huntly,
who, being at that time on a visit at Inverquharity, was obliged to
take part with his host,' in conformity to an old law of Scottish
hospitality, which obliged every visitor to do so as long as his last
meal was undigested in his stomach. The two clans of the Lind-
says and Ogilvies accordingly enecountered near Arbroath. The
old Earl of Crawford, wishing even at that late hour to avert-the
strife, galloped up between the lines to confer with the opposing
party, but was accidentally slain by a soldier, who did not know
him, and who was enraged at any one thus meddling to mar the
combat. The Crawfords, now infuriated at the death of the Earl,
fell upon the Ogilvies with increased desperation, broke their
ranks, and scattered them in great disorder. The latter resisted
so strongly that they were almost cut to pieces, and 500 men, in-
cluding m`ny of the Barons of Angus, were left dead upon the
field. The Crawfords afterwards pillaged the lands of, the Ogil-
vies, burned their castle, and took captive their women and child-
ren.
	In the year 1447. the Tiger Earl joined in a league with the
Earls of Douglas and Ross, with the intention Of opposing the


