
             COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                  291

of which a little river works its troubled way to the sea. But,
though thus generally uneven, a very marked distinction in point
of scenery is nevertheless apparent: that part of the parish lying
nearest to the sea being arable and highly cultivated, while, as it
recedes from the coast, it becomes more hilly, and is principally
adapted for pasture. This latter division of the parish may be
considered as a continuation of that subalpine tract of country
which is known by the name of the Lammermoor hills, a tract
which, extending across the island in a direction from N.E. to
S.W., terminates a little beyond the boundaries of this parish,
in the bold promontory of St Abb's. The general outline of this
hilly tract is smooth,-the hills being generally round-backed and
lumpish in their shape, none of them rising to a greater elevation
than between 500 and 600 feet, and having a direction in general
from west to east. The valleys are deep, having each a little
streamlet flowing through it, which, as it approaches the sea, be-
comes in many places exceedingly picturesque from the mingled
charms of rocks and woods, and little waterfalls. Of these val-
leys, or deans, as they are here generally named, the most remark-
able are Dunglass Dean, one-half of which is in this parish; the
Tower Dean, so named from an old castle built on the edge of it;
Edmond's Dean, in the more hilly part of the parish; and the
Pease Dean, a ravine or glen remarkable for its depth and pic-
turesque scenery, and across which was thrown about fifty years
ago, the celebrated Pease Bridge.
   The coast of this parish is throughout bold, rocky, and steep,
especially the eastern portion of it, where it merges into the hilly
range, already described as terminating in the promontory of St
Abb's Head. Along this bold sea line occur some very interesting
and striking pieces of coast scenery. Of these, one of the most
picturesque is the Cove, a little bay surrounded by precipices of
above 100 feet in height, and which, by the building of a break-
water, &c. has recently been converted into a pretty little harbour
for the protection of fishing boats. So perfectly secluded is this
little bay, and so unexpected is the scene which almost instanta-
neously opens to the view, that it uniformly produces on the mind
of the stranger an almost electrical effect of surprise and admira-
tion. A remarkably fine insulated cliff, perforated in the centre
by the action of the waves, and another lofty and magnificent rock,
bearing at a short distance so close a resemblance to an ancient
tower or cathedral, as to be very easily mistaken for such in ruins,


