
     of Carnock

   Heritors and Rents.-There are 7 great proprietors in this
parish, who pay stipend and all public burdens; besides one
small feuer, who pays only a trifle of vicarage, one large feu-
er, who pays no stipend, and a great number of others, who
have no other property but their houses, and a small spot of
ground (often less than an acre) adjoining to each.  Their
number is, therefore, uncertain and variable.  The landed
property (including that of the whole of these feuers) may
be estimated at about 1100 l. per annum*.  In this sum is
included the rent of the session on houses on the several estates;
and the rents of the gentlemens houses, inhabited or habit-
able, within the parish, may be computed at 50 L. more.
   The best arable land lets at about 20 s. per acre; in-
ferior grounds at 10 s. 12 s. and 15 s. Pasture lands let
at from 5 s. to 7 s. 6 d. The average rent of farms is a-
bout 70 L. a-year, none of them being very large, few indeed
exceeding 100 acres, and some being much less.  The size of
farms, however, and consequently the rents, are upon the in-
crease; the greater part of the arable land being now enclos-
ed, as both proprietors and tenants seem convinced of the ad-
vantage of enclosures.

     3 Q 2

<FOOTNOTE>

the kirk-session were more liberal than usual in their distributions; and our pa-
tron and principal heritor evidenced his liberality by giving two Guineas to the
poor in May 1782, and three more in December, besides his proportion of the
assessment, which amounted to upwards of seven Guineas.  By these means,
under the blessing of God, the poor of this parish were provided for, and not on-
ly prevented from rioting and mobbing, but pretty comfortably supported, till
the return of plenty superseded any farther demands upon the generosity of the
public.

*Landed property has not been very fluctuating in the parish, none having;
been disposed of within these 20 years, except tim estates of the Clune and the
Camps, which it is said, were sold at about 30 years purchase.


