
			RUTHERGLEN.                            397

The following is a list of the fairs held in Rutherglen, viz. last
Friday of April; first Tuesday of June after Trinity Sunday;
third Friday of July; third Friday of August; third Monday of
October; third Friday of November. All these dates are old
style.* On 1st of October 1670, a numerous list of market dues
were enacted, but they are all but gone out of use except for horses
and cows, which are 1 1/2d. and sheep 1/2d.
	Mill.--The only mill in the parish is the town mill, to which all
the burgh lands are astricted or sucken, at the thirlage or multure
of a fortieth part of grain seed and horse corn excepted. The mil-
ler is entitled to half a peck for bannock meal out of every six fir-
lots grinded at the mill, and the multurer or miller's servant has an
additional fee equal to one-half of the bannock meal. The mill
is supplied with water from the Bowtree pond, from 1st March
to 1st of November, and during the other months in the year the
miller has to pay the proprietor of the pond 1s. per day for the use
of the water.  For this and other reasons, the multure was given up
in 1830, and the rent of the mill, which is stated in the Municipal
Report to be L. 30, is reduced to L. 20 per annum.
	Cross and Trone.--These ancient appendages to burghs were re-
moved from the main street as incumbrances in 1777. The cross
was made of stone 14 feet high, 14 feet diameter at the base, taper-
ing to the top. The ascent round the pedestal was by twelve steps.
In 1660, Provost Robert Spens made a present to the town of an
oak tree, 18 feet high, which grew on the moor, and from a cross
beam the balances were suspended.
	Arms of the Town.--The arms of Rutherglen consist of the Vir-
gin and Babe, attended by two priests holding up thistles in their
hands. On the reverse a ship, with two mariners on board. The
Virgin has probably a reference to the church. The ship to the
navigation of the Clyde.
	Rutherglen gave the title of Earl to Lord John Hamilton, fourth
son of William and Anne, Duke and Duchess of Hamilton. He was
baptised at Hamilton 26th January 1665. His patent was dated

<FOOTNOTE>Old Style.--The old style,or the Julian Kalendar, remained till 1582, when Pope
Gregory XIII. threw ten days out of the month of October, so many having been in-
troduced into the computation since the time of the Council of Nice in 325 by the de-
fect of eleven minutes, so as to restore the equinox to it place, viz. 21st March, and
thus introduced the form of the Gregorian year with such a provision as that the
equinox should be constantly kept to the 21st of March. The kalendar, however, was
still retained in Britain without this correction, whence there was a difference of
eleven days between our time and that of our neighbours. But by 24th Geo. II.
C. 23, the Gregorian computation was established here, and accordingly took place
in 1752.


