
			STEVENSTON.                       455

breadth, containing two urns, the one of gray and the other of
black pottery. There was nothing in the urns but earth. Within
the stone coffin, they found five buttons formed of jet, and as fine-
ly polished as if they had been newly deposited. The buttons
were of different sizes; the largest more than an inch in diameter.
They were concave on one side, and convex on the other, with
knobs for attaching them. The urns were broken. The buttons
are in the possession of Colonel Hamilton.
   Old Buildings.--There are few remains of ancient buildings in
the parish. We have already mentioned the fine old ruin of Ke-
rila. Robertson mentions, on the authority of Wood's Peerage,
that some time previous to 1488, when inhabited by the Cuning-
hames, it was, in consequence of a feud, sacked by their hostile
neighbours, the Montgomeries of Eglinton; and part of it was de-
stroyed. The Cuninghames did not forget this neighbourly visit;
and forty years afterwards returned it in kind, by burning Eglinton
Castle to the ground.
   Castle Hill, on the estate of Grange, indicates by its name what
it has once been; and though every vestige of a castle at that
place is now gone, we learn from Pont, in his Account of Cun-
inghame, that the castle was spoken of in his day. And Hawk-
Hill, in the neighbourhood, we doubt not, was the place at which
many a gay galliard met, with falcon on thumb, when about to en-
gage in one of the favourite recreations of these early times.
   Strangers, in proceeding from Stevenston to Saltcoats, observe
an old castle near the shore. We blush not to tell, that it is the
remains of the engine-house, in which was erected, in 1719, the
second steam-engine that had ever been employed in Scotland, and
close on the line of the first navigated canal in Scotland! These
mark the beginnings of that career of enterprise which has so
greatly changed the face of our country, and the condition of its
inhabitants; and had progress in religion, in our beloved land,
kept pace with our rapid progress in other respects, we would
have continued to be for a name and a praise among all the nations
of the earth.  *

<FOOTNOTE>Without going so far back as the beginning of the last century, it may be worth
recording, by way of contrast to present times, and to show the homely state of Scot-
tish society eighty or ninety years ago, that a very venerable and intelligent old lady,
who died in 1824, in the ninety-third year of her age, and the sixty-seventh of her
widowhood, told the writer of this report, that when she came to Stevenston Manse,
as the minister's wife, in 1751, there was not a carpet in the whole parish, and that
she was the first who had such a luxury,--having made it for herself, by sewing to-
gether the lists or borders of cloth, which she got from cloth-merchants and tailors


