
688			AYRSHIRE.

the proximity of the place to the town of Irvine has obviously
been  the  cause.
	Inns.--The number of these would seem to a stranger rather
like a slur on the morality of the inhabitants, being not less than
50. But let it be considered that all of them, with the excep-
tion of seven, are located in the two seaport towns, and are prin-
cipally frequented by persons who do not belong to the parish.
This, however, to a philanthropist is a poor consolation, and in
any case it is to be regretted that such things should be. The
grand Turk has levelled the haunts of the opium-eater; the
heathens of China have obstinately waged war against its impor-
tation; and surely a government calling itself Christian ought not
to wake gain, both of the temporal and spiritual degradation of its
people.
	Fuel.--The parish possesses both peat and coal in abundance.
The former is little used. The latter, which is raised chiefly for
exportation, sells at 1s. a load, which weighs about four cwt., and
is of a very good quality.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	We may mention generally, under this head, that the condition
of all classes, even of the poorest, has very much improved since
the date of the former Account. An entire new town and harbour
have risen up at Troon; two railroads have been constructed;
common roads have been formed, and all much repaired; what
were little better than mud-walls have given place to substantial
stone and lime, and in many places to elegant architecture. The
comfortable, but unstable, thatch has been supplanted by slate;
the fertility of the soil, by a better system of culture, has been
inconceivably improved. Money with all ranks is much more
abundant; and all these things tell upon the comfort, as we would
hope they do upon the gratitude, of those who enjoy them. As to
the moral condition of the people, we have not the same means of
judging; but, glancing at the records which are scattered over a
period of two centuries and a-half, we find that every generation
has had its virtues and its vices, and we would suppose that the
people at present are neither much better nor worse than their
predecessors. The parish, and we think happily, is still free from
factories of every kind; the attempt referred to in the former Ac-
count having completely failed. And as a lover of those among
whom one would choose to dwell, one would say, long may such
attempts continue to fail For while agriculture and the kindred
                              6


