
          350                           BANFFSHIRE.

          convertible into money at the county flars price.  On a recent ap-
          plication by the Noble Earl to the patrons, the latter agreed to an
          excambion of the bursary land, which is now in course of being
          made. In 1764, Mr William Lorimer of St James's Parish, Lon-
          don, grandnephew of the aforesaid Mr John Lorimer, out of gra-
          titude for the benefit of his own education, upon his granduncle's
          foundation, bequeathed a sum of money sufficient to yield L.1
          yearly, to provide books for his granduncle's bursar, and also 10s.
          yearly, to the schoolmaster of Cullen, for his attention to said
          bursar. The benefit of this bursary continues for the space of
          five years.
            The aforesaid Mr William Lorimer was also the founder of a
          separate bursary, having, in 1764, bequeathed the sum of L.200
          for the education of his granduncle's bursar, if found qualified,
          and the relations of his mother, alternately, at the High School
          of Aberdeen, for one year, and, thereafter, at Marischal College,
          for four years. The foundation is under the management of the
          Magistrates and Town-Council of Aberdeen, the Principal and
          Professors of Marischal Collegge, and the Magistrates and Minister
          of Cullen. In consequence of the lack of candidates for this bur-
          sary since its foundation, the funds have accumulated to stich an
          amount, as to admit of the simultaneous education of two bursars,
          acd yielding the annual sum of L.12 to each.
             In 1721, Mr John Watson, Merchant in Edinburgh, a native
          of the parish of Cullen, bequeathed 2000 merks Scotch, for assisting
          in the education of a boy at the school of Cullen, related to him
          by father or motber,-the nearest of kin to be preferred.  The
          patronage of the bursary is vested in the kirk-session of Cullen.
          The sum originally mortified yields L.2, 2s. per annum to the
          bursar, who enjoys the benefit for the period of four years.  The
          same benevolent individual founded similar bursaries at the schools
          of Banff at id Fordyce.
             The above bequests, under judicious management, have proved
          most beneficial to the founders' relations, and have been the means
          of raising many a destitute youth to opulence and respectability.
             Parochial Library.-In 1830, a parochial library was established.
          It consists of a well-selected assortment of works, in the several
          departments of literature and science.
             Friendly Societies.-Formerly, the following friendly Societies
          existed in the. parish, viz. Innocent's Lodge of Free Masons, in-
          stitute 1808; Linen Society, instituted 1792; Wrights' Society,


