
348                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

  Eminent Men.-David Calderwood, an eminent divine and eccle,
siastical historian, was, in the latter years of his life, minister of this
parish. He lived during a very eventful -period in the History of
Scotland, and experienced largely the vicissitudes which charac-
terized those times. His attachment to Presbytery was enlighten-
ed and conscientious. This led him to oppose with great firmness
the attempts that were made to introduce Episcopacy into Scotland.
A rather amusing account is given of a conversation which King
James had with him, when summoned to appear before the commis-
Sion court that sat at St Andrews. Mr Calderwood maintained his
own principles with great propriety, and resisted all the attempts
of the King to win him by persuasion or overawe him by authority.
For this conduct lie was first imprisoned, and then sent into ba-
nishmnent. The country to which he removed was Holland, where
he resided for six years. While there, he published in 1623 his
celebrated treatise, entitled " Altare Damascenum," the object of
which was to expose the insidious means by which the polity of
the English Church had been intruded upon Scotland. After
the death of King James, Calderwood returned to Scotland,
and resided at Edinburgh in a private manner for many years, com-
piling a history of the Church of Scotland from the death of
James V. to that of James VI. He attended the celebrated as-
sembly at Glasgow in the year 1638,-where his acquaintance
with the constitution and records of the Church were of great ser-
vice. About this time be resumed his proper functions as a mi-
nister, and was settled in this parish, where he continued to labour
faithfully till a short time before his death. He was a member
of the committee for drawing up the Directory for public worship.
An abstract of his Church History was published under the care
of the General Assembly.
  Mr Robert Douglas, another minister of this parish, was a very
distinguished man. The first public notice taken of him is as
chaplain to a brigade of auxiliaries sent over to Germany from
Scotland, to aid the Protestant cause under Gustavus Aldolphus.
He continued a considerable time with the army of that celebrated
commander, who said of him, that Mr Douglag might have beed
counsellor to any Prince in Europe; for prudence and knowledge,
he might be Moderator to a General Assembly; and for military
skill said he, " I would very freely trust my army to his conduct."
   Mr Douglas returned to Scotland, and was one of the ministers
of Edinburgh, in 1641. Two years after this time, he was ap-


