
136                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.


cleared of water by manual labour, and Cumbernauld by an inge-
nious hydraulic machine; but I apprehend that, ere long, some
more powerful means for removing the water will be found to
be necessary. The dip in both is east and south-east. The
lime strata, for properly speaking there are three strata, or the
lime post, is between 8 and 9 feet in thickness, lying between an
indurated freestone and blaise; on the east, it is cut off by a whin
dike; and on the west it is separated from the coal districk by a
ridge of sandstone. About 20 fathoms below the limestone,
there is a stratum of coal not worked; but as the parish lies on
the boundaries of the coal fields, which stretch into Fife on
the east, and into Lanarkshire and Ayrshire on the south and
west, coal is found in different parts of the parish, but chiefly
of that sort called smithy coal. At the Hirst, near to the free-
stone quarry above-mentioned, it is worked to a very conside-
rable extent. About 1400 tons will be the average output.
Much of it is made into coke or char for the public works in Glas-
gow, &c. About two tons of coal will make one ton of char. This
mine is horizontal, the coal seem from 12 to 18 inches thick.--the
dip south-east, is level free. The depth of this mine from the
surface is from 27 to 37 fathoms. Large coal is found at a greater
depth, and is wrought to a small extent only, not being of a good
quality, It is supposed, however, that, by sinking to a greater
depth, coal of a superior quality will be found. Near to this, on
the farm of ironstone wrought by them to a small extent, but this
mineral is found in various other places of the parish.
  Botany.--Among the few rare plants to be found here, we may
mention Ivy-leaved duckmeat, Lemna trisulca, on the banks of
the Forth and Clyde canal; Alexanders, Smyrnium Olusatrum, at
the back o' Bog; rosebay willow herb, Epilobium angustifolium,
Cochlearia Armoracia, horse-radish.
  Of plantations, there may be above 500 acres; consisting of oak,
ash, elm, beach, lime, plane, alder, horse and sweet chestnut, pop-
lars, spruce, larch, &c. which beautify, shelter, and fertilize the
country. Holly thrives well, and grows to a large size; and there are
some very fine trees of a large size near to Cumbernauld House;
and in the Vault glen there are some larch trees planted soon after
the introductions of that tree into Scotland, of great height and
girth; also some very fine specimens of the Spanish chestnut.
  In some favoured spots, apple, plum, pear, and cherry trees, yield


