

       	    PARISH OF PENICUIK.

PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

    THE REV.  W. SCOTT MONCRIEFF, MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND, NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.*-THIS parish seems, of old, to have been dedicated to
St Mungo, whose memory still lingers about a copious spring, hard
by the church; and the same thing is attested by some old inscrip-
tions upon its monuments.  How, or when, the worthy saint became
connected with the parish, does notappear.  The name which it bears
at present has long, however, distinguished it, and is probably as
ancient as the other, as it betrays a Gaelic or rather British origin;
--probably the latter appellation belonged to the barony, and the
former to the church.  The present parish includes two other, which
were annexed to it in the year 1635, viz. that of Mount Lothian to
the east, and St Catherine's to the north-west.  The vestiges, for
they can scarcely be called ruins, of both the ancient churches
may still be traced,--at leastmight have been so,till a few years since,
when the remains of the latter were submerged in the waters of
the Edinburgh Water Company's reservoir.  Mount Lothian,
(Mons Laodiniae) frequently, but as appears from the Latin, er
roneously written Monk's Lothian, was a chapelry belonging; to
the Abbey of Holyrood, whose monks kept their flockson its rich
and extensive pasturage; hence the corrupt name frequently given
to it, of Monk's Lothian.  A very curious account of the church of

<FOOTNOTE>In, the former Statistical Account, the name is said to signify - In Gaelic, the
Cuckoo's hill, (Beann-na-cuaig.)  It is more probably, however, derived from the
British Penyeog or Penyeoc, which has the same meaning. In Cornwall there is a
village which bears a similar name; there it is spelt Penkuke.  Serveral places in the
neighbourhood are named from the Cuckoo, for example, Cukeu, Gowkley; and
Cockpen, the name borne by a neighbouring parish, is plainly of similar origin.  For-
merly the parish and barony were co.extensive. In the ancient taxation, the churhc is
rated at twenty marks.  From the tweltfth centry to the Reformation, it continued
an independent parsonage, the advowson of which seems to have belonged to the
Lord of the Manor.  In Baginmont's roll, as it was under James V., the rectory of
Peniok was taxed at L. 8.  In the Scoto-Saxon period, the manor was held by a fa-
mily, who assumed their surname from it, and were patrons of the church. In 1296
Hugh de Penieok swore fealty to Edward I.  This family retained the barony till
the seventeenth century, when it passed by purchase into that of the Clerks, in whom
it is entailed..


