
			KIRKPATRICK-IRONGRAY.             267

   The Cairn skirts this parish on the north, for upwards of six
miles, forming, as already stated, the boundary between it and
Holywood in that direction, and adding greatly to the beauty of
the landscape by its wooded banks, its numerous windings, and
"its waves that sweetly glide." When joined by the Auld water,
it takes the name of Cluden, and, after leaving lrongray, sweeps
along the northern border of Terregles for about a mile, and then
falls into the Nith, where the silent and venerable towers of the
Abbey of Lincluden stand. It is easily forded, except after heavy
rains, when it overflows its banks, and lays many of the adjacent
fields under water. It abounds with trout `nd par, and in their
season, with fry, grilse, &c., and is considered an admirable fishing
stream.
	Mineralogy.--The rocks are whinstone, slate, freestone, and
pudding-stone.  Whinstone and slate of the greywacke spe-
cies, compose the hills in the upper and middle district. The
dip of the rock is from north to south, facing the south, with an
angle of slight inclination. Freestone is to be found in various
parts of the farms of Inglestone, Gateside, and Cluden, and forms
the bed of the river a little below Cluden Mills. Above the
mills, pudding-stone prevails, forming also the bed of the stream
for upwards of a mile.
	Soils.--The soil where freestone is found is of a light sandy
nature well adapted to the growing of turnip and barley, which
are cultivated to a considerable extent on the large and best ma-
naged firms. That on the slaty part is of a gravelly description,
also well adapted to the culture of turnip and barley. The soil
where whinstone prevails, is of wet quality, having a subsoil of
hard impenetrable till, a mixture of clay, sand, and gravel. The
alluvial soils are of small extent, being confined to the immediate
vicinity of the river. Underneath them at various depths; from
five to ten feet, as also in many boggy parts of the parish, trees
of different kinds are found, principally the oak, alddr birch and
fir, (Pinus sylvestris,) facts which prove that the latter tree,
though not now, once was a native of the south of Scotland, and
that several ages must have passed away, since they were depo-
sited there. Marl, which was formerly used in considerable
quantities as manure, and forms perhaps part of the strata of the
parish, is to be met with in some of the bogs. It is now disused,
having been superseded by lime and bones, which are nearly as
cheap, and far less exhausting to the land.


