
818                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

south, by Skene; on the west, by Cluny; and on the north,
north-east, and north-west, by the river Don, and by a tributary
of the Don, named the burn of Ton, which divide it from the pa-
rishes of Monymusk, Chapel of Garioch, and Inverury.
   Rivers.-The Don and the burn of Ton.  The former used to
abound throughout in excellent salmon.  A very great proportion
is now intercepted by the stake-nets and cruives at and near the
mouth of the river.
   Surface and Soil.- The surface of this parish is rather flat up-
on the whole.  The greater part of the soil is a light mould, lying
on sand.  We have alluvial lands on the banks of the Don and the
Ton, which are a fine rich loam, deep, and free from stones; but
they are not of great extent.  The soil of our rising grounds is,
for the most part, bedded on clay, and is generally observed to
improve in richness and fertility as the plough ascends to the
highest point of elevation.
   There was, in Kemnay, a very considerable extent of peat-moss;
but by much the greater part of it has been consumed in fuel, and
converted by draining into corn-land.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-We have seven volumes of parochial re-
gisters, five of which are very thin, the oldest beginning with the
year 1660.  They seem to have been regularly kept, and the
volumes themselves are in sufficient preservation, and are all le-
gible.  The two first contain a register of burials, which appears
to have been discontinued early in the last century.
   Antiquities.-The only remains of antiquity that are extant in
this parish are, 1. a long stone set on end, whose height is 11 1/2 feet
above ground, and its mean girth about 9 feet, quite in the state in
which it was found in the earth and, 2. that sort of repository for
the remains of the dead which is called a cestvaen, about 5 feet in
length and 2 feet wide, fenced on the four sides below ground
with four stones, and covered with a broad piece of granite (all
the stones being undressed,) and containing a broken urn of burn-
ed clay and a few human bones.  It was accidentally uncovered
by the plough.

                         III.-POPULATION.

<TABLE>
	        Amount of population in   1801,   .    583
                                        1811,   .    541
                                        1821,   .    657
                                        1831,   .    616
                                        1841,   .    626


