
                       NORTHMAVING.                       77

those who are considered good farmers among the people, know
nothing about draining, or the process of fallowing. Indeed, fal-
lowing is impossible,-for all the land that the poor people have,
must be turned over from year to year, for the support of their fa-
milies,-it is so very small. Perhaps there are not a dozen of
fields in the whole parish properly drained ; and no lands here
have undergone the process of irrigation.
   There is, however, a number of impediments which prevent the
land from being cultivated and improved as it might be, in this
country. Very few of the farmers have money or capital, and none
are willing to layout in the improvement of the soil to pay the expense
of keeping servants for that purpose, or purchase the necessary
implements of husbandry. Very few of the farmers have leases.
They are all, for the most part, tenants at will. They may be
removed by the landlord or proprietor, when he pleases, and they
may remove themselves from the lands, when they think proper.
As they cannot tell, therefore, how long they may occupy the
lands, they have no spirit or desire for improvement, as they may in
a short time be possessed by another. Another impediment is the
want of good enclosures and good roads. As they are, in general,
tenants at will, and have no leases, they are very careless about
making good enclosures. There are very few stone fences. For
the most part, the fences are built of turf, and it requires one of no
ordinary kind to prevent the Zetland sheep from molesting and
destroying the crops in their season. Every year, the poor people
sustain a loss, more or less severe, on this account; and those
who have bad fences, require to keep a number of dogs for the pro-
tection of their property. Again, the ling and herring-fishery is
another impediment. With a few exceptions, every farmer is a fisher-
man, and every fisherman a farmer. During the summer season,
therefore, when the men are at sea, the crops, cattle, &c. are left to
the care and management of women and children, who, I dare say,
do the best they can. But it is to be supposed, that, if a division
of these two employments could be effected in some way or other,
the land would be improved and cultivated to better advan-
tage, than it has hitherto been.
   The Shetland spade is almost the only instrument of husbandry
used by the people, and three or four or five persons turn over the
earth, or peat as they call it, at the same time, and they make
more progress than a stranger would suppose; but they commonly
turn it over down hill, so that the earth falls from the spade very.


