
                   PARISH OF MAXTON.

     PRESBETERY OF SELKIRK, SYNOD OF MERSE, AND TIVIOTDALE.

            THE REV. JOHN THOMSON, MINISTER.


            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-MACCUS was a person of some note in the reign of Da-
vid I. betwixt the years 1116 and 1147. His tun or manor was
called Maccus-ton, afterwards Mackiston, and now Maxton.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-The parish of Maxton is in figure
nearly an oblong. Its extreme length is about 4 miles, and its
greatest breadth nearly 3; but its square contents do not much ex-
ceed 7 miles. It lies on the south bank of the Tweed, and is one
gentle slope towards that river, which runs 3 1/2 miles along its north-
ern boundary. The parish of St Boswell's bounds it on the north-
west, the parish of Ancrum on the west, and Roxburgh on the
south and east.
   Hydrography.-Except the Tweed there is not a stream in the
parish; but there is no want of fine perennial springs,-though the
inhabitants have not hitherto profited much by this circumstance,
their habitations being in no instance placed within reach of them.
The water commonly used is drawn from wells from fifteen to thir-
ty feet deep; and having percolated through clay, the water is al-
ways very hard.
   The Tweed runs here on a bed of reddish sandstone, which also
makes its appearance in the steep banks, and serves for building,
though much of it does not stand well exposure to the weather.
Masses of whinstone rise in three or four places on the banks of
the river; and in the southern parts of the parish, this stone abounds,
both as rock and in rolled blocks on the surface, which make ex-
cellent road-metal, being excessively hard, and binding well when
broken small.
   Soil.-On many acres in the southern and highest part of the pa-
rish, the soil is thin, wet, and unproductive. The sub-soil is a stiff
retentive till, mixed with stones. The northern, and by far the
largest part, is of a much better quality, and bears heavy crops of


