
994                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

George Crichton of Little Forg; Alexander Con of Auchry;
Thomas Con, his Son; John Grant of Ballindalloch; Patrick Grant
of Dalvey; and John Irvine in Turreff. Through the lapse of
time, the structure, consisting of an upright pillar of hewn stone,
raised on a pedestal of circular steps, and measuring 20 feet from
the ground to the top, had become almost ruinous; but, with a
due regard for this remnant of antiquity, it was last year repaired,
with a slight alteration on its form, and may now long remain to
mark a spot which, perhaps, in a former age, had been of no mean
importance.
   Mansion-Houses, &c.-Delgaty Castle, the residence of Gene-
ral the Honourable Sir Alexander Duff, is a fine specimen of an
old baronial mansion. This ancient and vederable pile, which is
situated on the eastern side of the parish, has been built at diffe-
rent periods.  One of the dates of its erection is 1579.  The ori-
ginal style is still happily preserved; and, while it exhibits all the
grandeur of a feudal age, now affords, under its gallant and hos-
pitable occupant, all the comforts, conveniences, and refinements
of modern times.  It consists of a lofty castellated square build-
ing, 66 feet high.  The walls are 7 feet 4 inches thick, with col-
lonades and wings recently and judiciously attached. The view
from the top of the castle is commanding, the grounds tastefully
laid out, the gardens extensive, and the greenhouse rich with
choice flowers and plants. There is a lake well stocked with fish,
and a small island in its centre, approached by a rustic bridge, all in
such excellent keeping as to render Delgaty one of the most beau-
tiful seats in Aberdeenshire. The rooms are spacious and hand-
somely furnished, particularly the two drawing-rooms, one of which
is 34 feet in lenght by 20 feet in breadth, and the other 24 by
14 feet, and connected by folding doors. There are a few good
paintings by ancient masters; and two portraits, one of Alexander
last, Earl of Fife, and another of his second son, Sir Alexander
Duff, which are good likenesses.
   Hatton Castle, the seat of Garden Duff, Esq. lies on the south-
east side of the parish, and is delightfully situated. It is a very
substantial and commodious edifice, of a quadrangular form, with
corner turrets. A remnant of the ancient residence of the pro-
prietors of Balquholly was preserved when the castle was complet-
ed in 18l4; and, while its outward appearance is handsome and
attractive, the internal accommodation is no less convenient and ele-


