
                             MORVERN.                         181

as will hereafter appear, have materially altered the state of the
country, and the condition of its inhabitants.
   The valued rent of the parish amounts to L.256, 19s. 11d.  Five
of the proprietors farm their own estates, and from this circum-
stance the actual rental cannot be so accurately ascertained.  It
may, however, be rated at or about L. 5700 Sterling per annum,
The following is a list of the land-owners, according to their re-
spective valuations: John Sinclair, Esq. of Lochalin; Mrs Beattie,
of Glen Morvern; Alexander Stewart, Esq. of Glen Crebisdale ;
Sir Charles Gordon of Drimnin; James Alexander, Esq. of, Lid-
desdale; John Gregorson, Esq. of Ardtornish ; Patrick Sellar of
Ach-a-charm; John M'Laine, Esq. of Killundin; Dugald Mac-
Lachlan, Esq. of Laudle; H. Graham, Esq. of Achrannich; Char-
les H. Forbes, Esq. of Kengerloch.
   His Grace the Duke of Argyle is patron of the parish.
Parochial Registers.-The parish registers are regularly kept,
but they do not extend to a very early period, nor are they volu-
minous.
   Antiquities.-St Columba, in the good old times of church ex-
tension, founded a religious establishment in Morvern; a circum-
stance which still gives to its locality the name of Kiel-challum-
chille.
   The legends of the country to which is is found necessary so
often to refer, affirm that the revered saint and his zealous coadju-
tor Kilmaluag, had visited Lismore, and they narrate a very strange
dialogue held by them as to the propriety of forming an establish-
ment ia that island, interesting only from its fertility.  The result
was, that the undertaking was for the time abandoned, and that
their attention was directed towards Morvern.  They crossed
Loch Linnhe, and, on gaining the summit of the eminence com-
manding a view of the Morvern coasts, St Columba at once paus-
ed, and planting his foot on a rock on which he left its indelible
impression, pointed to Kiel, and exclaimed " There is the place."
Whether we believe this legend in whole or in part, it appears
that the establishment in question was actually founded by the ve-
nerable saint, who, if guided by liis sense of the beautiful, was in
this instance successful.  It is probable, however that, while this
establishment was founded by St Columba, the several buildings,
the ruins of which, consisting of two very striking arches, are still
to be seen, were erected at a much later period, contemporaneous,
it may have been, with those of Iona.  In immediate proximity to
                               4


