
         516                             PERTHSHIRE.

         nominally vested by the superiors with all now remainr of that
         formidalbe power, that was so rigorously exercised by the higher
	vassals of the crown in the former days; but the exercise of their
	power in little move than nominal.  It is also true that a Justice
	of Peace Court is regularly held on the first Monday of every
	month fnr the settlement of small debts, and the punishment of
	minor offences; but there are many irregularities of which no cog-
	nizance is taken, and which it would be much better to prevent
	than to punish.  And it is likewise true, that there bailie, who take
	charge of the public affairs of the town, and who are sometimes
	denominated the town council; but there is no regular magistracy,
	-no properly constituted civil authority,-and (with the excep-
	tion of one individual, who is employed by the committee, and
	left to discharge, as he can, a duty for which a considerable
	number would be necessary,) no police at all. This desideratum
	is likely to be soon supplied; for Criefs is one of those places for
	which the Legislature intend to provide a regular magistracy.  And
	it is to be hoped that a regular police will be considered as an in-
	dispensable appendage.
	   Means of Communication.-Crieff is a post-;town; and the gross
	annual revenue derivable from the Crieff post-office, on an ave-
	rage of the last three years, may be stated at L. 740.  The
	public roads in the parish and neighbourhood are excellent.
	The Tay-Bridge Road, through Glenalmond, is perharps the
	finest specimen of hill-country road-making in the whole country.
	And, besides the mail, a stage-coach passes and repasses be-
	tween Perth and Stirling every lawful day, while an arrangement
	is made for conveying the passengers to Glasgow by the Canal.
	There is also a coach from Crieff to Edinburgh, by Gleneagles,
	every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday; and it returns from Edin-
	burgh to Crieff on the alternate days.  Three carriers leave this
	for Glasgow, and two for Edinburgh, (the one by Stirling and
	the other by Dumferline,) every week.  Two carrier leave, for
	Perthy twice every week.  And weekly carrier come from Comrie
	Killit, and Aberfeldy.
	   " The rivers are all furnished with stone bridges, generally
	built by the voluntary contributions of the country.  That of Crieff
	was she innoved stone bridge ever thrown over the Earn. It con-
	sists of fode large arches; and was built out of the vacant stipend


