
     Statistical Account

   Among the advantages formerly mentioned which this
parish enjoys, may be added its vicinity to lime; but, not-
withstanding of the acknowledged advantages arising from
lime to land, the farmers here have not generally (as yet)
availed themselves of it, One disadvantage which this place
labours under, (and which was specified above), is the ex-
action of services; but there is another grievance under
which the farmers groan, and which calls loudly for redress,
and that is the payment of multure.  The tenants are thirled
to the mills, and pay a high multure, which is a great bar to
improvement.  By thirlage a forced employment is given to
mills, for which there would be no demand, if things were
left to their natural course.  Though the generality of the
country around is fitter for sheep pasture than tillage yet no
less than four corn-mills are found on the Water of Tarth,
all in the space of about a mile and a half, two of which are
situated within this parish.

<FOOTNOTE>

More than 30 years ago there was found in the Mount-hill
a clay urn full of bones, which was surrounded with four broad
stones, and covered with a stone on the top There was lately
found at the bottom of the same hill, a stone coffin about 4 1/2
feet long, 2 1/2 feet wide, and 2 1/2 feet deep Its bottom was gra-
vel the sides built of several stones, and the cover one entire
stone.  The body was not lying at full length, as, by the size of
the bones, it appeared to have been about 6 feet long The
bones appeared entire when first discovered; but, upon being
exposed to the air, and lifted up by the hand, they crumbled
to dust.  There was found among the bones three flint stones,
one resembling a halbert, another of a circular form, and the
third cylindrical.  The first is supposed to be the antient wea-
pon called the stone cell, the other were two kinds of warlike
instruments.  There was also discovered a small ring.  This is
a Druidical amulet; and it was an indication that a person of
rank was here interred.
Hairstones, so named, perhaps, from a few erect stones arran-
ged circularly, is said to have been a place for religious wor-
ship.  In the immediate neighbourhood is the Kirkdean and
Temple land

