
     of Kirkmichael.

which divides this parish from Glenisla.  The only lochs of
note, are Loch Shepbernich, and Loch nan eun, situated pretty
high among the hills.  These abound in excellent trout.
There are one or two medicinal springs, which are believed
to be of an antiscorbutic quality.

<FOOTNOTE>

tion of some later fabulist.  In both cases, the circumstance tended to
lessen the reputation of those heroes for military prowess.
   Dr Smith places the scene of Diarmid's death in a part of the West High-
lands, on the authority of the tradition of the country, and of the names of
places preserved in a beautiful Gaelic poem, which narrates the story of Diar-
mid's death.  The opinion of its having happened in Glenshee, rests precisely
on the same kind of evidence; besides the tradition of this country, there is a
Gaelic poem extant, which relates the fate of Diarmid, with the same cir-
cumstances as those mentioned in the poem published by Dr Smith, and which
expressly affirms the hunting to have been in the hills of Glenshee.  If the
merit of the poetry were to determine the degree of credit due to the band,
as an historian, there is no doubt that the poem in Dr Smith's collection,
must be acknowledged the most authentic.  But if this be reckoned an equi-
vocal test of authenticity, it does not well appear how the two discordant nar-
ratives can be reconciled, nor how the credit due to either of them above the
other, may be ascertained.  From such a descrepance between the different
accounts of the same events, a sceptical enquirer might be led, perhaps, to
question the authenticity of both, and pronounce the whole a mere fiction.
Such an inference, however, may well be judged rash and unsounded.  The
existence of various traditions, reflecting the same story, is a proof that it was
once generally believed in many parts of the country.  Their agreeing in
many striking particulars, is at least a strong presumption that these particu-
lars were true; their disagreeing in other particulars, only shows that the
facts were obscured by the distance of time at which they happened.  Many
cities claimed the honour of giving birth to Homer, and supported their re-
spective claims by various arguments and allegations.  Though their claims
were inconsistent, and their allegations contradictory, nobody ever thought
of inferring thence, that Homer never lived, or had no birth-place, but only
that the place of his birth, from the length of time since it happened, was be-
come uncertain.


