
     of Auchterderran.

partly owing to life-rents and feus.  They are, in general, in-
closed; and the ground is so much more suited to grass than
corn, that the most of the remainder of the arable land will
be soon converted into grass.  The people and proprietors
are sufficiently convinced of the benefits of inclosing.  Inclo-
sing has banished sheep from the neighbourhood; for sheep
cannot be confined within the same inclosures as black cattle.
On one large farm there are rows of hedges and strips of plant-
ing throughout, which is a complete fence; and this mode of
inclosing adds to the beauty of the country; and the plantations
thrive.  But the cheapest, the most valuable, the most speedi-
ly raised, the most lasting, and most general fence, is the
Galloway dike.  The stones are either found on the surface,
or got from quarries in the neighbourhood.  A field of 10
acres may be inclosed for L 20; and the money is generally
repaid in additional rent in 4 years.  Fallow is not so ge-
neral as in a more advanced state of husbandry.  Of late, the
arable lands are scarcely ever left in grass without sowing ar-
tificial grasses in them.  The farmers pay their rents chiefly
by raising and feeding a great number of black cattle, by
which the circumjacent markets of Dunfermline, Kinghorn,
Dysart, etc. are supplied.  Agriculture has advanced greatly
within these few years; and the face of the country begins
to change rapidly.  The rise of rents has contributed to the
progress of agriculture, by promoting additional industry, and
calling forth exertion.  The rents are all paid in money, ex-
cept a few poultry to the proprietors, and 50 bolls of grain
to the minister.  Winter provender is scarce and dear, owing
to the number of cattle; but the farmers are beginning to
provide stacks of hay from their town fields, which will prove
the best remedy for the evil.  Good hay, at an average, sells
from 3 1/2 d. 10 4 d a stone.  The parish does more than sup-
ply itself with provisions.  It exports particularly live-cattle, 


