
			   LANARK.			          11

neighbourhood of the town which, even to this day, bear the names of
King-son's Know, King-son's Moss, King-son's Stane, which seems
to favour the tradition, that it was once a place of royal residence.
	We have already mentioned the circumstance related by Bu-
chanan, although passed over in silence by Fordun, of Kenneth 11.
having in 978 summoned at Lanark a convention of the estates
of the realm; the first of which there is any record in history.
	In 1244, Lanark was burnt to the ground; a fate which befell
several other towns at the same period, and to which they were
liable from having been then built of wood. In 1297 it was the
scene of the first military exploit of Sir William Wallace, who
there slew William de Hesliope or Heselrigg, the English, she-
riff, and expelled his soldiers from the town. It seems to have
been a garrisoned place in 1310, for we read of its having then
surrendered to King Robert Bruce, with Dumfrhds, Ayr, and
the Isle of Bute. On the 12th of January 1682, the Covenanters
here published a declaration, which Wodrow calls the first essay of
the " societies united into a correspondence." This act roused the
indignation of the Privy-Council, who fined the town 6000 merks,
and issued processes against the freeholders for not preventing it,
nor seizing the parties concerned in it. Several persons were exe-
cuted at the place about the same time, and among the rest Wil-
liam Hervie, who was charged with being at Bothwell Bridge, and,
publishing Wood's declaration. The grave of this person is still
seen in the churchyard of the parish, and is an object of great reve-
rence.
	Lanark formerly enjoyed the privilege of keeping the standard,
weights of the kingdom. An act of Parliament in 1617 narrates,
that of old, the keeping and out-giving of the weights to the
burghs and others was committed to this town, and charge it
again with the " care of the weights." The old standards are still
preserved. They are stamped with a spread eagle with two heads,
the arms of the burgh, although some have supposed this to be a
foreign mark. In 1790, they were measured by Professor Robi-
son of Edinburgh; and, for the second time, about ten years subse-
quently, for the purpose of rectifying those of Edinburgh. It was
then discovered that the pound had lost something less than seven
grains English Troy, weighing 7613 instead of 7620 granis, which, in
terms of the act of Parliament 1618, it ought to have contained.
Dr Robison says, that this standard is better ascertained than any
other in Europe, except that of Brussels, and its copy at Paris.


