
	62                         ORKNEY.

	land, defective leases, and insufficient accommodation in building
	and enclosing.
	   The only quarries are those of the common clay stone, which are
	founds in most places fit for building, and in a few places adapted
	for paving and roofing; and the mill-stone quarry noticed under
	Geology.
	   We have no mines, and no fisheries of any importance, though
	when the sea is smooth, those near the bay catch some fish for
	their own use, and a few lobsters for the London market.
	   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce cannot be
	stated with precision, as the people could not tell it; but the prin-
	ciple on which valuators generally calculate, is, that the produce
	should be three times the value of the rent, which makes the total
	amount of the raw produce raised in this parish L.4500, and this is
	almost exclusively in grain, and a few potatoes for their own use.
	The only crop. cultivated for the arts is rye, for making bonnets,
	nine acres of which are raised by Mr Watt, at what appears a liberal
	rent of L.6, 10s. per acre, but he has to manure and work the land,
	and furnish carts whenever they are required, for carrying the pro-
	duce to the boiler, thence to the bleaching-field, and thence to
	Kirkwall, or Stromness.
	   Manufactures.-Tbe principal branch of manufacture carried
	on here, is straw plaiting, which occupies almost all our younger
	females; or, in summer, reaping and preparing the nine acres
	of rye that furnish the materials. The seeds are sown thick,
	that the straw may be long and fine. The stems are cut down
	before the grain ripens, tied near the lower end into very small
	bundles, steeped in boiling water for an hour, spread on the
	ground to bleach, and carted to the manufacturer's house, where
	the upper part between the highest joint and the grain, which
	only in general is used, is pulled out; cut to a proper length, sift-
	ed or sorted to different degrees of fineness, and made up into
	small bundles, which are distributed to the girls who take them to
	their own houses to be plaited; they are paid according to the
	fineness of the straw, and excellence of the work. The plaiter scan
	earn 6d. a day at the present rate of wages. The plaits are next
	washed, smoked, milled, and, lastly, put into the hands of other,
	girls, who sew them together into bonnets. At one time, this
	manufacture was conducted in a very objectionable manner, by
	collecting numbers of young people in confined apartments, where,
	as "evil communications corrupt good manners," and "one sinner

