
     Statistical Account

   Stature, etc.-Many have asserted, that in size and stature,
the people of modern times, have decreased considerably from
that of their ancestors.  The calculations of a Mr. Hennan
of the French Academy, upon this subject, are curious and
eccentric.  This gentleman asserts, that Adam measured 123
feet, and Eve 118.  To what diminutive dwarfs is the pre-
sent generation dwindled down, in comparison of these vene-
rable prototypes of the human race.  If this account were
true, the table of Tithonus should have been realized long
ago; and before this period, we must have been reduced to a
size less than that of the grass-hopper.  But laying aside the
chimeras of conjecture, every old man in this district can re-
collect the time when many of the inhabitants were stronger,
bigger, and more robust than at present*.  In this and the
surrounding countries, the mean size may be about 5 feet 7

     Ruidh tu, leume thu, 's dhansadh tu cruinn;
     'S chuireadh tu treun-fhir, a bhar am buinn,
     'S cha d' fhailnich riamh d mhisnach, do
     Thappa', na d' luim.

<FOOTNOTE>

   "Above all others, James of the Hill is the object of my affection, expert
in running, in leaping, and dancing, and in overcoming the brave in wrestling.
Thou art the object of my secret affection."  Such accomplishments, under the
direction of an enlightened reason, might have converted the freebooter into a
hero.
*Some little difference may be accounted for, from the operation of natural
causes.  When the seasons were more favourable, the population less crowded,
when neither a heavy taxation, augmented rents, nor constant labour crushed
the body, nor enfeebled the mind; there is no absurdity in supporting, that in
such circumstances, men might have attained to a fuller growth and develope-
ment of stature.  The tree planted in a kindly soil, strikes a stronger root, and
spreads more verdant branches, than that of the desert, stinted in its vegetable
nutriment, and assailed by the blasts from the N.  And it is rermarkable, that
in that rank of society, that is, neither on the one hand, oppressed by poverty,
nor on the other, pampered with luxury, the symmetry of the human form, is
the most beautiful and perfect.
 

