
                     COLINTON.                         119

would bleed when touched b the murderer. The poor creature
was delivered over to the-public prosecutor, tried, condemned, and
executed in the Grassmarket on the 15th day of August, the same
year. 1714, November 9, Isabel Colquohun was summoned to
the session for disturbing her neighbours in time of sermon. Having
appeared, she stated, "that she being the oldest possessor of
a chair in the body of the kirk, she thought that the neighbours
in Bonally should have more respect to her than to toss her chair
up and down the kirk, as they often did, and that all the noise she
had made was to get back her chair where it had stood three-score
years; but that she was sorry, &c."-She was rebuikit.
Antiquities.- "On the lands of Comiston once stood the re-
mains of a large encampment. Adjacent to this camp, and near
the house of Fair-mile-head, an extensive and important battle had
been fought, and two very large conical cairns erected; on demolish-
ing which for the purpose of making the turnpike road, remains of
human bones were found in them, and several fragments of old
arms, two of which are still in the possession of Mr Trotter of
Mortonball, the proprietor of the ground. Not far from these
cairns there had baen erected an upright pillar stone, which still
remains.It is a rude massy block of whinstone, of a flat shape,
"nine feet" above the surface of the ground, and four feet below it.
It is called the Kel Stane, an old British word signifying the battle
stone. t " also passed immemorially by the name of Camus
Stone, which would seem to intimate its connection with some Da-
nish commander." The Roman road which extended from York
to Carriden near Abercon, passed through Comiston farm, and
the high road between the toll and Bow Bridge, is very nearly on the
line which it followed. The ruins of small fortalice stand beau-
tifully situated at the north base of Craig Lockhart bill. Part of
the cover of a stone coffin was lately taken out of the rubbish
inthe floor of the church. It bears on it the rude outlines of
asword and mace, the latter consisting of a simple handle, and end-
ing in four circles, meeting in a common centre.
 Inscription on a tablet in the aisle of Colinton church: -there.
LYIS. ANE. HONORABIL.VOMAN. A . HIRIOT. SPOVS. TO. I.
VOVLIS.OF.COLLINGTOVN - VAS. QVHA. DIRD.  8. AVGaGT.
1593.
  Modern Buildings.- Colinton House was built at a very con
siderable expense about the beginning of this century, by the late
Sir William Forbes, Bart.A stand on the brew of the lawn, and



