
                       ST NINIANS.                           335

that the managers do not limit themselves to that sum. The sti-
pend is raised from the seat-rents, which are moderate, and by the
collections at the church doors.
   To the eastward of Ba-burn another new church has also been
erected at Plean, to which a quoad sacra parish, containing 885
inhabitants, has been allotted. A minister has been ordained, who
has a bond for L. 80; but, as he is in the receipt of a liberal sa-
lary as chaplain of Plean Hospital, he makes no demand upon his
people. The collections at the church door are expended, partly
in defraying expenses, and partly in relieving the poor.
   Both these churches are well attended, and are of great benefit
to the parish,--Ba-burn, by accommodating the dense population
in its immediate vicinity, and Plean, in making provision for an ex-
tensive rural district, remote from an other place of worship.
Still, as was stated in the report already alluded to, " the relief
afforded is but partial either as to population or extent. The po-
pulation of St Ninians is still upwards of 6000; and as the new
erection at Ba-burn is only one mile and a quarter from the pa-
rish church--as many of the inhabitants of the new parish are
within a mile of St Ninians, and very few of them more than two
miles distant, it can do little in removing the inconvenience aris-
ing from the farthest boundary being more than ten miles from
either place of worship." Plean is between four and five miles
from St Ninians, and the nearest of its parishioners are three
miles from the parish church; but it is in the same direction with
Ba-burn; and whilst ample provision has been made for this dis-
trict, the lower carses and the muirlands are as destitute as they
were before. Buckieburn is five miles to the south-west, and the
parish extends as far down the carses in the opposite direction.
Between St Ninians and Airth there are eight miles of highly
cultivated carse lands, thickly inhabited, in which no place,of wor-
ship is to be found. At Damhead of Thuk, a mile from our
north-eastern boundary, and midway between St Ninians and
Airth, a site has been fixed upon, and money subscribed, for the
erection of a school-house and preaching station. Within a mile
and a half of this place, there are above 500 souls, all of whom
are more than two, and many bf them three and four miles dis-
tant from any church or meeting-house. Were public worship
regularly maintained at Damhead, and in the muirlands,--and at
small expense this might be accomplished,--the parish of St Ni-
nians might still be accounted too populous and extens¡ve; but


