
                           GLENELG.                           139

for the management of this description of stock are in every case
fully granted; indeed, every facility is afforded both for rearing and
improving.
  Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in

<TABLE>
   the parish may be stated as follows:
      Grain of all kinds,   -   -   -   -        L. 1000
      Potatoes,      -    -   -    -   -    -        650
      Hay,        -     -   -    -    -   -  -       585
      Pasture of black-cattle and sheep, at L. 2 for cow or ox, and
       at 3s. for a ewe or full-grown sheep,  -  -  7900
      Gardens and orchards,     -      -      -   -   50
      Annual fellings and thinning of woods, -  -  - 200
      Herring fishery,     -    -     -      -    -  250
                                                   _______
      Total yearly value of raw produce raised, - L.10635
        	       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Means of Communication, &c.-The nearest market-town is Inverness,
which is at the same time the county town, and situated
at the distance of about seventy miles. The means of communication
are good, inasmuch as the Parliamentary road into the Isle
of Skye passes through the principal glen to the ferry of Kyle Rhea.
This road, leading from Glensheal into Glenelg, over the stupend-
ous pass of M\a5m Rataan, is excellent,-the bridges across the various
mountain streams being of the best construction, and always
preserved in good repair.
   The Kirkton of Glenelg can boast of being a village of some
extent, having the principal street of slated houses, and displaying
the attractions of some well-stocked shops.  The bay upon which
the village is built affords good anchorage with south-east, east, and
north-east wind; but the safest harbour with all winds is upon the
opposite coast of Skye, and at the distance of one or two miles.
The whole appearance of Kirkton is truly picturesque, including,
as it does, the church, factor's residence, and street already alluded
to, with its numerous train of straw-covered cottages, interspersed
with various kinds of ornamental trees, surmounted by a thriv-
ing planting of fir that towers majestically over it, and having lines
of trees along the various roads that lead from it.  All this, combined
with the beauty of the extensive bay and back-ground, has procured
for Kirkton, from the lovers of fine scenery, much admiration.
Under the head of villages may also be mentioned Arnisdale,
possessing a population of 600, and situated at the southern
extremity of the district of Glenelg Proper, on the banks of
Loch Hourn. The Alpine scenery of this locality owes nothing to art.
Its native grandeur, however, more than compensates this neglect.
  In this extensive parish there is no post-office.  Lochalsb, in the
county of Ross, and, by the high road, at the distance of twenty


