
                             GAMRIE.                        279

mots, occupy in general a separate and somewhat soft and perfo-
rated part of these.enormous precipices, which, in the busy season
of spring, teem with life in all directions. These birds (the razor-
bills) very much resemble the guillemots in appearance, especially
when seen at a distance on wing. They may, however, on a nearer
approach, be distinguished from the latter by the broad form of
their bills, and by the superior length of their wings, which are,
moreover, marked by a conspicuous streak of white along their
outward extremity. Some of this enormous body of sea-fowl (pro-
bably males) are constantly in motion, either gracefully and lightly
swimming about in detached groups on the sea, or, by their circu-
lar evolutions in the air, indicating to the yet distant visitor the
particular rock where he may hope to encounter them in congre-
gated thousands. And, on a fine day, and under the mild influ-
ence of a vernal and unclouded sun, the scene is particularly
beautiful. The ocean lies tranquil, and stretched out before the
spectator like an immense sheet of glass, smiling in its soft and
azure beauty, while over its surface the kittiwake, the guillemot,
the razor-bill, and the puffin, conspicuous by the brilliant orange
and scarlet of its bill and legs, are beheld wheeling with rapid wing
in endless and varying directions. On firing a gun, the effect is
even startling. The air is immediately darkened with multitudes
which are aroused by -the report; the ear is stunned by the varied
and discordant sounds which arise. The piercing (wailing) note
of the kittiwake, from wbich its name is derived, the shrill cry of
the Tammy Norrie, and the hoarse burst of the guillemot, resem-
bling, as it were, the laugh of some demon, in mockery of the in-
trusion of man amid these majestic scenes of nature. All these
combined, and mingled occasionally'with the harsh scream of the
cormorant, are heard above the roar of the ocean, which breaks at
the foot of thesd tremendous and gigantic precipices."
  Ichthyology.-The river Doveran, which discharges itself into
the sea between this parish and that of Banff, contains salmon,
trout, and the other common varieties of river fishes. The salmon
caught in the river and adjoining bay, and which are cured at
Maeduff, and prepared for the London market, are let in lease by
the proprietor, the Earl of Fife, for a rent of about L.2000 per
annum. The river and its tributary streams yield also excellent
sport to the angler, and are much resorted to in that way.
  But the sea is the great source of revenue to this parish, in the
way of fishing, regarding both the amount of value derived from


