
600                          FORFARSHIRE.

even the leaves were distinctly visible. James Powrie, Esq. of
Reswallie, has in his possession a portion of it that had been ap-
parently near the root.
	There are five quarries on the south side of Pitscandly and
Turin hills: one of them not wrought at present. In the four
that are wrought, the point and amount of dip of the strata were
taken by the minister and schoolmaster of the parish, and are as
follow:-In the Quarry Park, the point of dip is from 30&deg; to 40&deg;
east of the magnetic north, that is, from more than half a point
to rather more than a point to the east of true north, and the
amount of dip is from 6 to 6 3/8 inches on a yard; that is, forming
an angle of about 10&deg;. In the Turin Hill quarry, the dip points
exactly to the magnetic north; and the amount of dip is nine
inches on a yard; that is, the angle of dip is 14&deg;. In Wemyss
upper quarry, the point of dip is also the magnetic north, and the
amount of dip is 8 1/4 inches on a yard; thus forming an angle of
dip of nearly 13*deg; and in Wemyss lower quarry, the point of dip
is also to the magnetic north; and the amount of dip or inclina-
tion is 9 3/4 inches on a yard; or at an angle of rather more than
15&deg;.
	It is evident from the preceding statements that the point of dip
of the Quarry Park alone is a little to the east of true north. In
the other three quarries, it is to the west of the true north, just as
far as the declination or variation of the compass, that is, about
two, points west of true north. It is to be observed also, that the
amount of dip is different in all the quarries. In the Park Quarry,
it was a little different in different places. And between the upper
and lower Wemyss quarries, there is the difference of an inch and
a half upon a yard, although the two quarries do not seem to be
much above a hundred yards distant from one another.
	The way in which the conglomerate repeatedly alternates in
some of these quarries with the paving-stone is truly astonishing.
It may be stated also, that all the workmen that have been at the
different quarries in the county, attest that,north of Viney water,
the dip of the strata is to the north, and that to the south of that
water it is to the south. The same also plainly appears from Pro-
fessor Lyell's section of Forfarshire in his Elements to Geology.
	In the loch of Rescobie, there is still a considerable quantity of
marl. There are in many place two beds or deposits,-the up-
per bed consists of fine shell marl though at times intermixed



