
                        DUNBARNY.                            807

Van der Helsted; a battle-piece, by Salvator Rosa; portraits of
the Duke of York, Lord Macartney, and Lord St Vincent, by Sir
Joshua Reynolds; of Charlotte de la Treimoville, by Vandyke;
and of James I. of England, by Luchars.  The House of Kil-
graston stands in a spacious and wooded park.
   George Clerk Craigie, Esq. of Dunbarny.  Mr Craigie is a
branch of the family of Craigies who possessed Kilgraston, and
of whom several were elders in this parish.  They were remark-
able for the elegant improvements they made on their estates; and
it is to their public spirit that the community is indebted for seve-
ral avenues of trees which adorn the roads in the parish.
    Small Keir, Esq. of Kinmonth, who has no place of residence
in the parish.
    Alexander Stoddart, Esq. of Ballendrick. * The House of
Balleidrick, as well as all the buildings connected with it, was
erected about seventeen years ago. The steading attached to it
is most commodious and complete.  There are on Mr Stoddart's
property a few neat and substantial cottages, built with foreign
wood, and slated ; they are occupied by labourers and artisans in
his employment.
    Parochial Registers.-These compose eight vollumes, viz. two
in quarto and six in folio. The register of baptisms is comprised
in the two quarto volumes, and commences in 1594. The session-

<FOOTNOTE>Ballendrick is a word of Gaelic etymology, and probably signifies "the town of
the blae-berries" or bilberries.- Baile in Gaelic means a city or village, lann, a house,
repository, or church (Shaw's Gaelic Dictionary), and dearc or dearc roide a bil or
blae berry; hence Balentlerick or Baile-lunn dearc, as Ballendrick denotes the town
of the land" or "church of the bil-berries." " Hence," says the writer of the old Ac-
count of the parish of Lanark, " Lan deareach signifies also bilberry-land or reposi-
tory, pretty descriptive of all the Lanarks, such as Drumlsnark, in Dumfries.shire,
Lanark, in Stirlingshire," &e.  Most of the names of places in this dirtrict, as well as
in Fife, Kinross, &c. are of Celtic origin. This need not excite surprise when we
remember, that the Gaelic language was spoken, even in the, lowlands of Scotland,
from A.D. 843 to 1097, and to a consideraly later period. Even so late as the be-
ginning of the sixteenth century, Major the historian and Munster inform us, that
one-half of the Scottish people spoke Gaelic. It can be proved, from many existing
ancient charters, that, about the year 1130, in a controversy decided about the lands
of Kirknes, near Loch Leven, where Constantine. the Earl of Fife, and Great Judge
in Scotland, and Macbeth, Thane of Falkland, were present, as well as at a peram-
bulation of land at the Mearns, and of other lands in Fife, about A. D. 1190 and
1231, the names of the persons who composed the jurymen were all Gaelic, e. g.
Gillicolm Constantin, Gillicolm, Gillipatrick, &c. An ecclesiastical council to reform
abuses and novelties that had crept into the Scottish Church, was convened in A. D.
speak nothing but Gaelic ; Margaret, the Queen, who was the principal prolocutor,
could speak nothing but Saxon ; the King, Malcolm IHI., who understood the Eng-
lish language (from his long residence there) as well as the Gaelic his native
tongue, acted as interpreter, in imitation of Oswaid the Northumbrian at as simialar
conference.



