
                            TURRIFF.               993

1579; and of the Rev. Messrs William Hay, 22d May 1582,
Walter Hay, 20th Auoust 1589, Thomas Mitchell, 23d July
1649, Andrew Skeetn, April 1678, and Arthur Mitchell, 23d
October 1695.
   On the haugh of Laithers, opposite the Boat of Magie, were
lately to be seen the remains of a chapel, which was said to have
been dedicated to St Carnac.  May not this St Carnac have been
the Carnac who was one of the bishops of Mortlach before the
Episcopal seat was translated to Aberdeen, and when this parish
was probably in the diocese of Mortlach? Carnac died anno
1125.
   Tumuli, upright stones, and cairns are visible on the more ele-
vated ground of the parish, and on the hill of Ardmiddle on the
south-west side, of Colp on the south-east, and of Braccans and
Burnside of Delgaty on the east, urns, with calcined bones, have
been found; and, as it is well known, that, about the end of the
tenth or beginning of the eleventh century, this district was much
molested by the hostile invasions of the Danes, it may be sup-
posed, that, to commemorate the victories gained over them by
the chief of Buchan, Indulf, and Malcolm II., these monuments
were erected to mark the spot of some signal achievement, or the
resting-place and dust of some distinguished combatant.  Flint
arrow-heads and fragments of arms have also been dug up in va-
rious places, with silver and copper coins of great antiquity and
curious character.
   Parochial Registers.-The register of baptisms, commences in
1697, and of births and baptisms in 1797.  These registers, it is
to be regretted, are very defective, and, notwithstanding the nu-
merous advantages of a correct record, and the trouble, expense,
and loss to which parties are frequently subjected by the neglect,
there is such remissness in this respect somewhere, that it would
perhaps be well if a legislative measure, somewhat similar in its
provisions to the Registration Act for England, were extended to
Scotland.  The register of marriages begins in 1727, and is kept
with regularity.  There is a register of discipline commencing in
1816, but none of deaths.
   There is a cross in the principal street of considerable antiquity,
at whicb, it would appear, the sheriff of the county occasionally
held his courts in former times.  In the year 1557, an inquest was
held "apud Crucem de Turreff," and, among the jurors, we find
Patrick Mowat of Balquholly; James Dempster of Auchterless;
   ABERDEEN                           3 R


