
     Statistical Account

   Cross.-At Milnholm there is a cross of one stone, 8 feet
4 inches high, set in a base 1 foot 8 inches*.  This is a
piece of great antiquity.  A sword 4 feet long is cut out
on the S. side of the cross, and immediately above several
letters, as will appear from the representation of it in the
plate.

   Disadvantages.-The disadvantages this country labours
under, from the want of roads, are very great.  Improve-
ments to any considerable extent can never be carried on
while these are wanting, and the means of improvement
which the country itself possesses are locked up from use.
The cottages, and most of the farm-houses, are in very bad
order.  Another disadvantage arises from the frosts in
spring, and the early part of harvest, to which the country
is sometimes exposed, and which prove chiefly hurtful to
the potatoes and pease.

   Character.-The people in general enjoy, in a reason-
able degree, the comforts of society, and are contented with
their situation.  They are by no means fond of a military

<FOOTNOTE>

*The tradition concerning it is this.-One of the governors of Her-
mitage Castle, some say Lord Soules, others Lord Douglas, having en-
tertained a passion for a young woman in the lower part of the parish,
went to her house, and was met by her father, who, wishing to conceal his
daughter, was instantly killed by the Governor.  He was soon pursued
by the people, and, in extreme danger, took refuge with Armstrong of
Mangerton, who had influence enough to prevail on the people to desist
from the pursuit, and by this means saved his life.  Seemingly with a
view to make a return for this favour, but secretly jealous of the power
and influence of Armstrong, he invited him to Hermitage Castle, where
he was basely murdered.  He himself, in his turn, was killed by Jock of
the Site, of famous memory, and brother to Armstrong.  The cross was
erected in memory of this transaction, near to Ettleton church-yard,
where he was buried, and almost opposite to Mangerton.


