
			   PENPONT.                         511

ing about 150 acres. this season. In the higher and wilder dis-
tricts of the parish, there is natural copsewood, chiefly of hazel,
to a considerable extent, which, though unprofitable, adds much
to the beauties of the landscape. The wood in the glens, and
upon the rugged braes, is chiefly oak,--a species of wood, which,
whether natural or planted, is admirably adapted to the soil. From
the extent of wood in the parish,--the variety of hill and dale,--
and the numerous streams with which it is intersected, there can
be no doubt that, in a few years, it will be one of the most beauti-
ful and romantic parishes, not only in Dumfries-shire, but in the
lowlands of Scotland.
	Rent of Land.--As there is no parish which presents a greater
variety of prospect and of surface, so there is none where the land is
of more, varying value. In the holms upon the banks of the Nith,
which for several years have been under the most judicious manage-
ment, the value may not be considered too high, if estimated at
L. 2, 10s. or L. 3 per acre; and from this may be found land at
every intermediate rate, to the lowest denomination of Sterling
money. A cow's grass yearly may be said to run from L. 4 to L. 5,
while that of an ox may be rated at L. 3. The wood that is em-
ployed for agricultural implements may be purchased readily at 2s.
per foot.
	Rate of Wages.--The rates of wages are specified under the
head Population.
	Husbandry.--The agriculture of the parish may be considered as
steadily advancing. The farms upon the estate of the Duke of Buc-
cleuch have been let last summer for nineteen years, upon terms fa-
vourable to landlord and tenant. And the spirit of true liberality
and encouragement with which the tenants are met in regard to
enclosures, and reclaiming land by freeing it of stones, by liming,
draining, or otherwise,--holds out the hope, that before the expiry
of these leases, the estate will be most materially improved, and
the tenants substantially benefited. Upon the part of the Queens-
berry estate situated in the parish of Penpont, there are now erect-
ing farm-houses and offices of the most substantial kind. When
they are completed, no farmers in the kingdom will be more com-
fortably, and few so elegantly accommodated. There can be little
doubt of the wisdom of those extensive landed proprietors, who
promote the substantial comfort, and thereby indirectly raise the
character, of their tenantry. It would probably seem paradoxical
to affirm that the house will affect the character of its occupant
                                 4


