
     Of Saddel and Skipness.

ly exceeded others in the quantity.  It is observed, that the
herrings caught here, and in the Lochs Fine, Long, etc. are
of a richer and more delicate taste, than those caught either
in the Western Isles, or the coast of Ireland.  Though the
latter are much larger, they have a strong taste, and answer
best for exportation to hot climates.  It is to be regretted,
that Government, and the societies established for such bene-
ficial purposes, have not paid more attention to this branch
of trade, in which, exclusive of buffes, who have a bounty,
so many useful hands are yearly employed, and from which
so much advantage might be derived.  The chief thing
wanted for this purpose is, to have harbours disposed in
proper places, and at convenient distances along the coast.
There are several bays and creeks, half formed by na-
ture, where harbours, sufficient for the fleet, might be made
without any enormous expense.  There are three places on
this coast.  I mean the points of Carradell.  Skipness, and
Sunadale, the two former near the extremities of the usual
fishing ground, and the last near the centre, which on the
slightest survey, would occour to any person as exceedingly
well adapted for principal harbours, accommodate vessels
from 15 to 30 tons; several such attend every season, for the 
purpose of salting herrings, or carrying them fresh to the
red-herring houses in Liverpool, Isle of Man, etc. and to
other markets.  Vessels of this descriptions, are of very great
advantage to the fishery, in keeping up the prices, and deserve
to have some attension paid to their security.  Yet, the small
fishing-boats being of still greater consequence, ought to be
encouraged, and accommodated with places of safety.  There
is a great variety of small creeks, which a moderate sum
would clear and sit for their reception.  From 200 to 300
boats have been frequently seen here of an evening, and all
of them dispersed before morning, for want of these accom-

     VOL. XII. 3 P


