
			BANCHORY-TERNAN.                  359

lated savings. The whole produces an annual average revenue
of L.201, 18s.
	The average number of poor from 1700 to 1709 inclusive was
68. The average sum given to each yearly was L.2, 10s. Scots,
or 4s. 2d. Sterling. The population, as already noticed, was then
about 2077. In 1793, the poor were 80 in nulber, while the
whole population was, but 1340, and the whole annual amount of
collections L.19, 10s., and the interest of mortifications L.39, 10s.,
affording an average allowance to each pauper of 13s. The num-
ber of poor now on the roll has averaged, since 1838, 65, and the
total number relieved annually has been 85. The allowance to
each in 1840, exclusive of lunatics, was L.1, 13s.
	The disposition to refrain from seeking parochial relief in re-
duced circumstances among persons here, who have belonged to
the class of day-labourers or small farmers, is by no means great,
although occasional instances of it do occur. The tendency among
those just able to support themselves, to leave their poor relations
to the assistance of the parish, is rather on the increase. But
much charity is given in private, not only by the rich, but by the
middle and even the poorer classes themselves. Were it other-
wise, paupers could not subsist on the pittance which they now
receive from the parochial funds. Their diet generally consists
of oatmeal and a little tea and sugar, which costs them nearly
1s. 8d. per week, to which they have to add 1d. for soap. In or-
der to raise this sum of 3d. per day, female paupers, in ordinary
health, besides their allowance of 1d. from the kirk funds, have
recourse to knitting, which is distributed to them mnnthly by an
agent of one of the woollen manufacturers in Aberdeen. But the
utmost that they can make at such work is only another 1d. per
day. Private charity, therefore, must either make up to them
the value of the remainder, or they must renounce their tea and
sugar, and live chiefly on oatmeal, which many of them actually
do. They are, besides, entirely indebted, in a great many in-
stances, to private benevolence, for clothing, winter fuel, and
house rent, and for attendance and medicine when sick. Many
praiseworthy acts of disinterested kindness are performed for them
on such occasions, by their almost equally poor neighbours, and
that often at the sacrifice of not a little personal comfort and ease.
Male paupers, unable for field labour, have here no resources in
in-door work; but they form only one-fifth of the whole number,
and are all members of families who contribute to their support.

	October 1842.


