
314                          FIFESHIRE.

waste, neat enclosures and fields wavin with yellow corn, meet
the eye, affording a rich reward for the pains and industry of the
cultivator, and producing abundance of food, by the bounty of that
Altni,o,,hty Being who governs the universe, both for man and begsl
The quantity of wood now rising on all sides contributes to enrich
,the pro. -4pect, besides tending materially to alter the climate, in con-
nection with the extensive system of drainage which is now pur-
sued.
The condition of the people is much improved. The article of
potatoes has contributed materially to bring about this change,
not only in affording nourishment themselves, but in enabling
them to acquire a bonsiderable quantity of excellent bacon, which
before could only be procured at mills, and at a high price. Tea
has also become a new article of comfort and consumption, which
the rise in the price of labour, since its introduction into this coun-
try, has enabled them to procure. The superior clothing, too,
since the introduction of steam, forms another striking proof ofthe
comfort of the peasantry. Formerly both the woollen and common
spinning wheel were in constant use, now the former is never, and
the latter is seldom to be seen, the cloth being to be had much
more cheap in the shops than it can, be manufactured at home.
When this country was visited by that awful scourge, the Asia-
tic cholera, by which so many millions of the human race were de-
stroyed since 1817, meetings were held for the suppression of va-
grancy in the district, as it was thought that vagrants, going from
place to place, carried the infection along with them, and a con-
stabulary police force was then appointed for its suppression, and
is still kept up. The officer makes regtilar rounds with a book, in
which entries are made by all respectable householders, of the num-
ber, description and appearance of any vagrant, or strolling mendi-.
cant, who may from time to time appear, with their supposed route;
who -is thereby enabled to apprehend and lodge in jail, or pass to
their proper places, all such vagrants and sturdy beggars as may
be found in the district. Since this force has been appointed, the
happiest results have followed; the country being made free from
those vagrants, who, when at times refused their exorbitant de-
mands, poured forth torrents of abuse and oaths, and were not at
all scrupulous in taking what. they could lay their hands upon
and our highways are now free from those exhibitions of squalor,
filth,  and -deformity, with which they formerly abounded.
January 1837.


