
     of Kilmartin

tributed, at stated times, and will only enable to get a pair of
shoes, or some piece of clothes.  They get their subsistence
by begging from door to door; and, not being consined to their
own parishes, come in great numbers from most corners of the
kingdom.  Among them there are many sturdy beggars, more
able to labour for their bread, than many of those who serve
them.  It were to be wished, that some plan were adopted, by
which the condition of real objects might be rendered more
comfortable, and those who are able, made to contribute in
some degree, to their own support.

   Village, Fuel, etc.-There are no villages, except Kilmar-
tin, which is the place of worship, and other parochial meet-
ings.  It has a commodious inn, situated upon the great road
from the south end of Kintyre, by Tarbert and Lochgilp, and
leading to Fort William, by Craignish and Lorn.  It has 3
markets in the year, 1 for black cattle, and 2 for horses, where
the country people gather from 15 to 20 miles rounds with
webs of linen and woollen clothes, and such small parcels of
lint, as can be spared from their families.  Although situated
upon the coast *, there are few seafaring people, as there is
no trade to employ them.  The harbour behind Ilan-da-vain,
and below Duntroon Castle, has good anchorage, and safe from
all winds, with easy access to vessels of any burden.-The
fuel commonly used is peats, a most precarious firing in this

     VOL. VIII.   O

<FOOTNOTE>

*No ships  have been wrecked on this coast in the memory of any now liv-
ing, though, within these 10 years, there were 4 vessels, of considerable size,
driven ashore in the bay of Crinan, with their cargoes.  They were foreign
vessels, and ignorant of the coast; but the beach and ground are so excellent, that
they were got off without any farther damage, but the loss of a little time, and
some trifling expence:  so that there was no occasion for any extraordinary ex-
ertion of humanity and generosity though, had there been occasion, it would not
have been wanting.


