
108                          SHETLAND.

lings, flounders, halibut, skate, mackerel, and herrings in summer
and harvest, and the cole-fish or seath, with its numerous fry call-
ed sillocks and piltocks. The sillocks do not exceed six inches in
length the first year, and are known by this name till they have
drunk of the first tide of summer, after which they take the name of
piltocks, and will be found from ten to twelve inches long. When
two years old, they are called bilyia piltocks; when three years old,
steven piltocks; and afterwards they are known by the name of
seath. The seath-fishing is not prosecuted in this parish.
   Shell-fish of every kind are to be found in the voes or friths;
oysters, large mussel or yoag, common mussel, spouts or razor-
fish, cockles, smisslings, cullicks, welks, buckies, limpets, crabs,
lobsters, harps, &c.
   Botany.-Under this head I may observe, that wherever the
moss is so deep as to admit of peats being taken roots and branches
of the birch and hazel have very frequently been dug up. The
mountain-ash or rowan-tree, the hazel, the honeysuckle, the hip-
brier, and willow, are natives in many of the islets or holms in
the fresh water lochs. In any other situations, I believe, they
could not exist; for horses, cows, and sheep, browse upon and
destroy every thing that comes in their way, when they are
hard pressed for food. And this may be the reason why plants
of this description, and, perhaps, others have disappeared from
the common range of pasture. That trees will grow and attain
a considerable size, if properly sheltered and defended from
man and beast, I have abundant proof. In my garden a native
mountain-ash has attained to such an height, that crows have
built a nest in it. And a bower or elder tree also grows in my
garden, graced with a crow's nest. In the garden at Sand, formerly
the seat of Sir John Mitchell of Westshore, there are plane, ash,
elder, rowan, and hawthorn-trees, of considerable size. It may
be remarked, that, if plantations are ever attempted, they must be
on a large scale, so that the plants may afford shelter to each other;
and they must also be protected by a wall, which could not only
defend from the encroachments or cattle, but which would also be
proof against the inroads of man. For a shrub of the size of a
walking-stick, a flail-tree, or a fisbing-rod, would prove a tempta-
tion too strong for the moral courage of a Shetlander to resist.
   The apple-tree blossoms, and carries fruit ; but I have never
seen it come to perfection. It is different, however, with the
smaller fuits. The goosebeffy, the black, red, and white cur.


