
                           DUNBARNY.                         823

extremity of the parish was found very inconvenient, and on this
account it was judged necessary to transfer it to the Bridge of
Earn. In 1684, while the church was building, public worship
was observed in the chapel at Moncrieffe. The ancient house
stood in the hollow immediately south from the place of sepulture,
at Dunbarny, and was constructed of clay and turf. The old
burying-ground is still used as a cemetery. It is defended by a
substantial stone wall of 10 feet high. It is situated on an ele-
vated spot about one third of a mile from the Earn, and in it stood
the anbient kirk of Dunbarny. The modern church-yard at the
Bridge of Earn was formed partly in the year 1821, and partly
some years after. It is altogether artificial, being composed of
2000 carts of sand conveyed from the banks of the river. The
present manse was erected in the year 1775. A handsome addi-
tion of two capacious public rooms was subsequently made to it
on the north side by the Rev. James Beatson, at his personal ex-
pense. The glebe consists of seven acres, and its annual value
may be estimated at L.28. The stipend is as follows; Wheat,
16 bolls, 2 firlots, 0 pecks, 2 lippies: meal, 114 bolls, 3 firlots, 2
pecks, 3 lippies; bear, 67 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, 2 lippies; money
L.2, 13s. 7d. with a vicarage teind of 44 1/3 loads of coal, reckoning
the load 2s. 6d.
  The number of DissentiDg families in this parish is 20.  Of
these, 3 are Episcopalians, 3 belong to the Relief body, 13 to the
Associate synod, and 1 to Mr Pitcairn's congregation, or the Ir-
vingites, Perth. There is no Dissenting chapel in the parish.
  Poor.-The church collections average yearly about L.63,
which sum, together with the interest of L.200 belonging to the
session, mortcloth and proclamation money, amounts to L.80.
There is a voluntary contribution made by the heritors, varying
according to the exigencies of each year. About L.100 is distri-
buted to the poor annually. The number of regular paupers is
17, and the largest allowance 10s. per month. There are about
12 occasional paupers.
  Education.-With regard to education, this parish enjoys pecu-
liar advantages. So far as can be ascertained, there are no chil-
dren above six years of age who cannot read; and all above fif-
teen have been taught both writing and reading. Ample provi-
sion has been made for affording instruction to the poorest. In
1677, the Rev. Robert Young mortified 500 merks, which bene-
volent provision was afterwards increased by John Craigie, Esq.


