
     Statistical Account

   The Town.-Hawick is a burgh of barony, independent of
the lord of erection; and has existed free from a very early
period.  But the rights and documents of the burgh being
lost and destroyed, during the inroads of the English plund-
erers, a charter was granted, in the year 1545, by James Doug-
las of Drumlanark*, confirming to them such rights and lands
as they formerly held.  This charter is confirmed by another,
granted by Queen Mary in May 1545.-In consequence of these
charters, the burgesses elect their own magistrates annually.
There is a standing council; in conjunction with which, the
magistrates manage the town's affairs.  The whole consists of
31; viz. 2 bailies, 15 of a standing council, who continue
for life, if not legally disqualified, and 2 called quarter mas-
ters, from each of the incorporations.  The incorporations are 7,
viz.weavers, tailors, hammermen, skinners, fleshers, shoemakers,
and baxters.  A treasurer and surveyor of weights, measures
and markets, are annually chosen by the council.  The clerk
is elected by the burgesses at large, and generally continues in
office during life.  The magistrates receive resignations and
grant infestments in the town.  The sasines are recorded in
the general or particular register for sasines, as they have not,
like royal burghs, a record for the town's sasines.  They ex-
pede services, cognosce heirs, and pronounce decreets in civil
causes, to any extent on which hornings and captions pass.
Hawick possesses all the privileges of a royal burgh, except
that of sending a representative to Parliament, for which it

<FOOTNOTE>

*In this charter, one article may be noticed.  One James Blair was taxed
with "one penny of the kingdom of Scotland, upon the ground of his half par-
ticate, for finding and furnishing one lamp, or pot, of burning oil, before the
altar of the parish church of Hawick, in time of high Mass and vesper prayers,
all holy days of the year, in honour of our Saviour Jesus Christ, and praying
for the souls of the barons of Hawick, the founders of the lamp, and their
successors."


