
908                   SUPPLEMENT TO THE

as the whole population of Glasgow and suburbs was in the year
1820.  It 1820 the population was 142,445, and the proportion
of sittings which these would require, is 85,467; but the number
of the population, at present, who ought to possess sittings, but
who are entirely destitute of them, is 85,105, and these in the
same proportion represent a population of 141,841.  Thus the
number of the population at present destitute is within 604 of the
whole population in the year 1820.  Sixteen brief years have but
run their course since that period, and yet the number of the po-
pulation destitute is nearly as great as if, in the year 1820, there had
not been an Established or Dissenting church, of any denomina-
tion whatever, in our city.  And what would have been said of our
great city then, if not a church of any kind had existed among us?
and yet the number of the destitute population now is nearly as
great as if such had actually been the case.
   "Second. The number of entire families, no member of which
possesses a sitting in any place of worship, either Established or
Dissenting, is greater than was the whole number of families in
Glasgow and suburbs in the beginning of the present century.
The whole number of families in Glasgow and suburbs in the year
1800, was 17,173, and these represented a population of 81,575;
but the number of families entirely destitute of church accommo-
dation now is 18,004, and these, according to the same average of
members in a family, represent a population of 85,519.  Thus the
number of families at present entirely destitute of all church ac-
commodation whatever, exceeds by 831 the whole number of fa-
milies in the year 1800.  And these, let it never be forgotten,
form only a portion of the present destitution, and are altogether
independent of the vast mass of families who are but inadequately
supplied.  The present century has not nearly half run its, course,
and yet the number of families alone who do not possess sittings in
any church whatever, is greater than if, in the year 1800, not a fa-
mily in our great city had possessed sittings in any Established or
Dissenting church whatever.  And what, we again ask, would
have been said of our great city then, if not a family in it had pos-
sessed a single sitting in any place of worship? and yet the number
of families now, entirely destitute, is greater than if such had actually
been the case.
   "Third. The Glasgow Church-Building Society commenced
their operations in the beginning of the year 1834, and though the
three years which have elapsed since that period, down to the


