
                                 AULDEARN.                      9

terest to the botanist, none being enumerated that are not decid-
edly indigenous to the parish:

Carex incurva	          Juneus balticus	  Pyrola media
    vesicaria	                maritimus	         minor
Contunculus minimum	Lobelia Dortmanna	         secunda
Cnicus heterophyllus	Lycopodium inundatum	  Ranunculus auricomus
Gagea lutea	            Nyphea alba	              Trientalis europaea
Goodyera repens	        Potamogeton praelongus  Utricularia minor
Hippuris vulgaris	            heterophyllus	  vulgaris.

   The Scotch fir, the larch, and every species of hard-wood known
in Scotland, are successfully cultivated, and, in many instances, at-
tain a considerable size.  At Boath, and at Lethen there are
some fine specimens of beech, elm, and ash.  To the east of In-
sboch, on the property of Brodie, there is a plantation of birch,
Which seems to be the only one of natural wood in the parish.
Some parts, once covered with wood, are now uncultivated moor-
land.
                             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The parish of Auldearn was, at one time, of much greater ex-
tent and importance than now.  It was the ancient seat of the
Deans of Moray.  In 1650 some parts of it were annexed to
Nairn, some to Cawdor, and some to Ardelach.
   The only place in the parish that derives its name from an his-
torical event is a farm called Knock-na-gillan,.or, the Young
Men's Hillock.  Here theCummings of Rait put to death twelve
out of thirteen young men of the clan Mackintosh, whom they
had apprehended while passing through the parish.  This was the
means of increasing a feud which subsisted between these two
clans, and which ended in, the extirpation of the Cummings
Some time after the event just mentioned, they met at the Castle
of Rait, on the occasion of a marriage.  Each of the Cummings,
came prepared to kill one of the Mackintoshes; but the latter,
having been forewarned of the intention of the Cummings. fell on
them the instant they arrived; and having put them all to death,
burnt their Castle of Rait.  The ruins though not within this
parish, may be seen from it, standing as a melancholy monument
of the barbarism of ancient times.
   Battle Auldearn.-The ground to the south and west of the
village was the scene of one of the victories of the celebrated Mar-
quis of Montrose.  Having defeated the Campbells at Inverloeby
he marched into Moray, whence a detachment of the coivenanting
army, commanded by Hurry, not being in condition to oppose
him, retired to Inverness.  They were immediately re-enforced
by the Frasers Mackenzies, Rosses, Sutherlands, and Brodies.


