
292                      BERWICKSHIRE.

add greatly to the effect of the other objects; while the extent of
ocean beyond, the vessels of every size and description entering
or leaving the Frith of Forth, and the bold headlands along the
coast, complete a scene of remarkable beauty. Several natu-
ral excavations round this little bay have probably given to it the
name of the Cove. These have partly been taken advantage of
to form a range of cellars in the rocks, and also a road or tunnel,
of about 60 yards in length, through one of the rocky sides of the
bay, affording at high water the only means of access to the
shore.
   Various other very interesting coast scenes might be described,
especially in the neighbourhood of Redheugh, in the eastern part of
the parish; and at a spot named the Siccar Point, which may now
be said to be almost classic ground. The geological phenomena
which have made this point so celebrated, we shall have occasion
to describe immediately; but in the meantime we may be permit-
ted to mention it as a very striking piece of scenery. It is a lofty
cape or headland running abruptly into the sea, at the base of
which, by a good deal of scrambling, we arrive at a remarkably fine
cavern of considerable height and extent, the roof being covered
with very beautiful calcareous stalactitic encrustations, and the en-
trance being guarded by ranges of cliffs and isolated rocks, producing
at high water, and especially when the wind has been for some days
in the sea, a very splendid effect. Both the natural and scientific
beauties of this place, Sir John Hall, Bart., the proprietor, has
lately rendered more accessible to strangers, by means of a wind-
ing footpath along the sides of the steep sea-bank. Generally
speaking; the coast of this parish may be described as an alterna-
tive of bay and lofty headland, the beach being for the most part
rough and rocky, with very little extent of sand.
   Meteorology.-The natural history of the parish is in many re-
spects exceedingly interesting.	But under this head, we shall
merely observe, that there is a	remarkable difference of climate be-
tween the lower and higher districts of the parish, insomuch, that
gardens, &c. in the latter district are fully a fortnight later, and
that, too, in some cases within a distance of little more than a
mile. On account of the inequalities of the parish, rain sometimes
falls partially; it being not unusual, in crossing two streams with-
in a distance of a mile of each other, to observe the one much
flooded, while the other is untouched. The aurora borealis is
sometimes seen to great advantage on this coast; and uniformly,


