
582                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

Andromeda polifolia, abundant in all the lower mosses.
Arbutus uva-ursi, Moffat range.
Pyrola secunda, Bald Crag, growing on the face of the rock.
Saxifraga stellaris, oppositifolia, azoides, hypnoides, Moffat range.
Sedum telephium, about Westerhall, by the road sides.
-acre, on old walls near Dumfries, not common,
Lychnis viscaria, Moffat range.
Cerastium alpinum, do.
Rubus chamemorus, Moffat hills, particularly about Loch Skene.
Chelidonum majus, Halleaths, common.
Nymphea alba, abundant in Lochmaben Lochs.
Nuphar lutea,    do.           do.
Aquilegia vulgaris, on the banks of Gairple Burn, a stream running into
  the Evan above Beatock, wild, and one of the few habitats in Scot-
  land.
Thalictrum alpinum, Moffat range.
Origanum vulgare, woods and edges of plantations about Westerhall.
Cochlearia Greenlandica? Moffat range.
Serratula alpina, Moffat range, not common.
Bidens tripartita, sparingly in the field at south end of Castle Loch,
  Lochmaben.
-cernua, about Lochmaben Lochs.
Aster tripolium, shore, and edges of pools and ditches on both sides of
  the mouth of the Annan.
Listera cordata, Moffat range.
Typha latifolia and angustifolia, Lochmaben lochs; the former also at
  Murder Loch.
Rhodiola rosea, steep rocks the Moffat range; very abundant at Grey
  Mare's Tail.
Juniperus communis, Juniper Hill, above Craigielands, and the hill above
  Beatock.
Botrychium lunaria, lower part of Corncockle moor.
Osmunda regalis, Lochar moss.
Lycopodium clavatum, Corncockle moor, subalpine mnors, and Moffat
  range.
           selago, do.
           selaginoides, Bald Crag and Moffat range.
           anotinum, Moffat range.
Polypodium phegopteris, dryopteris, Rae hills, Bald Cragg, and subal-
  pine woody stations.
           lobatum, do.
           aculeatum, Moffat range.
Asplenium viride do.
Pteris crispa, abundant on do.
Cyathea fragilis, Bald Crag, abundant.
Hymenophyllum Wilsonii, rocks opposite Moffat Well, Gairple burn, and
  most of the mountain streamlets in the Moffat range, covering large
  patches.


