
282                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the laws of gift, it was to become private property.  But this third
medal, dated 1628, intimates, that the arrow was again gifted back
to the town by the winner.
   The last remains of the original mansion of Stonyhill were taken
down during;1838, and the materials exhibited every mark of a hoar
antiquity. The wood-work in the walls was literally reduced to
must; and some curious stones were exposed, which had been
built in over one of the mantel-pieces.  The present occupant,
Mr Park, caused a large block then found, and which exhibits, a
striking petrifaction of the roots of a tree, to be placed, for the
sake of preservation, in the garden wall,--wbere it is now to be
seen.*
   The existing mansion house of Stonyhill appears to have been
originally the offices of the ancient villa; and behind it are the gar-
den and orchard, enclosed by a gigantic, buttressed wall, appa-
rently of great age.  A mulberry tree in one of the walks may
well have been coeval with that of Shakspeare.
   The small field at the end of the avenue was called "the Bogle's
Hole," and was the selected spot, in the dark ages, for the incre-
mation of witches.  About its centre there was a bare patch, on
which, for this reason, according to vulgar belief, the grass never
grew.  Stonyhill is now the property of the Earl of Wemyss.
   The gardens of Stonyhill and Monktonhall appear to have been
among the earliest in this part of the island; and entries in the
household books of Dalkeith Palace shew that vegetables and
fruits were procured from the latter upwards of two centuries
ago.+
   About a mile above Monktonhall, on the Dalkeith road, stands
Monkton House, said to have been built by the famous General
Monk, and his favourite Scottish residence.  This venerable build-
ing, now used as farm-offices, stands in the court of the present
mansion-house-the property of Sir John Hope of Pinkie.  The

<FOOTNOTE>In the "Inquisitiones Speciales, "we find that "Staniehill," as well as "Munk-
tounhall" were parts of the lordship granted to John Earl of Lauderdale.
  In the same mine of antiquarian knowledge, we find a service of heirship of "six-
teen oxgates of land in Munktounhall to Robert Dobie of Stanyhill, which is stated
to be "In regalitate de: Dunfermling, et dominio de Musselburghshire."
    There is a curious entry in Arnot's, "Celebrated Criminal Trials" on the Break-
ing of Gardens.--" John Rale lat and Alexander Dean were indicted at the instance of
his N-raia"  Is Advocate for breaking into the gardens of Barnton, Pilton, Barnbougle,
Greyecrook, Craigiehall, and Carlowry, and stealing thence herbs, artichoke plants,
sybows, I. e. young onions and bee-hives. They had formerly been convicted before
an inferior judicature, for breakine gardens in the neighbourhood of Musselburgh;
and by warrant of Privy-Council, they were sentenced to be taken to the Burrow
Muir of Edinburglh and there hanged, 1623."


