
588                     ARGYLESHIRE.

deer; and seems to have predilection for park shelter and pasturage.
Hares are very numerous; and the alpine hare has also been
frequently found in the higher grounds. Foxes, martens, pole-
cats and wild cats, otters, and weasels are also frequent. The roe is
common, though not very numerous, in the plantations and copse-
woods throughout the united parish.
  Of domestic and agricultural zoology, there is no uncommon
species or kind to be noted. The parish sustains an equal charac-
ter with the other districts of Argylesbire and the west Highlands,
for rearing the particular kind of black-cattle, denominated in the
markets, " West Highlanders," the qualities and appearance of
which are sufficiently known. This breed, indeed, has, within the
last twenty years or upwards, in this parish, yielded very much to
the Ayrshire breed,-dairy produce having become more an ob-
ject of attention, as forming a part of systematic agricultural pur-
suit. There is no doubt, however, that the West Highland breed
claim stronger alliance to the climate and soil ; and it appears a
question among experienced farmers, whether these might not, in
the whole district, upon the whole, form a more profitable stock.
The black-faced sheep, of which there are several and considera-
ble flocks, is almost the only species reared. Cheviots were con-
sidered for a long time to yield better returns in Scotland to the
sheep farmer; and both from the nature of the pasture and com-
parative mildness of the climate, one would suppose this district
much more adapted to the rearing of that breed of sheep, than
the more northerly and mountainous parts of Scotland, whence
the largest flocks of them are now annually driven to the markets
of the south; but the humidity incident to the western coast is
judged to be unfavourable to them, inducing disease. There is
no particular breed of horses. The native Highland pony may
be said to have disappeared, and to have given way to the more
profitable working animal, this of course varying in value and
quality, according to the circumstances of the owner, and the de-
gree of system with which, on the different properties in the parish,
agricultural pursuits are conducted. On several of the farms,
cattle of this kind are to be seen equal to any that can be met
with in the most highly cultivated districts of Scotland. Two
small flocks of goats are still kept in the parish.
  Ornithology.-There are no rare or uncommon species of birds.
The common birds of prey are not very numerous; the attention


