
914                    SUPPLEMENT TO THE

at home and abroad little more than L.7000 a year, and that this
is done to a great extent by the same individuals.  Such is the
achievement of a city which collected of revenue at the Custom-
House in 1837 the sum of L.394,144; and is, then, such Christ-
ian liberality as has been described, most praiseworthy as it is, a
principle of suffici6nt strength and fulness, upon which one may,
with a clear conscience, peril the temporal and spiritual interests
of thousands and tens of thousands of his fellow-men and fellow-
citizens?  Do the doings of the past promise that the private li-
berality of the future willl be ample enough?
   According to the Mortality Bill, lately published, the population
of Glasgow is 273,000.  The Religious Instruction Commissioners
reported only on 213,000.
   The Glasgow Educational Society.--As an example of the mi-
serable destitution as to education into which some parishes have
fallen, it may be noticed, that in a part of the overgrown Barony
Parish (now constituting the new parish of St Luke's,) there were
a few years ago, in a population of 2400, not less than 592 young
persons between the ages of six and thirteen, and of these only 99
were attending any day-scbools.  The evil is now remedied by
the establishment of a school, which will be afterwards noticed.
Over Glasgow as a whole, as nearly as can be calculated, not
above a fourteenth part of the population is at school.  To insure
a good education there should be a sixth.  From the Government
Summary of Education Returns in 1833-1834, it would seem
that an eleventh part of the population of Scotland is at school.
This would prove Glasgow to be worse provided than not a few parts
of the country.  For many year, good men in the city, and par-
ticularly the kirk-sessions of the Established Church, have devoted
a considerable share of their attention to the education of the
poorer classes of society.  Several large charity schools have been
endowed by thd bequests of churchmen, and are under the, ma-
nagement of the ministers and elders.  In some cases, the magis-
trates and town-council are joined with them in the direction.  Still
it was felt, that not only was an increased number of schools neces-
sary, but schools of an improved quality.  In 1829, the infant school
system was introduced, and a model school established, but the
interest soon declined.  As the system was then conducted, the
merely intellectual greatly predominated over the moral and reli-
gious, and this teaching wants stability.  There was no small danger


