
     of Alford.

with some effect, to that important object, and if they are
successful, we shall have lime-shells as cheap, at least, as they
can be purchased at Aberdeen, after defraying all expences,
the heaviest of which will be the price and carriage of coals
from Aberdeen to burn the limestone.  If this great source
of improvement sail, our only other alternative; is, to cheap-
en the carriage, by altering and mending the roads, which
have lately began to receive Very great attention in this coun-
try.
   There are few fields properly inclosed, but those which
surround gentlemen's seats; and the only fences which may
be called good, are stone dykes though there is little doubt
that, upon a proper plan, with proper preparation and atten-
tion, thorns would thrive well, make good fences, and, con-
sequently, a most valuable and lasting improvement in this
country; but they have in very few places had a fair trial.
The country people are not averse to inclosures, though they
will neither build nor pay a percentage for building stone
dykes, which cost from 2 1/2 d. to 4 d. per Scotch ell^, according
to the materials and height of the dyke; besides carriage of the
stones; and they cannot bear the trouble of protecting or rais-
ing a thorn hedge.  They seldom make a proper use of inclo-
sures where they have them; for it is not uncommon to see an
inclosed field in patches of corn and grass; the only real use
of inclosures to them, therefore, is to serve as a barrier to the
farm in winter, when, if the weather is open, the cattle of the
great and of the small farmer, range promiscuously over the
whole country, without regard to any farm or any boundaries.
This practice has been prohibited ll by the Legislature long

     3 O 2

<FOOTNOTE>

^A Scotch ell is little more than 37 English inches.

ll Winter feeding was strictly enjoined, and the practice of turning out
cattle, to go at random, prohibited, under severe penalties, in 1606.  The uti-
lity of the law is obvious,-Pity that it is not more rigorously executed.


