
			TONGLAND.                         71

ger is occasionally met with. Otters sometimes appear in the
Tarff, and are numerous in the Dee. They are very destructive
to salmon ; but, as they hunt in the night, they are seldom visible
by day, and, being extremely wary, they are enabled, by their ex.
quisite sense of smell, to avoid the traps set for them, and are
therefore not easily destroyed. Young otters are taken now and
then; but I believe there is no instances of a full-grown one ever
having been secured. They are so fierce, that, rather than be ta-
ken, they will bite off a foot and leave it in the trap.--an incident
which has happened more than once in the experience of some of
our fishermen. * A very slight blow on the head kills them. They
generally burrow at a distance from the scene of their depredations.
A dark, lonely loch, with deep, abrupt, hollow, and overhanging
edges, is a favourite haunt, especially if it communicates with a
salmon river by a direct and unobstructed streamlet. To this re-
treat they ascend towards morning, and, entering their warm and
commodious den by a passage, the mouth of which is beneath the
surface of the water, they doze during the day, and do not come
abroad again till the evening ig far advanced. When in pursuit
of their prey, they have a sharp shrill whistle,,which can easily be
distinguished above the roar of the Dee, even where its waters are
at the largest. I have often found salmon of ten or twelve lbs. ly-
ing upon the rocks half-devoured by them. It is said that they
always select the finest fish. The head and shoulders are invari-
ably the parts eaten, and near the tail on both sides of the under
part of the body the marks of teeth are generally visible. This
shows that the otter runs his prey down, and does not, as some
have supposed, seize it by surprise. Some idea may hence be
formed of the great agility and muscular power of this animal. A
few years ago, a neighbour of mine caught a pup, which, in a very
short while, became quite domesticated. His familiarity and gam-
bols were highly entertaining; but, from the time that he was
taken to his favourite element, after being full grown, he became
so fierce and ungovernable as to be a dangerous inmate, and had
to be sent off, much against his master's inclination, to the Zoolo-
gical Gardens of Liverpool, where, I understand, he still remains,

<FOOTNOTE>I have heard lately that a "cunning man" in this neighbourhood, has fallen on
a plan to take old ottera,,which has proved successful. Observing by the tracks of the
animal in the snow, the precise spots at which it enters and leaves the water, he pla-
ces a trap below the surface, so as to destroy the human effluvium, which is supposed
to be the main circumstance that hinders the otter from seizing the bait when placed
on the dry land.


