
				PARISH OF DUN

		PRESBYTERY OF BRECHIN, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

		       THE REV. JOHN EADIE, MINISTER.

	      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATIONAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.--The name Dun seems to be taken
from that of the proprietor, who was called Dun of that Ilk. It is
said that a person named Erskine married the heiress. But at what
time that happened, it is difficult to say; as it is known only by fa-
mily tradition. Others derive the name from the Gaelic Dunis,
which signifies a hill or rising ground; and it is, indeed, on a ground
pretty much elevated above the river South Esk, or South Water;
for Esk is said in Gaelic to signify water. Its greatest extent is
about four miles in length, and as much in breadth; but as it runs
out into narrow points to the north-west and south-east, it does
not contain more than twelve square miles. There is a small part
separated from the rest of the parish by the basin or estuary at
Montrose, called the Fort-hill, the land at the end of the bridge,
and several houses which belong to Montrose quoad sacra. It is
bounded on the west by the parish of Brechin; on the east by that
of Montrose; on the north by the parishes of Strickathrow and
Logie Pert; and on the South by the parishes of Marytown and
Kinnaird, which last is now united to Farnell.
   Topographical Appearance.--Its figure is very irregular. The
low lands by the river side, and towards the basin, where the water
is kept off by dikes, are clayey and very productive; along the side
of the basin by Broomley, Gilrivie, and Tayocks, the land rises
more abruptly, and the soil is light and sandy. Leaving the fields
along the river and basin, and going north, the land rises gradually
into rich fields of black earth, on the farm of Balwyllo and Mains
of Dun,--the grass parks about Dun and Langley Park, and the
farm of Well-hill, having a southern exposure. In the middle are
the farms of Balnillo, Leys of Dun Fordis, Tetherewe, Glenskenno,
and Higham, which are good land. To the north of these the


