
4                               BUTESHIRE.

lations on every side, and its romantic river now buried amid deep
ravines, and now seen threading its way in meandering curves to
the sea, it is the very spot which an architect of taste would choose
for giving a local habitation to his pencil's ablest design. Nature
and art have both contributed largely to the rare combination of
beauty and grandeur, which distinguishes the scenery round Bro-
dick Bay. The bay itself is a deep regular curve of about two
miles in length, belted the greater part of its compass with a beach
of fine sand; whence an extensive and level plain, ornamented with
cottages, villas, cultivated fields, and flourishing plantations, retires
inwards, till it meets the beautiful and romantic valleys of Glen-
rosa, Glensheraig, and Glencloy. On its north side, Arran
Castle, the insular residence of the Duke of Hamilton, shows a
glimpse of its roof and battlements, among the trees of the richly
wooded elevation on which it stands, pleasure grounds and exten-
sive plantations surrounding it; Goatfell rising in the rear, and
the whole line of the opposite frith, with the distant hills on the
mainland in the foreground. Lamlash is very little indebted to
art, but its capabilities are very great; and, with the addition of a
fev plantations on ground which is at present yielding nothing,
and the cultivation of some waste land, well adapted for the ope-
rations of the plough, it could be made a place of very great beauty.
Even in its present state, no lover of nature can behold its striking
scenery without admiring it. The noble bay which forms its most
prominent feature is a semicircle, from its northern to its south-
ern extremity, fully three miles in length. In the mouth of it
stahds the Holy Isle; so picturesque by the beauty of its shape,
which is an irregular cone, nearly 900 feet high; and its variegat-
ed surface, where heath-clad hills and grassy ridges are seen in-
termingled with naked red sandstone, surmounted by rude basaltic
columns piled tier above tier upon each other. On each side of tbe
island, there is a convenient entrance into the bay, which it both
adorns and protects; and within, a harbour, with excellent hold-
ing ground, and of sufficient depth of water for vessels of all sizes,
and room enough for accommodating the largest fleet. Oppo-
site to the island, and about the centre of the bay, stands the neat
village of Lamlash, spread in a beautiful curve along the beach,
with a sloping bank, crowned with thriving wood behind it. The
rest of the scenery round the bay possesses much of that variety
which the lovers of the picturesque delight to behold. On the
west side lies the vale of lamlash, a beautiful tract of well-culti-
vated and well-watered alluvial soil, reposing among hills of beau-


