
                   EAST KILBRIDE.                           897

cross-draining.  Tile-draining was not known in the parish till
within the last five years.  Most of the farmers still use stones.
The expense of draining with stones, exclusive of horse labour, may
be calculated at about L.5 Sterling per acre.  The whole expense,
including horse labour, may be from L.9 to, L.12, according to the
distance from which materials must be brought.  Although the ex-
pense for the carriage of tiles is not so great, the difference in the
price of the article must make tile-draining, on the whole, more
costly.  The price of tiles here is L.1, 7s. 6d. per 1000.
   The improvement thus produced has, of course, increased the
agricultural produce to a very great extent.  The dairy produce,
in particular, is at least four times is great as it was forty years
ago.  Special attention, indeed, had been paid to the management
of milk cows even in Mr Ure's time.  The breed was greatly im-
proved, as he relates, in consequence of measures adopted more
than eighty years ago, by an ancestor of Mr Graham of Limekilns.
But the improved state of the land, accompanied by a more skil-
ful treatment of this useful animal, have rendered her far more pro-
fitable to the farmer, within the last twenty years, than she could
have been previously.  Twenty years ago, turnips were scarcely
cultivated in East Kilbride at all.  Mr Ure mentions that, in his
time, a few trials had been made to raise this vegetable, but that,
for want of success, the practice had been abandoned.  At the
present time, when the farmer, as is customary, lets out his cows to a
cow-farmer or bouer, as be is called, it is usually part of the bar-
gain, that the farmer shall allow to the bouer, at the rate of about
an acre of turnips for ten cows, besides an allowance of about two
bolls of beans for every cow.  Large quantities of butter-milk are
carried into Glasgow or Rutherglen every day in summer, and
once or twice a week in winter, from not a few of the farms; while
from almost all, one cart at least, is sent, bearing this commodity
for sale, tvice or thrice a week in summer, and less frequently in
winter.  In Mr Ure's time, the milk was, for the most part, made
into sweet milk cheese.  Each farm on an average produced
about 100 stone weight yearly, and the annual product was about
11,100 stone weight, which at 7s. per stone, come nearly to L.4000.
By comparing this statement with the medium prices of cheese
during the last six years, as already given, and by considering the
amount of dairy produce to be now between four and five times as
great as it was in 1793, some estimate may be formed of the pre-
sent value of that produce.  A great encouragement to improve


