
498                   FORFARSHIRE.

John Lindsay, Esq. of Almeriecloss; George Canning, Esq. of
Millbank; George Chaplin, Esq. of Colliston; Patrick Rickard,
Esq. of Woodlands; Thomas Scott, Esq. of Beechwood; Mrs
Baker of Hospitalfield. The mansions of all these are modern,
except Colliston, said to have been built by Cardinal Beaton for
his son-in-law. The Earl of Northesk and Sir John Ogilvie,
Bart. of Inverquharity, the Town-Council of Arbroath, and Dr
Ogilvie of Parkconan have also estates in this parish; but they
are not resident proprietors.

                     III.-POPULATION.
   The population of this parish has been, for the last 100 years,
continually on the increase. According to Dr Webster's report,
the population was then 1592. Since 1780, the increase has been
rapid in the neighbourhood and suburbs of Arbroath. In 1754,
there were but 12 families on the lands contiguous to the royalty,
containing then, in all likelihood, 60 individuals. In 1793, only
1369 persons of all ages, 669 males and 700 females, were there.
There are now in the same limits, within the Parliamentary boun-
dary, 1004 families, consisting of 6037 individuals. By the
census of 1841, there were found in the parish, comprehending
the three ecclesiastical districts, 8780 individuals, of which 2743
resided in the country, including the country villages of Auchmi-
thie, Marywell, and Gowansbank. Auchmithie contained about
280; the village of Marywell, 170; and Gowansbank, 120. In
the town of Arbroath there resided, as above, 6037 individuals
belonging to the Inverbrothock and Ladyloan districts.
   The number of illegitimate births during the last three years
within the three ecclesiastical districts has been in all 42, or one
annually for every 670 of the population.
   The inhabitants of this parish are kind towards one another,
and particularly interested in each others health and welfare.
Though,the operatives are not highly educated, they are intelli-
gent and sober. It is, however, to be lamented, that many of
the farm-servants, having been bred from their boyish days in
bothies, are but coarse and clownish in their manners. The com-
petition for farms, and the consequent high rents, compel many
of the masters to exact from their servants severe and rough toil
in all kinds of weather; and it must be evident, that such exer-
tions are scarcely consistent with much refinement of manners or
much intellectual cultivation. Besides, the universal habit in farm-
servants of frequently changing their abode, is not favourable to
their religious improvement and demeanour.


