
         1266                         PERTHSHIRE.

         provided with thrashing-mills.  Furrow- draining, both by tiles and
         small stones, is successfully carried on, and bone-dust is occa-
         sionally used in raising turnips.  Farm-buildings are, in general,
         both substantial and commodious.   The usual duration of leases
         is nineteen years.
                                V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
           Market-Towns.--Perth and Dundee are the nearest market-
         towns, distant about eight and thirteen miles respectively from the
         church.  The turnpike-road from Perth to Dundee is distant
         about half-a-mile from the southern boundary of the parish.  The
         nearest posts -town is Errol.
           Villages.--There are three small villages: Rait, containing 47
         families; Kilspindie, 18; and Pitrodie, 16.  In each of these a
         few hands are employed in the manufacture of linen fabrics for the
         Dundee market.
           Ecclesiastical State.--The church, with its surrounding burying-
         ground, encompassed by spreading elm and ash trees, stands in
         the village of Kilspindie, on a rising piece of ground, formed by
         the junction of two small rivulets.  The situation is delightful and
         well-chosen for the convenience of the majority of the population.
         It is a plain modern building, comfortably seated for about 350,
         and in a good state of repair.  The manse, which is old, is situated
         within a hundred yards of the church.  The stipend consists of
         15 chalders, half meal half barley, payable according to the fiars'
         prices.  There are two glebes, and the rent of both may amount
         to L. 13.
           Education.--The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum sa-
         lary, a free house, and an allowance in lieu of garden ground.
         He is also session clerk.  The school-fees are-reading, 2s.;
         writing, 2s. 6d. ; arithmetic, 3s. ;-the higher branches in propor-
         tion.  There is a private school in the village of Rait, the teacher
         of which is suported by the fees, and by voluntary subscription.
         The people are in general alive to the benefits of education, and                                                                                                                                                    instructed in the
         manifest a laudable desire to have their children instructed in the
         useful branches.
           Library.--A library, consisting of more than 300 volumes, has
         been is the parish for upwards of thirty years. It is chiefly com-
         posed of biographical, historical, and religious works.
           Poor.--The average number of persons receiving parochial re-
         lief is about 8.  The average weekly allowance to each varies
         from 1s 6d to 3s. besides a yearly supply of coals of 21/8 bolls.


