
810                          PERTHSHIRE.

  Kirk Pottie.-The church of Kirk Pottie was situated about
three miles south from the Bridge of Earn, at the entrance to the
north end of Glen Farg. Its ruins have been swept away within
the last twelve years, and the site on which it stood, with the
burial-ground belonging to it, are now occupied by the garden
and dwelling-house of the tenant of Kirk Pottie Mill.
  A few hundred yards west from Moncrieffe House, on the north
side of the avenue, may be seen what is supposed by some to be
the vestiges of a small Druidical temple, consisting of a circle of
eleven rude stones of the feet in diameter. In the centre of it is
a tree that was planted on the birthday of the present possessor
of Moncrieffe.
  On the summit of Moncrieffe or Moreden hill, (i. e. the large
hill,) tbe distinct traces of a fortification may be seen. There is
a circular fosse about sixteen yards in diameter; in its centre stood
Carnac fort, which belonged to the Picts, whose monarchs during
the eighth and ninth centuries fixed their capital at Abernethy,
about four or five miles south-east from the Bridge nf Earn. On
the tops of several hills in this vicinity, as well as in other parts of
Scotland, fortresses were erected in ancient times, which served
as watch-towers, where persons were stationed to give signals of
approaching danger. This was the case on Tomahastle, a coni-
cal eminence in the west of Strathearn, where the indubitable
traces of a fort are conspicuous; it coincides with Moncrieffe Hill,
in the, important point of commanding an ample range of pro-
spect, and was therefore well fitted for the purpose now men-
tioned.
  Village of Dunbarny.-At a remote period, when the church
stood on the Dunbarny property, a considerable village existed
close to the mansion of Mr. Craigie, occupying for a short distance
each side of the road conducting from it to the Bridge of Earn,
and which was till seventy years ago the only line of communica-
tion between Forgandenny and the Bridge of Earn. It contained
thirty-six families. For their accommodation, a ferry-boat plied
on the Earn, in a line with the west wall of the old church-yard,
after crossing which, the villagers travelled to Perth by the Hilton
knowe, the field called the "Muckle Bank," and St Magdalen's
farm.
  The Forest of Black Earnside.-The ancient forest of Black
Earnside, or Black Ironside, extended along the banks of the


