
     Statistical Account

the island of Papa and Sanness parish.  The cultivated lands 
or farms, called here Rooms, are small scattered spots, lying 
near the sea shore, and round the bays.  They bear a very 
small proportion to the hills and pasture ground.  The figure 
of the parish approaches nearest to a triangle, but with many 
irregularities.  The climate is mild, equal, and temperate; the 
air purre and healthy in all seasons.  The winters are milder 
than perhaps in any other part of Britain, being tempered by 
the circumambient ocean.  The heats of summer are less, for 
the same reason.  High and sudden winds are frequent.  The 
aurora borealis, in the winter, often covers the whole hemis-
phere, making a very brilliant appearance, and of different co-
lours:  It generally has a strong tremulous motion from 
end to end.  The highest hill in this country, is on the W. 
side of this parish, called Roma's hill, and extends from the
middle to the N. end of the parish; being 8 miles long, 4 
broad, and near 3/4ths of a mile perpendicular height.  It was 
found by geometrical mensuration to be 3944 feet above the 
level of the sea.  From the summit of the hill, is exhibited 
an extenfive, noble, and pleasing prospect, 50 miles at least, 
in every direction, having the ocean for an horizon.  The nu-
merous islands scattered beneath, and curiously interfected by 
the sea, and often a distant view of vessels which frequent these 
coasts in the summer season, afford a prospect infinitely diver-
sified and agreeable.  On the highest eminence, there is an 
house constructed of 4 large stones, and 2 covering the top for 
a roof, under which 6 or 7 persons may sit.  It is called the 
Watch House, and was probably used, in ancient times, to 
give notice of the enemy, or any approaching danger; a 
pyramidal tower of small stones is erected on the top of 
it.  This hill is a landmark to the fishers all round the 
country; and generally the first land seen by ships, is they 


