
                          SCONE.                          1059

        the chair on which Charles sat, either when hearing sermon, or
        when the crown was placed on his head, stood behind the bench
        in front of this seat.   It is made of elegantly carved oak, having
        towards one end of the front of the canopy, the arms of Lord
        Scone, with the motto "Meliora Spero," and beneath, the words
        "DAVID LORD SKONE." Towards the other end, in the cor-
        responding place, carved also in the oak, is a different coat of
        arms, with what seems to  have been intended for the motto, "nec
        temere, nec timide," and beneath, "ELIZABETH LADY SKONE,"
        with the date 1616.  The star and crescent had formed part of
        the ornaments, and seem to have been highly gilded.  Lord
        Scone, as appears from the inscription, married Elizabeth Beaton,
        said to have been an ancient baron's daughter of Crich, i. e.
        Criech, in Fifeshire.
          After mentioning several additional ceremonies, the account
        concludes in these words, "Then did the King's Majesty descend
        from the stage with the crown upon his head, and receiving again
        the sceptre in his hand, returned with the whole train in solemn
        manner to his palace, the sword being carried before him." It
        does not appear in what sense the house or castle was called "his
        palace." He may, perhaps, have appointed it to be so, like the
        chamberlain, "for that day;" but the whole seems to have been
        in the possession of Viscount Stormont, who is not mentioned
        among the nobility then present.   In these troubled times, the
        authority of the Assembly and of those noblemen who adhered to
        the Church was triumphant.  There is no reason to suppose that
        there was any other house in Scone in which the King could have
        had a bed-cbamber and presence-chamber except that castle or
        palace begun to be built by the Gowrie family, afterwards enlarged,
        though never entirely completed, by their successors, and almost
        wholly removed when the present splendid house was built, about
        the beginning of this century.
          It was probably in the same palace that the Pretender fixed his
        residence, when, after embarking at Dunkirk, he arrived at Peter-
        head on 22d December 1715.  Having reached Dundee, he hast-
        ened to Scone, and there held a council on the 16th January 1716.
        When he received intelligence  that the royal army had reached
        Auchterarder, a council of war was held on the 30th  of January,
        when the question was proposed, whether to fight or fly? The
        council came to no decision; but a few hours afterward it was de-
        termined, by a select committee to fly, when the Pretender hast-
        ened to Perth, supped and rested, and next morning fled with his




