
     of Currie.

from Lanarkshire by the Shotts hills were completed, 
the inhabitants of this district will then, as it passes to the 
north of it, have a ready opportunity of being abundant-
ly supplied with this article.  It is now a certain fact, 
(which the inhabitants of Edinburgh are already beginning 
to feel,) that the present collieries in its neighbourhood, are 
fast exhausting of this valuable mineral.  The proprietors of 
them have, at present, the power of raising the article con-
siderably, and the dismal prospect presents itself, that, before 
many years, elapse, it may be raised to double its present 
extravagant charge.  When this scarcity happens, one of 
two alternatives  then only remains, either opening pits in 
new situations in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, or bring-
ing coals from a distance by water carriage.  Would it not 
then be more for the honour of the present day, if, without 
waiting till impelled by the last necessity, the completion of 
the intended navigation, should be immediately resolved on, 
and the capital put, in a short time, in possession of this most 
valuable article of coal, at an easy rate?  No period can be 
so favourable as the present, when money is plentiful, com-
merce on so flourishing a state, and the advantages of 
the speculation so evident, as not to admit of the smallest 
doubt. 
   At the pressent, the heritors of this parish, with a laudable
spirit of patriotism, as well as a just sense of their proper in-
terest, intend setting on foot a subscription for the discovery 
of coal, and to invite some of the adjoining parishes to join 
them, in the same praise-worthy attempt.  If successful, which 
is hardly to be doubted, it will give a neq faces to this 
district of country.  It would be well. if such a conduct were 
imitated in many other places of Scotland, where the want 
of fuel is so severely felt; for the expense by subscription 
being thus divided amongst a great number, amonts to a mere 
trisle to each individual, and the loss, if the attempt prove 
unsuccessful, is attended with no material disadvantages. 


