
92                      LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

  Meteorology, &c.-The average summer temperature is 64;
winter, 47ø. Average barometrical pressure 29.4 inches. On 6th
November 1838 and 7th January 1839, during the prevalence of very
high winds, the barometer fell to the unprecedented degree of
27. 9 and 27. 8 inches.
   The Frith of Forth, which, as has been already stated, bounds
the parish entirely on the north, and which from Cockle Burn, a
little to, the east of Lord Rosebery's mansion in Dalmeny Park,
has numerous indentations and inlets along the shore to Linmill-
burn, its limit on the west, is often discoloured by the moss car-
ried down by the river. The shore in many places, owing to the
same cause, is covered with slime, which renders it somewhat un-
safe, especially on horseback,-varied, however, with beautiful
patches of white sand and shell. The tides rise somewhat higher
than at Leith, owing to the contraction of the Frith towards
Queensferry. There are no mineral springs in the parish except
such as contain carbonate of lime; but the water is generally
excellent, and one well, in particular, near Leuchold, in Dalmeny
Park, is remarkable for its uncommon transparency and coolness.
The only waterfall that can be termed a cascade on a very small
scale, except at Craigiehall, to be afterwards noticed, is formed
by the Linmill-burn falling over a precipitous rock of whin se-
venty-five feet high, near Springfield, which overhangs the road
leading from Queensferry to Hopetoun House at the western ex-
tremity of the parish.
   Zoology.-Under this bead may be noticed a kind of sprat which
appears occasionally in winter near Queensferry, resembling in its
outline the young of the herring, and averaging five or five inches
and a half in length. It is more generally known by the name of
Garvey, probably from its place of rendezvous being in the im-
mediate vicinity of the island so called. Dr Parnell states, in
his Essay on the Fishes of the Forth, p. 163, that the sprat,
which abounds on the coast of Essex and Kent, is found in the
Frith throughout the year, frequenting the lower parts during
summer, and ascending the estuary as the cold advances where,
from the commingling of the fresh and salt water, the temperature
is considerably higher. To a common observer, their migrations,
except as to the time of their arrival, are extremely irregular, and
their numbers vary so much, as in one season scarcely to repay the
trouble of taking them, whilst in another they are caught in such
Shoals as to glut the Edinburgh and Glasgow markets and the in-


