
            472                       RENFREWSHIRE.

              The Mechanics Library and Institution, though under the
            management of the same persons, are separate foundations with
            distinct and separate funds.  It is in contemplation to unite them
            when the building above-mentioned shall be finished, and the
            books removed to'tlie apartment intended for them. *
              The mechanics of Cartsdyke have also a library, consisting of
            1465 volumes.  It was the first library of that description in this
            place; but the books being kept in the, Infant School at Carts-
            dyke, and consequently at an inconvenient distance from many of
            the subscribe'rs a new library was formed, called the 14 Trades
            Library" for' which the magistrates provided accommodation in
            Cathcart  Square.  Various efforts were made to unite the two li-
            braries, but in vain; and on the 18th September 1832, the two
            parties came unanimously to a mutual adjustment, in virtue of
            which the 11 Greenock Mechanics Library," formerly called the
              Trades Library," and the "Cartsdyke Mechanics Library," were
            finally separated, and have ever since continued disunited.
              The general character of the books contained' in the Greenock
            Mechanics Library,'may be gathered from the following statement,
            laid before the seventh annual meetina of the subscribers on the
            3d, October 1839, and printed under their authority, After stat-
            ing that the library contained at, that time about 1650 volumes,
            the president proceeds to say,-" 560, or 35 per cent. of these
            volumes are history and biography; 430, or 27 per cent. natural
            philosophy; 172 or 11 per cent. novels and romances; 124, or 8
            per cent. voyages and travels; 106, or. 6 per cent. periodical litera-
            ture; 66, or 4 per cent. poetry; 30 or 2 per cent. theology."
              A larger infusion, not of controversial or polemical theology
            but of books on practical religion, is evidently a desideratum.  The
            former does' not come within the range of every man's business,
            and would be out of place in a public library; the latter unquestion-
            ably does, and ought to form a large portion of every such institu-
            tion; without it no library can be considered as complete.

              Besides the large public and circulating libraries which have
            been enumerated, there are libraries connected with several of
            the churches in town for the use of the members of the repective
            congregations; and invenile or class-libraries for the use of the
            young persons attending the Sabbath-evening or week-day even-
            in schools.  These libraries do not consist exclusively of books on
            readers, and tending to their intellectual and moral improvement.

            <FOOTNOTE>The books are now removed. - October 1840.


