
606                       ARGYLESHIRE.

in their property and effects, if not in their persons. A printed
record of the losses sustained by the several proprietors of the dis-
trict, has many interesting notices indicative of the usages and
habits of the people at that period, and demonstrative of the
change that has since taken place. The violences of the Camp-
bells toward the Lamonts appear in this visitation of the Athol
men to have met with retributive visitation. Fixing their head-
quarters at Inverary, they seem to have taken into their own hands
the powers of "pit and gallows," and no inconsiderable number
of the Clan Campbell perished by their hands. While ravaging this
parish, they were not permitted altogether to go unmolested. A na-
tive inhabitants of the name of Archibald Whyte, is recorded in
story, as the daring and brave head of a kind of guerilla party,
who hung, upon the rear of the Athol men whithersoever they
went; and he is stated, on more occasions than one, to have di-
minished the number of the lawless invaders.
  No events of any special public importance appear to have cha-
racterized the civil history of the parish, from the latter part of the
seventeenth century down to the beginning of the present. The
introduction of the system of sheep-farming, about seventy years
since, began gradually to work changes on the condition of the
rural inhabitants, larger sections of the soil coming to be appro-
priated to that pursuit, and the people to be driven into smaller
holdings, bordering on the cottar system, to some extent.
  The application of steam to the practical purposes of naviga-
tion, it is sufficiently known, began on the River and Frith of
Clyde, and no portion of Scotland perhaps, certainly none of the
Highlands of Scotland, has more witnessed or experienced the
manifold results traceable to that triumph of scientific and mechan-
ical genius and skill. It has tended, within the last twenty-five
years, to change, it may be said, wholly, the physical aspect of this
territory; and in many respects, far from being immaterial, moral
consequences have also resulted from the same immediate operating
cause. In the year 1822, the village of Dunoon presented but
the appearance usual in Highland clachans: there were not more
than three or four slated houses, besides the parish church and
manse. As the power of steam became subservient to the pur-
poses of navigation, and the first steamers built begun to venture
beyond Greenock, and to dare the dangers of crossing the frith,-
esteemed no ordinary measure of boldness at that time,-indivi-
duals, and a few families from Glasgow, began to resort to
                          4


