
                        QUEENSFERRY.                             15

town, from which allowances are made during sickness, and at
death, the funeral expenses are paid. It is another feature in one
of these, a weekly payment is made of one shilling and a penny,
which is paid out in one sum, half-yearly, at the time when house-
rents are due.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of the regu-
lar poor, 16; allowance monthly, from 3s. 6d. to 8s.; church-
door collections, L. 35; rent of money and land, L. 23; average of
legacies, mortcloth, and marriage dues, L. 5; interest of L. 5000
just bequeathed by Captain Henry Meek, deceased, a native of
the parish, and now payable, making the allowance of 37 persons
on the roll from 3s. 6d. to 8s. per month. From this fund,
also, about twenty children are educated. No means have ever
been adopted to procure relief for the poor, but the usual mode
of church-door collection. This has hitherto met every demand
without having recourse to assessments. The poor of this parish
have in former times been unusually well provided for by the kind
attentions of various individuals in the respectable classes, but by
death and a change of circumstances this supply has been very
much diminished. By a decision of the Court of Session, the poor
residing in Queensferry, but in that part of it belonging to the pa-
rish of Dalmeny, have been found entitled to share in the bequest.
This adds about 25 persons, who receive an allowance from the
Meek funds. It has not been found that there is any great reluc-
tance to apply for parochial relief, though, in many cases, it has
been offered before it was sought. It has often, however, been
observed, that many persons permit their aged relatives to remain
on the poor-roll, which, with a better spirit, they might easily pre-
vent. The collections at the church-door have been greatly di-
minished since the Meek bequest has been dispensed. One
mode of relieving the poor is well deserving, of imitation by
those whom Providence has blessed with the means. The Coun-
tess of Rosebery gives employment in spinning to the widows and
industrious females of the town, who are able to earn at least 2s.
or 3s. each month. This produces excellent effects on the inha-
bitants, and induces them to practice a useful art, in many quar-
ters of the country fallen into disuse.
   There is a jail, in the burgh, or rather a lock-up house. Prison-
ers are seldom detained beyond a single night, being removed after
examination to Linlithgow. The town-officer is the keeper of the
jail.


