
     of Edenkeillie.

hitherto has not been furnished in any sufficient quantity.
The only kinds of grain raised in this parish, are barley, Scotch
bear, oats, and some rye.  Every tenant plants a few potatoes
for family use; but no great quantity is raised.  In the upper
parts of the parish, they prefer sowing the black or grey oats;
a species much inferior to the white; but the black are
thought more productive of straw for fodder; an article much
wanted, as a considerable number of cattle are bred in the pa-
rish.  Farming is in a very wretched state in this part of the
country.  They give all their dung to their bear crop; after
which they take repeated crops of oats, sometimes 4 or 5 suc-
cessively, till the land hardly returns the seed; and then it is
lest ley for some years.  Although the great benefit of green
crops, and a proper rotation, has been shewn by some of the
gentlemen, the example has not hitherto had any effect to im-
prove the practice of the common farmers.

   Black Cattle, Horses and Sheep.-A considerable number of
black cattle are reared in this parish, somewhat larger in size
than the Highland kind; and many of them are used in the
plough.  The horses are small, and of a very indifferent qua-
lity.  Most of the tenants keep a few sheep; but the manage-
merit of that animal is not well understood here.  They had
no other kind, till of late, but the ancient breed of the coun-
try, with white faces, affording fine wool, and most excellent
mutton.  The best of the wool of this species, sells for 18 s.
per stone; and, though generally a small animal, from poor
feeding, it may, when better kept, be brought to the size of
13 lb. or 14 lb. per quarter.  This part of the country, abound-
ing in woods and rocks, affords too much harbour for foxes;
it is therefore necessary to house the sheep at night in cotts,
which makes the constitution of the animal rather delicate, and
has been the reason of introducing the black faced Tweeddale

     VOL. VIII.   4 B


