
24                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.


Lord Blantyre, whose seat in this neighbourhood is in the adjoin-
ing parish of Erskine.
   Habits of the People.--The habits of the people in food and
dress are like those of the rest of the west of Scotland. Oatmeal
and potatoes, with a portion of butcher-meat, is the staple of those
employed in out-door work. A good deal of wheaten bread is also
used ; but the workers in the factories having hard labour within
doors, and having better wages, both require and obtain a diet
more approaching to the luxuries of life, than that of those whose
lot it is to enjoy fresh air, and to be able to use and enjoy a coarser
food. Tea is a universal beverage with all classes.
               IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The exact number of acres in the parish has not
been ascertained; but the following statement may be considered
as an approximation sufficiently near the truth, for the purposes of
a work of this kind:

<TABLE>
        	Arable,	   -	5915 acres.
               Pasture,    -    4940
              Wood,       -      572
                             _______
                       Total,  11427 imperial measure.
      
   The valued rental is L. 4441, 13s. 8d. The real rental may
be estimated at about L. 12,500.
   Rent of Land.--The rent of arable land is in some cases as high
as L. 3 per acre, and in others as low as L.1. The average may
be considered about L.1, 15s. per imperial acre.
  The average rent of grazing for a milk cow per season is about
L.5, and of a sheep about 7s.
  The rate of common country labour is from 1s. 10d. to 2s. per
day. The rate for Iabour which requires more expertness, such
as thrashing or mowing, is about 2s. 6d. The wages of all kinds
of tradesmen are about the same as in Glasgow.
   The price of all country produce, and of provisions of all kinds,
is as high as in the Glasgow market. Every article of foreign
produce is higher; as in all cases the expense of carriage must be
added, and an additional profit to the retailer, who deals on a small-
er scale than retailers in town.
   Cattle.--The draught horses are good, and of the active strong
make of those which are now generally used in the west of Scot-
land. Few are bred in the parish, but from their appearance they
may be considered to be of the Lanarkshire breed. There are but
few saddle-horses.
   The black-cattle, which are fattened in the grazing part of the


