248			 ELGINSHIRE.

ly to quit the kingdom.  The Scots, therefore, seem to have
erected this obelisk, us a monument not only of the battle of Murt-
loch, which oblig'd their enemies to quit the kingdom, but as an
evidence of the disappointment the Danes met with, in their hopes
of settling in that particular corner of Scotland. The tradition
concerning this stone favours my conjecture, it being still call'd
King Sueno's Stone; Olavus and Enecus, the Danish generals at
Murtloch, being sent thither by Sueno."
  There is a stone of a similar description at Altyre, found, it is
said, about Duffus, and now placed in the grounds here.  It con-
tains simply a cross crosslet, resembling Sueno's stone in having
its middle part greatly elongated. There appear to be faint marks
of Runic knots on this stone, or other carvings. Its height is fif,
teen feet.
  On the height immediately north of the manse stand the re-
mains of the ancient Castle of Blervie, the seat of a branch of the
once powerful family of the Dunbars.  Its name, some centuries
ago, was written Blare; and it has subsequently undergone the
various alterations of Blarie, Blarvie, Blairvie, and Blervie.  It
consisted of an oblong building, with a square tower at its west
corner.  In one of the angles between these a spiral stair led up
to the top of the tower.  Over the fire-place of the old hall is the
the date 1398.  The tower, of five stories, and the staircase, are
now all that remain.  The principal part of the building was takes
down to build the present house of Blervie.  At the height of a
few feet from the ground, a breach of about a foot was made all
round in the building, and its place filled with turf and other com-
bustibles.  The latter were then set on fire and consumed; but
such was the strength of the old masonry, that the large pile of
building, attached but by one corner to the tower, stood for three
hours afterwards without falling.  Although at one period the
whole district of Moray belonged to the Dunbars, there is no tra-
dition respecting the family of Blervie.  The property about the
beginning of the last century was purchased by Alexander Mack-
intosh, who was "Laird of Blairie" in 1713 and 1724.  From
him it was purchased by William, Earl of Fife, and is now the
property of the Earl of that name.
  The Castle of Burgie bears the date "1602 zeiris," with the
family armorial bearings, and the initials of the laird and lady of that
day on the mantel of what was the great hall.  The estate came to
the Dunbars by Katherine Reid, niece of the last Abbo of Kinloss,


