
                                     TONGUE.                            173

        frequent in rocky burns and cascades.  Quercus robur (oak) is to
        be seen in a few places; but, from its being exposed to be trodden
        down by cattle, it only attains the size of a trifting shrub.  It may
        be mentioned, that Ulex Europaus (whin) and Cytisus Scoparius
        (broom) grow freely in several places; but both were probably in-
        troduced about sixty years ago.  The natural wood, which, for a
        long time, was neglected and destroyed, and in consequence fast
        dwindling away, has of late years been well kept and thinned.
        The only plantations of any extent in the parish are those around
        the House of Tongue.  There are specimens to be seen here of
        beech, elm, ash, and lime, which, for size and beauty, may vie with
        any in the north.  The greater part of these plantations are of re-
        cent date, composed of a mixture of hard-wood, fir, and plane-
        tree, for all of which the soil seems well adapted.  Larch and
        spruce fir thrive much better than the Scotch.  Altogether the
        plantations are in a most flourishing condition, and prove beyond a
        doubt the advantages that would accrue to such a country as this
        from their greater extension.  Besides beautifying the scenery, they
        would ameliorate the climate, and become a fruitful source of re-
        venue.  The ordinary fruit-trees thrive well when they obtain the
        support and shelter of a good wall.

                               II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
           Distinguished Families.-- This parish is the birth-place, and was
        the residence of the most of the noble family of Reay.  Some of
        these signalized themselves for prowess and skill in the military
        operations of their own times: among whom may be mentioned
        Donald first Lord Reay, who so distinguished himself in the wars
        of Gustavus Adolphus.  Tradition ascribes to him most singular
        superhuman powers of body.  There were other members of this
        family who, though not distinguished as public characters, devoted
        their influence to the welfare of their people, by whom their me-
        mories were cherished for several generations, for intelligence,
        patriotism, and exemplary piety.  A full account of them will be
        found in Mackay's History of the House and Clan of Mackay.
           Ministers.-- Though erected in 1724, this parish was not sup-
        plied with a minister till 1726, when Mr George Mackay was ap-
        pointed, who only lived two years.  His successor was Mr Walter
        Ross, a man of fine preaching talents, but whose reserved man-
        ners and, secluded habits were not calculated to gain upon the
        rough, frank Highlander.  He occupied the parish till 1763, when
        he resigned.  After his resignation Mr John Mackay was ap-


