
			    KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                    15

the Spanish troops was the harbour of Kirkcudbright. Lord
Maxwell hurried home from Spain to arm his followers, and landed
at the same place. The fate of the Spanish Armada is well known:
it was defeated by the English fleet before it reached the destined
port, and the elements completed its destruction.
	James VI. appears to have been in Kilcudbright when in pur-
suit of Lord Maxwell; for the burgh is in possession of a small
silver gun, which, according to tradition, was presented to the in-
corporated trades during his visit, that they might occasionally
shoot for it, and by this means improve in the use of fire-arms,--
then rapidly superseding the bow and  arrow as implemdnts of war.
The year 1587 and the letters T. M. C., supposed to be the ini-
tials of Thomas Maclellan of Bombie, are engraven on the barrel
of this miniature fusee. The trinket, seven inches in lenght, has
been shot for, only three times in the memory of the oldest person
now living, 1st, in 1781; 2d, on the 22d of April 1830; and, 3d,
on the 28th of June 1838, the day of the Queen's coronation.
The capacious wassail bowl belonging to the burgh was filled and
refilled on the joyful occasion.
	When Charles I. visited Scotland to conciliate the favour of his
northern subjects, he bestowed upon Sir Robert Maclellan of Bom-
bie the title of Lord Kirkcudbright, and granted a new charter to
the burgh dated the 20th of July 1633, which created the pre-
sent corporation, consisting of a provost, two bailies, a treasurer,
and thirteen councilors. In the Battle of Philiphaugh, John,
raised at his own expense, chiefly among his tenants. It behaved
with great bravery, and was awarded 15,000 merks out of Lord
Herries's forfeited estates.
	In 1663, a serious riot took place in the parish at the introduc-
tion of a curate. Commissioners were appointed to repair to the
burgh, and make the most searching inquiry into the particulars
of this contempt of authority. After examining a number of wit-
nesses, they ordered Lord Kirkcudbrifht, John Carson, late pro-
vost, John Ewart, who had been chosen provost, but had re-
fused to accept of the office, and several women, to be carried
prisoners to Edinburgh. Some of the rioters were imprisoned and
afterwards fined; and several of them were exposed at the market-
cross of Kirkcudbright, with papers upon their faces stating the
nature of their crime.
	After the defeat of the insurgent Covenanters at Rullion Green


