
514                          AYRSHIRE.

unite and form one entire bed of coal. The cannel coal is much
in demand for making gas, and is used at Dumfries and at Ca-
trine. The dross coal makes good coke, and is used at Ayr, Kil-
marnock, and Catrine foundries. The out-put is about 8000 tons
annually, chiefly carried into Dumfries-shire.
	At Coalburn, a three feet seam of coal is wrought, and anotber
of six feet at Creoch, both on the banks of the Nith above New
Cumnock, where several smaller seams occur. Smith's coal, of
excellent quality, is wrought at Craigman and Auldna, in the up-
per part of the parish; the seam is about three feet deep. The
out-put of these works may be estimated at 3000 tonr.
	At Straid, near the road from Dalmellington to New Cumnock,
a seam of cannel coal is wrought about three feet thick, accom-
panied by eight or ten inches of dross coal. This cannel coal is
much in demand for making gas. It lies very near the grey-
wacke, and in the immediate neighbourhood of the Afton lead mines.
	In the coal formation at Craigman, plumbago or black-lead
occurs, and has been wrought for along period. The plumbago
here appears to be formed by basaltic rocks, coming in contact
with a seam of six to eight feet of columnar coal. In examining
this mine, the whole process of the conversion of the coal into
plumbago is evidently from volcanic agency. The basalt, when
in a state of fusion, bursting up through the coal metals and mixing
with the coal, has charred or dandered the coal, and also con-
verted it into plumbago. The seam of coal, when nearly in con-
tact with the basalt, is completely charred for ten or twenty yards,
in different degrees of hardness, as it approaches nearer the basalt.
The plumbago is found in irregular masses, embedded in the ba-
salt, and has often the same columnar structure as the coal. A
further proof of the volcanic action is a bed of slate-clay, which
forms, the roof of the coal, and when in contact with the basalt is
raised up unbroken, and converted into a silicious substance, like
porcelain jasper; and in the sdction of the rocks at the entrance
into the mine, a piece of this jasper, about two feet long, and six or
eight inches thick, has sunk down several feet into the basalt, which
must haVe occurred when the basalt was in a state of fusion.
	Soil.--The soil of New Curnnock, upon the south side of the
Nith, is rather of a gravelly nature, formed of the debris of the
greywacke hills, &c. Frequently, large boulders of granite and
sienite occur in the ground, although none of the hills in the neigh-
bourhood are formed of these rocks. The north and west sides are


