
			AVONDALE. 			    309

It stands on a rocky eminence on the banks of the little stream
of Pomilion, whose waters flow round the greater part of it. In for-
mer times it is highly probable that it was entirely surrounded by this
stream, and that the approach to it was by a drawbridge.* Of late
years, some excellent houses have been built, and new broad streets
formed in the town. A number of neat small villas have been erect-
ed by some of the wealthier citizens in the neighbourbood. A
few years ago, a number of the inhabitants formed themselves into
a company to supply the town with gas, which seems to be suc-
ceeding well. Many of the private houses, and almost all the shops
are lighted witb gas; and it is expected that all the streets will
soon be lighted in the same manner.
	Means of Communication.--There is a post-office here, and a
runner to Hamilton every morning at nine o'clock. There is a
very ready comnunication with Edinburgh, Glasgow, Ayr, and
Hamilton every day. The improvement in this respect must ap-
pear very striking to the old inhabitants. About sixteen years ago,
there was  not even a caravan to Glasgow, and there was no inter-
course with either Edinburgh or Glasgow, but by a carrier's cart,
or on horseback, or by sending to Hamilton for a post-chaise.
Since that time the road between Edinburgh and Ayr by the Ga-
rion Bridge has been opened, so that now we have not only coaches
to all these places every day (except Sunday) but also post-horses
and chaises, gigs, and cars in abundance.
	Markets, &c.--There are excellent markets here of all kinds.
Butcher-meat can be got at all times only little (if at all) inferior to
that of Glasgow. In the town there are three butchers, who deal
extensively, and seven bakers, all of whom seem well employed.
There is also a brewery. We have a regular market every Thurs-
day, which is well attended, and much business done. The coun-
try people have a very bad practice of not coming to market till
four of five, or perhaps six o'clock in the evening. They seem to
think that by this they gain a day's work, but they must in conse-
quence be often late in returning to their families. It is strange
that though there are here weekly markets, and a great number
of fairs, there are no markets or times fixed for hiring servants,--

<FOOTNOTE>It is said that the late Duchess Anne of Hamilton, commonly known by the
name of the good Duchess, took refuge here during the usurpation of Cromwell, and
never forgot the kindness which she experienced from her tenants and vassel in these
days of her distress. She died in 1716. After this the Castle of Avondale fell, very ra-
pidly into decay. No intentions seems to have been paid to it, and it is now fast
mouldering away.
	LANARK.


