
                          SCONE.                            1053

        bert de la Haye of Errol, and his brother Hugh de la Haye;
        David Barclay of Cairns in Fife; Alexander Fraser, brother of
        Simon Fraser of Oliver Castle; Walter de Somerville of Linton
        and Carnwath; David of Inchmartin; Robert Boyd; and Robert
        Fleming.-Lord Hailes' Annals.
          During the reign of Robert Bruce, that Parlialent was held
        at Scone, in December 1318, at which it was enacted that, in the
        event of the King dying without issue male, his successor should
        be Robert Stewart, son of the Princess Marjory and of Walter,
        the Lord High Steward of Scotland; and that, should Robert be
        a minor at the time of the King's death, Randolph, Earl of Mo-
        ray, should be his tutor.  In this Parliament many other laws were
        passed.  All were required to assume military attire, which was
        minutely described.  Churchmen were prohibited from purchasing
        Papal bulls, and absentees residing in England were required to
        draw no money out of Scotland.  The enactment respecting the
        succession was, in some measure, rendered of no avail by the birth
        of a son to the King at Dunfermline 1323, who, after a long mi-
        nority, became King of Scotland under the title of David II.  In
        the various conferences that were carried on about this time be-
        tween Scotland and England, the coronation stone that had been
        removed from Scone by Edward was demanded, but at that period
        the negociations were broken off without any settlement of the
        disputes.  The restoration of the stone, though omitted in the
        treaty of Northampton, of which the original duplicate is preserved
        among the archives in the general Register-House in Edinburgh,
        was stipulated by a separate instrument.  The stone, as is well
        known, was never restored.  This treaty was most unpopular in
        England; and so much opposition was felt to the restoration of
        the fatal stone, that the populace of London "arose in a riotous
        manner, and would not suffer that emblem of the conquest of Ed-
        ward I. to be removed." In the treaty, it was agreed that all in-
        struments and charters having relation to the independence of
        Scotland should be delivered up to Robert Bruce.  Edward, when
        at Scone, had mutilated the ancient chartulary of that Abbey,
        and carried away some of its charters, his object being to destroy
        every monument connected with thr antiquity and independence
        of the nation. The treaty, though ratified by Parliament, was
        never promulgated, nor does it appear among the ancient  records.
          The coronation of David II. took place at Scone with the usual
        solemnities, in 1331,  when that prince was in his eighth year, on




