
                         ST VIGEANS.                       511

and presses are all worked by steams, giving employment to about
15 men.
	In a place thus abounding with factories and other works, it may
be inferred, that the services of mill-wrights and machine-makers
must be constantly in requisition. The number of these, however,
apart from the mills, is not considerable. In each factory there
is a shop containing all the implements requisite for repairing the
various machinery, and a set of mechanics, regularly bread as mill-
wrights and machinists, forms a part of every establishment. Be-
sides these, there are two works appropriated exculusively to the
making and repairing of driving geer and mill machinery of every
description, with the exception of steam-engines. The average
number of men employed therein is about 25, whose wages run
from 13s. to 17s. per week, with seven apprentices from 4s. to
7s. 6d.
	There is only one fotndry in the district. It is on a large scale,
giving employment to 32 men and boys. The castings consist
chiefly of stoves and other articles for the use of the settler in
Canada, to which country an extensive supply is annually export-
ed. Attached to this work is a set of furnaces for making coke
for the locomotive engines on the Dundee and Forfar Railways.
	In a previous of a building of some extent, with the requisite
appendages for grinding wheat and oats. It is driven by a water-
wheel, the water being supplied from the dam formerly mentioned
assisted in seasons of drought by a stream-engine of six-horse
power. This property, though, like the rest of the parish, situ-
ated without the royalty, belongs to the town (eorporation) of Ar-
broath. The present rental is L.231 per annum. On the east
side of the dam was, and still in part is a hill consisting of
sand and clay, the former of which is being constantly taken
away for ship's ballast and other purposes. A brick-work has been
formed of the latter. In the course of a few years, the entire hill
will be demolished, when a plain of considerable extent will be
formed, and thus will be converted into a valuable piece of ground,
what was not long since an unseemly mound surmounted with a
few stunted trees.
	Having thus noticed the principal manufactures in the suburbs
of Arbro`th, it only remains to state, that, in addition to those
mentioned, there are in the parish other two mills; the one at
Collieston, the other at North Tarry. These works being on a

  FORFAR.                             L l


