
262                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

rise. In aspect, it is bare, tame, and unpicturesque, forming in
these respects a complete contrast to the districts of Whittinghame
and Gifford to the east and west of it: although, towards the
western extremity, it assimilates more to the richly wooded cha-
racter of these districts. It has neither lake, mountain, nor stream
(excepting the small burn of Morham) within its boundaries. It
possesses not a morsel of what may be called fine scenery, with
the single exception of the pretty little glen which forms the mi-
nister's pastum glebe. The inhabitants, however, find a com-
pensation for the bareness and tameness of their residence in
the greater degree of salubrity, which the total absence of swamps,
the open sky overhead, and the free circulation of the air impart
to it. Frequently, on a spring or autumn morning, they are
enjoying a bright and pure sunshine, while Haddington and the
vale of the Tyne lie beneath their eye buried in dense fog. At
the time when other districts of the country were suffering se-
verely under the visitation of the Asiatic cholera, not a single case
of it occurred here; and ague, and other diseases incident to thickly
wooded, flat and marshy countries, are here unknown.
   The highest elevation above the level of the sea may be stated
at 300 feet.
   Geology.-Nothing very remarkable occurs under this head.
Coal was wrought in former times in the western part of the
parish, but it seems to have been of very inferior quality, and
has not been wrought now for upwards of forty years. It is
thought, however, that seams of a better quality still remain un-
touched in the same neighbourhood. And perhaps it were worth
while to ascertain the fact, when the value of a good coal pit in
this district of the county is considered.-There is a freestone
quarry in the Haggs moor, but the stone is coarse and soft. The
rock elsewhere is generally of the trap formation, often highly por-
phyritic and cellular, and strongly coloured with iron.
   Botany.-In the Minister's Glen grow in great profusion Dian-
thus deltoides, Saxifraga granulata, Campanula rotundifolia, Viola
tricolor and canina, Sedum acre, Thymus serpyllum, Galium verum,
Veronica officinalis, &c. so as, in summer, to cover the banks with a
beautifully mottled carpet, of which the predominating colour va-
ries with the successive months. In the burn and along its edges
occur Epilobium hirsutum (great hairy willow-herb,) abundantly;
Mentha hirsuta (hairy mint;) Alisma plantago (great water plan-


