
56	                  DUMBARTONSHIRE.

by wheat, for which it makes a good preparation. As soon as
the potatoes are dug, the ground is ploughed anew, and the wheat
sown. This can seldom be accomplished before the middle of
October; and from that period till Martinmas is the usual season
Of wbeat-sowing; but fallow ground is sown in the end of Sep-
tember. Four imperial quarters per Scots acre are reckoned an
average return ; but we have known double that quantity reaped
after summer fallowing. Of oats, the average return may be five,
and of barley, four and a half quarters.
   The Dairy.--The dairy is an important, and the most profitable
branch of our husbandry. A farm of 100 Scots acres will gene-
rally have 12 milch cows, yielding on an average 8 Scots pints of
milk, and 1 lb. avoirdupois of butter per day, during seven months
of the year. The whole of the milk, except what is used by the
fa;nily, is churned, and the butter and butter-milk sent to Glas-
gow, where they find a ready market. Butter fetches about 9d.
per lb.; and butter-milk 1d. per Scots pint. We shall thus have
as the gross produce of each cow, 214 lbs. butter, at 9d. per lb.
L. 8, Os. 6d.; 1712 pints butter milk, at 1d. per pint, L. 7, 2s. 8d.;
making L. 15, 3s. 2d.
   This system of dairy-husbandry seems well adapted to the neigh-
bourbood of a large town, and is extending every year. Even
from beyond the limits of this parish, a distance of eleven or twelve
miles, butter-milk is regularly carried to Glasgow.
   Leases and Rents.-The general duration of leases is nineteen
years. Rents, though reduced from the high war-rates, are still
too high for the tenant. Money-rents alone are in use; but in
a few instances they are subject to a fixed increase or reduction ac-
cording as the fiars price of wheat exceeds or falls below L. 3
per quarter. It seems not yet to be understood that it would be
better for both parties that the landlord should take the payment
of all public burdens on himself. Minister's stipend and school-
master's salary, conversion labour money, and land-tax, are still
very generally charged against the tenants; though on some es-
tates they are relieved from the first two.
   Farm-buildings.--Several of the farm-steadings have been re-
built of late years, and in general they are substantial, and suited
to the size of the farms but there. are some not very creditable
exceptions, which we have a prospect of soon seeing removed.
The dwelling-house is usually of one story, containing a kitchen,
a parlour, and a sinall middle apartment below, with two sleep-
	                         6


