
	648				PERTHSHIRE.

	in this countrx.  We allude to the " religious revival" which took
	place here in 1800 under the ministration of Dr Stewart, who died
	minister of the Canongate, Edinburgh.  The Rev. J. Sievwright
	of Markinch, in his memoir of Dr Stewart, gives a full and de-
	tailed history of this remarkable awakening.  To that memoir we
	would refer the reader, who way feel disposed to inquire further
	into the subject.  A few even of those, who were in 1800 accounted
	subjects of conversion, are still living, and have uniformly through
	life, by the piety and consistency of their conduct, given proof of
	the reality of the saving change that had been effected on their
	heart.  Dr Stew`rt's memory is highly revered and affectionately
         cherished by the older people in the parish.  *
	   Eminent Characters.-It is an honour of which we have reason
	to be proud, that Moulin gave birth to Dr Duff, the Church of
	Scotland's first missionary to India.  Dr Inglis, whose master-
	mind conceived the plan of evangelizing the millions of India by
	means of native teachers, was requested by the General Assembly
	to look out for a young man to whom the undertaking could be
	entrusted.  Dr Duff, who was then a student at the University of
	St Andrews, and well known for his missionary spirit, was fixed
	upon as a person eminently qualified for carrying out the vhews of
	the Church in regard to India.  The services of a more suitable
	person could not be secured.  Uniting genius, talents, and learn-
	ing, piety, zeal and energy, and withal an eloquence of tbe mofit un-
	fettered, commanding, and effective character, admirably adapted
	to demolish the strongholds of heathenism among the nations of
	the East, he left Britain in the Lady Holland in October 1829,
	and, after suffering shipwreck and losing his all, he landed on the
	shores of India on the 30tb May 1830, opened our Institution in
	Calcutta in the end of July following, and in the course of a short
	period had the happiness to see, that the realization of the origina-
	tor's fondest hopes was a matter that could no longer be considered
	problematical.  Such, indeed, was the success which attended our
	Institution at Calcutta, that the Church was encouraged to open
	similar schools in the other Presidencies : and from time to time
	we receive the most: cheering intelligence from these sister es-
	tablishments.  Separated for a season from hhs coadjutors in this
	glorious cause, Dr Duff has for some time astonished his country-

         <FOOTNOTE>Dr Stewart published, while at Moulin, a grammar of the Gaelic language, a
	work distinguished for philological research, acuteness, ability, and evincing a
	mind minutely and thoroufhly acquainted with the language, the principles of which
	be so ably and so clearly unfolds.


