
378                     ARGYLESHIRE.

to the south, it occasionally exhibits to the view sandy bays
and low rocky headlands, the latter of which are frequently
composed of red sandstone, alternating with puddingstone, mica
imbedded with veins of quartz, veins of basalt, and a few detached
blocks of the same scattered along the shore,-whinstone, alter-
nating with basalt, sandstone, and red shiver.
  Towards the southern extremity of the parish, at the termina-
tion of Bealochintie bay, and which comprehends nearly a circuit
of two miles, the coast begins to assume a more bold and rugged
aspect.  A promontory of detached rocks and loose stones of im-
mense magnitude project into the sea, which seem, since the crea-
tion, to have set the utmost efforts of the waves at defiance.
  It may be generally observed, that, wherever the coast is most
exposed to the billows of the ocean, nature has opposed the
strongest barrier.  Thus, in as far as protected by the adjacent
islands of Gigha, Cara, Jura and Islay, the coast is low, and the
sea, by a gentle undulation, gradually exhausts its violence on a
sandy beach, or dashes its sprays against low rocky headlands.
But, beyond the reach of such protection, nature has opposed a
more bold and elevated front.
  In the immediate vicinity of the sea, and throughout the whole
extent of the parish, a narrow stripe of low alluvial land, edged by
an indented declivity, bears evident traces of having been at one
period occupied bv the sea.  The general belief among the
aged inhabitants is, that the sea is gradually retiring from the
land.  In confirmation of this belief, the bank or sloping declivity
which forms the boundary of the level land occasionally assumes
a shelving appearance, and in such places as the sea has encoun-
tered obstruction from projecting precipitous rocks, they have
formed an irresistible barrier against any encroachment of the
ocean ; but where no such interruption occurs, the waves seem to
have forced a passage farther inland.
  Along the shore, the remains of some rude circular enclosures
are still visible, which, from their appearance and position, must
have been at one period surrounded by the sea.
  In the centre of the parish, and in the immediate neighbour-
hood of the sea, an aggregate of pyramidical rocks occur, from
which the ocean has evidently receded.  In the fissures of these
rocks, several acres beyond the sea-mark, quarriers have fre-
quently dug out fossil bivalved shell fish, of a species not now to
                                   3


