
1200                          PERTHSHIRE.

(exclusive of carriages,) raised in the same way as the money for
the erection of the chapel, and more lately a small court of offices,
-the proprietor of North Persie again granting half an acre of
ground for a site and garden, and the managers of the chapel rent-
ing from him a bit of ground for the convenience of the preacher.
  There are no Dissenting or Seceding chapels in the parish.
The parish church never has and never can be well attended.
The members of the Established Church who are within conve-
nient reach of the parish church, are exemplary in their attendance
on Divine service, and those who are not, statedly worship at the
parish churches of Rattray and Alyth.  The chapel at Persie is
well attended. The average number of communicants at the pa-
rish, churcb is 260, and about 40 others communicate in neigh-
bouring parishes. The number of the parishioners not members
of the Established Church, and belonging to other religious de-
nominations, is as follows:-

<TABLE>
		1843                                  1796, (Old Stat. Account.)
        United Associate Synod, *  .    86            Seceders.     .        143
	Original Seceders,      .        4            Relievers,      .       32
	Belief bodv,      .        .    13            Episcopalians.    .      3
	Papists,       .      .          1            Papists,       .      .  2


It having been found that collections at the church  were not the
best way of giving the people an opportunity of cop tributing to the
educational and missionary schemes supported by the church, a
parish association for religious purposes was established in 1828.
Its collections are limited to the lower part of the parish, and for
some years past they have averaged annualiy about L.18.
  Education.-There is one parochial selool. The salary is
L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d.; the average amount of fees, L.9, 9s. 6 1/2d.  The
schoolmaster is session-clerk, to which a salary of L.12 is attached,
and the customary dues.  He acts. likewise as clerk to the heritors,
and as collector of the assessment, for which he receives L.3 per
annum.  The usual branches of education are taught, and the
school fees, per quarter, are as follows: English reading, 2s.;
with writing, 2.s. 6d.; with arithmetic, grammar, and geography,
3s.; with practical mathematics, 3s. 6d.; with Latin and Greek,
5s. Many  years ago, Colonel Macdonald erected, at his own ex-
pense, a school-house at Strone of Cally for behoof of the High-
land district of the parish, The school-room is given free of rent,
but the teacher has no other means of subsistence than the school

<FOOTNOTE>In the above table it will be obserred, that no notice is taken of the new seces-
sion,


