
                4                         PERTHSHIRE.

             amined in a great variety of situations, and generally ranges from
             10&deg; to 20&deg;. *  The lowest stratum of the extensive formation of sand-
             stone which traverses the parish occurs at the Friartown turnpike,
             about a mile and a half from the city, where the dip is 15&deg; towards
             the N. W. by W. At the waterfall of Craigie, which is about half a
             mile to the north-west of this point, (and though about 80 feet lower
             in situation, occupies a more elevated place in the stratification,)
             the sandstone is covered by the trap which seems to have flowed over
             it, from the great mass of that rock to the south-west of it, when the
             latter was in a state of fusion.  The inclination of the subjacent
             sandstone has accordingly undergone no change, the dip being 12&deg;
             45' towards the N. W. 1/2 W.; but the layers, in immediate contact
             with the trap, are assimilated to it in appearance, and possess great
             hardness, with a semi-crystalline structure.  Tracing a line from
             the Friartown to the parish church of Moneydie, which is almost
             exactly in the direction of the plane of the dip, the distance is about
             6 miles ; and as the dip of the stratification at the latter point, is
             12&deg; 30' towards the N. W., it may be inferred that the stratum of
             sandstone at Moneydie occupies a position, which bad originally
             been upwards of a mile above that which is presented to view at the
             Friartown.  Both strata where they crop out being `t present
             nearly on the same level, it would seem that the portion of the sand-
             stone rocks above the Friartown, corresponding with the strata at
             Moneydie, has suffered great disintegration ; and indeed, however
             extravagant the opinion may seem, it is far from being inconsistent
             with appearances to suppose, that the debris of these rocks gave
             birth to the shifting hills of loose sand, which occur at the mouth
             of the Tay ; as well as to the extensive accumulation of arenaceous
             tumuli lying between that river and the mouth of the Eden, form-
             ing what is called the Tents-moor.
                 The trap rocks which run along the southern boundary of the
             parish may be regarded as a continuation of the Sidlaw range of
             hills, and possess a direction which coincides with that of the
             planes Ofthe adjacent sandstone strata ; and it seems highly pro-
             bable, that the latter received thir present dip and position from
             the same internal movement which gave exigence to the former.
             From the main body of the trap, whin dikes may be traced, issu
             ing at various points, and retaining for maay miles a westerly direc-
             tion.  These dikdr, which are generally about 60 feet wide, seem
             to have resulted form immense fissures in the sandstone, formed

             <FOOTNOTE>In the immediate vicinity of the trap rocks, the dip extends sometime to 35&deg;.
						     4


