
                             WEMYSS.                     393

down to the present time. From 26th August 1689 to 9th March
1692, there is a deficienc, the reason for which is thus noticed
in one ofthe records: " The reason why the public regis-
ter in this parish is lame for that period, is, that there was no
settled minister after Mr Ker was deposed by the secret counsell
in the foresaid month of August 1689 untill Mr Archibald Rid-
dell was settle in October 1691;" and that during this inter-
val, "the register was keeped by the Countess of Wemyss, and not
delivered to the session:" It is farther added "that Mr Ker, student
of Divinity and Professor in St Leonard's College, St Andrews,
was admitted minister of Wemyss September 8, 1686, and de-
posed 26th August 1689, for not reading the 'proclamation and not
praying publicly for King William and Queen Mary."  The old-
est register of baptisms begins in 1660, and that of contracts and
marriages in 1662.  With the exception already noticed, they are all
regularly and accurately kept from their commencement.  The
number of the whole is fourteen volumes.
 Antiquities.--Under this articles, we may notice the remains of
two Popish Chapels, the one at Methil-mill; and the other, a lit-
tle beyond West Wemyss.  There are also the ruins of an old
castle, usually called Macduff's Castle, situated a little to the east
of East Wemyss.  It is said to have been built by Macduff, who
was created Earl of Fife about the year 1057, and on whom King
Malcolm Canmore bestowed some peculiar marks of regard.  It
must have been once a place of great strength, judging from the
two square towers, and a part of the wall, that still remain.  It is
built on an eminence near the sea shore, having a very command-
ing view; and there are few strangers who come to this part of the
country, without paying a visit to the old castle.
 The Castle of Wemyss, too, the seat of the family of Wemyss,
deserves notice.  It is a large and magnificent building.  It is si-
tuated a little to the east of West Wemyss, on a cliff between 30
and 40 feet above the level of the sea.  Beyond West Wemyss, is
the Chapel Garden, so denominated from the circumstance of a
Roman Catholic Chapel having been built there, some of the re-
mains of which, as already noticed, are still standing.  Besided it,
is the residence of Thomas Bywater, Esq. factor on the estate.
The whole forms a most delightful romantic spot, the sight of which
could not but amply compensate the admirer of the picturesque,
even although he had gone a journey of twenty or thirty miles, for
the sole purpose of visiting this terrestrial paradise.































