
22                           ELGINSHIRE.

ed by the late James M'Andrew Esq. of Elgin, to be given an-
nually in prizes to the three boys in the Latin school who have
made the greatest progress in the preceding year. The male and
female teachers of the free school of the Elgin institution have a
joint salary of L.75. No fees are exacted, and orphans and the
children of poor widows receive books. The house-governor and
teacher of the school of industry has L.55 per annum, and his
maintenance and lodging in the institution. The teacher of the
infant school has L.25, the fees, and a house. The trades' school
has a salary attached of L.5 from the town's funds. The ladies'
schools and one chance school depend wholly on fees. The school-
masters in the landward part of the parish have each a small sa-
lary and a house from the heritor on whose property the school is
situated, and some advantages from the tenantry of the district, and,
including fees, their emolument may fluctuate from L.25 to L.30
per annum each. There are probably none of the young betwixt
six and fifteen years of age of sound mind who cannot read or write;
and the writer has not met with or heard of any person above the
age of fifteen who cannot read, though there are no doubt a good
many aged persons, particularly females, who cannot write. There
are few parishes in Scotland better supplied with the means of edu-
tion, and there does not appear to be any backwardness on the
part of parents to give the advantages of it to their families. It
is producing in a greater or less degree its usual beneficial effects
on the moral habits and general welfare of the people.
   Literature.-A circulating library has been long established in
the town, and contains an extensive and valuable collection of his-
tory, travels, poetry, &c. carefully selected by the proprietor, and
to which he is adding the best works for general readers as they
are published. A small collection of books, selected by the teach-
ers, has been provided for the use of the students attending the aca-
demy.
  A literary association, consisting of twenty members, was institu-
ted in 1818 in the town. The object of this association was to
procure at a moderate expense four or five of the best periodicals,
and such books as the members generally could not readily find
access to. The periodicals and books are circulated according
to rule among the members, and are afterwards bound and placed
in a library. The institution has most satisfactorily, answered its
purpose, and is going on prosperously. A small annual subscrip-
tiop has already supplied a library of nearly 7OO volumes. The


