
     of Killin.

ling.  It is about 28 statute miles in length, and, in most
places, from 6 to 8 miles in breadth.  It is bounded by the
parish of Kenmore on the east, by the parishes of Comrie and
Balquidder on the south, by the parish of Arrochar on the
south-west, by that of Clochandysart or Glenorchay on the
west, and by parts of the parish of Fortingal in Glenlyon on
the north.  From the parish church, which is situated in
the village of Killin, at the west end of the lake called Loch-
Tay, the parish extends 8 miles east along the south side of
that lake, and to the westward about 20 miles, through a
valley, the east end of which is named Glendochart, and the
west end of it Strathfillan.  A village called Glenfalloch which
breaks off from Strathfillan, and is about 7 miles in length,
lying towards the south-west, belongs also to the parish of
Killin.  Towards the north lies Glenlochy, a valley about
10 miles in length.  It is separated by a ridge of mountains
from Glendochart and Strathfillan, and runs parallel to them,
terminating, like Glendochart, in a pretty extensive plain, at
the west end of Loch-Tay.  Most of the farms in Glenlochy
belong, according to the antient arrangement of these pa-
rishes, to the neighbouring parishes of Kenmore and Weem,
but, from their vicinity, depend entirely on Killin for church
privileges, though not formally annexed thereto, quoad sacra;
and the case is the same with the farms to the eastward of
the village of Killin, for two or three miles alongst the north
side of Loch-Tay.

   Soil and Surface.-The soil of the greater part of this pa-
rish is light and dry, but abundantly fertile when the season
is favourable.  As it lies mostly on gravel, however, it is apt
to be parched up in dry seasons, particularly alongst the de-
clivities of the hills.  A considerable part of the soil in the
parish too is wet and marshy.  This kind abounds most in
the plain which lies at the west end of Loch-Tay, and in the

     VOL.  XVII.  3 A


