
                              MONZIE.                            277

itself calculated to produce content, but simply because their wants
are few, and their wealth does not exceed their ability to control
it. As prosperity seldom sets in upon a rural population with so
strong a current as it frequently does upon manufacturing districts,
so the former are to a considerable extent without its concomitant
improvidence and crime.  Life flows on with a more equable cur-
rent, and as there are not the same alternations of prosperity and
depression, so is there less of misery and disappointment.
   Poaching.-Poaching in game or the salmon-fisheries does not
prevail to a great extent, and smuggling, once so commnn in this
parish, is now unknown.
                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres in the parisbl, whether ara-
ble or in pasture, cannot be ascertained ; and there is no land in
a state of undivided common.
   Wood.-The trees indigenous to the soil are the hazel, birch,
oak, alder, plane, fir, common and mountain ash; and those plant-
ed are chiefly the larch, Scotch fir, oak, ash, elm, plane, and wil-
low.  The management of plantations is well understood.
   Rent and Grazing.-The average rent of arable land per acre
is from L. 1, 10s., to L. 2, but small pieces called pendicles some-,
times bring L. 3 per acre.  Grazing an ox or cow costs from
L. 2 to L. 3, or upon hill pasture from 16s. to L. 1, 1Os.: a  sheep
or ewe, on low ground, from 9s. to 10s., or on hill pasture, from
3s. to 4s.
   Rate of Wages.-A farm-servant, fit for all work, with bed and
victuals, costs L. 12 per annum.  A farm labourer engaged by
the day, costs in summer Is. 6d, and in winter 1s. 2d. or Is. 3d;
a female servant with bed and victuals, costs L. 6 per annum; a
mason receives without victuals from 12s. to 14 per week; a car-
penter from 12s. to 13s.; a thatcher with victuals 1s. 6d per day.
   Live-stock.-The common breed of sheep are the Highland
or black-faced, and great attention is paid to their improvement.
The c`ttle are a cross breed between the Highland and Lowland,
and a few Ayrshire cows are kept.
   Husbandry.-The character of the husbandry pursued may be
termed good.  A considerable quantity of land has been taken in,
drained, trenched, and cleared of stones; but the expense of lime,
on accotnt of the long carriage, (being brought from Perth, a dis-
tance of from fourteen to seventeen miles,) is a great drawback,
to improvement.


