
                          PARISH OF TOWIE.

              PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                  THE REV. ADAM SMITH, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of this parish is derived from the Gaelic word
Tuaidh, signifying north, or north-lying land,-probably inreference
to the district by which it is bounded on the south, namely, Cro-
mar.  The ancient name was Kilbartha, or Bartha's cell or church.
The parish is now known by the name of Towie Kinbattoch,-
the latter being from Khan, signifying the head, and Battock, grove;
and in the cess-books of the county it is denominated Towie Brux,
having at One period belonged principally to the family of Forbes
of Brux, in whom the patronage was long vested.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is of an irregular figure.
The extreme length from north to south is about 10 miles, and from
east to west about 5.  The medium inhabited length is about 4,
and the breadth 2 1/2 English miles.  It is bounded on the south, by
Tarland and Migvie; on the west, by Migvie and Strathdon; on
the north, by the Cabrach; on the north-east, by Kildrummy; and
on the east, by Cushnie.
   Topographical Appearances.-The parish is almost surrounded
by hills ; those on the south-east, called the Soccoch, are about
2000 feet high.  They were said by Gilderoy and his Katterin,
who made frequent predatory visits to this quarter, to be the cold-
est they ever lodged amongst.  The surface of the hills is unbroken,
undulating, and covered with short heath.  There is no level arable
land, excepting the haughs on the banks of the river; and on some
farms, the land is very steep, and consequently causes an extra
expense of time and strength in the tillage.  The river Don divides
the parish into two nearly equal parts; it makes several beautiful
serpentine bonds, as it winds its course through Towie; but as the
current is rather rapid and the channel gravelly, it is very apt to
cut the banks and shift its course.  The aspect of the parish, par-
ticularly towards the south, is rather bare and bleak, having little


