
44                        KINROSS-SHIRE.

  The price of oatmeal from 1782 to 1791 was at an average,
14s. 7 1/2d.; from 1823 to 1832, 18s. 4d. per boll (140 pounds.)
  Wages.-The wages of labourers are about 1s. 10d. in summer,
and 1s. 8d. in winter; of wrights, 2s.; masons, 2s. 6d. to 3s.;
slaters, 3s. 6d; women working in the fields from the planting to
the taking up of the potatoes, 8d. and 9d.; in harvest, from 1s. 3d.
to 1s. 6d., except when they work by the thrieve, which they find
most profitable.
  The labour of the women is employed to greatest advantage in the
management of cows. There are about 150 cows kept in the parish,
inclusive of those belonging to the heritors and farmers. A cow's
grass in summer costs L. 4 or L. 4, 4s. This is generally paid by
the sale of the butter and the calf. At night the cow gets what
can be spared from the garden, with grass from the sides of fences
and plantations. For winter, they generally provide some hay,
and buy before harvest oats or barley, the meal of which goes to
the support of the family, and the cow gets the straw, together
with potatoes and turnips, which the farmers give them ground to
plant in proportion to their dung. Where a cow is kept, there is
also a pig, and some keep a pig who have not a cow. Every house-
holder has a garden, a part of which is planted with potatoes.
  Live-Stock.-The cattle are generally of the Fife breed. A great
deal of pains has been taken to improve them, especially since the
establishment of the Kinross Farming Society. The sheep kept on
the hill are black-faced, those on the low grounds of some of the
English breeds. A considerable part of the arable ground of the
parish is in pasture, and let for one year: it is partly stocked with
young beasts, but principally with full-grown cattle, which are col-
lected in the country by the graziers, and sold at the Falkirk
September and October markets, or the Edinburgh Hallow fair.
  The leases are for fifteen or nineteen years. The farm build-
ings and enclosures are good, and much improved of late years.
The principal improvement which the agriculture of thhs parish ad-
mits of, is to complete the system of draining, which is already far
advanced, and to cultivate those parts of the waste land which still
admit of it.
  The freestone has been quarried occasionally in many places; at
present, only two quarries are regularly wrought, one at Niving-
stone the other at Bin or Benarty bill. In the year 1834, there were
taken from tbe Nivingstone quarry 14000 feet of stone for hewing,
the price of which at 3d. per foot is L. 175: and 3300 cart loads


