
				GOVAN.                    709

to remove with their families, twenty miles from their former
parishes, six miles from any cathedral thurth, and three miles
from a burgh.  The arthbishop, therefore, and the diocesan sy-
nod issued an order, requiring that, wherever four or five ministers
could be brought together, they should constitute themselves into
a presbytery in the old presbytery seats.  In compliance with this
order, a few ministers met at Paisley, on the 29th of October 1663,
along with " Mr John Hay and Mr William Forbes of the pres-
biterie of Glasgow-correspondents for a time to assist them."
Mr Hay is called in their minutes, " Mr John Hay, yotnger,"
to distinguish him from Mr John Hay, parson of Renfrew. *  11.
Mr Gabriel Russell.  On the 28th of February 1666, he pro-
duced to the presbytery, " Several testimonials from Jedburgh
and the Colledge of Aberdeen, where he was ane student." +  By
appointment of the arthbishop, he received institution in Septem-
ber 1667, at the hands of the moderator, who, after prayer and
thanksgiving, delivered to him " the Bible and keyes of the kirk;
and immediately passed to the manse and gleib and gave him in-
feftment thereof." ++  12. Mr John Pettigrew.  When, James VII.,
with the secret design of re-establishing Popery suspended, in

<FOOTNOTE>Rec. of Paisley Presb.  The writer has not been able to discover the date of Mr
Hay's institution to the benefice, as both the s, sson and presbytery records ofthe period
have been lost. But on the 19th of November 1663, 11 John flay, Minister of Go-
Van," is represented to have executed an edict from the Arthbishop at the parish
thurth of Kilbryde, preparatory to the institution of Mr James Crithton, as minis-
ter ofthat parish. (Glasg. Presb. Rec.) Indeed, the whole ofthe Glasgow Presby-
tery Records, previous to 1774, are in a very imperfect state, having been greatly in.
juied by the fire, whith destroyed the Laigh thurth and session-house, on the Sth of
February 1793. This calamity is the more to be deplored that, after having been
missing for about a hundred years, nine volumes of these records bad been restored
to the Presbytery only the'year before. ( Dqnholm, Hist, of Glasg. p. 96. Cleland's
Annals of Glasg. Vol. ii. p. 475, 479.) As they cannot now be handled even with
the utmost care, without sustaining injury, a copy has been taken at considerable ex-
pense, of what is legible of them, from the years 1592 to 1627.  If the remaining
volumes are not transcribed soon, as they are almost in a state of tinder, their con-
tents, as an authentic memorial of the times, will be irrecoverably lost.
          Glasg. Presb. Rec. A contemporary historian says, that the curates, as the coun-
try people called them, " were fetthed almost wholly out of the north country, where
they found a sort of young lads, unstudied and unbred, who had all the properties of
Jeroboam's priests, most of them of two or three years standing."  (Kirkton, Hist.
of th. of Scot. p. 160.)  Nor is the description more flattering whith is given of
them by Bishop Burnet, and whith may be seen in his History of his own Times.
He pronounces them to have been " the dreg and refuse of the northern parts."  (Vol.
i. p. 284, Oxf. 1833.)  As the learned prelate is so severe in his remarks on the
clergy of his own thurth, he may be pardoned for the bitter things he says of the Pres-
byterian clergy.  His candour, however, le`ds him to admit respecting the latter,
that they "were related to the thief families in the country, either by blood or mar-
riage, and had lived in so decent a manner that the gentry paid great respect to them."
He adds, that "as they lived in great familiarity with the people, and used to pray
and talk often with them in private, so it can hardly be imagined to what a degree
they were loved and reverenced by them."  Id. p. 281.
          Glas. Presb. Rec.


