
42                        LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

                "The wise Sir Walter Lindsay they him call,
                 Lord of St John and Knight of Torphichen,
                 By sea and land a aliant capitane."
   Sir Walter Lindsay died in 1538 and was succeeded by Sir
James Sandilands, brother to Sandilands of Calder. During his
preceptorate, the Reformation began to stir men's minds, and to
break up every thing established on no better foundation than su-
perstition. Sir James Sandilands joined the Reformers, and this,
together with the spirit of the times, caused the dissolution of the
order of Knights of St John in Scotland. He resigned into the
hands of Queen Mary the whole lands and baronies possessed by
the preceptors of St John, receiving them again in feu farm, to
him, his heirs, and assignees, for ever, upon condition of paying
to her Majesty 10,000 crowns of the sun, * and 500 merks of an-
nual feu-duty. The charter conveying to him the lands, &c. is
dated at Edinburgh the 24th day of March 1563. The most
important part of it is as follows:-"Dedisse, concessisse, et hac
presenti carta nostra confirmasse, hereditarie dicto Jacobo Domino
de Sancta Johanne heredibus suis et assignatis totas et integras
terras et Baronias de Torphichen, Listoun, Balintrodo, Tanker-
toun, Denny, Maryculter, Stennop, Galtua, cum tenentibus et
tenendiis et libere tenend: servitiis, advocationibus et donationibus
Ecclesiarum beneficiarum, et Capellanarum omnium et singularium
dictarum terrarum et Baronarum cum melendinis, multuris, silvis,
piscariis, castris, terribus, fortaliciis," &c. It thus appears, that,
at the period of the Reformation, the Knights of John were in
possession of not less than eight baronies; and the records of the
order contain a document in the hand-writing of Sir Walter Lind-
say, which gives the same number and names. The last Precep-
tor, and first Lord Torphichen, resigned all these into the hands
9f James VI., with the exception of Torphichen and Liston. The
church patronage held by the first Lord Torphichen in right of
the order were Torphichen, Inchinnan, Maryculter, Tullaich, and
Aboyne.
   In the earlier periods of their history, the preceptors of Tor-
Phichlen sat in councils and Parliament alternately among the
higher clergy and the temporal barons.  Sir William Knolles
was raised permanently to the dignity of a Lord of Parliament by
James IV., with the style, and title of "Lord of St John," or
"Lord St John of Torphichen," which title descended regularly

<FOOTNOTE>10,000 crowns of the sun, equal to about L.1100 Sterling,-a large in those
days.


