
     of Old or West Monkland.

Dunlop of Garnkirk, Esq.  The Clyde company began to e-
rect these works in 1786.  There is abundance of coal with-

<FOOTNOTE>

Foreign wood for building, flax, yarn, bar-iron, pitch, tallow,
soap, seeds, Scots manufactures from the earst to the west, spirits
from the distilleries from the east to the west, wines and other
articles to Hamilton, and the intermediate country.  The num-
ber of tons of the above articles must be very considerable, ex-
clusive of what will pass along the Great Canal; and many of
the articles can afford to pay high toll, as the revenue of a Ca-
nal ought to be rated according as each article can afford to
pay, to draw the greatest toll from it.
   Articles of commerce from the Clyde to the Frith of Forth.
Naval stores, sugars, rice, and tobacco, from America and the
West lndies; linen, gauze, and cotton manufactures, herrings,
and other fish, kelp; slate, skins, and lead, from the west coun-
try; hay, veal from Strathaven and the west, which the Edin-
burgh market is supplied with, and various other articles not
thought of:  Trade increasing, and the country consequently
flourishing, and every gentleman's estate made more capable of
improvement, by the Canal passing through it; and manufac-
tures would be established from Edinburgh to Glasgow along it
to a vast extent, as they ever will go where coal is cheap, and
their goods readily brought to market by an easy communica-
tion Dung, by return of coal boats, would also pay very con-
siderable toll, as the quantity carried well would be great.
   Should the proposed Canal take place, coals of exceeding good
quality can be sold at Edinburgh for 7 s. 9 d. the 24 cwt. the
common quantity of two carts, which would be a saving to the
inhabitants of 3 s. 3 d. on every two carts, and on 100,000 tons,
at 6 s. 6 d. per ton, a saving of 13,333 L. per annum; and the
advantage on other articles of consumption, where the price is
at present enhanced by land carriage, would be in proportion
reduced.
   Exclusive of the consumption of Edinburgh and Leith, which
is 160,000 tons a year, the merchants of Leith have offered to
export 40,000 tons, provided it is put on board ship in Leith at
8 s. per ton; and if the Canal takes place, it will be put on
board at Leith much cheaper from the well country.
   Mr Whitworth, the engineer, will determine the expence of
the Canal; but it is supposed, by calculations already made by
an engineer versant in canal-making, that the expence of a


