
		        MENMUIR.                           657

sembling for public worship in the parish church, from the begin-
ning of April to the end of September 1647.
	These calamities, and the troubled state of the country after-
wards, account for the fact that, at the Restoration, the collec--
tions for the poor averaged only 1s. a week; at the Revolution
they had risen to about 2s; but by the time of the Union, they
had fallen to 10d. a week.
	Then came the rebellions of 1715 and 1745, followed by their
disastrous effects, so that it was not till after the accession of
George III. that the collections averaged more than 1s. 3d. per
week. At the close of the American war, the average was 3s. 2d.,
and they continued gradually to improve until 1812, when they
reached about 11s. per week.
	Many instances occur of baptisms being recorded in the old re-
gister of the transactions of the kirk-session; but it was not until
1711, that baptisms were regularly recorded. Part of the baptis-
mal register (from 1733 to 1758) is wanting: it may have either
been lost or destroyed. With this exception, the record is com-
plete, and the baptisms seem to bave been duly registered until
about 1827. Since that time, the number of baptisms registered
has continued to decrease, so that now it is rarely that either the
birth or baptism of a child is recorded.
	Land-owners.--These, with their valuations, are as follows:

<TABLE>
        James Carnegy Arbuthnott, Esq. of Balnamoon.         L. 625  2 1
        Lieutenant. General the Honourable Sir Alexander Duff,  839  0 0
        Alexander Erskine, Esq. of Balball,                     600  0 0
        Right Honourable the Earl of Kintore,                   100  0 0
        Peter Bell, Esq. of Balconnel,                           66 13 4
        Representatives of the late Mr Guthrie of Burnside,      50  0 0
                                                              __________
              Total of old valuation Soots money,           L. 3280 15 5

	Mansion-House.--The only one in the parish is Balnamoom
House, built by the present proprietor.
	Antiquities.--On the top of a hill called Caterthun, there are
the remains of a remarkable fortress, particularly noticed in the
old Account. It is supposed to have belonged to the Danes or
Picts. There is also a cluster of burrows about a mile to the
north of the church, believed, by the common people, to be the
graves of Danes or Picts killed in battle.
	Lately, when the old dike of the church-yard was pulled down,
there were found in it two sculptured stories of rude workmanship;
--on the one are carved two equestrian figures armed with spears
and round shields; behind, is the figure of a man on foot, holding


