
                     AUCHINLECK.                            327

	               IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.-In this parish, farming is carried on agreeably to
the improved methods now so generally prevalent. From the state
of the soil, however, the crops are not so varied or abundant as
they would otherwise probably be, and the farmers in most cases
want means to engage in improvements to any great extent. There
is very little wheat sown; barley and bear are more common, but
oats is the general crop. Of late, beans have been frequently cul-
tivated, but are a very precarious crop. Potatoes, of course, are
abundant, but a field of turnips is more rarely to be met with.
Such, with the addition of rye-grass and meadow hay which grows
in luxuriance in some of the natural wet pastures, is the common
agricultural produce of the parish.
	The following view of the state of the cultivation of the parish is
as near the truth as can be ascertained.

<TABLE>

	The number of acres cultivated, including meadow land is,	5040
	                    never cultivated,	                       13590
	                    under wood, natural or planted,              370

	There can, however, be no doubt that a great addition might
be made to the arable land, with a profitable application of capital.
Several hundred acres which were formerly moss or waste land
have of late years been brought into cultivation.
	Rent.--The average rent of arable land will probably be 17s.
per acre. The average rent of grazing is at the rate of L. 3 per
ox or cow grazed, and at the rate of 5s. per ewe or full-grown
sheep pastured for the year. The kind of sheep usually met with
in this district are the black-faced. The cattle generally are of
the Ayrshire breed.
	A little has been done in the way of furrow-draining, but to no
great extent,--in some cases with the tile, and in others with small
broken stones.
	Leases.--The leases in the majority of instances are granted for
nine years only, though in some they extend to a period of four-
teen and nineteen years. The farmers depend fully more upon
their dairy than on the crops which their fields produce. Indeed,
they are often bound not to plough above a fourth of their land
yearly, and consequently the greater part of it is in pasture. They
generally, therefore, keep large stocks of milch cows. They also
rear a considerable number of young cows. The milk is almost uni-
versally converted into cheese, and is sold in Glasgow and else-
where under the name of Dunlop.
	From the number of cows that are kept, dairy-maids are in great


