
                             ISLAND OF LEWIS.
                             PARISH OF BARVAS.
                   PRESBYTERY OF LEWIS, SYNOD OF GLENELG.
                     THE REV. WILLIAM MACRAE, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	     THE parish of Barvas is situated in the northern extremity of
	the Island of Lewis, extending from south-west to north-east, along
	the shore of the Atlantic, about 22 miles in length,-and from the
	shore southward towards the interior of the island, about 7 miles
	in breadth. It originally embraced a district called Ness, at the
	eastern extremity, where there is a Government church, and
	which has been erected into a separate parish called Cross. Bar-
	vas, as now constituted, after the disjunction, is only 12 miles long,
	and 7 miles broad, making in all 84 square miles.*
	     Name.-Its name is thought to be Norwegian, in common with
	that of many other places in the Hebrides; but its signification is
	not known.
	     Boundaries, &c.-It is bounded on the west, by the parish of
	Lochs; on the south, by the parisbes of Stornoway and Lochs; on
	the east, by the parish of Cross; and on the north, by the Atlantic
	ocean. Its figure is an irregular parallelogram, having the side
	to the north in nearly a straight line along the sea coast, indented
	by a few confined bays.
	     Topographical Appearances.-There are no bills or mountains
	that can be so called, the whole parish being almost one continu-
	ed flat of mossy muir, with the exception of the cultivated inhe-
	bited part along the shore, which, upon an average, is not one mile
	in breadth. The vallies or glens, where the streams flow, are'
	consequently of very inconsiderable depth. The coast being
	bold and rocky, there are some eaves or fissures; but none worthy
	of notice. The extent of the coast may be about 14 miles, all ex-
	tremely rugged and inaccessible, except four small bays or creeks,
	where small boats can sometimes land; but no vessel can venture
	to anchor, on account of the surf, which is generally high, and with

        <FOOTNOTE>The district of Cross, now formed into a separate parish quoad sacra, in so far
	the present account of Barvas does not apply to it, will be noticed hereafter.


