
280                      BERWICKSHIRE.

are inaccessible by land, and can only be approached at low water,
and in the calmest weather. Their narrow entrances are com-
pletely blocked up by the rising tide, and a gentle breeze from the
east speedily creates a dangerous surf.
   About a mile west from St Abb's Head lies Coddingham loch,
which covers thirty acres of ground, is 300 feet above the level of
the sea, and about 300 yards distant from it. The late Mr Blair,
Professor of Astronomy in the Edinburgh University, attempted
to ornament a small portion of its sloping banks with trees, but its
high situation and contiguity to the sea rendered his efforts un-
availing. The only fish in this lake are perch, with which it abounds.
   Geology.-The parish of Coldingham is rich in various depart-
ments of natural history, particularly in that of geology. In no
part of the kingdom are there more striking displays of stratifica-
tion, or more singular and perplexing appearances, than along the
magnificent sea-coast. The rocks throughout the whole extent of
the parish belong to the transition class. Greywacke and grey-
wacke slate are the prevailing minerals. Generally the strata
are either vertical or inclined at a very great angle with the ho-
rizon, their general direction being from east to west. The
stratification of this rock is seen to great advantage in the neigh-
bourhood of Redheugh, but it is interrupted by rocks of trap at
St Abb's Head, which, however, extend a very short way inland.
St Abb's itself may be described as a huge insulated mass of trap
rocks, of which the principal are trap-tuffa, amygdaloid, and feldspar
porphyry. These continue for some miles along the coast towards
the east, interrupted by occasional displays of the older strata, till
we reach the mouth of the river Eye, when the greywacke again
presents itself.
   Botany.-A very lengthened catalogue of plants might be given
as indigenous to this parish. Cryptogamous plants are particularly
abundant. A great variety of mosses, alad many individuals of the
order Felices, are also to be met with. Among the phenogamous
plants we may mention the following as the most rare: Arenaria
verna, growing in great abundance on the trap rocks on St Abb's
Head; Rhodiola rosea, to be found in great beauty in Lumsden
dean; also Epilobium angustifolium,  decidedly wild;  Poterium
sanguisorba near,  and Nuphar lutea in Coldingham Loch; Glau-
cium maritimum on Coldingham sands, growing in company with
the Cynoglossum officinal; Alisma ranunculoides in the moss at
the foot of St Abb's Head; Arundo phraymites, Betonica offici-
			   4


