
                           MARYKIRK.                           305

	From three to four hundred pigs may be reared and fattened
every year, in the parish.
  Husbandry.-The alternate husbandry is in full operation; the
rotation followed being generally the five shift bourse. The crops
cultivated are, barley, oats, turnips, potatoes, and grass; little or
no wheat is grown, and pulse crops scarcely enter into the rotation.
Much attention is paid to the rearing of black-cattle, and to
these the farmer looks for a great part of his rent. The Angus
or polled breed is in great estimation. The farms are generally
small, there being only eight farms of 200 acres and upwards,
with twelve of 100 and not amounting to 200 acres each, the re-
mainder of the parish being divided into farms under 100 acres,
and crofts of from two to twenty acres. The larger farms are ac-
cotiamodated with suitable steadings, substantially built of stone
and lime, and slated. A thrashing-mill is attached to every stead-
ing where the extent of land amounts to l00 acres. Although much
has been done in improving the land, still much remains to be ac-
complished. The land, from being on a retentive subsoil, is ge-
nerally wet, draining is therefore the first and most essential im-
provement. This may be followed by planting for shelter, and
by a move judicious and general mode of enclosing.
	Besides the flax spinning-mill at Caldham, there are in the pa-
rish, six corn-mills, one flax-mill, and five saw-mills. Drying
kilns are attached to the corn-mills.
  Salmon-fishing.-Salmon-fishing is carried on, but not to a great
extent, in this parish. There are, in the beginning of the season,
generally five or six men employed at the rate of 10s. to 12s. 6d.
a week, and towards the close only two or three at this same rate.
The rents, of the fishings amount to L.40.
    Manufactures.-As already mentioned, flax is manufactured at
Caldham mill. About thirty hands are employed. They work
about thirteen hours a day, and receive 4s. 6d. to 5s. 6d. a-week.
The foremen receive from 15s. to 12s. weekly.
	The other branch of trade is, hand-loom weaving. This trade
is carried on chiefly in Luthermuir, where nearly 200 persons are
engaged in it. The yarn is supplied by Richards and Co. in Mon-
trose, and by two companies from Brechin. The weavers work ge-
nerally fourteen or fifteen hours a day, and when the material war
good, used to make from 11s. to 14s. a-week. The wages have
gradually fallen to 7s. or 8s. weekly. The trade has been so bad

         KINCARDINE


