
                        LINLITHGOW.                            177

It measures 175 feet from north to south, and 165 feet from east to
west. The appearance of the inner court is particularly imposing.
Much attention has been paid to the architectural decoration of
its various fronts which exhibit some very pleasing effects. The
centre is occupied by the remains of what has been a magnificent
fountain, built of white freestone, of superior workmanship, the carv-
ings being well cut, and highly relieved. The main entrance was
formerly from the east, which is highly decorated. That, how-
ever, was closed, and the present one opened by James V. The
same monarch built the fortified gateway, which leads into the outer
court. This gateway is said to have been the model of the one
at Abbotsford. The stranger, after contemplating the tame and
ungainly aspect of the exterior of the Palace, is much impressed
with the interior, which, with its remains of ancient Grandeur, its
ruined fountain, and grass-grown court, produces feelings of pleasing
solemnity in the mind. The principal portions of the building
which are shown to visitors, are the room where Mary was born, one of
ample dimensions; the dining-room, long and narrow; the chapel;
and the Parliament Hall, a noble apartment, measuring 98 1/2 feet
in length, 30 feet in width, and to the summit of the walls, which
still stand, 35 feet. The building abounds with places of conceal-
ment, and out-of-the-way corners. One of these is still shown as
the place where James III. hid himself, during a rebellion of his
nobles. This noble structure might have been entire to the present
day, had it not been burned, it is not easy to say whether by acci-
dent or intention, in the year 1746, by the English dragoons un-
der Hawley, who were quartered in the dining-room. There is a
well-known story of the lady Mrs Glen Gordon, who acted as
deputy-keeper of the Palace, remonstrating with Hawley upon the
danger likely to result from the large fires his men were kindling;
the General replied that he did not care though the Palace were
burnt to the ground, upon which the indignant lady said, "Weel,
weel, General, an' that be the case, I can run away free fire as
fast as you," alluding to the General's route at Falkirk. Much is
now done by the Barons of Exchequer to preserve the venerable
pile from further decay. The present keeper is Sir Thomas
Livingstone of Westquarter.

                     III.-POPULATION.

   There is an increase in the last census, to some extent more
apparent than real: as, at the time it was taken, there was a consi-
derable surplus population, owing to the operations on the Glas-
LINLITHGOW.                                     M


