
134                        BERWICKSHIRE.

Coldingham, between the years 1098 and 1107, under the auspices
of King Edgar, that monarch, with many other endowments, bestow-
ed upon them two places called Eytun (Eytun et aliam Eytun) be-
ing the village of Ayton, and another small dependency on the oppo-
site side of the river, called Nether Ayton,-which were confirmed to
them by the charters of his successors. Ayton being thus bestowed
on the Coldinghain monks, it is probable that its church (whose old
walls are still extant, built of square hewn-stones, not closely joint-
ed, and evidently very ancient) was founded about this time. Till
the Reformation, it seems to have been a cell or chapel of the
neighbouring priory. After the arrangernent of the parishes in Scot-
land, the present parishes of Ayton and Coldingham formed the
then parish of Coldingham. At the Reformation, Ayton was dis-
joined from Coldingham, and united with Lamberton on the south-
east; but not long after, it became, as it now is, a parish per se.
   Independently of all written records, the first object of histo-
rical antiquity or interest which presents itself to the eye is the
round camp of Drumaw or Habchester, on the highest point of
the southern extremity, now half-ploughed down, and reduced to
the form of a semicircle. Some modern antiquarians have la-
mented that so perfect a specimen of the ancient British encamp-
ments has not escaped the mutilation of the plough, especially as
no ancient relics have been discovered by the process of ploughing
it down, to compensate for the deed. Enough, however, remains
to mark the judgment and the industry with which such places had
been selected and constructed, both with a view to observation
and defense.  Situated on the highest elevation of a lofty emi-
nence, and commanding a most extensive prospect both of sea and
land, no spot could be better chosen for watching the movements
of an enemy; and formed of two concentric mounds with a deep trench
between, and another outside, it was capable of making a vigorous
resistance. As it stands on the northern side of the hill, it is probable
that it was constructed by South Britons, to repel the assaults of their
northern neighbours; at all events, it was not constructed by the Ro-
mans, as has been erroneously conjectured, for its form is circular.
Near this spot must have passed the Roman road, which extended
from the wall of Severus (which crosses the country at Newcastle)
to the Roman camp in the vicinity of St Abb's Head, where it
terminated. This road also must have passed close to the rising
ground, on which has since stood, and since disappeared, the
castle of Ayton, and which is now the site of Ayton House. Pos-
sibly the situations both of the camp and of the castle were cho-


