
686 			    FORFARSHIRE.

at from l.14 to L.16, besides meal and milk. Ordinary labour-
ers, last summer, received from 1s. 4d. to 1s 6d.; and, during the
winter, from 1s. 2d. to 1s. 4d.; better labourers, as dikers and
ditchers, obtaining 2d. more. Weavers, in the present depressed
state of trade, do not make on the average above 7d. per day.
   The expense of keeping a cow, without land, is stated at L.3
to L.4 in summer, and L.2, 10s. to L.3 in winter. The food in
winter is straw and turnips. Those who have no land in general
buy corn and fodder, and get the farmers to grow turnips for them,
providing the manure.

	        	V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communications.--Several of the leading throughfures
of the district run through this parish from east to west, and also
from the south to the high country, but none of them are turnpike.
There are in all 16 miles of principal lines, besides 12 miles of
less resort; all supported by the statute labour funds. Some of
the roads were frequently in a very bad state, but they are now
much improved. The funds amount to L.82, 11s. annually. The
railway from Newtyle to Glammis, which is a contintation of the
Dundee and Newtyle line, runs along the confines of the parish
on the south. Kirriemuir is the post-town.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The stipend is 74 2/3 bolls barley, 149 1/3 bolls
meal, and L.33, 5 8/12d. money. The glebe consists of 9 im-
perial acres, 8 of which are arable. The church was rebuilt in
1783 and the manse in 1792. Both are still sufficiently commo-
dious, and in good repair; and the situation, although not exactly
in the centre of the parish, is perhaps, in other respects, the most
eligible that could have been chosen. There is no other place of
worship. There are only three families of Dissenters, all the
rest of the population being professedly connected with the Esta-
blished Church.
   Education.--The parish school is attended by about 30 in sum-
mer, and 36 in winter. The fees are, for reading, 2s. 6d. per quarter;
do. and writing, 3s.; do. and arithmetic, 3s. 6d.; Latin, 3s. 6d.;
mathematics and book-keeping, 4s. The schoolmaster has the maxi-
mum salary of L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d., with the statutory accomodations.
There is also a private school about the same number of pupils. There
is one Sabbath school taught by the minister, which is at present
attended by about 70 children and young persons. The people
are in general tolerably attentive to the education of their children.


