
240                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

to the proprietors and public, do not exist to any great extent in
this county. With regard to the geology of the two detached pa-
rishes of Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch, as full a description as
circumstances would permit is given of that part of Dumbarton.
shire, under the article Kirkintilloch. These parishes, however,
although about five or six miles removed from the body of the
county, are connected naturally with it in the geological features
of its south-eastern extremity. Both form part of the limestone
series, or lower parts of the coal formations. In the middle and
lower wards of Lanarkshire, the coals above the limestone form the
great mineral wealth of that county; but none of the same sort of
minerals occur in the county of Dumbarton, unless it be at Gars-
cube, in the south-east corner of the parish of. New Kilpatrick.
The limestone coals are wrought below those at Lawmuir and
Castlehill, at a depth of about thirty fathoms. The natural con-
nection of the parishes of Kirkintilloch and Cumbernauld with the
county of Dumbarton are better exhibited by the expansive suite
of their mineral products, than by acts of Parliament and parch-
ment charters. The great link indicated by nature between these
two districts is the calm limestone, so fully alluded to in the ac-
count of the parish of Kirkintilloch, extending from near the
House of Cumbernauld, westward through the conterminous coun-
fies of Lanark and Stirling, onwards to Old Kilpatrick at Dunto-
cher. At this latter place, the property of Mr Dunn, the calm
limestone is at present wrought in a pit of about thirty fathoms.
Here the coal and limestone are each about 4 feet 9 inches, with
but little separation. The coal is of a caking quality, and is first
wrought stoop and room, after which the limestone is blasted.
The limestone is mostly burned in old clamp or sow kilns, improved
as much as possible by air pens, carried up the sides and ends, and
stocked with brusbwood. Draw-kilns save one-half. The miners
are paid about 6s. per heap of five tons. One ton of coal is re-
quired to burn thirty-two bushels of lime, equal to about two of
lime for one of coal. The lime is sold at l5s.per chalder of shells.
The men employed in filling the kilns are paid per day; but the
burning alone costs about 1s. 4d. per chalder. The coals at Gars-
oube dip southeast at an angle of about 8. The chief alterna-
tions of the strata are slate-clay, sandstone, clay ironstone, and
fakes.
   Unstratified Rocks,--These are chiefly the trap of Dumbartou
Castle and the Kilpatrick Hills, and certain beds of felspar por-


