
620                          ARGYLESHIRE.

during the present session of Parliament, are expected to bear
more lightly and equally on the inhabitants.
  The Holy Loch is the only harbour or good anchorage along
the coast of the parish. While the internal communication
in the parish is complete by good roads and bridges, the com-
munication by sea, and by steam navigation with Glasgow,
Greenock, and the other towns on the Clyde, is, it may even
be said, superabundant, both from Dunoon and Kilmun, but
especially the former. The passage to Greenock from Kil-
mun or Dunoon is scarcely an hour in ordinary weather, and
three hours to Glasgow. There is daily communication during
the winter season between Glasgow and Kilmun, once a-day, and
in summer at least twice. From Dunoon there are, in the winter
season, generally four opportunities of conveyance by steam to
and from Greenock and Glasgow, as well as to and from Roth-
say, and once daily to and from the western parts of Argyleshire.
During the summer season, the opportunities of conveyance by
steam in most of these directions amount at least to sixteen daily.
  Ecclesiastical State.-Dunoon and Kilmun being a united
parish, it may be proper to remark, that there is no distinct or
separate management or administration of the affairs of each,
either quoad civilia or quoad sacra. * 'The parish churches both

<FOOTNOTE>There is a singular uncertainty as to the date of the annexation of Kilmun to
Dunoon.; A grave-stone in the churchyard of Kilmun bears the name of "John
Campbell, minister of Kilmun, who departed this life 20th December 1690, "and
yet, in the presbytery records there are indications, as well as in minutes of session,
that the annexation must have taken place many years previous to that period. In
1659 it appears, from the presbytery records, that the presbytery had to perambulate
the bounds of each parish, so as to ascertain them, with a view to a proposal then
made by the Marquis of Argyll, "to separate the said parishes in two distinct cures,
and settling a stipend for them." This proposal seems not to have been carried
into effect, for on the 19th March 1660, "the presbytery appoint ane letter to be
written to the parishioners of Dunoune and Kilmoune, to press them to he diligent
and active in dealing with my Lord Marquis, and in backing the presbytery's letter
sent to my lord anent the settlement of the stipends of the said parishes." On 18th
April of the same year, the presbytery refuse to translate the minister of kilfinan to
Dunoon, "because" (for Dunoon) "there is no localitie of ane thousand merks
mortifled out of the bishop's rent, neither gleib designed, neither is ther ane manse
builded." In June, the year following, 1661, the presbytery record thus-" James
Frissell having exercised his gifts amongst us this year bypast, and the parishioners
of Dunoone and  Kilmune having given him ane call to be their minister, the pres-
bytery did admit the said Mr James minister at the said kirk, according to the said
call." In September of the same year it is stated, "that Mr James Fraser (formerly
-Frisse), present minister of Dumoone and Kilmund, wants the Irish, and, with con-
sent of the heritors and elders, gets ane assistant to help him at Kilmund two Sab-
baths, and each third Sabbath at Dunoone, in Irish.'' " The presbytery declaring
this to be in the interim, till it be known in due time how these kirks may be con-
ntantlie served for the future, whether by divisoune in two distinct charges, or
byrwine." The "interim" has, unfortunately, proved a long one. The glebe was
designed at Dunoon, with reference to the two parishes, and the manse built.
                                   1


