
132                           FORFARSHIRE.

to the present proprietor, who had for many years considered it no
small honour to be descended from his distinguished progenitor
above alluded to.
	Eminent Persons.--Mr John Willison was settled here as one
of the ministers in times of Episcopacy, although a strict Presby-
terian. He was translated to Dundee at the beginning of last
century. He is the well-known author of various plain and prac-
tical works on theology, particularly of the Afflicted Man's Com-
panion, and of two treatises on the Lord's Supper,--not to mention
the Mother's Catechism.
	Dr James Fordyce, the eloquent writer of Sermons to Young
Women, of Addresses to Young Men, &c. was ordained to the
second charge of this parish about the time of the Rebellion in
1745. He continued in it for eight years, when he removed to
Alloa, and soon afterwards to London.
	No less renowned than either of these, but of an earlier date, was
Mr William Guthrie, proprietor of Pitforthy, in the neighbour-
hood of this town, minister of Fenwick, in Ayrshire, author of a
Scriptural and Practical Treatise on the way of obtaining and
evidencing an Interest in Christ. He died in Brechin, and his re-
mains are interred in the cathedral under the re`t belonging to the
ground of Pitforthy. He had been deprived of his charge at Fen-
wick, to the great grief of his people, because of his resistance to
Episcopacy.
	Of illustrious men still alive, it is sufficient to mention the names
of Dr John Gillies, historiographer to his Majesty for Scotland,
and of his brother, the Honourable Adam Gillies, one of the Sena-
tors of the College of Justice. *
	Heritors.--The chief heritors or land-owners, are Sir James
Carnegie of Southesk, Bart., the Honourable Lord Panmure,
the Earl of Fife, Mr Chalmers of Auldbar, Mr Hunter of Esk-
mount, Mr Cruikshank of Keithock, and Mr Speid of Ardovie.
These three last named have mansion-houses within this parish,--
in general very commodious and elegant.
	Parochial Registers.--The acts or minutes of session commence
in the year 1615, and are continued from thence until 1700, at
which period there is a break for two or three years. After this they
are continued to May 1724, when another blank occurs, till 1786;

<FOOTNOTE>Patrick de Senebay, George Shorewood, John Sinclair, William Maitlnnd, and
Norman Sievright, were also eminent persons connected with this parish. See
Sir John Sinclair's Statistical Account.


