
     176                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

     whom they hold, that they would be remunerated by long posses-
     sion, or by a pecuniary consideration. The small tenants have no
     leases at all.  But amongst them, there are few instances in which
     they are removed from their possessions without a just cause; and
     this unwillingness to remove them has powerfully promoted an ex-
     cess of population, and the subdivisions of crofts, contrary to the
     established regulations. To them, various encouragements for
     making improvements are held ouL Premiums are annually given
     by the proprietor to the small or conjoint tenants who shall bring
     a certain quantity of moss or other land under culture.  They are
     supplied with tools for making cross-roads through or along their
     farms from the shores to the moss; and accordingly, there are few
     parishes, if any, in which roads, the first means to every improve-
     ment, have been, for a few years back, so extensively carried on.
     Far removed from the seats of manufactures and constant employ-
     ment, a great part of the time of these small tenantry is wast-
     ed, which might be more profitably applied.  Early marriages
     which bave become habitual for ages back, increase the popula-
     tion in a ratio almost incredible; and the croft or lots, originally too
     small for the first possessor, is necessarily subdivided amongst the
     married sons and daughters, and become totally unfit to supply them
     with,the comfortable or even the necessary means of subsistence.
     In these circumstances, some means for their profitable employ-
     ment must be devised, or emigration encouraged; otherwise, in
     years of scarcity, they must fall an intolerable burden on the pro-
     prietors, and those in better circumstances, or have recourse for
     relief to a generous public. Here it may be remarked, that the
     changes which have taken place in the incomes of the proprietor
     of this parish and other proprietors in the West Highlands, aris-
     ing froni the low prices of kelp, in consequence of the removal
     of protectin duties from other articles that come in competition
     with it, put it entirely out of the power of the proprietor,
     how generous and how liberal soever be may be, to extend relief
     when so largely required. The clear proceeds from the kelp alone
     in this parish, in 1812 after deducting every expense, exceeded
     L.14,000; and for several years thereafter, it came little short of
     that sum.  Now it puts little into the pocket of the proprietor, and
     in many instances is only manufactured to enable the crofters to
     pay for their small possessions.  In these circumstances is, it not
     reasonable expect that Government, who reduced the income of
     the L.17,500; to L.3600, the present rental, by


