
                KILBRANDON AND KILCHATTAN.                      77

6d. to artisans. Hired farm-servants receive from L.8 to L.12 in
the year; women from L.4 to L.6.
  The leases are of various duration upon the larger farms, and
most of the smaller possessions are held at will from year to year.
The whole tenantry on Lord,Breadalbane's property hold their
lands under regular heads of lease, whether from year to year or
for a longer period,-and even those who have their tenants at
will, have no hesitation in signing these, knowing that so long as
they conduct themselves properly and pay their rents, no other
person will get their possessions. A five course rotation is pre-
sbribed for farms, and a four course for crofts,-in large posses-
sions a six course rotation is reckoned preferable.
  A rule established by Lord Breadalbane on his property, with
regard to cottars, has had an excellent effect in protecting them
from oppression on the part of the tenants, and might be adopted
with great advantage on other large Highland estates. No ten-
ant is allowed either to take in or to remove cottars without his. Lord-
ship's permission, and those who are poor hold their houses and
gardens rent free. As to those cottars who are in circumstances
to pay rent, a certain sum is fixed by direction of the factor on
the estate, as the value of the house and garden, beyond which
the tenant cannot make any demand. And the cottar is not bound
to work for the tenant a single day, if he prefers to pay cash, which
leaves him free to find labour, wherever it is most to his advantage.
The rent of a house and garden is from 15S. to 30S., according to
the value and ability of the cottar to pay. This is a complete check
to that thraldom to which cottars are subjected, when left to the
uncontrolled will of a merciless tenant, who would exact from them
their labour during the greater part of the year, giving them no-
thing more than a small piece of potato ground in addition to the
house and garden.
  Quarries and Mines.--The Easdale slate quarries are the only
works in the parish of this description.  The quality of  the rock
is known to be very superior,and of great durability.  The for
mation is very similar to that of the Welsh slate works, as de-
scribed by Professor Sedgwick, so far as regards the distortious
of the sedimentary bed; and it is surprising, with what accuracy
the quarriers can trace the different stones, or layers, through
thin distorted beds, after sinking and again reappearing.
  These quarries have been wrought for nearly two centuries,
and they are still carried on very extensively. Upwards of 200


