
390                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

est.  The number of poor supplied with coals has also varied from
287 to 342, (the average number throughout the whole period
having been 311,) and the quantity of coals given to each has been
equal to 4 1/2 cwts.
   As soon as the annual contributions are collected, the coals are
distributed at that season of the year when the poor are in the
greatest want of them.  The whole management reflects the
greatest credit on those who have undertaken it, (it being con-
ducted gratuitously,) and has given great satisfaction.
   The managers of the fund have received several small legacies,
some of which they are left at liberty to apply to the purposes of
the fund, and others are under the restriction, that only the annual
rent shall be so applied.  From the liberality of the public the
managers have been enabled to reserve the whole amount of le-
gacies, only applying the annual rents.  These they have lent out
on good security to the amount of L. 100, besides a small sum in
the bank; and they intend, if circumstances permit, to act on the
same laudable principle in regard to other legacies which may be
left them by benevolent individuals.
   Pauper, Lunatic, and Orphan Fund.-An association was form-
ed in 1827, under the name of the Peterhead Pauper, Lunatic,
and Orphan Fund.  It is supported by an annual collection from
each of the congregations in the town, and by donations and be-
quests.  The objects entitled to relief from the fund are orphans
and lunatics having a legal claim on the parish.  This institution
is managed by delegates appointed by the session and managers of
the different churches.  The present number of objects is ten lu-
natics and ten orphans.  The receipts and expenditure average
from L. 60 to L. 80 per annum.
   This fund has been judiciously administered, and of the greatest
advantage to the public; and has, to a considerable extent, miti-
gated the sufferings of those for whose benefit it was established.
It is to be regretted that more ample means have not been placed
at the disposal of the manager.


