
                        CARNOCK.                       715

heritors when required. The average annual amount of church
collections for relief of the poor may be estimated at L.11, 7s. 7d.
The mortcloth-dues now yield a very small sum, as in these days
of reform many think it better to support a small concern of their
own, than to be the means of contributing a little for the relief of
the poor by using the parish mortcloth; and the heritors do not
choose to litigate the matter with them. The burden on account
of the poor of this parish, however, is by no means heavy. The
sum annually distributed among paupers on permanent roll, in oc-
casional relief to persons not on roll, and in the education of poor
children, has not, on an average of several years, exceeded L.36;
a fact which testifies to the general comfort of the population, and
shows that there is a creditable disposition among the poor to re-
frain from seeking parochial relief.
   Fairs.-Only one fair is held in the parish in the year. It is
chiefly a cattle and shoe market, and is held on the 26th May,
except when that happens to be Sunday, in which case the fair is
held on the 27th. Much business used formerly to be transacted
at it; but now the attendance is comparatively small.
   Inns.-When the former account of the parish was written, the
number of inns or alehouses appears to have been ten, viz. four in
Carnock, five in Cairneyhill, and one at Blair. A considerable
improvement has since taken place in this respect, for the number
of these houses now amounts only to five, viz. two in Carnock, two
in Cairneyhill, and one at Gowkhall.
   Fuel.-Coal is the only fuel used in the parish. It is procured
either at the Blair colliery in the parish, or at some of the pits in
the neighbouring parish of Dunfermline. The price of the for-
mer varies from 5s. to 6s. a ton of 20 cwt., and that of the latter
from 5s. to 6s., and sometimes more, a ton, at the pit mouth.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the former Statistical Account was written, the general
appearance of the parish has evidently been much improved.
With the exception of a few acres of moor, and of what is occu-
pied by wood, roads, fences, and water, the whole surface is under
cultivation. Agriculture has greatly improved; the means of
communication has much increased; trade and manufactures have
received a new impulse. Farms have been enlarged. Oxen are
no longer employed in husbandry. Thrashing-machines are in ge-
neral use. Draining is now much attended to. Bone-dust is
used extensively in turnip husbandry. The rental of the parish,


