
                  APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.                 189

no other parish is it supplied more abundantly or of better qua-
lity than Applegarth. No fewer than 620 caresses are here fed
and sold annually; and averaging them at fourteen imperial stones
each, and assuming the average price to be 5s. per stone, there is
thus for this one commodity brought into the parish every winter
L.2170, a sum mountaing to nearly one-third of the rent of the
rable land belonging to it. The animals are reared chiefly on po-
tatoes,--they are grazed during summer, and fattened on boiled
potatoes and oatmeal.
	The following may be considered as the most prominent defects
in the husbandry of this parish, as well as of the country in general.
Sufficient attention is not, generally speaking, bestowed on the drain-
ing of the land, nor on cleaning it when under naked fallow or green
crop, nor on rearing and preserving the fences, of which proprie-
tors would do well to take the chief charge on themselves; while,
at the same time, the course of cropping is rather severe on many
of the farms. Neither is sufficient care taken to increase the dung-
hill, that "mother of the meal chest." Too many cattle are kept
during winter, and consequently they are on short allowance.
Lime, also, is, owing perhaps to the great distance of the limekilns,
in gener`l bestowed in too stinted measure; and though the dose
is more frequently repeated than in districts where the mode of ap-
plication is better understood, the effect is by no means so benefi-
cial as when a sufficient quantity is administered at once. It is not
doubted, however, that most, if not all of these defects, would soon
be remedied, if agriculture were once more in a prosperous state.
Already, in fact, in some of our farms these defects are hardly dis-
cernible. At an early period, and until the middle of the last century,
several of the largest farms in the north-eastern quarter of the parish
were occupied by a number of small tenants, who ploughed exclu-
sively on the hill grounds, to the extent of some hundreds of acres
more than is now even occasionally cultivated. A change of sys-
tem about 1760 and 1770, threw these farms entirely into sheep-
walks, occupied each by one tenant; and they continued in a state
of pasturage, becoming gradually coarser and more unproductive,
till within the last ten or twelve years, when the occupiers have
found it advantageous to lime and break up extensively, generally
laying out the land immediately in grass for sheep pasturage. And
these tracts of land being in most cases possessed by able tenants,
the cultivation will probably extend to all the dry ground in simi-
lar circumstances.



