
     of Edenkeillie.

was killed at the battle of Kilblaine, anno 1335, resided in
this castle, which was blockaded by Sir Andrew Moray, the
regent during King David Bruce's captivity.  In the follow-
ing year, Edward III. of England led his army northward,
the length of Inverness, and, on his way thither, raised the
siege of this castle.  It seems afterwards to have been convert-
ed into a state prison; for, in the year 1342, the famous
Wilham Bullock, who was a great favourite of King David
Bruce, was imprisoned there, and died through extremity of
cold and hunger+.  The remains of this custle cover a space
of ground, not less than 100 square yards.
   The Downe Hill of Relugas seems to have been a fortress
of still greater antiquity, and used as such far beyond the
period of authentic history.  It appears to have been a place
of strength, to which the inhabitants of the country retired,
with their cattle, upon the invasion of the Danes, to which
this country of Moray was so frequently exposed.  It is a
conical hill, round a considerable part of which runs the rapid
river of Divie, in a deep rocky channel; and, where not de-
fended by the river, it is encircled by a deep soffee, or ditch,
with a strong rampart on the outside, mostly composed of
stones, some of which have the appearance of vitrification++.
   About a mile higher up the same river, stands the Castle
of Dunphail, upon a rock of a very singular appearance, sur-

<FOOTNOTE>

+Vide Lord Hailes's Annals, vol. II. p. 189, 190, and 209.
++Upon the summit of this hill, which is 220 feet of perpendicular height
above the river, there is a level space, in the form of an oblong square, about
60 yards in length, and 20 in breadth.  This level piece of ground has been
converted into a nursery for trees.  In digging the ground, a quantity of human
bones, ashes and charcoal were found.  When the country was covered with
wood, this place, from its difficulty of access, and the steepness of the hill itself,
must have been of great strength, and easily desended by a handful of men against
great numbers.


