
			TINWALD AND TRAILFLAT.                47

sheep, another oats, sown down with grass seeds, and three years'
pasture. Our best farmers plant but few potatoes, and cut only
a small portion of their sown hay: even that, however, they never
do upon their poor land, but allow it the advantage of an addi-
tional year's pasturage.
	It is only about fifteen years since turnip husbandry and good
farming were introduced into the parish. Previous to this period,
the land was much over-cropped, and this seems still the prevailing
error into which the less judicious of the tenantry are apt to fall.
Most of the brushwood in the parish has been rooted; and drain-
ing, levelling of moss, paring and burning moor, lining, &c. arm
carried on to a considerable extent every year. Irrigation is also
practised where water can be had conveniently, but not to any
great extent.
	The duration of leases is generally 19 years; and for land adapt-
ed to the five-shift rotation none could be more favourable.
Generally the new tenant enters at Whitsunday to the grass and
green crop lands, while the old tenant has the white crop then upon
the ground. Thus a nineteen years' lease allows five seasons for
cleaning and improving, the whole of which time is required
before the farm is got regularly over, and three full rota-
tions afterwards, by which time it is sufficiently prepared for a
new supply of lime, &c. The state of farm-buildings, with three
or four exceptions, is far from being good. The advantages of
enclosing and subdividing are fully appreciated; and nearly the
whole arable part of the parish has been laid out in fields, sur-
rounded by sufficient fences.
	The principal improvement recently made in the parish is the
cultivation of the high grounds; which the farmers have been able
to effect by means of bone manure. These grounds are in general so
difficult of access, that nothing bulky can be conveyed to them with-
out a trouble and expense far exceeding the profit: and former-
ly, when they became fogged, to which they have a tendency, they
were commonly broken up; and after carrying a crop or two, they
were again laid out to improve themselves without any farther assist-
ance. But now that bruised bones sufficient for a Scotch acre can
be taken up in a single cart, (30 imperial bushels being the usual
quantity,) we have the most luxuriant crops of turnip, and, con-
sequently, of grain, upon the very tops of the hills. Rape dust
is also used as a manure, in the proportion of about 10 and 12
cwts. to an acre.


