
  			KIRKMAIDEN.                             207

<TABLE>
	Robert Callendar,              Falkirk,          1772,     Died 1812
	Robert Cooper, A. and S.       Craig, Pennin-
                                    hame,          1800,     Do. 1801
	Thomas Young, A. and S.        Redgnrton, Pert-
                                    shire,         1802,     Do. 1818
	James French, A. and S.        Stonykirk,        1817,     Do. 1826
	John Lamb,                     Yester, E. Lo-
        	                          thian,         1826,
	N. B. Those marked A. and S ware settled as Assistant and Successor.

	The earliest of the session records commences in 1699, in the
time of Mr Monteith. In Mr Anderson's book, reference is made
to that of Mr Turnbull, who was the second minister; but that book,
though it appears to have been in existence in Mr Anderson's time,
(1716), has been long since lost. From Mr Anderson's settlement
to the present time, the session records, and registers of births,
deaths, and marriages are continuous. They are, in some instan-
ces, written by the minister, but generally by the session-clerk.
	Antiquities.--The traces of ancient buildings are numerous; but
their history is either altogether lost or involved in traditionary
fable. Dunman, a high rocky hill overhanging the sea, at the south-
west corner of the parish, has on its summit the remains and dis-
tinct traces of a fortification. It is said to have been a place of
great strength in the days of the Picts. On another less elevated
promontory, half a mile north of Dunman, are also distinct traces
of a place of strength. A round tower, of about 57 feet, has
formed the principal building. In front of this building, there has
been a fosse or ditch, and at a little distance outside of this a cir-
cular wall. A short way south of Dunman, are two small green
eminences, called " the auld Kilns," situated amid surrounding
heath. These, tradition says, were used by the Picts in preparing
their mysterious beverage heather crap ale. Farther to the south
there is another green spot named the Peat Knowe, where it is said
some ceremony was gone through for banishing an epidemic dis-
ease called burying the peat. The promontory forming the Mull-
head is said to have been the last retreat of the Picts; and here,
when no longer able to withstand their enemies, the last feeble re-
mains of them are said to have leapt or been forced into the sea;
and a tradition, illustrative of the tenacity with which they kept the
secret of brewing their ale, still exists in the parish. When all were
in the sea, except a father and son, they were offered their lives, on
condition they would reveal this secret. The father promised to
consider of this proposal, after they had precipitated the son over
the rocks. This was done, and he then said the secret remains
with me alone, and will die with me, and immediately leapt over. At


