
				WEMYSS.				 403

glected, and which never fails to give a new stimulus to soils that
had begun to lose  their vegetative and productive powers. The
great wish and study, in fact, just now is, to have as great a
breadth of wheat sown down as possible, because this has been
found, for a considerable time past, the best remunerating crop.
Great care, however, must be taken not to carry this wish too far,
because if it were, it could not fail to have an effect the very re-
verse of what was intended.
   I have only farther to remark, that I know no obstacle or dis-
couragement even to the still greater improvement of the farms in
this parish, except one, and that is the great quantity of game that
abounds, such as hares, and pheasants, and rabbits, &c. No
doubt this great evil has been gradually diminishing for some years
past; but still there is plenty of room for farther improvements,
which, it is hoped, will not be lost sight of. In every district
where game is carefully preserved, and allowed to multiply and
increase, no greater bar or obstacle to agricultural improvement
can be named.
   N.B.-Since the above report was written, and given in up-
wards of a year ago, I have to notice that a post-office has been
established in the village of  East Wemyss. The new pier and
harbour, to which allusion is made in the body of this report, in
reference to Buckhaven, are in a state of great forwardness. The
expense of this very important undertaking is to be about L.4200,
of which the Board of Fisheries, with that liberality that has al-
ways characterized their transactions, are to give about L.3000,
and the fishermen of Buckhaven are to implement the rest. The
contractors are the Messrs Mathieson, builders, Glasgow, who, as
far as they have gone, have executed the work in a most substantial
and efficient manner.
   I have also to record, that on the  6th of June last, the founda-
tion stone of a church, in connexion with the Establishment, was
laid in the village of Methil, the expense of which is to be L.1030.
It is now far advanced; so much so, that it will be open for public
worship about the beginning of March. This new erection is to
contain upwards of 800 sittings, and will accommodate the inhabi-
tants of Methil, Kirkland, Methil-hill, Links of Buckhaven, and
those of Inverleven, a remote and detached portion of the parish
of Markinch, the whole including a population of upwards of 1700.
   The pier at Methil is also begun to be repaired, the expense of
which is to be upwards of L.1800.
   January 1838.


