
170                         FIFESHIRE.

in every quarter of the parish. The average output of the Cluny
coal, belonging to R. Ferguson, Esq. Raith, has been for the last
four years: Great coal, per year, 70,499 loads, sold at 11d. per
load,-22 stone Dutch each load, or 24 stone 1 pound English;
the whole sold for home consumption. Above and under ground,
at the colliery, 74 hands at present are employed, including men
and boys. The quantity just now thrown out at Lord Minto's
coal work, Lochgelly, is 900 loads per week, 21 stone Dutch, at
11d. per load; also 400 ditto, chews, 8d. per load; exported 300
loads per week. Men employed, 32 colliers; women, 12, under
ground; men, 7, above ground. The quantity now brought up
from Robert Wardlaw Ramsay's coal-work, Dundonald, is 133
loads per week, at 8d. of 22 stone Dutch; the men employed 7.

	        	  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONONOMY.
  The chief village is Lochgelly. We have now useful metalled
roads in various directions. The lines have not been well chosen;
but we are thankful for the roads as they are. In the present de-
pressed state of agriculture, nothing but the improvement of roads
could have kept us up.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is central. It was built
in 1789; the manse in 1784. There are no free sittings. The
heritors divide the area, according to their valued rent, among
their dependents. The glebe is 14i Scotch acres in extent, and,
including the glebe, the living is about L. 300 a-year. The pay-
ment of the grain of stipends by the county fiars is an excellent
arrangement. At present, the average number of communicants at
the Established Church is 300. All our dissenters are Presby-
terians : and there is a meeting-house at Lochgelly. About one-
half of the population is dissenting or seceding.
  Education.-There are three schools within the parish, and a
border school; one is the parish school, the other two village
schools. The parish schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and
the required accommodations. The border school, supplied with
more than one-half of its scholars from this parish, has upwards of
40 scholars. The other two have about 70 each: and the mas-
ters have no salaries. The parish school has at present upwards
of 90 scholars; the wages 2s., 2s. 6d., and 3s. per quarter. Clas-
sical learning is little in request, even in the parish school. The
branches commonly taught are, English, grammatically, the English
Bible, English collections, writing accounts, a religious catechism,


