
   332                         BANFFSHIRE.

   were keenly contested and the victor was crowned by a bonnet
   adorned with feathers and ribbons; previously prepared by the
   ladies.  When the games, were over, the whole parties had a
   dance on  the green, with that meriment and glee, to which the
   etiquette and formation of the ball-room at the present day are to-
   tal strangers.  Thereafter, the procession was again formed, and
   returned to the town, the victor preceded by the music, leading
   the way.  A ball took place in the evening, at which he presided,
   and, moreover, had the privilege of wearing his bonnet and feathers.
   The bowls were played by rolling or throwing a cannon ball, and
   lie who could with fewest strokes put it beyond a mark at the far-
   ther end of the links, was declared the victor. But a man having
   on one occasion been accidentally killed by the ball, this athletic
   game was forbidden by the magistrates, and has never since been
   revived.  Now-a-days, the parishioners are in the occasional ha-
   bit of amusing themselves with the games of golf, shinty, football,
   and target-shooting, for which the links of Cullen afford excel-
   lent play-ground.  Christmas and New-year's day, O. S., are uni-
   versally observed by the labouring classes; on which occasions,
   there is an entire cessation from business, all appearing in holiday
   dress, and every muckle pat containing something extra.  The
   ancient festivities of harvest-home, halloween, and brose-day
   are still kept up in the parish.  The people of Cullen have long
   been noted for their musical talents, and continue to sustain their
   character in this respect. The average weekly delivery of newspa-
   pers, from the post-office, to the inhabitants of Cullen proper, is
   120; besides which, a variety of magazines and periodicals are
   regularly received.
                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
      Agriculture.-The whole extent of the parish, (exclusive of the
   ground occupied by the sites of the New town and Sea town,
   amounting in all to 34 acres), is about 650 imperial acres, of which
   115 are waste pasturage and moor.  Of the remaining 535 acres,
   110 form part of the extensive park of Cullen House, 200
   arable are let to the inhabitants of Gullen, and 252 also arable,
   are rented by the occupiers of the farms of Seafield, Tochieneal,
   and Shirrals, which extend into the adjoining parishe of Fordyce
   and Rathven. The waste grdund and pasturage consist partly of
   steep rocky pasture, along the sea-shore, not susceptible of culti-
   vation, and formim part of a sheep range, (held, by the tenant of
   Seafield), which is connected with similar pasture in the parish of



