
				BOINDIE.                         227

in the west of Scotland. An account of her history may be found
in Chambers' Scottish Biographical Dictionary. She is said to
have made several proselytes in her native parish.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial register of baptisms ap-
pears to have been kept with considerable regularity from 1700,
the date of the first entry, till about 1770.* From this period till
1827, greater or less irregularity and incompleteness are observ-
able: Till 1827, the marriage register consists of only a few frag-
ments, having reference to the beginning of last century. There
is no proper register of burials. Some interesting minutes of ses-
sion are preserved for the period intervening between 1698 and
1706.+
  Proprietors.-The Earl of Seafield, who succeeded the late Earl
of Findlater and Seafield, is sole proprietor. The chief part of the
land formerly belonged to the family of Ogilvie of Boyn, Baronets.
This family, in common with the families of Findlater and of Banff,
(the latter of which is represented by Abercromby of Birkenbog,
Bart.) was a branch of the house of Airlie. Sir Walter Ogilvie
of Boyn, great-grandson of Sir Walter Ogilvie of Auchterhouse,

<FOOTNOTE>The witnesses, whether two or more, appear to have been uniformly of the same
Christian name with the child baptized, if a male, for instince, under date April
10, 1738, "George Allan, in Upper Blairmade, had a lawfull son baptized, called
Alexander,--Alexander Irvine, minister of Fordyce; Alexander Law, younger, Alex-
ander Peterkine in Newmill, and Alexander Ogilvie in Culfin, witnesses." In the
event of the name being an uncommon one, a difficulty would occur in finding the
qualified witnesses. In one instance, at the baptism of a "Theodore," the parties
of this name introduced are designed  "godfathers."
          + Besides an annual payment by the session of L.4 Scots "as their proportion of
the Presbytery burse of Fordyce" for the support of a student of divinity, I find col-
lections, from time to time, for such objects as the following;--"The rebuilding of
Kinghorn harbour,"--"the redemption of Christians taken by the barbarians,"--
"for the inhabitants of Leith,"-- "Auchmedden's harbour at Pennan,"--" building
an bridge over Dee, at Pittarch." The discipline then in use was rigid, not only in
the methods of correction which it employed, but also in the inflexible determination
with which it was extended over the whole population. Probably the ministry thus
acquired too much of a magisterial character, and its influence in training up " a wil-
ling people" was impaired. But tbe fault was that of the age, and we would do well,
avoiding the extreme opposite error of our own times, to unite with the use of more
winning methods than theirs, some degree of the vigour with which they prosecuted
their warfare against sin, and by means of which they were the honoured instruments
of elevating their country to a moral rank unequalled in the history of the world.
Take an instance in an act of the Synod of Aberdeen, intimated January 1705: " As
to the restraining the horrid sin of drunkenness, appoint ministers and elders to deal
privately within their bounds with any they know to be inclined to this vice. And
if they abstain not, that then in the general they intimate from pulpit, without men-
tioning any person's name, that there are some persons in the congregation known to
the minister and session to be given to the sin of drunkenness, who have not obeyed
private admonition, and therefore they are again warned to reform,--otberwise if thev
persist, they are to be then brought before the congregation, and there rebuked. And
if,after all. they continue in this horrid sin, or prove contumacious, that then their
names be intimate from pulpit as grossly scandalous persons......................and
that this act be duly execute by all sessions without respect of persons."


