
1038		 	ABERDEENSHIRE.

belonged to the ancient and powerful family of the Comyns; but
the Lords of Gordon, a powerful border clan, having nearly ex-
tirpated the Comyns in the wars of King Robert the Bruce, re-
ceived, as their reward, the castle of Strathbogie, with the adjoin-
ing demesne. This castle was destroyed after the battle of Glen-
livet in 1594; and the present Huntly Castle was built in 1602
by the first Marquis of that name. The chief part of it consists
of a large circular tower, erected evidently for warlike purposes,
and which seems to have been surrounded by a moat. It is fine
ruin, but the interior apartments appear to have fallen much into
decay since the last Account of this parish was written. The stone
steps in the "spacious turnpike stair" have been removed; most
of the ornaments in these apartments have been stripped off for
the adornment of Huntly Lodge; the square towers also which
once stood in the avenue leading to the castle are among the things
that were; and their former site has recently been occupied by
the Duchess of Gordon's new schools. It is now upwards of forty
years since any part of the castle was inhabited; and about ten
years ago, Huntly Lodge, which originally was but a shooting-box
of the Duke of Gordon's, was enlarged into the present handsome
and commodious building. It is situated on the rising ground to
the north of the castle, about a quarter of a mile distant from it,
and is seen to advantage from various directions. After the fa-
mily seat was removed to Gordon Castle at Fochabers, this place
became the residence of the Marquis of Huntly, the Duke of
Gordon's eldest son; but the Dukedom having become extinct on
the death of George the fifth Duke in 1836, the lodge is at pre-
sent occupied by Her Grace the Duchess-Dowager of Gordon.
       	Other Buildings.--South of the castle, and looking along Gor-
don Street, the principal street of the town, a large and very hand-
some building has recently been erected by the Duchess for edu-
cational purposes. It was intended as a monument in memory of
her late husband; but it will also be an enduring memorial of this
Noble lady's munificence and zeal in promoting the best interests
of the people among whom she resides.
       	The whole parish is the property of the Duke of Richmond,
with the exception of a small portion in the lower end of Kinoir,
which belongs to Mr Gordon of Avochy. On these lands, there
is part of the ruins of the old castle of Avochy; but the present
house connected with the property is a plain building of very hum-
ble pretensions. The only other buildings of importance are, the


