
44                           WIGTONSHIRE.

or four years pasture is the general practice, but circumstances
may occur which may warrant a change in this rotation. Landlords
always lay down a specific plan of management in their contracts
with tenants; but they are very indulgent, and seldom interfere
with a tenant's management. Indeed, the interests of landlord
and tenant lie qtite in the same direction, and what is good for the
one, is seldom bad for the other.
	It is unnecessary to describe the various instruments of husban-
dry used in this place, for they are quite the same here as in any
place where an improved system of agriculture has been introdu-
ced. Everything which can shorten labour or save expense is as
readily adopted here as the best friends of improvement could de-
sire. There is now nothing of prejudice, and no obstinate adhe-
rence to old customs and habits in these matters.
	It might be inferred from the preceding observations, that
this is a cropping district, and entirely under the dominion of the
plough: the south side of the parish, in fact, is nearly all arable.
Yet a considerable proportion of the best land in the parish is
permanently in grass, at least it has not been disturbed by the
ploughshare for the last sixty or seventy years. Indeed, some of
the finest pasture land in Galloway is in this parish, and its excel-
lence is generally known and acknowledged by all the graziers and
cattle-dealers in the south of Scotland.
	Until within the last seventy or eighty years, the quantity of
land under tillage was triflinf in comparison to its present extent.
This was the case not only in this parish, but through the whole
of this part of the country. The farm-houses were generally
placed on a spot of fine dry land, the richest and best which the
farm contained, and in the neighbourbood of a clear perennial
spring; for that was an object to which the people then strictly
attended. Having thus chosen the most favourable situation they
could find for their farm-steading, they enclosed round about it
ten, twenty, or thirty acres, more or less, in proportion to the size
of the farm. This field was called the Fey, and was cropped al-
most without intermission. It received all the manure which could
be collected about the place. Hence the distinction between
fey land and out-field land: the out-field being either not en-
closed, or but partially enclosed, was used mostly for Pasture, and
the fey for croppings. This arrangement was the more convenient,
because, in these times, there was no such thing as a cart. The
dung was carried in two creels or hampers, slung across a horse's


