
     of Inveresk.

   Carberry Hill.-Just over the field of battle there is a
hill, which was still more fatal to Queen Mary, and has
been known ever since by the name of the Queen's Seat.
It is the top of the hill of Carberry, where that unfortunate
Princess sat on a stone, and held a conference with Kirk-
caldy of Grange, who had been commissioned for that pur-
pose by the consederate Lords.  During this parley, Both-
well, who had taken leave of the Queen for the last time,
rode off the field to Dunbar.  As loon as he was out of
danger, Mary suffered herself to be led by Kirkcaldy to
Morton and the Lords, who received her with due marks
of respect, and ample promises of future loyalty and obe-
dience.  The sequel is well known.  From that hour she
was deprived of liberty for life, except for the few days
that intervened, between her escape from Lochleven Castle,
and her surrender to Elizabeth, after the fatal battle of

<FOOTNOTE>

this parish at the time.  It was fought on the field that lies between the
village of lnveresk and Walliford, and Carberry; and was brought on by
the usual impetuosity of the Scots, who would not wait till the English
army, who were beginning to run short of provisions, had been obliged to
return home.  The Scottish army were encamped on that large field west
of the Esk, which went by the name of Edminstone Edge; the English
lay at the places now called Drummore and Walliford.  As the Scots
passed the bridge of Musselburgh, and marched to the field up the hill of
Inveresk, on the west side of the church, there being then no village, and
only two shepherds houses on that hill, they were annoyed by cannon shot
from the English gallies in the bay; insomuch, that the Lord Graham,
eldest son of the first Earl of Montrose, was killed on the bridge, with
many of his followers.  To have crossed the river at any other place, would
have been still more dangerous, as there was then a thick wood on the
banks of it, all the way to Dalkeith.  After passing the church of Invereks,
they must have been covered from the shot, as the ground slopes from
thence down to the How Mire, (in those days a morass, though now
drained and cultivated), from whence it rises gently to the bottom of the
hills of Carberry and Falside.  On this gentle rising lay the field of ac-
tion.


