
                          METHLICK.                          969

number of tenants paying rents to the proprietor is 206; of whom
60 pay L.5 and under; 62 above L.5 and under L.10; 31 above
L.10 and under L.20; 35 above L.20 and under L.50; 13 above
L.50 and under L.100 ; and 5 L.100 and upwards.
   Besides a number of small crofts, sufficient to keep a cow, and
partially to supply the day-labourer's family with meal and po-
tatoes, there are possessions from 12 to 30 acres, occupied by
tenants who very often yoke an ox and a horse together, and
labour with their own hands.  The farms vary in size, from two
horses' labour to that of six horses.  This subdivision of land is
found to exert a wholesome influence on the population.
   Since the breaking out of the French Revolution, agriculture
has progressed rapidly in this pariah.  The better quality of the
soil has been brought into a state of cultivation, while the traces
of former husbandry are in many places to be seen in the shape
of curved ridges, which, because of their poverty, have been allow-
ed to revert to a state of nature.
   All the good land is now enclosed by stone dikes, besides a
great deal of indifferent quality; and we have many specimens of
the charm which bones, as a manure, have wrought on the poorer
soils.  Nitrate of soda as well as bones dissolved in sulphuric acid
and water, according to the proportions recommended by Liebig,
have been tried on a limited scale ; but it is believed that this
year the new manures will have a fair trial here and throughout
the district.
   In cropping, the seven-shift is by far the most common in the
parish, but some of the more intelligent of the farmers are begin-
ning to give the preference to the six-shift, where three grasses are
taken in succession, then a grain crop, then turnips and potatoes,
and then another grain crop.  Several farms are wrought on the
five-shift ; but it is more common to find this mode of cropping
among those who have small crofts of good quality.
   The duration of leases is nineteen years.  The leases are al-
ways renewed except in a case of arrears of rent, which is not
common.  A small part of the rents is payable in meal at the fiar
prices.  The farm-houses are mostly of one floor and slated, while
the dwellings of the crofters are thatch-roofed.
   Live-Stock.-The cattle reared are numerous, and about equal-
ly divided between the Aberdeenshire breed, and the cross of it
with the Teeswater.  Within the last thirty or forty years, the
country breeds have been much improved by superior keep, and


