
     Statistical Account

in green crop, not above 30 acres, with the like number
sown out with artificial grasses, crop 1791, independent of
the farms in the particular possession of the principal residing
heritors, Finzean and Ball ogie.  These farms are con-
siderably improved, and have been for some years in
grass.  The present proprietors, who lately came to the
possession of their respective estates, are now beginning to
put them under crop; and Mr Innes of Ballogie takes
the lead in improvements in the parish.  The number of
acres mentioned above, in green crop, and laid out in grass,
is exclusive of the heritors farms, which were only be-
gun to be cropped last year.  It is also but doing the te-
nants justice, to mention, that in crop 1792 they had dou-
bled the number of acres under green crop, etc.  This cir-
cumstance marks our small, but rapid progress of improve-
ment.  Oats and bear are the principal part of each crop.
Some pease, and a little rye, are also produced.  Potatoes
are not raised for sale, being at a distance from any market
town; but abundance of them are raised for the use of the
inhabitants, and the soil produces them remarkably good.
The grain is of an excellent quality, the oats yielding more
meal, and the bear more spirit, than grain produced from
a deeper soil.  In the parish a little flax is raised; and as
the soil seems to agree with it, a greater quantity will now
be raised than formerly, when no lint mill was in all this
country.  The Earl of Aboyne has remedied this incon-
venience by erecting one in 1791, in the parish of Coul, a
few miles to the north of this parish.  It will greatly ac-
commodate the country, and has constant employment al-
ready.  The parish can well supply itself with provisions;
no wheat indeed is produced, but the people here ordinari-
ly use cakes of oat-meal.  The lands are rarely let by the
acre, a cumulus rent is taken for the whole farm, large or
small.  Some of the land is let at the rate of 15 s. or 16 s.


