
66                         STIRLING SHIRE.

of the oak spars, a chair and table, to be preserved in memory of
Buchanan's birth. An obelisk in honour of him was erected in the
village in 1788. The height is 103 feet. The expense, which
was defrayed by subscription, amounted to L.200 for building, and
L.95 for scaffolding. It is said to be an exact copy of the monu-
ment erected at Boyne, in Ireland, to commemorate the victory of
William III., in the year 1690.
  Buildings.--The estate of Killearn was purchased in 1814, by
John Blackburn, Esq. of Jamaica, who has recently fitted up an
elegant mansion-house on the banks of Blane. Mr Buchanan
also, last summer, finished a showy castellated mansion at Car-
beth. The manse was built in 1825, and the church in 1826;
both are comfortable and substantial. The expense of the for-
mer, including L.300 for offices built in 1815, was L. 1100. The
church accommodates 500 sitters, and cost L. 1050.

                    III.--POPULATION.
  The amount of the population is slowly but steadily progressive.
After the middle of last century, there was a temporary diminu-
tion, occasioned by the union of small farms; but this was more
than compensated by the increase of the village, which ancient-
ly contained about twenty families, clustered near the church.
About the year 1770, Sir James Montgomery laid the foundation
of its improvement, by granting building-leases of 999 years.
The rent was L. 2 per Scotch acre. The extent varied from two
roods to six acres. As the village is far from fuel, and even from
running water, it did not seem a place favourable for the establish-
ment of manufactures. It was desirable, however, to prevent the
introduction of pauperism; and for this purpose, by the suggestion
f the late Rev. James Graham, it was stipulated, that each pos-
session, as originally let, was to remain entire, and to be occupied
by only one family. As the proprietor was non-resident, this sti-
pulation was not strictly observed. When Mr Blackburn pur-
chased the estate of Killearn in 1814, he expressed his approba-
tion of the restriction, and his intention to enforce it. In 1830,
he raised an action before the Court of Session, against those who
would not dismiss their subtenants. By that time, there were
two families at an average on each-possession; and in many cases,
the practice had continued, for upwards of forty years. Several
tenants, trusting to the plea of prescription, resolved to litigate
the point; but before they entered the Court, a compromise was
proposed, and ultimately agreed to, on the intervention of the


