
318                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

army of the insurgents at Perth for two months; and, as Mar was
afraid to cross, the Frith without this reinforcement, time was given
for the adoption of those measures which afterwards frustrated
that unfortunate attempt. Sir Robert, served his country in vari-
ous capacities for many years, and for thirty of them was a member
of the British Parliament. In 1740, he passed over a second time
into Flanders; and at the battle of Fontenoy, fully supported the
character which he and his men had formerly acquired. The
Elector Palatine, through his envoy at the British Court, tendered
his thanks to the Kinf for the excellent conduct of this regiment,
"which," says he, "was owing to the care of Sir Robert Munro,
their lieutenant-colonel; for whose sake," he adds, "he should
always pay a regard to a Scotsman for the future." But it would
be impossible to do any thing like justice to the character of this
great man in a short sketch like the present. He ended his life
at the battle of Falkirk. He had been shortly before promoted to
the command of a regiment, which, unlike his brave Highlanders
at Fontenoy, deserted him in the moment of attack, and left him
enclosed by the enemy. From a letter of his son, Sir Harry, to
President Forbes, it appears that he, for a while, fought single-
handed with half-a-dozen of their number, and slew two or three,
until one of them, seeing no prospect of overcoming the grey-
headed hero by fair and open means, discharged a pistol-shot into
his groin, and thus ended the life of a hero and a Christian. * It
is much to be regretted that no one duly qualified, has been found
to undertake the biography of this eminent man; for it may be
safely affirmed, that few ever led a more useful life, or transmitted
a more unsullied name to posterity, than the late Sir Robert
Munro. His son, Sir Harry, was an excellent classical scholar,
and at his death left ready for publication a large critical work on
Buchanan's Psalms, which met with the highest approbation from
the celebrated Ruddiman. Having gone to Edinburgh for the
recovery of his health, he died in 1781.
   At the west end of the church, is buried the late Sir Hector
Munro, of Novar, K. B., who, alfter spending much of his life in
active military service, and acquiring the highest distinction as a
brave and intrepid soldier in various parts of the world, passed the

<FOOTNOTE>"An old companion in arms, one day, when describing the closing scene in the
life of his almost idolized chief, after pouring out his curse on the dastards who had
deserted him, started from his seat, and grasping his staff as he burst into tears,
exclaimed, in a voice almost stifled by emotion, Ochon! Ochon! had his ain folk
been there!"--Miller's Scenes and Legends, p. 424.


