
     of Graitney.

dation may be had that is to be found in the best inns in
England.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-There are 2 bridges, the
one of one arch over the Sark, and the other of two arches
on the Port-Patrick road over the Kirtle, lately rebuilt in
a very substantial manner.  There is an exceedingly good
wheat, barley and oat mill, well supplied with water,
where the greatest part of the grain in the parish is grind-
ed.  We have very little natural wood.  There is a plan-
tation of full grown trees at Graitney-Hall, and there are
several belts and clumps of young plantations in different
parts of the parish, which in time will be a very great or-
nament to this part of the country.  The common fuel u-
sed here is peats.  The expenses of cutting, drying and
leading them may be estimated at about 1 s. the cart-load.
Coals are brought from Archerbeck in the parish of Can-
nobie.  They cost 1 s. 6 d. the cart-load at the pit.  They
are likewise brought by water-carriage from Cumberland.
By landing them on the English side, the payment of the
duty is evaded, and they cost 6 s. the ton, or 3 s. the cart-
load.  These are perhaps cheaper than the Archerbeck
coal, which are about 10 miles distant from this place.

     NOTE.

   Clandestine Marriages.-This parish has been long famous in
the annals of matrimonial adventure, for the marriages of fugitive
lovers from England, which have been celebrated here.  People living at
a distance erroneously suppose, that the regular and established clergyman
of this parish is the celebrator of those marriages:  Whereas the persons
who follow this illicit practice, are mere impostors, priests of their own
erection, who have no right whatever, either to marry, or to exercise
any part of the clerical function.  There are, at present, more than one of
this description in this place.  But the greatest part of the trade is mono-
polised by a man who was originally a tobacconist, and not a blacksmith,
as is generally believed.  He is a fellow without literature, without prin-
ciples, without morals, and without manners.  His life is a continued


