
                    ST VIGEANS.                    505.

the friends of temperance be passed over without special notice
and commendation. In some of the mills there are many good
and pious men active in the cause of promoting sobriety amongst
their fellow-workmen; and the writer of this has great pleasure in,
bearing his grateful testimony to the growing improvement visible
in the habits of the men in his own employment, traceable entirely
to the power and influence of the Total Abstinence Society, whose
principles are progressing gradually, and which are destined ere
long, we firmly believe, to work a moral reformation in the man-
ners and habits of the industrial classes, which cannot fail to be
productive of the most beneficial results.
   To the improvements consequent on the introduction of the
Factory Act, some good is also to be attributed, and in nothing
more than the necessity which it imposes on all mill-owners to
observe the same stated hours for working. In this respect, and
the restraint caused by the medical certificates, and the visits of
the inspectors, against the employment, whether from the cupidity
of parents or the avariciousness of masters, of children of a tender
age more than a given number of hours daily, the act is doubtless
beneficial. The hours of labour which it prescribes are twelve
for each of the first five days of the week, and nine on Saturday,
three-quarters of an hour being allowed for breakfast, and a simi-
lar time for dinner. Six holidays are allowed in the course of the
year. Children between the age of nine and thirteen are not per-
mitted to work above eight hours per day, but of these none are
employed in the factories here. Ample time is thus allowed for
education before entering the mills; and from the excellent semi-
nary recently opened in connection with the church of Inverbro-
thock, and other means of instruction, we would fondly hope,
though in the present state of trade it is almost too much to ex-
pect, that the day is not far distant when no young person will be
found within the factories of this place, who has not received the
elements at least of a plain education. Low as the fees are, how-
ever, of the schools, it is not to be questioned that many well-in-
tentioned parents are totally unable to contribute for any length
of time even the small sum requisite for the education of their
children. We refer more particularly to the children of weavers;
a class respecting whose condition we shall have occasion in the
sequel to advert. With all the advantages, therefore, enjoyed by
this locality, as compared with many of the seats of manufac-
tures, we doubt of anything short of a national system of educa-


