
240                        FIFESHIRE.


"Anno 1639." Upon the south side of the Castle near the door
is this inscription:--

                IN DEV TYM DRAW YIS CORD YE BEL TO CLINK,

                QVHAIS MERY VOCE VARNIS TO MEAT AND DRINK.

   There appear to be the remains of a four gun battery on the side
of the rock next the sea.  This Castle is said by Sir Robert Sibbald
to have been the seat of Stewart of Rosyth or Durisdeer, a descend-
ant of James Stewart, brother to Walter, the great Steward of
Scotland, and father of Robert II. There is a tradition that the
mother of Oliver Cromwell was born in it, and that the Protector
visited it when be commanded the army in Scotland. It is
now the property of the Earl of Hopetoun. At the place of
encampment of Cromwell's troops on the Ferry hills, swords
and English coins have been dug up, and cannon shot, almost
consumed by rust, have been found near the field of battle. In
the North Ferry, there was once a Roman Catholic chapel, found-
ed by Robert I., which was a dependency of the Abbey of Dun-
fermline, and subsisted till destroyed by the English in 1651. Its
ruins still remain, and the burial ground is still in use. Between
the ferries is Inch Garvie, on which Sir Archibald Dundas of that
Ilk obtained from James IV. leave to build a castle, with import-
ant privileges. It was anciently fortified, and used as a state pri-
son, and was repaired and mounted with cannon during the late
war. At present, it is abandoned. Besides this building, there is
on the west end of the rock, a ruined round tower or redoubt, and
on the east end, what is said to be the remains of a battery,-ac-
cording to tradition, both erected by Cromwell's soldiers. In the
burgh there are still houses pointed out as the town residences of
the Rosebery and Fordel families, and it is asserted that there was
even here a palace of David I. An old tenement, named " the
Inns," is said to have been the residence of Annabella Drummond
queen of Robert III. By a charter from her husband, the magis-
trates were to pay to her a hundred shillings a year at the feast of
Pentecost. She died here in 1403. The house is exempted from
burgh jurisdiction, though in the middle of the town, and is said
to contain, among other conveniences, a subterraneous passage to
the sea. Numerous vaults and ruins are near it, and the founda
tions of the "chapel" were lately dug up. These are supposed
to have belonged either to the Franciscans or Dominicans, both
of whom had once monasteries in the place. When the late church
was repaired in 1806, there was found a font made of fine sand-
stone, which has been placed in the porch of the present church.


