

148                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

those of the rein-deer, were found imbedded in the marl four-
teen feet below its surface,-above which there were ten feet of
moss. These are now in the possession of Mr Pringle of Clifton,
the proprietor. They measured 3 feet in length, and 3 feet
10 inches between each horn. Besides these, several skeletons,
amounting to twenty, of animals of different species, and of various
sizes, were discovered in the space of less than an acre. The bones
of one of these in magnitude exceeded those of a horse. Some of them
were much decayed; and when affected by the air, mouldered into
dust. The moss also abounded with large and thick oaks; it contain-
ed wood from the smallest twig to the tree of two feet diameter, which
was usually quite soft and spongy,-so that these trees were saturat-
ed with moisture, and the soil or vegetable roots amid which they
were imbedded. In the bottom of the lake, also, a very strong and
copious mineral spring was found to issue from the sand beneath the
seams of marl after it was dug. There are obvious traces of this
lake, enlarged by the waters of the Kale once flowing into it, and
by the rills and torrents descending from the adjacent hills, having
formerly covered the whole expanse of the valley formerly men-
tioned, and extending to 1000 acres,-thus forming a uniform and
magnificent sheet of water. The whole of this space abounds
with copious springs of the purest water, whose origin is traced to
the Kale, and which rise through veins of sand. The other lake,
called Hoselaw Loch, is situated near the eastern extremity of the
parish. Its surface extends to thirty acres; it is of an oblong form,
and is three-quarters of a mile in circumference. It abounds with
perch and eels of the silver kind. The perch which it contains
were only recently introduced to it from a neighbouring lake: and
the fishing of these affords amusement to parties of pleasure dur-
ing summer. Sometimes, during the most sultry period of sum-
mer, shoals of perches are, from some cause unknown, cast out
dead upon the margin of the lake. The greatest depth of the lake
does not exceed at any time fifteen feet: in summer it greatly de-
creases. It forms an entire sheet of water: and is terminated on
the west by a moss of great extent and depth,-which, from the
difficulty of access to it, and the indifferent quality of the peat, is
little dug. There is another moss, about a mile westward from
this, on the farm of Greenlees, which also is of considerable ex-
tent and depth. Its peats are of a better quality: and marl has
been found beneath the moss; but neither have been used to any
extent.


