
506                          AYRSHIRE.

liam Irvine, curate during Episcopacy;) 1692, Mr James Gilchrist;
1711, Mr James Lawrie; 1765, Mr John Ramsay; 1802, Mr
David Kennedy; 1835, Mr John M'Ewen.
  There are only three sittings or half a pew provided by law for the
whole population of Crosshill. To remedy so great an evil, measures
have been adopted to erect a new chapel, which commenced this
summer, and is expected to be opened for public worship in a few
months. The two chief proprietors of the village, Sir Charles
D. Fergusson, and Mr Niven, have come forward and generous-
ly put forth their hands to this good work. At the same time Mr
Smellie, an active and talented young preacher, has, for two years,
been employed in preparing the field.
  However deeply the religious and well disposed part of the com-
munity felt in the success of this undertaking, their best exertions
must have been altogether vain, unless aided by the ready and
Christian munificence of one whose professions of attachment to the
church harmonize at all times so beautifully with his personal sa-
crifices and labours to promote its extension and efficiency. The
church looks well, and is a great ornament to the neighbourhood.
It will cost from L. 700 to L. 800, and is to contain 460 sittings
without a gallery.
   The great body of the people adhere to the Establishment.
By a census made in 1836, with a view to answer the queries of the
Religious Instruction Commission, it was found that the total in-
habitants of the parish amounted to 2856; of which number be-
longing to the Establishment were 2567; Dissenters, 172; Catho-
lics, 117.
   The average number of communicants is about 650.
   Education.--There is one parochial school in the parish. The
average attendance of pupils runs from 60 to 70. The teacher
has the legal accommodation with the maximum salary. The
fees average L.30, but are very ill paid. The usual branches of edu-
cation are taught, and at the usual rates.
   The former proprietor of Crosshill built a large school-house for
the benefit of the village. There is a small salary paid by the
feuars to the master, amounting at present to L. 3, 10s. The
school has lately been connected with the General Assembly's
Scheme. The average attendance is about 70. From the po-
verty of the inhabitants, the payment of the school wages is
wretched in the extreme.
   There are, besides, Sabbath schools for children, adults, and


