
                           DALMENY.                         103

doubt, that the great Roman military way, which proceed from
North numberland by Eildon and Soutra to the Pentland hills, and
thence by Ravelston to Cramond, which was evidently a maritime
station on the Bodotria, and where numerous vestigia have been
discovered, was continued by Barnbougle and Dalmeny through
Abercorn to Carriden to the eastern extremity of the wall of An-
toninus. About a mile, accordingly, to the west of Queensferry there
were, about a century also, remains to,seen of what was suppos-
ed to,"a Roman Speculatorium, consisting of a large carved
window, a square pillar, and a considerable quantity of hewn stones,
which, it is said, were carried to Dunkirk. There were found
here also several silver medals of Marcus Antoninus, with a vic-
tory on the reverse; also, the carved handle of a copper vessel,
and the bottom of an earthen urn, with the word adjecti, the rest
obliterated. " * At Springfield, a little to the westward of this
spot, there was discovered recently, in digging near the house, a
skeleton of large size, and a trench of considerable breadth and
depth, filled with human bones. A brass pot, and in it a pagan
idol, were exhumed near Queensferry, on the lands of Dundas, in
1738, which the workmen, through a mistaken zeal, instantly de-
molished. Not far from Dundas Castle, there was found also, at
a considerable depth between the parallel walls discovered under
ground; a Roman coin with the letters IAN distinctly inscribed,
the rest illegible, and the handle of a vessel supposed to have been
a symposium used by the Romans in their sacrifices. About, a
mile to the west of Barnbougle Castle, on the top of a high sea-
bank, is an ancient cairn, called. Earl Cairney, of a circular shape,
originally 500 feet in circumference, and 24 feet in height, though
new considerably dilapidated, which was probably a sepulchral mo-
nument.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of the parochial regis-
ters is 1628. They are considerably dilapidated, and sometimes
irregular, till within the last century; from which time, they have
been kept with considerable accuracy.
   The patronage of the parish, which was derived in 1540 from
the abbot and convent of Jedburgh, has belonged since that pe-
riod to the barony of Barnbougle, and was vested in Sir Archibald
Primrose and his heirs, by the charter conveying to him that pro-
perty. Since the restoration of the right of patronafe by the act
of Queen Anne in 1712, it has been uniformly exercised, accord-

<FOOTNOTE> Old Statistical Account




