
     of St. Mungo.

lightful situation+.  The present church was built in 1754,
but seems never to have been properly finished.   It is nei-
ther plastered nor ceiled.   It has no bell;  and the seats are in
a ruinous condition.   There are only the traces of a dyke a-
round the church yard.-The manse and offices were built
only 7 years ago, at an expence of 374 L.  Sterling,  and are
already scarcely habitable!   This singular fact can only be
accounted for, from the absurb method, which the genrality
of heritorsin this part of the country adopt, of contracting
for manses, kirks, etc. with the friend of some leading man
in the parish, or with such as will build them at the smallest
expence.  And though the prebystery get tradesmen upon
oath, to declare them dufficient, yet even this does not pro-
duce the desired effect; for such people generally declare, not
that the work is substantially executed, or that the houses will
stand for a reasonable time, but only, that the money is laid
out according to the estimate.  Hence the houses built at the
expence of the parish, are superficially executed, and conse-
quently productive of  much additional trouble and expence,
both to the heritors and to those who occupy them.---The
King is patron.  The stipend was formerly only 50 L. Ster-
ling; it is now 52 L. 10 s. exclusive of the glebe, which is esti-
mated at 40 L. per annum, being upwards of 40 Scotch acres
of the best land in the parish.  About 2 years ago the present
incumbent obtained an augmentation of 4 chalders of bear
and meal, worth 40 L. more.  There is no parochial
school in the parish, nor any salary appropriated for the sup-

     3 C 2

<FOOTNOTE>

+In the centre of this vale, where the manse is placed, there are some re-
mains of an ancient village (built probably by the friars from Glasgow), and
likewife of an extensive garden, with a fish-pond in the middle of it.  Of those
the present incumbent hath seen many insallible proofs, though neither tradi-
tion nor history (as far as he knows) have thrown any light on the subject.


