
	                   SORN.                                141

ed varies from 15 to 25,000 yards per day. The supdrior quality of
the goods manufactured by the Catrine Company, and the manner
in which they are bleached and finished, have obtained for them
such a decided preference, both in the home and foreign markets,
that individuals have in some instances assumed the mark of the
Catrine Company, with the view of getting their goods more rea-
dily disposed of. The bleaching process is completed within doors,
and is carried on without interruption at all seasons of the year,
and that, too, witbout the slightest injury being done to the cloth;
nay, with the advantages of superior purity and colour, and a vast
saving of time in the process, as well as of land, which, when the
old system of bleaching was adopted, was required to expose the
cloth to the action of the sun's rays. In the Catrine bleaching-
work there is a saving of from 150 to 200 acres of land. In the
different departments of spinning, weaving, and bleaching, and in
the making and repairing of machinery connected with the cotton
and bleaching-works, there are 913 persons employed, besides
masons, labourers, and others, who on an average may amount to
30 more; and the whole money put in circulation, and paid at the
Catrine works in 1836, amounted to L. 27,568, 18s. The wages
are paid every Friday; and every thing is done to promote the
moral and religious interests, as well as the comfort of the people
connected with the works. Before the new regulations with re-
gard to the education of the young persons employed in cotton-
factories were introduced, the Catrine Company, at their own ex-
pense, provided a schoolmaster, to whom all who were connected with
the works had, and still have, access immediately after the labours
of the day are over, without any charge whatever. From 200 to
300 individuals have been in the habit of availing themselves of
this privilege, thereby laying the foundation of future happiness
and future usefulness to themselves and to others. When a stag-
nation in trade occurs, and other works of a similar description
suspend their operations wholly, or in part, the Catrine Company
carry on their operations without intermission, and keep their
workers in full employment. A goodly feeling has in consequence,
with but little interruption, subsisted between the employed and their
employers in the Catrine works. An attempt, it is true, was made
about two years ago to destroy this goodly feeling by the formation
of a union among, the workers, and by a demand for an increase
of wages. This attempt, as generally happens in such cases, fail-
ed,--much distress ensued, and the greater number of those who


