
     			    ECCLES.                                 51

ridges, called Cotchet ridge, Brae Dunstan, and Bartlehill, con-
sists of a plain beautifully fenced, cultivated, and wooded.
   Meteorology.-The heat of springs in the parish is 48&deg; , which
may be considered the mean annual temperature of the atmosphere.
The state of the weather from an average of five years is as fol-
lows: 120 rainy days, 12 snowy days, 39 frosty days, and 234 fair
days, making the proportion of rainy to fair days as 1 to 2 nearly.
The mean height of the barometer for two years was 29.390 inches,
which gives 364 1/2 feet for Eccles above the level of the sea.
   Diseases.-The inference drawn here from observation is, that
disease does not increase in proportion to the gross amount of the
rain which falls, but according to the length of its duration in the
atmosphere, or, in other words, to the diminution of the aimosphe-
ric pressure.  Hence the year 1830 (in which there were long
tracks of wet weather) was accompanied with many acute diseases.
Scarlet fever raged with great virulence in the village of Eccles,
and in Leitholm scarcely a family escaped the small-pox, though
none died * but one child who had not been vaccinated.  Measles
also were very frequent.
   Before the general introduction of draining, intermittents were
very common, but during the last thirty years they were never
heard of, until about three years ago, when several well marked
cases of ague occurred in the village of Eccles.  Inflammations, as
must happen wherever persons are exposed to sudden alternations
of heat and cold, are frequent, especially during autumn.  As far
as the writer of this article has been able to learn, a case of calcu-
lus has never occurred in the parish.
   Notwithstanding these incidental complaints, the inhabitants
may be said to be very healthy.  Many attain a very great old age,
and there, are instances of persons' reaching nearly the age of a
hundred.
   Hydrography.-The average depth of the wells in the, parish
is fifteen feet, and the water obtained at this level is extremely
clear and palatable, which may in some measure be ascribed to the
great quantity of sulphate of lime which it holds in solution, and
which is partly separated when the water is evaporated and allow-
ed to cool.
   The sp. gr. of the well water at Eccles manse is 1.000792 and

<FOOTNOTE>The propagation of this disease is in a great measure to be ascribed to the ineffi-
cient manner in which vaccination is performed; the principal operators being mid-
wives and other ignorant people, who cannot be supposed capable of distinguishing
between a genuine and spurious vesicle.


