
     of Little Dunkeld.

   The proprietors are 8 in number, 4 of whom reside on their
estates within the parish, and were all batchelors, till last spring,
when the principal heritor, Mr. Stewart of Grandtully, mar-
ried.  Besides the above there are 4 small heritors, called por-
tioners, each of whom has but a few acres.  The non-resident
heritors are men of property in other parishes.
   The men generally marry below the age of 30, and the wo-
men from 22 to 27 years of age, and each of these marriages
produce at an average about 6 children*.

     VOL. VI. 3 A

<FOOTNOTE>

died unexpectedly, in consequence of having over heated himself walking one
day in the hills.
   The number of persons from other parishes, may be about 30: most of them
from Inverness-shire, several of them beggars, and the rest in quality of ser-
vants.  A great many of the native youth of both sexes, pass a few years in
the low country, at service, where some of them remain for life.

*Language and Character.-In that part of the parish which is below lnvar,
the people speak the Scottish dialect of the English, and are not distinguished by
any preceptible shade of character from the inhabitants of the low countly pa-
rishes around them.  The rest of the inhabitants (more than three fourths) are
Highlanders, who speak a dialect, not perhaps the purest, of the Gaelic.
They have all a strong attachement to their native tongue; many speak En-
glish with tolerable case, and the youth, by means of the charity schools,
can write it with rather more propriety, and coprousness than those of the low
country part of this parish, who are very all situated with respect to schools.
   In their persons few of them are above middle statute, but of a shapely firm
make.  To the attributes of temperance, industry, probety and content,
all the inhabitants are justly entitled, with very few exceptions.  They are ve-
ry sensible of the advantages they enjoy under a free constitution, and firmly
attached to their rights, both civil and religious.  Newspapers and other pe-
riodical publications find their way to every corner of the parish.  And seve-
ral clubs have been formed, who purchase the Statistical Account of Scotland.
Though peaceable subjects, they are soon interested by any public affairs in
which they apprehend the general welfare of their country to be materially
concerned.  This disposition shewed itself remarkably during the American
war Then attention is much roosed by the momentuous transactions which


