
28                   EDINBURGSHIRE.

and license so many houses of that description. No ale-houses
are allowed to exist by the proprietors or tenants on the estates of
Niddry, Mortonhall, Moredun, or Brunstane.

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   A vast improvement has taken place in the physical state of
this parish since the last Statistical Account was written. Then
the real rental was L. 10,000 a-year; lately it was nearly L. 28,000,
or almost three times as much. It is in fact one of the richest
parishes in Scotland. But other improvements have not kept
pace. Little has been done towards improving the cottages in
which the great mass of the people reside, for of the whole inha-
bitants, amounting to nearly 4000, only 207 are above the poor
and working classes, and even amongst this number are included
teachers, farmers, and sometimes publicans and shop-keepers.
Some of the houses of the others are very wretched, although
something is likely to be done now for the purpose of improving
them. The means of religious instruction also were till lately pre-
cisely in the same state, notwithstanding the immense increase of
wealth and population; and, as might have been expected, vice
has increased; and whereas formerly there was no assessment, now
there is one of L. 400 a-year, which till lately was rapidly increas-
ing. The assessment for the first half year after the induction of
the present minister was L. 300; for last half year it was only
L. 150 and for the wbole year L. 350. We have no precise means
of ascertaining, but the number of public-houses has probably in-
creased fourfold or perhaps tenfold since the last Account was writ-
ten, thus still further increasing the evil, and filling the land with
crime. Some important changes have, however, lately been made.
The church, manse, and school-house have all been renewed since
the last Account was written; a new church has been erected in
Gilmerton; new and improved schools set up at Cameron and
Burdiehouse; a good many Sabbath schools opened; two new
religious libraries established; additional elders ordained; a
preaching station begun at Niddry; and a missionary established
in the eastern district of the parish,

Written March
Revised August 1839.



