
                              DYCE.                           123

by which it might be distinguished, and the origin of its name is
entirely unknown.
   There are tumuli in various places throughout the parish, usu-
ally on small eminences.  Bones have been found in some of them,
(inclosed in urns of pipe-clay, nearly resembling common flower-
pots in shape,) but no tradition has retained a single trace of their
history.

                            III.-POPULATION.
   From the records of baptisms, marriages, and burials for some
time subsequent to 1646, it would appear that the population of
Dyce then must have been not less numerous than at the present
day, and double its amount when the last Statistical Account was
published, 150 years afterwards.  This curious fact cannot be as-
signed to any merely accidental or temporary cause, since these
records, for nearly twenty years in the seventeenth century, are
preserved ; during which time there does not appear any one year
to have been a material diminution of the births and marriages.
The burials are not quite so accurately recorded.  From the li-
mited number of places where births and marriages are mentioned
as having occurred, there seems some reason to conjecture that se-
veral small villages had then existed in the parish.  Probably these
villages were mostly in the neighbourhood of farm-buildings, where
the servants and others resided for the sake of convenience and
mutual protection.  This would account for farm-steadings being
always called "towns" in this district of Scotland.  Some of them,
as Kirkton, Bedlieston, &c. still retain the syllable in their pro-
per names, after every vestige of a " town" in their neighbourbood
has disapeared.  After the year 1677, there are no data by which
we could form even a probable conjecture as to the population of
this parish, till the return made to Dr Webster, 1755, which gives
it at that time 383.  By the last Statistical Account, 1795, we
find the population still on the decrease, being then stated at 352,
at which time, however, it would appear to have sunk to its minimum,
having since rapidly and steadily increased, till, in 1831, it had
reached 620.  During the last ten years, however, it may be re-
marked, that the population in this parish has been perpetually
fluctuating, in proportion to the demand for quarriers.  It has not
been uncommon to find an increase or diminution of 50 or 60 in
the course of a few weeks.  The permanent population, which ap-
pears to have steadily increased (as has been mentioned) up to
1831, (when it probably amounted to something more than 500,)
may now be considered as diminishing.  This is chiefly owinf to


