
                                  ROSSKEEN.                                     277

          found for that distress, without injuring the tenantry, or curtailing the
          stipends of the clergy, and that is by lowering the rents, as has late-
          ly been done by a Noble proprietor in this parish. But 16 chalders
          in 1822, and for some years after, were equal to 24 chalders for
          the last two or three years, and we have been simple enough to
          suppose, that the low price of grain furnishes an argument for
          the increase of the number of bolls awarded to the clergy, whose
          stipends have been so greatly reduced of late. Divine service
          is conducted in English and Gaelic. The ministers in this part
          of the country lecture and preach in Gaelic, each Lord's day,
          and also preach regularly an English sermon, that is, three dis-
          courses each Sabbath, except for a part of the winter season; and
          yet, we have cause to lament that real religion does not flourish, as
          might be expected where the truth is preached. The number of
          communicants is about 120. We have thus fewer communicants
          than our southern neighbours; but we are inclined to believe that
          we have both more religion, and more morality, and are more, in-
          clined to fear God and honour the King, and less disposed to med-
          dle with those who are given. But still, we must confess
          that there is a manifest departure, among all ranks, from that strict-
          ness and integrity, and genuine holiness, which in the olden time
          characterized the natives of our northern clime. We would pray
          for a revival of religion in every corner of our land.
             There is an Association for religious purposes in this parish,
          which since its establishment, about thirteen years ago, has given,
          upwards of L. 500 to various societies,-Bible, Missionary, and
          Educational.
             Succession of Ministers.-It appears from the records of the
          presbyte of Tain, which commence in, 1707, that the Episcopal
          incumbent of Rosskeen retained his living through the influenced,
          as is supposed, of the Jacobitical gentry in the parish and neigh-
          bourbood. In the presbytery records, there is not even an allusion
          to the parish of Rosskeen, until the death of the Episcopalian in-
          cumbent in 1714; and then the parish is noticed, and active exer-
          tions made to secure a pious and efficient minister. The person
          chosen was Mr Daniel Bethune, minister of Ardersier, who, Was
          inducted into Rosskeen, on the 23d April 1717. He was a man
          eminently pious and successful in winning souls to Christ. He died
          the 16th March 1754. He was succeeded by his son, John Be-
          thune, a  man celebrated for his literary attainments, and ho-
          noured with the degree of D. D., a distinction which seldom falls, to


