
136                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

the Lindsays, and continued in the possession of that family till 1368.
At that time, Sir Alexander Lindsay, who was called Lord, that is
Laird of Ormiston, succeeded to the property. He was also proprie-
tor of Paiston and Temple-Hall, and upon the marriage of his only
daughter Joan to John, second son to Sir Alexander Cnckburn of
Cockburn, left to them and their heirs the land and house of Ormi-
ston, the lands of Paiston, Muirbouse, and Temple-hall; and this
grant was confirmed by a charter of King David Bruce in 1368.
This John and his son were constables of Haddington, which of-
fice was for a long time hereditary in the family.
   In 1542 Patrick, a descendant of the family, distinguished him-
self by a gallant defense of the Castle of Dalkeith, against James
ninth Earl of Douglas who had risen in rebellion, on account of
the murder of his brother William, the eighth Earl. Cockburn, hav-
ing obtained the command of the town, put himself at the head of
the King's troops, defeated the rebels, though his army was infe-
rior to theirs, and obliged them to retire.
   Alexander, son to Sir Alexander Cockburn, born in 1535, hav-
ing travelled for some years both at home and abroad, for the im-
provernent of his mind, was cut off at the early age of twenty-eight.
He was a young man of great promise, and was for sometime un-
der the charge of John Knox, the Reformer, along with two sons of
the Laird of Longindary. Knox in his history speaks of him as
possessed of great accomplishments, and he was much esteemed by
Buchanan, who wrote two elegies upon his death. In the aisle
which was attached to the old church at Ormiston Hall, there is a
brazen tablet to his memory, with a Latin hnscription in excellent
preservation.
   About the end of the year 1545, George Wishart, the celebrat-
ed reformer, after preaching at Haddington, came on foot with
Cockburn of Ormiston, and two of his friends, to the house of
Ormiston. In the course of the night, the house was beset by the
Earl of Bothwell, who demanded Wishart to be given up to him.
Cockburn and his friends, however, refused to comply, till Both-
well gave the most solemn promises that he would keep him in
safety, and not give him up to his enemies. Cardinal Beaton was
at that time at Elphinston Castle, anxious to get Wishart into his
power. Bothwell refused to comply with the Cardinal's demand,
and stood to his promise. But he was soon prevailed upon to give
him up to the Earl of Arran, at that time governor of Scotland.
Arran again, solicited by the Queen Regent, delivered him to the


