
                               PERTH.                          45

sword dance, * the baxters for the Egyptian dance, and the school-
master and the bairns gud dance to his Majesty." The wappen-
shaw was one of the manly and athletic exercises in which the
youth were accustomed to engage in the North Inch. They went
under the name of weapon-shawings. The magistrates put them
under requisition on the occasion, and required them to practise
for a week before the arrival of the King.
   To gratify his Majesty to the full, four Latin poems were pre-
sented to him by four of the citizens, full of the most fulsome
flattery, which would have disgusted any one but James.  They
are to be seen in Mr Cant's notes on Adamson's Muses, &c.
   In accordance with the instruction given in the missive, a speech
was delivered before his Majestx.  The person selected to do it
was James Stewart, a merchant burgess. It is preserved, replete
with servile adulation.  There is in the town's record an " act
granting to the children of James Stewart, who made and declaim-
ed the oration to his Majesty on his entry into the town, in which
his Majesty took areat pleasure, the sum of 300 merks, and the
same to the survivor of them, and Cathne Peebles, their mother."
   In 1632, Charles I. came to Scotland to receive the crown of
the kingdom.  On that occasion he made a triumphal entry in-
to Edinburgh, and amidst much pomp was crowned in Holyrood-
house on the 18th of June.  Thereafter he visited Dunfermline,-the
place of his birth, Stirling, Linlithgow, Falkland, and Perth.  When
it was made known to the magistrates and council of Perth that
it was his Majesty's intention to visit the city, they, without delay,
adopted every measure within their power to give him a suitable
reception.  Inter alia, they ordered the bridge of Earn to be re-
paired, and some improvements to be made on the south gate-port.
They ascertained the number of beds and stables that could be
furnished; they ordered the best houses to be kept for the En-
glishmen, (i. e. the King's English attendants,) and the malt barns
to be fitted up for stables.  They ordered "forty head of oxen to be
provided,"-appohnted officers, and assigned them their duties, and
provided them with new clothes. They issued an order prohibit-
ing women wearing plaids during his Majesty's stay.  They caus-
ed a speech to be prepared to be spoken before the King by two
boys equipped in suitable habiliments, for which they were each,
to receive a hundred merks. They appointed a body "of well

<FOOTNOTE> The council gave the skinners L. 40 for their dance.


