
                              TONGUE.                        185

     estimate this system by its bearing on the former occupiers of the
     soil, and by the circumstances into which it has brought their chil-
     dren, no friend of humanity can regard it but with the most pain-
     ful feelings. When introduced here, several hundreds, many of
     them of a grade quite superior to mere peasants, were driven from
     their beloved homes, where they and their fathers enjoyed peace
     and plenty. Some wandered to Caithness, others sought an asy-
     lum in the woods of America, but most, clinging with a passion to
     their native soil, located themselves by permission in hamlets near
     the shore. In these places the land, already occupied by a few,
     but now divided among many, was totally inadequate to the main-.
     tenance of all, and fishing became their necessary resource. And
     thus, on a tempestuous coast, with no harbours but such as na-
     ture provided, and in' a country inaccessible, from want of roads,
     to enterprising cuTers, were these people often necessitated to
     plunge into debt for providing fishing materials, and to en-
     counter dangers, immensely increased by their unavoidable igno-
     rance of navigation, in order to obtain subsistence and defray their
     rents. The consequences were such as might be expected. Po-
     verty soon overtook them, tending to keep alive their lacerated
     feelings, and rents, which became gradually extravagant, accumu-
     lated into a mass of arrears.
       While such was the condition of the people, the proprietor, un-
     der whose management these changes were effected, found him-
     self under the necessity of selling the inheritance of his fathers,
     and the late Duke of Sutherland became sole proprietor of the
     parish. This truly patriotic nobleman, fully alive to the evils which
     beset his new people, and the wants of this country, reduced the
     rents of the small tenants 30 per cent., and commenced a series
     of improvements, by opening up the country with excellent roads,
     at an enormous expense, and inducing public vehicles to run in se-
     veral directions; by which, at once work was afforded for the people,
     and a stimulus given for a time to the herring-fishing. Like-
     wise, with the laudable object of rendering the tenantry more com-
     fortable, they were enjoined about the same time to build new
     houses, all being upon the same plan; and, encouraged by the
     prospect of work, they soon set about this undertaking, though the
     houses were upon a scale far too expensive for their slender means.

     <FOOTNOTE>These improvements were conducted, by Mr John Horsburgh, late local factor,
     whose business talents, sterling integrity, faithfulness to his employers and attach-
     ment to the people and the country, rendered him one of the most judicious and po-
     pular of factors.
        SUTHERLAND.                               N


