
                               KIRKMICHAEL.                         311

   meron of Ballinlish, a partner of the North-West Company in America,
   left considerable property to his relations, and destined L.100
   to the support of the poor. Messrs James and Gabriel Stewart
   of Cults amassed a handsome fortune by their business in London,
   and the former bequeathed L.1000 to the poor; and Mr
   George Gordon of Fodderletter, of whom honourable mention is
   made in the last Statistical Report, as a chemist and botanist,
   left L.50 to the poor, which, under the provisions of his deed of
   settlement, has now accumulated to L.155. Mr M'Donald of
   Grantown also bequeathed L.45 to the poor.
     The annual amount of contributions for the poor is about L.95.
   Of this sum there is about L.17 collected in the parish churches.
   Charitable donations make about L.13 a year more.  Of this
   sum, the Duke of Richmond has given L.10 for the last few years.
   There is a fund of L.760, bequeathed by various benevolent individuals
   belonging to the parish, which yields about L.30 of yearly
   interest; and there is a sum of L.1000 in the hands of William
   Forbes Stewart, Esq. of London, for which be pays about
   L.35 yearly interest. Two-thirds of the interest of this last sum
   is destined to the support of the Roman Catholic poor in the parish,
   under the management of the Roman Catholic Priest, the
   other third is under the management of the kirk-session, for behoof
   of the Protestant poor.
     The spirit of independence and a desire to refrain from seeking
   parochial relief prevails to a considerable extent among the poor,
   but, it is believed, that, in proportion as the means of extending
   parochial aid to them are increased, this spirit of independence
   decreases.
     Owing to severe harvest frosts, the crops of 1836, 1837, and
   1838, were almost complete failures, especially the crop of the
   year 1838; and it was found necessary, towards the beginning
   of 1839, to raise extraordinary supplies for the maintenance of the
   poor.  On application to the committees in London and Glasgow
   for the management of a fund raised for the relief of the destitute
   in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, a grant of L.150 was
   obtained.  This sum, aided by other sources, afforded the means
   of distributing 167 1/2 bolls of weal in the parish, which relieved the
   necessities of 198 families.
     Prisons. - Any criminal offenders in this part of the country,of
   whom the number is happily very small, are sent to the country-jail


