
274			AYRSHIRE.

ally in the valley, is mild, and considered healthy. In the course
of the last eigth years, out of a population of 960 and upwards,
only 114 died. Of these, there were under twenty, 48; between
twenty and forty, 23; forty and sixty, 16; sixty and seventy, 10;
seventy and eighty, 8; eighty and ninety, 6; upwards of ninety, 3.
The diseases of which they died are the following: viz. decay of
nature, 24; consumption, 20; inflammation, 7; fever, 9; water
in the head, 7; water in the chest, 4; hooping-cough, 5; measles,
1; croup, 5; dysentery, 3; dropsy, 2; apoplexy, 2; cancer, 4;
small-pox, 1; scrofula, 1; influenza, 1; ulceration of the tongue,
1; liver complaint, 2; killed, 1; unknown, 14.
	Hydrography, Springs.--There are several mineral springs; but,
with the exception of one on the estate of Barbieston, they are
seldom or ever thought of. With regard to this one, the late Mr
Fullarton of Skeldon, formerly one of the heritors of this parish,
sent the writer of this Account, the following communication: "I
was at first led to notice the mineral spring near Skeldon, in 1798,
when I heard that the late Captain Campbell of Barbieston used
it himself, and frequently made his servants drink of it. It is a
chalybeate, but not strong; also, I believe, a gentle cathartic. For
some years it ran copiously, but the working of marl in the bank
above brought down the brae face, and nearly choked the spring,
though it has been constantly but gently discharging in that place
ever since. I never knew it freeze during the severest frosts I have
ever seen, having had frequent opportunities during winter, when
shooting through these 'banks and braes.' I have not analysed
it, but I have no doubt, if properly opened and secured (which I
once intended to do,) it might prove both useful and medicinally
beneficial."
	Lochs.--There are four lochs in the parish, Martinham, Snipe,
Kerse, and Lindston. Martinham is the largest, being about a
mile and a-half in length, by a furlong, at an average, in breadth,
and it stretches a considerable way into the parish of Coylton. Its
greatest depth is 26 feet. There is a small islet in this loch, and
on it, the ruins of a building (probably in former times the man-
sion-house of the proprietor of Martinham,) 100 feet in length,
by 30 in breadth. The islet is almost entirely covered with wood,
and both the wood and the ruins are completely cased in ivy. The
scenery around Martinham is exceedingly picturesque.
	There are in all the lochs abundance of pike, perch, and eel;
they are frequented too by wild geese and ducks, teal, widgeon, &c.


