
108			 BUTESHIRE.

of the Marquis of Bute, and to the admirable management and
skill of his factor, Mr Muir, and land-steward, Mr Girdwood.
At the commencement of the period to which we have referred,
and in consequence of the transition from war to peace, the ten-
antry on his Lordship's estate werem, in common eith the farmers
over the kingdom, in very depressed circumstances. The mode of
farming then followed left them few resources; the alternate system
had not been introduced; potatoes had been begun to be culti-
vated, but not extensively; turnip cultivation was scarcely known;
and the extent of sown grass was extremely limited. The produce
of the dairy, now a principal source of profit, was in these cir-
cumstances very scanty; for besides meagre feeding, little attention
had been paid to the breed of cattle, which were then a mongrel race
between the Highland and Ayrshire, greatly inferior to either.
And as the high prices of grain for a series of years before the close
of the war had tempted to overcropping, the shock had to be met
with an exhausted soil; while draining, liming, and the application
of extraenous matter to agriculture, were almost novelties both in
practice and theory.
	At this critical conjuncture, his Lordship acted with a judgment,
liberality, and promptitude, alike creditable to his head and his
heart. Instead of hastily rooting out the old stock of tenants and
planting exotics, he turned his thoughts to discover the best method
of improving and stimulating them. Not resting satisfied with an
abalement of rent on a most liberal scale for several of the very
trying years from 1819 to 1826, he organized a system of premiums
on a most comprehensive principle, which was followed by the hap-
piest results; and he is now reaping a rich reward in the posses-
sion of a comfortable, industrious, and intelligent tenantry, and in
an increasing and well paid rental.
	His Lordship's efforts were first directed to the introduction of
an efficient system of drainage; and for this purpose, he at first
paid the whole expense, leaving the tenants to execute the work
under the direction and superintendence of his land steward, and
giving an abatement to teh amount of their value from the rent
of the first term after their completion. Since 1824, up to the pre-
sent time, the allowance has been one-half of the whole value of
drains, paid in lime. Fully alive to the importance of turnip cul-
tivation, he offered simultaneously with the premium for draining,
and continued ir for several years, one of L, 1, 10s. per acre for


