
                       KENMORE.                            483

lected, simple publications has been attached to the parochial
school, by Lady Breadalbane, for the use of the pupils of that se-
minary;--a measure likely to stimulate the rising generation to the
habit of reading, and so to generate and widen the desire of use-
ful knowledge.
   Saving Bank.-There is no such establishmentas as Savings bank
in the parish; but there is one at no great distance the village of
Aberfeldie.  It was established in 1880, and is in a thriving condi-
tion.  The sums deposited yearly exceed these withdrawn and the
ratio is regularly on the increase.  The deposits are made chiefly
by labourers, and by servantr, male and female.

<TABLE>
      last year, no. of depositors, 29, sum 'deposited L. 215 16   9 1/2
      2d year,        ditto         55,     ditto         482 10   5
      3d year,        do            71,      do           673  7   2
      4th year,       do            83,      do,          879 16   2
  Poor.-The average number of persons receiving aid from the
poor's fund, for six years back, has been 145; and, over head,
they may receive somewhere about 12s. each per annum.   A few,
however, in more helpless circumstances, have an allowance pe-
riodically given, at the rate of a shilling or two per week.  Besides,
we are always ready, from week to week, to give occasional aids
of a few shillings, to persons who, from sickness or other valid
causes, are brought to the need of temporary relief.   In short in-
stead of being very nice about the technicality of an ordinary and
an extraordinary list of the poor, and of making an avowed recog-
nition of the right of any one to have a stated or periodic supply,
we choose rather, laborious though the task be, to deal with each
case separately, and as it may chance to present itself to our notice
at each recurring examination.   The funds are

<TABLE>
           1. Ordinary collections, about    L. 64 11 10
           2. Mortcloth, proclamations, &c.      7  8 0
           3. Interest of mortified money, &c.  08  0 0
                                                -------
                                    In all, L. 137 14 10
    It is also to be taken into consideration that, within a certain
distance round Taymouth, the poor are supplied, twice a-week,
with nourishing broth and meat from the castle, and, when they
are not supplied in that way, they have milk and other articles of
food given them from the dairy.   Towards the depth of winter,
the Marchioness of Breadalbane, with humane and considerate bi-
berality, causes to be distributed a most seasonable supply of
clothing, together with some little offerings of money.  The num-
ber, over the whole of Breadalbanes, who share in this judicious
act of charity, may amount to about 240 individuals.   But with all


