
                           POLWARTH.                     233

                          III.-POPULATION.
   The number of inhabitants, as reported by Dr Webster in 1755,
was 251. In 1793, the number was 288, divided among 72 fami-
lies, of whom 55 resided in the village of Polwarth. In the years
1801, 1811, 1821, and 1831, the numbers returned were respec-
tively 291, 307, 298, 288, according to the census.

<TABLE>

Number of families in the parish,                                           64
       of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                         28
                   chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft   15

   The population, as appears from what is said above, is princi-
pally gathered into the village of Polwarth. The trades in the
village are: wrights, 3; masons, 6; smiths, 1; weavers, 3; shoe-
makers, 2; carters, 2.
   The village itself is situated on very wet and swampy ground,
yet the place is healthy; and neither rheumatic nor aguish com-
plaints prevail in any remarkable degree. The houses are much
scattered,-seldom more than two or three being situated together.
It is probably owing to this circumstance that epidemic distem-
pers are not very apt to spread.
   Character and Habits of the People.-From the secluded situa-
tion of Polwarth, and the unvarying nature of the occupations of
the inhabitants in agriculture, a considerable degree of simplicity
prevails in the character and manners of the people. They are
attached to their native place, and seldom think of removing from
it. Most of the families in the village have been resident for seve-
ral generations. Within these few years, however, a few persons
have emigrated to North America,-chiefly to Upper Canada.
This may, perhaps, account for the fact, that there has been no
increase in the population since 1793; the number at present be-
ing the same as then.
   The manner of living among the people is such as to keep them
orderly in their habits, and comfortable for their condition in life.
Almost every householder, along with his house, rents from one
to two acres of land; these are locally denominated an acre. With
this and the aid of a garden, and the use of a considerable extent
of moor from the indulgence of the proprietor, they are enabled
to keep a cow, and most of them also to rear a calf. As the rents
of their little possessions are very moderate, there are always
several competitors for every house which may become empty. The
two carters have a larger portion of land, and keep two horses,
with which they plough their neighbours' acres and bring home the
turf, which, is their principal fuel.
   A custom once prevailed in this parish which is not unworthy of


