
     of Barray.

from Uist by a channel of 8 miles; the island of Tyree, in
the county of Argyle, and the property of the Duke of
Argyle, is the nearest land to it on the S. and lies at the
distance of about 40 miles; Canna and Rum, in the parish
of the small isles, lying at the distance of 24 miles; on the
W. it is exposed to the Atlantic Ocean.  The parish of
Barray consists of the main island of Barray, particulary
so called, and a number of other islands, distinguished
by their respective names, the largest of which are inha-
bited, such as Watersay, Sanderay, Dabay, Mengalay, and
Bernaray, to the S.; Flodday, Keillesay, and Gigay, on
the E.; besides a number of smaller islands not inhabited.
The main island of Barray is 8 computed miles in length,
and from 2 to 4 in breadth, being interfected in different
places by arms of the sea.  The compilers of the Ency-
clopedia Britannica will do well to correct their error in call-
ing Barray a rock half a mile in circumference, inhabited
only by solan geese and other wild sowls.  The island of
Watersay, Separated from the main island by a channel of
one mile, is about 3 miles in length, in some places a mile
and a half broad, and is divided into two distinct farms;
the one, possessed by Mr M'Neil of Watersay; the other is
now in the hands of the proprietor, called the farm of Kilis.

<FOOTNOTE>

pay so much veneration to Saint Barr, as he never had the honour of being
ranked with the Saints of Rome, nor was his name at any time inrolled
in the Roman kalendar.  From this it appears, that the churches in these
parts, which were subject to Icolumkill, never recognized the authority
of the church of Rome.  It appears from Bede, who wrote in the begi-
ning of the 8th century, that the monostery of Icolumkill was not Subject
to Rome at that time.  Later writers have shown the same in their times;
besides, as at any subsequent period it had submitted to Papal jurisdiction.
it is more than probable that some Pope or other would have dignified
with canonization, a person who had fanclity enough to render him wor-
thy of being appointed the patron or protector of any district of eccle-
fiastical territory.


