
                                    CAPUTH.                         683

     In 1807, an exeambion was made of 16 acres of hill common be-
     longing to the minister for 3 1/2 acres, lying before the manse, and
     now annexed to the east side of thd glebe.  The stipend was last
     modified in 1824 to 255 bolls, 1 firlot, 3 1/2 lippies, two-thirds meal,
     and one-third barley, with L. 12, 3s.  10d. in money, including
     L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
        There is no chapel of ease, nor Dissenting meeting-house of any

     description within the parish.  The whole population belongs to
     the Established Church, save nearly 30 Seceders, and 5 or 6
     Independents, and as many Episcopalians; the latter, and some
     of the former, usually attending the parish church.
        The Lord's Supper is dispensed twice a-year, in June and Oc-
     tober, the number of communicants at the former occasion averag-
     ing 800, and at the latter 600.  There are upwards of 1000 com-
     municants altogether.
        Poor and Parochial Funds. -The church-door collections for
     the last seven years have averaged L. 80 per annum, exclusive of
     several very liberal collections for extra purposes and dues arising
     from hearse, mortcloth, &c.  Happily as yet no assessment for
     the poor has been needed ; though the increasing list of paupers
     may render this unpleasant mode of raising funds for their support
     ere long indispensable.  There are at present 29 regular paupers
     receiving from 4s. to L.1 per month, besides some who receive
     obcasional aid.
        The only mortification in behoof of the poor was that of Mrs
     Steel at Ruffel, who, in the year 1536, bequeathed the sum of
     L. 200 to the kirk-session, the interest of which only is allowed to
     be used.  The capital is at present in the Edinburgh National Rd-
     curity Savings Bank, and, with the consent of the session, the in-
     terest is chiefly applied to the education of poor children.
        Education.-There are 5 schools.  The parochial school in
     Spittalfield is well situated, and well attended.  The salary is the
     maximum.  The house and garden are good.    The school fees
     are, 2s. 6d. for reading; 3s. fer reading and writing; 3s. 6d. for
     arithmetic, &c. ;  and 5s. for the higher branches of  education.
     The total amount of fees received by him per, annum is about
     L. 16.  There is a school in Meikleour, with a house and salary
     of L. 5, 5s. from Lady Keith.  The three others are in Caputh
     village, Snaigow, and Butterston, and one on the teacher's own                                                                                      means of education a" well                  a     ibire.
     adventure.  The means of education are well supplied, and there
     are few, if any, who cannot read, and most can write.  Beside the


