

        214              GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

        an acre only being planted with potatoes for family use.  Under this
        system, as might be supposed, the soil is so full of weeds, that the
        crop of grain is frequently choked, and the field is more pleas-
        ing to the botanist than the farmer.  There are, however, many
        bright exceptions to this rule, too numerous to be named; but among
        our freatest proprietors, Mr Pollexfen of Cairston, Mr Baikie of
        Tankerness, Mr Heddle of Melsetter, and Mr Traill of Wood-
        wick, are the most distinguished.  An enterprising farmer from
        the south, also, has lately given a stimulus to agriculture,-so that
        there is a prospect of more extensive improvements being speedily
        introduced.  Many obstacles, however, prevent these improvements
        from being generally adopted by the cottagers, such as, want of capi-
        tal and encouragement, defective leases, insufficient accommodation,
        &c.  The common breeds of sheep and cattle are very small; and for
        some years, there was little encouragement to rear or improve them,
        but the present great demand and high prices, with easy access to
        the southern markets by steam, are inducing many to try improved
        breeds.
           Quarries.-There is no quarry of consequence; but there is
        abundance of our common clay-stone and flag for building in
        every parish.  Some of this, resembling the Caithness paving-
        stone, has been polished and exported for southern markets, and
        also some of the Stromness granite; but hitherto, these have not
        been extensively quarried.
           Fisheries.-The herring and cod fisheries have increased very
        much, of late.  At the commencement of this century, they were
        entirely neglected; but already they are so extended, as to bring
        in more money than the kelp used to do, even when the largest
        quantity was manufactured; and they promise to be still farther
        extended.  These may be considered as the substitute for kelp,
        and though they do not compensate the kelp proprietors for the
        destruction of that manufacture, yet it is believed that the pro-
        prietors will ultimately receive some benefit indirectly from the
        fisheries.  During the last three years, the average number of
        sloops engaged in the cod-fishery was 18; and the quantity of
        cod cured each year, 381 tons; while the average number of her-
        ing-boats belonging to Orkney has been 724; and of herrings
        cured on shore and afloat, 42,073 barrels.  These are sold by
        the fishers to the curers at about 1Os. per cran or barrel: and the
        cod bring as much per cwt., producing L.24,852 per annum,-


