
     of Galashiels.

some of the coarsest of their wool is fold, and carried off fo
other purposes.  And thirdly, The weavers, are occasionally
employed in working linens, cottons, and other stuffs, from
mixtures made of linen, cotton, and worsted.  As the actual
number of yards woven annually by them, cannot be collect-
ed from their memories, or such accounts as they keep, it
must be calculated, by taking the whole 43 looms, at the low
rate of 4 yards each of dressed cloth per day, and reckoning
300 days in the year, which will make them amount nearly to
52,000 yards of cloth of all kinds, ready fof the market.
/pThe price of weaving, including winding and preparing the
yarn, &c.  is from 2 d.  to 3 1/2 per yard.  Taking the average at
2 1/4 a weaver earns about 1s 7 d.  each day; and the 43 looms
will draw about L.  1000 a year.  A journeyman clothier gains
4 s per week, besides board; and being in constant employ-
ment through the year, without the experience of providing im-
plements, for carrying on his work, his wages may be consi-
dered, as nearly equal to those of the weaver.
   Of those who purchase wool, and superintend the whole
process of making it into cloth, there are 13 masters, who
employ, at present, 50 journeyman and apprentices, in assor-
ting, scouring, and scribbling the wool, before it is given out
to spin; and in scouring, milling, dying, cropping, pressing,
and finishing off the cloth.  The unwearied attention, which
they bestow on all the various departments of their complicat-
ed employment, and the proficiency, which they have attain-
ed, have obtaoned for them, many years successively, almost
all the premiums advertised by the Trustees for cloth of 5, 4,
3, and 2 s. value per yard.  It is, however, on the whole,
reckoned a disadvantage, that so many different objects must 
occupy their attention.  In England, there are wool-sorters, who
buy, and prepare the wool for spinning; spinsters, who buy
it, and fell the yarn to weavers; who again fell the webs af-


