
432                      PERTHSHIRE.

finished at the Rebellion of 1745.  Sixty masons were employed
three years in building it; and were, every Saturday evening dur-
in, all that time, treated at his Lordship's expense, in a public-
house at Loak, each with a large oat cake, a salt herring, and a
pint of ale, equal to four English pints.  Many who saw the founda-
tion of this house laid, lived to see it taken down to the ground.
It was sold, and the materials carried off; and it is said that the
clock and weathercock on the spire of the hospital at Perth were
originally on the house of Nairnd.
   Robert Nicoll-This was a young man of great promise cut off
in the bloom of life.  He was born in this parish in 1814, where
his grandfather, father, and mother, and other relations still reside.
He was educated at the parochial school under the present teacher;
and his first outset in life was in a grocer's shop in Perth.  But
the bent of his mind being toward literature, he opened a circulat-
ing library in Dundee, and distinguished himself as a political
writer of the liberal school and as the author of a volume of poems,
chiefly in the Scottish dialect, and descriptive of Scottish man-
ners.  The title of one of his songs is " The Fouk o' Oucher-
gaen."  When seized with lais last illness, he had the management
of a newspaper in Leeds, which in a short time he brought into
extensive circulation.  He died at Newhaven, near Edinburgh,
in December 1837.  His poetry shows observation, pathos, and
right feeling.
   Land-owners.-In a list of lands and baronies in the seisin of
James Master of Gowrie, dated 11th April 1584, communicated to
" the Literary and Antiquarian Society of Pareth," we find the fol-
lowing places in this parish mentioned, Adanachy-Ardonochy,-
Harehaugh-Hardhaugh-a third part of the lands of Arlewkat;
-Airlywight-the town and the Cultrony ; the lands of Drum-
grain; and the half of the Miln of Ochterg`vin, with the half of
the multuree and miln-lands.
   In the record of the valuation of the lands of the parish in 1649,
published in the Country Cess-Book, the following list of proprie-
tor occurs: The Laird of Strathurd, Robert Graham, the Heirs of
John Nairne, Sir William Stewart, the L`ird of Grandtully, the
Leird of Tullybelton and over Blelock, the Earl of Tullybairdine;
Lady Grandtully, elder, for Airlywight and Cultrainie, possessed by
her; John Burt of Little Tullybelton, William Wallace of Prieston,
the Earl of Athol, and the Earl of Dunfermline, for feu duties.-
The present proprietors are, his Grace the Duke of Atholl; Sir John
                                  4


