
232                          ARGYLESHIRE.

contents at the foot of almost every knoll; and, in many instances,
the discharge is so copious, that one would think it nearly suffi-
cient to drive a mill.  The water, too, is of first-rate quality, for,
having its residence in the caverns of the lime rock, it is exceed-
ingly cold, thin, and clear, and is so impregnated with the mineral
nature of the rock from which it springs, as to render it necessary
for strangers, who are not accustomed to it, to drink it with cau-
tion.  The climate is mild, the soil is good, and, these blessings
combined, produce excellent crops, so that the island is strictly a
grain country ; but, as there is no running water, except the flow
from the springs above-mentioned, there could be no mills but for
the three freshwater lakes which the island contains; but these
serve as reservoirs for three mills, and thus the inhabitants are sav-
ed the inconvenience of being under the necessity of sending their
grain to other places to be ground.  These lakes are all nearly of
the same dimensions, being about half a mile in length, and a few
score yards in breadth.  " Two of them contain fine trout, which
are said to have been carried to them about 90 or 100 years ago,
and which preserve their distinction perfectly clear to this day;
that is, their shining silver scales.  Their flesh is as red as that
of any salmon, and they taste differently from the yellow trout."
The other lake is deep and muddy, and is full of eels.  Indeed,
the waters of all these lakes appear drumly, and of a leaden co-
lour, owing to their resting upon the deep beds of marl which lie
at the bottom of the lakes.  There is a violent current between
the west end of Lismore and the Island of Mull, well known to
seafaring men, at the dangerous rock of Carraig, which is covered
with the tide at high-water; but there is now a light-house which
was erected about eight years ago on the island, or rather rock, of
Musdale, in its immediate neighbourbood, and this light-house is
of much importance in guiding vessels past these dangerous rocks.
   There is also between the west end of Lismore and Morven a
a meeting of three currents, in consequence of contrary tides,
which, in tempestuous weather, cause a mighty jumble, and dan-
gerous broken seas.  This place is called Buinne nam biodag,
" the current dirks ;" from a tradition that some Lochaber men,
who were navigating these parts, disagreed about what should be
the proper mode of managing the vessel under such, circumstances,
when the quarrel ran so high that they appealed to the dirks for
a decision, and great slaughter ensued.


