
                                GOVAN.                        681

his place at the college table.  The violent proceedings of Arch-
bishop Law, in enforcing conformity, excited the indignation of
Boyd.  That prelate went to some young men, who were at that
time attending the university, whom he saw seated at the commu-
nion table, and commanded them to rise, if they would not receive
the elements in a kneeling posture.  One of these was Mr John
Livingston, who was afterwards minister of Ancrum.  The next
day, the Principal told Mr Livingston, that, in the course of two
or three weeks, he was to celebrate the communion at Govan,
when he, and any of his companinns who might choose to accom-
pany him, would have an opportunity of communicating in the
manner they had been accustomed to do.  Along with Mr Ro-
bert Blair and the other regents of the university, be likewise ex-
postulated with the Archbishop for driving from the communion
table those whom Christ would welcome, adding, " that the table
was not his, but Christ's, and yet he had dealt as imperiously as
if removing his horse-boys from the bye-board. *  When Boyd
demitted his office as Principal in 1621, he wished to retain his
charge as minister of Govan.  But he was not permitted to do
this.  He died at Edinburgh, on the 5th of January 1627, in the
49th year of his age.  " He spoke and wrott Latine most nativly
and fluently," says Mr John Livingston. + " I have heard him
say that, if he were to choose a language wherein to deliver his
minde with the most ready freedom, it would be the Greek tongue."
According to Mr Matthew Crawford, ++ the predecessor of Wod-
row at Eastwood, it was said of Boyd, that he was more elo
quent in the French than in his mother tongue, more eloquent in
the Latin than in the French, and more eloquent in Greek than
in Latin."  Nor is the testimony of a learned foreigner less ho-
nourable to him.  Andrew Rivet, S who was pastor of the church

<FOOTNOTE>nued " his wonted custom whereunto he was inured in the grammar school," from
which he was removed to be Principal of the university.  What he proposed, there.
fore, was, that the oldest regent, or sub-principal should correct offenders, or that
each of the regents should, under the direction of the Principal, correct his own
students. Ib. p. l72.  See also M'Crie's Life of Melville, Vol. i. p. 83.  Milton, ac-
cording to his learned biographer, was one of the  last students who suffered the in-
dignity of corporal correction at Oxford.
          Life of Mr Robert Blair, written by himself, p. 37.  Life of Mr John Living-
ston, written by himself, p. 6.
          Livingston's Remarkable Observations, p. 41, MS. in Bib. Ad.
          Wodrow's Life of Boyd, p. 119.        And. Riveti Epist. ut supra.
   The following works of Robert Boyd have been published : 1. Praelectiones in
Epistolan ad Ephesios," fol Londini, 1652.  This was a posthumous work.  Pre-
fixed to it is an epistle by Andrew Rivet " De vita, scriptie, moribus, et felici exitu,
Roberti Bodii."  This is followed by an " Epistola ad Lectorem," from Principal
Baillie, who studied under Boyd at Glasgow, and held his memory in profound ve-
neration.  2. Monita de flii sui primogeniti institutions, Svo, 1701. 3. "Heca-


