
                         PARISH OF LOCHCARRON.

               PRESBYTERY OF LOCHCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                    THE REV. JOHN MACKENZIE, MINISTER.*

                    I.- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
          Name.- LOCHCARRON is so called from an arm of the sea of
      the same name by which it is intersected, and which derives its
      name from the liver Carron (signifying in Gaelic a winding stream)
      which falls into it.
          Extent, &c.- It is 25 miles long.  To its breadth it is difficult
      to apply any scale of measurement.  From its eastern extremity
      to the end of the loch (about 15 miles) it is upwards of 10 miles
      broad.  It is then considerably narrowed. On the south side, the
      parish extends along the loch for about 4 miles.  On the north, it
      contists of an elevated ridge, extending along the coast for nearly
      ten miles, and seldom exceeding 2 miles in breadth.  Including
      Courthill, situated in Kishorn, within the parish of Applecross,
      Lochearron may contain 250 square miles.
          Topographical Appearances.- The entrance to the parish from
      the east is a glen, bounded by hills varying in height, and stretch-
      ing out into heatby and uncultivated moors. As you pass along,
      the scene becomes more interesting.  The bottom of the valley is
      watered by the Carron, which, by the accession of several tributary
      brooks, is increased to a considerable stream.  The banks are di-
      versified with portions of cultivated ground; and the hills on both
      sides present pasture of a superior description.
          Not far distant, along the base of a bill facing the north, rising
      almost perpendicularly, covered with natural woods of birch, alder,
      and wild ash, you see Lochdowal in the Carron adorned with three
      islands, skirted with ash, oak, and Underwood; and farther on, you
      have Lochearron, which presents the appearance of a fresh water
      lake.  The glen widens as you, approach the loch, and opens
      into a valley equal in extent to any on the coast, and furnishes a
      fine subject for, improvement.  The most interesting view of the

  <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by a Probatigner of the Church of Scotland.


