
	460                          FIFESHIRE.

	St Andrews, who had been a zealous supporter of the measures of
	the Court, against the opponents of Episcopacy, was murdered at
	Magus Muir, near the western extremity of the parish, by a party
	of the Covenanters, who had assembled not for this purpose, but
	for the avowed object of waylaying and destroying the Sheriff-sub-
	stitute of the county of Fife, who, instigated by the Archbishop,
	had been a violent persecutor of the Presbyterians, who resided
	within the limits of his jurisdiction.  The murderers escaped, but
	in the month of November following, five of the insurgents, who
	had been taken prisoners at the battle of Bothwell Bridge, were
	executed, and their bodies were hung in chains, at the spot where
	the murder bad taken place.  A stone was afterwards erected in
	the immediate vicinity, with an inscription commemorative of their
	fate, which is still visited by many who feel an interest in the events.
	   Maps, &c.- No map or survey of the parish has been discovered
	by the writer of this article, nor any letters, papers, or documents
	tending to illustrate the history, biography, or antiquities of the parish,
	with the exception of the productions already alluded to, and the
	documents in the possession of the city functionaries, the colleges,
	and the church and commissary courts.  Many of these are highly
	interesting to the antiquarian; but any detail of their contents,
	that might be satisfactory or useful, would swell out this article
	far beyond all reasonable limits.
	   Eminent Men.-Many eminent characters have been connected
	with this parish by birth, residence, or burial.  Previous to the
	establishment of the Reformation in Scotland, many of the bishops,
	archbishops, and priors of St Andrews were distinguished by their
	abilities, and by their influence in the counsels of the nation.
	And many of the individuals connected with the university were
	possessed of great learning and of high talents.  Towards the
	middle of the tenth century, Constantine Ill.  King of Scotland,
	after a long reign, in which he had ultimately experienced many
	reverses in his wars with the English, wearied of his high rank
	and eminence, retired from the world, and took up his residence
	among the Culdees of St Andrews, A. D. 950, becoming the
	prior or abbot of the order; an office which he exercised during
	the remainder of his life.
	   The prelates who occupied the important see of St Andrews
	were in general connected with the first families of the kingdom.
	They were distinguished by their talents, as well as by their edu-
	cation.  To them the city was indebted for its most remarkable
        edifices and institutions, such as the erection of itsz cathedral, its

