
     of Minto.

mere panegyric.  The house is large and commodious, has
a south exposure, and is situated on the bank' of a beautiful
winding glen, extending almost to the Tiviot, and well
stocked with a variety of old trees, with natural and artifi-
cial falls of water.  In coming along one of the serpentine
walks on the side of the glen, the ear is all at once surpri-
sed with the unexpected noise of the largest of these falls,
the view being intercepted by a thicket; on advancing a
little forward, the fall, the bridge, the large sheet of water,
the surrounding banks, interspersed with variegated trees
and shrubs, and the house, gradually open to the eye, excite
the most pleasing emotions, and form one of the most beau-
tiful landscapes that can be figured:  The reflection of this
landscape in the water adds to the grandeur of the scene.
The pleasure-ground is extensive, and laid out with great
taste.  A little to the east are Minto Rocks, interspersed
with clumps of planting, which form an awful and pictu-
resque object.  From the top of these rocks there is a beau-
tiful and extensive prospect of the different windings of the
Tiviot, and the adjacent country, for many miles round.
Here are the remains of a building, which, during the in-
cursions of the borderers, seems to have been a watch tower.
Behind the house, to the north, are two hills, which rise
with a gentle ascent to a considerable height, and are ex-
cellent sheep-pasture.  At a small distance from the house,
and in the middle of a grove of trees, stands the church,
which is neat, clean, and well seated.  The village is pla-
ced about half a mile to the west, and contains 24 families,
mostly labourers and mechanics.  to the south-west, an
English mile from the church, are the manse and glebe.
This was the boundary of the old parish.  Now, there are
annexed the lands of Hassendeanbank, belonging to his
Grace the Duke of Roxburgh, and the lands of Hassen-
dean, the property of his Grace the Duke of Buccleugh.


