
796                         AYRSHIRE.

day nextocum, with a multitude of our liegess in feyre of were, in
hurtyn and scath of our devote oratours, the Abbot and Covent of
Passelay, brekyn of our crya and offens of our maiestie.  Our will
is, and straitly we charge yhou, gif it sud be, that ye desist tharof,
and mak na syk gaderin, undyr all the hiest payne and charge ye
may inryne agane oure maiestie, and gif ye haif achut aganes our
said oratours folond thame as law wills.  Gifwyn vndyr our pryve
seill at Edinburgh the xxiiii day of Aprile, and of our regne xiiii
yhers."--Chart. Pais.; p. 245.
   Nothing remarkable occurs in the history of the place until
1647, when it was visited by the plague, under which it suffered
very severely.  Its appearance there is first noticed in the records
of the Presbytery of Irvine, under date 29th June 1647, when
" the referres of Largs were continued because of the sickness
there ;" and, on the 17th of August, this sickness is said to be the
plague.  The minister was carried off by this disease; and the
state of the parish is thus noticed at the meeting of the 28th of
September: " The Presbiterie, laying to heart the lamentable
and calamitous condition of the paroch of Largs, partly by reason
of the hand of God that is lying heavy upon them, and partly by
reason of the removal of their minister by death, thinks it expe-
dient that Mr Wm. Lindsay be sent to visit them, and to take no-
tice of their desires, and to enquire ane overture of themselves how
they may be gotten helpit and supplied; and the said Mr Wm. to
make report of his diligence." On the 26th of October, the mi-
nutes of Presbytery bear, " The laird of Bishopton having remon-
strate the calamitous condition of the paroch of Largs, and the
present necessity that the town of Largs was in, and that if it were
not tymouslie removit and helpit, the people wald be forcit to break
out athort the countrie.  The Presbiterie, after hearing, ordains
that these bretheren of the Presbiterie, who, upon the report of
their present necessity, had already gathered something for supply
of the same, should presentlie apply themselves for their relief,
either in money or in victuall, as suld be thought most expedient,
and that the rest of the bretheren sould use all possible diligence
in collecting a contribution to be sent to them to refresh them in
their necessity."
   The aid of the neighbouring parishes being called for, it ap-
peared that the following sums had been contributed for relief of
the calamity, at Largs :--" From Newmylnes, L.vij lib. viijs.
iiijd.; from Irvin, 200 merkes; from Kilmaurs, 1 hundrith two


