
98                             SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

<TABLE>
                                                                 Imperial acres.
1. Balnakiel farm and herds,                                           100
2. Keoldale, 	do.                                         		60
3. Eriboll	do.	    and subtenants.                     	80
4. Ben Hope       do.          for herds,                                6
   Glebe,		                                          	12
   120 small tenants and cottars, with 2 acres each, on an average,    240
                                                                     ______
                                                                Total, 498

   Along the shores, straths, and glens under sheep, a considerable
proportion of the land is arable,-perhaps tbout 300 acres. Of
good pasture capable of being brought into cultivation by spade
husbandry, there are 1000 acres at least. The amount might be
made equal to what is already in cultivation by the tenants and cos-
tars, and capable of supporting three times the present popula-
tion,-even though the whole of the mountain pasture and some of
the straths and shores should be left under sheep.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre is from
20s. to 30s.; but to all arable land there is attached a right of pas-,
ture on a common hill. The estimated value of grazing for sheep
or wedders is about 2s. 6d. each on the great sheep-farms. Cor
are pastured on rich meadows at L. 3 per annum. Including stock
farms, kelp, and salmon fishery, the rental of the parish is about
L. 2550.
   Wages.-Day labourers receive 1s. 6d. per day; artisans, from 2
to 3s.; farm-servants L. 6 per annum, 7 bolls meal, and 20 barriers
potatoes, and one cow's grass; farm or domestic female servants
L.3 per annum and board.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.-The only breed of sheep is the Cherish
or white-faced, with the exception of about 300 cross or black-
faced, kept by small tenants and cottars on the common grazing.
To the improvement of the former very great attention is paid
both wool and carcase fetching average prices at market. Those
principal breed of black-cattle is the Highland, reared by small te-
nants. The few milech cows on the sheep-walks are chiefly. Ay-
shire. With the exception of six pair of Clydesdale horse
kept for husbandry by the sheep-farmers, all the rest of the horse,
are small Highland ponies.
   Husbandry.-Several acres of waste or marshy land have been
drained at Balnakiel, but are laid out in pasture. The old
mode or reclaiming waste land was by making lazy beds, i.e. by
peeling one part of the ground and laying it over another of equal
space.  Trenching was never used, but a better and more ecom-

                                       4





