
                          PEEBLES.                             9

removed, and used in the ignoble work for which it was sold, the
shaft was purchased, at about five times the price which had been
paid for the whole, by the present Sir John Hay, and was by him
transported to his seat of King's Meadows, where it ornaments the
pleasure-ground of the only descendant of the Frazers now in
Tweeddale.
  Parochial Registers.--The oldest session record is entitled "a
Register of the Kirke at Pebles, containing the discipline of the
sessione by the elderis, and deligence of the deacones for the poore,
there begun in the year 1657.  Mr John Hay, minister."--The
session consisted of no less than eight elders and six deacons for
the burgh, and seven elders and six deacons for the landward part
of the parish.  The records appear to have been kept with great
accuracy till 1760, from which time till 1808 they are written on
detached pieces of paper, and, like the Sibylline leaves, they have
been ludibria ventis, as many of them are irrecoverably lost.  The
presbytery and synod records extend back as far as 1596, and are
in a state of good preservation.  The oldest register of baptisms
begins in 1622, and ends in 1659; that of funerals begins in 1660.
  Antiquities.--On the top of the hill of Cademuir may be traced
the remains of a Roman camp, and on Janet's Brae, about half a
mile east from Peebles, the remains of two camps are still visible.
The castle of Neidpath has been so often described of late that a
very short notice of it may suffice.  It is a large square building,
more distiguished for massive strength than architectural beauty.
It was built and long possessed by the powerful family of Frazer,
and, by the marriage of teh heiress of that house, passed, along
with hereditary sheriffship of the county, into the family of the
Hays of Gifford, the ancestor of the present Marquis of Tweed-
dale.  In 1686, the second Earl of Tweeddale sold his estates in
Pedbles-shire to the first Duke of Queensberry, who settled them
on his second son, the Earl of March, who, on the abolition of he-
ritable jurisdictions in 1747, claimed L. 4000 for the sheriffship
of Peebles, and was allowed L. 3418, 4s. 5d. for that office and
the ragality of Newlands.*  The late Duke of Queensberry, who
was born in the town residence of the noble family of March in
Peebles, commonly called the deans' house, as it had belonged to
the deans of Peebles in former days, spent the early part of his
life, and was educated in Neidpath Castle.

                           List of Claims.


