
                                        PETTIE.                          40l

	the tenant wholly, or in part, to erect the buildings, as may happen
	to be agreed upon, when the lease is taken.
	   The rule or understanding on the Earl of Moray's estate is,
	that the main drains or levels are kept in repair or efficient by the
	landlord, and the tributary drains by the tenant.
	   There is a feeing-market for servants held at Inverness, about
	a month before each-term.
	   Wages.--The rate of wages for the half-year may be given as
	follows:--A foreman, from L. 6, 10s. to L. 8; a ploughman, L.4
	to L.5; herd-boy, L. 1, 10s. to L.2; a female, L.1, 10s. to L.2; an
	able-bodied day-labourer in summer, from 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d. ; do. in
	winter, 1s. or 2d. per hour; females for common work, 6d. per day.
	   Formerly when the tenants sold their produce of oats almost
	entirely in meal, and rarely in grain, there were four mills in the
	parish; and the district thirled to each was called the siucam of
	that mill.  The only one of these now existing is the mill of Con-
	nage, at Campbeltown.  There was another at Culblair.  The
	third was at Loddack or Tornagrain.  The fourth was a salt water
	mill, which was double, or had two wheels.  Its ruins still stand
	towards the entrance of the bay near the church.  Across this bay
	a dike was erected, and the keeping in repair of so many feet of
	the dike was assigned to each tenant on the Earl of Moray's es-
	tate.  A considerable supply of water for this mill was obtained
	from a burn which flows into the bay ; but the object of the dike
	was not merely to dam up the waters of this burn, but, first to
	exclude and then to admit the flow-tide at sluices so constructed
	as that the mill might be turned both by the flow and the ebb-
	tide.  This will was given up about fifteen years ago.  The follow-
	ing extract of minute of kirk-session shows that its erection was of
	an old date: --17th Sept. 1682, " P. F. and M. English, millers
	of the salt water mill, charged by the officer for setting it, and
	grinding on the Lord's day."
	   What is now the bog, was the old pond of the mill, which has
	been raised nearly to a level with the adjacent ground by the sand
	carried down by the burn, and the wreck driven in by the sea.
	   Beans are not sown; and pease and rye only occasionally, and
	to so small an extent as not to deserve notice.  Tares are grown
	to a small extent.  Bear or big is not now, and has not been in
	the memory of any now living, grown in this parished.  Both Che-
	valier and common barley are sown.  The Hopetoun and potato
	oats are sometimes sown; but the oats commonly sown in the dis-


