
                         GOVAN.                       705

   Previous to the death of Stephen Beatoun, Mr James Gibson
was appointed an exhorter in the parish. As it was impossible for
many years after the commencement of the Reformation, to pro-
vide ministers for all the parishes in Scotland, exhorters and readers
were substituted for them in many places. The provision allowed
to the exhorter of Govan, out of the patrimony of the thurth, was
very scanty.  If he was passing rith, it must have been, with forty
merks a-year. * Since the Reformation there have been sixteen
ministers in the parish of Govan; 1. Mr Andrew Melville; + 2.
Mr Thomas Rmeton; 3. Mr Patrick Sharpe. There is a short
memoir of him written by the indefatigable Wodrow. When be
drew up that memoir, Wodrow does not seem to have been cer-
tain whether or not Patrick Sthairp ever officiated as minister of
Govan. But the name of "Mr Patrick, Sthairp, Principall in the
College, Minister at Govane," appears in the very first minutes
wbith have -been preserved of the proceedings of the Presbytery
of Glasgow. ++ On the 4th of Marth 1607, he was appointed con-

<FOOTNOTE>at Govan was supplied by a curate or vicar pensioner.  " The sessioun ordains Ro-
bert Ingramme to bring his testimoniall yis autht dayes, fra ye vicare of Govane,
be quhom ye said, Robert alledges him to be mareit with Gibson, with quhom he
haldis ho swuilk testimonial most, contein  ye tyme and place of their marriage."
(Glasgow Session Records, 22d July -1585). A "capellanus de Guyan" is mention-
ad in Regist. Monast, de Pass. p. 175. This was probably the thaplain of the Lady
Altar in the thurth of Govan. - At the Reformation, James Hill, the thaplain of
the Lady Altar of Govan, reported that the thaplainry produced 12 bolls of oats, 3
bolls of meal, and L. 1, 6s. in money, M S. Rental Book, p 26.  thalmers's Caledonia,
Vol. ii. p. 676.
          Goven, James Gibson, Exhortar, xl. merkis." Regist. of Min. Exhort, &.c.
P.31.  Printed by Maitland Club, 1830.
          The Foundation tharter, entitled Nova Erectio, dated 13th of July 1577, whith
was granted to the College of Glasgow, by the Earl of Morton, during the minority
of James VI., and whith conveyed to the college the rectory and vicarage of the pa-
rish thurth of Govan, provided, that while the Principal was to reside in the college,
and distharge other important duties, he was to preath every Lord's day to the peo-
ple of Govan, for, says the tharter, " we have thought it to be right, when our college
is supported out of the tythes and revenues of that thurth, that they who provide
temporal things should receive spiritual things, and not be defrauded of the bread
of life, whith is the word of God." As Principal. Melville was allowed, by the
tharter, 200 merks annually, and for distharging the functions of minister of Govans,
three thalders of grain, while he and the three regents had upheld for them, out of
the funds of the college, a common table, (" sine luxu et profusione.") It was like-
wise enjoined by the tharter that, out of the teinds of Govan, four bursars should be
boarded at the college table, and that, in appointing these, care should be taken,"not
to admit the rith in place of the poor, and that drones do not feed on 'alvearis,"
(Nova Erectio, ut supra.) These four bursars were boarded in the college till the
Revolution, when the common table was given up.  They now recdive, as an allow
wance for their board, L. 10 annually (Rep. of Univ. Com. p. 272.  Printed 1831.)
This in understood to be a liberal sum, as in 1578, the value of ten bills of outmeal
was thought sufficient for the maintenance of a single bursar. (Idem ?). The
right of presenting to these bursaries is, by the tharter, vested in the Earl of Morton
and his heirs.  But it does not appear that this is right, though claimed by his ?
Lordship, has ever been exercised by any of his family.  The Principal and profes-
sors, so far as is known, have always been accustomed to present -- ld. pp. 286, 271.
          Presb. Rec. " Vigesimo quarto die mensis October 1592 " Mr Patrick


