
532                         AYRSHIRE.

way. The second inland keeps along the banks of the Stinchar,
where its windings amid the most picturesque scenery, and the
beautiful hill of Knockdolian, present a variety of enchanting pic-
tures to the eye. A third, traversed by the mail from the south,
has opened up the whole of that wild district which lies between
Barhill and Newton-Stewart, and contributed greatly to its im-
provement.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The present church was built in 1772.
and seated anew in 1832. It contains 500 sittings, and is very
inconveniently placed at one extremity of the parish. Several
families are sixteen miles distant from it. It cannot nearly ac-
commodate the people. There are 30 free sittings in it, and 460
communicants; 350 families belong to the Establishment.
	There is also a chapel in which the parish minister officiates
every fourth Sabbath during ten months of the year. It is eight
miles distant from the parish church. Religious instruction has
been gratuitously afforded the inhabitants there, more than eighty
years. The Dissenters in the parish, about thirty years ago; as-
sisted in repairing the chapel, and since that time have had the
use of it in the absence of the parish minister. An addition was
built to it in 1833; it now accommodates 300 sitters.
	The manse was built in 1822, and the offices thirty years ago.
There are 7 acres of glebe, 5 arable ancl 2 meadow, valued at
L. 15 per annum. The stipend is 16 chalders of victual, half
meal, half barley, and L. 10 for communion elements.
	Dissenters.--There are two Dissenting congregations in the
parish, one of Reformed Pesbyterians, and another of Original
Seceders. A few belong to the United Secession church, and
we have about forty Roman Catholics. But four-fifths of the
whole population are members of the Establishment.
	Schools.--There are six school, the parochial, and five supported
by voluntary contribution or school fees. The parochial schoolmas-
ter has the maximum salary and legal accommodation. The school
fees amount to L. 20 per annum. He also receives a half year's
rent of L. 21, 15s. from the farm of Little Dangart, for teaching
six poor boys to read English. The other half year's rent goes
to the maintenance and better clothing of the boys. This morti-
fication was left about seventy years ago by Dr Kennedy, a native
of the parish. Two of the private schools are taught summer and
winter, and the master of one of them, in addition to the wages,
gets bed, board, and washing, and resides with the parents of the


