
118                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.


racter, intellectual as well as moral, stands deservedly high. They
testify a deep and habitual regard to the public ordinances of re-
ligion; and there appears to be good reason for believing, that the
"form of godliness," which is so prevalent among them, is intimate-
ly and extensively associated with its "Power." Such is their
general character: but it must be added, that 3 illegitimate births
have occurred in the parish during the last three years.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-
The number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish, which are either cul-
    tivated or occasionally in tillage, is          -             -            1630
The number of acres that might be cultivated with a profitable application of
    capital,                 -           -          -             -             200
Number of acres under wood,              -          -             -             400

   The number of acres in pasture cannot be correctly stated.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land in the parish
may be estimated at L. 1, 5s. per acre. The average rent of graz-
ing a full-grown sheep, pastured for the year, 5s. At, the time of
the last Statistical Account, the rental the parish was L. 1685;
now it is L. 4145.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.-A large proportion of the sheep in the
parish, which amount in whole to about 7400, is of the black-faced
or mountain breed; but some of the farmers have introduced a
cross-breed between these and the Cheviot stock, and the former
have thus been very much improved. Upwards of a third of the
whole stock in this parish consists of the breed formed by this cross.
During the last war, when high prices were obtained for the wool
of Cheviot sheep, an attempt was made to domesticate this species,
on the higher and more exposed pasture-grounds, but, in conse-
quence of their delicacy, they were not found to thrive. It is
thought, that if care had been taken to breed in the stock gradu-
ally, the experiment would have met with that success which has
attended when made in some similar districts. The short-hormed
breed of cattle introduced by Mr Burnett of Barns is now in great
demand.
   Since the publication of last report, very extensive improve-
ments have been made in draining and reclaiming waste land. At
the period alluded to, there were very few enclosures; but at pre-
sent, the whole of the land which is of good quality is well enclosed
and subdivided. Irrigation has been successfully practiced to some
extent.
   The great improvements which we have alluded to as having


