
                    PARISH OF MELROSE.

PRESBYTERY OF SELKIRK, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

           THE REV. GEORGE THOMSON, MINISTER.

      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-IN the old orthography the name is written Mull or
Mailross, MUll or Moel signifying in Gaelic bare, and ross a pro-
montory.  The name is applicable to the peninsula formed by the
Tweed, which is still called Old Melrose, and which, although in its
present state one of the most delightful residences imaginable, might
well be termed the bare promontory, when divested of its present
advantages.  The religious Culdees who settled in this spot from
Iona, so early as the beginning of the seventh century, may have
given the name to this place, if it had not been bestowed earlier
by the Celtic population.  When the religious community of Old
Melrose had fallen into decay, and a great monastery was founded in
a more favourable situation farther up the river, the name of Mel-
rose, interesting from the sacred associations connected with it, was
given to the more recent religious establishment.  Subsequently it
was transferred to the adjoining village, and to the parish in which it
stands.  This etymology is deducible from history of the most au-
thentic nature.
  Extent, Boundaries.-The parish of Melrose is one of the most
extensive in the county. Its length, from the top of the middle-
most of the Eildon Hills to Upper B]ainslie, is 10 miles. Its breadtb,
from the banks of the Gala to those of the Leader, is upon an
average 4 1/2. Its superficial extent is 45 square miles. Its boun-
daries are, south, the parishes of St Boswell and Bowden; north,
the parish of Lauder; east, the parishes of Mertoun and Earls-
toun, from which it is separated by the Tweed and Leader; and
west, those of Galashielr and Stow, from which it is separated by
the Gala.  Its figure is an irregular oblong, rounded at its northern
extremity, where it, is widest, and forming an excrescence at the

<FOOTNOTE> In the armorial bearings of Melrose, preserved in the west end of the abbey,
and in the front of the town-house, there are the figures of a mallet (Scotch,
and a rose.  These emblems are evidently a pun upon the name of the
seem to prove the antiquity of the change in its orthography, from Mullrose to Mel-
rose.


