
232                          BERWICKSHIRE.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Polwarth forms part of the Marchmont estates, and now be-
longs to Sir Hugh Purves Hume Campbell, Bart., who is sole
proprietor. Marchmont House, built by Hugh the last earl,
about eighty years ago, is his residence.
   Antiquities.-The church stands on the edge of a beautiful
glade in the grounds of Marchmont, half concealed by aged trees.
It is a plain substantial building. From an inscription on the
walls, it appears to have been first built prior to the year 900,
when it was endowed as a rectory; and subsequently repaired in
1378. From the date of this inscription* (1703) the church
appears to have been then rebuilt upon its ancient foundation
walls, these bearing evident marks of a much greater age than
the superstructure. Beneath the church is a vault, the cemetery
of the Marchmont family, in which Sir Patrick Hume lay con-
cealed during the times of religious intolerance. To this noble-
man, who is known to history as a statesman and patriot, and also
as a man of a large and enlightened mind, a brief remembrance
is due in a Statistical Account of his native place. The tomb
which the necessities of the times had thus converted into the
abode of the living, afforded for some time a refuge to its unfor-
tunate inmate. He was here attended by his daughter Lady
Grizel Baillie, a person also of historical celebrity from the
proofs she has left of a masculine mind and exalted virtue.
Chiefly through her means Sir Patrick escaped to Holland; he
returned to Scotland at the Revolution, after which he was suc-
cessively advanced to the honours of Lord Polwarth and Earl of
Marchmont.
   Parochial Registers.-More light might perhaps have been
thrown on the biography and antiquities of this parish, had its
parochial registers been in existence; but these were unfortu-
nately destroyed about forty-five years ago; the schoolmaster's
house where they were kept having been accidentally burned to
the ground. It is proper to add, that the parochial registers
have been regularly kept ever since.

<FOOTNOTE>This inscription appearing worthy of preservation is here subjoined.
"Templum hoc Dei cultui in ecclesia de Polwarth, a fundi dominis ejusdem prius
designationis, dein cognominis aedificatum et dicatum ante annuin salutis 900, rec-
toriaque beneficio dotatum. Sed temporis cursu lalefactum, a Dno Johanne de
Sancto Claro de Herdmanston, genero Dni Patricii de Polwarth de eodem, circa
annum 1378, reparatum, tandem vero vetustate ad ruinam vergens, sumptibus utri-
usque prosapise haeredis, Dni Patricii Hume, Comitis de Marchmont, &c., summi
Scotiae Chancellarii, et Dnae Grissella Kar, Comitissae, ejus sponsae, sepulchri sa-
cello arcuate recens constructum, et campanarum obelisco aductum fuit, Anno
Domini, 1703."


