
     Statistical Account

is surrounded with battlements, projecting about a foot be-
yond the walls.  The roof, which appears to have been re-
peatedly repaired since it was first built, is raised in the mid-
dle, and between that and the battlements, it is flat, and co-
vered with stones.  The walls of the two lower stories, both 
of which are vaulted, are 8 1/2 feet thick:  but above that, they 
are only 7 feet thick.  There is an apartment in it called the 
Chapel, and, in the wall on the opposite side of the court, the 
ruins of a room are still to be seen, which was called the 
Chaplain's Room.  The architecture of this tower is still ve-
ry perfect and entire, and the third story harth been lately re-
paired by the present Lord Balgonie.  About half a mile to 
E. of Balgonie, and on the same side of the Leven, is Bal-
four or Balor, an old building, standing in the middle of 
some fine enclosures, and surrounded with a good deal of old
plantations.  This place gave the name of Balfour to a very
ancient family, from which the Balfours in Fife, of whom 
there is a considerable number, it is thought, mostly sprung*.
On the west side, and about half a mile from the parish 
church, stands Balbirnie, which anciently belonged to Bal-

<FOOTNOTE>

belonged to a family of the name of Sibbald, was purchased in the reign of 
Charles I., by General Leslie, who was created Earl of Leven by that monatch, 
in 1641.  Towards the end of the last century, David, second son of George 
Earl of Melvill, married the Countess and heiress of Leven, in consequence of 
which, the estates and titles of the two Earldoms came to be united in the same 
family, as Lord Raith, the oldest son of the sand Earl of Melvill died without, 
issue. 
*In the 5th of the reign of Robert II., John, laird of Balfour, dying without 
male issue, Robert Bethune, also of an ancient family in Fife, married his daugh
ter, the heirefs of Balfour, still, however, retaining the name of Bethune.  From 
this house, several respectable families of the name of Bethune have descended. 
James Bethune, archbishop of St Andrew's, and Chancellor of Scotland, his ne-
phew David Bethune, Cardinal and Chancellor of Scotland, and the Cardinal's
nephew, James Bethune, archbishop of Glasgow, were all three of this house of 
Balfour. 


