
   32                            BANFFSHIRE.

   or rather the only one, as a piece of architecture, deserving men-
   tion, is Duff House, the splendid mansion of the Earl of Fife,-
   splendid as it is, still more so if the design were completed.  It was
   built eighty or ninety years ago by William Lord Braco, after a
   design by Adams, the first of the celebrated architects of that
   name, at an expense of about L- 70,000.  The style is purely Ro-
   man.  The body of the house (for the wings have never yet been
   added) is of an oblong shape, and consists of four lofty stories.
   The first is a rustic basement, over which rise two stories adorn-
   ed with fluted pilasters, and an entablature of the style of the
   temple of Jupiter Stator at Rome.  Over this entablature, which
   goes round the whole structure, there is an attic story, surmount-
   ed by a balustrade.  The four corners of the building have pro-
   jections resembling towers, which break and vary the outline, and
   also rise to a greater height than the other parts of the attic, story.
   These towers are adorned at the angles by an upper range of pi-
   lasters, with an entablature of the composite order, and are crown
   ed at top by domical roofs, on which octagonal pedestal chimneys
   are placed.  Both the entrance and back facades have also central
   projections surmounted by pediments, on which the family arms are
   cut in bas relief, which, with the appended achievements, fill the
   entire spaces of the face of the pediments.  The entablature and
   capitals of the pilasters, as well as the smaller ornaments, are ex-
   quisitely carved, though some of these last, for what reason I know
   not, have been left unfinished.  The back and front of the build-
   ing are precisely alike, except that the basement part of the pro-
   jection in front is occupied by an outer stair, of two circular as-
   cents, with carved stone balustrades.  The principal entrance is
   thus on the second story.  From an arcade below the landing-
   place of the outer stair there is an entrance to the servants' hall.
     Duff House, to be seen to advantage, requires to be beheld
   pretty near.  There is too little variety of outline, and the colour
   of the material (freestone) is too dingy to strike at a distance.  It
   is besides desirable that the eye should be diverted from the con-
   fused assemblage of chimneys and slated pavilions by which it is
   surmounted, which seem to create an incongruous mixture of the
   castellated and the classic styles.  Seen so near as to discern the the ela-
   borate ornaments, the appearance Duff House is in the highest
   degree rich, traceful, and majestic.
     Duff House contains a large collection of paintings, many o
   which are interesting and valuable, either as specimens of art, or


