
		    COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.                        365

fronting the west, but never with a clear face in the opposite direc-
tion.  Boulders of trap have also been found in great abundance,
strewed in a direct line to the east, from the rent rock, but none.
are ever seen lying to the westward of the same rocks.  As to the ef-
fects of the trap irruption on the real fertility of the district, it is
highly worthy of notice, that the lands every where are undoubt-
edly better fitted for all the purposes of modern agriculture, by
the commingling together of all, the various original strata, than
they possibly could have been if lying in their first position.
   The mineral products of the county are of the utmost importer
ance to the general welfare of its inhabitants, and are therefore de-
serving of particular notice.
   1st, Coal is found in great abundance in the western parts of the
county. It is a continuation of the Mid-Lothian , coal-field.
and extends eastward through the parishes of Prestonpans, Tra-
nent, Ormiston, Pencaitland, Gladsmuir, and into Haddington,
but in the last it is so interrupted by faults, dikes, &c. as to be un-
worthy of working. It is consequently found principally in that part
of the district that escaped the trap irruption. The article is said
to have been known so early as in A. D. 1200, when it was worked
at Prestongrange by the monks of Newbattle. It crops out in
Set on sands, which may have led to its discovery and use at that
early period. Trials have repeatedly been made to the eastward
of Haddington, indeed to the eastward of Dunbar, to discover coal,
but hitherto without success. Nor, from the character of the strata
is it at all probable, that it ever can be round in that direction
worth working. In the parish of Dirleton, to the north of that vil-
lage, a thin seam crops out near the sea, but in place of running into
the higher ground, it dips rapidly away towards the sea, shewing as
if the outer edge only of the basin in which the coal bad been form-
ed had been lifted up by the trap-rock found in its neigbbourhood,
but on the opposite direction of the dip of the coal. About the
miles further west, also near the sea, the new red sandstone has been
lifted up, and is probably the only rock of that series found within
the limits of the trap district; but its appearances adds to the pro-
bability of coal lying in that direction, and which may extend across
below the sea, and unite with the coal-field worked with such ad-
vantage on the opposite coast of Fife.
  2d, Limestone is every where met with, at a few miles distance,
throughout the county, in great abundance, and of the finest quali-
lity. In some cases, the rock dips with a considerable angle, the in-
   HADDINGTON.


