
60                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

with regular boundaries. All the waste ground, after laying off
ornamental clumps, has been reclaimed at a considerable expense
by the proprietor himself, and new leases of nineteen years have
been granted without any rise of rent; and the tenants, who now
labour according to the rules of good husbandry, are farther en-
couraged by an advance of money for the purchase of lime. At
Munlochy, similar improvements, to be executed by the tenants,
have been conditioned for on the renewal of leases, at rents pro-
portionally moderate, according to the outlay required; and, in
particular, upon a large farm of fine alluvial soil, a lease of thirty
years has been granted, and a considerable allowance given to a
gentleman of capital and enterprise, on condition of his bringing
into cultivation about twenty acres of wet land, at present lying
waste, and of reclaiming from the sea, by raising proper embank-
ments, between thirty and forty acres of excellent carse land,-the
proprietor being, besides the allowance, at the whole expense of
enclosures and suitable buildings. At Bellfield, or Wester Kes-
sock, the same proprietor has let another considerable farm to a
gentleman of property, at the same rent previously paid, although
he has been at the great expense of erecting a most complete new
set of offices, and a handsome dwelling-house, and has agreed to
enclose the whole with hedges and stone dikes, and to allow the
tenant L. 5 per acre for reclaiming waste land. This part pays
stipend to Killearnan, although it was annexed quoad sacra to the
parish of Kilmuir Wester. But, of all the farms in the parish,
Drumderfit is the one which pays the greatest rent, being the most
extensive and conspicuous. It has been for centuries in the posses-
sion of the same family, of whom the present occupant, Robert
Logan, Esq. banker, London, is the lineal descendant and repre-
sentative. This gentleman has brought it to the highest state of
improvement, at a great expense of capital; but he will be entitled
to receive from his landlord, at the end of his lease, a very liberal
sum for meliorations. The various and extensive properties of
Colin Mackenzie, Esq. of Kilcoy, will soon, in consequence of the
judicious outlay of capital, present a very beautiful and highly cul-
tivated appearance, and will, in a great degree, reward the pro-
prietor himself, although the full benefit of them can be expected
to be reaped only by his family; and it is hoped that his example
will be followed by the other proprietors, neither of whom has so
much to do as he has already executed in the parish.


