
     Statistical Account

   There has been likewise an old building at Tomaclare,
and another at Lagadum.  Whether these houses were
places of defence, or only light-houses to acquaint the
country people of danger, in case of sudden invasion from
their enemies, we cannot say.  There are several such
buildings upon the west coast.  Near the place of Atta-
dale are two caves.  The country people call them Uagh
ashoil, the stranger's cave.  It seems to have been the 
dwelling of some robber, who lived upon plunder and car-
riage.  There has been a burying place near this cave,
and a place of worship in times of Popery or Paganism.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-About 40 years ago, there
was a lint manufacture Lochcarron.  If there were an 
woollen manufacture established here, it would employ a

<FOOTNOTE>

"day before, finds their barrels of powder floating in the fatt, so they
"began to rail and abuse the women, which Duncan MacIan vic Illi-
"challum, being as yet prisoner there, and hearing being loose in the
"house, having given his oath and promise he would never come out
"be the door, till he were either ranfomed or relieved, this they forced
"him to do to save his life.  So going with the keepers to the wall
"head, and perceiving his countrymen packing thier baggage, like to
"quite the siege, be threw his plaid on him that stood next him. loups
"down on a dunghill near the entry, and rising as soon as possible, he
"made for the camp:  the man that stood by him, as he louped, cried
"after him, said you have left much of your louping; he asked what it
"was? he said you have left the two Clanranalds by it.  He answered
"in the Irish phrase.  I take my being here at this time in pledge of
"that; so comes where his matter was, and tells all as it stood with these
"in the castle, whereupon he renewed the siege.  The defenders,
"knowing their weakness was disclosed by Duncan, who had louped,
"whereof he was same till his dying day, they begged quarters for their
"lives which was granted them, with all their baggage.  Lord Kintail
"presently causes blow up the house with powder, which remains there
"in keeps till this day.  He lost only at the siege but two Kinlochew
"men.  Andrew Munro of Teachover was also wounded, with two
"or three others.  And so dissolved the camp."


