
		  DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                    959

engagement, although near to the county of Stirling, was "not
farre from Calidon Castell, otherwise called Dunkeld." In the
sixth century, King Conal built a monastery for St Columba,
where he and Kentigerne resided for six months. For greater,se-
curity to them, and to the religious men who should come there
to reside and teach, it was built near to that stronghold. The
followers of Columba, from their purity of conduct, soon acquired
considerable influence, and were enabled to give protection to a
fixed or permanent residence. From that time dwellings increase-
ed around the monastery, the locality grew into importance, and
derived its name from the Dun or stronghold of Kaledin or Ca-
ledon. For some ages subsequent to 848, it would appear, that
the religious establishment of Dunkeld formed the primacy of
Scotland, until it was supplanted by St Andrews.+
   The word Dunkaledin is found spelt in Camden and other ancient
writers Dunkelden, and by innovation is now pronounced Dunkeld.++
   The late Principal Baird, in the former Statistical Account,
makes it appear, that Dunkeld derived its name from the Gaelic
words dun chalden, "the hill of the hazels." Such was the de-
rivation given by Dr Buchanan, the Scottish historian. SS Dun-
keld, however, is surrounded on all sides by hills, and hazel grew
on almost every hill in Scotland, therefore dun chalden might
apply to every place in Scotland where there was a hill covered
with hazel-trees. Dr Macpherson says, that, had Dr Buchanan
properly considered his native tongue, he would have found that
there was no such word as calden to be met with in the Gaelic
language. The Gaelic, for a hazel-tree is calltuinn; therefore,

<FOOTNOTE>Hollingshed, Vol. i. P. 206 + Chalmera's Caledonia, Vol. i. p. 428
   Little Dunkeld parish was originally Dunkeld, the minor charge. Within its bounds
various clergy officiated. They presided over the chapels of Inver, Inchimagrano-
chan, Logynallochie, &c. The city of Dunkeld, being the site of the cathedral, and
the residence of the bishop and other dignitaries of the church, was the major charge.
The two Dunkelds are separated by the river Tay, and are styled in the locality Lit-
tle and Muckle Dunkeld.
   S A number of sensible people stil assert, that the hazel-hill, meant by Dr Bu-
chanan, is Stanley hill, within the Atholl pleasure-grounds; and that from that hill
the word Dunkeld is positively derived. Anciently, that hill was a small insignifi-
cant knoll, where the town's children amused themselves in wreastling. It was a
bare sandy knoll, and it was graphically called by them" Shawkee HIll." In 1730,
James, Duke of Athole, heightened the knoll at very great expense, aud formed it
with military slopes, lika a German fortification. As a specimen of the taste of a
former age, it is a curiosity. This artificial mound, the Duke called Stanley Hill,
after his mother, Lady Emily Stanley. The village of Stanley, in Hedgorton, derives
its name from the same source.
      Critical Dissertations, p.24
      Calden appears to be a mis-spelling of kaledin or caledin. By clothing the word
according to the rules of the Gaelic language, with the letter 1/4 for the genitive case,
the Doctor has created the new word chalden.

