
     of Strathdon.

uncomfortable.  Accordingly, the tenantry in general are 
supposed to be much poorer than they were 30 or 40 years 
ago.  At that time, many of the tenants had a full stock- 
ing or cover on their possessions, besides some money out 
at interest.  Now there are very few of that description, but 
on the contrary, many of them in arrears to their land- 
lords.  The tenantry in Curgarff, (a district in the upper 
part of the parish, about 8 or 9 English miles in length), 
are rather in a more thriving condition, and pay their rents 
more punctually than the generality of those who live in 
the other parts of the parish.  Their possessions are a high- 
ly rented in proportion to the arable land on them, but 
they have more extensive pasturages.  They depend wholly 
on cattle for the payment of their rents, and for procuring 
those necessaries which their farms do not produce, so that 
they can the more easily bear a bad crop now and then; 
and as cattle have sold high for some years prast, they have 
suffered less from the late unfavourable seasons, than the 
farmers in the lower parts of the country, who depend part- 
ly on cattle, and partly on victual.  Their possessions too are 
mostly small, and they require sewer servants.  The farms 
throughout the whole parish in general are not extensive, 
renting for the most part from L. 5 to L. 20 Sterling.  A 
few, however, are rented higher; two or three from L. 40 
to L. 60 Sterling; and one farmed by the proprietor, that 
would fetch about the same rent.  In good years, the pa- 
rish produces more victual than is sufficient to supply the 
inhabitants, and affords a considerable surplus of butter, 
cheese, black cattle, and sheep.  The butter and cheese 
are generally carried to market at Tarland, a village of a- 
bout 9 English miles from the kirk of Strathdon.  The 
cattle are sold to Aberdeen butchers, or South country 
drovers.  Forty years ago, there was scarcely a cart in the 
parish.  Creels only were used for carrying both dung and 


