
370                    		DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

ty or forty years ago. We have less religious formality, but not
less true religion.
	Library.--There is a circulating library in this parish, but no
other literary institutions of any kind.
	Friendly Society.--We have also a Friendly society, established,
I believe, about forty years ago, for affording relief to its members
when they fall into distress, and a small sum for their decent in-
terment when they are removed by death.
	Poor.--The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
is about 45, and the average sum allotted to each is about 1s. per
week. Besides church collections, which amount to about L. 22
per annum, and which are altogether inadequate to the support of
our poor, we have a regular assessment made twice a-year, amount-
ing at an average, to the annual sum of nearly L. 100. I am sorry
to add, that the disposition among the poor to seek parochial re-
lief is rapidly increasing, and is seldom or never considered as in
the smallest degree degrading. In this and the other border pa-
rishes, the feelings of the English poor upon this subject are gra-
dually gaining ground.
	Inns, &c.--We have about ten small inns and alchouses in the pa-
rish, which have the worst effects upon the morals of the people.--
Our fuel is peat and coal, the former of which is obtained in mosses,
now nearly exhausted by the work of years; the latter is brought
from the coal-pits of His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, in the
parish of Canobie distant about twelve miles, and from the thriv-
ing town of Annan, about seven miles distant, whither it is convey-
ed over the Solway from Cumberland. The English coal is higher
in price than that of Canobie, and costs about 8s. per ton, but is
considered ultimately as economical as the other.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The more prominent variation betwixt the present state of this
parish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical
Account, may be stated to be, a superior mode of husbandry,--an
infinitely more improved state of the roads,--and more widely dif-
fused and enlightened education; in short, a greater advancement
in refinement,--and a greater enjoyment of worldly comforts. With
Pleasure I anticipate now a gradually increasing accession of paro-
chial prosperity. Population is making rapid progress, and con-
tributing its share in laying the foundation of national strength.

	Drawn up July 1,831--Revised October 1835.
				     3


