
                           EDINBURGH.                          705

pletely in all the departments of art, for the purpose of enabling
them to produce beautiful designs, that, with the approbation of
the Crown, they have resolved to devote the greater part of their
funds for this purpose. In order to command sufficient funds for
this important object, they have been compelled to give up, for a
time, so much of their former scheme as provided for regular an-
nual exbibitions of manufactures; though it is understood that
they contemplate having them occasionally, when their funds will
admit of it. In this way, they have been enabled to place their
school of Design in a most efficient state. It now consists of one
class for the study of drawing from the ancient statues, under
one master; a class for the study of pictorial colouring under an-
other master; a life academy under the especial care of the head
master; a school for instructing pupils in all the various depart-
ments of ornamental design, both in form and in colour, includ-
ing architecture, geometry, perspective, modelling, fresco, and
encaustic painting, &c., divided into classes, and under the super-
intendence of one master and an assistant; to all which is added
a course of lectures on Pictorial Anatomy.
   The school is in the most active and flourishing condition. The
number of pupils is at present about 130, all of whom receive in-
struction gratis. Candidates are at first admitted as probationers
for three months, during which period the board is enabled to
ascertain whether their talents are such as to warrant their con-
tinuance, and, if so, to determine as to what department they
shall be attached.
   Prizes are awarded to the most eminent pupils. The annual
exhibitions of their works have proved the great progress which
many of them make; and it may be stated that one of the pupils
of this school carried off a prize at the competition of the cartoons.
for the designs that are to embellish the new houses of Parliament.
   The sculpture gallery contains casts of the Elgin marbles;
casts of all the celebrated antique statues, of the well-known Ghi-
berti gates of Florence; and a series of casts of antique Greek and
Roman busts of high interest, seeing that they form the only col-
lection of pictorial busts in Great Britain. This collection was
made at Rome by the Alborini family, from whom they were pur-
chased for the gallery, where they are now placed.
   The public has free admission to the gallery. Much praise
is due to the liberal and patriotic efforts of the commissioners


