
			CULTER.                              345

Duchess of Lauderdale, and that, on account of this connexion, he
was delegated by the influential ministers of the day to present an
address to the Duke in favour of the Notconformists.* A tradition,
which is still prevalent, says, that, after being prohibited from
preaching, he continued to reside in the parish, and supported him-
self by his medical skill, observing facetiously, that Now he would
make the doctor keep the minister. He outlived these troublous
times, and died minister of the parish, as is testified by the inscrip-
tion on his tombstone ih the church-yard.
	Under this head may be also mentioned the late Dr Jackson,
so well known by his excellent work on fever, and numerous other
Yaluable contributions to medical science. He was not a native of
Culter, but his father came to the parish whilst he was very young,
and here his boyhood was spent.
	Antiquities.--A little way below the village, on the west side of
Culter water, is a place called Chapel-hill, where once stood a
house belonging to the Knights-Templars, founded by Walter
Bysset, in the reign of David II. At that time thechurch of Cul-
ter belonged to the Abbey of Kelso. A keen dispute having
arisen on one occasion between the abbot and the master of the
Templars, about tithes alleged to have been due to the Abbey,
the latter, in his unwillingness to pay, gave an instance of special
pleading, which must appear a curiosity to all who have seen the
place to which reference is made. "The master and brethren
pleaded, that their order enjoyed, a general exemption from pay-
ing tithes; also that the parish church of Culter, standing on the
other side of a great river, on which there was no bridge was sel-
dom accessible to them without great danger."+  All things seem
formidable to an unwilling mind. The great river here spoken of
is Culter water, a stream of a few paces in width, and which is
not so large, even once in half a dozen of years, that it may not be
forded. In the last Statistical Account, mention is made of four cir-
cular encampments, popularly called Castles, the use of which seems
to have been to afford temporary,security to the inhabitants and
	"Sir David Menzies, laird of one half of the barony of Culter in Lanarkshire, gave
the whole of his part of the land called Wolfclyde to the convent (of Melrose) in
1431. After the Reformation this land came into the possession of Sir William Men-
zies Of Gladstones." Morton's Monastic Remains, p. 276. It is worth remarking that
the lands of Wolfclyde, now a part of Hartree estate, pay a few shillings annually to
the Duke of Buccleuch, in right of the Abbey of Melrose, of which his Grace is Lord
of Erection.

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow's History, Vol. ii. page 349.

      + Morton's Monastic Remains of Teviotdale, p. 144.


