
490                       LANARKSHIRE.

Douglas, with the munificence which has always distinguished his
noble line, had 20 miles of the old Glasgow road, and 30 miles
of the road to Ayr, made at his own expense. There are several
parish roads, besides, the expense of which is defrayed by the
statute labour tax, which the householders pay with a grudge,
but which is levied with the most considerate attention to their
circumstances.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Besides the Established Church, there is a
small meeting-house, in connection with the United Secession, and
a Cameronian meeting-house at the lower extremity of the parish.
The number of dissenters is not great, and it would have been
much less, had not many been compelled to take seats in the meeting-
house, from the impossibility of procuring accommodation in the
Established Church. Rigside was one of the original seats of the
Cameronians. It was at Douglas that many of the most important
meetings of the Covenanters were held-especially about the time
of the Revolution in 1688, when the propriety of embodying a
regiment of faithful Covenanters for the maintenance of their re-
ligious principles and rights was the momentous subject of deli-
beration. Since that time, there has always been a Cameronian
congregation and minister at Rigside; but although the congre-
gation is collected from the adjoining parishes to a considerable
distance around, the number of members in communion with that
body was ascertained, a few years ago, not to exceed 20.
	The church, although not old, is by much too small for the ac-
commodation of the parishioners. A few years ago, the present mi-
nister was told by the people of the town, that there were 100
heads of families who were desirous of having seats in the church,
and could not procure them. The statement might be exaggerat-
ed; but it proved, at least, how much the evil was felt. The well-
known liberality of the heritors of the parish affords the best pledge,
that the evil will not be allowed to continue long. Of their libe-
rality and kindness, the present incumbent has had the most grati-
fying experience. In the summer of 1828, a new manse was built,
after a plan by Mr Gillespie Graham, with a set of offices, which,
for elegance and extent of accommodation, may stand a compari-
son with any similar buildings in the county. An approach to the
manse was made, and a handsome gate built, at the expense of the
heritors; and the garden was enclosed with a substantial stone
wall, of considerable height, at the expense of the late Lord Doug-


