
96			FORFARSHIRE.

members of the Established church, provided they are sitters in
the chapel. His stipend is L. 102, arising from a rate imposed
on the seats or pews, according to their valuation at the time when
the chapel was built. The patronage is vested in those of the
proprietors of pews who are members of the Established church.
But it is not necessary, in order to qualify a proprietor to vote,
that he should be a sitter in the chapel. In fact, it cannot be
said that the congregation have the choice of their pastor.  By
the constitution it is provided, that a majority of the committee of
management must be members of the kirk-session of the parish.*
	Arbroath is the seat of a presbytery, consisting of eleven pa-
rishes, within the bounds of the synod of Angus and Mearns.
From the presbytery, two ministers and a ruling elder are sent
to the General Assembly of Church of Scotland.
	As might be expected, there are several dissenting meeting-
houses, viz. one Episcopal, containing 381 sittings; two belong-
ing to the United Secession Synod, the first of which has accom-
modation for 780, and the latter for 600 sitters; one Relief, seat-
ed for 400; and one Congregational or Independent, with 400
sittings; besides smaller places of meeting for Glassites, Bereans
and Baptists. The church accommodation for all classes of dis-
senters may be stated at 2700 sittings; while that within the pale
of the Established church is 2680 sittings. In the suburbs in
the parish of St Vigeans, there is a Wesleyan Methodist meeting-
house, which will accommodate 300; and one belonging to the
Original Secession, which is seated for 300. For the town and
suburbs, the total amount of church accommodation is, in the
Establishment, for 3910 sitters,--and, amongst other denomina-
tions, for 3300. By adverting to the state of church accommoda-
tion merely, the numerical strength of the dissenters might seem
to be considerable. But it must be borne in mind, that most of
the dissenting places of worship are miserably ill attended. It is
difficult, in some cases, to ascertain exactly the amount of stipend
paid to the ministers of those congregations that do not belong to
the Established church. That of the Episcopal minister is es-
timated, including the Easter offerings, at L. 150. The minister
of the first Secession congregation has, we believe, L. 105, be-
sides a house and garden. The second Secession congregation

<FOOTNOTE> Another Chapel of Ease was erected in 1829, for the accommodation of that
portion of the suburbs of Arbroath which belongs to the parish of St Vigeans. It
affords room for 1230 sitters, allowing eighteen inches to each.


