
  l48                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

ing to the census of 1835) is 915; there being, after deduction of
159 Episcopalians, 17 Bereans, 13 Independents, 9 Seceders, and
1 Glassite, 1739 persons in connection with the Established
Church.
	Education.--Besides the parochial school, there are three other
schools conducted by male teachers, and four schools conducted
by females; but of the seven private schools none are endowed,
or supported in any way, but by the school fees, excepting, per-
haps, in the case of the male teachers, occasional assistance towards
defraying the school-room rent. At the parish school, the master,
who is a licentiate of the church, is qualified to teach all the
branches usual at the better parochial schools of the country.
The branches which he has actually taught are, English read-
ing and grammar, writing, arithmetic, mathematics, mensuration,
navigation, geography, and Latin. The school is attended by
about 70. The salary of the schoolmaster is only L.20 in money, and
10 bolls, 1 firlot, and 3 pecks of meal in kind, which ir bonsiderably
less than the maximum salary. The school fees received by him
in the year amount to about L.30. He has neither house nor gar-
den, but receives L. 8 instead of the former, and L. 2, 2s. in place
of the other. He receives also annually L. 3, 6s. 8d. from the
Glenfarquhar mortification, and the interest of L. 50 from the
Charles donation; and for these be teaches seven children gratis.
The other three male teachers instruct their pupils (in all about
100) in English reading, and grammar, writing, and arithmetic,
and occasionally in one or two other branches. The females are
employed, chiefly in teaching younger children to read, and in
giving instructions in various kinds of female handiwork. There
may be nearly 70 in all at their four schools. All the private
teachers except, one are of the Established Church, and in all
the schools suitable attention is paid to the religious instruction
of the pupils. The fee for English reading at the parochial
school is 2s. 6d, per quarter, and for the other branches in propor-
tion. At one or two of the private schools, the fees are somewhat
higher, and at others lower. Children usually go to school when
five years old, so that it can hardly be said that there are
any between six and fifteen years of age who cannot either read
or write, and there are scarcely any, not more perhaps than three
or four, above that age who cannot read. There is no family
distant more than about two miles from a school, either in this or in
some adjoining parish, and few more than a mile. The inhabitants


