

340                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

blished Church, and of the United Secession respectively. The
average income of each society may be rated as follows; Bible So-
ciety, L. 38; Missionary Society, L. 13; Parish Societv, L. 60;
Secession Missions, L. 65. The sums raised by these societies do
not exhaust the contributions of the parisli to missionary and re-
ligious purposes. Various stated and occasional collections, both
in the Established and Dissenting churches, fall to be added,
especially the annual collections in the former, in aid of the four
missionary schemes of the General Arsembly, which have hitherto
averaged upwards of L. 50.
     Education--Schools.--The total number of week-day schools is
10 ; viz. a grammar school and an English school, both parochial;
a side-school for the southern division of the parish, provided with
school room and schoolmaster's house, at the expense of two of the
heritors; the Roxburghe school (for girls,) taught by a female,
and similarly provided at the charge of the Duke of Roxburghe;
the Friendly school, supported by an educational society; and five
private schools, undertaken on the adventure of the masters.
There are also two boarding-schools for young ladies, as likewise
a similar institution for young gentlemen, kept by the rector of the
grammar school.
     Branches taught.--The branches generally taught in these
schools are the elements of reading, writing, and arithmetic. In
the Roxburghe school, the girls are taught sewing along with the
ordinary branches.  In the grammar-school, the Latin and Greek
classics are taught together with French, geography and mathe-
matics; whilst in the ladies' seminaries the ornamental branches
of education, as music, drawing, &e. may be acquired in addition
to the elementary. Though several of the teachers are persons
of liberal education, the modes of tuition generally followed do
not differ materially from those which have been in use for the
last forty years; nor in the instances in which the analytical sys-
tem has been introduced, does there exist any very flattering pro-
spect of its permanent adoption. The emoluments of most of the
schools are so slender that well qualified teachers remain in them
only till they can obtain better appointments, and it often happens
that a teacher versant, in the modem improvements of his art is
succeeded by one who is but slenderly, or not at all acquainted
with them.
     Emoluments.-- The rector of the grammar-school is the only
teacher who has the maximum salary and the legal accomoda-


