
      266                         INVERNESS-SHIRE.

      they not been, of late years, stolen as curiosities by some persons
      unknown.  There were three burying-places in this small island,
      one of which is named to this day Cladh-Mhanaich, that is, the
      monks' burying-place.
        The forts of the parish are six in number, viz. D-n-Scudde-
      burgh, D-n-Liath, D-n-Bhannerain, D\u3n-Barplacaig, D\u3n-Tulm,
      and D-n-Deirg.  It is well ascertained, that most of these d-ns,
      or forts, are Danish.  The last mentioned, however, seems to
      have been erected by the Druids.  It is known that D...rgo was a
      brave and warlike Druid, who attempted to restore the fallen dig-
      nity of his order. Ossian, the celebrated Celtic bard, makes
      mention of Dearg nan Dr-idhean, that is, Dargo of the Druids,
      or Dargo the Druid.  We have, therefore, here, D-n-Deirg,
      which is, the fort of Dargo, about which man little traditions are
      still afloat among the old men of the country.  Several tiers of
      stone still remain in some of these forts; and, from the immense
      size of most of the blocks which were used, it appears wonderful
      how tbey,could have been raised from the ground, unless very strong
      mechanical powers were made to act upon them.  It is evident
      from the situation of these forts that they were intended to give
      each other an alarm at the approach of an enemy, as they are in-
      variably found to be in sight of each other.  The signal which
      was given, as may be gathered from ancient traditions and songs,
      consisted of something which was set on fire for the purpose, and
      the burning light was held up upon the turrets of the Fort, by
      what was called the crois-t...raidh, or cr\a3nn-t\a3raidh, that is,
      a fire-cross, or gathering-beam.  The crois-t...raidh was made
      use of in various manners.  Sometimes it consisted of a piece of
      wood half-burnt, then dipped in the blood of a goat, lamb, or
      any other animal, and finally circulated by emissaries as a signal
      of distress.  Under the feudal system, the cr...nn-t\a3raidh was used
      at a period not very remote.  It is spoken of by Ossian, and Ullin,
      as well as by several modern Celtic bards. *

      <FOOTNOTE>When one chief had a feud with another, and wished to call his retainers speedi-
      ly together, he dispatched a messenger to the nearest hamlet, with the blood-stained
      beam of alarm, who would deliver it to the first he met, and would only mention the
      place of rendezvous.  The beam would then be similarly delivered in the next ham-
      let, and so on until it passed through the hamlets of several districts, and thus the
      vassals of the cbief would appear at the appointed gathering station, in a few hours.
      Should any one presume to disobey the call of this blood-stained, tbough mute mes-
      senger of slaughter, he speedily forfeited his life fbr his neglect.  It is said, that, in
      the year 1745, the cr...nn t...r\a3idh was made to pass through every hamlet in Breadal-
      bane in three hours.
                          ________" Ach ciod so'n solus ann Innisfail,
                          O chr...nn-t...raidh an fhuathais ?


