
108                 LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

the school, and the annual interest paid to the schoolmaster on
condition of his teaching gratuitously as many poor children as the
trustees or kirk-session may choose to send. Lord Rosebery is also
in terms of this grant entitled to present to the office when it be-
comes vacant. The fees are 2s. 6d. for reading, 5s. for other
branches, and 7s. 6d. for Latin, Greek, French, and mathematics.
The school-house and dwelling-house are commodious and com-
fortable. The manse and offices are in good repair; the latter
neatly buit for the present incumbent; the former nearly a cen-
tury old, of plain construction and moderate dimensions.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The two ends of Queensferry, as
may be supposed, contain almost all the pauperism of the parish,
which, from the causes above-mentioned, is in large proportion to
the amount of the population. The average number of paupers
on the parish roll receiving supply regularly or occasionally is 35.
In the summer months, several of them are cut off, and the annual
expenditure for this department is L. 90 Sterling. The funds are
derived from collections at the church door, amounting to from
L. 20 to L. 30 yearly; rent of land held in perpetual lease by the
Earl of Rosebery to a similar amount, according to the fiars' price
of oatmeal; a sum of L. 135, lent on bond; and a voluntary as-
sessment by the heritors for what may be short of the sum requir-
ed for the poor and other parochial expenses. Besides this regu-
lar provision for the poor, those of them who live in the suburbs
of the parish of Queensferry are entitled to a share of the annual
produce of a large bequest of L. 5000 by a Mr Meek, a native of
that place, who left it for the common behoof of both parishes, un-
der the management of the kirk-session of the latter. There is also
the interest of a sum of L. 200 Sterling, bequeathed by James Da-
vidson, Esq. son of a former schoolmaster of Dalmeny, not inter-
mixed in any way with the parochial funds, but distributed at the
instance of trustees named in his deed of settlement. To these
benefactions, the Earl of Rosebery adds yearly the liberal sum
of L. 20, to be laid out in the purchase chiefly of coals and meal
during the winter, with an unlimited discretion to the minister of
expending, at his Lordship's charge, whatever more may be needful,
to provide for unforeseen contingencies,-an example which reflects
the highest credit on the benevolence of that distinguished noble-
man, and which, if generally followed throughout the country,
would greatly enhance the comforts, and elevate the character of
the deserving poor.

   April 1843.




