
			SANQUHAR.                          311

Galloway stone dike, which is built wholly of dry stones, and
generally from 4 1/2 to 5 1/2 feet high. There are a few thorn hed-
ges, but they are found not to suit well where sheep are graz-
ed. Paling and wooden bars are also often used as fences. The
bars are generally 6 feet long, 4 feet in height, when fastened in
the ground, and being moveable are found highly useful where
only a temporary fence is required. The parish is particularly fa-
voured with the means of building stone dikes, as either sand or
whinstone of good quality is found in every part of it in great
abundance. The fences are generally in good repair.
	Eeclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated at the west
end of the town of Sanquhar. It is not very centrically placed for the,
greater part of the population. It is of elegant architecture, and was
built about eight years ago, on an elevated situation, which over-
looks the valley between Sanquhar and Kirkconnel. The interior
is highly convenient, and affords accommodation for 1000 sitters.
The free sittings are about 60. The manse and offices, were built
nearly at the same time with the church, are very commodious,
and in good repair. The glebe extends to 19 acres, which may
be valued at L. 2 per acre. The stipend is 18 chalders, one-half
meal, and the other half barley. At Wanlockhead there is a
chapel which accommodates 250 sitters. An ordained clergyman
in connection with the Established Church preaches and dispenses
the ordinances of religion there. It has no constitution as a chapel
of case,--but is properly a preaching station for the accommoda-
tion of the miners. The stipend of the clergyman amounts on an
average to L. 65 a year. Of this sum about one-third is paid by
the proprietor of the mines,--and the remainder by the men who
are employed in them. Every one engaged in the mines, who earns,
at least 1s. per day, is bound to pay 4s. yearly, to the minister sta-,
tioned there. He is also provided with a dwelling-bouse, and a
small piece of land. In the town of Sanquhar, there are two chapels
in connection with the United Associate Secession church; and also
one in which a few Anabaptists meet for divine worship. These
three places of worship are supposed to contain about 900 sittings.
A great proportion of those who sit there, probably the one-half,
reside in this parish, and the other half in the surrounding parishes.
The average number of communicants at the Established Church,
including those who reside at Wanlockhead, is nearly 750, and
of those who attend there, 1700.  Divine service is generally well
attended at the parish church, and in all the chapels.


