
474                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

this head, save the superior appearance and neatness of the farm-
buildings and cottages throughout the parish, which, as already
observed, have been greatly improved of late years, and are still
being improved, under every new lease.

   November 1840.

                          PARISH OF MELDRUM.

              PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

               THE REV. GEORGE GARIOCH, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The ancient name of this parish, and by which Spal-
ding takes notice of it in his History of the Troubles and Memo-
rable Transactions in Scotland, is Bethelnie, which is a derivative
from the Hebrew words ??? (Bethelnou,) sifnifying House
of our God.  It appears probable, that, at an early period, when
sacred edifices were comparatively few in Scotland, the church
situated in this parish may have served to accommodate the in-
habitants of a large extent of surrounding country.  For this rea-
son it may have received the emphatic name of Bethelnie, or
House of our God ; and the appellation has been at length ex-
tended to the district in the vicinity of the place of worship, which
now constitutes the parish.  But whether the supposition of a
great central religious locality be correct or not, undoubtedly the
parish church was, from the earliest time, situated in that district
which, to this day, retains the name of Bethelnie.  Its site is
marked by the place of interment which remains, where its foun-
dations can be seen ; and the farm which formerly surrounded it,
on which the manse was built, is still called the Auld Kirk.
   The modern name of the parish (Meldrum) is probably de-
rived from the Celtic words Mealldruim, signifying the shoulder
or rid of a hill.  This conjecture is supported by the peculiar
nature of the locality, as the whole parish occupies a rising, ground
of greater or less degrees of elevation.  At the northern extre-
mity, the ground ascends to a considerable altitude above the sur-
rounding valleys, and descends by an easy inclination, presenting
a variety of rich and well cultivated table-land sloping to the


