
360		          LANARKSHIRE.

obtained an earlier footing in this county than ever the more cele-
brated race of Douglas; for between 1147 and 1160, Baldwin de
Biger witnessed the charter granting the lands on Douglas water
to Theobald the Fleming, the founder of the Douglas family. In
1341, David II. formed the whole county of Wigton into an earl-
dom, and bestowed it on Sir Malcolm Fleming, a cadet of the fa-
mily of Biggar, but it afterwards fell by inheritance into the main
branch. This family also acquired in 1357, certain lands within
the barony of Lenzie, and in 1382, that whole barony, including
the parishes of Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch. In 1606, the
earldom of Wigton was erected anew, and conferred on them by
Jaynes VI. The title being limited to heirs-male became extinct
on the death of Charles the eleventh earl in 1747. The estates
of Biggar and Cumbernauld went to his daughter, Lady Clemen-
tina Fleming, the wife of the Honourable Charles Elphinstone
who succeeded his father as Lord Elphinstone in 1757. In con-
sequence of an entail made in 1741, those estates went to her se-
cond grandson, the Honourable Charles Elphinstone Fleming, the
present possessor of the estate of Cumbernauld, and of a small
portion of that of Biggar. The rest of the latter property was
sold a few years ago,--the entail of 1741 having been set aside by
act of Parliament; but the patronage of the church and superiority
of the lands were retained.
	Ecclesiastical History.--The first event of any interest under
this head was the foundation of a chaplainry in the parish church
of Biggar, under the following unhappy circumstances: John Lord
Fleming, Chamberlain of Scotland, went a hawking on the 1st of
November 1524, when he was attacked and murdered by John
Tweedie of Drummelzier, James Tweedie, his son, and several ac-
complices. After a delay of some years, this affair was submitted
to arbiters, who decreed that a certain assythment in lands should
be given to Malcolm Lord Fleming, the son of the murdered Lord.
In obedience to another part of the decreet, Tweedie, the princi-
pal assassin, on the 10th August 1531, granted in mortmain L.10
yearly from the lands and barony of Drummelzier, for the support
of a chaplain "who shall pray and sing mass, for the salvation of the
soul of the deceased John Lord Fleming in the parochin church
of Biggar."
	Biggar was one of the five collegiate churches in Lanarkshire.
According to the writ of foundation, dated 16th January 1545, "Mal-
colm Lord Fleming, to the glory and honour of the High and Un-
				4

