
			      CARLUKE.                   581

side of the road. At Belston a branch ran north, by Hyndshaw
and Shotts, to an opening in the wall of Antoninus, near Came-
lon. A parish tradition affirms Hyndshaw to have been the site
of a Roman town, but there are now no circumstances to corrobo-
rate the report. At Cairney Mount; a knoll about 400 yards to
the west of the Roman road, and at Law, in a spot likewise to the
west of Wattling Street, several coffins have been found, each form-
ed of six flag-stones, containing ashes, and occasionally at both
places, rude urns full of ashes. Last year, the sexton dug up, in
the burial-ground, a coffin, formed of one stone, with a lid likewise
composed of a single stone. The coffin was oblong on the outside,
but in the interior, cut out to the shape of the human body. Its
length is 6 feet, it is 10 inches deep in the inside, and contained a
few bones. The only engraving on it was a rude cross cut upon
one end of the lid.
	Till lately, one of those remarkable monuments of antiquity,
called standing stones, stood at Cairney Mount; but the hope of
finding a hidden treasure induced some rude hand to destroy it.
Another, however, is still to be seen at Braidwood. It is sup-
posed to have stood at the side of a Roman road passing from
Lanark, across the bridge of the Mouse beneath Cartland Crags,
through Lee valley, across Fiddler's burn at Chapel, and thence
by Braidwood into the main street. A celt or stone hatchet; el-
fin-bolts (flint and bone arrow-heads); elfin-pipes (pipes with re-
markably small bowls); numerous coins of the Edwards, and off
later dates, have been found in the neighbourhood. A copper
coin, of the reign of Commodus, and a silver medal of the Em-
press Faustina, was lately found at Belston. Gold coins of the
Roman period have also been found at Burnhead and Castlehill,
in the line of the Roman road.
	Hallbar, a square tower, beautifully situated in a fine dell, is said
to have been built in the eleventh century. Early as this date is,
the appearance of the stair the walls, in the thickness
of the building,* together with some other circumstances, would
seem to countenance the supposition of its great antiquity. It is
52 feet in height, 24 feet square on the outside, and 14 feet square
in the interior. It contains a vault beneath, and three apartments,

<FOOTNOTE>From the vent of the only fire-place in the tower passing up the north wall, the
stair is of course interrupted on that side, and to arrive at its continuation, it is neces-
sary to pass across the floor of one of the apartments.	This inartificial method of
ascent would seem to argue a remote date.

	LANARK.                        p P


