
362                       KIRKCUDBRIGTSHIRE.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers--The register for births and marriages at
Rerrick commences 22d December 1736, and the minutes of the
kirk session of the parish 18th December 1751. The former has
been very correctly kept since 1806, but very irregularly previous
to that period.
	Antiquities.--Besides the ancient Cairn on the summit of Ben-
gairn, already mentioned, the traces of two Druidical temples,
and of no less than twelve camps, Saxon, Danish, and Roman,
are extant in the parish. But beyond all question, the most re-
markable and interesting remain of antiquity in Rerrick, is the
Abbey of Dundrennan. Its situation, in valle reducta, has been
already described, and it only remains to give some slight notices
of its foundation and history.
	The reign of David I. has been truly described as " the great
age of religious establishments" in Scotland. Fergus, Lord of
Galloway, who was by marriage allied to the throne, emulated
royalty in the " munificence of his foundations,"* one of the most
remarkable of which was Dundrennan. He founded this Abbey
in 1142, and filled it with Cistertian monks from the Abbey of
Rievall, in England. Sylvanus was the first Abbot of Dundren-
nan. He was transferred to Rievall in 1167, and, according to
Spottiswood, he died at Belleland in 1189 ; but Cardonnet assigns
the previous year, 1188, as the time, and Dundrenman as the
place of his death. Those who are curhous in such matters may
be referred to Cardonnel's Antiquities of Scotland for a list of the
successors of Sylvanus, the last of whom was Edward Maxwell,
son to John Lord Herries, after whose death King James Sixth
annexed the Abbey of Dudrennan to his Royal Chapel of Stir-
ling. This annexation took place in 1621, and was ratified by
Parliament in that year, and again in 1633. Symson, writing in
1684, says, "The Bishop of Dunblaine, as Deane of the Chapel-
Royal, is patron of the parish of Rerick, or Dundranen, and bath
a part of his revenue paid out of the lands of that Abbacy; he
bath also a bailerie here, heritablie exere'd by the Earl of Nithis-
dale, whose jurisdiction reachet over the whole parish, except
one baronrie called Kirkcastel, belonging to the Laird of Brough-
ton."+

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonia, Vol. iii. p. 301.
         + Symson's  Description of Galloway, p. 15.


