
                  800                          PERTHSHIRE.

                  rish is a tulip tree at Pitkeathly House, which is supposed to be
                  above, one hundred years old, and has been observed to flower for
                  several seasons. It is perhaps the largest in this neighbourhood.
                  It is generally supposed that the tulip-tree does not blossom in
                  this part of the country until it is very old; but there is one in
                  the grounds of Sir Thomas Moncrieffe that flowered in 1836, and
                  was planted by the late gardener in 1796.
                    There is a stately and umbrageous Spanish chestnut-tree, near
                  Old Kilgraston, which is said to have been planted on the day of
                  the capitulation of Perth to Oliver Cromwell.

                                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
                    The teinds connected with the parish of Dunbarny, and pa-
                  tronage to the benefice, belonged formerly to the Town-Council
                  of Edinburgh. The revenue of St Giles's * Church in that city,
                  which were administered by the Town-Council, arose from the
                  teinds of several parishes scattered through Scotland, such as
                  Eastern and Western Weems, Limpetlaw, Brotherstanes, Gogar,
                  and, among the rest, Dunbarny. The charter of King James VI.,
                  given under the Great Seal of Scotland, and which confirms to
                  the city of Edinburgh many former charters and privileges granted
                  by previous monarchs, from Robert the Bruce downwards, desig-
                  nated the Golden Charter, given at Holyroodhouse, 15th March
                  1603, confirms a decree pronounced by the Lords of Council and
                  Session, in 1583, " ordaining and declaring that the churches of
                  Dunberny, Potty, and Moncrieffe do, and in all time coming
                  shall belong to the aforesaid provosts, bailiffs, councils, and com-
                  munity of the said town of Edinburgh, according to the tenor of
                  the aforesaid infeftment, granted to them by our said dear mother,
                  of all the benefices, prebendaries, and other foundations within
                  the liberty of the said burgh, conform to the union and annexation
                  of the tithe sheaves, and emoluments of the rectory of the afore-
                  said church of Dunberny, whereof the said churches of Potty and
                  Moncrieffe are appendages, and were anciently annexed to the
                  collegiate church of St Giles, situated within the said town of
                  Edinburgh, as is more fully contained in the said decreet; the

                  <FOOTNOTE>St Giles, though before the Reformation only a parish church (not being con-
                  stituted into a cathedral till 1633( had attached to it a considerable religious body.
                  It consisted of a provost, curate, sixteen prebendaries, a sacristan, bedall, minister of
                  the choir, and four choristers or singing boys. The patronage of St Giles's was, in
                  remote times, lodged in the hands of the bishop of Lindesfern, or Holy Island, in
                  Northumberland, and subsequently transfered to the abbot and canons of Dunferm-
                  line, with whom it continued till it was vested in the magistrates and council of
                  Edinburgh. See Meitland's History of Edinburgh.


