
		            ALLOA.	                    25

   Vegetable.--Species of the genera Calamites, Stigmaria, Le-
pidodendron, Pecopteris, Equisetum, Favullaria, (tesselata,) &c.
   Of these there are many varieties; and along the roof of the
coals are impressions of gigantic palm trees, which the miners here
term plough furrows.
   Collieries.--The coals of this parish have been wrought for a
long period of years, but at what time they commenced is quite
uncertain. It would appear, however, from some very old papers,
in possession of the family of Mar, that coals were wrought pre-
vious, to the year 1650, by day-levels.
   As the collieries were  opened both for home, sale and exporta-
tion, they have been wrought extensively, and the wnrkable coals
in this parish have been distinctly ascertained.
   The stratification has been satisfactorily proved to the depth of
140 fathoms, extending beyond the lowest workable seam of coal
in the field. This lower coal is known by the name of the lower
Coalsnaughton main coal and throughout all the Clackmannan-
shire coal-field no workable coal has been found under it. The
number of seams of coal found in the depth of 115, fathoms, is
21, the aggregate thickness of which is fully 60 feet.  At the pre-
sent time, no coal here is reckoned workable to profit below 2 1/2
feet thick. If all the coals below that thickness are deducted,
there remain nine workable coals, the thinnest of which is 2 feet
8 inches thick, and from that to 9 feet.
   It is proper here to remark, that a coal being workable or not
workable, according to its thickness, depends much upon the dis-
trict in which coals are found, no coal, however thin, being physi-
cally unworkable. If coals are very high in price, and no thick
seams are to be found in the district, coals of 1 foot 6 inches are
wrought; but when coals are thick and very moderate- in price,
coals under 2 feet 6 inches are estimated is not workable to
profit, unless they are of the rich caking quality, suitable for
smith's forges, bringing a comparatively  high price.  Of the thin
coals in this parish some of them are only an inch. or two thick.
   There are three coal-fields in this parish composed of the same
strata, and seams of coal, and are divided from each other by the
great north slip before-mentioned.  The coal-field on the north
side of the slip is named the Coalyland coal-field,that on the south
side of the slip is named the Carsebridge coal-field.  In both of
these, collieries upon an extensive scale have been wronght.
The first operations were by day-levels upon a very limited scale.


