
			GLASGOW.                         147

Mr Buchanan of Catrine Works in 1817, whereby the whole pro-
cesses of opening, cleaning, and lapping the cotton are performed
at once by a series of four skutchers, each with a sieve. The rooms
in which these machines work are as free of dust as a drawing-room;
and this process, at one time the most disagreeable and unwhole-
some, is now quite the reverse; besides, the cotton being com-
pletely freed of the dust and flur, is more cleanly in all succeed-
ing processes, much to the comfort of the workers, and the bene-
fit of the work.
	Little improvement was made in the carding-engine for many years.
About 1812, however, a system of completing the carding process
in one machine was introduced, and is now pretty generally adopt-
ed for numbers under fifties, and in some cases as high as eighties.
In 1815, Mr Smith of Deanston Works, constructed a carding-en-
gine, having the flats or tops moveable on hinges, and applied an
apparatus for turning and cleaning the tops, which was the first
self-topping engine; and with him the idea had originated. Two
years after, Mr Buchanan arranged a more perfect machines and
had it adopted in all his water-twist mills. Some years after, he
farther improved this apparatus, and obtained a patent. In 1829,
Mr Smith again improved the topping apparatus, by substituting
a chain of successive tops, and had them made of tin plate, to avoid
warping. This improvement, together with a neat and effective
arrangement of cylinders, forming a compact single engine, he com-
pleted in 1833, and obtained a patent.
	These engines occupy about half the space of the Oldham en-
gine much used in England, make more perfect work, and will
turn off nearly two pounds per inch of wire per day, for numbers
from thirties to forties.
	Some of the movements are extremely striking and beautiful.
This machine gives promise of many advantages to the trade.
	In the roving process some recent improvements have been in-
troduced. About ten years ago, Mr Henry Houldsworth Junior of
Glasgow, now of Manchester, contrived a beautiful differential mo-
tion for the winding in of the rovings on the spindle and fly ma-
chine, and obtained a patent. This improvement, has got much
into use. About the same time a very peculiar mode of roving was
introduced from America, by the late Mr James Dunlop, and
which was afterwards improved, and patented by Mr Dyer of Man-
chester. This machine is called the tube-machine, and has got
much into use for the lower numbers of yarns. The rove coming


