
66                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

in the castle of Kilcoy), now a ruin, but at the time of his birth, the
seat of that family.  The General was the second son of Colin
Mackenzie of Kilcoy, then the representative of that family.  He
distinguished himself at the siege of Gibraltar in early life; but his
character as a military man is so fully known to the public, that it
is unnecessary to give it here.  In several successive Parliaments
he represented his native county.  He died in the rank of Lieute-
nant-General, regretted, esteemed, and beloved by all who knew
him.
  There is another distinguished officer, a descendant of the Kil-
coy family on the maternal side, Lieutenant-General Sir Kenneth
Mackenzie, who has lately taken the name of Douglas of Glen-
bervie.  His military character is well known.
  General Sir George Elder was born in this parish, of humble
but respectable parents, near the Castle of Kilcoy.  By his merits
alone, he overcame all difficulties, and raised himself to his present
distinguished rank and station.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial register of this parish has
been regularly kept from the year 1744.
   M6dern Buildings.-There is little in this parish to interest the
antiquary.  There are no modern buildings in the parish, except some
very excellent and substantial farm-houses, built within the last
twelve years, upon the property of Redcastle.  There are two mills
in the parish, one on each of the properties, where oats, barley,
pease, and beans are ground, and which pay a yearly rent to the
proprietors.  In ancient times, there were two mansion-houses,
built in the form of castles, one on each of the properties.  In these
houses, the representatives of the families of Kilcoy and Redcastle
resided, originally Mackenzies.  The Kilcoy Castle, as already
observed, is now a ruin; but the castle on the other property, once
used as a fortification, is at present in an excellent habitable con-
dition, modernized inside, beautifully situated, and containing ample
accommodation for a genteel family.
                         III.-POPULATION.
  The population of this parish, according to the census of 1831,
is 1479.  I find an increase of more than an hundred upon the
whole population upon that of 1821,-notwithstanding of the de-
population which since then has taken place on the estate of Red-
castle.  This increase arises from the accommodation given by
Colin Mackenzie of Kilcoy, on his properties in this parish, to te-
nants removed from the estate of Redcastle; and also, in a more

                                KILLEARNAN.

especial manner, from the encouragement which the same gentle.
man gives to strangers expelled from various parts of the High-
lands, to settle on his portion of the late Mill-Bui commonty, and
on other woodlands on his property of Tore,-where they are ac-
commodated on liberal terms, and where it is expected they may
make for themselves, in a few years, pretty comfortable settle-
ments.  Those who first settled on these parts of the Kilcoy pro_
perty after I became minister of this parish are now able to keep
a horse, a cow, with a follower, and a few sheep.
        <TABLE>
        The number of families in the parish is  -     -      -         324
                   of inhabited houses,      -       -      -           293
                   of uninhabited houses,  -        -      -              4
                   of houses building,                                   4
          The average number of marriages for the last ten years may be from 8 to 10
                             of baptisms from   -      -       -            16 to 20
                             of deaths,     -         e      -                    12
   There are three persons blind in the parish: none deaf or dumb.
The language of the natives is Gaelic; and the greatest portion of
the inhabitants can receive religious instruction through no other
medium. The Gaelic, however, may be considered as on the decline.
Nearly the whole of the young people understand and speak Eng-
lish well.  And of late years, and in consequence of the new system
of farming introduced, converting large tracts of land into One farm,
strangers have come amongst us, who do not understand Gaelic,
and must therefore bring along with them from other parts ser-
vants who can understand them.  The inhabitants are cleanly in
their habits-industrious and sober-religiously disposed-moral
in their conduet-teachable and tractable-punctual in their at-
tendance of public worsbip-religiously observing the Sabbath day,
believing the Divine authority of the Bible, and taking it for the
rule of their faith and practice.  We have a few solitary exceptions,
but tbey are few.  There is no temptation to poaching; and smug-
gling is almost entirely abandoned.
   Within the last three years, there has been but one illegitimate
birth in the parish.
                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The distribution of males among the several employments is as
follows: farmers, 15; cottars, 119; labourers, 64; employed in
agriculture in all stations, 155; in trade and manufactures, 60;
I auctioneer or appraiser; 6 blacksmiths; 5 reasons; 7 carpen-
ters; I wheel-wright, above eighty years of age, still found work,
ing iat his iturning-loom; 6 sawers; 2 millers; 6 innkeepers, of
retailers of beer and whisky; 16 shoe and brogue-makers; 2 shop-


