
956                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

ly situated.  The schoolmaster's salary was fixed, in 1829, at L.29,
18s. 10d., with a dwelling-house not restricted to the legal accom-
modation, but is now the maximum.  From 15 to 20 girls lately
attended a school kept by a young woman, who teaches reading,
writing, and sewing; and about 25 children, in the southern part
of the parish, are taught reading, writing, and arithmetic at an
unendowed school near them in the extremity of the parish, at the
same rates as in the parochial school.
   Poor.-The average number of persons on the poor roll for the
last six years has been 9, mostly infirm old women without near re-
lations able to support them, besides whom others in similar circum-
stances have been occasionally assisted.  The average annual con-
tributions for their relief for the same period at the disposal of the
kirk-session have been as follows: Church collections, L.17, 3s.
9d.; interest of money, L.4. 16s. ; donations and legacies, L.10,
15s. 6 1/4d.; fines, L.1, 1s. 8d.; total, L.33, 16s. 11 1/4d.; L.16,
13s. 4d. has been distributed for the year at an average to
those on the roll quarterly, in sums of from 6s. to 12s., ac-
cording to the necessities of each individual, and to others
occasionally from the donations perhaps from 10s. to 15s. a year
each ; not including about L.20 paid annually for the support of a
pauper lunatic and foundling child.  The present number on the
roll is 12, and the quarterly sum granted at an average to each of
10 is about 8s.  No person belonging to the parish has begged for
upwards of fifty years past ; and so far are the poor from showing
any disposition to seek parochial relief, that much address is often
required to prevail upon them to accept it.  The people in gene-
ral are sufficiently attentive to those in want or distress, and the
only residing proprietor is remarkably so.  The heritors have been
liberal in their donations, in order to prevent a legal assessment.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In 1792, when the last Statistical Account was drawn up, the
Duke of Gordon was superior of the whole lands in this district.
In the parish there were 430 imperial acres of wood, mostly natu-
ral, and 2130 of arable land, of which about one-fifth was infield,
rented at from 9s. 6d. to 17s. per acre, and the rest outfleld, at
from 1s. 7d. to 4s.; the whole rental, including the value of vari-
ous services, being under L.600.  The infield was manured, and
kept constantly under a rotation of one crop of bear and two of
oats; the outfield was exhausted by three or more crops of oats,
and then allowed to lie waste till it recovered.  Few of the te-


