
     Statistical Account

   Mountains.-BEN-LE-DI, contracted for Ben-le-dia, the Hill
of God*, is 3009 feet perpendicular in height above the
sea+.  No other mountain, of half that altitude, intercepts the
prospect, from Benledi down the tract of the Forth to the Ger-

<FOOTNOTE>

*DIA, which is invariably the name of GOD-in Gaelic, is the same word,
both in spelling and pronunciation, with the name which the Greeks, in the ob-
lique cases, gave to the Supreme Being; and it is probable, that all the cases
were originally from this word.  Many other instances of the same kind might
be pointed out; but it will come in our way, in these few pages, to find that
the words signifying land, a castle and harbour, are the same in Gaelic and in
Latin; and the name of the Deity is the same in Gaelic and in Greek.  Whe-
ther the Celtic language borrows the first from the Romans, and the last from
the Greeks, or whether the Romans and Greeks borrowed from the Celtic, (the
language of a more ancient people than either, and of a more ancient analogy
than their languages), the reader who understands the three languages, is left
to judge.

+By reason of the altitude of Benledi, and of its beautiful conical figure,
the people of the adjacent country, to a great distance, assembled annually on
its top, about the time of the summer folstice, during the Druidical priesthood,
to worship the Deity.  This assembly seems to have been a provincial or synodi-
cal meeting, wherein all the different congregations within the bounds wished to
get as near to heaven as they could, to pay their homage to the God of heaven.
Tradition says, that this devotional meeting continued three days.  The sum-
mit of the mountain is smoothed, and free of stones; which seems to be the
work of art:  But no stones with inscriptions can be found within the vicinity of
that place.  The Druids were ignorant, it appears, of the use of letters, or ex-
tremely shy to commit any part of their creed to writing; but they were fond,
in a very high degree, of great and stupenduous monuments, to mark their re-
treats, and to perpetuate the remembrance of their devotion.  They had ex-
actly the idea of Solomon, concerning the immensity of the Supreme Being;
"That if the heaven of heavens could not contain him, how much less a house
"made with hands!"  They accounted all space his temple, and all nature his
altar; they had no walls hut the horizon, and no canopy but the cope of hea-
ven.  Their circles of stones, and even the charcoal of the fuel they used in
burning sacrifices, are frequent in groves and plains, by the sides of running
streams; but they do not seem to have had any images.
   Rude figures, indeed, of the human and other species, have been found in this
parish, cut out of stone.  But these idolatrous relies are more modern than the


