
                     MARKINCH.                            665

Levenam amnem, eadem in regione, arcis septemvallis olim septae
totidemque fossis uti nunc est videre, vestigia; ubu hujus clarissi-
mi viri post eum vitƒ functum posteritas longa secula habitavit."
     Dalginch, which lies to the east of the village of Markinch, at
the distance of a quarter of a mile, is the reputed site of another
of Macduff's castles. Its more modern name is Brunton, and a
subterraneous opening from the present house, but which has long
been closed, is said, in popular tradition, to communicate with the
Maiden Castle above-mentioned, which is distant in a straight line
between two and three miles. The supposition is too absurb to
admit of being reasones upon. However, that, at a comparatively
recent period, Dalginch was place of considerable note, will ap-
pear by the following extract from the Ancient Digest of Scottish
Laws, known by the name of Regiam Majestatem, ascribed, we
believe, the usurper Macbeth.
          "Ad quae loca tenentur Warranti venire."

                          C.XX.

     "Haec sunt loca ad quae warranti debent venire ut res calumnia-
tas legitime warrantereat. In Gowrie, apud Sconam. In Star-
month, apud Cluny, &c. In Fife, apud Dalginche. Haec sunt
loca capitalia Scotia somitatatium per totum regnum."
     Family Seats.--The most ancient residence of note in the pa-
rish is the Castle of Balfour or Bal-orr, so designated from its si-
tuation near the confluence of the Orr and the Leven. It was
originally the seat of the family of Balfour, who thence derive their
name,--one of the most ancient and respectable in Fife. About
the year 1360, John de Bethune, described as "familiaris regis
Roberti," married the daughter and heiress of Sir Michael de
Balfour of the Ilk, and with her obtained the estate of Balfour.
The Bethunes are undoubtedly of French extraction, and are re-
puted to derive their name from Bethune, a considerable town in
French Flanders. They came into England with William the
Conqueror. One of them was the companion of Richard Coeur

<FOOTNOTE>Boeth. Hist Lib. x. fol. 206.
          Now called Barnslee, the seat of Mrs Colonel Paston.
          In the edition of the Regiam Majestatem, anno 1606, the following note is in-
scribed in the margin:---"N. B. Terrae de Dalginche pertinebant olim Jacobo Cock-
burn, tempore Jacobi II. Regis, nune dicuntur terrae de Bruntoun, et per Warnilaw
dominum de Torrie possidentur et sunt contiguae terris de Markinche."---How long
Dalginche continued a principal seat of justice we have no means of ascertaining;
probably as long as the Thanes of Fife maintained an independent jurisdiction.
Markinche must have been a place of some note as late as 1296, in which year it was
visited by Edward I. in his progress from St Andrew to Stirling, as was learn from
the Diary of his expedition, (Cott. Coll. in old French, quoted spud Tytler, Hist
of Scotland, Vol. i.) his first stage being Markinch, and his next Dunfermline.


