
                              MORVERN.			     169

            And lo! the dangerous is the beautiful,
            The beautiful, indeed, the true sublime,
            What an abyss of glorious poetry !
               *     *     *     *     *
            --------- beauty nowhere owes to ocean
            A lovelier haunt than this! Loch Uni-more !
            A name in its wild sweetness to our ear
            Fitly denoting a dream-world of peace!

   Geology, &c.-Geologically Morven is divided into two distinct
portions,-the one of the trap, the other of the primitive forma-
tion.  The former consists of a bold mountain range, commencing
at Ardtornish on the south, and extending along the Sound of
Mull to the north-west boundary, in breadth about five miles.
The mountains are generally tabular, and, in some parts, very pre-
cipitous, exhibiting trap columns of great regularity.  Inland,
the country is very distinctly defined, an extensive valley forming
throughout a line of demarcation, and pointing out the two forma-
tions from the Linnheloch to Loch Suinart.  The prevailing rock in
the lower portion is trap.  Sandstone and limestone of the very best
quality are found on the shores of Lochalin, and in that neigbbour-
hood very favourable appearances of coal have also been observed.
On the shores of the glebe, there is a very remarkable and well-de-
fined vein of pitchstone interspersed with trap ; and a short way on-
ward, to the north, a very singular trap rock forms a striking ob-
ject,-the vein of which it forms a part is discernible from the
shore upwards, a considerable way towards the summit of the ad-
joining eminence, in some places rising many feet above the sur-
face.  The portion referred to appears to stand quite alone, and,
though only about three feet in thickness, it extends in length to
20 yards, and is in height 30 feet, with an,opening through one
end of it of 5 feet in diameter.  Highlanders are not much versed
in geology.  The theory held by some of them, " that whin dikes
constitute the ribs by which the earth has been held together."
has not sufficiently accounted, in the present instance, for this
strange formation; and, accordingly, in legends of olden times, it
is said, that a famed lady, of great physical power, had, with a de-
gree of public spirit worthy of all imitation, contemplated the mag-
nificent project of connecting Morvern and Mull by a bridge.  The
rock in question was laid or selected as the foundation, and the
first arch was to rest on the green island directly opposite.  She
proceeded so far with her good undertaking as to burden her broad
shoulders with an enormous load of stone, when unfortunately the
paunier in which she carried them gave way, and, thus discouraged
at the outset, she abandoned an undertaking which, if completed


