
488                            AYRSHIRE.

gether with the striking effect produced by some fine old trees,
rearing their heads among the houses, call forth the admiration
of travellers.
   There are excellent shops of all kinds in the town. The Ayr-
shire Banking Company has a branch established in it, and there
is also a private agent of Hunters and Company. A gas work has
been recently erected for supplying the town with light, which pro-
mises to be of great public utility.
  From its central position in regard to the neigbbouridg parishes,
a great deal of business is transacted in the town, much more than
its size would lead a stranger to expect. It is a curious fact, that
the four principal entrances to the town, on the east, west, north,
and south side, are all down hill; so that there is no descent from
the town but the channel of the Lugar.
   Means of Communication.--There is a post-office in the town,
and we have two arrivals of the mail daily, one from London, and
the other from Glasgow. There are fourteen miles of turnpike
roads in the parish. There are also cross-roads in all directions,
which are kept in very good repair. A stage-coach from Glas-
gow, and anotber from Carlisle, pass through the town daily. Cum-
nock is distant from Edinburgh 60 miles, from Glasgow 37 miles,
from Dumfries 46 miles, from Ayr 16 miles, and from Kilmar-
nock 16 miles. There are 5 weekly carriers to Glasgow, 1 to
Edinburgh, 6 to Ayr, 2 to Kilmarnock, and 3 to Dumfries. The
road to Glasgow passes through Kilmarnock. There is a coach
to Ayr twice a week. Post-horses, chaises, and cars, can be bad
in the town.
   There are 16 bridges in the parish, of which three are in the
town. They are in general too narrow; and the one over the
Lugar has its arch at by far too great an elevation above the le-
vel of the road.
   A plan has long been in agitation for improving the road from
Cumnock to Ayr, which is now being carried into effect; also the
road from Kilmarnock to Sanquhar, passing through Cumnock,
which stands in great need of an improved line. A survey has
lately been made of the line from Carlisle to Glasgow, through
Dumfries, Cumnock, Kilmarnock, &c., and it has been found one
of the most level lines for a rail-road to be met with.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was built in 1754, and
stands in the centre of the town. The distance from the remotest
parts of the parish is from five to six miles. It is in a state of pret-


