
                 CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                          571

hill fort, more than the distance of a mile, into the woods of Pit-
todrie, where it disappears from the most inquisitive sight.  It is
paved with stones, is about 14 feet wide, and has every appear-
ance of a vicinal way of the Romans.  This Maiden-way (says
Colonel Shand) is on the west side of the ninth Iter on its course
from the Don to the springs of Ithan, (the Ituna of Richard,
where the camp of Glen-mailen was placed,) the station of Rae-
dikes.  If this way were continued in its appropriate direction, it
would join the tract of the Iter near the river of Ury, and conti-
guous to the supposed Roman post.
   About a quarter of a mile to the north of the supposed Roman
post, there was dug up about two years ago, within four inches of
the surface, a stone coffin of rude workmanship containing human
bones, and a Roman urn of baked clay filled with ashes which is
now ih the possession of Sir Robert Dalrymple Horne Elphinstone,
Bart.  The scull and jaw bones, together with the teeth, were very
entire.  The coffin was composed of five stones.  It had on each
side and on each end of it, a rude granite: flag, and was covered
with a slab of the same material.  It was four feet in length, two
in breadth, one and a half in depth, and the cover one stone, mea-
suring Ave feet by three.  Another Roman urn of baked clay,
containing human bones, which had been exposed to the action of
fire, was dug up, in 1838, betwixt Pitcaple House and the Ury,
and is now in Mr Lurnsden's possession.
   To the west of the House of Logie Elphinstone, and about a
quarter of a mile distant from it, the tenant of Craigmill, about
three years ago, when trenching a piece of barren ground, dug up
a stone coffin, in which ashes only were deposited.  Nothing, how-
ever, was found to elucidate the time and occasion of its being
placed there; but as it was surrounded by a cairn of stones, it
marked, in all probability, the spot where one of the chieftains of
Donald of the Isles was buried, in his retreat to Ross-shire and the
Isles from the battle of Harlaw.
   About half a-mile to the north-west of the church, is to be seen
a large stone, called the Maiden Stone, which is ten feet high
above ground, two feet and ten inches broad, and about ten inch-
es thick.  It is supposed to be about six feet below the surface of
the ground.  Upon it there are several curious hieroglyphical fi-
gures cut.  The occasion of its erection is unknown; but there is
a tradition that there existed a feud betwixt the Laird of Balqu-
hain) and the neighbouring proprietor of Harthill, which was carried


