
                              TYRIE.                    723

hewn shapeless mass of blue clayish-mica-stone, with a hierogly-
phic or other figure, which has puzzled the conjectures of the
most learned of our antiquarians.
   Modern Biuldings.-The only mansion-houses in the parish
are those of Boyndlie, and the old mansion-houses of Ladysford
and of Tillanamols.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
Years of census.    1755  1771  1785  1790  1801  1811  1821  1831  1836  1841
No. of inhabitants.  596   612   715   864  1454  1584  1613  2491  2639

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Vast, indeed, have been the improvements made
within the last twenty years, in the reclaiming of waste, and the
draining of wet lands.  These improvements have been carried
on by almost every farmer, but the principal have been the
result of the exertions of a number of poor families, located on
various pendicles of what was once a vast and unproductive surface
of moor and moss.  An extensive colony of these are in our im-
mediate neighborhood, and we have had many opportunities of
witnessing their exertions.  The parents of twenty-nine families,
containing 156 individuals, who would have otherwise been held
down in the most object misery, or been eventually thrown as
burdens on their respective parishes, have been empowered, under
the blessing of God, to bring up their families in comparative
comfort, and to look forward to comparative independence under
the approaching infirmities of age.  It must be confessed, that
the experiment of this cottage or portionary allocation is as yet
in its infancy, and its ultimately results cannot yet be properly fore-
seen. One great means of guarding against any apprehended evils
would be, to extend the duration of the present leases, (nineteen
years, and all leases for that period are by far too short, and
are obstacle to improvement), to three nineteen years at the
least, taking care, however, at the expiry of each nineteen years,
to secure the interest of the landlord by a new valuation of the
land, at a rent to be afixed by two acientific agriculturists mutual-
ly chosen.
   The general course of rotation in a seven years' shift, and, in some
solitary instances, an eight years' one, and these are carried out with
spirit upon the most approved systems of husbandry, with the excep-
tion of limiting and plough trenching, previous to the preparation five
turnips. Liming, however, is not so necessary, from the superabund-
ance of hot dung brought up, bulk for bulk, in exchange for peats


