
     of Auldearn.

any extent, but one of birch on the estate of Inshock, the
property of Mr Brodie of Brodie; and from this wood the
neighbourhood are generally supplied with most of their im-
plements of husbandry.  Here likewise are some valuable
firs, equal in quality to those of Glenmore, and which sell
at a shilling a foot cubic.  There are, however, large plan-
tations of firs interspersed with laryx, and ever species of
hard wood known in Scotland reared on the estates of all
the proprietors; but the most considerable on that of Mr
Gordon of Braid.  The exertions of this gentleman, in the
improvement and embellishment of his estate, by planting
of trees and hedges, draining of marshes, bursting of stones
by gun-powder, and inclosing of his grounds, and thus fur-
nishing constant employment to the industrious poor in this
quarter, deserve much praise.  The extent of ground covered
by Mr Gordon's plantations, including the clumps and belts
of his pleasure ground, exceed 600 acres; and their thinnings
have already been very serviceable for firing, and various
other country purposes.-From the appearance of the dips
and rises of the various strata of metals betwixt the house
of Boath and the sea, it has appeared probable to some per-
sons of sagacity and observation, that coal might be procu-
red at an expence nowise inadequate to the object, by means
of a fire-engine planted near the sea-shore.  And on that
property there is a quarry of dark-blue stone, which mounts
like coal into a blaze by the operation of fire, but is not
consumed thereby, nor dissolves in water like limestone.
   An almost inexhaustible fund of marl may be found in
Loch Lity, upon Lord Cawdor's estate, covering about 40
acres of surface, to the depth of from 16 to 20 feet; the lake
might be drained by a small fire-engine of L. 60 or L. 70
value.  Few of the parishioners have made application to
Lord Cawdor in order to avail themselves of this valuable
manure.  The most considerable moss belongs to Mr Brodie


