
     Statistical Account

bers.  Their stock amounts to 160 L.  The happy effects of
this benevolent institution are daily felt by sick members, and
by the widows and orphans of those that are deceased*.

   Burgh.-KIRKCUDBRIGHT, the head burgh of the stewartry,
where the courts of justice and public records are kept, was
anciently a burgh of regality, and held of the Douglasses,
lords of Galloway, as superiors.  Upon the forfeiture of the
estates of James, 9th Earl of Douglas, and last Lord of Gal-
loway, at Edinburgh, 4th August 1455, King JAMES II.
erected the town into a royal burgh, by a charter, dated at
Perth, 26th October 1455; which was renewed and confirmed
by a novodamus from King CHARLES I. dated at Holyrood-
bouse, 20th July 1633.  By this charter, and the set of the
burgh, the town council is unalterably fixed to consist of 17
persons, viz. a provost, 3 bailies, a treasurer, and 13 coun-
sellors, who are to meet annually at Michaelmas, and vote
out 3 of their number, and elect 3 new counsellors in their
place+.

   Revenue.-The annual revenues of the burgh, which consist
chiefly of the rents of its landed property and fisheries, a-

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is also another society, somewhat similar to the former, but upon a
much more extensive scale, about to be established in this place.  It is to be
called the KIRKCUDBRIGHT FARMERS SOCIETY.  But as it is only in contemp-
lation, a description of it must be deferred until some future period.

<UNREADABLE>

+This regulation, however, has never been duly attended to.  Sometimes
the old counsellors have re-elected themselves, without making any alteration at
all.  At other times, particularly in two famous political struggles, one about
50 years ago, the other so late as the year 1790, the party, forming the majority, 
voted out no fewer than ? counsellors, and elected as many new ones to
succeed them.  However, this arbitrary proceeding received, in the last instance,
a check from the Court of Session.

</UNREADABLE>


