
354                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Husbandry.--The rotation of crops generally pursued is, 1st, oats;
2d, potatoes or turnip; 3d, oats, barley, or wheat, according to the
nature of the soil; 4th, hay; 5th, pasture, then oats again. Fal-
low is seldom resorted to except in the low flats, where the wetness
of the soil renders this process necessary for the extirpation of weeds.
All the leases on Mr Maxwell's estate are for fifteen years. A term
of nineteen or twenty-one years would be more advantageous both
for landlord and tenant. A great number of the farm-buildings has
of late been substantially rebuilt; if there be any defect in these, the
out-houses perhaps are not sufficiently extensive. The greatest im-
provement in agriculture in this parish is the introduction of bone
manure, and the consequent extended and extending culture of tur-
nips. Another stimulus is given by steam navigation, which enables
the farmer to transport his sheep, fattened on the turnip crop, to
Liverpool, at the rate of 1s. a head. A great obstacle to the im-
provement of the meadow land on the banks of the Lochar, not
only in this but also in neighbouring parishes, consists in the keep-
ing up of a paltry mill, which yields only a rent of about L. 20 per
annum. The " weir " of this mill raises the water in the Lochar
for miles in its serpentine course. Were this obstruction removed,
and the course of the Lochar straightened and widened, many acres
which at present lie waste, would be submitted to the plough, whilst,
with regard to such places as are occasionally under cultivation, the
farmer would not run the risk of having the produce of the year
washed away or rotted on the ground by the autumnal floods.*
	Ouarry.--There are no mines of any description in the parish,
and only one freestone quarry, which is wrought. The rent of the
quarry is L. 8; the value of the produce L. 100.
	Fisheries, &c.--Pike, eel, and roaches, abound in the Lochar. Ex-
cellent flounders are caught in the Nith; but the only fishery of any
importance is that of salmon. These continue to be taken in small
quantities by the " liester." Stake-nets were erected many years
ago, but the right to do so was lately disputed, and an interdict pas-
sed by the Court of Session. Upon an appeal, however, the in-
terdict has been lately removed, and it is to be hoped, that, both
for the interests of the parish and the public at large, the decision
of the Court will be finally reversed. The rent of the salmon
fishing is about L. 30; the produce above L. 100 in value when

<FOOTNOTE>This view is also adopted by other writers in this work; as will be seen by refer-
ring to the accounts of Torthorwald and other neighbouring parishes.
					4.


