
     of Gigha and Cara.

the right side; nor indeed does it make any great difference
as to the effect produced, which side is used.  Though they
neither pulverize the ground nor cover the grain, the people
prefer them to iron-pinned harrows, and maintain, that were
they to use this latter kind, they could never raise a good
crop.  Such are the effects of ignorance and prejudice, two
powerful enemies to improvement in the Highlands of Scot-
land*.  The produce of the island, consisting of oats, barley and
potatoes, is more than sufficient for the maintenance of the
inhabitants+.  All kitchen fluffs may be raised in great a-
bundance and perfection, the soil being good, and neither
moles nor any continuance of frost to counteract the exertions
of the gardener.  A good quantity of flax is raised yearly,
which is spun and sold in yarn, at 2 s. the spindle.  Till late-

     VOL. VIII.   G

<FOOTNOTE>

They begin sowing the latter end of March, and finish their barley feed
about the beginning of June.  Barley harvest commences the latter end of
August; that of oats near the middle of September; and the whole is finished
about the latter end of October.  As there is no intense frost of any continu-
ance, and as the greater part of the arable land is dry, they might begin to
plough and low much earlier, and consequently their harvest would continence
sooner.  They are at great pains in cleaning their seed corn, and preparing
their barley ground, which they plough thrice.  They have derived great ad-
vantage of late from foreign corn seed and bear, which was introduced by the
proprietor.
+The Gigha boll is equal to 20 pecks Linlithgow measure.  Last crop sold
at 14s. the boll of oats; 1 L. 2s. the boll of barley; 18 s. 3 d. the boll of meal
(10 stone weight); 8 s. the boll of potatoes, measuring 4 barrels heaped.  Of
the barley, 250 bolls (Linlithgow measure) are distilled in the island; and about
160 bolls, of the same measure, sent to Campbeltown and other places:  Of
potatoes about 1000 barrels are lent out of the country:  Of the meal there
will be about 120 bolls bought up from the tenants by the proprietor, for the
use of his workmen.  Aquavitae sells at 14s. the gallon; a stone of cheese,
24 lb., costs 5 s.; a stone of butter 10 s.


