
		                 EDDERTOUN.                         457

	the parish of Loth in Sutherland, to which he had been ordained
	and admitted 10th May 1721. His settlement here was disputed
        for a considerable time; but at last, as before noticed, Mr Robertson
        received a Presbyterial call, on the 16th April 1730; and the
	presbytery-of Dornoch, (in which Loth is,) having agreed on the 7th
	May to "transport him to the parish of Eddertoun," be was accord-
	ingly admitted here on the 29th July 1730. From the various steps
	taken previously to Mr Robertson's admission to Eddertoun, it
	will be readily seen, that, though the "act restoring patronage"
	had been passed nearly twenty years before, patrons of parishes
	were in the habit of allowing the people to choose their own mi-
	nisters, without any reference to them whatever, or presentation to
	a particular person being issued. Mr Robertson was minister of
	this parish only ten years, and died 13tb December 1740.
	   Mr Joseph Munro, son of Mr Robert Munro, minister of Kin-
	cardine, (1711-41,) was licensed by the presbytery of Hadding-
        ton, 5th June 1739, and received a presentation  * <Footnote> to this parish
	from the Right Honourable the Earl of Cromertie, dated 2d June
	1741 which he accepted; but on the day appointed for moderat-
	ing in a call, the presbytery, finding that the heritors were unani-
	mously for Mr Munro, while all the elders and some of the heads
	of families there petitioned for another, (Mr G. Robertson, then
	a probationer, and afterwards minister of Kincardine) they "re-
	ferred the case simpliciter to the synod." The call to Mr Munro
	was sustained by the synod of Ross, at their meeting in April
	1742, and the presbytery appointed to concur therewith; which
	was accordingly done, and Mr Munro ordained and admitted
	minister of Eddertoun on the 16th of September 1742. He died
	16th March 1785, in the seventy-first year of his age, and forty-
	third of his ministry.
	   Mr Alexander Munro was ordained and admitted minister of this
	parish on the 28th September 1785. During the earlier part of
	his ministry here, he had to encounter considerable opposition,
	from his having been settled without the concurrence Of the majo-
	rity of the parishioners. His high character, however, for piety,
        amiability, and diligence, secured to him the esteem of the Pub-

<FOOTNOTE>This was the first instance of the patron exercising his right of presentation to
	this parish since the Revolution; and even at this period the presbytery seem to
	have proceeded more on the call of the people than on the presentation. Ever since.
	However, presentations have been issued by the family of Cromertie, "undoubted
	patrons of the parish of Eddertoun."



