
                          WESTRUTHER.                            67

gravelly subsoil. Its general depth may average from six inches to
a foot; but itvaries greatly in character in different places; the highest
farm in the parish, for instance, having a deep clayey soil, which at
Redhall, especially, has borne good wheat,-the moorland being in
general a black sandy soil,-the high parts about Spottiswoode dry
and stony,-whereas a little farther to the west again it is wet.
The land about Tbornydyke and Bassendean is said to be the best
and richest soil in the parish.
   Zoology.-On this head it may be only noticed, that the Eden
river, which rises a little to the south of Houndslow, is so cele-
brated both for the quality and size of its fish, as to attract ama-
teurs in angling from a great distance. There is also, in deep
stagnant pools near the source of this streamlet, a shell-fish called
the diamond fish,-probably the horse-muscle.
                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is a short account of the ancient state of the parish drawn
up by Mr Veitch, who was first minister of it, and who, says the edi-
tor, "wrote for me ane description of Berwickshire in the Merse,
-twa sheet and a-halfe." It is to be found in Sibbald's Reper-
tory of Manuscripts in the Advocates' Library. This, with the
exception of some casual notices taken of it in modern topographi-
cal works, and of the papers which each proprietor may have rela-
tive to his respective domains, comprises all the known sources of
information on the civil history of the parish. The greater part
of the parish, at least on the eastern side, belonged anciently to
the family of Gordon, who gave the right of pasturage to the monks
of Kelso and Melrose, with whom they were ecclesiastically con-
nected. At the beginning of the seventeenth century it seems to
have been divided among a great number of heritors,-no less than
twenty-two having voted themselves, or sent proxies to support
their interest, At the appointment of a minister.
   Land-owners.-At present there are only six land-owners,-
John Spottiswoode, Esq. of Spottiswoode; Lord Blantyre in Wed-
derlie; Earl of Lauderdale in Harelaw; Colonel Home, Bassen-
dean; Christie of Baberton; and Somerville, Evelaw.
   Family of Spottiswoode.-Of these families, the Laird of Spot-
tiswoode is the only large proprietor, and the only one who re-
sides, though he too has hitherto been an absentee turing one-half
of the year. The family of that ilk have had a local habitation
and a name in this district long before the commencement of authen-
tic history, and several of its members have attained the highest
honours in various departments both in church and state. In the


