
110                         WIGTONSHIRE.

droscemum.  On the grassy banks and rocks on the coast, and in
dry barren pastures throughout the parish, we find Ulex nanus,
Jasione montana, Sedum Anglicum; and rarely, Symphytum offi-
cinale, var. flore ferri nigro.  In the bays and ditches, Anagallis
tenella, Helosciadium nodiflorum, Lythrum salicaria.  In a loch
near the boundary of this parish with Leswalt, there is abundance
of Lobelia Dortmanna.  In the cultivated fields and waste grounds,
Lepidium campestre, Stachys arvensis, Lamium intermedium and
incisum, grow in profusion.

                         II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     This parish is singularly deficient in antiquities, records, and
traditions.  The only account of it to be found, except in the Old
Statistical Account, is that contained in Sympson's Description of            ,
Galloway, written in 1684, and published in 1823.     Land-owners.--The chief land-owners, placed in the order of
their valuations are, the Proprietors of the Ship Bank, Glasgow,
who have acquired the lands of West Corswall and Bansalloch;
James Carrick Moore, Esq. of East Corswall; Sir Andrew Agnew
of Lochnaw, Bart., M. P. for the county.  The other land-owners
are, David Ritchie, Esq. of Aires; John Fergusson, Esq. of Cairn-
brook; Charles Wallace, John Forsyth, and Alexander M'Neill,
Esqs., who have acquired parts of the lands of Aires and Knock-
brake; and  Mr James M'Meihan of M'Meihan's croft.
     Parochial Registers.--No parochial register has been preserved
here of an earlier date than 1775.  In that year a register of births
and baptisms, but with many omissions, commenced: a register of
proclamations commenced in 1791, and soon after, a record of
the ordinary business of the kirk-session: a register of burials com-menced in 1796.  Since the beginning of the year 1822, the births
and proclamations, except in the case of Dissenters, have been
pretty regularly entered.  Burials are entered as given in by the
kirk-officer to the session-clerk: and this register, as kept at pre-
sent, appears to be nearly correct.
     Antiquities.--In the northern part of the parish, within a mile of
the sea, stand the remains of Corswall Castle, "once," says Symp-
son, "a considerable house" but when he wrote, "wholly ruinous."
It is a tower, with walls of great thickness, built of irregular stones,
with, mortar, now as hard as the stones, and with small slits for
windows.  It is now not more than 20 feet high.  As the higher
parts of the wall fell down, the stones were taken by the people inthe neighbourhood to build their dikes.  About fifty years ago,


