
76                        BERWICKSHIRE.

of the labouring-classes.-This, however, being a pastoral and hilly
district, it must not be forgotten that there is plenty of amusement
of a different description, and that the sports of the chace may be
both enjoyed and witnessed here at almost all times during the sea-
son.  Notwithstanding the temptations presented by the character
of the country, it is believed that poaching in game does not pre-
vail to an great extent.-In consequence of the parish being long
in a sort of insulated state, and the condition of the people exposed
to no such fluctuations as affect that of a commercial or manufac-
turing population, the character of the parishioners is distinguished
by a primitive simplicity, which is not, however, the simplicity of igno-
rance, but which is more fitly expressed by open-heartedness, and
by an absence of all chicanery and guile. In the earlier history of
the parish, this simplicity was allied with much superstition; and
as the character of the country gave most of the people an interest
in the pursuits of pastoral life, there was no way in which supersti-
tion showed itself so much as in what related to the preservation of
their cattle. In almost every stable, stones which had any natural
hole in them were suspended as amulets; and it was not an uncom-
mon thing to see a herd grazing in a field-with a piece of red tape
and mountain-ash on the left horn of every beast to charm away dis-
ease. Sometimes this spirit of superstition manifested a darker cha-
racter; and an instance is recorded of a horse having been burnt
alive at Flass in 1726, during a great mortality that prevailed
among the cattle. Such remedies have been long ago explod-
ed: and the mind of the people is evidently advancing;-one
proof of which is, that formerly there seem to have been one or
two individuals whom every body regarded as oracles, whereas at
present there is no such monopoly of wisdom. Religious know-
ledge, especially, is universally, diffused, and it is hoped that
not a few apply it to its practical ends.-The houses of the
hinds and labourers consist generally but of one apartment,
which is kept in good order, and would be in most respects com-
fortable, were it not for the want of chimneys. The fire is lighted
on the hearth, and there being no outlet for the smoke but a rude
crevice made in the unceiled roof, the houses are almost constantly
filled with a dense cloud, which hovers at the height of 5 or 6 feet
above the floor. This smoke, proceeding from peat, communi-
cates a smell to the clothes which is strong and offensive to such
as are not accustomed to it.


