
                         KILMORACK.

partially effected. According to the terms of agreement, a regular
rotation of cropping is observed so fir as soil and  season will
permit. The shift is every five years. Tha first year is generally
bare fallow or potatoes ; 2d, wheat or barley ; 3d, grass; 4th
grass; and the 5th, barley or, oats, but most commonly oats: aher
that, the land is dunged before the rotation commences again. The
general duration of leases is fifteen years ; latterly, it has been
increased to nineteen. The forkner of these is very unfavourable
to the tenant, as it affords little time for making improvements.
There are scarcely any enclosures in the parish; and,
with very few exceptions, the farm-buildings are very indifferent.
The deficiency of capital with many, and the want of encouragement
by proprietors, are greatly felt as drawbacks to improvement.

  Quarries, Fisheries, and Manufactures.-The only quarries in
the parish are of red sandstone : it is of inferior description, and
used for common purposes. The only fishery is on the Beauly;
the annual rental of which is L.1600. Many thousand trees are
annually cut down in the Lovat and Chisholm woods. These are
sawn into square timber, planks, deal, staves, sleepers, &c.. for the
home and English markets.
  Navigation.- There are only two small vessels belonging to the
parish. A great number of vessels, however, from other quarters,
trade to the place with coals, lime, &c. : and in return they are
supplied with cargoes of wood.
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market- Town.-The nearest market-town is Inverness, which
is situate at the distance of eleven miles. The 'Means of commnunication
are excellent, in as much as the Parliamentary road
traverses the whole length of the parish, and is kept in such
excellent repair, that it may vie with the roads of more southern
districts.
   The village of Beauly is pleasantly situate at the eastern extremity
of the parish. It is a village of some extent-having its
principal street formed generally of slated houses, and exhibiting
son, well-stocked shops.  A post-office has been established in it
for the last fifty years ; the north mail daily ases through it;
and foot-runers go from it through various parts' of the country.
A sheriff officer constantly resides in it; and there has lately been
established a branch of the North of Scotland Banking Company,
promises to be of great advantage to the agritural and


