
60                         FIFESHIRE.

latter very numerous, and approaching in character and beauty to
the-Mocha-stone. The parks or table land of Mugdrum is an ac-
cumulation of the debris of the old red sandstone and other gravelly
matter, of great depth, and furnishes, in a geological point of view,
some interesting problems as to the causes of its accumulation, at
this particular spot. Peat occurs immediately on the south, where
the surface dips considerably, forming the bed of a loch which has
been lately drained, and in the low fields of Pitcairly, there is
abundance of the same fossil.
   Along the sides and summits of the hills, boulders of the primi-
tive rocks, granite, gneiss, quartz, mica-slate with garnets, and pri-
mitive greenstone, occur in the greatest abundance, and many of
them of the most unwieldy dimensions. Towards their base, and
skirting the southern boundary of the valley, there are various ac-
cumulations of a fine dark-red sand, containing rolled masses from
a few inches to one foot in diameter, which belong for the most
part to the secondary rocks. The materials, in both I cases, have
evidently been brought from the west, and considering that the
heaviest boulders occupy the most elevated position, are we not
warranted to infer the existence of two separate currents, of unequal
magnitude and of different ages, as the agents of transportation?
This remark applies to several of, the adjacent parishes, where si-
milar appearances may be observed.
   A well, which was lately opened here, on the sloping bank be-
neath the town, exhibits the following interesting beds, and affords
the geologist an excellent illustration of the alluvium formation in
this quarter. It is 30 feet in depth, and intersects four distinct
deposits. The first of these, about 5 feet thick, is a rich alluvial
clay, common to all the lowlands in the district: a bed of peat suc-
ceeds, composed of the usual materials which are found in that
substances, with the addition of branches of the Alnus glutinosa, and
Corylus avellana, and many minute seeds belonging, apparently,
from their angular shape, to the Carex tribe of plants. This bed is
about 2 feet thick, and belongs to the great deposit which extends
throughout Strathearn and the lower basin of the Tay. Under
the peat, is a deposit of 2 1/2 feet thick, of extremely fine sand, of a
light-blue color, and very unctuous in its character; it contains
a considerable quanity of magnesia, which may be derived from
the decomposition of stealite, so abundant in the greenstone in the
neighbourhood. But what is most remarkable here is the fact,
that this matter is confined entirely to this single bed-not a par-
                                     3



