
726			AYRSHIRE.

	Inns.--There are four inns, where travellers may be comforta-
bly enough accommodated, and eleven ale or whisky-houses, in
the village, and another at a toll-bar, within a quarter of a mile
of it. The latter class of houses might assuredly, for any benefi-
cial purposes they serve to promote, be dispensed with altogether.
They are in a great measure supported by the hard-working arti-
san and labourer, all of whose expenditure in such haunts of
thoughtlessness and dissipation, cannot otherwise be regarded than
as so much deducted from individual or family comforts. In jus-
tice, however, to the character of at least the native population,
it may be stated that neither hard-drinking nor sottish tippling,
prevails to so great a proportionate extent in Kilbirnie, as in many
of the neighbouring towns.
	Fuel.--There is, as has been already stated, a coal-pit in the
southern extremity of the parish, about a mile and a quarter from
the village. Besides the common kind of coal, it furnishes an-
other called splint, much in demand for the making of gas, and
when the two are used together, they make a quick and cheerful
fire. The former costs at the pit 7d., and the other 1s. per load;
seven and a half of which make an ordinary cart, and ten loads a
ton. A considerable quantity of the coals used here are, however,
brought from the parishes of Beith and Dalry, and cost respectively
on being laid down in the village, 7s. 4d. and 7s. 10d. per ton.
Peats are procured from the high grounds, but are only used in
kindling fires, and cost, including driving, 3s. a cart.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The principal agricultural improvements introduced into the
parish within the last forty years may be thus enumerated:--bet-
ter parish and turnpike roads,--superior accommodation in farmn.
buildings,--an improved system of husbandry, based on an exten-
sive and skilful style of draining,--and, as a consequence of this,
a greater breadth of land under tillage, and much heavier crops
raised. To these it may be added, that waste lands have, to some
extent, been enclosed and irrigated, and others planted; that
greater facilities ar now afforded for the thrashing and disposing
of grain and of the produce of the dairy; and that the breeds of
live-stock have been all of late years much improved. These con-
stitute the most striking variations betwixt the present state of the
parish, and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical
Account.
	The great increase of the village since 1792, as well as the


