
   138                         BANFFSHIRE.

   great demand and high. price:-one at Aucherachan, about the
   centre of the glen, as lately enlarged, gives employment to four men,
   consumes weekly about 160 bushels of malt made from bear, which
   yields 300 gallons of spirits, and about L.45 of duties.  The other
   is at upper Drumin, nearer the Aven.  The proprietor of the former
   has also a distillery in buchan; but he finds, after the most careful
   and repeated trials, that, with the same hands and materials, he can-
   not produce a spirit equal to what he obtains in Glenlivet.  For the
   latter, of which he never knows what it is to have a stock, there is
   a demand to all quarters of the world-its fame as well as quality
   being equal to that of any smuggled whisky.  The chief market,
   however, is among private families, though even spirit-dealers rea-
   dily allow 6d. per gallon more than for the whisky distilled in
   Buchan.
	There are in the parish, 5 meal, 2 barley, I lint, I saw, and 2
   carding or wool mills,-but no public kiln, the grain being usually
   dried on the owner's or a neigbbour's kiln.  The other manufac-
   tures of the parish scarcely deserve notice, being chiefly confined
   to woollen cloths and plaidings made by the small farmers who
   keep sheep.

   			V.-PAROCHIAL Economy.
   Market-towns.-Tomantoul and Charleston of Aberlour, both
   market villages lie at the distance of about three miles, the former
   from the upper, and the latter from the lower end of the parish.
   Grantown and Dufflown are also within reach of many of the inha-
   bitants ; but the nearest market-towns,of any note are Elgin, to
   which there are two carriers who go weekly, and Keith.  The dis-
   tance to each of these places from the church is about twenty
   miles; but a considerable proportion of the supplies of the lower
   district and of almost the whole of Glenlivet comes from Aberdeen,
   with which there is constant intercourse, by means of carriers resi-
   dent in Keith and in the parish, who bring out groceries, cloths,
   hardwares, &c. &c. partly for private families, and partly to be sold
   by the merchants of the parish, who are to be found in all quar-
   ters, and who take back, in return, cheese, butter, eggs, &c.
   	Roads.- The parish is crossed, in the lower end, by four miles of
   toll-road, which is too steep at both extremities, continued from the
   bridge of Aven by about two miles of Parliamentary road, which is
   steep also, but always kept in excellent repair. And in Glenlivet, it is
   crossed by a tolerable county road leading from Dufftown to Tamin-
   toul. The two principal heritors joined, some years ago, in making


