
58		     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

to Alexander Mackay, Esq.; a portion of the estate of John Ander-
son, Esq. of Whitburgh; and Ford, possessed by the late Simon
Fraiser, Esq.
   Antiques.-On the estate of Crichton, and at a small dis-
tance from the church, stands Crichton Castle, famous in Scotch
story and associated with many of its most remarkable events. Sir
Walter Scott, in the Notes to his "Marmion," thus writes regard-
ing this old ruin; "A large ruinous castle on the banks of the Tyne,
built at different times, and with a very different regard to splendour
and accommodation. The oldest part of the building is a narrow
keep or tower, such as formed the mansion of a lesser Scottish
Baron; but so many additions have been made to it, that there is
now a large court-yard, surrounded by buildings of different ages.
The eastern front of the court is raised above portico, and de-
corated with entablatures bearing anchors. All the stones in this
front are cut into diamond facets, the angular projections of which
have an uncommonly rich appearance. The inside of this part of
the building, appears to have contained a gallery of great length
and uncommon elegance. Access was given to it by a magni-
ficent staircase, now quite destroyed. The soffits are ornament-
ed with twining cordage and rosettes, and the whole seems to have
been far more splendid than was usual in Scottish castles."
   Adverting to the antiquity of the castle, Sir Walter, in his
Descriptive Illustrations of the Provincial Antiquities of Scotland,
writes, "the size also and style of the building of the tower on
the north-western angle show that it has been erected before the
rest of the castle. Its antiquity, therefore, will probably draw back
to the fourteenth century."
   We must not omit to mention the dungeon, a horrible vault, on-
ly accessible, by a square hole in the roof, through which captives
were lowered into this den of darkness and oblivion. This pit is
termed the "massie more;" a name of eastern origin, and still ap-
plied to the dungeons of the ancient Moorish castles in Spain.
   The lofty massive and solid architecture impresses the specta-
tor with a sense rather of awe than of beauty. Near the castle still
stands the ruins of what appears to have been a chapel.
   Upon the property of Longfaugh, and forming now a part of the
Crichton estate there are very perfect remains of a Roman camp.
It stand upon a rising ground, commanding one of the finest and
most extensive views which the country can produce; is of a cir-
cular forms, and the entrenchments entirely marked out all around.
                                   4


