
			PARISH OF MUTHILL.

	PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH & STIRLING.

		THE REV. JAMES WALKER, MINISTER.


	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE author of the last Account of this parish says,
that, " as the names of almost all places around are Gaelic, and ge-
nerally descriptive of their local situation, this parish probably takes
its name from an Erse word of somewhat a similar sound, which sig-
nifies the north side of the Hill." We prefer to derive the name
from the Gaelic word, M\o3dail, compounded of Mod, signifying a
court of justice, and Dail, a field, bounded by river and hill; and
accordingly, that part of the parish lying near to the village pre-
sents something of a delightful field or valley, limited by river and
hill. The name was formerly spelled Mothil, as appears from a
brief history of the Culdees, selected by Keith, wherein it is said,
that One Michael was parson of Mothil, and Macbeath was his
chaplain. In the history of Scotland, Mote-hill and Moothill are
often mentioned. On the eminences so named the Druids sate,
and delivered their decrees and their addresses to the people.
It is said by Skene, de Verb. Signific. " Quhen Malcolm the Se-
cond gave all the lands to the barrones of the realm, he retained
to himself Montem placiti de Scona, the ' mute hill of Scone,'
where he might hold his courts, and do justice to his subjects, in
deciding their pleas and controversies." Chalmers, in his Caledo-
nia, observes, there was a Moothill in every district of North Bri-
tain, during an age when justice was administered to a coarse peo-
ple in the open air. In this parish accordingly, there is still a
place in the village, called " the Ward," where the chief of the
strath distributed justice to his vassals. From this, Muthill would
appear to have been held in some esteem, and it is certain that,
previous to the Reformation, it was the residence of the Dean of
Dunblane, and afterwards the seat of the presbytery, which now
meets in Auchterarder.
   Boundaries and Topographical Appearances.- Muthill is one of
the most extensive parishes in Strathearn. Upon a general calcu-

