
26                         KINCARDINESHIRE.

of Palladius at Fordoun in 994.  Near this village you see the
small property of Balnakettle, belonging to Lord Arbuthnott,
where on a certain field much native iron has been found, of which
not only coarse articles, but also knives and razors have been ma-
nufactured. It still, however, remains an unsolved problem, bow
the iron came there. The apparently neat and ancient mansion
of Balbegno, the property of the Honourable D. Ogilvie of Clova.
Beyond this you see the thriving woods surrounding the splendid
mansion of the Burn, built by Lord Adam Gordon, who in 1780
purchased the property, consisting of 300 acres, for L. 300, the
whole rental of which was then only L.5, 11s. 1 1/3d. and high
enough, being one continued barren surface of rock, gravel, and
heath, without the vestige of a tree or shrub within its boundaries.
But with such skill, rapidity, and success, did his Lordship culti-
vate and improve, that one of the rooms in the house of the Burn,
was, in 1804, floored with larch which he had planted, on this bar-
ren spot, 1782. And now the whole has become an Arcadian
grove. From this, descending along the bank of the North
Esk, the boundary between Angus and Mearns, you see the
woods of Arnhall, the property of--Shand, Esq. who is like-
wise proprietor of the Burn: the extensive woods of Inglismal-
die, where stands an ancient mansion, a seat of the Earl of Kintore,
long inhabited by his ancestor, Baron Falconer of Halkerton.
Here you see the North Esk in his silvery stream beautifully
meandering towards the German Ocean.
   Moving your eye now towards your own station, you see just
below you the neat village and burgh of barony, Laurencekirk,
which was begun by Lord Gardenston in 1765, and has now a
population of 1391. It is beautifully surrounded by plantations
and numerous hedge-rows. From it, about half-way up to your
station, stands the handsome mansion of Johnston Lodge, the
seat of A. Gibbon, Esq., to whom the village and surrounding lands
belong.
   M   Now reversing your position, and directing your eye towards
the north-east, you see beyond this parish, the gently undulating
hills of the parish of Arbuthnott. The first mansion there which
catches your eye is Kair, the seat of-- Kinloch, Esq. From
it, straight towards the sea, you have a partial view of Arbuthnott
House, the seat of the Right Honourable Viscount Arbuthnott,
the very patriotic Lord Lieutenant and chief Sheriff of Kincar-
dineshire. Immediately below this, you see the high point of
				4


