
                             ARDCHATTAN.                        499


	milies as a place of interment.  It is contiguous to Dun-mac-
        Sniachan, or the ancient Selma ; but, with the exception of the
	extensive and delightful view from it, there is nothing now about
	it deserving of particular notice.
	    It is obvious to remark, that our remote ancestors were more
	zealous and successful in planting churches in the Highlands than
	their successors, though they possess an incomparably purer faith.
	These churches and chapels appear to have been in the ratio of
	more than two to one to those of the present day, while the po-
	pulation is much greater.
	     Barcaldine Castle.-This baronial residence is the only remnant
	of feudal times among us ; nor has it much to boast of either as
	regards its design or its architecture.  It was built in the latter
	part of the fifteenth century by Sir Duncan Campbell, Knight of
	Glenorchy (Donnachadh dubh,) who is said to have built, or at
	least to have been the possessor, of seven castles, and is therefore
	distinguished by the cognomen of 11 Duncan of the seven castles"
	(Donnachadh nan seachd Caisteil.) Unlike the other castles in
	the country, which are built on rocks on the margin of our seas or
	inland lakes, Barcaldine Castle stands on a rising ground a short
	distance from the sea, on the neck of land which divides Loch
	Creran from the bay of Ardmucknisb, and close by the road which
	leads from Shian Ferry to Connell.  The family removed from
	Barealdine to the present mansion-house more than a century ago,
	and the castle has in consequence been allowed to fall into decay.
	" But the views from it and near it," says Dr MacCulloch, " are
	magnificent, and it is, with all its deformity, an important and in-
	teresting object in the picture.  The scenery here,"(betwixt Connell
	and Shian,) "is beautiful; but everything is beautiful between
	these two ferries.  These are but five miles, but it is a day's jour-
	ney for a wise man.  The castle is the only one of this particular
	style which I have seen in the remote Highlands; but, with its
	freshness and its living trees, it carries us back to the habits of
	past times with more vividness than most of those buildings that
	I have met with."
	   Druidical temples or circles, formed of large granite stones
	placed on end, are found on plains in all parts of the parish, and
	in different states of entireness.  In some of these there are two.
	or more concentric circles, with an entrance, the stones on each-
	side of which are of larger dimensions; but in man instances the
	stones have been removed to build houses or fences, and the circle

