
                         NEILSTON.                 327

the great facility of his machine in the backing-off motion. On
seeing the simplicity and efficacy of the contrivance, and the faci-
lity of Robertson's "self-actor," Mr Smith was struck with ad-
miration,-what all his ingenuity had not contrived was there. A
proposal for combining the powers of the two machines was made,
and a copartnery entered into by Messrs Smith and Orr for that pur-
pose. Hence, by the ingenuity of Mr Smith combining the two, he
has made a perfect self-acting mule, which will, in that trade, carry
his name with that of Robertson's down to posterity. Great advan-
tages will be derived from this machine, by the trade. By it, thd
full-grown operative is dispensed with, and only children required
for piecing up the threads, who are now paid one-half more than
formerly. Another advantage is obtained, by the mule producing
about one-fifth more yarn, whilst the saving upon the wages will
be about two-thirds. A third advantage it gives is, that it brings
the workers more under the control of the master. The vexation
given to the masters by the union of the workers was great. By these
unions, under the plea of protecting their trade, they annoyed and
distressed their employers time after time, with insolent and un-
warranted interferences and restrictions. It was to get rid of this
annoyance, by a "self-actor," that the masters were led to make so
many attempts to dispense with their services altogether. This
they have now accomplished,-the service of children only is re-
quired. This is generally the result of all combinations; they ul-
timately injure themselves. Another important result of this "self-
actor" is, that by diminishing the wages two-thirds, it will enable
the spinners of Great Britain to compete succesfully in the foreign
market with the cheap labour of the continent. These advantages
must commend this machine to the trade, which, from its simpli-
city, is not liable to breakage, nor to much tear and wear, nor to
much expense in the repair.
  Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, Alexander Spiers,
Esq. of Elderslie; Colonel Mure, of Caldwell; The Right Honour-
able the Earl of Glasgow; Sir Robert Pollock of that ilk; Colonel
Fulton; John Graham, Edq. of Craigallian and Fereneze; James
Dunlop, Esq. of Arthurlie; William Craig, Esq. of kirkton;
Peter Sawers, Esq. of Craigingal; and Captain Anderson of
Broadlie.
  TABLE OF PROPERTY of the whole Heritors of Neilston,
     great and small, with their valued rents respectively.

Glanderston and Neilston side; Caldwell part of Neilston side; Neil-
  stou side; four different parts of Comore; Glandston dike; part
    RENFREW.                       Y


