
                              ALLOA.                        29

system with economy. By this last system, from an eighth to a
ninth of the coal is lost; by the other system, the coal left pil-
lars is from a fourth to a third of the whole.
   Inflammable air, the carburetted hydrogen of the chemists, was
never found in these mines, which is no common blessing to the
miners. Fixed air or carbonic acid gas, however, is abundant, and
has been the cause of loss of life. The miners name it styth,
black-damp, choke-damp, and also the pease-bloom damp, con-
ceiving that it is generated by the blossoms of the field pease and
beans, or by the flowers of the wild mustard, which they name
skelloch. The cause of this supposition is, that, during the heat
of summer, when these plants are blooming, the air in the mines
is commonly very bad, whereas the sultry air is the cause.
   Until within these thirty years all the coals in this parish were
brought from the wall face or foreheads of the mines by women,
married and unmarried, old and young; these were known by the
name of bearers. When the pit was deep, they brought the coals
to the pit-bottom; but when the pits did not exceed 18 fathoms,
they carried the coals to the bank at the pit-head by a stair.  A
stout woman carried in general from 100 to 200 weight, and, in a
trial of strength, 300 weight imperial.
    Of all the slavery under heaven's canopy (the African slavery
as it was in the West Indies excepted), this was the most cruel
and oppressive, both as regards body and mind, and wberever this
system exists, the condition of the collier and his family is most
lamentable,-it is a bar to any improvement or comfort whatever.
As the collieries in this parish extended, this oppressive slavery
became evidently worse, and the late most worthy and excellent
John Francis Earl of Mar, with a benevolence and philanthropy
which does honour to his memory, ordered this system to be com-
pletely abolished. The evils attending this system, may in some
degree, be estimated, when it is stated, that, when his Lordship
put an end to it, 50,000 tons of coals were raised at his collieries
annualy, every ounce of which was carried by women. Iron rail-
ways and trammers, with four-wbeeled carriages, are now substi-
tuted, to the great comfort of the miner, his family, and all con-
cerned with the collieries.
   The rotatory steam-engine is used for drawing the coals up the
pits, and this can be accomplished with any velocity required.
    The coals a carried from the pits to the harbour of Allea, by


