			    GLASGOW.	                      151

is white, and the rest of the cloth dyed. The proper use of mor-
dants lies at the foundation of the dyer's art.	The nature of mor-
dants is thus explained by Dr Thomson:
	" The term mordant is applied by dyets to certain substances
with which the cloth to be dyed must be impregnated, otherwise
the colouriing matters would not adhere to the cloth, but would be
removed by washing. Thus the red colour given to cotton by
madder would not be fixed, unless the cloth were previously steep-
ed in a solution of a salt alumina. It has been ascertained that
the cloth has the property of decomposing the salt of alumina, and
of combining with and retaining a portion of alumina. The red co-
louring principle of the madder has an affinity for this alumina,
and combines with it. The consequence is, that the alumina be-
ing firmly retained by the cloth, and the colouring matter by the
alumina, the dye becomes fast, or cannot be removed by washing
the cloth with water, even by the assistance of soap, though simple
water is sufficient to remove the red colouridg matter from the cloth,
unless the alum mordant (from the Latin word mordeo, to bite,)
was applied to these substances by the French writers on dyeing,
from a notion entertained by them, that the action of the mordants
was mechanical; that they were of a corrosive or biting nature,
and served merely to open pores in the fibres of the cloth, into
which the colouring matter might insinuate itself. And after the
inaccuracy of this notion was discovered, and the real use of mor-
dants ascertained, the term was still continued as sufficiently ap-
propriate, or rather, a proper name without any allusion to its ori-
ginal signification. The term mordant, however, is not limited to
those substances merely which serve, like alumina, to fix the co-
lours. It is applied also to certain substances which have the pro-
perty of altering the shade of colour, or of brightening the colour
as it is called." *
	The art of dyeing the fine red, called Turkey or Adrianople
red, on thread or yarn, has long been practised in the Levant, and
subsequently in Europe. About forty years ago, it was introduced
in Glasgow by M. Papillon, a Frenchman, who established a dye-
work with Mr George Macintosh, and this city has ever since been
famous for dyeing Turkey red.
	The art of giving this colour to cloth was unknown till the year
1810, when it was first practised by M. Daniel Koechlin of Mulhau-
sen, in Alsace. The discovery, which has immortalized the name of

<FOOTNOTE>Encyclopedia Britannica, 7th edition, article, " Dyeing."


