
   192				ELIGNSHIRE.

   over the Divie and the Derbach, about sixty. yardq above their
   junction, were swept completely away. These devastations, how-
   ever, were, in 1831, fully remedied by a very handsome bridge
   built across the Divie, near the church, on the new turnpike road;
   and by one built at the same time over the Dorbach, in a very ro.
   mantic situation, about half a mile above where the old one stood,
   on the parish road already mentioned, by the bridge of Dalt-lich.
   Both of these bridges have their arches built of granite, and spring-
   ing from rocks on each side.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated on the right bank
   of the Divie, not, as is marked on almost every map the writer has
   seen, to the east of the Knock, but two miles nearly due north of
   it; and is as central and convenient as might be for the general
   population, though at the distance of nine and a-half miles from
   one extremity of the parish. It was built in 1741, was new seated,
   and underwent some-other improvements in 1813. Though com-
   fortable enough within, it is of a very mean exterior, and much
   requires that something should be done at once to preserve the
   building, and to improve its appearance. It is seated to contain
   500 persons, which is sufficient for the population, especially as
   those residing in the Darnaway, or Conicaval district, from their
   great distance, are unable regularly to attend their parish church.
   The number of communicants in the parish is about 140, sixty
   of whom are male heads of families; and from twent to thirty
   from other parishes, join them in partaking of the ordinance of
   the supper, at its annual dispensation in the parish.
     The manse was built in 1823. It is a neat and handsome-
   looking building,in the cottage style, and in good repair. It is sup-
   plied with excellent water, conveyed by leaden pipes from a spring
   160 yards distant; and which cost the last incumbent upwards of
   L.40. The glebe, including the garden, shrubberies, and the site
   of the manse, and offices, contains ten imperial acres, and is worth
   L. 12 per annutn. The stipend is L.123, 6s. 10d.; 46 bolls, 2
   pecks, 1/2 lippie of barley; 4 bolls, 1 firlot, 2 pecks, 4 lipple of
   oatmeal; 1 firlot, 1 lippie of oats, according to the old mea-
   sure of the county. The average annual amount of money and
   vietnal stipend is about L.185.
     The number of families in the parish belonging, to the Establish-
   ed church is, 269; number of Seceding or Dissenting families, 17;
   Episcopalian, 1. With the exception of only two of the families in
   the parish belonging to Seceding or Disseuting congregations, there


