
24	                  BANFFSHIRE.

Gordon of Ardmellie was chancellor, gave in a verdict finding the
pannels to be "fylled, culpable,and convick" of the crimes lybel-

off, but they would not, and told that Peter Broune wes coming to take up quarters
with them, and that he came and stayed yr with his company for a month, and took
nothing but peats from him, and, yt yr wes sixteen of them in number, and that Peter
Broune went sometymes to Elchies and played on the viol; and deponed that they
colf milk and cheese with yr oune money, and no more but ane leg of mutton, which
his, wife saw them buy, and knowes not yt M'Pherson wes yr, but yt he wes ane
night in his house at yt tyme, and drank with the rest and danced all night, and de-
pones, tbat the door wes made open, but kuowes not what way, and depones that they
were sometimes in Jocksleys. in kills,'but knowes not how many of them were yr,
nor how long they stayed. (Signed) JOHN SHAND."
  Lachlan M'Pherson, in Delmanny, depones- " That he was pnt when the chest
was sealled, but the seals wes not rufle, but he heard that they had taken out the
back of the chest, and put it in again." - "heared Isobel Gall (one ofthe gipsies) would
have been sent affand camo"reel loadene with money."
  (This deposition, and some parts of the others, cannot be fully understood for want
of the indietment, which is lost.)
   Patrcik Reid, tacksman of the excise, "On the 7th of Septer 1698, he happened to
be at Keith, and saw about the number of twenty-seavene men in armes, with a piper,
and, as be heard, Peter Broune was an the head of them, and M'Pherson on the rier,
it being on the Saturday after St Ruffus fair, and now depones he knew Peter Broune
wes on yr head, and that James Robertson told him that they were these called the
Egiptians."
  John Fraser in Cuperbill-"One day they (the Egyptians) being in Keith, and as
they went home to Hillockhead, yr came a boy to him, and told him that his cott
was broken, so he went up to see, and fand it was so, and after telling of his sheep, he
missed one, so the next morning a woman neer by told him that the Egiptians had
taken his sheep, and be went und dackered yr house, and could not find it, but saw
some holes yrin that did not look weel, and after direct inquirie he went to the corn-
yard, and yr found some of the Egiptians with bloodie pocks, his spainiall dog being
with him, found the intrails of the wedder near to that place, in ane muir; at last
Alexr. Phyn of Achanasie, under whom they resided at yt time, came to the said John
Fraser, and comuned with him anent payt. of his wedder, and did accordinglie pay
him for the same, or at least promised, and further told him that he bad granted the
favour of yt house to Patrick Broune, and declaired, unless he were payed they should
not reside any longer in yt place, but declares that he did not see any of the pannals
yr; and that is truth, &c."
  Archbald Grant in Maynes of Achluncert,-" Some Brounes and oyra came and
took possne of some pairt  of Auchluncart, and that he dispossessed them, and that
he heard a rumor of Patrick Broune's having Orton's cloak. and that yr was a man
in Achluncart that had a bile, whom M'Pherson took in hand to cure, and took away
two mairs from the man, and pretended yr was a paction betwixt the man and him,
and keeped one of the mairs, and the deponent took the oyr from him."
  George Ogilvie in Keith,-- " hes seen boyes in mercats yt were called yr ser-
vants."
  William Robertson--"sead about twelive men with a pyper, came into Keith at St
Ruffus fair wes two year, wherof the pannals were a pairt,"--"that M'Pherson
came to his house and spilt his ale, and stobbed the bed seeking the deponent, and that
be wes forced to flie to Kinminintie's  who is one of the assysers, who knowes the truth,
for refuges, for whom Kimminintie purchased a protectione from my Lord Seafield,
 Patrick Grant in Suter Croff-" hes seen ordinarily 5 or 6 men together in armes,
whereof Peter Broune and M'Pherson were a pairt"--" hes seen little boys with
them, yt were thought to be yr purse-cutters"--" and that the pannalls  are said to be
of mala fama, and that he heard that Edintore gott his money again, and that con-
trair to his desire James M'Pherson took possne of his chamber, and was forced to
put oyrs out of yr toom for them."
  Peter Dunean in Pitlurg--" that he bought a white plaid and payed yrfor, and

						4


