
                         ERSKINE.                               511

their number Octavians. He was afterwards promoted to the of-
fice of Lord High Treasurer, and was one of the commissioners
for a treaty of union with England in 1604, (which did not take
effect), and in 1606 was created a Peer of Parliament by the title
of Lord Blantyre. He was grandfather of Frances Teresa Stuart,
wife of Charles,  Duke of Richmond and Lennox, (the last male
descendant of the ancient Dukes of that title), and also of Sophia,
Stuart, who, by her husband, the Honourable Henry Bulkeley,
(fourth son of Thomas Viscount Bulkeley), was mother of Anne,
second wife of James, Duke of Berwick, from whom, by this lady,
is descended the Ducal house of Fitzjames in France. The Du-
chess of Richmond and Lennox survived her husband, and, dying
in 1702, bequeathed her fortune to Walter, eldest son of Alexan
der fifth Lord Blantyre, under an injunction that the lands to be
bought with it should be called ''Lennoxlove,'' which was accord-
ingly carried into effect with respect to the lands and castle of
Lethington (or Leddington), in the county of Haddington, which
formerly belonged to the Lauderdale family.
   The late Robert Walter, Lord Blantyre, was accidentally shot
during the Revolution at Brussels, in September 1830. He was
Major-General in the British army, and served in Egypt, and in
the expeditions to Holland and Copenhagen, and commanded the
second battalion of the 42d Regiment for several years, during the
campaigns in Portugal and Spain, under the Duke of Wellington,
He was Lord Lieutenant of Renfrewshire, and was so highly es-
teemed by the gentlemen of that county, that, shortly after his
death, they erected, on a conspicuous situation on his estate of
Erskine, an elegant column in the form of an obelisk, as a tribute
of respect to his memory.
   His son, Charles, the present Lord Blantyre, has lately come
of age; and, after having served for a few years in the Grenadier
Guards, has retired from the army, and is residing upon his
estate.
   Lieutenant-General Darroch of Drums is representative of the
family of Darrochs of Gourock, whose early patronymic was M'Ili
riach. When the estate of Drums was offered for sale on the
death of the late Thomas King, Esq. of Millbank and Drums,it
was bought for the father of the present proprietor, and immedi-
ately entailed, as was also the estate of Barscube, formerly belong-
ing to Mrs Aytoun of Inchdarnie. The mansion-house at Drums


