
298                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

1715." The ancient name is now in disuse, having entirely given
place to the modern one of Marykirk.
  Extent.-Marykirk parish is situated at the southern extremity
of the extensive plain known by the name of the "How of the
Mearns." Its extreme breadth from east to west is about 7 miles;
from north to south about 6; and its superficial contents are 15
square miles.
  Boundaries.-This parish is of very irregular form, It is
bounded on the south by the river North Esk, which is here the
boundary between the sbires of Forfar and Kincardine, and conti-
nues to be so till it falls into the sea, about five miles below the
most southerly point of this parish; on the north and north-west,
it is bounded by the parishes of Fordoun and Fettercairn; on the
east and north-east, by the parishes of St Cyrus, Garvock, and
Laurencekirk.
  Topographical Appearances.-The parish, in its aspect, hs level,
sloping gently from the east, north-east, and north towards the
North Esk. The only rising grounds which deserve the name of
hills are those of Kirkton-hill and Balmaleedie. They run nearly
parallel, in a north-easterly direction, for about two miles, from a
little above the village of Marykirk to the Wide-open, a large gap
or cut in the ridge. By it they are separated from the hill of Gar-
vock, of which, with this interruption, they may be said to be a
continuation. They terminate, in their southern extremities, to-
wards the village, in declivities sloping towards the North Esk.
	The climate is fully equal, and probably superior, to that of
some of the surrounding parishes.
  Springs.-The parish is, in all parts, well supplied with
water, and we are not aware of any inconvenience having
been felt from the scarcity of this necessary of life, except in
the summer of 1826, when the extraordinary drought of the sea-
son dried up some of the brooks, obliging the farmers, in one or
two districts, to drive their cattle to water to some distance from
the farms. In the village of Marykirk, there are three springs,
which supply the inhabitants with water, besides a small brook that
flows through it, called, in ancient writings, "The burn of Aber-
luthnot." Of the three springs, the one known by the name of
"the Lady Banks Wdll" is the best. By the side of the brook,
a little above the village, there is a chalybeate spring, which was
enclosed and covered over some years ago by the proprietor: but
the work has since been allowed to become ruinos. The spring
,ykirk, there are three springsi,
which supply the inhabitants with water, besides a small brook that
flows through it, called, in ancient writings 11 The burn of Aber-
luthnot." Of the three springs, the one known by the name of
SC the Lady Banks ;Well" is the best.  By the side of the brook,
it little above the village, there is a chalybeate spring, which was
enclosed ant covered over some years ago by the proprietor; but
the-wwkbassivw,beenallowedtobecomeruinous.  Thespring


