
     Statistical Account

works.  The measure is the same with that by which the
lime is sold; and one measure of coals is hardly sufficient
to burn three of lime.  The quantity of lime commonly
laid upon an acre is from 60 to 80 measures, and there are
from 60,000 to 70,000 measures sold annually at the lime-
works.  There is another lime-work in the neighbourhood,
which was begun about seven years ago by Sir James
Kirkpatrick, and at which a very considerable quantity of
lime is sold; but, notwithstanding this, the demand at
Closeburn has not in the least decreased; a strong proof of
the progressive improvement of the country.  Indeed,
within the space of 20 years, the country has been made to
put on quite a new face; for dirty croft, and poor outfield
crops of gray oats, and small bear, or big, rich crops of ex-
cellent oats, barley, wheat and pease, potatoes, turnips,
and sown; grasses, are almost every where to be seen.
Ground, which formerly paid not more than 2 s. or 2 s.
6 d. the acre, now pays 15 s. and some of it is even subset,
at a guinea.  The rents of the farms in general are more
than doubled, yet the tenants live incomparably better than
when they paid not the half of the present rents.  Closeburn,
from being in a great measure a bleak and barren, has be-
come a pleasant and fertile spot in itself, and affords ample
means of improvements to all the neighbouring country.
All this has been brought about by the enterprising spirit
of one man, whose name will long be revered in this
country*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Labour-The price of labour has increased with the improve-
ment of the country.  Twenty years ago, L. 4 a-year were thought good
wages for a labouring man kept in the house, and half as much for a wo-
man.   A labourer's wages, without his victuals, were in the long day
half a merk, or 6 d. 8 12ths, and in the short day 5 d.; but now the
wages of a labouring man in the house are from 6 to 8 guineas in the
year, and of a woman from 2 1/2 to 4 guineas.   A labourer's wages with-


