
                            KIRKCALDY.                        745

have existed previous to 1809. A plan of the burgh was drawn that
year by Mr Moore of Abbotsball, preparatory to application be-
ing made to Parliament for a police bill. This map is still pre-
served. Another was made by Mr Wood of Edinburgh in 1824,
which is also in possession of the Town-Council. Mr John Sang,
civil-engineer, Kirkcaldy, executed a plan of the burgh, including
the whole of the royalty, in 1840, when the assessment under the
new Prison Act was to be levied on the county: one copy of
which was deposited with the commissioners of supply, and ano-
ther with the town-council of Kirkcaldy.*
   Eminent Characters.-Henry Balnaves; of Halhill, who acted a
conspicuous part in the reigns of James V. and his daughter Mary,
was the son of poor parents in the town of Kirkcaldy. After
attending school at St Andrews, he went to Cologne, and prosecut-
ed his studies. While receiving a liberal education there, he was
at the same time instructed in the principles of the Protestant
faith. After his return to Scotland he was appointed a Lord of
Session in 1538 ; and had a seat in several Parliaments. He took
an active part in forwarding the work of the Reformation, and
oftener than once suffered imprisonment for his zeal. He lent
valuable assistance, when he was in parliament, to the passing of
an act, that the enemies of the reformation violently opposed, for
allowing "baith the New Testament and the Auld," to be trans-
lated into the vulgar tongue and read. The sixth General Assem-
ly of the Church of Scotland, appointed him, along with others,
in 1563 " to advise the Booke of Discipline (viz. the first Book),
diligentlie, consider the contents thereof, noting tbeir judgments in
writing, and to report to the nixt General Assemblie of the kirk."
   Mr George Gillespie and his brother Patrick, whose names
are intimately associated with the history of the Church of Scot-
land, during the period immediately subsequent to the second Re-
formation, were sons of Mr John Gillespie, second minister of
the collegiate charge of Kirkcaldy. George was born in 1613,
and Patrick in 1617. George was sent to college as the presby-
tery's bursar, and was supported by contributions from the kirk-
sessions, as appears from the following extract from Kirkcaldy ses-
sion records: November 1629, " The Fession are content that

<FOOTNOTE>These two copies were legalised in following form:
   Cupar, 27th October 1840. This is one of the copies of the plan of the boundary
of the royal burgh of Kirkcaldy, produced to the general meeting of the commission-
ers of supply for the county of Fife held here this day, along with the agreement be-
twixt the magistrates of Kirkcaldy and a committee of the commissioners of supply,
fixing the boundaries of the said burgh, and which is referred to in their minute of
this date.
   (Signed) G. Anderson, Provost.    O. Tyndall Bruce, Convener of the County.


