

              218                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.

              but none of them require to be individually noticed in this general
              Report.
                 Islands.-The islands belonging to Sutherland are all situate
              along the west and northern coasts.  They are very numerous,
              and some of them are inhabited.  Handa, on the Edderachillis
              coast, is the most remarkable of these islands, from the altitude of
              its cliffs at one side, and as being the resort of innumerable sea-
              fowl during the hatching season.  The Stack and Skerries, two
              remarkable islands, or rather lofty and narrow rocks, are the most
              distant from shore, of the Sutherland islands, and are resorted to
              in the summer months, by some of the Sutherland tenants, in quest
              of seals, which are found there in great numbers.
                 Rural Affairs.-The proportion of arable land is very small,
              compared with the extent of pasture ranges in the county; but
              the system of agriculture pursued by the tenants of arable farms
              is not excelled in any part of the more favoured districts in Scot-
              land.  The small tenants rear black-cattle, which are generally
              sold when young, and, being sound and improving animals, are
              eagerly purchased for the south country feeders.  Cheviot sheep
              are the staple produce of the county; and it is computed, that the
              permanent stock maintained in Sutherland is not under 170,000.
                 Roads.-Before the year 1811 there were no formed roads
              within the county; but in that year, the first Parliamentary roads
              were completed, and since then the rapidity with which the whole
              county has been opened up, and intersected by leading lines and
              cross-branches of excellent roads, and all necessary bridges, is one
              of the most remarkable events in the annals of northern improve-
              ments. The Parliamentary Commissioners effected a great deal
              by the erection of Bonar Bridge, which opens the communication
              into the county, and across the Dornoch Frith, without being
              compelled to encounter the always disagreeable, and often preca-
              rious passage of a ferry; and by the completion of a road from
              Bonar Bridge to the Ord, as the great and leading road from the
              south into Caithness; and also by the completion of another road
              from Bonar Bridge to Tongue on the north coast.  Still, with
              the exception of these two roads, the county was as completely
              shut out from the rest of the empire as formerly; but at this junc-
              ture, a new era for tbe completion and maintenance of all neces-
              sary lines of road, commenced to the county; and the untired
              exertions, the liberality and patriotism of the late Duke of Suther-
              land, effected this mighty and lasting advantage for the county of


