
236                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

been liberally attended to, so far as tbe contracted room would
admit.
	The manse was built a little more than a century ago, and soon
after the accession of the present incumbent, received considerable
repairs, with the addition of two rooms.
	The glebe contains somewhat more than thirty-six acres, but
the land is only of moderate quality, though it has been much im-
proved within the last thirty years by enclosing, draining, and
cultivation. It might let at present on lease for 30s. or 35s. an
acre.
	The whole teinds of the parish were granted to the living, by
decreet of the Court of Session in 1821,--amounting to L.262,
18s. 10 4/20 d.
	Except five or six individuals, the whole inhabitants of the pa
belong to the Established church, and their attendance is in gene-
ral constant and exemplary. There are in the parish between 300
and 400 regular communicants.
	Education.--There are two parochial schools in the parish, be-
sides one or two schools taught occasionally by private individuals,
on a very small scale. The chief parochial school is in a very
thriving condition, and, when most numerously attended, contains
about 200 scholars. The average number may be about 150.  Be-
sides the ordinary branches, the classics and French, as well as
geography, mensuration, &c. are successfully taught in this aca-
demy. The other parochial school, which is established in the
more remote and almost detached district of Locharwoods, has for
some time been in a languishing condition, owing to the precarious
health of the teacher. He has, however, of late procured an as-
sistant, whose instructions between 20 and 30 scholars at present





























attend.
	The salary of the principal schoolmaster was fixed by the heri-
tors and minister (when convened under the statute after the strik-
ing of the average) at the value of two chalders, being L.34, 4s. 5d.
and that of the other schoolmaster, at the value of half a chalder,
being L.8, 11s. 1 1/4d.; but, as the legality of this latter decision has
been justly disputed, the question as to the power of altering it is
at present under consideration.
	The school fees were, in the year 1803, settled by the presby-
tery of Annan, for all the schools within its bounds, as follows, viz.
For English reading, per quarter, 2s.; for reading and writing, 2s.
6d.; for reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3s. 6d.; for the classics,


