204                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

external decorations, forms a marked contrast to the rest of the
parish. It is delightfully situated on a rising ground, about a mile
and a half from the sea, a view of which it commands; to the east,
North Berwick Law, the Bass, and the Island of May, add great-
ly to the beauty and interest of the scene; while the venerable
castle, on a rock of considerable elevation, at the eastern extrem-
ty of the village, overhanging with its "ivy-mantled towers" a
beautiful flower garden, and some of the finest evergreens in Scot-
land, together with the fine open green in the centre of the village,
which is composed of neat, and in some cases, singularly tasteful
cottages, ornamented with shrubs and flower plats, all combine to
form one of the loveliest villages in the country. The coast, about
eight miles in extent, is, towards the east, flat and sandy; advan-
cing westwards it becomes rocky, and, in some places, almost bold -
further west, where it joins Aberlady parish, we have again a fine
sandy beach, beneath which is a strong clay. Some parts of these
sands are unsafe, from which serious accidents have resulted.
Half way between Gulane and Dirleton, the links assume. a pecu-
liar and interesting aspect, starting off from almost' a dead level
into a singularly irregular form, presenting quite the appearance
of a mountainous district in miniature. I do not know whether
this be owing wholly to the drifting of the sand, or in some measure
to the form of the subjacent rocks. There are three islands be-
longing to the parish; Fidrey or Fetheray, Ibris or Eyebrochy,
and the Lamb. The first of these is situated directly opposite the
village of Dirleton, about a mile from the shore. Its appearance
is highly picturesque, the western part is of considerable elevation,
and is united by an isthmus to the eastern part, which rises in a
castellated form, and is called the Castle of Tarbet. Formerly it
was tenanted by rabbits, which have been supplanted by a colony
of rats, brought thither by a vessel that was wrecked on the island.
   Climate.-The climate is found to he peculiarly trying for those
affected with pulmonary complaints. Agues and nervous diseases,
according to the last Statistical Report of 1792, were common at
that time. The former are. now unknown, which is to be ascribed to
the draining of the land.
   Hydrography.-The Frith of Forth, as already stated, is the
northern boundary of the parish. There are, besides, two small
sluggish streams- differing little from large drains, the Millburn and
the Peffer, which is believed to signify "the slow running river.
The latter is the southern boundary of the parish; it rises at Cong-


