
                  DURNESS.                                97

mantle and well-spun blue gown of the fair sex is superseded
by the print and Merinos of modern times. The head is in many
cases adorned or covered by a gauze or muslin cap and now and
then by a straw-bonnet. Umbrellas are more numerous than great-
coats or mantles. It is questionable whether, with these changes,
the morals or comforts of the people have been improved.
     It could not be expected that a people who had led chiefly a pas-
toral life were to be soon reconciled to the change which placed them
in crowded hamlets upon the shore. The manufacture of kelp,
berring-fishing road-making, and other occasional sources of in-
dustry during the summer and harvest, have, however, called out
the latent industry of the young; but, as there has been, of late
years, no encouragement to enter the army, and as they have no
opportunities of learning trades at home, they are tempted to mar-
ry too young; they then reside for some years with their parents,
and divide the lot of two or three acres, chiefly reclaimed from moor,
at the very time it promised to support the family  with bread and
potatoes. Thus, the wants of a new and rising family are to be pro-
vided for, and poverty and a high rate of population are kept up.
     The habits of dram-drinking, acquired by both sexes in their an-
usual migrations to Caithness, and in the course of their mixing to-
gether in crowded lodgings there, have tended to deteriorate the mo-
rals of the people considerably. Their attendance on religious ordi-
nances, however, is pretty regular; and in most cases, the evening
and morning devotions of the family are offered up. On the Sabbath
evenings, the Shorter Catechism is taught; or they congregate to-
gether in some commodious house in the township, to repeat the
Shorter Catechism and read the Scriptures. These meetings are
always commenced and concluded by prayer and praise, and often
tend to spread a moral and religious influence over the hamlet.
Smuggling, foreign and domestic, is now totally suppressed.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.

    Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The whole of this parish,
(with the exception of about one-twentieth part,) has been converted
into four extensive sheep-walks, yielding on an average L. 500
each of rent. From the irregular surface, and small patches in
cultivation, it is impossible, without measurement, to ascertain the
exact number of acres. The following is an approximation:-

     SUTHERLAND.                          G


