
        			AYR.                                15

ing the month of January, a great number of excellent fish were
annually caught. It is somewhat singular, that while the Doon
is so early, the Ayr, situated within so short a distance from it, like
the other rivers in Ayrshire, is unusually late, very few fish being
caught there before the beginning of June. At one time, this fish
was so abundant that it not only formed a chief part of the food
of the inhabitants, but was exported in large quantities, from Ayr
to France, in exchange for wine and other produce of that country.
Now, however, the number taken is comparatively small, particu-
larly in the river Ayr, where the fishing is nearly destroyed. The
cause of the decrease of the salmon may, in a great degree. be at-
tributed to the erection of a high dam-dike in the Ayr, near its
mouth, over which the fish have great difficulty in ascending. A most
objectionable dike also exists in the Doon, at Alloway mill, attend-
ed with similar results, though not to so great an extent. The
consequence of these impediments is, that the fish are at all times
obstructed in their free passage up the streams to spawn, and dur-
ing the fishing-seasn, detained and taken by the fishermen. The
other causes are, the extensive liming of the lands, steeping of lint-
the introduction of manufactures on the banks, the destruction of
the salmon by poachers when in the act of spawning, and the va-
rious stake-nets and other devices, now resorted to for their capture,
In the Doon, however, and along the coast in the vicinity of its
mouth, numbers continue to be taken,--more than enough to sup-
ply Ayr market; and the surplus finds a ready sale in larger towns
at a distance.
	Although the inclination of the salmon seems to impel them to
ascend the streams at all periods 6f the summer, when there is
sufficient water, yet the months in which they chiefly resort thither
are August, September, and October. According as they are in
an advanced or a late stage of breeding, they soon afterwards de-
posit their spawn, and return to the sea during the months of
January, February, March, and April. But in the Doon, salmon
on the eve of spawning have been found not only early in the
autumn, but as late as March and April, which may account for
that river's being so early in producing clean fish, compared with
other streams. Besides the common river trout during the summer
months, more particularly in the Doon, excellent sea trout are taken
in considerable quantities. The lamprey is occasionally found in
both rivers, but never used as an article of food; and that mysterious
little fish the par, is likewise common to both. Much discussion,


