
     of Cadder.

encouragement should be given to teachers, to enable them to
pay proper attention, to improve the morals of youth nder
their care.  The want of this, must more or less affect the
education of the rising generation.  When an attempt was
made, some time ago, to have the condition of the schoolma-
sters of this country somewhat bettered, the argument, by which
some lords and gentlemen opposed it, was, that "they wished
"parish schools were suppressed altogether, because their ser-
"vants were corrupted, by being taught to read and write:
"That they would be more obedient and dutiful, were they
"more ignorant, and had no education+."-This, however, is
not the opinion of any gentleman in this parish.  They well
know, that some of the first and most respectable characters,
in the nation, have been trained up at country schools.

   Antiquities.-The Roman Wall, or Graham's Dike, is al-
most the only antiquity we have in this parish.  It runs 4
miles in it, and may still be traced through.  Cadder Wood.
One of the watch towers, on the south side of the wall, about
a gun-shot from Cadder kirk, is still very visible.-At Rob-
roystone, in this parish, on the 11th September 1303, Sir
WILLIAM WALLACE was betrayed and apprehended, by Sir
John Monteath, a favourite of King Edward I. of England,
by whom he was most unjustly and ignominiously put to

     VOL. VIII. 3 P

<FOOTNOTE>

+This illiberal idea is refuted by fact.  That ignorance cannot be the mo-
ther of morality, more than of devotion, is proved by experience.  The good be-
haviour of the lower ranks in Scotland, in general, contrasted with the immo-
ralities, crimes, and annual executions, of many of the same class, in the sister
kingdom, can be ascribed to nothing so much as to the superior advantages, the
former enjoy, of early education, and proper instruction, in the first principles of
moral and and religious duty.  Deprive them of these, and they will soon be-
come as great savages, as the most ignorant rabble of London, Paris, or Birming-
ham.


