
       1282                         PERTHSHIRE.


       entitles the Colonel to the gratitude of the whole district, because,
       previously, the only means of crossing the Forth, from the Bridge
       of Drip to the Bridge of Frew (a distance of about ten miles,)
       was by insecure boats, and what was called a temporary peat
       bridge.  A pontage is here levied from foot passengers, and all
       kinds of conveyances, and the Colonel, with the assistance of the
       Statute Labour Fund, keeps in good order the road from this
       point to the public road between Stirling and Doune. About a mile
       and a-half farther down the Forth, and shortly after the date of
       this bridge, he built another of smaller dimensions for L.350.
       The genius of Mr Smith appears in the simplicity, economy, and
       utility of this structure.  It leads directly from Colonel Graham's
       new and elegant mansion-house, across the Forth to a part of his
       estate in this parish, part of which was, till lately, covered with
       moss, but is now, by moss-floating, levelling, draining, fencing,
       and-planting, in a very profitable state of cultivation.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which is near the
       site of the old one, is too far north-west for a small proportion of
       the population; but the situation was central before a chapel was
       built at Norriestoun.  With a few exceptions, however, the most
       remote population are only frnm two-and-a-half to three-and-a-half
       miles distant. The church, which accommodates 770 sitters, was
       built in 1814, and was opened for public worship in 1816.
         The manse and offices were built in  1821, and are highly cre-
       ditable to the taste and liberality of the heritors of the parish.
         The glebe extends to seven acres, exclusive of the garden,
       road, andsite of the manse and offices.  The amount of stipend
       is 17 chalders, the one-half meal and the other barley, and pay-
       able according to the fiars of the county of Perth.  There is also
       1 boll and 1 firlot of oatmeal payable to the minister, by the pro-
       prietor of the Blair-Drummond estate, in lieu of a servitude of
       peat, according to a decision of the Court of Session, in the time
       of the late Rev.  Christopher Tait.  L.1O Sterling are also paid
       annually to the incumbent for defraying  the expenses at the com-
       monion, by the award of the Court of Teinds, the sacrament
       being dispensed twice a-year.
         The number of families belonging to the chapel at Norriestoun
       and the church of Kincardine in 1831, was about 530, and the
       number of persons 2383. The number of Dissenters was from
       60 to 70 who- belonged to the old and new light congregations


