
                              YARROW.                   33

able weather, and is often followed by S.W. wind.  From the
appearance of falling stars, it may be inferred that the equilibrium
of the atmosphere, held probably by the agency of electricity, is
destroyed.  They generally forebode wind; and when many of
them are seen, they are faithful, though silent monitors, warning us
to prepare, with the earliest dawn, for the coming storm.  There
is often much lightning in the night both with the without
clouds, which announces unsettled weather, especially if it be
whitish in colour.  If the thunder clouds are low, we may expect
heavy showers or continuous rains.  A thunder storm from the
south is followed by a genial warmth; from the north by cold and
hail.  When the wind shifts to the west after rain from S. or
S. W., it generally fairs up, or there are but a few showers.  Frost
and snow from S. W. are the forerunners of bad weather.  If the
wind turn suddenly from S. W. or S. to N. N. E., while this is ac-
companied with a smell resembling that of coal smoke, a severe
storm will follow.  Sometimes in the month of May, often in June,
&c. an undulatory motion may be observed in the air, near the
earth's surface.  This is the land-tide, called by the peasantry
Startling Jack, which generally takes place when the weather is a
little sultry; the weather afterward becomes colder.  A haze or ou-
der, as it is often named, indicates a mild state of the atmosphere,
and prognosticates a long continuance of heat and drought.  The
summer of 1783 was remarkable for this appearance.  It is generally
accompanied with a moderate S. W. wind, and sometimes a calm,
but it never remains long with a north or east wind.  When eva-
poration is perceptibly carried on by the sun's heat, we expect
cold to succeed.
     Prognostics from Animals.--The troubles that befal our spec-
cies are not without their use in this respect; headach, tooth-
ach, rheumatism, pain in corns, and old sprains and sores, being
frequent signs of the approaching storm.  Before thunder, many
have a feeling of listlessness, oppression, and uneasiness.  The
lower animals, but such especially as are still in a state of nature,
or exposed in the open fields, are very susceptible of atmospheric
changes.  Sheep eat greedily before a storm, and sparingly before
a thaw.  When they leave the high parts of their range,--when
they bleat much in the evening, or during the night, we may ex-
pect severe weather.  Goats seek a place of shelter, while swine
carry litter and cover themselves better than ordinary, before a
storm.  Wind is foretold by the eat scratching a post or wall,--
and a thaw, when she washes her face, or when frogs come from
     SELKIRK.                     C


