
                  	TORBOLTON                       761

	The patronage appears to have gone, with the manor of Tor-
bolton, to the Stewarts of Dernly, in 1361. John Cameron, the
Bishop of Glasgow, erected the church of Torbolton into a pre-
bend, or canonry of the cathedral church of Glasgow. This was
done with the consent of Sir John Stewart of Dernly, the patron of
the church thus converted into a prebend; and the patronage of
the prebend was settled to belong to him and his heirs. It was
established at the same time, that a vicar pensioner should have
the cure of souls at the parish church, with a stipend of twenty
merks yearly, and a manse and glebe. The canon who held this
prebend had the whole revenues of the church of Torbolton, with
the dedication of twenty merks to the vicar, and be was moreover
taxed L. 3 a year for the benefit of the cathedral church of Glas-
gow. The rectory of Torbolton continued a prebend of the church
of Glasgow till the Reformation; and the patronage continued
with the Stewarts of Dernly and Earls of Lennox. In Bagi-
mont's roll, as it stood in the reign of James V., the rectory of Tor-
bolton, and prebend of Glasgow, was taxed L. 16, being a tenth
of its estimated value. At the period of the Reformation, the rec-
tory and prebend of Torbolton was held by James Chisholm, who
let the tithes and revenues thereof to Cunningham of Caprington,
for the yearly payment of L. 160, out of which Chisholm paid
L. 20 yearly to the curate who served the Church of Torbolton,
and eleven merks yearly to the chaplin who served in his stall with-
in the quire of Glasgow. Several lands which belonged to the
church of Torbolton were granted in feu farm to Cuningham of
Caprington at the period of the Reformation.
	The Honourable Colonel James Montgomery, fourth son of
Alexander, sixth Earl of Eglinton, obtained by purchase from
Cuningham of Caprington, the lands of Coilsfield, with the pa-
tronage of the church, before 1661. *
	In 1673, the parish of Barnewell was suppressed, and a large
portion of it was+ annexed to the parish of Torbolton.
	The present church, a handsome building, having a spire ninety
feet in height, and a clock with four dials, was completed in 1821,
at an expense of L. 2500. It contains 950 sittings, and is, within
four and a-half miles of the most remote dwelling in the parish.
	The manse is a substancial excellent house in good repair.

<FOOTNOTE>Robertson's Ayrshire Families and  Caledonis.
           Hence it is that lands of Fall or Failford, and the properties of Law and Brown-
hill, contiguous to the monastery, all of them now in Torbolton parish, are described
in retours as in the parish of Barnewell.


