
288                               FIFESHIRE.

stances the handsomeness of their dresses, presents much of the
appearance of a city congregation.
               IV.-INDUSTRY.
Agriculture.-In the parish there are 1570 imperial acres. Of
these, about 56 have never been cultivated, and are, indeed, iiica-
pable of improvement: 50 acres more are under wood, consisting
chiefly of beech and Scotch fir. There will of course remain 1464,
which are fit for the plough, and in a state of cultivation. It is
scarcely 'ossible to ascertain the annual rental of the whole; for

a considerable part of it being estit-nated in grain, varies according
to the fiar prices of the county. The rent, however, may be stat-
ed at from L. I to L. 4 per acre, accordln,-, to quality-the average
of that which is cultivated bein nearly L. 1, 15s., so that the whole
rental, as nearly as can be calculated, may be about L. 2562.
   Produce.- The price of grain raised yearly may be much as fol-

	Lows:--

        Wbeat, barley, oats, and beans,	L. 2500
	Potatoe, and turnips,	           1700
	liay,	                            600   
	Pasture,	                    400

		                        L. 5200


So that the proportion of the rental to the produce seems to be
greater in this parish than in most others that have yet been men-
tioned in the Statistical Account. Indeed, the rent is considered
by the best judges to be too high ; and this again arises from the
principal proprietor being Don-resideDt, and the management being
in the bands of those whose ODIY object is to lay their hands on all
the money they can get. GraziDg of aii ox or cow, L. 3.
  Of the farm-buildiDgS the generality are good, and there is no
part of the eoulity where the farmers themselves are more skilful
than in the surrounding district. The fences, which are chiefly
hedge and ditch, are in very bad order. Very little of the land is
capable of beingi properly enclosed, or a greater portion of it would
be in -pasture. Leases run from seven to nineteen years. Any
thing less than nineteen is considered to be a great bar to improve-
ment, and to be equally unfavodrable; to landlord and tenant. Yet
the leases of the chief estate are only for seven,-an arrangement
for- which I -never heard any good reas ' on attempted to be given.
Notwithstanding, however, of all these disadvantages, and the dl'S-
tressed state of agriculture for some years past, the farmers all seein
to be in very comfortable circumstances.
     Wages.--Wages of ploughmen may be stated at an average of L. 10
				3

