
4                               ORKNEY.

of legae duty, to L. 900, for the purpose of repairing and beutify-                                                      a
ing it, by the annual application of the interest; and this liberal
gift has since contributed very much to its preservation. The
cathedral is the property of " the provost, bailles, council, and
inhabitants of the burgh," to whom it was gifted by the above
cited charter of James IIL, confirmed by a new charter from
James V., dated 1536; and a third, by Charles II. in 1661, ra-
tifying the former two. Upon this charter infeftment followed in
1669, and all these titles were confirmed by Act of Parliament,
1670, cap. 42. These charters also conveyed to the magistrates
and corporation, the patronage of the two benefices in Kirkwall,
which, however, the crown-officers, about twelve years ago, claimed
for the crown: but the question being carried to the Court of Ses-
sion, and by appeal to the House of Lords, the right of the corpo-
ration to the patronages, and, consequently, to the property of the
cathedral, conveyed by the same titles, was found to be valid and
impregnable.
   The cathedral is built in that style of mixed Gothic and Saxon,
architecture common in the age of its erection.  Its length outside
is 226 feet; breadth, 56; height of the main roof, 71 ; and from
the floor to the top of the steeple, 133. The main roof of the
choir and part of the nave is elegantly arched, and is supported
by 32 pillars, faced with freestone.  The side aisles, behind the
pillars, are finished above by a series of groined arches, and the
whole is lighted by 103 windows, including those in the steeple,
some of them in the Gothic style, and of great size.  The steeple
contains an excellent chime of three large bells, rung by ropes at-
tached to the clappers, so as to produce a kind of melody, in the
ancient cathedral fashion.
   The Earl's Palace, the ruins of which, still pretty entire, stand
near the cathedral to the south-east was erected, A. D. 1660, by
Patrick Stewart, Earl of Orkney, whose father,  Robert, was a
natural son of James V.  The bishop's palace, whose ruins are
also situated very near the cathedral, is of much greater antiquity
and in a much more, dilapidated state. It was honoured by the
residence in it at different periods of two royal guests, Haco, King
of Norway, who died in this building, and James V. of Scotland,
who, in the course of a progress through his dominions, lodged
there for a short time and partook of the bishop's hospitality.  Of
the King's Castle, erected in the 14th century by Earl henry


