
                        DUMBARTONSHIRE.

from No. 16 to Kirkaldy by Dunfernaline. Luggage boats also
regularly ply upon the canal with goods.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish chruch, situated at the village
of Cumbernauld, is nearly in the centre of the parish. Five or
six families only are four miles from the parish church, which
is an old fabric. It was repaird in 1810, notwithstanding the ur-
gent solicitations of the incumbent and session, as appears from
the session record, 25th March 1810, the church being altogether
insufficient to accommodate the inhabitants. To obviate this as
far as the old walss woud admit, both pews and passages are very
narrow and inconvenient. It has been repeatedly repaired since;
but the dampness of the site, six doors, and the incommodiousness
of the seats, make the church uncomfortable, cold, and unhealthy.
The church has about 660 sittings. The communion seats alone
are free. The number of communicants is about 500. the barony
of Castlecary, with a population of seventeen families, by a
decreet of Court in 1725, or thereabout, was disjoined from the
parish of Falkirk, and annexed to Cumbernauld quoad sacra. Ac-
cording to report, the minister of Falkirk was taken bound to preach
in Cumbernauld three days each year. The present church is
quite insufficient for the population; but, from its central situa-
tion, a church of proper dimensions would well acommodate the
whole parish for enjoying religious ordinances.
  The manse was built in 1827. The original glebe, by agree-
ment between the presbytery and the Earl of Wigton, was for 8
acres. In consequence of the turnpike-road passing through it,
in lieu of that cut off by the roads. At present, including site of
manse, offices, garden, roads, &c. the glebe may be about 11
acres, but not all arable.
  In 1820, the Court, by decreet, modified the stipend to 16 1/2 chal-
ders, half meals, half barley, with L.10 for communion elements.
  So early as 1743, a house belonging to the Original Burgher
Associate Synod, was built in the village of Cumbernauld. It was
rebuilt in 1725, is a commodious place of worship, with a respec-
table congragation; and the minister has a salary of, I believe,
L.100.
  Another meeting-house in the village formerly belonging to the
Antiburgher, but now connected with the United Secession body,
was built about seventy or eighty years ago. This congregation is
not numerous. The ministers' salary is, I believe, L.80. Both





