
12		        NAIRNSHIRE.

   Parochial Registers.-From the negligence of the session-clerks
at some former periods, or from other causes, some of the paro-
chial registers are lost, others are almost illegible, and the date
at which they commence is therefore not easily ascertained.
   Antiquities.-On the higher ground in the parish, and on the
Cawdor estate, are the remains of two Druidical temples-one at
Golford, the other near the site of the old castle of Moyness. The
latter consists of two concentric circles of large stones. It has an
appendage not generally found attached t Druidical circles, and
named a rocking-stone. It is large, and might weigh about four
tons. It rocks slightly, only when passed over in a particular di-
rection. The rocking-stone is supposed to have been used as an
ordeal for the conviction of criminals.
   On a small eminence, called "the black hillock," and lying be-
tween the two Druidical stations above-mentioned, there was dug
up about twelve years ago a coffin composed of large flag-stones,
and containing a large and perfect skeleton. Near it were found
also five or six ancient urns, filled with ashes and pieces of burned
bone.
   The ruins of the castle of Moyness are now but a heap of stones.
   About a mile north of the church, on the property of William
Brodie, Esq. of Brodie, lies the old castle of Inshoch, the family
residence of the Hays of Lochloy, who once possessed a conside-
rable proportion of the land in this parish.  Within the ruins of
Elgin cathedral there is a stone sarcophagus with a recumbent
knight in full armour on the lid; and the inscription tells us that
the mortal remains within are those of William de le Hay of Loch-
loy, who died 1421.-Rhind's Sketches of the past and present
state of Moray.
   The inscription is as follows:
	 Hic jacet Wills de le Hay quoda dns de Lochloy qui obiit
         viii die mesis decebris anno dom MCCCCXXL.
The property of Lochloy, now called Lochlee, adjoins that of
Inshoch, and gave the title to the family who possessed both.
   A mile eastward of the church stood till lately the old housd of
Penick, the residence of the deans of Moray. Immediately west
of the church, there is a small round hill, evidently artificial, for-
merly called the Castlehill. It is on the property of Boath, but
not even a tradition as to its original proprietor, or the
purpose for which, it was reared.

<FOOTNOTE>was born at Auldearn the, 25th December 1767, and died in London, the 24th No-
member 1898."


