
132
		      LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

works, a man equally eminent for kindness of heart, ability, and
enterprise. Dr Roebuck at this time rented the coal-works on the
estate of Kinneil. Under the superintendence of Mr Watt, a
small steam-engine was constructed at Kinneil House. The cy-
linder was made of block tin, and was eighteen inches diameter.
The first experiment was made at one of the coal-mines, And the
action of the engine far surpassed even the sanguine expectations
of the proprietors. Indeed, so great was Watt's success, that he
procured a patent "for saving steam and fuel in fire-engines."
Another place, however, was destined to be the field of his pros-
perous career. The pecuniary difficulties in which Dr Roebuck
became at this time involved, checked the proceedings at Kinneil;
and soon afterwards, Mr Watt formed a connection with Mr
Boulton, under the celebrated firm, Boulton, Watt, and Co, Soho,
Birmingham.
   The building at Kinneil in which Watt constructed the im-
proved engine still remains.
   There are several circumstances connected with this parish, and
referring to the troublous times before the Revolution, which are
worthy of being noticed. Many of them are recorded by Wodrow.
  Mr William Wishart, the last minister of the parish of Kinneil,
was amongst the earliest victims of the persecution which com-
menced in 1660. In the month of July he officiated at Kinneil,
and in September following, he was imprisoned in Edinburgh.
On an application from the preshytery of Linlithgow in 1661, be
was freed from confinement; but in 1675 letters of intercommun-
ing were issued against him. He continued in prison till 0685,
when a sentence of banishment was pronounced against him; but,
owing to the death of the King, this sentence was not carried into
effect, and he was liberated under bond to compare when called.
He was residing at Leith in 1691. He had three sons who attain-
ed to great distinction, Sir George Wishart of Clifton Hall,
Rear-Admiral Wishart, and Principal Wishart of the University
of Edinburgh. The admiral having no children, left his fortune,
amounting to L.16,000 or L.20,000, to the Principal.
   Mr, John Wauch was the first minister of the pariah of Bo'ness.
He, too, suffered in the persecution, having been denounced in
1673. He probably retired to Ireland, as did some of the other
members of the presbytery of Linlithgow.
   During Episcopacy, the induction of Mr James Hamilton in


