
                   ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                    941

   The Lower Ward, though naturally less interesting, is, from its
possessing Glasgow within its bounds, the most important of the
three.  Of the parish of Cambuslang part is occupied by a rocky
eminence called Ditchmount, the soil upon and around which is
light and stony, while that of the rest of the parish is mostly clay,
excepting upon the verge of the Clyde.  The soil of Carmunnock
resembles that of Cambuslang, only that, as it does not approach the
Clyde, it wants the rich, alluvial land, which, in the former parish,
lies contiguous to the river.  Of Rutherglen the higher part is
clay ; the lower is either sandy or rich alluvial soil along the Clyde.
The greater part of Govan parish is sand,--the original poverty
of which is now almost forgotten in the productiveness to which it
has been brought by skilful culture, aided by the facility of pro-
curing manure from Glasgow, and incited by the certain prospect
of a lucrative return.  The Barony parish is exceedingly diversified.
The holms or valleys of Dalmarnock are peculiarly fertile.  Of
the knolls in the north side of the parish the tops are, in many in-
stances, hard and stiff, the bottoms wet and spongy.  In other
places, the soil has been originally poor; but here, as in Govan,
the spirit of improvement, stimulated by the encouragement of
local situation, has created fertility where it did not before exist.
Of Cadder, or Calder parish, the middle is moist, moorish, and
barren ; but in its borders all around, there is a great deal of good
soil, mostly light and pretty dry.
   Before closing this account of the different soils in the county,
we may remark, that land on the same parallel, other circumstances
being equal, is always of more value in proportion to the compa-
rative lowness of the situation, the quality of the herbage on the
more elevated lands being less succulent, and the reproduction
slower when in grass, and the grain, when they are in corn, being
less plump, less perfectly ripened, and later.  The nature of the
subsoil or under stratum, has likewise most important influence;
moist exuding bottoms producing grain of inferior quality, and late
in ripening.  The arable land along the Clyde, above, the Falls,
is superior to any in the lower part of the county, not only to fields
nearly on the same level along the ridges of the country, but ex-
ceeding in intrinsic fertility even the fine low grounds, which are
less elevated by 400 or 500 feet.  In this higher district, the mea-
dows or valleys by the river side are alternately cropped, and left
for a few years in grass; and, without receiving any manure, con-
tinue to yield abundant crops.  The uplands, when properly freed


