
372                          FORFARSHIRE.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communicatiom--The nearest market-town is Ar-
broath, which is about,seven miles distant from the centre of the
parish. The nearest post-office is at Muirdrum, a small village in
the parish of Panbride, about four miles distant; but our commu-
nication is chiefly whth Arbroath. There is no turnpike road in
the parish.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, though not in the cen-
tre of the parish, is yet sufficiently convenient for the greater part
of the population.* It is about 3 3/4 miles distant from the north-
east extremity of the parish, and about 3 miles from the south-west
extremity; about 3 1/4 miles from the western, and from the south-
eastern extremities about 1 1/2 mile; but the greater number of the
population are only from 1 to 2 miles distant from the church. It
was built, probably soon after the erection of the parish; but no date
is to be seen. It is a substantial building of ashler work,t is in
good repair and decently fitted up. It affords accommodation for
500 sitters, but requires to be enlarged, as, from the increased po-
poulation, there has been a considerable deficiency of church-room
for some time past The manse was built in 1820, and is substan-
tial and commodious. The glebe, including the garden and site
of manse and offices, and a mortification of about 7 acres, contains
about 15 acres Scots. It is difficult to state the value of it very
correctly, but I should think it not less than L.30 annually. The
stipend is one of the lowest class, and receives an addition of
L.31, 9s. 9d. Sterling, from the Exchequer, to make it up to L.150
per annum, exclusive nf L.8, 6s. 8d for communion elements.

<FOOTNOTE>The amount of the population in these parts of the parish, which are more than
two miles distant from the parish church, is under 240.
         According to tradition, its erection is connected with an event of rare occurrence
in modern times: the principal heritor at that time became bankrupt, it is said, in
consequence of his great exertions to have his parish church built in a superior man-
ner.
        Previous to 1716, there was no legal glebe at Carmylie; but the piece of ground
alluded to, which had been mortified, at an early period, by one of the lairds of Car-
mylie, for the encouragement of the minister, was possessed by the incumbents from
time to time; but upon application to the presbytery by the incumbent in 1716, a
glebe and grass glebe were designed to the minister in the usual manner, from the
adjoining lands, which have been possessed by his successors in office to the present
time.
	About two-thirds of the stipend consist of money payments viz. from Carmylie
L.75. 1s. 2d.; from lands in parish of Monikie, L.2, 10s.: from Exchequer L.31
9s, 9d. Total, L.109. 0s. 11d.
	The other third consists of grain payments, payable at the fiar prices of the county,
viz                                        B. F. P. L.
From Carmytie. beary,                      7  0  1  4 1.2

Bear from various lands in the parish
	Of Inverkeilor                    10  0  1  0           B. F. P. L.
                                          ---------------      17  0  2  0 2/3


