
198                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

two guineas a-year granted him by the proprietor, and the same
sum by the Earl of Wemyss, which, though , small, is a consider-
able, addition, to his income, and is creditable to the Noble proprie-
tors, who thus contribute to the education of the labouring poor,
and in this way-essentially promote the improvement of the com-
munity. The annual income of the teacher here may amount to
about L. 25.
   A school is also taught at the village of Penston, about a mile
to the south-west of Gladsmuir, and consequently within reach of
the parish school. This village being chiefly inhabited by colliers,
the children are sent early to work; and, after labouring one part
of the day, they are sent to,school, another part of the day, when
there is a school at hand; but were the distance considerable,
this object could not be accomplished. It was with a view to such
accommodation, that a school was erected and is of still kept up at
Penston. The teacher has to find a house for himself; and the
school-house, through neglect, is in a wretched condition. The
number of scholars is small,-last year not exceeding 25. The in-
habitants are constantly shifting; and lately the teacher was at the
point of giving up the school for want of support. He is an old
man, and his whole income last year did not amount to L. 10.
   Besides these schools, there is one at Cotyburn, a solitary place
at the north-eastern extremity of the parish. This school is taught
by a man who was in the army, and has a small weekly pension
from Government. He has a dwelling-house and school-house at-
tached to it; for both of which be pays rent. The average num-
ber of his scholars is 24, thus affording him an income of about
L. 10, which, with his pension from Government, affords him a
scanty subsistence.
   The price of education per week is from 3d. to Gd., or from
7s. 6d. to 13s. 6d. a-year, calculating the year at three quarters;
for, in country schools, the vacations are long, and seldom more than
three quarters are paid for. And as 1s. is paid for coals during
the winter, the annual expense of education for the common
branches amounts to from 8s. 6d. to 14s. 6d.,-besides the expense
of books, which it, small considered by itself, but great to those
labourers who have three or four children at school, and who have
themselves an income not exceeding L. 25 a-year.
   Sunday Schools.-There are 3 Sunday schools in the parish,-
one at Penston, the number of scholars attending which has, for
some years, been very fluctuating. This arises, partly from the


