
     Statistical Account

dergone any material reparation.  It incloses an area of a-
bout a square mile, which, with the barony of Laighwood,
is said to have been given by Robert II. to the then Earl of
Athole, for quelling an insurrection of Donald of the Isles.
This park has ever since continued the property of the A-
thole family; and, previous to the building of Dunkeld-
house, it was designed to be one of the places of their resi-
dence; some materials for that purpose were brought here,
and deposited, in a fine situation near the centre of the
park, at a place called Stanley-know, in honour of the Der-
by family.  A little to the north of Stanley-know, there
is a rising ground styled the Gallow-drum, and about 300
yards S. W. of the minister's glebe is another eminence,
named the Gibbet-know, both which were places of execu-
tion in the times of the baronial jurisdiction.  On the east
side of the moss at the foot of Ben-achally, we find a sepul-
chral cairn, which has never been opened; and a few fur-
longs to the southward of this cairn, there is a great num-
ber of small cairns, which the people here call the Pechs
cairns, i. e. the Picts cairns; but whether these cairns
mark the scene of a battle between the Caledonians and the
Picts, or whether they are vestiges of the huts of the old
inhabitants; or whether they have been collectted merely
for the purpose of clearing the adjacent grounds in pastoral
times, it is uncertain.  There are two immense collections
of stones, one on the S. W. and the other on the N. E. ex-
tremity of the parish.  These are said to have marked the
boundary here between the Caledonian and Pictish king-
doms; it is not unlikely, however, that they have been
formed to commemorate the death of some illustrious chief-
tains or heroes.  At the east end of the hill of Gourdie, in
the middle of a cultivated field, may be seen a curious
piece of antiquity, called the Steeds-stalls.  It consists of 8
mounds, with 8 corresponding trenches; perhaps some more


