
                              TYRIE.                       717

communication with these sea-ports, and to increase the value of
agricultural produce, and consequently the rental of the lands.
To these may be added a manifest improvement in many of the
farm-houses and steadings, though much remains to be done in
this recpect; also in the rearing and breading of horses and cattle;
in the quality of farm implements, particularly thrashing-mills;
and in the method of husbandry generally pursued.

   Written 1840.  Revised 1842.

                          PARISH OF TYRIE.

                PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                     ----- ------- MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of the parish is said to be of Gaelic origin,
and to signify " the King's house."  Tradition bears that a reli-
gious house once existed near the site of the present church.
   Mountain ranges, &c.-At the westerly extremity of the parish
there is a range of high grounds,-the continuation of the Auch-
medden ridge, and of those high grounds which, crossing the ad
joining parish of New Dear, form a part of the eminences skirting
the western extremity of Buchan.  Those eminences in the lower
part of the parish seem, in fact, to be continuation of the Hill of
Mormond, distant only about three miles.
   Meteorology.-In the spring and summer months, a dense cloud,
charged often with the electric fluid, is frequently seen hovering
over that range of high lands terminating in the Auchmedden ridges
and, after hanging in collected masses for a while, it generally
breaks into two divisions, one of which branches off in a south-
easterly direction towards Mormond, the other travessing the waters
of the Moray Frith,-each dissipating itself in copious fallls of rain.
   Hydrography.-We can boast of many and valuable springs,
copious, perennial, salubrious, spread abroad with a lavish hoped
through all the parish, and adapted to the necessary wants and
accomodations of the people.  Many of them are of a tonic
mineral description, impregnated more or less with carbonate


