
                           FORTINGAL.                           537

feet in thickness, half way up the acclivity, and maintaining a per-
fect level along the face of the hill.
  In the end of harvest or beginning of winter, cold figs, which
collect upon marshes, lakes, or rivers, that, receive mossy waters,
often prevail. They are seen to ascend the bottom of the glens
in every direction, seldom, however, reaching farther up the hill
than 700 or 800 feet perpendicular; and a spectator upon the top
of a high hill or mountains, would almost imagine the strath and
low grounds, when thus covered, to be a vast spreading ocean, with
the upper parts of the hills as so many islands scattered upon its
surface.
  Winds are seldom steady here, in any quarter, for any consider-
able time. In the end of spring or beginning of summer, we have
sometimes east or north-east winds, perhaps for a month or more
together. Our narrow glens and high mountains often give a con-
trary direction to the wind, especially when it blows across them,
north or south. We find, then, in the bottom of the glen or foot
of the mountains, the wind blowing straight east or west.
  Prognostics of Weather.-It is well known that large rivers and
waterfalls sometimes emit certain sound, even in the calmest wea-
ther, resembling those of cataracts or torrents rushing down rocks
and precipices,-which sounds are sure indications of the weather.
If the sound of the rapid or cataract descend with the stream, it
foretells such rainy weather to be at hand, as will swell the brook or
river to its margin; whereas, if the sound ascend along the stream,
and die away in the distance, it is an omen of the continuance of
dry weather.
  If, during a storm of frost and snow in winter, the ptarmigan,-
the hardiest among the feathered tribes of the Grampians,-be re-
peatedly heard in the face of the mountain, andditional. fall of
snow may soon be expected.
  Our climate has all the vicissitudes experienced in moun-
tainous countries,-especially in the higher parts of parish,
where the atmosphere, when not damp and saturated with moisture
(which in some seasons is the case for nearly two-thirds of the year,)
is keen, sharp, and  chill. ln summer, our proximity to the
mountains has a contrary effect upon the atmosphere. Their
steep fronts reflecting the solar rays occasion a great degree of
warmth in our narraw glens than is felt in lower and more south-
ern situations; and during the continuance of this warmth, vegeta-
tion is very rapid.


