
    		           STIRLING.                          419

same pulpit for twelve years, his decease taking place in January
1738.
  The Rev. Henry Guthrie, author of Memoirs of Scottish Affairs,
from 1627 to the death of Charles I. in 1649, was minister of Stir-
ling about the period to which his work relates.  Being thrust out
from his charge by the Commission of the General Assembly, for
malignancy, he resided for a considerable time at Kilspindie, where,
he probably prepared his memoirs.  It appears from the Council
records, that upon the vacancy occasioned by the arrest and exe-
cution of Mr James Guthrie, his successor, he received repeated
invitations from the patrons * to return to his ministry in Stirling,
but declined them on the plea of ill health.  Having conformed
to Prelacy, he became afterwards Bishop of Dunkeld.
   A native of Stirling, of the name of Edmond, the son of a ba-
ker, born, it would appear, towards the end of the sixteenth cen-
tury, having run away from his parents, and enlisted in the service
of Maurice, Prince of Orange, so greatly distinguished himself as
to rise to the rank of Colonel.  Having acquired considerable
wealth, he returned to reside in, and distinguished himself as a be-
nefactor to, the place of his birth. A plate, in addition to that which
received the usual weekly collections for the poor, was for some
time placed at the church door, that such as were able, and willing,
might put into it their contributions towards the erection of a manse
for the minister.  A donation was given by'Colonel Edmond so
munificent, that it appears to have been equal to, if not greater
than, all the rest of the amount obtained by this collection.  The
manse thus built, stood at the junction of Church Street and St
John's Street, not many yards from the south-east corner of the
church; the site being still plainly indicated by the state of the
ground.  It was taken down in 1824, and contained till that time
some books, of which Mr Guthrie had been the custodier, and his
chair; both of which had been carefully preserved by his successors in
the first charge.  The chair is now in the library room of the School
of Arts.  The following anecdote is related of Colonel Edmond.
When on the Continent, being on the parade with several brother
officers, be was accosted by a stranger who professed to have newly
come from Scotland, and left the Colonel's relations well, enume-
rating several of high rank.  Edmond, turning from him indig-

   <FOOTNOTE>This, however, they did with great reluctance.  It was not their own wish tbey
were expressing; but that of the then ruling powers using influence with theme, to
which they found themselves constrained to yield.


