
108         	            LANARKSHIRE.

taken down. In 1450, Bishop Turnbull obtained a charter from
James II., erecting the town and patrimonies of the bishoprick into
a regality.
	In 1456, St Nicholas' Hospital was founded and endowed by
Bishop Muirhead, for the maintenance of twelve poor laymen
and a priest. The Hospital was situated on the west side of Kirk
Street, near where the Bishop's palace stood. Its ruins were
taken down in 1808; the ground on which it stood now forms part
of the Gas Work premises. Its revenues, now reduced to about
L. 30 per annum, arise from ground annuals in the neighbourhood
of the hospital, Lindsay's Middle, or New Wynd, &c. The Town-
Council lately conferred the patronage on Provost Dalgleish. In
1484, the Collegiate Church of St Mary (Tron) was built, and
dedicated to the blessed Virgin. In 1488, the see of Glasgow was
made archiepiscopal, during Bishop Blackadder's incumbency.
The Bishop, along with the Earl of Bothwell, negotiated a mar-
riage between King James IV. of Scotland and the Lady Marga-
ret, dldest daughter of Henry VII. of England, which they brought
about to the mutual satisfaction of both kingdoms. This union
laid the foundation of the title of the Scotch Kings to the English
throne; which, in right of proximity of blood, King James VI. of
Scotland succeeded to, on the demise of Queen Elizabeth. In
1496, the Chapel of St Roque, belonging to the Blackfriars with-
out the Stable Green Port, had an extensive burying-ground,
where great numbers of those who died of the plague in after
years were buried. In 1527, Jeremiah Russell and John Kennedy
were burned alive in Glasgow for adhering to the principles of the
Reformation. Gavin Dunbar, Archbishop of Glasgow, and the
Bishops of Dunkeld, Brechin, and Dunblane, &c. were present at
the trial, and agreed to the sentence, which was read in the me-
tropolitan church on the last day of February.
	The revenues which had been granted from time to time in sup-
port of the splendour of the see of Glasgow were very great. The
archbishops were lords of the lordships of the royalty and baro-
nies of Glasgow; besides, there were eighteen baronies of land
which belonged to them within the sheriffdoms of lanark, Dum-
barton, Ayr, Renfrew, Peebles, Selkirk, Roxburgh, Dumfries, and
the stewarty of Annandale, including 240 parishes. There was
also a large estate in Cumberland within their jurisdiction, which
was named of old the Spiritual Dukedom. When the see was made
archiepeiscopal, jurisdiction was given over the Bishops of Gallo-
way, Argyle, and the Isles. At the Reformation in 1560, Arch-



