
140                    ARGYLESHIRE.

   MacIan Ghier, a notorious thief and robber, resided in Ard-
namurchan.  Of his crafty and nefarious exploits, many stories
are still told.  He stole in one night the cattle of the neigbbour-
ing Isle of Muck, and shot to death the proprietor, a brave and
strong man, while defending his property.  He is said to have
been tried for the crime, and escaped the gallows by the evidence
of Sir Duncan Campbell of Lochnell, whom be had prepared as
the unconscious instrument of his exculpation.  Sir Duncan swore
that MacIan Gheir, whose manners were remarkably mild and
insinuating, was, on the night in questions in Mingary Castle,
and, at the time, be fell asleep at his bed-side, relating a " sqeu-
lachd" or tale, and that when he awoke in the morning he was
there also, when he resumed the thread of the story.  This de-
position was perfectly true, but the deponent was not aware that,
during the, interval, the robbery and murder had been committed,
a fact not impossible.
   In the beginning of the last century, Ardnamurchan and Sunart
appear to have come into the possession of Sir Alexander Mur-
ray of Stanhope, Bart. an extraordinary man, whose sagacity
readily discovered the chief points of civil and industrial improve-
ment of which these lands were susceptible; but whose over-specula-
tive and sanguine temperament, transgressing the bounds of sobriety
and sound sense, rendered his efforts abortive, and were probably
the cause of his pecuniary embarrassments.  By him the vegetable
and mineral resources of the estate were thoroughly investigated;
a minate census of the population and account of the stock taken,
and preserved in a curious document yet extant; the estate itself
was subjected to an accurate survey, a chart of Loch Sunart, pub-
lished, it Lieutenant Bruce, to which notes were appended, evi-
dently from the pen of Sir Alexander Murray, and plans of har-
bours and other improvements prepared by the latter.  A system
of draining irrigation was commenced upon an immense scale,
of which some useful traces are yet visible; and the lead mines of
Strontian were lot by him to the York Building Company.  These
mines are well understood to have been worked at a far earlier pe-
riod through said by Sir Alexander to have been discovered by
himself in 1722, and hold forth to the public as the most won-
derful discovery of the age."  But is is certain that, through his
instrumentality, operations commenced with great spirit, and on a
large scale.  An English mining settlement, which employed 500
individuals, was established with all tis accessories of buildings, ma-			9


