
   			     OYNE.      	             637

and larch, made within the last thirty years, occupy altogether a
space of 2000 acres under wood.

 		      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-Among persons of eminence connected with the
parish may be mentioned John Leslie, Bishop of ross, wbo had been
educated in France, and was made priest of Oyne, and an official of
the diocese of Aberdeen about the middle of the sixteenth century ;
but in 1565, he was promoted to the bishoprick of Ross, and be-
came the friend and counsellor of Queen Mary, and continued so
during her long imprisonment and last trials.  This John Leslie
Appears to have been a natural bon of the minister of Kingussie,
who was himself an illegitimate descendant of the Leslies of Bal-
quhaine, an ancient and powerful family in this district; so that
the epithet of " Priest's brat," given by John Knox to the Bishop
of Ross, though harsh was not unjust.  Sir John Runciman was
also one of the Priests of Oyne, and an official of the diocese, be-
ing, " Rome raiker," or messenger to Rome.  And that the Pro-
testant established church may not appear altogether isolated from
the honourable families in the land, it may be added that Mr
Alexander Turing, who was minister at Oyne from 1729 to 1782,
had a hereditary claim to the baronetcy of Turing of Foveran, a
title which was claimed and enjoyed by his son, Sir Robert Tur-
ing, Baronet, who died at Banff Castle within the last ten years;
and which has fallen to his cousin, Sir James Turing in Rotterdam.
   Land-owners.-About the middle of the seventeenth century,
there were above twelve different proprietors in the parish, every
considerable farm forming a separate lairdship or land ; but after-
wards, these fell into fewer hands, and there are now only four he-
ritors in Oyne; viz. Sir Robert Dalrymple Horn Elphinstone,
Bart. of Logie and Westhall; Colonel William Howe Knight
Erskine of Pittodrie; John Gordon of Newton and Ardoyne,
Esq.; and Robert Grant of Tillyfour, Esq.
   Parochial Registers.-The session records commence in 1663,
and consist of three volumes, containing accounts of the poor's
funds, church discipline, baptisms and marriages, which last are
now regularly registered.  In the Scotman's Library, published
by Mr Mitchell, various excerpts are given, professedly from an-
cient registers of the parish of Oyne; but the originals of these
are not among the books now in the keeping of the kirk-session,
which, however, are not continuous from 1663 to the present
time.


