
8                            ORKNEY.

the exertions of the county and burgh Members, a daily post was
established; in other words, the mail-boat is bound, on every law-
ful day, when weather permits, to cross the Pentland Frith.
  A good sailing vessel, for conveyance of goods and passengers,
plies all tbe year between this town and Leith; and within the
last few years, the place has obtained the great advantage of a
weekly visit from an excellent and powerful steamer, which ac-
complishes the voyage to Leith, including several long stoppages,
in from 34 to 40 hours.
  The roads through the parish have of late years been greatly
improved, which has led to the introduction of gigs and phaetons
for hire.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish is a collegiate charge, the
two ministers officiating in the cathedral alternately. Their sti-
pends were modified, each to L. 150; but, being, partly paid in
kind, have for many years fallen short of that sum. The first
minister has a glebe consisting of about 50 acres arable, with
pasturage; and its annual value has, for some years, been somewhat
upwards, of L. 40. He has also a manse, erected 140 years ago,
but which at present is let by the heritors, who pay the present
incumbent an annuity in lieu of it. The second minister has nei-
ther manse nor glebe; but, under a late act of Parliament, draws
from the Exchequer L. 50 in lieu of both.
  The only place of worship in connection with the Establish-
ment, which the inhabitants have ever enjoyed, is the choir or
chancel of the cathedral, which is seated to accommodate from
830 to 870 sitters; but so awkwardly, that it has been ascertained
by measurement, that a better arrangement of the seats and po-
sition of the pulpit would give at least an addition of 150 avail-
able seats. The cathedral is placed in the centre of the parish,
and there is no dwelling, more than two and a-half or three miles
from the place of worship, while five-sixths of the population are
within half a mile of it. The accommodation in the cathedral
was probably sufficient for all the church-going pnpulation at a
former period; but as the number of inhabitants increased, the
want of more church room was severel felt, and a portion of the
inhabitants who could, not procure seats, or such as they wished,
accepted the offer of the Antiburgher Seceders to establish a
congregation there. A chapel in that connection was accordingly
erected forty-four years ago, and afterwards rebuilt on a larger
scale. Shortly after, an Independent meeting-house was erected,


