
492                          PERTHSHIRE.

ance in different places. Sometimes it is a red sandstone in beds
almost vertical; sometime a very coarse red conglomerate, com-
posed chiefly of hornblends porphyry, very like the rocks in Glen-
co; and sometimes having the apperance of common greywacke.
The sandstone is frequently employed in the neighbourhood of
Crieff as a building stone.
  "The Vale of Strathea, from about two miles east of Comrie,
consists of a red sandito6e, quite rhmilar in appearance to that
which accompanies the greywacke; but the beds, instead of being
vertical, as they are in the hills, are in the low country about Crieff
horizontal, or nearly so. This sandstone occupies the whole strath
from the Ochils to the hills on the north side, and may be traced
without interruption from the south-west corner' of Dumbarton to within a mile of
shire to the east coast of Scotland.  It is of great breadth.  On
the west side, its breadth is from Dumbarton to within a mile of
the Row Church, or about ten miles; and on the east coast, from
Stonehaven to the Redhead, constituting the boundary of the Frith
of Tay, not less than thirty miles.
  "This sandstone, so far as has been observed, contains no fossil
remains either of animals or vegetables. It has been generally
considered as the old red sandstone. On the north shore of the
Clyde it may be seen reposing on clayslate, and we may presume
that this is its position also in Strathearn.  How far it is similar
to the old redstone rocks in the neighbourhood of Bristnl, it would
be difficult to say. Trap dikes occur here and there in this sand-
stone; but they are not numerous. There is a very remarkable
between Mlithil and Crieff, called Cencraig, composed of a
kind of greenstone, which may be traced for several miles running
east and west. There is annther consisting of green stone at Mon-
zie, which is quarried for mending the roads, Many granite boul-
ders occur in Strathea. A considerable number may be seen
on thr south-east shoulder of the Cnoc: the most remarkable of
tese is the one known by the same of the Cradle-stone. It is
nearly spherical, with a circumference approaching to 30 feet. Its
weight is about 30 tons. It has been split in two by lightning,
and stone of the pieces has made a revolution down the hill. It is
composed of syenitic granite. No ores of any kind, as far as I
know, have been observed near Crieff. Boulders of sulphate of
banyters, water-wors and about the sine of an eggs, occur in the bed
of the Shaggy, indicating a vein of that substance: but it has not
been observed in site.

<FOOTNOTE>"We ows the foregoing geological sketch to the kindness of Dr. Thomson,


