
                          KEIG.                            949

lares of Ognisus were appeased by offerings cast into the midst of
the sacred fire, and the altars loaded with the gifts of pious, men; *
and when the Druids had any extraordinary favour to ask of the
gods, they offered up more than one human victim, and sometimes
a hecatomb, or a hundred living creatures. +  The Druids reckon-
ed the sacrifice of a man the most meritorious act of their religion;
and the human victims, which were taken not only from criminals
and captives, but also from among the innocent, were enclosed on
such occasions into a frame of immense size, ++ and while the Arch-
druid or priest placed his hand upon the head of the victim trem-
bling before the altar, and offered up prayers to the various Celtic
deities, the blind votaries of the heathen were lying prostrate be-
fore images, the workmanship of their own hands.  The image
enclosing the unhappy human victims was then set on fire, and
they were consumed cruelly to ashes, in the presence of the peo-
ple, amidst the solemn notes of various musical instruments, which
resounded through the sacred grove to drown the cries of the dy-
ing men. S  Others were slain with one stroke of the sword above the
diaphragm, so that by observing the posture in which they fell, the
different convulsions, and the direction in which the blood flowed
from the body, they might interpret the will of the gods, or foretel
future events.
   On the top of a partly detached hill in the north-west part of
the parish, is a circular enclosure of loose stones, apparently the
ruins of a rude wall; it is called the Barmekin, and is about 70
or 80 yards in diameter, with a heap of stones near its centre.
There is no satisfactory tradition connected with it.  Many flint
arrow and spear heads of various forms are occasionally found,
principally on Benaebie.
   Mansion-houses.-The only remarkable mansion-bouse is Cas-
tle Forbes, the seat of Lord Forbes, chief of that ancient family,
a spacious, elegant, and most commodious modern edifice, in the
castellated style.  It stands on the left bank of the Don, on the
slope of the south-west corner of Benachie, at the termination of
the valley of Alford, commanding a view of great extent and beauty.
The Don, here hemmed in by naturally wooded hills, flows through
the grounds; farther on the bridge of Keig a single arch of 101

<FOOTNOTE>Caesar, lib. 6 c. 16, de Bel. Gal. Plin. 1. 14,c. 44.
   Eustathius Iliad, a. p. 36, Edit. Bas.
   Plin. H. Nat. 1. 30. c. i.  Tacit. Annal. 1. xiv. c.5. Caes. 1.vi.c.16.
   Caesar, 1.6 c. 16, de Bel. Gallico, Diodorus Siculus, 1. 2, c. 29.
   Diodorus Siculus, 1. 5.c.36.


