
818                             LANARKSHIRE.

comes to a broad ditch of about 3 yards, with a rampart.  At
about 6 yards within this rampart, there is a second ditch
of 2 yards or so in width, and within it a mound of about 10
feet in height.  At the distance of probably 16 yards still farther
up the hill, is found a ring or circle of stones, measuring, it is
said, 9 yards in thickness, and 4 feet in height, and enclosing a
space of ground in its natural state, of about 44 yards in diameter.
This has been held by some to have been a military station of the
Britons; while others are inclined to view it as an ancient Druidi-
cal temple or place of worship.
   Watling Street, as it has been called, entered the parish near to
the base of Arbory bill, and passed Cauldchapel and Wandell-
mill, where it may still be traced; but farther down than this, it
cannot be followed with certainty.  An urn was not very long
ago, dug up by the plough near Cauldchapel, and several more
are reported to have been discovered near Wandell-mill, at the
time the present high road was made about seventy years ago.
Sir William Wallace is reported to have once encamped on
the heights above Wandell-mill, where he entrapped and cut off a
party of English.
   Ancient Buildings.-It is said there were formerly several low-
ers or strong buildings in this parish, the scanty dilapidated ruins
of which are now all that remain.  Whether and where the
Jardines ever had a residence in Wandell, is now a matter of
the purest conjecture.  Within the bounds of this ancient barony,
however, at the base of Devonshaw hill, to the, west of the high-
road, and nearly opposite to the snug little village of Robertoun,
lies in a graceful curvature of the Clyde, a baylike nook of land of
about 30 acres in extent, called the Bower Park, diversified with two
or three rising knolls, having its border washed on all sides by the
river, except on the south-east, where it is bounded by the public
road running along by the foot of the Hartside hills, and in this
way having altogether a sort of peninsular form.  Upon one of
these little eminences in the south-west corner of this little territory,
and with its rocky base shelving into the Clyde, stand the ruins of
the Bower of Wandell. Little of it, indeed, now remains, nor does
it appear from its outlines ever to have been of any great extent,
though probably it was built with some attention to security.
King James V., when tired of the cares of the state and trammels
of a court is said to have pursued his favourite sport of deer stalk-
ing, among the once woody hills and glens of Hartside.  This


