
     Statistical Account

they are bound, besides upholding manse and school-house,
to build and repair the parish church, church-yard walls, etc.
where their lands are situated, in a reasonable and decent
manner.  Hence, as is obvious, such landholders, and they
only, who neglect to do so, give ground for that reflection;
and the bad state of many of the parish churches of this
country, thereby become so just a cause of complaint to the
people, to the very people, who by their adherence to the e-
stablished religion of the country, certainly do shew them-
selves not the least friendly to our happy Constitution, in
church and in state; thereby, also, as is obvious, the laws are
infringed, and the most peaceable and religious of his Majes-
ty's subjects, much aggrieved.  For, the law of this coun-
try is so well and so wisely framed, as to lay the burden of
building and repairing the church and school-house, etc. up-
on the rich, to relieve the poor, not upon persons, but upon
property, therefore, no individual's rights or property are or
can be, invaded or affected thereby; nor can any persons or
classes of men, of whatever description, be any way interfer-
ed with, but as proprietors of lands, for their lands only; on
which express condition they are conveyed and held; and,
therefore, by neglecting to acquit themselves of these legal
engagements, to which they are bound by the same tenure
they hold their estates, as well as to fulfill so pious and im-

<FOOTNOTE>

being digged up and devoured by beasts.  The building and repairing of
churches and church-yard dykes, was once referred to the Privy Council,
act 76. Parl. 9. 2d May 1693.  But now the parishioners, i. e. heritors, must
build and repair the church yard dykes with stone and mortar two elns (yards)
high, with sufficient stiles and entries, and the Lords of Session are to direct
letters of horning against them to that effect: Act 232. Parl. 15. Ja. 6. 1597."
The parishioners (heritors) are also bound to provide communion cups, ta-
bles, and table cloths, etc. vide chap. 6. Parl. 22 Ja. 6. 1617.


