
1140                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

printed in the Report of the University Commission of 1826, along
with all the charters of King's College, and may be referred to by
those who wish to ascertain the precise terms in which the very
ample privileges of King's College were conferred.  By a mandate
dated on the same day, but not executed till 1496, Bishop Elphin-
ston, with two coadjudators, was directed to publish the Bull, to
defend and protect the doctors, masters, and scholars in all their
immunities, &c., and to cause the statutes to be inviolably observ-
ed.  By a second Bull dated in 1495, the Pope annexed to the
University the church of Aberbuthnot, now Marykirk, and the re-
venues of the Hospital of St Germains in Lothian.
   King James IV., by a charter of confirmation dated 22d May
1497, ratified all the enactments of the papal Bull, and empower-
ed Bishop Elphinston to found a college within the University.
   Accordingly, the bishop in 1505 published what is called the
first foundation of the college, which was confirmed by a Bull of
Pope Julius II., in 1506.  By this deed he formed and endowed
a college, to be called that of Sancta Maria in Nativitate.  The
members were thirty-six in number; but by a second foundation,
prepared by Bishop Elphinston during his life, but published after
having been proved by Bishop Gavin Dunbar in 1531, seventeen
years after the death of Elpbinston, the number was raised to
forty-two ; namely, four doctors in the faculties of Theology, Ca-
non Law, Civil Law, and Medicine, the first to be Principal of
the College; eight Masters in Arts, the first to be Sub-Principal,
the second Grammarian, and the other six Students in Theology;
three Students of Law; (all the above, except the Mediciner, to
be ecclesiastics) ; thirteen poor scholars ; eight prebends for the
service of the College church, the first to be cantor, the second
sacrist, and six singing boys.
   Such is a brief sketch of the original constitution of the College,
which has been repeatedly and fully confirmed by numerous Papal
Bulls, royal charters, and Acts of Parliament.  The mode of
election, salaries, and duties of all the members are minutely de-
tailed in the two foundations published by Bishop Dunbar in the
form of a solemn instrument, and which are printed in the Com-
missioners' Report above referred to.  These important documents,
especially the second foundation, have always been considered as
the binding law's of the University; but although, up to the per
riod of the Reformation in Scotland, they were literally obeyed,
the change which then took place in religious matters rendered it
                             3


