
     of Kilbarchan.

   Antiquities-About 2 miles west of the village, on an
elevated plain, is situated a huge stone, called Clocho-
drick.  This name is supposed to be a corruption of the
words Cloch o Druids, the stone of the Druids.  It consists of
the same species of whinstone of which the neighbouring
hills are composed.  This stone is about 22 feet long, 17
feet broad, and 12 feet high.  It is of a rude oval figures,
extending East and West; but several fragments have been
broken off, either from design, or by the injuries of the wea-
ther.  It seems to rest in a narrow base below, and perhaps,
like other druidical stones, was capable of being moved; but
the lower part is now filled up with stones gathered from
the land, over which the grass is growing.  From the west-
ern side, there is a gradual ascent to the east, which is the
highest part.  At some distance round, are seen a few large
grey stones; but whether they once made a part of a sa-
cred inclosure, or are merely accidental, cannot now be as-
certained, as the land where they ly is in tillage; and it is
probable, the most moveable of them have been carried off.
A small rivulet runs to the westward of the stone.  There
are no remains of a sacred grove, except a solitary tree.
   It appears, that this stone has been hewn from an elevated
rock, a little to the East, on which stands a farm house, call-
ed also, Clochodrick; but, by what mechanism it was

<FOOTNOTE>

being very light, too much ploughing makes it hove.  Were it once well
swarded, it were better to lop-dress the grass, and keep it in pasture as long
as it remains good.
   In the southern part of the parish, the property of Mr M`Dowal of Garth-
land, there are 40 acres of wood without, and 13 acres within this policy.
But as this gentleman's extensive plantations are partly in the parish of Loch-
winnoch, and partly in this parish, an account of them was given along with
the particulars relative to Lochwinnoch, wherein his house is situated.
   There are several beautiful and thriving plantations, to the West and
North West of the village, belonging to the Meslrs Barbours, and to Mr
Spiers, which we had occasion to mention already.


