
	                  MAYBOLE.			367

mans, who conquered the aborigines. It was then successively
overrun by the Northumbrians, the Scots, and the Irish. It was
afterwards infested by the Danes and Norwegians, and by the
English during the struggles of Wallace and Bruce. The feuds of
hostile chieftains, the struggles of the Reformation, and the defence
of presbytery against the persecutions of the house of Stuart, suc-
ceeded; and in 1676 particularly, there appears to have been a
fearful loss of life.  Yet, notwithstanding all these causes of dis,
turbance, there are traces of a considerable population from very
remote times, in the ruins, cairns, and marks of culture, which are
found in every part of the parish. In the palmy days of Popery,
the town must have had a considerable population, from the large
ecclesiastical establishment of the Collegiate Church, with all its
officers and dependents, as well as from the residence of the gen-
try referred to under the head of Civil History. After the Refor-
mation, and the great changes in the state of society consequent
upon it, there appears to have been a decrease of the population
from that period to the close of the last century. From that time
to the present, the numbers have increased both in the town and
country; in the former they have been doubled, amounting now,
from the influx of Irish weavers, to 4000; while in the country the
spirit of agricultural improvement has also caused an increase, and
where the population is between 2000 and 3000. There are none
of the nobility or large proprietors who reside within the bounds of
the parish. Their mansion-houses are for the most part in the
neighbouring parishes; those that are within it are empty or let;
and there are only five proprietors of land of the value of L. 50
and upwards, actually resident.
	The peasantry may be generally stated to be of athletic and ac
tive habits, decidedly intelligent and moral, attached, with a very
few exceptions, to the Established Church, and possessed in con-
sequence of that steady and rational piety, which even in periods of
great excitement has kept them in peace, and rendered voluntary-
ism itself unknown, or altogether uninteresting in this district.
They speak the expressive language of Burns, are well clothed, and,
upon the whole, keep their cottages in a cleanly state, although it is
to be lamented that many should still be so deficient in this respect.
	There are 4 deaf and dumb persons, 2 or 3 fatuous, and about
the same number occasionally insane, but there has not been for
many years any one in a state to, require constant confinement in
an asylum.


