
                             DALSERF.                             727

subsoil, under all its varying forms and aspects, is generally called
till.  A singular stripe of sandy soil, of from half a mile, to two
miles in breadth, beginning at Cunnigar, in the parish of Hamil-
ton, runs along the north-west end of this parish, and in a south-
erly direction towards Kittiemuir, in Stonehouse parish.  With
this exception, the fields near the Avon are mostly loam, on a
sandy or gravelly subsoil.  With the exception of a few acres of
moss in the southern boundary, the whole parish is arable and
under cultivation.  When left uncultivated, the ground speedily
becomes bovered with whins, broom, and heath.  The soil of the
upper art of the parish is in many places much injured by damp.
   Zoology.-The wild animals to be met with in the parish are
common to the neighbourbood.  In regard to the feathered tribes,
it may be mentioned that a good many varieties of water-fowl fre-
quent the sheltered vale of the Clyde, chiefly in the winter months.
Towards the latter end of the year, especially before, storms, im.
mense flights of the common gull (Larus canus,) occasionally
pass from east to west, but never in a contrary direction.  Per-
haps the abundant supply of food which the sbores of the immense
Atlantic afford render their return unnecessary.  Pheasants, du-
ring the last few years, have become rather plentiful in the woods
and coverts of the parish, and are sometimes seen feeding with
the domestic poultry.  The blackcock is occasionally met with
by sportsmen, and the woodcock, at the proper season, much in more
frequently.  The owl, till within these few years, lived and hooted
undisturbed along our banks; but by the persevering efforts of
game-keepers, his wild cry is now seldom beard amidst the silence
of night and the gusts of the wind.  Towards the end of autumn,
large flocks of plowers from the moorlands frequent the newly
sowed or newly laboured wheat fields.  The smaller birds here
are nearly the same as in other pl`ces in the neighbourhood.
There is scarcely a cottage in the parish that does not contain
imprisoned linnets, bullfinches, goldfinches or canaries, sometimes
all these species, and cross breeds of every variety.  Several per-
sons, of rather idle habits, make a sort of employment of catching
singing-birds for the supply of the market at Glasgow and other
places.
   Salmon, trout, salmon-fry, and par, are found in the Clyde and
other streams in the parish, leading to the amusement of angling
and fly-fishing, although not it is believed, with very encouraging
results.  Previous to the year 1660, and probably long after, ex-


