
148                        WIGTONSHIRE.

consistent with various immoralities. If the experience of a few
years of ministerial duty might justify the author of these pages in
hazarding the opinion, he would say that those who know and love
the Bible in this parish seem to draw from it a deeper tone of
religious feeling than is generally to be remarked in the same class
of men in several other districts with which he has been acquaint-
ed. The number of these, alas! bears but a small proportion to
the whole population. Perhaps the following well ascertained
statement respecting family worship, taken together with other facts
to be stated under the heads of "Ecclesiastical State" and "Eduba-
tion,; may hllustrate the relifious character of the population
more satisfactorily than any mere general statement of opinion: Of
the Protestant families in the whole parish, there are sixty in which
there is a family worship usually every day, and sixty-one in which
it is usual to have family worship only on Sabbaths.
	Poaching in game prevails to considarable extent, and is not
confined, as in most other parts of the country, to a few worthless
and desperate characters. Small quantities of soap are frequently
brought from Ireland and sold among the families in the parish
by poor people. This seems to be the only remaining vestige of
smuggling.
	There is no regular pawnbroker nearer than Stranraer, and
probably not very many persons from this parish have recourse to
him. Those who would, have little to pawn.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The statements under this head are given with
confidence on the authority of John Murdoch, Esq. J. P. factor
to the principal heritor.

	No. of acres standard imperial measure which are either cultivated or oc-
            casionally in tillage is 						    6300
	No. of acres which have never been cultivated, and which remain constant-
                ly waste, or in pasture,				    2088
		     which might, with a profitable application of capital, be added
		        to the cultivated land of the parish, whethdr that land
		        were afterw`rds to be kept in occasional tillage, or in per-
		        manent pasture, 					     500
		     in a state of undivided common				      12
		     under wood, all planted,					     300

	The kinds of trees which have been generally planted, are, oak,
ash, sycamore, beech, elm, chestnut, larch, spruce and silver fir,
and pinaster. The almost only wood in the parish is around
Dunkey, the residence of the principal proprietor. It has been
planted chiefly within the last thirty years. The annual thinning
and prunning is conducted by expirienced foresters under the di-


