
2			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

        Topographical Appearances, Soil, &c.-That part of the parish
which consists of the tract of land skirting the Dee, from the low-
er bridge of Tongland to a little below Torrs' Lake, is for the
most part level, and until it reaches a point south of the town of
Kirkcudbrigbt, opposite St Mary's Isle, is generally of a good
clay, loamy, or mossy soil; but a long ridge of gravel and sand ac-
cumulated upon a clay bottom is found upon that part of this
tract called the Stirling Acres, which is situated within the tdrri-
tories of the burgh of Kirkcudbright, close to the bank of the river.
Beyond that point, the soil is of a dry gravelly nature, and the
whole is capable of producing excellent crops of grain; but the
Earl of Selkirk's park and the fields belonging to the burgh on
the river side, are in permanent grass. In the ancient parish of
Dunrod, there is a tract of land of surpassing fertility, measuring
about 180 acres, called " the Milton Parks of Dunrod." These
the plough has not disturbed for nearly a century, during which
time they have been kept constantly in pasture for black cattle.
From these parks, 120 head of three and four years' old cattle are
annually sent to St Faith's market. As a proof of the nutritive
qualities of the grass of these lands, it may not be out of place to
state that, for a period of five years previous to Martinmas 1840,
during which time they were in the hands of the proprietor, who
stocked them with cattle of the pure Galloway breed, the public
annual sales attracted dealers from remote parts of the country,
who were glad to purchase the cattle at almost any price, in order,
as the phrase is, to top their droves in the English markets. The
rest, and by far the most extensive portion of the parish, is, with
the exception of a considerable breadth of arable land and some
meadow ground, of an undulating or broken surface, in some pla-
ces hilly. This part of the parish rises gradually northward to an
elevation apparently of 400 feet above the level of the sea. In
what may be called the hilly part there are some moors of small
extent covered partially by heather and a species of furze called
catwhins. These moors are not arable, but they afford tolerable
pasture for cattle and sheep. The undulating or broken surface,
which is chiefly near the centre of the parish, consists partly of a
succession of hillocks termed knolls, of no great height, sometimes
sloping gently, sometimes rather precipitously, and forming obtuse
angles with the narrow spaces of level ground which intervene.
These knolls are of a dry kindly soil resting upon rotten rock, and
afford excellent pasture. They are curiously belted from base to

                              S


