

130                         	WIGTONSHIRE.

a little northward of its middle, by an isthmus 6 miles in breadth,
formed by Loch-Ryan on the north, and the Bay of Luce on the
south. Towards this isthmus, the parish of Portpatrick stretches
about 4 1/2 miles from its western shore. It contains about 18
square miles, and exhibits an outline of four sides, of which that
towards the east is nearly parallel to the opposite side, bounded
by the sea on the west. The only natural boundary between this
and the adjoining parishes is a small stream called the Piltanton
burn, separating it on the east from the parishes of Leswalt and
Inch. It is separated from Leswalt on the north,west, and from
Stonykirk on the south-east, by stone dikes, ditches, and other
enclosures of the boundary farms.
	Topogaraphical Appearance, &c.--The surface of the whole pa-
rish is eleveted. From the coast to the distance of about three miles,
where it reaches its greatest elevation, it is irregularly undulated,
exhibiting almost no entirely level ground, except in a few places
where there is peat moss, the subsoil of which has probably the
same slopes as the adjacent hills. The slopes are generally gra-
dual, and in few places are so steep as to hinder the use of the
plough: but on many of them, especially the more elevated, the
rock frequently shows itself uncovered. The hills are mostly flat.
Some of them have assumed a form approaching to conical. The
higher and more remarkable ones are called the Fells of the farms
to which they respectively belong, with the exception of one to-
wards the south-east of the parish, which is called Cairnpat, and
sometimes Cairnpiot. This hill is the highest in the whole peninsula.
Here the eastern part of the parish may be seen, sloping down rapidly
to the Piltanton burn, with a surface generally irregular, and towrds
the north exceedingly rough and broken with the projecting rock.
From the summit of the hill, in clear weather, we may command
an extensive prospect on all sides. Northward our view extends
to the hill and mountains of Argyleshire and of Arran. The
majestic blue rocks of Ailsa appear surrounded by the sea be-
tween them and the nearer view of the beautiful Loch-Ryan, which
opens towards them between the bold hills of its eastern shore
and the more gently sloping fields of Kirkcolm, and Leswalt, and
sends back its quiet waves to the level shores of Stranraer. Turn-
ing eastward, our eye is caught by the distant blue mountains of
Kirkcudbright, seen over the wild but less elevated country beyond
Glenluce, and then descends on the almost level plain, about five



