
     StatisticaI Account

practicable, and the other very difficult.  About a mile from
the mouth of the river are cruives for intercepting the salmon;
and the privilege of fishing here is rented from the Sutherland
family by a company, for L. 133 sterling per annum.  This
company has of late erected a boiling house at Helmsdale,
where not only the salmon of that river, but likewise those of
Brora and Shin, are boiled for the London market.  The ri-
ver of Loth, near the other extremity of the parish, has no
permanent source, and very little water in summer.  It rises
in the neighbouring mountains; and has two branches which
meet at a small village called the Glen, about a mile above the
place were it falls into the sea.  This Glen, or Glen-loth, is
a small farm, fitter for producing grass than corn, and has
for a long time past been the residence of one tenant; but of
late, several families have begun to build and take up their re-
sidence to the N. of the old farm house, and to extend their
cultivation towards Duchal.  The number of inhabitants at
present in this tract, which may be called the highlands of
the parish, including men, women, and children, amounts
to 68 or 70 souls.  It is upon the spot where the hunting house,
mentioned by the late Mr Alexander Pope, minister of Reay,
in his account of Sutherland and Caithness, published in the
Appendix to Pennant's Tour, stood, that one of these colonists
has pitched his tent, by which that monument of antiquity
is destroyed.  The Pictish castle of which Mr Pope speaks; is
on the N. side of the river, about a furlong below the place
where the two branches meet; a little below this building, is
the cataract he mentions.  It is impossible to conceive what
could induce him to talk of fine fishing in the river Loth, for
there is no such thing, though, perhaps, a salmon might have
been caught in it occasionally, orby accident.  One summer,
the Helmsdale company employed a boat and crew for about 2
months in the mouth of the Loth: they caught several salmon

     2


