
     of Arbroath.

   Soil and Produce.-The soil is various.  On the northern
extremity it is a thin muirish soil, with a clay bottom; about

<FOOTNOTE>

evening of the 23 d of May, he came to anchor in the Bay, and
fired a few shot into the town; after which salute, he sent a flag
of truce on shore, with the following letter:
     +"At sea, May twenty third.\c-
   "Gentlemen, I send these two words to inform you, that
"I will have you to bring to the French colour, in less
"than a quarter of an hour, or 1 set the town on fire directly;
"such is the order of my master the King of France I am sent
"by.  Send directly the mair and chiefs of the town to make
"some agreement with me, or I'll make my duty.  It is the
"will of yours.
"To Monssieurs Mair of the town called Arbrought, or in
"his absence, to the chief man after him in Scotland."
   The Magistrates, wishing to gain time to arm the inhabitants,
and send expresses to the neighbouring towns for military, gave
an evasive answer to this letter, intimating, that he had men-
tioned no terms of ransom, and begging he would do no injury
to the town, till he should hear from them again.  Upon this
Fall wrote a second letter, which is as follows:
     +"At sea, eight o cloc in the afternoon.\c-
"Gentlemen, I received just now your answer by which you
"say I ask no terms.  I thought it was useless, since I asked you
"to come aboard for agreement.  But here are my terms; I
"will have 30,000 l. Sterling at least, and 6 of the chiefs men
"of the town for otage.  Be speedy, or I shoot your town away
"directly, and I set fire to it.  I am, Gentlemen, your servant.
   "I sent some of my crew to you; but if some harm happens
"to them, you'll be sure will hang up the main-yard all the
"preseners we have aboard.
   "To Monsieurs the chiefs men of Arbrought in Scotland."
   The magistrates, before sending a return to this letter, having
got some of the inhabitants armed, and some military from
Montrose, set Fall at defiance, and ordered him to do his worst,
for they would not give him a farthing Terribly enraged, and
no doubt greatly disappointed, he began a heavy fire upon the
town, and continued it for a long time; but happily it did no
harm, except knocking down some chimney tops, and burning
the fingers of those who took up his balls, which were heated.
On the 24th he sent a third letter on shore, by some of our own
people, whom he had captured at sea.  It runs thus:

     VOL. VII, X x


