
1210                    PERTHSHIRE.

tion in spring; and sometimes, for many continuous days, even in
the early summer months.  The climate is upon the whole, how-
ever, mild and salubrious; and the people are remarkable for health
and longevity.  There are no diseases, or distempers, peculiar to
the district; and epidemical infections are neither common, nor
remarkably fatal. *
  Hydrography.-The Tay is the only river connected with the
parish, and forms its southern boundary for upwards of three and
half miles. Three small streamlets intersect the parish from
north to south, and drain off the humidities of the soil to the Tay.
  These take their rise from a variety of springs in the upper or hilly
parts of the parish.  For, both in these parts, and also in the ris-
ing grounds that slope towards the hills, there are a great number
of such springs, of the most pure and limpid water, all perennial,
and very little, if at all, affected by the severest summer droughts.
  Zoology.-All the common kinds of game are found in the pa-
rish,-some in very great, some in less abundance; such as roe-
deer; hares, black-cocks, pheasants, and, in their season, land-
rails, snipes, and wood-cocks.  Partridges have been rather scarce
since the severe winter of 1837-8; during which, it is supposed,
most of them perished.' But they are now beginning again to be
more numerous. Rabbits are, at resent, by far too abundant.
The other wild animals are, foxes, badgers, hedgehogs, squirrels,
polecats; stoats, and weasels, &c.  Badgers and polecats are now
rarely to be met with; but they are not quite extirpated. We
have also different species of hawks; two species, at least of owls;
and the shrike is sometimes seen. Rooks are more numerous than
is desirable, and great numbers of daws nestle in our rocks.
Hooded-crows and magpies are extremely rare, considering the
numbei and extent of our woods.  Wood-pigeons have not been
abundant since the severe winter above-mentioned, when vast
numbers of them were frozen to death, or perished with hunger.
Of all the common singing birds, we seem to have more than our
own share.  Goldfinches used to be vdry numerous in the neigh-
bourhood of Kinfauns Castle; but few have been seen or heard,
for the last five or six years. Flocks of those little migratory
songsters, the siskins, pay frequent visits, to the alder trees on the
margin of the Tay, during the winter months; but seldom remain
more than two or three days at a time. We are likewise visited,

<FOOTNOTE>In 1832, this parish was visited by the Asiatic cholen.  The number of persons
attacked by it was 14, of whom 5, all old persons, died.


