
			FETTERESSO.                                267

per quarter, and for meal, 17s. 7 1/2d. per boll. The glebe is rather
more than eight acres in extent.
   Education.--There are two parochial schools, one situated in
the south, the other in the northern district; the first having at-
tached to it the maximum, the second, the minimum salary.
There are, besides, in Stonehaven, and in several places in the coun-
try part of the parish,--some schools more especially for females,
which are all unendowed, with the exception of two. That at Cairn-
hill was established by the Rev. Dr Morison, (minister of  Ban-
chory Devenick), proprietor of the estate of Elsick, wbo has pro-
vided a school-room, lodging, and a garden, for the teacher, and
also, as annual salary, the interest of L. 100. The other was found-
ed by the late Mr William Donaldson of Quoschies, who, by his
latter will, conveyed to trustees the lands of Beltcraigs, and a te-
nement in Stonehaven, for the purpose of educating fifty or more
poor children, two-thirds of the number from the parish of Fetter-
esso, and one-third from the parish of Dunnottar. The school
was opened in June 1838, and 60 young persons have since that
time attended it, vacancies having, twice a year, been filled up.
In order to bring the property into a state efficient for its object,
a considerable expenditure was necessary. At a period not very
distant, the revenue will be improved; and the benifits of the in-
stitution, already happily experienced, will, according to the wishes
of the benevolent founder of it, be more and more extended.
   At the parochial and several of the other schools, the means of
a liberal education are afforded. Comparatively few, however,
now apply themselves to the learned languaes. It may be stated,
that there are generally in the parish at least twelve at teachers em-
ployed; and that the number of persons attending them amounts
on an average, to 600, and 400 at Sabbath schools.
   Poor.--When ability for regular labour, either from loss of
health, or advanced age, is gone, and through improvidence or
otherwise nothing of any importance has been laid up, the resource
is an apartment in a town, and very commonly speedy destitution
follows. Not many years ago, there were in Stonehaven nine
Friendly Societies, the number of the members of which (a great
part residenters in this parish) amounted to nearly 1700. None
of them now exist. These institutions were founded on unsound
principles, the contributions for their support bearing no proper
proportion to the allowances proposed to be granted. Their dis-


