                          PENICUIK.                             31

There is only one natural loch of small extent; but the artificial
ponds on the Penicuik demesne are deserving of notice, not merely
from their picturesque beauty, but from their having been the first
scenes where the extraordinary naval genius of John Clerk of
Eldin diplayed itself. To boating on these ponds in boyhood,
that celebrated character used to ascribe his predeliction for nau-
tical investigations, which ultimately led to the publication of his
Naval Tactics. The Esk, though here but an inconsiderable
stream, is yet both highly ornamental and useful, as it forms the
great charm of the beautiful domains of Penicuik and Newhall,
and is the parent of the many mills which have so contributed to
enrich the parish. Its powers have of late been much lessened,
however, as a mechanical force, from the progress of drainage in
the upper districts, which has tended to render its floods more de-
structive, and its average stream much weaker.  To remedy this
increasing evil, the mill proprietors have in contemplation the for-
mation of large reservoirs, to receive and store up the flood waters,
with the double view of thus diminishing the force of its spates,
and increasing its stream in drought. A similar plan has long
been in agitation for the Water of Leith, a reservoir for which has
been planned at Bavelaw, on the north-west of the parish. A
considerable part of one already successfully formed on the Logan
Water is also within this parish. A little way above this last
mentioned sheet of water, the stream which supplies it forms the
classical Linn of Habbie's How, which would repay the admirer
of natural scenery for a somewhat long ramble amongst the hills,
by its lonesome and romantic character. Innumerable pic-nic
parties accordingly repair thither from Edinburgh during the sum-
mer months.
   Geolology and Mineralogy.--The rocks in this parish belong to
the transition, secondary, and alluvial classes; sandstone, lime-
stone, and schistus, being everywhere to be met with. Coal is
also abundant, but as yet it has never been wrought to any extent,
or with a profitable return.* This has arisen from the frequent oc-
currence of dikes. Limestone is quarried to a very considerable
extent on the eastern limits of the parish, and has proved of the
greatest benefit in reclaiming moorland. The rock formation on
the plains, as indicated by its cropping up on the banks of the
Esk, and its tributaries, is of sandstone and schistus, of various

<FOOTNOTE>A pit was re-opened in 1838 on the Penienik property. The coal is excellent,
and the prospects of a profitable return are good.


