
                             LAGGAN.                            431

ing necessary expenses, are divided among the poor, in various proportions,
according to their necessities.  There is, besides, a sum
of L.51 of mortified money, the interest of which is divided among
certain persons mentioned in the will of the donor.
Catechist.-The minister catechises the people once a year.
Diets of catechising are well attended.  For some years previous
to 1832, there was a catechist employed between this parish and
the neighbouring parish of Kingussie.  The half of his salary was
paid by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, the
other half by the ministers.
   Education.-At present, the only school we have is the parochial,
which is attended, throughout the year, by from  100 to 150 scholars
on an average.  The parents are vary anxious to procure the
means of education to their children.  But a great proportion are
so poor that they cannot afford to keep them long at school; and
even during their attendance, three and sometimes four read from
one book,-the parents not being able to supply a sufficient number.
There is another district in the parish very much in need of a
teacher.  It is on Mr Baillie's property; and we have sanguine
hopes that be will afford the necessary accommodations.  In that
event, we trust that we shall not appeal in vain to the Committee
of the General Assembly for an endowment.
   The schoolmaster receives the maximum salary, and teaches gratis
such poor children as the minister recommends.  The school
fees, in general, are not well paid.  The school-house is in tolerably
good repair; but the dwelling-house is in a very uncomfortable
state.  This, however, is very much the schoolmaster's own,
fault, in not applying to have it repaired; for the heritors are not
backward in doing what is just and proper in matters of this kind.
   Inns and Whisky Shops.-We have a superabundance of these in
the parish; and their influence on the morals of the people is
most injurious.
Fuel.-The fuel generally use dispeats. In some parts of the
parish, peat mosses are becoming rather scarce, in others the are
abundant.  Some people drive coals from Fort-William, a distance
of forty miles, and find them in the end cheaper than peats
which they procure at a mile's distance.  There is such a quantity
of wood and roots of trees in the peat mosses, that to procure
fuel from among them, is a work of great labour and expense.

February 1839.


