
160                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

which has long adorned our peasantry, and been a fair feature of
our national character.  Associations of benevolent and patriotic
individuals formed with this end in view at Elgin and in other
places, are said to. do much good at little expense.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Roads and Public Conveyances.-There are only two turnpike
roads in the parish, crossing one another at Mintlaw in Longside,
the one in the direction of north to south, leading from Fraser-
burgh to Aberdeen, and the other of east to west, from Peterhead
to Banff.  The former extends in Old Deer over a space of about
eight miles; and the latter, of four.  Mail-coacHes pass and re-
pass along both lines daily.  A stage coach also, for the greater
part of two years back, has been in the use of travelling between
Aberdeen and Old Deer every day in summer, and twice or thrice
a week in winter.  It is, much against the ease and speed of jour-
neying in the direction it takes, that the road for five miles from
the starting-place here is very imperfectly made, and fully worse
planned.  A new road is much wanted, and has been long project-
ed, passing nearly in a straight line from the Banff turnpike near
the village of Old Deer towards Ellon, and through an extensive
tract of waste or ill cultivated country, which is of difficult access at
present.  The opening up of a communication in this route would
be a matter of great public utility-shortening the distance to
Aberdeen by several miles.  Were some of the heritors, through
whose ground it would pass, to make the greater part of the road
at their own expense, it is probable they might soon find that they
were not great losers in so doing.  Nor is this the only direction
where the want of good roads is felt.  Several other districts are
very ill situate in this respect.  Indeed, unless the landed interest in
general see the policy of pursuing the course chalked out for them
by several spirited proprietors, and make roads where they are
wanted in their own estates at their own expense, the money levied
by statute might be found sufficient to keep them in a proper state
of repair, but in most cases is utterly inadequate to accomplish the
whole object.
   The nearest post-town is Mintlaw in Longside, about two miles
from the village of Old Deer, and three from Stewartfield, from
both of which places a runner, paid by the public, goes twice a-
day to the post-office.
   State of the Parish Church and other Ecclesiastical Matters.-
The parish, church, fitted up to contain 1200 sitters, was built in


