
246                         PERTHSHIRE.

				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   It has been already observed, that there are two villages in the
	parish, called Old and New Rattray, in which mostly the articles
	necessary for family use may be at all seasons found.  Blairgowrie,
	a much more considerable village, is at hand, where there is a post-
	office, and shops of all kinds in abundance for food and clothing.
	Cupar-Augus is the next place of consequence, at the distance of
	five miles from Rattray, and to which there  is a turnpike road from
	Blairgowrie, At Cupar-Angus, the turnpike roads break off to
	Perth and Dundee; and through Cupar-Angus, the Defiance
	coach runs daily from Edinburgh to Aberdeen.  Lately, a railway
	was formed across the Sidlaw hills, from Dundee to Newtyle, by
	which coals, lime, and manure are brought from town in waggons,
	and grain and potatoes are sent in return.  On the railway, there
	are close coaches for passengers, which are much used as a
	cheap and expeditious mode of travelling.  A bill is just now be-
	fore Parliament for extending the railway from Newtyle to Cupar-
	Angus, which is expected to be a great benefit to this district of
	Strathmore.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church of Rattray was built
	in 1820 and 1821, is a very commodious house, and in perfect
	order.  It was made to contain 620 persons.  In appropriating it,
	the first consideration was bestowed on the poor.  A portion, which
	would accommodate twelve sitters, was allotted to them.  A simi-
	lar portion was allowed to the elders, and for baptism room; and
	the same to the minister's family; after which, the area of the
	church was divided among the heritors, according to their respec-
	tive valuations.  The heritors, after accommodating themselves
	and their tenants, let the surplus seats to the trade's people in the
	parish, who have no right of their own.  These seats to the lower
	orders are exceedingly cheap, at an average scarcely amounting
	to 1s. 6d. the sitter.  The whole seats are occupied.  The church is
	very conveniently situated for the parish in general, though there
	is one property, called Easter Bleaton, ten miles distant from it.
	This detached portion is cut off from the rest of the parish for
	five miles, by the intervening parishes of Bendochy and Alyth; but
	the few inhabitants there, are accommodated with public worship at
	the chapel of Persie, a preaching station in the higher part of
	the parish of Beadochy, not above two miles distant from Easter
	Bleaton.
	   The manse of Rattray was built in 1813 and 1814.  The grebe
					4


