
			WEST KILBRIDE.				253

ed vindicator of the ancient geometers died at Glasgow, October
1, 1768, and was interred there in the Blackfriars burying-ground
where is placed to his memory a plain marble tablet, bearing an
elaborate Latin inscription. Never having been married, Dr Sim-
son was succeeded in his property of Kirktonhall and other by a
grand-nephew of his own name, who afterwards disposed of it. In
the year 1812, Dr Trail of Belfast published an account of the
life in the public hall of the college of which he was to distin-
guished a member.
	The late General Robert Boyd, Lieutenant-governor of Gibral-
ter during the memorable siege of that fortless in 1782, derived
his origin from the parish of Kilbride. His parents, who were but
of the class of small farmers, however, having removed to the
burgh of Irvine, it has been assumed that the General was born
there. However this may be, he went first to sea in a coasting
vessel out of that port, was impressed that the navy, afterwards
became a soldier, and, by a life of extraordinary perseverance in
the exercise of great talents, rose to the distinguished station
which he ultimately filled with the highest reputation and honour.
	It has likewise been alleged that the illustrious Mr John Hun-
ter, whose labours have so eminently enlarged the bounds of phy-
sical science, was remotely descended from the Hunters of Hun-
terston in this parish; but the evidence of this circumstance, which
of course cannot in any way be necessary to the fame or reputa-
tion of such a man, seems to be but of an uncertain nature.
	Division of Land.--This parish, as at present constituted, is
properly divided into seven estates, here called baronies; which
disposition of its territory is probably coeval with the arrangements
which arose out of the new settlement under Robert the Bruce.
These are as follows:
	1. Southanan, the most extensive of the whole, belonged from the
time of Bruce to the family of Sempil; but was alienated towards
the close of the seventeeth century, and now belongs to Lady
Mary Montgomery Lamb. The Sempils had here a splendid
villa at Underbank, the ruins of which still remain. At this
place, "John, Lord Semple, in the time of James IV. built a
chapel, dedicated to St Inan; and to which his Lordship granted,
for the lands of Meikle and Little Kirlruskan, with two sowns of
pasturage in the Mains of Southanan; and an acre of land on the


