
     of Newburgh.

   Ecclesiastical State.-There are three clergymen in the
parish of Newburgh; the minister of the established church,
of the Burgher Seceders, and of the Congregational Society,
besides several others, who, without taking the name of cler-
gymen, teach and exhort, under the denomination of Ana-
baptists, and Unitarians.  The Congregational Society is small.
The Burgher Seceders may exceed one third of the whole
inhabitants of the parish.  In point of numbers, the Anabap-
tists and Unitarians scarcely deserve the name of societies.
The Unitarians do not exceed four; and the Anabaptists are
not double that number.  The Anabaptists are connected with
a church of the same description, at Dundee.  It may be pre-
sumed, that the Unitarians have established more distant con-
nexions.  There are also, in the parish, several families who
belong to the congregation of Antiburgher Seceders at Aber-
nethy.  The Antiburgher Secession, is of long standing in the
parish.  But the Burgher Secession sprung up in it, on the ad-
misson of the present incumbent, into the Established Church.
The town of Newburgh, also, contains a few Independents,
and one or two professors of the Episcopal religion, but no Ro-
man Catholics.  Besides there various denominations of Chris-
tians, not a few persons reside within the bounds of this pa-
rish, who hold communion with no religious society, and sel-
dom join in any public acts of religions worship.  A friend
to principles of toleration, and an advocate for liberty of con-
science, rejoices in observing men of different views and
opinions, on subjects of religion, living together in the exer-
cise of mutual charity, and transacting peaceably with one
another, the business of civil life.-These are happy times.
Even among the common people, persecution for the sake of
conscience begins to be regarded with horror; and the bigot
should in vain attempt to inflame them with violence, against
persons of sentiments, the most opposite to those which they

     A a 2


