
124                         ORKNEY.

remaining is an arched portal of ornamented hewn work. Within
the court, the entry to the main building is also of ornamented
hewn work, and on the top part a coat of arms, which an ignorant
rustic had the presumption to take down and destroy. A broad
and elegant staircase presents itself as you enter, leading to the
apartments above.  But, before you reach the stair to ascend, a
door on the right hand attracts your eye, conducting into an im-
mense apartment on the ground flat, and nearly in the centre of
the main building. Its dimensions are 62 feet long by 24 broad,
and covered overhead by a strong stone arch 20 feet in height.
An arch-built fire-place of great dimension, from 9 to 10 feet
wide, is seen in one end, and a spring well at the other, nearly filled
with stones. In one of the side walls is a narrow stone stair, lead-
ing, by a flight of steep steps, up through the vaulted roof, evident-
ly to serve as a private communication to the upper flat and its
several divisions. The whole fabric demonstrates the original de-
sign: the great hall below for the accommodation of military or
fighting men, and the upper apartments for family accommodation.
Had the intended structure been finished, in pursuance of the plan,
it would have been not only a superb dwelling, but an impregnable
fortress for the time of its erection. With the adjoining lands,
which are of considerable extent, it belongs to John Balfour, Esq.
of Trenaby; and the coat of arms alluded to as removed, but which
have been replaced anew, are those of the family, put up at first by
one Gilbert, who in Queen Mary's time, and that of her unfortunate
husband, Lord Darnley, was master of the royal household, after-
wards Sheriff of Orkney and Governor of the castle at Kirkwall,
and for his services had the above lands granted by his royal mas-
ter. Hence the conjecture, that Noltland Castle had been built
under the superintendence of that gentleman, to serve as a safe re-
treat for the profligate Bothwell and Mary, after their disgraceful
espousals,-but which had been left unfinished, upon tbe sad reverses
which speedily overtook that unhappy pair. From whatever cause
the work was laid aside, the symptoms of its speedy abandonment
are visible to this day in the plentiful material for building lying
in different spots around the walls of the ediffice, ready prepared for
the hands of the workmen. But that the above conjecture must
be erroneous, is evident from the very poor reception which Both-
well met with from that gentleman who refused him admittance
into the castle of Kirkwall in the day of his adversity, when, to


