
                        MONIFIETH.                    557

  Literature.-Two parochial libraries are in operation. That
in Broucrhty Ferry was instituted in 1829, and contains upwards
of 500 volumes; that in Monifieth was instituted in 1836, and
contains upwards of 600 volumes. The readers in each are not
so numerous as they ought to be and once were.
	There is no friendly society in the parish. One was attempted
among the fishermen of Broughty Ferry; but after a short and
sickly existence, it has been broken up. Two savings banks (one
in Monifieth and the other in Broughty Ferry) on the National
Security system are succeeding more prosperously. In the
Broughty Ferry branch there are L.600; in Monifieth. L.200.
  Poor.-The average number of persons regularly receiving pa-
rochial aid is 40, besides occasional paupers; and the average
amount of supply to each is 6s. per month. The collections
available for the poor, made at the doors of the two churches,
average L.80 per annum. A trifle more is realized from bearse
and mortcloth dues; but hitherto this income has been found in-
adequate to meet the expenditure, so that the heritors have volun-
tarily assessed themselves in order to defray it. It is to be lament-
ed, that the independent spirit which formerly instigated many
of the industrious poor to disdain parochial relief is fast wear-
ing out.
  Inns.-In the Monifieth district of the parish there are five li-
censed ale-houses; but in the Broughty Ferry district, there are
one hotel and twenty alehouses.
  Fuel.-The fuel used is sea-borne coal and brushwood; for
which last "birns," or the scorched stems of burnt furze, is a com-
mon substitute among the poorer classes. Peats of an excellent
quality used to be dug out of the links by "tirring" the sand to
the depth of from four to eight feet. This was less laborious than
mhght be imagined, as the stratum of moss when arrived at is often
"twelve peats deep." This mode of obtaining fuel, however, was
some time ago put a stop to by the proprietor, on account of the
blowing of the loosened sand, and consequent destruction of the pas-
ture which it occasioned. On a late occasion, in cutting a deep
drain through the links, a canoe was discovered deeply imbedded
in this stratum of moss, at least mile from the shore; giving
preof that the whole of the links from Monifieth to West-haven,
(forming an isosceles triangle, of which the base is five miles, and
the perpendicular from the vertex to the base three miles,) were
at one time under water, and constituted part of the estuary of the


