
                              RATHO.                       81

toll-bar of Ravelrig:-1. Coralorrhizalinnata, sp'urless coral root,
(Smith's English Botany, VoL xxii. pl. 1547). This plant was
first described by Lightfoot, in his Flora Scottica, p. 513 pl. 28,
as growing only in one place, in a moist hanging wood "on the
south side near the' head of Little Loch-Broom, on the western
coast of Ross-shire." It has since been found in Methven Vood,
six miles from Perth, and on the lands of Barry, near Dundee.
It grows also under these shade of willows in the said moss. 2. Lis-
tera cordata, heart-leaved tway blade, (Eng. Bot. VoL v. pl.358.)
3. Habenaria viridis, frog habenaria, (Vol. ii. pl. 94.) 4. Utricularia
minor, lesser hooded milfoil, (Vol. iv. pl. 254.) 5. Salix repens,
creeping willow, (Vol. iii. p. 183.) 6. S. fusca, dwarf silky willow,
(Vol. xxviii. pi. 1960.) 7. S. cinerea, grey willow, (Vol.xxvvii.pl.
1897.) 8. Drosera rotundifolia, round-leaved sundew, (Vol. xiii.
pl. 867). The botanist will regret, while the agriculturist views
with pleasure, the draining -of the bog, where these productions are
found, which is now in progress. A very valuable collection of
exotics was made by the late Sir Robert Liston, which, since- his
death, has been dispersed.

                       II.-CIVHL HISTORY.

Barony of Ratho.-There is no authentic notice to be found of
the Barons or Barony of Ratho earlier than the beginning of the
fourteenth century. It is not improbable that this was one of the
many forfeited estates which fell into the hands of the Crown dur-
ing the wars carried on by the different competitors for the Scot-
tish throne, upon the death of Alexander III. . For, in 1815-the
Barony of Ratho, with other estates, was granted by Robert I. to
the Steward of Scotland, upon his marriage whth Robert' daugh-
ter, Margery; by whom the sovereignty of this country eventually
devolved upon the Stewart family. On the accession of Robert
II. in 1371, the same barony, with its pertinents and other estates,
were settled on the King's eldest son, as the Prince,and Stewart
of Scotland; and the whole estates of the, Stewarts were formed

in 1404 into a principality, with regal jurisdiction.  In the middle
of the seventeenth century, this property appears tn have been in
the session of a Lord Collington, as it is specially mentioned
in the report of commission appointed by Charles II. to take ac-
count of the losses sustained by him during the usurpation of Crom-
well. In 1563, Ratho estate became by purchase the property of
Mr Alexander Fowlis, in whose favour a charter and new gift were

<FOOTNOTE>See Chalmer's Caldeonia.

EDINBURGH.                  F


