
24                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

so. There is no natural wood, and the extent of land under plant-
ed wood is very limited.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is about L. 2, 2s.
per Scotch acre. There is no pasture ever let at so much per
ox; but the average rent is from L. 3 to L. 5 per Scotch acre.
   Live-Stoch.-The breed of cattle to which most attention is now
paid is the short-horned, introduced into East Lothian about ten
years ago by Mr John Rennie Junior, of Phantassie. The Lei-
cester and Cheviot breeds of sheep are principally propagated, but
many of the black-faced species also are yearly fattened on turnips.
   Husbandry.-The general character of husbandry pursued is of
the most improved kind. Turnips are cultivated to a considerable
extent in drills, and consumed on the ground by sheep, and a por-
tion of them by cattle in the straw yard. Drilled white crops are also
common upon dry soils. The usual rotation of crops is either, 1st,
oats; 2d, beans; 3d, wheat; 4th fallow or turnips; 5th, wheat or
barley; 6th, grass; or 1st, oats; 2d, turnips; 3d, wheat sown in spring,
or barley; 4th, grass. The last rotation is only used on light soils.
The peculiar features of the agriculture in this parish and county,
are, 1st, The early ploughing of stubble in winter. 2d, The tho-
rough eradication of weeds, and pulverizing of the soil in fallow or
before the sowing of turnips. 3d, The careful extraction of annual
weeds from amongst the growing corn; and lastly, never in ordinary
circumstances having two white crops in succession. The only im-
provement which can be suggested would be to have the land long-
er in grass, and to sow wheat less frequently. But the high rents
render the former of these impracticable for tenants. The latter
is, however, frequently adopted. There is no waste land in the
parish capable of cultivation. Draining is carried on to a great
extent. Irrigation has never been practised. Bruised bones, rape
dust, and other manures, not the produce of the farm, are now more
or less used by almost every farmer.
   The general duration of leases is nineteen years. There are
still two liferent leases in this parish, which have proved highly
detrimental to the interest of the landlord, without communicating
any corresponding advantage to the tenant.
   The state of farm buildings is, with a few exceptions, good. A
considerable improvement has taken place both in them, and in en-
closures of late years. Steam-engines have been erected on three
farms in the parish, for the purpose of driving thrashing machines.
                                   4


