
228               ROXBURGHSHIRE.


  Eminent Men.--In this parish, at Marlefield,/f* was born Sir Wil-
liam Bennet of Grubbet, a man of excellent taste and great literary
attainments, and a distinguished patron of talent and learning in his
day.  This individual was the intimate friend of Thomson and Ram-
say, and has been represented to be the Sir William Worthy of the
celebrated pastoral poem /f+ written by the latter.  Indeed it is af-
firmed that both he and Thomson had some share in the compo-
sition of the comedy.  In this parish, he lived during the greater
part of his life, and by the community at large was held in high
estimation./f++

  In the society of this distinguished individual, Thomson spent

<FOOTNOTE>The House of Marlefield is a very spacious edifice.  In front of it is a most
beautiful lawn, and the grounds in its vicinity are in various places embellished with
rows of magnificent lime-trees.  This estate was much improved by the late tenant,
Mr Ralph Oliphant, a gentleman who was highly respected in the district for his
amiable and obliging deportment; and it is but a just tribute to his memory to add,
that he took a deep interest in every matter connected with the welfare of the parish.
Tradition avers that the scene of the Gentle Shepherd lies in the vicinity of
Marlefieid House; but with what truth the writer of this account does not presume
to determine.  Doubtless, however, many of the descriptions, as given in the poem,
correspond with the character of the scenery here.  On this estate anciently stood
a cottage which went by the name of Symon's House, and here too is a field which
was wont to be called Symon's Field.  In this district, also, once resided two old wo-
men who have been represented as answering the characters of Mouse and Madge.
Within a short distance from Marlefield, to which Ramsay refers by name in one of
his poems, is a sequestered spot called Habbie's How, through which, over a pebbly
channel, runs a small burn or rivulet on its way to the Kale.  This burn, which in
some parts is confined within pretty steep banks, flowed, in the days of Bennet, close
to Marlefield mansion-house; but in this quarter its course was altered many years
ago through part of this estate.  Along the bottom of a narrow glen flows also a
small stream, which is vulgarly pronounced Mowses Burn, but from what source the
term is derived it is perhaps impossible now to ascertain.  Near this, too, is u small
eminence which is denominated Mowses knowe.  Here there are several craigs from
which the "Lover's loup" may be most effectually taken.  In the body of the poem,
mention is made of the West-Port and Town of Edinburgh, as if these were not
far distant from the scene of it; but it is well known that the tenantry here, in the
time of the poet, used to drive their stock as regularly to that city for sale, as they
at present do to the market at Morpeth.  Of course their visits to Ediburgh in those
days were of no rare occurence.  Indeed the phrase, "He was in at the Town," as
referring to Edinburgh, is common in this district at the present day.  Here the
pastoral is reported to have been first acted, in the presence of the families of Marle-
field and Clifton, and at the residence of the latter.  As the above tradition exists in
the parish, the writer of this account has judged it right to advert to it.  Probably,
however, Ramsay in the delineations of character and scenery which he gives in his
admirable pastoral, confined bimself to no particular district, but drew his descrip-
tions from every proper source which at any time was most patent to his observation.
Of course some license, too, must be allowed to the imagination of the poet.
Adjoining to the church, is the family aisle, where his remains are deposited; and
over the entry is the following inscription, which is now much effaced:

                                         Hoo
                                      Monumentum
                              Sibi et suis bene Merentibus
                                    ponendam curavit
                                Dominus Gulielmus Bennet
                                     Eques auratus
                                      anno salutis
                                        1724.


