
     of Dron.

want of proper exercise ; their eager application and scanty
provision, are all circumstances which conspire to enseeble
the constitution, produce nervous disorders, and bring on
sexualj infirmities, which render life uncomfortable, and
hurry them into premature old age*.  As to the general
character of the people here, it is but justice to say, that
with a few exceptions, and such there always will be in
able, industrious set of persons ; apparently contented in
their various situations.  Crimes of an astrocious or capital
nature are scarcely known among them, or indeed any
which require the interference of the civil judge. Even
that species of licentiousness, so prevalent in many other
places, i mean the illicit commerce of the fexes, is far from
being frequent here.  Many years elapse without a single in-
stance of this immorality ; a circumstance which deserves
to be mentioned to their praise.  They are in general de-
cent and regular in their attendance on the public institu-
tions of religion ; and as far as external appearances can as-
certain the character, they are to be reckoned well disposed,
religious in their sentiments, and in general cautions and

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Labour and Provisions.-This article is greatly enhanced
of late. In consequence of the increase of riches, the great quantity of
fictitious specie by the substitution of paper or notes, by means of which
almost every transaction is carried on ; and on account of the scarcity of
hands, by the increase of labour, workmen of all descriptions have raised
their wages to nearly double of what they used to be 20 years ago.  The
day-labourer has from 10 d. to 1 s. a-day ; carpenters, the same ; masons,
1 s. 4 d. : tailors. 8 d. ; all with victuals.  Other tradesmen, as smiths,
weavers, etc. work by the piece, and have advanced their demands in the
same proportion-Perth is the market for household provisions ; and is, in
general, well supplied with beef, mutton, veal and pork, in their season,
from 3 d. to 4 d. the lb.; also with fish from the coast of fife, and sal-
mon from the Tay and Earn ; but both these are rather scarce and dear at 
present.

     I


