
                             GALSTON.                        179

accordingly its superficial extent is found to be scarcely 23 square
miles. It is bounded on the east by the river Aven, which divides
it from the parish of Avendale; on the north by the Irvine, which
separates it from Loudon and Kilmarnock; and on the west by the
Cessnock, which divides it from Riccarton and Craigie. Its
southern boundaries, by which it is separated from Mauchline and
Sorn, are not so easily described.
	Geology.--The highest land in the parish is called Distinct-
horn, about 1100 feet above the level of the sea. This hill,
which is near the south-east extremity of Galston, is chiefly
composed of old red sandstone, but is found to be frequently inter-
sected with whin dikes.* A quarry has been wrough about a mile
and a half to the north of this hill, from which a great quantity of
excellent pavement and roofing-slate has been procured; and it
has been remarked by the workmen, that the sandstone becomes
valuable for these purposes, only where it comes to be nearly in
contact with the whinstone, by whose vicinity it appears to have
been very much indurated. To the northwest of this is Molmont
Hill (nearly 1000 feet high,) which is formed of trap rocks, such
as trap tuff, amygdaloid, porphyry, &c. and still farther to the
north and west, are found the usual coal measures belonging to
the coal basin of Ayrshire. It has been remarked of the coal
mines in Galston, and, indeed, of the Ayrshire coal field in gene-
ral, that the operations of the miner are frequently interrupted by
troubles or whin dikes, which render the working of the coal both
expensive and difficult. The general dip of the strata throughout
the parish is north-west. The only mineral deserving of notice, as
peculiar to this parish, is an ornamental stone commonly known by
the name of Galston pebble. It is found at the west end of Molmont
Hill, in the channel of the Burn Ann, which runs into the Irvine at
Galston, and it is situated in a bed of hard clay of a greenish co-
lour, probably tinged with chrome. There is also found on the
top of the last mentioned hill, a vast number of nodules of agate
and calcedony, most of them containing quartz crystals in the cen-
tre, and very few of them exhibiting beautiful colours,
	Soil.--The general character of the, soil in the higher and
eastern parts of the parish is loamy and sandy, with a consider-
able tendency in many places to peat; in the lower and westorn

<FOOTNOTE>There is a considerable number of eminences in this parish, which are covered
or capped with whin rocks.


