
112                              PEEBLES-SHIRE.

   Very rich specimens of galena have been found in boulders in
the channel of the stream, and the existence of it in situ, in one
particular spot, has also been ascertained; but though an attempt
to mine it was at one time commenced, it was ultimately abandoned.
   From the centre of the vale towards its north-eastern extremity,
which is bounded by the Tweed, there occur alluvial deposits of
considerable extent, consisting principally of clay and loam. On
grounds of every elevation in the parish, but chiefly in the higher
districts, and often on a declivity, moss is found deposited in beds
varying, in depth from one to ten feet,-that part of it which lies
lowest being perfectly black and of great solidity, while towards
the surface it is in most cases spongy, and of a brownish colour.
Along the margin of the stream, the deposits are chiefly of gra-
vel, with an occasional thin stratum of moss, lying on a thick sub-
stratum of blue clay,
   Soils.-On some of the more elevated pasture-grounds, the soil
is principally composed of moss, with a small admixture of sand,
and gives sustenance to little beside heath; but the most extensive
portion of pasture-ground, and that also which is of greatest cle-
vation, consists of soil but slightly impregnated with moss, and
which is favourable to the growth of grasses. These grasses ac-
cordingly cover its whole extent, except where, on steep declivities,
loose fragments of stone in extensive masses impede vegetation.
   Where the hilly ridges begin to decline into the valley, there
predominates a thin soil of sand and clay, slightly mingled with
loam, resting on a subsoil of gravel; and of this character, is a great
proportion of the land which has been brought under cultivation.
   The clayey and loamy soils, which occupy the flats and the gen-
tle acclivities towards the lower extremity of the parish, are in ge-
neral of inconsiderable depth.
   Zoology.-The following is a list of quadrupeds and birds that
have been seen in the parish, which are either rare in Scotland,
or the comparative numerical distribution of which it may be de-
sirable to ascertain.

	QUADRUPEDS.                        rat. The Black rat, Alus rattus, is,
Erinaceus Europaeus, Hedgehog.             extinct.
Lepus cuniculus, Rabbit. Not abundant.   Sciurus vulgaris, Squirrel. Introduced
-     variabilis, Alpine hare.             on the North Esk from England. Ra-
Mustela lutra, Otter. Very abundant        ther rare.
 a few years ago, but rarer now.         Ursus meles, Badger. Seen occassion-
Mustela erminea, Ermine.                   ally.
-       putorius, Polecat.                                      BIRDS.
-       vulgaris, Weasel. Abundant.      Alcedo ispida, King-fisher. One (a cock)
Mus Norvegicus vel decumanus, Brown        seen last summer, and a pair was shot


