
                           HERIOT.                             203

   Rent of Land, &fc.--The average rent of land is about L. 1, 5s.
per acre. The extent of the farms varies from 50 to 2000 acres.
   The general term of leases is for nineteen years.
   The farm-steadings throughout are disgraceful. The enclo-
sures are few, and shamefully executed. The hills, though well
adapted for planting, are without a tree; the want of which im-
pedes immensely agricultural improvement. Were planting adopt-
ed to any extent in so favourable, a field, it would not only improve
the climate, but incalculably benefit the farmer, and enhance the
value of the land.

<TABLE>
   Produce.--Amount of raw produce raised in the parish:--
   Value of all kinds of grain, as nearly as possibly can he found,   L. 4265  0  0
         of potatoes,                                  		    L.  104  0  0
         of turnips,                                                      473  0  0
         of hay,                                                          615  0  0
         of meadow do.                                                    187  0  0
                                                                         1379  0  0
                                                                        -----------
   Total yearly value of all kinds of grain and raw produce whatever, L. 5644  0  0

                 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.--The nearest market-town is Dalkeith, twelve
miles from the centre of the parish, and nine to the nearest boundary.
   There is no village in the parish. The post-office is at Fushie
Bridge, distant seven miles. The length of the turnpike in the
parish is nearly three miles.*
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is conveniently situated
in nearly the very centre of the parish. It was rebuilt in 1804,
since which time it has undergone considerable repair, and were it
lathed and made free from damp, might be considered a neat, cleanly
place of worship. It is small, and may afford accommodation for
about 200. The sittings are all divided among the tenantry.
There are no free sittings, except the communion table seats, which
are comfortably fitted up. The walls of the former church were
much more substantial than those of the present, and would, with
little repair, have been in every respect better. The date of its
erection cannot be discovered, but in all probability it was as old,
or older than the ancient bell, which bore date, 1518, with the fol-
lowing inscription :-- "Maria Vocor, Ao. Dni. MCCCCCXVIII.
Jhonn Dawies." The manse was rebuilt in 1793, and in 1829
was extensively repaired, and may now be considered remarkably
comfortable. There is an excellent garden, of deep and rich soil,
and with the very best exposure. The glebe, adjoining the manse,
consisting of 16 Scotch, or 20 English acres or thereby, is of the

<FOOTNOTE>About four miles of the new turnpike to Inverleithen, which intersects the north
and north-west district of the parish, may now be added.  1839.


