
	PARISH OF FOWLIS WESTER.

  PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH & STIRLING.

	THE REV. ALEXANDER MAXTONE, MINISTER.


     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-FOWLIS is a Gaelic name, and derives its origin, accor-
ding to a local tradition, from the following circumstance, charac-
teristic of the age and country: One of the Earls of Strathearn,
desirous of having a church in the vicinity of his castle, stood on
an eminence, on which he had a summer seat, and resolved to
erect it where the sun first shone, which was on the spot where
it now stands; and which he denominated Fowgnolish, under the
light. The name is limited to this spot, and to the half of the
village; the other half is Lacock.
   Extent, &c.-The extent of the parish is 7 miles from east to
west at its greatest breadth, and 10 from south to north. It is
situated on the north side of Strathearn, west from Perth 8, and
east from Crieff 2 miles; and divided by two mountain ranges.
The south range separates the lower part of the parish from
Logiealmond, and is 3 miles in breadth, on which are large tracts
of moss, and heath, and plantations, and only a few cottages and
cultivated farms. The north range is of higher elevation than the
south, divides Logiealmond from Strathbraan, and forms a part of
the Grampian mountains, extending from the Atlantic to the Ger-
man Ocean.
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface of the parish is re-
markably irregular. There is only one valley in it, which stretches
along the banks of the Pow, the whole extent of its southern
boundary. From this valley to the summit of the south moun-
tain range, the position of the ground is greatly diversified and
divided into different names, including the Braes of Fowlis, the
Braes of Dury, Gorthy, and Keillor; all of which have an ele-
vated southern exposure, and are interspersed with trees, and
clumps, and stripes of copse, which have a fine imposing effect to
the eye of the traveller, along the turnpike road, exhibiting rich-


