
20                 ROXBURGHSHIRE.

Latin and Greek. All of a certain standing, amounting at pres-
sent to 100, are taught English grammar; all of a certain stand-
ing, amounting at present to 56, are taught geography; all of a
certain standing, amounting at present to 110, are taught arith-
metic. There are besides classes for geometry, algebra, practical
mathematics, and French.
   The rector receives from the borough, L. 261, 18s. Scots, or
L. 21, 6s. 8d. Sterling, for the English school, L. 12, on account
of which he is bound to keep an assistant, and from the heritors,
L. 8, 6s. 8d. amounting in all, to L. 42, 3s. 4d. The average
amount of school fees is L. 170. Candlemas offerings amount to
betwixt L. 40 and L. 50. The parochial schoolmasters at Rink
and Lanton receive 100 merks each. No increase of the salaries
of the teachers took place in 1831, in consequence of a difference
of opinion as to the sources from which the rector's salary is derived.
The teachers have the legal accommodations. The rector has an
extensive establishment for boarders. The general expense of
education per annum is, for classical scholars, L. 2, and for English,
10s. The general average is L. 1.
   Literature.-There are several excellent public libraries in Jed-
burgh. The "Company's Library" is an extensive and valuable
collection of books, though the more recent additions to it bespeak
a decline of taste. There are two smaller libraries, containing
judicious selections, and one circulating library. By the aid of a
liberal donation, and of a few subscriptions, itinerating libraries were
lately established in the parish. Five divisions have been procured,
consisting of fifty volumes each, which are placed at different sta-
tions in the town and in the country. There is a reading society
among the higher classes, for the purchase of new publications,
which, after being perused, are sold, and the product, together with
annual subscriptions, is appropriated to the purchase of others.
There are libraries connected with the congregation and Sabbath
evening schools of the first congregation of Seceders, and with
the Sabbath evening schools of the second congregation and of
the Relief. There are two public reading rooms in Jedburgh.
   Charitable Institutions.-A dispensary was established in Jed-
burgh chiefly by donations from the family of Lothian, in the year
1807. It has since been supported by annual contributions. In
1822 the, late Marquis of Lothian, at his own expense, erected a
commodious house with baths and other accommodations. Patients
are received from the parishes of Jedburgh, Ancrum, Bedrule,
Southdean, Horkirk, Minto, Oxnam, and Crailing. The funds
have hitherto been found sufficient. The number of patients upon


