
                                     METHVEN.                            161

          of the parishioners, a little before that time, becoming Antiburgher
          Seceders; and although it has not hitherto been found altogether
          practicable to discontinue the assessment, matters are, however,
          in this respect, now very much changed.  The average annual
          amount of the assessment is L. 100, of which the heritors pay the
          one-half, in proportion to their valued rent, and the tenants and
          householders the other, according to their means and circum-
          stances.  The funds arising from the assessment, with the ex-
          ception of the expense inevitably incurred by this mode of provid-
          ing for the poor, are almost exclusively bestowed upon the poor
          belonging to the Secession, or upon such poor as do not belong
          to the church.  On the other hand, the kirk-session of the parish
          are in general enabled to aliment all the poor belonging to the
          Established Church, from the collections received at the church
          door, which, for the year 1836, being a fair average, amounted to
          L. 85.  There are thus two lists or classes of poor in the parish,
          -the one maintained by the assessment, which is levied by the
          authority of the heritors and kirk-session, in their collective capa-
          city,-the other maintained by thd kirk-session alone.  The whole
          of the proceedings of the kirk-session, so far as these relate to pe-
          cuniary matters, are annually submitted to the heritors at their
          regular meetings, and are both approved of and confirmed by them.
             The average number of regular poor upon both these funds is
          about 38, the greater part of whom are at present alimented by
          the kirk-session.  The minimum monthly allowance is 2s. 6d.,
          and the highest ordinary rate is 13s.  Many persons in indigent
          circumstances are from time to time prevented from falling per-
          manently upon the poor's roll, by the aid of the kirk-session, ju-
          diciously administered, in such occasional cases as imperiously call
          for relief.  In few parishes with a population equal to that of
          Methven, are the poor better attended to, or the funds for their
          support less felt to be burdensome.
             Inns.-There are no fewer than 10 licensed alehouses in the
          parish.  Large and populous as the parish is, if that number were
          reduced to a half, we should think that all the good purposes for
          which houses of this kind are intended would be answered, and
          the effect that would be thus produced, in a moral point of view,
          upon a certain class of the community, would be desirable.
             Fuel.-The fuel generally used is coal, which is to be had in
          abundance at all seasons, at the port of Perth, brought by ship-
          ping,-the Scotch coal, from the pits adjacent to the river Forth,
             PERTH.                            L


