138                         SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

Mineral springs rise in many parts of the parish ; but it is believ-
ed that they are all ebalybeate.  There is one of superior quality
at Achnamoin; another near the manse; one at Caen; and one
at the. foot of Ben Uary.
Geology.-The geology of this extensive parish has not been
minutely examined or described.  The mountain ranges are, it is
believed, all primitive rocks, among which gneiss and mica-
slate predominate, while rocks of syenite, porphyry, and large-
granular granite,' occur in many parts. Several years ago, a
rounded piece of native gold, weighing rather more than half an
ounce, wasIound in the bed of the Burn of Kildonan, a rapid
mountain stream ; but although this discovery induced many other
searches to be made among the loose gravel and pebbles in the
bed of that and other adjoining streams, no additional particle of
the precious metal has been found.
Zoology.-The most elegant of all our native wild animals, the
red-deer (Cervus Elaphus,) 11 destined to embellish the forest, and
enliven the solitudes of nature," still ranges in many parts of this
parish, which. anciently formed part of the great deer forest of
Dirrie Chatt.  This admired animal is now scarce in most parts
of the Highlands; but amidst the solitary recesses -of the great
mountains, along the boundary lines of this parish, the red-deer, in
considerable hbrds, still find protection, and during the storms of
winter, they traverse the lower parts of the parish, in search of
food and,sbeiter. Deer stalking has, of late years, been                   
with great ardour in this district, and in the few other remote parts
of the Highlands where the stag is now to be met with; and the
red-deer of Sutherland are the stateliest and fattest of their kind.,
Since the extirpation of -the wolf from this neiglibourhood, which
only occurred about 150 years ago, the fox has been the most ob-
noxious wild animal in the parish.  His wiles, however, have been
of little avail to him since the introauction-of sheep-farming; for,
the united hostility of fox-bunters and shepherds has almost clear-
e& the whole parish of foxes.  The wild cat is occasionally met
with, and is a particularly,fierce are desperate animal; so mucti,
so-that it has been known to spring at an unarmed assailant, who
Could not instantly kiil it, when excluded from, other means of
""pe.  The otter also frequents the numerous waters in the

From the accounts that have been sent me from the various forests in Scot.
land, I am iritiined to think that the aver  weight of the best deer in Sutherland
194UPeriwtotbotof0motbarforests. lt=."aboutfifteenswneDutch,sinkinz
the o-ftl and stags are occananally killed of seventeen stone; and in the forest a
&Fope',,Art of]Deet Stalkinng


