
                        COLLESSIE.                          25

The Lythrum salicaria grows on Hetherinch, on the banks of the
Eden. The Reseda lutea has been found on Ballomill. The
Spirea Filipendula grows on the farm of Birns;--this beautiful
plant is only found in two other places in the county, viz. North
Queensferry and Aberdour. The Tormentilla reptans has been
found in the willow grounds near Ramornie. The beautiful Nym-
phaea alba and Nuphar lutea are found abundantly in the Black
Loch; the latter also grows in the river Eden, near Pitlessie Bridge.
The Banunculus Flammula, var. &. is very common in Edensmuir.
The R. auricomus is met with in Melville plantations. The Trol-
lius Europaeus (the Luckan gowan of Allan Ramsay) grows in con-
siderable quantity on Ballomill. The Mentha viridis, not yet no-
ticed as a native of Scotland, grows betwixt Collessie and Kinloch.
As it has been met with at two other places within the county, it
seems an undoubted native. The Galeopsis versicolor is plentiful
in the parish. The Thymus serpyllum, var. y. grows on Edensmuir.
The Digitalis purpurea var. flore albo is found on Peterhead,
where the Camelina sativa has also been found growing. The
Nasturtium terrestre is found at a pond near the Earl of Leven's
cottages, and on the edges of the Black Loch. The Barbarea
vulgaris grows near Collessie, on the burn. The Erodium cicu-
tarium, both with pink and white flowers, is pretty common; also
the beautful Geranium pratense is found near Pitlessie Bridge.
The Malva moschata grows near Lumquhat. The Genista anglica
grows plentifully on Edensmuir and near Ramornie. The beauti-
ful Anthyllis vulneraria will be found near the road betwixt Hether-
inch and Daftmill. The Trifolium officinale has been found on
Lawfield. The Leontodon palustre is found occasionally in the
marshes. The Hieracium murorum is found on the walls. The
H. sylvaticum is frequent in the woods. The Cichorium Intybus
grows at Daftmill, and is not uncommon in the district. The Bi-
dens tripartite grows on Drumtennant, and at the south end of the
Black Loch. The Gnaphalium dioicum, uliginosum, and germa-
nicum grow on Edensmuir. The Senecio lividus and sylvaticus
grow in the parish; the former sparingly, the latter abundantly.
These species are perfectly distinct, and cannot be mistaken. The
S. aquaticum is also to be found. The Orchis bifolia grows near
Monkstown; the O. mascula on Lawfield; the O. latifolia, ma-
culata, and Conopsea on Edensmuir. The Sparganium simplex grows
on the edges of the Black Loch only 2 or 3 inches high; while
in Pitlessie dam it has leaves 6 or 8 feet long. There is a con-


