
72                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

larly as those in the Island of Staffa, having convex ends answer-
ing to the concave bottoms of the incumbent joints; and they are
neither in horizontal nor vertical layers, but are formed of an hundred
concentric circles like the coats of an onion, and, what is still more
peculiar, they are intersected by a thousand jasper veins as small as
horse hairs traversing but not intercepting one another in all direc-
tions. The septa of red and white sparry matter fills up the space be-
tween them, and they are pervaded transversely by veins of the same
matter. Such is the external and internal formation of these ba-
salts, which resemble the Giant's Causeway in Ireland, and are
considered a great natural curiosity. Under these pillars, is a
bed of red-coloured trap tuff resting upon sandstone, succeeded
by lofty rugged rocks of the trap series, upon which the vestiges
that remain of the ancient Castle of Dunbar are founded. Here the
softer rocks have yielded to the perpetual motion of the waters,
while the more compact remain, forming large caverns and rugged
arches,-through which the tide rushes with impetuous fury, present-
ing a grand spectacle at all times, but awfully sublime during a
storm. West of the castle, is a tract of sandstone, through the cen-
tre of which a mass of trap rock called the "doo rock" rises to a
considerable height, and not being hid by debris, it may fitly be
compared to the skeleton of a mountain in miniature. Craggy cliffs
of trap rock continue onward until they are succeeded first by cliffs,
and then by ledges of red and white sandstone, which disappear
under the sand of Belhaven bay. *
   Soil.-The general character of the soil is a rich brown loam,
having a substratum of clay or gravel of great depth resting, to the
west of Belton water, upon trap; and from that water to Broxburn,
upon a tract of red sandstone, which runs west through the county;
and from that stream east, upon limestone, corresponding with the
rocks upon the coast. Coal has been found here at several places, but
not of sufficient thickness to be wrought. It abounds west of Had-
dington and also directly opposite in Fife; and as Dunbar is in the
same basin, there is a great probability that workable seams exist

<FOOTNOTE>The Fox man-of-war was unfortunately stranded off Dunbar in 1745, and
there went to pieces. The wreck remained under water above thirty years, when a violent
storm laid a part of it bare, and several masses, consisting of iron, ropes, and balls were
found on the Belhaven sands, near the place, covered over with a very hard ochry
substance, of the colour of iron, which adhered thereto so strongly that it required
great force to detach it from the fragments of the wreck. Upon  examination, this
substance appeared to be sand, concreted and hardened into a kind of stone. In a
paper upon the subject by Edward King, Esq. and published in the Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society, he concludes, "that there is on the coasts of this
island, a continual progressive induration of masses of sand and other matter of the
bottom of the ocean, somewhat in the same manner as there is at the bottom of the
Adriatic sea."


