
304                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

tents of a bearing vein are often found as follows: On the under
or lying side, is lead glance or common galena, then a layer of
ochre of manganese several inches thick, above it a layer of quartz
interspersed with iron pyrites, then another layer of manganese
mixed with quartz, pieces of lead glance and carbonate of lime fol-
lowed by greywacke, which constitutes the walls of the mine. Be-
sides lead glance or common galena, the following minerals are
also found, viz. sulpbate, phosphate, carbonate, and arseniate of
lead. The vanadiate of lead has been found in the refuse of the
old workings, where it was for a time taken for arseniate of lead.
These different specimens are now and then found occupying the
same drusy cavity, and when seen before being injured or remov-
ed from their relative position, exhibit a fine lustre and beautiful
crystallization. The druses or laeugh holes, as they are termed
by the miners, are also frequently studded with, quartz, carbo-
nate of zinc, &c. Sulphuret of zinc or zinc-blende is found in con -
siderable quantity in some of the veins, particularly in Margaret's.
Specimens of iron also occur, as ochry red iron-ore, but iron is al-
ways reckoned by the miners as unfavourable to their prospects in
procuring lead. The lead glance at Wanlockhead was found by
analysis to contain a small quantity of arsenic, antimony, and silver.
The last mentioned was from eight to ten ounces in the ton of lead-
ore.
	Lime, &c.--Limestone rock has been discovered between the
town of Sanquhar and Wanlockhead, on the farm of Castle Gil-
mour. It is presented in a stratum about 4 feet thick; above it, is
one of freestone,21/2 feet thick; and under it, is one of blaes. It
has been attempted to be wrought, but not with much advantage,
nor to great extent. In that neighbourhood are also found ma-
rine marl, a stratum of marine shell about 4 feet thick, containing
nodules of limestone, and a seam of coal about 40 inches thick,
regularly stratified, but of inferior quality, being combined with a
large proportion of pyrites. The extremities of the parish are oc-
cupied by mountains of transition rocks. The valley of the Nith
contains only secondary strata. The sandstone is generally white,
but in some places is strongly tinged with red. It is rather coarse
in the grain, but for the most part is well adapted for the pur-
poses of building.
	Soil.--The soil in the valley of the Nith is of good quality. It
is generally dry and gravelly, and in some places is loamy. A
great part of the land farther distant from the river mentioned, on


