
                               ALYTH.                               1113

       mon lying on the south of the village.  On the faces of the hills
       the soil is a fine sharp gravel, producing good crops of oats, po-
       tatoes, &c.  In the Blacklunans, the arable land is generally a
       light fertile black loam; but some parts are very moorish.  There
       is an extensive peat-moss in the forest, called the Culpanach, and
       several smaller ones in other parts of the parish.   A deposit of
       marl, being the only one known to dxist in this immediate neigh-
       bourhood, was lately discovered in draining a small loch on the
       farm of Nether Balloch, near the village.  A pair of antlers, con-
       siderably larger than any now seen on the living animal, were dug
       up some years ago in a peat-moss at Ballach.
         Botany and Zoology.-From its situation, this parish exhibits
       both the vegetation characteristic of alluvial and highly cultivated
       districts, and also that which is peculiar to upland and subalpine
       regions.  Its Flora has not been minutel examined, but the fol-
       lowing plants, interesting from their beauty or rarity, have been
       gathered within its limits.  In the lower part of the parish, the
       A1isma ranunculoides, the Scrophularia vernalis, the Senecio Sara-
       cenicus, (a doubtful native), the Astragalus qlycyphyltus, on the
       banks of the Isla, near Inverquiech, its only habitat, so far as is
       known, in the basin of the Isla.  The banks of that river are also
       adorned with the Trollius Europaeus, the Campanula latifolia, and
       the Gallium boreale, which last, though rare in many districts, is
       abundant on the Isla and its mountain tributaries.  In the upland
       districts, the Orobus sylvaticus, the Habenaria albida, and H. vi-
       ridis, (the latter sparingly), the Trientalis Europea, the Alche-
       milla alpina, in rocky and elevated situations, and the Sarifraga
       aizoides, and S. stellaris, along the brooks.  The whhte heath,
       (Erica vulgaris alba), is said to be of unusually frequent occur-
       rence.  The right bank of the Den of Airlie is in the parish of
       Alyth, but it is the left bank which is peculiarly interesting to the
       botanist.  Both banks are clothed with a fine stool of natural
       wood of every species indigenous to this country.  The native
       wood in the rest of this parish, or which there is not much, is
       chiefly birch, hazel, and alder.
         The rivers and larger rivulets are well stored with trout, and,
       in some seasons, a considerable number of salmon ascend the Isla.
       There is also excellent pike-fishing in an old channel of the ri-
       ver, on the property of Mr Whitson of Bardmony.  Roe-deer
       and the common kinds of game are plentiful.  Pheasants have


