
768.                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

has also secured a daily post, and, by his persevering exertions and
his great liberality, in conjunction with several other proprietors,
a turnpike road through the village of Cuminestown is about to be
commenced, which, when completed, will afford great facilities to
farther agricultural improvements, and will form the nearest route
between Banff and Aberdeen. *  But still the want of other resident
heritors of influence and public spirit is severely felt, and stands
much in the way of improvement on other properties.
   In the letting of farms, it is usual for the tenant, at the com-
mencement of his lease, to pay to the proprietor or to the out-go-
ing tenant, the amount of the valuation put upon the farm-build-
ings, receiving in the same way value for the houses at the end of
the lease.  This system, although it affords an additional security
to the landlord, (it being generally covenanted, that if the tenant
fail to implement his lease, he shall receive nothing in the way of
meliorations), yet, is in many cases, a great obstacle to improve-
ment.  For many a judicious and industrious tenant possessing,
perhaps, but a limited capital, and being obliged to sink the half
of it upon farm houses during the currency of his lease, is thus
disabled from making improvements, which would not only yield a
good return to himself, but ultimately also prove beneficial to the
proprietor.
   Till within the last few years, much employment was afforded
to females in the spinning, of flax and knitting of stockings, by
which they were enabled to earn a comfortable livelihood.  But
the former source of industry is now almost completely dried up,
the manufacturers finding that they can import spun flax at a
much cheaper rate from Germany and Holland than they can get
the work done at home.  Upwards of 100 individuals till lately were
employed in the weaving of cotton and linen cloth; these were paid
by the piece, and, if industrious gained from 8s. to 12s. per week.
About L.30 was paid out weekly for this branch of industry.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns, &c.-there is no market-town in the parish.
Periodical cattle-markets are held at the village of Turriff, dis-
tant six miles from the church of Monquhitter.  Macduff and-
Banff are the nearest sea-ports for the exportation of grain, whence
all the litne and coal used here are driven.  They are distant about
fourteen or fifteen miles from the church.  There are few parishes

<FOOTNOTE>From some misunderstanding the projected turnpike road has not been proceed-
ed with, whilst the roads in the parish are in the most wretched condition.


