
		 MAINS AND STRATHMARTINE.                       59

cipline, and affectionate reproof. In bothies attached to manufac-
turing establishments, the evil is felt more severely, as the number
of inmates is greater; and, being assembled from a greater dis-
tance, their modes of life are more varied, and bad example is
more forcible and pernicious.
	The food of the male servants engaged in husbandry is a week-
ly allowance of milk and oatmeal; while, among tradesmen, fish,
butcher-meat, pork of their own rearing, sugar, and tea, are in con-
stant use. No article of food has increased so much in consump-
tion as potatoes, which now constitute the chief sustenance of the
poorer classes for one-half of the year.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The whole extent of land
in the parish is about 7063 imperial acres. Of moor, rocky knolls,
and steep banks that cannot be ploughed, there are 144 acres.
A considerable part of the latter might no doubt be cultivated,
but the capital at present would not be profitably laid out. There
is scarcely any natural wood in the parish; but the number of
acres planted is 436. A cnnsiderable proportion of this wood is
fir and oak, planted on ground unfit for tillage; and the thin-
ning of the firs as they advance in growth is certainly too much
neglected. The extent of ground occupied by roads, water-cour-
ses, houses, gardens, fences, plantations, moor, &c. is about 880
acres,-so that the amount of acres in actual cultivation is 6183.
	The parish is well-wooded; hedge-rows are generally found on
the boundaries of fields; and the gentlemen's seats are adorned
with thriving plantations. On moors of inferior soils the larch is
not found to live above thirty or forty years. All the ordinary
sorts of forest trees have been planted. The easterly winds, how-
ever, seem rather adverse to their growth. At one glance it can
be observed that the beech is the most prosperous. There is a
beech on an eminence at the castle of Mains seventeen feet in
girth, a foot and a-half above the level of the ground, and, when
in foliage, the appearance of its head is truly majestic. The
names of numerous visitors are cut out on its trunk and branches.
Its age is unknown. It is probable, however, that it has withstood
the blasts and hurricanes of nearly two centuries.
        Rent of Land.-The average rent of cultivated land is nearly
L. 2, 1Os. per acre; but in this calculation is included a considerable
extent of moorish ground, which has not been a long time in cul-


