
                              LANARKSHIRE.

the Society of Maltsters, although no such employment, as a distinct
branch of trade, is now carried on. The linen trade, which at one
period supported so many of the town's people, is now also nearly
extinct. The imitation cotton cambric trade, which in 1792 had
reached its maximum, has for many years been on the decline;
and it is to be feared that the formidable combinations among the
weavers may in time cause the manufacturers either to invent new
machinery, or to seek out some other channel for their work. While
I now write, about 300 weavers are parading the streets with a web
which had been given out by a house in town below the "table
prices," which they prescribe to the manufacturer. At the same
time, the weaving is paid at a rate which cannot procure for the
workman the ordinary comforts, or even the necessaries of life.
The lace trade, established here about eight years ago by a house
at Nottingham, which sent down a number of English women, who
took up schools and taught the tambourers here the art, is now in
a thriving state, and is contributing greatly to the happiness and
comfort of the community. The building of the addition to Ha-
milton Palace, the erection of the new buildings already alluded
to, the formation of Duke Street, which has just been completed,
the formation of Duke Street, which has just been completed,
and many other improvements which are going forward, have con-
tributed in no small degree to the support of a large portion of the
community.  Upon the whole, since the publication of the former
report, this town and parish have increased in inhabitants, in wealth,
in domestic comfort, in morals, in manners, and religion, as may
be seen from the foregoing account.

	July 1835.


				   PARISH OF GLASFORD.

		     PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.


				THE REV. GAVIN LANG, MINISTER.


				I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Extent and Boundaries.--THE parish of Glasford is about eight
miles in length.  Its figure, as laid down in the map, resembles a
sand-glass, three miles and three-quarters at its broadest extreme,
two miles in the opposite end, and about one-half mile in the


