
     Statistical Account

will fully repay, at the time of cutting it down, the origi-
nal cost, with interest for the sum, and rent during the time of
growth.  Of all the kinds particularly specified in the
Tables, the larix appears, on the whole, to increase in size
most rapidly.  Its other qualities make it very valuable.  It
is fit for every purpose almost of the carpenter, is very hardy
as a plant, and very lasting when in use.  By a single experi-
ment of Sir Thomas Beevor*, it seems not so lasting as the
spruce; yet experiments innumerable knew it to have a
strong claim to Pliny's apellation of immortale lignum.  In
Venice, and on the borders of the lake of Geneva, it has
been found to resist, much longer than any other wood, the
alternations of wet and dry.  The Duke of Atholl caused
one of the boats at the ferry here to be constructed of the
larix wood; and a plank of oak, from a tree 30 years old,
was put in for a test of the comparative durability of each.
The oak has decayed, and the larix continues found.  Next to 
the larix, the elm, the birch, the spruce, and the oak, seem
to claim the preference from the planter, due attention be-
ing always paid to soil.  The larix, birch, and spruce,
thrive on the same soil; and from the variety of their co-
lours have, particularly in the winter-season, a beautiful
appearance to the eye, when mixed in the same plantation.
   Of the Lucombe oak, 25 were planted here in 1774.
This species was first cultivated near Exeter, by a gardener
of the name of Lucombe, and very flattering accounts were 
given of the amazing quickness of its growth, and the value
of its wood+.  The experiment in Table I, does not justi-
fy these accounts.  It is said to be much cultivated in So-
merset and Cornwall.

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*See Letters and Papers on Agriculture, etc, by the Bath Society, a
publication which should be perused by every farmer and landholder in the-

</UNREADABLE>

*See genltleman's Magazine, for the month of September 1773.


