
     Statistical Account

of 1790 and 1791, they hardly distilled 300 bolls; and bought,
each succeeding year, above 2000 bolls of meal at a very high
rate, and their seed potatoes at 5 s. per barrel*.

   Woods.-It plainly appears that wood formerly grew in
this parish, when thinly inhabited and fewer cattle reared.
Frequently large pieces of trees are found in mosses; though
now there is not a tree in it, nor is it probable that upon
trial any would thrive in it, the situation being so far in the
ocean and without shelter.  There are, indeed, some small
twigs 2 or 3 feet long growing in Coll, which is better shel-
tered than Tiry  Espaliers rise the height of a wall, and ber-
ry bushes thrive when sheltered in gardens.  The laird of
Coll planted a large garden.  The berry bushes thrive in
it, but the young trees, though promising at first, soon dis-
cover that this is not their climate.
   The Duke of Argyle supplies his tenants gratis with tim-
ber out of his woods on the side of Lochsunart, 60 or 70
miles off; yet it often becomes a dangerous and dear purchase,
requiring the hire of boats and hands for a fortnight or up-
wards.  The dampness of the air, and blowing of sand, upon
many of the houses, soon rot the roofs, and make the de-
mand frequent and expensive.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The boll of barley sells from 16 s. to 1 L. and small oats at
half these prices.  Potatoes from 1 s. to 2 s. 6 d. per barrel.  The
gentlemen rear so well, and the small tenants have so few
cattle, that very little butter or cheese is made; 24 lib.  English
of each sell at 18 s.; beef from 1 L. 10 s. to 2 L. per barrel fresh
sizeable cod at 3 d.; ling 6 d.; swine from 5 s. to 10 s.;
sheep from 4 s. to 6 s; hens and ducks 6 d.; and live cows
from 1 L. 6 s. to 3 L. 10 s.  Having no fixed markets of any
kind in the parish, nor way to send to them, we labour under
this great disadvantage, that, when we abound we get no ar-
ticles sold, and when we must buy, it is commonly at the high-
est rate: When provisions are too cheap, it is not so much ow-
ing to the great abundance as to the want of a market.


