
     of Clunie.

the park of Laighwood; and a 5th on the island of the
Loch of Clunie, where a place of worship, dedicated to St
Catharine, stood on the spot now occupied by Lord Air-
ley's kitchen.  Before the late reparation of the castle,

<FOOTNOTE>

battle, is near Fettercairn, in the county of the Mearns.  Here, indeed,
the army of the Romans would not have been at such a distance from
their fleet, supposing (with some) that the fleet had passed the Red-head,
and was hovering somewhere off the adjacent coast.  But this supposition
is not so readily admissible; as the coast of Angus and Mearns, from the
Red-head to Stonehive, is, in general, bold, rocky, and dangerous; and
consequently rather to be shunned than courted by the Roman fleet, e-
specially at that season of the year, which seems to have been about the
autumnal equinox, when the winds might have dashed them against the
rocks, or blown them out into the German Ocean.  Besides, we do not
find in the Mearns any piece of antiquity so likely to have been a station
for the Roman legions, as the long vallum at Meiklour, now known by
the name of Cleven-dike.  But there seems to be one insuperable objec-
tion to the scene in the Mearns: Tacitus expressly tells us, that, imme-
diately after the engagement, Agricola marched off his army into the
country of the Horesti; "in fines Horcstorum exercitum de lucit," and,
as the Horesti were the inhabitants of Angus and Mearns, it is not at all
probable that such an accurate historian as Tacitus would have used such
an expression, if the battle had been fought any where within the limits
of their country-The last spot presumed to have been the scene of this
engagement, is the Heer-carns, with the grounds in their neighbour-
hood.  This, on an attentive investigation, appears to be at least as pro-
bable a scene as any of the four.  Agricola could not, perhaps, in all
Strathmore, have pitched upon a more favourable station for his legions,
than that large elevated plain comprehended between the Cleven-dike
and the confluence of the Tay and the Ila.  It is at no great distance from
the mouth of the Tay, where the Roman army, in case of a defeat, might
have had a more easy access to their ships.  On the W. it is defended by
the sheep bank of the Tay, and on the S. E. and N. E. by the banks of the
Ila, and of the Lunan.  It commands a distinct view of the higher
grounds of the Stormont, to the N. and N. W. and it looks directly west-
ward, on the entrance into the Highlands, by Dunkeld, which was then
the capital of the Caledomans, and in the vicinity of which we may sup-
pose it would be natural for them to hold their general rendezvous on
this occasion.  This supposed station of the Romans is about 3 or 4 miles


