
78                            BUTESHIRE.

rish, yet it can scarcely be considered as forming a regular source
of income. At present, however, it is carried on to a very great ex-
tent, there being five quarries, and upward of eighty men employ-
ed in them, all engaged in cutting out blocks for the different rail-
roads in the shires of Ayr and Renfrew. More than half of these
men, however, are incomers, and therefore, are not included in
the population of the parish.
     Produce.--The average amount of raw produce raised in the pa-
rish may be nearly as follows;

<TABLE>
                  Grain of all kinds,         L.2760  0  0
                  Green crops of all kinds,      450  0  0
                  Hay,                           225  0  0
                  Lands in pasture,             1896  0  0
                  Gardens,                        50  0  0
                  Plantation,                      5  0  0
                  Quarries,                       100 0  0
                                                 _________
                  Total amount of raw produce, L. 5486 0 0
       Navigation.--The highest order of vessels belonging to the
place is that of sloops, of which there are fifteen, varying from
fourteen to forty tons in burthen. There are also at present two
steam-boats, one of which leaves this every morning for Glasglow,
and returns again in the evening, calling at all the intermediate
places, and in the summer months there are several others which
call to passing to and from Glasglow, Ardrossan, and Ayr.

                          V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       As there is no market-town in the parish, the inhabitants in ge-
neral repair to Greenock with their merchandise, to which place,
though at the distance of nearly twenty-four miles, they can pro-
ceed easily, by the help of steam-boats, in the course of them
hours.
     Village.--The only village in the parish is Milport, which is
very pleasantly situated on the south-east corner of the island; at
which place, there is an excellent harbour, capable of containing
vessels of considerable burthen, the depth at low water being six
feet, and at high water fourteen. Here also, a fine pier has been
lately erected, mostly by the Marquis of Rote, on whose property
the harbor stands. Near to this harbour, there is also good an-
choring ground of considerable extent, and finely sheltered by two
small rocky islands called the Albans; is which islands by means
of iron ridge fastened in the rocks, both vessels belonging to the
island, and others that resort thither in stormy weather, are moos-
ed, where they can ride in perfect safety during the greatest
storm. The principal trade of Milport is weaving, which is


