	
	458                    FIFESHIRE.
	
	vented from rivalling either that on the southern side of Fifeness,
	or on the northern shore at Aberbrothwick.
                            II-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Of the parish at large no ancient nor modern history has been
	traced.  The city being the seat of the Archbishop and metropo-
	litan of the kingdom, and of the earliest of its universities, is fre-
	quently referred to in the annals of Scottish history.  No detail-
	ed account, however, of any of its institutions appears to have been
	drawn up prior to the days of Martine, who was secretary to two
	of the archbishops previous to the Revolution, and who has exhi-
	bited in his work entitled Reliquice Divi Andreae, a mass of valu-
	able information, relative to the religious establishments of the
	city.  This production remained in manuscript for more than a
	century, and it was at last printed in a handsome manner at St
	Andrew's in 1797, by the University printer.  About ten years af-
	terwards the Rev. Mr Grierson, minister of the parish of Cock-
	pen, published his Delineations of St Andrews, in which he exhi-
	bited a particular account of every thing remarkable in the history
	and present state of the city and ruins, the University, and other
	interesting objects of this ancient ecclesiastical capital of Scotland.
	And in 1822, he published a second edition of his work with consi-
	derable corrections and additions.  This production furnishes a com-
	prehensive view of the ancient and modern state of the city, and of
	its institutions, and is a useful manual both to the citizens, and to
	occasional visitants.  A short account of the city and its institu-
	tions has also appeared in Chambers's Gazetteer of Scotland.
	   Historical Events.-The principal historical events in which the
	city and parish of St Andrews are concerned, will be found in the ac-
	counts of the institutions to which they refer.  In addition to these, it
	may here be stated, that after Edward I. had subjugated Scotland, he
	summoned the members of tbe Scottish Parliament to meet him at St
	Andrews, where he compelled them to swear allegiance to him.  And
	that a few years afterwards, they again assembled at this city, and
	recognized the claims of Robert Bruce to the Scottish throne.
	When Edward III, with his victorious forces, overrun and sub-
	dued the greater part of Scotland he placed a garrison in St An-
	drews ; but after his return to England, many of his new conquests
	were wrested from him.  Among others, the city and Castle of St
	Andrews were besieged and taken after a short resistance, and the
	fortifications of the latter were in a great measure destroyed.-In
	1401, the unfortunate Duke of Rothsay was imprisoned in the

