
                             DOLLAR.                        97
                             
December 1825, -with the accumulated dividends, and after pay-
ing all previous expenses of buildings, salaries, &c. it amounted to
L. 74,256, 9s. I Id. of 3 per cent. stock, y ielding an yearly income
of L. 2227, 13s. 8d. Sterling.
  Since then, the legacy of L. 100, left to Mrs Jellard, and the
legacy of L-50, left to Miss Edwards, has fallen into the Dollar)
school fund, which gives an addition of L-150 to the yearly in.
come. But this annual income has somewhat diminished since
18252 by the trustees buying up the superiority of the grounds be-
longing to the school, and certain feus adjoining; and also by
building another teachers house. ThS superiority and the new
house together cost nearly L.7500.
  Now to meet this outlay, it was necessary to sell out L,71 I 1,,
I Is. three per cent. stock, which has reduced the yearly income to
L-2057. TothismaybeaddedsomethingmorethanL.-100,aris-
ing from schooi-fees, and the small feus which the trustees have
purchased;'and the feu-duty formerly payable to the superior is
now saved.
  The next point to be noticed is the mode in which these ample
funds have been disposed of. The trustees having made up their
minds that a school and not an alms-house was meant by the tes-
tator, the next point was, how the funds could best be expended,-
seein - that they were more ample than was necessary for procur-
ing for the poor the mere ordinary branches of education, taught
at parish schools. After serious deliberation, they adopted the
opinion, that it was within the sound exercise of the latitude given
them by the very general terms of the will, for them to establish
a great seminary of education in the parish ; in which, while the
immediate object would be that of teaching the poor the ordinary
branches of instruction, classes should be opened for the higher
branches of education, in order that the more industrious and ta-
lented among the- poor scholars might be enabled to obtain that
knowledge, which might fit them for rising above their present le-
vel in society, and for acquiring both riches and reputation in the
world.
  But, before taking the necessary steps for this purpose, the
trustees deemed it prudent to take the opinion of counsel, both
with regard to the extent of their powers under the -will, and also
the soundness of the views which they entertained repectitig the
application of the fund-, intrusted to them. In these views, they.
Nere confirmed by the opinion of tbe,most -eminent counsel at the,
CLACKMANNAN.                            G



