
64				AYRSHIRE.

at L. 10 Sterling, and continued so till the year 1818. In con-
sequence of this annuity, the admission dues were raised to L. 5,
to be paid by those who should serve with members, and to L. 15
to such as should be appreuticed elsewhere. At the same time,
the entry-money was made to consist of two rates, which were
raised progressively, first, to L. 40 and L. 80; second, to L. 25
and L. 45; and, third, to L. 40 and L. 80. Besides this and the
annual contribution of a guinca, it was agreed that each mem-
ber who raised to augment the annuity to the extent of L. 20
above the ordinary rate, should contribute L. 1, 10s. for five
years in addition to his annual payments, and this to commence
in 1818. In 1820, it was resolved to admit none into the so-
ciety but as had served their apprenticeship with members
residing in Ayr, and the entry-money was then fixed to be L. 54,
10s., and the annuities to be L. 50 after 1825. Owing, however,
to the interest of money having fallen, and the unexampled num-
ber of widows who had become a burden on the funds, the an-
nuity has never been more than L. 40, but it is continued to chil-
dren till they be eighteen years of age. There are present
twenty-four members belonging to the society, but five of these
do not reside in Ayr, and four do not practise before the Sheriff-
court. Their funds in 1836 amounted to L. 7434, 6s. 2 1/2d.; but
there were no fewer than eleven windows deriving annuities, and
one decayed member, who receives L. 20 yearly. Three of the
widows get L. 10 each annually, their husbands having died pre-
vious to 1818, and the other eight receive the balance of the in-
terest and contributions, the society having resolved in no case
to encroach on the capital. The annuity to decayed members is
now abolished. There was, till of late, a sinking fund of L. 50 a-
year; but that is at present suspended, till the existing burdens
be diminished. The admission dues are fixed at two guineas at
the commencement of appreticeship, or, in lieu thereof, five gui-
neas on becoming a member,--besides L. 78 of entry-money, and
one guinea of annual contribution.
	Ayrshire Horticultural and Agricultural Society.--This society,
which at first was only horticultural, was formed in 1815; and
its object was to promote and encourage horticulture, in all its
branches, throughout the county. It consisted of about sixty
members, and was under the management of a president, vice-
preses, and six counsellors. The late Earl of Eglinton was the
first president and patron of the institution. At the annual com-


