
                             DRYMEN.                          111

miles to the south, the farmers find a convenient outlet for their
produce.
  There are ten miles of turnpike road in the parish, viz. the
great road leading from Glasgow and Dumbarton, by Drymen, to
Stirling. And thirty-five miles of parish roads. The latter are
kept in repair (not the best) by converted statute labour money;
the annual amount of which is L.120.
  There is a very handsome bridge over the Endrick, within a
mile of the village, connecting this parish with that of Kilmara-
nock. This bridge was built in 1765. There is another called
the Finnich bridge, (recently  widened and improved) stretching
over a deep romantic ravine, through which the burn is seen strug-
gling far below. There is a stage-coach three times a week to
Glasgow; starting at 7 A.M. and returning same day by 8 P. M.
There is a weekly carrier, and a daily post.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated near the vil-
lage of Drymen--but set down most inconveniently forlmore than
half of the inhabitants of the parish. It is within half a-mile of
the west extremity of the parish; and there is a population, to
the north and east of it, of upwards of 700,from six to twelve miles
from the church. This inconvenient state of things has been
somewhat remedied, of late,to the inhabitants of the east parts of
the parish, by the erection of a church in the village of Buchly-
vie, within the parish of Kippen. To this church a population of
400 belonging to this parish, have been attached quoad sacra;
and now many, who, from their distance from the house of God,
could seldom be there, have a church so conveniently placed for
them that they can enjoy the ordinance every Lord's day:-one
of the good fruits of church extension.
  The inhabitants of the north of the parish, (about 300), being
separated from the church and its ordinances by a wide and deso-
lute muir,-seldom, excepting on sacramental occasions, come
across. The minister has been in the habit of officiating among
them twice a-year. But they generally avail themselves of the be-
nefit of public worship in the churches of Aberfoil and Gartmore;
with which, however, they have no privileged connection.
  The parish church is a plain substantial building, erected in
1771,and is at present in good repair. It affords accommodation for
about 400, and is sufficiently large for all who can attend. The seats,
are parcelled out among the heritors,according to their valuations.


