
		KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN.		  51

this school are now the teachers of subscription schools through
the country, very much to the satisfaction of their employers.
  Ecclesiastical State.-A new manse, office-houses, and garden
wall were built here about five years ago by the heritors, on a
most liberal plan. The accommodations thus afforded for the mi-
nister may, without any exaggeration, be asserted to be among the
very first of the kind in Scotland. The manse is both a handsome
and a most convenient one. The office houses are adapted to the
size of the grebe, and contain almost every possible accommodation
which the minister can require. Being built, too, on the slope
of a hill, the necessary drains were properly attended to and effect-
ed, so that instead of being damp and uncomfortable, as formerly,
the place is perfectly dry. The church is more than sufficiently large
for the accommodation of the stated congregation which assemble
in it. It is not, however, at present either sufficiently drained or
lighted. The windows are numerous, but they are very small.
The grebe is 32 Scotch or about 40 English acres in extent. There
were two grebes belonging to the minister previous to 1774,-one at
Cullicudden and the other at Kirkmichael, containing the very best
land in the whole united parish. In the excambion, made about the
year l764, quantity was given for quality at Resolis. The late incum-
bent reclaimed six acres of moor by ploughing. The present incum-
bent has reclaimed all the rest by trenching, which may amount to
about sixteen or seventeen acres, subdivided the grebe into fields of
about four acres each, enclosed and planted them with hedgerow
trees of various kinds, which by their growth have very much improv-
ed the appearance of the place, which, from being the bleakest and
dampest in the whole Country, is now nearly one of the driest and
certainly the most cultivated of any glebe in the two counties. The
soil, however, is in general, and notwithstanding every effort and
expense to improve it, but very thin and unproductive. It may
here be observed, that the heritors derive no annual rent from the
church seats. The seat rents are according to the old plan, viz.
a sum of money,-about 14s. or 16s.-paid by every incoming to
every out-going tenant, for his seat in the church,-and which sum
for each seat was originally paid by the tenants to the heritors, in
order to cover the expenses of seating the church when originally
built. The minister's stipend amounts to 28 chalders, half barley and
half oatmeal, Linlithgow measure, together with the sum of L.8,
6s. 8d. for communion elements. The augmentations which raised


