
                       REDGORTON.                              193

It is a very neat structure, but the settling has sunk the parapet
over the central arch about an inch below the level of the rest of
the wall.
  The third bridge is that on which we are most disposed to pride
ourselves. It is situated at Dalcruive, about as far from the old
bridge to the west, or up the river, as the second is below it. As
a modern structure, it is remarkable for its elegance and simplicity,
for the grandeur of its elevation, and the beauty of its workman-
ship:-as a benefit, as well as an ornament to the district, it is
worthy of the splendid scenery amidst which it is placed:-as an
example of munificence and public spirit in an individual, it stands
by an unmeasurable distance at the head of all the public, or re-
corded transactions of this great county. This bridge, like the
Old Bridge of Almond, is founded on two rocks, or rather upon a
dike, which here crosses the river, and affords a firm foundation
for the superstructure on either side, It consists of one semicir-
cular arch of 80 feet span; the abutment of which is upwards of
10 fdet high, so that the height of the top of the bridge above the
bed of the river is fully 50 feet.  The foundation stone was laid
25th August 1832.  The arch was keyed 20th August 1836, and
the centre struck the 1st of September following; and such is the
accuracy of the workmanship, that no perceptible settling has taken
place.  The approach to this bridge has required the cutting down
of two hills, and the filling up of the valley betwixt them; the
whole of which, as well as the building of the bridge, has been ac-
complished, we may say, at the sole expense of Lord Lynedoch,
the county having as yet contributed only L. 150 from the road-
money towards the expense. One of these cuts too, having been
carried through the ridge, along which the ride from Lynedoch
to the bridge of Bertha runs, has been crossed by a beautiful little,
bridge of a semicircular arch, a miniature as it were of the former,
at the cost of L. 500.  The whole of this public improvement,
the building of the bridges, the filling up of the valley over which
the road is carried, with the cutting of the hills, and erecting the
corresponding retaining walls, has cost his Lordship about L. 4000,
a sum rarely expended by an individual in one undertaking for the
public benefit.
  The erection of the Old Bridge of Almond has transmitted the
name of his ancestor, as a benefactor of the publij, for two hun-
dred years. The erection of this bridge promises to transmit his
Lordship's fame in the same character, to a still more remote posteri-
  PERTH.                                  N


