

                          BERTRAM SHOTTS.                    627

   The only ironstone wrought in the parish has been a few indif-
ferent strata of ball and band above the Shotts first coal.  The
balls may be considered rich, producing about thirty-five per cent. of
iron from the raw stone; but the band is very poor, and produces
about twenty per cent.
   There is abundance of fire-clay all over the south side of the
parish, which has now become of great importance from the num-
ber of blast furnaces in the neighbourhood.  The pavement of all
the coal-fields is of fire-clay, but the best is considered to be that
found below the Shotts first coal, which is easily wrought, and
very abundant.  Another very good stratum, lying about ten fathoms
above the Shotts first coal, has also been wrought for a period of
years, and used in making brick for blast and air furnaces.  It
is several feet in thickness, but there are only about three feet of
it wrought in the middle of the stratum.
   Zoology.-There are few woods or plantations of any very great
extent in the parish, and of course, the Mammalia fera, birds, and
other animals which delight in such localities are rather scarce.
Among quadrupeds we have, by our ditches and lakes, the Sorex
fodiens or water-shrew, and the Arvieola aguatica or water vole.
The Mustela Erminea attains a great size in this parish, is some-
times entirely white, and is said to be destructive to young hares.
It is also very fond of eggs, pigeons, rats, mice, and putrid meat.
Among the birds, the Lagopus Scotieus and Tetrao Tetrix, are
common in the moors.  The Falco Tinunculus, Buteo nisus and
eruginosus are the most common of the hawk species.  The Ca-
primulgus Europeus is common about Murdostown.  The Ardea
cinerea often visits us from Hamilton, Gartshore, and other places,
and the stately Numenius arquata often whistles about our ears in
the high and barren parts of the country.  The Scolopax gallinago
affords excellent shooting in some quarters, and also the gallinula,
which is pretty common.  The Vanellus cristatus affords excellent.
eating, and if it were better known would be preferred to some
Species of game.
   Of the reptile kind, the most common are Lacerta agilis, Vi-
pera communis, Triton palustris, aquaticus and vulgaris, Rana tem-
poraria, and Bufo vulgaris.
   In the Lily-loch, besides the common trout, the Salmo salvelinus
or red char is found in great perfection; also Esox Lucius; and in the
reservoir, the Perca fluviatilis is so abundant that the trout and other
fishes present a lean and stearved appeaance from want of food.


