
154                        HADDINGTONSHIRE.

destroyed the popular reverence for pseudo-saints.  This change,
however, as appears from the Presbytery records, was not general-
ly adopted till about the year 1668.  Yester is the ancient name
of the Marquis of Tweeddale's estate, which lies chiefly within the
parish.  The name, appears to be of Cambro-British origin.  In
that language, the word Ystrad or Yestred signifies a strath or
vale.  This name, afterwards corrupted to Yester, is very expres-
sive of the local aspect of the parish, which forms a strath on the
banks of a rivulet called Gifford-water, a tributary of the Tyne.
The antiquity of the present name is shewn by the following cir-
cumstance, that Hugh de Gifford (to whom William the Lion
granted the baronial domains of Yestred or Yester in the twelfth
century) "gave to the monks of Melros a toft in his village of
Yestred." *  The parish is popularly called Gifford, from a village
in it of that name.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is about 6 miles long from
east to west, and about 5 in breadth, including an extent of 2 miles
in the Larnmermoors.  It contains 7080 Scots acres, or nearly 14
square miles.  Its form is nearly that of an oblong square, bounded
by the parishes of Garvald, Haddington, Bolton, Humbie, and
Lauder.
   Topographical Appearances.-The Lammermoor hills run along
the south side of the parish.  They are covered with heath, and
afford good pasture for sheep.  The highest of these is Lammer-
law, which is situated in Yester parish.  Its height above the le-
vel of the sea is about 1700 feet.  Near the summit of Lammer-
law, is an excellent spring of water; temperature in August 1834
42°, and scarcely at all different in winter.  Various small streams
descending from these hills, and uniting about a mile from their
base, form the Gifford Water  + which flows through the strath or
Ystrad already mentioned.  This strath is one of peculiar beauty.
Although it is 400 feet above the level of the sea, it is highly cul-
tivated and richly wooded.  In the centre or lower part of it, stands
the village of Gifford, around which extends a circular elevated
ridge of fertile land at the distance of about a mile and a-half,
which slopes gently toward the lower part, and affords a good shelter
from the cold east winds.

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers' Caledooia, Vol. ii p. 534.
          It is mentioned In the former statistical Account, that "this stream was remark-
abt for a flood on the 4th of October 1775, which carried down most of the bridges
in the parish, and a number of trees from Yester; a most unaccountable circurnstance,
as no extraordinary quantity of rain bad previously fallen."  The supposition of a
Water-spout will perhaps explain the difficulty.


