
114                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

laid down in a richer state for pasture, would eventually be found
much more profitable than the one now generally pursued.
     The number of sheep in the parish is calculated at 17,040, and
they are considered worth 2s. 9d. per head annually.  There are
565 Highland cattle grassed nine months, which may pay on an
average L. 1, 5s. per head; 315 Galloways, kept a year at an ave-
rage of L. 2 per head, and 421 cows with their followers.  There
are a great number of pigs kept which uniformly turn out a profit-
able stock.  Almost every cottager is enabled to fatten one either
for his own use or the market.

                        V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     The royal burgh of New Galloway is situated in the parish.
Its population by the recent census is 436.  In it the Sheriff and Justice of the Peace courts for the Glenkens are held.  There is
a daily post. Post-horses and carriages are kept, and a branch of
the Edinburgh and Glasgow Bank has been established.  The roads
are excellent in every direction.  The bridges are generally in good
repair.  The one across the Ken in the vicinity of New Galloway
is built of granite.  It is a beautiful bridge, highly ornamental to
the district, consisting of five arches, the span of the centre one
being 90 feet.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church with regard to the po-
pulation is centrically situated.   It is seated for 560, but can ac-
commodate more.  It was built in 1822, and is in excellent re-
pair.  None of the pews are let.  The attendance is good and
regular.  The number of communicants may vary from 350 to
400.  There is no Dissenting place of worship in the parish.  The number of Dissenters in the parish mav amount perhaps to
50; of these about 9 are Episcopalians, 10 Irish Roman Catho-
lics, and the remaining belong to the United Associate Synod of
the Secession church.  There is a Sabbath school in New Gal-
loway, which is well attenede.  The annual collections for religi-
ous purposes may amount to L. 10 or L. 12.
     The manse was built in 1806, and an addition to it in 1836.
Though the rooms are smaller than in the manses more recently
built; it is now a convenient and comfortable dwelling, quite suit-
able to the benefice.  The glebe, including the garden and site of
the manse, consists of about 8 acres, and may be worth L. 15 per
annum.  The teinds are exhausted.  The money stipend is
L. 299, 9s. 81/2d., of which sum L. 9, 19s. 6d. is payable from the


