
                            TOWIE.                                 417

   Antiquities.-The most conspicuous object of antiquity is, the
ruins of the Castle of Towie, of which a square tower is almost all
that now remains.  In November 1751, Sir Adam Gordon of
Auchindoir sent Captain Ker with a party of foot to the Castle
of Towie, to summon it in the Queen's name.  Alexander Forbes,
its possessor, was then absent, and his lady, whose maiden name
was Margaret Campbell, not only refused to surrender, but also
poured, on Captain Ker a torrent of abuse, and from the battlement
took a deliberate aim and fired at him; but the ball only "grazed
his knee," whereupon, transported with rage, he ordered his men to
set fire, to the castle, when the lady, her children, and domestics,
in all thirty-seven persons, perished in the flames.  The remains
of the lady were interred in the church-yard, at what is now called
the farm of Nethertowie, where a white stone long marked her
grave.  This catastrophe gave rise to a ballad, which commemo-
rates the particulars.
   There are ruins of chapels at Nethertowie, Kinbattoch, Belna-
both, Ley, and chapel of Sinnahard.  At Kinbattoch is a doun or
artificial mound of earth, which appears to have been surrounded
with about ten feet of water; but no vestige of any fortification that
may have been there, now remains.  The tumuli on the farm of
Kinbattock were opened in 1750, in which were found several
kistivaen, containing urns, trinkets, bones, Roman medals with in-
scription, &c.
   At Fechley is a mound upwards of 60 feet high, and, surround-
ed by a fosse, partly natural and partly artificial, breadth from
12 to 41 feet, and depth from 8 to 35 feet.  The breadth of the
mound on the summit is 127 by 200 feet; on which are the vitri
fied remains of a tower.
   On the Glasschill or Grayhill are large tumuli, one of which com-
memorates the defeat of the lord of Athol and 200 Englishmen
at arms, who came to take the castle of Kildrummy from Robert
Bruce's family, when Edward Longshanks had possession of al-
most all the rest of Scotland.  They were repulsed here principally
through the, valour of the Forbeses, who pursued and almost total-
ly annihilated them in the forest of Kilblean.
   In the churchyard is a large stone, six feet in lenght, sculptured
with hieroglyphics.
   In a field on the north side of the river, near the present bridge,
is a stone of unhewn granite, standing upright, height about seven
feet above ground, supposed to be of Druidical origin.
   ABERDEEN.                             D d.


