
                 MONQUHITTER                              763

growth of wood, and which are of little value for cultivation, where
not a tree has been planted.
   As there is a great extent of mossy and swampy ground in this
parish and neighbourhood, it might have been expected that the
atmosphere would have been much impregnated with damp, and
consequently insalubrious; but, on the contrary, the air of Mon-.
quhitter is pure and healthful, and unquestionably the climate has
been greatly ameliorated by the agricultural improvements which
have taken place within the last forty or fifty years.
   A species of scarlet fever, accompanied with violent sore throat,
has much inflicted this and some of the neighbouring parishes, and
has been known, at times, to carry off two, three, and even four in
a family in the course of a few days.
   Hydrograph.-Monquhitter is watered by two small rivers,
which receive the tribute of numberless and copious springs.  The
one of these called the water of Assleed, runs in a southerly di-
rection, seprates Monquhitter from the parishes of New Deer
and Methlick, and discharges itself into the river Ythan.  The
other, called the Water of Idoch, gives its name to the vale of
Idoch.  It passes within a short distance of the parish church and
the village of Cuminestown, and runs in a westerly direction to the
parish of Turriff, where it assumes the name of Dara, and falls into
the river Doveron, at the village of Turriff.  These streams still
abound with, delicious small trout of the common kind, and, al-
though by no means so plentiful as in former times, in consequence
of the extensive use of lime in agricultural operations, they still
afford excellent spore to the angler,-the banks being in all places
open and accessible.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Below, a stratum of pebbly clay, ex-
tensive quarries of red sandstone lie in the, direction of a plane,
much inclined from east to west.  This stone, though. much im-
pregnated with iron ore, may be raised in large, masses, and
is used in building.  As the greater part of it is of a soft and
spongy description, liable to decay, and moulders down from ex-
posure to the weather, it is not calculated either for comfort or
durability in the erection of dwelling-houses.
   Soil.-The two soils which chiefly prevail in the cultivated parts
of Monquhitter are, the one, a reddish loam, the other, a deep
black mould.  They both rest on a stratum of pebbly clay, and,
in the lower grounds, produce very luxuriant crops of oats.  In
former times, the crops throughout the parish seldom arrived at


