
528                       LANARKSHIRE.

cattle which pasture on them. By beginning near the base, and
gradually ascending with a plantation, a hill of considerable alti-
tude may be covered to the summit. There are some lands in the
parish which might be drained, and others which might be brought
into a state of greater cultivation either for cropping or pasturing,
did the tenant's capital, length of leases, and encouragement from
the proprietors, permit them to entertain the hope of being suffi.
ciently compensated for the primary expense. When a tenant
wants capital to carry on necessary improvements, finds difficulty
in paying the stipulated rent, and solicits a deduction, perhaps it
would be better ultimately, both for him and the proprietor, that
the deduction should be given in lime bone-dust, &c. for increasing
the productive powers of the farm. When a stranger outbids an
old tenant, with a view to get possession, and then soon complains
of the high rent, and solicits a reduction, the equity and justice of
listening to his complaint may be justly called in question.
	There is no land in the parish in a state of undivided common.
The trees growing in the parish, beside the pines already men-
tioned, are, oak, ash, elm, plane, beech, alder, poplar, birch, horse-
chestnut, &c. They are properly managed under the direction
of a forester.
	Rent of Land.--The rent of arable land, according to the na-
ture of the soil, is very various, from L. 3, 10s. or L. 4, to 10s. per
Scots acre. The average rent, without urging any claims to ac-
curacy, may be stated as follows, viz.

<TABLE>
  Arable, 4702 Scots acres, at 17s. 6d.             L. 4114  5   0
  Pasture, 3815                 2c. 6d.                 476 17   6

                                                    L. 4591  2   6

The grazing of a cow or ox, either for dairy produce or the but-
cher, varies, according to the kind of pasture, from L. 3 to L. 4
during the summer season, and of a sheep about 5s.
	Wages.--The wages of full-grown men-servants about L.10 or
L. 12 a-year, and of women-servants L. 6 or L. 7. Masons and
carpenters used to get 2s. 6d. but last year they demanded 3s. a-
day, of ten hours. Labourers at other work get 9s. or 9s. 6d.
a-week. A rood of mason work, when the materials are furnished,
costs L. 1, 16s. or L. 2.
	Live-Stock.--The common breed of sheep is the black-faced,
with a few Cheviots, and of cattle the Ayrshire kind. The horse
are chiefly of the Clydesdale breed, highly valued, and too Well


