
422                              TIFESHIRE.

between L. 60 and L. 70. The sum realized during the last two
years and a-half for religious purposes, including collections, a
subscription for church extension, and the contributions already
obtained by the society io connection with the parish church, falls
very little short of L. 130.
Education.-There are in all seven schools in the parish; but
five of these are small, and four of them are taught by females.
There is no parochial school. The burgb school has always been
under the direction of the magistrates and council, and the teacher
is appointed by them. His salary is L. 37 a-year, and is paid out
of the burgh revenue. The regulated fees are, for English read-
ing, 2s. per quarter; do. with writing, 2s. 6d. ; with arithmetic,
4s. 6d.; Latin, with Greek, French, arithmetic, mathematics, EDg-
lish grammar, geography, 6s. per quarter; navigation and book-
keeping, L. 1, Is. per course. These fees have been the same for the
last twenty years. All regulations for the school are made Under
the sanction and control of the magistrates. There are certain
lands in the parish mortified by a Mr Watson, and a house and
garden in the burgli, for beboof of the schoolmaster and three poor
widows. Each of the widows has an allotment in the house, and
each a third of the garden. The land is let to a tenant at the
money rent of L. 18, 10s., and 34 bolls of barley and 6 bolls of
oatmeal yearly, the growth of the lands; and if he has no barley
on the lands, he is bound to pay the highest Mid-Lothian fiar prices
for the barley and oatmeal. Ten bolls of the barley, and one.
fourth of the money rent are paid to the schoolmaster, for which
he is obliged to teach as many poor children belonging to the town
and parish as the magistrates recommend, at the rate of Is. 6d. per
quarter, the number of scholars not to exceed, at this rate, the
sum he may draw yearly. The rest of the barley, oatmeal, and
money rent, is divided equally among the three widows.
The average number attending all the schools is not much short
of 300, which, taking the population at 2100, gives about one-
seventh attending school. The people in general seem alive to

<FOOTNOTE>The following extract from the session records may be given as affording a spe-
cimen of the kind of collections that were frequently made in Scotland a century or
two ago. 4; Deoember I Ith 1659-The minister does (by ordour of the synode)
intimat frotye cor 1p t (being condescendit upon by ye sessione) a voluntaric contri-
butione to ILL aftvrnoone at ye incoming to ye afternoons sermone for ye
toune of S$ Andros, for repairing and helping up yrshore wh was leaked onnc by 8
vehement storme, wh is to be collected tborou all ye, chruches in this presbetrie, alld
are exhorted to charetle."
          Municipal Corporations' Report.


