
     of Morven.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The principal disadvantages,
and the greatest hinderances to every species of improvement,
are the difficulties people generally have in supplying them-
selves with peats for fuel.  The making of peats is at best
but a tiresome and tedious operation; often precarious, and
attended with a heavy expence, besides the loss of the sum-
mer and autumnal months, which might be applied to much
more lucrative and useful purposes.  Were the people able to
purchase coals, as there is water-carriage to the door of al-
most every farm-house, it would be a mighty advantage, and
tend to render their situation much more comfortable and
easy.  A modification of the salt laws also would be neces-
sary, in order to answer the benevolent intentions of the

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

taste in the tenants formerly occupying the farm, who pulled
down the stones, for domestic purposes, to save the trouble of quar-
rying.  The den itself commands an extensive view, and was
well chosen for a place of defence against a flying party: It lies
on the farm of Fiunary, and is now part of the glebe.  There is
a water running by the foot of the hill, of a romantic appear-
ance, on account of its high banks and the number of its pools
and cascades.  The sloping braes, on each side of this water,
were formerly covered with a fine natural wood of oak and ash;
of which nothing now remains but a little brush wood, a nui-
sance rather than a beauty to the place.  Kemin, is steps in the
form of a natural stair, pretty regular, in a rock, towards the
top of a hill called Bein-eiden, mentioned in an old poem ascrib-
ed to Ossian; but whether this, or another of that name in Ire-
land, be the hill therein referred to, it is not pretended to say;
Drimnin, the ridges; ulliu, the elbow; stron, the nose; achabarn,
the field of cairns; arginish, the shieling of good bedding for
cattle, names of places very descriptive of their appearance or
properties.  The principal place of worship, and where the oldest
church stands, is called Cill-collum kill, or cell of the famous Col-
lumbus of Jona.  The other place of worship is called Kilunk,
or cell of Winifred  Though the church is now removed to a
little distance from it, at each of these there is a church-yard,
or burying ground, but now without any fence, though ancient-
ly their precincts were distinctly marked, and considered as sanc-
tuaries.

</UNREADABLE>


