
			ABERDEEN.                           5

of a mile, till it meets the south boundary at the plae where that
burn falls into the basin of the harbour.  The superficial contents
of the parish may be estimated at about 1100 imperial acres, of
which rather more than one-half (including the whole of the west
the greater part of the south, and nearly one-half of the north
sides,) is occupied by the city of Aberdeen, and the village of Fut-
tie, which lies along the river towards the east end of the south
boundary. * By far the greater part of the remainder along the east
side is occupied by the links, and a range of low sand hills by which
they are separated from the sea coast.  Along the north side, from
the Broad Hill to the point where the buildings of Aberdeen be-
gin, the ground is laid out in market gardens, nurseries and bleach-
greens.
   The origin of the name of this parish is enveloped in obscurity.
The great church of Aberdeen was, in former times, dedicated to
St Nicholas, though whether it was to Nicholas, who was Bishop of
Myra in Lycia in the fourth century, and who is the patron saint of
the Russian empire, or to some one else of the same name, that it
was dedicated, is a problem that probably cannot now be solved.  The
name derived from this dedication, however, has by long use ex-
tended to the whole parish but in ordinary language it has of late
years been less generally used,-the name of the city which occu-
pies so large a portion of the parish being employed instead
   With the exception of that part of the Broad Hill which is com-
prehended within the limits of the parish, the surface of whole
the east and north parts is nearly level, and but very slightly
elevated above the sea; but in the south and west parts, the ground
is more broken, rising into several eminences of small heights, one
of which, the Heading Hill, may be said to lie beyond the limits of
the town on the east side, (although a few houses are built on it,
and on the adjacent grounds to the north,) white the  others, known
by the names of the Castle Hill. St. Catherine's Hill, the Port Hill,
and the School Hill or Woolman Hill, are occupied by the streets
and buildings of Aberdpen.
   On the south side the boundary of the parish is alse the boun-
dary of the district of Mar and of the country of Aberdeem; and the
adjacent parish in the country of Kincardine is Nigg in which the

<FOOTNOTE>It has of late become customary to spell the name of this village Footdee, as if
it were derived from the circumstance of its lying adjacent to the embrouchure or
foot of the Dee; but the uniform spelling in old writings is Futtie, or sometimes,
though seldom, Fottie; and it may be observed that etymological propriety would
require, that, if the name had reference to the feet of the Dee, it should have been
either "Dee-Foot," (as Elvan-foot, Bog-foot, &c.) or "Foot-o-dee,"(as Foot-o-hill.)


