
140                          ORKNEY.

   "The Ness of Coligarth or Coliness extends a good way across
the Bay of Otterswick to the north-west.  In this ness there is a
very large artificial mound, which, if examined, would be found
to contain the largest burgh in Lady Parish, if not in Sanday.
The surface of this mound has been broken in several places for
the purpose of taking away large stones, which are found in every
part of it.  About three years ago, while removing some of these
stones, a spear bead was found  it is of iron, seven inches long,
rounded and pointed at one extremity, and flattened at the other.
   "On the south-west side of Coligarth, another barren moor
commences, and runs along the banks of Otterswick almost to the
bottom of the bay, where this parish is joined by Burness.  Along
this moor, too, are scattered a Dumber of small circular heaps;
but the largest and most remarkable are in the immediate vicinity
of Coligarth.   They consist of three pretty large tumuli, partly
surrounded by a, square enclosure.  There is also within the enclo-
sure. an excellent spring well, which has been carefully built about
with large stones.  The remains of a wall may be traced, running
in a southerly direction from these tumuli, a good way across the
moor.  These three tumuli are called by the country people Myr-
tis's Knowes or the Knowes of     Myrtis.
   "The principal Scandinavian antiquities in this parish have
now been enumerated.  Many more, no doubt, are buried under
ground, some of which may yet be  discovered.  What we now
have, is sufficient proof of the rude state of society in these islands
at one period.
   "Religious buildings were formerly pretty numerous in this
parish ; in general, they were only small chapels ; at least we
have not now the remains of any large religious edifice.  Nothing
now is left of them, save their foundations overgrown with
grass and weeds.  They are all surrounded by, or in the imme-
diate vicinity of, good land, and generally near a vell or fresh
water loch.  None of them are to be found on the moor or hill
ground.  Several of them have been built close by the ruins of
other buildings; such situations may have been chosen, from the
ready access to stones which they afforded; or the devout men en-
gaged in the conversion of the Oreadian heathens, to show their
utter abhorrence of the ancient superstition, may have erected
their chapels on the very ruins of the temples of Odin.
   "None df these chapels have exceeded twelve feet in length,
and from'eight to ten feet in breadth.  Foundations of them may


