
450 				LANARKSHIRE.

proprietor removed, (I suppose, for its greater preservation,) to the
burying-ground of the present family there is the following in-
scription " Here lyis James Dalyell, Mearchant Bvrger Edr. law-
ful sone to umql. Thomas Daylell, web. Thomas wes lawful sone
to the Right Honl. umql. William Dalyell of the ilk, procreat be-
twix him and his lady Gelis Hamilton, lawful daughter to the
Laird Preston, wch. James depairt tys lyf, at the place of Dal-
yell, the 8th of March 1608, being of the age of 78 yeiris." This
stone seems to have been prepared with care; the lettering is good,
and the armorial bearings of the family are, a man suspended from
a gibbet cut upon it. Several members of the family have sig-
nalized themselves, and are specified in different charters and in
military records. Sir William Dalzell, the person mentioned
on the grave-stone, is described in heraldry as a gallant and hu-
morous knight, who lost an eye at the battle of Otterbourne in the
year l388. Sir Piers Courtenay having accepted a challenge im-
plied by Dalzell's adoption of badges borne by Courtenay, Sir Wil-
liam terminated the affair by a demand that, as by the laws of
tournament, the champions should be equal, Courtenay should have
an eye extinguished before the combat. Sir Robert Daizell, in
1508, was killed by the Lord Maxwell. Another Sir Robert warm-
ly espoused the cause of Queen Mary, and was engaged on her side
in the battle of Langside in 1568. For his fidelity to her interests,
he obtained a charter from Francis and Mary, dated 27th August
1559, " Roberto de Dalyell eodem terrarum de Dalyell et molen-
dina de Lanark;" and he or his successor also obtained from her
a grant of the patronage and teinds of this parish,--a grant, however,
which, when litigated, be failed to make good. Lord Dalzell having
acquired Lthe estate of Carnwath from James Earl of Buchan in
1634, was in 1639 created Earl of Carnwath. In 1647 the Earl
of Carnwath sold the principal part of the Dalzell estate to James
Hamilton of Boggs. Johnston, a part of the barony, however, re-
mained in the possession of the Dalzells till the end of the six-
teenth century, when it was also purchased by Mr Hamilton,
--whose descendant is still the proprietor of the estate. As the
Dalzells and Hamiltons were connected by frequent intermarriages
(the mother of Mr Hamilton of Boggs was daughter of Sir
Robert Dalzell), this may account for one of that family becoming
the purchaser, and might also tend to his acquiring the property
on more favourable terms than any other person.


