
                          NEW SPYNIE.                            99

the Elgin cathedral had been built.  From this quarry Dr. Gray's
Hospital, Elgin, was built, and is hence called the Hospital Quarry.
The stones are susceptible of a fine polish; they are of a beautiful
yellow or cream colour, and are often found of large dimensions, fit
for pillars and lobby pavements.  The whole of this hill seems to
be a mass of excellent sandstone.
   There are also fine freestone quarries on the Seafield proper-
ty,-from which a considerable portion of that property has been
lately inclosed with substantial stone dikes, and from which the
village of Bishopmill has been built.  The Findrassie property af-
fords quarries of freestone fit for common buildings, and excel-
lent for dikes.
   There is in the parish, a bleachfield for linens and yarns: it
lies in the eastmost part of the parish, on the north side of the
river Lossie, within half a mile of Elgin.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Village.-There is only one village in the parish,-that of Bishop-
mill.  It is almost close to Elgin, the market-town, and by the late
Reform Act is included in that burgh.  This parish enjoys peculiar
means of communication, no part of it being inconveniently dis-
tant from either of the harbours of Lossiemouth and Burghead
or the markets of Elgin,-to which last there is at all times an un-
interrupted access by one cast iron, and two handsome stone bridges.
One of these bridges is where the post-road to Forres crosses the
Lossie, towards the west end of the parish; another, about the mid-
dle of the south side of the parish, where the road to Duffus crosses
the Lossie; and another, towards the east end of the parish, at
Bishopmill, where the post-road to Lossiemouth crosses the Los-
sie. This last mentioned bridge was originally built of stone, but
was swept away by the floods of August 1829; and the road trus-
tees thereafter erected a handsome cast iron bridge.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church and manse were orhginally
most pleasantly situated at the eastern extremity of the parish, in
the vicinity of the Bishop's Palace; but in the year 1736, they were
removed to Quarrywood, a more centrical, though much more bleak
situation, nearly under the highest part of the north side of the
hill.  Both are at present in pretty good repair, and the manse has
several times got additions and alterations.  The church affords
accommodation for about 400 persons and all the sittings are free.
It is about 3 miles distant from the extremities of the parish; but
more than the half of the population being residenters in Bishop-


