
700			AYRSHIRE.

eldest of whom was married to Sir Archibald Stewart of Blackhall,
and the youngest, Margaret, to Patrick Lindsay, the second son
of the fourteenth Earl of Craufurd. Upon the heirs of this mar-
riage, Sir John Craufurd settled the estate of Kilbirnie, on condi-
tion of their assuming the name and armorial ensigns of Craufurd.
Patrick Lindsay and his lady died both in 1680. * Their eldest
son, John, was created in 1703, by Queen Anne, Viscount Mount-
Craufurd, which title he had afterwards changed to that of Gar-
nock. He died in 1708, and his grandson, George, fourth Vis-
count succeeding in 1749 to John, eighteenth Earl of Craufurd
and fourth of Lindsay, the title of Garnock merged in the more
ancient honours of that noble house. He was succeeded by his
son George, who dying unmarried in 1808, the titles became ex-
tinct, and the estlates fell to his only surviving sister, Lady Mary
Lindsay Craufurd. On her demise in 1833, she was succeeded
by George, fourth Earl of Glasgow, in right of his descent from
Margaret, the eldest sister of the first Viscount Garnock.
	2. The barony of Glengarnock extends over both sides of the
upper course of the Garnock, and consists of about 1400 acres, of
which fully more than 1000 are excellent arable land, and the
remainder moor pasture. Nearly 700 acres of the best land of
this barony belong to the estate of Kilbirnie, along with the supe-
rierity of all the rest. About 420 acres of it are possessed by
nine different proprietors, all of whom have a right in common to
a considerable extent of moorland pasture.
	The most ancient possessors of this barony on record were the
Riddels, supposed to be descended of the Riddels of Teviotdale,

<FOOTNOTE>The deaths of Patrick Lindsay and the heretrix of Kilbirnie are thus detailed
in Law's Memorialls: "October 1680. In one week's tyme, dyed, first, the Lady
Kilburnie. daughter to the late laird of it, on the 12th of that instant, and her hus-
band, the laird, second son of the Earl of Lindsay, who gott that estate by marrying
this laird's daughter, dies also upon the 15th of that instant, both of a feaver.
The Sabbath before, they were at the celebration of the Lord's Supper at the kirk of
Beith. On the day they sickened, the laird's dogs went into the closs, and an unco
dog coming in amongst them, they all set up a harking, with their faces up to heaven
howling, yelling, and youphing; and when the laird called upon them, they would not
come to him, as in former times when he called upon them. The death of thir spouses
was much lamented by all sorts of people. They left seven children behind them;
within im few day after, the Lady Blackhall, her sister, being infected with the same
disease, (for it was pestilentious feaver), and coming to Kilburnie to wait on the
funeralls she also dyes there." Pp. 165--324, It would appear that a considerble
purty of the citizens of Glasgow had attended the funeral of these distinguished in-
dividuals, for on the 21st December following, the town-council ordained "John
Robesoune to have ane warrand for the soume of thrie hundreth sextie punds nyne
shilling Scots, payed be him for the expenses and hors hyres of these that went to
of buriall of Kilbirnie, his Ladie, and to the buriall of the Ladie Blackball." Me-
morabilie of the City of Glasgow, 1835, p. 320.


