
                            PERTH.                     23

the true sun; S. and s. two parhelia
or mock-suns; F, G, H, a luminous
circle surrounding the zenith; C.
K. D. L. a smaller luminous arch
surrounding the sun.   The latter
halo, when carefully examined, was
found to be elliptical, the longer axis
being 43&deg;.  Beyond the halo, C, K,
D, L, which exhibited very distinct-
ly all the prismatic colours, the two
parhelia, s and s', appeared at the dis-
tance of 1&deg; from the intersection of the circles.  The following arches
were measurdd: AC. = 22&deg; 30'; CS. = 22&deg; 45'; SD. = 20&deg; 15';
AM.=42&deg; 0'.  The parhelia though considerably inferior in bright-
ness to the true sun, were extremely luminous.  The phenomenon
was visible, from about noon till two o'clock, when it gradually vanish-
ed.  The sky during the appearance of the meteor was entirely free
from clouds, but somewhat hazy.  The wind had been blowing for se-
veral days from the NE. and the temperature was low for the season.
 Botany.-The rarer plants found in the parish are the Gerani-
um columbinum ; it grows near the summit of Moredun hill: the
 Sedum anglicum ; it grows on the rocks at Craigend: the Erythraea
centaurium of Persoon, or Chironia centaurium of Curtis; it grows
on the dry pastures near these rocks : the Botrychium Lunaria of
 Willdenow; it grows on the North Inch of Perth: the Potentilla
argentea, it grows sparingly on the rocks near Craigend, but more
plentifully on the rocks in the parish of Kinnoul; the Grammitis
Cetarach ; it grows on the side of the Moredun hill; but it is found
in greater abundance on Kinnoul hill, and in the den of Pitrodie,
parish of Kilspindie.
 The species of plants used for culinary, medicinal, and other pur-
poses are what are generally found in other lowland parishes in
Scotland.
  The soil appears to be congenial to the growth of every sort of
timber, though not all equally so.  There are no trees remarkable
for either age, size, or form.  There are no forests.  The planta-
tions extend to about 750 acres.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  There is no separate history of either the parish or town of Perth.
By many of the Scottish historians particular mention is made of
the town.  The chief of these historians are Geoffrey de Mon-
mouth, Richard de Circenster, and Fordun, Major, Hollinshed,


