
104                       ARGYLESHIRE.

   Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the parish
is highly interesting. The hills are numerous, fantastically meet-
ing and intersecting each other. The elevation of some of them
above the level of the sea may be from 2000 too 3000 feet. With
the exception of the Strath of Strachur and that of Stralachlan,
the arable land is inconsiderable; the former is the more exten-
sive, and under pretty fair tillage. The Strachur hills are con.
sidered first-rate pasture for sheep and black-cattle, and present
a soft and rich verdure.
   Hydrography.-Lochfine bounds the parish on the north and
west, embracing its whole length of nineteen miles, from north-east
to South-west. Its depth is unequal, varying from thirty to eighty
fathoms.
   Locheck is the only lake in the parish. It lies to the south by
east from Lochfine, is six miles in length, and half a-mile in
breadth; it extends three miles within the limits of the parish.
Its depth is very considerable, in some places equal to sixty and
seventy fathoms. The river Eachaig, being the channel of com-
munication between it and the Clyde at Kilmun, introduces into it
some salmon and salmon-trout of good quality. The fresh water
herring in it (an insipid kind of fish) are not found in any other
lake on the west coast, except in Lochlomond. The Cur is the
only river deserving notice. It originates in the mountains bor-
dering on Lochgoilhead, and extends miles in an irregular course.
For a few miles, it flows with rapidity, in a south-western di-
rection, until it arrives at the Strachur plains, when it flows
smoothly on in a south by east direction.
   Soil.-The general character of the soils, is loamy, sandy, thin,
and clayey. The Strachur Strath contains some hundred acres of
good level land. It is supposed that some mines of coal and ore
might be discovered, which would prove of great advantage to
this district.
   Zoology.-The eagle pays occasional visits, and some years ago
one of, that species carried off, killed, and devoured a child about
three years old.
   Salmon and salmon-trout are found in Lochheck, and some trout
in the rivers. But the most important species, in an economical
point of view, are the herrings found in Lochfine, generally ac-
knowledged to be of superior quality.
   Botany.-The forests and plantations consist of oak, larch,


