
                            CARMICHAEL.                      521

count cannot resist the temptation of remarking, that some of the
theories concerning the past and future state of the earth, formed
as they have been on too limited an induction, are ingenious and
amusing, and may terminate in the establishment of one grand and
satisfactory theory. The inferenbe which has been drawn from
the absence of animal remains in the primitive formations, and from
the fossil remains, in the secondary and transition formations, of
many species of animals now extinct, that the earth existed long
before the creation of man, is at least equally warrantable as the
hypothesis of an ingenious speculator, concerning the indefinite per-
fectibility and destinies of the human race, that the earth, after un-
dergoing some great changes, may become the habitation of a race
of intelligent beings, as superior to man as he is to its present irra-
tional animals.
	Zoology.--The zoology of the parish is not entitled to much
notice, being such as usually characterizes the higher and inland
districts of Scotland. The black and red grouse are abundant.
The pheasant has been lately introduced. In the plantations
within the pleasure-grounds of Carmichael and Eastend, the com-
mon, singing-birds are very numerous. Their musical notes, how-
ever delightful, scarcely compensate the depredations which they
commit on the garden fruitage. It would be easy to furnish a
complete list of all the animals which either constantly frequent,
or occasionally visit the parish; but an enumeration of this kind,
containing the provincial and zoological names, could not be very
useful or interesting. The mention of a few will be sufficient.
  Blackbird, Turdus merula          Brown-linnet, Fringills cannabina
  Trush, Turdus musicus             Mountain-Linnet, Fringilla montana
	Bullfinch, Pyrrhula vulgaris		  Goldfinch, Fringilla carduelis
	Chaffinch, Fringilla Coelebs		  Green-linnet, Coccothraustes chloris.

	In the pastoral and less cultivated parts of the parish, the ears
of the shepherd are delighted with the shrill notes of the
  Curlew, Numenius arquata          Green-plover, Charadrius pluvialis.
	Lapwing, Vanellus cristatus
The banks of the streamlets are frequented by the
  Water-ousel, Cinclus aquaticus       Yellow-wagtail, Motacilla flava
  Sandpiper, Totanus Hypoleucos        Haron, Ardea cinerea
  Blue-wagtail, Motacilla caerulea     Snipe, Scolopax Gallinago.

	The Clyde, Douglas Water, and their tributary stream are
well stored with
	Trout, Salmo Fario                        Eal, Anguilla vulgaris
	Pike, Esox Lucius                         Perch, Perca fluviatilis

	Botany.--The botany of this parish is closely allied to that of
the Pentlands, comprehending a range of altitude from 700 to


