
			DUNKLED AND DOWALLY.                         989

	In Dunkeld there is no field for labour. During the spring and
summer months the labouring classes are principally employed in
peeling oak, and in spring and harvest work in some of the adjoin-
ing parishes. For the remainder of the year they are idle. The
principal trade and, manufacturer of Dunkeld, half-a century ago,
were yarn, linen manufacture, and tanning, which were carried on
to a great extent. These have now ceased. Shoemaking is now
the chief business. There is no kind of manufatory.  There are
two slate quarries in the neighbourhood, and also a saw-mill, which
give employment throughout the year. There are several excel-
lent falls for machinery and ground for bleaching-fields in the
neighood of Dunkeld.
	Habits and Amusements.--There is no singularity in the habits
of the people as regards dress or mode of living. The English
language is spoken in Dunkeld. In Dowally, with the exception
of 110 persons, English is spoken with fluency, but they prefer
Gaelic. Gaelic is still preached, and it is taught, along with
English, at school. Smuggling prevailed extensively at one time
in the district, but after the late Duke of Atholl got the Highland
distilleries legalized, smuggling ceased. Poaching is rare; when
committed it is generally by strangers. Crimes of a serious charac-
ter are equally rare, although petty offences do occasionally occur.
The holiday kept in the district is Auld Hansel Monday. The
Highland games are contested for once a-year. Curling is the fa-
vourite game during winter.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	From inability to obtain a sight of the plans and measurements
of the Dunkeld grounds, it is impossible to give a table of the con-
tents as required under this head.

		         V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town, &c.--The weekly market is held in Dunkled on
Saturday, and there are five annual fairs for the sale of cattle, fee-
ing servants, &c., 14th February, 25th March, 5th April, 9th June,
and second Tuesday of November. The customs,  which are small,
belong to the Atholl family, and are collected by the tacksman of the
markets. The post-office has a daily delivery, at which money
orders can be obtained. There are the offices of excise stamps, and
taxes, The are branch banks are, the Commercial Bank, the Perth
Bank, aud the Central Bank. There is no savings bank. There
are agents for several English and Scotch Life and Fire Insur-
ance Companies. There is a public library, called the Macin-
tosh Library, containing nearly 2000 volumes of varied reading.


