
520                          FORFARSHIRE,

Hydrograpy.-There are sdveral small brooks in this parish,
all of which take their rise in it from copious fountains of excel-
lent water. Some of our springs are chalybeate; and two large
ones, in the northern part of the parish, in a slight degree partake,
of carburetted hydrogen gas, which is indicated by large and nume-
rous air-bubbles rushing up in the fountain along with the water.
Everywhere we have plenty, of good spring water for domestic use.
	The pure streams of the Noran and the South Esk flow through
and unite together in this parish. * The water of the former is
so peculiarly limpid, that there is yet a tradition that one of our
queens, in olden time, washed her curtch or cap in its stream, near
the place where the farm-house of Nether Careston is now situ-
ted, and pronounced the Noran to be the clearest stream in Scot-
land. The South Esk, too, is a clear water, sparkling with a
mild cerulean tint, yet it cannot vie with the stream of the singu-
larly pellucid Noran. Both, for a great way of their course, flow
over a bed of either rock or gravel, and hence the purity of their
several waters. The South, Esk requires a good deal of labour
annually to retain its water within its channel, and prevent it from
overflowing,and injuring the adjoining haugh lands.
	There were formerly many small lakes, or rather ponds in this
parish, some of vhich yet remain undrained; in particular, there
is still a pretty considerable lake in the upper part of the parish
which might nearly be converted into arable ground; at least, about
forty acres might be thus reclaimed. Indeed, it appears highly
probable, from the general show of the ground itself, that a large
portion of the haugh land on the side of the Esk had, at one time,
constituted a lake of considerable magnitude.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-Almost the only rock here is the
old sandstone, of a pretty dark-red colour, and tolerably hard and
solid in its texture. A rock of frequent occurrence is by some
considered to be lias. It forms a considerable part of the, sub-
soil of the middle portion of the parish; that to the north of
it being till or diluvium; whereas in the more southerly district, the
subsoil is generally gravel mixed With sand. In the till the gravel
is commonly mixed with coarse clay or mortar, and is very reten-
tive of moisture; but, the case is quite diffierent in this respect, in
the south end of the parish. There, in the haugh land, the sub-

<FOOTNOTE>In the Statistical Account of Tannadice, page 199, it is stated that both the
above streams unite in that parish, where they form thier junction about a mile
farther east, in the parish of Carestica.


