
216			  KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	Mine.--A copper mine was at one time wrought. The ore
was said to be rich, and the seam of a tolerable thickness.
	Woods.--There is a considerable extent of natural wood in the
parish upon the estates of Fairgirch and Barnhourie; and, of late
years, great quantities of wood have been, planted, principally oak
and fir.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest date of the parochial regis-
ters is 1716. They have, not been regularly kept.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, Mr Oswald of Au-
chencruive; Mr Crichton of Auchenskeoch; the Rev. Mr Mait-
land of Fairgirch; and Mr Stewart of Southwick.
	Antiquities.--Coins have sometimes been dug up, principally
of Edward I. of England, and Alexander III. of Scotland.
	On the castle hill of Barcloy, there are the remains of a circu-
lar encampment. There is also a hill called the vitrified fort,
and another encampment, of a circular form, not far from the
manse.
	There is a well called the Murderers' Well, near the Southwick
Needle's Eye. According to tradition, it was named from the fol-
lowing circumstance: A set of border reivers came to levy black-
mail on the peaceable inhabitants of Colvend. The parishioners
rallied, and seizing the leaders of the foray, threw them down
this rock to the well below.
	At Ackenskeoch, in Southwick, there are the ruins of a large
building of the castellated form.

<TABLE=POPULATION>
			III.--POPULATION.
                    The population in 1755, was 898
      				      1794,     964
                    1801,    1106
                    1811,    1298
                    1821,    1322
                    1831,    1358
                    1841,    1495
	Smuggling is now unknown. This coast, at one time, was no-
torious for this iliicit traffic. There were a number of cellars be-
low ground, where smuggled brandy was concealed, till the people
were informed of its arrival. It was conveyed away in barrels
slung over horses' backs, even as far as Teviotdale, by bands of
men, prepared to defend themselves against the revenue officers.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--Arable land lets about 10s. per acre. Of late
years, a considerable quantity of waste land has been reclaimed.
				3


