
     Statistical Account

a heap of ruins.  Within a few yards of the castle are
the remains of the ancient chapel of Hermitage+, now
in ruins, in the middle of the burying ground still in use.
The font is in the wall of the church-yard.  The castle of
Clintwood, on the farm of Flight, appears to have been a
very strong building; the foundation, and a little part of

<FOOTNOTE>

of Liddisdale, beat the English out of all Teviotdale, and took the castle
of Hermitage in the year 1340.  In this castle Sir Alexander Ramsay of
Dalhousie was starved to death by the same Sir W Douglas; who, fired
with jealousy because Sir Alexander was made Sheriff of Teviotdale,
surprised him in the church of Hawick when holding an assembly, carried
him to the castle, and threw him into a dungeon with his horse's furni-
ture.  This happened in 1342*.  Some years ago, a mason employed in
building a dike in the neighbourhood, had the curiosity to penetrate into
a vault in the east end of the castle.  Having made an opening, he de-
scended by a ladder; and in a vault, about 8 feet square, he found seve-
ral human bones, with a saddle, a bridle, and sword; he brought out the
bridle and sword.  The bit was of an uncommon size; the curb of it is
in the possession of Walter Scott, Esq: Advocate.  In the dungeon he
found a great quantity of the husks of oats Report says, the granary of
the castle was immediately above this vault, and that Sir Alexander sub-
sisted for some time on what fell down into the vault.  From these cir-
cumstances it is highly probable, that the bones were those of that gen-
tleman, and that this was the vault into which he was thrown, and starved
to death.  This castle was also visited by the ill-fated Queen Mary, in the
year 1561, on occasion of Bothwell's being wounded by John Elliot in
Park.  She came from, and returned to Jedburgh in the same day, not
only a long journey, but over mountains, and through marshes almost im-
passable.  In one of those marshes, a few miles from the castle, her horse
stuck in the moss, which is still called the Queen's Mire.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mickenzie's Lives.

+The chapel, castle, and river derive their name from the cell of a
hermit, who had retired thither.  He could not have chosen a more soli-
tary spot, nor one more fit for mortification or for contemplation.  They
give title to the eldest son of the family of Deloraine.  Lord Henry Scot,
third son of James Duke of Monmouth, by Anne Duchess of Buccleugh,
was created Earl of Deloraine, Viscount Hermitage, 1706*.

*Douglas's Peerage.


