
744                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Kinkell, is the burial-place of a distinguished warrior who fell
at Harla, as appears from a monumental stone, with the figure
of a kinght in armour, and an inscription on the outer part in old
English character:-"Hic jacet nobilis armiger Gualterus de
Gre----- 1411."  The other part of it has been destroyed.
   Land-owners.-The Earl of Kintore is proprietor of about
three-fourths of the united parishes.  Balbithan, the property of
Benjamin Abernethy Gordon Esq. forms an eighth part. Kin-
muck, which is rather less, belongs to Alexander Irvine, Esq. of
Drum.  The Synod of Aberdeen hold in trust the small estate of
Newplace, which rents about L.80; and the Society of Friends
or Quakers are proprietors of three acres, on which they have a
meeting-house and cemetery.
   Parochial Registers.-The register of births, or rather bap-
tiams in Keithhall, has been kept pretty regularly since 1678; but
the oldest of them are a little frail.  It is doubtful whether, there
were ever any similar registers for KinkelL.
   Antiquities.-The antiquities in this quarter have suffered
much from the ploughshare and the erection of stone fences.
The cairns or mounds raised to commemorate ancient heroes
and events have been broken down; and the place of the Drui-
dic temples that stood in the end of last century is now un-
masked, with one exception, where a single stone remains, nearly
two and a-half feet square and seven feet high.  It is remark-
able that the corn grows very luxuriant around this solitary pillar
to a distance of fifteen yards, and has always been eighteen
inches hihger than the crop immediately beside it.
  Part of an encampment still remains in the moor of Kinmuck,
where tradition records that a great battle took place between the
Danes and the Scotch.  The latter are said to have slain a boar in
thier advance, and hence the name Kinmuck, or bear's head.  The
place of combat bears the name of Blair Hussey, or field of blood.
   In a large barrow or tumulus, about eighty yards from a Dru-
idic stone, a chance visitor observed an urn partially uncovered.
It was found to contain calcined bones.  Two larger urns were
subsequently found in a reversed position to the other, and were
taken out in fragments.  The bones in all the three were put into
a box, and buried in the original spot.
   The residence of the Earl of Kintore, generally denominated
the house of Keithhall, of which the castle of the Johnstons forms
a small part, is a very magnificent building.
                                    3


