
588			FORFARSHIRE.

the commencement, as might be supposed, a considerable debt lay
upon this church; but it deserves to be mentioned, as a fact cre-
ditable to the managers, the people, and all cnnberned, that, in
the course of a few years, a large portion of the debt was liquidat-
ed, and a considerable addition made to the income of the minis-
ter. In the village of Lochee, there are 120 Dissenting families;
3 or 4 Episcopalian do.; and 12 Roman Catholic do. The last
are strangers, chiefly from Ireland, who come in quest, of employ-
ment at the spinning-mills and other works. There is a Seces-
sion Church in Lochee, containing 650 sittings.
	Prefixed to one of the parochial registers is a list of the minis-
ters of Liff from an early period, of which the following is a copy,
with a few additions, which bring down the line of succession to
the present time: Mr James Duncan, date of admission not known;
Mr Andrew Wedderburn, admitted 29tb July 1646: Mr William
Skinner, 19th August 1664; Mr John Chrystison, 30th July
1673; Mr Alexander Scott, 16th August 1704; Mr Thomas
Donaldson, 5tb April 1726; MrJames Playfair, 19th November
1758; Mr John Playfair, August 1773 (resigned in 1782, after
which a vacancy occurred of about three years, in consequence of
a law-suit between the families of Lauderdale and Gray, respect-
ing the right of presentation to Benvie;) Mr Thomas Constable
12th May 1785; the present incumbent, 5th September 1817.
        Education.-The parochial school and schoolmaster's house
were rebuilt about twelvd years ago, when the situation was chang-
ed from Denmiln, at all times inconvenient, and, in winter, almost
inaccessible for children, to the present spot, having the advantage
of good roads in all directions, and being, in every respect, pre-
ferable. The accommodation is ample and excellent. The
dwelling-house consists of two stories. The school-room is large
and lofty. The salary, the maximum. The school fees may
amount to about L.40 per annum. The schoolmaster is also ses-
sion-clerk.
	There is a private or subscription school in Backmuir of Liff.
A teaching room was lately built by voluntary contribution, and
the only source of emolument the teacher enjoys arises from the
fees of the scholars.
        Loches Schools.-1. The quoad sacra parish school was erected
in 1837, partly by subscription, and partly by a grant from Go-
vernment, at an expenditure of nearly L.300 and may contain
about 300 scholars. It is partially endowed by the General As-
				4


