
 			    ARBIRLOT.                         333

are common, river trouts, and, though these are hot numerous, they
are large.
        Plantations.-There is very little wood in the parish. The
grounds of Kelly, which were at one time so highly ornamented
with beautiful trees, are now almost bare. There is one splendid
tree still remaining beride the old castle; it is a plain-leafed holly
of great size, and believed to be of great age.
                        II.-CIVIL HiSTORY.
        Land-owner.-Lord Panmure is sole proprietor of the parish,
        Parochial Registers.-The oldest parochial register begins about
the year 1640.
        Antiquities.-The castle of Kelly, which stands upon a high rock
that rises from the bed of tbe Elliot, had been at one time a place of
considerable strength, and is a very ancient building. It is now un-
inhabited, though it cannot be said to be in a state of ruin. Before
it came into the possession of the Panmure family, it belonged to
the Irvines of Drum. These Irvines succeeded a family of the name
of Ochterlony, and, according to tradition, it was by one, of the
Ochterlonies, a proprietor of Kelly, that the ancient abbey of Ar-
broath was burned at some period prior to the Reformation.
        Arrow heads made of flint,-or elf-arrows, as they are called,
have been found, in considerable numbers, in the parish.
        Modern Buildings.-The only mansion-house in the parish is
the modern house of Kelly, which stands near to the old castle.
	On the Elliot, there are three meal mills, and one on a stream
which is the boundary between Arbirlot and Panbride. There is
also a flax mill upon the Elliot, and close by the mouth of this
rtream, at a place called Wormy-bills, there is a work for bleach-
ing yarns.


                     <TABLE=III-Population.>

		In the year 1755, the population was 865
			1790,                       1055
			1821,                       1062
			1831,                       1026

	Of these 1026, there were 62 males engaged in weaving, and
perhaps as many females.
	There is one blind person in the parish.
        Character of the People.-On this head, it is enough td observe,
that there are few country parishes where the Sabbath is so well,
and none, to the writer's knowledge, where it is better, observed.
Poaching does not prevail. Many years age, smuggling of foreign
goods was carried onto a considerable extent, but now there is


