
                                  INCHTURE.                             837

let.  The public services of religion are generally well-attended,
The average number of communicants for the last five years is 320.
     In connection with the Sabbath school, there is a libr`ry, corn-
prising between 300 and 400 volumes.  It is much resorted to.
The average amount of collections for the last five years for
religious and charitable objects, has been L. 25, 5s. 5d.; and for
the poor, L.48, 13s. 1d. L. 1000 in the 3 per cent. consols, as
before noticed, was bequeathed by the late Commodore Douolas
for behoof of the industrious poor.   It was reduced by expenses
to L. 795, 1s. 2d. L.10 has also been mortified for the educa-
tion poor children.
     The manse was built upwards of fifty, years ago, and has lately
been enlarged very considerable, and repaired.
     The glebe is upwards Df 10 acres, including the site of the
manse, offices, and garden, &e.
     The stipend, inclusive of the annual value of the glebe, manse,
&c. is stated by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners.at L.250 a-year.
     Education. -In addition to the parochial school, there are three
schools under the management of females.  There is a dame's
school at Baledgarno. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster
is the maximum, L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d.  The school-fees may amount
to about L.25 per annum, and he has the legal amount of ac-
commodation.  He is also heritors' and session-clerk.  The other
schools are almost entirely supported by Lord Kinnaird.
     Poor.-Eleven is nearly the average number of persons receiv-
ing parochial aid, or rather on the poor roll during the last five
years; the lowest sum being 4s. per month.  It is to be taken into
account, however, that these 11 and about 20 others receive 2 1/2
bolls of coal, as well as other occasional assistance in money from
extraordinary collections, &c. and that many are kept off the
poor's fund altogether by the benevolence of those on whose
property they reside.
     Inns and Alehouses.-There is an excellent inn in the village
of lnchture, much resorted to by travelers; and one  alehouse
at Polgavie, for the accommodation of those frequenting. the har-
bour.
     Fuel.-Coal is generally used in the parish, though a very con-
siderable quantity of wood is also burnt, and is obtained from the
woods in the neighbourbood at a reasonable price.

December 1


