
818				AYRSHIRE.

for absolution, and, being admitted to penance by Alexander III.,
were sent by the orders of that Pontiff to Jerusalem, and passed
the remainder of their lives upon the Black Mountain, in the se-
veral acts of austerity and mortification. Pont says that the grants
of the De Morville family to Kilwinning were "confirmed by Pope
Honorius II. A&deg;. 2d&deg;. pontificatus sui;" but the death of that Pon-
tiff, according to Mosheim, (Vol. ii. p. 393), happened in 1130.
In Morton's Monastic Annals of Teviotdale (p. 290), the mur-
derer of Thomas a Becket is said to have been the uncle of Hugh
de Morville, Constable of Scotland, whose family became extinct
1196 (Do. p. 59). It is highly improbable, indeed, that a sacri-
legious assassin should have been welcomed by the Scottish mo-
narch, and invested with lands and authority, at a period when the
power of the Church of Rome had reached so great a height. It
is possble, however, that Richard de Morville, son of Hugh, Con-
stable of Scotland, may have founded the Abbey of Kilwinning in
the latter part of the twelfth century, and that Pont, misled by
that name, attributed the work to the murderer of Becket, and re-
presented it as the atonement made to the Church for his crime.
The date 1140 is adopted by the learned author of "Caledonia;"
but he does not give his authority, and the matter is involved in
some obscurity in consequence of the loss of the chartulary.
	Though the founder and the date of the foundation be thus
uncertain, it is known that the abbey was richly endowed by dif-
ferent members of the De Morville family. Successive monarchs
and noblemen, also, "for the health of their souls," and some-
times for relief to the souls of their ancestors contributed by their
pious benefactions to incerease its revenues. The estates belong-
ing to it included nearly the whole land in the parish of Kilwin-
ning, and various properties in the parishes of Dalry, Beith, and
Kilmarnock. At the Reformation, the revenue of the monastery,
exclusive of these property lands, amounted to  L.880, 3s. 4d.
Scots; 67 chalders, 9 bolls, 3 firlots of meal; 14 chalders, 1 boll,
3 firlots, 3 pecks of bear; 8 bolls 1 firlot of wheat; 4 hogsheads
of wine; 13 stirks; 140 capons; loo hens; 268 cheeses; and 9
fathoms of a peat stack.* To the abbey belonged the patronages
and teinds of the following parishes, subject to the burden of sti-
pends for the regular clergy, viz. Kilwinning, Irvine, Kilmarnock,
Loudoun,Dalry, Ardrossan, Kilbirnie, West Kilbride, Beith,

<FOOTNOTE>Former Statistical Account and Beith papers. MS. collection by James Dobie,
Esq.


