
     of Kilmartin.

ago, there were about 500 L. worth of herrings caught, by from
20 to 30 boats, in the course of 4 or 5 weeks, (though most of
them were ill provided with nets or skilful hands), and fold
in the country, at from 10 d. to 1 s. the hundred.  They gene-
rally appear upon the coast from July to August.  The other
lea animals, are, seals, peltocks, otters, and some small whales,
that come to the coast in pursuit of the herrings.
   The sea weed, useful for manure, and driven ashore by the
storms, is a sort of long grass, called sea grass; it is generally
used for potatoes; and when laid on in large quantities, gives
middling crops of that root.  There is also a weed, called
tangle, sometimes made into kelp, which is a richer manure,
and, when moderately laid on, and not often repeated, (with,
out a mixture of some cooling stuff, to correct the hot scalding
nature of it), is found to give good crops of bear.  The kelp,
is not so considerable, as might be expected from the extent of
shore, for it produces only from 10 to 12 tons yearly.-The
course of the tides, upon the shore and adjacent sea, is pretty
much from N. to S., and the reverse.  The coast of this pa-
rish does not lie in the course of vessels; but the excellent
harbour of Crinan invites them to anchor in it *.-There are

<FOOTNOTE>

*Loch Crinan is not only the best harbour of this parish, but is considered
as the best upon a great tract of the western coast.  In this harbour, al-.
most the whole of the buss herring fleet anchor, in their voyages to and from the
fishing ground, besides a vast number of vessels from Great Britain and Ireland;
and they are frequently detained in this harbour, for several weeks, waiting for
a fair wind to take them round the Mull of Kintyre.  By a survey recently
made, it has been found practicable, to make a navigable canal for large fea-
built vessels, from this to Loch Gilp, which is only 5 miles actors.  And Mr.
Rennie, an eminent engineer, who surveyed it, is of opinion, that it may be
made, at a very moderate expence, and with plenty of water for boats and
barges, as well as large vessels.  It is hardly possible to express the astonishing
advantages, with which the opening of this, communication will be attended to


