
126                         PEEBLES-SHIRE.

medied. It affords accommodation to upwards of 200 sitter.
There are no free sittings. The manse was built in the year 1791.
The glebe is subdivided, and enclosed with stone dikes and hedges.
It contains about twenty-one acres of arable land, each acre worth
about L. 1, 10s. per annum. To make up the stipend to L. 150,
exclusive of communion elements, it was necessary to apply to the
Exchequer fund for L. 12, 13s. 1d. There are also ten bolls of
oatmeal which the minister of Stobo draws from Sir John Nasmyth,
as his half share of the glebe and grass of Dawick, and a servitude
which he has on the Harrow and Stobo Hope of six days of a man's
casting turfs.
   The number of dissenters in the parish is about 34. The ave-
rage number of communicants in the parish church is 154.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only school in the pa-
rish. Besides the usual branches, Latin is sometimes taught there.
The salary is L. 32. The school fees amount annually to about
L. 11. As an encouragement to the people to attend, Sir James
Montgomery pays the school fees of every boy or girl of a family
when the numbers that attend the school out of each family ex-
ceed two. The school fees for teaching to read English, for one
year, are 4s. 6d.; for English and writing, 6s.; for arithmetic, in-
cluding English, 7s. 6d.; for Latin, 12s. The schoolmaster's ac-
commodations are good. There is no person in the parish up-
wards of fifteen years of age who cannot both read and write.
   Poor.-There are at present nine or ten paupers receiving pa-
rochial aid, each receiving upon in average, L. 3, 5s. per annum.
Their relief arises from the collections in the Church, averaging
about L. 12 per annum, and from the sum of L. 545, which has
been realized by savings from church collections.
   As to the feelings of paupers in regard to their receiving aid
from poors' funds, these of course are different in different indivi-
duals. I may state, as illustrative of the depraving effects of a de-
pendence on this sort of charity, the case of one pauper, who at
one time was so shocked at the debasing idea of being indebted
for relief out of the poors' box, that she told me that she would
rather work "till the blood came out at her finger points;" but
now this woman is the most clamorous for relief of all that are on
the poors' roll.
   Fuel.-Coals are the chief staple article for fuel in the parish.
They are brought either from the Lothians, Douglas coal-hill, or
Wilsonton, in the west country.
   May 1834.


