
			CORTACHY AND CLOVA.                    449

four, yet they are generally disposed of when three years old; and
many of them fail not to bring the highest prices in the markets.
	The farmers prefer the black-faced sheep for rearing. They
stand the storms of winter better, and are not so expensive to
keep as the Cheviots.
        Husbandry.-The rotation of cropping generally adopted ex-
tends to five or seven years, and is as follows:-For five years,
oats after grass, green crop, barley or oats with grass-seeds, grass
cut, grass pastured. For seven years; two crops of corn after
grass, green crop, barley or oats, with grass-sedds, and three
years in grars, cut the first year, and pastured the two following
years. The state of husbandry has of late years been very much
improved. Many acres of land, formerly uncultivated have been
brought under the plough, and now yield excellent crops. Drain-
ing on many of the farms has been particularly attended to. Sur-
face-draining, which has been carried on to a considerable extent,
has been followed with the best effects on the pastures. Irriga-
tion, where practicable, has been partially adopted, and its advan-
tages have been experienced, in destroying the heath and improv-
ing the grasses. Strong embankments, and of considerable extent,
have been formed along the banks of the Esk, near to the south-
ern extremity of Cortachy. Deepening the channel of the river
in certain places, straightening its course, and forming proper em-
bankrnents, would no doubt be attended with good effects to the
crops in the valleys of Wateresk and Clova; but it is very doubtful
whether the expenses which would be incurred in completing such
an undertaking would not exceed the profits which could be ex-
pected to result from it.
        Leases.-The general duration of leases in the united parish is
fourteen years. On many properties such a limited period might
be considered unfavourable to the occupiers, and unfavourable to
the improvement of their farms. Here it is attended with no in-
jurious effects. The removal of a peaceable and an industrious far-
mer from this to an other parish is an event of very rare occurrence.
For generations past, most of the farms have been transmitted from
father to son; and in every instance where the father has been
removed by death, the greatest indulgence has been shown to his
widow and her fatherless children. The state of farm-buildings
has of late years been much improved. Many of the farmers have
good dwelling-houses and convenient steadings. On the south
portion of the parish, great attention has been paid to enclosures.


