
     of Crail.

evidently of great antiquity, the east gable of which is still
standing, bears the name of the prior walls.  A well in the
neighbourhood is called the briery, without doubt a cor-
ruption of priory well; and a croft belonging to the
burgh is described in the valuation of the tiends 1630, as
the prior croft.  By the act of Parliament* which disjoined
the parish of Crail from the priory of Haddington, a third
part of the tiend-sheaves was assigned for support of the
minister serving the cure.  The parish being found too ex-
tensive it was judged expedient to divide it.  Accordingly,
in 1630, the lands of Kingsbarns and others were erected in-
to a separate parish.  A stipend of 5 chalders of victual
was assigned to the minister, which was by the voluntary

<FOOTNOTE>

Mr William Murray to the benefice.  He then resigned the patronage in-
to the King's hands in favour of John-Lord Lindesay, who in 1609 obtain-
ed from Mr Murray a confirmation of the former tack of the trends, for
three lives, and twice three nineteen years
   The town of Craid having by several charters obtained a grant of the
collegiate church and its revenues, with the advocation, donation and
right of patronage of its provostry, prebendure, chaplainaries, and choris-
try, disputes began to arise between then and Lord Lindesay concerning
their respective rights.  To prevent law-suits, a compromise was entered
into in 1630 by which the town's light to the collegiate church, and
the place called the college, with with right of patronage as above, was
confirmed; but their claim to emolument was expressly restricted to the
tithe fish, and the rents, fees and duties, which had been the especial pro-
perty of the provost and prebendaries.  The parsonage and vicarage
tithes excepting the tithe fish, were declared to re hain with his Lordship
and his successors.  In 1774-6, the question concerning the right of pa-
tronage to the parish church was tried.  By an interlocutor of the Lord
Ordinary it was given against the town, and the Earl of Crawford, as suc-
cessor to Lord Lindesay, is now considered as undoubted patron.

   *Vide Unprinted acts of King James VI. in the parliament houses,
Edinburgh.  A more particular account of the collegiate church of Crail
may be obtained by consulting its chartulary, which is deposited in the
Advocates library, Edinburgh.


