
			  PETTINAIN.                             541

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--Of the land under cultivation, or which has been
occasionally under tillage, the number of acres is computed to be
about 2320, while the portion which remains constantly waste or in
pasture may be estimated about 740 acres. It would not be advisable
to apply any portion of capital to the improvement of the greater
part of this description of land, as it could not afford a remunerat-
ing price to the tenant. The only way in which it could be turned
to advantage, would be by planting it, and from the thriving ap-
pearance which that portion of it exhibits, which was planted some
years ago, great encouragement is held out to plant more exten-
sively. Within the last fifteen years, about 92 acres of the hill,
to which reference has already been made, have been planted un-
der the judicious management of the late Colonel Anstruther,
acting as curator during the minority of the late Sir John Car-
michael Anstruther, Bart. who was accidentally killed in his four-
teenth year, while residing at Eton for his education. The land
which has thus been planted, was generally moorish and very un-
productive; but now that the trees have sprung up and assumed a
thriving appearance, the sterile aspect of that portion of the hill
is much changed, and the property considerably benefited by the
shelter which is thus afforded, and by the profit which will ulti-
mately accrue from the thinning of the trees. The kinds of trees
which were selected for this plantation, were chiefly Scotch fir
and larch; but since they have sprung up, and are capable of af-
fording some shelter, various kinds of hard-wood have been intro-
duced. In the whole parish, exclusive of what is around the
mansion-house of Westraw, where is a considerable extent of plan-
tation, consisting of oak, ash, lime, plane, beech, hornbeam, and
fir, of a considerable age, there may be about 160 acres planted
and natural; the latter of which forms but a small proportion to
the former.
        Rent of Land.-The average rent of the arable land per acre,
may be stated about L.1, 6s. 6d., and the pasture or waste land
about 2s. The average for grazing an ox or cow on good pasture
is about L.4; but of course the rent most be regulated  by the
quality of the pasture. There are so few sheep kept in the parish,
that the rate of grazing cannot be particularly stated.
        Wages.-Farm servants are generally hired by the half-year. The
wages of ploughmen range frow L.5 to L.7, along with victuals, but
some superior ones receive more. Female servants are hired for


