
		PARISH OF KIRKPATRICK-FLEMING.

	    PRESBYTERY OF ANNAN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

            THE REV.  ALEXANDER MONILAWS, MINISTER. *

		I.--TOPOGRAHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--THE parish of Kirkpatrick-Fleming
includes the old parishes of Kirkpatrick and Kirkconnel, which
were united after the Reformation. It evidently derives its name
from St Patrick, who was claimed by Scotchmen as their country-
man, but honoured by Irishmen as their tutelary saint. The name
of the lord of the manor, Fleming, during the fourteenth and fif-
teenth centuries, was added to the name of the present parish, to
distinguish it from others of the same name. It extends from north
to south about six miles, by a general breadth of three miles, and
therefore contains eighteen square miles. Its figure, which is ex-
tremely irregular, especially towards the west and south corners,
may be said, to resemble a parallelogram, or a rhomboid. The pa-
rish is bounded on the east and north-east by Halfmorton, on the
south-east and south by Graitney, on the west and south-west by
Annan and Dornock, and on the north and north-west by Middlebie.
	Topographical Appearances.--Its surface, which rises gradually
from south to north to a moderate height above the level of the
Solway, is i diversified with a pleasing variety of waving elevations
and fertile vales; and adorned by many a well cultivated field, sur-
rounded and sheltered either by fine hedge-rows or thriving plan-
tations. Three divisions running from the north-west and south-
west in an easterly direction, are distinctly marked. The south
division is separated from the middle one by the romantic vale of
the Kirtle; and the middle division is separated from the northern
one by a vale, which commences at Burnfoot, near Springkell, and
runs along the banks of Logan-burn. In these divisions, there are
some points of view looking west, south, and east, which afford most
extensive and beautiful prospects.

<FOOTNOTE>This Account has been drawn up by the Rev. Thomas Landells.


