
     General Appendix to

speedy relief.  Of this, the following simple statement of facts
will afford the clearest evidence; a statement, which I am en-
abled to make with fulness and accuracy.  My access to in-
formation is but too copious; for I lately was a member of
that unprotected class of society: and a transient blush now
tinges my cheek, while I am about to expose the meanness of
their condition, and the many degrading necessities to which
they are reduced in the regulation of their wretched economy.
Your ears, Sir, are not unaccustomed to such homely tales of
distress; nor has your attention been seldom employed in so
minute arrangements.  You will not therefore be disgusted
at the coarse picture of life which it presents; nor will you
be inclined to disregard what some may consider as trifling
and unimportant.  But, let such remember, that a wound, how-
ever loathsome, must be probed, before the remedy can be ap-
plied; and that a disease, which appears trivial to the behold-
er, is often attended with-inward torture, and approaching
death to the patient.
     Quantulacunque essis, vos ego magni habeo.
   In Scotland, there are at present more than 500 school-
masters on the legal establishment*, none of whom receive
above 16 L. sterling a-year, including every emolument and
perquisite annexed to his office.  Of this, seldom above one
half is stated salary; the other part being entirely contingent
and uncertain.  A considerable number fall even greatly short
of this trifling pittance; which, by an established imposition,
is divided into such minute+ proportions, that not only
much trouble is incurred in the collection, but even part of

<FOOTNOTE>

*There must be in all above 900 parochial schoolmasters, 500 of whom have
but this miserable allowance.  The average of Aberdeenshire is only 15L.
+The heritors, instead of paying the salary themselves, as directed by the
act, commonly parcel it out in fractions of about 3 d. or 4 d. among perhaps
50, or 100 tenants, whith they leave the master to extort in the best way he can.


