
  252                     BANFFSHIRE.

  store of knowledge which Mrs Sellar could impart, Geddes was
  next placed under the care of a student from Aberdeen, whose
  name was Shearer, and  whom the Laird of Arradoul had engaged
  to educate his two sons. In the family of this gentleman, his in-
  structions were gratuitous.  How long he remained at Arradoul
  is uncertain; but, upon leaving the laird's hospitable mansion, he
  was, at the age of fourteen, removed to Scalan, a free Roman Ca-
  tholic seminary in the Highlands, limited to boys destined for
  that, church, whose studies are to be completed in some foreign
  University.  The vale in which this seminary was situated was so
  deeply excavated and overhung by surrounding hills, as almost to
  require the perpetual use of the lamp.*
    Having attained the age of twenty-one he was removed from
  Scalan, in October 1758, to the Scotch College at Paris, where
  he remained six years; and, although pressed to take a share in
  the public labours of the college, he returned, however, to Scot-
  land in 1764. Immediately after his arrival, he entered into holy
  orders, and was appointed to officiate at Dundee.  Here he was
  searcely settled, when he received an offer to reside with the Earl
  of Traquair.  This offer he readily accepted, and became an in-
  mate of his Lordship's family in May 1765.  At this time he
  had reached his twenty-eighth year, and had resided in his Lord-
  ship's for more than a year, when a female relation of the Earl
  openly professed for him an affection which he could not return,
  having taken the vow of perpetual celibacy.  In a sketch of this
  kind, it is not expected that we should trace the learned Doctor
  through the whole course of his eventful life.  With regard to
  the merits of his various literary productions, we think it unneces-
  sary to give an opinion, farther than to state that they exhibit
  great proofs of talent, perseverance, and profound research; and
  that there are few, if any, who will not allow that he was an ac-
  complished scholar.  He died at London, rather suddenly, after
  suffering excruciating torture from the nature of his disease, on the
  26th February 1802, in the sixty fifth year of his age; and, at his
  own particular desire, his remains  were interred in Paddington
  
  <FOOTNOTE> The reader may form some idea of its dark and melancholy aspect, from the fol-
  lowing reply 'Geddes made to one of his fellow-students, who had obtained leave to
  Visit his friends, and who asked him if he had any commands he could execute,
  " Pray, be so kind," replied Geddes,  as to make particular inquiries after the
  health of the sun, and tell him I still hope I shall one be able to renew the ho-
  mour of a Personal sequaitance with him."

                                        4


