
                          AUCHTERTOOL.                     263

cordingly, the road by the West Bridge at Link-Town of Abbots-
hall, though nearly three miles longer than the direct road, is
sometimes preferred for carriages. It is fortunate, however, for the
parish of Auchtertool, that the road to Kinghorn and Pettycur is
not of such importance to its agricultural interest as that to Kirk-
aldy, to which the chief part of the parish produce is carried for
market.
  The progress of improvement in agriculture has contributed
much to meliorate the condition of the people. With its progress,
the demand for their labour has increased, and the rate of wages
advanced accordingly; both cottars and villagers occupy better
houses than they did forty years ago. In the former Statistical
Account, it is stated, "that men and women's wages had risen
greatly of late; that men-servants used to get L. 6 Sterling for the
year, and women L. 2, 10s., but that then a man-servant received
L. 8, and a woman L. 3 for the year." At the present date men-
servants get L. 12, and women L. 6, some L. 7 for the year. The
rate of wages for the day- labourers has risen in proportion; and in
comparison with former times, the comforts of the labouring class
of the community are greatly increased.
  These benefits, however, are not unmerited; for though the
price of labour be higher in proportion to the price of grain now
than in former times, the labour is more profitable to the farmer.
The servant labours harder; and his work bein under more ju-
dicious and skilful direction, being more profitably applied, and
better performed, is consequently more productive than formerly.
The time was, when a considerable portion of time, in summer,
was occupied by the farm-servants in pulling  thistles out, of the
corn to supper their horses at night. So that, though the wages
be advanced to a higher rate, comparatively, the labour being more
productive, is in fact not more costly. Accordingly, the farmer's
comfort is very much enlarged, and his style of living very much
altered and, improved. Landlord, tenant, and farm-servant have
each their due proportion of the bedefits derived from agricultural
improvement.

  November 1836.


