
142                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

pretty richly impregnated with iron, are far from being scarce, but
they have been rarely used for medical or other purposes.
   Geology.-The only rocks that have been wrought and turned
to account are granite and limestone.  Several of the ridges or
small hills seem to be composed entirely of the first namdd species
of fossil, of different degrees of hardness, and varying, not only in
size of grains, and the proportions of constituent materials, but also
in colour, from a light to a dark gray.  Veins or larger masses of
an impure species of lime rock have raised their crops in different
places, particularly at Hythie, Clochcan Elrick, and Broomhill of
Annochie, where the stone has been quarried and burned; but
owing to the smallness of the commodity, or the cost of manufac-
turing it, occasioned chiefly by its depth, when the crops are taken
off, or the way in which it is overlaid, and in some cases rendered
very impure by heterogeneous and solid materials,-the works have
been discontinued for some time, and it is likely will not soon be
resumed at the three first named places.  At Annochie, there is
still within reach a considerable body of lime rock, interspersed,
however, with dikes, veins, and blocks of gneiss, which, though they
present pretty much the same appearance as the limestone in many
respects, experienced workmen can in general distinguish by the eye,
without applying any other test.  The limestone itself is of an impure
description, adulterated with a mixture of magnesian earth, which
renders it a deleterious manure, especially for hot and light soils,
though it is in high repute, and usually preferred to lighter and

purer lime, for building purposes.  The stone, detached from
the rock by iron crows, large hammers, and blasts of gunpowder,
is broken by smaller hammers into fragments, as if intended for
the substratum of a turnpike road, and calcined in small clump
kilns by peats.  Sometimes in wet seasons, when peat fuel is
scarce or bad, a sprinkling of coal is used in the process.  The
lime, when burned, is slacked or reduced to powder by the appli-
cation of water.  The heterogeneous substances which the fire has
not decomposed, or the fused slug caused by the excess of heat,
are separated from the dust by a riddle or sieve wrought by the
hand, and what passes through the instrument is sold at from 8d.
to 10d. per Linlithgow boll.  The tenant reports that, for several
years back, at an average, he has disposed of 2500 bolls on these
terms, and that he has sold, besides, yearly upwards of 180 cubic
yards of unburned stone, which people in the neighbourbood pur-
chase at the rate of 9s. a quarter, as it is called,-that is, a heap of


