
268                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

continuance has thrown on the poor's funds many sick widows, and
orphans. But the principal cause of increased pauperism may be
considered to have been the great change that has taken place in
regard to manufactures. Formerly the females of every family
were occupied in spinning and knitting; the daughters of respec-
table farmers plied their wheels industriously; and even the old
and infirm, in many cases, by knitting stockings, earned a conside-
rable portion of their own maintenance. But all this is now near-
ly over.
   At the end of the last century, it appears that the number of
poor receiving supply was about 40, and that the provision for them
amounted annually to about L.40. The provision afterwards be-
came much greater, but the number of the poor increased, from
causes already stated, and particularly from strangers coming into
Stonehaven, with limited property, on the exhaustion of which,
after three years' residence, (too short a period), a claim for aid
was established. For a considerable period, the weekly church
collections averaged L.100 a-year. This sum, however, with the
other means, did not keep pace with the prevailing wants.
At last, it was resolved that there should be a statutory as-
sessment. This measure has been in existence for two years;
and has produced the annual amount of L.400, at the rate of
3d. per L. 1 on the real rental of proprietors, and 2d. on the
means and substance of the other inhabitants. The weekly
collections, as might be expected, have greatly fallen off. The
number of poor on the roll, in cludhng lunatics, the support of
whom in asylums has often borne very hard on the funds, is now
about 110, who, are supplied quarterly, monthly, weekly, or oc-
casionally, according to their respective circumstances. They
have the interest of L.50, a legacy from the late Sir Thomas
Bannerman, and share with the parish of Dunnottar in the inte-
rest of L.200, the gift to the poor of Stonehaven, and immediate
neighbourhood, of the, late Mr Stevens of Broadland. There is
also, under the charge of the minister, and elders, property be-
queathed by two sisters of the name of Duns. Until a house,
forming part of that bequest, be disposed of, the amount of this
benefacation cannot be ascertained; but, it is hoped, that it will
extend to L.500.
   Family Names.--Some of the names frequently occurring in
the more ancient registers, do not now exist in the parish. Of


