
                      TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                            439

poor amount to about L.14 Sterling annually, which, with a
small fund from savings, furnishes the only means by which the
poor are supported.  There are 18 on the poor's roll.
   Education.-There is a parish school, having the medium le-
gal salary; the school fees, a good house, excellent garden, and
small croft of land of three acres, at a very moderate rent, support
a duly qualified teacher.  The people are particularly anxious to
have their children educated, and there is not an individual but
can read and write.
   There is a small but useful adventure school kept during
winter and spring, in the remote part of the parish, on the cele-
brated classical spot where John of Badenyon lived.  A proper
teacher and salary at this station is much wanted.
   October 1840.

                         UNITED PARISHES OF

                      TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.

               PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                THE REV. JAMES PAULL, A. M. MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-TULLYNESSLE is understood to be a word of Gaelic
extraction, and is descriptive -of the situation of the church and
manse.  They stand upon a slightly elevated bank at the junction
of two burns, which descend from neighbouring glens.  The name
of one of those burns is the Esset, and it is the opinion of some
that Tullyn-esset is the proper and more ancient spelling.  Tully
is said to signify a dwellidg, and Esle a sloping bank.  The latter
part of the name may be, therefore, either from Esset or Esle.  In
the one case the derivation would mean it house on a slightly ris-
ing ground; in the other, a house on the banks of the Esset.  Of
the origin of Forbes there is no satisfactory account.  That the
original parish of this name derived its appellation from the noble
family, who have been proprietors of it for several centuries, there
is no doubt; but, to the curious in names, there is here no solu-
tion of the difficulty. *

<FOOTNOTE>A legend, which the writer has often heard, if it fails to instruct, may at least
amuse.  The family of Forbs carries three boars' heads in its arms, and the reason


