
                               BORGUE.				61

pense, as the aisle admits of a gallery being erected at a conveni-
ent distance from the pulpit, and in such a way as to obtain suffi-
cient light and elevation, without incommoding the area beneath.
	The three glebes, Kirkandrews, Senwick, and Borgue, which
are still disjoined, contain above 20 acres of good arable land,
which was greatly improved by the two former incumbents.
	The teinds are exhausted, and yield, exclusive of the grant from
heritors of L.50 per annun, L.220.
	At the last dispensation of the Sacrament (1840) of the Lord's
Supper, the number of communicants, including a very few strangers,
was 367,-considerably more than a third of the, whole population.
From this it may be seen that the number of persons belonging
to other denominations is inconsiderable. Their relative numbers
may be stated as follows: Established Church, 965; Baptists, 8;
United Secession, 10; Roman Catholics, 12.
	An association for prayer, and for promoting the Schemes of
the General Assembly, was formed some time ago. Its meetings
are held on the first Monday of every month.
        Education.-The Borgue Academy, conducted by a rector and
assistant, enjoys a deserved celebrity as a classical, but especially
as a commercial seminary. In addition to the emoluments deriv-
ed from Mr Rainy's mortification, which, from circumstances con-
nected with the manner of investment, as well as the present low
rate of interest, now fall greatly short of the founder's design and
expectation; the head master receives the maximum sal`ry, and
is paid, except by 20 free scholar, a rate of wages varying, ac-
cording to the branches taught, from 1s. 6d. to 5s. Out of these
funds, which may amount from L. 11O to L. 120, the usher's salary
is paid. The number of children who attend the academy ave-
rages 120,-nearly the whole of these belong to the parish.
	A school for sewing and reading is kept in the village by a fe-
male teacher on her own adventure. Forty children, for the most
part under eight years of age, attend this school, and, besides
the branches mentioned, are carefully instructed in spelling, writ-
ing, and grammar. The average number of children attending
the public schools may therefore be stated at 160 scholars.
	For several years, classes for religious instruction, under the
direction of the minister and rector of the academy, have been
taught according to the methods now commonly pursued, on the
afternoon of the Sabbath. From 60 to 70 children attend.
There are two other Sabbath schools, conducted by ladies in re-


