
408                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

proprietors, who, in consequence, were called kindly tenants of
the Crown. These paid their rents either into the Royal Ex-
chequer or to such donators, as they were styled, as had obtained
grants of them. In progress of time, however, the custom of re-
taining such large districts of country in forestry gradually fell
into disuse, and the kindly tenants received from the Crown feudal
charters of the lands they previously held as tenants, while their
former rents were converted into annual few-duties, payable as be-
fore.
   It appears probable, from the locality of Ettrick Forest, as
nearly adjoining the English border, and its liability to inroads,
and consequently its insecurity, that the converting of the former
leases into rights of a more permanent and valuable nature to the
occupants, might be deemed a measure both of prudence and of
convenience, as the burden of defending the district against an
enemy so near and so troublesome, was transferred from the Crown
to the private possessors. It was in this way, it appears, that the
greater part of the estates in Ettrick Forest was originally ac-
quired. The number of those who at present hold titles thus
obtained, is 33.*   Of these, the Duke of Buccleuch holds about a
fourth of the whole in value, and in point of territory about a third.
Next to His Grace, in order, Mr Pringle of Torwoodlee; Mr
Scott of Gala; and the family of Philiphaugh, or those deriving
from them, possess the largest portions. The feu-duties of these
lands are now collected by the Crown Chamberlain, and paid by
him into the Exchequer at Edinburgh. The whole rental of the
forest amounts to L.235, 3s. 7 d. annually.
   The family of Torwoodlee are not in possession of any very
ancient title-deeds, as the charter chest was carried off during the
persecution of the Covenanters (of whom the distinguished and
noble-minded George Pringle, afterwards to be mentioned, was
one) by General Drummond, to whom the forfeited estate was
given. The title-deeds were not wholly recovered, when the act
of Rehabitation restored the family to their paternal property.
The oldest feudal title, in Torwoodlee's charter-chest, is a charter
from James VI., dated 16th October 1587, which proceeds upon
the narrative that the family has possessed those lands "beyond
all memory of man" (post memoriam hominum). There exist
also a tack of the lands of Craigrend (a little, above the village of

<FOOTNOTE>Before the year 1502, the lands within this forest had been divided into thirty
farms, yielding L.1876, 14s. Scotts."-Chalmers.


