
                         ROSENEATH.                            107

   The parish is, upon the whole, very healthy, as is indicated by
the longevity of a much greater proportion of the people than is
observable in ordinary cases, and by the great number of large
families that reach maturity without the occurrence of a single
death. The air is indeed moist, but it is, at the same time, par-
ticularly pure, to which the tide-streams, running in all directons
round nine-tenths of its boundary, must in no small degree con-
tribute. It is vitiated by no miasma: the beaches are generally
gravelly and bold; and though a considerable part of the surface
of the parish consists of marshy grounds, these lie along the sum-
mit of the ridge, and none of their exhalations at any season de-
scend to the cultivated and inhabited districts. It is very seldom
that any thing like foggy weather prevails; and the haars of the
east coast are entirely unknown. It ought to be mentioned, how-
ever, that one part is certainly less healthy than the rest: that
toward the south, which is much crowded by plantations, and
where, during the last twenty years, the proportion of sickness and
death has been much greater than in the Loch Long district, and
on the upper shores of the Gareloch.
   The prevalent diseases are rheumatic and pulmonary affections,
which may be accounted for by the humidity of the climate, the
nature and situation of the dwellings. Fevers do not frequently
occur, and when they do, are traceable in almost all cases to
infection from without the isle, as it is called, and are convey-
ed sometimes under circumstances that reflect but little credit
on the principles and feelings of the wealthier classes of our city

<FOOTNOTE>The transmission of sound across the Ferry is remarkably varied by the degree of hu-
midity in the air; but no state of the atmosphere for the last twenty years has enabled.
the writer to detect the celebrated echo of the district. It is, however, gravely stated
as a fact in acoustic treatises, on the authority of Dr Bird, "that, somewhere in the
'isle,' when a person at a proper distance played eight or ten notes on a trumpet, they
were correctly repeated, but a third lower; after a short silence another repetition was
heard in a yet lower tone; and after another short interval they were repeated a third
time lower still."
  That proper distance nobody has been able to discover, at least within the last
twenty years. It is possible the reverberation may have been greatly modified by the
growth of the plantations; but it is not likely that these varying keys should have been
altogether lost. It is a curious circumstance, that, many years ago, when hailing a
steam-boat at anchor in the contiguous bay from the point of Craigencroan, the
words were repeated distinctly; and finding, on trial, that we had caught an echo of
nine syllables, the writer and his friend at first supposed it was the long lost echo re-
stored to the vicinage. There was no such repetition, no pause, nor change of
key; but from that day to this the echo none can rouse from her slumber. A most
evanescent creature she must have been, in all probability depending for her existence
on the position of the steamer at the time.-annihilated by the first dash of her paddle.
  So much for the Roseneath echo. Philosophers, puzzling themselves to explain the
mystery of her being, may remind one of Charles the Second, with his fish and tub
of w`ter, among the fathers of the Royal Society.
                                  4


