
34         			BUTESHIRE

lation of about 200. The provision for the support of the chapel
is 500 marks Scots, mortified for the purpose by the Duchess Ann,
with the interest of a sum formed by the accumulation of the sa-
lary, during a vacancy of fifteen years, which occurred about twenty
years ago. The district under the sole superintendence of the parish
ministers is seventeen miles in length; and contains a population of
nearly 2200; belonging with a few trial exceptions, to the Esta-
blishment. Of these, there are above 200 from nine to ten miles
from the parish church; 600 from four to six; and 1600, more than
two. In these circumstances, it is obvious, that though the pa-
rish church is at present in nearly as central a situation for the whole
population as could well be fixed upon, a large proprotion of these
are at such a distance as precludes either regular attendance upon
ordinances on their part, or efficient pastoral superintendent on
the part of the minister. Accordingly, both pastor and people
are at present making efforts for getting an additional church and
parish for the large and populous district round Brodick Bay. How
they may succeed, it is difficult to say, as they are not in a circum-
tances either to build a church or support a minister without ex-
ternal aid. The present church is generally full in good weather;
in summer sometimes uncomfortably so. But if the people were
all within a convenient distance of the church, a house of twice
the size might be filled. The communicants alone, who exceed
500, would require more accommodation than the present church
affords. * The manse beautifully situated on a sloping eminence
about a mile north-east of the church, and commands a fine view
of the bay, and of the opposite coast of Ayrshire. It is substan-
tial and commodious house, built in 1826. The glebe consists of
about 19 Scotch acres, fences, roads, and church-yard included.
When the present incumbent entered upon its possession, it was,

<FOOTNOTE> The above was written three years ago. Since that time an elegant and com-
modious church has been built at Brodick. The expense of the edifice amounted to
about L.850, of which L.100 was contributed by His Grace the Duke of Hamilton;
L.167, 15s. by the Extension Committee of the General Assembly; nearly L. 150
by the inhabitants of Brodlock and summer visitors; and L.448 by the friends of re-
ligion in the cities and large towns of the mainland, in subscripstions procured by the
writer of this article. The church was opened for public worship on the second
Sunday of December 1889; and a parochial missionary attached to the district of
Brodick now preaches in it regularly to a crowded congregation. Without an en
downment from some quarter, however, it is to be feared the service of an or-
dained clergymen cannot be accured for it . In the meantime, the attendeance at the
parish church is considerrably diminished. There is, however, abundance of popula-
tion for filling both churches; and it is to be hoped that all the spare room will be
occupied as upon as the increassed facilities for pastoral superintendance, arising from
the services of an additional labourer in the vinayard, have had time to tell upon the
habits of the parrishioners.
					3


