
16                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

of the parish farthest down the river, it opens up again into a plain
of considerable extent.
   The view all the way down is exceedingly diversified.  The
first public work which we pass is Dalmuir-shore Soda Work, on
the brink of the river, which, with its furnaces and chimnies, and
burnt rubbish, but ill acords with the scene around. Farther down,
and about half a mile from the river, are Dalmuir paper-works,
which rather add variety to the prospect than diminish its
beauty.  Farther on still, we see up the glen of Duntocher, at the
head of which stand those huge cotton-works, part of which is seen,
which give employment to thousands who live in the villages, lying
concealed from the view.  When we cnme to Erskine Ferry,
the bend of the river is one of the finest which can be imagined.
On the left are Lord Blantyre's house and grounds in the parish of
Erskine, and on the right is the village of Old Kilpatrick, with its
church and its tower, and its white-washed houses, which are situated
at the bottom of the Kilpatrick braes, rising to the height of about
1200 feet above the level of the sea.  On the sides, on one part are
well cultivated fields, and rich crops; on another, fine growing planta-
tions, and on others, rocks and copsewood.  The summit also is now
smooth, now rugged, now planted, and now abrupt and broken.  The
bend of the river extends as far down as Dunglass Castle, about two
miles and a-half, and is varied all the way in the most beautiful
manner.  After passing the village, the house of Glenarbuck is
seen imbedded in trees, giving the idea of all that is peaceful and
sheltered, and retired; and then not far off at the river's edge, is
Bowling Bay, at the mouth of the Forth and Clyde Canal, with
its basin and docks, and all the bustle of merchandize and ship-
building.  Beyond this, rise in great beauty the hills and the woods
of Auchentorlie.  To complete the view, there is often a multi.
tude of vessels in sight; the ferry-boat crossing with its load of
carts or carriages and live-stock of all kinds,-the gay steamer
with decks crowded, flags flyin, and band of music playing, the
powerful Tug with her steam and smoke, dragging her half dozen of
vessels, with yard and sail, some of which have probably come
from the most distant parts of the world; and sailing vessels of
all doseriptions, making. their way up or down, as wind and tide
will serve their purpose.
   On the public road, there are two views which have been long
celebrited,--the one from Dalnotter Hill, and the other from the


