
902                         FIFESHIRE.

about 1 in 7 1/2 of the population, a considerable improvement since
March 1842, when it was only about 1 in 8 1/2.
  There are two infant and five female schools in the parish.
There is connected with the large female school in High Street,
Dunfermline, a deposit fund, for aiding the poor in procuring
clothes, one-third more being added to the amount of their own
contributions, and repaid in clothing.
   At the Rolland, or Priory Lane School, there are between 180
or 190 children taught, almost all of the working and poorer clas-
ses, the fee for English reading being only 2s. per quarter.  It is
under the direction of the magistrates and council, who, by a late
arrangement with the burgh creditors, hold it as trustees for the in-
stitution, unaffectable now for burgh debts.
   At the MacLean School, Golfdrum, opened in 1842, the fees are
on a low and graduated scale, to suit the working and poorer classes.
  There are from 30 to 40 children taught gratuitously at this
school, on a legacy of the late Rev. Allan M'Lean, minister of
the parish, out of whose funds, with some aid from Government,
this educational establishment was erected.  The legacy consists
of a dwelling- house and some ground, both adjacent to the school;
the rent and feus of which go to the purpose specified.  It is un-
der the management of the kirk-session of the Abbey Church.
   The children taught gratis receive the same branches of edu-
cation with those who pay.  The total number attending the
schools is about 200.
   At all the collicries there are excellent schools, and as the pay-
ments are now made universal and compulsory, there is a much
more regular attendance than formerly.
   A few years ago, four or five deaf and dumb children, belonging
to the parish, were taught in Rolland School for two years and a
half, by a deaf and dumb young woman, also a native of it, who
bad previously received a good education in the Edinburgh In-
stitution.  The experiment, which was undertaken by the writer,
from inability to procure funds for sending so many of these help-
less children to a public institution, and persevered in by him amid
many discouragements, succeeded far beyond his expectations, and
evinced the entire practicability of the deaf and dumb teaching
others, in the same unhappy condition.   The want of a sufficient
supply of suitable books and other materials prevented the expe-
riment being carried to its full extent; but funds coming to be at
his disposal, from a bequest of his late colleague, some of the Chil-

