
252				AYRSHIRE.

and of which a few specimens, for the gratification of the curious
are here subjoined. *
	Eminent Men.--As a talented scholar, the most eminent person
connected with this parish was Dr Robert Simson of Glasgow
the well-known translator of Euclid. Dr Simson's progenitors
had been long resident here, and at a pretty early period acquired
some lands near the village, to which they gave the name of Kirk-
tonhall, and to which in succession the Doctor himself succeeded.
In the garden of this residence of his predecessors, there still re-
mains a curious sun-dial, understood to have been designed by this
eminent mathematician; it is incribed with his father's and mo-
ther's initials, and the date 1717. Yet it would seem doubtful
after all if Dr Simson was born at this place. His father, John
Simson of Kirktonhall, was bred a merchant in Glasgow, and en-
tered as a member of the merchant's house there in 1683; and
in about two years afterwards, married Agnes, daughter of the
Rev. Patrick Simson, minister of Renfrew. Of this union, which
produced the remarkable issue of seventeen sons without any
daughters, the Doctor was the eldest, being born October 14, 1687.
He was educated at the university of Glasgow, under the care of
his maternal uncle, the Rev. John Simson, Professor of Divinity
there. + In 1711, he was appointed to the mathematical chair of
his alma mater, it being tendered to him without any solicitation
on his part; and in this situation, he continued for the long space
of fifty-eight years, "with increasing reputation to himself, and
great advantage to the university." He published many works
on his favourite science which he professed, and in these has
left "a monument of great genius and intellectual ability."
Having nearly completed his eighty-first year, this distinguish-

<FOOTNOTE>Feb. 3, 1720.--This day, the session was informed that some person was seen
lately, carrying off brandy upon Sabbath morning, &c.
         "Oct. 22, 1721.--This day, compered William King, and was examined about bak-
ing bread in his house upon the Lord's day. He did not deny but that it might be
done, but neither he nor his wife knew anything of it. He told that there was a
great confusion about his house that day, with souldiers and custom-house officers, who
came up to take brandy on that day, &c.
	"June 17, 1772.--This day the session was informed of Robert M'Caltyre, in
Broomcraig of Hunterston, his having abused with reproachful names Jean Kell;
and particulary, for calling her a damned hypocrite in a public company, and on a
Sabbath morning, in his own barn, where Archibald M'Kellip was brought in dead,
having killed himself with drinking of brandy, &c.
	"Aug 29, 1724.--The session being informed, that it is become a practice for young
women to carry loads of brandy, some twelve, some sixteen miles out of the parish, &c.
	"Jan. 21, 1757.--It was reported that Mr Kennedy, schoolmaster, deals in the
running business, &c.
         The late lamented Sir John Moore was, maternally, grandson of Professor John
Simson.


