
64                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

Union Parish Parochial School.)  At first, the chapel was sup-
plied bv ministers of the Established and Dissenting churches ;
but the Voluntary controversy having put an end to this, the sup-
ply was found too burdensome for the parochial ministers alone.
A chaplain was therefore appointed, but the funds could not long
bear the expense of his salary, and the chapel has been for some
time shut up.  An effort has lately been made to clear off the
debt affecting the chapel, and this being now nearly effected, there
is reason to hope that a small parochial district will be allotted,
and a minister settled in it in a short time.
   One society for promoting Christianity among the Jews; one
for promoting the Religious principles of the Reformation ; one
Antipatronage Society ; one North American Colonial Society;
one Temperance Society ; one for Promoting Education in the
Highlands and Islands; one for promoting Female Education in
India; two for promoting the total Abolition of Slavery; one for
the Defence and Extension of the Church of Scotland ; one for pro-
moting Education and Reformation among the Prisoners in the Jail.
   Harbour.-The river, as it approaches the sea, passes through
a wide basin which formerly extended from the foot of the Castle
Hill, on the north side, to the lands of Torrie on the South, and
the harbour of Aberdeen consisted merely of a channel near the
north side of this basin, separated from the course of the Dee by
the Inches-low sandy islands, generally covered at high water.
For the accommodation of shipping in this barbour, the quay-head
was erected (at what period is not known) opposite to the place
where the weigh-house now is, and access was obtained to it from
the town by the Shore Brae.  The entrance to this harbour was
bad, owing to a bar at the mouth of the river, the depth of water
in which was often not more than two feet at low water.  The
earliest attempts to efect any improvement were by the erection
of a bulwark on the south side of the entrance, in 1608, and the
removal, in 1618, of a large stone, which lay nearly in the middle
of the river.  Between 1623 and l658, the quay was extended
eastward towards Futtie, by which means a considerable portion
of ground was redeemed below the Castle Hill, and this is now
with with buildings.  ln l755, an additional quay was built a
good way farther down, opposite the village of Torrie.  In 1770,
further improvements were projected, and on a report from Mr
Smeaton, recommending the erection of a pier on the north side
of the entrance, (by which the influx of sand from the north might
be prevented, and the removal of the bar effected by confining the


