
                              ALFORD.                           493

to pass into a great many varieties as well as the granite; and
the inclinations of its strata shift, with change of place, into every
possible position, and the strata are often greatly contorted.  It
is penetrated by many small veins of quartz, and many also of
numerous varieties of granite, of all dimensions, up to the width
of twenty or thirty-yards.
   Although, in examining these primitive rocks in such a narrow
space as this parish, it would not be obvious that they held any defi-
nite order in relation to each other, yet, on looking at a large ex-
tent of the neighbouring country, an outline of such an order may
be perceived in respect of some of them.  Thus the mica-slate
in the north-west part of the parish, is the south border of a
long range of slaty rocks, that appears to pass in the direction of
north-east and south-west, of varying but comparatively limited
breadth from north-west to south-east.  And again, in the south-
east part of the parish, are found beds and veins of a peculiar
somewhat porphyritic red granite, which are the north edge of a
comparatively narrow range of that rock, which is known to ex-
tend also from north-east to south-west for a space of twenty-five
miles, and probably extends much farther.  These ranges of pe-
culiar rocks have no relation to the ranges of mountains, but hold
their courses onward equally through mountains and valleys; and
their northwest and south-east edges are extremely straggling and
irregular.
   A remarkable circumstance regarding the rocks of this parish
is, that by much the larger part of them is in a state of decompo-
sition; or at least in such a friable state that they may be easily
dug into with the pickaxe and spade.  The varieties of the gray
and red granite are most frequently found in this state; but there
are also many parts of the mica-slate in the same condition.
The syenite has not been observed friable, with the exception of
fragments of it often found included in the friable granite.  The
friable rocks have no definite position in relathon to the hard.
Posts of fine building stone, that resist the action of the, weather,
are in many places quarried in the midst of immense beds of the
friable.
   As far as is known the rocks are very poor in metallic ores.
A poor ore of iron sometimes accompanies the narrow quartz
veins; and that metal, disseminated in small quantity, appears to
influence the colours of the rocks.  A black heavy small sand,
found on the strands of the Don, and in the beds of torrents over


