
334                    KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

Sibbald, and of Timothy Pont.* Although Buchanan says that
King Galdus died a natural death after a glorious reign of thirty-
five years.
   There is another account given of this cairn which we submit.
About the year 1150, three years before the demise of David I.,
it is said there was a battle fought on Glenquicken Moor, between
the English and Scots, wherein the Scots were defeated and
their general killed,--when the Bishop of Whitborn assumed
the command; but his troops being defeated, immediately fled to-
wards the shore to their boats, and being overtaken by the enemy
at Cairnholy, the bishop, and many of his men, were slain and
buried. From this circumstance, it was called the Holy Cairn.
This supposition is apparently strengthened from the fact, that there
is a little rivulet or burn, that runs through the place where the
battle is said to have been fought, that still retains the name of
the Englishman's burn. + Chalmers, however, in his Caledonia,
says, that there was no such battle fought between the Scots and
English on Glenquicken Moor in 1150. Thus we are compelled
to leave the history of Cairnholy in the same state of mystery in
which we found it.
    Mansion-Houses.--The principal mansion-houses in the parish
are, Kirkdale House, Barholm House, Hill House, and Cassen-
carrie.
    Kirkdale House, the seat of Miss Hannay, is a magni-
ficent building of the Grecian order of architecture, from the
design of Mr Adam. It is wholly built of beautiful polished
granite of exquisite workmanship; and, until the late re-
pairs upon the princely mansion of Mr Murray of Cally, M. P.,
it was without a rival in Galloway. It is stated in the old Sta-
tistical Account that the Bishop of Derry, on seeing the house of
the late Sir S. Hannay, was so much charmed with the stone, that
be immediately contracted with the superintendent of that work
for the building of the spires of two churches in his diocese, which
were all to be executed with this stone. The situation is even
worthy of the building. The scenery around is of the finest de-
scription, combining the charms of the lovely, the picturesque, and
the romantic. Altogether the house and views of Kirkdale ought
to hold a high place among the beauties of Scotland. The views
from Kirkdale House are singularly striking and beautiful in moon-
light.
    Barholm House, the seat of John M'Culloch, Esq. is a hand-

<FOOTNOTE>See his Galloway Topographised.       + Stat. Account, VoL xv. p. 552.



