
			  INVERESK.                            267

therefore, are, a transumpt of a charter of the 34th of David II.,
and one granted on the 11th December 1562, by Robert, Com-
mendator of Dunfermline, with consent of the whole mem-
bers of the convent. It states, that " the title-deeds belong-
ing to the burgh were burnt by their enemies, the English, after
the fatal battle of Pinkie, therefore they of new grant, dispone, and
confirm, to the present baillies, community, and inhabitants of
Musselburgh, and to their successors, &c."*
   Four months after this destruction of the town by Lord Grey,
6000 French troops landed at Leith, under the command of An-
drew de Montalembert, Sieur D'Esse', including 3000 Germans,
under the Rhinegrave, and a body of Italians; and be immediate-
ly marched them eastward, again to offer battle to the English on
the field of Pinkie.  The English, however, retired before his su-
perior forces to Haddington, where he unsuccessfully besieged
them in the autumn of the same year.  Meantime be employed
his troops in throwing up some works at Inveresk, as an advanced
post for Edinburgh and Leith; the Privy-Council having erected
a fort at the same place in the January preceding, as may be seen
by their unprinted records.
   Immediately adjoining Falside Brae rises Carberry Hill.  It
was here that, on the 15th June 1567, Queen Mary and Both-
well advanced to meet Morton, Maitland of Lethington, and the
confederated Lords in battle.  The result is well known ; Bothwell
fled, and escaped into exile, while Mary surrendered herself, and was
afterwards shutup in Lochleven Castle.  The scene is altogether one
of great beauty and interest; nor is that interest lessened by these
historical associations.
   Shortly after the Reformation, the regality of Musselburgh,
with the patronage of the church of St Michael, and of the va-
rious chaplainries in the parish, was disjoined. from the Abbacy of
Dunfermline, and conferred by James VL on his Chancellor,
Lord Thirlstane, the progenitor of the Earls of Lauderdale.
Many disputes afterwards occurred between this nobleman and
Queen Anne of Denmark, the wife of " the Merry Monarch," re-
garding this grant, the whole lands and rights of the abbacy hav-
ing, been conferred upon, her as a marriage dowry.  The proprie,-
tor however, contended that it had, ab ante, been gifted to him,
and his defence being sustained, the whole descended to his fa-

<FOOTNOTE>Vide former Statistical Account by Dr Carlyle, p. 26.


