
                            KINGUSSIE.                            75

The system of agriculture followed by all the respectable tenantry
is the modern one of cropping by rotation; but the crofters and
poorer tenants, partly from their aversion to the new scheme, and
partly from their indigent circumstances, still pFetty,generally ad-
here to the old plan.  The villagers of Kingussie, however, form
an exception to this remark.  Some of the feuars in this village
farm with great spirit and taste, according to the most approved
system;-in consequence of which, the lands in its vicinity have
been brought to a state of high cultivation.  The proprietors, we
understand, are desirous to introduce the new mode of farming over
all their estates, and some of them have taken their tenants bound,
that, at the expiry of the leases lately granted, the farms shall all be
put under a regular rotation.  Of late years, much has been done
in the way of reclaiming waste land, embanking and draining; and
the improvements in this way are still proceeding.  The general
length of leases, when such are granted, is nine or ten years; a
number of the smaller tenants, however, hold their -possessions from
year to year, which is certainly unfavourable to improvement.  The
capabilities of the lower grounds are generally very great, and under
the management of skilful and industrious tenants, with a mode-
rate capital, and leases of sixteen or nineteen years, might, notwith-
standing all disadvantages, be turned to excellent account.       Some
sheep-farmers have leases of fifteen years; and one tenant holds
his farm for nineteen years.  The farm-buildings of the better
classes are good, but those of the poorer sort are very indifferent.
The enclosures consist chiefly of stone, and some of them of turf;
Those of the former kind are very substantial.
  The writer has not been able to obtain an accurate account of
the amount and value of the raw produce yearly raised in the pa-
rish.
                      V.-PAROCIRIAL EcoNomy.
  Means of Communication, 8yc.-The nearest market-town is In-
verness, at a distance of forty-six miles.  There are two villages
in the parish, both of which are on the increase.  Kingussie, the
larger of these villages, contains, a post-office, through which there,
is a regular communication, both with the south and north, thrice
a-week.  The great Highland road from Perth to Inverness pas-
ses through the parish, extending in the directions of south and
north, a distance of sixteen miles; upon which the Caledonian
coach runs daily, either south or north, between the towns just
mentioned.   There are regular carriers once a-week from Kin-


