
52				BANFFSHIRE

school in the same place to be also wanted. The want would be
greater, but that there is, at present, a private school in the upper
part of the parish of Boyndie, so near the boundary of this parish
as to accommodate a part of the population of its middle and upper
districts.
   Literary Institutions.-A Literary Society was instituted in 1810,
by five boys (the most advanced of whom had only obtained the
standing of three sessions at College.) The institution originally
embraced two objects,-the formation of a library, and meetings for
delivery of essays and discussion of literary subjects. But the
latter object was, after a time, necessarhly abandoned, from the
paucity of persons having resources for contributing to it. The
library now contains above 2000 volumes.
   Connected with the Literary Society by a sort of federal union,
is the reading-room, where have been usually taken in five or six
of the principal quarterly and monthly periodicals, two daily London,
and some Edinburgh and provincial newspapers. Some difficulty,
however, has been found of late in supporting the expense
of this establishment, and its continuance seems somewhat doubtful.
   In 1828 was founded an institution for the cultivation of science,
and the discovery and encouragement of native talent. The institution
has occasionally held meetings for scientific discussions;
but similar difficulties, as in the case of the Literary Society, have
been felt in carrying this part of its plan into complete effect.
Its conductors, however, have succeeded in collecting a museum of
natural history, antiquities, and curiosities, which would do no
discredit to ampler time and means, than have actually been enjoyed
by them, and which, it is believed, few, if any, collections
north of Edinburgh can equal. In particular, the collection of
shells, consisting of many thousand specimens of the rarest and
most beautiful kinds to be met with in Java, and throughout the
eastern Archipelago, are well deserving of notice. There is a
considerable variety of dresses, weapons, manufactures, and utensils
of the natives of India and Australia; many mineral and zoological
specimens, coins, idols, &c. The institution also possesses
some valuable books; among others, the printed Public Records of
Great Britain, presented by Government; and, for scientific purposes
they are furnished with a transit and clock, a six feet reflecting
telescope, together with an assortment.ofmoteorological instruments
hom the best London makers.
   By the kindness of the magistrates, the two large drawing-rooms


