
680                             FORFARSHIRE.

if not entirely, impregnable before the introduction of artillery.
In its original state, it exhibited the form of an oblong quadrangle,
occupying the whole summit of the promontory, with the excep-
tion of a small space at the extremity, which is traditionally said
to have been used for exercising the horses. Some remains of
the northern part of the castle have been incorporated with the
present modern building. The high and massive exterior wall
which protected the castle on the eastern and most accessible
side, with the portcullis entry, still remains nearly in its original
state. The wall has been sufficiently repaired to remedy and
prevent the injuries of time, but without impairing its antique
character. The fosse, also, is still distinct, but has been partially
filled up, to render the place accessible to carriages. These
scanty remains are all that is now left to attest the original strength
of the castle, and carry the imagination back to the days of feud
and foray, when Airlie Castle reared its head proudly amidst the
noblest baronial fortresses of the land.
   The ruins of Baikie Castle, situated on a rounded knoll which
juts out into the moss, were still visible at the d`te of the last
Statistical Account; but every vestige of them is now gone.
   In the west gable of the parish church, there is a figure, which
is obviously intended as a representation in basso relievo of St
John the Baptist, to whom the church was originally dedicated.
This saint seems to have been an object of special veneration to
the family of Strathmore, in whom the patronage of this parish is
vested. A figure of similar design, but of smaller size, was fished
up off Inchkeith, formerly the property of that family, and is now
deposited in the Edinburgh College Museum. A statue, very
rudely sculptured, and a good deal defaced by exposure to the
weather, formerly stood in the avenue at Airlie Castle, and is now
placed in one of the apertures of the old wall. In its present
state, it is difficult to determine whether it was designed as a re-
presentation of St John, or of one of the savages common as sup-
porters in Scottish heraldry, as the hirsute appearance which it
presents is equally consistent with either supposition; but as one
of the arms appears to be supporting something before the breasts
which may have been a cross, we are perhaps warranted in con-
sidering it as a rude image of the Baptist. Besides the figure of
St John, another curious relic of the old church has been with
good taste preserved in the modern btilding. It is a small stone
almery, or locker, on which are represented the five wounds of


