
     Statistical Account

   Disadvantages.-The principal of there, are the distance from
mills, and a severe mill thirlage,-idleness,-little attention
to industry,-a want of manufactures,-a want of general

<FOOTNOTE>

nished a pleasant morsel to readers of a certain taste.  The following epitaph
is found on the tomb-stone of a sailor in the church-yard of Duffus.

     "Though Eolus' blasts, and Neptune's waves, have toss'd me to and fro,
     "Yet now at last, by heaven's decree, I harbuor here below:
     "Where at an anchor I do ly, with others of our fleet,
     "Till the last trump do raise us up, our Admiral CHRIST to meet."

The Gaelic is not spoken on the coast of Morayshire.  We speak the English
mixed with a large portion of provincial dialect.  Our accent is, in the ear of
stranger, snappish and provoking, assimilating to that of Aberdeen, but is said not
to be quite so invincible as theirs, to those who leave the country.  It is more disa-
greeable and more difficult to overcome, than the accent of our western neigh-
bours of Inverness; besides, that they have an advantage over us in using none
but modern English words.  The remark, which strangers make of us, that we
seem unwilling to open our mouths when we speak, is fully confirmed, by find-
ing that of the 16 vocal articulate sounds which compose the English language, we
have totally thrown out in our dialect the two fullest and most sonorous, and
have substituted short and slender founds in their place.  No Morayshire man of
the lower ranks ever pronounces broad a. or long o; for the first he always uses the
short and slender found of a, as la for law, Agust for August, al for all; for the
last he always uses likewise the short and slender founds of o, as, clos or close,
rod for road and rode, not for note, rot for rote, no for no, chock for choke,
post or post.  This peculiarity is the more remarkable, because, although these
two full founds of a and o, are very prevalent in England, yet they are still much
more so in the south of Scotland; insomuch that the more frequent use of them,
is that, which (next to the North British accent) molt readily distinguishes the
language of a south country Scotchman of education, from the language of
England.  And perhaps, from this circumstance, we have received our national
nick-name, in the broad found of Sawney.  But, although fashion is now begin-
ning to force upon our middling ranks here, those two full founds, yet they feel,
in the endeavour to pronounce them, nearly the same difficulty, that would at-
tend the introduction of founds altogether foreign.  Our dislike to full founds,
also appears in our preference of the slender ee, which in the language of the
north, usurps occasionally the place of almost every other vowel, as meen for
moon, speen for spoon, freet for fruit, and for yule, meedow for meadow, teetle for title,


