
                           EDROM.                               267

which some of the old residencers in Allanton. resorted to in their
younger days, and found beneficial in many instances. They call
it the "Vertur" Well, meaning, probably, the well whose water
has a medicinal virtue.
   The Whitadder bounds the parish on the north side, and runs
the whole extent of the parish from west to east. The altitude of
its source above the medium sea level is supposed to be 1150 feet;
fall per mile, 32 feet, 10 inches; breadth, 35 yards. Length of
Whitadder in Edrom parish, 61/2 miles; greatest height of Whit-
adder in flood 9 feet above the ordinary level; average fall of
Whitadder through Edrom parish, 23 feet per mile. From
Broonihouse, the upper part of the parish, to the lower extremity
of the parish, the fall of the Whitadder is 149 feet. It runs into
the Tweed about two-miles from Berwick.
  The length of the Blackadder water is 19 miles; supposed altitude
at its source 1130 feet above the medium sea level; length within the
parish of Edrom 61/2 miles, flowing in a north-east direction, divid-
ing the parish into two equal parts nearly; breadth, 17 yards. The
Blackadder falls into the Whitadder at the village of Allanton, in
this parish.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-There is a shell-marl bog on the estate
of Kimmerghame. The bog is of considerable extent: greatest
depth 15 feet. Machinery has been lately erected for draining
off the water, and a very considerable quantity of marl has been
taken from it; price Is. per cart load. A cubic yard of this
marl, is equal to a boll of lime. It does not operate so readily
as lime, but it is more durable in its influence. In working the
marl, several beavers' beads (one nearly entire) were found, and
some deers' horns. One head was nearly complete, and was sent
to Dr Barclay in Edinburgh.
   The rocks of this parish belong to a formation, the characters
of which have not yet been precisely determined. It bas not been
ascertained whether they are members of the new red sandstone
group, or are the lowermost beds of the Durham coal field. Va-
rious facts may be adduced in support of these two theories, but it
seems probable that they are of older date than the strata of the
Durham coal field, and are a fresh water deposit.
   The rocks consist chiefly of clay, marl, and sandstone; the first of
these composing, perhaps, about two-thirds of the whole. The marl
strata are in thin beds, never exceeding two or three feet in thickness.
The sandstones are generally of a whitish colour, and sometimes ex-


