
			KIRKMABRECK.                      345

communicants belonging to the Church for the last seven years
has been about 500. Last year L. 14, 4s. were collected for the
General Assembly's four schemes; besides L. 4 for the Sabbath
schools; L.5, 1Os. for a church in Armagh; L. 2, Os. 3d. for the
education of the blind in Edinburgh. I am not aware of the sums
collected by the Seceders for religious purposes; but I believe it is
very considerable, according to their numbers.
	Education.--There are five schools in the parish, viz. the paro-
chial school; a subscription school of industry for females; two
schools at the teachers' own adventure, all in Creetown; and one
school in the country, partly supported by the heritors and partly
at the teacher's own adventure.*
	Branches taught.--Reading, writing, arithmetic, English gram-
mar, geography, mathematics, Latin, French, and, in the " female
school of industry,"+ besides the elementary branches of education,
sewing, knitting, &c. are also taught.
	Schoolmaster's Salary, &c.--The schoolmaster's salary is the
maximum, viz.  L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d. per annum. His house has the le-
gal accommodation, and the school-fees may amount to about
L. 26 early.
	Rate of School-Fees.--Reading, 2s. per quarter; reading and
writing, its. 6d.; reading, writing, arid arithmetic, 3s. All these
branches with English gramar, 4s.; ditto with Latin, 8s.; ditto
with French, 7s,; ditto with geography, 5s. These are the terms
at the parish school. At the private schools they are about
the same (in the branches taught.) At the school of industry,
30 girls are taught free; they have also occasionally received books
and a part of their clothing.
	It is to be regretted that the accommodation in the parochial
school is by no means what it ought to be,--an evil which, it is
hoped, the heritors will speedily remedy.
	Literature.--There is a circulating library in Creetown, and
also a small library in connection with the Sabbath schools. It
would be an improvement, if a well-selected subscription library
were established for the benefit of the whole parish.
	Poor's Funds.--The average number of regular paupers is about
30, and of occasional paupers 10. The aliment allowed to each
varies according to cirbumstances, and runs from L. 1 to L. 8 per
annum. About L. 95 are paid out of the poor's funds annually for

<FOOTNOTE>This teacher has a free house and garden from Kirkdale, and L. 10 yearly from
the heritors.'
          +This school is also under the patronage of Miss Hannay of Kirkdale.


