
	                          LOTH.                        197

	between Helmsdale and the Ord, Pulmonaria maritima, a rare
	plant on the northern shores, attracts attention by its beautiful
	azure leaves. The rocky parts of the coast of the parish also fur-
	nish several species of Fuci, and, in such abundance that, before
	the reduction in the price of the kelp, about thirty tons of kelp were
	annually manufactured in the parish; but the present price of the
	article would not pay the expense of manufacturing it; and no sea-
	ware has been burnt for several years past. The best known species
	of Fuci on this coast, are Fucus digitatus, F. palmatus, F. vesiculo-
        sus, F. nodorus, F. serratus, and F. filum.

		               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	  There is no separate history of this parish known to exist; but
	many events and occurrences connected with its annals are recorded
	in Sir Robert Gordon's History of the Earldom of Sutherland,
	which was written in the year 1630.
	  The only direct land route to Caithness, and by the Pentland
	Firth to Orkney, being through this parish, it has, at different
	times, witnessed the march of hostile forces, and has often been
	the scene of disturbance and violence. During the inroads of the
	Northmen in, and preceding, the twelfth century, the coast of Loth
	appears to have been often visited by these daring invaders; and
	Helmsdale, a name evidently derived from them, is believed to be
	identical with the name "Hialmaidal," which occurs in one
	of the northern sagas. In the year 1198, the parish received a
	royal visit, on the occasion of King William the Lion's march
	into Caitbness, to revenge the cruel death of John Bishop of Caith-
        ness; for an ancient MS. descriptive of his expedition states,
        that the King had a great army, and marched till he came to
	Eysteinsdale,-tbere are the boundaries of Katanes and Sudrland,
	-the camp of the King of Scots stretched along the Dals, and that
	is a very long way." These Dales are believed to have been the
	valleys of Kildonan, terminating at Helmsdale, and Strathmore in
        Caithness, which communicate with each other, and that is a
	very long way;" and in the last of which valleys, there is a place
	still called Easterdale.
	   During the turbulent ages that succeeded King William's ex-

      <FOOTNOTE>During King William's absence, Harold Earl of Orkney and Caithness ap-
	prehended John Bishop of Caithness, cut out his tongue, and put out his eyes, for
	having opposed some designs of his at Court. For which King William upon his
	return, caused the Earl to be apprehended, cut out his tongue, pulled out his eyes,
	and then hanged him upon a gibbet. These things happened in the year 1198. * -
	Bishop Elphinston.


