
                               BLAIRGOWRIE.                              913

    as a candidate for that office, and attended on them for several Sun-
    days to obtain their decision on his application.  The following ra-
    ther naive minute at last occurs under the above date, from which it
    may be inferred that the applicant had at length become rather im-
    portunate, and that the session stood somewhat in awe of the bold
    (" troopier".)   " Compeared Mr Patrick Fittie desyring ane answer.
    The sessione (he being removed) declare yt he was presently a troo-
    pier before he presented himself, and yt he was cashiered as being
    upone ye unlawfijll ingadgement.  The sessione resolve, calling
    him in againe, to discharge him in a fair way, in respect thair was
    not a competent provision yet agried on, and ordained to give
    him twentle-four shillings" Scots.  On the 12th August 1649,
    " compeared James Ireland (adult) in ye publick place of re-
    pentance (for the twenty-fourth time,) and the minister aggravat-
    ing his sinne, and exhorting him to sorrow and griefe of heart for
    the same, was continued to give father evidence of ye treuth of
    his repentance."  " February 17, 1650, Given this day to Sir
    Robert Mubray, sometyme laird of Barnbougall, now become
    through indigence, ane poor supplicant, twentle-foure shillings."
    On the 24th February 1650, " the Presbyterie Act anent bry-
    dalls, ordaining thair sould not be above eight persons in ye syde,
    that thair sould be no debaucht pypars nor fiddlars, nor promis-
    cuous dancing, nor excessive drunkennesse, was lykeways intimate
    out of ye pulpit."  Finally, on the 19th July 1650, there occurs
    the following minute of session: " The minister inquiring if there
    was anie new scandall, it was declared be some yat Andro Mal-
    colme had most despytefullie and devilishlie railed against ye ses-
    sione, cursing minister and elders.  The said Andro ordained to
    be cited against next day."-Afterwards ordained to evidence his
    repentance in face of the congregation, but proving " refractory and
    contumacious," was put into " the jouggs" till he agreed to obey
    the former ordinance.
        Antiquities.-This parish contains few remains of antiquity pos-
    sessing much interest.  Amongst those deserving of notice are
    the H„er cairns, of which there are, or rather were several, in va-
    rious parts of the parish, marking the scene of mortal conflict, and
    the last resting place of the slain.  Most of these have now been
    either partially or wholly removed in the course of modern agri-
    cultural improvements ; and in the process of excavation, human
    bones in great quantities have been found, and two stone coffius,
    formed of four flat stones, containing a skull and a quantity of ashes.

    PERTH.                                           3 M


