
				LESMAHAGO.                                31

their blossoms blighted by a few chilly nights in May. In rainy
weather, the hills upon the west seem to attract the clouds, and,
consequently, more rain falls there than in the lower parts of the
parish; but even there, want of moisture is not generally com-
plained of. The prevailing winds may be said to be from the
westward,--every tree or hedge that is exposed leaning from that,
and making their most vigorous shoots in an opposite direction.
Upon the whole, however, the climate may be said to be salubrious,
and instances of longevity are numerous.
	Hydroqraphy.--This parish abounds in springs of excellent wa-
ter; though none of a medicinal quality have been yet discovered.
These springs are the parents of several streams, capable of driv-
ing machinery. The Poniel water, which rises in the south-west
of the parish, divides it from the parish of Douglas, and after a
course of seven or eight miles in an easterly direction, joins the
Douglas water about three miles from its junction with the Clyde;
for which three miles the united stream becomes the boundary of
the parish. The Logan, Nethan, and also the Kype water rise-
in the high grounds on the west. The banks of the Nethan
are generally clothed with coppice, and adorned with gentlemen's
houses, or neat farm-steadings.
	The Kype, so far as it divides this parish from Avondale or
Strathaven, is a moorland stream,--naked and unadorned on its
banks, but capable of working mischief on the lower grounds, when
thunder storms have passed along the hills. In consequence of
these grounds being much drained within these few years, the water
descends more rapidly than formerly, and in greater quantities, de-
stroying bridges and injuring the small haughs or holms. There
are some other small streams that run a few miles in the parish,
but all are tributary to the above, with the exception of the Can-
nar, which, after a course of a few miles, joins the Avon in the
parish of Stonehouse. As all these streams ultimately join the
Clyde, where it is from three to four hundred feet above the sea,
their courses are pretty rapid.
	Geology.--This parish lies nearly on the south side of the great
coal field which crosses our island through Fife, Ayrshire, and the
intermediate counties. Nevertheless, the strata are so deranged
by numerous dikes or fissures, that, where coals are wrought, the
direction and inclination of the strata vary so materially, as to set
hopes and expectations at defiance. In several of the coal and


