
     of Kincardine.

for some time, if they have not saved money, than if they
left the parish.
   The implements of husbandry are greatly improved of
late years.  There are scarcely any of the old Scotch ploughs
used now in the parish.  About fourteen years ago, Small's
plough was introduced among the farmers, and a factory of 
them established within the parish.  This has occasioned a 
considerable diminution of the expence of the labour; be-
fore that time, there were always three or four horses used in
each and of course a driver was employed.-Now even those, 
who have not adopted this plough, use generally two horses
only, and commonly have no drivers.
   One horse carts only are used; two horse carts have been
tried, but have been given up from the experience, that two
horses, when each has his cart, will draw a much heavier
load, than they could do, if yoked in one cart*.

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*Those who lived in parts of the country that have been long acquainted
with more enlightened and more spirited modes of agriculture, may think
themselves authorised, by the circumstances now mentioned, to conclude that
this part of the country is very far behind every  relative to husbandry
but it is merely doing justice to the farmers in this neighborhood to observe,
that, although the small extent of the farms throws agriculture necessarily in-
to the hands of persons of smaller stock, and less enlarged views, than it is in
those countries where the greater extent of the farms gives employment to 
persons of better education, and who have opportunities of being acquainted
with the improvements making in different parts; the farmers here have of 
late years made a very great progress to a better side of husbandry; and 
those who are inclined to despise them, may find something worthy of their i-
mitation in the care they bestow for the preservation of their implements in 
husbandry.  Even the most inconsiderable and hovenly tenant has a cart or
wood house, in which the carts, ploughs, &c. are stored, when not in use, while
among the intelligent and wealthy farmers in Berwickshire and the Lothians,
few have such an accommodation, and from want of it, then implements of hus-
bandry, purchased at a great expence, being exposed, when unemployed, to 
all the extremes of drought and moisture, suffer little less from this bad ma-
nagement, than from use.

</UNREADABLE>


