
			ST CYRUS.                                  281


	Another fortress in the parish was the Castle of Morphy, on the
property of Francis Graham, Esq. and said to have been a resi-
dence belonging to the Noble family of that name. It is believed
to have been a place of some strength, was defended by a wall,
ditch, and drawbridge, and occupied a commanding position on the
brink of a romantic ravine uniting with the valley of the North
Esk. Its site is now a ploughed field. *
	The Stone of Morphy.--Thir ir an obelisk situated on the lands
of the same name, in the western division of the parish. With
reference to it, the writer of the former Account says, that it is
difficult to determine whether it had been erected to preserve the
memory of some gallant warrior of the name of Graham, to which
Noble family the lands of Morphy originally belonged, or whether
it may be a remnant of a Druidical temple; while, at the same
time, he appears not to have been aware of the existence of a tra-
dition, which says, that it was erected in memory of a son of Ca-
mus, or some other important personage in his army, who was kill-
ed here in an engagement with the Scots, after the defeat and
death of the Danish leader at Panbride. The Danes, on that
event, immediately retreated northward, and, according to the tra-

and Pittarrow, decoyed Melville to the top of the hill of Garvock, under pretence of
a grand hunting party. Upon this place, still called the Sheriff's Pot, the barons
bad prepared a fire and a boiling cauldron, into which they plunged the unlucky
Sheriff. After he was 'sodden,' as the King termed it, for a sufficient time, the
savages, that they might literally observe the Royal mandate, concluded the scene
of abomination, by actually partaking of the hell-broth. The three lairds were out-
lawed for the offence, and Barclay, one of thdir number, to screen himself from jus-
tice, erected the Kaim (i. e- the fortress) of Mathers. The Laird of Arbuthnott is
said to have eluded the Royal vengeance, by claiming the benefit of the law of the
clan Macduff. A pardon, or perhaps a deed of replegiation, founded on that law, is
said to be still extant among the records of the Viscount of Arbuthuott."
          * An illustration of the popular superstitions of Angus-shire is derived from the
building of this castle, in a poem by Dr,Jamieson in the Minstrelsy of the Border, in
which the exploits of the water-kelpy are recorded. From time immemorial to that
of "John o' Arnha'," the water-kelpy has, according to popular belief, been an in-
habitant of the North Esk, and the Castle of Morpby, being in the vicinity of that
part of the river where he was thought to be most frequently seen, it is said that he
afforded most material service in its erection. A stanza of the poem referred to is as
follows:--
		When Morphy's laird his biggin rear'd,
		 I carryit aw the stanes,
		And mony a ehiel has heard me squeal
		 For sair birz'd back and banes, &c.
	In a note by the writer, it is said, ".The water kelpy celebrated the event of car-
rying stones for the, building of the castle in rhyme; and that for a long time after
he was often heard to cry with a doleful voice,
		Sair babk `nd sair banes,
		Carrying the Laiard o' Morphy's stanes.
To which a later edition of the history has added,
		The Laird o' Morphy will never thrive,
		So long as Kelpy is alive.


