
112                    RENFREWSHIRE.

   The old-fashioned practice still generally prevails, of taking two
white crops and then usually, though not always, sowing down the
ground with rye-grass seed.  There are exceptions to this mode
of farming, and it were of great importance for others to improve
the rotation and kind of crops grown.
   The clay soils have been drained to a great extent of late years;
but the practice should be carried still farther; and then the fol-
lowing rotation of crops would be profitable if the situation be not
too elevated; beans, wheat, turnips, followed by a white crop,
and sown down with perennial rye-grass.  Light soils are most ge-
neral, and on them the best rotation is oats, potatoes, and oats
again, or barley sown down with perennial rye-grass and clover.
The culture of wheat was introduced here within the last twenty
or twenty-five years, but has never been carried to any great ex-
tent.  A large proportion of the parish is ill adapted to this crop.
Indeed, a great deal of it is fitter for pasture than any kind of crop.
There is a fine breed of Ayrshire cows; and the butter and cheese
derived from the dairy,-the rearing of young cattle, and fattening
of others for the neighbouring markets of Paisley and Glasgow,
are the best sources of emolument to the farmers on the more ele-
vated districts.  This kind of farming might in many places be
improved by irrigating wbinstone soils, and converting them into
highly productive meadows.  This was practised with great suc-
cess by the late Andrew Moody of Heathfield, Esq.
   Though these hints may be of some use, yet the grand means
of improvement are to aim at the moral and religious culture of
the people.  Mere intellectual culture and liberal acquirement, if
not brought under the influence of religion, are not enough.  There
are hosts of politicians among the mechanics and workmen in every
manufacturing district, who, in intellectual acumen and one kind
of information, are elevated above their station; and yet, from a
want of regard to religion, and the industry and tranquillity which
flow from it, are some of them indigent and unhappy, and neither
amiable nor useful members of society.  Religion ought to be the
governing principle, not merely at individuals and families, but of
magistrates and governments.  Upon the latter it is incumbent to
promote religion and good morals, just in the same manner as it
belongs to them to do whatever may promote the peace and well-
fare of society.

   Revised January 1836


