
			OCHILTREE.                            117

cure lodging for the night, and a little bread to person who were
found, upon strict inquiry, to be in want. Whilst by this arrange-
ment, provision was made for the really needly wanderer to help
him on his way, the artful impostor, who was wont to make a
lucrative trade of begging, found the source of his gain cut off,
and was led, in some instances at least, to abandon his improper
call altogther. For some months past, this rule has been de-
parted from, and the consequences is, that vagrants are making their
appearance in great numbers. It is ddsirable that all parishes
should join in the adoption of some plan for putting an end to this
great and crying evil.
  Fairs.-There are two fairs held in the villages of Ochiltree dur-
ing the year-the one on the second Wednesday of May, and the
other on the first Tuesday of November. At these fairs, horses,
and black-cattle of all kinds are sold, servants engaged, and such
other matters transacted as are usually settled by farmers, &c. at
similar meeting throughout the county.
	Inns and Alehouse.-There are six place of this description in
the village, but none in any other part of the parish. These have
had no visible effects upon the morals of the people. At the same
time, it is much to be wished, that fewer of such houses were licen-
sed. The opportunities and enticement which they offer to the
idled and thoughtless for spending their evening together, may lead
to the most injurious consequences.
  Fuel.-Coal is the principal artice of fuel. Some peats are used.
The coals which are procured from Drongan, in the parish of Stair,
and at Garallan, in the parish of Old Comnock, cost at the pit
about 5s. per ton, and the carriagd of a ton the village is 6s.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATION.
		Since the Statistical Account given by the Rev. William Thom-
son, the parish roads have been very much improved, and a better
and more regular system of cultivating the land has been adopted,
from which the best effect have followed. Great improvement
has taken place in the stock of horses, cows, &c. and especially in
the management of the dairy, which has given the very first place
in the market to the cheese of this district. The rental of the pa-
rish has increased from about L. 300 to L. 8176, 10s. Sterling,
and the inhabitants undoubtedly enjoy, in a much greater degree,
what are usually considered the comforts of life. Much may be
yet done in the way of improvement, by drainning, following, and
planting, which in the course of a few years would be great be-
nefit to the proprietors and tenants of the parish.
	July 1837.


