
                                    CRIEfF.                             489

      they will more naturally fall unddr a description of that parish than
      of this, and we shall therefore take no farther notice of them  here
      than to say, that they are included in every census which has been                                            which hm,bom
      taken of the parish of  Crieff by order of Government.
        The lowland division, which is more properly the subject of our
      observations, is an irregular four-sided figure, and may contain about
      3800 imperial acres. It is bounded on the north-east by the pa-
      rish of Foulis Wester; on the north and north-west by the parish
      of Monzie, and the water of Shaggy; on the east by the Pow, which
      which divides it from Monivaird ; on the east by the Pow, which
      divides it from the parish of Madderty; and on the south by the
      river Earn, which divides it from the parish of Muthil; with the
      exception of a single farm of about 100 imperial acres belonging
      to Crieff, which lies south of the Earn, and which was cut cut off by
      the river having changed its course about the end of the seven-
      teenth century.
       The length of the parish from north-west to south-east is
      about 4 miles;  the breadth nf it from south-west to north-east
      is about 3 miles; and the only eminences of any consequence
      are the Cnoc or Knock of Crieff, a hill of an oval shape, which
      rises immediately behind the house of Ferntower to the height of
      about 400 feet above the level of the sea, and Callum's bill, which
      stands south-west of the same mansion. They are both in the
      park of Ferntower, and both are well, wooded with different kinds
      of fir and forest trees.
         Meteorology, &c.-The climate upon the whole is remarkably
      good, variable perhaps, but salubrious. The temperature is higher
      than either in the  parish  of Monzie on the north side, or in
      the district of Strathallan on the south; and more rain falls in
      both, these places than in this. The explanation usually given is.
      that the Ochil hills on the south, and the Grampians on the north                                         and e: . piano on,
      are believed to attract the clouds, and thus to cause a greater fall
      of rain among themselves, and in their neighbourhood. But what-
      ever may be thought of the explanation, the fact is undisputed, that
      heavy showers are often seen falling round us, while Crieff and its
      vicinity are enjoying fine weather.  The quantity of rain that an-
      nually falls in the strath is ascertained to be much the same with
      that which falls in Mid-Lothian, and the harvest is generally.

      ment for the plantation of Kirks, and their decreet of disjunction and annexation
      of several lands within several perthshire of the presbytery of Ochtererdec. where
      by the lands of Easter Glenalmond. Callander, and Alebagzie were disployed from
      this yaroch of Crieff, and annexed to the paroch of Monxie."



