
566                 	       LANARKSHIRE.

same nature near Chapel. * Guy's Well, a sulphurous chalybeate
in Garrion Gill, from which Guy Hamilton, afterwards mentioned,
was executed for being concerned in the Pentland rising, was accus-
tomed to drink, whilst lurking from his pursuers. There are nu-
merous petrifying springs, as they are called, at the tower of
Hallbar, Jock's Gill, Bashaw, &c. For notices of an ancient lake
and river course, we would refer to the geological department, to
which they more properly belong.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The geological features of the pa-
rish are interesting in many points of view; but as even a sketch
would occupy too much space, we shall notice only the more im-
portant.
	Towards the western boundary of the parish, portions of the
main and splint coal of the Clyde field, with their attendant seams,
crop out; on the south-eastern divison, the old red sandstone
presents itself--so that within three miles of surface, the whole
inferior coal seams, and the carboniferous limestone range, are in-
cluded. Taking the order of superposition, we shall first notice
the coal, which has a peculiar distribution in the district.
	1. The first or highest workable coal is found at Law of Maulds-
lie, called the soft coal,+ of 10 feet, lying about 14 fathoms above
the main coal.
	2. Four fathoms above the main coal there is a seam of 2 feet
9 inches (the Pyetshaw coal of the Monklands).
	3. The main coal, a seam 5 feet thick.
	4. The splint coal, from 14 to 16 fathoms under the main
coal, and of nearly the same thickness.
	Between these last, there are two seams, the one six inches, the
other about a foot. The same arrangement, with trifling diffe-
rences, takes placeat Chapel, in Cambusnethan parish, close on our
north-west boundary, the soft coal being out of the section. The
dip of the strata, in the extreme west and south, (without the fault
about to be noticed,) is nearly due west.
	An extensive fault or upcast, the boundary of which, consisting
of a mass of freestone, is traceable from the lower part of Fid-
dler Gill, on the south, in a semicircular direction by Jocks Gill,
Law, and Bogside, or, in other words, south by west to north, brings
the coal seams above enumerated to the surface. A considerable
portion of the coal range, however, which lies nearer the Clyde, in

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Duds, a chirurgeon of some celebrity in his time, lived at Chapel in 1696.
          Throughout this account the local names have been adopted.


