
     Statistical Account

obstacle that would stop or retard the marriage.  I know an
instance in a neighbouring parish in which parties within
the forbidden degrees of consanguinity were thus married.
When a young couple meet with any obstacle to their
union,-when, from wantonness or humour, they spurn all
regular forms,-or when they are too impatient to wait for
proclamations, they apply to the procurator fiscal to get a
justice of peace to marry them.  He instructs them to tell
the justice that they were married at such a time, but to re-
fuse to name the celebrator and witnesses.  Whereupon the
judge first decerns them to pay the legal fine; and next,
upon a representation of their poverty, etc. by virtue of his
or their power as justice or justices of peace, modify this
fine, sometimes to half a guinea, sometimes to 5 s. and some-
times even to much less.  They get an extract of this sen-
tence, pay the procurator-fiscal, and the ceremony is over.
Can any idea be more ridiculous, than that a person should
apply to a public prosecutor, pay him, and be instructed to tell
a lie to the magistrate, merely to get himself punished for a
crime, which he is conscious he never committed.  Many
of these poor creatures are afterwards so ashamed of this
farce, that they apply to their parish-ministers to be regu-
larly married.  To what length the absurd and wanton ir-
regularity of justice of peace marriages, as they are called,
may be carried, and what disorder they may introduce into
society, if not checked by the Legislature, it is hard to say.
Surely the laws against irregular marriages were intended
to prevent, not to encourage such practices.  While, how-
ever, they are thus executed, if this can be called executing
them, they are so managed as to defeat their own end.  I
know of no clause in all the acts of Parliament relating to
such marriages that permits the justice to mitigate the fine.
On the contrary, they are expressly appointed to substitute
certain corporal punishments in place of the legal fine, when


