
1068                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

of their support from the kindness and beneficence of their more
affluent neighbours. Whenever any urgent case occurs, a contri-
bution in meal and money is immediately made in the vicinity for
its relief.
         Fairs.-There are five great markets held on a green admir-
ably adapted for the purpose, between the village of Charlestown
and the church, viz. at Candlemas, Michaelmas, and Hallowmas;
one also in June, and another in July.
         Inns.-There is an excellent inn, the Huntly Arms, at Aboyne,
and four secondary ones in the parish.
        Fuel.-Bog peat and hill turf are used for fuel. There is also
much wood, particularly fir, burned; and many drive coal from
Aberdeen.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
        Fifty years ago, the fields were regularly checkered by baulk and
rig. Drill husbandry and green crops not to be seen, save in a few
rare patches of grass or turnip in some of the farmers' kailyards, and
perhaps a head-rig or some odd corner in potato for a bonne bouche
in harvest. The breed of cattle light, and of an interior stamp; the
horses (though mettlesome) mere highland garrons; the sheep
small in carcass, and scanty in wool. The houses of rimple struc-
ture: lums for chimneys, and wooden boards for windows. Currocks,
and creels, and litter trees supplied the place of carts; winnowing
weights that of fanners; and hair and moss-fir tethers, or willow
and birch withes, were substitutes for hempen ropes. The querne
was partially used; and though the laddle mill had disappeared, it
had been only superseded by the cog and rung. Clumsy and ill-
constructed ploughs were drawn by ten or twelve oxen, with the
"curvus arator" slowly turning the huge furrow, and the gad-
man's whistle, in autumn and spring, heard on every side. The
roads were wretched; and the nearest post-office and bake-house
at Aberdeen. Many of the young men appeared in kilt, hose, and
brogues; and all, old and young, at church and market, with
breacan and bonnet. The women, too, were dressed mostly in
home-made stuffs, and gudewives adorned witli the barred plaid.
The grain raised was little more than sufficient for the wants of
the parish. From seed-time to harvest many of the men were
employed in the manufacture, of tubs, harrows, plough-beams, &c.
which they carried to Old Rayne fair, the Aberdeen timber and
Auldto, markets. In the summer, the women were employed in spin-
ning the wool of their sheep; and many a web was ready for the


