
DUNINO.      365

Mr Cleghorn of Stravithv; Mrs Mouat of Pittairthy; Mr Purves of
Kinaldy; Mr Hannahof Kingsmuir, and the Kirk-session of Elieon
the south coast. All those properties have come into the possession
of the families of the present land-owners, within the last thirty-two
years, save Pittairtby, Kingsmuir, and Primrose. It is said that
Pittairthy, forfeited to the Crown, was sold by Royalty to the Earl of
GleDcairn, and has continued in a younger branch of that illustrious
family till the present day. Kingsrxiuir has been at least eighty-
one years in the family of Mr Haniiah. Primrose was a section sold
from Balcaithly, within the last forty-six years.
,4ntiqi.iities.-Until within tlielast few years, there werethree war
castles or fortalices in the parish. One was on the east of it, over-
hanging the south bank of the Kenly, called the Castle of Draffan,
supposed to have been built by the Danes, who often invaded the
east coast of Fife, and slew one of the Scottish kings at Crail.
The second was the Castle of Stravithy, a little west from the
centre of the parish. It is described by Sir Robert Sibbald as
entire, about a hundred and twenty-seven years ago; it was a regu-
lar fortalice, situated in a bog with ditch and drawbridge-, and,
according to the son of a feuar who lived hard by, was surrotind-
ed with ornamental walks and lofty trees, some of which trees at
present remain. The bog has been drained, and the site of the
castle been converted into corn-land. The third is the Castle
of Pittairthy, built on a declivity towards the south part of the
parish, and commanding a wide prospect of the German sea.
Though it has long been unroofed and unrepaired, it may defy
the assault of the elements for centuries to come. This structure
appears to have been erected at two separate periods. The west or
first built is a large square tower, the date of erection uncertain.
Near the west top, was a keep or dotijon, very common in those
military abodes, with a strong iron grating across an opening in the
wall, to serve for a window. The whole under part is vaulted,
whhch probably served for cellars, kitchen, and bed-rooms. The
upper part of the castle is perforated with holes, by which to an.
noy the besiegers. The east or modern part, according to the
inscr' tion on it, was built in 1653, by Sir William Bruce of Kin-
IP
ross. It contained only a baronial hall, and two sleeping apart-
ments, stone-paved.
About one furlong and a third north of the church, on Danino
Law, from which it has been shown the parish probably derives' its
name, the riiins of a nunnery were dug up and removed in the


