
     Statistical Account

   The usual allowance given to a pauper, on the ordinary
list, is 3 s. per month.  This allowance, though it may appear
scanty to such as have never thought on the subject, is ra-
ther ample, when compared with that given in 1691.  Meal
was then almost the only food of the poor; and the price of
it, taken on an average of 25 years, was, by the Mid-Lothian
fiars, 11 s. per boll, or 8 3/15 d. per peck.  The wages of a la-
bourer was then from 5 d. to 6 d. per day.  They now get
from 10 d. to 1 s.; and in all probability they get more con-
stant employment; and the price of meal, by the same fiars
and average, is 14 s. 3 8/11 d. per boll, or 10 9/11 d. per peck.  Nor
do the poor any longer depend solely on meal for their food,
as that most agreeable and nourishing root, the potatoe, is
every where raised in great quantities, and is happily become
the "sustenance of the poor, and luxury of the rich*." The
medium price of it here is from 4 d. to 4 6/12 d. per peck,
weighing full 20 Lb.  Dutch weight, about equal to 21 3/4 Lb.
avoirdupois.  It is to be lamented, however, that this blessing
does not lessen the number of applications for aid from the
parish:  On the contrary, they are becoming more frequent;
and receiving parish assistance is no longer looked on, by the
poor themselves, or even their relations, with that horror it
was formerly.  When the receiving parish supply comes to
be regarded as a common occurrence, it is obvious, that the
poor's rates +will become general in Scotland, unless the greatest
attention is paid by all ranks of people to prevent it.  The
management of the poor is a most difficult business.  It is cer-
tainly the wish of every benevolent person, to relieve their
wants as far as possible; but to establish rates, is creating a
burden on the industrious, without giving relief to the pauper.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Vide Somerville's Fable of the Two Springs.
+The laws of assessment for the maintenance of the poor, not hav-
ing been universally put in practice in Scotland, have made many


