
                       LARBERT.                        343

  Geoloqy--Alluvial Deposit.--The Carron, from Dunipace to
Dorrator and Stenhouse, runs in a flattish haugh, which varies in
breadth in different places. This haugh is bounded on each side
by sloping banks of sand. The inclination of these banks is va-
rious. The top of the banks near the Carron Iron-works is about
75 feet above the level of the sea. From the top of the bank, the
surface of the ground extends, in some places nearly level, in others
at different angles of elevation, to the low hills which bound the
valley. These banks are the section, or, in other words, the face
of the alluvial deposit which, on the left, bank of the river, extends
back to the sandstone heights ¢f the Torwood. In some parts of
the Torwood, the sandstone is at the surface and bare. The sand-
stone is also bare and comes to-day in some parts of the bed of
the river, as at Larbert bridge. This alluvial deposit, of which the
haugh is an excavation, was probably formed in the sea, at a re-
mote period, anterior to all historical record; the land, as several
geologists maintain, having been afterwards heaved up to its pre-
sent height, by the action of the melted matter in the interior of
the globe. Such elevations of the land in some cases happen very
slowly and gradually, as the elevation of the land of Sweden on
the shores of the Baltic, which is now observed to be going on.
That an elevation of the land has taken place in Britain, at a pe-
riod subsequent to the deposition of alluvium, is inferred from the
ancient sea-beaches or sea-strands, marked by oyster and other
shells, which are found 30 or 40 feet, or more, above the level of
the sea at many places of the coast.
  After the sand and other alluvial matter was deposited by the
sea, forming an alluvial bank, part of it has been carried away by
the stream of the river and the tides, so as to form the haugh ot
the Carron, and through this haugh the river now runs. The
river, in the course of ages, has gradually changed its course to
different parts of the haugh, according to the various obstacles
which the stream met with. At Dunipace, the river has worn away
much of the alluvial deposit, so that the haugh at that place is a
pretty extensive piece of level ground. In this piece of level
ground, the river has left two insulated mounts, which are part of
the alluvial deposit.
  Sand.--In some of the sandy parts of the alluvial deposit, the
sand is in fine grains without admixture of small stones. This fine
sand is employed for sand-moulding at the Carron Iron-works.
Other parts of the alluvial deposit consist of coarser sand, of small


