
88                           INVERNESS-SHlRE.

    Concerning the cave at Raitts near Belleville, slightly noticed
in the former Statistical Account, several curious facts have been
handed down by tradition, which here deserve to be recorded.
This cave, of which the excavation when entire amounted to
145 solid yards, was artificially built round with dry stones, and
covered- on the top with large gray flags, by a desperate band
of depredators, nine in number, commonly called Clannmhic illena
oidh. It is not certain to what particular clan these depredators
belonged. Instigated by implacable revenge against the Macpher-
sons, on account of some deadly feud, they secretly dug the cave,
which is called, after their name, Uaigh. Clannmhicqillenaoidh, as a place of concealment, from which they occasionally sallied forth
in the night time to steal and to slaughter the cattle of the Mae-
phersons, wherever they could be found. Over the cave was erect-
ed a turf cottage or dwelling-bouse, such as the people of the coun-
try inhabited at the time, the inmates of which enjoyed the con-
fidence of Clannmhicqillenaidh, were the depositaries of their se-
crets, and participated along with them in the spoils of the Mae-
phersons. The Macphersons finding the number of their cattle
daily diminishing, made a strict search after them, but for a long
time without effect. At length appearances were noticed about
the but erected over the cave, which excited a strong suspicion
that the lurking place of those depredators could not be very dis-
tant from that hut. This suspicion was increased by the inhospi-
table churlishness of the landlord, who, contrary to the custom of
the times, would permit no stranger to lodge for a single night in his
house. Accordingly the Macphersons sent one of their number as a
spy in the garb of a beggar, to solicit a night's lodging in the sus-
pected hut; and feigning illness from a fit of the gravel, the beggar
was allowed to remain in a barn or outhouse for the night. The
beggar being thus disposed of, the most active preparations com-
menced within the house for,a sumptuous entertainment; and the
feast being prepared, a large flag was raised in,the e-ei-itre of the
house, on which Clanumhicgillenaoidh came out, feasted on the
Macpherson's choicest beef, along with the inmates of the house,
and then spent the remainder of the night in search of a fresh sup-
<FOOTNOTE>stands, on which is sculptured a bust, exhibiting a very striking likeness of the tran.
          slator of Owian.
          On the summit of Tor Alvie, a conspicuous hill, situated north-west from the ro-
          mantic cottage' of Kinrara, a tnanument has been erected by his Grace the present
          Duke of Gordon, with a beautiful brass plate on the side fronting Kinrara. On this
          plate is an inscription commemorative of the officers of the 42d and 92d Regiments
          who fell at Waterloo.


