
                           LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.                           1127

<TABLE>
                                              Brought over,      L. 12000 0 0
                                                       Rent,         4000 0 0
                                                                 ------------
Balance to pay expense of cultivation, and afford a return for capital
     invested,
                                                                   L.8000 0 0
     Manufactures.-At the carding-mill already mentioned, plaids,
blankets, &c. are manufactured to a small extent; and a conside-
rable number of women, chiefly of the aged and poorer class, em-
ploy themselves in knitting stockings from worsted, furnished to
them by the Messrs Hadden in Aberdeen, and thereby earn an-
nually from L. 70 to L. 100.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Town.-Aberdeen, the county town, though not quite
so near as Kintore and Inverury, is the market, to which almost
all the produce is carried; and the carts generally return laden
with lime or coals. The distance is twenty-eight miles from the
centre of the parish. There is a pretty good commutation road of
about six miles, which joins the Alford turnpike at Whiteley, in
the parish of Tough. The Government road from Donside to Dee-
side, the best road in the district, intersects the lower part of the
parish, running along the western bank of the Leochel for about
three miles; and the Tarland turnpike passes for about two miles
through the southern border of the lands of Corse. The bridges
on these and the other roads in the parish are generally in good
repair, with the exception of that over the Leochel at Scuttrie, on
the Whiteley road, which was carried away by the flood of 1839.
The nearest post-offices are Alford on the north-east, and Tarland
on the south-west, each six miles distant from the centre of the
parish.
    Ecclesiastical History.-The old church of Leochel was dedi-
cated to St Marnan, that of Cushnie to St Bride. Marnoch
fair, at the kirk-town of Leochel, was long held on the first Tues-
day of March, and the small farm adjacent to the old church of
Cushnie is still named Bride's Well. The sites of both the old
churches were, according to tradition, supernaturally pointed out.
Portions of the walls of the old churches are still standing; no
date is visible at Leochel, but at Cushnie the date 1637 is to be
seen, and on a broken stone, 14--, indicating an erection in the
fifteenth century. For some time after the Reformation, there
were only readers at Leochel and Cushnie as spiritual instructors
of the people. In 1576, the reader of Leochel had a Stipend of
L. 16, with the kirk land, and in 1593, Mr Gilbert Brown was
reader there. In 1567, Mr James Patersoun was reader of Cush-


