
310                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

common fame be that of truth, it was too often the scene of more
merriment than discretion. It is now not a little remarkable for
that species of tranquillity which is closely allied to dullness. Of
ancient families, several mansions, venerable either in form or by
decay, or both, may still be pointed out. Northfield House,
the early proprietors of which, with their descendants, have, in
common with their ecclesiastical forerunners, long since passed
away, is situate at its western extremity. At no great distance
from the south-west turn in the road, is the house in which a
branch of the Harniltons once resided. It is memorable as having
been a place of security from the ravages of the plague, in grateful
commemoration of which the words "no plague shall near thy
dwelling come, no ill shall thee befall," are said to have been in-
scribed over the principal door-way. To the north of the village
stands the venerable tower in which the lords of the soil dwelt for
many a day. Its origin is involved in considerable obscurity. Sir
Walter Scott, who from his familiar acquaintance with the parish,
no less than his zeal for antiquarian learning, must, (if any living
man could have known any thing whatever of its earliest history,)
have been intelligent and accurate regarding it, supposed it to have
been an out post of the Earls of Home in those remote times when
that noble family ruled with princely authority over the whole
south-eastern district of Scotland. However that may be, towards
the conclusion of the fourteenth century, the castle and estate of
Preston came, by marriage, to the family of Hamilton of Fingal-
ton and Ross, the premier cadet of the name. The castle, of
which the keep alone remains, was burned in 15449 by the Earl of
Hertford; again, in 1650, by Cromwell after the battle of Dun-
bar; and it must have been a place of considerable strength and
importance. The estate, which was sold prior to the Revolution
of 1688. has been long parcelled out.
   Preston Cross.-In a garden, on the opposite side of the road
from the castle garden wall, is the ancient cross of the village.
Annually, in the beginning of July, it is the scene of a little inno-
cent merry-making. As if at the summons of some ancient wizard,
in a mood of mirth and gentleness, a numerous company unex-
pectedly encircle the solitary pillar, and, amidst the agreeable
warmth of a summer noon, interchange many pleasant and Mend-
ly salutations in commemoration, doubtless, of important transac-
tions which happened long ago. Their accustomed rites being
duly performed, the reign of silence is again allowed to resume its


