
                               FOGO.                        225

trick, Earl of March. *  The farm of Sisterpath, to tho west of
the church, may probably have taken its name from the religieuses
having their solitary walks in that direction.
   An old farm-stead, now converted to a cottage, stands on the
bank of the river, a quarter of a mile west of the church; it is called
Corbiehall. A gentleman, versed in Berwickshiie antiquities, says,
that its proper name should be Corbetshall from a person of that
name who came to this country with William the Conqueror.
The bridge over the Blackadder, near the church, like all old
bridges, is narrqw, but being founded upon rock, it has stood
without repair, except in the parapet, ever since it was built. Sir
James Cockburn of Langton and Riselaw built it at his own ex-
pense, in consequence of a dispute with a neighbouring proprietor
as to the ground on which it is placed; and he caused the follow-
ing inscription to be put upon it: "Sir James Cockburn of Lang-
ton and Rislaw did this brig."  His descendants still inherit the
title; but the property has passed into other hands.
   Land-owners.-There are only four land-owners in the parish,
viz. Henry Trotter of Mortonhall, (proprietor of two-thirds;) Miss
Robertson, heir of William Robertson of Ladykirk; Sir William
Purves Hume Campbell, Bart. of Marchmont; John Foreman
Home, of Wedderburn and Caldra. None of them reside in the
parish. Caldra-House is let. Mr Trotter lately rebuilt a small
country house at Charter-Hall, which he visits for a few days on
business. The other two proprietors have no mansions in the
parish. All the other houses are occupied by tenants and ser-
vants, except the manse and schoolhouse.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in the parochial regis-
ters is dated A. D. 1660. The Episcopal clergy, when turned out,
generally carried off the records. The registers have not been so
complete as could be wished,-the mother's name being omitted,
which is sometimes as essential to her descendants as the father's.
The registers have been lately new-modelled, and a register of
burials added to those of births and marriages.
   Antiquities.-The only vestige of antiquity in the parish is an
old Roman camp at Chesters, in the west end of the parish; the
stones of which have been mostly removed to make way for the
plough. The situation shows how careful the Romans were of the
health of their armies,-the soil being light and dry,-and the si-
tuation being near water, and by its elevation, commanding an

<FOOTNOTE>See note, p. 93. London, 4to edit. 1776.

   BERWICK.                        P


