
				STRONSAY AND EDAY.		       157

	   Topography.--Stronsay has eight principal headlands and promon-
	tories.  These are the following: Towards the north, Linksness and
	Huipness ; towards the east, Griceness, Odness, and Burrowhead ;
	and towards the south, Lambhead, Torness, and Rousholmhead.
	The principal bays are, Mill Bay, on the east side; Holland's Bay,
	on the south side ; and Evigan Bay, on the west side.  All the
	headlands are low, except Burrowhead and Rousholmhead, which
	consist of bold and elevated rocks.  The three bays terminate in
	a sandy beach.  There are two excellent harbours, each having
	two entrances namely, Linga Sound, on the west side, protected
	by the small island of Lingholm ; and Papa Sound, on the north-
	east side, protected by the small island of Papa Stronsay.
	   Stronsay is of moderate elevation.  There is, however, a ridge,
	running almost continuous from north to south, considerably higher
	than the rest.
	   There are several small islands connected with Stronsay.  These
	are Papa Stronsay and Lingholm, already mentioned, as also the
	two holms of Huip, near the shore, on the north side, and the
	Holm of Auskerry, about three miles to the south.
	   The three last holms contain only pasture grounds, and are
	uninhabited.  Lingholm has one family dwelling on it, and a
	small portion of it is under cultivation.  Papa Stronsay, by far
	the most valuable of these small islands, is about one mile in
	length, and one-half mile in breadth.  It contains several families,
	and is very pleasant and fertile.
	   Eday lies about the middle of the North Isles of Orkney, to-
	wards the north-west from Stronsay, and separated from it by the
	frith called Eday Sound, about four miles broad.  It is about
	seven and a-half miles in length and three in breadth, having an
	area, including Pharey and the holms, of about eleven square
	miles.
	   The name of this island has been derived, by some writers, from
	the eddies produced by the rapid tides that wash its shores.
	Others, however, have derived it from the word heath, and in
	proof of this, they refer to records some centuries back, in which
	Eday is written Etha.  If this latter derivation be correct, it may
	be observed, that the name is strikingly descriptive of the cha-
	racter of the island, as heath covers the greater proportion of
	its surface.
	   The principal headlands in Eday are, Veness, towards the
	south-east; Warness, towards the south-west ; Fersness, towards


