
			BORGUE.        			     49

from our shores. So far as can be judged from the rounded form
of the stones, that form the now dry sea-beach, the regular lines
of embankment raised at former periods by the waves, and the
sand and shells cast up in other places where the coast is less
rocky; we would infer it as a point clearly demonstrated, that
the tide formerly rose at least twelve feet higher than it now does;
in which case, it is evident that much of the low land of which
our carses consist, was once under water.
	There are appearances from which it might be suspected that,
at a time still more remote, the tide had risen a great deal higher
on our shores, but these are of a much less decisive character.
	Geology, Soil, &c.--The rocks of this, as of tje adjoining pa-
rishes belong to the transition class; forming a ramification of the
great series, which is said to extend from At Abbs Head to Port-
patrick. The rocks which predominate are greywacke, greywacke
slate, and clay slate. The former of these, named provincially
whinstone, is of blue or greyish colour, breaking irregularly;
yet, as being of a very compact texture, and impervious to moisture,
it answers as well as granite or to the best sandstone, for the purposes
of house or dike building. The rocks of this description, may be
examined to advantage, any where along the shores of Borgue.
They are in some places very distinctly stratified. At the Ross
and Muncraigs Heughs, this is particularly noticeable, the beds
being arranged in a variety of positions, often covered, and form-
ing in many instances an angle od seventy or eighty degrees with
the horizon, the dip being from the north-east to the south-west.
In some instances strata of different inclinations are seen to meet,
presenting in that case the form of a series of Gothic arches, rising
one above another. Underneath the lowest of these, it occasion-
ally happens, as may be supposed, that an empty space is left,
whence originate the caves that are so frequent, and so attractive
to lovers of the marvellous, on our Galloway shores. Whilst the
rock above-mentioned forms the principal component part in the
hills of this parish, there is connected with it, and usually incum-
bent upon it, another, which might appear tp belong to a later
formation. This latter is a soft, shivering, argillaceous stone, but
partially stratified, mixed with earth of a reddish colour, and which,
on exposure to the atmosphere, soon crumbles down to a soft or
earthy slate. It is of the same nature probably as the shiver
(German schiefer) of English miners.
	These rocks alternate with each other over the surface in no
	KIRKCUDBRIGHT.				    D


