
     of Tiry.

are able to accompany them.  When feeding in the mea-
dows, or fields, they are sure to keep at a distance from rocks
and dykes, and have constantly a centinel.  When flying
they form an angle about 45 degrees inclined.  The goose
in the angle leads the rest, till he changes his place, and a
neighhour succeeds him.  Swans also, in smaller companies
with their melodious march, come as passengers upon the
lakes.  Many thousands of gray plovers are seen together,
especially upon the reef or great plain; they observe the
same season with the wild geese in hatching elsewhere.  The
green plovers hatch in the island.  Rails are very numerous.
Mouse coloured swallows inhabit the sand banks.  The cuc-
koo is very rarely seen.  Magpies, and many other birds
which are upon the mainland, never appear.  There are
neither serpents, toads, frogs, weasels, non venomous crea-
tures of any kind.  Rabbits are numerous, lodging in the
sand in the east end of Coll; and a couple of hares introduc-
ed there, about 7 years ago, are increased to many hund-
reds*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antiquities.-There are many signs of Danish invaders
having for some time possessed these isles.  Among these are
Fingalian and other tales repeated by the inhabitants, mention-
ing engagements and the names of chieftains.  At this day they
point out their burying-places, whence the ground derives its
name.  Nor are their dins, forts, or watch-towers, less re-
markable.  There are 39 remains of them in the two islands,
generally built on rocks, round the whole coast, and within
light of some other.  They are said to have been used, when
an enemy appeared, for suddenly alarming the country by the
signal of fire.  There are two walls without any appearance of
lime or other cement.  The inner is circular, and the outer often
assumes, the figure of the rock on which it is founded.  The
whole of these isles and a considerable part of the mainland
were named Inseadh-Gaul which signifies the isles or places of se-
curity for strangers.
   There are 15 remains of old chapels or churches, at some of
which are burying grounds and crosses still to be seen.  There

     VOL. X. 3 E


