
     Statistical Account

Scotch pint of oil, in value 1 s. Sterling, and the same num-
ber are fold at three half pence, which are purchased to be
carried to the country for food, or for the dunghill, and,
properly mixed with earth, make an excellent manure.
They are generally caught in the months of July and Au-
gust and employ the whole attention of fishermen at that
time, so that scarce any other fish is caught.  Turbot is now
caught frequently, and in great perfection.  Thirty years
ago they were seldom used here, frequently cast into the
dunghill, or left to waste on the sea-beach.  They at pre-
sent fell from 4 d. to 1 s. Sterling each, and are rising eve-
ry day in the price.  This is one evidence of the style of
living being much changed in this place.  Greater quanti-
ties might still be caught if eels were used for bait; the
eels that are found here are sometimes employed, and an-
swer better than any other bait.  The lamprey eels might
be tried, which are found in England, and are purchased by
the Dutch in large quantities, from whom many lessons
might be obtained in the article of fishing.  They fish for
cod on this coast every summer, and for herrings, which
frequently are very numerous; but none are caught here
by the natives of this place, though they are perfectly ac-
quainted with the manner of catching them, and send seve-
ral ships every year to the Hebrides for that purpose.  Last
year in the Murray Frith, within twenty miles of this
place, herrings were in such plenty, that children, fitting on
a rock on the shore, and dropping a line with two or three
small notched hooks fastened at the end of the line, and
pulling it up briskly, caught the herrings by the belly in
great numbers, which were fold through the country at a
very small price.  At that time I do not recollect to hear
of a single ship on the coast employed in catching them.
The cat fish, though reckoned a delicacy by some people,
is seldom used here.  The are great varieties of gray


