
                        NEWTON.                             577

1732) to erect a loft for themselves, "providing that the posses-
sors and users of the said loft shall be obliged to keep the roof of
the church above the said loft always in repair at their own charges,"
which hard, and, as it appears, unreasonable condition, was com-
plied with, on their part.
   The manse was built in 1803, has had its accommodations re-
cently increased, and is in good repair. It stands on the glebe,
and is about half-a-mile east from the church, the reason of which
is, that when both were removed from their former situation, the
proprietor of Edmondstone, whose lands surrounded the old glebe,
had none nearer to give in exchange.
   The glebe, including the site, of the manse, garden, and offices,
extends to somewhat more than seven acres of good land, which
lets at L. 5 per acre. The great value of the glebe, however,
arises from the coal under it, which, after a decision of the Court
of Session bad been obtained, * establishing the minister's right
to the minerals, was sold for the sum of L. 2500. From this there
was deducted, by the authority of the Court, the expense of pro-
cess, &c. amounting to L. 193, 13s., and the balance of L. 2306,
7s. is heritably secured on lands belonging to John Wauchope
Esq. of Edmondstone, by whom the purchase was made in 1815,
at 5 per cent, interest, for the benefit of the incumbent. It thus
produces L. 115, 6s. 4d. yearly.

   The teinds are exhausted, and the stipend consists of
<TABLE>
               Wheat,  25 bolls 2 firlots 1 peck 2 2/5 lippies.
               Barley, 52   do. 3   do.          3 1/5 do.
               Oats,   78   do. 1   do.   2 do.  1 3/5 do.
</TABLE>

   The average amount of the above for the last seven years, at
the fiars prices, is L. 147, 16s. 5d. There is also L. 53, 6s. 8d.
Scots, or L. 4, 8s. 10 1/2 d. Sterling, for communion elements, and
100 merks, or L. 5, 11s. 2d. of mortified money, making the ave-
rage of the whole amount for these years to L. 273, 2s. 9 1/2 d.
   List of Incumbents.-Allusion has already been made to Law-
rence Watson and John Barbour, who, as readers, enjoyed the-
vicarage, there having been no clergyman ordained to the pastoral

<FOOTNOTE>
* By this decision it is believed this point was finally and authoritatively settled.
The interlocutor of the Court of Session, which is of dated June 1807, is as follows:
--" Upon report of Lord Bannatyne, and having advised the mutual informations for
the parties in these conjoined actions, the Lords, in the suspension, repel the reasons
of suspension, and in the declaratory find that the minister has right to work the
coal in question below his glebe, at the sight and under the direction of the heritors
and the presbyters and that the value and proceeds of the coal are also to be under
their control end management, for behoof of the minister and his successors, and de-
cern and declare in terms of the other declaratory conclusions of the pursuer's libel,
and remit to the Lord Ordinary," &c.
</FOOTNOTE>

