
     of Duffus.

and knowledge universally diffused.  In those appeals to the
people, which it necessarily produces, nothing so much as a
competent degree of knowledge can guard against the effects of
imposture, and can establish, from age to age, in the public mind,
a steady attachment to its free and unequalled constitution.-
The poor at present amount to 60; and all the public supply
they have is from the church collection, which is about 5 s.
each sunday:  scanty provision indeed!  We received with gra-
titude our share of the bounty in grain, sent to us, in the year
1783, by a wife and humane Legislature.  How strange, that
the same humane and enlightened policy, which saved from
famine many individuals in one season, should shut its eyes for
so many years, against the operation of a tax (viz. that on coals),
which, in its effects, has, every year, embittered the existence
of thousands in the northern parts of Scotland, and, at the same
time, has proved an invincible bar to the increase of population
and wealth, by the introduction of manufactures.  Thank
God, that tax is about to be abolished.

   Fuel.-The mosses here are utterly exhausted; and we de-
pend on Northumberland chiefly for coals, which cost very
dear.  The expence of a private family, situated at the dis-
stance of 8 miles from the harbour, and using three fires con-
stantly, is about 24 L. a-year, including the payment of carriage
from the ship.  When the odious and impolitic tax on this
commodity, at the Red-head, is taken off, then shall we of the
north date the first year of equality, and of rational taxation.

   Roads.-Were have no turnpikes, nor is the statute labour
commuted.  Road-making here is, as yet, but in its first rudi-
ments.  It seems strange, that society, all over Europe, should
have perfected (so far as it appears capable of pertection,)
intercourse by the watery element, long before general plans
have been any where adopted, for perfecting the internal in-
tercourse of countries, by rendering good roads universal,

     VOL. VIII.   8 D


