
			ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                     331

	been voluntarily alienated. The chief historical ititerest of the
	parish may be said, indeed, to rest on the fact, that in it is situated
	the principal stronghold and residence of this very ancient family;
	and it may not be foreign to such an account as the present, to
	say a few words regarding their early history.
           In a statement, professing to be drawn from the chronicles of
	Iceland, it is said, that several Norwegian chiefs, tired of the ty-
	ranny of Harold Harfinger their king, abandoned his dominions,
	and betook themselves to the sea in quest of a habitation where
	they might enjoy liberty. They landed on the Pharo Islands,
	which they found uninhabited, and of which they took immediate
	possession. After this they subdued Orkney and Shetland, the
	Isle of Man, and all the Hebrides, as well as several tracts on the
	mainland, from Caithness to the Mull of Cantyre. These scat-
	tered possessions were formed into two principalities, or rather a
	kingdom, and an earldom,the seat of the former being in the
	Isle of Man, that of the latter in Orkney. Both the King of
	Man and the Earl of Orkney exercised for a time an independent
	sway; but they were soon found out by their old master, who com-
	pelled them again to acknowledge his supremacy,-at least nomi-
	nally. These islands then continued attached to the Crown of
	Norway until the battle of Largs in 1261, when Magnus son of
	King Haco, surrendered them to Scotland; guaranteeing, how-
	ever, to the Norwegian settlers all the rights and privileges which
	they formerly possessed.
	   The first Earl of Orkney was Torf-Einar son of Rognvallar
	Earl of Maeria, in Norway, and brother to the famous Rolf-
	Gaunger, or Rollo the Dane, the founder of the Duchy of Nor-
	mandy. One of his descendants. Thorfinn, left a numorous fa-
	mily of sons, who quarrelled about the paternal inheritance, ap-
	pealed to arms, and deluged the island with blood. Liot or Leod
	(as it is now written by us), one of the number, apprently more
	peaceably disposed than his brothers left the scene of contest, and
	settled himself in the Island of Lewis,tbe Gaelic name of which,
	Leodhas, signifies the habitation of Leod. He was the common
	ancestor of the numerous and powerful clan of Macleod, which
	became divided into two main branches, springing respectively from
	his sons, Tormoid, and Torgil or Torquil. From Tormoid is de-
	scended the chief of the Macleods of Skye, sometimes styled of
	Harris, of Dunvegan, of Macleod. From Torquil are descended
	the Macleods of Lewis, now represented, though not in the direct.


