
			PETTIE.                                381

revolutions on the earth's surface, to be able to trace the appear-
ances and formations of the undulating plain, lying between the
foot of the ridge and the sbore of the Fritb, to aqueous causes.
Some seem inclined to regard the appearances which this district
presents, as indicative that it once formed the estuary, on which
the waters which flowed from the Great Glen of Scotland strug-
gled with those of the Moray Frith; and that the undulating sur-
face consists of the accumulation of sand and soil then thrown up,
and before which the sea has retreated. Others have adopted the
theory, that the sea formerly covered a channel, extending from
the Moray Frith to the western coast, along the Great Glen,
or the line of the Caledonian Canal; and that the land which
now separates the two seas is an upheaved bed or beach of the
sea. Whatever facts other districts may furnish in support of
these views, nothing has been brought to light in this parish,
so far as we know, which would indicate that the formations in the
plain are from marine deposit. Lyell, in his account of the en-
croachments of the sea on the land in different places round our
island, notices, that "there have been inroads of the sea at Fort-
George, and other places in Morayshire, which have swept away
the old town of Findhorn." This supposes the sea to have ad-
vanced inwards in the Glen, and not to have retreated. Anterior
to such irruption of the sea, the parish must have formed the basin
of a fresh water lake, and the formations must be the effect of a
fluviatile, not marine deposit.
   The greatest excavations which have been made in the lowest
parts of the vale do not penetrate deeper than, if so deep as, the pre -
sent level of the water in the Fritb. The lowest stratum is compos-
ed of arenaceous clay and marl, rarely capable of being applied to
any useful purpose. It is not unlikely that this rests on the sand-
stone on which Fort-George is built, almost in the very waters of
the Frith. This lower stratum forms the bed of the moss; and
on it, where the ground ascends from the moss, we find superim-
posed a stratum of very varying thickness, of a very fine white and
compact dead sand. On the top of this, and sometimes, in its
mass towards the top, are very thin layers of sand, looking as if
coloured with oxide of iron. In some places there is no soil over
this sand-not a sufficient growth of grass to conceal it-but a
feathering of broom, rising so spontaneously, as to show that, if it
were not uprooted for fuel by the poor, the surface would soon be
clothed with it. On much of the land in cultivation, the broom


