
                   INCHINNAN.                             127

their own houses, and clever girls make from 10d. to 1s. a-day,
which often enables them to assist their parents in old age, or when
under disease.
   Quarries and Mines.-Limestone and coal exist in abundance,
and have been both wrought, the former to a considerable extent ;
but the proprietors have not encouraged extensive operations in
these departments.  The quarries of freestone on the estate of
Park have been extensively wrought, and produce stone of superior
quality.  The church and bridge of Inchinnan were built of it.
Rashelee is rich in the same products.  Freestone of a good co-
lour and very durable quality, is now being wrought with great
spirit.  Since the year 1760, its whin dikes have supplied the river
trustees with all the stone required by their extensive improvements
in contracting the channel and deepening the bed of the river.
   Husbandry.-The land is in a high state of cultivation, and all
the modern improvements with respect to rotation of crops, manures,
and draining, have been adopted.  Where stones can conveniently
be had, they are used for the latter purpose; but tiles are in most
request.  A tile-work has been recently erected on the estate of
Blythswood.  The tenants are supplied with tiles at the rate of one
guinea per thousand, and they are permitted to drain to any ex-
tent, Mr Campbell defraying the immediate expense, and they, dur-
ing the continuance of their leases, paying interest at five per cent.
on the outlay.  Persons not upon the estate of Blythswood are
supplied with tiles at an advance of two shillings per thousand.
The trenching plough has been lately introduced upon the estate
of Southbarr.
   The land being chiefly under crop few horses are reared.  Those
employed in agriculture are generally of the Clydesdale breed.
The number of farm horses is 97.  Almost all the cows are of the
Ayrshire dairy stock, and particular attention is paid to the rear-
ing of them.  The number of milk cows generally kept is 250.
   The farm-buildings. are commodious and well built, and, with
few exception, slated.
   The parish contains 3060 acres, which may be arranged as follows:

<TABLE>
            Arable in cultivation       .       2000
            Natural pasture,    .       .     .  100
            Sites of houses, roads, waters, .   . 60
            Woodlands,          .          .     300
                                                ----
                                                3060

   Produce.-The yearly value of all kinds of produce, is, at a rough
guess, as follows:


