
32                              BUTESHIRE.

           Turnips, 83 Scotch acres.
           Rye-grass and meadow bay, 6820 imperial stones.
           Flax, 260 do.
           Eggs, 350,000.
           Cheese, 3500 imperial stones.
           Buttdr, 4800 do.
           Herrings, 2660. barrels.
           Other fish 2900 imperial stones.
           Sheep produce annually, 2260.
           Horses. do. 150.
           Pigs, do. 630
           Milch oows grazed, 1050.
           Other cattle do. 750.
           Poultry, 3,800.
           Straw consumed by cattle, 109,000 imperial stones.
           Limestone quarried, 3400 tons.
           Freestone do. 300 do.

                     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Towns and Means of Communication.--The re are no
market-towns either in  the parish or island. The people carry
their cattle and produce to market to the different towns on the
mainland; principally Saltcoats and Ardrossan; with which there
is regular steam communication throughout the, year. The Isle of
Arran steasn-packet plies between Arran and Ardrossan, twice a-
week during the winter and spring months, and in summer daily.
From the beginning of, June till the end of September, the steam-
boats of the Castle Company ply regularly between Glasgow
and Arrantwice a-week. There are two annual fairs in the; parish
at Lamlash in the beginning of winter, and the other at Brodick,
the last week of June. The Lamlash fair is thinly attended; and
any little business done at it, is almost exclusively confined to the
selling and exchanging of horses. Brodick fair, though established
only a Iew yearr ago, attracts great crowds both, of the inhabitants-
of Arran, and people from the maindland; and there is considera-
ble busness done at it, in horses, cattle, and wool. The post town
is Saltcoats. In connexion with, the post-office of that town, there
are two subordinate offices in the parish of Kilbride, which com-
municate with it daily, Sundays excepted, in summer and autumn,
and twice a-veek during the rest of the year. Perhaps no island in
the Hebrides is better accommodated with roads. From Gortan
Alister, a little south of Lamslash, to Brodick, there is a Parlismen
tary road, wich was last year regularly macadamized, and is always
kept in a state of excellent repair. In 1817, a line of road in
continuation of this, made at the expense of the Duke of Hamil-
ton, and kept in repair by the statute labour of the district, and from
its southern point round the whole of the southern and most va


