
<APPENDIX>

multitude of its abbreviations.  If Parliament does not take it up, perhaps
it is not beyond the powers of the Society of Antiquaries to accomplish.

   Camden's Britannia, in its present improved state, is deservedly held in
high estimation, and many eminent persons, in every branch of literature,
hve, with infinite labour and research, contributed to illustrate a number
of articles, which, in the original editions of that work, had been either im-
perfectly explained, or totally omitted.  It is a work, however, better cal-
culated for the pursuits of the antiquary, than of the statesman.

   The Political Survey of Britain, by Dr. Campbell, printed in two vo-
lumes, 4to, anno 1774, is a judicious and laborious compilation, of all the
information that the author could collect during a period of about 20 years.
It contains a feries of reflections on the situation, lands, inhabitants, reve-
nues, colonies, and commerce, of this island; intended to shew, that we have
not as yet approached near the summit of improvement, but that it will af-
ford employment to many generations, before they push, to their utmost ex-
tent, the natural advantages of Great Britain.

   In his preface, after giving a concise account of his attempt, he expressly
says, "on the plan here pursued, we had no guide, though many helps and
" informations, without which, whatever it may be, it could never have
" been performed."

   He introduces the work with stating, that in the light in which he was
about to consider it, "the perfection of policy is, so to improve the natu-
" ral advantages in the possession, or in the power of the society to which
" it is applied, as to make all, without distinction, who compose that socie-
" ty, as happy as it is possible, and to place this happiness on the firmest
" basis, so as that neither the ever mutable tempers of men, or the inevitable
' vicissitudes of time, should affect it."

   The Doctor, unfortunately, had not materials sufficient for completing
such a work, in the manner in which it ought to have been done.  Had he
lived a few years hence, possessed as he was, of zeal, industry, and judg-
ment, his labours would have appeared to infinitely more advantage.

   I understand that some queries, probably at the instance of Government,
have, at various times, been circulated amongst the English Clergy, by the
Bishops of their respective dioceses.  The result of these inquiries I have not
been able to discover, nor whether any public advantage has been derived
from them.

   It was, in some respects, with a view of ascertaining the state of the
population of the kingdom, that a small duty was laid on christenings and
burials; but the tax being found inadequate for that purpose, and vexatious
in its operation, it was soon afterwards repealed.

   The institution of the Board of Agriculture, was for Statistical as well as
Agricultural objects.  When I moved for the establishment of that Board


