
               438                    ARGYLESHIRE.

               maritime towns upon the opposite coast. There is no resident
               medical practitioner in the parish.
                 Hydrography.-The parish possesses a considerable extent of
               sea coast, consisting chiefly of low promontories of different forms
               and dimensions; all jutting towards the south-east. The more
               prominent of these are separated by expansive bays flanked at the
               entrance with mural ridges of rock, whilst the fine sheet of water
               that intervenes, usually terminates in beaches of brilliant sand.
               The remnant of the coast is composed of numerous indentations,
               forming in miniature those peculiar beauties of creeks, harbours,
               and other inlets of the sea, which refresh and delight the eye up-
               on a larger scale. The moors abound with lakes whose margin is
               tame and uninteresting. They generally teem with trout. Those
               found in Lochnabreck on the estate of Cour, weigh from two to
               four pounds and are of an exquisite quality.
                 The rivers take their rise from lochs or marshes at the distance
               of five or six miles from the sea. They are Skipness, Claonaig,
               Crossaig, Sunadale, Carradale, Torrisdale, and Saddell. Of
               these Carradale is by far the most considerable, affording to the
               angler ample sport, from the par to the full-grown salmon. Pe-
               rennial springs of pure and delicious water are frequently to be met
               with. Two or three possess chalybeate qualities.
                 Geology and Mineralogy.-By far the greater part of Kintyre
               is mica-slate, and in this parish it strikingly predominates. The
               usual dip of the rock is toward the north at an anale of 45&deg;, ex-
               cept when disturbed by basaltic trap veins which intersect it.
               Quartz in veins and nodules everywhere abound, which generally
               run parallel to the mica slate, though they occasionally cut it at
               right angles. Several of these dikes contain nodules (apparently
               filled up cavities) of very fine olivine of considerable size. In the
               neighbourhood of these the character of the mica-slate is consi-
               derably altered, partaking of the features of an aggregate rock
               filled with small spheroidal quartzose masses, of a reddish colour.
               Of rolled mmses the district does not present much variety.
                 The most conspicuous deviation from the ordinary geological
               character or the parish is the occurrence of large detached blocks
               of granite, of an extremely hard texture. In ` quarry at Carra-
               dale, about two years ago, were found some small but perfect spe-
               cimens of obsidian, a species of volcanic product or lava. In the
               mass it was almost black, but in thin fragments it became semi-
               transparent, and presented the appearance of green bottle glass.
               There are no minerals of the precious order in the parish.


