
                      PARISH OF BLAIRGOWRIE.*

            PRESBYTERY OF MEIGLE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

               THE REV.  ROBERT M'DONALD, MINISTER.



                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-IN the former Statistical Account, the name of this
      parish is said to be derived from the Gaelic word Blaar, signifying
      a place where moor and moss abound.  By another theory, it is
      connected with the Gaelic word signifying battle, or the place of
      battle.  Gowrie was the ancient name of the district in which the
      parish is situated, and seems to have been added to the term Blair,
      to distinguish it from other places of the same name, as Blair-
      in-Athole, Blair-Logie, Blair-Drummond, &c.  The barony is
      said to have formed a part of the extensive possessions of the un-
      fortunate family of Gowrie.
       Extent, Boundaries, &c.-The figure of the parish is exceed-
      ingly irregular; but the length is considered to be about 7, and
      the average breadth about 1 1/2 miles English, which would give a
      superficial extent of about 10 1/2 square miles.  This computation
      is exclusive of two detached portions of the parish, (to be imme-
      diately noticed), which, it is supposed, contain together about
      6 square miles additional, making a total superficies of some 16 1/2
      square miles.  The main division of the parish is bounded on the
      east, partly by a detached part of the parish of Bendochy but
      principally by Rattrav parish, from which it is separated by the,
      river Ericht, which forms the boundary line of the parish for the
      space of 10 miles; on the South, by Bendochy parish; on the
      south-west and west, by the parishes of Caputh and Kinloch ; and
      on the north, partly by another detached part of Bendochy, and

      partly by the parish of Alyth.    As already noticed, there are
      two portions of the parish separated from the main division,
      by the intervention of branches of the parishes adjoining.  The
      largest of these detached parts lies to the north-west of the

      <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by William Shaw Soutar, Esq.  Writer in Blairgowrie.

      PERTH.                                          3 L


