
     of Campbelton.

the poverty and mode of living of the generality of the in-
habitants in the town; the extent of the parish; and to the
want of access to public worship and instruction, occasioned
by the ruinous state of the established churches, which, for
25 years past, have been alternately unfit for the public exer-
cise of devotion.  But, it is to be hoped, this reproach will
soon be removed, together with its principal causes.  A cha-
rity school has been for some years established in the town,
and two more are about to be erected in the country, in
consequence of the liberal encouragement offered by the
Duke of Argyll, where his Grace's interest is chiefly con-
cerned, and an application made to the Society for Propa-
gating Christian Knowledge, for their aid.  The Highland
church too, so long wanted, and so much needed, is about
to be rebuilt; and the younger people, from seeing the bet-
ter success of manufactures, become every day less devoted
to the sea-faring line.  A public library was likewise set on
foot a few years ago, of which any one, who chooses, may
have the benefit for 6 s. a year.  This institution promises
much utility, by diffusing general knowledge and a taste for
reading.  A library, consisting of religious tracts and sacred
writings, has also been lately set on foot by one of the cler-
gymen, who expects much good from his institution.  The
books, are, with little trouble, handed to such persons as at-
tend for the purpose of reading between sermons.  Every
reader, or sharer in this compilation, pays only 1 s. per an-
num; and it is intended, when the institution can afford
it, to give the use of the books, that have been for the great-
est length of time in the circle, to such of the poor, as may
wish to read them, gratis.  Books of controversy, (which
are read with such avidity by the common people in Scot-
land,) are carefully excluded from this collection, as the
fruit which they produce is bitter.  The ancient martyr

     VOL. X. 4 B


