
                	   MONEYDIE.                          201

receiving occasional visits from a lover, thev both caught infec-
tion, and fell victims to the desolating malady. The other indi-
vidual mentioned is a great-grand-uncle of the late Sir William
Drummond of Logiealmond, a zealous partisan of the house of
Stewart, who signalized himself at Sheriffmuir, not more for his
bravery, than for his prodigious feats of strength. His formidable
broadsword is still exhibited as a curiosity in the Tower of Lon-
don. Without any disparagement to the merits of this redoubled
warrior, it is presumed that posterity will be more disposed to re-
cognize as the ornament of his family and of his country, his late
eminent and accomplished kinsman, the author of " Origines,"
and the " Academic Questions."
   Antiquities.-In the- department of antiquities, few parishes, it
is believed, are more barren than Moneydie.  Some years ago,
a few vestiges remained of the old castle of Kinvaid, which are
now completely removed.  The author of the last Statistical
Account speaking of this ruin says, " it seems to have been
built before lime was known as a cement." From Myln's history
we learn that it was built by Bishop Brown, for the purpose
of protecting his tenantry from the predatory incursions of some
of their lawless neighbours, and cannot therefor be above 350
years old. A spot, supposed to have been the site of a Roman
camp, is still pointed out; but its genuineness is very doubtful.
Like many other Roman camps, if its history were known, it would
very likely turn out to have been a sheep-pen.  Or if it must be
held to have been a military post, it is more likely to have belong-
ed to the Scots or the Daiies, being in the immediate vicinity of
the spot where the battle of Lunearty is rupposed to have been
fought.  Several cairns of stones have been met with, which upon
examination haven been found to cover human bones.   One or two
circles of stones also may still be seen, which are not unlikely to
have been places of Druidical worship; and particularly at the
western extremity of Logiealmond, there is one remarkable block
about 12 feet high and 18 feet in circumference, standing upon its
narrow end, with three other stones in its immediate vicinity.  It
is commonly called the Kor Stone.
   In the boundary line between Logiealmond and the old parish,
there is a point at which the three dioceses of Dunkeld, Duam-
blane and St Andrews met.  Tradition has it, that the three bishops,
happening to meet at this point in the course of their perambula-
tions, pledged each others health out of three wells that happen-


