
                          KIRKCALDY.                        755

scriptions of linen goods annually manufactured in the town may
be reckoned at not less than L.200,000.  Besides the home trade
in England and Scotland, these linens find markets in Canada,
the United States, South America, the West Indies, and Australia.
   The manufactures have created an extensive trade in bleaching
and dyeing. Some manufacturers dye their own yarns, others em-
ploy public dyers.  There are only two bleachfields in the parish,
one of them is doing very little business; but tbere are other five
in different parts of the county, belonging to merchants and ma-
nufacturers in the burgh.  The yearly receipts for bleaching yarns
at these seven bleachfields amount to fully L.30,000.
   Previous to the introduction of mill-spun yarn, manufacturers
got their flax dressed in the town, and sent it to agents through-
out the country, to be given out to women to be spun.  Inferior
yarns were imported in large quantities from Germany and Prus-
sia.  Hand-spun yarns were also brought from Ireland, and par-
cels were occasionally procured from the north of Scotland.  The
difficulty of obtaining supplies of yarn was so great, that orders for
goods bad often to be refused. Yarns continued to be imported
till within the last ten years.
   Cotton spinning was carried on here till about 1805.  It was on
a very limited scale however, as may be inferred from the fact, that
neither steam nor water power was ever applied to it.
   Flax-spinning, by machinery, was introduced into this neigh-
bourhood from Darlington about 1793.  At first the frames were
small, and were driven by the hand.  In 1807, a steam-engine of
six horse-power was applied to flax-spinning.  The price of mill-
spinning after its introduction was from 1s. to 2s. per spyndle; at
present it is not more than 3d. to 5d., and the price of a spyndle
of yarn used in the common manufacture of the district, is from
1s. 6d. to 2s.  At present a girl will attend fifty spindles, and
will produce 25 spyndles of yarn per day.  About forty years ago a
girl attended 24 spindles, and produced seven spyndles per day.
Mills are now erected in Kirkcaldy or the neighourbood, belong-
ing to merchants and manufacturers within the burgb, which con-
tain 13000 spindles, the cost of erecting which must have been
L.90,000, and they will produce 6000 spyndles of yarn per day.
Besides supplying the manufacturers in the district, the spinners
now export large quantities of linen yarns to France. Notwith-
standing the difficulties interposed by the additional import duties
on linen yarns lately imposed by the French government, the trade


