
592		                  AYRSHIRE.

Statute 1695, prohibiting Saturday markets, it was changed to
Friday, upon, which day it still remains. On this day, there is no
exposing of articles on the street for sale, but country people at-
tend to transact business, and fairs are always held on this day,
except such as are fixed on a particular day of the month, such as
the festival of St Inan, vulgarly called Tenants day, which is held
on 18th August, old style. This fair is celebrated for its show and
sale of horses, and is attended by a great concourse of people. The
other more particular fairs are New Years-day Friday, Candlemas
Friday, May Cow Fair, and Martinmas Friday, all of which are
held on the first Fridays of the respective months of January, Fe-
bruary, May, and November, old style. There used formerly to
be a fair in June, called the Trades Race, in which the trades as-
sembled and went in procession through the town with music and
flags, but this has long been given up. On the day after the Trades
Race, the merchants of the town used to meet and walk in proces-
sion, and afterwards dine together. The procession has also been
given up for many years, but the convivial part of the ceremony
is still retained, and the annual dinner continues to be respectably
attended. This society is of some standing. They have a regular
minute-book, from which it appears that they were constituted as
a society prior to 1727, and it is said, that at their first institution
they held a charter from the Earl of Eglinton. They have a set
of useful rules which are in verger and are read over to the new
members at their initiation. The president is annually elected,
and during the festival is styled "my Lord." This society com-
prehends all the merchants in town. All those who commence
business are called upon at the return of the festival, and in some
degree compelled to enter. Founding upon the long continuance
of the custom, the office-bearers have considered themselves en-
titled to use compulsory means to make the new merchant join
their society, and failing his doing so, to seize brevi manu his goods
to the value of the entry money. On a principle of this kind, it was
decided by the Court of Session in the case of Callender, 11th July
1672, M.D. 10892, that "forty years possession gave a Sheriff
right to ride a fair, and exact so much for gloves and, for the best
staig in the fair," although there was no special grant on which the
exaction was founded; but it has not been necessary of late to re-
sort, to compulsory measures with the Beith merchants, to make
them become members of this society, as the doing so and attend-
ing the annual meeting is considered a matter of amusement and


