
326			LANARKSHIRE.

salary of the schoolmaster is the minimum, being about L. 26.
Amount of parochial schoolmaster's fees per annum is L. 20. All
children at the proper age are taught to read, except a few be-
longing to the Roman Catholic persuasion at the mills.*
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--There is no assessment in this pa-
rish for the poor. There is at present a fund in the hands of the
heritors, minister, and kirk-session, amounting to L. 213, 13s.
which is increasing. The foundation of this sum is said to have
been donations left to the poor of the parish by benevolent per-
sons, who occasionally resorted to this part of the country to
enjoy the benefits of the well at Park. There are at present
only four persons on the poors' roll. The expenditure for the
poor during the year from February 1834 to February 1835 was
L. 29, 18s. 8d. and the average of five years preceding February
1835 was L. 37, 15s. 4d. The allowance per week is from 1s. to
2s. 6d. The people at Blantyre works support their own poor,
and never allow them to be chargeable to the parish.
	Alehouses, &c.--There are 13 alehouses in the parish, one of
which is at Blantyre works. Coal is almost the only fuel burned,
and it is generally brought from Hamilton, and laid down at the
village of Blantyre, which stands nearly in the centre of the parish,
at about 6s. 6d. per ton. The present contract for coals laid down
at Blantyre Works is 4s. 11d. per ton.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The changes which have occurred in this parish since the pub-
lication of last account are considerable. The population has
increased from 1040 to 3000, and the comfort and intelligence of
the people keep pace with their numbers. This must be owing
in a great measure to the stimulus given to industry by the great
manufacturing establishment of Messrs Monteith and Company.
It has been supposed that agriculture is scarcely so far advanced
here as in some neighbouring parishes. This may perhaps be at-
tributed to the easy tenure by which most of the proprietors now
hold their lands; being a very small or mere nominal feu from
Lord Blantyre. On the whole, however, the people of Blantyre
have reason to congratulate themselves on the rapid strides they
have already made, and are still making.

	July 1835.

<FOOTNOTE>These children are now, however, in terms of the late Factory Act,
obliged to at- tend the school.


