
                           ASHKIRK.                           273

most the whole parish belonged to gentlemen of the name of Scott.
In the following lines from Satchel's poems, we find almost all the
properties in the parish mentioned by name.

              "And John of Middlestead together came;
              Robert of Huntly he did not fail,
              He came with the Scotts of the Water of Ail ;
              So did Walter of Todrig that well could ride,
              And Robert Scot, brother to Whitslade,
              Andrew of Sallinside he was one,
              With James of Kirkhouse. and Askirk's John;
              Robert of Headshaw himself would gang,
              He was his honour's cousin-german ;
              Sinton and Wall, they stay'd at home,
              Kirkhouse and Askirk went in their room;
              Because it was my Lord's decree,*
              But younger brethern they all should be."

      In the Lyon Office of Scotland, there are some curious and in-
teresting particulars of the Scotts of this parish, many of whom
were celebrated in the border wars of the time.  It is stated in the
pedigrees compiled by Dr William Scott, that a younger son of
the then Baron of Buccleuch (1288) named John, was sent to St
Mungo's, Glasgow, for his education, being lame, and hence unfit
for the then border service.  Walter, the grandson of the said
John, became a chamberlain to the then Archbishop of Glasgow,
who had a large interest in the parish, as we have already seen, and
recommended him to his cousin of Buccleuch, when the said Wal-
ter, acting for the bishop in the capacity just mentioned, settled at
Burnfoot, on the water of Ale.  This Walter, called by the cant
name of Watt the Ratton, from his fellness and activity, married
a daughter of Mr Shortread, of Headshaw, by whom he had four
sons; the eldest, George, his heir, of Synton ; the second, Scott of
Headshaw ; the third, Scott of Glack ; and the fourth, Scott of Ash-
kirk in Roxburgshire.
      It is recorded by the same authority, that George, the seventh
from Buccleuch, and fifth of Synton, married a daughter of Thomas
Scott of Roberton, in Roxburghshire, by whom he had two sons,
Walter and William; Walter, the eldest, was designed of Synton ;
and William, the younger, of Harden.  It is from this William
Scott of Harden that the present Scott of Gala, Selkirkshire,
Scott of Woll, Scott of Synton, Scott of Raeburn, &c. are de-
scended.+

      * The "Lord's decree" here mentioned, was the then Lord Buccleuc, who chose
thirty-three of his kinsmen to take Armstrong from the Castle of Carlisle,
      + See Captain W. Scott's Genealogical Essays, part. 13, 17, 19, 20, 66, &c.
See also Baronage of Scotland, and Nisbet's  Extracts from the Lyon Office, printed
in his Heraldry.


