
	                  DUNIFACE.		   	    385

average, say, 90; miscellaneous, employed during the course of
the year, 20; tierers, composed of boys and girls, one to each
printer,-the ages of this class of workers vary from six to twelve
years, 200. Total number employed, 620. Journeymen printers
earn from L.1 to L.1, 10s. per week; male apprenticed earn
from 10s. to 15s.; and females from 5s. to 10s. per week, accord-
ing to their respective skill and expertness; print-cutters and
drawers earn from 15s. to L.1, 15s; labourers from 7s. to 12s.;
and tierers from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per week.
  Of the workmen belonging to these two printing establishments,
about one-third are domiciled in this parish, the other two-thirds
live in the opposite side of the river Carron, in the village of
Denny; consequently, the general manners of the inhabitants in
both places are very similar.
  The scenery around Denovan Works fascinates the eye of every
traveller. On their southern boundary, the red-roaring Carron,
with its thousand associations, just escaped from its native moun-
tains, moors, and glens, rolls its now peaceful waves. A little to
the eastward stands the parish church with its beautiful Gothic
tower, rising majestically above the surrounding oaks. A few yards
higher in the landscape, stands Mr Adam's House, delicately
screened from the northern blasts, by the rising eminences in the
back-ground of this beautiful panorama.
  Mills.-There are in this parish three grain-mills, two flax-Mills,
one mill for carding and spinning wool, and one for grinding charred
wood for Carron Iron-Works.
  Quarries are four in number-all producing superior freestone.
One of them abounds with excellent flag or pavement stone, which
has an exthensive sale, Considerable quantities of these flags are
carried in carts and boats to a great distance. These quarries
employ about 40 individuals.
            V.-PAROCHIAL Economy.
  Village.-There are three villages-Herbertshire Denovan,
and Torwood; the former contains about 761 and the two latter
about 150 inhabitants each. There are eight tipplin-housei, one
to every thirty-seven families; and in the closely Adjoining village
of Denny, there is a tippling-house for every twenty families, and
the whole seem to be well-frequented some of them both night
and day.
  Bridges.-Previous to the year 1824, carriages passed the Car-
  STIRLING.                                      13-b


