
658			AYRSHIRE.

would, not thrive in the cold wet climate and pastures of the west.
But since the system of open-draining moor lands has been prac-
tised, this evil has in part been remedied, and the great superiority
of the wool of this cross breed has more than compensated any
loss from rearing the more tender stock. The loss, indeed, from
severe and wet seasons, and the deterioration of the animal, has
been so little, that it is contemplated, as the sheep-walks are im-
proved, to approach still nearer to the pure Cheviot.
	Husbandry.--The parish in many parts has, of late years, made
great progress in agriculture. Wherever furrow draining with tiles
or stones has been adopted, and it is rapidly extending, the im-
provement is visible. There are great facilities for perfecting
this system in the tile-works and stone quarries in the parish.
The chief obstacles are the want of capital, the state of rents and
markets, and the general duration of the leases. The last might
perhaps be obviated, were some such principle followed as that of
lengthening the lease, in proportion to the number of acres which
a tenant drains and improves at his own cost. But indeed, the
causes noticed are in the way of being in a great measure remov-
ed, by the enlightened liberality of some proprietors, of whom I
might mention, Mr Hamilton of Sundrum, Mr Oswald of Auch-
encruive, and Mr Burnett of Gadgirth, who either execute the
drains at their own expense, and receive an interest of four or five
per cent. on the outlay; or supply the tiles at a reduced price; or
afford other encouragements to the tenants. The nature of the
greater part of the subsoil in the parish being cold tenacious clay,
subsoil ploughing must be of the greatest benefit. This has been
practised to a very limited extent. But as few tenants possess the
requisite force, and the expense considerable, it is feared this
great improvement will not soon become so universal as could be
wished.
	The dairy is an object of chief attention, and is managed with
great skill on many farms. Cheese, usually known by the name
Dunlop, is made in great quantities, and sometimes of supe-
rior quality. It may give an idea of the amount of dairy produce
sold yearly, to state that in most farms about one-half, in some
nearly two-thirds, of the rents are paid by it.
	The grain chiefly raised is oats. Wheat is small proportion;
soil and climate in most parts being hitherto unpropitious. The
turnip husbandry, till of late, was not much attended to. It is
now getting into greater favour both with soil and tenant, and



