
			EDDERTOUN.                        437

the northern coast of the parish, and after passing Bonar Bridge is
commonly termed the Kyle of Sutherland; the navigation is quite
safe for vessels. not exceeding 100 tons burthen.  Springs are nu-
merous, and some break out quite fresh within high water-mark,
when the tide recedes: such as appear throughout the interior of
the parish are excellent for ordinary use.  They are perennial, but
whether of any peculiar quality is not known, as none of them
have been analysed.
  There are no lakes or lochs here. The rivers are four in num-
ber, viz.  Eddertoun, Daan, Easter Fearn, and Grugaig, (the surly
stream,) and are commonly known by the appellation of burns;
in dry weather the flow of water is small, but during heavy rains
they become suddenly swollen, and rush along With great violence
and limpetousity.  On Sunday, 15th September 1839, the bridges
of Easter Fearn and Grugaig were swept away, and the other two
so much undermined, that they narrowly escaped a similar fate.
These bridges have since been rebuilt, but it is a remarkable fact
that the old bridge at Easter Fearn, which is situated about 500
yards further tip the river, and is at least half-a-century old, wid-
stood the force of the current, while its more modern neighbour
gave way, and that it was by it that the public road went, while
the present bridge, which has only been -opened the other day,
was being rebuilt.  The bridge of Eddertoun probably owed its
escape to its having been very carefully built, as its predecessor
was carried off in the year 1799, by a flood or speat, which
rose to such a height, as to enter at the windows of the manse,--
which was then situated on its banks, and close to the church,--
destroy much of the minister's furniture, and occasion the aban-
donment of the house, and removal to its present site.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-The rock of Cambuscurry presents
an extended front of considerable height towards tbe public road.
It consists chiefly of red conglomerate sandstone, broken into dis-
tinct, truncated, and somewhat pyramidal masses; the fissures run
from east to West, and the blocks lie at an angle of about 12&deg;
northward.  In the hill of Strui, the strata are of various kinds
such as old red sandstone, gneiss, quartz, granite, and whinstone;
and the dip averages from 15&deg; to 25&deg; towards the north.  It is re-
markable that near the foot of this but and towards the shore,
the dip is inward to the south, as if the strata in the valley had
broken down in the centre.  Here, too, the secondary stratified de-
posits of old red sandstone and conglomerate rise high up on


