
     Statistical Account

bitter malice and revenge against legal government.  Of
these it may be said, more justly than in the instance in
which the expression was lately applied by a popular ora-
tor, that they draw every thing into their vortex.  No prin-
ciple is strong enough to oppose their force, no horrors are
so ghastly as to restrain their violence.  If private revenge
be justly condemned as base, unmanly and wicked; re-
venge of a public nature, revenge against established go-
vernment, must be much more criminal: For who can li-
mit its pernicious tendency, or say how far its direful ef-
fects may reach?-Contingencies often oblige rulers to
increase the public taxes; such as wars, conflagrations, na-
tional losses and calamities, etc.  The inconsistence of those
who exclaim against taxes, and with the same breath wish
success to the French, must excite indignation; because the
longer the French are successful, the longer must the war
be continued and taxes be increased.  But I trust, that in
Great Britain, the true lovers of their country are most
numerous, by a very great majority; and what has a vir-
tuous and resolute majority to fear?  They will spend the
last farthing which they can afford, they will spend the last
spark of life, and fell it dear, rather than submit to the
French.  If French principles, political and religious, pre-
vailed, this world, to any good person, would not be worth
the living in.-One's indignation must likewise be rai-
sed at hearing of a popular orator introducing into his po-
litical harangues, either as a pattern or an apology for the
seditious, the effusions of Mr Burke's enthusiasm relating
to America.  Many men, as wife as Mr Burke, have been
in error, and have retracted.  The Americans, perhaps,
have no great cause now to thank Mr Burke, or any who
then favoured their cause.  But America is at present out
of the question.  The French Revolution carries a very
different aspect.  Mr Burke has published to the world his


