
        14                       SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

        light, that during the high winds which prevail from March to June,
        it is drifted in every direction like fresh laid snow.
          The stipend was augmented on 6th February 1832, from four-
        teen chalders, and L. 8, 6s. 8d., to seventeen chalders, and L. 10 for
        providing the communion elements.  The victual is half meal, half
        barley, imperial standard weights and measures.
          There is one catechist in the parish, appointed by the Com-
        mittee on the Royal Bounty, with a salary of L. 7.
          There is no chapel of any description here: no Dissenters from
        the Established church; and only one family of Seceders, who
        almost regularly attend public worship in the parish church.
          The average annual amount of parochial collections for religious
        and charitable purposes may be stated at L. 28 or L. 30.
          Education.-There are seven schools in the parish, of which
        three are in the town,-the parochial school, a female school on the
        second patent of the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian
        Knowledge, and another female school without salary, the teacher
        depending on the school-fees.  In the landward parish are two
        schools on the General Assembly's scheme, and two on that of the
        Glasgow Auxiliary Gaelic School Society; besides which, the people
        in remote small districts hire a young lad to teach their children dur-
        ing the winter quarter; after which the school breaks up till next
        winter.  The Holy Scriptures and the Assembly's Shorter Cate-
        chism. are taught in all these schools.  Many are taught also to read
        the Bible in Gaelic.  Dr Thomson's English school-books are in-
        troduced into most of them.  Arithmetic, book-keeping, English
        grammar, and Latin, are taught.  The parochial schoolmaster has
        the maximum salary, with a large house and garden.  The school-
        fees are of no great value,-not exceeding L. 6.   The teachers
        belonging to the Glasgow Society have L. 14 each: those employ-
        ed by the General Assembly's Committee, have each L. 20 of sa-
        lary, besides fees.  Suitable dwelling and school-houses are pro-
        vided by the heritors in all these cases.   The schoolmistress at
        Dornoch has a salary of L. 8, with a good house and garden.
        It may be observed in general, that the fees in all these schools
        are, of very little value ; that, so desirous are the people to give the
        advantages of education to their children that some are sent to
        school at the age of five; that female education is better attended
        to than formerly; and that during last winter nearly 500 attended
        schools.
        About 700 persons in the parish are unable to read, above six


