
			BALMAGHIE.			  185

byterian or Episcopal, in regard the General Assembly had not
declared the same by their explicit act." As a later stage, he gave
in a written statement of grievances,as affecting, in his judgement,
the purity and Scriptural character of the Church. In taking this
step, he had avowed concurrence of two other members of the
presbytery, but who afterwards withdrew their support, so that he
was left alone. After a variety of proceeding in the case, the
narrative of which occupies a large portion of the presbytery re-
cords at the time, and Mr M'Millan still preserving, upon the
whole, the attitude he had assumed, the presbytery at length pro-
ceeded to his deposition, in December 1703. This sentence they
pronouced mainly upon the ground that the course persued by
Mr M'Millan, in withdrawing himself from the presbytery, and in
other respects, was, in their judgement, essentially divisive and
schismatic. Such, however, was the regard in which he was held
by the parishioners, that they resisted every attempt to eject him
from the manse and church. Mr William M'Kie, though legally
inducted to the charge, was obliged to hire a house for himself,
and to offciate in a barn to those who were willing to acknowledge
and attended his ministry. * At lenght, after the struggle had con-
tinued in the parish for twelve years, Mr M'Millan retired volun-
tarily, and connected himself with the United Societies which ex-
isted in various parts of the country, and adhered to Mr Came-
ron's view of the ecclesiastical polity. In 1743, he was joined by Mr
Thomas Naire, a minister of the Associate Presbytery, but who
had seperated from the body. These two ministers, together with
some ruling elders, concurred in constituting a presbytery at Brae-
head, in the parish of Carnwath, on the 1st of August 1743, un-
der the appellation of the Reformed Presbytery.
  On the first December 1753, Mr M'Millan died at Broomhill,
in Lanarshire, and was buried in the churchyard of Dalserf, where
a monument has lately been erected to his memory. He attained
the venerable age of eighty-four years.
  Parochial Registers--In regard to parochial registers, it may
be mentioned, that, prior to 1804, but little attention appears to

<FOOTNOTE>When some of Mr M'Kie's adherents went to plough the globe for his behoof,
those of his competitor rose up against them, cut the reins in pieces, turned the horses
loose, and threw the ploughshare into the adjoining lake. Some threatened violence
to the minister's person. An infuriated female actually attempted the execution of
it, and would probably have effected her purpose, had he not interposed his hand
between his throat and a reaping sickle, with which she was armed. His fingers were
cut to the bone. The glove which he wore was carefully preserved, as a memorial of
the providential escape he had made--Note to the Old Statistical Account.



