
     of Methven.

   It is only necessary to mention farther, under this article,
that BESSY BELL and MARY GRAY, celebrated in one of 
our most popular songs, are said to have been buried in this
parish, about half a mile west of the present house of Led-
nock*.

   Character of the People.-The people are sober and indus-
trious, charitable to the poor, and compassionate to objects
in distress.  They are regular in their attendance on the

est dificulties and distresses.  The account of the battle is thus
given by a modern historian.-BRUCE, havinghad no time
'Perth, which was the head quater of the English General;
'and there lay, upon the defensive, well knowing the disadvan-
'tage he was under from his men not being disciplined.  He
'had already attempted to suprise Perth; but failing in his de-
'sign, he had retired to Methven, from whence he sent a chal-
'lenge to the Earl to fight him.  According to BARBOUR, and
'the best historians, the challenge was accepted; but, on the
'night before the day appointed, which was the 20th of July,
'while the Scots thought themselves secure, and were unpro-
'vided for battle, they were attacked, and routed by their ene-
'mies, in the park of Methven.'

     Guthrie's Hist of Scotland, Vol. II page 177

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common tradition is, that Bessy Bell was daughter
of the Laird of Kinvaid, and Mary Gray of the Laird of Led-
nock.  Being near neighbours, a great intimacy subssisted be-
tween the young ladies.  When they were together at Led-
nock, the plague broke out, anno 1645; to avoid which, they
retired to a romantic spot, called BURN BREAS, on the estate of
Lednock, where they lived for some time; but, afterwards,
caught the infection from a young gentleman, an admirer of
both, who came to visit them in their solitude:  And here they
died; and were buried at some distance from their bower, near
a beautiful bank of the Almond.
   Major Berey, the late proprietor of Lednock, inclosed, with
pious care, the spot of ground, and consecrated it to the me-
mory of these samed and amiable friends.


