
278                          ARGYLESHIRE.

the level of the sea, and commands an extensive view of the most
of the Hebridean islands.  Bentealluidh is about 2800 feet high.
This mountain, with its perfectly conical shape, elevating itself to
such a height from nearly the level of the sea, and in a pass which
forms so singular an interuption of the chain of mountains in the
same line, presents itself as a most magnificent object to voyagers
making the Sound of Mull from the north.  On nearing it, the
idea of grandeur in the mind of the beholder is agreeably blended
with that of beauty, from its verdant appearance even to the summit,
where none of that excoriation of surface by avalanches is seen,
which so often inflibt deforming gashes in the sides of mountains
not nearly so high.
   Besides this chain, there are several others running early paral-
lel to each other, in a transverse direction.  These also have bases
in common, with the exception of Benmaigh which is isolated.  This
is a splendid mountain at the head of Lochbuy.  It is much about
the same height as Bentealluidb.  Its names is evidently derived
from Ben, a mountain, and Magh, a plain.  There is an extensive
plain at its base, giving the distinctive name of Magh to the farm
on wbich Lochbuy House is built.  Hance Benmhaigh, the moun-
tain of the plain.
   The interior of the parish is so hilly as to contain very little flat
ground ; but, though the bases of the mountains approximate the
sea. still, owning to the great length of sea coast, there is a good,
deal of low-lying land in the parish.
   There are three valleys, bearing the names of Glenmore, Glen-
forsa, and Glencainail.  The first derives its appellation from its
length, which is about ten miles.  The mountains on either side
seem, in general, to dispute every inch of its breadth, so that it is
only a long pass winding its tortuous way, where, best it can, in the
narroww defile left by the opposing mountainss as neutral ground.
The bottom of the valley, where it is highest, is about 300 feet
above the level of the sea.  Its sides have an acclivity ranging
from 40 degrees to nearly the zenith point.  Though the princi-
pal outlet for the inhabitants of the populous parish of Kilfinichen
to other parts of the country was through this glen, yet till within
these few years back, there was no road in it.  Through the pub-
lic spirit of the proprietors of the island, aided by the rest of this
county, this great want is now supplied there being a tolerably
good road formed to join the principal line between Tobermory
and the ferry of Auchenacraig.  This new road will prove of the


