
                           FORGLEN.                             83

   There is a parochial association for promoting religious objects
at home and abroad.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish; one paro-
chial school, where Greek, Latin, mathematics, arithmetic, read-
ing, and writing are taught; and a dame School, where sewing and
knitting, reading and writing, are taught.  The salary of the school-
master may average about L. 30; fees in the year about L. 1O.
There are no persons betwixt six and fifteen who cannot read; or
upwards of fifteen who cannot read or write.
   Libraries.-A parochial library was established some years ago,
which has diffused a taste for reading among the people, and been
productive of much good: there is also a Sabbath school library.
   Poor and Parochial Funds, &c.-The number of persons receiving
parochial aid is 11; and the average sum allotted to each per year
is L.1, 4s. The annual amount of contributions by collection at
church for the poor, L.27; for religious and charitable purposes,
L.5. The annual amount of fines for immorality, for behoof of
the poor, is L.2, 10s.  The aversion among the poor to apply for
parochial aid has diminished of late, owing, perhaps, to the pres-
sure of the times.
   No prisons or jails in the parish, and but one inn.
   July 1836.



                      PARISH OF FORGLEN.

           PRESBYTERY OF TURRIFF, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

               THE REV. JOSEPH THORBURN, MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL History.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-This parish is sometimes called Teu-
nan or St Eunon, from a saint of that name to whom a chapel,
the ruins of which still remain, is said to have been dedicated.
Forglen and the neigbouring parish of Alvah were at one time
joined; but, before the middle of the seventeenth century, Forglen
was erected into a separate parish, and an annexation from the
adjoining parish of Marnoch was made to it both quoad sacra et
civilia. In Blaeu's map of Scotland published in 1662 and com-
piled before the disjunction of Forglen from Alvah, "St Eunan's
Kirk" is one of the places marked.


