
			DUTHIL.--ROTHIEMURCHUS.			 143	

   plishing the overthrow of habits, of wasteful expenditure; and fru-
   gality is likely, ere long, to be acknowledged as a virtue.
			V.-PAROCHIAL Economy.
     Market-Towns.--There are none in the parish, the nearest be-	
   ing Inverness, at the distance of thirty-three miles. The villages,
   of Grantown, distant sixteen miles, Kingussie, twelve miles, and
   Castletown of Braemar, thirty miles, are the resort of the far-
   mers for the sale of their cattle.
     Means of Communication.--Along the southern bank of the
   Spey runs a line of county road, stretching from Craigellachie,
   bridge, near Rothes, to the Bridge of Spey, near Kingussie, and
   passing through this parish.  Communication is kept up with the
   great Highland road by means of a ferry-boat across the Spey at
   Inverdruie, distant from tbe line about half a mile, and by several
   private boats. The sub post-office, at Lynwilg, on the north bank
   of the Spey, distant two miles, is the receiving-office of the dis-
   trict. The royal mail conveys letter bags to this office from Perth,
   Inverness, Carr Bridge, and Kingussie.
     Ecclesiastical State.--This was at one period a distinct parish,
   from Duthil. It was disunited and formed into a quoad sacra pa-
   rish, by Act of Parliament V. Geo. IV. cap. 90, in the year
   1824. The present church, situated to the west of the mansion-
   house of the Doune, and surrounded by a belt of planting and an
   efficient dike, was rebuilt by Sir J. P. Grant, at an expense of
   L.395. The manse, situated at the base of the Ord-bane, half,
   a-mile distant from the church, was completed by the commission-
   ers under the above act in the year 1830, at an expense of near-
   ly L.750; and the present incumbent was inducted in September
   of that year. The cburch is in a state of good repair; but the
   manse having been very carelessly constructed, notwithstanding
   the scandalously enormous expense incurred by Government in its
   erection, requires attention and an occasional outlay of money by
   the minister, in order to keep it in a proper condition. The gar-
   den wall is a hideous object, and built in so slovenly a manner, that
   portions of it are continually toppling to the ground. The glebe,
   inclusive of the garden and site of the manse, contains four acres,
   one rood, and two falls. The stipend amounts to L.120 per an-
   num, without any allowance for communion elements.
     There are no Dissenters in the parish, with the exception of one
   Roman Catholic, and one family of the Baptist communion. The
   number of communicants is about 60.

