
   214                             ARGYLESHIRE.

<TABLE>
  Annually exported from Tiree.           Annually exported from -Coll.
  Black-cattle, including stirks, 465     Black-cattle, including stirks, 300
  Sheep,	                      200	Sheep,                          200
  Horse	                       48     Horses,	                     20
  pigs,                           500     Pigs,                           100

   Rate of Wages, &c.-Domestic and farm-servants are hired dur-
ing the year or half-year; and the wages given to Male servants
are from L.6 to L.8; to females from L.3 to L.3, 10s. or L.4
per annum.  Tradesmen and artisans are generally paid by the
day, and receive 2s. or 2s. 6d. besides their victuals, whhch are
always provided by their employer.
   A great part of the young unmarried population, especially of
females, are in the habit of resorting every year to the low coun-
try in quest of harvest employment.  Hundreds of these set of
about the middle of August, and are generally absent from six to
eigh t weeks. I fear it cannot be reckoned a profitable kind of
service, any wages which they earn being chiefly bestowed on su-
perfluous finery, not much suited to their means or rank in life.
They also frequently bring home in their train several infectious
and dangerous disorders, such as small-pox, measles, typhus fever,
&c. which afterwards spread through the country, and occasion
much mischief.
   Quarries.-There is no quarry wrought at present except that
at Heynish, for building the intended light-house on Sceir-Mhor.
This quarry has been carried on, for some years back, on a large
scale.  Between tradesmen, quarriers, labourers, &c. upwards of a
hundred persons are sometimes employed upon it diming the sum-
mer season.  The rocks, which are a kind of hard granite, are
blown chiefly, I believe, by means of gunpowder; and large blocks,
some of them weighing a couple of tons and upwards, are in the
course of being dressed and prepared.  The rock is very solid, and
difficult to work ; but when dressed looks extremely well.
   Fisheries.-This is undoubtedly a very important branch of in-
dustry, although it does not appear to have been hitherto prose-
cuted with the activity and perseverance which it deserves.  With
plenty of fish in our waters, and industrious hand to take it, we
need not be very apprehensive about actual starvation among our
poor people, unless the potato crops should unfortunately fail as
in the year 1837.  Though almost all are occasional fishers, yet
few follow it steadily as a profession.  Out of 94 fishing skiffs
which the parish contains, only 10 are regularly employed.
There are no fishings here which pay rent.  Cod and ling
are the only kinds, which are cured and sent to market.  The cod


