
                           PAISLEY.                        26l

dens of their own attached to their houses, and those who have
not, find no difficulty in obtaining suitable accommodation in the
gardens of their friends, and of gentlemen in the neighbourhood.
In many a keenly contested struggle, the pinks, carnations, tulips,
dahlias, &c. &c. reared in Paisley, have been honoured with marks
of distinction; while the occupation and relaxation attendant an
their culture have tended to liberalize the mind, and to promote
habits favourable at once to mental and moral improvement.  In
the horticultural department, there has been for several years a
keen struggle in the rearing of cauliflowers, cabbages, and vege-
tables of every description ; and this has tended very much to the
improvement of gardening, in all the varieties of esculent produc-
tions.
   Trade and Manufactures.-The trade and manufactures of Pais-
ley may be traced from very small beginnings, but their progress
in some periods has been rapid and astonishing.  Not long after
the union, when a free trade was opened with England, the spirit
of manufacture began to shew itself here; and the fabrics which
were produced were made upon such just and economical princi-
ples, and with so much taste andjudgment, that they found a ready
market, not only at home, but likewise in the neighbouring king-
dom.  But the trade of Paisley at that period, owed its chief en-
couragement to a class of men who were of great benefit to this
country, though the occupation has now fallen rather into disre-
pute; we mean, the pedlars or travelling merchants from the south,
many of whom having frequented Paisley as their staple, and hav-
ing gained a little money by their trade, came to settle there, and
bought up large quantities of its manufactures, which they vend-
ed among their friends and correspondents in England.  After-
wards the merchants of Glasgow found their account in purchas-
ing these goods, and sending them both to the London market and
to foreign parts.  Such was the state of the trade and manufac-
tures of Paisley, from the period of the union (1707,) till about
the year 1760.  The different articles of which they consisted-
during that period, were, at first, coarse checkered linen cloth, and
Bengals; afterwards checkered linen handkerchiefs, some of them
fine, and beautifully variegated, by the manner in which the dif-
ferent colours were disposed, according to the taste and invention of
the manufacturers. *  These were succeeded by fabrics of a lighter

<FOOTNOTE>In 1710, Craufurd thus describes the manufactures of Paisley. " That which
renders this place considerable, is, its trade of linen and muslim, where there is a great


