
692                    ARGYLESHIRE.

of one place generally painting alike. All of them have abandoned
bark for tanning their nets, and use catechu. It is worthy of
notice, that, a few years ago, a train of 50 or 60 nets was consi-
dered long; now they often have trains of 300 nets. The number
of boats employed in this parish "in the herring fishing, and in
the cod and ling fishing, is 108, manned by 326 men and boys;
167 persons are employed in gutting, packing, &c.; and there are
7 coopers and 4 curers." *
  Manufactures.--The only branches of manufacture carried on
are, a distillery at Lochgilphead, which makes about 19,000 gal-
lonst of whisky, quarterly; and a powder-mill, erected lately on the
confines of the parish, adjoining Inverary, but of which the returns
are not known.

                   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.--Lochgilphead is the principal, indeed the only
market-town in the parish, as Kilmichael, though once populous,
cannot now be called a village. The trade of Lochgilphead de-
pends entirely on the surrounding district, and it has great facili-
ties alike for its imports and exports by steam-boats, which daily
arrive at and depart from Ardrisaig, which is nearly two miles dis-
tant, and the sea-port of this town, though in the parish of South
Knapdale.  The benefit conferred on this country by steam navi-
gation is indeed incalculable, and only in the course of being de-
veloped.  From Lochgilphead, the traveller may go southward to
Glasgow; north, to Mull or Inverness by the Crinan Canal, which
forms part of the boundary of this parish, on the south-west, at
some points; or to Inverary, up Lochfyne, by steam-boats; and
they convey sheep and cattle to market at a small expense of time,
labour, and money. There are daily posts to Inverary, Glasgow,
and Campbelton, and three times a-week to Kilmartin.
   The means of communication are extending and improving in
every respect. There are no turnpikes, and the roads are both
made and repaired by assessment within the county; yet they are
very good, and 21 miles in length. They also require to be much
more extended, in order that the north portion of the parish may
have easier access to market, &c. There are now several roads
which scarcely deserve that name, also maintained at the public
expense, over and above that mentioned above, i. e. one through
the valley of Glassary, another across the moor from the ford to

  <FOOTNOTE>Return by Mr Sutherland, Fishery Officer, Ardrisaig.
            Stated ot the authority of Mr Borthwick, Supervisor of Excise.


