
                         PETERHEAD.                          389

difference in the age does not exceed ten years there is no addi-
tional payment required.
   Savings Bank.-A Savings Bank was established in Peterhead
in May 1824.  It has been attended with very considerable bene-
fit to the working-classes.  The treasurer and one of the directors
attend every Tuesday night to receive deposits.  The accounts
are audited once a year, and have been found to be kept with the
greatest accuracy.  On the 9th of March 1837, there were 295
depositors, and, including periodical interest, the sum deposited
amounted to L.2095, 7s. 2d.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons receiving pa-
rochial aid is from 270 to 280, and the average allowance to regular
paupers is about 15s. per annum.  The annual average amount of con-
tributions for relief of the poor is L.252 ; of which from L.160 to
L.170 arises from church collections, including the proportion of the
collections from the East or quoad sacra Parish Church; L.20 to
L.25 derived from the fees for the proclamation of banns, certificates,
registration of births, &c. appropriated to that purpose by the ses-
sion at the appointment of the present clerk; L.22 to L.26 inte-
rest of L.650 from 3 1/4 to 4 per cent.; about L.10 a year from pe-
nalties exacted in cases of church discipline, and for the use of
the mortcloth; and from legacies and donations, which, of course,
are variable, being seldom under L. 5, and more rarely exceeding
L50.  No other mode of procuring funds for the poor has hither-
to been adopted; but, from the increased number of claimants
within the last few years, arising in part from the dissolution of
friendly societies, it is probable that some other means must soon
be resorted to.
   Coal Fund.-This fund was established about sixteen years ago.
It is supported by voluntary contributions made annually about the
beginning of the year, and is managed by the representatives of
the congregations of every religious denomination in the towns.
The managers meet together and examine the claims of all appli-
cants, and admit such cases as they know to be fit, whether the
parties have made application or not.
   The objects of the charity are the poor belonging to the town
and it has only been in a very few instances that parties in the
country part of the parish have been allowed to participate in the
benefits, in consequence of particular recommendation.
   The amount of donations has varied during the last sixteen
years from L. 53, 16s. 6d., the lowest, to L. 68, 2s., the high


