
			LIFF AND BENVIE.   		   575

server. Although the examination of this district be attended
with considerable difficulty, still it affords a rather favourable op-
portunity of ascertaining the geological character of the strata
which occur in it. These, as has been mentioned, are limited to
the red and gray sandstones, and, therefore, some of the strata al-
luded to by Mr Miller must of course be awanting; still the parti-
cular position affords a great advantage in investigating their na-
ture, and their particular character and position appears to be
this,-that the gray and red conglomerates which occur on the
high ground to the north of Strathmore are the equivalents of the
gray and red sandstones of Strathmore and the Carse of Gowrie,
and that, therefore, the former belongs to the graywacke, and the
latter to the old red sandstone series, which is simply an instance
of by no means unusual occurrence, of the old red sandstone pas-
sing into the graywacke beneath, as in Pembrokeshire and else-

vhere. The position of the strata of this district coincides almost
precisely with the section given by Mr Lyell, in his Elements of
Geology, page 99, with the exception of the gray sandstone there
laid down as occurring below the red, being merely looked upon
as belonging to the graywacke series. The position of these strata
in the ascending order is therefore this, 1st, the graywacke, 2d, the
old red sandstone, 3d, the yellow sandstone of Fifeshire, 4th, the
coal formation of Fifeshire.
	As was previously mentioned, the fossil organic remains disco-
vered by Mr Webster in the den of Balruddery have been exa-
mined by Professor Agassiz, and it is therefore hoped that correct
drawings and descriptions of them will be published by that emi-
nent naturalist. A few of the principal specimens may here be
mentioned, as consisting of various specimens of the Cephelaspis,
portions of a crustaceans animal in a beautiful state of preserva-
tion, stated by Professor Agassiz to have belonged to a gigantic
lobster; a variety of ichthyodorulites, fins, and spines, and various
beautifull marked delicate portions of crustaceous Animals; but
of these fossils, enough is not yet known to give any correct de-
tailed description of them. *
        Boulders.-On the road to Liff, about a mile from the Tay,
stands a very large boulder of gneiss, perfdctly isolated, vulgarly
termed the "Paddock Stane;" and two more of the same sort

<FOOTNOTE>The above interesting account of the fossil remains lately discovered in the den
of Balruddry, was obligingly furnished by Charles Forayth, Esq. Advocate.
        FORFAR.                                       P p


