
306                   ARGYLESHIRE.

one another; they are supposed to have been watch towers to
give notice of an enemy's approach, which was done from the bat-
tlement by a smoke in the day time, and a fire at night.  They
are small; most of them would not contain twenty men.
  There are, in many parts of the parish, long stones standing on
end.  The country people call them Carra, which signifies friend-
ship, and they seem to be set up at the head of the graves of emi-
nent men; or as memorials of some remarkable transaction carried
on in these places.
  Since the Reformation, the parish has produced none eminent
for learning, excepting the Betons of Pennycross, who were cele-
brated medical men.  The family has been long since extinct, but they
are still spoken of in tbe country with admiration for their skill
in physic.  Tradition says, that, on the occasion of one of them
being sent to attend on a king of Scotland, the country people
flocked around him for advice as to their health during his absence,
when he give them this short rule, " Bhi gu sugach geanmnuidh
mochaireuch," i. e. " To be cheerful, temperate, and early risers."
  The Druids are said to have had a temple at the head of Loch-
scridain, in a farm called Rossal, which in Gaelic signifies judg-
ment or justice, and here they held their courts.  This temple is
but small, and several of the stones have fallen down.
  Parochial Registers.-There was no register of any kind jept
in the parish until the year 1780, when the then incumbent com-
menced one, but that only extended to marriages and baptisms.
There being no less than thirteen burial places in the parish, and
at a great distance from each other, and from the incumbent's re-
sidence, deaths were not recorded.
  Mansion-Houses.-These are, Kilfinichen House, the property
of Dugald Maclachlan, Esq. of Killiemore, who resides there;
Pennycross House, belonging to John Auljoe, Esq. of Penny-
ghail, and occupied by Alexander Maclean, Esq. of Carsaig; and
Colonel Macdonald's residence in Inniskenneth.  These are
neat modern buildings, suitable to the estates and the nature of
the country and climate.
                   III.-POPULATION.
There are no certain data by which a comparison can be drawn
between the ancient and present state of the population of the pa-
rish ; for, as already said, no register of any kind, was kept until
the year 1780.  Some suppose the population of the parish, in
ancient times, to have been much greater than now; and it is put


