
                                 ARDERSIER.                         465

     is exposed to storms from the east and north, the village of Camp-,
     belton, from the shelter of the line of bill which rises behind it
     like a screen, enjoys an almost perfect immunity. On the 26th
     June 1826, the thermometer indicated 84&deg;C in the village, while
     on the height, from the fanning effect of a light sea breeze, it did
     not exceed 82&deg;C. In cold weather, the difference is more marked.
     The weather in spring is rather variable; one day, or a succession
     of days, may simulate the genial warmth of summer, and be
     abruptly followed by the chilling rigour of winter. We have no
     endemic disease. As the prevalent distempers, of the district,
     rheumatism, erysipelas, and catarrhal affections may be instanced.
        In estimating the influences which act upon organized beings in
     the production or modification of disease, other agencies than at-
     mospheric or miasmatic must be taken into account. Thus, the
     vicissitudes of the circulation produced by hard labour and expo-
     sure to cold, irregular and innutrient meals, and the use of ardent
     spirits, operate in producing disease, or begetting a suscepti-
     bility to it. Erysipelas is certainly a common affection in the dis-
     trict. All cutaneous diseases, however, (not even excepting the
     national opprobrium,) are made to personate it by the indiscrimi-
     nating rustics. Derangement of the functions of the skin, from
     inattention to ablution, may contribute to the frequency of this ex-
     anthem.
        Hydrography.-The Moray Frith washes the northern coast of
     the parish, and an extension of it, which, to the south of Fort-
     George, acquires the name of the Frith of Beauly, forms a bay on
     the western shore, which, from the bold and picturesque contour
     of the bills on the opposite coast of Ross-shire, presents a beauti-
     ful landscape. From the bill behind Campbelton, there issues in
     a continuous jet, a strongly chalybeate spring, which has deserved-
     ly acquired a high character as a tonic, and is frequented by ner-
     vous, dyspeptic, and cachectic invalids.
        Geology.-There is not an exposed rock in the parish. Two
     or three small-sized boulders of gneiss occur within the high water-
     mark. The terrace or line of hill which skirts the western and
     northern coasts, shows its alluvial origin from the alternate strata
     of sand and clay observable in exposed sections. No sea shells have
     been found in this ridge. Along the coast there are manifest im-
     pressions of geological changes. On the west, the sea has, at a
     remote period, made considerable encroachments. Peat is found
     several hundred yards within high-water mark, under a layer of


