
446                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

manse was put in complete repair, on the entrance of the present
incumbent in 1822, and the offices and garden are in admirable
condition.  At least one-half of the grebe is arable, and the other
half pasture and meadow.  It is from 20 to 25 acres in extent.
The stipend is 17 chalders.
     Education.--There are 4 parochial schools in the parish, one
principal and three auxiliary.  The instruction given at the paro-
chial schools is in the usual branches.  The salaries of the four
masters amount to L. 51, 6s. 6d. of which the principal teacher has
L. 30, and the remaining sum of L. 21, 6s. 6d. is divided equally
among the three auxiliary teachers.  The fees of the four schools
amount to L. 72 a year.  There are no other emoluments.
     There are also 2 non-parochial schools, at which English gram-
mar, writing, and arithmetic are taught.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of permanent poor
on the roll is 61 ; of poor occasionally relieved, 30 ; number of
children educated out of funds for the poor, 41, and the expense
of their education, is L. 29, ]2s. 9d.  Assessments began to be im-
posed in the year 1773, 'and the average yearly amount for the
three years precedidg 1837 was L. 381, 13s. 4d.  The average
amount of church-door collections for the same period was L. 21,
12s. 3d.  The highest rate of relief is L. 7 per annum.  The
lowest, L. I.
     Libraries.--In the village of Castletown is one public subscrip-
tion library.
     Roads.-Good carriage roads run through the parish, commu-
nicating with Jedburgh, Hawick, Langholm, and Carlisle.  Two
new roads have lately been constructed, one to Bew Castle, the
other to Northumberland.  No public carriage runs on any road
in the parish.
     Fuel.--The fuel used is peat, of which there is an inexhausti-
ble fund in every part of the country, and coal, which is brought
principally from Northumberland.  But the lower part of the
parish is chiefly supplied from the coltieries in Canonby, belonging
to His Grace the Duke of Buccleurch.
     Villages.--The village of Castletown was commenced in 1793,
and now contains upwards of 1000 inhabitants.  The houses and
gardens are held on lease of ninety-nine years, from the Duke;
but the land attached to them and the right of common are un-
understood, to be held on lease of nine years.  The village consists of
two principal streets running parallel to each other, and bearing
                                4


