
150                              Stirlingshire

   Eminent Men.-Sir William Livingston of Kilsyth was, for
his eminence in the knowledge of law, appointed one of the Sena-
tors of the College of Justice in 1609, and afterwards chosen

<FOOTNOTE>
above testimony, written by Ebenezer Paterson, session-clerk, is subscribed, day and
date foresaid, by (signed) Elders, Joseph Lapsly, Alex. Patrick, Henry Ewan, James
Millar, Deacon, J. Rankine."
   March 24,1751.  Sederunt, &c. "The which day the sesssion being met, the list
read and subscribed on the 19th current was read before the members present, and
the said members then absent did now subscribe the foresaid testimony; viz. Elders,
Rob. Graham, Aw. Provan, Henry Marshall, Jas, Zuill; Deacons, D. Auchenvoll,
Walter Kirkwood, Wm. and Dav. Shaws, James Ranken, Mark Scot."
   In Mr Robe's Narrative, p. 110, there is an important attestion by heritors, elders,
and the Bailie of Kilsyth to the very remarkable reformation which had taken place
in the lives of the people of this parish, in the year 1742.  The venerated Maclau-
rin.  Willison, Hamilton, Bonar, &c. were witnesses of, and sharers in this work; and
they gave their solemn approval of the account which was drawn up soon after.
   Since this Account was first written, another work of the Spirit of God has oc-
curred among the people of this parish, similar in its nature and results to that which   
took place in 1742.  For some time previous to the period when this work began,
there bad been a growing solemnity in the minds of the people, and cases of deep
concern about salvation accured from time to time.  It was not, however, until
Tuesday the 23d July 1889, that that remarkable anxiety showed itself, which soon
came to attract universal notice.  The sacrament had been dispensed on the 21st of
July; and on Tuesday morning, Mr William C. Burns addressed an immense crowd
of the people in their working clothes, in ath parish church.  The text was Psalm
ex. 3, " Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power."  The audience were
unusually solemnized from the beginning of the service.  As it proceeded, many wept
silently; and at last, when the preacher, in the view of parting with the people, was
exhorting them with unusual solemnity and earnestness to an immediate acceptance
of Christ as a saviour, their feelings became so intense, that almost the whole
multitude burst simultaneously into a flood of tears, and many began to cry aloud to
God for mercy.  In consequence of the deep spiritual concern which settled down
upon the people form this time, the word of God continued to be preached to
crowded audiences, by various ministers, almost every night, for about three months;
and, as on occasion of the former revival of religion here, the sacrament was a second
time observed in September, when a great ministers were present, and proba-
bly not fewer than 10,000 people assembled, some of them from a great distance, to
hear the word of God, which was preached in the church, and in a field near the
town.  A remarkable degree of the Divine presence was enjoyed by many on this
occasion; and, vast as was the multitude congregated, hardly a person could be seen
the worse of liquor.  This remarkable anxiety gradually subsided, and has not since
returned in the same wonderful degree.  When I now look back, after the lapse of
nearly wo years, upon these marvellous scenes, and solemnly consider what has taken
place in the light of God's word, I cannot entertain the least doubt that the Lord
has been indeed among us, and has left many precious tokens of his presence.  It is
true that some who once promised well, have sadly disappointed our hopes; and that
many who shared for a time in the general anxiety about salvation, have sunk back
into their former deadness and impenitence.  Still, however, there are, we have rea-
son to hope, not a few who have been savingly turned from turned from sin unto God, while, in
other respects, the religious and moral state of the people at large is much improved.
The places of worship are better attended, and there is more general seriousness du-
ring divine service, than formerly; many family altars have been erected; there is a
greater degree of zeal among us for missionary objects; and there are about thirty
weekly prayer meetings of a private kind among the people, not including those
which are connected with the Dissenting bodies.
   I should add, that the new pariah at Banton shared largely in this gracious visita-
tion, and that the fruits of it there ar not less abundant, in propotion, than among
us.  Nor has this awakening been at all confined to those who attend the Established
Church, in which it first occured.  The work of God has been, I believe,going on
in various degrees, from time to time, amog all the other denomintions,-Relief,
Methodists, and Independents.

















































                     



















