
318                ARGYLESHIRE.

the north-east extretmity of the island, when they give place to
hornblende slate, sienite, and hornbletide rock, having much the
appearance of serpentine. These rocks alternate with each other,
and are to be observed traversed bv basalt and granite veins. To-
wards Dun-ii, the hornblende and sienite strata continue forming,
upon some parts of the coast, cliffs of considerable height. This
hill is composed of primitive rock, and principally of hornblende
slate.
  Marble Quarry.-Fine white marble, of that spebies now called
dolomite, semi-pellucid when reduced to a thin plate, exists in
strata of about forty feet wide, running N. N. W. and S. S. E,.
and bounded by nearly vertical strata of a rock which, in some
parts, is of the nature of talc, or passing to chlorite slate.
This marble, as it approaches the other strata, is more or
less mixed with talc, which causes it to become scaly or fibrous,
with a yellowish-green colour, thus assimilating with talcaceous
slate. This marble cuts freely, receives a good polish, and,
except for the loss of colour, which is converted into a yellowish
cast, resists the action of time. The quarry was opened about
fifty years ago, under the Duke of Argyle's patronage, and a con-
siderable quantity of marble quarried and sent to Leith and Lon-
don; but after much money laid out, the working of it was aban-
doned and never afterwards resumed.
  There are extensive rocks of sienite on the south-west shore,
which afford blocks of any dimensions of vivid colour, extreme-
ly bard and susceptible of a high polish. Of this substance
all the remnants of antiquity upon the island are constructed.
Rocks of beautiful serpentine also stretch along the southern ex-
tremity of considerable hardness, an agreeable green clouded with
other colours, and suitable for slabs or sculptures. Its quality bag
been compared tn that of the ancient serpentine, but although was-
ses of large dimensions might be procured, it would not be without
much labour on account of the solidity of the rocks. In Port-na-cu-
rach, there are cliffs of conshderable height, composed of born-.
blende rock. bavina, much the appearance of serpentine and sienite;
here there are found nodules of nepbriticus from the size of a pea to
that of an apple ; these are of a green colour, of a smooth soft ap-
pearance when polished, and they are made up in to trinkets of various
kinds. Many are worn as amulets, sometimes set in silver. The
children of the island collect and dispose of them to the nunme-


