
                 KILBRANDON AND KILCHATTAN.		      73

rate of seven or eight miles an hour. The tide here takes a very
circuitous course round the north end of Torsay, which juts out
from the north-east end of Luing, and from which it is separated
by a sound a few feet in breadth, and might easily be shut up al-
together. The Sound of Sluna lies between the island of that
name and Luing.
  Bays.--There are several bays and harbours in the parish
where vessels of any size may safely ride at anchor, and  where
many of those which sail along the west coast run for shelter in
stormy weather. The principal bays are that of Ardmaddy on
the mainland, Bulvicar in Seil, and Blackmillbay in Luing. There
is also a good harbour at Easdale, and another at Toberonochy, on
the east side of Luing.
  Climate.-It is well knon that the weather in winter is much.
milder on the west coast than in the interior of the country,--the
frost is not so intense, and the snow does not continue long on
the ground. There being no rain-guage in the neighbourhood,
the quantity of rain that falls cannot be given, but there is seldom
any complaint of the lack of moisture. From a note taken, some
time ago, of the prevailing winds, it appears that the wind general-
ly ranges from south to north-west for two-thirds of the year. The
north wind generally brings dry weather along with it. Although
the climate is moist, it is rather salubrious, owing to the sea air,
which is here very strong and pure. There are very few diseases
peculiar to the district. Those arising from exposure to cold and
damp, and from a defective and unwholesome diet, are the most
prevalent, such as rheumatism, consumption, dropsy, &c. As there
is always a medical man employed to attend the quaries, the people
have an opportunity of getting their children vaccinated, which,
however, is too much neglected till small-pox breaks out amongst
them. Typhus fever and small-pox are often conveyed from the
south country by those young people who go thither in quest of
employment. Their friends, from motiver of Mistaken  kindness,
insist, on taking them home before they have fully recovered, which
brings disease amongst the people. For some years past, owing
chiefly to this cause, cases of fever have been very prevalent in the
parish.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

Heritors.-- About three-fourths of the parish belong to the
Marquis of Breadalbane. The other heritors are, the heirs of the
late John M'Dougall, Esq. of Ardincaple; Major Campbell of


