
486                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

keith on the 25th November 1651, leaving only two infant daugh-
ters, Mary and Anne. As he was greatly distinguished for his
loyalty to the unfortunate Charles I., his heirs were treated with
proportionable rigour by the portector, being fined in the "Act of
Grace" the sum of L. 15,000 Sterling.*
  About this period we have some entries in the records of the
kirk-session, which are curious and interesting. We extract the
following:-
  "A. D. 1647, April 15th. The whilk day, Mr Hugh Camp-
bell and the bailies of Dalkeith declared that the town was in-
fected. My Lord of Buccleuch was removed to Branxholme, so
that the kirk of Dalkeith could not be visited tntil God should
stay the plague."
  "A. D. 1650, November 21st. The whilk day, the minister
(Mr Hugh Campbell), having come to his parish but acht or ten
days before, being affrighted to come neal it, by reason of the
great concourse of the English army therein, desiring to know
what moneys might be in the poor's box, and calling for the keys
thereof from those who where entrusted therewiht, and not getting
the same, by advice of the baillies, and some other elders, caused
break up the said box, it being by this time in Marion Saddler's
house, the kirk being so filled with horse, and guards, that neither
sermon nor session could be kept therein."
  "A. D. 1650, December 29th, The whilk day, the minister
began his first sermon in the parish kirk of Dalkeith, after he had
a litle breathing from the fear of being abused by the English
secretaries, in case he should have preached publicly in his own pul-
pit; and the kirk was cleansed of the horse and guards, and of
the muck that was therein, the same serving to them as if it had
beeb a stable."
  "A. D. 1651, May 5th. The whilk day, William Cunning-
ham, keeper of the penalty box, answered that the box and all
that was therein was taken away by the Englishmen, and gave his
honest word thereon, whereupon the said William was discharged."

  "A. D. 1652, February 22nd. The same day, Mr Oxenbridge
gave into the poor's box, as having received the sam from the
Commisioners of the Parliament of England residing at Dalkeith,
to be bestowed on the poor, L.3, 15s. Sterling."

<FOOTNOTE>The Act of Grace is given at full length in the appendix, No. 19, to Crawford's
Lives of the Officers of State, pages 452-459. Among many others, "the aires of
the Earl of Buccleugh were fyned 15,000 li., all to be payit , or in case of failure, the
real and personal estait of evey one defaulter to be confiscat."

