
			   ALVA.                            179

scription is engraven, "Sacris in Ecclesia S. Servani, apud Al-
veth, A. D. 1767, ex argento indigena, D.C.C.q. Jacobus Er-
skine."
   About the year 1759, Charles Erskine, Lord Justice-Clerk,
father of Lord Alva, having, a few years before, purchased this ba-
rony from his nephew, Sir Henry Erskine, revived the working of
the mines. A company, consisting of kinsmen and friends of the
family, subscribed a moderate capital, and carried on this work
with considerable industry. They pursued the course of the vein,
where the silver ore had been found, a great way beyond the old
workings, but without success. Although occasional small strings
of metal appeared, there war nothing important enough to en-
courage or reward their exertions. A shaft or sump, as miners
term it, was made to the depth of several fathoms, immediately
below the bottom of the waste from whence the former rich mass
was taken, and a drift carried on in the direction of the silver vein
upon that level; but this also failed to accomplish the object. To
facilitate these operations, however, it had been resolved to drive
a level at a considerable distance nearer the bottom of the hill,
for the purpose of draining the water from the works above. In
executing this part of the scheme, the workmen had not advanced
far into the side of the hill, when a large mass of ore was discovered.
This, at first, they thought silver, but upon chemical examination it
was found to be cobalt. A large quantity of this was brought out,
and a great part of it used in the manufacture of porcelain, at this
time begun in Prestonpans in East Lothian. The beautiful deep
blue prepared from cobalt, was used to colour china and glass, and
showed no inferiority to that procured from the mines of Saxony.
A quantity of cobalt was afterwards found among the rubbish dug
from the mines fifty years before, which Lord Alva caused to be
washed after the manner practised by miners, and obtained an ad-
ditional quantity. The work was carried on to a great length from
where the mass of cobalt was got; but spar and other vein staff
appearing, the enterprise was again abandoned. During the time
these works were carried on, a very accurate survey of all the dif-
ferent veins of metals discovered in the hills of Alva, was made by
the agent for the Company, who possessed considerable skill in the
practical art of mining. The several appearances and qualities of
the different ores, together with the precise directions of the veins,
and other circumstances elucidated, were all accurately taken down
by the agent in a register or journal, now in the possession of James


