
28                          SHETLAND.

stockings, from Is. to 5s. and upwards.  Stockings made in Fet-
lar have been sold as high as L. 2, 2s. per pair; gloves from 6d.
to 10r,. per pair.
  Live-Stoch.-Amixed breed of sheep has been introduced into
Fetlar.    The old breed is kept up in North Yell, which,
though much smaller, and producing less wool, seems to stand
our climate much better, to be hardier, and to have fewer diseases
than the new breed.  The cattle are small, and no attention is
paid to their improvement.  My own cows are a kind of cross,
considerably larger than any in the parish ; but they are not so
hardy, require considerably more food and attention, and are not
so easily fatted as the pure Shetland breed.
The character of our husbandry is very slovenly, there being
only four ploughs in Fetlar, and one in North Yell.  The infield
rotation in Fetlar is varied; 1. potatoes, bear with manure above,
lea, two crops of oats, then potatoes ; 2. potatoes, oats, bear with
manure below, oats, then potatoes; 3. potatoes, two crops of oats,
bear with manure. below, then potatoes.
The first rotation is account6d the best; and when the bear
comes after potatoes, the ground is neither ploughed nor dug, but
scratched with a harrow after sowinc, and the manure spread
above.
  Outfield Rotation.-Oats and lea alternately.  The oats are
found to be more fertile in this way, especially when manured.
In North Yell, the land is cropped every year.  Rotation-bear,
oats, potatoes; but the land must be manured every year, except
to potatoes, which are always planted in infield ground.  The small
gray oat is generally used, and this from never changing the seed,
has degenerated so far as to be little larger than rye-grass seeds.
Potato oats, and other kinds of white oats have been tried by a
few, but they seldom ripen, and are more liable to be shaken than
the gray oats, though in good ground- they grow very luxuriantly.
Barley has been tried in a few places, and in good years as suc-
ceeded tolerably.  Wheat has also been tried in North Yell, with
indifferent success.  We want enclosures to protect, and sun to
ripen it.
  Very few outsets have been made in Fetlar; a good many in
North Yell.  By.these a considerable quantity of hill ground has
been brought in, to the great displeasure of those who occupy the
rental lau.41 as they curtail their hill pasture, and thereby, render
their farms less valuable, though they pay the same rents as before


