
			AVONDALE.			 311

The present manse was built about twenty years ago. It is an
excellent house, and is in a good state of repair. It was the pri-
vate property of the former minister. After his death, the house
and about six acres of land were bought by the heritors, and an
excambion took place of the old manse, and that part of the glebe
which lay on the side of the great road to Ayr near the church,
and the present manse and lands adjoining. This transaction was
agreeable and beneficial to all parties. It improved the living,
and turned out well for the heritors. The glebe consists of about 7 3/4
acres. There does not appear to be any grass glebe. The pre-
sent glebe was augmented to its present size by the repeated ex-
cambions which have taken place. The stipend is fixed at 19 chal-
ders, half meal, half barley, and L. 10 of communion element.
There are also L. 5 annually paid by the Duke of Hamilton, being
a mortification by the late Duchess Anne. The amount of stipend
for crop 1834 was L. 281, 3s. 4d. On account of the number of
heritors, and the difficulty of collecting the stipend, the present
minister has to employ a factor.
   There is a catechist here, or a preacher of the Gospel, who as-
sists the parish minister. He preaches one-half of the year, visits
the sick, and catechises the parish. He is appointed by the noble
family of Hamilton, who pay him, as fixed by the late good Duchess
Anne, the annual sum of 500 merks.
   Education.--The parish schoolmaster has the maximum salary,
and a good house and garden. His fees may amount to L. 25
per annum. Many good scholars have been taught here. Alto-
gether there are 13 schools in the parish, and the number attend-
ing them at last annual examination was somewhat under 600.
There are also several evening schools and Sabbath schools well
attended. There is scarcely any child above six years of age
unable to read. If any, the fault must lie with the parents, as
the schoolmaster, most generously, is willing to teach them gratis,
where the parents are poor, and the parish supplies the ordinary
school books. The master keeps borders. The branches taught
in the school are, Latin, Greek, English, English grammar, and
writing, arithmetic, geography, mensuration, and mathematics.
There is a small portion of land attached to the school at Gil-
mourton, with a schoolmaster's house and school-room amd a le-
gacy of fifteen shillings a-year was lately left to the small school
at Barnock, near Peelhill. These are the only schools that have


