
         606                         PERTHSHIRE.

	ross.  The building having long since fallen into ruin, was lately
	removed, but the garden exists; the rent of which, along with the
  aliment of twenty-four bolls of meal, now apportioned among eight
	instead of six widows, is given to the incumbents on the charity.
	  A very import`nt endowment vas established by the late Sir
	Robert Preston and his lady, for the purpose of affording a weekly
  allowancein their own houses, of meal and money to six aged men and
	six aged women of respectable character, and who have lived ten
  years in the parish.  These persons receive also some allowance for
  clothes, and a sum towards the payment of their house rent.  In
	a building connected with this endowment, a supply of soup is
	given on two days of the week, and for three months during win-
	ter, to a number of families in this and the adjoining parish of Tor-
	ryburn ; and a large room is provided, where a Sabbath school is
	taught, and to the teacher of which a salarv of L. 12 is paid out
	of the funds of the establishment.  The appointment to the bene-
	fits of this endowment lies in the proprietor of Valleyfield for the
	time being.   The fund has been in operation for several years.
	Out of the funds of the endowed school, which was founded by
	the late Patrick Geddes, Esq. provision is made, after the death

	of certain annuitants, for giving a bursary to a student, and for af-
	fording a small yearly pension to five indigent individuals.
	  Miss Halkerston of Carskerdo, in Fife, left a sum of money to
	be invested in land, the proceeds of which are to be employed by
	her trustees for the relief of industrints persons who may be in dis-
	tressed circumstances, but who may not come so directly under the
	name of poor, seeking and receiving relief from the parish.  Her
  trustees are the ministers an elders, and the proprietor of West
  Grange for the time being.  The fund has only now come into
	operation.
    Poor's Funds.-Notwithstanding the large private funds for the
	relief of the poor, the disbtrsements by the kirk-session bave been
	for a long time considerable.  The number receiving regular al-
	lowanew averages between 20 and 30, occasional about 20.  The
  weekly allowances to the regular poor are from 6d. to 1s. 6d.  The
	church collections with some other items amount to about L. 40.
  There is a sum of money consisting of L. 500, which was left at diffe-
  rent times for the use of the poor, the interest of which is applied to
  the relief of the ordinary and occasional poor along with the col-
	locations. An assessment has also existed for a considerable time,


