
226                             AYRSHIRE.

to accelerate the disposal of them,--very many of the young prize
cattle being sold to dealers immediately after the exhibition. The
degeneracy is also owing to breeding from animals too closely con-
nected, some farmers almost exclusively breeding " in and in."
        Dairy.--This district has long been celebrated for the excel-
lence of its dairy produce, the milk being almost universally made
into cheese. The number of cows at present kept in the parish
is 1405. The annual produce of a cow in cheese in some situa-
tions will exceed thirty-five imperial stones, while in others it will
not reach nineteen stones. The average produce for each cow
may be about twenty-five imperial stones of sweet-milk cheese
annually, or 35125 stones for the whole parish. Great care is
taken in the manufacture of the cheese, and the utmost attention
paid to cleanliness in all the operations of the dairy. The whey
is given to pigs, the whey from the three cows being sufficient to main-
tain a pig during summer. The cows are pastured during summer.
In winter, on some farms, they recieve turnips. In the greater
number of cases, however, their only food is oat straw or meadow
hay. After calving, they are allowed rye-grass hay and boiled food,
till the grass affords a full bite. From the almost universal prac-
tise of allowing the rye-grass to ripen for seed previous to being
cut, and the variety sown being chiefly annual seed, the pasture
during the succeeding season is very bare, except on rich soils;
and the cows being allowed to range the fields during winter un-
til a few weeks previous to thier calving, the fields are greatly
poached, and the grass so injured, that sometimes the beginning
of June elapses before the pastures afford a full bite. If a more
rational system of laying down grass lands were parctised, and the
frequent drain system fully extended, the dairy produce of the pa-
rish might be doubled.
        Husbandry.--The dairy forming the principal feature in the
husbandry, nearly two-thirds of the arable land are in pasture. The
tenants are restricted to cropping one-thirds, and in many instances
five-sixths of the farms in the parish is two white crops, one of hay,
and four or five years in pasture. Oats is the crops generally
taken, excepting that a portion may be under potatoes, beans, &c.
and should there be an intervening green crop, three years' tillage
is permitted. On the holm lands and farms nearer the towns, where
there is easier access to manure, two-thirds are under cropping, and
a more liberal rotation being paractised, the lands are under high



