
	454                        ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	The glebe was originally designed, (as the fixing of its limits is
        technically termed,) on 3d July 1729, after a tedious and expensive
        process, which cost the incumbent, Mr Hector Fraser, upwards
        of L.1000 Scots, (a large sum in those days,) and the benefit
        of which he never reaped, having been removed by death in
        the month of May preceding; but the situation proved so inconvenient
        by its distance from the manse, that it was never taken
	possession of by the succeeding ministers, and remained in the
	bands of the proprietor, who paid rent for it, and provided them
	with a farm; until 6th June 1838, when an excambion took place,
        and the former glebe having been perhaps the best land in. the parish,
        and the soil of a deep loam, quantity was on this occasion
	given for quality. The extent of the present glebe is as follows,
        being the measurement taken by Gregory Burnett, Esq. land-surveyor,
        Ardross:

	<TABLE>                                              Arable.	  Pasture.

                                                             A. R. F.        A. R. P.
        Part Buid off, 6th June 1838, as above,              21 2  14        14 1 14
        Do. formerly occupied by manse, offices, garden, & c. 2 1   4         3 0  2
        Total contents of glebe of Eddertoun, 41 acres, 34 falls imperial measure.

           The place where the grebe is now was, at no very distant period,
        a broom-moor, which its name signified in Gaelic, Funnbhealaidh,
        or the district of broom; but it is capable of much improvement,
        and a consequent increase of value. At present the
	value, including garden, is about L.16 per annum.
           The stipend is fifteen chalders, half meal, half barley, Linlithgow
        measure, and L.8, 6s. 8d. Sterling for communion elements.
	The last augmentation which raised it to that having been awarded
        in June 1839, the modification took place 20th February previously.
        There is, however, a deficiency of eight bolls in the above
	at present, according to the interim locality. The annual value
	of the stipend of Eddertoun may therefore be estimated at L.230.
	Before the period of the Reformation, the sub-deanery of Ross
	consisted of the two kirks of Tayn and Eddertayn, and the rental
	was L.200, 6s. 8d. Scots," (MS. in Advocates' Library), and this
	had probably been the case since Popery became the established
	religion of Scotland. There is a tradition in the parish, that the
	only copy of the Scriptures in use here, during Popish times, was
	a large parchment scroll, which was chained to the pulpit. In the
	list of parsonages in Scotland in 1562, given In the History of
	the Affairs of Church and State in Scotland, by the Right Rev.
	Bishop Keith, the name of "Eddirtoun" occurs.
           In the Register of Ministers, Exhorters, and Readers, and of


