
             MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.                1167

from the magistrates and community of Aberdeen, of which many
evidences appear in the town-counbil records.  It is probable that
an additional regent was established in a very few years after the
foundation, from the Principal ceasing to teach the fourth or high-
est class of the curriculum; the earliest accounts of the revenue
which have been preserved representing the whole as allocat-
ed to the principal and four regents.  The exertions of private
citizens were also of great service to the rising seminary.  In 1613,
Duncan Liddel, M.D., an eminent scholar, who had taught me-
dicine and mathematics, in the University of Helmstadt, bequeath-
ed a large sum of Money and some lands, for endowing a profes-
sor of Mathematics, and six bursars in Arts.  A divinity bursar
was endowed in 1616; and in the same year a professorship of
Theology was founded, and five years afterwards an additional sum
was given for the same chair.  In 1625, Mr Thomas Reid, who
had held the office of Latin secretary to James VI., bequeathed
his valuable collection of books, together with a large sum for a
salary to a librarian.  Many other endowments, mostly for bur-
sars, were made during the seventeenth century.  A professor-
ship of Humanity was commenced in 1653, from a grant of part of
the rents of the diocese of Aberdeen by Cromwell ; but this fell
at the Restoration, and a subsequent attempt to have a separate
teacher of Latin towards the end nf The century, was discontinued
from the want of funds.  During the eighteenth century, pro-
fessorships of Medicine, Oriental Languages, and Chemistry were
founded by private benefactors; and within these few years, pro-
fessorships of Church History, Anatomy, Surgery, and Humanity,
have been added by Government, and additional endowments have
been given to the professors of Chemistry and Medicine.
   The following enumeration of the founders and principal bene-
factors exhibits the gradual progress of the college to its present
state:

<TABLE>
A. D.
1593.   George Earl Marischal.  College properties for salaries of Principal and re-
        Town of Aberdeen.         gents-College buildings, books and MSS.
1613.	Duncan Liddel, M. D.      6000 merks for a professor of Mathematics; lands of
                                  Pitmedden for six bursars ; booksand mathema-
                                  tical instruments.
1614.	James Cargill, M. D.      4000 merks for four bursars, (now increased to eight.)
1616.	Mr John Johnstone.        1000 merks for a divinity bursar.
1616.	Rev. Patrick Copland.     6000 merks between 1616 and 1627, for a professor
                                     of divinity.
1621.	Mr David Chamberlain.     1000 merks for the same.
1625.	Mr Thomas Reid.           6000 merks for librarian's salary, and his library
                                     books.
1628.	Mr William Jameson.       His library of books.


