
			   AIRLIE			   681

the Passion, and which probably served in Roman Catholic times
as a repository for some of the baptismal apparatus.
   Modern  Seats.--The modern house at Airlie Castle, which was
originally intended merely as an occasional summer resort, has
been subsequently so much improved, as to render it a commo-
dious residence. It is now occupied by the Honourable Captain
W. Ogilvy, who retired here at the termination of the war, and
has contributed much to the improvement of the district, both by
what he has himself done, and by the influence of his example.
Lindertis House was almost entirely rebuilt, in 1813, by the late
proprietor, Mr Laing Meason, from a design by Elliot of Edin-
burgh, in the castellated style. It is well wooded, and finely si-
tuated, commanding an extensive view of thp richest part of Strath-
more. Baikie House is a small plain building, in a low hollow
situation, and was also erected by the late proprietor. It is now
the property of Mr Murray of Simprim.
   Proprietors.--The parish is now divided among six proprietors;
the Earls of Airlie and Strathmore; Sir Thomas Monro, Bart
of Lindertis the son of the late distinguished Major General Sir
Thomas Monro); Patrick Murray, Esq. of Simprim; P. Wed-
derburn Ogilvy, Esq. of Ruthven;--Fothringham, Esq.; and
G. B. C. Henderson, Esq. The Strathmore family formerly
porsdssed a much greater extent of land in the parish. The lands
of Auchindory, belonging to the Earl of Airlie, were originally
held in feu from the Abbey of Capar-Angus, to which the Ogilvy
family appear to have been benefactors to a considerable extent,
and of which they held the office of heritable baillie down to the
year 1748.
   Parochial Registers.--The parochial records consist of registers
of births and marriages, minutes of session, and accounts of the
poor's funds. They have been in general regularly kept. The
earliest entry in the session books is dated May 28, 1682.

			III.--POPULATION.
   The population of this parish has been nearly stationary since
the date of the former Statistical Account. It amounted at that
period to 865; in 1831, to 860; and, in 1841, to 868, of whom
430 were males, and 438 females. The number under twelve
years of age was 227. There are 179 houses, including 19 bo-
thies.
   Of this population, 520 are supported by agriculture, 103 by
manufactures, and 245 by other occupations. The number of


