
               ARDCHATTAN.                               481

both prefer decidedly the Glen-etive granite to the blocks lately
shipped at Dalbeattie, in Galloway, for building the new docks
at Liverpool.
  There is lead ore in a part of the hill near to Baleveolan-
house, and something was at one time done in the view of open-
ing a mine there; but, although appearances were not unpromising,
the necessary expenditure in mining concerns is great, while the
speculation is rather a hazardous one, and, on these grounds, ope-
rations were soon discontinued. A bed of marble, it is also said,
is to be found on the same farm ; but the quality is not considered
to be superior, and it has been allowed to remain undisturbed.
  The general character of our soil is a light loam on a gravelly
subsoil. Such a soil, it is well known, soon becomes exhausted
by cropping, and from its absorbent quality requires the frequent
application of manure.  Clay exists in many places near the sea,
which is capable of being manufactured into brickr and tiles.
  Zoology.-Under thhs department it may be stated, that we have
a goodly share of those aiiimals which are to be found in inoun-
tainous and wooded regions. That the wild boar and the wolf,
though now exterminated, were once common here, is indicated by
their names being still incorporated with some of our localities.
Thus, we have Bar-nam-muc, or, "the wooded eminence of the
boar;" Drim-mhuic, "the boar's ridge;" Ard-mhaduidh, "the
wolf's promontory;" Ard-mhucinnis, "the boar's peninsular height."
Nor is there reason to doubt that the stately capercailzie once re-
joiced amongst the fir forests of Glen-etive.
  Of quadrupeds there are the following fera natura:-Red-
deer, (Cervus Elaphus); fallow-deer, (C. Dama); roe-deer, (C.
Capreolus); common hare, (Lepus timidus); white or alpine hare,
(L. variabilis); fox, (Caniv Vulpes); otter, (Lutra vulgaris); bad-
ger, (Meles Taxus); wild-cat, (Felis Catus); marten cat, (Mustela
Foina); polecat, (M. Putorius); weasel, (M. vulgaris).  Though
the red-deer abound in Glen-etive, they occasionally visit other parts
of the parish, especially in winter. The fallow-deer confine them-
selves to the woods in the neighbourhood of Barcaldine. The roe-
deer are found in considerable numbers, wherever there is cover,
over the whole parish.  The white or alpine hare frequents our
high grounds, generally the tops of our mountains. Badgers, foxes,
wild-cats, martens, polecats, though not so frequently to be met
with as in former times, are considered to be still too numerous.
  Our game are, red grouse, (Lagopus Sooticus); partridge
  ARGYLE.                            H h


