
68                     ARGYLESHIRE.

rendered such an arrangement inconvenient; there is, therefore,
one kept in each. These are under the immediate inspection of
the  kirk-session, and from time to time examined by the presby-
tery of the bounds, and consequently are regularly kept.
   Antiquities.--The few antiquities in the parish consist of cairns,
tumuli, and large stones standing perpendicular. Some are isolated,
others placed in a circular position. There was a tumulus of great
antiquity in the immediate neighbourhood of Kilninver, called Du-
nanbuiaig, after the name of a Danish princess, named Buiag, or
yellow-haired. About thirty years ago, some masons, in quest of
materials for building,barbarously demolished it,and found careful-
ly preserved in a stone coffin,an urn of great antiquity, which ap-
peared to have contained the ashes of some illustrious personage.
   Cairn Challein, or Colin's cairn, is erected on a conspicuous
spot, on the old line of road, between Kilninver and Lochawe,
where it is said (and other historical events substantiate the fact)
that M'Callein More, then knight at Lochawe, was treacherously
slain, while returning victorious at the head of his men from a skir-
mish against some of the neighbouring clans. Within a mile of this
cairn, there is a burying place, where those who fell on the occa-
sion above alluded to, are interred. A little to the south of this
classic spot, Line lake, with its beautiful island and time-worn ruin,
are situated. In feudal times, a banditti of freebooters made this
their head-quarters, and for nearly a century infested not only the
surrounding district, but made predatory incursions to the adjoin-
ing counties.
   On a wooded island in the Parson's Lake, there stand the ruins
of a castle or monastery, with twelve apartments.
   The most ancient of all the ruins in the parish, called Dun-
Mhie Raonaill, or Ronaldson's tower, is situated on a point on the
coast of the Sound of Mull; when or by whom built is unknown.
It appears to have been intended as a beacon or watbh tower, for the
purpose of timeous warning of any hostile invasion. Simi-
ar towers are numerous along the coast, and were so situated, that
with corresponding signals, well understood by those Concerned
intelligence of the approach of an enemy by sea or land might be
communicated some hundred miles in a few hours.

                      III.--POPULATION-.
   The population in 1891 was 1072. At present it does not ex-
seed 970, which shows a decrease of upwards of 100 within the
last ten years.


