

                       JEDBURGH.                                 7

kirk-session at that period, is in the prossession of Mr. Renwick,
bookseller, Jedburgh.  The only other documents illustrative of
the history of the parish, are the charters and council-records of the
borough of Jedburgh.  The ancient charters all perished during
The English wars, the town having been frequently reduced to ashes.
They were all, however, renewed and confirmed by Queen Mary
in the year 1556, when the magistrates were invested with the
power of apprehending and committing criminals, of putting them
to the knowledge of an assize, and of administering justice even
unto death.  Another charter was granted by King James VI. in
the year 1569, conferring upon the provost, magistrates, and com-
munity, all the property and revenues within the parish belonging
to the Abbey of Jedburgh, for the purpose of erecting hospitals,
supporting the poor and infirm, and for other pious uses.  This
charter was ratified in Parliament, December 19, 1597, but no in-
feftment appears to have been taken upon it, and there is no trace
of any particular subject having been taken possession of under it.
Another charter was granted by King Charles II. in the year 1641
The council-records have been preserved only from the year 1619.
   Eminent Characters.--A considerable number of eminent cha-
racters have been connected with this parish at various periods of its
history.  St Kennock, who is said, by his effectual intercessions,
to have preserved peace between the two kingdoms for the space
of ten years, was Abbot of Jedburgh in the year 1000.  To him
succeeded a long line of abbots, many of whom, from being em-
ployed in embassies, and other important political transactions, ap-
pear to have been men of distinguished learning and predence.--
Sir William Stewart of Jedworth, who was taken prisoner with his
relative Douglas at Homildon, and, by the lawless orders of Hot-
spur, drawn and quartered, was remarkable both as warrior and
as a stateman, being honoured with the confidence of his sovereign,
and frequently employed to represent the interest of his country.--
In the Convent of Carmelites, which was founded by the inhabit-
ants of Jedburg, lived and died Adam Bell, author of Rota Tem-
porum, a history of Scotland from the earliest times to the year
1535-At a period somewhat later, Jedburgh had the honour of
giving birth ot John Rutherford, Principal of St Salvator's College,
St Andrews, author of a book on the art of reasoning.*-The ce-
lebrated Samuel Rutherford, Principal of St Mary's College, St
Andrews, was born in the adjoining parish of Nisbet, now annexed.

<FOOTNOTE>*Vide M'Cric's Life of Melvile. Vide Murray's Life of Rutherford.

