                                                                         417
                                SOUTHEND.



    tion of the central or Grampian range, passing through the whole
    of the district of Kintyre.  This includes 'Glen Breckry and all
    to the westward. The dip and direction is the same as noticed.
      In the upper part of the valley of Glen Breckry, the mountain-
    sandstone or quartz rock appears subordinate to the mica-slate.
    At Achnaslisaig, it is of the same colour and character as the
    limestone of Askomil, in the neighbourhood of Campbelton, on
    the north side of the loch.
      The Coniglen district is principally in porphyry and the old red
    sandstone formation. The mountain ranee, formin the division
    between Glen Breckry and Coniglen, is composed principally of
    mica-slate, as already mentioned; but at different parts of the side
    next Coniglen, there are considerable hills both of claystone por-
    phyry and old red sandstone (transition). The porphyry of Kil-
    irvan, and the old red of Kilblaan and Keil, rest on and form the
    western boundary of the valley of Coniglen. The mica-slate is
    found in a small part at the Blecklate wood, and in the bed of
    the river, near the junction of the Coniglen and Caoran waters.
    At Kerrafuar, it again forms the ridge enclosing the glen on the
    westernside. The opposite side of the valley, at Killellan, is formed
    by claystone and claystone-porphyry, which supports a small por-
    tion of the variegated red marry limestone and sandstone forma-
    tion.  The porphyry extends from Killellan Hill through Ach-
    naclach.  The lower part of the valley, as far as Dunglass Hill
    and Machriniore, is entirely of the old red. At Dunaverty, the
    coarse conglomerate of the old red sandstone appears extending
    from Brunerican.
      Kildavie Glen lies between the old red sandstone range above
    described, which is bounded in this parish on the west by Coni-
    glen; east, by the sea; on the north, by the continuation of the
    same formation in the adjoining parish of Campbelton ; and on
    the south, by the Kildavies. The Pennyland forms the opposite
    side of the glen.  This is already noticed as composed of basalt
    greenstone in almost an endlers variety, and new red sandstone
    formafion.
        I am inclined to think that we have primary transition, se-
    condary and alluvial formation. The mica-slate and subordinate
    varieties with limestone occupy the western portion of the parish,
    and about three-seventlis of the whole extent.
      The old red sandstone formation occupies about three-sevenths
    of the parish, in the north-east.  From the appearance of the rock,
      ARGYLE.                              Dd




