
			CLACKMANNAN.                            127

some of the apartments are spacious and elegant; but the exter-
nal appearance of the mansion-house, and of the buildings connect-
ed with it, as well as the general aspect of the grounds, impress
deeply on the mind of the spectator the idea of decayed grandeur.
The mansion-bouse of Kennet is delightfully situated. on the ris-
ing ground which overlooks the basin of the Forth, and is about a
mile distant from the river. Its external appearance, although
handsome, is not fitted to convey an adequate impression of the
internal elegance by which it is characterized. The existing pro-
prietor and his excellent lady being in general resident, Kennet
House is the scene of much hospitality to the rich, and of the most
liberal charity to the poor.
   The reverend and venerable Thomas Boston of Ettrick,
whose memory and writings are embalmed in the hearts of so
many 'of the Scottish people, did, in his youth, officiate for
a time at Kennet, in the capacity of tutor. Under the sha-
dow of a particular pear tree in the retired orchard, he was in
the habit of engaging in those exercises, and of enjoying that
communion by which he might be fitted and prepared for working
that work which his Heavenly Father might give him to do. By
those individuals about the place, who sympathised with the spirit
which animated Boston, the pear tree was long viewed with a pe-
culiar interest. When, at length, the symptoms of decay and disso-
lution became strikingly apparent, the present proprietor resolved
to cause a chest to be made of the timber of its root, that he might
present it with a suitable inscription to the Presbytery of Stirling,
as an appropriate repository for their records. But, on examina-
tion, the whole was found to be in such a state of decay that the
design could not be executed. The mansion-house of Aberdona
is about four miles and a-half north-east from Clackmannan. Its
position is retired and interesting. In travelling towards it from
the south, one passes through a country whose surface is undulat-
ing and varied ; and there is a very pleasing intermixture of etil-
tivated fields with sylvan scenery. Straight east from Clackman-
nan about three miles, the mansion-bouse of Brucefield is situat-
ed. There are about the place many fine old tree, and the plan-
tations are very extensive. But the house and grounds and gar-
dens appear to have been long neglected. About two miles from
Clackmannan, and near to, the margin of the Forth, stands the
mansion-house of Kennetpans, belonging to John Stein, Esq. Im-
mediately in front and towards the west and south-west, there is a


