
     Statistical Account

during the 40 years last past.  Prior to that aera, neither tea-
kettle nor tea could be found but in two families.  Two hats
only appeared at church.  A lady adorned herself with the
plaid; and a gentleman was not ashamed of home spun cloth.
-But now, most families drink tea once, and many twice
a-day.  The farmer, merchant, and tradesman, enjoy in a mo-
derate degree the comforts and accommodations of life.  The
ploughman turns out to church and market with his hat, good
linen, and broad-cloth; and, it may be taken for granted,
that the country belles will exert themselves to outshine the
country beaus*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The price of provisions is greatly affected by the stile of living 40 years
ago, beef sold from 1 d. to 2 d. per lb. a hen or duck for 2 d. halfpenny, 14
eggs for 1 d. a sheep for 2 s. a stone of cheese at 24 oz. per lb. for 3 s. 4 d. and
a stone of batter for 6 s. 8 d.-But now beef, mutton, lamb and veal, in
their respective seasons, sell from 2 d. halfpenny to 3 d. halfpenny per lb.-a
duck or hen is valued from 6 d. to 9 d.-a stone of cheese is worth from 3 s. 6 d.
to 5 s. 6 d. and of butter from 8 s. to 13 s. 4 d.-and the demand from London
estimates 12 eggs at 2 d. or 3 d.  Our butter, which is very good, is presently
in request; and I hope our country dealers will, for their own sakes, pay due
attention to the curing of this valuable necessary.
   A day-labourer, according to his merit and the season, draws from 5 d. to
9 d. per day.  When he works by the piece he may clear from 9 d. to 1 s.  The
wright claims 1 s. the mason, 1 s. 4 d. and the taylor, 5 d. and his meat, per
day; but most tradesmen work by the piece.  The wages of hired servants are
rapidly increasing.  A growing lad claims, along with his food, L. 3: 10, or
L. 4: 10; a grown man from L. 4: 10 to L. 6: 10; a maid-servant from L. 2: 2
to L. 2: 15 in the year.  Formerly a maid-servant or lad was well satisfied with
L. 1, and a capable man-servant with L. 1: 13: 4. per ann.  At that time the
price of every other service was proportionally low.
The maintenance of a tradesman's or of a day-labourer's family does not
entirely depend on what he himself gains; for if his wife and children are in-
dustrious, they share the merit of furnishing subsistence.  When a day-labour-
er or tradesman rents a croft, his wife commonly pays landlord and merchant,
by the produce of her cows, and by manufacture; and leaves it for the hus-


