
        208                 ROSS AND CROMARTY.

        roof. It affords accommodation for about 300 sitters. The seats
        were originally put up by the parishioners, but have been kept in
        repair by the heritors.  No seat rents are exacted.
           The manse, which was built in 1834, is a commodious and sub-
        stantial building.
           The glebe is an arable one of 4 acres, with pasture, for two cows
        and a horse, of about 20 acres in extent. Its yearly value is about
        L.15.  The stipend paid by the heritors is L.132, 17s.,-the
        deficiency required to raise it to L.150 being paid by Government.
        There is no other church or chapel, nor any missionary or cate-
        chist in the parish. The whole inhabitants belong to the Esta-
        blished. Church, with the exception of a few shepherds from the
        south of Scotland, who are seceders, and about 30 Roman Ca-
        tholics. The latter attend chapel at Dornie, in the parish of Kin-
        tail, where there is a priest stationed. Divine worship is general-
        ly well attended. The average number of communicants is 72.
           Education.-There is a parochial school, situated at Letterfearn,
        in which Gaelic and English reading, writing, arithmetic and La-
        tin, are taught. The salary of the schoolmaster is L-28 per an-
        anum; the school fees may amount to L.2 more. The expense of
        education would not exceed 7s. per annum even if the fees were
        rigorously exacted, which is by no means the case. The number
        of young persons, between six and fifteen years, who cannot read or
        write, is 46.
           The people are generally much alive to the benefits,of education.
        The whole children of the parish are not near enough to attend the
        school now mentioned. The parochial teacher is wretchedly ac-
        commodated.
           Poor and Parochial Funds-The average number of persons
        receiving aid from the poor funds is 17, to each of whom the ave-
        rage sum allotted is 6s per annum. There is no- mode practised
        for raising the money thus expended, except the collections at the
        church door, which amount to about L.3 annually, the interest of
        a fund of L.70, and the fines imposed by the kirk-session on delin-
        quents. The precentor's, session-clerk's and beadle's salaries,
        amount to L.2, 10s.
           The poor do not orten, apply for parochial relief, except in cases
        of great necessity; but in such cases they do not consider it as de-
        grading to apply for aid.
           Fairs.-The only fairs held in the parish are for the sale of
        black cattle, and occur at Whitsunday, July, and September. These
                                       4


