
126                         SHETLAND.

is first sold. The poney is subject to few diseases. The most
common are gravel and spavin.
     They vary in price from L.1, 10s. to L.6 Sterling. If proper
attention was paid to the breed, I am convinced there would be
found nowhere a finer race of animals. A considerable number
of them are yearly exported to Scotland and England. Former-
ly, Orkney men were wont to come over and barter linen for po-
nies; but none of them have been in the practice of doing so for
many years. Between Orkney and Shetland there is less commu-
nication now, than there is between Shetland and any other part
of Great Britain.
     Sheep.- The number of sheep kept in the parish is very great;
but what that number is, it is impossible to say. As every te-
nant exercises an unlimited privilege of pasturage on the hills or
scathold, unless the few who drive their sheep into the same
"cruive" or "pund," no other person can possibly know the num-
ber of sheep belonging to each individual.
     The native breed of sheep is very small, being in weight about
20 or 24 lbs. of mutton, and carrying a fleece of from 1 to 1 1/2 lbs. of
wool. They are of the small-tailed race, and it is very rare to see
a ewe with horns. They are of various colours, viz. white, black,
grey, "catmogged," brown or "moorit," black and white, in equal
proportions, or "Shilah," and piebald. Every neigbbourhood has
a particular pasture or scathold, on which their sheep feed, and
each person knows his own sheep by their "lug-mark." That is,
one has a hole in the ear, another a "rift" or slit, another a
"crook" or piece taken out of the ear, behind or before, &c. The
same is the case throughout the parish, and no two persons in the
parish are allowed to "lug-mark" their sheep in one way. Every
neighbourhood has also a "cruive" or, pund, into which they drive
their sheep, for the purpose of smearing them, taking of the wool,
marking the lambs, and keeping them tame. When a stray sheep
is found, the person who finds it takes care of it for a year and a-
day, and if, after due proclamation at different churches, the
owner is not discovered, it is sold, one-half of the price going
to the persons who found it, and the other half to the poor
of the parish in which it was found. These whose sheep pas-
ture promiscuously are called "Scat-brither;" and those who
have a few sheep pasturing in any place when they reside at a
distance from it, or perhaps not in this parish, are called,"out-
scat holders."
                                3


