
	1140                       PERTHSHIRE.

           Poor and Parochial Funds. The average number of paupers'
	on the roll is 6.  At present, there are only 4, and all of them
	residing in other parishes, although their settlement happens to
	be in this.   It may therefore be stated as a remarkable fact, that
	there is not a single pauper resident in this parish.   If we cannot
	boast of much wealth, we are thus happily ignorant of the evils
	and miseries of pauperism.  The usual monthly allowance to a
	pauper varies from 4s. to 1Os. according to circumstances; and
	at Martinmas, each pauper receives 5s. additional for the purchase
	of their winter coals.  There has never been any legal assessment
	for the poor; and during the last twenty years, it has been only
	once found necessary to solicit a small voluntary assessment of
	L.16, which was chiefly occasioned by the expense of a law-suit
	relative to the aliment of a pauper.  Several of the heritors are,
	however, attentive to present donations from time to time, especi-
	ally Baroness Keith, who gives L. 2, 2s. annually.  The funds
	that are placed at the disposal of the kirk-session may average,
	from collections at churchh-doors, L. 18; from dues for mortcloth,
	proclamations, &c. about L.6; in all L.24 per annum, from which
	sum must also be paid the salaries of the precentor, church-officer,
	and various other claims.  The above statement is highly credit-
	able to the frugality, as well as to the provident and independent
	spirit of the parishioners.  Even widows left with several helpless
	children have refused to accept of regular aid offered to them by
	the kirk-session, but have expressed great thankfulness in getting
	the fees paid for " the winter's schooling to the bairns."  Miss
	Stewart of Newbigging in this parish, who died last year, be-
	queathed a legacy of L.20 to the poor's fund . and instructed her
	executors, after paying several other legacies, to give the residue
	of her free estate, supposed to amount to L.900, to that excellent
	institution tite Perth lnfirmary.
	   Inns or Ale-houses.- There are two inns or ale-houses ; one
	near the Secession meeting-house, intended for the accommoda-
	tion of the more remote attentlants at that congregation ; the other
	at the ferry boat, for the use of travellers in general; and which
	is also frequented by gentlemen from a distance, whom the excel-
	lent salmon angling in its immediate neighbourhood attracts to this
	part of the country, during the summer months.
	   Fuel.--Coals, both Scotch and English, are brought from Perth,
	or purchased at a trifling additional expense in Stanley, at a de-
	pot recently, established there.  Firewood ma also be obtained



