
                         OLD DEER.                          149

ground plan, yet marked by the remaining fragments of walls, to
have been originally a very extensive though rude piece of mason-
ry, was in a great measure dilapidated for the purpose of con-
structing houses and dikes in the neighbourhood, and till a late
proprietor of Pitfour took the trouble of clearing away part of the
rubbish, and repairing some of the principal walls, according to
the original plan of architecture, if the phrase may be used in re-
spect to so plain a style of building, the form and dhmensions
of the edifice could not be ascertained.  The church, situated on
the north side, has been of considerable size, built in the form of
a cross, with chancel, nave, and transept, in fair proportions.  The
greatest length, taken internally from east to west, is 150 feet, and
the greatest breadth, where is the transept, 90 feet.  The roof of
the nave, itself 38 1/2 feet wide, appears to have had, besides the
support of the walls, that of a row of stone pillars, the bases of
which are still visible, extending from end to end about 17 feet
distant from one another, and considerably nearer the north than
the south side of the building.  This religious house was founded
about the beginning of the thirteenth century, by one of the Cum-
mings, then Earl of Buchan, and first occupied by a colony of Cis-
tertian monks from the Abbey of Kinloss, in Moray.  A name-
sake of the founder was the builder.  Not many years ago, a lin-
tel over a door in the ruinous castle of Inverallochy, parish of Lon-
may, was removed, which is said to have had on it this inscription,
or words to the same effect:

         "I, Jordan Cummin, indwaller here,
         Got lands of Inverallochy for building Abbey Deer."

The abbey was suppressed at the Reformation, and erected in-
to a temporal lordship in favour of Robert, the Earl Marischal's
second ron, created Lord Altrie.  The newly created peer dying
without, issue, the title became extinct, and the estate was incorpo-
rated with that of the head of the family.  The revenue of the in-
stitution, as appears from the collector's books, still or lately ex-
tant, is stated at L.572, 8s. 6d. of money; 65 chalders, 7 bolls, 1
firlot, 3 pecks of meal; 14 bolls of wheat; and 14 chalders 10
bolls of bear.  If we advert to the extent of territory set apart for
the support of the house, and to the rents which the lands may
be supposed to yield to their proprietors at the present day, the
annual income of this monastic establishment must have been con-
siderable.
   Among the ancient erections we ought to include the Druidical


