
	194				ORKNEY.

	in the winter season ; insomuch that I have known when there was
	not so much fish taken during five-months, as would furnish one
	meal to each inbabitant of the united parishes, and when even the
	cormorants died for want of food. At other times, the influx of
	small fish into some bays was such, that nets took them up with
	ease, and in great abundance for some weeks.
	   Hundreds have married in the hope of receiving L.3, 12s. of
	wages from the herring-fishing : but even this is sometimes a deceit-
	ful expectation,-that fishing being often very unproductive.
	   In 1838, there were 245 herring-boats, belonging to the united
	parishes, and 4066 barrels were cured. Could the curers, have
	4s. clear on each barrel, this would make L. 813 of clear gain.
	   Most of the small crofts are let at double rent, in the hope of
	payment being made practicable from the proceeds of the fishing.
	   The universal appetite for spirits is dreadful, and the many
	hundreds of pounds spent in this destruction of health and morals,
	is appalling.  The curers give one bottle of whisky to the crew of
	every boat: and the children are taught to drink at home, &c.
	   At our yearly market, at Martinmas, the sums spent in drinking
	and dancing are very great. We try to suppress these practices;
	but in vain.
	   Fishings.-The cod-fishing was begun in 1817. Now, eleven
	sloops belonging to this parish are employed in it.  In 1838, there
	were 116 tons, 16 1/2 cwt. of cod, ling, and hake fish dried, at L. 14
	per ton.
	   Although the whole herrings cured in our stores in 1838,
	amounted to 12, 180 barrels, yet boats from other places had their
	share of the profits, and the whole produce of the fishing far ex-
	ceeded that amount.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The attendance at the parish churches
	has been far better, and our collections have actually increased,
	since a minister of the United Secession was settled in 1830.
	   In the three united parishes, 939 sittings are wanted to com-
	plete the legal accommodation. If a small loft were put in each
	end of South Church, and the present seats repaired, the accom-
	modation would be complete, and the attendance much better
	North parish should have accommodation for 1020; but the ac-
	tual accommodation is only, for 414, at I8 inches each; and there
	is no acccommodation for the island and parish of Burray.
	   About forty years ago, the church in the island and parish of



