
                                    DUNBARNY.              805

      church of Dunbarny, ANNo DOMINI 1703." She also bequeath-
      ed to this parish a large silver baptismal plate or font.
         2d.  Sir Thomas dying without issue, his estate and title de-
      volved on his nephew, Thomas, who was the second baronet of
      this branch of the family.  He married Margaret, daughter of
      David Smyth, Esq. of Methven.  His second son, David, became
      Moncrieffe of Moredun, and was one of the Barons of Exchequer
      in Scotland.  Sir Thomas died in 1738, and was succeeded by his
      oldest son.
         3d.  Sir Thomas Moncrieffe of Moncrieffe, the third baronet, who
      married Catherine, daughter of Sir William Murray of Ochter-
      tyre, Bart.  He.died in 1739, and was succeeded by his eldest
      son,
         4th.  Sir William Moncrieffe, the fourth baronet.  He married
      Clara Guthrie, daughter of Guthrie of Craigs.  He was succeed-
      ed by his son,
         5th.  Sir Thomas Moncrieffe, the fifth baronet.  He married
      Lady Elizabeth Ramsay, daughter of the Earl of Dalhousie, by
      whom be had one son,
        6th.  Sir David, who was the sixth baronet, and father of the
      present, being the seventh baronet, and the fifteenth generation
      of this ancient family, in a direct male line, reckoning from Mat-'
      thew de Moncrieffe.  The mansion-house of Moncrieffe contains a
      number of paintings, the most valuable of which is a full-length
      portrait of Charles 11. in his coronation robes.  The ancient man-
      sion stood nearly halfway between the present house and the cha-
      pel.  There is a tradition that a subterranean gallery communi-
      cated between this ancient building and the vault of the old cha-
      pel.  It is now closed up.
      There are two bursaries, the patronage of which is vested in
      the family of Moncrieffe.   The history of their origin may be
      comprised in a few sentences.  Henry White, Dean of Brechin,
      in the year 1554, mortified 800 merks for the maintenance of two
      bursars, one in St Mary's College, and the other in St Salvator's,
      The right of presentation to these two bursaries was afterwards
      disponed to Sir John Moncrieffe of that Ilk. His descendant, Sir
      Thomas Moncrieffe in order to afford a more liberal subsistence
      to the said bursars, mortified, iii the year 1701, the sum of 4000
      merks, of whic the one-half was allotted to the New or St Mary's
      College, and the other to St Salvator's or the United College.
      The bursar of St Mary's must be a regular student of divinity,


