
				 URR.                      351

less in this condition. There is one volume from the year 1640
to 1660, another from 1701 to about 1712, another from 1736 to
about 1769, and another from 1770 to 1813. From 1813 down-
wards, the session records have been kept with great accuracy.
	Buildings.--The parish church of Urr was rebuilt in the year
1814, and may contain 775 sitters. The manse was built a few
years before the church. There are several dissenting meeting-
houses in the parish ; and in the village of Dalbeattie, there is a
Popish chapel which was built above thirty years ago.
	Land-owners.--The land-owners of Urr are 34 in number, but
the greater part of them are proprietors of comparatively small por-
tions of the parish. The chief land-owners are at present, John
Heron Maxwell, Esq. of Munshes; William Copland, Esq. of Colli-
ston; John Sinclair, Esq. of Redcastle; William Maitland, Esq. of
Achlane; William Stothert, Esq. of Cargen; William Young
Herries, Esq. of Spottes; and John Hyndman, Esq. of Milton.
	Antiquities.--Several motes and fortified camps are to be met
with, both in Urr and the adjoining parishes of Buittle and Cross-
michael. Tradition is silent as to the origin and use of these
motes. The mote of Urr is perhaps the largest of the kind in
Scotland. It stands on the west side of the river, about half a
mile below the church.
	Though the fossae or ditches, and the general construction of
Urr Mote are by no means Roman, yet about seventy years ago,
some outworks remained, seemingly erected by that people. At
Mill of Buittle, about a mile west from the Mote of Urr, there
were found about sixty years ago, three small silver coins, one of
Tiberius, one of Hadrian, and one of Commodus. On the estate
of Mr Maxwell of Munshes, also, about two miles south-west of
the mote, there were found several spears made of a very hard
brass. Upon the estate of Edingham, in this parish, about three
miles south-east from the Mote of Urr, there was found a tripod
or three-footed pot of Roman construction, made of a very hard
metal, which seems to be a composition of copper and tin. This
vessel is in the possession of Mr Train of Castle Douglas. Other
two vessels, nearly of the same form with the one just mentioned,
were found a few years ago on the farm of Rickhorn, in this pa-
rish, at a considerable depth from the surface. There was also
found in a peat moss (cut in the upper part in this parish,) a Ro-
man javelin, which was presented to the late Sir Walter Scott, by
Mr Train.


