
	   INVERESK.                              257

been occasionally so great, that the pillars were injured by it.  A
quantity of charcoal  was discovered on the spot in perfect preser-
vation.*
   Writing in April 1783, Mr Wedderburn says, "A bowling-
green westward (from Inveresk House) was made some years ago,
and floors of the same kind found on levelling the ground. A tree
being dug up just now, still farther westward by the summer-house,
discovered large fragments of earthen-ware.
   "In the road tip the bill to the church I have found bricks,
being lately dug up to make new steps; and in the church itself
(St Michael's, since demolished,) some of the Roman bricks are
built in with the stone.  The vaults found in making the road
were like subterraneous passages only.  There has evidently been
a space of 100 yards long, reaching from the wall of the court to
the end of the bowling-green, and 23 feet wide, covered with their
baths, as appears by their water-tight floors, &c. and very proba-
bly their buildings, 300 yards at least, as appears by their bricks,
earthen-ware, &c. found from the road to the church.
   "I am informed by the ploughmen, that there are pavements
all along the whole ridge to Pinkie-burn, which resist the plough,
and corn will not grow on it in dry seasons.  From all circum-
stances, Inveresk hill appears to have been a great station."
   After describing the bricks, many of which had been built into
the walls of St Michael's church, and which were fresh and round,
as if made only months before; the fragments of earthen-ware
formed of red clay; great numbers of clay pipes, each fifteen in-
ches long, and smoked on the inside; the cement used in the
joints of the stones, and in the coarsest tarras, where the lime
seems to have been used hot and imperfectly slaked,--Mr Wed-
derburn says, "there are fragments of larger earthen vessels, of a
fire-clay that stands the fire better than any clay at present known
in England, Stourbridge not excepted.  The potters say it is equal
to the black crucibles."
   About ten years ago, when the practice of interring at the depth
of twelve or fourteen feet became common in Inveresk church-
yard, the grave-diggers came upon a Roman urn, which they un-
luckily broke to pieces.  It was of terra cotta, strongly burnt, and
glazed without and within, with a surmounting, wreathe, represent-

<FOOTNOTE>For a detailed account of this discovery, the reader may consult original Statis-
tical Account, Vol. xvi. p. 4 and 5, and Camden's Britannia, with Gough's addi-
tions, Vol. iii. fol. p. 810-12.  Nicholls, London, 1789.
	  	 EDINBURGH.                 R



