
116	               STIRLINGSHIRE.

declivity of the little eminence on which the town stands, partly
from the grebe being on the West side of that declivity, and part-
ly from the nature of the ground on the east side, and high price
of feuing. *
   Extent.-The parish is generally computed at 6 English miles
in length, and 4 in breadth, on an average. It is much about
the same dimensions as laid down in a map of the county of Stir-
ling, from a survey by Grassom, and published in 1817. About
the same time, a survey and valuation of the rent of the parish was
made by Mr William Kemp, land-surveyor, by direction of the
Honourable Charles Elphinstone Fleming of Cumbernauld, supe-
rior of a great part of the parish,-a copy of which is before me,
dated 9th July 1818, subscribed by Mr Kemp. The extent in
Scots acres, according to him, exclusive of the common, which
was divided in 1800, is 5314 acres, 4 falls, valued at the yearly
rent of L. 7914. The extent of the common he makes 702 acres,
20 falls Scots measure, and the yearly value, L. 173, 8s. 4 1/4d.
Both together make the parochial territory 6016 acres, 24 falls
Scots measure, and the rental, L. 8087, 8s. 4 1/4d.
   Boundaries.--The Darrach Hill, a principal feature of this
parish, ("Hill of Oaks,") + forms the western boundary, from which,
sloping to the eastward, in few places with abruptness, the whole
parish stretches along to the parish of Dunipace, its boundary in
that direction. The rivers Carron and Bonny are its lateral
boundaries, Carron on the north, and Bonny on the south.  On
the west and north of Carron, the contiguous parishes are St Ni-
nians and Dunipace; and on the south, Falkirk and Cumbernauld.
The parish of Kilsyth is the boundary on the south-west.
   Topographical Appearances.--The figure of the parish is ir-
regular, but has some resemblance to a parallelogram. In
this figure, but more to the north side, there is a wide irregular
ridge of whinstone and freestone through its whole length, from
which the grounds slope on each side--on the north towards
Carron, and on the south towards Bonny, dividing the parish into
two nearly equal parts, both as to extent and population
often called South and North Herbertshire, and referred to in

<FOOTNOTE>The entry to Denny from the south is now improved by a new turnpike
being made.  An excellent house, fronting both the west and the north, has been
erected on the east side of the road.  The road is now wide, and of easy ascent,
from the erection of a new bridge over Sclanders-burn.  The height opposite the
church-gate has been levelled, and the appearance of the town by this entry is even
beautiful.-(1841.)
             Nimmo's History of Stirlingshire, p. 740.


