
			NEWBURGH.                            67

of his useful labours, and was burned at St Andrews in the year
143
   Knox speaks of one Lesly, who was Abbot of Lindores and
Bishop of Ross, whom he calls Priest-gate, but is afterwards fa-
vourably mentioned by him as having "put some reformation to
his place, anno 156O." He was chosen a Lord of the Articles in
Parliament held in that year. Patrick of Lindores succeeded him,
and was appointed one of the undertakers for planting lowland men
in the isle of Lewis, 1602. The last notice of any of these digni-
taries is contained in Calderwood's History, where, among the num-
ber of those who were assembled at Westminster in 1606, to deli-
berate on the comparative merits of Episcopacy and Presbytery,
"John Abbot of Lindores" is simply mentioned as being present.
And thus terminates with him the obscure history of a monastery
which once possessed the patronage of twenty-two parish churches,
and claimed a right of property in seven of the chief royal burghs
of Scotland.
   Corresponding to the wealth of the institution, the buildings,
which are now in utter ruins, appear to have been on a scale of
suitable magnitude, and, if an opinion can be formed from the spe-
cimens which remain, clothed as they now are with clustering piles
of ivy, they display a style of architecture which reflects credit on-
the taste of our forefathers. The vestibule of the church, which
occupies the centre of the building, is yet in such a state of pre-
servation, as to indicate at once the extent and character of the
work, and which, along with the massiveness of the walls, irresistibly
lead the spectator to conclude that it must have been both a spa-
cious and elegant structure. In the process of dilapidation to
which it was most unceremoniously subjected, but which is now
fortunately interdicted, a stone coffin was exhumed, which is said
to have contained the body of the Duke of Rothsay, who was so
barbarously murdered in the palace of Falkland, and privately in-
terred, according to Winton, in this monastery. Here unquestion-
ably the last of the noble house of Douglas found an asylum, and

<FOOTNOTE>Monastic Annals of Teviotdale.
          The history of Douglas says, that James ninth Earl of Douglas being taken
prisoner at Burneswark hill, by a brother of the laird of Closeburn, was ordered to
be put into the Abbey of Lindores, where he remained till the day of his death in
1488, whereupon the following verses were written:
		Quod rides rasumque caput, cellaque recessum?
		Quodque cucullatis fratribus anumerer?
		Fortuna volvente vicos fiet modo Princeps,
		Plebeius; monarchus sepe monacha fuit.
	Thus translated,


