
116                         BERWICKSHIRE.

with an easterly wind, and continues for several days together.
This watery vapour, floating in the atmosphere, appears to come
from the sea, and is probably occasioned by exhalation from that
element,-being carried by easterly winds over the adjacent land,
and gradually falling in the form of dense mists.
   Geology.-In this parish three distinct rock formations may be
traced. These are the transition rocks, the old red and the new
red sandstone formations. The first of these forms the northern
hilly boundary of the parish, consisting of greywacke and grey-
wacke-slate, with occasionally subordinate beds and dikes of trap.
The strata of the greywacke and its accompanying slate appear
in general to have a direction from N. E. to S. W. as may be seen
at the cleugh above Preston. Resting on this formation we meet
with the old red sandstone, which seems to occupy the space be-
tween the heights and the Whitadder,-the western boundary
from Preston-bridge to Hoardweel. This formation is seen most
distinctly on the western side of Stenshiel-hill, opposite to Cock-
burn mill, lying in successive strata, in general very coarse-grained
or conglomerate. The great mass of Stenshiel-hill is itself a fine-
grained granite, or sienitic greenstone, as some have chosen to call
it. It is perfectly unstratified, enveloped at its base by the red
sandstone, and seems to be subordinate to the old red sandstone.
Looking, therefore, at the different inclination of the sandstone
strata on each side of this mountain-mass of granite, the conclu-
sion can hardly be avoided, that this vast granitic mass has, at a
later period, and in a fluid state, pushed through these previously
existing strata of old red sandstone, and occupied its present po-
sition.
   Following the course of the river from this to Preston bridge,
very few opportunities are afforded of examining the fundamental
rocks, which, however, appear evidently to be of the same old red
sandstone, the earliest of the secondary rocks. In several different
places, trap-dikes are seen crossing the bed of the river. One of
these is a great dike of basalt, half a mile above the bridge, in im-
perfect columnar masses; a little below is another of a kind of
coarse greenstone; a third occurs at Preston-bridge, and is the
rock on which the south end of the bridge is built. A very little
below this, and apparently resting on the old red sandstone, the
new red or variegated sandstone formation, which is the charac-
terizing one along the course of the Whitadder, from this to its
junction with the Tweed, seems to commence. The principal rocks
of this formation, as seen in this parish, and through the lower di-



