
                           EDROM.                             269

west to north-ealt, the reader will perceive, agrees entirely with
the proofs otherwise and elsewhere derived as to the violence, ex-
tent, and direction of the diluvial flood. Several specimens of
these mica-slate boulders have been found at Blanerne east side.
   Notwithstanding the abundance of marl and clay in this parish,
we are not aware that gypsum has been found in it, as in other
parishes where the same formation occurs.
          	     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-The grave of Sir Anthony Darcy, sur-
named Le Sieur de la Beaute, is in a field on the estate of Broom-
house, in this parish,-called De la Beaute's field. Sir Anthony
Darcy, commonly named Anthony de la Bastie, (properly De la
Beaute) was a Frenchman, and was appointed by the Duke of Albany
Warden of the Marches, and captain of Dunbar Castle, in the room
of Lord Home,-when the Duke, who was regent in the minority
of James V., went to France, June 1517. Lord Home had been
treacherously decoyed to Edinburgh, and put to death, together
with his brother William, as was supposed, by the instigation of
Darcy. This rendered Darcy odious in the Merse. A dispute
having arisen between him and David Home, the laird of Wedder-
burn, Darcy and his party were attacked by the laird of Wedder-
burn and his associates near Langton, October 12, 1517, and put
to flight. Darcy's horse stuck fast in a bog in the end of Dunse
Moor,-which obliged him to fly on foot. He was overtaken by
Wedderburn at Broombouse, who slew him, and carrying his bead
in triumph through Dunse, fixed it on the battlements of Home
Castle. *  A cairn marks out the grave of Darcy.
   One of the largest meetings of the Covenanters took place at
East Nisbet, in this parish, (subsequently called Allanbank, and
now called Bighouse,) in 1674. They were convened for the pur-
pose of celebrating the Lord's Supper. They assembled on the
banks of the Whitadder, about one mile south of Chirnside, where
3200 communicated. The Rev. Mr Blackadder, Mr Welsh, Mr
Riddel, Mr Rae, and Mr Dickson officiated. The Earl of Home
threatened an attack upon them, but the meeting passed off with-
out molestation.
   Parochial Registers.-The early registers of this parish have

<FOOTNOTE>A particular account of all the circumstances which led to the death of Darcy
is given in an old manuscript in the possession of the present proprietor of Wedder-
burn, a copy of which is in the possession of Colonel Home of Broomhouse.


