
                     UNITED PARISHES OF

                  LONGFORMACUS AND ELLIM.

    PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

         THE REV.  HENRY RIDDELL, MINISTER.


          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Mamie, Boundaries.-THE derivation of the name of Longforma-
cus is obscure. Little more light can be thrown upon it than what
arises from the spelling of the name at different periods. In 1384,
in a charter by the Earl of Orkney to his cousin, "James de Santae
Clairo," the name occurs in the form of "Longfordmakehous." In
1395, in a charter by the Earl of March to James Sinclair of Lochir-
makehous, the lands of "Lochirmackehous" are conveyed. And
the same spelling of "Lochirmakehous" is observed in the char-
ters of that time. In 1505 the spelling varies to "Lochirmacus,"
and in 1556, and downwards, the name is usually spelt as it now
is. It is worthy of remark, that at present the ordinary appella-
tion corresponds with the old spelling of "Lochirmacus." The
spelling of the name of the parish of Ellim often varies even in the
same writings,-thus Ellim, Ellem, Elm.
   The parishes of Longformacus and Ellim were, on account of their
general contiguity, united by decree of annexation, 18th February
1712. At that time the relative proportion of the two parishes,
so far as population is concerned, was as two to one, 200 examin-
able persons being then in Longformacus, and 100 in Ellim.
   The parish touches the parishes of Whittingham and Inver-
wick on the north; and extends southwards about eight miles,
where it is bounded by the parishes of Langton, Greenlaw, and
Westruther. On the east it is bounded by the parishes of Dunse
and Abbey St Bathans; and it extends westward in one part
about twelve miles, where it is bounded by the parish of Lauder.
The parish of Abbey St Bathans cuts off an isolated portion,
which belonged to the old parish of Ellim, called Blackerstone.
This portion lies about eight miles distant from the parish church,
and is about two miles long, and a mile and a-half broad; at


