
				WICK.                          161

	however, that it was the saints who did it; and that a lapideous
	saintess, whom be had cast down and broken to pieces, the day be-
	fore, was seen a-top of him in the water.
	   The minister, however, and kirk-session were anxious to put an
	end to such humiliating superstitions, and the sessional records
	bear evidence of their zeal.  But, notwithstanding all their exer-
	tions, hagiolatry still lurked in the parish of Wick.  Within the
	memory of persons yet living, it was customary for people to visit
	the Chapel of St Tears on Innocents' day, and leave in it bread
	and cheese, as an offering to the souls of the children slain by
	Herod : but which the dog-keeper of a neigbbouring gentleman
	used to take out and give to the bounds.  Till within a few years,
	it was customary for all the inhabitants of Mirelandorn to visit
	the Kirk of Moss every Christmas before sunrise, placing on a
	stone, bread and cheese and a silver coin, which, as they alleged,
	disappeared in some mysterious way.  There are still several holy
	lochs, especially one at Dunnet, to which people go from Wick,
	and, indeed, from all parts of Caithness, to be cured of their dis-
	eases.  They cast a penny into the water, walk or are carried
	withershins around the loch, and return home.  If they recover,
	their cure is ascribed to the mystic virtues of the Halie Loch;
	and if they do not, their want of faitb get all the blame.
	  The Kirk of Wick was in Popish times dedicated to St Fergus.
	It probably stood before the Reformation at Mount Hellie, or
	Halie, near the eastern end of the town.  We have no account
	of the erection of the edifice in the present church-yard, of which
	the Sinclair Aisle and Dunbar Tomb are the only remnants; but
	it must have been built before 1576.  It was repaired in 1728,
	and again in 1752.  A new church was erected at the close of
	the last century.  This was found, soon after it was finished, to
	be very insecure.  A new one became indispensable, which, after
	various delays, having been commenced, was at length finished in
	1830, at an expense of L.4780, 13s. 10 1/2d.
	  The Right Honourable Lord Duffus is patron of the parish.
	  Parish Church.-Standing at the west end of the burgb, the
	Parish church is very conveniently situated for the great body of
	the parishioners.  Excellent roads lead towards it in all directions.
	It is nine miles from Nybster, on the north ; seven from Bruan,
	on the south; seven and a-half from Mirelandorn, on the west;
	and about a mile from the Moray Frith, on the east.  It is not
	inconveniently situated for the great bulk of the parishioners; but
	  CAITHNESS.                            L


