
38                               FORFARSHIRE.

gonia, and Georgince, with various other elegant plants. Another
gentleman has from twenty to thirty varieties of the Camellia, and
a select assortment of other tender exotics, in a green-house of
only a few feet in extent, the back part of which is occupied by
an aviary; the whole superintended by himself in the intervals of
active life,--an example most worthy of imitation. In all the
nurseries good collections are kept of hardy ornamental trees and
shrubs, border flowers, roses, eglantine, &c. In the open air the
Hydgrandia, Medicaqo arborea, Buddlea globosa, and other shrubs,
which scarcely resist the severity of the winter in the vicinity of
London, remain here almost uninjured; as do myrtles and Fuch-
sias, Verbenas, and some other Australasian plants, when planted
out against walls and protected against the severest frosts of winter.
	Tanning.--There was once a number of tanners in Dundee; but
there are not more than two considerable works now,--employing
but a very few hands. The supply of native hides is good; bark
is brought from England and the continent, and dried hides from
South America. There are seven curriers and leather-merchants,
who employ sixteen men and apprentices altogether.
	Sail-cloth, Cordage.--Dundee is eminent both for sail-cloth
and cordage. Several companies are embarked in the trade of
sail-making and rope-making, who are also ship-chandlers.
	Banks, &c.--There are at present seven banking offices; some
of them of long standing. All of them are understood to be doing
well, and have the character of being liberal in their transactions
	Companies.--Besides the gas company, already noticed, there
are one local company for insuring against fire, &c. and various
branches of life insurances.
	Butcher Markets.--The following lax be stated as the average
quantity and prices of vivres and butcher meat killed in Dundee for
the last year, viz.

<TABLE>
		Black cattle, from               5,000 to  6,000
		Sheep and lambs, 	        10,000 to 11,000
		Calves,                          4,000 to  5,000
		Pigs,                            3,000 to  4,000
	     Prices.
		Beef, from        4 1/2d. to 6d.
		Veal,          	  4d.     to 6d.
		Mutton,     	  4d.     to 6d.
		Pork,             4d.     to 5d.
	Revenue to Government.--In 1705, the whole post-office revenue
of Scotland did not amount to L. 2000 a-year. In 1791, the sum
collected in Dundee was L. 1600, and the whole revenue from


