
14                     KINROSS-SHIRE.

had been sauntering along its brink, picked up a bunch of keys,
which lie carried immediately.to the parish schoolmaster, the late
Mr John Taylor,-in whose possession the writer of this account
has frequently had occasion  to see them. They were very rusty,
and fastened by an iron ring, which mouldered away on being rub-
bed by the band. Mr Taylor sent them to the late Earl of Mor-
ton, heritable keeper of Lochleven, from whom be received a suit-
able gratuity to the finder, L. 5 to the poor, and a handsome silver
inkholder to himself.
  Modern Building.-The latest of these, and the most conspi-
euous from whatever quarter it is viewed, is the parish church, first
employed for public worship on the 11th of March 1832. Before
1742 the parish church stood within the old burying-ground, im-
mediately beside the lake. It was then removed from this situa-
tion to another at the west of the town, which, gradually extend-
ing its dimensions, came at length to place the church in its centre,
as well as in the very front of the most frequented inn.
  The situation of this second church being very inconvenient, at
the same time that it was also inadequate in size for the growing
population, a handsome edifice of the Gothic kind has been erect-
ed on a rising ground adjoining the manse, and altogether removed
from the noise and bustle of the town thoroughfare. It cost
L. 1537, 11s. 6d.
  The County Hall, which is also the public gaol, is a still finer
building. It was finished in 1826, and cost L. 2000, of which L. 750
formed a grant from Government, and the remainder was raised by
a voluntary assessment from the beritors of the county, according
to the oldvalued rent. It consists of a course of apartments, of which
there are 2 for the sheriff-clerk, I record room and safe, I court
room, I witnesses room, 3debtors rooms, 2 cells, and a guardroom.
  There are three mills within the parish, the first and most im-
porfant of which goes by the name of Kinross mill, atid is for
all manner of grain; the second, within a quarter of a mile of
the town, ir Balleave, once for grain, but now employed in the new
tartan manufactory; the third, at West Tillyocbie, about three
miles from Kinross, once also occupied in grinding corn, but
within these few months, taken in lease by one of the three tartan
manufacturing companies here for the purposes of carding and spin-
ning of wool on an extended scale; the first attempt of the kind
in this quarter, but only, it is to be hoped, the commencement of a
new era of our manufacturing industry.


