
954                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

easterly winds, which, blowing over a wide continent and a narrow
sea, are colder, have their force broken by the high lands on the
eastern side of the county, so that the cold heavy fogs, so preva-
lent on the east coast, seldom pay their unkindly visits here.  In-
tense frosts and deep snows are neither frequent, nor, when they
occur, lasting.  The summer's temperature, however, is lowered
by the vapours which the prevailing winds bring from the Atlan-
tic; and which intercepted by the heights of the counties of Ren-
frew and Dumbarton, fall in frequent and heavy showers.  In the
flatter country farther up the Glyde, where the current of air passes
with scarce the interruption of a single height between the ocean
and the river, rains are less frequent.  And in the trough of Clyde,
the dense column of air buoying up the clouds, sometimes pre-
vents the lands in the hollow from receiving the rains with which
the ridges on either side are drenched.  While the west and south-
west winds prevail, the rain falls in repeated showers between short
intervals of fair weather.  Next to these, the most prevalent wind
is the north-east, which is generally accompanied with fair but cold
weather.  The south wind generally brings heavy rain, but of
short continuance.  The heaviest and'most lasting rain, though
not the most frequent, is from the south-east.  It was probably from
the weather which prevailed while Agricola was erecting ramparts
on the northern confines of this county, that Tacitus drew his de-
scription of the Caledonian weather, wbich is still applicable to
the climate of the Lower Ward: " Coelum crebris imbribus ac
nebulis foadum; asperitas frigorum abest."  In the Upper Ward,
where the distance from either sea is great, the influence of the
sea-breeze is less felt.  Frequent and lofty eminences intercept the
current of air from sea to sea.  The weather, thought not exempt
from insular variableness, is steadier, the winter's cold more severe,
and the summer's heat more intense.  Rains are more frequent
than in the Middle Ward.  In the upper extremity of the county
especially, where lofty summits intercept the clouds, heavy rains
often fall,--mists cover the hills,--the winters are tedious and se-
vere,--and the heats of summer are often interrupted by chilling
blasts.  In the Accounts of Crawford and Biggar, the reader will
find meteorological tables, from which he may form a tolerably ac-
curate idea of the climate of the Upper Ward.  For the meteo-
rology of the Middle Ward, we refer him to a similar table in the
Account Dalserf; and of the meteorology of the Lower Ward,


