
                      KILBRIDE.                               13

chat, the redbreast, the hedge and house-sparrow, the wagtail,
(white, gray, and yellow), the yellow-hammer, the common bun
ting, the linnet, the chaffinch, the common wren, and (the most
pestilent and numerous of the whole) the moor-blackbird. The
rarer land birds are, the kestril, the goatsucker, the ring-thrush,
the water-ouset, the wheat-ear, the golden-crested wren, the gold-
finch, and the starling. Among the waders, those which occur
most frequently are the curlew, the corricrake, the woodcock, the
snipe, the lapwing, the green-plover, the ringed-plover, and the
oyster-catcher. The bittern is met with occasionally A beauti-
ful specimen of this bird was shot in a swamp below the White-
house a few years ago. Among, the water birds which frequent
the coast, the following occur: the cormorant, the shag or scart,
the solan goose, the mallard or duck, the teal, the wild goose, the
razor-bill, the puffin, the northern diver, the common gull, the
silver gull, the guillemot, and the tern. Of these, the gull and
the scart are among the most numerous.
	5. Insects.--To one conversant with such subjects, the entomo-
logy of Arran would furnish materials for a volume. Presenting
on its mountain tops the atmosphere and temperature of the
Alps; and in its wooded glens `nd sheltered valleys, a climate
nearly as mild as Devonshire, its insect races are as varied as its
physical character. Among these, the most interesting are its
beetles, butterflies, and moths. Of the first, two may be men-
tioned as particularly deserving of notice, which are found in
beauty and abundance near the manse and at Whitingbay, viz.
Chrysomela fulyida and Cicindela campestris. The following is a
list of butterflies and moths, collected,in Arran by Mr Connell, of
the High School, Glasgow, during the month of July 1836. It
was the most unfavourable July for the purpose in the memory of
man, otherwise the list might have been grearly extended.
Though it encroaches on the parish of Kilmorie, it is too valuable
not to be presented whole.
Cynthia cardui. Not common. Specimens taken near Brodick gild King's Cove.
Hipparchia blandina. An Arran specimen of this insect first announced to ento-
	mologists, the fact that it was a native of this country; not common. Found
	near Brodick and Dugary.
Hipparchia polydama  Abundant.
     pamphilus.
     hyperanthus.  Three specimens taken near Bernan Head.
     janira. This insect seems act confined to any latitude, soil, or vegeta-
tion.
     semele. Found chiefly on stones, exposed to the sumbrams, and shel
tered from the wind.

tered from the wind.


