
1032                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

greatly improved of late years; but in many cases their condition is
susceptible of farther improvement.
       	With regard to the erection of farm-steadings, the following
system has been adopted by the proprietor of Rainnieshills, &c.
and has been found to answer well. After the plan and size have
been agreed upon, the tenant erects the whole at his own expense,
but is repaid his whole outlay except carriages, in the five subse-
quent years, by ten equal half-yearly deductions from his rent.
If it were not invidious to single out a particular individual, where
so many have signalized themselves in the various departments of
agriculture, it might be mentioned that the greatest improvements
which have been recently made in this parish have been effected
by Mr William Harvey, the spirited and skilful tenant of Mony-
kebbock.

	                 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       	Market-Towns.--The nearest market-towns are Aberdeen and
Old Meldrum, the former distant from the parish church ten
and the latter eight miles.  There is no village in the parish.
        Means of Communication.--There is a post-office lately esta-
blished about midway between the church and manse, close by
the turnpike road. The Aberdeen and Banff turnpike runs
through the parish, a distance of seven miles, intersecting it in the
direction of north and south. The old Aberdeen turnpike, com-
mencing at the church, gradually diverges from the new eastward,
until it joins the Peterhead turnpike, near to the old bridge of Don.
It is still in very tolerable repair, and is the mean of communica-
tion with Aberdeen to the inhabitants in the south-east end of the
parish.* Carriers pass almost daily. A stage-coach from Aber-
deed to Banff passes and repasses along the new turnpike daily,
also a gig carrying a second mail.
       	The most important bridge connected with the parish is that
which spans the Don on the line of the public road. It consists
of one wide arch,--is built entirely of wood,--is much admired for
its elegant as well as scientific construction,--but is now consider-
ed frail and unsafe for heavy carriages, and is about to be repla-
ced by one of stone a little higher up the river.
       	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated exactly op-
posite the tenth mile stone, a few hundred yards to the eastward,

<FOOTNOTE>There are, moreover, numerous excellent statute labour roads crossing the pa
rish in all directions.
						3


