
                            RAYNE.                             431

malt, horse-corn, sale, nad all other purposes, 5470 quarters,
=10,470 quarters.  From the gross value of cattle sold, a de-
duction should be made for grass parks rented by the tenants
annually, amounting to about L.400.  But this outlay is much
more than compensated by hay sold, and potatoes and other farm
and dairy produce consumed at home, but of which the value can-
not be ascertained.
   The cheese made here is mostly from skim-milk, and does not
bring a higher price in the market than from 3s. to 4s. per imperial
stone.  But butter is made in great abundance and of good quality
by the farmers and also by the crofters, who have little other pro-
duce to spare for the market.  It is bought up by the country mer-
chants at 7d. to 9d. per imperial pound; salted in casks and sold
in Aberdeen, for city consumpt, or exportation.  The annual value
of butter, cheese, and eggs, sold from the rural parts of this county,
was estimated some years since at L.90,000 Sterling; of which con-
siderable revenue it may be affirmed that Rayne, with its nume-
rous small possessions, drew an adequate share; it being ascer-
tained, that, on farms of L.80 rent, the yearly value of dairy
produce sold has been L.20, or one-fourth thereof.
   The corns throughout this whole county are now cut down with
the scythe, which is found to be much more expeditious for oats
and bear than the sickle, and consequently, more profitable, by
preventing the hazard from over-ripening and shaking.  The
thrashing on all farms of two horses' labour and upwards is ac-
complished by machinery, or thrashing-mills, which are now very
numerous.  Formerly, the oats were milled, and the meal sold in
the Aberdeen market; but now the greater part is sold in grain
and, carted to Inverury, whence it is conveyed by the canal barges
to Aberdeen for being milled or exported.
   Manufactures.-Almost the only manufacture carried on here,
is the knitting of woollen stockings, &c. with wires, as mentioned
in the Statistical Account of 1794.  All the women and some old
men were employed in knitting coarse stockings for the Dutch
market, and thereby brought into the parish about L.400 Ster-
ling yearly.  This easy and lucrative manufacture was for a time
interrupted  and nearly annihilated, by the war with France, and
Holland, under its sway; but through the persevering enterprise of
few eminent capitalists in Aberdeen, it was succeeded by one
a similar kind, viz. the knitting of coarse worsted vests or under-
jackets, for seafaring persons, and of blue woollen bonnets, com-


