
<APPENDIX>

lxii

books, for M. Campomanes, and other persons in Spain of the same descrip-
tion, and shall direct one for Count d' Aranda, recommending your wishes
to him very earnestly.

   No VIII.  Extract Translation of a Letter from the Count de Stadien,
   the Imperial Minister at the British Court, dated 25th May 1792.

   I BEG to return my best acknowledgements for the Prospectus which you
have had the goodness to send me.  Works of such general concern can-
not fail to be favourably received, by those who are attached to the useful
sciences.  I shall not neglect to communicate them to several persons in
Germany, who have applied themselves to those studies, and who, I am
persuaded, will be much flattered in an opportunity of assisting you.

   No IX.  Extract of a Letter from Mr Speaker Addington, dated 5th
   June 1792.

   I THANK you for the Prospectus you have sent me.  The exertions of the
Clergy of Scotland, in collecting and furnishing materials for such a
Work, are highly to their credit, and must be the best encouragement to
yourself, to persevere in your important and public spirited undertaking, to
which I wish all possible success.

   No X.  Extract Translation of a Letter from the Comte de Redern
   the Prussian Minister at the Court of London, dated 14th June
   1792.

   THE interesting details contained in that Work, (the Statistical Account
of Scotland), cannot fail to make the public impatient for the conclu-
sion of so great an undertaking.  The plan embraces all those important
objects, on which depends the prosperity of political society, and the re-
searches founded thereon, seem to be equally extensive and laborious.

   No XI.  Extract of a Letter from the Le Chevalier de Pinto, Minister
   to the Queen of Portugal, died Lisbon, 3d July 1792.

   I OWE you many thanks for so valuable a mark of your remembrance, and
more especially for your specimen of the Statistical Account of Scot-
land.  I shall not fail to present the same to our Academy of Sciences, and


