
                  DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                   993

nary devolved on Lady Glenlyon, who nominates a certain ntm,
ber of scholars who have three years free tuition.
	The Sunday school was instituted in 1789 by Jane Duchess of
Atholl, and is conducted according to certain regulatibns well cal-
culated to impress on the youthful mind the great principles of
religion. Two years ago, the late Duchess built a room at her
own expense, exclusively for the scholars. This institution is sup-
ported by contribution.
	Bede-House.--Bishop Brown, in 1510, erected a house, called
St George's Hospital, for the support of seven old men, who were
each to have a free house, five bolls of meal, and five merks Scots
yearly. In 1689, the hospital was burned; small low cottages
were then built, but, subsequently, substantial buildings were
erected on their site. Part of the buildings were sold; the rents
derived from the remainder are laid out in meal, which is equally
divided among the bedemen. The commissary has the sole ad-
ministration of the hospital funds.
	Poor.--The funds are derived from the church collections,
dues of proclamation, and mortcloth dues, which, on an average,
amount yearly to about L.60 Sterling. There is also a yearly sum
of L2, 6s. 8d. from Burt's mortification. Any deficiency is made
up by the Atholl family as heritors. There are standing, at pre-
sent, upon tbe poor list, 5 men and 14 women, with an allowance
of Is. per week. Thex are allowed free houses and fuel from the
Atholl family, and many of them receive assistance from the La-
dies' Society. In 1842, there was paid to resident paupers, L.58,
11s, 11d,; and for lodging paupers, and passihg them through the
town, L.9, 14s, 4d.

	                     DOWALLY.

		L.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	About the end of the fifteenth century, Dowally was the High-
land district of the parish of Caputh, which, prior to 1400, had
formed part of the parish of Little Dunkeld. During the pesti-
lence which ravaged Scotland in 1500, many persons settled in the
haugh of Dowally, under the belief, that, from its proximity to.
Dunkeld, they would escape the calamity,--the prevailing report
being, that the city of Dunkeld was preserved from every person.

<FOOTNOTE>Dean Mill's Lives of the Bishops of Dunkeld, M8.
	PERTH.                                        3 R


