
                          INVERESK.                       277

Roman wall, as stated in Mr Wedderburn's Account, to have run
along the whole face of the northern ridge of the hill.
   Nor, for these reasons, can these questionable mounds have be-
longed to the fort raised at Inveresk by the French commander
Desse, for he did not occupy the station till the June of the suc-
ceeding year, 1548.  Where the fort of Desse stood, although it
must necessarily have been in the immediate vicinity, we have no
means of now ascertaining-but it should be mentioned, that while,
some old people called this rampart Oliver's Mound, others gave
it the appellation of Desse's Wark.  These works at Inveresk
were thrown up as an advanced post for the protection of Leith
and Edinburgh, as has been before stated.
   Previous to the battle of Pinkie, the Roman bridge was fortified
by the Scottish General, who bad its gate defended - by artillery.
The Village of Inveresk was surrounded by turf walls a yard high,
along which ranges of small cannon were placed.  The sea was
the defence of Musselburgh on the north from a land army; and
a strong gate secured it on the east.  It was thus rendered a posi-
tion of some strength, and was the only town in the east of Scot-
land, except Dunbar, that offered any determined resistance to the
approach of Cromwell.+
   Stone coffins have at various times been exposed throughout the
parish in the operations of agriculture.  About, sixteen years ago,
in cutting the new'line of London road, through the eastern shoul-
der of Edgebucklin Brae, at the foot of Musselburgh Links, nu-
merous ranges of skeletons were come upon, enclosed in slabs of
stone similar to that found in the adjoining quarries, which have
been worked for the last 600 years.  They were about four feet
from the surface, and laid down without much apparent regard to.
order.+ During last summer, similar ranges of stone coffins were

<FOOTNOTE>On the 10th of January 1548-9, the Privy-Couincil ordered a fort to be built at
Inveresk.  The town of Edinburgh was directed to furnish 300 workmen, with pro.
per tools for six days.  The same council ordered, that every potch of eight oxen,
between Linlithgow and Haddington, should furnish a man, properly provided with
entrenching tools, during the same time of six days, and every potch plough to fur-
nish two men, under pain of forty shillings. -(MS. Extracts from the Privy-Coun-
cil Records. Keith's Appendix, 57.)--In the governor and council's on the
22d April 1550, to the French Memorial, they intimated that, to save charges, the
fort of Inveresk would be kept by the Abbot of Dunfermline, upon caution-(See
Caledonia, Vol. ii, p. 620.)
     Vide "The History of the Revolutions in England under the Family of the
Stuarts, from the year 1603 to 1690."  By F.J. D'Orleans, of society of Jesus,
translated from the French original, to which is prefixed an Introduction, by Lau-
rence Echard, M. A., Archdeacon of Stowe, 1722, p 146.
     In Westminster Abbey, near Poet's Corner, is a superb monument erected to
the memory of one of the Thynne family, an ancestor of the Marquis of Bath, who


