	278                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	the lot of Highland clergymen owing, We suppose, to their su-
	perior modesty and self-denial, rather than to their inferior at-
	tainments or because their metropolitan brethren are more ready
	to monopolize these honours than to bestow them on those who,
	when out of sight, are out of mind, except when a vote to pro-
	mote a party or partial object is required. We have seen two vo-
	lumes of philosophical essays on various subjects by Dr Bethune.
	He died the 15th April 1774. He was succeeded by Mr John
	Calder, minister at Weem, in Perthshire, who is said to have been
	singularly pious, and possessed of very popular talents. He was
	inducted on the 24th September 1775, and died 1st June 1783.
	Mr Thomas Urquhart was inducted 1st September 1784; died
	17th May 1812. He was very much opposed at his induction,
	but is now generally said to have been a good and benevo-
	lent man, and of a meek and quiet disposition. Mr John Ross,
	minister of Logie Easter, was inducted 16th June 1813. He was
	a man of talent and sound evangelical views. He was translated
	to Rosskeen in his old age, much to the dissatisfaction of those he
	left, and of those among whom he was settled. He died 8th Fe-
	bruary 1824. Mr David Carment, the present incumbent, was
	translated from the New Gaelic Chapel, Duke Street, Glasgow,
        and admitted assistant and successor on the 14th March 1822. *
   	Education.-There are in the parish one parochial school, two
	supported by societies, and three by school fees, which are trifling,
	And also ill paid. The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum
	salary, and perhaps his fees do not exceed L.3 per annum. There
	are also two Sabbath schools in the parish.
   	Library.-A parochial library has been lately established and
	seems to be already in a flourishing state. It is hoped that it will
	be the means of creating gradually, among the humbler classes of
	our population, a greater taste for reading than at present exists,
	and of thus aiding in the diffusion of useful knowledge.
   	Poor and parochial Funds.-The average number ofpersons re-
	ceiving parochial aid, is, 140. The Annual amount of contributions
	for their relief, arising from church collections, mortcloth money,
	&c. is from L.50 to L.6o. There is no assessment for the poor

	<FOOTNOTE> It in a corious facct though sufficiently explained by what has been said above.
	that there is this parish more than one person, who has seen every Presbyterian
	minister in it since the Revolution. The comfort which the present incumbent
	when in rather a delicate state of health, some years ago, recieved from one of these
	octogenarians was, that he had seen six ministers in Rosskeen, and very likely he
	would see the seventh.

				3

