
                            PERTH.                                109

  It is an illustrative fact, and not out of place to mention, that the
town-council got possession of, and retained for many years, till
obliged to give it up, a property of considerable value belonging
to the hospital. James VI., among other immunities and privileges,
gifted to the hospital by charter L.69, 6s.8d. of yearly burgage farm,
formerly paid to the Exchequer, and for that sum the town was
to hold count annually to the Exchequer, at the filling up of the
aeque, as paid by them to the hospital. The town agents contriv-
ed to conceal the grant, and might have continued to do so in
all time coming, had not one of the ministers, in 1754, discovered
the fact, in consequence of an incidental perusal which he had got
of the town's great charter. An investigation forthwith commen-
ced, and demands were made to obtain possession of the property.
These were upon various grounds resisted, particularly the not very
honourable one of negative prescription. Recourse was then had to
the civil court, and in 1758, the Lords of Session decerned against
the town, requiring them to pay in all time coming the said sum
of L.69, 6s.8d. and also to make count for thirty-nine years, with
certain deductions of bygones, to the amount of L.2377, 12s. 8d.
Stdrling. Another illustrative fact may be mentioned. Immedi-
ately upon the charter being granted, the minister and elders, as
hospital managers, entered on possession of the Blackfriars and
Charter-House lands. In a few years, the magistrates and council
claimed as their right to have the management of the property.
Their claim was indeed resisted, but they contrived to gain their
point by means of that most disgraceful and outrageous transaction,
which I have before particularly detailed (page59.) Having, at this
illegal self-constituted session, got into the management of the hospi-
tal affairs, they contrived to appropriate to the use of the town the
proceeds of these lands. The presbytery interfered, and threat-
ened legal measures. They then proposed to the session to alie-
nate the said proceeds to the maintenance of a third minister. The
session applied to the presbytery for advice, who referred the matter
to the General Assembly. The Assembly appointed a committee
of legal members to consider it and report. The report was decid-
edly against the town-council. Still, however, tbe council continued
to hold the property, and appropriate and draw the rents. A num-
ber of the councillors being members of session, the session was
gained over. The presbytery coming to the knowledge of this, did
at their own risk, and with their own means, and even though oppos-
ed by the kirk-session, commence a process before the Court of


