
                      MUCKAIRN.                  521

nearest being Oban, which is twelve miles distant from the
church.
	Means of Communication.-The line of the great county road
from Oban and the western isles to Inverary is conducted through
the parish, a distance of eight miles; but it is to be regretted,
that, with this exception, there are no other roads which deserve
the name. The nearest post-office is Bonaw; and a coach plies
betwixt Inverary and Oban daily during the summer months, and
on alternate days, Sundays excepted, in winter and spring.
	Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which is situated near the
eastern extremity of the parish, and inconveniently for a consider-
able portion of the people, was built in 1829, after the passing of
the enactment for endowing additional churches in the Highlands,
the manse and offices being, built by Government. It is a plain
but commodious place of worship, capable of accommodating 350
sitters, and having, in terms of the Act of Parliament, a portion
of the seats let at a low rent, in order to uphold the manse and
offices. The incumbent has also, as the act requires, a piece of
land for garden ground, with a salary from Government of L.120
per annum. Till the late disruption of the Church, there were not
half a-dozen of Dissenters in the district ; but that event occa-
sioned a very material change.
	Education.-There are two schools in the parish, the one paro-
chial, and having attached to it the minimum salary allowed by
act of Parliament. The other school, situated at Auchlevan, in
the west end of the district, is unendowed, though there was till of
late a salary of L.17 per annum allowed by the Society in Scotland
for Propagating Christian Knowledge. A handsome schoolhouse,
capable of accommodating 130 scholars, with superior accommoda-
tions, was erected for the Parochial teacber in 1836, by the lady of
General Campbell of Lochnell, while the General himself built a
neat and commodious schoolhouse, besides giving a house and
piece of ground, for the other teacher. It is due to the present
proprietor of Lochnell to mention, that, in consequence of the with-
drawal of the salary by the Society, he has himself, for the last
two years, given L. 12 per annum to the Auchlevan schoolmaster.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.-The Dumber on poor's roll is 26.
Till the vacancy in 1337, the collections and mortcloth dues were
found insufficient for the poor, besides enabling the kirk-session,
with the aid of a sum of L.30 bequeathed for the purpose, to lay
up more than L.60 of a fund for such emergencies as might oc-


