
                                    WICK.                             151

       of from L.30 to L.100 of annual rcnt, taking care that there should
       be the greater number at the smaller rent between L.30 and L.60.
       The state of capital and the physical character of the district appa-
       rently point out this as a desirable arrangement.  In efflacting it, how-
       ever, very much tenderness ought to be shown.  All great changes
       ought to be gradual.  The violent and extensive ejection of small
       tenants not having the means of supporting themselves and fami-
       lies till other sources of support are discovered and made available,
       always occasions an amount of suffering, that can neither be com-
       pensated nor atoned for by any consequent agricultural improve-
       ments.
         Leases.-At present, leases are given, varying from fourteen to
       twenty years in duration.  If leases are not taken too high, they
       plainly form a great encouragement to the tenant.  But they like-
       wise are as evidently beneficial to the landlord.  The tenant is
       induced to lay out both capital and labour in improving his farm,
       by which means the landlord's estate is improved.  The relation,
       indeed, of landlord and tenant involves many reciprocal advantages,
       obligations, and duties.  The comfort of the landlord and his
       prosperity will be deeply involved in the character, comfort, and
       prosperity of his tenantry.  He should, therefore, endeavour to
       store his estates not only with the best cattle, but with the best
       men.  It is as much his interest as his duty to promote, both by
       precept and example,  Christianity on his estates.  This would be
       the parent of all improvement.  God has placed the heritors of
       Scotland in most responsible situations.  A Christian landlord is
       an unspeakable blessing to all under his influence, and, next to an
       unchristian minister, an unchristian heritorship is about the great-
       est curse that can befall a parish.
         Fisheries.-There is a small salmon-fishery in the Bay and
       River of Wick.  Probably about 150 men are engaged all the
       year round in the white-fishery, on the coasts of the parish.
         This, however, is of very'trifling importance indeed, in compari-
       son of the herring-fishery , which is carried on to a great extent in
       this district.  From time immemorial vast shoals of herrings: leave
       frequented the coast.  They were, however, in ancient days, almost
       completely neglected.  For nearly 200 years the people contented
       themselves with catching a few fish on rude iron books, and proceed-
       ing with that excellent bait to the cod-fishing.  About the beginning
       ofthe eighteenth century, nets began to be used.  Some time after
       wards, the attention of Government was directed to the fishery, and


