
     of Cupar of Fife.

Argyll, and Lord James, prior of St. Andrews, loading the
forces of the Congregation*.

   Mote-hill, Temple Tenements, etc.-A mound of earth
rising considerably above the adjoining grounds, extends to
a great length on the north side of Cupar, called the Mote,
or, as some write it, the Moat-hill+.-The Knights Tem-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The hostile camps were only separated by the river Eden.
The morning of the day had been employed by the generals of
both armies, in making the necessary arrangements for a deci-
sive engagement.  The advanced parties were now about to
close, when the Duke sent a messenger to the Lords of the Con-
gregation, to demand a conference.  They equally unwilling
to risk a general action, complied with the request.  The prin-
cipal men in both armies repaired to the highest eminence of
the Garlie Bank, a spot known by the name of the Howlet, or
Owl Hill, and Which commanded a full view of the whole plain
wherein the Troops were now drawn up in order of battle, and
there adjusted and signed that truce, in consequence of which
the forces of the Queen retired to Falkland, from Whence they
had that morning advanced; and those of the Congregation to
Cupar, St. Andrew's, and Dundee.  The violent reformer,
KNOX, having completely destroyed the religious houses at
Perth, Cupar, Crail, and St Andrew's, had repaired to the
camp at Cupar Muir, and by his rude, but impressive eloquence,
inflamed the zeal of the Lords of the Congregation.  He details,
in his History, (pages 141. 142.), the events of the morning of
tile 13th of June; with all the minuteness and ardour natural to
one who had so deep an interest in every important public trans-
action, and who had staked his reputation and his fortunes on
the success of Argyll, and the party who adhered to him.

+They who use the latter orthography contend, that this
rampart is formed of artificial earth; that it originally exten-
ded as far as the Castle; and was constructed to defend the
town from any sudden attack from the north, as the river, in
some measure, secured it on the south.  There is no doubt,
however, that it ought to be stiled the Mote Hill, as it Was pro-
bably the place where, in early times, the Justiciary of Fife held
his courts, and published his enactments, for the regulation on of

     VOL. XVII. X


