
                                 LUNAN.                         331

cottages, with roses and evergreens encircling their doors and win-
dows, with the small but tasteful cottage garden in front, which is
often to be met with, and so universally admired in England. And
why should this be the case? It is generally, though very errone-
ously, ascribed to the habits and tastes of the Scottish peasantry.
It is urged, that, although they had cottages not inferior to those
in England, they have neither the taste nor the inclination to keep
them in proper order. From experience we can contradict the
truth of this statement, and we think it hard to cast a stigma up-
on a whole nation, and ungenerous to pass this sweeping condem-
nation, without giving them a fair trial. It were surely but justice
to give them cottages neat and comfortable, and then to wait for
the issue. The cottages, at present, are, in general, incapable of
being rendered either comfortable for the cottager, or a pleasing
spectacle to the beholder; nor can we hope for any great improve-
ment, till the proprietors of land begin to take some interest in
the matter. Of late years, our farm-houses have been very much
improved, and farm steadings have been rendered commodious and
useful, and in many instances, have been finished with much ele-
gance and taste. But, amid improvements so general and useful,
the cottage of the poor man has hitherto, with few exceptions, re-
mained in its pristine state of wretchedness and want of comfort.
Would it not be for the mutual benefit of the proprietor and far-
mer, as it would mightily add to the comfort and happiness of the
cottager, were the proprietor to build two or three neat, commo-
dious cottages upon every large farm, with a small, portion of gar-
den ground attached to each?-the farmer to hold them in pos-
session, and to keep them in repair during the currency of his lease,
and pay the proprietor a small per centage for the outlay of capi-
tal, which would amount to very little. Three good subtantial cot-
tages (the farmer to drive the carriages) might be built for some
what less than L. I00. This sum Iaid out on each extensive farm,
and gradually till the whole were completed, would be no great
sacrifice to the landlord, while it would give a degree of comfort
to our cottage peasantry, which it seldom falls to their lot-to ex-
perience. The cottages in Scotland have ever been proverbial for-
want to neatness and comfort. It is hoped that this stigma will
not much longer rest upon out country.

	September 1836,



