
936		         GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

give so peculiar an appearance to the scenery on both sides of the
Clyde.
   Of the scenery around the Falls of Clyde, a correct and vivid
description will be found in the account of the parish of Lanark.
The time to see these falls in all their own magnificence, and all
the richness of their accompanying beauties, is after a heavy fall
of rain, in the months of July, August, or September.  Then the
great volume of water dashing at Cora Linn over a precipitous
rock, 84 feet in height, surmounted on each side by lofty banks
crowned with fine old trees in the richest variety of foliage,--the
fanciful yet tastefully appropriate structure of Corehouse perched
like an eyrie on the boldest and highest bank, and harmonizing
finely with the magnificence amid which it is placed,--the spa-
cious and beautiful domains of Bonnington overlooked by Corehouse
from the opposite bank, and sloping down to the handsome, clean,
and thriving establishment of New Lanark, where a numerous and
happy manufacturing population pursue, under the most judicious
regulations, their profitable industry--exhibit one of the most in-
teresting pictures that is anywhere to be seen of the grandeur of
nature and the triumphs of art,--the dignity of baronial magnifi-
cence blending with the comforts of manufacturing wealth.
   From this part of the Clyde, the scenery through which it passes
in its course through Lanarkshire, is particularly beautiful and rich.
From Lanark to Hamilton is one continued orchard; and when
the fruit-trees are in blossom, the drive through it is one of the
most delightful that can be enjoyed.  The county becomes, after
that, open, champaigne, rich, and well cultivated, even at a conside-
rable distance from the banks of the river.  But there are extensive
tracts of it which form a dreary contrast to these scenes of beauty and
fertility; and the traveller who enters Lanarkshire from the south,
the south-east, the east, or north-east, finds himself in very cheer-
less wastes of bleakness and sterility.
   Soil and Cultivation.--The diversity of soils in this county corre-
sponds with its diversity of aspect.  According to Naismith's com-
putation, between two-thirds and three-fourths of the Upper Ward
is occupied by hill or moorland, not capable, from the elevation of
the country, of much agricultural improvement.  Forty-two years,
however, in a country, where enterprise has been so active, and wealth
so rapidly progressive as in Lanarkshire, necessarily produce great
improvements in cultivation and in soil; and were Naismith now to
visit the Upper Ward, he would find beautiful seats and a smiling
country, in places which he would in 1798 have pronounced al-


