
606                            AYRSHIRE.

quarter is very imposing, commanding a vast extent of beautiful
country, but especially of the vale of the Irvine. At a very short
distance west from the village, on the farm of Yardside, a view
may be had of the populous and thriving town of Kilmarnock.
The soil is rather of a stiff clayey nature, but when drained is ca-
pable of raising excellent crops. The holm lands immediately ad-
joining the river are, in general, of superior quality. Some of the
farms on which these lands are found, may be considered as valu-
able and productive as any in the county.
     Hydrography.--There are only two streams of any size in the
parish,--tbe Irvine, which bounds it on the nortb, and the Cess-
nock, which intersects it, and enters the Irvine at a spot about three
miles east of the village. The banks of the Irvine are here very
tame and uninteresting, the grounds on both sides being alm6st
quite flat, and, in some places, the waters kept in by artificial em
bankments. This, however, is not the general character of the
banks of the Irvine. The banks of the Cessnock are much more
pricturesque and varied. It is reckoned an excellent fishing stream;
but from, there being few enclosures on its banks, it is much in-
jured by poaching.
     There are many copious and perennial spring in every quarter
of the parish, but the waters of many of them having mineral im-
pregnations, are not fit for domestic uses.
     Geology and Mineralogy.--There is a considerable variety of
valuable minerals to be met with in different parts of the parish,
such as coal, limestone, sandstone, and brick clay, and all of them
of the best quality. The coal seems to be spread to a very wide
extent. That found on Caprington estate is known to be of a su-
perior quality, and is much used in the neighborhood for common
purposes: and not inferior in quality, though rather of a different
texture and nature, is that worked on the lands of Skerrington and
Barleith. The coal here seems to have been wrought from a very
early date, as the old wastes which are occasionally met with, most
clearly show. The blind-coal, or stone-coal, or anthracite, is of a pe-
culiar nature Though not exlusively confined to this parish, it is
now chiefly got here, and the working of it is carried on to a very
considerable extent.  Its chemical constituents are 89 parts out of
100 of pure carbon, 8.5 of volatile matter, and 1.5 of earthy sub-
stanoes. It is of greater specific gravity than common coal, of
greater hardness, and of a peculiar lustre. It burns without either
smoke of flame, which renders it of invaluable importance in the


