
                     QUEENSFERRY.                         5

   Eminent Men.-It is not known that any individuals of much
note have been connected with this parish.  Mr Kid, who was mi-
nister from 1710 to 1743, was much distinguished as an eminent
divine, and one of the twelve brethren who, in 1721, united in a
representation to the Assembly respecting the act passed in con-
demnation of the Marrow of Modern Divinity.  The celebrity of
this individual at the time of the communion attracted crowds from
the most distant parts of the country. By the session record it
appears that 600 communicants were sometimes assembled, and

<FOOTNOTE>monie, sall pay to the reidar threttein shillingis four penneis. It was also ordanit
that thes personis sail give to the beddell the day of thair marriag 4s. It was also
ordanit that the personis qusomevar that ar to be merriet sail cosigne the sowme
of 2O mik Scottis may in cace that thair ar to be exceid ten shillings for the man, and
aucht for the woman, and if so be the be transgrest the moey sail cum to or kirk-
box. It was also ordanit that at baptisme the father of the chyld sall give to the rei-
dar aucht shillings and to the beddell four shillings. It was also ordanit
qusumever persone sall depart this lyf above ten yeires sail pay to the
beddell ten shillings and under ten yeires six shillings aucht penneis, and that
for the making of the graves. It was also ordanit that everi fornicator, es-
pecially the man, sail pay to our box for his trespas the sowm of six pounds, and
the woman four pouds, and the relaps ever to be redowblit toties quotieg.  It was
also ordanit that qtsomever personis sail break the SAbbath day by taking other great
or small boot to pass this fertie, from the rysing, of the sune in the twilf hour of the
day, thes personis sall be fynit for the first fault in twelf shillings Scotts the man,
and if they sall fall in the rare fault againe, they sail stand at our kirk-door in sack-
cloth, and mak ane cafessione of thair fault before the cagregane.  It was also or-
dinit that if the master of the hoods sall give their cosent to the botsman, they sall
pay fyve pounds toties, quoties. It was also ordanit that qt somever browstar sall
sell drink upon the Sabbath day in tym of divyne service, sall be fynit in fourtie shil-
lings. It was also ordanit qtsumever browster sall found earing b  from twelf
hour upon sall be fynit in fourtie shillings Scottis. It was also ordanit
that qtsumever personis salbe found out of our kirk in tyme of divyne service, sail
be Fynit in aucht shillingis. It was also ordanit that qt sumever persone servant that
salbe found bearing burn upon the Sabbath day within the tyrnes limitit, if they sail
nott he able to pay fourtie shillings, yitt sail mak satisfactione at the kirk-door, ac-
cording to the session is injunctione."
   "September 13, 1635-The qlk day sessione being mett, Bessie Howisone being
callit and compeirit, acknowledgit hirself to be wth chyld to David Crichtone, it was
ordanit that both pties should be warnit heir against this day aucht dayis.  Upon
the sam day it was ordanit that Mr James Levingstone should be reidar in this our
kirk, so that he and our session can aggrie under sufficient that be sail sub-
stit (ute) in his place ane copleit deputy heir to serve upon the Sabbath day befoir
noone."
   (Date omitted,) probably 20th September 1635-" The qlk day sessione being mett,
callit and compeirit Bessie Howisone, cafessit she was wth chyid to David Crichtone
the said David callit and copeirit, cofessit kopelane wth the said Bessie. Thairfoir,
it was ordanit that the man sould pay, six poundis, and the woman four poundis, and
to enter to the publick place of repentance, and to that effect Thomas Barron is be-
come caune for the man, and William Thompsone for the woman."
   "November 8, 1635-The qlk day covenit, Mr Robert Gibbisone, minister at South
Queinsferrrie, being accompanient wth the deaconis, eldars, and sessionaris than pre-
sent,-after due deliberatne and advyse, all of them than present, out of ane motive
and free will, wth an, uther copulsione, did codiscend all the schipis boxes
should be joynit in wth thair kirk, box, to remaine thair for entertaining thair poore
affaires belonging to the kirk, and uther pious usas; and this to be dune in all tyme
cming. Protesting that out of gud coscience thay war movit thairto, and in toking
thairof, and for gud exumple, James Hill, skippar, gave in 19 sex dollars and 12s., and
Arch Logy, skippar, gave in 5 rex dollars to the the kirk-box."


