
     of Pennycuick.

feet from, the House.  They form a large square, with a
rustic portico and elegant spire, with a clock in front; and,
behind them, to answer the purpose of a pigeon-house, is an
exact representation of the celebrated Roman temple called
Arthur's Oven.  To the westward, and above the level of
the House, is another large piece of water well stocked with
various kinds of fish.  A round tower, placed on a conic
eminence in front, is seen at a great distance.  On the op-
posite side of the river, facing the S. an obelisk is raised at
the end of an avenue on the top of the bank, to the memory
of Allan Ramsay the famous Scotch Poet.-The approach to-
ward the village from the tower, anciently called Terregles,
along the northern declivity to the river, exhibits one of the
most luxuriant and striking scenes any where to be seen.
About one eighth of a mile above the garden, a timber bridge
formerly crossed the river, at the S. end of which is the en-
try into a subterranean passage, called Hurly Cove, 49 yards
long, 7 feet high, and 6 feet broad; in the middle of which,
on the W. side, is a dark cell with seats cut rounds, capable
of containing 6 or 8 people, the whole being cut out of the
solid rock in 1742.  At the S. end are the remains of a
small summer-house, where was a little kitchen and dining
room; and in the front is a pond stored with perch and trout.
The large plantations of trees of various kinds, in summer,
form a most beautiful amphitheatre*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*New Hall, about three miles above Pennycuick on the
same side of the river, was, in 1529, in possession of a family of
the name of Crichtoun.  In 1646, it belonged to Dr Pennycuick,
who was also proprietor of Romanno, and is noticed in his
works.  In 1702, it passed from him to Mr Oliphant, by whom
it was the following year transferred to Sir David Forbes, from
whom it went to Mr John Forbes brother to Duncan Forbes of
Culloden; an apartment, usually occupied by this gentleman
when Lord Advocate, being still known by the name of the Ad-


