
               		BALLANTRAE.                   417

L. 210 a-year. A market is found for the fish chiefly in Ayr and
Kilmarnock.
	climate, &c.--The climate is rather moist, as might be expect-
ed from the proximity of an expanse of between twenty-five and
thirty leagues of sea; but it is very mild. The prevailing winds are
from the westward or some modification of west, and in conse-
quence the air is often loaded with saline particles caught up in the
process of evaporation. The highest winds are from the west and
north-west, the most rainy from the south, south-west, and south-
east. The temperature is never very low, and but seldom very
high, being in both cases moderated by the sea-breeze. There
has not been a week of continued frost within the last four years.
Snow very seldom lies for more than a day on the low grounds near
the coast. The finest weather is commonly in the beginning of
May and in the end of July, or beginning of August. The air ap-
pears to be salubrious, for there is a number of very old people in
the parish, and the inhabitants in general are of a robust make
and hale florid complexion, quite free of any peculiar disease, and
generally not much visited with the ordinary diseases that assail
our nature.
	Soil, &c.--The soil is mostly of a light dry gravelly nature,
sandy near the shore, and requires a good deal of rain to make it
yield good crops. The best soil is that of the holms on the banks of
the stinchar and the other streams. But cultivation is profitably ex-
tended up to the foot of the highest hills, where there are luxuriant
crop, of oats, and barley, or bear. Lime has been applied to the
surface of the hills, 800 feet above the level of the sea. It has de-
stroyed the heather, and both increased the quantity and improved
the quality of the pasturage. No lime is found within Ballantrae,
but there is abundance of it in the neighbouring parish of Colmo-
nell, at the distance of from two to ten miles from the various
farms in the parish.
	Woods, &c.--From various causes, the climate is considered un-
favourable to the growth of wood; yet at a former period, there
must have been a large quantity of it in the parish, for in the mo-
rasses among the hills a good deal of it, chiefly oak, ash, and birch,
is still found imbedded in peat-moss. And within the recollec-
tion of old people, the coast was much more fringed with copse-
wood than at present. On the south bank of the Stinchar and of
the Tig, and on the north bank of the App, there is a good deal
of natural wood, some of which, particularly on the Tig, is valu-

	AYR.                       D d


