
			BANCHORY DEVENICK.                   179

or eleven feet above its usual level; and as its haughs are ex-
tensive and valuable, the have been embanked by the proprietors
at a very considerable expense. As, however, land of this de-
scription suffers chiefly from running water, whilst that whose flux
and reflux is still and quiet, rather enriches the soil, it seems now
to be pretty well understood, that no embankment is of much use,
fartber than effectually to defend haughs at the upper end, where
they come first in contact with the stream. At this point, the
river, meeting with obstruction, will rise a foot or eighteen inches
higher than at any other. The embankment, therefnre, may be
formed so as to slope gradually till past the middle or belly of the
haugh, when it may be permitted to fall to the level of the land,
taking care that the natural banks below be properly sloped and
turfed.
	This mode of embanking is executed at little more than half the
expense, and answers a better purpose than embanking the whole;
for daily experience shows that no embankment is proof against
back water, and finding its way through the embankment in a fil-
tered state, it can, to say the least, be of no service to the soil over
which it has flowed. Besides, the water admitted in this way is
much longdr in making its escape, and has been found on that ac-
count materially to injure a turnip crop subjected to its chilling
influence.
	The Dee empties itself into the bay of Aberdeen, about a mile
and a half below the eastern extremity, of this parish, and meets
the tides when highest at that point; immediately above which on
the property of Mr Menzies of Pitfodels, it gives out the water
which, under the late Act of Parliament, supplies the town of
Aberdeen and its vicinity; and to effect which important purpose
works have been erected and metal pipes laid at an expense of
nearly L. 40,000.
	It is worthy of remark, that on the whole course of the Dee,
from the Linn, above Mar Lodge, to its mouth, which may be
about sixty miles, exclusively of its vindlings, it does not drive one
water-wheel. Several attempts have been made to render it avail-
able, for this purpose, but they have always proved abortive, after
considerable expense had been incurred.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--On these subjects, this parish presents
nothing deserving particular notice. Its soils are of all varieties
from the purely alluvial to hard till, on the one hand, and from
rich learn to deep moss on the other; and when this last is ex-


