
			AUCHTERDERRAN.                   	    169


sed of his property in this parish, found it in a very rugged and un-
productive condition, yet capable of right culture, and of produc-
ing good crops. With other proprietors, he took an active part
in deepening and straighting a burn, which obstructed the agri-
culture of a large district, and affected the whole of the north
side of his property. Here he succeeded completely, by drain-
ing effectually the parts contiguous to the burn, and also by
providing sufficient levels for all the other arrangements. The
chief ingredient of the soil is clay. The surface was a good deal
encumbered with stones, many of them of an unwieldy size,
but all obstacles have been surmounted, and by a liberal encou-
ragement to his tenants, and by a judicious superintendence, the
farms are well drained, well enclosed, and well cultivated. Up-
wards of twenty years ago, the late J. Reddie, Esq. of Redhouse,
planted a large piece of peat moss, of about fifteen Scotch acres
with Scotch firs. The ground was previously drained and levelled;
and although the moss be in several places upwards of seven feet
deep, of a substance entirely moss, yet the trees have thriven, and
now the place formerly so gloomy and ugly, presents a pleasant
prospect of verdure and utility; and the surrounding grounds, for-
merly marshy and insalubrious, are become wholesome.
   A good many years ago, Robert Ferguson, Esq. of Raith, took
under his management a tract of ground, at that time remarkably
ugly, almost waste, and very unproductive. This he has converted
into an arable farm, and adorned with thriving plantations. The
farm itself is well enclosed, well cultivated, and very productive.
It rents, I understand, at the rate of L. 1, 5s. the acre. The extent
is 200 acres; and it is pleasant to learn, that while the country is
hereby improved, the original improver has already been indemni-
fied for outlays, and continues to draw very good interest for his
money. The name of the farm is East Cardon. What a benefit
to a country are resident proprietors!
   Produce.-
	    Potatoes, 160 acres Scots, at 40 bolls per acre.
	    Turnips, 160 acres.
	    Hay, water meadow, I00 acres, at I50 stone per acre.

   Pasture, one-third of the whole  parish; the other two-thirds
(with the above deductions,) grow wheat, barley, pease and beans,
and oats. The quantity of oats sown amounts to perhaps more
than that of all the other grains.
   Quarries.-We have good limestone quarries, and coal is found


