
                     HAMILTON.                           269

so, and the King granted a charter confirming the grant in 1222.
The half belonging to the monks was obtained by John, the brother
of Walter Fitz Gilbert, about 1339, and the other half from Da-
vid, the son of Walter. Sir William Hamilton of Preston is the
lineal representative of this family. The estate at present belongs
to Captain Robertson Aikman.
	Motherwell.--The lands of Motherwell on the east of the Clyde,
now in possession of the Hamilton family, were given by Malcolm
IV. to a person of the name of Taneard, a Fleming, and his son,
Thomas Fleming, disponed them to the monks of Paisley. There
is a famous well here, dedicated formerly to the Virgin Mary, and
hence the name Mother-well.
	Nielsland.--Nielsland was probably part of the territories of the
Crocs of Crocstoun, who had the lands of Nielstone in Renfrewshire.
This estate belonged, as far back as 1549, to John Hamilton de
Nielsland. The first of this family was a younger son of Hamilton
of Raploch. In 1723, Grizel Hamilton, as sole proprietrix of Niels-
land, &c. sold these lands to Margaret Bryson, widow of Mr John
Muir, minister of Kilbride, in whose hands, and those of her heir,
it remained for a few years. It is now the property of David Mar-
shall, Esq.
	Barncluith.--The estate of Barncluith belonged in ancient times
to a family of the name of Machan, and came into the possession
of a younger son of Sir Robert Hamilton of Bruntwood by marriage.
Lord Pressmennan, a Senator of the College of Justice, and many
other eminent individuals, were of this family. Of late, it became
by marriage the property of Lord Ruthven.
	Allanshaw, Darngaber, Edlewood, Mirritoun, and Udstoun,
formerly seats of different branches of the Hamiltons, are now mere
farms. The Hamiltons of Fairholm, descendants of the fourth
son of Thomas Hamilton of Darngaber, are still a good family in
the south-east side of this parish.
	Antiquities--Cadzow Castle.--The most prominent antiquity
in the parish is Cadzow Castle, already alluded to. * It stands in
Hamilton-wood, on the summit of a precipitous rock; the base of
which is washed by the Avon. It is not known who were its found-
ers; although it is probable that Caw or Cay was the first of
the royal race who took up their residence in this quarter. It con-
tinued in the possession of the Crown until it was granted by Robert
the Bruce to Sir Walter Fitz Gilbert. Ever since, with only two Short

<FOOTNOTE>David I. dates his charter to the High Church of Glasgow from Cadzow Castle.


