
     Statistical Account

poses of agriculture, leading manure, bringing home fuel,
and exporting the produce in grain and potatoes*.

   Rental, etc.-The valued rent in the cess-books of the
county is L. 2815: 6: 8 Scots.  The real rent now paid is
nearly about L. 2680, 7 s.  Sterling, and is still rising, upon
the giving new leases to the tenants.  The land is let at
various rates the acre, according to its richness and fertility,
from 5 s. to 10 s. 12 s. 15 s. and some rich spots at L. 1 the
acre, without any allowance for manure.  Some of the
land is thought to be very dear, and other parts moderate,
as is the general case in every parish.  It requires great in-
dustry and good management in the tenants to be able to
pay the present rents in general.  The farms for the most
part are large, paying from L. 60 to L. 150 and L 190
Sterling of yearly rent; some few at L. 15, L. 20 and L. 30
Sterling.  There was a stagnation in the rent of land about
the middle of the American war; but since its conclusion,
land has risen rapidly, both in its price and yearly value.
The farms are large, and what was let about 40 or 50 years
ago in runrig, to 4, 5, and 8 tenants, is now let to one te-
nant in cumulo+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Seed-time and Harvest-This parish consists of dry and thin land,
which produces an early seed-time and harvest.  In dry springs, the seed-
time begins about the middle of March, and the sowing of corn 15 finished
by the middle of April  Barley and bear are sown about the latter end of
April, and beginning of May  Potatoes are planted in the month of
May.  Bear and barley harvest begins about the middle of August.  Corn
harvest begins, in general, the beginning of September, and is finished a-
bout the end of that month.  The harvest is a little later in some moorish
places, in the north end of the parish.

   +Price of Labour and Provisions.-The price of labour has increased
greatly of late.  An able bodied servant man, suited for the labour of
farmer, receives L. 9 and L. 10 Sterling a-year, with his victuals.  Ser-


