
                               ELLON.                             937

with the humility characteristic of an ardent piety, and with the
inflexible devotedness of the faith which worketh by love!  Who
shall estimate the happy effects that might result to the youthful
mind, were it, through the instrumentality of Christian genius, to
be made conversant from its earliest years with examples so ad-
mirably calculated by their nature, beauty, and excellence, both
to arrest its attention, and to form its character!  It is easy to see,
also, how poetry, and its sister art of music, for the employment of
which in the work of education we have the authoritative example
of God himself, might be brought to blend in entire harmony with
the elements above-mentioned, in moulding, according to the
Scriptural pattern, the dispositions and principles of the rising ge-
neration.  These departments have heretofore been all but ne-
glected; and hence are we supplied with another cause of the in-
adequate moral and religious tendencies of the system of educa-
tion now in use.
   If, then, our educational institutions are thus imperfect, in re-
spect of the highest objects which the education of responsible be-
ings ought to contemplate, while, at the same time, the corrupting
influences to which, on leaving school, the minds of the young are
exposed, have been greatly increased, both in number and inten-
sity, we shall cease to wonder that society presents an unsettled
and disjointed appearance, and that its prospects are becoming
daily of a more gloomy and alarming character.  For the evils
under which we labour, and for the still greater evils with which
we are threatened, the defective state of our educational system
affords, in the circumstances in which we are placed, both an ob-
vious and adequate cause ; and hence the subjects of inquiry
which present themselves are, 1st, What steps are to be taken for
the removal of the defects with which our present system of edu-
cation is chargeable? and, 2d, Who are the parties more imme-
diately called on to perfect and apply such remedial measures as
may be requisite?
   On the first of these subjects of inquiry the narrow limits here
assigned to us forbid us to add to the observations already offered.
It evidently follows from these observations, that, while it would be
no longer proper, even if it were possible, to limit the course of
reading in schools to the inspired volume, the spirit and princi-
ples of this volume ought, nevertheless, to be intimately blended
with the whole course of instruction pursued, and to communicate
to every part of that course a decidedly religious tendency.  What


