
		        	BRECHIN.                             135

theology. Their moral and religious character is fully equal to,
that of their neighbours in the adjacent towns and villages; and
though there are instances of intemperance and dishonesty, it
will bear a comparison with that of most towns in Scotland. In
former times it was remarked, that the Sabbath was better observ-
ed here than in some other places of equal or greater extent. But
the increase of inhabitants has been attended with no improvement
in the manner of keeping that sacred day. Poaching in the river
is sometimes practised. Smuggling is almost unheard of since the
legal distilleries were established.

<TABLE>                IV.--INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture and Rural Economy.
 Land cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,                              9902 Acres.
    never cultivated,                                                      2770
    capable of being cultivated with a profitable application of capital,     0
    in undivided common,                                                      0
    under plantation,                                                      3268
    natural woods,                                                            0
                                                                           ----
                     Total number of imperial acres in the parish,        15840

	The kinds of trees generally planted on moors are Scotch firs,
with sometimes a mixture of larch and spruce, sometimes larch
alone. In belts of planting, and in gentlemen's policies, and where
there is depth of soil, there is no more soft wood planted than is
necessary for shelter to the hard-wood of different kinds. The soft
wood is cut out after a few years.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land may be about L. 1, 7s.
per imperial acre. Land in grass is generally let for the season at
from 20s. to 35s. per imperial acre. The real rent of the parish is
about L. 13,000.
	Rate of Wages.--Labourers for draining and other farm work,
receive about 9s. per week for the year; women for out-of-door
work, 4s. The rate of wages for masons runs from 12s. to 14s.
per week, according to the season of the year; that of carpenters
is 2s. per day.
	Breeds of Live Stock.--The breed Of sheep is in general the
black-faced; but few of this description of anhm`ls are kept. The
breed of cattle is mostly that of the country of Angus; but of late
years there is a mixture of the short-horned or Tees-water breed,
and a few Ayrshire cows.
Husbandry.--The management of cattle is well understood and


