
                              LEITH.*

        PRESBYTERY OF EDINBURGH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND

                     TWEEDDALE.

       REV. A. DAVIDSON, Minister North Leith.
       REV. WILLIAM STEVENSO, }   Ministers of South Leith.
       REV. HENRY DUFF,       }

                        I.-CIVIL HISTORY.
          THE town of Leith is situated on the shores of the Firth of Forth,
     at the point where the small river of Leith pours its waters into
     the sea. The earliest written notice which we have of it is in a
     charter of the Abbey of Holyrood, granted by David L., where it
     is called "Inverleith," that is, "the mouth of the Water of Leith."
     In the year, 1329 the city of Edinburgh obtained, by charter from
     Robert I. a grant of the port and mills of Leith, with their ap-
     purtenances. In 1398, Sir Robert Logan of Restalrig, by charter
     granted to the burgesses and community of Edinburgh, right to
     roads and quays on his lands close to Leith, with the liberty of
     breaking up his ground for the service of navigation, and of build-
     ing shops and granaries. In 1413, certain other rights were granted
     by the same person. James I. by charter dated 1454, granted to
     Edinburgh "the haven-silver, customs, and duty of ships, vessels,
     and merchandise coming the road and harbour of Leith." James
     III. bestowed similar privileges; and James IV., in 1510, granted
     right to the new port of Newhaven, lately made by him, as also a
     charter confirming those given by Logan of Restalrig. There are
     also subsequent charters by Mary and by James VI.,-all which
     were confirmed by a new charter in 1603, and more lately by a
     charter of Charles I. in 1636.
          Thus we find that the port and burgh of Leith, with its reve-
     nues, became at an early period an appendage to the city of Edin-
     burgh. But though near neighbours, and having in many respects
     a common interest, we yet find that at a very early period jea-
     lousies existed between the inhabitants of Leith and Edinburgh;-

     <FOOTNOTE> Drawn up by W. R.




