
80			FORFARSHIRE.

fieth, and Tannadice." A Latin rent roll in the Book of Assump-
tions, which was returned soon after 1561, gives, in addition to the
salmon, three barrels of qlyssort (grilses), and the valuation of the
churches of Abernethy, Tannadice, and Monifieth, thus:-Aber-
nethy, L.273; Tannadice, L.237, 5s. 4d.; Monifieth, wheat, 4
ch. 12 bolls; bear, 12 ch. 9 bolls; meal, 15 ch. 10 bolls. The
books, both of surplus and annexation of the third of the ecclesias-
tical benefices, give L. 2594 as the money revenue; and in all the
other articles they agree with the registers of the collectors and of
assumptions, except in the single article salmon. In 1530, the
order issued for the yearly provision for the abbey was, to purchase
800 wedders, 180 oxen, II barrels of salmon, 1200 dried cod fish,
82 chalders of malt, 30 of wheat, and 40 of meal, in addition to
the rent in kind paid by the tenants. This may seem extraordi-
nary, inasmuch as the number of monks was only twenty-five. But
it is accounted for when we consider that visitors of all ranks, in-
cluding at times the king himself, with a retinue of nobles, were
gratuitously entertained in such establishments. The churches,
the patronage of which belonged to the abbey, were Arbroath, Ar-
birlot, Panbride, Lunan, Congsebollis, now Inverkeillor, Inver-
keillor or St Murdoch's, Monikie, Murroes, Mains, Monifieth,
Dunnichen, Clova, Ruthven, Glammis, Kirriemuir, Kingoldrum,
Newtyle, Garvock, Dunivaig, Abernethy in Stratherne, Inverness,
Mornack or Auchterarder, Banff, Gamry, Langley, Guild, Kin-
gennie, Banchory or Trinity, Bethlehem or Bethelney, Forgue, Ty-
rie, Tarves, Nigg, and Fetterangus. In the year 1815, the Barons
of Exchequer ordered the ruins of the abbey to be so far repaired
as to preserve them from total dilapidation. On this occasion the
rubbish was removed, and a portion of the pavement of the church
again exposed to view. A search was also made with a view to
discover, if possible, the tomb of the royal founder. The lid of a
stone coffin was found, with the mutilated figure of a man in alto
relievo. But no evident tokens of King William's sepulchre ap-
peared, although, since that time, the old wily sexton has been ac-
customed to exhibit to credulous visitors a few mouldering bones
in a wooden box as those of the monarch;-and, although bone'af-
ter bone has been abstracted, new ones have always been found to
supply their place.
	Modern Buildings.--Dedicated to the purposes of religion, the
most conspicuous of these are the parish church and chapel of
ease. There is nothing, however, worthy of remark in the appear-
                               3


