
     Statistical Account

as ding, skate, flounders, cod, haddocks, crabs, lobsters, etc.
Mr FERGUSON of Pitfour, the sole proprietor of this parish,
has the salmon fishing in the Ugie, for which he receives
100 L. Sterling yearly rent from Messrs Arbuthnot in Peterhead.
The quantity of salmon taken here in a season, has some-
times exceeded 1200 barrels; but in one season, they only a-
mounted to 14 barrels and a half.  It very often happens, that
the mouth of the river is almost shut up, by large quantities
of sea weeds, so that the salmon cannot enter it; and this ob-
stacle generally remains until the sea weeds are carried off by
a land flood.

   Light-House and Canal proposed.-It is the opinion of ship-
masters, who sail along this coast, that a light-house on Rat-
tray-head is highly necessary.  Within the last twenty years,
several vessels with their cargoes have been dashed to pieces
on the rocks of Rattray and Scot-stown, which would have
been saved, had there been a light-house at Rattray-head.  A
canal might also be made at a small expence, from the mouth
of the Ugie, along the south side of this parish, and might
he extended to the distance of several miles through the
country westward.

   Agriculture.+-No sown grass or green crops were pro-
duced here, until the proprietor, and some other gentlemen,

<FOOTNOTE>

+About 25 years ago, a most execrable mode of farming was practised
in this parish.  Four, and often six horses dragged after them the old Scotch
ploughs.  As there were at that time but few black cattle or sheep, the only
manure was the dung of the horses, excepting that a few farmers in the S. E.
part of the parish, laid sea-weed on their grounds; the first crop after the
dung, or sea-weed, was bear, which was succeeded by two crops of oats, and
a crop of Beans or pease, and this was followed by a crop of bear, sometimes
without sea-weed or dung.  This was the manner of treating the in-field.
The out-field, that is the ground which had never any manure laid upon it,


