
304                        BERWICKSHIRE.

count of its coming into that family: "About the year 1061,"
says he, "a formidable band of robbers infested the south-east
part of Scotland. One Patrick Dunbar * attacked them,-slew
600-hanged four score,-and presented the head of their com-
mander to the king. That valour might not remain in obscu-
rity, the king created him Earl of March, and bestowed on him
the lands of Colbrandspath, to be held by the tenure of clearing
East Lothian and Merse of robbers, and bearing a banner, whereon
the bloody head of a robber was painted."  What credit may be
due to this relation we do not inquire; but it seems evident, that,
at a very early period, the Earls of March possessed this castle, as
well as that of Dunbar,-these forts being at that time of such
strength and importance as to be considered keys of the kingdom.
In 1484, King James III. having proposed to the Parliament, (on
the attainder of the Earls of March,) to annex unalterably to the
crown the Earldoms of March and Annandale, with the baronies
of Dunbar and Colbrandspath, the borderers, fearful of a more
rigid discipline than that to which they had been accustomed,
raised a rebellion, in which the king was slain. In this rebellion,
the rebels took the castle of Dunbar. This castle and barony of
Colbrandspath appear subsequently to have formed part of the
dowry, or marriage portion, of several of our king's daughters.
It now belongs to Sir John Hall, Bart. of Dunglass, into whose
family it came nearly two centuries ago. The immediately pre-
ceding possessor was, the Earl of Home.
   In the annexed parish of Old Cambus, the ruins of the old church
named St Helen's still remain, overhanging a high precipice on
the shore, and commanding a very striking and extensive pros-
pect. With regard to the history of this building, and, indeed,
the ancient history of this part of the parish in general, very little
is known. Even the date of the union of the two parishes appears
to be lost. From the nature of the building, however, which is a
very simple piece of Saxon architecture, and from several other
circumstances, it is supposed to have been erected some time in
the seventh century. It was dedicated to St Helena, mother
of Constantine the Great, and the circumstances of its erection,
&c. have been thus handed down by tradition:  Three Northum-
brian princesses, having found it advisable to, seek refuge in Scot-
land from a violent war which had broken out in their father's do-

<FOOTNOTE>Elsewhere named Cospatrick, an English gentleman of rank, who fled from the
tyranny of William the Conqueror into Scotland, about 1070, in the reign of Mal-
colm Canmore.


