
     of Dollar.

   Antiquities.-In the neighbourhood of the town of Dollar,
there are two little round mounds*, about a quarter of a
mile distant from each other.  But the principal antiquity in
this parish, is the venerable remains of CASTLE CAMPBELL+:

<FOOTNOTE>

paid upwards of 1,611 L. Sterling.  At his death, he left for the use of the
poor in this parish, 300 merks Scotch money- Miss JEAN GRAY, his only
child, of respectable memory, some few years before her death, which happen-
ed in the year 1792, sold both of there baronies of land; that of Teasses for
13,500 L. Sterling, and that of Fossaway for 6,500 L. Sterling; amounting in
whole to 20,000 L. Sterling.  At her death she left many considerable lega-
cies: among these there was 50 L. Sterling to the poor of this parish, and a
very elegant folio bible to the kirk-session, for the use of the minister.

*In the one of these, some years ago, were found two urns, filled with
human bones; but upon what occasion, or by whom they were deposited there,
is not known.  The other mound remains in the same state it hath been time
immemorial-Towards the end of the last century, a man was burnt for
a wizard, at the foot of the Gloom Hill, not many yards from the town of
Dollar.

+It would seem not to be now known, when or by whom this venerable
pile of building was first erected.  But the ruins plainly shew, that it had
been designed for a place of strength; and therefore was probably built in
the turbulent days of old, when family feuds so unhappily prevailed among
the Scotch barons.  Nor can we discovered the precise period when it came
into the possession of the family of ARGYLL: But, from the inventary of their
titles, that family appears to have possessed that barony, and the lands belong-
to it, called the LORDSHIP OF CAMPBELL, so far back as the year 1465.  The
lands were then held of the bishop of Dunkeld.  Formerly, it went by the
name of the CASTLE OF GLOOM: but for what reason, we are not certain.
Tradition, indeed, which wishes to inform us of every thing, reports, that it
was so called from the following circumstance: A daughter of one of our
Scotch Kings, who then resided at Dunfermline, happening to fall into dis-
grace for some improper behaviour, was, by way of punishment, sent and
confined in this castle; and she, (not relishing her situation, which probably
might be in some vault or other) said, that it was a gloomy prison to her.
Hence, says tradition, it came to be called the Castle of Gloom.  Very near to


