
92                               PERTHSHIRE.

no enclosures in the parish, with the exception of a few in the high
grounds of upper Friartoun; their fences are of stone. All the
dry lands would be greatly improved by enclosures.
   There has been little recent alteration in the mode of farming,
except in the increased culture of potatoes, since the London mar-
ket for that article was opened about seventeen years ago. From
the proximity of the city, manure can, in abundance and without
difficulty, be procured, either from the city itself or from London
by sea. But it may well be doubted whether the land can bear
such severe cropping.
   With regard to "the obstacles to improvement," that which
seems to be most felt, and which is most complained of, is the want
of enclosures, and consequently of pasturage, in the dry lands. The
property is almost all entailed, which may be a reason why the ex-
pense of enclosing is not incurred. The enclosing of the fields
which are on the highways is obviously of very great importance
to the farmer, as his crops are never safe without it. But, for some
cause or other, various high-rented fields are altogether unprotect-
ed from high-way encroachment. Tenants having only a tempo-
rary interest in the soil cannot be expected to incur the expense
of rearing up permanent fences. They entered on their leases with
sufficient capital for the undertaking; but that capital has, in some
cases, been diminished under a management equally prudent and
vigorous--the prices being lower than they were contemplated to
be, when the leases were entered on. Thus, the tenant has no
inducement to lay out on his farm more of his means than what
is absolutely necessary to the production of such returns as will
enable him to live, and pay the proprietor. "The covenants of leases"
are generally fair, and present no obstacle to improvement, the
want of enclosures, or a provision for making them always excepted.
   Quarries and Mines.--There are no mines in the parish. There
is one freestone quarry, which appears to have been wrought at
some remote period to a considerable extent, but the Stone is so
exceedingly soft that the houses in the city, which have been built
from it, have become very much decayed; it has, therefore, been built
entirely deserted. There is in the, parish an excellent trapstone
quarry, from which a great quantity of road-metal has been
recently taken. It lies about a mile and a half on the road to
Edinburgh.
   Fisheries.--The only fisheries in the parish are salmon fisheries.
The rents of these are at present about L.1250 per annum. The


