
         	    DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                        997

	Eminent Men--Mr James Fraser, mill-wrig4t, Dowally, is ` na-
tive of this parish. He is a most ingenius mechanic, plain and
unassuming in his manners. He invented the self-propelling twin
ferry-boats now used in various parts of the rivers Tay and Tum-
mell, for which he received a gold medal from the Society of
Arts. In 1822, he invented the Archimedes screw, and proved
its value for working boats on the Atholl lochs. A model of this
invention was sent to the War Office by the late Duke of Atholl.
His Grace instructed Fraser, in 1830, to construct a boat with the
Archimedes screw for Loch Ordie, but it was never finished, owing
to His Grace's death. Fraser, however, had the mortification to find
that his invention, with a slight alteration, had lately been se-
cured by a patent in favour of another person. Fraser next in-
vented the fanner hand-bellows, which another person also secured
by a patent. At Dowally, this ingenious mechanic has erected a
wheel, which drives at one time, a saw-mill, a thrashing-mill, &e.
turning-lathes and grinding-stone, and it also acts as furnace-blast.
	Antiquities.--Near to tbe church of Dowally, are two upright
stones, apparently Pictish monuments. They are rude blocks of
stone, without any marks of an instrument, witbout carving, in-
scription, or hieroglyphics. They are plainly the monuments of,
an early age, when letters were little understood. Thd purpose
for which they were erected is unknown. The only, Druidical re-
mains found in the parish were, a Druidical circle and a sacrificial
flag, which were situated in the barony of Dulcapon near to Mouli-
nearn. The mystic wells within the parish are, St Muireaeh's at the
Maians, of Kilmorick; St Anne's at Dowally; Sancta Cruz at
Cruehill: * and there was one at Dulcapon, now destroyed, but the
saint's name is unknown. The waters are not medicinal. Mauy
persons however, still believe in their efficacy. Until very lately,
hundreds of people, for miles, round, resorted to the Cruz well on
the first Sunday of May O. S. to get a the cream of the  water.
Tents were erected and refreshments sold as openly as at a fair.
Their pilgrimage uniformly ended in riotous assaults. Many mys-
tic wells, on being cleaned out, have yield up gold and silver
coins and trinkets, which the more wealthy of the pilgrims had cast
in to propitiate the saint. At each of these mystic wells in Dow-
ally, there was a chapel, excepting at St Anne's, where the parish
church always stood.
	Caves.--there are several in the wood and on the face of the

<FOOTNOTE>Crowhill is a secruption of Chuxhill the hill of the cross, or the cross hill


