
                          CULSAMOND.                            731

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Heritors.-Of these there are five; Gordon of Newian; Fra-
ser of Williamston; Leith Lumsden, of Tullymorgan; Gammel
of sheelagreen; and Leith of Cairnhill.  The valued rent of the
parish is L.2100 Scots, the real rent supposed to be upwards of
L.4000 Sterling.  In 1790, it was rated at L.1150.
   Antiquities.-There is, in this parish, part of an ancient high-
way.  It crosses the hill of Culsamond, near ts top, from the
north-west, and had formerly been the road which people took
when travelling on their way to St Lawrence Fair, at Old Rayne.
It still retains the name of the Lawrence Road, and is, to all ap-
pearance, nearly in the same state in which it had originally been
many hundred years ago.  In times long since past, when the
woods were haunted by ferocious wild beasts, and the valleys lower-
run with rivers and swamps, it was dangerous to travel in low-lying
grounds.  Hence, the most ancient roads traversed the tops of the
hills, and, from this circumstance, were properly termed highways.
  There appear to have been at least three sacred fountains in this
parish; St Mary's Well, on the farm of Colpie; St Michael's, at
Gateside; and another, at the foot of the Culsamond Bank, a little
west of the Lady's Causeway.  On the first Sunday of May, mul-
titudes resorted to them from distant parts, in the full faith that,
by washing in the stream, and leaving presents to the saints, as
their heathen ancestors did to the spirit presiding over the well,
they would be cured of all loathsome or otherwise incurable diseases.
Piesces of money were always, accordingly, left in the wells, corre-
sponding to the ability of the diseased person.  In digging a drain,
at the foot of the bank, some years ago, when the workman struck
his pick into the bottom of the well which had been there, a large
quantity of water sprung up into the atmosphere, in which he ob-
served a shining substance, which proved to be a gold piece of
James I. of Scotland, in as good preservation as when it came
from the mint.  It is now in the Freefield Cabinet.
  The standing-stone in the woods of Newton, near Pitmachine,
has an inscription upon it, supposed to be in Panic characters.
Some drawings of it have been published in the Monthly Maga-
zine, and else by Pinkerton, but they are far from being accurate.
There is another standing-stone, near the house of Newborn with
figure upon it.
  Several arow heads and axes have been found in this parish and
neighbourhood.  In one of the cairns on the farm of Moss-side,


