
378                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

cohelic spirit, namely, whisky, is by no means diminished. The
parish is well supplied with coal, and at a cheap rate.
   There are several vessels belonging to Carronshore, but these
all belong to the Carron Company, who have also a small dry-
dock at the same place, where these vessels are re F paired.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  In the parish of Larbert, the working class enjoys the means of
comfort, to as great an extent as in any part of Britain. The people
are well lodged,* fuel is cheap, the schools are admirably conduct-

  <FOOTNOTE>The houses of the country people, which are now building from time to time to
replace the old and decayed dwellings, are more roomy and more convenient,-better
built and better roofed,-the walls and the doors higher, and the windows larger than
they were in the old houses.
   The houses of the country people generally consist of a ground floor, without any
upper floor. A laigh house it is called in Scotch. This ground floor is about 30
feet by 15, divided by a transverse wall into two rooms of about 15 feet square each.
   The entrance is in the Middle of one of the 30 feet sides. The outer door enters into
a small lobby. From this lobby there is on one hand a door into the kitchen, and on
the other hand a door into the other room. In the old dwellings of the country
people in this part of the country, the outer door was near one end of the house, and
gave entrace to the first room; from this first room there was a door which led to the
baner room. The house consisted of a but and a ben in the language of the country.
The but, (be out i. e. towards the out,) was the outer room. The ben (be in, i. e.
towards the in,)was the inner room. A few of the present dwelling-houses are larg-
er, and have two floors, a ground floor and an upper floor. The roofs are now sel -
dom covered with straw thatch; they are most commonly covered with pan tile, and
many of the new ones are covered with slate.
  A thick thatch of straw laid upon the roof of a house is a good non-conductor of
heat, and consequently keeps out the cold and keeps in the warmth produced by the
fire, and by the inhabitants; and also keeps out the beat of the sun better than a co-
vering of tile; but has the disadvantage of being apt to take fire by sparks failing on
it from the chimney,
   Wheat straw is preferred to other kinds of straw for thatch. Straw from which the
ears have been cut without threshing, is better than threshed straw. But this ope-
ration is too troublesome, and, therefore, threshed straw is usually employed. The
sheaves should be threshed with the flail, taking care not to bruise the straw, or at
least as, little as possible. Straw horn the threshing mill is bruised and unfit for
thatch.
     The stalks of lint are sometimes used in some parts of tbe adjacent country as thatch.
The stalks of brakens (Pteris aquilina) are used as thatch in some parts of tbe High-
lands; heather also.  Reeds are used in some places.
     In tropical countries the leaves of palms of different kinds, &c. are used for thatch.
     The older kind of thatched roof, which is still used in some parts of the adjacent coun-
try, is made by laying sticks upon the roof. The sticks are pretty close together and pa-
rallel to the rafters. On these sticks, which are, undressed, straightish branches of trees,
there are laid thin turfs, called divots, pared from the surface of an old pasture.
These divots are laid like tile in an imbricated form, and under each divot is laid the
end of a handful or wisp of straw, wbich straw forms the thatch. The divots serve to
keep the straw fixed to the roof. The rafters, called in this part of the country the
couples, and the other timbers of these old roofs, consist of round unsquared sticks.
     In the newer method of thatching, and which is now more generally used than the
other in this parish, there are laths nailed to the rafters transversely, and to these laths
the straw is a tied by tarred rope yarns. This is done by passingn the ropeyarn through
the straw and round the lath by means of a long iron needle a foot or more in length.
    Thatch,  and the equivalent word in the language of this part of the country, theek.
are of the same etymological class of words, as theacan, Anglosaxon, to cover; Theac.
Anglosaxon, a roof; dach, German, a roof; tego, Latin, to cover; tetum, Latin, a roof.


