
680                   ARGYLESHIRE.

   Zoology.-This parish is favoured zoologically by having the sea
for its boundary on the one side, and Lochawe, one of the largest
of the Scottish lakes, on the other. Its hills are lofty enough to
be the habitation of the snow-bunting (Emberiza nivalis), and the
ptarmigan (Tetrao Lagopus), and its woods warm enough to shel-
ter the wren and the throstle (Turdus musicus). The teal (Anas
erecca), and the widgeon (A. Penelope), with the water-hen, (Fulica
chloropus), and coot (F. atra and F. aterrima, are found on its
lakes; and varieties of the gull (Larus), and diver (Mergus), on
its shores; while Lochfyne, on the one side, supplies herrings,
and Loch`we, on the other, trout such as cannot be surpassed.
  It is not known that any rare species of animals are to be found
in this parish.  It is said that the wolf was, till a late period in the
British history of that animal, an inhabitant of these houseless
wilds, and that it was usual to fortify the roofs of the solitary huts
and shealings against his depredations by wattlings of strong brush-
wood. It is told that the last of them which was seen in this pa-
rish followed in the track of a female who was crossing the coun-
try from Lochawe to Lochfyneside. She was seen ascending the
hill above Braveallaich with confidence, and, after passin through
the moor, had almost obtained the road which leads to Inverary, at
the mill of Craleckan, but was found close by it, on the Glassary
side of the stream, a corpse. Her right arm was protected by an
apron which she had rolled around it, and her band grasped a knife
which she bad lodged deep in the heart of a wolf that lay dead
beside her. It was supposed that when she discovered the animal
on her track, she had fled in the hope of reaching the houses that
were nigh at hand; but that being unable to escape, she had as-
sumed the defensive in despair, and died terrified and exhausted
by the effort which left her nothing to fear.
   "We have a considerable berd of the small zebu, or humped
Indian cattle, both of the lonf and short-horned breeds. The
crosses between these and Ayrshire or Highland cows have proved
very hardy, and most remarkable for their disposition to fatten,
and also for the juiciness and flavour of the meat. One bullock
weighed 960 lbs., but they are not often much above a-half or
two-thirds of that weight. The crosses are so wild, that it is dif-
ficult to do any thing with them. We have also a few of the
larger or Guzorat breed of humped cattle, and I got some years
ago, a white bull of the aboriginal Scotch breed, which, I under-
stand, came from the Duke of Atholl's stock, and having selected
                              3


