
                URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER.                         371

the Ferrintosh tenants, who formed part of the President's,escort on
this occasion, still survives, and states that she remembers perfectly
having often heard her mother declare, that the children of the fa-
mily fled affriglited from their father when he first presented him-
self on his own floor after his return, so greatly was his aspect
changed, like Nebuchadnezzar after his sojourn among the beasts
of the field.
   Ferrintosh Privilege.-The history of this celebrated privilege
we transcribe without alteration from the former Statistical Ac-
count of the parish.-" The lands belonging to Mr Forbes of
Culloden, which go by the name of Ferrintosh, and form the cen-
tral and largest division of the parish, possessed, from 1690 to
1786, an exemption from the duties of excise on spirits distilled
from grain of their own growth. This privilege was originally
granted to the present proprietor's great-grandfather, Duncan
Forbes of Culloden, one of those patriots who, at the glorious pe-
riod of the Revolution, stood up in defence of the religion and li-
berties of their country. By opposing the disaffected, and sup-
porting the loyal subjects in his neighbourhood at much expense,
be was materially instrumental in quashing a rebellion, which at
that time threatened the north of Scotland. Going some time
thereafter to Holland, in prosecution of the same patriotic plan,
the Popish faction, during his absence, laid waste his estates, par-
ticularly the barony of Ferrintosb, and destroyed extensive dis-
tilleries, of which it was the seat at that time, and before the in-
troduction of the Excise into Scotland. In compensation for the
losses which he had thus sustained in the service of Government,
the Parliament of Scotland, by an act passed in 1690, farmed to
him and his successors, the yearly excise of the lands of Ferrin-
tosh, for the sum of 400 merks Scotcb, subject, as explained by
a posterior act, to a proportion of any additional duties of excise
that might thereafter be imposed by law upon the kingdom. This
privilege his successors enjoyed without interruption till the year
1786. As a mark of public favour, it was not more honourably
acquired at first, than it was amply merited afterwards by a con-
tinued succession of important services in their country's cause.
In 1715, the original granter's (grantee's?) son, adhering to the
principles of the Revolution, raised all the men upon his estates
and deeply impaired his private fortune, by keeping them in arms
at his own expense, till that rebellion was happily quelled.  The
services rendered to Government in 1745,. by that great man and

