
210                HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   Congalton.-The barony of Congalton in this parish, gave name
to a very ancient family, that subsisted here for twenty generations
in the male line. The first on record is Robert de Congaltoun, who
witnessed a charter of Richard de Mereville, Constable of Scotland,
without date, but granted about 1162, engraved in Anderson's
Diplomata. The older branch of the family succeeding through heir-
esses to the estates of Hepburn of Keith, in East Lothian, and
Rickart of Rickartoun, in the county of Kincardine, assumed the
names of Rickart Hepburn.
   Robert Hepburn Congalton, of Keith and Congalton,-the
eighteenth generation of the family, sold Congalton to his brother
Charles, whose son, William Congalton of Congalton, married
Mary, daughter of David Bethune, of Balfour in Fife. His SOD,
Charles Congalton of Congalton, succeeding to the estate of that
ancient and distinguished farnily, of whom was Cardinal Bethune,
took the name and arms of Bethune of Balfour, and sold Con-
galton, which was afterwards purchased by the heir-male, Colonel
Robert Rickart Hepburn, of Keith and Rickartoun, Member of
Parliament for the county of Kincardine, who, dying in 1804, was
buried with his ancestors in the church of Golyn. Congalton was
sold to William Grant, Esq., in whose family it remains.
   "On 8th May 1509, a Royal Charter was granted by King James
IV. to Henry Congalton, of Congalton, of the King's Island and
lands of Fetheray, along with the hill of the castle (Monte Cas-
tri) of the same called Tarbet; also all and whole the King's Is-
land and lands of Craigleith, with the pertinents of the same, lying
within the Frith of Forth, county of Edinburgh, and constabulary
of Haddington, creating, uniting, annexing, and incorporating al
these islands, lands, and hill of the castle aforesaid, with the per-
tinents of the same, in one whole and free barony, to be called the
barony of Tarbet, to be held of the King, paying one penny of
Scots money, at the said hill of the Castle of Tarbet, in name of
blench farm if required, along with the marriage of the said heirs
of Henry Congalton, when it shall happen."   Great Seal Regis-
ter, Book 15, No. 115.
   Ancient Chapels, &c.-In Golyn parish there were three chapels,
subordinates to the church. 1. As early as the reign of William L
there was a chapel dedicated to St Nicolas, on the Island of Fidrey,
the ruins of which still remain. 2. In the twelfth century, Congal-
ton of Congalton  founded a chapel for the use of his family and
people near Congalton; the place where it stood is still called
chapel. Disputes arose with the Rector of Golyn, but were settled


