
                               TORBOLTON.                      753

Coilsfield estate, turned up pieces of ancient armour and frag-
ments of bones when ploughing the "dead men's home."
	In Bleau's Atlas, the following passage occurs, "Acrae vicomita-
tus Coilam, a Coilo Brittanorum Rege. . . In campo ubi decerta-
tum Cituus incurvus figura sua cornu referens, in primus canovus,
multo post annis effossus est, quo comarchi Caprintonii, quorum
ades primariae nostris Coilsfield dicitur, ad cogendos rusticos
suos et operarios utuntur." *
	Defoe, in his Tour through Britain, makes a similar statement,
original, or quoting the authority of the celebrated Robert Gor-
don of Straloch, by whom the narrative accompanying the maps of
Scotland was, at the request of King Charles I., furnished to the
Messrs Bleau of Amsterdam. +
	"A trumpet resembling a crooked Horn, which has a very shrill
sound, was dug up in the field of battle, and is still kept in the
Laird of Caprington's house called Coilsfield, ++ and made use of
to call his servants and workmen together."

<FOOTNOTE>Geographiac  Bleuianae, volumen sextum, p. 50, 60. Amste]aedami, 1762.
          De Foe's Tour through Britain, Vol. iv. p. 130. Seventh Edition.
          In a manuscript volume of poems and miscellaneous pieces now in the posses-
sion of David Constable, Esq. Advocate, written about the year 1631, the author,
John Bonar, schoolmaster, Ayr, gives in verse an account of a voyage from the port
of Bangor in Ireland, with a description of some of the objects of natural curiosity
and antiquity of the coast of Carrick, from Loch Ryan to Ayr. In this volume
the following passage occurs:
	"The britones marchet, tuo dayes before the feild
	To Marrok's mote, for easement and for beild;
	A fore the night they waughtet liquor fyne,
	Lyke filthie beasts lying like drunken swine.
	Quhen fergus heare they wer in sutch a pley,
	Doune fra Craigsbian he came right suddenly,
	And tooke his will upon his traitrous foes,
	Quhair thousands lay skatteret like windlestroes.
	Coylus he fledd unto the river Doune,
	Quher drownet were many yt thair did ruon,
	And northward held, quhil they cam till a muir,
	And thair wes stayet be Scots that on him fuir.
	Fergus he followet and came right heastilie,
	Quhair Coyll wes killet all his hole armie;
	The ountry  people fra thenseforthe the does it call
	Coylsfield in  Kyll, as ever more it sail.
	Within twelve years, or litle mor's I guess,
	A trew story ane ditcher told me these;
	Tirring the earth for fewell, to his flett,
	His spead did run upon ane stane bot lett,
	Quhilk, quhen he hade espyet earnestlie,
	A tomb it was buildet full curiouslye;
	He roll'd awaye, and fund a pitcher law
	With ashes, and bones, that all men might it knew,
	Upon the stones wer graven letters fayre,
	Koyl's cij-p of this as now I speak no more
     AYR.                 			3 B


