
     of Hawick.

of Dunkeld, author of several poems, and the admired trans-
lator of Virgil's AEneid.  Here too should be mentioned, Mr.
ALEXANDER ORROCK, the first minister of Hawick after the
Revolution.  He appears to have been a man rigid in discip-
line, and of extensive charity.  As a proof of the former,
there is told an extraordinary instance.  The magistrates, hav-
ing offended against decency and propriety, were cited before
him, and were not allowed to act in office, nor released
from the thunders of the church, until they had, on their
uncovered knees, asked pardon of God and the kirk-session.
This is a degree of ecclesiastical severity now happily un-
known.  Eminent proofs of his charity, however, still re-
main.  He bequeathed, for the poor of Hawick, 116 merks
Scotch; and for the schoolmaster 9,000 merks:  He gave several
pieces of plate for the use of the church; and to the minister
he gave his whole library, which remains a monument of an-
cient theological literature.

   Antiquities.-There are remains of camps in this parish;
but at what period they were formed, or by whom, the pre-
sent incumbent has never, been able to discover.  There is a
place called Catrail*, by some considered the remains of a

<FOOTNOTE>

legiate church of St. Giles, in Edinburgh, abbot of the convent of Aberbrothick,
and bishop of Dunkeld.  He was nominated to the archbishopric of St. Andrews,
but his appointment never took effect.  To avoid the persecutions raised against
his family, in the year 1513, he retired into England, and put himself under the
protection of Henry VIII., who kindly received him, and granted him a pen-
sion.  He died of the plague in London, and was buried in the Savoy church,
in the year 1521.

*Whitaker, in his History of Manchester, supposes the Catrail to have been a
barricade thrown up by the ancient Britons.  He says," it runs in a N. E. di-
"rection from Carnaby on the Esk, to Gallow Water, beyond Selkirk, lined all
"the way on the W. with forts; and even continues itself, by an additional chain


