
     Of Girvan.

casionally town; but the former is thought an uncertain crop,
and the latter is found profitable only when the soil is ex-
tremely light and sandy.  On one farm, several acres of tur-
nips are annually raised with good success.  The kind of
plough most commonly used, is one with an English mould-
board, and a Scotch sock.  Even in the hilly part of the pa-
rish, they have begun to cultivate such spots of land as are
capable of it.  For the most part, lime is used as their ma-
nure.  In some places the surface is pared and burnt, and the
ground manured with the ashes.  In general, however, the
disadvantages of the climate, together with the want of shel-
ter and enclosures, render the crops, in this part of the parish,
both scanty and precarious.  The high grounds are, therefore,
chiefly employed in the pasture of cattle and sheep.  The
greater part of them is indeed capable of being used in no
other way.  There are about 1700 head of cattle in the pa-
rish.  Though, occasionally, there may be single instances of
their rising to a great size*, yet the cattle, in general, are ra-
ther small.  In some parts of the parish they are completely
fatted; but the bulk of them are told for the purpose of be-
ing driven to England.  In the low pasture grounds, the
grass is remarkably rich.  A single acre is sometimes more
than sufficient to fatten an ox or cow of moderate size.  There
are about 214 scores of sheep.  Except a very few of the 
mixed breed between Scotch and English, they are all of the
small black-faced kind common in this country.  Attention is
paid by almost all of the farmers to the improvement of the kind
they already possess; but no attempts have been yet made to
introduce a different breed.
   The property of this parish is very unequally divided a-

<FOOTNOTE>

*An ox bred by Mr. Kennedy of Dunure, on his farm in this parish, was
killed when 6 years old; the beef and tallow of which, together, weighed 61
stone 8 pound, reckoning 4 pound English to the stone.


