
    180                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

    Bishop of Orkney, afterwards of Glasgow, as visitor to the pres-
    byteries of Merse and Tiviotdale. This resistance had nearly
    brought down on them signal punishment; but, by "earnest deal-
    ing of the Earl of Lothian and the Earl of Dunbar in favour of
    the said Mr David, their punishment resolved into a confinement
    within their own parishes." In the course of time, however, a
    relaxation of this sentence was obtained, although liberty was re-
    fused Calderwood to compear at presbyteries or synods, where his
    independent spirit and great influence rendered him a formidable
    opponent to Episcopal measures. But he seems eagerly to have
    watched over the liberties and purity of the church; for in 1617
    we find him at Edinburgh, joining in a protestation against the as-
    sumption of a power on the part of the King to devise and con-
    clude matters relating to the external policy of the kirk, without
    special advice and determination of the General Assembly. The
    part he took in this matter proved the cause of his banishment.
    He was summoned to compear before the High Court of Com-
    missioners at St Andrew's, on the 8th July. King James, who
    bad lately before this come to visit his native dominion, presided
    in person on this occasion, and questioned Calderwood as to his
    resistance and non-conformity. A particular account of the whole
    examination and answers has been handed down, and is interest-
    ing, inasmuch as it affords a true specimen of the difficulties with
    which the faithful Presbyterians bad to struggle, and of the vehe-
    mence with which their spiritual liberty was assailed. The spirit
    of this venerable man sustained him to testify that he would yield
    "a passive but not an active obedience" to the King's commands,
    when be regarded them as infringing on the privileges of the
    church, i. e. that be would patiently suffer rather than comply.
    The result was, that the King became incensed, and Calderwood,
    after being detained in ward in the tolbooth of St Andrew's, was
    ordained to be banished from his Majesty's dominions. In conse-
    quence of this sentence he went to Holland, and there published
    his famous work Altare Damascenum, which is said to have caused
    inexpressible vexation to King James. On the death of James in
    1625 he returned to his native country; but was not again con-
    nected with this parish. He was afterwards minister of Pencait-
    land, and his name appears in the proceedings of the celebrated
    Assembly at Glasgow of 1638. In 1651 he terminated his mortal
    career at Jedburgh, in the neighbourhood of the scene of his early
    labours. Of these labours, in so far as regards the discharge of

				4


