
     of Denino.

ingly settled state*.  The total amount of souls, with various
other circumstances relating to the slate of the parish, accord-
ing to a very recent and exact calculation, are as under:

<TABLE=STATISTICAL TABLE of the Parish of DENINO.>

Length in English miles,            3   Aver. ditto, from 1742 to 1752,     23
Breadth, not quite                  2         ditto, from 1761 to 1771,     16
Population in 1755,               598         marriages, from do. to do.     3
           anno 1793,             383         deaths,                      + 7
                                              births from 1780 to 1790,     10
        Decrease,                 215         marriages, from do. to do.  ++ 2
Aver. births, from 1643 to 1653     8         deaths, from do. to do.        6

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*For some time preceding the middle of the present century, the principal
part, if not the whole, of the parish husbandry was performed by cottagers; who
enjoyed, as a material perquisite of their services, a small portion of land.-
The parish also abounded with pendiclers, or inferior tenants.  These, therefore
and the cottagers, together with a considerable number of families employed in
the coal mines, but most of all, the division of farms, and employing of hired
servants in their cultivation, contributed much to the multiplication of the in-
habitants; and hence it is easy to perceive the causes of remarkable a depo-
pulation; which is a natural consequence of the union of farms.  More than
30 inhabited houses existed in the parish, about half a century ago, of which
scarcely a single vestige now remains It may be remarked farther, that the
conversion of a very large extent of the district into grass farms, has operated
very materially to the decrease of the people, by employing a much smaller
number of servants of either sex.

+This is the average, alter making a proportional deduction, for the many
burials from other parishes, that take place here, on account, it is said, of the
superiority of our burial-ground.  In the above averages, the baptisms, marri-
ages, and burials of the inhabitants of Kings  Muir are included: it being found
impossible, from the connection they necessarily had with Denino, to make any
exact discrimination from the records.

++The number of births, marriages, and deaths, for 10 years immediately
proceding 1790, are as follows:


