
  152                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

    The atmosphere is ordinarily warm and healthy; but is gene-
  rally so moist that even deep falls of snow remain no longer than
  a few days on the ground.  Although the weather is damp and
  hazy, we have not those torrents of rain and hurricanes of winds, to
  which so many other parts of the Highlands and islands are sub-
  ject.
    On this coast, the south, south-west, and westerly winds are the
  most prevailing, and in winter and spring are generally accompa-
  nied with rain and storm.  Hazy weather in winter prognosticates
  frost, in spring snow, in summer fair weather, and in autumn rain;
  and it is remarked that, in the stormy months of January and Fe-
  bruary, the greater number of sea-fowls disappear from this coast,
  owing to the exposure of the coast in that season to the storms
  from the Atlantic.  The most prevailing distempers in the parish
  are rheumatism, colics, and epilepsy among very young infants.
  If these are not affected with the disease within the ninth or tenth
  day after their birth, they are not afterwards so subject to it.
    Hydrography.-The Frith of Loch Roag runs in a south-east
  direction through the centre of the parish, the length of twelve
  miles.  In the narrow parts of the channels of this long arm of the
  sea, the tides run very rapidly, and the water is very salt.
    There are a few small perennial springs in the parish, arising
  out of sandy soil; their water is clear and cooling in all seasons.
    The parish abounds with fresh water lakes and lochs, the lar-
  gest of which do not exceed two miles in length, and one in breadth.
  They abound with small trout.  Their water is of a brownish co-
  lour.  Flat moor and low hillocks form the scenery of almost all
  the interior part of the Lewis.
    There are four rivulets in this parish, in which salmon is caught,
  viz. the rivers Grimtsta and Cean Loch, which join the sea at the
  head of Loch Roag ; Resart, which joins the sea at the head of
  Loch Resart; and the Rdd River, which discharges itself into the
  bay of Uig.
    Zoology.--Black cattle, sheep and horses, all of the small High-
  land breed, have been the kinds reared-in this parish, from time, im-
  memorial; but of late years, Cheviot and black-faced sheep have
  been introduced into this parish, with considerable success.
    Oysters, lobsters, and every kind of shell-fish are abundant al-
  most on every part of the shores of Loch Roag; and English ves-
  sels frequently come here, for several months, to fish lobsters.

