
			    NIGG. 	                 209

them with turf in a particular way, sell them in Aberdeen and
other places as Finnan haddocks; and they are equally good and
as well cured as thnse of Finnan, and relished by many as a great
delicacy.
	Herring Fishing.--In the middle of July, the herring fishery
commences on the north coast. From Torry three boats proceed
for the purpose; from Cove, nine; and from Burnbanks, three.
The boats are from ten to fourteen tons burden, and fitted up with
masts, sails, cordage, and nets, at considerable expense. They
carry each five or six men, partners in the adventure. Each boat
is under an engagement to some merchant, to furnish a certain
number of cranes or barrels of herring, perhaps 250. Last year,
they were very unsuccessful. Indeed, the herring, fishing, upon
the whole, has been an unprofitable concern for the fishermen.
They are generally absent at the North-Sea-fishing, for six weeks
or two months.
	Shell-Fish.--Lobster and crab are fished at Cove and Burn-
banks: and the method of catching them is by a cylindrical bas-
ket or creel, with a small hole in it for entrance, so constructed
that the fish enters in and cannot get out again. In this, they
place a bait and sink it in the sea, at a little distance from the
rocks.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce is as fol-
lows, viz:

<TABLE>
	1. Produce of grain, oats, and barley,             L.4022  0 0
        2. Turnips,                                          1682  0 0
        3. Potatoes,					      560  0 0
        4. First year&s grass,                               1780  0 0
        5. Pasture grass,                                     712  0 0

							   L.0756  0 0

	About two-thirds of tile turnip crop raised in the parish is con-
sumed at home, for the purpose of procuring dairy produce, which
meets with a tolerable demand in Aberdeen. The other third is
carried to the same place, and sold to cowfeeders at about a third
more price, as a compensation for the carriage.
	Manufactures.--Some years ago kelp was manufactured in the
bay of Nigg, and gave employment to a good many young women,
but for many years past it has been discontinued, there being no
demand for it. There was also, several years ago, a salt manu-
factory in the bay of Nigg, but it also has been given up. Lint
was formerly sown and manufactured by private families in the pa-
rish, now there is no manufacture of the kind.

	KINCARDINE.



