
  78                               PERTHSHIRE.

  he receives no emolument. There is a Burgh Court held every
  Tuesday, in which one of the bailies presides. Each of them does
  duty for three month. A Guild Court is held regularly on the
  fourth Monday of each month, and occasionally at other times when
  business requires. *
    The sheriffship was conferred on the Provost by Robert III. in
  the fourth year of his reign. In this character, as a criminal judge,
  Provost M'Breck acted in 1524. He condemned, by the verdict of
  an assize, John Pearson, to be hanged on the gallows for stealing
  two cows, and John Butcher, for stealing a qrey mare taen hand
  havand, and for being an common thief.
    As a royal burgh, Perth had the precedence till Edinburgh was
  made the capital of the kingdom. At an early period, Dundee con-
  tended with it of precedence. But the matter was determined by
  a precent under the band of James VI., dated at Holyrood House
  the penult day of May 1594, in which his Majesty commands that
  the commissioners of the burgh of Perth shall have place next to
  the commissioners of the burgh of Edinburgh. And in the char-
  ter of confirmation of the whole rights, and privileges of the burgh,
  it is declared, " our said royal burgh of Perth shall have and enjoy
  perpetually the principality, prerogative, first place, dignity, and or-
  der; as also, in giving votes and suffrages, shall be preferred before
  our said burgh of Dundee, and the inhabitants, procurators, and
  commissioners thereof;"  . . . " and for that cause that they
  altogether cease and leave off, to contend with our said royal burgh
  of Perth, inhabitants, procurators, and commissioners thereof, or to
  do unto them any whatsoever trouble, scaith, or wrong, or to hinder
  or fash them in their lawful commerce." In the rolls of the Scot-
  tish Parliament, the following is the order of the principal burghs,
  Edinburgh, Perth, Dundee, Stirling, St Andrews, Aberdeen, Mon-
  trose, Dumbarton, Glasgow. The chief magistrate has the title of
  Lord Provost. His right to it was lately called in question, but it was
  established by the Court of Session on the 12th of March 1836.
    The property of the burgh is large, and greater in proportion
  than that of any other in Scotland. It consists of lands,+ houses,

  <FOOTNOTE>Local Reports from Commissioners on Municipal Corporations in Scotland,
  p. 299, &c.
            The lands (or property in land,) belonging to the city are, 1. the farm of Nether
  Tullylum ; 2. the Cow Causeway lands; 3. Soutar lands; 4. Magie's Park; 5. a
  third- part of the Sand Island near to the south shore; 6. the Two Inches.
            The burgh muir was for time immemorial the property of the city, till betwixt
  the year 1800 and 1828, when it vas feued out in lots. It was originally in a wild
  uncultivated state. In 1602, the town-council caused it to be ploughed. The
  ploughing of it cost 200 merks, which sum was collected equally from the merchants


