
     Statistical Account

be passed over in silence, when the title of KING is so justly
respected and beloved.  Besides, although these Kings lived
in Dalruadhain, or Campbelton, yet their history claims, in a
particular manner, the reader's attention; as it is, in fact, the
history of the Scottish kingdom in general, of which this pa-
rish was the cradle.
   FERGUS, as already mentioned, began his reign in con-
junction with Lorn, and probably with Angus, in 503.  In
a few years, he was succeeded by his son Domangard, who,
in 4 or 5 years, left the kingdom to Congal, one of his sons
by Fedelins, daughter of Brian M'Achy, King of Ireland.
After a long reign, his brother Gauran succeeded him, ac-
cording to the annals of Ulster, in 544, and lived till 560,
when his nephew, Conal I. ascended the throne, and reigned
till 575, a year fatal also to hiss son Doncha, who fell in the
battle of Loro in Kintyre, in which he contested with his
cousin Aidan, the Son of Gauran, for the succession to the
kingdom.
   The fortune of the day gave it in favour of Aidan, (or
Aedhan M'Gauran, as he is called in our tales*), Of all the

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is remarkable that, in so rude an age, Aidan was not
satisfied with the title which he had got to the kingdom by the
sword, without being also anointed by St. Columba.  The
saint, who had more favour for his brother Eoghan, delayed, for
a considerable time, the ceremony of the unction, till, at length,
for two or three nights successively, a supernatural agent, it is
said, appeared to him in a vision, and charged him to perform
his office; and, as he still delayed, he gave him at last a blow
on the side, of which he retained the mark ever after; adding,
at the same time, a menace of repeating the correction if he
should put off the business any longer.  The saint, it should
seem, did not chuse to run the hazard of having the threaten-
ing executed.  He anointed Aidan King, and zealously sup-
ported his interest ever after; for when Aidan was to fight
battle, the monks of Jona were convened to pray for his suc-
cess.


