
                  GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                            91


the position, moreover, of the strata is seen to be altered, and their
dipping is irregular. This change of position of the stratified
rocks has affected the formation of valleys in the district, more, es-
pecially those occupied by lakes, as Lochtolla and Lochawe, where
deep rents or fissures have been caused by the disturbance of the
strata.
   Greenstone and syenite seldomer occur in veins in mica-slate,
but when they do, they are found partly parallel with the bearing
of that rock, and partly intersecting it, running from north north-
east to south south-west. Beautiful syenite is found in the farm
of Auch on Benbuy, north of Tighandrom. Abundant veins of
quartz intersect the stratified rocks, carrying often lead glance,
and that in so abnndant quantity, as to constitute an object of min-
ing speculation. The bearing of the veins is in general from north
north-east.to south south-west, one vein only with lead runs pa-
rallel with the strata. This vein occurs near Arivean. Large
quartz dikes are found parallel with the smaller veins. These
project above the surface in high walls, and extend for many miles
in unbroken continuous lines, across hills and valleys. In these
dikes, the quartz is quite compact, and includes no other mineral,
--in some instances, however, their continuation becomes of a
softer nature, and carries lead ore. In cases, of this kind, those
veins are not seen rising above the neighbouring strata. Some
quartz veins contain pyrites, which mineral is very abundant in the
layers of quartz belonging to the formation of mica-schist. There
is no great variety of minerals in the district, besides those com-
posing the rocks; as quartz, mica, felspar, talc, chlorite, horn-
blende and limestone. The following are the extraneous minerals,
viz. lead glance, zinc, blende iron, copper pyrites, red iron oxyd,
chromate of iron in small quantithes in talc rock on the south side,
of Benlaoidh, in the farm of Sockoch, plumbago, supplanting mica
in mica-schist, and also found in talc schist, calc and felspar, and
seldom heavy spar. Perfect crystals of these minerals are very
rare.
   Zoology.--There are no animals of peculiar rarity in the parish.
It abounds in deer, roe, and hare, and all kinds of game. The
deer forest of Black Mount, the greater part of which lies in Glen-
orchy, is supposed to contain from 2000 to 3000 red-deer.
The fox is an inhabitant of the parish, despite of every effort made
to destroy him, as is the pole-cat, martin and weasel, and wild-
cat.


