
     Statistical Account

the neighbouring mountains, furnish in a thousand different
places, protection, as well as pasture for cattle, to much
better purpose.  Nor is it likely, that they were intended as
a defence from the wolves, and ravenous beasts.  The
wall that surrounds them, seems to be a work of much great-
er labour and strength, than was necessary for this purpose.
   But if we suppose, as is surely very likely, that the Caledo-
nians had a standing army always along the line of the Ro-
man wall, they, though fearless of danger, and disdaining all
shelter, but the strength of their own arm, must necessarily
have been attended with a number of women, and defence-
less followers.  These needed, and naturally sought for a
place of refuge.  And such a refuge, the chesters might af-
ford*
     3

<FOOTNOTE>

*Nature seems to have marked out this strath, as the boundary of the
Roman Empire.  Whether it was pitched upon from necessity or choice, I
cannot say.  But the following particulars will make it appear, that it was
the most eligible place for raising up a barrier against the native Caledonians.
   1st, It is by much the narrowest place in the whole Island.  The Frith of
Forth and Clyde intersect the kingdom for many miles on either side.
   2dly, It is besides the north boundary of the lowlands.  The whole coun-
try to the north, appears to a stranger, to be an endless succession of bleak
and barren mountains.
   3dly, The whole strath of Kelvin, seems to have been an impassible mo-
rass.  In some places, I suppose the whole valley was covered with water:
From this westward to the Clyde, it was theresore a natural barrier of itself.
From the Dullatur bog eastward, it seems to have been entirely under water.
Camelodunum seems to have been a sea-port town.  If it was so, the whole
valley to Kilsyth parish, must have been an arm of the sea, though not navi-
gable, yet next to impassible.  Had it not been for those natural advantages
of situation, the Roman wall must have been a feeble.  defence against the
hardy, brave, and free sons of Caledonia.
   In more than one place, there seems to have been artificial mounds raised
in the valley, to throw it under water.


