
                               FORDYCE.                                183

          There is not only an abundant supply of all the common kinds
       of sea fish, but salmon is to be had regularly in its season; there
       being a bag-net station for this fishing near the mouth of the
       burn of Boyne. At a former period, lobster-fishing was carried on
       to a considerable extent, by the fishermen here, as well as along
       the whole of this side of the Frith to Inverness; and small vessels
       visited the different stations on the coast, received the fish that
       were caught, and then proceeded with them to the London mar-
       ket. But nothing has now, for many years, been done in this re-
       spect, beyond a few being caught by aged fishermen, who dispose
       of them in the place. Crabs are found in considerable numbers;
       and it may be stated that, during the winter of 1838, when provi-
       sions were so high, the children of several of the poorer families
       derived an important part of their aliment from the common peri-
       winkle, which is to be found so plenteously on our shores.
         Botany.-One of the features of the parish most likely to strike
       the eye of a traveller is the want of wood. This defect, however,
       is in the way of being remedied. In the east part, the Earl of
       Seafield has a young thriving plantation of considerable extent;
       while a large space of waste land, contiguous to it, and lying be-
       tween the burn of Boyne and the Huntly turnpike, has been en-
       closed and planted during the past year. The other proprietors
       have been adding to the ornament of the parisb, and the improve-
       ment of their own properties in like manner.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         There are no written records of the early history of this parish.
       It would seem, at least, to have been sufficiently large, compre-
       hending originally Ordiquhill, Deskford, and Cullen. When the
       disjunction of these took place cannot be positively ascertained.
       From a decreet of stipend for Fordyce in 1618, it appears to have
       been subsequent to that period.
         Land-owners.-There are three landed proprietors, the Earl of
       Seafield; Sir Robert Abercromby of Birkenbog; and Arthur
       Duff Abercromby, Esq. of Glassaugh,-the last of whom only is
       resident in the parish. There are plans of the different estates in,
       the hands of their respective proprietors. Those of the Earl of
       Seafield are of the oldest date, some of them not having been re-
       newed since 1771. The last plan of the Glassaugh estate was
       made out in 1821; while a new survey of Birkenbog was complet-
       ed only two or three years ago.
         Eminent Men.-Walter Ogilvie of Redhyth and Mr George Smith,


