
			DOLPHINTON.                            55

presbytery of Biggar was erected, this parish was included in its
jurisdiction, and became part of the synod of Lothian and Tweed-
dale. In the time of the sycophantish Baliol, and also after the
disastrous defeat of David II. at Durham, when the English boast-
ed that their marches werefrom Soutray to Carlops and Cross-
cryne, Dolphinton was a border parish. And, had the geographi-
cal circumstances of the district been the rule by which parishes
were originally classed, it would have belonged to Peebles-shire.
	The names of places, habitations, fosses, and sepulchres still
extant, prove that the parish was anciently inhabited by the native
Britons; but no traces of the Romans now remain. The marks of
the Romanised Britons have, from their original similarity, been long
confounded with those of the British Gauls; and even the foot-
steps of the Saxons who, after the subversion of the Celtic domi-
nion occupied this district, are few and indistinct. The dawn of
our history as a separate parish begins with the acquisition of it
by Dolfine. How long his descendants retained the territory has
not been ascertained. But it is certain that the, manor and pa-
tronage of the church became an early pertinent of the baronial
territory of Bothwell, and with it underwent the stormy changes
of its brave proprietors. During the reign of Alexander III. Dol-
phinton belonged to Walter Olifard, Justiciary of Lothian, who
died in 1242. It next passed, by marriage probably, to Walter de
Moray, the progenitor of Sir Andrew, who was the faithful part-
ner in command with Wallace, the veteran champion with Bruce
in all his victoriers, and the Regent of Scotland in the minority of
David II. Edward I. gave it to Aymer de Vallence, Earl of
Pembroke, when guardian for Scotland. In 1370, Johanna, only
child of Sir Thomas Moray, carried it to the grim Archibald
Douglas, Lord of Galloway, who, after the battle of Otterburn,
became Earl of Douglas. In 1440, after the young Douglas was
served at dinner in Edinburgh Castle with the ominous dessert of
a bull's head, James Earl of Avondale became proprietor of our
manor. In 1455, when a single battle at Abercorn might have
raised Douglas to the throne, but when his own indecision, and
the desertion of Hamilton sunk him to an exile, Dolphinton re-
verted to the crown. In 1483, James III. conferred it on Sir
James Ramsay,' one of the ablest of his favourites. After the as-
sassination of James at Beaton's mill, Ramsay lost it by forfeiture,
and Dolphinton was, in 1489, givenly by James IV. to the master of his
household, Patrick Hepburn, Lord Hailes. In 1492, when the


