
70			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

garrison under Greystock and Sir Hugh of Moreland. Having taken
some of their horses, the Scottish hero was pursued to Tor-head, (a
name descriptive of the situation, the Celtic Tor signifying mount,)
by Moreland, who, in the encounter which ensued, was slain, with
several of his followers. A large stone named "sax corses,"
i. e. six corpses, a short way distant, marks the burial place of the
vanquished. Greystock, enraged at this defeat, and strengthened
by fresh supplies from England, immediately proceeded to attack
Wallace with 300 men. Thus overpowered by numbers, he fell
back among the hills; and being joined by Sir John Graham of
Dundaff with thirty men, and Kirkpatrick, his kinsman, with twen-
ty of his retainers, was overtaken on the north border of the lands
of Holehouse, near the bottom of Queensberry, where a general
engagement took place. Greystock fell; the victory was complete;
and the survivors seeking shelter in the wood from which they had
pursued the Scots, Wallace reached Lochmaben before them, and
took possession of the castle. A cairn, as was then usual, has
been raised on the field of battle, where may be seen the long flat
stones, set on edge in the form of graves, believed to surround the
remains of the dead. A stream runs from the place, called "Dis-
comfit Gutter." A moss brow, bearing the name of "Graham's
hag," is at a short distance; as is likewise "Bledy-gill," evi-
dently a corruption of Bloody-gill.
	About the year 1785, there was found, in a small piece of peat-
moss near the line of the old Roman road, a pretty large pot, of a
sort of base copper, and a decanter of the same metal, of the shape
and size of our white stone quart decanters, with 3 feet about 1 1/2
inch long. They were both sent by Dr Burgess, then minister
of the parish, to the Society of Antiquarians at Edinburgh, and are
in their museum. They were thought to be Roman. They
might have been thrown into the place where they were found
when the Romans left the castellum, perhaps pursued by the na-
tives, and obliged to abandon their heavy luggage to expedite their
flight.
	Last summer, another antique of similar metal, capable of con-
taining 13 imperial gills, with 3 feet 2 1/2 inches in length, and al-
together 10 inches in height, having a handle and spout, and
somewhat resembling in shape a modern coffee-pot, was dug up
in a place called, Car's moss, near the mains of Ross. In that,
moss are the vestiges of a small British station, from which it pro-
bably takes the ancient British or Celtic etymon of Car or Caer,

	                         3


