
     of Kirkbean.

ascertained*.  From this ridge of hills, the parish inclines
towards the shore, and presents to the eye a rich, beautiful,
and extensive prospect, fields well inclosed, and in a high state
of cultivation; with several clumps and belts of planting.

   Climate and Diseases.  The climate is healthy.  The inha-
bitants are not subject to any local disease.  Formerly the
ague is said to have been frequent; now it has almost entire-
ly disappeared.  This, by some, has been attributed to the
necessary operations of agriculture, the wet and morass
grounds being now mostly drained.  By others, however, of
more knowledge and experience, it has been attributed to a-
nother cause.  Formerly, many of the inhabitants went into
Lincolnshire for employment during the harvest and re-
turned infected with this disease; now they have work suf-
ficient to employ them in the parish, and the disease is sel-
dom a complaint.  lnnoculation is frequent and successful.

   Soil and Produce.  The soil is various.  Upon the N. W.
and W. a considerable tract lies upon lime-stone.  Upon the

     VOL. XV. Q

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1784, ROBERT RIDDLE, Esq; of Glenriddell, employed Mr William
M'Cartney land-surveyor, to take for him the height of this hill.  The following
is a copy of Mr M'Cartney's letter to him.  "Sir,-Being the other day at
"Crofell, and recollecting the conversation we had about its height, I resol-
"ved to ascertain it.  I made my observations from a base on the shore, of
"a mile in length, and the result was as follows: viz. Douglas Cairn, on
"the summit of the mountain, 1895, say 1900 feet in round numbers, and
"Knockendoch, or the north wing of the mountain, 1500 leek above high wa-
"ter mark.  I adjusted the level before observation, for, by all experiment, I
"found that it pointed two feet too low, in every hundred yards."
   In 1440, William Earl of Douglas, the last warden of the west marches,
assembled the bail lairds, freeholders, and eldest borderers of his wardenry
at Lincluden.  There he corrected and improved the border laws; a copy
of which is to be found in the Lord Maxwell's manuscript of the laws of the
marches.  In those laws, this hill is mentioned as one of the beacons for a-
larming the country, during the frequent incursions made by the English
into Scotland.


