
                           BALFRON.                          299

it at considerable expense. There are 17 acres of glebe, and the
living is one of the small ones, a considerable portion of the sti-
pend being made up from the Exchequer.
  There are in the parish three dissenting places of worship,
namely, Relief, United Secession, and Burgher. The latter have
had no fixed minister for many years. The congregations of the
former pay their ministers' stipends, which are said to be about
L.80 per annum.
  Education.-We have in the parish in all four schools; first,
the parish school, the master of which has the minimum salary,
and, we fear, the fees or wages are ill paid even by the few who
are attending; second, a school, the master of which receives L.10
per annum, as a subscription from the heritors. It is for the con-
venience of the eastern part of the parish. There is a school-room
and master's house, both built by subscription. The third is a
school in the village of Balfron, the master of which is entirely
dependent upon the school wages, paying a rent for the school-
room; and the fourth is a school belonging to, and in connection
with, the cotton-works. The master of this receives a salary and
accommodation from the mill company. Ostensibly, at least, in
all these schools, the usual branches are taught. The people, in
general, are perfectly alive to the benefits of education, and all
are anxious that their children be taugh; but, with every anxiety,
the parents, in too many cases, cannot indulge it, from being un-
able, in the first place, to pay the usual school wages, which are
from 2s. 6d to 3s. 6d. per quarter, and provide clothes, in which
their children might appear decently and comfortably; in the
second place, as before observed, from being obliged to send their
children to be draw-boys or mill-boys, or even weavers, at an age
when they should be more properly employed at school. Often
have we though that, if anywhere infant tuition were of advantage,
it might be introduced with the greatest possible benefit to this
population. We have done our utmost to call the attention of those
who might be supposed to be interested in the young of this place,
to this highly important subject,-but hitherto, we lament to say,
without effect.
   Literature.-There is a library in the parish, belonging to the
subscribers; the collection, of nearly 400 volumes, is chiefly made
up of novels, biography, and a few travels.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Previous to the year 1832, the
poor and parochial funds were managed by the kirk-session. The


