

                       INCHTURE.                            833

which is said to have been destroyed by fire about the beginning
of last century, and is now in ruins.*
   Modern Buildings.--Rossie Priory, the seat of the Right Ho-
nourable Lord Kinnaird, is situated on the upward slope of Ros-
sie hill, at an elevation of 132 feet above the level of the sea,
and commands one of the richest prospects that can well be
conceived. It was founded in 1807, and erected of very superior
stone from the quarries on the estate, by the late Lord Kinnaird,
though it has been materially enlarged and improved by its present
noble proprietor.  The design was by Atkinson, and it is one of
the most magnificent edifices of its kind.
   Ballindean House is situated near the base of the hill of Bal-
lindean, and was built chiefly by the late Mr Trotter.  It is cha-
racterized by the taste for which he was distinguished.
   The parish church is in the Gothic style, and was built accord-
ing to a plan by Mackenzie of Dundee in 1835, the material be-
ing old red sandstone from a quarry in the village.  It stands to
the south of the high road between Perth and Dundee, in the vil-
lage of Inchture, in the midst of the churchyard, which has been
elevated from six to eight feet above the surrounding level, appa-
rently from a hollow in the vicinhty.
   Under the aisle of the church, which is wholly the property of
Lord Kinnaird, is the family vault, where rest the ashes of the an-
cestors of that noble family, for many bygone generations.
   To 1838, a thrashing-mill, the machinery of which is propelled
by steam, was erected on Powgavie, the largest farm in the pa-
rish, by Lord Kinnaird, the proprietor, and is deserving of notice,
as being the first and only one under the same moving power in
the dirtrict.  It has completely answered the end of its erection,

                         III.-POPULATION
   At the time of the publication of the last Account the parish is
said to have contained about 1000 souls and 184 families.

<TABLE>
        In 1821, the population was  985    Males,  474    Females, 511
           1831,                     878            450             428
           1841,                     765            374             387
                                                      4 aboard ship.
   The apparent decrease is to be attributed partly to the enlarge-
ment of the farms, parks, and pleasure grounds-the carrying of

<FOOTNOTE>A late author, quoting from the Annals of Ulster, the most valuable of the Irish
chronicles, states that it was near to this castle, during a civil war among the Piets,
that Hungus defeated Neoton 728, two years beford he slow Elpin at Pitlessie in                                                                                                        'O Ul
the neighbouring parish of Liff, and became triumphant over every competitor for
the throne.
   PERTH.                                                      3 G


