
4                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

pair tbither with their large boats for bait, and pay a certain sum
to the proprietor for each boat-load.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-Among the eminent men connected with this
parish may be mentioned Sutherland, Lord Duffus, who had a re-
sidence in Skelbo, the ruins of which are still visible: also Gor-
dons of Embo, now represented by Sir Orford Gordon, who re-
sides in England.  The heads of these families acted a conspi-
cuous part in the feudal quarrels and wars of their times.
   Connected with this parish also, by purchase of lands and by re-
sidence, were George Dempster, Esq. of Dunnichen, and John Ha-
milton Dempster, Esq. his brother.  These gentlemen were of a
younger branch of the ancient family of Dempster of Muresk, in
the county of Aberdeen, as may be seen by reference to Douglas'
Baronage of Scotland: * and their grandfather had acquired,
shortly after the year 1700, the estate of Dunnichen, in Forfar-
shire, which is now the property, and gives the designation, of the
elder branch of his descendants.
   Mr George Dempster purchased the estate of Skibo in the year
1786, and Mr J. H. Dempster shortly after purchased the estates
of Pulrossie and Over-Skibo. The estates of Skibo and Over-
Skibo had been purchased from gentlemen of the name of Gray.
But the estate of Skibo had also been possessed for a few years
previous to the last Mr Gray by the Honourable George Mackay
of Reay, by whom the older portions of its woods were planted, and
to whose taste and industry that part of the parish is much in-
debted.
   Mr George Dempster was for twenty-eight years member of Par-
liament for the Dundee and St Andrews district of burghs.  He
was most active and assiduous in devising measures himself, and in
encouraging measures planned by others, which had for their ob-
ject the improvement of his native country.  He took an active and
leading part in promoting its manufactures, its fisheries, and its agri-
culture.  He was a gentleman of great benevolence and, suavity of
manners.  While he and his brother remained in Skibo, they were
much respected by all ranks; and as landlords, they were kind and
indulgent to their tenants.  Mr Dempster died A. D. 1818, aged 86.
   The noble family of Sutherland have a burying-place within the
church, where the mortal remains of several of its members are
laid. Over it a neat monument has been erected to the memory of
the last Earl and the Countess of Sutherland, the parents of the now

<FOOTNOTE>P. 531.


