

                       CARNOCK.                              713

tending worship in the neighbouring parish churches. The num-
ber of communicants on the roll at last communion, belonging to
the congregation, and exclusive of those who worship in other
parishes, was about 200. Previous to 1828, the number on the
roll was 93; and in 1833, it was 151.
   There is one Dissenting meeting-house in the parish. It ori-
ginated about 1748, and is situated in the village of Cairneyhill.
The congregation belongs to the United Associate Synod. The
number of sittings in the meeting-house is 400. The minister's
stipend is L.96, derived from seat rents and collections, besides a
house and garden, and a glebe of two acres. The whole number
of Dissenters of all denominations in the parish is 598. Of these,
about 400 profess to belong to the congregation at Cairneyhill ;
two are Episcopalians, and one a Roman Catholic, who occasionally
worship in the parish church; and the remainder, adhering to
the United Secession, the Relief, and the Original Burghers,
attend places of worship belonging to their respective denomina-
tions in Dunfermline. Of those not known to belong to any re-
ligious denomination, the number is 19.
   The average amount of church collections, &c. yearly for re-
ligious and charitable objects, besides the ordinary weekly collec-
tions for the poor, may be estimated at upwards of L. 10.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish; one, the pa-
rochial school, in Carnock village ; and the other at Cairneyhill.
   The branches of instruction taught in the two schools at present
existing, are, English reading, writing, arithmetic, English gram-
mar, geography, and sometimes Latin and Greek. The parochial
schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and a small mortification
of the value of 5s. 6 1/2d. annually. This mortification is the inte-
rest of 100 merks bequeathed the kirk-session of Carnock, for
behoof of the schoolmaster, by Principal Row, "calling to mynd,"
as the deed of mortification in the principal's hand-writing states
" the place of my birth, and first initiating in letters." The
schoolmaster at Cairneyhill has a free school-house; but is other-
wise wholly dependent upon the school fees.
   Besides the facilities afforded for the education of the young
by the two schools already mentioned, the inhabitants of the east-
ern portion of the parish have the privilege of sending their chil-
dren to a well-conducted school, which is connected with a public
work in the parish of Dunfermline.
   In 1834, the number of children at school was 210. Subse-


