
				EYEMOUTH.			319

which the coast is begirt, am interrupted, and that a safe and com-
modious access is obtained to the shore. The bay of Eyemouth
is formed by the promontory of the Fort, and by the projecting
point of Gunsgreen, and is protected in, front by a remarkable ridge
of rocks called the Harkers, round either extremity of which ves-
sels pass in approaching the harbour. The position of these rocks,
it is said, suggested to Government the idea of uniting them to the
mainland by cones, or buttresses, according to the plan practiced
at Cherbourg; but the vast expense which would be necessary for
that purpose, and the very limited extent of anchorage which, after
all, would be afforded, have caused the project, if ever seriously-en-
tertained, to be abandoned; and the bay is now only resorted to by
vessels waiting the flow of the tide to enable them to pass into the
harbour. Its outline is exceedingly graceful, sweeping round the
bases of the houses is a semicircular form, from the harbour to the
rocks on the opposite side; and, on account of its gentle slope and
gravelly bottom, it is much resorted to by bathers in the summer
season.
   Hydrography.-The only stream of any consequence is the Eye,
a small but very ornamental river, which, at the south-eastern cor-
ner of the parish, receives as a tributary the Ale,-a rivulet, which,
flowing for some miles through a valley occasionally deep and pic-
turesque, forms the southern boundary of the parish. The highest
tides reach about half a mile above the mouth of the Eye. There
are no lakes or cascades, nor are the springs in any respect worthy
Of particular notice.
   Geology.-The geology of the parish is in some respects very
interesting, though occasionally very difficult to be correctly de-
scribed, partly from the want of opportunities, in some places, of
ascertaining the succession of the rock formations, and partly from
the indistinct character of several of these rocks, even where they
are sufficiently exposed to view, as, for instance, on the sea coast.
Speaking generally, it may be described as a district consisting of
greywacke and greywacke slate, with subordinate rocks of trap, and
slight traces of the old red sandstone. The greywacke occupies
only a small portion of the parish, though in the neighbourhood,
especially towards the west, it is a very abundant rock; the large
parish of Coldingham being almost entirely composed of it. This
rock we trace in the bed of the Eye throughout all its extent, the
strata varying exceedingly both in direction and in inclination;
though, generally speaking, they are elevated at a considerable


