
     Of Kilninian.

in this extensive parish.  The salary is 10 L. Sterling, with-
out any accommodation whatever, not so much as a
house for the school or schoolmaster.  The people, and
some of the heritors, insist on its being ambulatory; and
for the short period, it can be continued in any one place,
it must be taught in any hovel that can conveniently be
spared.  It must be observed, however, that his Grace
the Duke of Argyll has lately agreed to make such addi-
tion to the parochial salary, as to afford 10 L. Sterling for
each of 2 schoolmasters, to be stationary upon his own
property, which, it is hoped, will soon be carried into
effect.  The Society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge, have 2 schools on their establishment in this pa-
rish; one of which being on the Laird of Coll's property,
that gentleman gives 4 L. Sterling in addition to their sa-
lary, besides furnishing all the accommodation required
by them; their other school is in the Island of Ulva,
and they have promised a salary for a third school at To-
bermory, as soon as proper dwelling and school house,
with other necessary accommodation, are provided for the
master, to be employed there.  The want of this school
is no small hinderance to the progress and prosperity of
that village*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices, etc.-For many years back, there has been a gradual rise in
the price of provisions and necessaries of life, through this parish and
neighbourhood.  There are old men alive, who have seen the boll of
meal of this country growth and measure, which weighs about 11 3/4 stones,
sold at 5 s. or 6 s. now it is seldom or never under 20 s.  The meal is of a
quality much inferior to what is brought from the Low country.  A weth-
er, of the small country kind, which was formerly got at, from 3 s. to 4 s.,
is now rarely under 7 s., and often exceeds that price.  A cow of the
smaller kind, fit for slaughter, will fetch from 55 s. to 3 L. 10 s.  The wages
of a man servant a-year, from 3 L. to 4 L. 10 s., exclusive of what shoes he re-


