
	               COLMONELL.                         529

Dhuisk, or, Black-water, another large stream, and crossed by
three stone and the same number of wooden bridges. The old-
est stone bridge, and at that time the only one between this dis-
trict and Galloway, was built in 1731. It fell at first, and the
contractors were assisted in the second erection by collections
made in the parish churches throughout Ayrshire and Galloway.
There are also several fresh water lochs in the parish. The larg-
est, and most beautiful and romantic, are Loch Dornal and Loch
Mabeiry. The latter discharges itself by the river Bladenoch in-
to the sea at Wigton.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Heritors.--There are twenty land-owners. The property of
the Duchess de Coigny is of the bighest valuation.
	Parochial Registers.--The register of births commences in 1759,
and there are no sessional records of older date than 1786.
	Antiquities.--There are still remaining the ruins of Knockdaw,
Carleton, Craignell, Kirkhill, Penwherry, and Knockdolian Cas-
tles. Craigneil in particular is a fine ruin. It is said to have been
built in the thirteenth century, and to have been one of the hiding-
places of King Robert the Bruce, during his wanderings in Ayrshire
and Galloway. Elevated on a rock of mountain limestone, it com-
mands a view of the whole valley of Stinchar from Penmore to
Knockdolian. It belongs to the Most Noble the Marquis of Ailsa,
and in feudal times was a prison and place of execution. Not
less, interesting are the graves of three martyrs who, in the times
of persecution, resisted unto blood. The following inscription
on the head-stone of one of them, and recorded in the Cloud of
Witnesses, may have, suggested the name of Mucklewrath, the
raving enthusiast in old Mortality.
		"I, Mathew M'Ilraith, in parish of Colmonell,
		By bloody Claverhouse I fell,
	        Who did command that I should die,
	        For owning Covenanted presbytry,
	        My blood a witness still doth stand
	        Gainst all defections in this land."
	Modern Buildings.--The mansion houses of Penmore, Dalger-
rock and Knockdolian, though built more than a hundred years
ago, are still inhabited.--Ballochmorie, the seat of W. Macadam,
Esq. grandson of the celebrated, road-improver, was built in 1833.
The grounds, surrounding it are laid out with great taste, and when
the plantations shall have grown up, the mansion itself will be
as comfortable as it is elegant. R. Waron, Esq. of Mayfield, a
spirited proprietor, is just now erecting a spacious dwelling on
	AYR.                    L l


