
334                        RENFREWSHIRE.
Broadley is treasurer, and who ' is setting a noble example on his
own farm of what skill and capital can do with industry, and per-
severance. Formerly, it was the garden of the sluggard; since -he
began his improvements, it has become a fertile field, delightful
to look on.
Py draining the waste land, where it is wet and spongy, as also
the moss and moors, and throwing broad belts of planting, as no-
ticed already, around them at the distance of fifty acres, and plant-
ing clumps upon the knolls and sides of the hills, making the sur-
face of the mosses and moors level, and then throwing on them,
after being, thoroughly dmined, from eight to nine chalders of
lime, and letting thdm rest in this state for two or three years,
and at the eiid of the third, in October or November, turning
them up with the spade, so that the frosts and r,,nows of winter
may form a soil on them, and then in spring sowing your seeds,-
a crop of oats, or potatoes, or turnip,  would amply, in two years,
repay the outlay, with profit. Where it is dry bent moor, this
is not necessary. In this case, irrigation, clumps, and belts of
planting, with six'or seven ebalders, would, after the heather has
been burnt, and the surface cleaned, and roots of heath rooted out,
be all that was necessary to secure an ample return for expenditure.
The general term of leases here is nineteen years.
9Me farm-buildings and enclosures here are generally good.
Coal Mines.Coal is found at various depths, and of very
different quality and value. In one of them there was found,
Ist, a coal of 7 inches, 7 fathoms from the surface; 2d, coal
of 12 inches, 10 fathoms farther down; 3d, coal of 6 inches,
19 fathoms fitrther down; 4th, coal of from 3 feet 8 inches, to
above 5 feet at 21 fathoms, which is the main coal. There is
.also great variety in the quality of the coal. In a coal of 21 feet
thick, the following varieties were found: 8 inches of it gas coal,
.8 inches smithy coal; and 8 inches of fine coal - the remaining 6
inches were bad, indeed.
The dips are also various. The level dip is first due E.; then
.turns to the S. E.; then takes another,turn, and dips to the N.
The dip to the S. W. gives the bestcoal, where it lies generally
in troughs; but the splint- or hard coal is that which is most
sought after by the public.
The thickness of the coal in the one pit is 4* feet, and in the
or about from 3 feet 8 inches to 5 feet. No veins, or dikes, or

