
820                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

ing and erecting an addition. The glebe, including the garden,
the site of the manse and offices, and the road by which it is ap-
proached from the public highway, is nearly ten Scotch acres in
extent, about three acres of which, of the most worthless soil, cal-
led grass land, the present incumbent reclaimed from heath and
marsh. The glebe is valued at L.10 per annum.
   The stipend is L. 150, of which, L.33, 6s. 10d. is received from
the Exchequer. The communion element money amounts to
L.8, 6s. 8d.
   Education.-There is no seminary of learning in the parish but
the parochial school, with which Mr Stevenson, the present enter-
prising schoolmaster, has conjoined an academy for the eduction of
boys of a higher class. Of these he has now about thirty,from differ-
ent parts of the kingdom, under his charge ; and, including these, he
has about 160 scholars in the course of the year. The salary amounts
to L.25, 13s. 4d. The schoolmaster also enjoys the interest of 850
merks Scots, bequeathed, many years ago, by different individuals,
for promoting education in the parish, and under the administration
of the kirk-session, who lend it at interest along with the funds
of the poor. He also participates in the Dick bequest. *
   Library.-We have for some years had a parish library, con-
sisting of works on divinity, civil and ecclesiastical history, and
travels.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of our parish
poor is 26, chiefly widows and single women. We divide among
them what is under the administration of the kirk-session, at four
terms, giving sometimes occasional aid in cases of distress. Some
of them receive nearly L.3 a-year, some L.2, others L. 1, 16s.,
and three or four L.1, 4s., each, according to their respective
needs. Our funds consist of the interest of legacies bequeathed
at different times, and by different benefactors, to the poor of the
parish, to the amount of L. 400; weekly collections at church,
which have greatly increased during the last forty years, and, at
an average, may be stated at L.25 a-year; an annual donation of
L.5 from the Earl of Kintore, who possesses about a sixteenth
part of the valued rent of the parish ; seat-rents, which bring
nearly L. 4 a-year ; and L. 20, when our turn comes, from the
charity of the late Mr Burnett of Dens, a successful merchant
in Aberdeen, who bequeathed to the Synod a sum of money

<FOOTNOTE> For a more minute account of the Kemnay Academy and its conductors, see
Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, No. 468.


