
20			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

at the head of the Solway Firth, to Glenluce, on the coast of Gal-
loway. The gross amount of Customs collected at the port of
Dumfries for the year ending 5th January 1832, was L. 5089.
	A steam-boat plies once a-week during the summer months be-
tween Dumfries and Whitehaven, in connection with one from
thence to Liverpool; by which conveyance an immense quantity of
goods and live stock, particularly sheep, are exported for the English
market.
	Socities for Encouragement of Industry.--The Dumfries and
Galloway Horticultural Society, instituted in  1812, and which
meets periodically in Dumfries, has been of great use in stirring
up to emulation, industry, and improvement, the gardeners in this
dirtricts, prizes being awarded to those who produce the best and
rarest articles.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets, &c.--Dumfries has long been celebrated for its
markets, which are held every Wednesday; when a great deal of
business is done among the cattle-dealers upon the "Sands," an
open space by the river side, set apart for the purpose; but, be-
sides these, there are four great annual fairs, viz. one at Whitsun-
day and another at Martinmas, when an immense number of black-
cattle are sold; and the other two for horses, in October and Fe-
bruary. The greatest annual cattle-market held on Dumfries
Sands, is that preceding and corresponding with Brough-hil Fair
in Cumberland, and usually takes place in the last week of Sep-
tember. On each of two occasions, during the last five years,
viz. in 1829 and 1830, there have been about 600 head of cattle
exposed,--the majority being aged, or three-year old Galloways
and Highlanders; and on each of these occasions business has
been done to an amount exceeding L. 30,000. The numbers
usually exposed for sale on that day, however, during the l`st
dozen years, amount to from 3500 to 4500 yearly; and for six
weeks abouth this period, an amount of cattle, varying from 1500
to 2000, are generally exposed in the Sands of Dumfries. Fully
one-half of these are drove or heavy cattle. But thd business
done in the public market gives but an inadequate idea of the
magnitude of the trade in general; for an immense variety of
transactions are effected by the dealers privately throughout Dum-
fries-shire and Galloway; and in a period of ten days, during the
droving season, more than 20,000  head of cattle have been known to
				3


