
                        CARNOCK.                                     711

    Means of Communication.-A penny-post, in connection with
Dunfermline, was procured for the village of Carnock in the year
1838, and has proved a great convenience to the inhabitants. It
passes daily. The Culross and Kincardine posts also pass through
Cairneyhill twice a-day. The only stage-coach is that between
Kirkcaldy and Glasgow, which passes daily through Cairneyhill.
But from Dunfermline there is communication with Edinburgh
twice a-day by coaches; and the steam-boats between Stirling
and Edinburgh are easily accessible to our population. Carriers
go twice a-week from Cairneyhill to Edinburgh, and once a-week
from the same to Auchterarder, Crieff, and Comrie.
    The length of turnpike roads in the parish is only between five
and six miles. They are kept in good repair. The statute-la-
bour roads, however, are generally very indifferent. The one es-
pecially between the villages of Carnock and Cairneyhill, and
which forms the principal parish road, was, until lately, in a
wretched state. The line is bad, and there is little prospect of
getting it altered ; so that the intercourse between these villages
is very much impeded, especially in winter.
    There are six bridges in or on the confines of the parish.
They are all small, but in good condition. The two oldest have
bad an addition made to their width, subsequent to their first
erection. Above the arch of the one of these, which is in the
village of Carnock, there are two stones with an inscription on
each. The one contains the following in raised letters; MR. T.
ROW PASTOR ANNO, D. 1638; and the other contains the words
GEORGE BRUCE OF CARNOK. But whether this date marks the
age of the oldest part of the bridge, or of a previous erection, is
somewhat uncertain.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The former parish church stood near the
village of Carnock, and was conveniently situated for upwards of
one-half of the population. It was distant from the furthest ex-
tremity of the parish a little more than two miles, and from the
nearest somewhat more than one mile. It was old, inconveniently
small, and most uncomfortable. The time of its being built is
unknown. The date 1602, with the letters G. B., appears on it ;
but it is evident that part of the building at least was much older
than that. From Row's Historie just published, it appears that it
was repaired in the year 1602, when the roof of heath was re-
placed by one of heavy gray slate. It was again repaired in the
year 1641; and in the year 1815, the gray slate roof was replaced.


