
208                       WIGTONSHIRE.

the neck or isthmus of this promontory are the traces of a double
line of fortification, extending from sea to sea. There is a small
cave, though one of no little note formerly in the parish, on the
south-east coast, between the bays of Port-ankill and East Tarbet,
called by Chalmers St Medan's Cave; together with a pool in the
adjoining rock, called the well of the Co', or the chapel well,,for
the place often goes under the name of the Chapel. From the su-
perstitibus observances connected with this spot, it seems likely
that it was the abode of some Druid or recluse, in times prior to
Christianity; and in later times, it might also have been the re-
treat of some monk, or disciple of St Medan, who would proba-
bly take advantage of its locality and reputation to serve his own
interested views. To bathe in the well, as the sun rose on the first Sun-
day of May, was considered an infallible cure for almost any disease,
but was particularly efficacious in the recovery of " back-gane
bairns." And till no very remote period, it was customary for al-
most the whole population of the parish to collect at this spot, on
the first Sabbath of May, which was called Co' Sunday, to bathe
in the well; to leave their gifts in the cave, and to spend the day
in gossiping or amusements.
	The well is a natural cylindrical hole in the solid rock, about
four feet in diameter, and six feet deep, filled with loose stones, to
about half its depth. Round its mouth are three or four small holes,
which were used for bathing the hands and eyes, while the large one
was used for the body generally. There is no spring; the well is kept
full by the surf breaking over the rock at full flood and spring-tides.
The inner apartment of the chapel or Co' is a natural cavity of the
rock. The outer is of rude mason work, with a door and window.
The walls are now greatly dilapidated, and the roof long gone.
At its best, it must have been a mortifying residence. Strangers,
on a first visit, are still reminded of the custom of leaving a pre-
sent or gift at departure. A pin, a blade of grass, or a pebble from
the beach, are now considered sufficient--though, no doubt, in the
days of our hermit, more substantial offerings were looked for and
bestowed.
	The ruins of buildings of a more recent period are of those
mentioned by Symson, namely, the old house of Logan; Castle Clan-
yard and Drumore. Among the antiquities of the parish, may be in-
cluded the church-bell, said to have been at one time the dinner-bell of
Castle Clanyard, and to have been brought, to that place from Ken-
mure. The inscription upon it is, " Nicolaius Ramsa Dominus


