
558             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

The diluvium abounds in the coal district, which is included chiefly
in the valleys of the Black Cart and Levern, with their expansions.
It is a strong heterogeneous mass, termed by the farmers till, and
is composed of particles of all the rocks found in the coalfields.
Mr Bald, we believe, was the first to remark, that "these frag-
ments of sandstone, slate, and coal, have sharp angles, and have
not in any degree suffered from attrition, though comparatively
very soft. "It is also remarkable, that it contains no traces of ani-
mal or vegetable remains. The soil approaching the alluvial and
carse clay in fertility, is that produced from the decomposition of
trap-rocks. It abounds chiefly in the parishes of Eaglesliam,
Mearns, Locbwinnoch, Innerkip, Greenock, Kilmalcolm, Hous-
ton, and Kilbarchan. This sort of soil in favourable positions pro-
duces excellent pasture, but it is in general found in a mixed state
with clay and other sorts of soil. The soil produced by the de-
composition of porphyry is also favourable for yielding good grass.
It has been cultivated with success about Hartfield near Paisley,
and at Muirshields; in the parish of Lochwinnoch. But this sort
of rock affects in general lofty situations, such as Misty Law,
Queenside, and the Hill of Stake, where it is exposed to wasting
rains and inclement skies, very unfavourable for the accumulation
of soil and growth of vegetables, so essential for the practice of
the agriculturist's art. The worst sort of soil is that situated on
the conglomerate of the coast, including more particularly the tract
of country between Innerkip and the Shaws Water reservoirs. As
these rocks, however, contain lime conolornerate, calcareous tuff,
and limestone, the task of reclaiming the soil reposing on them is
anything but hopeless. These calcareous deposits form a peculiar
feature in the character of these rocks, in which they differ widely
from those in Clydesdale. The farms in Renfrewshire are gene-
rally let on leases of nineteen years. The `verage value of land
is about L.1,5s. Some acres, however, of cultivated land, and
of land in pasture, are not worth los. per annum, and others worth
L.10 and L.II Sterling. In the lower district of the county there
are four great mosses, including about 1900 acres. Much of it
lies on good carse clay, and might be profitably removed. There
are also extensive mosses in the south-east and middle districts of
the county. A good deal of information on agricultural subjects
in general, very accurately given, will be found in the various pa-
rochial Accounts.
   Trade and Means of Communication.-In the excellent account


