
     of Kiltarlity.

ter for every scholar taught writing and arithmetick*.
There is no fund for the poor of this parish, but the week-
ly collections, the hire of a mort-cloth, the rents of a few
seats in church, and fines for immoralities; which may
amount to L. 9 or L. 10 Sterling yearly.  The number of
poor on the roll is 45.  The greater part of those on the
roll can partly provide for themselves by their own Labour;
few of them beg from door to door.  In the heights of
this parish, and that of Kilmorack, a missionary paid by the
Royal bounty officiates; he has 4 different places of preach-
ing, some of them at a considerable distance from each
other, so that this is a laborious charge+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*No Latin or Greek is taught here, the schoolmaster being incapable 
of teaching these languages, which is disadvantage to some of the inha-
bitants  As session-clerk and precentor, the schoolmaster receives L. 1,
13 s. 4 d Sterling out of the session-box, besides 1 s for every marriage,
and 6 d for every baptism.  Two young men are presently employed by
the strath-glass tenants, to teach their children to read and write.  Appli-
cation, is just now made by the Presbytery of Inverness to the Honourable
Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge etc. and requesting some
encouragement to a schoolmaster in this district.  From the great extent
of this parish, at least two Society schools would be absolutely necessary
to accommodate the inhabitants.

+Prices and Wages-The price of grain provisions is much the
same as in the neighbouring parish of Kirkhill, of which an account has
been given.  The price of grain and meal has been almost doubled within
these last 40 years.  Other articles of provision, as all flesh meat, and fish 
of every kind, have been more than doubled within the said period.
Farm servants hired by the year receive from L. 3 to L 5. 10 s.  Ster-
ing, and six bolls of meal, unless they board in the house.  Female
servants for the farm, from L. 1 to L.2 sterling   Household female
servants of the first class from L. 2 to L. 3  Labourers hired by the day
8 d. without meat, or 6 d with their meat.  Most of our labourers have
small croits in the moors, for which they pay from 5 s. to L. 1, 10 s  Ster-
ling yearly, and if sober and industrious, they may support a wife and 4
or 5 children.

     VOL. XIII.   3 U


