
                       LOCHBROOM.                         77

month of September. From that time, their appearance, though
exceedingly irregular, is anxiously looked for, till the month of Fe-
bruary.  Great is the preparation made, and much the expense incur-
red, engrossing even the little all of most of the poor families along
the coast--to meet and profit by the expected bounty. When the
herrings set fairly in, at a proper season, and when they continue
for a considerable time within the lochs and bays, the benefit is very
great. The herrings of this coast are of the very best kind--the
people are instantly afloat, with every species of seaworthy craft--
numerous crews from all parts of the east and west coasts of Scot-
land, and even from Ireland, press forward with the utmost eager-
ness to the field of slaughter--sloops, schooners, wherries, boats
of all sizes, are seen constantly flying on the wings of the wind, from
creek to creek, and from loch to loch, according as the varying re-
ports of men, or the noisy flight of birds, or tumbling and spout-
ing of whales and porpoises, attract them. Hundreds of boats are
seen to start at day-set for the watery field, they silently shoot their
nets, lie out at th6 end of their train, all night, and return in the
morning full of life and spirit, to sell or cure their cargoes. The
scene is extremely animated and interesting. And when there is
a successful fishing, it is important, in a national, as well as in an
individual point of view. For some years back, however, the take
has not been great, and much loss has been sustained.
   Of insects, the most injurious to fruit and garden vegetables, in
this parish, has been the caterpillar; and the only means which
the writer of this has found effectual in preventing their depreda-
tions, has been to pick them off the leaves as soon as they appear, by
the fingers of young people, and put them into small dishes contain-
ing a little water, to be carried away and destroyed.  And although
this method may appear, at first sight, an endless work, particular-
ly in a large establishment, it is by no means so. Let the work be
boldly and perseveringly attempted, and it will infallibly succeed.
   Of shell-fish, we have great varieties, many of which, such as
oysters, cockles, mussels, spout-fisb, &c. are most useful to many
of the poor people near the shores, who, in a great measure, sub-
sist upon them during the summer season, when meal is scarce or
exhausted. Great numbers of crabs and lobsters also are taken
among the islands, and along the coast, which are carried in smacks
to the London market.
   Botany.--This parish was once thickly covered with woods of
various descriptions of trees; chiefly Scotch fir, ash, elm, oak, birch


