
4                          FORFARSHIRE.

trap; and the sandstone often possesses such characters, as to
identify it with the different varieties of what is often called clay-
stone. The porphyry is most fully displayed on the precipice
which forms the bank of the river, about two miles west from the
town. Its colour is brownish-red, and the porphyritic structure is
indicated by crystalliform spots, differing from the basis rather in
the paleness of their tint than in their composition. It is traversed
by veins, consisting usually of jasper, heavy spar, and sparry iron ore,
with occasionally acicular crystals of manganese. Its junctions with
the sandstone (which usually overlies it, but at other times dips be-
neath it,) are extremely interesting. In some places the transi-
tion is violent and abrupt, and accompanied by dislocations; at
other places the porphyry gradually passes into the sandstone, and
large masses occur of a structure every way intermediate. The
physical characters of the two rocks are, indeed, often very similar,
both being usually of a brick colour, both at some places displaying
a stratified structure, and at other places both seeming to want it.
The sandstone also is occasionally traversed by veins similar to
those which have been already described as traversing the porphyry.
Upon the whole, the phenomena displayed by these two rocks in the
district alluded to are very interesting. To describe them more
minutely would be incompatible with the limits of this work. But
a good idea of them may be formed, by supposing that both rocks
resulted from the same materials, those parts which contained most
alumina and alkaline matter having been roftened, and in some
places fused and thrust up among the beds of the more silicious
strata, thus giving rise to the porphyry; while the more silicious
parts, having been softened merely where most powerfully heated,
still retain more or less perfectly the characters of sandstone.
   Sandstone forms the greatest part of the substratum of the pa-
rish. In the western parts it has usually a westerly dip, and in
the eastern an easterly; but the descent of the strata is usually
more or less towards the tide. The uppermost strata are gene-
rally of a red colour. This gradually passes through a purplish
tint into grey ; having attained which, the rock is of excellent
quality for architectural purposes, and many quarries of it are
worked in different districts of the parish. Reposing on the sand-
stone are the remains of a great bed of amygdaloid, which, though
still forming some of the hills, and a great part of the coast on the
opposite side of the river, and of the uplands which bound the


