
     Statistical Account

   Soil and Surface.-In the parish of Wigton, though of
so small extent, there is a considerable diversity of soil and
surface.  The southern side, which runs along the river
Bladenoch, is interspersed with hills; which, though more
inconvenient for agriculture, are all of them arable, and
bear the same kinds of crop as the plains below them.
The land on the tops, as well as that around the bottoms,
is equal in fertility to the plains; but the sides, from which
the earth is washed down by the rains, are less fertile; and
the northern sides, from being more exposed to the cold,
are found to be worse than the southern.  The soil is here,
both on the hills and plains, a dry, light, hazle mould, ly-
ing in some places on a bed of till, and in other places on
a bed of gravel.  As it is in general thin, it is soon affect-
ed by drought, and agrees best with a showery season, e-
specially till about mid-summer; after which time, the

<FOOTNOTE>

while the running streams, which almost surround it, carry off the su-
perfluous water from the land, and the moisture from the air.
   We have here all the four seasons in vicissitude, though they are ra-
ther irregular in their course.  The spring season almost never begins till
after the vernal equinox, sometimes not till towards the middle of April;
and soon after it is set in, it is almost always checked by an easterly wind,
which rises about the end of April, and, continuing, for 10 or 12 days,
scorches the fields.  Not only during the time of this wind, but after-
wards in the month of May, and even in the beginning of June, there
are frequently frosts by night, which check vegetation.  The summer
season generally commences about the time of the solstice, and our warm-
est weather is in the months of July and August.  The heat afterwards
subsiding, during the whole of September, and the first half of October,
which forms the time of harvest here, we have the most agreeable wea-
ther in the course of the year.  Frost and snow almost never set in till
towards Christmas, or even new-year's day.  The snow, except when it
happens to be frozen, never lies long, seldom above two or three days,
frequently not longer than as many hours.  Neither does frost generally
continue long; though, in some years, for a considerable time, even for
the space of some weeks.


