
			LEGERWOOD.                        359

num, with the legal accommodation as to house and garden; and
the school-fees amount to L. 20 per annum.  The general expense
of education per month is, for English, 10d.; for writing, Is.; for
arithmetic, Is. 2d.; and for book-keeping, &c. 6s. per quarter.
   The number of scholars last year at school was 71.
   There are a number of children between six and fifteen years
of age who cannot write,-for the population being scattered, five
or six years, (according as it is winter or summer,) is the age at
which children are first sent to school; and at eight or nine years
they begin to write: but there are at present 63 between the ages
of six and fifteen in the parish who have been taught to write, or
are learning.
  There are, perhaps, some females above fifteen who cannot
write; but no individuals above that age are understood to be unable
to read. The people seem in general to be alive to the important
benefits of education, and it is an object which the kirk-session
has for a considerable time anxiously watched over and promoted.
There is a private school in the parish of Westruther; and another
at Blainslie, in the parish of Melrose,-both of which some of the
children attend, on account of their distance from the parish school.
There is also a Sabbath school, which is well attended. No other
schools are required.
   Literature.-There is a library in the parish; but the number of
books is still very limited. It was commenced some years ago as
a library for the young who were attending the parochial Sabbath
school. The plan was afterwards extended, and books suited to
grown-up persons have since been added. It increases yearly, but
at a slow rate.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at present
regularly receiving parochial aid is 12; the average sum allotted to
each per week is 2s.-children Is. The amount of money for their
relief assessed upon the land at last November was L. 25. A regu-
lar assessment for the poor appears to have obtained in this parish
so early as 1755. The church collections for the relief of the poor
may amount, together with the mortcloth money, to L.10 or L.11
annually. With this money, which is left entirely to the manage-
ment of the Session, individuals who are in want, owing to ill health
or large families, are occasionally aided: and dndeavours have
for some time been made to bear up, by seasonable relief and en-
couragement, persons who are in difficulties, so as to prevent them
from sinking upon the poors' roll, and as much as possible to mi-


