
                       DURNESS.                                  101

long narrow kilns of loose stones of 2 feet wide, and 12 or 16 feet
long; when thoroughly melted and well-wrought, it is, after cool-
ing broken up to heaps, and covered with turf till it is shipped.
   Navigation.-There are three small sloops at Rispond, of the
respective tonnage of 25, 37, and 51. These are managed by ten
men, and are principally employed in the coasting trade. One of
them goes occasionally to Hamburgh with early herrings.

		        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-Thurso is the nearest market-town,
65 miles distant. There are no villages, the population all resid-
ing in hamlets along the shores, containing from 4 to 5 to 20 fami-
lies. The means of communication have been much improved dur-
ing the last three years, by the liberality of the late Duke of Suther-
land. Formerly, the post-office was at Bonar Bridge, a distance of
62 miles, to which there was a runner sent once a-week at the
role expense of a few subscribers. There is now a post-office
twice a-week to Tongue. The days of dispatch are Monday and
Thursday; of arrival, Tuesday and Friday,-to suit the Golspie
mail, which crosses the interior to Tongue every Monday and
   Thursday. There is a weekly runner to Scowrie. There is also
a monthly carrier to Tain; but almost all imports and exports are
by sea.
   The roads are, 1st, a road from the Kyle of Durness to Cape
Wrath, execulted by the Light-house Commissioners in 1828, 11
miles in lenght; 2d, from Eriboll by Strathmore, till its junction
with the Tongue road to the south, 19 miles; 3d, the main line
leading from west to east,-34 miles round by Loch Eriboll, or,
by crossing the ferry, 24 miles. With the exception of 12 miles,
commenced ten years ago by statute-labour, these roads were com-
pleted by the late Duke of Sutherland, and have completely open-
ed up the country to new sources of industry, and the gratification
of the traveller, and the speculations of the capitalist. There is
an excellent bridge over the Dinard, and a chain-boat over the
Hope.
   The harbours are, Loch Eriboll, Rispond, and Port Our, at
the termination of the Cape Wrath road, and Smo; the last only
for boats. At Rispond, there is a basin and pier, and rings fasten-
ed to the rocks in the bay; but this is not reckoned very safe in
north-east gales and spring tides. Loch Eriboll, in the bay,
where there is a church, is reckoned a very safe anchorage. A slip
for boats has been also made at Clashearnach, three miles east of


