
                       KINGSBARNS.                     99

the centre of the vilage.  A private runner from Crail conveys
letters in the morning to St Andrews, and on his return in the
afternoon takes up letters for the south.
     Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the village,
and is conveniently placed for the population.  It was built
in 1631, and repaired, enlarged, adn commodiously fifted up
chiefly with pews for 650 sitters, at an expense of nearly L. 800,
in 1811.  The manse was built in 1765, and enlarged in 1815,
and also in 1826.  Yet with all the repairs and additions which
the heritors have kindly granted, it never can be made, from its ori-
gial defective construction, a commodious residence.*  The ground
attached to the living, beside the usual allowance of garden and
barn-yard, is, 1. the glebe, amounting to four acres Scots measure;
and 2. the foggage, equal to five and a-half acre, both of which
have been drained and enclosed by the preseent incumbent.  The
former, from its situation, close by the village, would let at L.4
per acre, and the latter, at the distance of an English mile, 
might give L.2, 10s. per acre.  The stipend, exslusive of element
money, is 14 chalders and 5 bolls, one-half meal and the otherhalf
barley; determined by a decision of the Court of Sesion in 1812.
About as much free teinds remains, and one farm, belonging to the
College of St Andrews, is unvalued.  The patronage is in posses-
sion of the noble family of Crawford.
     There is no dissenting meeting-house in the parish.  Five fa-
milies, amounting to 21 souls, are the Burgher persuation, and
attend upon a place of worship in Crail.  The heads of the fami-
ly of Cambo are Episcopalians; but their presence is very frequent
in the parish church.
     Education.-There is one parochial and one private school.  The
schoolmaster of the former has the full salary allowed by law, L.34, 4s.
5d. and a good dwelling-house.  His garden is deficient in the le-
gal amount by 350 square yards.  The average of fees for the last
seven years amount to L.45 per annum.  The branches of educa-
tion taught are, Greek, Latin, French, English grammar, geogra-
phy, writing, book-keeping, arithmetic, navigation, and land-survey-
ing.  In the private school, reading, writing, and arithmetic are
taught.  The income of the teacher is stated at L. 31.  He has

<FOOTNOTE>* The manse was, in 1835, condemmed by the heritors, taken down and rebuilt.
The garden wall and offices are all undergoing the same process this year.  The
whole, by an excamb of ground with Sir David Erksine,  is removed from its former
confined and disagreeable situation in the centre of the village, and place in juxta-
position with glebe.  By the time all is finished it will have cost fully L. 1000.



