
264                    ARGYLESHIRE.

and 600.  That of the district attached to the mission of Tar-
bert might be from 600 to 700 souls.
   The Gaelic is the language generally spoken throughout
the parish.  Most of the young people understand the English,
as greater pains are taken with them in school, and as it is now
more generally used than formerly.  Many of the youth are in
the practice of resorting to the low  country for service.  Divine
service is always conducted in English and Gaelie

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   As the soil of this parish is not very productive, and as the cli-
mate is cold and variable from its nearness to the Atlantic Ocean,
the occupiers of land find it more convenient and profitable, and
less expensive, to convert some of their inferior arable to sheep
walks, and pasture for black-cattle; and consequently the number
of person employed in agriculture is comparatively small.  The
possession are generally so small, that the tenants and their fa-
milies are able to perform all the labour requisite, without the ne-
cessity of engaging servants or labourers to assist them.  The
black-cattle are of the West Highland breed, and in the larger
stocks are of the best quality.  At the cattle shows in the district
of Argyle, prizes have been frequently awarded to proprietors and
tenants connected with this parish.  The sheep are of the black-
faced kind, which are found to suit the climate and rough pasture
of this parish, better than the Cheviot or any other breed, and the
store-masters pay particular attention to improving their stocks.
   The crops usually cultivated are, oats, bear or barley, pease,
beans, turnip, and potatoes.  Clover and rye-grass are sown with
barley and oats after potatoes.  The culture of potatoes is well
understood, and much attended to.  It was found impossible to
obtain such returns of the quantities sown or planted, as could be
of any use in a statistical point of view.  The returns are, oats, 3;
bear or barley, 6 ; potatoes, 10; in a few instances they have
been equal to 20.  A considerable quantity of this valuable root
is annually exported, from the price of which the tenants pay a
part of their rents.  In winter, there are great quantities of tangle
cast ashore all along the coast of Lochcaolisport, which is care-
fully collected for land intended for potatoes and bear.
   There are belonging to the parish between forty and fifty boat,
employed in the herring fishery on Lochfine.  Each boat is man-
ned by three of a crew, and may he worth, nets and all, about
L.60 or L.70 each.  Some of the new boats, which are partially


