
182			KINCARDINESHIRE.

emplary heretofore in the worship of God." 26th October 1712,
the following is inserted:--"The said day, accordinf to the fore-
said intimation, the liturgy of the Church of England was first used
in the public worship of God in this parochial church, in order to
the continuance thereof--for advancing of which excellent worship,
there were 200 books of common prayer given to the minister out
of the charity books, sent from England to Scotland to be distri-
buted gratis, charges of freight excepted, which 200 books were
distributed some weeks before, among such of the parishioners as
were capable of using them, as also a folio book for the minister,
and ` quarto for the clerk"--"KneeIing-boards were also placed
in the pews."
	This mode of worship appears to have been used till April in
the following year, when the hiatus in the register occurs; after
which there is no farther mention of it.
	Antiquities.--There are on the property of Auchlee, belonging
to Mr Boswell of Kingcausie, two of those circles of stones com-
monly called Druidical temples, very perfect. One of these is
composed of a double row of stones, in the centre of which a stone-
coffin was discovered many years ago, but containing neither urn
nor bones. In August 1817, an ancient stone-coffin was discover-
ed, in repairing a road on the farm of Glashfarquhar, the property
of Mr Thomson of Banchory. The spot lies about a quarter of
a mile from the sea, and on the top of a bank of gravel. The cof-
fin was composed of eight stones, two at each side, one at each
end, and two forming the cover, and contained the remains
of a human skeleton and two vases. The skeleton, although
a good deal decayed, appeared from the jaws to be that of an
adult. The larger of the vases, which was broken by the la-
bourers, must have been about 10 inches in diameter, and 5 across the
in height. The smaller is 6 1/2 inches high, and 5 across the
mouth. They appear to be made of pounded granite and mica
slate, commonly found in that vicinity, and covered with a coating
of clay, which is ornamented with small patterns executed withsome
care. The vases are as round as if turned in a lathe, and appear
to have been merely dried in the sun. At what period this depo-
sit was made, must be purely matter of conjecture.
	There are also in an elevated situation on the north side of the
river, three very large tueenli. None of these have been complete-
ly cleared out, although they have been greatly diminished in size
by the removal of stones for the purpose of inclosing.
				4


