
520                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

quartz occasionally occur in it; and not unfrequently the surface
of the uppermost stratum is found so completely imbedded with
small fragments of flint, as effectually to resist the impression of
the best tempered tool. In the north part of the parish, a large
body of limestone is exposed. "It is covered by and alternates
with sandstone. Beds of ironstone sometimes accompany the
outer strata, and bituminous shale, with small seams of coal, some-
times make their appearance either in the limestone quarries, or
near to where the secondary strata terminate on the primary rock."
Between the strata, which are from six inches to three feet thick,
range from east to west and dip to the south, there are thin seams
of clay of various colours. In the rock, there is found a variety of
petrifactions, of which the species most frequently occurring are
the milleporites and the ammonites.
	All geologists who have surveyed the district are of opinion
that abundance of coal may here be obtained, though at a very
considerable depth,--the bed of sandstone rock lying above it be-
ing extremely thick. Workable coal abounds on the opposite
side of the frith, on both sides of which the superincumbent sand-
stone belongs to the tame formation. Several attempts have here
been made to obtain this important material, but without success;
the nbvios reason of which, however, seems to be, that the depth
of bore, considering the thickness of the superincumbent rock, has
been greatly short of that which would render success at all pro-
bable. On the other side of the frith, the depth of descent be-
fore workable coal is obtained, is in some places 108 fathoms,
while here the greatest depth reached has not exceeded 150
feet.
	Almost every variety of soil is to be met vith in the parish,
and that sometimes within a small compass. The lower ground
along the banks of the river consists of alluvial depositions, and
is very rich. To the west of the river, for a short way above
its influx into the frith, the soil is clayey, having a substratum
of strongly adhesive bluish clay, and loamy with a gravelly sub-
soil. Northwards, on the same side of the river, it is mostly light
and moorish. On the east side of the river, and to the south
of the town, it is mostly loamy, with a sandy or gravelly bottom;
to the north Of the town, it is generally light, the subsoil being a
hard till ; to the north-east, east, and south-east of the town, it is
almost wholly moorish and mossy, over the greater part of which a
rough white stone prevails, a well-known indication of a naturally


