
300                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

heritors met twice a-year with the session to docquet accounts,
and to receive their report of the state of the poor; but the whole
of the active management devolved upon the session. Nor did
they discharge their duties in a perfunctory manner. Besides ex-
ercising a minute and daily care over all the paupers on the roll,
on the first Monday of every month, the minister and kirk-session
met, when all the paupers who could attend were expected to
make their appearance, and personally to receive their monthly
allowance. Those who could not appear from ill health, were
waited upon by some member of the session, and their condition
reported. Thus was the case of every individual brought monthly
under the view of the whole session. Sometimes, there was in con-
sequence an increase; sometimes, there was a diminution of their
allowance, according to circumstances. The effects of this system
of watchfulness were abundantly apparent. None were admitted
on the roll, who were not proper objects of charity. None were
continued upon it, who did not-require relief. No case was over-
looked. The poor were well attended to and contented, and the
funds by which they were supported, exclusive of the church col-
lections, amounted to a mere trifle. In looking over the books,
and taking the four years immediately previous to 1832, we find
that there were expended L.227, 5s. 6d. for the maintenance of
the poor during that time, and at this period there were upon the
roll two fatuous persons, and two fatherless children. In the course
of these four years, as appears by the books, the collections
amounted to L.119, Os. 8d. The remainder of the L.227, 5s. 6d.,
namely, L.108, 4s. 10d. was made up by what is termed voluntary
assessment. In other words, it was a subscription among the whole
landward heritors of the parish, and was paid according to their
respective valuations. This sum of L.108, 4s. 10d., be it re-
membered, was for the maintenance of the poor for four years.
The annual average was L.27, ls.2 1/2d., or about 3d. and a frac-
tion on L.2099 Scots, the nominal valuation of the parish, or
about 1 1/4d. Sterling and a fraction upon L.4925, the real rental of
the parish, being very little more than one-half per cent. thereon.
This sum of one-half per cent., then, with the collections at the
church, kept the poor of the parish. No assistance was given to
this fund by any of the Dissenting congregations, though fre-
quently applied to, and though the poor connected with the Dis-
senters were admitted to equal privileges with those of the Esta-
blishment. The kirk-session of the parish made no distinction.
                                3


