
     of Stronsay and Eday.

   The family of Tankerness, one of the most ancient among
the heritors of this district, began, about 40 years ago, to give
a lease of their lands in Eday, and pasture islands, pertinents
thereof, being the whole heritage they now possess in this
district, to tenants for the space of nineteen years; viz. to a
tenant named John Murray, and to his son James who re-
newed it for other nineteen years, which last lease being
nearly expired, he hath again renewed it for thirty years; on
the condition of paying a species of rent, which in other
counties would be deemed singular; namely, a certain quan-
tity, (30 or 35 tons) of kelp yearly.  His present landlord,
Robert Baikie of Tankerness, is a polite, well informed, hos-
pitable country gentleman, who had the honour to be return-
ed a member of the House of Commons, to represent his na-
tive county, at the last general election save one.  This ten-
ant hath built hundreds of fathoms of stone dykes for inclo-
sures; hath repaired the farm houses at a great expence
some part of which, however, hath been defrayed by his land-
lord; and he hath made improvements on this farm by rear-
ing more cattle, and of a better fort than in former years; by
introducing the Scotch or two stilted plough, in stead of

     VOL. XV. 3 F

<FOOTNOTE>

Robert Laing, another merchant in Kirkwall, did also purchase an estate,
lying partly in Strohsay and partly in Eday, about 24 years ago.
He gave some encouragement to his tenant m North Strynzie, and Stronsay,
to make improvements; this he did by engaging to pay part of the expence
of inclosing certain parcels of that farm with stone dykes.  These materials
being more valuable than turf, and the grounds thus inclosed of a superior
quality to such as were inclosed by Mr Balfour, rendered the benefit thus
arising from inclosing grass fields greater and more permanent.  This tenant,
induced, in some degree, perhaps, by the example and advice of his neighhour
the minister, began lately to inclose a few acres of laboured land, which he
intend, to prepared, without delay, for laying down with grass feeds, for hay
and pasture.


