
     Of Langton.

has been wanted for them, it must be told, to the honour
of the proprietors of Langton, that the request of the
kirk-session was never refused*.

   Antiquities.-On the farm of Raecleugh-head in the pa-
rish, there have been, in ancient times, two military sta-
tions.  The extent of both can be easily ascertained, as
the ditches are discernible at a distance to this day.  These
stations, it is thought, were occupied during the wars
carried on between the two kingdoms.  In the reign of
King William III., there was a considerable encampment
of both horse and foot on the farm of Langhope-birks.
The troops, it is said, were encamped there at the desire
of Patrick Earl of Marchmont, a nobleman who very de-
servedly possessed much of the confidence of his sovereign.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Provisions and Wages-The price of provisions in this pa-
rish, less than 40 years ago, did not amount to one half of the present
cost.  Our fresh-market is in Dunse, and, in that market, the advance
upon the different articles sold, has, within these few years, been very
great.  Beef and mutton are from 3 d. to 4 1/2 d., pork from 3 d. to 4 d.,
veal from 3 d. to 5 d. the Amsterdam weight Lamb is never below
3 d.; hens are sold at 10 d. and 1 s. each; eggs from 3 d. to 7 d. the do-
zen, according to the demand for them at for the London
market; butter from 8 d. to 10 d. the of ounces.  Hinds or
farmers men servants, with families, hired by the year, have from 16 L.
to 18 L. of gains or wages; an unmarried man servant, victualled in his
master's houses, has from 6 L. to 8 L. a mud servant for house-work has
from 3 L. to 3 L. 5 s. yearly, but when hued for out-work, such as hoe-
ing turnips and potatoes, milking ewes, etc. 4 l., and sometimes more:
labouring men have, by the day, from 1 s. to 1 s. 2 d. in summer, and
10 d. in winter: women employed by the day in hoeing turnips, hoeing
and digging potatoes, have from 6 d. to 8 d.: in harvest the men have
from 1 s. 3 d. to 1 s. 6 d.; the women from 10 d. to 1 s., with victuals.
A mason's wages are from 1 s. 6 d. to 2 s.; carpenter's from 2 s. 2 d.
to 1 s. 8 d. a-day, without victuals; a tailor's from 6 d. to 8 d., with
victuals.

</UNREADABLE>


