
                 108                 ROSS AND CROMARTY.

     parish is from an eminence in Lochalsh above Strome Ferry.
     From this eminence, looking to the north-east, you behold the
     fine expanse of LochearrOD, presenting the appearance of a fresh
     water lake about 20 miles in circumference, embosomed in hills,
     which at the head of the loch rise to a considerable height.  The
     hills surrounding the valley appear almost to meet in their bases,
     and to  ut towards the loch like so many promontories.
        The sloping ground of Strnme, extending from the ferry, pre-
     sents a series of gentle and irregular hillocks, diversified with na-
     tural birch, ash, and underwood,-while cultivated fields frequently
     relieve the eye; and behind this ridge, the mountains of Apple-
     cross tower aloft, in rugged and precipitous magnificence.
        In a calm summer evening, when hundreds of boats are seen
     Shooting their nets, and scores of vessels lying at anchor, Loch-
     carron exhibits a scene of rural felicity and of rural beauty that is
     seldom to be witnessed.
        Soil, &c.-The parish presents every variety of soil.  The pre-
     vailing winds are north-east and south-west.  The climate, in the
     opinion of the older inhabitants, has undergone a considerable
     change.  They allege that the winter has become less severe, the
     summer less mild.  The climate is so variable as to render an ac-
     curate description of it impossible.  The winter is generally mild,
     and during its continuance vegetation is seldom checked.  The
     spring is usually wet, and such as greatly retards the operations of
     the farmer., Early in this season, we have occasionally storms of
     hail, brought by a north-west wind.  In April and May, we have
     keen easterly winds, with frost at night, which proves very injuri-
     ous to such fruit trees as are then in blossom.  We have not the ge-
     nial warmth of summer until the beginning of June.  The crops
     then make rapid progress; nature is clothed in the beauty of stim-
     mer; and when free from rain the weather is most delightful.  The
     weather in harvest is very changeable, and renders the securing of
     the crop very troublesome and expensive.  Speaking in general,
     this parish, like the rest of the west coast, is very subject to rain,
     from the height of the mountains and their proximity to the At-
     lantic. The prevalent distempers are such as arise from darnp
     and sudden vicissitudes of weather; such as fevers, colds, and rheu-
     matism.  Cutaneous and scrofulous disorders are likewise common,
     occasioned, probably, bypoorfeeding and inattention to cleanliness.
     Geology and Mineralogy.-Our mountains are principally com-
     posed of gneiss, with smaller displays of quartz rock and red sand-


