
                    DUNOON AND KILMUN.                     591

an earlier period of the year than salmon. Pike occurs on the
small lake at Dunloskin, and only there in the parish. Loch Eck
abounds with the small fish commonly called the fresh water her-
ring, (the Gwyniad of Pennant, and Salmo Lavaretus of Lin-
naeus,) and by the country people the powan. Its resemblance to
the proper herring, in shape, colour, and, so far as an eye not
speciallyskilled in ichthyology can detect, in scales and fins, appears
perfect. Its size is smaller, seldom exceeding six or eight inches
in length. Its fish tastes differently also from that of the real her-
ring, and is considered rather insipid. Another small fish is also
taken on Loch Eck, though not frequently, or in any numbers,
called by the country people the Goldie, which is said to be
uncommon. It is in length not more than four or five inches,
and of a beautiful golden hue when taken out of the water, and
changes its hues of colour in interesting and beautiful variety.
When held up by the hand, it appears almost transparent, and
seems a creature of peculiarly delicate structure. No specimen
of it has happened to be seen by the writer; but it is supposed to
have become a tenant of this lake under the auspices of the eccle-
siastics, in former times holding considerable possessions at Kil-
mun and along the Eachaig. Another minute fish abounds in
Loch Eck, not exceeding in size a common minnow, called by the
country people the stickleback. Its peculiarities, as distinguishing.
it from the minnow, are long thorny prickles on both sides of the
head, and also in its dorsal fins which it has the power of raising
erect when pursued or threatened, and thus it protects itself from its
more powerful neighbours. Flounders and eels are also common
in Loch Eck; and the lamprey eel is also taken, but not frequently.,
The ordinary kinds of common trout are numerous in the minor
streams in the parish, seldom exceeding a pound in weight, and
not very commonly found at that size.*
   The salt water kinds of fish are also the common ones. Had-
dock, cod (the species of the last commonly called rock-cod,) skate,
flounder, eels, the conger eel, frequently of very large size; the
cole fish, at a certain stage of its growth popularly called seathe
along the west coast in great abundance during the summer and
autumn; whiting, sea perch, mackerel, gurnet, and sole,---are all
taken, the, last mentioned not frequently, though,they are known.

<FOOTNOTE>A considerable number of gold and silver-fishes have been within the last few
years, introduced into Loch Eck by Mr Wilsone of Benmore. The species is found
to thrive in ponds, in pleasure grounds near Dunoon. They may probably do so
in Loch Eck; and their origin there merits to be recorded.


