
			DALZIEL.                            445

upon the Clyde, lost, by the spate which occurred at that time,
between L. 400 and L. 500, in crop and manure. This serious
loss induced the proprietor to embank the river, and to alter the
course of a burn, which has succeeded in preventing the land from
being flooded. As the water, however, which covered the ground
on such occasions was not running, but back-water, owing to a turn
in the river, and the junction of the burn mentioned, doubts have been
entertained by some whether the ground be as fertile as formerly.
	The South Calder, (a name denoting wooded river,) which forms
the principal boundary of this parish to the north, takes its rise in
the parish of Shotts, is here about 60 feet broad, and from its
source to its junction with the Clyde, at the south-west corner of
the parish, may be estimated to be about 20 miles in length.
	Besides these two rivers, there is a burn of considerable size cal-
led the Dalziel burn, which takes its rise in the parish of Cambus-
nethan, runs through the glen at Dalziel House, and joins the
Clyde about two miles from its source.
	From the nature of the soil--a hard clay,--there are few springs
of water near the surface. Those which have been discovered,
have therefore been much valued, and in Popish times were ho-
noured with the name of saints, such as St Patrick's, St Margaret's,
St Catharine's, and the well of Our Lady. Some of these wells
have been seriously injured by the draining of quarries near them,
and one by a similar operation in regard to land has, to the great
grief of those in the neighbourhood, been entirely destroyed. This
well was of a mineral and supposed medicinal quality, and was con-
sidered by those who knew its value to be superior to every other,
for the infusion of tea, and was therefore called the Tea-well.
Those who had been in the practice of using it for that purpose think
they have not got that beverage in perfection since it was dried up.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--This parish lies near the centre of
the great upper coal-field of the Clyde, and, in a geological and
mineralogical point of view, presents nearly the same features as
the rest of the district. At the Roman camp, on the banks of the
Clyde, the rocks are from 12 to 20 feet high, and are composed
almost entirely of clay-slate and bituminous shale, with a sort of
shivery freestone above it, which separates readily into very thin
plates. The clay-slate is very friable, and falls down in large mas-
ses, when acted on by the alternations of frost and thaw. In the
midst of the freestone, is a regular layer of flag or pavement, two


