
                            WESTRAY.                           129

of sufficient duration to encourage the occupiers of land, or want
of capital to carry on improvements. Till of late years, no leases
were given; and now that they are, their duration, except in one
or two cases, does not exceed eight or ten years.
     The farm-houses, in general, are miserable hovels, being orgi-
nally built by the poor tenants themselves, in which you may see
cattle in one apartment, and the family or domestics in the other,
mingled without any apparent distinction. The farmer is obliged
to leave his tenement as he found it, so that in this way it is trans-
mitted from one occupier to another, with little or no improve-
ment. But, we add with pleasure, that the proprietors have
begun to act upon a more liberal system, as they are giving better
steadings and dwelling-houses to their tenants.
     Quarries.- There is, in this island and in the island of Papay,
plenty of gray and flag-stone quarries.
     Fisheries.- The fisheries prosecuted in this island are, cod, her-
ring, lobster, dog-fish, and the fry of the coal-fish. The aggre-
gate proceeds of the herring, cod, and lobster fisheries, on an ave-
rage of four or five years, may amount to, L.950 or L.1000.
     Produce.- The average gross amount of the produce of the two
islands, comprehending the different holms therewith connected,
may be fairly estimated at about L.2500.
     Manufactures.- Straw-plaiting was, for some years, among the
females in this parish, a very general manufacture; but the very
little encouragement now held out has nearly put a stop to this work.
The same thing may be said of what was the principal manufacture
and grand staple of the country at large, namely, kelp. The very
low price it now brings will scarcely remunerate the cost of making
and sending it to market. The people here, as in all the other
parishes of Orkney, still persevere in making cloth from the wool
of their sheep. What they use of it for body clothes, they com-
monly dye. But woollen cloth is chiefly made for blankets.
     Navigation.- There are seven or eight small craft belonging to
this island, each from 12 to 35 tons burden, employed in the cod-
fishing during surnmer, that is, from the beginning of May to the
end of July, or so: after which, the hands employed betake them-
selves to the herring fishery. There are about thirty large her-
ring-boats belonging to this parish.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

     The nearest market-town is Kirkwall, twenty miles distant.
       ORKNEY.                                  I


