
     of Dailly.

   Poor.-The wages of artificers and common labourers are
in ordinary cases sufficient for rearing and maintaining a fa-
mily; but do not always enable them to lay up a fund for
old age or accidental disability.  In such situations, they ei-
ther receive occasional assistance, or are inrolled on the list
of paupers, for regular supply from the charitable funds of
the parish.  Idiots and furious persons, and the children of
those who die in poverty, are also usually provided for from
the same funds.  These funds arise almost entirely from vo-
luntary contribution, and consist of weekly collections at the
church, penalties, dues on proclamation of marriages, and
the interest of about 200 L. 3 amounting, on an average of the

<FOOTNOTE>

4 d. with their victuals.  Those who were occasionally employ-
ed as masons or carpenters, in erecting the rude and inartificial
houses of the inhabitants, received 6 d. per day, with victuals.
The wages of a male farm servant were then 1 L. per annum, and
those of a female servant, 13 s. 4 d. with the perquisite of an
apron or a pair of shoes.
   At present the daily wages of a common labourer, during
eight months of the year, vary from 10 d. to 1 s. and from 8 d.
or 10 d. during the winter.  The annual income of a common
labourer, therefore, without reckoning days of sickness, etc. will
run from 12 L. 11 s. 10 d. to 14 L. 15 s. 8 d.  Masons now re-
ceive 1 s. 8 d. carpenters and joiners 1 s 6 d. per day.  Shoe-
makers axed taytors are now rarely hired by the day; the latter,
when so employed, usually receive 8 d. or 10 d. with victuals.
Male farm servants receive from 6 L. to 9 L. per annum; and fe-
male servants from 2 L. 10 s. to 4 L.  During the harvest, the
extraordinary demand for labourers usually raises their wages
very considerably.
   The rising wages of common labour and domestic service, have
of late been the subject of frequent complaint among those whose
interest is immediately affected.  As however it is one of the most
unequivocal marks, it ought, by an indifferent spectator, to be
regarded as one of the happiest effects of increasing industry
and opulence.  It must not, however, be concealed, that among
those of both sexes who are unembarrassed with the cares and ex-
pence of a family, the advanced wages of labour have had an
obvious tendency to cherish the idle vanity of dress, and some-
times even the more ruinous appetite for dissipation.


