                               KIRKCOLM.                      111

a cannon seven feet in length, with a bore of three inches diame-
ter, was discovered in the ruins; and a few years ago, a silver
plate with an inscription, a gold ring, and some coins were found.
About a mile from this castle, on a farm called Kirkbride, there
was once a church dedicated to St Bride.  Its foundations may still
be traced.  A part of the church-yard wall forms the side of a cot-
tage.  A tenant on the adjoining lands remembers, that, forty years
ago, he dug up decayed pieces of coffins, with the iron handles,
skulls, and other bones.  The site was evidently chosen from the
proximity of a well of remarkably pure water, which never fails
in the driest seasons.  There was anciently another chapel, called
Kilmoire, or the Chapel of the Virgin, about a mile and a half
from the present parish church, on the coast of Loch Ryan to-
wards the south ; it was ruinous 150 yeats ago, and nothing is now
visible but some fragments of a wall.  The site of this chapel al-
so appears to have been suggested by a spring of excellent water
near it, of old esteemed beneficial in many disorders.  Supersti-
tion attached to it the discriminating power of becoming dry, if
the patient for whom its water was sought had a mortal malady,
but of appearing in abudance if the disease was curable.  From
this chapel of Kilmorie, said to have been destroyed at the Refor-
mation, a stone was brought, which, when the late parish church
of Kirkcoln was repaired, 118 years ago, was place as a lintel
over it west door.  In 1821, when that church was pulled down,
this stone was left in the chuch-yard, and it has since been re-
moved to the garden of Mr Carrick Moore.  It is of grey whin-
stone, carved on one side with armorial bearings, in so rude and
primitive a style, that the figures can only be conjectured.  There
is the appearance of a shield, on which an animal is sculptured,
surrounded by a cornucopia.  A large cross, with some resemblance
to the Maltese cross, surmounts the shield, on the lower part of
which there appear to be two supporters, one resembling a fish, the
other a serpent.  On the other side of the stone is a figure whose
arms are extended on a cross, and beneath it another figure, with
the scarcely discenible appearance of an animal by its side.
   Modern Buildings.--The present parish church, built, not upon
the site of the late church, but within less than a quarter of a mile
from it, is a neat and commodious building, without a tower, but
ornamented with buttresses.  The only modern mansion deserving
notice is Corswall House, the residence of Dr Carrick Moore,
beautifully situated on a rising ground on the west bank of Loch


