
                         DUNFERMLINE.                           861

himself or procurator, appear before that other court, however high
even of the King's justiciar, and repledge, as it was called, or ju-
dicially demand back the delinquent to be tried before the tribunal
of his own district. As early as the reign of David, I., offenders,
within the territories of the abbey are declared to be amenable
only to the court of the Holy Trinity and the abbot of Dunferm-
line. James II., at the instance of abbot Richard Bothwell,
exempted the abbey from the obligation of appearing before
his courts in Fife and Clackmannan, by reason of the lands of
Luscreviot and Dollar, which belonged to it, and he granted a
letter, empowering the abbey to repledge any inhabitants of these
lands, detained by his courts to the court, of regality, in 1449.
This baneful privilege, it would appear, had been extended to a
particular family of the name of Makaroun or Kynmacaroun;
but, in consequence of the murmurs of the country, and for brid-
ling the multitude of transgressors pretending to be of the same
race, the King found it expedient to abolish this power possessed
by the monastery in their case. However he removed the restric-
tion in 1459.
   At the Reformation, in 1560, the peculiar power of Regality,
possessed by the monastery, did not cease. It only passed into
other hands, those of influential noblemen, who also received much
of the temporal property of the extruded monks.
   The jurisdiction in question, along with the lands of the mona-
stery, first devolved on Robert Pitcairn, archdean of St Andrews,
who held them in commendam, or trust, and who afterwards be-
came Secretary of State to James VI.
   In 1580, four years before the decease of this person, when he
had reached an advanced age, he and the convent of Dunfermline
created the office of Heritable Bailie of the Reqality, and by char-
ter, dated 15th November of that year, conferred it on David
Durie of Durie, (the nephew, it is supposed, of George, the for-
mer abbot, and who had previously exercised the office of regality
bailie under the abbot, but without any written title to it), and his:
heirs-male in fee, and in inheritance for ever.
   In 1596, David Durie, the original bailie, with consent of his
eldest son and heir-apparent, resigned his office and its emolu-
ments into the hands of Queen Anne, as lady of Dunfermline, in
favour of, and for new infeftment of the same, to be made and
granted to Alexander Seton, President of the Court of Session,
by the title of Lord Urquhart, afterwards Earl of Dunfermline.


