
214			KINCARDINESHIRE.

these continuing the sweep to the bank of the Carron, are follow-
ed on the other side of that stream by corresponding eminences in
the parish a Fetteresso, which again sweep round to te Garron,
the north headland of Stonehaven bay. In this manner, are em-
bosomed, in the two parishes, eight or nine square miles of highly
cultivated land, sloping towards the centre, and embellished with
plantations, gentlemen's seats, and cheerful villas. On a plane
nearly on a level with the sea, and intersected by the Carron and
the Cowie, stands the town of old and new Stonehaven, where
these streams unite and fall into the ocean. The scene, thus im-
perfectly described comprehends the venerable ruins of Dunnot-
tar Castle, the two parish churches with their manses, and other
picturesque objects, and forms with the wide and deeply indented
bay, of stonehaven, its bold headlands of Downie and Garron,
and its margin of pebbly beach, along which the town ranges, an
attractive and generally admired landscape. On the further side
of the hill of Toucks, lies the district of Auquhirie, sloping to-
wards the Carron, and forming with the Brae of Fetteresso, an-
other valley well cultivated and diversified with neat farms and ex-
tensive plantations. The only other topographical appearance
proper to be noticed, is a deep ravine cutting the high bank of
the Carron, close by Stonehaven. This is the outlet of a hollow
which divides the parish from south to north, correspondiog with
and forming the northern extremity of the valley of Strathmore.
	Climate.--From proximity to the coast, Dunnottar, in common
with similar localities, is exempt from very rigorous winters, but is
subject in spring to fogs and gates from the sea, which frequently
prove hurtful to vegetation. The following table, constructed
from a  register kept at Stonehaven, exhibited, for the last three
years, the number of days in each month on which the wind blew
from different quarters; the highest and lowest monthly tempera-
ture, indicated by a thermometer exposed to the north, and the
greatest monthly height and depression of the barometer, at about
25 feet above the level of the sea.


