
                         LILLIESLEAF.                        25

About forty years ago, ague was prevalent in the village,--pro-
bably owing to the effluvia of a considerable morass and pool, or
rather loch, which stood on the low-lying mossy ground to the south,
and in part also to the stagnant water that collected upon bad roads.
Upon the draining of that loch, accordingly, this distemper in a
great degree disappeared.  It may be noticed, that the morass
here alluded to was formerly the resort of sea-gulls or mews, in
such vast numbers, that they are said to have fertilized a portion of
an adjoining park still called Pick Maw Hill.  The eggs of these
fowls were then much sought after by the villagers.

                         II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  Antiquities.--This parish seems to have had its full share in the
predatory warfare of the borders, from which it is distant at the nearest
point about twelve miles.  Of this, the number of fortalices, forts, or
tower, which had been erected, bear ample evidence.  Various in-
dividuals of great age, who died within the last seventeen years,
stated that, in their recollection, fourteen of these towers or forts ex-
isted, the far greater part of which were situated in the village.
But the largest tower or fort was at the eastern extremity, and
seems to have been the strongest and the principal defence of
the place.  It was situated on the highest part of the ridge upon
which the village stands, and, from its being two stories in
height, must have commanded a very extensive view.  Its defence
would also be assisted by the large pool and morass on the south,
by the river Ale, and the steep ascent on the north,--while the lairds
of Riddell and their retainers would furnish support on the west.  Of
this largest tower, the only remains about twenty-six years ago, con-
sisted of a part of one side, which was of great thickness and
strength, and of stones, which shewed that its form had rather been
an oblong than a perfect square.  It might have easily contained
100 men within its walls.  There was also a fortalice or tower at
Chapel, about a mile eastward, which was taken down about six
years ago, situated in a convenient station for watching and ward-
ing, and furnished with loop-holes for guns, arrows, or missiles;
--which narrowed to the inside, and gradually widened outward,/F*
The other towers in the village seem to have been peels (the com-,
mon houses of the inhabitants in these times) which were towers of
a small size, the remains of two of which still exist.  This pecu-
liar construction of houses, in the form of towers, seems to have

<FOOTNOTE>*
     There is a tradition that this tower was inhabited about eighty years ago by a
Witch, at whose death there happened a dreadful storm.


