
               SADDELL AND SKIPNESS.                      441

quent on the natural pastures near the sea.  The purple loose-
strife (Lysimachia thysiflora) is common near the ditches and 
streams.  The smaller pimpernel (Anagallis tenella) spreads in
the moist sunny spots on the hill sides; and, farther back, in the
peat-bogs and tarns on the elevated moors, the resort of the wild
duck and her brood, there is the white water lily in abundance
(the Nymphoea alba.)  In different parts of the parish, there are
natural woods of oak, ash, hazel, birch, and alder.  On the estate
of Saddell, there are plantations of remarkably fine old forest trees.
There are several trees of a similar kind in the glen near Skipness
Castle.  On the estates of Auchnabreck and Torrisdale, where
planting has been extensively carried on, the growth of if has been
singularly rapid, especially among Scothc fir and larch.  Though
other species progress more slowly, they are generally in a very
healthy and promising state of vegetation.

                    II.CIVIL HISTORY.
     Eminent Men.--1.  The ancient history of this parish is involved
in much obscurity.  The first notice taken of it in history is in 1158,
when Somerled erected his standard as an independent chief, and
with a fleet of fify-three sail, wrested Kintyre and the Western
Isles from the crown of Mann.  Intoxicated by a series of great
and decisive victories, he entertained the vain project of subjecting
all Scotland to his away.  In an encounter, however, with the army
of Malcolm IV. at Renfrew, he was, along with one of his sons,
discomfited and slain.  His body was, according to the best and
most authentic traditions, conveyed to Saddell, and there buried
by Reginald his eldest son.
     In the Chronicle of Melross, to be seen in the College Library
of Glasgow, the event of his death is recorded thus: "Sumerledus
Regulus Argatheliae per duodecem annos contra Regem Scotiae
Malcomum, dominum suum natalem, impie rebellans, cum copio-
sum de Hibernia et diversis locis exercitum trahens, apud Renfrew
applicuit: tandem ultione divina cum filio suo ibidem occisus
MCLXIIII;" i.e. "Somerled, Prince of Argyle, wickedly rebel-
ling for twelve years againts Malcolm, King of scots, his rightful
lord, bringing with him a numerous army from Ireland and other
places, arrived at Renfrew, and was there at length, by Divine
vengeance, killed together with his son."  It has been maintain-
ed, that the High Steward of Scotland, who commanded the king's
army, brided one Maurice MacNiel to assasinate out hero, and
that, by this wicked and cowardly project, he had met with his
death.                        3
 



                     




