
328                          HADDINGTONSHIRE.

tensive area of ground. But it has occasionally been very lightly
esteemed, and is sadly dilapidated; though the massive remains
are very picturesque, embosomed among trees, and form a very
interesting memorial of olden times. Various relics are occa-
sionally gathered from the fallen ruins. Leaden pipes of con-
siderable extent have very recently been discovered, which served
for the conveyance from the higher ground of water to the convent,
and which are obviously of great antiquity. The Vaults, which
formed one of Grose's Views, were many years ago, entirely de-
stroyed and erased.
   Auld Kirk.-Near the harbour, on a small sandy eminence, close
to the shore, stand the remains of what is traditionally called the
Auld Kirk; but these interesting vestiges have been sadly diminish-
ed, even in very recent years. The main entrance, a strongly built
archway, is still entire, and the font is still permitted to remain in its
primeval position and perfection. The building, said by some to have
been a chapel belonging to the abbey, would seem to have been the
Auld Kirk of the parish, and evidently was surrounded by the paro-
chial burying-ground, very long disused. Year after year, in the vio-
lent north-east storms which are not unfrequent in winter and spring,
the sea makes melancholy ravages on this scene of ancient sepulture,
and continues to disturb and discover many forms which for cen-
turies have reposed there. Care is taken to have these human relics
removed oh their exposure, and re-interred in the present church-
yard. It was in a vault at the Auld Kirk, in 1788, a metallic seal
was found in a stone coffin with the legend "Sigillum Williehal
de Douglas,"-the impression it produces is very distinct; it is
round, of the size of a half-crown. It were exceedingly desirable
that means were taken to prevent the destructive encroachments of
the sea on this antique cemetery, and to prevent the remaining ruin
from further dilapidation. A large stone lies flat in the green
centre of the area which the building must have enclosed, and is
said to mark the burying-place of the Lauders of the Bass.
   Tantallan.-About three miles east from the town of North
Berwick, on a projecting precipitous eminence, of trap tufa rest-
ing on sandstone, overlooking the sea, which surrounds it on
three sides, stands the far-famed castle of Tantallan,* in naked

<FOOTNOTE>A curious etymology of this name is given traditionally, that two superintend-
ents of the building of the Castle, called Thomas and Allan, obtained permission from
its Lord, to inscribe their names architects prominently on the walls (in Latin:) the
inscription stood thus: Tam el Allan, hence the name the People gave it, Tam 't Allan.
This and other amusing traditions and representations may be found in the Notes to
Miller's "St Baldred of the Bass," a poem of considerable merit.
                                  3


