
                             SPOTT.                         229

are used, but they are wholly unknown among the peasantry in the
low part of the county. The people, as is generally observed in all
agricultural districts, are remarkable for honest industry: and
in so far as their external moral conduct is concerned, they are un-
doubtedly superior to those of the manufacturing districts. Smug-
gling has long been unknown on this coast. Poaching in game is
perhaps more or less practised.
                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of imperial acres which have been
cultivated is, as nearly as could be ascertained, 2800; the num-
ber which have never been cultivated, in the part of the parish
to the north of Dunbar common, is 980. The extent of the farm
of Bothwell, which lies to the south of Dunbar common, detached
from the rest of the parish, and of which very little is fit for cul-
tivation, the writer of this Account has been unable to ascertain.
There may be about 100 acres of wood in the parish, mostly
natural, on the steep sides of conglomerate hills; except what is
found surrounding the mansion-houses of Spott and Bowerhouses.
   Rent.-The valued rent of the parish, as stated in Sir J. Sin-
clair's Statistical Account, is L. 4355, 3s. 3d. Scotch. The mo-
dern rent is exceedingly variable. The land in the low part of the
parish lets as high as the average of good turnip land in other parts
of East Lothian. The rent is paid according to the middle fiars
prices of wheat, and varies every year. Some of the muir farms
are rated so low as 3s. 4d per acre.
   Rate of Labour.-The rate of farm-work, when paid by the week,
is from 9s. to 10s. in summer, and 8s. in winter. Married farm ser-
vants, hired by the year, receive in grain, potatoes, cow's grass, and
other perquisites, what has been computed, according to the low price
of grain for the last two years, not to exceed 8s. per week, which
is lower than the wages of an ordinary day-labourer-only it must
be taken into consideration, that the pay of the latter ceases when
be is unable to work from sickness, which is not the case with the
former. Young unmarried men, when hired as ploughmen, re-
ceive from L. 4 to L. 7, per half-year, with bed and board. Ma-
sons' and carpenters' wages are generally 3s. per day in summer,
and 2s. 3d. in winter. These rates of labour are not given as what
are peculiar to this parish, but what are common in the district.
   Live-Stock.-Grazing being practised to a considerable extent
by the principal farmers, a corresponding attention is paid to the
breeds of cattle and sheep. All the improved breeds introduced


