
                          DALMELLINGTON.                    321

last year was between L. 200 and L. 300. The deposits have stea-
dily increased from the beginning, and from the classes of persons
who, it is desirable, should take the benefit of the institution. They
are chiefly young workmen and servants.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of persons receiving
regular aid is 14. They receive on an average 5s. ld. per calen-
dar month. Several others receive occasional relief. The annual
expense amounts to about L. 70, of which about L. 30 is made up
of collections at the church doors, and the small addition of a part
of the dues of proclamation. The balance of the expenditure is
liberally supplied by Colonel Cathcart. I am sorry to have to tes-
tify the lowering of the ancidnt spirit of independence in many, with
reference to receiving parish relief. I remark it, not so much in
the poor themselves, as in their relations, who are anxious to be rid
of the burden of them, by "flinging them on the session." The
olden spirit is not, however, wholly banished; there are yet some
specimens of the honest and commendable independence of spirit,
which will rather doubly toil, if any degree of possible exertion
can eke out a scanty pittance.
	Fairs.--There were wont to be monthly cattle markets and
fairs held here, but new arrangements among the cattle-dealers
have abolished the market, and reduced the fairs to three, which
are held on Fastern's E'en, the first Friday after Whitsunday, and
Hallow E'en, all old style. The chief business transacted at them
is concerning wool, and feeing servants.
	Inns, &c.--Tbere are 8 inns and public houses in the parish,--
seven of these in the village, supported to a considerable extent by
the visitants, during the fishing-season, to Loch Doon. But even
for the accommodation of these parties, or for profit to the inn-
keepers themselves, or advantage to the community, they are too
many by a half.
	Fuel.--Fuel is in great abundance, and very cheap. Very few
peats are used. One of the coal pits at present worked is but
about a mile from the village, and there they are had for about 3s.
per ton of 20 cwt.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	Those who saw the parish, forty years ago, speak of the great
improvement in its cultivation. It was then the practice to turn
up any patch that might be conceived capable of yielding a scanty
crop for a year, without any assistance of lime or manure, and
it was left to return to its native wildness again. Draining was
                     AYR.                          X


