
     Statistical Account

   Ecclesiastical State.-This parish, as well as that of Muir-
kirk, was originally a part of the parish of Mauchline,
which must have then resembled a little county more than
a parish.  In the year 1656 the present church was built;
but in the times of persecution and distraction which suc-
ceeded, no fixed pastor was settled till after the period of the
Revolution.  At length, however, in the year 1692, a mi-
nister was ordained, a stipend and glebe provided, a manse
and offices built, and this parish completely and finally de-
tached from that of Mauchline.  The first minister who was
settled here was Mr Mungo Lindsay, who discharged the
duties of his station with exemplary diligence and fidelity,
till the time of his death, which happened in 1738.  Ha-
ving no family, he bequeathed a legacy of 200 merks to
the poor of this parish.  He was succeeded, in due course,
by Mr William Steel, whom I have already mentioned, and
who, indeed, will long deserve to be remembered by his
successors, and even by the parish at large.  For he was not
only distinguished by his abilities as a preacher, and a
speaker in church-courts, but also by his public spirit, his
zeal, activity, and taste, in promoting every kind of rural
improvement, at a time when such improvements were but
little known in this part of the country.  His character and
talents, and the active part which he had taken in the cause,
recommended him to the choice of the General Assembly,
in the year 1751, as one of their commissioners, for the pur-
pose of applying to Government for a general augmenta-
tion of the ministers stipends throughout Scotland.  This
application was, however, entirely defeated by the warm
opposition of the landed interest.  On that occasion, Mr
Steel and his fellow-commissioners are said to have commit-
ted an error, which the Church of Scotland, and even the
country in general, have reason to regret.  Though no aug-
mentation, either in money or grain, could be obtained, yet,


