
372             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

and profitably extended.  In such cases, the after rotation is similar,
for the most part, to that where the land is summer fallowed, and
it will be seen by what is stated, that the ground generally of the
district is cropped with wheat twice every six years, and hitherto,
it may be added, without any apparent diminution of its fertility.
The arable lands of this district extend to 27,786 Scotch acres,
and the gross annual value is estimated at L. 6, 6s. per acre.
   Great attention has been paid in selecting the most valuable va-
rieties of grain of all kind's for seed, experience having proved,
where attention has been paid to the subject, that varieties of the
same kind of grain will often differ in their produce, to the extent
of the full rent of the land.
   Of wheat, the staple produce of the county, both the white and
red varieties are cultivated, but the former by far the most exten-
sively.  Of these, Hunter's sort has long stood the test of public
approbation, and which, after many trials with a number of differ-
ent kinds for last thirty years, is still found the best suited for
all the various soils and situations of the county.  The woolly-ear-
ed is also avaluable sort of the white kind for some situations.  The
Taunton-dean variety promises well, but has not as yet been suffi-
ciently tested.  The blood-red is a valuable kind for very rich soft
land ; the Lammas red answers well on moderately good soils,
while the Peaston red, a variety recently introduced, is found to be
productive of grain of a very superior quality.  The woolly-eared
has a square set ear, and has short fine straw.  Hunter's Taunton-
dean and the Lammas red are open in the ear, with pretty long
straw.  The blood-red has a square set ear, with short thick straw.
The Peaston red likewise has a square set ear, but with long straw.
The character of the straw ought always to determine the situation
on which to sow the different varieties.,
   Of barley, the Chevalier variety has lately been introduced, and,
after repeated experiments made in competition for premiums offer-
ed by the county Agricultural Association, for ascertaining its true
character, as compared with the other sorts long cultivated, it is found
to be the most productive of any kind known, and has consequent-
ly nearly superseded all other varieties.  It is, however, a few days
later in ripening, at harvest. Of oats, the potato and Hopeton are
the two best early varieties, the former for soft rich land, and
the latter for soils of a harder description.  While the grey Angus
oat, as a late variety is better suited to all the different soils and


