
4                          SHETLAND.

Mr Ogilvy, Mr Greig, and Mr L. Duncan, display, on a limited
scale, such as the locality admits of, considerable taste and spirit of im-
provement. Mr Ogilvy's residence at Sound is laid out with
equal taste and convenience; and the sheltered situation of Mr
Duncan's is evinced by a small but fluorishing little plantation
before his house.
   Manufactures.-Properly speaking, there is now hardly any manu-
facture carried on in the parish. The women in this, as in other pa-
rishes, are a good deal employed in knitting stockings, mitts, and other
articles of hosiery. There was formerly a straw-plait manufactory;
but, for several years, it has been dropped.  There is an attempt
at present making by Messrs Hay and Ogilvy, to establish a her-
ring-net manufactory; and there can be no doubt of the propriety
of thus securing employment on the spot in the manufacture of
an article, the weaving of which is so simple, and so easily ac-
quired, and which is now much used in the district. The popu-
lation of Zetland are generally too much averse to turn their spare
time  to account. They fish during the season. They necessarily
apply to their small labourings and harvests; and they cut their
peats at the proper seasons; but when not so engaged, many of
them are apt to be idle, or t least to employ themselves in a
listless manner. It is said that the want of leases accounts for
this; but those who know the district are aware that there are
many who have no such excuse; and that there are few who
could not obtain leases, if they wished.
   Quarry.-In Lerwick, there is a freestone quarry wrought;
and several vessels, some of them of 200 and 300 tons burden,
have been built by Messr Hay and Ogilvy.
   Fishing.-The fishing most constantly followed in Zetland
is that of ling, which is carried on from the middle of MAy to the
beginning or middle of August. It is, however, only followed by
a very few boats from this parish. There are a number of small
sloops that pursue the cod fishing, during summer; but it is sub-
ject to great vicissitude; the fish appearing for a series of years
to leave the banks, on which, for another series of years, they are
again found. The herring fishing has, of late years, been carried on
with considerable spirit, in the manner practised on the Scoth
coast, and in larger boats than were formerly used in Zetland.
In 1834, the take in Zetland exceeded 50,000 barrels; but
since then, it has gradually declined. In 1839, 174 boats, mostly
belonging to this parish, delivered herrings in or near Lerwick,


