
     Statistical Account

had them long enough to give a decided opinion, whether or
not they will answer with our pasture.  Ewe and lamb sell
for 12 s. to 14 s., 3 years old wedders at about the same price,
and younger sheep in proportion.  The wool is, in general,
coarse, and fetches only between 7 s. and 8 s. the stone tron;
7, 8, and even 9 sleeces go to the stonetron.  What is not ma-
nufactured for the use of the inhabitants, of the wool, is sent
to Perth, Stirling, and Alloa.  Before sheep-farming was in-
troduced, about 30 years ago, we had a small species of sheep
with white or reddish faces, and fine wool; but these were
considered so much interior to the black faced kind in the
size of the carcafe (the only object attented to till of late),
that the race is either adulterated or extirpated.  Many of
the most sensible sheep farmers begin to regret this, as they
now perceive that the difference in the value of the wool, and
in the great number of the small sheep that might be kept
on the same pasture, would more than compensate for the
difference in the weight of the carcase.  Till the period above
mentioned, sheep were considered as a little value in this
country.  Farmers kept only as many as were sufficient to
clothe their families and afford them a little mutton, as there
was very little demand for either wool or mutton from other
countries.  There were besides, several circumstances in the
management of sheep that prevented their thriving.  They
were though such tender animals, that they could not be left
with safety to lie in the open air during the night in winter.
Independent of this prejudice, the number of foxes rendered
it a necessary precaution to house them at night.  The lambs
were allowed to come too early in the season before the ewes
had any new grafs.  There was indeed no winter grafs re-
served for them. From the middle of May they were milk-
ed every morning, the lambs being separated from them over-
night, till about the end of June, when the lambs were wean-


