
     Of New Machar.

   Condition of the People-The people are tolerably industrious.
And from the spirit which prevails among the residing heritors
for improving their lands, it may reasonably be expected, that
by their example, and by encouraging good tenants, they will
excite a turn for industry among their people.
   The parishioners are not much inclined to a military life.
Only 5 have enlisted in the army, during the last 9 years.-
Two have gone to a sea-saring life during the same period.
   The circumstances of the people do not admit of their being
expensive or luxurious, nor do they seem to be so inclined.-
Landed property has undergone some changes during the
present century, and has generally been sold at from 25 to 30
years purchase.-The people, though not in affluent circum-
stances, enjoy in a reasonable degree, the comforts and advan-
tages of society, and seem contented with their situation.
   It is not easy to point out the best means by which the con-
dition of the people could be ameliorated, although it is evi-
dent that many stand in need of it.-The heavy duty payable
on malt, is a great bar to their comfort, and has the unhap-
py tendency of leading many in the lower stations in life
to the use of foreign spirituous liquors, which are in ge-
neral much adulterated, and never fail to hurt both their
health and morals.-The coal tax is also felt, and complained
of by many, as a great addition to the price of that necessary
article.
   The attention which begins to be paid by gentlemen to the
improvement of their estates, their granting longer leases to
their tenants, under proper conditions and restrictions, their
emancipating them from that servitude, under which they in

     VOL. VI. 3 O

<FOOTNOTE>

Male servants in husbandry in general receive 51 per annum, including vic-
tuals and lodging,-female servants about 2l 10s of wages,-domestic servants
from 15 L to 20 sterling, and females from 4l to 5, with the accommodation a-
bove mentioned.


