
 	                   LARBERT.                         371

               	 	IV.-INDUSTRY.
  It appears that about 90 men are occupied in agriculture, and
880 as handieraftmen; but, as those are mostly in the service of
the Carron Company, some of whose workmen reside in Larbert,
while others are in Falkirk, and a few in Bothkennar, it has not
been deemed of great importance to ascertain very accurately the
number in each parish, as the whole amount of persons employed
at Carron will be given hereafter.
  Agriculture.-The parish contains about 4 1/2 square miles, or
more exactly about 3100 imperial acres, of which probably 200
are occupied by plantations, and pleasure-grounds, and roads.
The whole of the remainder is arable, and under cultivation. Of
this, nearly 350 are of carse or alluvial clay soil, and the system
of a six rotation is universally followed, viz. 1. fallow; 2. wheat;
3. beans; 4. barley; 5. hay; 6. oats. No definite rotation is
observed on the dry-field land; a large portion is in grass, and
occupied by graziers from Falkirk, or by the cattle-dealers who

but the castell had no hurt, for it was. strong ynough,and well kept...The Englysshe-
men spared nother abbeys nor minsters, but set all on fyre...Thus in lykewisa as the
Englisshemen dyde in Scotlande, so dyde the Frenchemen and Scottes in the mar-
chesse of Northumberland and Wales, (i. e. Cymberland the land of the Cymri, now
called Cumberland). So the Frenchemen and Scottes returned into Scotlande the
same waye they came, and whan they came into Scotlande they found the countrey
destroyed ; but the People of the countrey dyde sette but lytell thereby, and sayd howe
with thre or four poles shortly they would make again their houses, for they had sav-
ed moche of their cattle in the forests.
  "When the admiral and his company (he had come over to Scotland with about
"mille lances tant chevaliers qu'escuyers la fleur de cbevalerie et descuyerie,' that
is to say about 1000 cavalry,) were returned frorm England and come to Edinbor-
rowes, they had endured great Payne, and as then they coude finde nothing to bye for
their money (the, town of Edinburch had lately been burned by the English army
under Richard II.). Wyness they had but lytell and small ale or beer, and their
bredde was of barley or of otes, and their horses were deede for hunger......And
the Scottes sayd how the Frenchemen dyde them more domage than the Englisshe-
men had done; and whan it was dernaunded of them why so? they answered and
sayde howe the Frenchemen as they rode abrode, they beat down and defayled their
corne as wbete, barley, and otes (the wheat was no doubt only in a few fertile spots,
such as the carses, and some parts of East Lothian, &c.) and would not kepe the
highe wayes, but rather ryde through the corn: of which domages they sayde they
wolde have of them a trewe recompence or they departed out of Scotland, and sayde
howe they shulde nother have shyppe nor maryner to passe them over the see with-
out their leave; and dyvers other knightes and squyres complayned that their woodes
were cutte downe by the Frenchemen to make them lodgynges.......
......The Yonge Kynge Charles (i. e. Charles VI.) and the Duke of Burgoyne...The
admiral said to them how the Scottes somewhat resemble the Englysshmen, becouse
they be envious over strangers; and moreover he sayde that he had rather be Erle
of Sivoye or Erle of Arthoyse, then be king of Scottes; and sayde how he had seen
all the power of Scotland in one day togyder, as Scottes sayde themselfe, and yes
be never saw togyder past 500 speres (i. e. cavalry). and about a xxx thousand other
men of war; the which nombre agaynst Englisshe exchers, or agaynet a thousande
of other good men of armes, coude not long endure. (About seventy years before
this, however, the Scorch army had beaten Edward II. and his English archers at
Bannockburn in 1313).


