
                	PENNINGHAME.                        193

        Prison.-There is no prison in this parish, but Merely a tem-
porary lock-up-house in the village of Newtonstewart.
        Fairs.-There are four fairs held annually in Newtonstewart, in
March, June, July, and October;-for what purpose now, it is not
easy to say. There is a market every Friday, and a cattle-market
on the second Friday of every month. There is a horse-market
in February, one in June, and one in November.
        Markets.-The weekly markets are not numerously attended,
since the cattle-markets were regularly established. Much busi-
ness is done at both the cattle and the horse-markets, and it seems
to be increasing. From the situation of Newtonstewart, it is like-
ly to increase much.
        Ale-hauses.-There are 38 houses licensed to sell beer and spi-
rits in this parish, 34 in Newtonstewart; 2 in the north and 2 in
the south end of the landward part of the parish. The effects of
so many inns on the morals of the people, are certainly not bene-
ficial. It is hoped, however, indeed I have no doubt that drink-
ing spirits to excess is dilinishing in this parish and district.
        Fuel.-In the landward part of the parish, the fuel used, with very
few exceptions, is peats, of which there is abundance, and in diffe-
rent places of excellent quality. In the village, the poorer classes
use very generally peats, with small quantities of coals occasional-
ly. The higher classes use coals generally ; but in many in-
stances they prefer peats in kitchens. Coals are imported from
England, commonly from Cumberland; and sometimes they are
brought from Ayrshire and the neighbourhood of Glasgow, usually
as ballast. The Scotch coals are preferred for particular pur-
poses, as malting, &c. They are as high priced as the English
co`ls, and they burn more quickly, so that they are not consider-
ed so economical. Formerly, smiths procured coals from Ayrshire,
but now they get them sometimes from Liverpool. In Newton-
stewart, a considerable quantity of wood has been used for fuel since
saw-mills were erected in tbe neighbourhood. Peats are brought into
Newtonstewart at from 2s. to 3s. a cart-load, about or fully a yard
solid. Coals are sold at present from 14s. to 16s. per ton of twenty
hundred weight. The ton was 24 cwt. before the change of weights
and measures. Coals have been deare of late years here; the price
formerly for 24 cwt. was nearly what it is now for 20 cwt. Indeed,
the price of coals has been and is inexplicably high. Wood, as fuel,
is sold at various prices, according to the quality and circumstances:
when cut into pieces of about a foot long, from 3s. to 4s. or 4s. 6d.
	WIGTON.                         N


