
246                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

grass laid out for summer pasture lets at from L.2, 10s. to L.2
per standard acre.
   Live-Stock.-Very few sheep are kept in this parish, and they
are mostly of the black-faced kind.  A great many cattle are bred
and fed in this parish for the London market.  They are princi-
pally of the improved Aberdeenshire breed.  Their bones are
small they carry a great deal of flesh, are easily fed, and are soon
fit for the market.  The farmers, in general, depend more upon
raising grain than cattle.
   A great deal of waste land has been reclaimed of late, and much
draining has been required, which has been executed successfully,
and on good principles.
   Leases are generally for a term of nineteen years.
   The farmers' houses are now much improved, and comfortable.
   The fields in general are enclosed with dry stone dikes or sunk
fences.  All these improvements have been executed by the people
generally, and not by a few individuals. The principal, if not the
only bar to greater improvements is want of capital among the
agricultural classes.
   Fishing.-Salmon is the only kind of fishery, and it is carried
on entirely by stake-nets. The success has been so various, that
it is impossible to say how much rent is drawn annually for the six.
miles of sea coast occupied by a very great number of stake-nets;
but the rent must be very considerable.
   This parish contains about 19,000 acres, 5000 of these are not
yet cultivated; 14,000 are under cultivation, of which probably
4000, good or bad, are in grain crop; 10,000 in turoip, potatoes,
hay, pasture grass, &c.  The average produce of grain on the
good and bad soils, perhaps, may be 3 1/2 quarters per acre, or
in whole, 15,000 quarters.  But though considerable pains have
been bestowed to ascertain the quantity and value of the whole
agricultural produce of the parish, the reports given by different
persons are so various and so discordant, that it is thought best to
say nothing on the subject.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-Two turnpike roads pass through
the parish, each about six miles long.  On each, the mail is carried
daily through the parish; but there is no post-office in the parish.
Three public coaches pass and repass daily on these two roads.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated on the east
side of the parish, about one mile from the sea, and nearly in the


