
70                      CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

gone to some less cultivated district, where its favourite thistle
abounds. The glede, once an every day object, is never seen in
this part of the country, but, whether from the want of its proper
food, or from the great increase of rookeries, is uncertain.
  The roe is occasionally seen in the neighbouring plantations.
  Botany.--There are several fine thriving plantations on the
north side of Devon, on the estates of Alva, Tillicoultry, and
Harviestoun, which, being laid out with taste, are at once orna-
mental and valuable. The oak, the elm, the ash, the beech, and
the plane, the birch, the larch, and the pine are the most common.
Near Tillicoultry House, there are some stately lime trees, and se-
veral very large and aged chestnuts, which, in a good year, bear
excellent fruit. There are also very thriving plantations on the
south side of Devon on the estates of Harviestoun, Tillicoultry,
Shannock-hill and Glenfoot.
  Of cryptogamous plants, there is great variety, particularly the
Filices and Musci. The phanerogamous found in the neighbour-
ing parishes are also common here, as the Diqitalis, Viola, Glecho-
ma hederacea, Primula veris, Tussilaqo, Leontodon, Saxifraga granu-
lata, Calendula, Oxalis, Atropa Belladonna, Agrostis, Trifulium, &c.
There is a beautiful species of the Arundo on the banks of the
Devon; the Acetosa abounds in the woods, and the Serpyllum
in the hills.
                    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  About six hundred years ago, the estate of Tillicoultry was the
property of the family of Mar; and an original charter, granted by
King klexander III. of Scotland, in the fourteenth year of his
reign, was in the possession of the late Mr Erskine of Mar,-a
copy of which may be seen in the former Statistical Account of this
parish. Since the beginning of the seventeenth century, and in
less than two hundred years, it has been sold ten times, and in the
possession of eleven different families. It was in the family of
Lord Colvil of Culross from 1483 to 1634, when it was sold to
William Alexander of Menstrie, afterwards Earl of Stirling, the
distinguished poet. It was purchased by Sir Alexander Rollo of
Duncrub, in the year 1644; by Mr John Nicolson of Carnock,
Stirlingshire, in 1659; by Lord Tillicoultry, one of the Senators of
the College of Justice, and a baronet in 1701; by the Honourable
Charles Barclay Maitland, of the family of Lauderdale, in 1756;
by James, Bruce, Esq. of Kinross, in 1780; by Duncan Glassford
Esq. in 1806; by James Erskine, Esq. in 1810; by R. Downie,


