
                      MONKTON AND PRESTWICK.             171

on the north and north-cast; by Tarbolton and St Quivox on the
east; by St Quivox and Newton on the south and south-east; and
by the Frith of Clyde on the west.
	Topographical Appearances.--The parish is flat and level, rising
to a gentle elevation along the north and north-east boundary.
The length of sea coast from the parish of Newton to where Monk-
ton joins Dundonald parish is between 2 and 2 1/2 miles. The
coast is low, flat, and sandy, with very shoal water. Numerous
bluffs and low sand-hills covered with bent, lie along the shore.
	There are two inconsiderable streams in the parish, the larger
of which, the Pow-burn, rising in Craigie parish, and falling into
the sea at the boundary between Monkton and Dundonald, turns
two corn mills in its course.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--There are two seams of coal in the
southern part of Prestwick lands. The upper seam, which is
soft, and in some places foul and mixed with pyrites, has been
wrought for upwards of thirty years. It is riot now wrought, being
nearly exhausted. It was within 6 or 7 fathoms of the surface.
The under seam, at the depth of from 33 to nearly 40 fathoms,
and 4 1/2 feet thick, is a cleaner, harder, and more splinty coal, and
has been wrought for more than twenty years. It is now exhaust-
ed to the south of Kingcase dike, a dike which divides all the metals
on either side of it. This dike is of green whinstone, and crosses
the Prestwick lands in a direction from east to west, and at ebb-
tide its course can be seen running westward into the sea. It re-
appears on the opposite shore of the firth, in the Island of Arran.
In the opposite direction, eastward and inland, this dike has been
traced upwards of 40 miles. As yet no coals have been wrought
in the parish to the north of this dike. Only one stone quarry
has been opened in the parish, viz.  upon the Prestwick shore,
from which excellent freestone, both white and red, are obtained.
It is riot wrought at present. The soil of the parish is various.
Immediately along the sea-side, and over a considerable part of
Prestwick lands, it is a light sand, so light as scarcely to be adapt-
ed for tillage. Around the village of Monkton, and towards the
eastern and southern bounds of the united parish, it consists of a
fine deep loam, varying from a light and very productive sand to a
strong rich earthy clay, all capable of producing every species of
crop of the finest quality. To the north and north-east the soil is
chiefly a tenacious clay, in some places of excellent quality, and
suseptible of great improvement, in others, thin and poor, resting


