
                        STRATHDON.                     539

<TABLE>
Adoxa moschatellina	Fumairia officinalis	Prunus Padus
Arabis turrita          Galium Aparine          Pyrola media
Arenaria verna		------ boreale	      ------ minor
Asperula odorata        Gentiana acaulis        ------ secunda
Avena alpina	      ------- campestris      Ribes petraeum
Botrychium lunaria	Gymnadenia conopsea	Rubus Chammaemorus
Cardamine amara	      Habenaria albida        ----- saxatilis
--------- pratensis     --------- bifolia	      Sambucus ebulis
Carum carui	            --------- viridis       Saxifraga aizoides
Chrysanthemum Leucan- 	Listera cordata	      Scrophularia nodosa
   themum	            Lonicera Periclymenum   Solidago virgaurea
Circea alpina (rare)	Molinia coerulea ???    Statice Armeria
Coohlearia officinalis	Menyanthis trifoliata   Thalictrum alpinum
Cornus Suecica	      Meum athamanticum       Thlaspi arvense
Corylus avellana	      Orchis mascula          Trollius Europaeus
Echium vulgare		Origanum vulgare	      Turritis glabra
Epilobium angustifolium	Oxalis acetosella       Verhascum Thapsus
Festuca sylvatica	      Populus tremula         Vicia sylvatica
Fumaria capreolata	Primula veris

   Woods and Plantations.-There is no feature in which the pro-
gress of improvement in Strathdon is more distinctly indicated,
within the last half century, than in woods and plantations.  The
whole extent of ground covered with wood did not, before then,
exceed 200 or 300 acres, whereas there are now nearly 3000 acres
of thriving plantations.  Scotch fir and larch are the predominant
description of trees, and to these both soil and climate appear to
be most congenial.  Ash, plane, and gean grow also freely; and
in the more sheltered situations, the other kinds of hard-wood
thrive.  In the more recent plantations, a much greater propor-
tion of hard-wood plants have been introduced.  One proprietor,
several years ago, obtained the Highland Society's premium for
having put in the greatest number in one season.  There are no
trees of remarkable dimensions in the parish, but at the residences
of the different proprietors there are large-sized trees of plane,
ash, and elm.
   In the management of woods and plantations, the radical error
has been planting too thick, and the prevailing one is the neglect
of sufficient thinning. *  Many extensive plantations are almost im-
penetrable thickets.  The superior health and strength of the ex-
terior trees of these very plantations obviously prove how injuri-
ously this system operates.  The woods of Auchernach are under
very superior management, and although in a less favourable lo-
cality with respect to climate, the progress they make shews the
beneficial result of the proprietor's care and attention.

                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-Under this head the parish furnishes no-

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, much has been done in the way of thinning the
Plantations.


