
             548                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.


             ging.  These wanderers have been allowed to multiply over Scot-
             land without any hindrance. In England, checks have been em-
             ployed to prevent the multiplication of the poor. They have been
             encouraged and assisted to emigrate; or they have been employed
             at home on roads, railways, canals, and the plantation and enclo-
             sure of waste lands. But in Scotland, their increase has scarcely
             met with a single check. The expense of supporting them over
             the kingdom must be very great. Some years ago, it was comput-
             ed, on good data, that the expense of vagrants in this parish was
             ten times that of our own poor: and as our poor are half-support-
             ed by non-residing heritors, the expense of vagrants was probably
             twenty times the amount of what was contributed, within the pa-
             rish, for our own poor.
             	From this, it appears to what a dreadful oppression the tenantry
             of the country are subjected. The loss is very great in a pecu-
             niary point of view. But it is not merely in this light, the subject
             should be considered. We may readily conceive the disgusting
             circumstances attending the communications of the tenants with
             these paupers, and the contamination to which their families are
             exposed from such intercourse; and if the tenants are exposed to
             such oppression, the landed proprietors would do well to consider
             that their own interests must ultimately suffer. Indeed, the whole
             expense of vagrants must be considered as deductions from their
             rentals. Their tenants cannot thrive under such oppression.  And,
             moreover, should they be exposed to it, they will do less for the
             resident poor; and consequently, a greater burden will be thrown
             upon the heritors. In this count there are parishes where as-
             sessments are established, while it has been customary to demand
             no part from the tenantry, on account of their being subject to
             the heavy burden of vagrants.
             	it is to be regretted, that the very persons who chiefly suffer,
             are many of them hostile to any change. Having had vagrant
             begging always before their eyes, they look on it as a natural and
             necessary order of things. They look on vagrants as God's poor,
             for whose sustenance and support they are bound to provide; not
             considering that the proper objects of charity, that may be found
             among them, form a very small proportion of the whole,--probably
             not one-twentieth part,--and that even these proper objects have a
             right to be supported by their own parishes. At the same time,
             the suppression of this evil will occasion inconvenience and suffer-
             ing to some. But no reformation can be set about without a por-


