
 364               ARGYLESHIRE.

also considerable quantities of asb, bireb, and hazel. In other
'Places, bircb coppice aboun . ds; but this, I being reckoned of little
or.no value, has never been enclosed and protected, and conse-
quently has not attained to any size. There are also numerous
plantations throughout the parish, some of which are of older
rowth, and others more lately planted. Thev consist chiefly of
larch, silver-fir, oak, asli, and other usual kinds, all of which seem
to thrive well where they have soil of sufficient depth, without be
ing mossy or wet.
            II.-CIVIL I-TISTORY.
Land-owners.--The number of heritors or land-owners is ten.
Of these the chief are the following, viz. Archibald James La.
hnont of Lamont, patron, whose property comprehends above one-
third of the parish; Mungo Nutter Campbell of Ballimore; Mrs
Ann Campbell of Otter ; John Mllver of Ardmart)ock ; and
Alexander M,Alester of Loup.
Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are not of very
old Llate, and they were not, in former times, carefully kept.
They consist of different volumes, containing the miiiutes of ordi-
nary meetings of session, register of births and baptisms, and re-
gister of proclamations and marriages. They have been pretty
regularly kept since Jutie 1742 till the present year, with the
exception of the marriage register, wtich commences in March
1779.,
Antiquities.-On the margin of the largest of the lakes, or
lochs already mentioned in the southern division of the parish,
stand the ruins of an ancient castle, part of the walls of which is
still pretty entire.It is situated on the estate of Lamont, and
was formerly the residence of a cadet of that ancient family. It
was destroyed by order of the Marquis of Argyle, in the reign of
,Charles IT., as was also the-castle, which at that time was the seat
of the family of Lamont, on the point of Toward, opposite Rothe-
say ; because Sir James Lamont of Lamont supported the cause
of that unfortunate moncircb. The taking and destroying nf these
castles formed part of the indictment upon which the Marquis was
afterwards tried and convicted, aiappears, from the State Trials.
In this parish there are several of those  ancient duns which are
common in many parts of Argyleshire. These are composed of
a row of I arge sfenes, generally placed in a circular form on some
bill or eminence. They 4ire supposed to have been places


