
                   SELKIRKSHIRE.


      GENERAL REMARKS ON THE COUNTRY OF SELKIRK. *

   This country, the most inland of Scotland, is bounded on
the north by Peebles-shire and Mid-Lothian; on the east by
Roxburghshire; and on the south by the shires of Roxburgh and
Dunfries.  Its figure is so irregular as to contain but a small area
compared with the greatest length and breadth.  The extreme
length from the source of the Ettrick to that of the Caddon is
about 30 miles; and the extreme breadth from the Borthwick
Water to the foot of Glensax is nearly 20.
  Tapagraphical Appearance.--Viewed from a commanding height
the whole country seems crowded with hills, among which neither
a house nor any mark of human life appears.  In the lower parts
of the district, where the country is more open, and the surface un-
dulating, cultivation occupies a considerable breath, covering the
minor hills, and skirting the base of the mountains; but in the
higher parts ir confined to narrow strips along the streams, and
so deeply seated as to be invisible to the eye from any of the ad-
jacent sunmits.  The valleys are too narrow to be called dales,
and are simply named from their rivers.  That of Tweed, being
more important, has obtained the name of Tweedside; but, in the
common language of the country, as if the smaller rivers had not
a side on which a habitation might be placed, it is said of the
people, as if they lived in waters, "he lives in Caddon, he
comes from Ale, or he belongs to Ettrick, or to Yarrow." The
hills vary in elevation from a few hundred to two thousand feet.
They have an appearance of sameness in their general character,
but they have often a considerable variety; in particular those
around St Mary's Loch and the Loch of the Lowes, where they
rise in steep dark masses, especially towards the head of the glen,
having their own tops conccaled in clouds.  The country has also
some of the least agreeable scenery which the eye of man can en-
dure, that of a cold plain black heath; which lies between Borth-
wick Water and the Ettrick, and which is relieved only by small
lakes of no character, serving only to suggest the swampy nature
of their situation.
    Rivers.--The Tweed gives ten miles of its beautiful course to
adorn this country, and the Gala four miles, along the north-eastern
boundary.  The Ettrick, which joins the Tweed three miles higher

<FOOTNOTE>These remarks have been furnished by the Rev. N. Paterson, Minister of Ga-
lashiels.


