
     of Eccles.

   Agriculture and Produce.-If not prevented by rain in the
spring, oats are sown in the month of March and beginning
of April; and if the summer is favourable, they are common-
ly reaped from the end of August to the middle of September.
Barley is generally sown in April and the beginning of May,
and is reaped as soon as the oats.  Peace, cold seed, if the
weather admits, are sown in February and the beginning of
March.  When sown later, they seldom come to perfection.
Wheat (a great quantity of which is produced in the parish),
is generally sown upon fallow in the end of September.
A number of farmers sow wheat after peace; and, if the
land is clean, and the peace a good crop, it generally succeeds;
though some are of opinion, that it is a species of husbandry
not to be imitated.  Wheat is also sometimes sown in the
spring, after turnips; but the crop is seldom good, as it is
generally very late, and neither gives much wheat nor flour.
Although there are no lands in Berwickshire, that will produce
turnips of greater size and quantity, than some farms in this
parish, yet the most judicious farmers are of opinion, that
they can turn their lands to greater account.  The incon-
veniences attending turnips, on a clay soil, are the following:
1st, They cannot be taken off without injuring the land ma-
terially, as the water stands the whole winter in the tracks of
the wheels, and the ground cannot be properly prepared for
the next crop.  2dly, It is absolutely impracticable to feed

     VOL. XI. G g

<FOOTNOTE>

a-year, they cannot now be got for less than 9 L. and 10 L. per annum.  Female
servants are in the same proportion.  Formerly; they could have been got for 2 l.
a year; they have now got up to 4 L. and 5 L. The wages of men labourers at
hedge and ditch, are from 1 s. to 1 s. 3 d. a day, from the 1st of March to the
1st of November; and from 8 d. to 10 d. the rest of the year, except that, in
time of harvest, they are from 1 s. 6 d. to 2 s. a-day.  Work, however, such as
enclosing, and weeding turnip etc.  is generally done by the piece.


