
<APPENDIX>

lxiii

will employ the greatest zeal, in endeavouring to procure for you the most
satisfactory answers.

   No XII.  Extract Translation of a Letter from Professor Zimmerman
   of Brunswick, dated 17th July 1792.

   IT is with peculiar pleasure that I received your obliging letter, and the
works which accompanied it.  I shall not delay a moment to insert an
ample extract in the last number of my Geographical and Statistical Journal,
which I have published for above two years.  These sciences will gain much
by your enterprise; and I feel the greatest anxiety, to see a Work, of such
extent and utility, brought to a conclusion.

   No XIII.  Extract of a Letter from Professor Treschow, of the Uni-
   versity of Copenhagen, dated 8th August 1792.

   I AM much obliged to you for your Prospectus of the Statistical Account
of Scotland; for which the Society and I return you our thanks.  It is
worthy of being observed, that the Account of Edinburgh and its manners,
may be applied to Copenhagen; as there are, in many points, a striking
likeness between them.  Many pamphlets, Statistical and political, are in-
serted in our periodical works, some of them certainly worth your atten-
tion; but there are a great many articles that would not be interesting to
you.

   No XIV.  Extract Translation of a Letter from the Comte de Herts-
   berg, formerly minister to l'rederick the Great, dated Berlin, 19th
   August 1792.

   I RETURN you many thanks for your analysis of the Statistical Account of
Scotland; and with I could converse with you on a number of objects,
which are equally interesting to both our countries.  I entirely approve of
your very excellent idea, that of investigating the interior state of every
district, by reports from the Ministers of each parish, and I am of your opi-
nion, that, if provided with good models, no class of men could be more
proper for so important an undertaking, than the parochial Clergy, who
have usually the requisite knowledge and capacity, as well as the necessary
leisure for that purpose.  I earnestly wish, that I could imitate here, in my
dear country, your very patriotic example.


