
6			     STIRLINGSHIRE.

Solemn League and Covenant was subscribed by persons of all
ranks throughout the Lowlands of Scotland.  The measure was
opposed by Charles I., and the Covenanters had recourse to arms.
Voluntary contributions in aid of the cause were collected at the
doors of the parish churches.  The sum of L.158, 11s. 2d. Scots
was raised by this parish, and from thence numbers flocked to join
the army.  Among these were Alexander Livingstone the Laird
of Bantaskine, and Mr Thomas Spittal the minister, the former
of whom fell in battle.  In Falkirk the Covenant was subscribed
with much solemnity.  A table was placed before the pulpit on
which the deed lay, and the elders were stationed at the entrances
of the church, who ushered in the intending subscribers.*
   James, the first Earl of Callendar, was a staunch adherent of
King Charles, and became a commander in the army which march-
ed to relieve him when a prisoner in the Isle of Wight, being at-
tended by a body of his Falkirk retainers.  His army having been
discomfited, the Earl retired to Holland; but his Falkirk troop
valiantly forced their way through the victorious republicans.  On
their return home, they were summoned before the congregation,
at the instance of the kirk-session, and were publicly "admonish-
ed" for being, upon what is called "the late unlawful engadge-
ment."  The session record contains the names of seventy-seven
of the persons so dealt with.  Among these, the names of Sir
William Livingstone of Westquarter, and of other gentlemen ap-
pear.
   The plague which broke out in Scotland in 1645, raged
with great violence at Falkirk.  It was supposed to have been
introduced from Edinburgh.  Those infected were confined to
their houses by command of the kirk-session, and were not al-
lowed to have any intercourse with their neighbours.  These re-
strictions continued until the pestilence had disappeared, and their
houses, clothes, arid furniture been fumigated at the change of the
moon, by  "smeikers and cleansers," who were brought from Lin-
lithgow and Borrowstounness.  The session ordered that no per.
son without testimonials should enter the bounds of their juris-
diction from Leith or Edinburgh.  -The dead were interred in

<FOOTNOTE>On this subject there is the following entry in the records of the kirk-session.
October 31st 1643: "It is ordained that on Sunday, when the Covenant shall be
subscribed, the persons following shall attend the several parts of the kirk, viz:-
To attend the north aisle, Wastquarter and Patrick Grindlay; to attend the wast
end of the kirk, John Monteath and John Wyse; to attend the east end, Walter
Scott and Patrick Guidlat; to attend the wast loft, Alexander Watt and Hew Hall;
to attend the east loft, Robert Burn and Patrick Guidiat."


