
586                    ARGYLESHIRE.

out remarking how admirably a great extent of it is calculated for the
growing of timber, not only of the fir kind, but of oak and other kinds
of hard-wood. The extensive and beautiful plantations of Archi-
bald Douglas Esq. of Glenfinart, James Hunter Esq. of Hafton,
George R. Wilsone Esq. of Benmore, and, on a still more exten-
sive scale, those of Alexander S. Finlay Esq. of Castle Toward,
amply attest this fact, as do many individual older trees here and
there throughout the parish. An avenue of limes near the church
of Kilmun contains specimens of a very superior order; and must
be, it is supposed, upwards of 200 years old, and all of them still
showing perfect vigour and healthiness. Among the beautiful
native trees which grace the district, the holly must not be passed
without notice. Perhaps in no part of Scotland are the unpro-
tected groups of this handsome and hardy evergreen seen larger
in size, or more perfect in form, than on the farm of Orchard on
the Hafton estate in this parish,-some single specimens near the
farm-house there showing a trunk of about three and a half feet
in circumference, and a height of more than 23 feet.
   Plantations.-In the united parish, the plantations cover 2167
imperial acres. Larch and Scotch fir are in these by far the pre-
vailing kinds of timber, and all of them may be said to be in a
most thriving condition. The oldest larch is on the lands of
Glenfinart; and around the house of Glenfinart, and in the lawn,
there are oak, sycamore, and beech trees of great age and size,
which farm a fine contrast to the bold and rugged scenery around,
The most extensive of those plantations, taken separately, are
those on the estates of Castle Toward and Glenfinart. On
the estate of Castle Toward, the plantations were begun by the
late Kirkman Finlay Esq. on his purchasing those lands in the
year 1818. Down from that period till 1841, there were planted
by him nearly 5,000,000 of trees, now covering about 900 impe-
rial acres in this parish, besides about 30 acres in the parish of
Inverchaolain, into which the lands of the Castle Toward estate
extend. The planting here, though begun chiefly with larch, ex-
cept on the pleasure-grounds, where every variety of tree and
shrub suited to the climate has been introduced, was intended,
by a judicious arrangement of hard-wood intermingled, especially
oak, to be brought ultimately to contain, in most parts of the
extent, the oak and other hard-woods exclusively. This inten-
tion is in'course of being followed out, and the oak and other hard


