
			      OLD MACHAR.                  1075

parate parish about the time of the Reformation; and Newhills
about the year 1663.
	The extent of this parish is great, and its form irregular.
Its south-east corner forms the north and west boundaries of the
city of Aberdeen, or parish of St Nicholas. It extends about
three miles up the Dee, by which river it is bounded on the south,
and divided from the parish of Nigg, and county of Kincardine.
The western boundary stretches in a crooked line from the Dee
to the Don, at the distance of about two miles and a-half from the
parish church. By this line it is divided from the parishes of
Nether Banchory and Newhills. Crossing the Don, it extends a
mile and a-half farther up the river, making in all four miles from
the river's mouth. On this part the Don divides it from the pa-
rishes of Newhills and Dyce; its northern boundary passes by thd
parishes of New Machar and Belhelvie, till it joins the sea at the
Black Dog, forminr a sweep, every part of which is distant from
the parish church at least four miles. On the east, it is bounded
by the sea, from the Black Dog to Aberdeen, the extent of coast
being about five miles. Its greatest length, from north to south,
may be seven or eight miles, and its greatest breadth about four
miles.
	This parish rises in a gentle slope from the sea, and though
there is no eminence in it that deserves the name of a mountain.
its surface is beautifully diversified by rising grounds. The wind-
ings of the Dee and the Don, the manufactories, and the woods
on the banks of the latter, some detached clumps of planting on
the rising grounds, interspersed with a number of gentlemen's seats
and villas,-together with the various prospects of the sea, the
rivers, the cities of Old and New Aberdeen, and the villages of
Gilcomston and Woodside,-give a pleasant variety to the general
appearance of this parish.
	The soil is in some places naturally fertile; in others bar-
ren.

<TABLE=CIVIL HISTORY>
                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

         Land-owners.-The principal of these are,

	      City of Aberdeen.
           	Per Master of Kirk and B. Works,       L.  579 16 10 Valued rent.
		Treasurer,                                 248  2  0
		Master of Mortifications,                  200  0  0
		Union Street Trustees,                     198  9  8

 						       L. 1166  8  6


