
                       INCHINNAN.                             119

and destruction that might happen to them during the time that
the said lands might be in ward-granted and confirmed to the
said Matthew, Earl of Lennox, and his heirs male, the said castle
and fortalice of Crookisfow, &c. and the said manor and palace
of Inchinnan, with the parks and gardens thereof, the Dominical *
lands of Inchinnan, the lands of Quithill, the town of Inchinnan,
Ruschaled, Wirthland, Flurys, Gardenerland, &c. with the whole
commons, thereof, extending also to a L.20 land of old extent, &c.
to be held by the said Matthew Earl of Lennox, &c. of and under
His Majesty and his successors, Kings and Stewarts of Scotland,
in fee and heritage, in free blanch farm for ever, for payment of
a penny silver if asked, allenarly, notwithstanding that the said
Lordship of Darnley was formerly held by service of ward and
relief, &c.-Stewart's Genealogical Hist. of the Stewarts, pp. 71,
212, 213.
   Upon the death of Matthew, fourth Earl of Lennox, in 1571,
his grandson King James VI, as heir male of the Stewarts of Darn-
ley and Lennox, became entitled to the honours and estates of that
family; but unwilling that they should be absorbed in the crown,
he conferred them in the first instance upon his uncle Charles Stew-
art, and, after the death of the latter without issue, upon his grand-
uncle Robert Stewart, Bishop of Caithness.  When the latter accepted
the earldom of March, the Lennox estates and titles were granted
by the King to Esme Stewart Lord d'Aubigny (the son and heir
of John Lord d'Aubigny, the youngest brother of the King's grand-
father Matthew Earl of Lennox), and whom he farther elevated to
a dukedom in 1581.  In 1672, this line having failed in the person
of Charles sixth Duke of Lennox, also Duke of Richmond, (the
husband of the beautiful Frances Stewart of the noble house of
Blantyre) they once more reverted to the Crown; and Charles II.
was served heir at Edinburgh 1680.  The retour of the special ser
vice on that occasion specifies the lands of Inchinnan with the pa-
tronage of the parish church.  Charles immediately transferred the
Lennox estates to his natural son Charles Lennox, whom he had
previously created Duke of Lennox and Richmond; by whom they
were sold about the beginning of last century to James, Marquis
and afterwards Duke of Montrose, and who, notwithstanding the

<FOOTNOTE>That is Maines lands or lands occupied or laboured by the Lord of the manor
Vide Skene's explanation of Terroe  Dominicales, in his work "De Verborum Signif-
catione, or the exposition of the terms or difficult words conteint in the foure buikes
of Regiam Majestatem and others."-These lands now form the farm of oldmains.


