
     of Alloa.

   Custom-house, etc.-The public revenue, and matters of trade,
are managed by a custom-house, which was established here a
short time after the Union.  It was at first only a creek, be-
longing to the port of Borrowstownness.  The port of Alloa
not only comprehends the town of Alloa, but also the creeks
of Clackmannan, Kennetpans, Kincardine, Cambus and Ma-
nor, on the north side of the river; Airth, Dunmore, or
Elphinstone, and Fallin, on the south, together with the shore
of Stirling.-The ships and vessels belonging to the port, by
the returns lately made, amount to 115; their tonnage to 7,241;
for the navigation whereof 500 men are employed.  The
staple trade for these ships is coal.  The greatest number of
the vessels are employed in the coast trade.  About 50,000
tons of coal are annually sent, from the port to places within
the frith of Forth, and to parts in the east and north of Scot-
land.  The export and import trade is also considerable; it is
carried to and from the ports of Denmark, Norway, Ger-

<FOOTNOTE>

make up the deficiency, that might have happened, from the falling off of the
camblet trade.
The enlargement of the farms would probably have been given, as a principal
reason for the diminution, if the 3 enumerations had not proved, that the country
part of the parish at least was not decreased.  The largest farm was let between
the years 1784 and 1788; and the numbers in the country had increased in those
few years 22 fouls.  The diminution is principally in the town of Alloa, which
has indeed been most rapid and astonishing; and can only be accounted for, by the
failure of the great distilleries in the neigbourhood, who purchased large quan-
tities of malt made in this town; which business employed a considerable num-
ber of hands in carrying it on, who were suddenly thrown out of employment;
and much about the same time, a cotton work was set up at Down, which is not
above 10 or 12 miles to the westward of this parish; and the report, of their
giving great encouragement, to the young as well as the old, probably induced
many to emigrate from this parish, and thereby has occasioned a temporary de-
crease:  But as the collieries, and other branches of trade, are in a very flourish-
ing way, it is probable that a short time will replace the deficieny.


