
     Statistical Account

ness of the leases is particularly an obstacle to systematic
farming.  The bell rotations established here, though not
the best to be wished, are on infield, or strong land, 1st year,
oats; 2 d, bear; 3 d, oats; 4th, dunged and turnip; 5th,
bear; 6th, hay; 7th, 8th, 9th, pasture: On outfield, 1st
and 2 d, oats; 3 d, dunged and turnip, or pease; 4th, bear
or oats; 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, pasture*.
   The latest improvements in the farming line which have
taken place here, are the revival of work-oxen, two-horse
ploughs, winnowing machines in mills and barns, different
species of early oats, particularly Magbiehill oats, and
brick pavement in corn-kilns.  Four or six oxen are used
in a plough, yoked with collars.  Brick pavement for
kilns deserves the attention of every farmer.  A kiln, 9
feet in diameter, costs L. 3 Sterling, and will dry 8 or 10
bolls a-day.
   The rent of land in this parish is as follows: Infield,
from 10 s. to L. 1 per acre; outfield, from 2 s. 6 d. to 12 s.;

<FOOTNOTE>

*The following rotations, the most proper for this district, are ex-
tracted from some rules, which Mr Ferguson of Patfour has drawn up for
the information of his tenants.

   Where the land requires pasture, (which is generally the case), the ro-
tations should be,
1mo, In light land, or loam, first year, oats; second year, turnip, tho-
roughly horse and hand-hoed; third year, barley or wheat; fourth year,
clover and grass-seeds; and then pasture, as long as it is proper.
2do, In strong land, first year, oats; second year, beans, thoroughly
horse and hand-hoed; third year, barley or wheat; fourth year, clover
and grass-seeds, and then pastures as long as it is proper.

   In land which is in such order as not to require pasture, (which is not
a common case), the rotations should be,
1mo, In light land or loam, first year, oats or wheat; second year, tur-
nip; third year, barley; fourth year, clover.
2do, In clay or strong land, first year, wheat; second year, beans
third year, oats or barley; fourth year, clover.


