
                116                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                including the broad bay to the top of Mournack hill, is 10 miles;
                giving at least 160 square miles of land and water.
                   Boundaries.-It is bounded by the parish of Barvas and the dis-
                trict of Ness, on the north; on the east and north-east, by the chan-
                nel between Lewis and the mainland called the Minch; and by
                the parishes of Lochs and Uig, on the south and west.
                   The figure of the parish is irregular; it has some similarity to
                an inverted Italian h, the straight line extending from the Creid
                to Tolsta, the bent limb from Tuimpan-head round Chicken-head
                to the castle.
                   There is only one hill of any note in this parish; its name is
                Mournack, or Mounac. It lies between Barvas and Stornoway.
                Though the coast is bold and rocky in some parts, in general there is
                a gentle acclivity; the ascent is rarely abrupt. This hill is the first
                land visible to those who cross the Minch to Stornoway from the
                mainland; its elevation above the level of the sea does not exceed
                700 feet; it is of a spheroidal shape; its range is north-east and
                south-west.
                   Caves, &c.-There are several caves and fissures on the coast;
                but three are particularly worthy of notice. One at Garra-gbu-
                ism on the farm of Coll, has two chambers with vaulted roofs, and
                a finely sanded floor. The sides of the chambers are beautifully and
                closely studded with small mussels, which reflect a variety of co-
                lours, in a clear day, to the eye of the observer. The entrance is 8
                feet high, by 14 feet broad or wide; depth and length within, 15
                by 30 feet; it is accessible only at spring tides.
                   There are two caves about the distance of an English mile from
                Gress House, both of which are spacious; but the Seal cave is the
                most remarkable in the island, It is about a furlong in length from
                the entrance to high water-mark in the interior. Its height and
                breadth are variable. The cave at the mouth, is about ten feet wide:
                it gradually decreases to four feet in breadth; and after this, it wid-
                ens and terminates in a spacious semicircle, irregularly arched, and
                containing a deep bason of water. Here, the roof is very lofty, and
                resplendent when viewed by torch-light.  Beyond the margin of the
                basin, is a sandy and gravelly beach, very pleasant and acceptable
                after such a dark navigation. There is a small apartment in the
                interior, which by torch-light produces a fine effect; the pearly ici-
                cles of satalactite suspended from the roof, reflect the light as from so
                many diamonds. The sides and roof of the cave are lined with this
                concreted matter. The natives, and strangers who have visited


