
                       PARISH OF STRATHDON.

            PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

            THE REV. ROBERT MEIKLEJOHN, MINISTER.

            I.-TOPOGGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE, original name of this parish was
Invernochty, so called from the church being situated at one pe-
riod, it is said, at the confluence of the Nochty and the Don.
The etymology of the modern name is sufficiently obvious, and
descriptive of the locality of the parish, which lies chiefly in an ex-
tended strath stretching from the source of the Don down its
course, from west to east, to the influx of the Kindy with that river.
   Strathdon is the most, westerly parish in the synod and county
of Aberdeen, and conterminous on the west with Kirkmichael, and
the district of that parish now allotted to the Government church
at Tomantoul; on the south, with Glenmuick and Coldstone;
on the east, with Migvie now annexed to Tarland, and Towie;
and on the north, with Glenbucket, Cabrach, and Inveraven.  It
is about 23 miles in length, and from 3 to 8 in breadth.
   The parish is extremely irregular in its figure, both from the
mountainous nature of the country, and from being intersected by
other parishes.  A portion of Tarland parish, 4 miles long and 2
broad, containing a population of 231, is situated in the very centre
of it.  At the junction of the Bucket with the Don, Glenbucket in-
tersects Strathdon for about three-quarters of a mile; and where
the Deskry falls into the Don, Migvie juts in, scarcely three miles
from the church.
   Topographical Appearances.-The appearance of the surface of
this parish is singularly diversified, and, at many points, of great
beauty-now presenting all the luxuriance of a fertile strath, and
again, all the wild and rugged scenery of the Highlands.  One fea,-
ture of beauty is the river Don winding prettily through the main
strath.  Along its banks, there is a considerable extent of arable
land, including some fine haugbs subdivided into well cultivated.
fields; while, in the lower half at least of the parish, the sides of


