
		    YESTER.			     159

The Rev. John Witherspoon, D.D., LL.D., President of the
College of New Jersey, in America, was born in the manse of Yes-
ter on the 5th of February 1723. *  The following notice, though
rather lengthened, of this distinguished man, it is hoped, may
not be unacceptable.  He was lineally descended from John Knox,
and was connected with a family of property in the east of Scot-
land.  His father, who was ordained minister of Yester in March
1720, was eminent for his piety, learning, and fidelity as a mi-
nister of the gospel.  Young Witherspoon was sent at a very early
age to the public school at Haddington, where he distinguished
himself by his assiduity and proficiency.  He was sent, at the age
of fourteen, to the University of Edinburgh, where he attracted the
particular notice of the professors by his talents and acquirements.
At the age of twenty-one he was licensed to preach the gospel;
and soon after he was invited to become assistant and successor to
his father in the parish of Yester;-but he chose rather to accept
a call from the parish of Beith, where he was ordained with the
universal consent of the people.  A short time afterwards, he
was called to Paisley, where he laboured in the work of the Lord
with universal acceptance and great success.  During his resi-
dence in Paisley be was invited to remove to Dublin, to Rotter-
dam, and Dundee; but be refused. He was also requested by the
Trustees of the College of New Jersey to accept the office of Pre-
sident.  He at first declined the offer; but on a second applica-
tion he complied with it.  The finances of the college (which was
founded and chiefly supported by private liberality,) were in a low
and declining condition when Dr Witherspoon arrived in Ame-
rica; but by his talents, reputation, and exertions, the college was
soon raised to a state of great prosperity.  Formerly the acade-
mical course had been too superficial, and too much tinctured with
the dry and unedifying forms of the schoolmen; but Dr Wither-
spoon introduced all the modern improvements of Europe, and in-
corporated with the course of instruction a sound and rational me-
taphysics, equally removed from the doctrines of fatality and con-

<FOOTNOTE>Knox was born near Haddington, is called by M'Crie in the first edition of his
work, "another of the same kidney" with Hamilton, and therefore entitled to no cre-
dit.  Few persons, therefore, will be disposed to differ from the late distinguished
biographer of Knox, when he says, -1 I am inclined to prefer the opinion of the
oldest and most credible writers, that he was born in the village of Gifford."-
M'Crie's Life of John Knox, 5th edition, Vol. i. pp. 1, 2.  For a more full exami-
nation of this point see the Appendix to the volume, Note A.
          It is stated in the accounts of his life that be was born February 5, 1722; but
on examining the parish register, I find that he was baptized on the 10th of Fe-
bruary 1723.  It is not likely that a year would elapse between his birth and baptism.


