
                DALKEITH.                483

The following is the graphic statement of Sir James Balfour:--
"On Saterday the 22d of Marche, 1639, some of the chieffe Cove-
danters, viz. the Earles of Rothes, Home, Louthean, with the Lordes
Zester, St Claire, and Balmerinoche, went to Dalkeithe, and with
them a 1000 commandit musquesteires.  They no souner present-
ed themselve before the housse, bot the Lord Thesaurer Traquair,
keiper thereof, furthwith delivered it to them.  They searched all
the roumes for armes, and at last found in a seller, dowcat, and a
draw-well, and in some other obscure places, 45 barrelles of powder,
24 barrels of small shote, 6 carte load of musquetts, and 2 of pickes,
wich they brought to Edinbrughe Catle, one Monday the 24 of
this same mounthe; lykways from Dalkeithe they brought the royall
enseinges of the kingdome, croune, suord, and sceptre, and that
with great solemnity and pompe, and put them upe in Edinburghe
Castle one Saterday at night, that same day." *\f  It is to this latter
circumstance that Nicoll refers in his Diary, when he says, that
"thrie staris fell doun above the thrie honoris of the kingdome,
as thai war in the waye transporting fra dalkeithe to Edinburghe,
prognosticating the falling of the monarchicall government from
the Royall family for a tyme."  + Its is also recorded by the same
writer; "that a great flasche of light fell frem the hevjns upon
the 18th day of December 1639, betwixt sevin and aucht at nycht,
at the Erle of Traquhair's incumming to Dalkeithe from Lundoun
with the King's commissioun."
     On the death of Archibald, fifth Earl of Morton. without issue,
the estates and honours of that earldom now develved on Sir wil-
liam Dougals of Lochleven, who was desceuded from Sir John Dou-
glas of Dalkeith, second son of Sir James Douglas of Lothian, and
who thus became sixth Earl of Morton.  It was to this Sir William
Douglas that the Custody of Queen Mary was entrusted in Loch-
leven Castle in 1566.  His eldest son, Robert, Having perished at
sea on a voyage to the Netherlands, he was succeeded by his
grandson, williams, in 1606.
     William, seventh Earl of Morton, was born in 1582.  Being but
an infant of two years old at the time of his father's death, his
education was conducted under the care of his grandfather, and
no expense was apared in obtaining for him the best that could be
procured at home or abroad.  He was a person of great abilities,
andf being possessed of an ample fortune, and highly accomplish-

     <FOOTNOTE> Balfour's Annals, pp.321-2.
Nicoll's Diary, page 78.  Bannat. Club, Edin. 1836.      Ibid.



