
              802                          PERTHSHIRE.

              The church of Potty continued an appendage to Dunbarny till
              1652, when, from the distance of its locality from the Dunbarny
              kirk, it was annexed to Dron quoad spiritualia; but, for long
              after this date, it was connected with this parish quoad civilia. In
              the valuations of the county of Perth, taken in 1649 and 1667,
              part of Balmanno estate, Kirkpotta, Meikle Fielde, and Cloch-
              ridgestone, are marked as constituent parts of Dunbarny, though
              they now belong to Dron.
                 It appears, that, in 1645, shortly before the battle of Kilsyth,
              the camp of the Covenanters was pitched at Kilgraston, in thir
              parish. (Vide Wishart's Memoirs of Montrose).
                 Eminent Men.-Robert Craigie of Gletidoic, Lord President
              of the Court of Session. He was son of Laurence Craigie of
              Kilgraston, born in the year 1685, and admitted advocate 3d Ja-
              nuary 1710. " He was appointed Lord Advocate, in the room
              of Charles Erskine of Tinwald, 4th March 1742; and, on the
              death of Robert Dundas of Arniston, was promoted to be Presi-
              dent of the Court of Session, and took his seat on the 2d of Fe-
              bruary 1754. He was named by patent, 18th June 1755, one of
              the Commissioners for improving the fisheries and manufactures
              of Scotland. Of this judge Lord Woodhouselee observes, " He
              united, to a very profound knowledge of the laws, and an under-
              standing peculiarly turned to the unfolding of the systematic in-
              tricacies of the fetidal doctrines, the most persevering industry,
              which, introducing him to notice in some remarkable cases where
              those talents are peculiarly requisite, were the foundation of a very
              extensive practice at the bar. His rise to eminence, however, was
              slow, as he had none of the exterior accomplirhments that attract
              attention; and, though an acute and able reasoner, his manner of
              leading was dry, prolix, and deficient both in grace and energy.
              In the earlier part of his life, he had, for several years, given private
              lectures in his chambers to students of the law, before he had any
              considerable business as a barrister; but his industry, and the gra-
              dually prevailing opinion of his deep acquaintance with jurispru-
              dence, overcame at length every obstacle, and he rose to the first
              rank among the counsel who were his contemporaries. His Lord-
              ship died l0th March 1760. *
                 Lord Craigie, one of the Senators of the College of Justice,

              <FOOTNOTE>See an Historical Account of the Senators of the College of Justice, from its in-
              stitution, in 1532 by George Brunton, Solicitor, Edinburgh, and David Haig. As-
              sistant- Librarian to the Faculty of Advocates.
                                          4


