
                       RICCARTON.                           615

longing to Dundonald. Afterwards, it was given to the convent of
Dalmulin, on the bank of the Ayr; but upon the demolition of
that religious house, it was tranasferred to the monks of Paisley,
in whose hands it remained till the Reformation while the duties
of it were performed by a curate or chaplain, appointed by that
monastery. After the Reformation, it was united to the parish of
Craigie, and continued so till its final disjunction in 1648. In
1621, the whole tithes belonged to the Earl of Abercorn. The
patronage, too, was in his hands; but soon afterwards it was con-
ferred upon the family of Caprington, who have continued to ex-
ercise it eversince. It is one of the best endowed parishes in the
county. The present incumbent is the sixth minister since the
Revolution.
	Church.--The present church was built in 1823, but not on
the site of the former one, which was in the burying-ground. It
is erected on a mound in the middle of the village, partly natu-
ral and partly artificial, and which was formerly called "Seat
of Judgment," having been, it is supposed one of those court
hills where justice was administered and executed in ancient
times. It is a plain square building, of no particular style of ar-
chitecture, but very substantial and commodious, and alike com-
fortable both for speaker and bearer. It is ornamented with a
handsome spire and clock, and, as it stands on a considerable emi-
nence, it forms a conspicuous object in the landscape. It cost, in-
cluding every expense, about L.4000. It might contain, allowing
eighteen inches for each, 1192 sittings; but by the sheriff's de-
creet, it is allocated for little more than 1000. The rest includes
table-seats, &c. which are all free sittings. The situation of the
church is rather awkward, being nearly six miles from the one end
of the parish, and two from the other; but still it is not incove-
niently for the great bulk of the inhabitants; the greater propor-
tion of them being Within a mile and a half distant, and nearly the
one-half being closely adjacent to it. The system of seat-letting
is not common,--such seats as are let, except a few, being let at
only a nominal price.
	Manse.--The manse and office-houses were built between
forty and fifty years ago. Upon the entrance of the present in-
cumbent, in 1837, they underwent some repairs, which have ren-
dered them very comfortable. The glebe, including garden,
stance of house, &c. is about 8 acres in extent. Naturally, the soil
is good, but, being in bad condition, it would not rent at present


