
144    			    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

away, and the proprietors in the upper parts of the river have more
interest in discouraging it, we are afraid that poaching will continue.
Our chief annoyance in this way, however, has been from large
bands from the borders of England traversing the hills, making
great havoc among the game, and threatening violence to any who
dares to oppose them.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The whole extent of the pa-
rish is about 12,000 imperial acres; of these there may be in ro-
tation of grain and green crops, and sown down grass, or occasion-
ally cultivated, nearly 3000 acres. The remaining 9000 are na-
tural pasture, consisting partly of green grassy ground, and partly
of heath and moss. Before the middle of the last century, the
upper or higher situated farms were much more subdivided, and
the cultivatinn extended much farther. It was at that period laid
more into extensive sheep-farms; large tracts formerly bearing corn
became covered with heath and coarse herbage.
	Within the last fifteen years the farmers have begun to find it
very profitable to break up these neglected grounds, which pro-
duce luxuriant crops of grain, and when laid down to grass, are
tripled in value for the pasture of sheep. There seems no doubt
that this sort of cultivation will yet be carried to a much greater
extent, probably till 1200 or 1500 acres more have been gone over.
The obstacle to this beneficial improvement is the distance from
lime, which is from eighteen to twenty miles; but this is counter-
balanced by the deep and dry quality of the soil, free of stones, and
capable of producing green crops as well as oats in great abundance.
	The capital, spirit, and intelligence which are nnw possessed by
the holders of these farms, at least in this parish, will, as observed,
soon render the land quite productive. Already, there are to be
seen fine fields of oats and turnips enclosed among the sheep-walks,
800 feet above sea level.
	There are about 250 imperial acres of planted wood, of which
about 100 are Scots fir of sixty years' growth, planted by the Earl
of Hopetoun when proprietor of the Wamphray estate. It is good
for its age, and much used in farm-buildings, but having little red
or heart-wood, cannot endure long. Within the last ten years the
red-wood, has increased considerably. There are adjoining the
ruins of the old mansion of Wamphray a number of Scots firs of
good size, generally four or five feet in circumference. These are


