
294                          FIFESHIRE.

that they were at all times ready to second his wishes. Whether
an old license was to be wittidrawti, or a new one to be withheld,
they at once gave effect to his request; and he doubts not that, in
other places, those who have an interest in putting down stich houses,
will find them equally, willing to forward their desires by their au.,
thority and power. Nor is there any thing that would tend more
to the improvement of the manners and morals of the people-
drinking being the cause of by far the greater part of the mischief
which we have to witness and lament. 
 Fuel.-Coals is the only fuel used in the neighbourhood. The
whole district abounds in this valuable mineral; and it is wrnught
at the distance of half a mile from the village. By this means,
there being little carriage, the expense is reasonable. There is,
moreover, a good deal imported in winter both from Newcastle and
from Bridgeness, near Grangemouth. The price of the former is
commonly about 15s. per ton; that of the latter, 13s. This year
both will be considerably higher. Towards the new year, from
sixty to eighty cart loads are distributed among the poor,-manv
families getting them, which are not on the roll and that receive
nothing from the session funds in the course of the year. By this
means, when the season is mild, as it has generally been of late,
the people are well off, and pass the winter evenings at a blazidg
fireside.

          MISCELLANEOUS OIBSERVATIONS.
All accounts agree in stating that a great improvement has taken
place in the parish, since the period of the last Statistical Account.
By the new system of agriculture, and especially by the liberal
employment of draining, the land has been brought into the highest
state of cultivation; and groutids which, forty years ago, would have
been thought good for nothing, are i3ow seen wavitig with the
richest harvests. The houses of the cottars, we believe, are equal
to what those of the farmers were then; and the mansions of the
latter surpass, both in appearance and comfort, such as the smaller
proprietors forlerly possessed. So much has already been done
for the progress of agriculture, That little further remains to be ac-
complisbed. The, comfort and happiness of the labouring classes
might no doubt be promoted by a better education than, they used
to remive, by parents accustoming their children, from infancy, to
habits of industry, and by abstinence from the use of ardent spirits
There is, however, an evident improvement going on both in their
religious,feelings, and in their moral conduct.
  December 1836

