
                          LOCHWINNOCH.                       109

interference. This society is large, and very rich, but in conse-
quence of some legislative regulations, the members threaten to
dissolve it. One would think that "the power that be" have
enough to do, though they do not interfere with those wbo are
managing their own affairs peaceably and prosperously. There
were once eight Friendly Societies in the village of Lochwinnoch,
but at least three have become extinct. There is also a Female
Provident Society, formed upon the same principles. There is a
Female Benevolent Society, supported and conducted by the ladies
of the parish, which contributes essentially to the comfort of the
poor. The village is divided into districts, and visitors are appoint-
ed for each. The ladies visit all the poor in their respective dis-
tricts, and after careful investigation, distribute clothing, fuel, &c.,
according to exigencies,-so that no person can remain in a state
of wretchedness and want.
   Poor and Parochial Funds, &c.-The average number ofpersons
on the poors' roll for the last seven years has been 50 2/7. A pauper
receives from 9d. to 5s. a week. Besides regular paupers, how-
ever, there are a great many who receive donations and occasional
assistance in various ways. A large sum is expended in this way
because it keeps persons for sometime from becoming regular pau-
pers, and is intended to encourage a spirit of independence, which
is fast giving way in this part of the country. In order to form
some idea of this matter, it may be stated, that in the course of
the year 1832, the sum expended in the regular allowances to
those on the poors' roll was L. 203; and the occasional donations
amounted to L. 135, 6s. 2d. It is but fair to remark, however,
that the greater part of these donations were given to those who
were likewise receiving regular parochial aid. Many rents are
paid when extraordinary assistance is wanted in peculiar circum-
stances, &c.
   The whole average expenditure for a year, both in occasional
donations, and for the regular poor, during the last seven year,
has been L. 321, 17s. 3 1/7d. This sum is raised in the following
manner: Average annual amount of parochial collections for the
last seven years, L.93, 17s. 4d.; hearse and mortoloth ditto,
The remaining part of the funds was once raised by a regular
annual assessment upon the heritors, feuars, and householders;
but for some time past it has been raised by occasional voluntary
contribution as they are required, in the same proportion, every


