
                        KILDONAN.                                 147

    many barrows or tumuli scattered over the parish ; and in one not
    far from the manse, which was opened by workmen in search of gra-
    vel, a coffin formed of plain flags was discovered, in which were
    mouldering human bones.  One of these tumuli, in the shape of a
    well-proportioned cone, and called Knock'nreachy, is situate close
    to the manse, and also an upright stone called Clach-na-heudh.
    		    <TABLE>Ill.-POPULATION.
                        In the year 1801,  .	1440
                                    1811,  . 	1574
                                    1821,  . 	 565
                                     1831, .	 257
    The decrease is accounted for by the change that occurred in the
    rural economy of the parish, by the substitution of Cheviot sheep
    for Highland cattle, between the years 181 t and 1821. The sys-
    tem of small holdings and subletting, previously common in the
    parish, was thereby altered ; and no part of the parish being adapt-
    ed for new settlements, the bulk of the population was settled in
    the coast-side parishes ; and, in particular, they resorted to the
    village of Helmsdale and its neighbourhood, which is within two
    miles of the southern boundary of the parish, forming part of the
    same district of country, and where the increase of tbe population
    far exceeds the decrease in the interior.

                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Almost the whole of the parish is occupied as sheep farms.
    The number of sheep grazed, all of the Cheviot breed, is esti-
    mated at 18,000 head, and they are divided among six tenants of
    separate farms.

                            V.-PAROCHIAL EcoNomy.
        Relmsdale is the nearest town, distant two miles from the south
    boundary of the parish, and nine miles from the manse and church.
    There is a good road leading from Helmsdale, along the whole,
    extent of the stratb, to Bigbouse and Melvich, on the north coast;
    and another road from within one mile of the manse, running
    southward across the Crask; a'stormy and elevated hill dividing
    the strath from the head of Glen Loth until it joins the parlia-
    mentary road on the east coast of the county at Loth-beg.

    <FOOTNOTE>has not yet seen; and he is inclined to think, that a complete inspection ofthe whole,
    of them, and accurate details of each tower, so far as their ruinous co condition will ad-
    mit of, including not only their size. and interior arrangements. and their situation
    in regard to marked localities, and 'their vicinity in some cases to each other but also
    every deviation from any part of their peculiar, and generally uniform construction.
    Would, in some degree, remove the obscurity that at present attends the coutempla-
    tion of these interesting relics of the oldest stone buildings in our native land, and
    which, when complete, must have exhibited, in singular combination, the ingenuity
    of design, and laborious industry of a people somewhat advanced in the arts of civili-
    sation, with the rudeness of workmanship peculiar to savage life.


