
50                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

coast of Scotland, at least, where the country is unsheltered by
hills. There is generally an excess of cloudy and foggy weather
in the end of spring, beginning of summer, and end of auttumn.
The average quantity of rain is moderate, although occasionally,
in autumn, it is such, that, for a considerable period, the streams
are swollen beyond their ordinary limits, and the adjacent grounds
under water.
   Climate.-The climate is subject to very great vicissitudes, and
the prevalent distempers, which are colds, inflammation of the
throat, and other organs, (the latter more rarely), rheumatism, &c.
unquestionably originate in the rapid alternations of heat and cold,
drought and moisture. The parish is ilso sometimes, but not very
frequently, visited by the usual epidemic diseases. There is sel-
dom a long continuance of dry weather until near the summer
solstice, and comparatively little dew falls until that period, when
the nights are generally clear and calm. The prevailing winds
are easterly, except during the months of June, July, August, and
September, when the excess of wind ranges from south-east to
west. The most violent gales are always from north by west.
  Hydrography.-The springs are all perennial, and of a tempe-
rature not very different from the annual average of the atmosphere;
their magnitude is generally inconsiderable, their water pure and
colourless, (with a few exceptions, which are powerful chalybeates;)
and the rocks from which they flow, excepting two or three in-
stances of secondary limestone, are clay-slate. The parish con-
tains two lakes, those of Watten and Toftingall, the first extend-
ing in length 3 miles, and in its greatest breadth about 11/4, con-
taining 840 imperial acres, with an average depth of 10 feet, and
surrounded by gently rising ground, generally, in the highest state
of cultivation; the other being about 5 miles in circumference,
with an average depth of perhaps 8 feet, and surrounded by bleak
dismal moors. Each of these lakes contributes its stream to the
river of. Wick, the channel by which the numerous rivulets having
their source in the moorland grounds find their way to the ocean.
The direction of these streams is generally northerly, until they
arrive at the river of Wick, when it becomes east by south, with a
small velocity. They vary much in length, and the course of the
longest does not exceed 10 miles, including 2 miles of the river
of Wick Within the boundaries of this parish.
   Geology and Mineralogy.- A very characteristic geological fea-
ture of this parish and a feature that belongs more or less to the


