
			ST.  MUNGO.                          215

salary to the former teacher of L.20 yearly. The waster has the
legal accommodations. His system of teaching is an approach to
the national school system. The probable yearly amount of fees due
to the teacher is about L.40. Not one native but can read his Bible.
Prior to the establishment of the parish school the case was dif-
ferent; now boys and girls at twelve years of age can both read
and write. There may, however, be an individual of great age who
cannot write, because in his day there was no school near him.
Every year the people are becoming more sensible of the blessing
of a parish school, and there is the most decided evidence of im-
provement arising from the liberal education now so generally im-
parted to the poorest child in the parish. The school is opened
and closed with prayer. The whole Bible is in daily use; the
shorter catechism of this church is regularly taught. Mrs Hart
of Castlemilk, has this year established a school library. It con-
tains upwards of 200 volumes, which appear to be judiciously se-
lected.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--Occasional aid was by the session
given to twelve persons annually; but, except in one or two cases
of extreme age or hopeless disease, no individual has ever had
adjudged to him a regular aliment, and when such is given, the
pauper is allowed from 1s. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per week. The fund for
support of the poor has arisen wholly from church collections,
church dues, and interest of money saved from these sources by the
session; during the incumbency of the present minister, the yearly
amount of church collections and church dues is L.22 ; this in-
cludes the extra collections made at the celebration of the holy
sacrament, wbich is administered twice a-year. The session have
been in the habit of making up yearly a list of such individuals or
families as require aid, especially during the winter season: the mi-
nister then intimates their situation publicly in the church, and in-
forms the people, that certain individuals, at the expense of the
session, will pass through the parish to receive contributions in
money, meal, potatoes, &c. for these their distressed brethren.
The means of support collected under the direction of the session
are applied to the support of the distressed. The session have also
been in the habit of at times giving work to poor women in place
of money, paying a house rent on condition their relatives shall in
all other respects provide for them; or maintaining a poor person's
family at school, to prevent their becoming ` burden on the parish.
But, unless driven to it by necessity, direct payment of money from


