
     Statistical Account

1620 feet*.  From the summit of this hill, there is a very
extensive prospect to the north east, the south, and south
west.  The view to the north west, is a little interrupted by
the hill of Dalmiot, a part of the Ochills, lying in the parish of
Logie.  From the top of the Wood-hill, however, the mouth
of the Frith of Forth, the Bass, North Berwick Law, with
the windings of the Forth, can easily be descried, together
with the coasts of Fise and east Lothian, etc.
   The village of Alva is situated at a small distance from
the bottom of the West hill.  A small rivulet, which issues
from the glen which separates the West from the Middle
hill, runs along the east side of the village; and not only
affords a constant and plentiful supply of water; but adds
very much to the beauty of the village.  This receives a far-
ther addition, from a thriving plantation of forest trees grow-
ing on a steep bank on the east side of the rivulet, and afford-
ing a comfortable shelter from the north east winds, which, of
all othera, are the most violent in this district.  It is not cer-
tainly known, when this village began to be built.  There is
undoubtedevidence, however, of Alva being a parish above 500
years ago+; and it is probable that a village, very inconsidera-
ble perhaps, may then have existed.  Even at present the village
is not extensive, and does not contain much above 130 fami-
lies, including a few single persons each of whom occupy a
part of a house.  About the end of the last, and beginning of

<FOOTNOTE>

*The hill continues to rise gradually for about two miles farther north, un-
till it reaches the top of Ben-Cloch, which is the highest point of the Alva
hills, and the summit of all the Ochills; and according to the observation
taken by Mr Udney, land surveyor, is about 2420 feet above the level of the
Devon.  The view from the top of Ben-Cloch is the most extensive and beau-
tiful any where to be found, and is visited by all travellers of curiosity who de-
light in fine prospects.

+Vide Chartulary of Cambuskenneth.


