
310                         PERTHSHIRE.

L. 4, 0s. 7d. yearly, along with a cart of coals. The poor's funds,
arising from collections at the church doors, which may amount
to L. 15, 5s. 1d.; the use of the mortcloth, L. 1 ; interest on
L. 240 mortified money, L. 8, 8s.; and a voluntary assessment by
the heritors, L. 12, 16s. 4d.; amount altogether to the sum of
L. 37, 9s. 5d., which is expended in regular monthly allowance
to the poor on the roll, in temporary supplies to others in needy
circumstances, and in paying the salaries of session-clerk, beadle,
&c.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the drawing up of the last Report, a total change seems to
have taken place upon the face of the parish. Then, it was diffi-
cult of access; but now, by the opening of the new road from Stir-
ling to Milnathort about the year 1810, and that from Dunferm-
ine to Crieff in 1816, it has become a thoroughfare. Upwards
of 10,000 tons of coal pass through it annually, and from 4000
to 5000 carts of lime,-besides carriers' carts, and crowds of
visitors to the falls, in all kinds of conveyances, in the summer
and autumn months. Then, a considerable part of the higher
district of the parish was covered with heather or peat-moss, mak-
ing the ague not an uncommon complaint; now, in the same dis-
trict, unless in some plantations, the heather is no longer visible,
and the moss is converted into a rich pasture meadow, and, instead
of being, as it was then, bare and exposed to every wind that blows,
this district is already clad with numerous beltings and clumps of
trees, and in a few years will be as sheltered and ornamented as
any parish in the neighbourhood.
   The circumstance, that the rental of the parish is now nearly
four times the amount of what it was about the year 1792, al-
though there is no great difference in the price of agricultural pro-
duce, may show how busy the hand of man has been in the work
of improvement.

   September 1835.

<FOOTNOTE>The materials for the above report were collected in 1833; and the various state-
ments made are to be understood as having a reference to that date.

