
                         NEWBATTLE.                         67

this excrescence, and when that is the case, it is good for nothing.
No specific, as far as I know, has yet been discovered for destroy-
ing these vermin without injuring the tree; and unless such dis-
covery is made, it will ultimately ruin our finest apple-trees.
   Botany.-I am not aware that any of the rarer species of plants
has ever been found in this parish.  Those used for culinary
and other purposes, are numerous; such as cabbages and greens
of all kinds, cauliflower and colewort, broccoli, turnip, carrot, beet-
root, green peas, parsley, celery, cresses, &c.
   We have no forests, but there are many thriving plantations,
especially upon the Marquis of Lothian's property.  The princi-
pal kinds of wood are oak, ash, elm, beech, plane-tree, and firs of
various sorts, &c.  If we may judge from the size of the wood, the
soil is perfectly congenial to all these kinds.  In the lawn which
surrounds Newbattle Abbey, there are many trees of great age and
remarkable for their size and form.  Most of the planes, and some
of the elms, are majestic and beautiful.  But the largest of all is
a beech, standing near the house, which, at a yard above the ground,
measures 22 feet in circumference.  The length of the trunk, be-
fore it begins to spread its largest branches, is 24 feet.  Some of
its limbs are of immense size.  Its branches cover a circle of 33
yards diameter, and it contains upwards of 900 cubic feet of
wood.  Strangers from all quarters visit this tree, and they unani-
mously declare that it is the largest they have seen in Scotland.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-The only man of eminence as a literary charac-
ter, connected with the parish, with whose history I am acquaint-
ed, was Bishop Leighton, who was once minister of Newbattle.
He was inducted into, that charge in the year 1648; if tradition
may be depended upon, part of the pulpit in which be preached is
still in existence, and in high preservation.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, the Marquis of Lothian
who possesses at least three-fourths of the parish; Mr Dalrymple of
Fordale; Mr Dundas of Arniston; and Mr Ker of Blackshiels.
   Porochial Registers.-Parochial registers have been long kept.
The minutes of session were begun in 1616; the register of bap-
tisms in 1646; of proclamations of marriage in 1650; of minutes
of heritors in 1740; of receipts and disbursements in 1642; of
registers of burials in 1740.  Some of these registers are volum-
nous, but irregularly kept; and many blanks occur in all of them.
   Antiquities.-The only antiquity of which this parish can boast,


