
4                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

The eastern and south-eastern district of the parish consists of
the extensive morass, called Lochar Moss, lying along the con-
fines of Torthorwald and Mousewald. This moss is nearly a
dead level of from two to three miles in breadth, and ten miles
in length, stretching from the shore of the Solway Firth into the
interior of the country. There is a tradition, that this, barren
waste was, at some remote period, covered with wood, and that
afterwards, it was inundated by the sea, which, upon receding, left
behind it the decayed vegetable matter in which the moss origi-
nated. This tradition has been embodied by the peasantry in the
following couplet:
		" First a wood, and then a sea,
		" Now a moss, and ever will be."
And its truth is corroborated by the fact, that the moss rests upon
a deep stratum of sea-sand, out of which not only are shells and
other marine deposits frequently dug, but fragments of ancient
vessels of no very inconsiderable size have been repeatedly dis-
covered, together with several iron grapples or anchors. Some
ancient canoes or boats have also been found, and in particular,
one formed out of the trunk of a large oak, hollowed apparently by
fire. Between the surface of the moss and the sea-sand immense
trunks of trees are found. These, which are principally fir, invariably
lie with their tops towards the north-east; from which it would ap-
pear, that their roots having been previously loosened by the inunda-
tion of the sea, they had been levelled by the fury of the south-western
blast. It has been conceived by some, that the River Nith, at some
early period, flowed through Lochar Moss, entering it from the north-
east; but this, taking into account the nature of the ground between
the head of the moss and the present course of the river, seems ex-
ceedingly doubtful. In the dry summer of 1826, the moss having
caught fire, burned with great rapidity, advancing in a direction
contrary to that of the wind; when several cottages fell a prey to
the flames before these could be extinguished.

			    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Accounts of the Parish.--A manuscript copy of the Statistical
        account of this town and parish, drawn up by the late Reverend
        Dr Burnside for the former Statistical Account, (in which work
        it is very much abridged,) is preserved in the Society Library here.
	Historical events.--No historical documents exist, whereby we


