
1034                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

extremity; and it is much to be regretted that there exist not the
means of giving to the teachers a larger share of that comfort and
encouragement to which the important duties they discharge so
justly entitle them.
	There are three Sabbath schools in the parish.  They are attended
in all by about 120 children under fourteen years of age.  All the
children in the three schools learn the same lessons, and come up
to the church on the last Sabbath of every month, when they are
examined on the whole month's lessons by the minister after di-
vine service. A syllabus of lessons is prepared, printed, and a
copy sent to each family in the parish. A class, called the Bible
class, for young persons of both sexes above fourteen years of age,
is taught by the minister in the church on alternate Sabbaths.
This class is attended by between 60 and 70 scholars.  Here,
also, a syllabus of lessons is used. Great advantages have been
found to attend this system of religious instruction; 1. It has all
the advantages of regularity, and of unity of design.  Not only
are the distractions consequent on a multiplicity of tasks and dif-
ferent stages of progress in the school avoided, but occasional ab-
sence from a bad day or sickness need not prevent any from pre-
paring all the exercises against the monthly revisal. 2. It brings
the young of the parish completely under the eye of the minister,
and gives an impulse to the zeal and diligence both of teachers
and taught 3. By means of the syllabus, those parents who are
opposed to Sabbath school teaching, or are prevented by circum-
stances from availing themselves of it, have an opportunity of in-
structing their children in the same lessons at home; and this
done, of sending them up to church on the last Sabbath of the
month, to be examined along with the other children.  The les-
sons prescribe to the Bible class are drawn up with the two fold
view of preparing young communicants, and of promoting the spi-
ritual improvement of the more advanced among the young.
       	Literature.--There are two, libraries in the parish. The one,
for the use of the people generally, was instituted in 1816, and
now comprises about 470 volumes on history, biography, travels,
&c. with a large proportion of religious books;* the other, which
was instituted last year, chiefly on the foundation of a church col-
lection, is strictly a religious library, destined for the use of the
Sabbath scholars. No payment is required for the use of it. The

<FOOTNOTE>A small annual contribution is required of readers.


