
	               SORN.                               143

gain and Gilmillscroft have been wrought for a number of years.
Last year their joint produce amounted to 9000 bolls.

	            V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Towns.--There are no market-towns in the parish; but
in the villages of Catrine and Sorn, there are a number of excel-
lent shops, at which almost every article required for domestic use
can be purchased as good, and on as easy terms as in large towns.
Besides the regular supply of butcher-meat and vegetables which
maybe obtained daily from the butchers and grocers in the villages,
there is an excellent market for butcher-meat and vegetables held
every Saturday at Catrine village.
	Villages.--There are two villages in the parish,--Catrine and
Sorn. The former contains 2700 souls, and the latter about 300.
In Catrine, people are chiefly dependent for employment on
the cotton and bleaching-works there, and in Sorn, with the ex-
ception of about eight-hand loom weavers, they are chiefly agri-
cultural labourers, colliers, quarriers, and hand-sewers.
	Inns.--There are four inns in the village of Catrine, two in the
village of Sorn, and one at Greenfoot, about a quarter of a mile
from the village of Sorn, on the road from Galston to Auchin-
leck.
	Means of Communication.--About six miles of the road from
Ayr to Muirkirk, and about five miles of the road from Galston
to Auchinleck, pass through the parish. There are penny-post
offices in Catrine and Sorn, and the mail gig with the mail from
Ayr and Kilmarnock for London, passes through the latter village
every morning about seven o'clock on its way to Douglas Mill, where
it meets the mail-coach from Glasgow to London, and waits the ar-
rival of the mail from London to Glasgow. On receiving the letter-
bags for Ayr, Kilmarnock, Cumnock, and Mauchline, it returns
again immediately, and passes through Sorn about three o'clock P.M.,
bringing letters and papers from London in about forty-four hours.
The coach from Glasgow to Dumfries passes through Mauchline,
about four miles distant from Sorn, every lawful day, about three
o'clock. There are carriers twice a week from Sorn and Catrine
to and from Glasgow, leaving those places every Monday and
Thursday, and returning again every Wednesday and Saturday.
There is also a carrier from Catrine to Ayr every Tuesday and
Friday, and from the same place to Kilmarnock on Tuesdays and
Fridays. The Catrine Company, despatch carts with goods to Glos-
gow every lawful evening, which, by means of a relay of horses on the


