
     of Aberdeen.

in the art of spinning.  She was accompanied with all the
implements necessary for her purpose.  As a proof that
her exertions were crowned with success, it may be obser-
ved that the spinning of linen-yarn has arisen in this town
to the extent of nearly 100,000 spindles per annum.  This
is accomplished mostly by the wives and daughters of me-
chanics and labourers, and procures them a yearly income of
about L. 5000 Sterling.  Much linen-yarn is besides brought
to Aberdeen from the country round to a considerable ex-
tent.  The quantity, however, of linen-cloth made hero
and in the neighbourhood is very small, owing, it is be-
lieved, to the Irish, who have engrossed the greater part of
that branch of trade, both at the English and foreign mar-
kets, not on account of the superior quality of their goods,
but of the encouragement given by their Parliament to the
linen-manufacture, which enables them to undersell us even
in our own country.  A considerable quantity of the coar-
ser kinds of this yarn is exported to Perth, Dunfermline,
Glasgow, and other manufacturing places to the southward.
Messrs Collison, Thomson and Company, of this place, lately
began the manufacture of brown sheetings, osnaburghs, and
sail-cloths, and are the only manufacturers of such goods here.
They have already, by unremitting attention, brought their
brown sheeting and osnaburghs, to as great perfection as
any made in Scotland.  Their sail-cloth manufactory only
commenced in 1795, and what they have yet made has
been sold to the sail-makers in this place, who acknowledge
it equal in quality to the best that comes from the south-
country.  The sheetings and osnaburghs are shipped for
London, and from thence are chiefly sent to the West In-
dies and America.  From the satisfaction there manufac-
tures have given, they are greatly on the increase, and bid
fair to be carried to a considerable extent.  The flax used
in the linen branches here is chiefly imported from Hol-

     VOL. XIX. C c


