
284                    BERWICKSIRE.

niation, ornamented the whole of the north wall, resting on cor-
bals, and having richly adorned canopies; but about sixty years
ago, with most barbarous taste, the shafts of the arches were cut
away, which greatly disfigured the interior aspect of the church.
Above these still remain entire five windows of beautiful workman-
ship, nearly approaching to the lancet figure, and twenty-six plain
and clustered shafts, with capitals of different forms, and ornament-
ed with various kinds of foliage. Behind these runs a narrow cor-
ridor extending the whole length of the church. The exterior of
what remains of the old monastery is remarkable for its beautiful
simplicity. The design of the exterior corrresponds with the interior.
Below is a series of coupled Norman arches embellished with the
Chiffron moulding. Above are lancet-shaped Gothic windows,
with columns at the sides. The remains of several arches surround
the building, and only a few years have elapsed since others were
torn down for the sake of the stones. The Prior holding rank as
a baron had the right of pit and gallows. The pit was situated a
little to the cast of the present church, and was filled up so late
as 1800; the gallows stood upon a little hill about a mile distant,
and is still called Gallowside. A quantity of bones, forming an
artificial mound, were dug up here twenty-five years ago. Previous
to the Reformation, the priors and monks of Coldingham had ac-
quired the churches of Coldingham, Aldecamus, Ayton, Fish-
wick, Knapden, Corvendean, Edenham, Swinton, Nisbet, Ber-
wick, Mordington, Lamberton, Ederham, Ercildoun, Smallhom,
Stitchel, with the chapels of Newton, Nenthorn, and others. The
revenues of the priory were variously stated; but the following
account from Lauchlan Shaw's Manuscript may be considered as
nearest the truth: money, L. 818, 10s. 9d.; wheat, 6 chalders,
7 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks; bear, 19 chalders, 12 bolls, 1 firlot, 2
pecks; oats, 56 chalders, 8 bolls, 2 firlots; peas, 3 chalders, 13
bolls, 2 firlots; and a right to a number of kain fowls, services and
carriages from their vassals. By the charters of Alexander II., they
had a right of warren and forestry over the extensive waste now
called Coldingham Moor, with all the woods and forests adjoining,
which charters may be seen at length in Mr Raine's History of
Northumberland.
   Antiquities.-There are some vestiges of a Roman camp on a
hill west of St Abb's Head, and of a British camp on the summit
of Ernsheuch, surrounded on three of its sides by lofty precipices.
On the top of Wardlae Bank hill is another British camp, with


