
		             GLASGOW.                        121

L. 15,000. As a large proportion of this came from the corpora-
tion funds, a bill was brought into Parliament, for taxing the In-
habitants for a part of the loss; but it was so vehemently opposed,
that the magistrates withdrew it.
	In the latter end of 1816, and beginning of 1817, the stagna-
tion of trade was such, that the working-classes in the city and
suburbs could not find employment. The distress of the workers
was so great, that it was found necessary to raise money for their
relief by voluntary subscriptions. From a large sum raised, the
committee distributed L. 9653, 6s. 2d. among 23,130 persons.
	In 1818, the lower classes of this city and suburbs were severely
afflicted with typhus fever. No sooner had the disease made pro-
gress than L. 6626, 14s. Id. was raised for the relief of the afflict-
ed sufferers by voluntary contribution. The accommodation in
the Royal Infirmary being quite inadequate for the number of fe-
ver patients, the subscribers built a temporary fever hospital at
Spring Gardens, fitted to contain upwards of 200 beds. The hos-
pital was opened on 30th March 1818, and closed on 12th July
1819. Between these periods 1929 patients were admitted. The
greatest number at one time was 212, and the deaths amounted to
171. During the period of the disease, upwards of 5000 apart-
ments in the city and suburbs were fumigated, 600 lodging-houses
were examined, infected bedding was burned, and the owners sup-
plied with new bedding.
	In 1819, the working-classes were again thrown into great distress,
from want of employment. The seeds of discontent which had
been widely sown took deep root in this part of the country, and
ended in what has been emphatically called Radicalism. At this
alarming crisis, when thousands of workers paraded the streets, de-
manding employment or bread, upwards of 600 persons were al-
most instantly employed at spade work, or breaking stones for the
roads. Exclusive of the exertions of the authorities, and individuals
in the suburbs, the magistrates of Glasgow simultaneously employed
upwards of 340 weavers at spade work in the green, nearly the whole
of whom remained for upwards of four months under the direction
of Dr Cleland; and it is only justice to those individuals to say, that
under his kind usage and vigilant superintendence, not one of them
left their work to attend political meetings in the Green, although
thousands marched past them with radical ensigns, accompanied by
well-dressed females carrying caps of liberty. The distress and
dissatisfaction continued during the greater part of 1820, when
large distributions of clothing, meal, and coals were given to


