
450                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

Several other remarks, which might with propriety have been
introduced here, have been anticipated in various parts of this
article. *

<FOOTNOTE>Besides the gentlemen whose aid I have already acknowledged. I have to express
the obligations I am under to Mr William Drummond of Coney Park, for the ac-
count given of the Zoology and Botany of the parish; to James Lucas, Esq. and James
Chrystal, Esq. for valuable assistance in the department of Ancient Buildings and an-
tiquities; and to William Galbraith, Esq. town-clerk, for the accurate and im-
portant information to which be has given me access, on many points, on which offi-
cial authorities were necessary to be consulted. I am not permitted to name the
gentleman from whom I have received valuable help, in relation to the Meteorology
of Stirling.

Note respecting the erection of the building now occupied by the East and West
Churches.--In writing the history of this building, after a careful comparison of all
I had read, and all the information I had otherwise obtained on the subject, I adopted
the account given in the text as, upon the whole, the most probable. But I have since
seen amongst the ancient records in the town.clerk's office, certain charters, of date 1460,
1471, and 1472, of James II. or III. to William Bull, chaplain of the Holy Rood, in
the parish church of Stirling; of Bull to Malcolm Fleming; and of Fleming to the
magistrates of Stirling, of the site of the Tolbooth;  and an agreement between the ma-
gistrates and the Abbey of Dunfermline, of which the church of Stirling held, of date
1507; which seem to establish the two following facts; viz. 1st, that, as early as 1460,
there existed, on or near to the site of the present building, a parish chruch, called
the church of the Holy Rood; 2d, that the choir of the present building, that is, the
East Church, described as the choir of the Church of Stirling, was in 1507 in process
of being erected. It is remarkable, too, that in none of these documents is there the
slightest reference to any connection between any of these ancient buildings and any
convent of friars, black or gray. The Church ot the Dominican Convent in Spring-
Garden, however, does appear from other documents to have been at an earlier period,
that is, in the fourtenth century, used by the inhabitants as a parish church.

   October 1841.


