
                                     MUCKART.                         307

      Number of rhale servants not employed in agriculture, above 20 years of age, 	2
                                                    	    under 20   do.              2
                females,       do.           	do.          	  do.                  26
         The people, upon the whole, appear to enjoy in a reasonable
      degree the comforts and advantages of society; and the only great
      subject of regret is the number of public-houses which, for a po-
      pulation of 664, amount to 13, and exert an unfavourable influ-
      ence on the morals of some of the people.
                               IV.-INDUSTRY.
                Number ofacres cultivated regularly or occasionally, 2684
                               uncultivated,  	                      995
                               undivided common,      	              300
                               under wood,                            250
        Rent of Land.-Rent of arable ground  per acre,  L. 1 to L. 3,
      average, L. 1, 5s. Rent of grazing per ox or cow, L. 3 to L. 4;
      per ewe or sheep, 4s. to 6s.
        Rate of Wages.-Labourer's wages per day, 1s. 6d.; mason's 2s.
      to 2s. 3d.; wright's, 2s.
        Husbandry.-Little attention was paid, until of late, in im-
      proving the breeds of cattle and sheep. The short-horn breed
      of cattle has, however, been introduced by one enterprising pro-
      prietor, along with the Leicester and Soutbdown sheep, and
      from his success, others seem disposed, in some degree, to
      imitate his example. Various improvements in the land have
      been carried on with great Spirit. Mr Haig of Blairhill has com-
      pletely changed the aspect of his part of the parish; and there
      can be little doubt that his improvements have been as profitable
      as ornamental. The improvements on the property of the moor,
      belonging to Mr Mowbray, have excited general attention, from
      the rapidity with which they were carried on, and the remark-
      able success which has attended them. It appears that, with-
      in three years, be has built stone dikes of more than nine miles
      in length, lipped and pointed with lime; planted upwards of
      700 chain of hedges, and laid about the same length of drains, as
      well as trenched upwards of 100 acres of ground with the spade.
      It is impossible, owing to the peculiar circumstances of the parish,
      to give any statement of the average gross amount of raw produce
      raised in it. From the high rent got for grass parks the great
      object of the proprietors, in the upper part of the parish, is to lay
      down tbeir ground for permanent pasture in the best condition. This
      induces them, from time to time, to lift some fields when the grass
      has become deteriorated, and take a rotation of crops: which lead
      to such an uncertainty as to the gross amount of produce as would

