
			DUNNOTTAR.                      223

having realized a large fortune in Jamaica, had purchased of the
creditors of the York Buildings Company, the greater part of the
Marischal estate in this parish. It is a plain, but extensive and
commodious building, embosomed in plantations formed by Mr Al-
lardyce. In forming the gardens attached to it, upwards of
L. 10,000 are said to have been expended. The unpretending
mansion of the Ogilvies of Barras, whose ancestor, for his gallant
defence of Dunnottar Castle, and the preservation of the regalia,
had the unsubstantial reward of a baronetcy, was once to have
been numbered among the buildings of note in this parish, but it
has long ceased to be the residence of that family, and is now used
as an ordinary farm-house.--In the town of Stonehaven are the
county buildings, containing a spacious hall, appropriately fitted
up as a court room, with committee rooms, and offices for the
sheriff-clerk, and on the basement are cells for prisoners, with a
gaoler's house. Some late additions have greatly improved the
appearance of these buildings; but the huge precipitous roof of the
main building is a deformity which still remains to be remedied.
About fifty years ago, the magistrates of Stonehaven, with the sav-
ings of their "common good," erected a square tower with a spire;
but it is to be regretted that this expenditure was made to effect
nothing more than accommodation for the town clock. The other
public buildings in the town are an Episcopal chapel, in the form
of a cross, built, it is believed, early in the eighteenth century, and
a Methodist chapel, erected a, few years ago, in the humble style
of such buildings. As a quasi public building, the "Mill Inn"
deserves notice. It has lately been altered and improved so as
now to add greatly to the appearance of the place, and to the ac-
commodation of travellers.
				III.--POPULATION.
	Although in the course of the last sixty-eight years, the popu-
lation of the parish underwent some fluctuations, it is nearly the
same now as it was at the commencement of that period. Thus,
in 1772, the number of inhabitants was 1862, and by the census
in 1831, the number was 1852. The division into town and rural
population at each of these dates was as follows:

<TABLE>
	In 1772,    town, 923,  rural, 939    total, 1862
	   1831,     do.  941,    do.  911,      do. 1852
	The number of males in 1831 was less than the number of fe-
malds in both localities. Thus there were at that time


