
     Statistical Account

wages are considerably higher than formerly*.-The other
artists work principally for the use of the people in the parish
and neighbourhood; and sometimes manufacture articles for
sale.

   Church and School.-The King is patron.  The present in-
cumbent is the 8th minister since the Revolution, and has
been 32 years in the parish.-The value of the living varies
according to the prices of grain.  It consists of 39 bolls 2
firlots of bear, 40 bolls of oats by the decreet, but by use
and wont of payment, 4 bolls 1 firlot of there 40 bolls of oats,
are paid in oat-meal:  10 bolls of pease; and in money the
sum of 17 L. 11 s. 8 d. Sterling; 10 s. of that sum is paid by
the proprietor of Leuchars for a salmon fishing.  The pro-
prietor of Scotscraig pays the whole stipend, except the 10 s.
just mentioned, and holds up the kirk, manse and school.  Out
of the teinds of this parish, 5 bolls bear, 7 bolls 3 firlots of

<FOOTNOTE>

*A common day-labourer, from Candlemas to Martinmas, will, at an aver-
age, earn from 12 d. to 14 d. a-day; an ordinary tradesman, who works on day's
wages, from 15 d. to 18 d.; but masons have higher wages than ordinary trades-
men, owing to the great increase of manufactures, which have excited such an
uncommon spirit for building, that they get from 20 d. to 22 d. a-day in summer;
but from Martinmas to Candlemas, masons have only about 14 d., and the la-
bourers about 10 d. a-day.  During the whole year, they all furnish themselves
with provisions out of their wages.  The greatness of the wages depends much
on the demand at the time.  Tailors get 6 d. a-day, and their meat, throughout
the year.  It is customary for both tradesmen and spinsters, to hire themselves
to the neighbouring farmers, at fixed wage, for the whole harvest, without
restriction to any number of days.  At an average, the farmer will hire a trades-
man, for the whole harvest, at 1 L. 3 s. Sterling, and a woman at 17 s. 6 d.
Both sexes have their visuals from the farmer, besides their wages.  When a
man is occasionally hired per day, he receives 1 s., and a woman 10 d., besides
their maintenance.  The hire of labourers and servants wages are still on the
increase.


