
                               GREENOCK.                        455

being one-half of said estate, to Greenock, and the nther half,
namely, Rodgertown and Wester Garvock, to Inverkip.  This
decree was confirmed by another im 1669.
  2. After that date no change took place in the ecclesiastical
state of the parish till 1741, when the Court of Teinds disjoined
the New, or, as it is now generally called, the Middle Parish, from
the Old.  Sir John Shaw, the patron of the latter parish, con-
senting that the patronage of the New Church and paridh should
be vested in "the bailie of Greenock, and managers of the
fund for building and endowing the said church, and the feuars
and elders for the said new erected parish for the time being;"
but with this proviso, that "Sir John Shaw of Greenock, and the
other heritors of the parish of Greenock, their heirs and succes-
sors in their respective lands and heritages, nor the teinds thereof,
shall not be liable in the payment of any stipend to the minister
of the New parish, or for building, upholding, or repairing the
kirk, manse, or school-house thereof, or any other parochial bur-
dens whatever."
  The New or Middle parish is entirely burghal, and is situate,
as its new name indicates, in the heart of the town.
  3. The East parish was disjoined from the Old, and erected
into a separate parisj by decree of the Court of Teinds in 1809,
on nearly the same principles with those which were adopted in
the erecthon of the New parish in 1741. The patronage was
vested, with consent of Sir John Shaw Stewart, patron of the Old
parish, in the magistrates and town council of Greenock. and a
committee of seven, to be named by and from the proprietors of
seats, each individual having a vote, and from the proprietors of
Greenock in case of an equality having the casting vote.
  The East parish is partly burghal, partly landward.  Besides a
large portion of Cartsdyke, it includes all the landward part of the
parish lying between Cartsdyke and Port-Glasgow, together with
the farms ofLees, Darnemes, Burnhead, Glenbrae, Stron, Inglis-
ton, Berry-yards, and Hayfield on the south, and between  Greenock
and Kilmacolm.
  4. and 5.  The North and South parishes were erected quead
spiritualia under the authority of an act of the General Assembly
of 1334.  The erection was by the presbytery of Greenock,
which had been in the same year disjoined from the presbyteries
of Paisley and Irvine, and costituted a separate presbytery.
Both these parishes were taken from the Old, or, as it is sometimes
called, the West parish.



