
     Statistical Account

usual wages for male servants are from L. 2 to L. 3 Ster-
ling each half year, and for female servants L. 2 a-year.
Within these 40 years they are doubled.-The people are
of the middle size.  They are very diligent and industrious.
-The manufacture carried on here is that of knitting stock-
ings, in which persons of every age and sex are employed,
when other work does not interfere; this enables them to live
tolerably well, and to pay their rents.  They are general-
ly frugal, more expensive in dress than in diet.  They are
also a social people; as one evidence of their being so, there
may be sometimes 60, 70, and sometimes 100 at a wedding,
to the expence of which the guests contribute, by sending
some milk, butter, cheese, poultry, etc, and some send stone
plates and stone jugs.-The air rather healthy than other-
wise.-There is an excellent limestone quarry.-The roads
and bridges over burns are pretty tolerable, and are made
by statute-labour.-The general size of the farms is small;
the highest rent paid in the parish is L. 105.  The valued
rent of the parish is L. 2700 Scots.  There is very little
ground in the parish inclosed, except what is in the posses-
sion of the Earl of Aberdeen.-The crop in this parish in
1782 was very poor, and the meal it produced was in very
small quantity, and exceeding bad;  and had it not been
for what Government allowed at a low price, part in meal,
part in peas, there had been a great scarcity; and besides,
it was happy for the poor, that flour that year was cheap,
for the poorer sort did at that time use flour-bread, other-
wise they would have been in danger of perishing.  Since
that time, more potatoes are planted, and more turnip
sown, than formerly.-The parish, in general, besides sup-
plying itself, sends many articles of provision to Aberdeen.
-Seed time commonly begins with March, and harvest
commonly ends with October.  There are 50 ploughs,
mostly drawn by oxen.  There was scarcely a cart 40 years


