
    114                          ELGINSHIRE.

   of history, biography, and travels, are for the most part preferred.
   To some, books on Scripture subjects are more acceptable.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-There has never been in this pa-
   rish an assessment for the poor. The average number on the roll
   is about 26, almost afl above fifty years of age. It is said the
   number would be greater, were it not for the harvest-work, by
   which some gain an addition to their small means by tbraviiig. A
   distribution of money is made to the poor by the minister and el-
   ders at the church on a week-day, three times a year. They re-
   ceive in all from 15s. or L. 1, to L. 1, IOs. each yearly. The funds
   for this purpose are supplied chiefly from the contributions at
   church on the Sabbath, collected not at the door, but in hand
   boxes carried round by the elders before the congregation is dis-
   missed. The average weekly collection is 10s. There is like-
   wise the yearly interest of a small sum mortified for the poor. A
   poor person when admitted on the roll of paupers for the first time
   is required to sign an obligation to the kirk-session, giving them a
   preferable right to any money, furniture, &c. which the individual
   may be found possessed of at the time of his decease ; and autho-
   rizing the kirk-treasurer to take thereof to the amount of what the
   pauper had received out of the poor funds. The effect of this re-
   gulation is to prevent any from seeking to be admitted on the roll,
   who, having some means of their own, or relatives able to assist
   them, are not proper objects of public ebarity. It is evident that
   the sum given out of the session funds cannot be sufficient for the
   yearly maintenance of any one.  Even all the items which make
   up the yearly provision of several persons, must be acknowledged
   to make but a frugal provision: these are,

   From the kirk-session yearly, say                                                 L. 1 10 0
   Work in harvest for rent of house,                                                   0 10 0
   2 1/2 bolls of potatoes from their own planting on the farmer's green crop field,    0 15 0
   Occasional supplies of oatmeal from the farmer,                                      1  0 0
              Do.   do. of fuel and other articles,                                     0 15 0
                                                                                     _________
                                                                                     L. 4  10 0
   This is the whole of the yearly provision of such poor persons as
   are unable to do out-work, except for a -short time in the harvest.
   Formerly, spinning was the great source of maintenance for old
   women; and since that was done away nothing has come in its
   place for them.
      The average yearly collections at the church for the poor amount
   to about L. 31. To this are added several small sums from mor-


