
308                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

  History of the Parish.--Prior to the Reformation, the territory
now included in the parish of Kelso appears to have comprehend-
ed three parishes; the parish of Kelso on the north bank of the
Tweed, and the parishes of Maxwell and St James's, * both on
the south, and separated from each other by the river Teviot.  Two
at least of those parishes, Kelso and Maxwell, seem to have been
erected and to have had each its separate church, at a period an-
tecedent to the foundation of the Abbey.  Of the church of Kel-
so little more is known than that it was dedicated to the Virgin;
given to the monks at the erection of the Abbey; and burnt down
in one of those military or predatory incursions to which the border
counties were so long exposed.  The church of St James's formed
one of the three churches of the ancient burgh of Roxburghe,
though situate on St James's Green without its walls.  It was
founded, according to the Chronicle of Mailross, in 1134, and exist-
ed till the beginning of the fifteenth century, when it was reduced to
a ruinous condition, probably by fire, + during some of the border
wars.  The ruin might have remained to the present day, one of the
most interesting antiquities on the border, bad it not been for a
steward on the Roxburghe estate,--more to be honoured for his
economy than his taste,--who caused it to be demolished, in order
that its materials might be applied to the building of farm-offices
and fences.  The last of the three churches that of Maxwell or
Maccusvill, was dedicated to St Michae; but the date alike of its
erection and demolition is unknown: though the cemetery of the
parish still remains to indicate where it stood.  Still more scanty
are the memorials of an oratory, in the same parish, dedicated to
St Thomas, which is conjectured to have stood at Cbapel, a place
to the east of Springwood House.--From the foundation of the
Abbey, when these parishes were assigned to the monks as part
of their patrimony, their history, until the era of the Reformation,
necessarily merges in that of the Abbey itself.
  The monks of Kelso were of the class called Tironenses, a sec-
tion of the Benedictine order, which had its original settlement at
Tiron in Picardy under the elder St Bernard, and which was re-

<FOOTNOTE>It is not absolutely certain that St James's ever forme a separate parisb.  The
territory surrounding the church may have orginally formed part of the parish of
Roxburgh.
          This probability is grounded on the fact mentioned in the former Statistical Ac-
count, that in digging up the foundation, a quantity of wheat and barley was found in
a charred state, scattered on a tiled pavement.
                                    3


