
                     ATHELSTANEFORD.                          45

sides of the stream were covered with water, at least during the
winter season, and that fine alluvial strath rendered in a great de-
gree unproductive; now they produce luxuriant crops. When the
bed of the Peffer was deepened, marine remains were expected to
be found in it, but nothing of that kind appeared, though the source
of the stream is said to be not more than twenty-five or thirty feet
above the level of the sea.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   About the middle of the thirteenth century, a branch of the an-
cient family of Frazer of Tweeddale possessed the lands of Fast and
West Forton, in this parish, amounting to 1500 acres; for we find
various grants made about that time, to religious houses in Scot-
land, by the proprietor of those lands, and in particular one donative
was given to the brethren of the Cross Church of Peebles from the
lands of East Forton, the value of which is known. The princi-
pal part of the revenue of the Cross Church of Peebles was given
to the Duke of Queensberry at the Revolution 1688, and by him
conferred on his second son, William Earl of March. Among other
favours he obtained the grant by Frazer, of Forton, and that do-
native had been reckoned of so much value that it was named in the
deed of entail of the March estate, and has descended to the Earl
of Wemyss, the present proprietor. The particulars of that dona-
tive are as follows: Wheat 8 bolls; barley 16 1/2; rye 8 1/2; money
Sterling L.4, 16s. 3 1/2d.
   The same person, probably Barnard Frazer, * son of Sir Simon,
the elder, gave a large meadow out of his lands of west Forton to
the Abbey of Newbottle. At the Reformation, when church lands
fell to the Crown, King James the Sixth, at his accession to the
throne of England, conferred that meadow on his faithful servant
Sir Gideon Murray. It forms a valuable farm of upwards of 200
acres, and is named Prora, the property of Lord Elibank. It is
the only parcel of land in this parish that has remained in one
family since the above-mentioned period.
   One of the most valuable baronies in this parish is the barony
of Drem, containing, above 800 acres of fine land. In former
times it belonged to the Knights Templars, where they kept a
considerable establishment. The prieses house is still standing;
and his garden adjoining, defended by a holly hedge, which is still
in a vigorous state. The chapel, the greater part of which still

<FOOTNOTE>Crawford's Lives of the Officers of State.
                                  *


