
346			BERWICKSHIRE.

by the name of the " Kirk Park." The church is seated for 173.
The average number of communicants is 98. Divine service is,
on the whole, well attended by the parishioners, and by a consi-
derable number of members of the Church of Scotland from the
liberties of Berwick. The number of families belonging to the
Established church is 45; of Dissenting or Seceding families, 14.
The average amount of church collections may be stated at L, 8
a-year. The manse was built about twenty years ago, and is in
good repair. The grebe consists of fifteen acres and a-half of good
arable land, and yields a rent of L. 37, 10s. The stipend is the
minimum. -
   Education.-There is one parochial school, at which fifty chil-
dren on an average are taught reading, writing, arithmetic, &c.
The schoolmaster's salary is the maximum: and his school fees
may amount to L. 30 per annuin. The people are in general
Alive to the benefits of education ; but their anxiety to put their
children soon to work for themselves, frequently induces them to
take them from school before their education has been at all pro-
perly advanced. There are not more than 2 or 3 persons upwards
of fifteen years of age in the parish who cannot read. The total
number of scholars attending school in the course of a year is 56.
  Library.-There is one small library in the parish, which has
been in existence-for two years. It was established, and is kept
up, by private subscription, and the books are given out gratis.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-This parish, like many on the
Scottish border, is very heavily assessed for the poor. The ave-
rage number of persons receiving parochial aid is 18. The ave-
rage sum allotted to each per week is Is. 9d. The only fund
from which the maintenance of the poor is derived, is an annual
assessment on the proprietors and tenants; its average amount is
L. 99, 18s. That so large a sum should be required for a po-
pulation of only 301, is to be ascribed chiefly to the proximity
of the parish to England. After a claim on this parish has
been established by a residence of three years, persons remove
into England, where, aher the lapse of many years, they be-
come paupers; and, not establishing a claim for aid from any
English parish, they become burdens on this, the last Scotch
parishin which they have established a claim for parochial re-
lief. In proof of this, it may be stated, that, at present, of 19
on the roll, 12 reside in England. It is a remarkable fact, that,
in the year 1792, when the former Statistical Account was writ-
			   4


