
698                          FIFESHIRE.

Kinloss, was created Earl of Elgin, by patent, dated 21st June
1663.  Sir George Bruce of Carnock appears to have been a
erson of ability and sagacity.  He settled at Culross, where he
established extensive and flourishing coal-works.  He was repre-
sentative for the burgh of Culross in the Scottish Parliament, and
appears to have been frequently on the commission for the plan.
tation of kirks.  Edward, his grandson, was created Earl of Kin-
cardine, and Lord Bruce of Torrie, in 1647; and dying without
issue, was succeeded in his title and estates by his brother Alex-
ander.  The character of Alexander, as drawn by Bishop Burnet,
shews him to have been no ordinary man.  He died in 1680, and
was succeeded by his son Alexander, third Earl of Kincardine,
in whose time the estate of Carnock was brought to a judicial
sale, and came into the possession of Lieutenant-Colonel John
Erskine.
   From statements made in the session records, it appears that
the Earls of Kincardine occasionally held baronial courts at Car-
nock, and sometimes assumed the power of expelling the refrac-
tory from the parish.
   Among other individuals who have resided in the parish, or
who have been connected with it by birth or office, there are a
few whose names deserve to be mentioned as having honourably
distinguished themselves, either by the influence which their coun-
sel and example exercised, or by the active part which they took
in questions of public interest.  Of these, not the least distin-
guished was The above-mentioned Colonel Erskine, who became
proprietor of the barony of Carnock in the year 1700.  He was
son of David, second Lord Cardross, and of Mary, sister to the
first Earl of Kincardine.  Being a zealous Presbyterian, he was
a determined opponent of whatever measures tended to injure the
Presbyterian cause.  He was frequently returned as elder from
the Presbytery of Dunfermline to the General Assembly, and was
one of the three commissioners whom the Assembly of 1735 sent
to London for the purpose of endeavouring to effect a repeal of
the Act of the 10th of Queen Anne, restoring patronage.  He is
spoken of also as a zealous and successful agriculturist, and the
estate of Carnock still bears marks of the attention which he paid
to planting.
   The colonel was succeeded in his estate of Carnock by his eldest
son John, who became a distinguished member of the Scotch Bar,
and was, for a long period of his life, Professor of Scotch Law in


