
408		     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

session records bear sufficient evidence that he was not slothful
as a parish minister.
		" No priest supinely droning o'er his charge:
		But the best portion of the good man's life,
		His little, common unrecorded acts
		Of kindness and of love."
His son seems to have inherited the same liberality of sentiment,
for, although resident the greater part of a long life in Eng-
land, he left his fortune for the promotion of science and religion
in the Presbyterian institutions and land of his fathers.
   Mr Fraser was succeeded by a Mr A. Denune, said to have been
a native of the. parish. Shaw says he was ordained privately.
From the record of session, we could gatlier no confirmation of
that statement. For 12th November 1682, " Understand that
from this day, Mr Alexander Denoon is helper till Whitsunday."
In April Mr Fraser dies; and it is often no ticed in the record that
certain things could not be done, as there was no actual minister.
   On 6th April 1684, Mr Eneas Macbean of Inverness intimates,
that Mr Denoon, was to be institute. The minutes of the earlier
part of his incumbency lead us to believe that tippling was in his
time very prevalent in the parish. *
   In 1704, a process was commenced before the Presbytery
against this inncumbent, which ended in his deposition.  A great part
of the first volume of the Presbytery's records is taken up with the
libel and evidence in this case. From some cause or other he
was never ejected. In 1710, the Lord Advocate applies to the
Presbytery for "a double of the process;" and it is likely that the
civil law lent no aid; for in 1711, the Presbytery resolve to peti-
tion the Lords of Justiciary, then sitting at Inverness, to eject
him. In December 1708, the Presbytery appoint the ministers of
Inverness to apply to the sheriff to declare the church vacant; and
in March 1709, " they report that the sheriff refuses to assist in
that affair without a warrant from the Government, in regard that
there was a riot in that place formerly, and that the people were
ill set." It would seem that the people were on the side of the de-
posed Episcopalian minister. In April 1712, Mr James Calder
says he did not supply at Pettie, because Mr Denoon's wife would

<FOOTNOTE> * March 1, 1685. if any sold ale or other liquor on the Sabbath day, especially in
time of divine service, except to sick persons, they should pay 4. 0. 0. penalty, and
stand three days in sackcloth, toties quoties.
  May 31, 1601. Two elders are ordered to go from alehouse to alehouse next Lord's
day, and report diligence.  June 28. The minister resolves to call the several wives
by name who sold ale after sermon, to prevent miscarriages in time of divine service
and to fine the absent in 13s. 4d, toties quoties.


