
594			 AYRSHIRE.

j. chaider iiij. bolls meill." Readers were an inferior order of
ministers, whose duty it was to read the Scriptures and common
prayers to the people. After they advanced in knowledge,
they we're authorized to add short exhortations, and were then
called Exhorters. The readers having taken upon them to solem-
nize marriage, and administer the sacraments, were prohibited
from the exercise of these duties by the General Assembly,--an
example of which is given by Calderwood, who states that in 1574,
" the reader of Dalry was complained upon by Mr David Lindsay,
Commissioner of Kyle, Carrick, and Cunningbame, for that be-
ing discharged of all ministration of the Lord's Supper, be not-
withstanding ministered the same after his manner, in the place of
Kilburnie, in the last Easter. The Assembly ordained, him to make
his public repentance two several Sabbaths, upon the one in Kil-
burnie and upon the other in Dalry; and if he commit the like,
that he be deposed, and that this act strike upon all readers that
shall be found guiltie of the like." These enactments were re-
newed, but being transgressed, the order was in 1581 suppressed,
the office being concluded, "to be no ordinar office, in the kirk of
God."
     After Mr Boyd, Mr John Young was minister of Beith. He ob-
tained from the King a grant during his own lifetime of the whole
tithes of the parish, and which grant was afterwards ratified by Mr
William Melville, commendator of Tungland (who acquired right
to the temporalities of Kilwinning,) on Mr Young's paying him
L.5 Scots yearly. Mr Young, with several of his brethren, was
called before the Lords of the Secret Council on a charge of serious
import. Various statutes had been passed prohibiting intercourse
with Catholic priest, and imposing severe penalties on those who
should harbour them. These enactments had not been successful
in 1609 an act was passed renewing the former statutes, and
giving power to, the Secret Council to call those who should con-
travene the law, before them and inflict punishment. On 31st
January 1610. The records of the Secret Council bear, that "For
samekle as althoeht the receipt, supplie, and intercomoning, with
Jesuits, seminarie priestes, and trafficquing Papistis be prohibite
and forbidden be diverse actis  of Parliament and Secrit Counsell,
nochtwithstanding  it is of truth that Johnne Campbell, alias fader
Chrisostome, ane knowne trafficquing priest, returning laitlie with-
in this realme, of purpois and intentioun on haif seduceit simple and
ignorant people from acknowlegeing of the treuth, and to hafe


