
954                            FIFESHIRE.

of the days of other years; for they not only contain the minutes
of session with an account of its discipline; a register of births,
baptisms, and marriages, along with the receipts and disburse-
of session with an account of its discipline; a register of births
ments for the poor, and a list of deaths and burials; but, by their
direct or indirect reference to passing events, they tend to throw
light upon the state of society and the history of the times. No
doubt, in perusing them we are sometimes tstonisbed at the
powers which the office-bearers of a Protestant church seem to
have exercised over the persons and propertids of the people;
but, if we carry our minds back to the rude state of society whichthen existed, and reflect on the difficulty which the learned had to
instil moral and religious feelings into the ignorant population, we
must admit that the men acted in the manner that was perhaps
best suited to the times. Witli these views we. might perhaps be
able to vindicate the conduct of the afterwards Archbishop from
all reproach on account of his severest acts of discipline while mi-
inister of Crail. Yet, even in those days, his proceedings did not
escape the Animadversion of Iiis brethren; for, at the termination
of little more than the first two years of the record, we find the
visitors appending the following not very ambiguous hint: 11 St
Andrews, 21st August 1650.-The Presbyterie, after revising
and considering this book, do commend and approve the proceed-
ings of the session. Only they are appointed to refer to the civil
magistrate the enjoinitig ot corporal punishment and pecuiiial
mulets." One grand point against which Mr Sharp seems to
have firmly and properly turned his face was the desecration of
the Lords?day; and there is no wonder that this was necessary
considering that the parents of the then generation were accus-
tomed to regard it:as the 'clay of greatest relaxation and business;
for, be it remembered, it was only about sixty years before his time
that an,act of the Scottish Parliament was passed, abolishing the
Sunday market in Crail.

  Though, then, the power assumed by Mr Sharp and his suc-
cessors. seems to us to have been ocrusionally unwarrantable, when
we look back to the times, we will be brought to admit that the
stretch of power ikas for the benefit of the people, and perhaps
t,be only way in which the 'lower classvs could be 'brought to sub-
wit to Divine or human authority.
  Besides the registers above noticed, there are four volumes of
records of burials, which commenced in 1754 and are Still carrying
on. These have been kept by the beadles, and point out the spot

