
<TABLE=GALASHIELS.>                                                 21

One-fifth in grass at 25s. per acre,                                    L.453 15 0
Add for a large portion near the town kept in the four-shift, owing
 to the abundance of manure                                               450  0 0
Wood of all ages, 503 acres at L.1 per acre, annual produce               503  0 0
Gardens and orchards,                                                     200  0 0
Fisheries, (Salmon in Tweed,) being the remotest from the sea that
  are let,                                                                 20  0 0
The value of cattle being included in the turnip and grass valuation,it
  remains to value the sheep.  6458 acres for sheep pasture, `llowing
  one and a-half acre to a sheep without turnips, and the average value
  of the different breeds to be 9s. per head,                            1937  8 0
                                                                       ___________
       Total yearly value of raw produce,                            L.10,869 10 6


     Manufactures--The several branches of these are woollen
cloth, stockings and stocking-yarn, white and shoe-leather, and the
various articles of machinery used in the woollen factories.  But
that which chiefly claims notice is the woollen manufacture; and,
in giving a view of this, it will be quite impossible to limit the ob-
servations to what is strictly parochial, as the line of separation be-
tween the Melrose and Galashiels parts of the town being once,
no doubt, the channelof the river, is now so obliterated, that part
of a house in one parish, and part in another; and the factory
also may be on one side, and the dwelling-houses of the workers on
the other side, of the ideal boundary.
   The annual consumption of wool amounts to 21,500 stones at
24 lbs. imperial to the stone, of which 21,000 are home-grown,
and 500 are foreign, chiefly from Van Diemen's Land.  From one-
half to two-thirds of the home grown wool is smeared, which,
if not done with too much tar, is not found objectionable for the
manufacture of cloth.  Nearly a half of the raw material is manu-
factured into yarns, flannels, blankets, shawls, and plaids; the
other half, or nearly, is used for narrow cloths, which bring in the
market from 20d. to 6s. 6d. per yard; together with crumb-cloth
or carpeting, of grey or mixed colours.  By the use of foreign wool,
the flannels of this place have risen to a degree of fineness surpas-
sing, it has been said by the Board of Trustees, any made in Scot-
land, if not even the finest of the Welsh manufacture.  Blankets,
partly of the Scotch, and partly of the English mode of manufac-
ture, are extensively produced from the white or unlaid wool of this
country; and blanket-shawls of many colours, and so full of com-
fort as to make a bad day desirable, have of late been in great de-
mand; and the gleam of fashion, like a May sun, has given a new
stir to the working bees of this town.  The shawls are accommo-


