
     of Fortingal.

the greater industry of the people, the stop that has been put
to the depredations of thieves, and the people, instead of rear-
ing black cattle, having turned their farms into sheep-walks,
which they find much more profitable.  These are likewise the
causes of the great rise of rent.  In 1754, the tenants planted
perhaps one lippie or two of potatoes.  Now they plant a boll,
two bolls, or more.  They keep the potatoe ground very clean.
The general increase is 12 bolls or more.  Few sowed any
lintseed at that time.  Perhaps there were not two hogsheads
sown in the parish.  Now there are perhaps 24 hogsheads sown
yearly, every tenant and croster having from one to four lip-
pies.  The increase is about one stone from the lippie.  The
wives and maides spin the flax; the yarn is purchased by deal-
ers, who travel over the country for that purpose, and by
whom it is sent to Perth or Glasgow.
   The people here marry young.  Either owing to the climate,
their moderate labour, their temperate living, or other causes,
they have an uncommonly numerous offspring.  This is the
reason, why the Highlands are a nursery, for raising so many
useful hands, for the countries below them.  It is almost incre-
dible to tell, what swarms leave the country every year, and
go to the south for service.  Almost all the boys, from 10 to
15, go to tend sheep or cattle, and learn a little English.-
Many of them afterwards go into service, or to handicraft em-
ployments, and never return.  Besides these, crosters, cott-
gers, and day-labourers, who can earn no bread at home, set
out for the great towns to get employment.  Our extensive
sheep-walks are certainly, in that respect a loss to the public.
It is now exceedingly difficult to raise recruits among us.  At-
tachment to chiestains and lairds is dying away.  Labour is not
such a burden as it was; And what, more than every thing
else, makes it difficult to recruit, is, that the people know the
security and protection which the law affords them.


