
   20                            ELGINSHIRE.

   placed in Pluscarden, very few of the country people have to travel
   more than three or four miles at most to church, and even some of
   these are still nearer to the neighbouring parish churches.  The
   church was built in 1828, and can conveniently contain 1800 per-
   sons.  Thirty-six free sittings are set apart for the poor.  Four silver
   communion cups, the gifts of pious individuals, are the only bene-
   factions on record.  There is no manse, but in lieu of it, the heri-
   tors paying stipend agreed some years ago to pay the senior mi-
   nister L. 50 per annum. during his incumbency, or until they should
   build a manse.  Each clergyman has a glebe of about four acres,
   which is presently rented at L. 18.  The stipend, as modified in
   1808, is a fraction under fifteen chalders of barley to each minister,
   and L. 5 for communion elements.  As the sacrament of the Lord's
   Supper is dispensed twice a-year, it would require nearly double the
   allowance to defray the expense.  It has been already observed,
   that there is a missionary in Pluscarden, supported by the Royal
   Bounty, by the interest of some legacies, and by the heritors and
   people, conformable to the regulations of the commission for ma-
   naging his Majesty's gift.  This mission has been established up-
   wards of a century, and supplies the ordinances of the gospel and
   spiritual instruction to a population of about 600 souls, in the most
   remote district of the parish.
      The sectarian places of public worship in the town are nume-
   rous, and are frequented by persons from every parish in the pres-
   bytery of Elgin.  There are two chapels connected with the United
   Associate Synod of the Secession church; one with the Associate
   Synod of Original Seceders, an Independent chapel in connection
   with the Congregational Union of Scotland, an Episcopal, and a
   Catholic chapel,--the Catholic bishop residing in Enzie, Banff-
   shire.  The ministers of these chapels, are paid by their congrega-
   tions in seat rents, and collections; and as a large proportion of the
   people attending the chapels of the Secession church are of the
   poorer classes, their stipends must be very small.  Dissent does not
   appear to be on the increase, and divine service at the Establish-
   ed church is generally well attended by at least three-fourths of the
   respectable families of the town and parish.  The number of com-
   municants is about 800.
      Religious Societies.-Bible and missionary societies have been
   established in the parish for many years ; and the following is a pro-
   bable average of their annual contributions; British and Foreign
   Bible Socioty, L.20; Edinburgh Bible Society, L.30; Mission-


