
38	                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

the worship of Baal and other idols, and the shocking crime of
human sacrifices by the Canaanites, the children of Israel were
commanded to destroy them; Numb. xxxiii. 52. Deut. xii. 2, 3;
to break down their altars and pillars in high places, and to burn,
their groves with fire.
	On the north end of the hill of Garvock, there is another Drui-
dical cairn on the farm of Sootywells, about the half of which was
removed some years ago ; but nothing remarkable found. About
half a mile farther on, there is another of the same kind on the
farm of Arthurhouse, but much larger, and which in its day had
been equal in magnificence to the cairn of Johnston. Some years
ago, about three-fourths of it was removed, and converted into
metal for the roads. It was then found that, similar to the cairn
of Johnston, it was surrounded by a ring of large stones set close
together on edge, from two to three feet high ; but which were
quite covered by the stones of the cairn falling down and over
them, so that the cairn extended about four feet beyond the ring,
which was composed chiefly of blocks of granite. On one side,
there was found a stone coffin composed of freestone slabs within
the ring, but quite close to it on the surface, containing nothing
but a kind of fine impalpable earth. At one place, on the outside
of the ring, were found among the stones upwards of twenty coins,
seemingly silver, but many of them so worn or corroded, that the
workmen broke several of them between their fingers. There was
one pretty well preserved of Alexander I, dated 1107, and an-
other of Robert (Bruce) I. about 1320. They were all given to
Dr Badenach, the proprietor, who handsomely rewarded the work-
men. There was likewire found a silver broach of ancient work-
manship in the cairn. The part of the cairn which Dr Badenaeh
caused to be reserved is about 20 feet diameter ; and his tenant,
Mr Milne, voluntarily gave upwards of half an acre round it, which
being enclosed and planted adds much to the beauty of the place,
and will preserve this relic of Druidisl tntouched to future ge-
nerations.
	On the east side of the parish, on the farm of Nether Tul-
loch, the present tenant, having observed near the bottom of a
sloping field, which had been long in cultivation before his time,
three hillocks, forming a triangle whose sides were about 40,
50, and 60 yards, more gravelly and always yielding a more
slender crop than the rest, was induced a few years ago to ex-
amine the cause, and had not gone above two feet deep till he
came to a stone coffin in each of the hillocks. Each coffin, which


