
22                       KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

place of worship after the magistrates of Kirkcudbright had ob-
tained pnssession of the Friars' church.
        Galtway * church stood on high ground, about two miles from
the burgh. Traces of the walls are apparent. The church seems
to have been but small, about 30 feet in length by 15 in breadth.
The church yard is still used by a few families. It is completely
surrounded by a thriving plantation, and has a very sequestered ap-
pdarance: the ancient wall, much dilapidated, exhibits its for-
mer boundaries. The enclosure is but small, namely, 67 paces
long and 45 broad. The oldest monument is Thomas Ledder-
dale's of St Mary's Isle, who died on the 10th of February 1687.
In the neighbourbood are some traces of a village which the
plough has not entirely effaced.
	The church and lands of Galtway were appropriated to the
prior and canons of St Mary's Isle, a dependent cell of Holyrood,
and continued tn belong to that establishment until the Reforma-
tion. The priory stood in the parish of Galtway.
        Dunrod + Church was situated at the distance of nearly three
and a-half miles from the town of Kirkcudbright. The church
seems to have been about 30 feet long and 15 broad. It also be-
longed to Holyrood. ++ The church-yard is of a circular form and
continues to be used.
	The population here was once considerable, though now few
houses remain in the neighbourhood. In the end of the seven-
teenth century, the heritors of Dunrod and Galtway opposed
the minister's application for an augmentation of stipend, because
the parishes were a mere waste.
	At what time the three parishes were united, is not exactly
known; but it is thought that both Galtway and Dunrod were an-
nexed to Kirkcudbright in 1663.  '
	The priory of St Mary's Isle with its church, stood upon a
piece of ground which must have been completely insulated at
every influx of the tide. It is now a beautiful peninsula, and
contains the seat of the Earl of Selkirk. This change has been
affected partly by the retreat of the sea along the whole coast, but
particularly at St Mary's Isle, and by embankments formed on
each side of the isthmus between the island and the mainland.

<FOOTNOTE>From the British galt, a steep ascent.
	  This word is said to be derived from Dun, a hill, and rudd, red.
	  The Abbot of Holyrood granted to the collegiate church of Biggar the right of
patronage of the pdrpetual vicarage of the parish church of Dunrod, in the stewartry
or Kirkcudbright, on the 5th May 1555.--( New Statistical Account of Biggar.)


