
                          SANDWICK.                               49

ble for coal to be present in any quantity, without its croppings or
outgoings being perceived somewhere.
   Fossil fish and vegetables occur in several places, even among the
strata within half a-mile of the granite. All the species of these ich-
thyolites are far from being completely collected and known yet;
but it is believed that they prove these strata to be identical with the
slates of Caithness, and of the southern sbores of the Moray
Frith. Flinty slate and chert, passing into lydian stone, abound
in these slates. Sandstone, some hundred yards thick, lies in im-
imediate contact with the conglomerate on the north end of the
primitive districton the west coast of the parish.  It has that dia-
gonal arrangement of the layers called false stratification. It is
much more hard and crystalline than the new red sandstone, of a
dark grey or brown colour, and is the only good quarry for mill-
stones in this county.
   Veins of galena are not uncommon, and one near the manse of
Stromness has been worked for about 100 yards, but long since
forsaken, as a speculation which would not pay. It is here asso-
ciated with common heavy spar, and a mineral is found in small
quantity along side of it, composed of carbonate of strontia, and
sulphate of barytes, which -has been described by Professor Traill
as an entirely new mineral, and named Stromnite, or Barystrontia-
nite. The other minerals that this part of the formation contains
are of no consequence, viz. quartz or rock crystal in veins, calca-
reous spar in veins. Iron and copper pyrites, the former, most
commonly in veins or nodules and heavy spar, occur sometimes of
considerable thickness.
   III.Sandstone.-This rock lies upon the slates, and is by most geo-
logists considered the old red sandstone. It occurs neither in this pa-
rish, Stromness, nor Birsay to which my observations on the slates
refer; but to understand the position of these rocks, it is necessary
to trace them to Hoy, south of Stromness, where this sandstone
rests on the slates. There it rises to the height of 1600 feet
above the level of the sea, in the Ward Hill. It varies much in
colour, but is generally gray, red, or brown; and is disposed in
strata, which are often so soft that it is not much used for building.
Government, however, employed it for erecting martello towers,
v?hich are fast crumbling away. This sandstone is easily decom-
posed by the action of the sea and forms numerous caves and fan-
tastic forms along the precipices where it occurs, Of which the in-
sulated rock, called the Old Man of Hoy, that is so conspicuous
from Caithness, may be given as an instance. This singular rock
ORKNEY.


