
     The Statistical Account.

sions, commonly in the form of dialogues; and their peculiar
excellence consists in the natural, though highly ingenious,
method, whereby the reader is compelled to think for him-
self, and is led on, step by step, to fix his regard on those
circumstances which merit principal consideration in every
object under review.  That this gentleman may complete
what he has so happily begun, ought to be the with of every
parent and instructor of youth.  He has, however, already
rendered a very high service to the interests of education;
erected the most durable monument to his own philanthropic
ingenuity; and lest a model for the imitation of all future
authors in the same line*.  Were some men of eminent abi-
lities (and ordinary talents are unequal to the talk) to devote
part of their leisure to the Continuation of his plan, a Juve-
nile Encyclopedia would from be composed, stored, if not
with the pomp, at least with the principles; of universal
knowledge.  Not that the whole of such a system could be
taught at country schools; a small part of it only would com-
pletely occupy the little time that is allotted for the educa-
tion of the multitude: but the remainder might afterwards
usefully entertain their leisure hours, when winter and dark-
ness prevent them from following the labours of the field.
   The judgment of the teacher is supposed sufficient to direct
him what parts of it ought to be introduced, according to the
circumstances and views of his various scholars.  The practical
part of geometry, and the principles of mechanics, if taught
     S s 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The performance here alluded to is entitled, 'Evenings at Home,' in
four small volumes, by Dr. Aikin.  The elegant pen of his sister, Mrs Bar-
bauld, contributed the poetry, and, I believe, part of the moral dramas.
Would the condescend to supply the chasm between the present work, and
her, Lessons for Children between three and four years of age,' she would
add another to the many obligations both young and old are already under to
her, for entertainment and instruction.


