
			ANNAN.                             521

poor and barren soil, though not incapable, of improvement and
culture.
	A few boulders of sienite, of considerable size, occur in different
parts of the parish. The nearest rocks of the same kind are those
of Skiddaw in Cumberland, and Criffel in Galloway, from either
or both of which localities, they may have been conveyed to their
present positions, by the irresistible force of the diluvial waters.
        Zoology.--The salmon,  * the grilse, and the trout, + frequent
the frith and river. In the frith, the sparling, the cod, the had-
dock, and the sturgeon, thd turbot, the sole, and the skate, occa-
sionally make their appearance. The herling at one time fre-
quented the frith in great numbers, but of late years has almost
wholely deserted it. The salmon fry + migrate to the sea, from
the middle of April to the middle of May. The herring ascends
the river from the beginning of July, till toward the end of Au-
gust, and returns to the sea the following spring. The sea-trout
commences running so early as April, becomes most plentiful in
June, and descends the river in spring. The migrations of the
grilse correspond exactly with those of the herling. The salmon
continues to run from September till on towards Christmas, and
returns to the sea in spring,--having completely deserted the river
by the end of April.
	Botany.-There are but few, if any, very rare plants in the pa-
rish, which, however, is no bad field for the young botanist. The
earliest harbingers of spring along the banks of the river are
the coltsfoot, (Tussilago farfara,) and the common butter-bur
(Tussilago petasites, ) the former of which abounds also in the fields.
Next to these in succession, come the wood-sorrel (Oxalis aceto-
sella,) the primrose (Primula veris,) the dog's-violet (Viola ca-
nina,) the wild hyacinth or harebell (Hyacinthus non scriptus,)

<FOOTNOTE>A species of the salmon, here named the spring salmon weighing from five to eight
pounds, and in which there is found neither milt nor roe, enters the river in the be-
ginning of January, and thdre remains only a very short time. It is remarkably
rich, and is sold at from 2s. to 3s. pe,, lb.
         A species of the trout, called the bull-trout, has here been taken at the weight
of 30 lbs., and has sometimes been palmell upon the market for salmon, from which,
however, it is easily distinguished by the rounded shape and larger size of the head,
besides cutting white.
         The yellow-fin, here so named from the colour of its fins, weighing about a-third
of a pound, and supposed to belong to the salt water, but respecting which extremely
little is here known, visits the lower part of the river from the middle of April till
towards the end of May, for the purpose, as is conjectured, of conducting the red
to the sea. When the fry in a body are leaving the river, the yellow-fin is observed
preceding them at a very short distance, or mingled with the foremost. It is never
seen more than three or four miles  up the liver, in which it is not taken or observed
except during the period alluded to.
	DUMFRIES                             L l


