
802                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

the present height of the central point of the green surface of this
island, above the bottom of the Ythan, and found it to he eight
feet three inches.  As the highest tide now just reaches this point
(not quite the highest of the island), Inch-Geck may be consider-
ed as a gauge to after generations for ascertaining the rate at
which the ocean recedes from this part of the east coast of Scotland.
That it has receded little or nothing at the mouth of the Ythan
for many years back is farther confirmed by the observation of
Gordon of Straloch, that it was in his days only navigable for
small craft; (minoribus navigiis solum pervius).  If pervius alludes
to the entrance of the river, it would seem that its mouth, which
is still much obstructed by a moveable bar of sand, is yet more
open than it was two centuries ago, for the shipping of the New-
burgh at present consists of vessels from seventy to ninety tons
burden.  But as it is more likely he alluded to its interior naviga-
tion, then also lighters, carrying from six to twelve tons, now ply
up and down with the tide, aided, when the wind is favourable, by
a sail, and always by a set (or pole), twenty feet long, in the hands
of the lightermen.  Eight or nine of these belonging to the ship-
owners of the Newburgh, are employed in carrying lime, coals, and
bones to different landing places on the banks of the river, the
highest of which is about four miles from its month.  Whether the
Ythan might not be rendered navigable to a greater height, by
dredging or otherwise, (of the advantage of which to the interior
of the country there can be no doubt), I pretend not to say; but
I am happy, that, through the favour of William Gordon, Esq. of
Fyvie, (who, a few years ago, employed a very ingenious servant
of his own to take the levels of the Ythan, with a view to ascer-
tain the dip of the horizon at his observatory in Fyvie Castle), I
am enabled to furnish one of the data for the solution of that pro-
blem.  By him it was found that the ordinary current of the Ythan
at Watertown, a little above Boat of Logie, three miles from the
sea, is equal to the level of the sea at half flood.

<TABLE>

At Fechil,       .   .   4 miles from the sea, it is  0 feet  4 inches above it.
   Ellon village,	  .    5	                        4       7
   Esslemont,     .      6                           10       8

<FOOTNOTE>Foveran.  But, though a man of learning and genius, in this he must have been
mistaken, for the oldest residenters assure me that they know no perceptible rise
in it.  The filling up of the Sleek of Tarty would indeed be a serious injury to the
sea-port of Newburgh, as it is the discharge of the tide from it and the other sleeks
on its banks that serve to keep the mouth of the Ythan so open as it is.  An expe-
rienced sea captain of Newburch thinks, that the sinking of two or three old ships
filled with stones would serve to improve the entrance to the Ythan.


