
                                 COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                      147

	Men are often placed in the alternative of either abstaining from
	salving or of embezzling it.
	   Diseases.-The most common diseases are catarrh, rheumatism,
	and dyspepsia.  Continued fever also frequently occurs ; but acute
	inflammations and cutaneous diseases are not so common as they
	were formerly, perhaps owing to a considerable change in the die of
	the people.  Fewer individuals die in infancy than in most other
	countries, possibly from the general prevalence of crusta lactea,
	which evidently acts as a natural and beneficial counter-irritant
	against visceral congestion, but which, when injuditiously interfer-
	ed withby repellants, often produces fatal internal disease.  In-
	stancesof great 1011gevity are rare.  The women usually live to a
	greater age, and preserve their faculties better, than the men, it
	may be from having been less exposed to excessive and desultory
	labour.  It is remarkable that no authentic instance of Asiatic cho-
        lera has occurred.  A rigorous quarantine was maintained dur-
	ing the prevalence of the pestilence in Scotland ; but whether this
	measure contributed to save the islands from its visitation, is a
	question that resolves itself into the more general one of the con-
	tagious nature of the disease,--a point on which able medical au-
	thorities are at issue.
	   Geology.--The rocks are mostly all of what has been called
	the primitive formation.--Granite, gneiss, mica-slate, clay-slate,
	limestone, serpentine, and diallage rock; and towards the south
	end of the country, secondary sandstone, &c.  Serpentine forms
	considerable hills in Unst, the most northerly island of the clus-
	ter, and in Fetlar adjacent to it; and in this rock are found imbed-
	ded masses and veins of chrome ore, some thousand tons of which
        have been quarried and sold. The first quarry of this valuable
	mineral was found by Mr Edmondston of Buness, on his private
	property, and be introduced it to the British market.  It is ex-
	ported in its crude state, or partially pulverized and levigated.
	It is used as a pigment, dye, and alloy, and might  perhaps be use-
	ful as a medicine.  Limestone is found in different situations, and
	burnt in rude kilns with peat fuel ; it is chiefly used as mortar, lit-
	de being employed in agriculture, though its general introduction
	would be an important economical improvement.  When applied
	in the state of carbonate, it will act on certain conditions of soil,
	often to, be met with here, more beneficially than when it is caus-
	tic, not only by neutralizing acids, but by supplying carbon.  Sand-
	stone-slate abounds, and is extensively in demand for roofing; it is


