
              ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                     943

on the changes that might thus have been produced in the rela-
tive conditions of the two kingdoms?
   From Wolf Clyde, where the river takes the remarkable curve
above-mentioned, its course is nearly west by north, till, about a
quarter of a mile below Hyndford Bridge, it makes another re-
markable bend to the north, and flowing in that direction between
more contracted banks, and over a more rocky bed, forms the suc-
cessive romantic falls of Bonnington, Cora Linn, and Stonebyres.  In
the rest of its course, it is comparatively smooth, flowing through
a country of peculiar richness and beauty, and becoming at Glas-
gow the medium of the most important branch of the commerce of
Scotland.
   Since the date of the last Statistical Account, this river has
undergone the most material improvements.  With the progress
of commerce and manufactures in Glasgow, the advantage, and,
indeed, the necessity, of rendering it a convenient port, has been so
strongly felt, that, to this object, the attention of the citizens has
been most eagerly and successfully directed.  Seventy years since,
the depth of the Clyde, at the mouth of the Kelvin, was accord-
ing to a survey made by the celebrated James Watt, only 3
feet, 8 inches, at high water, and 1 foot, 6 inches, at low water.
Twenty years after, no vessels of more than forty tons burden
could come up to Glasgow.  Twenty-two years since, the river
was navigable to the Broomielaw for vessels of 170 or 180 tons,
and drawing 9 feet, 6 inches of water.  Within fourteen years after,
vessels drawing 13 feet, 6 inches, could reach the city; and now
vessels from all the quarters of the globe, some of them of upwards
of 600 tons burden, and drawing 16 or 17 feet of water, are frequent-
ly to be seen lining in triple rows nearly the whole length of the har-
bour.  In the year from July 1816 to July 1817, the revenue of
the river was L.7028, Os. 7d.  This year it exceeded L.40,000.
   A new quay, faced with blocks of granite, and about 2000 feet
in length, has lately been formed on the south side of the Clyde.
A magnificent plan has been formed for still further widening and
deepening the river, and building ample docks on the south bank.
It is proposed to apply for a Parliamentary loan of L.3000,000, to
assist in carrying this plan into effect.
   In its progress through the county of Lanark, to which till
it passes Glasgow, its course is wholly confined, this fine river
receives many tributary stream.  Of these, besides the Dear
already mentioned, the principal are the Duneaton, which, rising
at the foot of Cairntable, flows through the parish of Craw-


