
                          PERTH.                        121

  The Academy, instituted 1760.-Dr Robert Hamilton, the well
known Professor of Natural Philosophy in Marischal College, Aber-
deen, and author of "Hnquiry into the Rise and Progress, the Re-
demption and present State of Management of the National Debt
of Great Britain," was the rector of it for ten years before he was
raised to the professorship. Its present rector is Dr Adam Ander-
son, of distinguished scientific attainment.
   The total number of schools, including those of the academy,
which is an endowed institution, is 35.
   The branches of instruction generally taught, are,
      I.-In the Academy.               I
   1. By the rector and his assistant: Arithmetic, book-keeping,
algebra, elementary and practical geometry, including the mensu-
ration of surfaces, surveying, fortification, measurement of solids,
gauging, navigation, geography, natural philosophy, astronomy,
and chemistry.
   2. By the rector of the grammar-scbool and his assistants:
Latin, Greek, ancient geography, &c.
   3. By the master of the school for modern languages: French,
Italian, Spanish, and German.
   4. By the master of the writing school: writing, plain and orna-
mental, practical arithmetic.
   5. By the master of the drawing-school: painting with oil and
water-colours, pencilling, and architectural drawing.
   6. 7. By the masters of the two English schools: reading English,
grammar, elocution, composition, history, and geography.
     II.-In various quarters of the town and suburbs.
   1. The Endowed Trades' School, reading, writing, and arithmetic.
   2. The Endowed School for the Children of the.Poor: reading,
writing, and arithmetic.
   3. In the Subscription Manufacturers' School: reading, writing,
and arithmetic.
   4. In the Subscription Female School: reading, writing, arith-
metic, sewing, and knitting.
   5. 6. In the two Subscription Infant Schools : reading, sewing,
and knitting.
   III.-In various quarters of the town and suburbs, there are
twenty-two unendowed schools, in which all the ordinary branches
of education are taught. *

<FOOTNOTE>In 1666, tHe TOwn Council, in consequence of a representation given in by Mr
Andrew Anderson, schoolmaster, prohibited "all women who kept schools flow taking
any men to learn, than those that were seven years old and under, and that should


