
                        ROSENEATH.                            103

exceedingly plebeian in their etymological solutions, and exhibit
no taste for romantic and interesting derivations. But, notwithstand-
ing this impression, they may be correct in the present case; for it
is certainly by no means improbable, that such an epithet would be
suggested by the general aspect of the peninsula, before any art was
employed in its cultivation or adornment. A third class, however,
reject both these derivations, being confident that modern or-
thography is a corruption of Ross-na-choich, or the Virgin's pro-
montory: these would thus have us believe that the name has
no connection with the natural appearance of the locality, but with
a fact in its ecclesiastical history,--a church having at a very ear-
ly period been dedicated to the blessed Virgin. It is of very little
consequence which hypothesis be adopted: all seem to be equal-
ly probable. It may be said, however, that with neither of the
two last does the natural appearance or ecclesiastical condition of
the place at present correspond: for it is now clothed with artifi-
cial plantations of various ages, and singular beauty, while the ve-
nerable cruciform church, so consecrated, no longer exists--that.
which in superstitious times seems to have extended no ordinary
sanctity, if it did not give a name to its sequestered environs, hav-
ing been superseded more than seventy years ago by a Presbyte-
rian parallelogram of the plainest description. The name is thus
of a very conjectural origin: and it may farther be stated, that
there are strong reasons for supposing that it is not descriptive of
the promontory at all, but of a large district of country, comprising
part of the lordship of Lennox, designated Nevyd; and that the
peninsula of Roseneath is just the Ros-de-Nevyd. So long, then,
as the meaning of Nevyd is undetermined, we cannot fix the origin
or import of the present name: but should it be equivalent to
Snowy, which is very likely, then Roseneath might be translated the
peninsula of the snowy district, which would be graphically appli-
cable to its position in the gorge of the adjacent mountains, partly
comprehended in that lordship: for in winter, especially after a snow
storm, its aspect is very remarkable, extending its undulating surface
darkly on the waters, while the snows are unmelted in the mountain-
ous regions which surround it. But etymologies of the name seem
quite exhaustless.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The length is about 8 miles, and the
breadth varies from about 1 1/2 to 2 miles. It is bounded on the
east by the Gareloch; on the south, by the Clyde; on the west, by
Loch Long; and on the north, by the parish of Row; being thus,


