
476                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

-his son, the Master of Morton,-and many others, besides a vast
amount of booty, fell into the hands of the English.*
   James Douglas, fourth Earl of Morton, succeeded to his father-
in-law, the third Earl, in 1553. Though this young nobleman rose
to the highest honours of the State, and his actions have become the
property of general history; yet, from his connection with the pa-
rish of Dalkeith, his principal residence being here from the time
of his marriage till his death, a brief and connected account of his
life may not be unsuitable in the historical sketch of this parish.
   The Regent Morton was born about the year 1517.+  He
was the second son of the noted Sir George Douglas of
Pittendriech,-nephew of Archibald, sixth Earl of Angus,
-and brother of David, the seventh Earl. In consequence
of the attainder of his uncle Earl Archibald, and his father
Sir George, under James V., young Morton was obliged to spend
his childhood in obscurity. His education was neglected, and he
was under the necessity of living for some years under the feigned
name of Innes, in the capacity of grieve or land-steward to a pri-
vate gentleman.+  On the death of James V., in 1542, his father
and other relatives were restored to their estates; and Morton,
leaving his concealment, was speedily married to the Lady Elisa-
beth Douglas, daughter of James, third Earl of Morton; and be-
came heir with her to the estates, honours, and titles of her father.
   On the capture of Dalkeith Castle, after the battle of Pinkie,
young Morton being taken prisoner, as has been already mention-
ed, was carried to England, where he was detained for several
years. How he obtained his liberty seems not to be known; but,
on his return home, he always showed an attachment to England,
-imitating their accent and language, and being favourable to
their policy. On the death of his brother David, the Earl of An-
gus, he become tutor to the young earl, his nephew, and lived for
some time in retirement, to recruit their exhausted fortunes.
When he came to take a part in the management of public affairs,
he zealously supported the cause of the Reformers, whose principles
he had early embraced:-he signed the Covenant in 1557, and

<FOOTNOTE>Tytler's History of Scotland, Vol. vi. pp.49-50; compared with Diurnal of Oc-
currents, pp. 46-47; and Calderwood's History, Vol. i. p.255. Wodrow, Ed. 1842.
          He resigned his regency in 1577-8, one reason for which, he says, was "his
great age, being now past threescoir ane zeiris."  Record of Privy Seal, quoted in
M'Crie's Life of Melville, Vol. i. p.197.
          Hume of Godscroft, Vol. ii. page 138, Edinburgh, 1743. Also Crawfurd's Offi-
cers of State, page 94.
          He sat in the Parliament of 1560 ,which ratifled the Reformation.-Acts of Scot.
Parl., Vol. ii., p. 526-6,&c.


