
                       LAIRG.                            59

   The most common alluvial deposit is peat, between which and
the rock, gravel is generally found. In some places, however, the
soil is loamy and fertile. Immense quantities of fir are found im-
bedded in the moss in all parts of the parish,-a proof that at one
time the ground was covered with wood. At present, however,
there is none except some birch which grows along the lake.

		      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   This parish does not appear in remote times to have produced
any men of great eminence. In the absence of such, a few indi-
viduals may therefore be mentioned, connected with, or natives of,
the parish during the last century, and whose names are not un-
worthy of a place in this record.
The first we shall notice, - is the Rev. John Mackay, a man of
superior birth and education, who in 1714 was translated to Lairg
from his native parish of Durness on the west coast. Mr Mackay
found this parish in a rude uncivilized state, owing, among other
causes, to the lingering remains of popish superstition and igno-
rance, and to the want of a resident ministry for several years be-
fore. The Earls of Sutherland, the hereditary sheriffs of the
county, strenuously endeavoured to remedy this evil, but found it
difficult to procure faithful ministers of the Gospel, able to admi-
nister spiritual instruction to the people in their native language. In
Mr John Mackay the Earl of Sutherland found a man peculiarly fit-
ted for such a charge,-as, with a profound knowledge of theology,
acquired at the Universities of Utrecht and Edinburgh, and an
enlightened zeal for the propagation of the gospel, he had a robust
bodily frame, and corresponding vigour of mind. The parish af-
forded ample scope for the exercise of his talents,-disorderly
habits and immorality prevailing to a great degree, and drunken
quarrels, even to the effusion of blood, being of frequent occur-
rence in the churchyard on the Lord's day, after divine service, as
appears from a fragment of the session records still extant. To
repress such enormities, the Earl invested his new presentee with
a salutary, though not strictly legal power, to use force and inflict
corporal punishment when he judged it necessary. Armed with
this authority, Mr John Mackay proceeded vigorously to the work
of reformation among his people; in which he was further assisted
by a certain air of moral elevation in his bearing, which overawed
persons of the most profligate character. He sometimes had re-
course to very strong measures: but at length, by the blessing of
God on his spiritual labours, he had the satisfaction to see pure
religion in a flourishing state among his people. He died in 1753,


