
     Statistical Account

   Miscellaneous Observations.-It may be noticed as a defect,
with respect to the interests of the country at large, in the
oeconomy of the farmers of this parish and neighbourhood,
that they employ only unmarried men as servants.  The ef-
fect of which is, that fewer marry than would, if they had a
prospect of obtaining employment, amidst their relations and
companions, in that species of labour to which they have been
bred, equally well after marriage as before it.  And also, that,
of those who marry, some leave the parish, and others become
moss tenants, at the hazard of enduring greater hardships

<FOOTNOTE>

bourer gets victuals, 4 d. per day has been in use for some time past to
be duducted. Formerly this practice was reckoned favourable to the em-
ployer, but now, from the change in the way of living, it is reckoned to be
rather against him-Cutting hay costs 20 d. per acre; shearing corn, 5 s. 6 d.
per ditto-The wages of harvest work are, to men 1 s. per day and victuals,
to women 8 d. and victuals-The men, if engaged during the harvest, re-
ceives L. 1:15 if only during the time of cutting L. 1:8.  The women
get L. 1:1-The wages for taylors, 25 years ago, were 2 d. per day and 
victuals; 15 years since 4 d; row 8 d. and 10 d. with victuals.-The wages for 
masons are 2 s. for carpenters 18 d per day-Cotton spinners earn from 8 s.
to L. 1:15 per week.  One man, who left the plough about a year ago,
earns L. 1:11:6 weekly.  Women, at the cotton work, earn from 3 s. to 7 s.
per week, children, from 1 s. to 2 s 6 d. per week.
   There are different societies formed among the workmen, each of which
has a fund for the relief of the sick.  Each of these societies gives 3 s. per 
week to such of their members as are unable to work, but not confined to bed,
and 6 s to such of them  as are in the latter case-The same person may be,
and frequently is, a member of two of those societies, and thus receives 12 s.
per week in sickness.-The condition of the labourers and handycraftsmen, it
may be collected from what is already said, is much improved, especially in
the course of the last 12 years.  They have constant employment, and their
expence of living, although greater than formerly, is not increased in pro-
portion to the advance of wages-When in health, they maintain themselves
and families in manner, that, being compared to that to which they were
accustomed in their early days, appears to them very comfortable.  Two of 
them need any charitable supply, and some save money.


