
			WEST KILBRIDE.			       271

learis of the Isle of Litill Comeray, the dere, cunyngis, and wild
bestis being thairin, quhill the Kingis perfite age of xv yere; be-
caus Robert Huntare of Huntarestoune, forrestar of heritage of
the said isle, is nocht of power to resist the personis that waistis
the samyn, without suplie and help, &c."*
	And Mr Donald Monro, in his Description of the Western Isles,
1594, observes, "Besides this (the Greater Cumbray,) lyes ane
iyle callit Cumbray of the Dais, because there is many Dayis in-
till it." Not a vestige of the deer here alluded to has survived
within the memory of the present time, nor does any remembrance
of them appear to have been handed down by local tradition.
	On an islet rock on its east side, near the middle of the island,
stands an ancient square tower, the walls of which are still nearly
entire. It is about 35 feet in height, embattled. The area in-
side is 28 feet by 15, the walls being 6 in thickness; and as usual
the first story is vaulted over with stone arches. During Crom-
well's visit to Scotland, Principal Baillie alludes to his having re-
tired to this fortlet for some time, to which the family of Eglinton,
his great patrons, appear at that conjuncture to have withdrawn.
	"*** Cromwell, with the whole body of his army and can-
non, comes peaceably by the way of Kilsyth to Glasgow. The
magistrates and ministers fled all away. I got to the Isle of Cum-
ray, with my Lady Montgomery, but left all my family and goods
to Cromwell's courtesy, which indeed was great; for he took such
a course with his soldiers, that they did less displeasure at Glas-
gow than if they had been in London, though Mr Zachary Boyd
railed on them all to their face in the High Church."--Letters, &c.
ii. 395.
	In the former Account it is stated, that this castle, "was sur-
prised and burned  by Cromwell's soldiers," which is by no means
improbable, though, perhaps resting only on the authority of oral
tradition. Lord Eglinton appearsall through to have been highly ini-
mical to the Protector. Monk, for some short time, placed a small
garrison in the house of Eglinton itself; and it is stated, that the
Castle of Ardrossan, a place of considerable strength, was then
thrown down by the same authority.  In the burgh records of
Glasgow, is registered a curious contract, dated in 1568, in which
the following particulars relative to the castle of Cumbray and

<FOOTNOTE>The following notice of the family of Hunterston occurs in Mr Thomas Crawfurd's
Heraldrie Collections in the Advocates' Library: "Hunter of Hunterston (praefectus
vexatorum regiorum) in Cuningham," bears for arms "vert, 3 hunting horms, Or,
bandred, gules."


