
152                            FORFARSHIRE.

bestial, hiring of servants, &c. There is a linen-hall in this vil-
lage, which is now converted into a school-room. *
	North of Letham there is a long straggling village called Drum-
mietermon, chiefly inhabited by small farmers, most of whom are
weavers. There are also small villages at Bouriefad, at Craichy,
Cotton of Lownie, and Kirkton of Dunnichen.
        To the west of Dunnichen there is another straggling village,
called Cotton of Lownie, chiefly inhabited by small farmers, most
of whom are also weavers.
        In the Kirkton of Dunnichen an annual fair is held on the third
Wednesday of March, Old Style. This is said to have been a
great market in former times, and was held with continuation of
days. Now very little business is done there; and only a few idle
people assemble at it for amusement.
	Means of Communication.--The old roads of this parish are ge-
nerally very ill contrived. The principal road upon the estate of
Dunnichen is too narrow, and is always miry in wet weather. A
new toll road from Dundee to Brechin has long been in contempla-
tion, which will pass through Letham.  This road has been com-
pleted in some places to the northward, and has been already formed
in so far as it passes through the estate of Dunnichen. It cannot
fail to be of great advantage to this district, by opening an easy
communication with the distinguished port of Dundee. There are
only four bridges in the parish, each of one arch.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The earliest place of worship in the parish
was situated in the shallow lake, or Mire of Dunnichen, on what
has some appearance of having been an artificial island, and of
which some of the foundations are still visible. A deep ditch had
separated it from the solid land; and the ditch seems to have been
crossed by a draw-bridge. This place obtained the name of St Cows-
land's Chapel. After William the Lion had granted all the lands an-
nexed to Red Castle, and many others, to the monastery of Ar-
broath, of which he was the founder, it appears that this fraternity
converted Cowsland's Chapel into a parish church, and constitut-
ed all their lands in this quarter into a parish annexed to this
church. There not being a sufficient quantity of produce to afford
a stipend to a clergyman, farm-bolls and feu-duties were allotted
from the cultivated lands on Lunan Water for his support.+

<FOOTNOTE>At a fair which was held here on a Saturday in 1852, the Sabbath was largely
encroached upon, and on that morning an strogious murder was committed. The offlen-
der being pldd culpable homicide, was sentenced to one year's imprisonment.
          A circumstance may be mentioned that shows the state of agriculture in these


