
334                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

convenient time, to some secluded spot on their estates, where she
might be no more heard of.
   This barbarous plan was accordingly acted upon.  News of her
death were spread abroad; a mock funeral took place; while
shortly afterwards she was forced away from her home and family,
and, by devious routes, carried as far as Skye.  She manifested
her characteristic spirit in resisting those who were sent to carry
her off; and so violent was the struggle, that two of her teeth
were knocked out before she was overpowered.  But she was over-
powered, and so dexterously was her abduction managed, that her
friends knew nothing of her fate for several years, but believed
that she war in reality dead.  She was at first confined in the hut
of some poor retainer of Macleod in Skye.  When afraid that her
residence might possibly become known, he sent her to Uist
among Macdonald's followers.  From thence she was banished to
the remote island of St Kilda, where she remained for seven years.
She was again taken back to Uist, and thence to Skye.  While
here a second time, she fell on a very ingenious expedient for com-
municating with her friends.  The poor people among whom
she lived were accustomed to manufacture their wool into yarn,
which they annually sent in large clues to the Inverness market,
for sale.  Lady Grange acquired the art of spinning, and, having
Possessed herself of writing materials, she wrote a letter to one of
her relatives, which she secretly enclosed in a clue of her own
tbread that was sent to the market along with others.  The purchaser
of the yarn forwarded the letter to its destination.  Her friends
were filled with indignation, and instantly applied to the Govern-
ment for the liberation of the unfortunate lady from her captivity.
The Government sent a sloop of war to the coast of Skye, in or-
der to make search for her; but her gaolers were far too well ac-
quainted with the many fastnesses and hiding-places of the coun-
try to allow her to be thus taken.  They immured her for some
time in the cave of ldrigil already noticed, as being situated on
the west of this parish.  After this she was transferred to Uist,
the person who had the management of the boat having beside
him a rope, with a running noose at one end, and a heavy stone
at the other, intending, according to his orders, to fix the noose
round the prisoner's neck, and to consign her immediately to the
deep, should the sloop of war come in sight during the passage.
The passage was accomplished without such a tragical catastrophe
as was comtemplated.  Lady Grange was confined for some time


