
       FOSSOWAY AND TULLIEBOLE.                           1019

formation of walks, which conduct the visitor in safety to the dif-
ferent points whence the most striking views are obtained.
  Mineralogy.-There are whin and freestone quarries in several.
parts of the parish. In the west end of it there are time rock,
iron ore, and coal.  At present three collieries are in operation.
The colliery of Blairngone is of very long standing; the working
of the other two commenced but recently.  The work at the iron-
stone mine was, for a considerable number of years, till about two
months ago, actively prosecuted. A mixture of copper is found
in a rock near the Rumbling Bridge, but it appears that the pro-
portion which the copper bears to the alloy is not sufficient to ren-
der the working of it advantageous. *
  Soils.-There is great diversity of soil in the parish. in some
parts it is mossy, in others gravelly, in some places clayey, and in
others loamy. Some of it is of good quality, while not a little of
it is very inferior.
    Botany.-There is a good deal to interest the botanist here.
The following are some of the plants found in the district:-

Ciraea alpina              Rumex saxatilis           Vicia sylvatica
Veronica montana           Nymphaea alba             Hieracium umbellatum.
Gentiana campestris        Butomus umbellatus
Rumex alpinus              Geranium pratense

There are some fine old trees in the parish, but, none of them of
very remarkable size. Within these few years, much of the larch
fir has appeared to be in a back-going state.  Till then, the cul-
tivation of it was accounted profitable. Spruce and Scotch fir,
asb, elm, plane, and beech thrive well.  Oak, till of late years,
was not mueb.reared; where it has been tried, however, it promises
well.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Till the year 1729, there was a church for each parish, and the
minister officiated every third Sabbath in the church of Tulliebole.'
In that year, a new church was built in a more centr`l situation, to
accommodate the inhabitants of both parishes.  The spot fixed
on is on the south of the Devon, in the western part of Tulliebole,
about a mile and a-half west from the former church of that pa-
rish, and about two miles aouth,from the old church of Foss6way.,
Soon after the erection of the church in its present situation, the
grebe and manse of Fossoway were sold, but the churchyard was
retained; and in it, as well as in that of Tulliebole, some of the

  The late proprietor of Briglands, Thomas Young, Esq., got it scientifically ex,
    amined, and had in his possession some very neat seals made of it.


