
284                        ARGYLESHIRE.

   Botany.-The greater part of the parish must at one time have
been under wood, as in all the peat bogs, large trunks and bran-
ches of trees occur.  There is a good deal of copse still in exis-
tence, consisting of oak, ash, mountain-ash, holly, hazel, and
birch.
  The rarer plants that are found in the parish, according to Mr
Middleton at Achnacroish, who is considered a good botanist, are
the following:

<TABLE>
Osmunds regalis         Solanum Dulcamara          Saxifraga granulata
Adoxa moschatellina     Arenaria maritima          Soldanella alpina
Aster var.              Selenum palustre           Stellaria alpina
Avena var.              Glaux maritima             Trientalis Europaea
Briza var.              Nymphse var.               Lythrum salicaria
Digitalis alba          Pyrola uniflora            Cardamine pratensis
Draba aizodes           ------ rotundifoliz
Erica alba              Saxifraga hirsuta

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Family of Maclean.-It is said that, about the middle of the four-
teenth century, two young men of the name of Maclean, who were
brothers, came from Ireland on a visit to the Lord of the Isles, whose
principal residence was at Aros, in the neighbouring parish of Kil-
ninian.  In process of time, they became his sons-in-law, and obtaiin-
ed from him, besides other possessions, all the lands in the parish of
Torosay, with the exception of that part of it that is adjacent to
Lochbuy, a territory which belonged to a native chief of the name of
Macfadyean.  While one of the brothers fixed his residence at
Duart, the other obtained permission from Macfadyean to build a
fortalice or keep at the head of Lochbuy, on a rock close to the
sea.  Availing himself of the advantage which this position gave
him, he was soon able to wrest all his lands from Macfadyean and
to add them to his own.  In a succeeding age, the families sprung
from the two brothers, regardless of their consanguinity, were
very often engaged in mutual feuds ; but neither of them obtain-
ed any considerable advantage over the other, till it happened that
a chief of Lochbuy died, leaving, his estates, to his only son, at the
time an infant.  Maclean of Duart, judging this to be a favourable
opportunity for annexing the lands of Lochbuy to his own, invad-
ed the territory of his young kinsman, and accomplished his object,
but was disappointed of seizing his person, he having been conveyed
in safety to Ireland, and placed under the protection of his maternal
uncle, the Earl of Antrim.  After attaining to manhood, he re-
turned, attended by a few resolute followers, with the view of re-
covering his paternal possessions.  Leading near Lochbuy, Mur-


