
268                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

rent of from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2, 10s., and the inferior qualities from
10s. to L. 1.  The average may be considered about L. 1 Sterling.
   Leases.-The leases in this parish, and, indeed, throughout the
whole of Aberdeenshire, are generally granted for a term of nine-
teen years.  A lease for a shorter period would certainly be very
much against the interest of both landlord and tenant, as it would
operate as a bar to improvement, and, consequently, to any increase
in the value of the land.
   The only inclosures in the parish are upon the manor farm of
Aberdour, Coburty, Ironhill, and Powburn, there being a great
deficiency of stones for building dikes, and little encouragement
given for inclosing.  The steadings upon the principal farms are
tolerably good, for the most part covered with thatch or tiles, and
but few of them slated.  So long as farm produce afforded a re-
munerating price to the agriculturist, the spirit of improvement,
which was so conspicuous during the war, was kept alive, and a
great deal of waste land brought into cultivation, but unless the
rents are greatly reduced, now that the agricultural capital is in a
great measure exhausted, land of inferior quality, of which there is
a great proportion in this parish, must be allowed to go to heather.
   Between twenty and thirty years ago, the late Mr Dingwall of
Brucklay purchased the estate of Aberdour, containing three-
fifths of the parish, and found every thing connected with agricul-
ture and rural economy in a most backward state.  There were
scarcely any roads, bridges, or fences, and the arable land was in
many places intermixed with, or surrounded by, bogs, mosses, and
moors.  Any drains that had been cut were very inefficient, in
consequence of there being no open ditches, or leading drains to
receive the water.  The fields were laid out in a very irregular
manner, and no proper rotation of cropping was observed.  Mr
Dingwall's first object was to open up the communication by re-
pairing such lines of road as were capable of repair, and mak-
ing new roads where wanted, and this indeed was everywhere.
Bridges also were built where necessary, and open ditches and
water-courses executed at his expense.  The general aspect of
the whole property has undergone a change greater, perhaps, than
any one in the district.  But the value of this estate has been
chiefly enhanced by a new line of road of upwards of seven miles,
which runs through the whole property, from one end to the other,
planned and executed in the most judicious manner.  The ma-
nagement of this estate has shewn, in the most convincing manner,


