
                                 PAISLEY                      161

also Andromeda polyfolia used to abound, but has of late years
been totally eradicated.  Two species of Eriophorum, and several
species of Carex, Schoenus, Scirpus, and Juncus; also Polytrichum,
Cenomyce, Sphagnum, and other Cryptogamia, abound in the mos-
sy districts of the high and low grounds.
   In the glens and shady places are to be found the Lysimachia
nemorum, and nummularia; Chrysoplenium alternifolium, and
oppositifolium; Circea Lutetiana, Adoxa moschatellina, Oxalis ace-
tosella, Mercurialis perennis, Asperula odorata, Primula vulgaris
and veris.  Lychnis dioica, occasionally with white odoriferous
flowers Scolopendrium vulgare, and several species of Polypodium,
Aspidium, and Asplenium.  The Epilobium angustifolium occurs
at Gleniffer Glen, and Trollius Europaeus at Bundrain, in the west
of the parish.
   Among the rubbish of several old limestone and other quarries,
the following plants are met with, viz. Reseda luteola, Teucrium Sco-
rodonia, Pyrethrum parthenium and inodorum, Artemisia vulgaris,
and Tanacetum vulgare.  On the walls of Staneley Castle, the
Parietaria officinalis, Fumaria capreolata and claviculata, are to
be met with; and on the old walls of gardens and fields, the Arabis
Thaliana, Draba verna, Sedum villosum and acre, are not uncom-
mon.  In an old wall near Dundonald, the Grammitis Ceterach
occurs in considerable abundance, together with many species of
native ferns.  On way sides, in two or three localities, the Lamium
album and purpureum, Sherardia arvensis, Bartsia Odontites, Hy-
pericum perforatum, humifusum, quadrangulum, hirsutum and pul-
chrum, Nepeta cataria, Antirrhinum linaria, Arctium lappa, both
cottony and smooth.  In grain fields, the Anagallis arvensis and
cerulea, Picris hieracioides, Chrysantemum segetum and leucan-
themum, and Agrostemma Githago are not uncommon, but the
Centaurea cyanus and Papaver Rhaeas are but seldom seen in the
parish.  On pasture grounds in the lower part of the parish the
Apargia hispida and autumnalis, and Ononis arvensis occur.  In se-
veral of the burying grounds the Conium maculatum is abundant;
and at Meikleriggs farm, the Myrrhis odorata has grown vigorous-
ly and abundantly for many year.
   On the banks of the rivers, ditches, and in marshy ground the
Spargamium ramosum, Typha latifolia, Lythrum salicaria, Doro-
nicum pardalianches, Iris paeudacorus, Valeriana officinalis, Spiraea
ulmaria, Geranium pratense, Scrophalaria aquatica and nodesa,
SymphytUm tuberosum and officinale, Myosotis palustris, Phellan-


