
354                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

The iron manufactory for smelting iron from the ironstone was
established at Carron, in this parish, in the year 1760, by a com-
pany under the firm of Roebucks, Garbet, and Cadells. The
original partners were, John Roebuck, Doctor of Medicine of
Sheffield, and afterwards of Birmingham, and his two brothers,
Thomas and Ebenezer Roebuck; Samuel Garbet, merchant, of
Birmingham; William Cadell, Senior, merchant at Cockenzie, in
East Lothian; William Cadell, Junior; and John Cadell.
  Dr John Roebuck and Samuel Garbet were men of activity and
enterprise. They were acquainted with chemistry; and, before the
Carron Company was formed, they had established a manufactory
of sulphuric acid, otherwise called oil of vitriol, at Prestonpans, in
East Lothian. Dr Roebuck was a partner of Mr Watt, in Mr
Watt's first patent taken out in 1769, for the improvement of the
steam-engine. Dr Roebuck had two-thirds of the patent. But
the patent did not turn out a profitable concern during their co-
partnership.
Some years after the works had been in activity, the celebrated
engineer, Smeaton, was employed to reconstruct the blowing ma-
chines, and other parts of the machinery. He also formed the
dam-dike across the Carron at Larbert, constructed on tbe prin-
ciples of an arch, with the convex side directed up the river. By
means of this dam, the water of the river is retained, and passes in
a leyd, or water-course, of a mile in length, to a reservoir of 30
acres at the works. From this reservoir the water falls upon the
different water-wbeels which work the blowing machines, the bor-
ing-mill, the forge-hammer, &c. The wheels are overshot. The
fall 24 feet.
  The Carron. Company had formerly another reservoir of the
water of the Carron, at Dunipace. This is now abandoned, the
ground having been wanted for other purposes. More recent-
ly, viz. about 1836, the proprietors of water-wheels on the Car-
ron, at their joint expense, formed a reservoir in the upper part
of the river, on the Kilsyth ridge of hills, about ten miles west
by north of Larbert. This reservoir is for the purpose of retain-
ing, the water in times of flood, and for giving it out, in times of
drought.
  William Cadell, Junior, was the manager of the Carron Iron-

   <FOOTNOTE>These names are taken from a feu.charter granted by the company in 1763.
   Leyd or lade pronounced leed, signifies in this part of the country, the water
course, by which the water is conducted from the river to the mill wheel. Water-
leyding, Dutch, signifies the water course of a mill.


