
     of Cupar of Fife.

district, similar to those found in many different parts of the
country*.

   Carslogie House.-The house of Carslogie, distant about a
mile from Cupar, on the road that leads to the west is the
most antient family seat in the parish.  It had been original-
ly intended for a place of security and strength.  Colonel
Clephane, the present proprietor of Carslogie, is the 20th of
that names who, in regular descent, has possessed the
estate+.  In a field adjoining to the house of Carslogie, and
near to the public road which leads from Cupar to the west,

<FOOTNOTE>

*One of there was lately opened on the heights of Middle-
field, about an English mile to the north east of Cupar, in which
were found several urns of baked clay inclosing the ashes of
the warriors of a distant age.  That the urns were not Roman,
appeared from the nature of the instruments of war, placed by
the side of them The heads of the battle axes were formed of
a very hard stone, of a white colour, neatly shaped, and nicely
carved and polished.  These arms must have been employed by
a rude people, strangers to the use of iron.  Two of these bat-
tle-axes are in the possession of a gentleman in Cupar.  The
spot where these tumuli had been formed, from the remains
of ramparts that had surrounded it, seems to have been, in
some remote period, a military station of considerable impor-
tance; and to have been a height well adapted for that pur-
pose, commanding a very extensive,prospect to the ocean on the
east, and to the Ochil hills on the west.

+The CLEPHANES, who for many ages have been proprie-
tors of the Castle and the surrounding grounds, in times of bar-
barism, confusion, and disorder, often leagued with the neigh-
bouring ancient family of the Scots of Scotstarvet, who inha-
bited a strong tower, (Scotstarvet Tower), which is still entire,
situated about two English miles south from Carslogie.  On the
appearance of an enemy, horns, from the battlements of the
castle from which the hostile force was first descried, announ-
ced its approach, and the quarter from whence it was advan-
cing; and both families, with their dependents, were instantly


