
			OLD LUCE.		             67

more than 60 or 70 tons burden cannot approach that part of the
coast.
	Hydrography.--The parish contains several small lakes or lochs;
but they are too unimportant in all respects to require particular
notice. The springs, which usually issue from rocks and the sides
of hills, are numerous, unintermittent, extremely cold and trans-
parent, but have nothing remarkable in their chemical nature.
The principal rivers are Luce and Pooltanton. The river of Luce
rises on the borders of Ayrshire, passes southward through New
Luce and this parish, and discharges itself into the Bay of Luce.
The length of its course is about 21 miles: the breadth of its
channel may average 30 feet; and, unless with high floods, it is
easily crossed on foot. Pooltanton is a small river rising in Les-,
walt, and running through a part of Inch, Stonykirk, and the
southern extremit of Old Luce, till it falls into the Bay of Luce,
nearly at the same place as the former river.
	Soil.--All kinds of soil exist in the parish, but that which pre-
vails is of a gravelly or sandy nature. The land, in general, is
light, dry, and stony; but on the sides of the river of Luce, and
in the southern parts of the parish, some land of better quality is
found. The depth of the soil varies from six to twelve inches; but
where it consists of moss, clay, or loam, its depth may vary from
one to three feet. Unless in clayey or loamy land, the second
stratum or subsoil is usually found to consist of sand or gravel,
which extends to a considerable depth.
	Geology.--The larger rocks are of common greywacke, with veins
of quartz; but small rocks of granite also abound invarious parts of the
parish, and extensive tracts of slate might probably be found.
greywacke quarry, of some importance, has been wrought for several
years in the immediate neighbourhood of Glenluce, where stones
of great utility for various purposes have been obtained. No lime-
stone, sandstone, nor mines of any description, have been disco-
vered. In deep strata of moss, large trunks of trees, chiefly of
oak, and nuts in an entire state, are often found; but other fossil
remains or petrifactions are seldom observed.
	Zoology.--No rarer species of animals, birds or insects are found
in the parish. Foxes were once numerous, but for some years
past have almost entirely disappeared. Game of every description
abounds.
	In the rivers of Luce and Pooltanton, salmon and sea-trout
were once very abundant, but during the last fifteen or twenty,


