
48                       PEEBLES-SHIRES.

     The iron plough has now become very common, and may cost
from L. 3 to L. 4, 15s.
     Breeds of Live-Stock.-- Considerable attention has been paid to
the breed of cattle, sheep, and farm-horses.  The cattle reared in
the parish are generally of Teeswater or short-horn kind,--
sometimes crossed by the Ayrshire.  Many now, however, buy their
cattle, consisting both of the above breed, and of Highlanders, for
feeding, rather than submit to the toil, risk, and expense of rear-
ing them.  Probably 130 are fed off for the market every year.
They may average perhaps 44 stones, of 14lb. each.
     The sheep stock is now almost exclusively of the Cheviot breed.
They are not large, weighing perhaps on an average about 12lbs.
per quarter when fat.  Of these probably 1200 are fed off off on tur-
nips annually; while 500 grit ewes are sold in spring; 2300 lambs
in autumn; and still later in the season 300 full-grown sheep fed
off on grass.
     The quantity of wool sold per annum may average about 230
ewt.
     Husbandry.--On the whole it is not doubted but that the state
of husbandry and improvement, from the duration of leases, (ge-
nerally averaging nineteen years,) the excellent state of farm-build-
ings and enclosures, the abundanced of capital, and the encourage-
ment of landlords, has advanced, in this district, nearly to its
ultimatum.  The distance from lime and coal being from twenty
to twenty-four miles, and the great elevation above the sea, ad-
ded to the light nature of the soil itself, prevent the hope of much
farther improvement.
     Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish may probably be nearly as follows:

Grain of all kinds, 6000 bolls at L. 1,     -     -            L. 6000  0 0
Potatoes and turnips.    -     -     -     -                      1300  0 0
Hay, partly meadow by irrigation, and partly cultivated, -         450  0 0
Pasture, at the rates above-mentioned,                            3500  0 0
                                                                 ------------
                                                              L.11,250  0 0

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

     Market-Townn and Means of Comunication.-- The nearest mar-
ket-town is Peebles, at the distance of from three to ten miles
from the different boundaries of the parish, or about seven from
the parish church.  This is also the post-town for the western
district, while Innerleithen daily penny-post serves the centre and
eastern division of the parish.  The length of the turnpike roads in
the parish is fifteen miles; but as this parish is not a thoroughfare,



