
                              CURRIE.                        543

an isolated knoll, it presents no two portions that can be consi-
dered exactly alike, or selected as affording a just and correct pic-
ture of it as a whole; and yet, as the lands on the north are low-
lying, being considerably below the level of the canal and the rail-
way, while those on the south rise to a rapid elevation as they ap-
proach the mountain range, a general idea of its topography may be
given by describing the main body of the parish as reclining on a
slope at a pretty acute angle, with a large tract of high table land
on the right.
   The altitude of the parish is from 300 to 850 or 900 feet. The
old bridge at the village of Currie is about 500; and the pond on
Harelaw moor was found by Mr Jardine, who took its level for the
water springs, to be 802. The temperature of the climate, as
might be expected from this elevated situation, is cold, and yet
the air is very salubrious;-in proof of which we may mention,
that asthmatic patients are often ordered to enjoy its benefit; and,
speaking generally, the parish has long been, both on account of
the purity of the atmosphere and the classical beauties of the sce-
nery, a favourite place of resort with the citizens of Edinburgh dur-
ing the summer and autumn seasons. Formerly rheumatism and
ague were very common; but from the great extent to which drain-
age has been carried during the last twenty years, the damp as
well as the general asperity of the climate has been removed,-
the health of the inhabitants materially improved,-so that those
disorders which are indigenous to marshy places are no longer pre-
valent. The west winds, which are moist, piercing, and boisterous,
prevail during three-fourths of the year; and their coldness, vio-
lence, and moisture are easily and naturally accounted for by the
circumstance of their blowing over an immense extent of ocean,
where no land intervenes to break their impetuosity. There are
no prognostics of the weather peculiar to Currie that are neces-
sary to be mentioned, except that, on the appearance of a storm
in the west, its direction can be generally predicated by the clouds
breaking on the high ridges of Murieston and Mid-Calder, after
which they either skirt along the Pentland range or overhang the
channel of the Forth. Hence it often happens that there is rain
along the coast of that river while the high land in Currie is per-
fectly dry, and vice versa.
   Soil.-The north-east district is, of a superior quality, and un-
der the highest culture, growing to advantage every kind of white
as well as green crop. The south-west or upland district consists


