
                              ROW.                                   81

fruin, mortified for this purpose about seventy years ago by Mr Glen of
Portincaple. Three others are assisted with yearly donations, and
in one of them sewing and knitting alone are taught. The re-
maining two are wholly unassisted, and one of them is in a great
measure a boarding establishment. There is no part of the pa-
rish so far from some one of the schools as to feel any serious in-
convenience from its distance from the means of education, and
the consequence is that there is not perhaps a single individual
born in the parish and upwards of ten years of age, who cannot
read. There are, however, a few grown persons, that have come to
reside in the parish who cannot read.
  There is a public library in Helensburgh of considerable extent,
and a congregational one connected with the Established Church,
formed about three years ago.
  Savings Bank.-A savings bank has been established for some
years in Helensburgh.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-At present, there are 26 individuals
upon the regular poor's roll. Of these, 4 are orphans and one
insane. But there are almost always several individuals or families
who receive occasional aid to a considerable extent, The regu-
lar poor receive from 6s. to L. I a quarter, according as their eir-
cumstances and merits may require. The sum given annually to
the regular and occasional poor, for some years, averages nearly
L. 120. This amount is obtained without any assessment The
ordinary Sabbath day collections yield about L. 80. The remainder
is got from the rent of a few sittings let in behalf of the poor, from
marriage and mortcloth dues, and from the interest arising from
a small fund belonging to the poor. The expenditure, however,
is now threatening to exceed the income, and must ere long do so,
unless some means are taken to arrest the increase of the grow-
ing number of paupers; and by far the most effectual means would
be to introduce some public works, and curtail both the facilities
and the places for dram-drinking. There is still a disposition on
the part of the poor of a respectable character to refrain from ask-
ing parochial aid, except under strong necessity. But with those
of idle and intemperate habits there is scarcely a shadow of such
delicacy either here or any where else. The dram-drinker has
usually drowned every good feeling in his progress to poverty.
  There is a lock-up house in the parish. But there is no regu-
lar jail, although there is frequent occasion for. it for thi Visitors of
the public houses, particularly. for the drunken vagrants who visit
  DUMBARTON.				      F


