		KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN.               39

is bounded on the north by the Cromarty Frith; on the east by
the parish of Cromarty; on the south by the parishes of Rosmar-
kie and Avoch; and on the west by the parish of Urquhart or
Ferintosh.
  Topographical Appearances.-Its form is that of an oblong
square. From the shores of the Frith, the land rises gradually for
nearly two miles, then sinks down into a valley; on the south side
of which, it again rises rather abruptly until it terminates in the
summit of a hill called the Maole-Buidhe (i. e. the yellow brow
or ridge.) The top of this hill, which is the precise boundary of
the parish to the south, is called the Ard Meadlionach, or high mid-
land, as it runs through the very centre of the Black Isle, and is
equidistant from the Friths of Fort George and Cromarty, by
which that district is bounded to the north, south, and east. This
is the only elevation in the parish which most nearly approaches
to any thing resembling a mountain range. It may be about 800
feet above the level of the sea. The valley at the base of it con-
tains nearly all the arable land of the parish, and runs almost
through the whole of it. The extent of coast from east to west
including all the sinuosities of the frith, may be about ten miles.
The shore is gravelly, interspersed with low flat rocks, and below
flood-mark.
  Meteorology, Climate.-There is nothing very peculiar in the
climate. It is usually moist and cold about the middle of spring
The snow during the winter months, owing to the almost insular
situation of the district of the Black Isle, does not lie long upon
the ground. The coldness of the spring, the prevalence of rain
and easterly winds, and a sour damp soil, retard the labours of
spring, and protract both sowitig and reaping nearly a month long-
er than in those parishes in the immediate vicinity to the south.
Dry weather, often frosty at night, commences about the middle
or end of May, and the wind shifts to the north-west, from which,
with but few intermissions, it continues to blow during the rest of
the season, sometimes witb great violence, and heightened by the
valley through which it rushes,-so that trees planted in hedge-
rows which have not a firm hold of the soil, all over the parish,
have a cast to the east. In antumn, the high west winds occasion
much loss to the farmer by shaking, more especially in those more
elevated localities which have neither woods nor hedges to protect
them. Thunder storms usually occur about the beginning of July,
after a long course of dry scorching weather. They have been


