
                        CRETCH.                               641

in the course of trenching, unfortunately the regular arrangement
of those above-mentioned was not attended to, until two carved
stones were cast up, with the figures upon each very entire. This,
circumstance naturally led to an examination of all the stones, to
a consideration of the manner in which they were originally placed,
and to an attention to those which yet remained untouched. Upon
examination, no other figured stone appeared; but what was re-
markable, many of those taken up were sandstones while the hill
on which they were placed and all the hills in the neighbourhood,
are whinstone rock. Those which remained untouched were set
on end, and so arranged as to form two arches of concentric circles.
So far as could be judged at the time of discovery, the whole erect
stones, which were, in general, from a foot and a half to two feet
and a half high, were so placed as to make up two figures of a
circular or, perhaps, more nearly of an elliptical form, the one
contained within the other. In the centre was a cylindrical stone
pillar of the same height with the rest, and near to it were the car-
ved stones.
   It is to be regretted that most of the stones were taken up be-
fore their number, their regular arrangement, and individual po-
sition, were ascertained. This good effect, however, resulted from
the discovery of this structure, that it induced some workmen, who
were soon after ploughing a field about five or six hundred yards
due east of the place above described, to conclude, when their
ploughs repeatedly struck against some stones, that they had come
to something similar to what had been so recently discovered at
so short a distance, and to pay particular attention to preserve
every stone in its original position. They accordingly proceeded
to remove all the earth with the greatest care, and their expecta-
tions of finding, another curiosity were soon completely realized.
Upon acquainting the present incumbent with the circumstances
he went and carefully examined the situation of this structure
tended to its form and arrangement; thein-took the dimensions, at
its different circles, and the stones of which they were completed.
Its situation, like that of a former, was a lateral flat on the south
side of the same ridge of hills, and also at an equal distance from
the summit and the stream below.
   In the centre was placed, in an upright position, a cylindrical
sandstone, one foot two inches high, and having the diameter
of its base one foot. Around the stone, as a centre, at the distance
of three feet, were sixteen other stones, placed also in an up-

   FIFE.                   88




