
     484                         ARGYLESHIRF-

     soil; and it will excite wonder to observe the size which trees
     have attained in some situations, when the shallowness of the soil
     is most evident; this is to be ascribed in a great measure to the
     humidity of the climate. Our indigenous trees are, oak (Quercus
     robur and sessiliflora); ash (Fraxinus excelsior); Scotch fir (Pinus
     sylvestris); mountain-ash (Pyrus aucuparia); elm (Ulmus mon-
     tana); holly (Ilex Aquifolium); yew (Taxus baccnta); alder
     (Alnus glutinosa); birch (Betula alba); bird-cherry (Prunus Pa-
     dus);hazel (Corylus avellana); hawthorn (Cratagus oxyacantha;)
     aspen(Populus tremula); and at least three kinds of willow (Sa-
     lix).The plantations in the parish are on the Barcaldine,
     Lochnell, Ardchattan, and Inverawe estates. They consist chiefly
     of larches (Larix vulgaris); spruce fir (Abies vulgaris); silver
     fir (Pinus picea) ; Weymouth pine (Pinus strobus.) Near the
     mansions of the proprietors are the lime-tree ( Tilia Europaa
     grandifolia); beach (Fagus sylvatica); poplar (Populus alba) ;
     plane or sycamore (Acer pseudo-plantanus); laburnum ((Cytisus
     laburnum); gean (Prunus avium); Spanish chestnut (Costanea
     vesca); horse chestnut (AEsxulus hippocastanum); a few walnut
     trees (Juglans regia); and golden willow (Solix vitellina).
       The extent of ground covered with wood probably exceeds
     3000 acres.
       At Condallicti, near Barcaldine house, are the remains of an
     oak, honoured, from its antiquity, with the name of Fingal's oak,
     which, though much decayed, measures 23 feet in girth.  When
     first measured (1835) the Fingal's oak was 29 feet in circumfe-
     rence, and then not more than half of it appeared to remain. A
     considerable portion fell afterwards, which reduced its girth to
     the size mentioned.
       On the Hill of Invercharnan, and a little above the farm-house,
     there is another oak which has been lying on the ground for ages,
     and the girth of which, twenty feet from the root, is 18 feet 9
     inches ; and another, not far from it, the girth of which, at the
     same distance, is 15 feet 3 inches. The trees, the girth of which
     is given below, are still in vigorous growth, and these dimensions
     were taken three feet from the ground : a silver fir, 13 feet 6
     inches; larch, 8 feet 11 inches; weeping-birch, 9 feet 6 inches;
     beech, 10 feet 6 inches; gean (at Glenure) 8 feet; do. (at Blar-
     creen) 7 feet 6 inches; ash (Barcaldine) 10 feet 6 inches; do.
     (at Ardchattan) 9 feet 10 inches; elm (Barcaldine) 8 feet 2


