
     1264                     PERTHSHIRE.

     both, and others having a hole through the thick end.  They are
     by some supposed to have been used for skinning animals, and
     are apparently too short for the purpose of removing bark from
     the trees, for the purpose of tanning leather.
       Some of the moss tenants found small heaps of embers or
     charred timber on the surface of the clay below the moss.
       The late John Ramsay, Esq. of Ochtertyre, who was a zealous
     antiquarian, had a pair of jugs which were fixed in a large and
     very old ash tree near his house, at about five feet from the
     ground.   The jugs consisted of a piece of iron to be fastened in
     a wall or tree with an iron collar which enclosed the neck, and
     which was secured by a padlock, for the punishment of culprits.
     There was a ring or hook on the outside of the old church, to
     which it is understood, jugs had been formerly fastened.
        When the walls of the old manse here were taken down, the
     die of the communion tokens was found in a recess above the
     front door, bearing the impression " K. P. 1699," within a square
     on the die, bounded by double waving lines.
        There are no ancient roads in this parish, except the one found
     by the moss improvers, which is universally ascribed to the Ro-
     mans.  Seventy yards of it in length were discovered on the sur-
     face of the clay, at the bottom of the moss, after the peat, to the
     depth of eight feet, had been removed.  It was formed of trees
     about twelve inches in diameter, having other trees of half this
     size crossing them, and brushwood covering the whole.  This
     road crossed the moss of Kincardine northward from a narrow part
     of the Forth, towards the Roman road, passing between the moss
     and the river Teitb.  This last-mentioned road has been traced
     from a ford in, the Teith, about four miles north-west of the Drip,
     in a south-east direction, by Torwood and Larbert, to Camelon,
     on the Roman wall.  It is supposed to have, been made by the
     Romans for checking the incursions of the Caledonians by the
     Pass of Leny, and also for opening a communication kv Dunblane
     with the well known station at Ardoch.  A part of this road, near
     the mansion-house of Ochtertyre, is still called Staniegates, from
     the stones of which it was formed, there having been no moss
     there to require a foundation of trees.
       The stone coffins already mentioned were found on this line
     in Blair-Drummound Park.  By pursuing this line along the Forth
     and Teith, the Romans had not only the advantage of the more
     open country, but also of having their right protected by these rivers,
        Modern Buildings.-The mansion-house of Blair-Drummond


