
     of Liff and Bervie.

been used, the walls were certainly put together with much
unity and compactness.  The building stood on the shel-
ving side of a rock, but the different compartments were
placed so irregularly with respect to one another, and with
so little appearance of regard to order or method, unless in
so far as that each should communicate with the larger
and principal one, that nothing could be inferred from
their relative situation to one another.  On the compart-
ments being first opened, all of them were filled with a
rich black mould, which, whether it had been purposely
deposited there, or in the course of generations past, had
insinuated itself from the surface above, through the cover-
stones not being entire, and having been disturbed by the
plough, cannot with certainty be determined.  But upon
removing this earth, were observed the remains of some
burnt matter, and several fragments of bones, so small as
rendered it impossible to ascertain whether they belonged
to the human body or not; likewise were found some
querns or hand-mills, about 14 inches diameter, which, as
they appeared to be much worn, had no doubt been used
for grinding corn of some kind, although they had been
made with so little dexterity, that it is not easy to conceive
how they could have answered that purpose.  In the cen-
tre of some of these querns was fastened a small bit of iron*
showing the handle to have been of that metal.  Before this
building was closed up, it was minutely surveyed by the
late Sir David Dalrymple, Lord Hailes+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Caesar Comment, lib. 5. c. 12.  Utuntur (Britanni) autaere, aut ta-
leis, ferreis ad certum pondus examinatis pro nummo.  Natcitur ibi
plumbum album in Mediterraneis regionibus, in marithnis ferrum.
+Subterraneous building of the same kind are reported to have been
accidentally fallen upon in this neighbourhood, in particular, in the pa-
rishes of Aughterhouse, Foulis, and Tealing.  And it is the vulgar opi-
nion, and by no means improbable, that there are others beneath a particu-


