
46                        WIGTONSHIRE.

tion bring nearly as much money as the native breed, and the cross-
bred queys are often kept, from a notion that the will prove
good milkers; and sometimes they are passed off for true Gal-
lloways. The consequence of this will be, the introduction of a
spurious, thin-haired, degenerate race of cattle. The causes whibh
we have now mentioned are quite sufficient to produce that result;
but some believe that there are other less obvious causes which have
a tendency to increase the evil, and to accelerate the progress of
deterioration. They believe that the very sight of Ayrshire cows
in the neigubourhood corrupts the native breed, and that it often
causes Galloways of the purest breed, and blackest colour, to pro-
duce red, speckled, and spotted calves.
	There is nothing remarkable in our breed of horses now. For-
mer Galloway was celebrated for its horses, which were small in
size, beautifully symmetrical, and possessed of a great deal of ac-
tion. So famous were they in these respects, that a handsome active
little horse, useful for all purposes, has generally obtained the name
of a Galloway. But this native breed is nearly, if not altogether, ex-
tinct; what has mostly been bred here for many years, is the com-
mon cart-horse, of no very superior qualities. An attempt, indeed,
was lately made to breed from blood-horses with cart mares, by
way of getting more lightsome, active sort of horse, and more
convertible to different purposes. But this project seems to have
failed, as many of this breed were not, very suitable for any purpose
whatever; and farmers have now mostly turned their attention to
improving the breed of strong draught horses.
	The sheep bred in this parish are but few. They seldom ex-
ceed 12 or 16 breeding ewes to each farm, and these are gene-

rally Leicesters. Those who fatten sheep on turnips during, the
winter, purchase them at Falkirk in October; but they are brought
from Minigaff also, or any place in the neighbourhood where they
can be found. The farmers do not confind themselves to any par-
ticular place or sort of sheep, but the Highland sheep seem to be
preferred. Their inlaid cost may overage about L. 1 a head, and
their value when fattened about L. 1, 16s., or rather from 1, 10s.
to L. 2; for their price is subject to considerable fluctuations.
	Fisheries.--There are no fisheries on the Glasserton coast. Small
two-oared boats in the summer season take a few cod and other kinds
of white-fish with bait. I believe there are not half a dozen such
boats in the parish, and they are employed sometimes, as an amuse-
ment, and as a bye-job, when there is little else to do, or by old


