
                   ANSTRUTHER WESTER.                      627

1833, when answers were returned to the Lord Advocate's queries
on the subject of education, the average of fees for the four pre-
ceding years was L. 74, 16s. 9d., and in addition the teacher en-
joys L. 4, being the interest of L. 100 left for the behoof of the
school. It may be doubted whether the average, of the fees is
quite so high at present. The school master, who was only lately
elected, has not furnished me with the means of ascertaining, and
perhaps could not very well tell; but I should think, that it could
not be greatly reduced. The general expense of education should,
I think, be from 1Os. to L. 1, 5s. per annum, according to the age
or attainments of the children. There do not appear to be any of
the young betwixt six and fifteen years of age who cannot read or
write, or who are not learning to do so, neither are there any of
those upwards of fifteen who cannot read. Two do so very imper-
fectly. There are about twenty-five grown up people, most aged
females, who have not been taught to write. The people, in ge-
neral, are fully alive to the benefits of education; and even the
very poorest will make considerable exertions to procure it for their
children.
   A bursary connected with the United College of St Andrews,
was endowed by the late Baille William Thomson, a former chief
magistrate of the burgh, in favour of some young man belonging
to the parish. The value of the land mortified by the benevolent
donor was about L. 700; but it was reduced to L. 500 by an un-
fortunate law-suit. The magistrates and minister are patrons.
The endowment may occasionally be of use to young men of me-
rit; but it may also encourage some to become students before they
are qualified to profit by the education which a college imparts.
   The following short account of an association  which exists
among the parochial schoolmasters in the East of Fife, may be of
sufficient importance to be noticed in the Statistical Account.-
The association was begun in 1818, under the designation of
" The East of Fife Educational Society."  At  present, em-
braces, as members, all the schoolmasters along the, coast from
Elie to Kingsbarns. They meet once a-month at each others
houses in rotation, and regular minutes are kept of the proceed-
ing. The object of the association is for the mutual improve-
ment of the members, in matters connected with education.  They
are in possession of a small and select library, consisting  of  works
On education, science &c. and they have also a set of chemical
and other apparatus, both of which are receiving additions from


