
			   BORTHWICK.				 181

ject to rain than that of the level country--but, from the, peculiar
configuration of our glen--which apparently stretches considerably.
backwards among the lower hills, as seen from a distance--and over
which, consequently, the atmosphere is better distinguished in its
varied shades, according as it is fitted to indicate clear and set-
tled, or showery and troubled weather.  We, again, look to the, tints
of the Pentland bills--or to tbe aspect of the clouds which settle
on them, as our symptoms of weather.
   Diseases in general are not more virulent with us than in any
other portion of the country.  Most of the diseases which have of
late years been so fatal in some other districts have passed over us
but slighty--such as cholera--typhus and scarlet fever. The
small-pox is at this moment raging in one of our villages--but
though the vesicles are very numerous, I have not yet heard of any
mortal cases.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--A general spirit of improvement is apparent on al-
most every farm of this parish. The land is lot chiefly on leases
of nineteen years endurance.  The course of tillage most success-
fully followed on the arable lands is what is called the five-course
shift--two-fifths of the farm being in grass, two-fifths in corn, and
one-fifth in fallow or drilled turnips and potatoes.  The usual crops
are wheat, oats, barley, turnip, potatoes, and hay.  The manures
usually applied are lime and farm-yard, dung.  Within these few
years, however, bone-dust has been used with success. The ex-
tent of land in the farms under regular tillage varies from 90 to
about 300 acres. Some of the largest farms in the upper of
the parish, containing each from 200 to 300 acres of tillage land,
have fully an equal quantity of moorland attached to them, which
is only partially and occasional brought under the plough. The
rent of the land in tillage varies from 15s. to L.2 per acre.  Some
rich old grass fields let annually for pasture nearly L.3 per
acre.
   Live-Stock, &c.--The short-horned kind of cattle are those
usually bred in tbe parish.  The sheep bred and fed in the parish
are generally  of the Cheviot and black-faced breed.  A cross be-
twixt the Leicester and Cheviot has been introduced with success
--and that stock is now to be found on every farm of suitable ex-
tent.  The local advantage of lime-kilos in the parish is duly ap-
preciated by, the tenantry.  A large extent of waste land has with-
in these few years been reclaimed and strongly limed, and again


