
928				SUPPLEMENT TO THE

on fire; and James Crawford and Walter Heriot are to go with
him to see the same done."  Persons possessing the like monuments
are to be constrained to do the same with them.  In 1592, the
widow of George Robertson is required to burn " the idolatrous
geir found in her house," at the cross, in a fire made at her own
expense, and to cast it into the flame " with her awin hands."  In
the following week, she confesses her sin against God and his
kirk, in keeping beside her " the pictures of the Virgin Mary and
the babe Jesus, as well as mass-clouts, mass-books, and priests'
bonnets."  She pays ten merks to the poor previous to her release
from the discipline of the church.  There is reason to believe that
the destruction of such monuments of idolatry, and the monaste-
ries and other religious houses, which were receptacles of iniqui-
ty, have been mistaken by hasty and ill-informed writers for the
destruction of churches, as if the Reformers had borne a grudge
at whatever had been used by the Church of Rome, however in-
nocent in itself.  The church showed no less zeal against super-
stition than against idolatry.  The superstitious observance of
Yule day, brought offenders under the discipline of the kirk-ses-
sion so early as 1583.  " The bakers are ordained to be spoken
with in regard to whom they bake Yule meat ;" and three years
later, five men, for most superstitiously observing St Thomas's
eve on the 20th of December, were put in ward over night, and
strictly dealt with.  The complaint is, that they passed through
the town on that evening " with pipes and tambours to the
trouble of sundry honest men in the town sleeping in their beds; and
the raising of the old dregs of superstition used among the Papists."
   While the early Protestant church was thus clear and decided
in her hostility to Popish principles and practices, she carefully
guarded the sanctity of God's holy day.  A country coming fresh
from Popery could not be expected to yield much reverence to the
Sabbath.  In these cases the Saints' days are more regarded than the
Lord's day.  Accordingly, we find that Sabbath profanation, in the
forms of the going of milns, the working of kilns, salmon-fishing,
the mowing of meadows, the gathering in of harvest, the casting
of peals, &c. were not uncommon.  These are forbidden under a se-
vere penalty ; in one case a fine of L. 2.  Moreover, one of the ma-
gistrates is appointed to perambulate the town during divine ser-
vice, to see who are at work.  A singular entry in the record under
this head is found in April 1592: "The session, perceiving the Sab-
bath to be profaned anew by the beggars and youth in the town, in
bickering and bringing in of vain plays or dances, that hereafter there


