

                          GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
                        ON THE COUNTY OF ORKNEY.

     Name.-ORCADES is the ancient name of these islands; under
which, they are mentioned by Pomponius Mela. It is probably
derived from Cape Orcas, which -Ptolemy mentions as a promon-
tory in Caith ness. Whether the modern iiame of Orkney is a cor-
ruption of tbe,?Id one, or has a different etymology, we shall not
enquire. Previous to the passing of the Reform Bill, it formed a
complete county, and sent a representative to Parliament. But
that act united Orkney and Zetland as one county; and the latter
cluster of islands, which formerly was not represented, now unites
with Orkney in returning a member. Orkney and Zetland, how-
ever, are unconnected in other respects, and so dissimilar, that
this notice refers only to, the Orkney group.

    Extent.-The county Of Orkney extends between the parallels
581 44' and 591 24 north latitude, and between 2&deg; 25' and 3&deg;-20&deg;
west longitude. It is separated from Caithness by the Pentland
Firth, which is about 12 miles broad, and thence stretching out
to the north, it separates the Atlantic from the German Ocean.
Its population in 1831 was 28,047, and its Parliamentary cou-
stitutency in 1840 was 381.
    Topography.-There is much waste ground, and many bills in
Orkney; but, in general, it cannot be called mountainous.- The
Ward Hill of Hoy, which is the highest, is about 1600 feet above
the level of the sea, and other bills in that island are nearly as
high; but none of the other islands have hills of any considerable
height. A few of these islands are flat, and Sanday.is particularly
low; so that, at the distance of some miles, the land seems to be
stink beneath the waves, and the more elevated honses appear like
solitary pillars in the ocean. The great extent. of east must be
obvious, when we mention, that the number ortbese islands is 67.
Of these 27 are inhabited, and'the smaller ones, called bolms, are
used for pasture, &c.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Charles Clouaton, Minister of Sandwick.



