
                      PARISH OF KINTORE.

           PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

             THE REV. ROBERT SIMPSON, MINISTER.

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-KINTORE in Gaelic signifies the head of tire, forest.
Both the history of the district, and its present appearance, supply
many proofs that it was formerly almost covered with wood. *
  Extent, &c.-The parish, including that portion of the old
parish of Kinkell, which was annexed to Kintore in 1760, ex-
tends from north to south about 6 miles, and its greatest width
is a little more than 3.  It is bounded on the north and east, by
the river Don, which separates it from the parishes of Inverury,
Keithhall, and Fintray; on the south, by Kinellar and Skene;
and on the west, by Keninay.
  The surface is broken by frequent inequalities; but ther is
no eminence of great elevation.  The beautifully wooded hill of
Thainston is the highest ground in the parish, its summit being
upwards of 140 feet above the ordinary level of the Don at Kin-
tore, and about 280 feet above the medium level of the sea at
Aberdeen.  The lands immediately on the banks of the river are
flat, and very liable to be inundated, which renders the crops on
them extremely precarious.
  The immediate neighbourhood of the burgh of Kintore is well
sheltered, and for the most part enjoys a very mild temperature.
The most prevalent distemper here is low typhus fever, which
often attacks whole families in succession, but seldom proves fatal.
The exposed situations in the parish are cold and bleak.
  Hydrography.-The river Don, when it passes Kintere, is, a

<FOOTNOTE>A distinguished Gaelic scholar has given a different derivation of the word.
The orgin of Kintore, he thinks, is Cenns Torr, the head end of the heap.
If this be the source of the name, the best explanation of it may perhaps be found
in the circumstance, that by the old road from Aberdeen, the town of Kintore lay
at the termination of a very steep and rugged track of many miles, and at the com
meneement of the comparatively level district of Garioch.


