
47O                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Colonel Sir Alexander Anderson, C. B.; Lieutenant-Colonel
Duncan. Macpherson, and his brother, the late Captain George
Macpherson, R. N.
  The whole parish belongs to the Earl of Cawdor, with the ex-
ception of the precinct of the fort, purchased by Government
about 1746.
  Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry is in June 1719; they
are regularly kept.
  Antiquities.-On the heath near the junction of the parish of
Nairn is an obelisk or " standing stone," about 6 feet in height,
called the Kebbock-stone, erected, according to tradition, over the
grave of a chief who fell in a skirmish, the inglorious cause of
which originated in a dispute about a cheese. Another tradition is,
that it marks a spot where the Danes were repulsed. The late
Mr Nimmo of the Inverness Academy, thought the stone had
been placed to mark the boundary between the counties of Inver-
ness and Nairn.
  At Dalyards there were in the beginning of last century fragments
of the ruins of a large building, which tradition reports to have
belonged to the Knights-Templar. Whether the building was
a religious house or a fortalice is uncertain ; probably the latter,
as the enterprise of agriculture has not yet succeeded in obliterating
traces of the fosse with which it was surrounded. Dalyards is
marked in Gordon of Straloch's map of Moray 1640, though a
little'out of place. It is now a cultivated field,
	 " And, after length of years, no stones betray
	   The place, where once the very ruins Jay."
   There was a, Druid circle at Acbnuallan, but the distance from
a quarry, and the expense of carrying building materials, prompted
its demolition many years ago. A born filled with silver coins
was dug up near this circle forty years ago, but no correct infor-
mation is preserved of their nation or date.
   On the line of bill behind Campbelton, there is a circular
mount, elevated about 20 feet above the surface level of the ridge,
and commanding from its summit a most extensive view, which
embraces parts of seven or eight counties. This mount is called
in Gaelic, Cromal or Tom Mhoit. It is corruptly Anglicised, into
Cromwell's Mount. In the " Memorabilia of Inverness" it is
called Cromal, and is included among the British bill-forts of the
county. It is surrounded at the top by a rampart about five feet
high, which, from the nature of the locality, is of clay and earth.


