
KENNOWAY.                                389

count. The amount of sums under L. 10, deposited up till this
date, is L. 420 ; and the number of depositors at present is 83.
Since the bank was opened, sixteen sums of L. 10 each, amount-
,ing in all to L. 160, have been removied at various times; and the
most, if not the whole of them, lodged in other banks. The Na-
tional Bank of Scotland, at whose office in Kirkcaldy the money
belonging to our savings' bank collectively is lodged, most gene-
rously allows L. 4 per cent. interest on it; and the same rate is
allowed to the depositors in the savings' bank individually; the
interest in this latter case being calculated for pounds only, ornit-
ting odd shillings; and for months, omitting odd days.
,Equitable Deposit Society.-A society was begun in May 1835,
entitled the Kennoway Equitable Weekly Deposit Society, each
member of which pays Is. weekly. When a sufficient sum has in
this way been collected, four shares of L. 30 each are drawn by
.ballot, and those receiving them give security that they will pay
4 per cent. interest thereon, in addition to continuing their weekly
payments, until such time as all the members shall have draLwn
their shares respectively. The sum collected from the commence-
ment of the association to the 26th December 1836, amounted to
L.882, 1 Ss. 2d.
-Poor and Parochial.Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 22; and the sum allotted to each per
calendar month varies from 2s. 6d. to Ss. 8d. The average an-
nual amount of contributions, for the last five years, for the relief
of the poor, has been L. 77 ; of which, L. 34 have been collected
at the church door; L. 5 have come from mortcloth and marriage
dues; and the remainder has been obtained b voluntary assess-
y
ment of the heritors.
For a considerable number of years past, a sum of between
L. 30 and L. 40 has been raised in addition to the above, by ex-
traordinary collections at the doors of the church and ineeting-
houses, and by donations from non-resident heritors, for the pui-
pose of distributing about new-year time, amongst individuals and
families of the poorer class, but who are hot generally on the
Poor's roll, a quantity of coals and meal, and occasionally some
other little necessary. By help of thisJund 'also, for several years
past., the spinning of fl--x has been obtained for some of the old
people, who -can find no other employment. Dressed -flax'. is at
Present kindly su lied, as needed by a mill-spi ner in the neigh-
PP,                                n
bourhood, who allows 6d. per spindle'for 'spinning iti Totbis


