
			DUNDONALD.			675

he body to which it was to be applied, are all made the sub-
jects of minute description and legal enactment. What would a
teacher now-a-days think, if he were gravely called upon to sub-
scribe such an article as the following? "That he shall attend
at all hours when the children are in school, and not suffer him-
self to be withdrawn by drinking, playing, or any other avoca-
tion." And more especially, when he takes a glance at No. 4,
and sees that these hours in the winter months are from sunrise
to sunset, and in summer from seven o'clock morning till six even-
ing, without even the benefit of a Saturdays recreation. And
that on the very Sabbath itself, he was to be always present in
church with his little flock around him, to see, as the record bears,
that they conducted themselves with propriety, and gave due at-
tention to the ordinances of religion, of which examination on the
following day was strictly to be made.
	The minutes of session, after the conclusion of this volume, till
within the last few years, have been very carelessly and imperfectly
kept. The next entry after 1643 is in 1702, the commencement
of another volume. And for more than half a century after this
date, there are scarcely ten consecutive years of their transactions
recorded. The register of baptisms, extending to four volumes,
begins in 1673; that of deaths, in one volume, in 1763; and that
of marriages, also in one volume, in 1823. The first of these is,
in comparison, tolerably correct. But the other two are very in-
correct, and hopelessly so, until more stringent measures are taken
to compel the people generally to attend to such matters.
	Antiquities.--In this department of inquiry, the Castle of Dun-
donald claims the first place. The of the edifice is unknown;
but the probability is, from the style of the building and other cir-
cumstanees, that it is indebted for its origin to the craftsmen of the
twelfth or thirteenth century. As a ruin it is still comparatively
entire, and would have been much more so, if it had had only the
Goth Time to struggle against; but the hand of man has also been
sorely against it for many generations. According to a tradition,
which the appearance of the edifice seems to confirm, an entire
storey was removed to build the house of Auchans, which is itself
nearly a ruin: and from time to time almost every available
piece of freestone has been carried off. Though these systematic
depredation are now discontinued, the hand of mischief is still
occasionally at work. So that if it be true, as we have heard on
good authority, that the family of Dundonald hold the adjoining


