
716                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

university education, including two years' attendance on Scots law.
The fees of admission are about L. 200; part of which is appropriat-
ed to the support of the Advocates' Library, which is contained in two
large buildings adjoining the courts, and which is one of the most
extensive and valuable in Britain. The number of advocates on
the roll is between 400 and 500, but only a small proportion of
those are actually engaged in the practice of the profession. From
this body the Judges and the Sheriffs of the counties are chosen.
   Writers to the Signet.-The members of this Society practise as
agents or attorneys before the Courts of Session. They are call-
ed Clerks or Writers to Her Majesty's Signet, because they have an
exclusive privilege of subscribing the writs that pass the royal
signet in Scotland. They also practise as conveyancers, and act
as agents in all legal matters connected with general business.
There is a Keeper of the Signet, but the business is performed by
a deputy and clerks. The candidates for admission into this So-
ciety must have passed an apprenticeship of five years with a
member of it; and must have attended during two years the lec-
tures on Scotslaw and conveyancing in the university. They also
undergo a strict, examination on the principles and forms of legal
procedure. The apprentice fee, payments to the funds of the so-
ciety, stamp, &c. amount to L. 535. The number of members
on the roll is about 700.
   Solicitors before the Supreme Courts.-This is another Society of
writers who also practise before the courts, but with inferior privi-
leges to those of the Writers to the Signet. The first clerks of
advocates are also ex officio entitled to act as agents before the
courts.
   The Parliament House.-This is a noble hall, 122 feet long
and 49 broad, with an ornamental roof of oak. It was built in
1632, and was the hall in which the Scottish Parliament sat.
Since that period the outer walls have been entirely renewed, and
two additional buildings erected on the south side for the first and
second Divisions of the law courts, and a third for the accommoda-
tion of two of the Lords Ordinary. Within the courts are statues
of Lord President Forbes, President Blair, and the late Lord Mel-
Ville. In the Parliament Square is an equestrian statue of Charles
II. Connected with the west end of the Parliament Square are
the hall and library of the Writers to the Signet. The old rooms
of Advocates' Library are below the Parliament House, and
part of a new and elegant library has been built immediately ad-
joining.


