
190                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

In cropping, rotations of five, six, seven, and eight years are fol-
lowed. The most common are five and seven years. The five years
rotation consists of, 1. fallow; 2. wheat, barley, and oats; 3. and
4. pasture; 5. oats. The seven years rotation is, 1. turnips and po-
tatoes; 2. barley and wheat; 3. and 4. grass; 5. oats; 6. beans;
7. wheat. The eight years rotation is, 1. fallow; 2. wheat; 3. bar-
ley; 4. and 5. grass; 6. oats; 7. beans; S. wheat.
   The kinds of manure employed are byre and stable dung; lime
and earth collected from cleaning ditches roads, &c. mixed with
lime, forming compost; rape, and bone dust. The rape dust is
very generally used. Iron ploughs and harrows are almost uni-
versally employed. Machines for sowing grain are getting more
and more into use. Turnips are eaten upon the ground with
sheep, or brought home to feed cattle bought in about the end of
harvest, to be fattened for the butcher, while the straw is convert-
ed into manure by cattle kept in the close.
   Live Stock.-The number of sheep kept in the parish has of late
been upon the increase, and is now betwixt 2000 and 3000. They
are bought in as they are required, and are black-faced, but chiefly
Cheviot, and a cross breed of Cheviot and Leicester. The milk cows
are not of any particular breed. There are a considerable number of
the Ayrshire. They are reared or bought as occasion requires,
and not more than two or three are kept by each farmer to supply
his family with milk and butter. Black-cattle are bought in at the
end of harvest, and fed off on turnips for the market. The num-
ber of these may amount to about 500. There are 781/2 plough-
gates requiring 172 horses. Twenty-six are kept for riding and
occasional work, and 20 for driving carriages, making in all 218
horses, besides young ones.
   The duration of leases nineteen years. I believe there are
no exceptions to this rule. Such a length of time affords the far-
mer sufficient opportunity to remunerate himself for the expense
laid out in the cultivation of his farm. The farms are all enclos-
ed, mostly with thorn hedges and ditches; and the hedges and
ditches are well kept. The farm buildings have been much im-
proved in the course of the last year, and repairs and improve-
ments are still going on. It is to be hoped, as soon as the project-
ed improvements have been made upon the farm-houses and of-
fices, the attention of the proprietors will be directed to the cot-
houses, most of which have great need of improvement.
   There are 240 Scotch or 302 imperial acres under wood, includ-
                                 3

