
     Statistical Account

   The real rent of the whole lands of the parish cannot
be exactly ascertained, as one part (the lands of Gar-
mouth) is feued out, and is mostly in the possession of
the feuars themselves.  Besides the lands, there is a very
valuable salmon fishing on Spey, belonging to this parish,
from the sea for 4 1/2 miles up the river.  The real rent of
this fishing is considerably greater than that of the lands
in the parish.  The valued rent of the lands is 2771 L.
17 s. 1 d. Scotch money.  The valued rent of the fishery
is 2541 L. 17 s. 8 d. Scotch.

   Heritors.-The Duke of Gordon is proprietor of the
greater part of the lands of this parish, and superior of
the rest.  Of the fishery on Spey in this parish, he is pro-
prietor of 7-9ths.  The Earl of Murray is proprietor of
the remaining 2-9ths.  There is a considerable number
of smaller heritors or feuars, who have feus of different
extent of the lands of Garmouth, all holding of the Duke
of Gordon as superior.  The greater part of them reside
in Garmouth, and possess their own feus.  Several of
them are in opulent circumstances.  One keeps a carriage.

<FOOTNOTE>

be, to allow as much ground to a farm as can be laboured with one
plough; much less than this, would be a loss to the tenant.  Here and
there, however, there should be larger farms, and farmers of greater
ability and skill, to give examples of new and more improved modes
of culture; and thereby introduce improvements into the country at large.
The Duke of Gordon, agreeably to that humane system which he follows
on all his estates, on renewing, of late, the leases in this parish, conti-
nued almost all the small tenants in their possessions; and such of the
farmers as had subtenants, he took bound to continue them also in the
grounds they had before, or to allow them an equivalent in some other
part of their farm, if that were more convenient, according to the judg-
ment of men mutually chosen.  This is an example that ought to be
generally followed, as it tends to prevent subordinate oppression; and to
keep the people in the country.


