
20                       SELKIRKSHIRE.

for farm-labourers, 1s. 6d., carpenters, 2s. 6d., and masons, 3s. per
day, not including victuals.
   Breeds of Cattle.-As to hte breed of cattle, the Tees-water
is almost the only one that is encouraged. The sheep are the
Cheviot and Leicester, and half-bred. There are none of the
black-faced in the parish, except a few on some lawns, where they
are kept, owing to a fancy that the mutton is higher flavoured.
   Husbandry and Produce.-The five-shift husbandry is generally
observed; but near the town, where the rents are high and manure
can be bought, the four-shift has been too long practised. Hence the
disease called finger-and-toe gets worse in the turnip crops, and red
clover proves often an utter failure. On clay lands wheat is sown after
fallow; and on dry lands frequently with success after potatoes; or it
is sown in spring after turnips eaten off with sheep. Pease, being found
a bad substitute for those green crops which require manure and ad-
mit of cleaning, are now little cultivated. Bone dust, as yet but par-
tially introduced, is found to raise excellent turnips, and promises
to be of great service, by eking out the resources of the farm, so as
to afford annually, to one-fifth of the ploughed land, an effectual
manure; and hence the poor and lazy pea-crop may be altogether
abandoned. The land is in general well-drained: stones are
plentiful, and the cuts are three feet, filled nearly to the top.
Though there is little to do in the reclaiming of waste lands, a con-
tinual expense is incurred in securing, by puts and embankments,
what is already in the highest state of culture, along the many and
furios-running streams already named. Leases of nineteen years
have generally prevailed; but of late, some farms, where no great
improvements are required, have been let for eight or twelve years.
The farm-buildings are all respectable,-the fields are generally
well-enclosed with hedges, dry-stone dikes, which are not approved
of, being as much as possible avoided,-and it cannot be said that
any obstruction to agricultural improvement arises either from the
want of encouragement on the part of the landlords, or from want
of capital and skill on the part of the tenants.
   The average gross amount and value of raw produce raised year-
ly in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>

Two-fifths of land in tillage, viz 726 acres at L. 6 per acre,     -    L. 4356  0  0
One-fifths, or 363 acres, turnips and potatoes, at L. 3, 15s.     -       1361  5  0
One-fifths, hay at sevenpence per stone of 22lb. and 150 stone to the acre,1588  2  6


