
1158                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

incumbency is quite trifling; the bursars, besides, for the most
part pay reduced fees, and the aggregate number of students is
not now so large as it has been, nor larger than it often was in
early periods, although there are more bursars, and the non-bur-
sars always pay the full fees.  Even if the masters, however, de-
rived a much greater benefit than they do from this source, they
could not do so without a corresponding extenrion of university
education ; in other words, a great benefit to the country at large,
-and to this they are surely well entitled.
   Exclusive of the Huttonian prize of L.15 and the two new Simp-
sonian prizes of L.60 each, about L.80 is annually bestowed in
prizes in the form of books.  This money is made up by contri-
butions from the surplus funds of the richer mortifications.  The
Professors also frequently add prizes at their own private cost.
   A fund, called the, Edilis fund, formerly existed for the neces-
sary repairs in the College, and in the houses of the masters; but,
owing to the dilapidation of the College property, this fund has
long been merely nominal, it being now considerably in debt.  Part
of the public buildings was about twenty years ago repaired and
rebuilt by a public subscription ; and one hundred years ago Dr
James Fraser, formerly mentioned, built, at his own expense, the
whole range of buildings now forming the south side of the Col-
lege.  The square tower in the north-east corner was built before
the Restoration by subscription.
   Owin to the decay of the Edilis fund, the houses of the Pro-
fessors, intended by the founder to be free, are now all more or less
in debt, for building or repairs.  In most cases, the interest of this
debt amounts to from L.10 to L.20, but in two it re`ches L.35
and L.40; thus, in reality, forming a heavy house rent, where the
house ought to be free.  The masters pay to the College five per
cent. for money expended on their houses, and of late one to one
and a half per cent of this has been devoted to a sinking fund, in
each case intended gradually to diminish the debt.
   The revenues of the College form three separate accounts.  The
mortification account includes till the trust-funds belonging to
bursaries.  The superiority account includes the sums received for
superiorities and feu-duties sold by the College, and is kept sepa-
rately; while the procuration account includes the proper annual
revenue of the College from all other sources, such as land, tithes,
feu-duties, &c. &c.  After deducting from the two latter accounts
the annual charge on each, the respective balances, which have
                            4

