
298                      BERWICKSHIRE.

about five miles, the sandstone is throughout nearly of the same
general character, being generally coarse-grained, red in colour,
and highly indurated. But here a decided difference is observable.
The strata in the neighbourhood of the Cove become almost ver-
tical; their direction also is somewhat altered, and we have now
subordinate and accompanying strata of slate, marl, clay ironstone,
and loose beds of conglomerate. Here, also, we begin to meet
with impressions of palms and other tropical plants, which, till we
arrive here, we seek for in vain towards the east. At the Cove,
therefore, we think we can trace an imperfect coal formation, which,
continuing westward for about a mile or two, terminates the geo-
logy of this parish. That the coal formation does occur in the pa-
rish, there are other facts to prove, besides what we would predict
from the appearance of the sandstone and its accompaniments at
the Cove. On the south side of Dunglass Dean, which may in fact
be regarded as only a continuation of the rocks which show them-
selves so distinctly at the Cove, at the distance of about one and
a-half miles, and also near the village of Cockburnspath, are to be
seen the openings of several shafts, from which, about 100 years
ago, coal was procured, though, from what we have been able to
gather, it probably was not in such abundance as to encourage
working, or afford temptation strong enough to sacrifice beauty to
utility. Limestone occurs nowhere in the parish,-its substitute
here being the indurated marl. A few miles farther along the coast,
however, towards the west, this rock (the limestone) occurs in great
abundance, being the encrinal or mountain limestone of geologists.
   The soil in the parish is very various. Generally, however, it
may be described as light; though in many situations, especially
in the lower division of the parish, it is rich and strong, and well
adapted for crops of every description. *

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above outline of the geological structure of this parish, I have
had the pleasure, not only of having its general correctness abundantly confirmed by
Professor Sedgwick and Mr Murchison, two names which stand deservedly high in geo-
logical science; but I have also had the good fortune to accompany these gentlemen
in several very interesting and delightful excursions along the shores. The geology
of a great part of Berwickshire, I may be permitted to state, is exceedingly perplex-
ing, from the very indistinctly marked formation which covers the lower and richer
parts of the county,-a formation which, if it be determined merely by mineralogical
characters, we would in very many places decidedly pronounce to be the new red
sandstone. And such, indeed, it has been named and considered by various distin-
guished geologists: an opinion which the author of these remarks felt equally inclin-
ed to entertain regarding certain portions even of the coast of this parish. Since the
visit of Messrs Sedgwick and Murchison, however, who spent some days at Dunglass
after the breaking up of the British Association in September last, he has been in-
duced, partly from a more careful examination, and partly from deference to two geo-
logists of such acknowledged eminence, to give up this idea, and to consider all from
the Cove westward (a set of rocks harmonizing entirely with those which compose
the greater part of the Merse) as the lower and older measures of the coal forma-


