
                                ALLOA.                        27


to rest by immersing it in water.  For this purpose an attendant
was at all times required to carry a wooden cup with water, and
apply it to the plummet, at every observation.
   In Mr Sorocold's report on the sinking of the before-mentioned
engine pit, he recommended the application of large pumps with
valves, in place of the chains and buckets,--the former being
greatly superior to the latter in every point of view. But when
the recommendation came to be acted upon, the Earl's secretary
states, in a document still in preservation, that, as there was no
person in Scotland who could construct such pumps as were re-
quired, he requested to know from the Earl, "whether he would
apply for advice to John Young, who had been sent by the town
of Montrose to Holland to see the windmills there, or to the me-
chanical priest in Lancashire."
   The pit was sunk, and the main or nine feet coal laid dry, not
with pumps, but by the old system of chains and buckets. It is
said, that, at this time, gunpowder was not in practice for blowing
up rocks in sinking, and this pit was sunk by aid of what is termed
plug and feathers. This method is to bore a hole in the rock
about three feet deep, then to insert in each side of the hole a fea-
ther of iron longer than the hole is in depth, These feathers of
iron are circular on the one side, and plain on the other. Betwixt
these a long tapering wedge is placed, and driven with the full force
of sledge hammers, until part of the rock was burst asunder. In
this most laborious manner, the sinking was conducted in the midst
of a deluge of water, occasioned by the imperfect mode of draw-
ing the water up the pit; and it is a matter of remark, when de-
scending these old shafts where this method of sinking was used,
that, wherever very hard beds of stones are passed through, the
pit is considerably narrower at these beds, but it is at the regular
width in the ordinary strata. This arose from the very great
expense of this mode of sinking; and it is thus seen how much
the sinking of pits has been improved and facilitated since the
introduction of gunpowder in blasting rocks.
   This winning being exhausted, the next operation was the win-
ning of the same nine feet coal on the north side of the great north
slip at Coalyland, near the river Devon. This was begun in the
year 1764, and was won by a steam-engine, according to Newco-
Men's plan, with Beighton's arrangements, havihg, the boiler im-
mediately under and almost close to the cylinder. This pit gained
the nine feet coal at the depth of 48 fathoms. The cylinder was


