
     of Garvald and Baro.

count the roads are kept in pretty good repair, as least as
much so as the extent of the funds will admit*.

   Sheep,Horses, and Black Cattle.-In winter, the number
of sheep pastured in this parish is about 5680; in summer,
about 400 more at an average.  These are all of the Lam-
mermoor kind, except a very few which pasture on the
low grounds.  An attempt was made to introduce the 
Bakewell kind, but proved unsuccessful; the gentleman
who made the attempt is now crossing the breed with rams 
of Lammermoor kind.  Salving or smearing is a prac-
tice which here universally prevails.  Store farmers are
of opinion, that this operation greatly contributes to pre-
serve the animal from vermin, to render it more healthy,
to improve, and even increase the quantity of wool.  The 
store farmers annually sell a considerable number of ewes,
lambs, and wethers, but do not choose to have this number
published.  There are in the parish about 213 horses, the
greatest part of which is employed in agriculture.  The

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Labour and Provisions.-An experienced man servant re-
ceives from L. 7 to L. 8 yearly.  A woman-servant from L. 3 to L. 4.
Women, and young people of both sexes, employed in hoeing turnip, and
weeding the corns, from 5 d. to 6 d. a-day without victuals.  Taskers,
whose employment it is to thresh out the corn, receive one boll of every
25. or the 25th part of their labour, and this hath been their stated wages
time immemorial.  Cottages or hynds receive heir wages in grain and
other perquisites, which in this parish are much the same with those de-
tailed in the Statistical Accounts of this country already published.  Ma-
sons receive 1 s, 8 d. a day; wrights 1 s. 6 d.; day-labourers from 10 d.
to 2 s.; tailors from 6 d to 8 d. and their victusis.  The price of oat-meal
is generally about 2 s. the stone; beef, mutton, pork, and veal from 3 d. 
to 4 d. the pound.  Hens from 1 5. to 1 8. 4 d. each; chickens from 6 d.
to 8 d. each.  In this country hens and chickens were never sold by the
pound weight time immemorial.  All these articles provision vary ac-
cording to the different seasons of the year, and have risen greatly within
the last ten or twelve years.


