
                                      METHVEN.                      153

       and cottage holdings from 20 acres to less than one.  Leases are
       generally for nineteen years.  No particular breed of bestial can be
       stated as peculiar to the parish.  Many Ayrshire cows, for the
       purpose of the dairy, have of late years been introduced.  The
       grazing of a cow for the season costs about L. 3.  Every farm has
       a thrashing-mill, and none but iron ploughs are in use.  Ploughmen's
       wages vary from L. 12 to L. 18 per annum, with victuals.
          Husbandry.-The alternate system of cropping is generally
       practised, and, on account of the diversity of soils, this is judicious-
       ly modified to suit the capabilities of land, localities, and climate.
       The best wheat lands are cultivated under a six course rotation, in
       which grass with clover has a place only for one season, beans `nd
       pease, with other leguminous plants, occupying the intermediate
       years between the grain crops.
          Lands of medium quality, which include the greater portion of
       that which is arable, are kept under a five years rotation, with two
       years under grass, the first year hay, and the second pasture.  On
       dry and gravelly soils, and also on the inferior moorlands, a six
       years rotation is followed, with three years grass in succession, while
       the generality of small pendiclers and occupiers of village acres
       practise that of four years; the first, green crop; the second, bar-
       ley with grass seeds; the third, cutting grass or hay; and the fourth,
       oats.
          Bone-dust has been used with much advantage as a manure, for
       the raising of turnips, on the dry lands which admit of the crop
       being eaten off with sheep; but lime is the stimulant most in use,
       many thousand bolls of which have of late years been carted from
       Perth, it being brought there by shipping from the Frith of Forth
       and the north of England.
          Potatoes, particularly the Perthshire red, are extensively culti-
       vated for the London market, and, for several years have brought
       higher returns to the farmer than the rest of his other crops.  Ex-
       cellent crops of turnips are also raised for home consumption,
       especially for feeding cattle, which find purchasers both from Perth
       and Glasgow.  Some good crops of mangold wurzel have also been
       raised.  Several tenants now see the advantage of sowing out their
       fields with different kinds of natural grass seeds suited to the soil,
       in mixture with rye-grass and clover.  As this system will improve
       the pasturage, so it will be the means of extending it, and conse-
       quently of lessening the quantity of land, so frequently held under


