
                           KEMNAY.                               817

rated is not to be denied him, especially as it is not doubtful that
the temporal advantages which it confers have a happy influence
even on the manners of the people.  From the perusal of the re-
cords of our Presbytery, * I am disposed to think that the com-
mission at least of heinous crimes is less frequent, and the propen-
sity to low vices less general, than they were during the seven-
teenth and greater part of the eighteenth century, and also that a
higher tone of morals now prevails.

   Revised 1842.

                        PARISH OF KEMNAY. +

              PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                THE REV. GEORGE PETER, A. M., MINISTER.

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Extent.-The measurement of the estate of Kemnay, according
to the last survey, is 3306 acres and a fraction ; that of Lord
Kintore's property in the parish, 524 acres and a fraction ; several
hundred acres are covered with thriving plantations.  The whole
parish was the property of the Earl of Kintore, and of our only
residing land-holder, John Burnett, of Kemnay, Esq., till of late
when Lord Kintore was authorized by law to sell part of his entailed
Kemnay property to Colonel Fraser of Castlefraser, for the re-
demption of his land-tax.  Kemnay is from 4 to 5 miles in length,
but, being of an irregular figure, it is not easy to ascertain its
mean breadth, which may be perhaps nearly three miles.
   Boundaries.-This parish is fifteen miles west of Aberdeen, the
county town.  It is bounded on the east, by Kintore; on the

<FOOTNOTE>In the records of the seventeenth century, I observe cases of adultery, incest, and
forgery, marked on the margin of three consecutive pages.  It is also recorded, March
1691, that three men having gone into an alehouse at Tillycorthy, and consumed all
the stale "beer that was upon the gantrees, two of them drank themselves dead out
of a fat of new ale, and the third narrowly escaped with his life."  The sense ofshame
became so acute towards the middle of last century, that the public appearances to
Which certain offences were exposed could no longer be enforced with their for-
mer severity.  That it was time to modify them is evident, from the act against
child murder being appointed by the Presbytery in 1762 to be read at least twice
every year from the pulpit.  Yet many after his left the church on account of alleg-
ed laxity of discipline.
    Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. Patrick Mitchell, D. D.
   ABERDEEN					       3 F


