
         1284                           PERTHSHIRE,

         annually. - This mortification is recorded in' t   he minute of the
         kirk,session 'a's follows :
            " At Kincardine, Tuesday 30th April 1695, the Earl of Perth,
         afte+ the Revolution, and with consent of the United Presbyteries
         of Stirling and Dunblane,* mortified, out of the vacant stipend of
         Kincardine, for the encouragement of a schoolmaster in this place,
         2000 merks Scots money," being L. II], 2s. 21-d.  Sterling.
           The school-fees, including all the classes'    are from Is. 6d. to
         3s. 6d. per quarter for each pupil. The     'teacherof the Assem-
         bly's school receives'from the Assembly's Committee, and some of
         the heritors of the Norriestoun district, an annual salary of L.22.
         The other emoluments of the teacher, arise from the school-fees,
         which are from 2s. to 3s. per quarter, the number of scholars be-
         ing 50.  He has besides an excellent school-house, dwelling
         house, and garden, free of rent., from the proprietor of the Blair-
         Drummond estate, who lately repaired the buildings at a great
         expense.
         I The teacher of the school in Kincardine moss has a free school-
         house and dwelling-house, and an acre of good landfrom Mr Drum-
         wond, and also a small gratuity for teaching a Sabbath even-
         ing school.  His sebool-fees are from Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per
         quarter, the number of scholars being about 100 during the greater
         part of the year.  The other two schools, which are unendowed,
         are supported entirelyr by the school-fees, with the exception of
         school-houses anddwelling houses free of rent.  In the one thereare
         100 scholars, who pay individually, per quarter, from Is. 6d. to 3&
         6d. In the oth6r, which is near the Bridge of Drip, the number of
         scholars is se, and the school-fees are from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. per
         qtarter for each pupil.  The teacher receives in addition a small
         sum annually from the parents of his scholam: and an allowance
         for a garden. from the
         The education in this parish is-good, and the people are gene-
         fully attentive An sending their children to the schools, which are
         -st a convenient distance, so that noodditional school is required.
         The ample provision which is made for education has had a Wu-
         tary influene6 upon the moral character of the people.
          Poo.- and ParoMial Funds.-As the greater part of this- parish
         is landward. the no'or are -generally few in number, and the system

                 Ile poresbyteriesof Dunblane and Stirling are ndisjoined.


