
556			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

seasons, it yields excellent crops. In the higher parts, the soil is
of the same character, though less deep. This part has never been
ploughed; nor probably would it pay, if it were. The grass, though
not fine, is suitable for young cattle.
   Botany.--This parish being almost entirely agricultural, the
range of its botanical products is neither extensive nor interesting.
The following is a selection of its most common plants:--
Artemisia vulgaris            Cochlearia officinalis         Polypodium vulgare
Achillaea millefolium         Geum urbanum                   Oxalis acetosella
Agrimonia eupatoria           ----rivale                     ------corniculata
Betonica officinalis          Holosteum umbellata            Plantago major
Carum Carui                   Mentha pulegium                Sambucus ebulus
Convallaria majalis           Orehis mascula                 Marrubium vulgare.

   There are no extensive woods in the parish. The trees are
those common in the surrounding district, namely, oak, plane, ash,
beech, birch, horse-chestnut, and larch, with an intermixture of
spruce and Scotch fir in belts of planting.
   Zoology.--The mole and the weasel are numerous. There is
also a sufficient stock of polecats. Foxes frequent the hilly dis-
trict, but they are not abundant. At times, they visit the lower
district, at a distance from the scene of their fixed resort, and kill
the barn fowl. Complaints, however, are not frequent against
them; and this may be held as good evidence that they do not
too severely annoy the farmers' wives, by depriving them of their
feathered stock. The otter is to be found on the banks of the
Nith. The severe amusement of otter-hunting has of late been re-
vived. Hares and partridges are not so numerous as report affirms
them to have been, when servants made it a stipulation not to have
hare soup and salmon to dinner, in the respective seasons, more than
three days in the week! The blackbird, the thrush, the bullfinch,
and the linnet are abundant. The swallow and all the birds of
the district are to be found over the parish. The owl has a do-
micile in the church steeple; and generally finds a home near every
gentleman's mansion. Flocks of sea gulls, before a storm, advance
from the Solway, a distance of eleven miles, and visit the lower
and middle-parts of the parish. They are never seen here, buf be-
fore a storm. On one occasion, last year, they came in such num-
bers as to cover more than an acre of the glebe lands. They re-
mained for some time, and before night a severe storm was expe-
rienced.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.--The principal land proprietors are, S. Denholm


