
476                       FIFESHIRE.

the heavy seas, brought into the bay, by an easterly or north-east-
erly gale. The rent yielded is about L. 7 Sterling. A number
of families in the city gain their livelihood from the open sea fish-
ery. They have several fishing boats, by which they provide for
the home market during ten months of the year; and during the
other two months, the bulk of them are usually employed at the
herring fishery on the coast of Caithness. The produce of their
labour, while they are at home, is not entirely consumed within
the city, but a part of it is regularly transmitted to Cupar, the
county town, and a part of it is appropriated to the supply of the
vicinity. The principal varieties of fish which they produce in
the market, are the haddock, cod, ling, skate, halibut, and flound-
er. When the wind blows fresh from the east or north,-east, there
is in general so heavy a surf along the coast, that the boats cannot
venture beyond the limits of the harbour. Hence the citizens are
frequently, for many days together, without any supplies from
their own fishermen, and have then to rely on supplies from the
fishing stations on the south coast of the county. During the
stormy season, the fishing apparatus which is left in the sea, is ex-
posed to injury, nay even, in many cases, to utter destruction, and
the vicissitudes of the weather are then so sudden that the fisher-
men themselves are often unexpectedly exposed to the greatest
danger.

<TABLE>

   Produce.-The average amount and value of raw produce raised
yearly in the parish is nearly as follows:

     28,000 bolls of grain of all kinds,	L. 31,500	0	0
     78,000 stones of hay at 7d. per stone,	    2,187	0	0
     Potatoes, turnip, &e.                       8,350         0        0
     Flax, &c.                                   1,500         0        0
     Land in pasture,                            2,200         0        0
     Gardens and orchards,                         600         0        0
     Thinning and felling of timber,               100         0        0
     Fisheries, L. 20, quarries, L. 68,             88         0        0
     Miscelleous produce,                          100         0        0

                       Total yearly value,   L. 46,625         0        0

   Manufactures.-No large manufacturing establishment exists in
the parish. The labour of the tradesmen is chiefly required for
articles of home consumption. The weaving of linen is carried on
to a considerable extent, indeed, in detached premises; but this is
dependent not on the resources of manufacturers resident in the lo-
cality, but on the capital of the Kirkland establishment near Le-
ven,or,on the commercial enterprisee of Dundee. The manufac-
ture of golf balls has long been carried on here, to a considerable
extent. Above 10,000 are made annually. A good workman can


