
82                LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

   The extent of the glebe is between six and seven acres. The
final decreet of locality for the stipend, though many year before
the court, is not yet determined, but over and above the stipend,
L. 100 arises to the minister from a mortification in the county
of Lanark, and which entities him to a vote for member of Parlia-
ment, besides the vote in Linlithgow county.
   There are three Dissenting meeting-houses in the parish. Di-
vine service in the Established Church is well attended, and the
majority of the parishioners are attached to it. Secession origi-
nated here from the parishioners being frustrated in obtaining a
vote for the minister, notwithstanding they had contributed to the
erection of the church with that special end in view.
   The amount of collections in the parish church used to be be-
tween L.46 and L.50 in the year; but it has been less of late.
   Ministers.-The Rev. Alexander Wardrope, first minister of
the church of Whitburn, was the descendant of a respectable fa-
mily in this place. He was licensed to preach about 1722, and,
some time after, was ordained at Muckbart. (Vide Sketch of
him by the late Rev. John Brown.) We find Mr Wardrope men-
tioned in Erskine's Memoirs as one of his correspondents. Mr
Wardrope took an active share in the discussion usually called "the
Marrow Controversy." Mr Wardrope, however, excelled more
as a preacher than a controversialist People came in crowds
from very great distances to bear him.
   The individual who succeeded Mr Wardrope was Dr William
Porteous. He was the son of the Rev. James Porteous of Mony-
vaird. He was born on the 10th of March (0. S.) 1735. From
the Memoir of his life, it appears that he became one of the most
able ministers of the Church of Scotland in his day. By him was
planned the Glasgow Society of the Sons of the Clergy, which
has endeared his memory to the Church. In the same spirit of
humanity and zeal for the best interests of men, he promoted with
all, his public and private influence the noble and extensive views
of the British and Foreign Bible Society. And it was upon his
motion before the Church courts; there was appointed the first pub-
lic collection which was ever made in Scotland for the objects of
that institution. He was ordained minister of Whitburn on the
10th of June 1760, where he laboured for ten years. On the
28th June 1770, he was appointed minister of St George's, Glas-
gow, where be set a going Sabbath schools, and devised plans for
the benefit of the poor.
           			4


