
       		  KIRKPATRICK-DURHAM.                       259

nable. It seems most likely that these curious structures have
been meant as places of security for cattle during those lawless
periods when the Border clans extended their ravages far and
wide, making open plunder their sole profession. This idea
seems to be supported by the fact that, in many retired corners
of the Muir of Kirkpatrick, there are to be met with the remains
of stone dikes which have once formed circular enclosures, uni-
versally understood to have been used as places of safety and con-
cealment for cattle during the predatory incursions of "the thieves
of Annandale." On one of the moats just alluded tn, which is
situate on the estate of Doonpark, there were found a few years
since some remains of ancient armour. Owing to the ignorance
of the discoverer, however, these were speedily converted into im-
plements more useful, if not more curious than the "auld nick-
nackets" which adorn the shelves of the antiquary, and any in-
formation they were calculated to afford was thus lost. The only
remnant of early architecture to be met with in the parish, is the
foundation of an old church on the estate of Areeming, which,
though no records remain to tell its history, in all probability
gave its name to the neighbouring farm of Kirklebride.
		    III.-POPULATION.
	The amount of population, by the returns made to Dr Webster,
was 699. Towards the close of last century, it was reckoned at
1000. The Government census since that period affords the fol-
lowing numbers:

		 In 1801,      1007
		    1811,      1156
		    1821,      1473
		    1831,      1486
		    1841,      1487

	The rapid increase which took place about the end of last cen-
tury, has been traced by Dr Lamont to the formation of a new
and most beneficial road which leads to a harbour at the mouth
of the Urr, the introduction of manufactures, and the change of
plan adopted by proprietors in letting their estates, by which,
what had been formerly occupied by one tenant was divided into
several farms, each let to a separate individual.
	There can be no doubt that these were the true causes, and
they are quit be sufficient to account for the effect. The gradual
increase which has since taken place, in common with that which
is observable in the country at large, may be traced to its general
improvement and extended resources.


