
                      ALLOA.                                   55

returned with his elated troops to the fields which they had occu-
pied in the morning; and as a mark of gratitude for this signal vic-
tory over his hereditary foe, and at the same time, as a memorial
of the distinguished bravery and loyalty of the people, he caused
a stone to be erected, where the royal standard then stood, observ-
ing the ceremonial of anointing the pillar and making a vow. The
stone was removed some years ago. But the spot is well known
to the neigbbourbood, and still receives the name of "the stan'in'
stane". A little to the east of the field where the main body of his
army was encamped, he also founded a village, which be called
"Tirly-bothy," (since varied into Tuffibodie and Tullibody,) a
name originally signifying "the oath of the croft." Such was
the origin of this village. For upwards of three centuries subse-
quent to the period mentioned, little of the history is known.
   Tullibody Church.-This small but venerable edifice, stands a
little to the north of the village. It was built by David 1. King of
Scotland, in the year 1149. By charter, bearing the same date,
he granted as a provision for its priest, certain lands in the neigh-
bourhood and Inches (islands) in the Firth of Forth; and the
pious monarch ordained that it should be subordinate to the rich
and splendid abbey of Cambuskenneth, which, two years before,
be bad built on the very spot where his royal ancestor, Kenneth,
gave the fatal blow to the Pictish dominion. *
   For upwards of 400 years the rites of the Roman Catholic faith
were celebrated in this church; and, as a necessary consequence,
its deep shades of ignorance and superstition overspread the adja-
cent plains. It is recorded that, the church was unroofed, by
the French in 1559. These, under Monsieur D'Oysel, were
stationed on the coast of Fife; and hearing of the arrival of the
English fleet, they were thrown into such alarm that they thought
of nothing but immediate retreat. They proceeded accordingly
towards Stirling, intending there to cross the, Forth. Kirkcaldy
of Grange determined to arrest or at least retard their progress,
broke down the bridge of Tullibody over the Devon, about
a mile to the west of the village. Finding it impassable, they
unroofed the church, employing the materials to cover the breach

<FOOTNOTE>Cambuskenneth signifies the creek or haven of Kenneth; the word "Cambus",
being from the ancient British Camus, a bay, creak, or haven; unless, as some
suppose, it be derived from the Latin word qampas, a plain or field. The churches,
with their tithes and pertinents belonging to this abbey. were those of Clackmanuatt
with its chapels, Tillicoultry, Kincardine, St Ninians with its chapels, Alva, Tulli-
body, with its chapels at Alloa, &c. The first abbot was called Alfredius.


