
254                       FORFARSHIRE.

married, and lodged in an out-house, called a bothie, from L. 10
to L. 12, with an allowance of two pecks of oat-meal per week, and
one Scotch pint of new milk per day; for married ploughmen from
L. 11 to L. 13, with the same allowance of milk and meal, a house,
and commonly a small piece of garden ground, a cart-load of coals,
and two bolls of potatoes.
	Husbandry.--The common breed of sheep in the parish is the
Highland or black-faced; and of cattle, the Angus-shire black, with-
out horns. The land, in general, may be said to be in a high
state of cultivation, and managed according to the most approved
system of husbandry. The duration of leases is almost universally
for the period of nineteen years; and their terms, in most cases, are
sufficiently favourable to the occupiers. The farm-buildings are
commodious in general; and, in many instances, are of a very supe-
rior description. A considerable portion of the land is also well
inclosed. The principal improvements have been made in the
draining of the lands, the application of manures, and the rotation
of the crops.
   Quarries and Mines.--In various parts of the parish, there are
quarries of the amygdaloidal trap-rock, mentioned under the head
of rocks, called by the country people scurdy-stone, and com-
monly employed in building, but not suitable for facing the doors
and windows of dwelling-houses. There was a considerable body
of limestone, forming a promontory or headland, at the southern
extremity of the parish, about 12 or 13 acres in superficial extent,
resting upon a soft sandstone; both of which have been of subse-
quent formation to the amygdaloidal trap-rock in the vicinity. This
limestone is said to have been wrought so early as the year 1696;
and is supposed to have been the first lime burnt in Angus-shire:
40,000 bolls of it have been made and sold in one year. But, after
yielding a considerable revenue to the different proprietors of Dun-
ninald, it is now nearly exhausted. The remaining portion, ex-
cept at very low water, is almost constantly covered by the sea;
and the increased expense of working it, occasioned its being aban-
doned in the year 1831.
    Fisheries.--There are very extensive fisheries in the parish,
both of salmon and of white fish. " The salmon fisheries on the
Southesk, belonging to the proprietors of Rossie and Usan, were
formerly very productive. Those of Rossie, some seasons, yield-
ed 10,1000 salmon and grisles, but since the year 1781, they have
fallen off greatly. The barrel of salmon sold twenty years ago for
				4


