
                       KIRKMAIDEN.                                201

miles. The road now takes a more central direction. To the
west, the land is bleak and mountainous; to the east, it slopes down
to the sea, and constitutes the most fertile portion of the parish.
Nearly opposite the church on this side are situated the old
castle, village, and harbour of Drumore.
	The point of the Mull is a peninsula of a mile and a quarter
in length, by a quarter of a mile in breadth. It is joined to the
mainland by a low and narrow isthmus formed by two small bays
called East and West Tarbets. The hill forming the promontory,
though bleak, rugged, and on its south-west side an almost per-
pendicular rock from its very summit, has alw`ys been regarded as
an interesting object by those who are fond of looking on nature
in rude grandeur. A handsome light-house, lately erected, with its
establishment, has added greatly to the pleasure of the visitant, and
converted what before was merely grand, into what is both grand
and beautiful in a high degree. From the balcony of the light-
house may be seen, in a clear day, the lofty peaks of Cumberland;
--the Isle of Man in all its extent; the coast of Ireland from
the mountains of Morne to Fairhead; the highest mountains of the
counties of Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, Ayr, and the towering Paps of
Jura in Argyllshire. Though the picturesque and striking fea-
tures of the coast are nowhere seen to more advantage than from
the Mull-hill, there are other and higher eminences from which
an equally good view of distant objects may be obtained. The
chief of these are Montlokowre, Bunman, Cairnhill, Cairn of
Dolt, and Grennan hill. The highest summit in the parish is
probably somewhat under 900 feet above the level of the sea.
	Bays, &c.--The bays are numerous, and generally succeeded
by a promontory of the same name. Beginning on the north-east,

and going round the coast, we have, 1. The bays of Chapelrossan;
2. Balgown; 3. New England or Myroch; 4. Tirally; 5. Grennan;
6. Curghie; 7. Drumore; 8. Cairngarroch  9. Maryport; 10. Por-
tonkill; 11. East Tarbet; 12. West Tarbet; 13. Port Corkrie;
14. Clanyard; 15. Portnessock; 16. Port Gill. The chief head-
lands are Killiness Point and Mull of Galloway on the east; and
on the west Crammag, Gounies, and Mull of Logan.
	The only harbours are Port Logan, in the bay of Portnessock,
on the western coast, and Drumore on the east. At both these,
places, besides a quay where vessels may lie in safety, there is good
anchorage in the bays. Were the former so constructed that ves-
sels could enter at low-water--and this could be done at no very


