

152                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

   The Rev. James Robe, A. M., a native of Cumbernauld, and
minister her from 1613 to 1755, is the author of the interesting
narative already refered to, an several volumes of sermons.
   The Rev. Dr R. Rennie, the author of several essays on Peat-
Moss, and possessed of much general information, was a native
of this parish, and its minister from 1789 to 1820.
   Robert Graham, of Tomrawer, has already been mentioned
as an eminent agriculturist.
   Hugh Baird, Esq., an eminent civil-engineer, resided at Kel-
vinhead, till his heath in 1827.  He projected and finished the
Union Canal.
   Antiquities.-There are remains in this parish, of two Pic-
tish forts, corresponding to the two more conspicuous Roman
forsts at Westerwood and Bar-hill, viz. Conneypark and Bal-
castle ; the latter very distinct and interesting, being one of the
most regular of such forts in Scotland, and rising regularly on
all sides at an angle of 45 degrees.  The Bar-hill or Castle-
hill opposite to it, seems to have been one of the most import-
ant forts onthe line of the Roman wall, having a commanding
view of nearly half its whole length, and overlooking the whole of
Strath-Kelvin.  It is, besides, at the narrowest part of the valley,
so as to prevent the forcing of a passage.
   The ruined walls of Colzium Castle remain on a fine elevation
above the glen of Colzium.  A smaller remnant of another man-
sion of the Livingston family, was burnt by Cromwell's sol-
diers, as they passed to Stirling.  Ther is an old house in the
hamlet of Arnbrae, a mile to the westward of Kilsyth, on the
north side of the turnpike to Glasgow, in which a room is still
shown, where Cromwell slept a night; and part of the table he
used, is preserved in the adjoining farm-house.
   Lady Kilsyth's vault is now in the open church-yard, covered
with three flat stones.  On a late occaion of opening the vault,
there was found a ring, with the initials, J. C. supposed to signify
Jean Cochran, Lady Kilsyth, and a smoking-pipe of earthen-ware.
   On the east side of the romantic glen (Garrel), before no-
ticed, there is the Covenanters' Cave, having the date 1669 in-
scribed on the stone, or arch over it.  Nearly adjoining, tradtion
says the Covenanters had their encampment.  The tent of the Mar-
quis of Montrose,on a rising ground above Colzium, mentioned
inthe former Account as quite visible, is now scarcely discernible.




