
                            ABERLADY.                          253

the parish from Gladsmuir, and, though paw utterly in ruins, seems
to have been a mansion of considerable extent. The date of its
erection is not exactly known, but it was probably built towards the
close of the sixteenth century, or perhaps at a still earlier period.
The situation is imposing; and it has attached to it an extensive
garden with an excellent exposure, and well stocked with fruit
trees, still productive. The lands of Redhouse were held in the
fifteenth century by the "Laings," one of which family was Tre-
surer of Scotland in 1483, Bishop of Glasgow in 1473, and High
Chancellor in 1483. From this family, the estate came by mar-
riage into the hands of Sir Andrew Hamilton, brother of the
first Earl of Haddington, and with that gentleman's heirs, it con-
tinued till the last of them lost both lands and life, for haven en-
gaged in the Rebellion of 1745. The house of Luffness is part-
ly of very ancient date. It stands within a small fortification, cor-
structed by the French General "De Thermes," in 1549 in order
to straiten the English garrison in Haddington, by preventing it
from receiving supplies by sea; and the ditch and rampart are still
most distinctly visible. It appears to have answered its intended
purpose, as the garrison in question, being reduced to great extre-
mity for want of provisions, was soon after withdrawn. In 1551, this
fort was ordered to be destroyed; but the house was allowed to
remain as private property. A few hundred yards west of Luff-
ness may be observed the remains of a small religious edifice, said
to have been a convent of Carmelites or White Friam to whom
David II. granted a charter of confirmation as a mark of his fa-
vour; and near it, there are evident traces of fish-ponds, which
a little trouble would restore. An hospital is said to have been
founded at Ballencrieff, in the twelfth century, and dedicated to
St Cuthbert; and there was another at Gosford Spital, in Con-
nection with the collegiate church of Dunglas, but at neither place
are there now any remains of ancient building. Along the coast,
westward towards Longniddry, stone coffins and human bones
have been very frequently dug up, and there seems to be little
doubt, that at some very remote period, this has been the scene
of fierce and bloody contention.
   Parochial Registers.-The records of this parish go cack two
hundred years, but, as happens very commonly throughout Scot-
land, they do not appear to have been at any time very exactly
kept; nor would it be safe to build on them any conclusion in
statistic science.

   HADDINGTON.                             R


