
                        JEDBURGH.                      15

any of the modern buildings. The Townhead, or Castle Street,
from the remains found in the gardens, appear to have presented
on each side a series of closes, which might contain a dense popu-
lation. About fifty years ago, many dwelling-houses, and upwards
of forty malt-kilns, might be seen in ruins. In the country part
of the parish many farm-houses have disappeared; and in more
than one instance, the site of a village is occupied by a single farm-
house with its appendages. On the Jed are the ruins of four corn-
mills. In the town this decrease of population has generally been
ascribed to the influence of the union upon its trade; and in the
country, to the union of farms. In general, one individual now pos-
sesses what formerly supported five or six respectable families. The
monopoly of farms, though undoubtedly favourable to agriculture,
has yet deprived the community of many of its most valuable mem-
bers, by reducing them to the necessity of emigrating. It has
lowered the character of the peasantry, and promoted the increase
of pauperism.
   The population has, however, of late years been steadily increas-
ing. The number of persons residing in the town at last census
is 3617, in villages 403, and in the country 1627, in all 5647. In
1811 it was 4454; in 1821, 5251. The total number of heritors
is 82. Five of the larger proprietors reside in the parish. The num-
ber of those who are proprietors of land to the yearly value of L. 50
and upwards is 44.

<TABLE>

  Number of families in the parish,                                          1232
                     chiefly employed in agriculture,                         234
                                         trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  543
   The Scottish dialect is spoken throughout the parish, with a few
local peculiarities. It is gradually losing ground; but the corrupt
English, which is succeeding, is scarcely to be regarded as an im-
provement. The only popular game is that of ball, which, accord-
ing to ancient custom, is celebrated at three different stations,-
Jedburg, Lanton, and Camptown. The ball is thrown with the
hand towards the appointed goal, and, as the combatants are in ge-
neral numerous and athletic, the struggle is often protracted and
severe. The time when this game is played at Jedburgh is Fastern's
eve, which is always, the Tuesday following the first new moon after
Candlemas.
   The inhabitants of this parish are in general intelligent, sober,
orderly, and industrious. The bad effects of the reduction of the
duty upon ardent spirits have indeed been felt to no small extent,
but happily not to such a degree as to affect the general character


