
	114                                 PERTHSHIRE.

	West, Middle, and St Paul's.  The minister of the Gaelic Church
	is chosen by the male heads of families being communicants, and
	so also is the minister of St Leonard's.
	   By the Court of Session decreet 1807, the council guaranteed
	to the minister of the East and Middle parishes, besides victual
	stipend, L. 80 each of money stipend, and to those of the West
	and St Paul's, L. 200.  But afterwards they voluntarily gave aug-
	mentations to the ministers of the West and St Paul's L. 80 each,
	and to the ministers of the East and Middle, L. 50 each.  In
	1835, the West Church became vacant by the death of the Rev.
	Mr Kennedy.  During the vacancy, it was at different times keen-
	ly contested, by a party in the town-council, that the augmentation
	granted to Mr Kennedy should be withheld from his successor.
	The Strathmore Journal, a Perth newspaper, took up the point,
	and emitted, on the 4th February 1836, the following strictures,
	which, as they entirely accord with the sentiment that I enter-
	tain, I sball here introduce., "Stipend of the West Church mi-
	nister.-We have not been much fascinated with the resolution of
	the town-council to restrict the stipend of the new incumbent in
	this parish to L. 200 in future: and we cannot comprehend the
	conduct of some of those who voted for that motion, and yet hold
forth that by doing so they merely wished to delay a settlement of
	the matter. It does appear to us quite unreasonable that, in a
	city such as this, one of the clergymen should be restricted to the
	minimum rate of stipend in the Church of Scotland, when the ex-
	pense of living is so much greater than in country parishes.   It
	must be noticed, also, that the Perth ministers have neither glebe,
	garden, nor manse;  and so the L. 200 proposed to be given is not
	worth more than L. 150 comparatively.  This stinted remunera-
	tion is not economy, but positive parsimony, and it can hardly be
	expected that a clergyman of talent, such as Perth should have,
	will be obtained, or, at any rate, remain long in a situation where
	he is only to receive such a reward for his labours and attainments,
	as is to be found in the poorest livings in the church.  For the

        <FOOTNOTE>1589, James VI. conferred on Anne of Denmark, at the time of his marriage with that
	Princess, the lands and other property of the Abbey of Dunfermline.  The deed was
confirmed by  Parlisment in 1593, but it was enatted that she should allow for the offi-
	ciating clergy and for some other purposes specified, one-third of the benefits of those
	churches which had belonged to the Abbey.  The tacksman of the tithes of Perth was
        John Ross, laird of Craifie.  Her paid a third part for the purposes enacted, and trans-
	mitted, the overplus to the Queen. Her Majesty however, soon after the year 1500,
	gave up her right to the tithes ot Perth, and town-council became patrons of the
	parish.


