
938                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

they cease to increase, tend to dissolution, even the trap rocks ex-
foliate; and the decomposed matter, wherever it lodges, produces
a fertility which displays itself in the deep verdure of the herbage.
The decomposition of freestone, on the contrary, tends only to
sterility.  From this cause the pastures on the heights of Crawford,
upon hard rock, covered with a thick mixture of short heath and
sweet grasses, and sometimes with a close verdant carpet with very
little heath, are particularly sound and healthy.  The principal
part of the arable land in this part of the county, lies in the pa-
rishes around Tinto, along the side of the Clyde.  The alluvial
soil of the meadows is of the nature of carse ground, and is ex-
ceedingly fertile.  In the uplands, which are, with a few exceptions,
of a light and friable quality, with an under stratum of sand or
gravel of considerable depth, the soil is likewise fertile.  At a
greater distance from the river, the soil is in many places moorish
and spongy.  In the greater part of the parishes of Lanark and
Lesmahago the soil is light, friable, and dry, bearing a resem-
blance to that in the neighbourhood of Tinto, though less fertile.
In the lower part of Lesmahago, the clay soil begins to appear.
In Carluke parish, a great proportion of the land is clay, or has a
dense argillaceous bottom, and is damp, cold, and sterile.  Part
of it, however, is of better quality, and that portion of the parish
which borders on the Clyde is equally fertile and picturesque.
   The Middle Ward, although it exhibits great diversity of soil, is
generally of a clayey nature, with a greater or less intermixture of
sand, and varies greatly in colour, conformation, and fertility.
The bottom is solid and argillaceous,--sometimes apparently homo-
geneous, composed of regular horizontal laminae,--but more gene-
rally of a mixed nature, without the appearance of divisions, and
mixed up with small roundish stones of different kinds.  Small
tracts of sandy or gravelly soil sometimes occur; and when a bed
of this description is of tolerable depth, the land is dry; but where-
ever the under stratum of clay approaches the surface, the soil is
light and wet.  In the valleys along the Clyde and other consider-
able streams, a deep, rich alluvial soil lies upon a bed of open
gravel.  At a distance from the river is frequently found a thin
loose, soil lying upon a clay bed, apt to heave with the changes of
the weather, and unfit for every useful kind of vegetable produc-
tion.  Somewhat similar to this, but more productive of grass, is
the black or grey soil on the high moorish grounds.  A large
proportion ofthe Middle Ward is occupied with moss or peat


