
                  URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER.                  369

birch, mountain-ash, hazel bird-cherry, &c. which constitute the
chief objects of attraction in the aspect of the parish.  The oak,
however, is not allowed to attain to great size.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
It is believed that there exists no account of the parish either in
print or manuscript.  Neither are there any traditionary sketches
that are deserving of notice, with the exception of one relating to
President Forbes, and which forms an interesting episode in the
history of the Rebellion. So far as has been observed by the writer,
it has not been noticed in any of the published accounts of that event-
ful period.  It has been preserved among the old people in these
bounds, and as of its authenticity there can be no doubt, it way not
be improper to introduce it here.
  Some time previous to the battle of Culloden, a design had been
formed by the rebels to surprise President Forbes, Lord Loudon,
and other friends of the Government, who were then at Gulloden
House, guarded by a party of the Ferrintosh and Culloden tenants.
To execute this plan, a detachment was sent down with great se-
crecy from the Aird along the water of Nairn. The officer in
command, with a view to ensure the accomplishment of the object
proposed, concealed his party in a wood in the vicinity of Cullo-
den House, which he intended to surround in the night, after as-
certaining that the loyal party bad not previously departed.  In
this state of things, a woman residing on the mains of Culloden,
happened, in looking for some sheep, to go near the wood, when, to
her great consternation, a tall Highlander, completely equipped in
armour, suddenly presented himself before her and in a whisper in-
quired whether she knew the President or not.  Instantly suspect-
ing mischief, she made no reply.  But the  warrior, assuring her
that he was no enemy to his Lordship, charged her, if she valued
his life, without the least delay, to deliver into his own hand a let-
ter which he pulled out of his sporan, and which he stated contain-
ed intelligence of the last importance to the President.  The woman,
hastening with tbe letter as directed, arrived at the castle just after
the company had taken their seats at the dinner table; she had ac-
cordingly great difficulty in obtaining access, but her urgency in-
duced some of the servants in attendance to mention her earnest
request to be admitted immediately to his Lordship.  She was
ordered in, and walking up to the head of the table, with profound
courtesy, delivered the letter, requesting at the same time that is
should be forthwith read, as she had reason to believe it related to


