
                            KINROSS.                            25

   The facilities of education are such, that there is not a single
individual in the parish whom destitute circumstances prevent from
obtaining access to the parish school, and all the common branches
of instruction. The late Mr James Beveridge of Middle Balado
left a small legacy for this purpose. The kirk-session and heri-
tors are very attentive to the case of poor children who require to
be sent to school; and the schoolmaster himself is very liberal of
his gratuitous services.
   Libraries.--There are two public subscription libraries here.
The first is more general, and under the management of a com-
mittee, of which the three clergymen are members, along with
others. The second is the Tradesmen's Library, chiefly for artisans
and operatives.
   There are, besides, three juvenile libraries, or rather small se-
lections of books, chiefly of such as are suited to the years and
capacities of the scholars of the Sabbath classes, and almost all
of a strictly religious character. These are purchased by public
collections at the church doors, or by individual bounty.
   A public reading-room is in contemplation. It is proposed to
place it in a vacant space in the centre of the town, and to set
about building it immediately.
   Friendly Societies.--These, four in number, are, according to
the dates of their institution, as follows:--1. The Weavers', insti-
tuted 25tb November 1756; 2. The Hammermen, 15th June
1783; 3. The Friendly, 2d September 1799; 4. The Brotherly,
4th January 1819.
   Savings Bank.--In May 1815, such a provident institution was
established at Kinross, under the designation of Kinross-shire Bank
for Savings, and although at its commencement it bad to encounter
suspicion and misapprehension on the part of many, for whose bene-
fit it was intended, all such prejudices were so completely surmount-
ed, that nearlv L. 3000 of deposits, not exceeding L. 4 each, were
realized. To its extensive and increasing usefulness the writer of
this article can bear his clear and decided testimony, having been
actuary from its beginning till its dissolution on the 1st of January
1833, a period of nearly eighteen years. Into the particulars that
led to an event equally unfortunate and unexpected, it would be
altogether improper to enter. Suffice it to say, that its directors
and other office-bearers, who gave their time and trouble gratui-
tously , and the members who along with them contributed to an
auxiliary fund of upwards of L. 100, were the only individuals


