
6                            ORKNEY.

of the law, and ministers of four communions, five in number; to-
gether with several teachers of youth, male and female.
   The shopkeepers are very numerous, almost every alternate
house, in most parts of the town, containing a shop. The princi-
pal shops are well stocked with goods of every description, imported
from Edinburgh, London, and other markets; and which are sold
on very moderate profits, considering the distance of the markets
and the great expense of carriage.
   Many of the mechanics execute their work well, but they are
generally complained of as dilatory, seldom executing their orders
within the stipulated time; though the undoubted fact was pro-
bably an extreme case, of a gentleman sending a nursery-fender
to be painted, which was not returned till after the boys, for whose
safety it was intended, returned, grown men, from college!
   The sailors and boatmen, for skill, hardihood, and dexterity in
their profession, are not surpassed by their brethren in any part of
the world.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-As few of the estates in St Ola have been sur-
veyed or measured, the extent in acres of the cultivated ground
cannot be accurately given; but by good judges, it is thought, that
the arable ground does not exceed 1200 or 1500 acres, which, on
an average, is rented at about 16s. per acre. Considerable im-
provement in the modes of farming has, taken place, of late years;
several proprietors, and tenants, having introduced the improved
modes of agriculture practised in the south, by rotation of crops,
draining, and enclosing. Oats, barley, and bear, potatoes, turnips
and artificial grasses, are cultivated with success. Mr Pollexfen
of Cairston, besides setting an example of general good farming,
on a part of his property in his own occupation, has made such
improvements in the production of grass and turnip seeds, as to
have attracted the approving notice of the Agricultural  Associa-
tions; and the seeds raised by him are in considerable request,
evenr in the south of Scotland.
   There is a considerable extent of pasture lands in the parish.
The common charge for pasturage of an ox or cow is L.1, 10s.
The wages of ploughmen are L.7,  7s. per annum money, with
allowances of meal,  milk, and potatoes; making the whole fee,
L.14 or L.13. Female domestic servants receive, at an average,
L. 8 per annual with their maintenance. Price of about, 1s. to
1s. 3d. per day.


