
                         CERES.                          529

now be discovered. The present church wa a built in 1806. It
stands on a height, where formerly stood the old church and cha-
pel: it was situated on the outskirts of the old town, but since the
new town or Bridge-end was built, it may be said to be in the cew-
tre of the village.  It is seated for 1100, but actually; holds
1300, and the seats are very advantageously disposed both for
bearers and speaker. These seats all belong to the heritors of
the parish, and there is no rent charged for the use of them.
Seats are appropriated for the proprietors and farmers, and the
remainder are free and open to the people, and, except on very
bad days, they are well filled. There are two meetings in the
church, winter and surnmer. The average number of com-
municants is 1000. The right of patronage, by a grant from the
Crown, was vested in the Crawford family. The stipend, by a
decreet of the Court of Teinds, was fixed at 16'chalders victual,
half meal, half barley. The manse was built in 1788, and has had
little alteration or repair since that time. The glebe consists of 7
acres of excellent land.
  There are also two meeting-houses in the village of Ceres, one
for the Associate Congregation of Antiburgher Seceders, which
was built in 1744, the other for the Presbytery of Relief. To
each of these are attached a settled clergyman and regular con-
gregation. A brotherly feeling and Christian spirit pervades the
greater number of the members of these three congregations
and you will occasionally tiod them in each others place of wor-
ship.
   There are about 86 families in this parish attached to the Re-
lief Church, and about the same number to the Secession.
   Education- There are one parochial, one Secession school and
three contribution schools, besides the schools at Pitscottie and Tar-
vit Mills. There are also two female schools, besides one or two small
private schools. By a contract entered into, anno 1631, between Sir
Thomas Hope, advocate to Charles L, on the part, and Lord
Lindsay, patron of the parish, the heritors thereof the minister, and
kirk-session on the other part; Sir Thomas Hope in consequence of
mortifying 100 merks Scotch yearly, for the benefit of the school-
master, was to have; the right of, presenting the schoolmaster.
The right of trial and admission was to be vested in the minister
and session, In this state the matter still continues. The
schoolmaster received the value of this mortification in addition
his salary, which  is the maximum. The averge number of scho-
   FIFE.


