
166                      FIFESHIRE.

   Soil, &c.-The greater part of the soil is clay, with a mixture
of sand: the rest is black earth, commonly on whinstone. The
ground of Lochgelly, cultivated to the top, is 620 feet above the
level of the sea, while other parts of the parish to the east and north
do not exceed 200 feet in height, and even less. The climate is
damp and variable. The lake of Lochgelly is three miles in cir-
cumference. The scenery on the north, presenting banks of wood
and rich enclosures, is beautiful. On the other sides, the scene is
bleak, and might be much improved by plantations. The Ore
rising, in the west, in the parish of Ballingry runs through the
whole length of this parish, and through the parishes of Kinglas-
sie, Dysart, and Markinch, till it goes into the river Leven, about
two or three miles before the united stream enters the Frith of
Forth at the town of Leven. The Ore has everywhere a flat
course, and is a muddy stream of no great depth. It has, within
this parish two bridges over it, each of one arch.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-There are 11 heritors each having a rental
above L. 50 per annum. There are seven cess feuars, two of whom
have each a feu rented above L. 50 per annum.
   Parochial Begisters.-We have registers of baptisms and mar-
riages only. They commence at the beginning of last century.
It is to be hoped that the General Assembly, and the other public
bodies, will be successful in bringing the defective state of the
Scottish registers before Parliament.

                           III.-POPULATION.
   From the time of Dr Webster's Report, till that of the former
Statistical Account, the population was almost stationary,--varying
only betwixt 1194 and 1200. The population in 1821 was 1488;
in 1831, 1590.
   By my last report, the village of Lochgelly contained 342; it
now contains 612, so that, although our general population has in-
creased 100, yet the country part of the population has diminish-
ed. Lochgelly is our only village. By the census of 1831, the
males are 786, the females 804.
Mr Malthus, the political economist, when reading in my former
report, the hardships represented in the situation of our married
labourers, wishes to change the following sentence. viz. "That
people continue to enter voluntarily upon such a hard situation,
shews how much the union of the sexes and the love of indepen-
dence are principles of human nature." Upon this Mr Malthus


