
                        ABERTNETHY.                          849

covered three skeletons laid west and east, two of them lying side
by side of each other, and the third under these.  The gentlemen
under whose directions these researches were prosecuted, and who
were in attendance on this interesting occasion, were the Rev.
Messrs Horgan, Rogers, Jones, Bolster, and D. Murphy, Messrs
Hackett, Sainthill, Abell, Windele, Keleher, and F. Jennings."
While upon this subject, it is worthy of being, noticed, that, in
May 1821, the Rev.  Andrew Small, author of a curious work en-
titled Roman Antiquities in Abernethy and neighbouring parishes,
discovered a stone-coffin, with an entire skeleton and several human
skulls and other detached bones, within the tower at Abernethy,
while digging in the foundation of the building.  An account of
the discovery will be found in the work to which I have referred,
published in 1823.
   After all, however, which has been written or suggested as to
the origin and uses of this class of ancient monuments, it must be
admitted, that the researches of the antiquarian have, hitherto
failed in producing any theory on which much reliance can be
placed.
   "On the summit of a hill immediately behind Pitiour, and in
this parish, are the remains of an ancient fort, called "the Roman
Camp,' which Colonel Millar, in his Essay respecting the site of
the battle of Mons Grampius, supposes to have been occupied by
the army previous to the great battle, which he supposes to have
been fought in the plain below.  The sides of this hill, except on
the north-east, where it is connected with the general range of the,
Ochils, are steep, and it rises about 400 feet from its base. The
summit is surrounded by a chain of rocks upwards of 300 yards in
circumference, which forms a sort of natural citadel, and is still
called, the fort.' It has besides been well fortified; and many of
the stones used for that purpose have been brought from a great
distance.  Upon clearing the ground for planting it in 1828, the
road leading to it, laid with stone, was laid open.  The entrance
on the east side was also discovered cut through the rock, and the
pavement in the inside quite entire. upon digging, many human
bones were fotnd, both within and without the circumference of
it also the bones and teeth of horses.  A little below the summit,
and on the side facing the Lomond hill, the slope was cut into
terraces, similar to those at Makinch, with this diiterence, that
these seem to have been faced with stone.  They are now all
levelled but one, which is used as a farm road.  Although this fort

  PERTH                                          3 H


