
                                       BOHARM.                      357

         From the boundary with Mortlach to that with Bellie, which may
         be taken for the mean length, the distance is about 9 miles.  The
         breadth front Keith and Botriphnie boundaries to the Spey ave-
         rages 4 miles; but at the middle of the length, the cultivated and
         inhabited part is of considerably less breadth; being much com-
         pressed by the bulky mass of Benagen, which occupies a very
         great proportion of the whole surface, and forms the circular val-
         ley already mentioned, which, narrow in the middle, and expand-
         ing at either end, is all cultivated, both in the bottom and to a
         considerable distance up the slopes on each side, and to which,
         and a valley opening into it, from Keith eastward, to a detached
         district in the eastern angle, and to a narrow strip along the river,
         interrupted at the middle for about two miles, partly by the penin-
         sular pendicle annexed from Dundurcos to Rothes, and partly by
         the abrupt ascent of the hill, the cultivation is chiefly confined.
         On the map, the parish has nearly the figure of a long parallelo-
         gram, following the course of the Spey from south to north.  The
         whole, except the strip along the river, lies high above the level
         of the sea.  The summit level of the bottom of the valley running
         round the hill is 400 feet above the sea level, from which height
         the valley gradually descends to both ends, till near the junctions
         with the valley of the Spey, when the descents become very abrupt.
         In the other valley, opening from the east, the waters divide,-
         one-half running to the Deveron at twelve miles distance east, the
         other to the Spey at four miles distance west.  The height of
         Benagen above the sea is 1500 feet, and, on the south and east,
         the cultivated around extends nearly half-way up its sides.
            Meteorology and Climate.-A register of the weather was kept
         at the old manse by the late incumbent, now the learned Profes-
         sor of Humanity and Natural History in King's College, Aber-
         deen, and one of the ministers of St Machar's, which, from July
         1803 to February 1809, has, been already published in the Agri-
         cultural Survey of Banffshire.
            The present incumbent has, since March 1818, but, it is to be
         feared, with much less accuracy, kept a register both of the
         weather and of vegetation at the new manse, about three miles nearer
         the sea, and about fifty feet nearer the sea level.
            The prevailing wind is the south-west, particularly in autumn
         and spring, and it is often very violent, sweeping down the long,
         valley of the Spey, which, till it turns here, runs to the south-east.


