
                             RAYNE.                          425

nite, raised on, pedestal of circular steps, and measuring nearby
12 feet from the ground to the top.  Above the middle of this
pillar is an iron staple with links, the remains of the jeugs, in which
offenders were wont to be exposed to public shame; and half of
the iron collar which clasped the neck of the delinquent remained
attached to the chain about half a century ago, but is, now gone.
This cross was probably erected in the end of the seventeenth
century, when John Horn of Westhall, superior of Old Rain, was
empowered by charter to constitute it a burgh of barony, with re-
gular markets and bailie courts,-which last were held according-
ly in the eighteenth century.
   Four hundred yards eastward from this village, is a Druidical en-
cle or temple; and at the like distance from this to the north-
east, in the line of the church road, is part of an ancient cairn,
called Drum's Cairn, said to mark the spot  where Irvine of
Drum was slain, while, pursuing Donald, Lord of thou Isles, after
the battle of Harlaw, 1411.  Another tradition bears that he was
slain nearer to the field of action, about four miles to the, south-
east, and buried at Drum on Deeside, the seat of that ancient fa-
mily; a discrepancy which may be reconciled, by supposing that
he was wounded near Harlaw, but able to pursue the enemy to
this place, where, from exhaustion, or fresh wounds, he fell.  The
cairn was opened and partly removed eight years ago, on the road
being widened at the place; but nothing was found confirmatory
of the above tradition; and though a field in the near vicinity is
named "Drum Fauld" it may have acquired that name from its
round and convex form, various other places of the like appear-
once being also called Drums.  Half a mile eastward from Drum's
Cairn is another small one, in the Moor of Rayne, called Tilly-
daff's Cairn, as marking the place where Tillydaff, laird of Mains.
of Warthill, was killed in 1530.  Having assaulted a neighbour-
ing land-owner, Leslie of Warthill, second son of Wardhouse, in
Lawrence fair, he was pursued by Wardhouse and his other sons
for several miles, and fell by their hands at this spot; now a small
green mound, which does not appear to have been opened.
A third cairn, of larger dimensions than either of the former, is
found near the summit of the hill of Rothmaise, now called the
Black Cairn; but of the origin or intention of which there is no
tradition extant.  About fifty years ago, it  was partially opened,
and removed by the then proprietor, when a stone-coffin was found,
and a key of rude workmanship.  Another Druidical circle is seen


