
810                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

nister of this parish, there is no tradition nor record, our presby-
tery registers commencing fourteen years after his death, and our
parochial forty-seven.  By his learning, his great candour, and
power of persuasion, he is said to have been instrumental in open-
ing the eyes of many to perceive and renounce the errors which
had crept into the Christian church during the dark ages: and in
this parish I have discovered no remnant of Popery since his time,
except that, about the end of the seventeenth century, Alexander
Buchan of Auchmacoy took priest's orders in the church of Rome,
and resigned his estate in favour of his younger brother, Major
James Buchan.
   Mr Arbuthnot died unmarried, "at night, on the 16th October
1583," in the forty-sixth year of his age, and sixteenth of his mi-
nistry in this parish.  The only book his active life left him lei-
sure to publish, was "Orationes de Origine et Dignitate Juris," at
Edinburgh, in 1572.  How amiable his life was, and how sincere-
ly lamented his early death, will appear from the following lines
extracted from his elegy, written by the celebrated Andrew Mel-
ville,-
          "Flerem ego, nee flenti foret, aut pudor aut modus, eheu!
          Flerem ego te, te eheu! flerem ego perpetuo,
          Deliciae humani generis, dulcissime rerum,
          Quem Musae et charites blando aluere sinu;
          Cujus in ore lepos, sapiens in pectore virtus;
          Et suadae et sophiae vis bene juncta simul;
          Cui pietas, cui prisca fides, constantia candor
          Et pudor et probitas non habuere parem."
   Mr Read, the second minister in the above list, seems to have
been an active man, and to have taken a particular interest in the
erection of the parish of Udny.  Yet it appears a complaint was
lodged against him, as contained in the following minute of Pres-
bytery, which is too curious to be omitted:
   "Logie Buchan, 1st September 1620, convenit the Bishop of
Aberdeen and Presbytery of Ellon, with the gentlemen of the pa-
rish of Logie, and elders thereof, for visitation of the kirk of
Logy-buchan.  Mr John Read, minister at Logy-buchan, being
challengit of non-residence, answerit the want of peits and want of
ane sufficient gleib was the cause thereof.  The gentlemen and
elders of the parish foresaid consulting about the matter, and ad-
mitting partly that it might prevent Mr Read, they advised, at the
instance of the bishop and presbytery, to allow him 'sax leit of

<FOOTNOTE>For Mr Arbuthnot's Life see Chalmers's Biographical Dictionary, Irvine's Lives
of the Scottish Poets, M'Kenzies Lives, Dr M'Crie's Life of Melville, Calderwood,
MS. in possession of Viscount Arbuthnot.


