
                          KIRKMABRECK.                       333

row, that was also of flint, but not a particle of any metallic sub-
stance was found.*
   About the year 1778, in removing a quantity of stones for build-
ing dikes from a large tumulus in Glenquicken Moor, there was
found a stone coffin, containing a human skeleton, which was
greatly above the ordinary size. There was also found in this
sepulchral monument an urn containing ashes, and an earthen
pitcher. The urn seems to evince the antiquity of this tumulus,
when the British practised funeral cremation. This tumulus is
called Cairnywanie. + Thus we have an account of two skeletons
of very large size, found in Glenquicken Moor at diffdredt times.
These facts seem to confirm the tradition that a battle bad taken
place here at some very remote period. History inforims us of a
battle having been fought on the river Cree, about the year A. D.
310, wherein the Picts joined the Romans under, Maximus their
general, against the Scots under their King Eugenius, but where-
in the Scots were overthrown. ++ Whether this conflict took place
on Glenquicken Moor or not, it seems difficult to determine.
   But the most memorable place of antiquity in the parish is call-
ed Cairnboly. The tumulus of this name, when opened up many
years ago,SS was found to contain a large kistvaen of flat stones.
The upper stone is so large, that curiosity has not yet removed it,
to discover the contents below. On each side of this tomb, at the
distance of 100 yards, there are the marks of many graves, and
at most of these were placed rude stones of memorial, in the up-
right manner of the common grave-stones. It is to be regretted
that some of these have been removed, and that others are in a
state of dilapidation. The history of this holy cairn is involved
in much obscurity. King Galdus, who is supposed to have given
his own name to Galloway, is said to be here inhumed. This is
no doubt the fabulous Corbredus Galdus of Boece and Buchanan,
who, according to their fictions, opposed Agricola in arms. Ad-
mitting, however, the existence of King Galdus, and that he was
slain in battle in Galloway, it is not probable that he was buried
at Cairnholy. It is more probable that he was buried in Torhouse
Moor, in tbe parish of Wigtown, where there is a monument of three
large whinstones, called King Galdus's Tomb. This opinion has
obtained the sanction of the celebrated antiquarian, Sir Robert

<FOOTNOTE>Captain Denniston's Letter to Mr Train of Newton-Stewart, dated 22d October
1819.
   + Cairnywanie, which signifies a green field.
   ++ Statistical Account, p. 551, Vol. xv.
   SS About 160 years ago;--Symson's Description of Galloway.



