
     of Rothiemay.

1 s,; and for common labour, such as delving, 9 d. without
victuals.  A mason's day's wage are 1 s. 6 d; a wright's,
1 s. both without victuals; a tailor's, 8 d. with victuals; a
diker's work is hired by the piece.  By spinning linen-
yarn, a woman earns 3 1/2 d. at most 4 d. a-day!  A poor pit-
tance, indeed!  and till manufactures be established here,
(a thing more to be desired than expected), there is little
reason to hope that female labour will find a better, at least
an adequate reward.

   Church, School, etc.-The parish-church, built about 40
years ago, is commodious and well lighted.  The Earl of
Fife is patron.  By a late decree of the Court of Teinds,
the minister's stipend is "106 bolls 3 firlots of victual, half
" meal half bear, and L. 533:6:8  Scotch, with L. 60
" money foresaid for furnishing the communion-elements."
The schoolmaster's salary, which is 200 merks Scotch*,
and the school-fees, with precenter's and session-clerk's fees
and perquisites, do not exceed L. 20 or L. 21 a-year.  The

<FOOTNOTE>

*Till within these two years, it was only 100 merks Scotch.  The late
Rev Mr Bruce of Dunbar, who received the principles of his education at
this school, generously proposed to augment it by a donation of L. 100 Ster-
ling, on the following terms 1st, That the heritors should become trustees
of his donation, paying to the schoolmaster the legal interest of it; and,
adly, That they should augment the salary to the maximum, or 200 merks
Scotch.  Though the heritors complied with these terms as soon as propo-
sed, and though afterwards Mr Bruce, informed of this, promised that his
donation should be forthcoming at a time mentioned, yet, not long after,
he died, without having fulfilled his benevolent purpose, and (so foar as I
have yet been able to discover) without leaving the fulfilment of it in trust
to his heirs or testamentary executors.  It is hoped, however, that sufficient
vouchers of his purpose and promise being produced, his heirs (who are
happly in sufficient circumstances) will, from due respect to his memory,
esteem his will, respecting this matter, as sacred as if it had been expressed
with all the circumstances of legal formality.


