
412                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

tended to commemorate the successful defence of the bridge at
Kildean by the Scottish army at the battle of Stirling.  But,what-
ever may have been indicated by the engraving on this seal, the
origin of the corporation is of a much earlier date.  The most an-
cient charter of the burgh in existence was granted by Alexan-
der I., and is dated at Kincardine, August 18, 1120; and even this
is not a charter of erection, but only confers additional privileges.
At what period the erection took place cannot now be ascertained.
Stirling is the fourth burgh in the historical order in which such
corporations appear in Scottish annals; those which precede it
being Edinburgh, Berwick, and Roxburgh.  Along with these, it
was one of " the Court of the Four Burghs," a kind of Commer-
cial Parliament, instituted, it would seem, by David I., and invested
with great powers in all matters of trade; which was by James
III. changed into " the Convention of Royal Burghs."  This court
appears to have had its meeting in Stirling as early as 1405.  In
1454, it was transferred to Edinburgh.  The register of sasines of
the burgh commences in 1473; the Council Records in 1597.
In 1773, by a decision of the Court of Session, affirmed by the
House of Lords, the election of magistrates and councillors, made
at Michaelmas of that year, was, owing to some corrupt influence
employed, declared null and void; and the privileges of the town as
a corporate body, were for a season annihilated.  In 1781, on a
petition of the inhabitants, they were restored by the Crown With
some alterations in the set or constitution of the burgh.  This new
set continued, until superseded by the Municipal Reform Act of
the 28th of August 1833, according to which the owners or occu-
piers of houses of the value of L. 10 annually, elect the council-
lors, in number 21; the councillors elect from among themselves a
provost, four bailies, a dean of guild, and a treasurer.  One-third
of the councillors retire annually, according to a prescribed order;
the provost and treasurer being, however, excepted, who remain
in office three years.  The election of councillors takes place on
the first Tuesday of November; that of the magistrates, &c. on
the Thursday following.  The town-clerk cannot be a member of
the council.  By an Act of Parliament in 1437, various burghs
were appointed to keep the standard measures for liquid and dry
goods, from which all others throughout the kingdom were to be
taken.  To Edinburgh was committed the ell; to Perth the reel;
to Lanark the pound; to Linlithgow the firlot; and to Stirling,
being at that time the principal market for distilled and fermented


