
8                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

contorted, and varies much in dip and direction, though the for-
mer generally approaches to vertical. On Balmae shore the grey-
wacke forms a good building stone; and numbers of the large
boulders of granite and greenstone, scattered plentifully along
the shores of the Manxman's lake, have been broken up and re-
moved for this purpose. There are several caverns on the shore
hollowed out by the waves of the Solway, but the Torrs' Cove,
often called Dirk Hatterick cove, is considerably above high-
water mark. *
	Zoology.--No very rare animals exist in the parish. The fox
and the otter are occasionally met with, though the damage now
done by them is by no means considerable. The badger, for some
years past, has not been observed, but there are still a few of them
in the district. The number of both polecats and weasles has
been of late years much diminished; whilst hares and rabbits have
amazingly increased. The bittern is perhaps the rarest bird to
be found in the parish. Only one has been seen in it during
the last thirteen years. It is solitary in its habits, and frequents
marshy grounds, living upon the small animals which exist in such
situations. The chough, or red-legged crow, is also seldom seen,
except sometimes upon the shore. Berries and insects are its
food. The only hawks that breed here are the sparrow-bawk,
merlin, and kestrel. The goshawk is sometimes a visitor, and he
has been known to build on the Large Ross. The buzzard annu-
ally appears, chiefly in autumn, and so does the harrier. Only
one peregrine falcon has been lately seen, which was killed and
stuffed. There is abundance of pheasants and partridges, with a
little black game and grouse. Woodcocks are much scarcer now
than formerly, owing, it is thought, to the destruction of their
nests, the eggs of this bird being held in high estimation.  Lap-
wings are still numerous, and breed in the district.  The snipe is
also an inhabitant of the parish, as well as the heron, but neither
is common. The starling exists here, with all the variety of birds,
both indigenous and migratory, that are common in the country.
There are various kinds of ducks and other water-fowl, such as
the gannet, cormorant, puffin, sea-magpie, and four or five spe-
cies of gulls. In severe winters, wild geese sometimes alight, and
feed on Howell meadow, or the neighbouring shores. The Dee
is celebrated for its salmon. It likewise contains grilse, sea and

<FOOTNOTE> The writer is indebted to Ur E. B. Fleming, of the Kirkcudbright Acadewy,
for the Preceding geological information."



