
176                     KINCARDINESHIRE

from the Exchequer allowance, so as to make the stipend L. 150.
I find a valuation of the teinds in the year 1773, a few months
after the settlement of my predecessor, before he could possibly
be aware whether the valuation was fairly made or otherwise.
	There is no chapel or other place of public worship of any kind
within the parish. The people are all Presbyterians, with the ex-
ception of part of one family of Independents, and about twenty
individuals of the Popish faith, who attend worship at the Popish
College of Blairs, in the neighbouring parish of Maryculter.
	Education.--The schools in the parish are two,--tbe parochial
school near the church, at which are taught, reading English, Eng-
lish grammar, writing, arithmetic, and Latin. The salary is L. 29,
besides the emoluments which the teacher enjoys as clerk to the ses-
sion, and fees paid by the scholars, the average amount of which is
3s. 6d. per quarter. The situation altogether may be worth L. 56 per
annum. There is also another school under the patronage of the
kirk-session. It is generally called Mr Hog's Charity School,
because it was first instituted by a Mr Hog, a native of this parish,
who, in 1787, left L. 5 per annum for a salary to the teacher, but
for which he is required to teach gratis ten poor children recom-
mended by the kirk-session, if so many should claim that privilege.
The late minister also left L. 100 under the session's manage-
ment, the interest of which was to be yearly paid to this school-
master, to augment his salary. The above, with a small croft of
land, which the late proprietor gave gratis, and which is still con-
tinued, is all the income of this teacher, except thd fees, which
are the same is at the parish school. The branches of education
taught are also the same, with the exception of Latin.  His income
scarcely exceeds L. 30 a year. At both schools, the instruc-
tion of the pupils in the Assembly's Shorter Catechism and the
principles of the Christian religion is duly attended to. From this
statement, it does not appear that any more schools are necessary.
The parents in general are inclined to educate their families as
far as their circumstances permit; and a sewing-school for girls
has been established for several-years. There is scarcely any
person in the parish above fifteen years of age, who cannot read and
write more or less, nor is there any from six to fifteen years, who,
if they cannot read and write, are not in the course of being in-
structed.
	Poor,--The average number of persons receiving parochial aid


