
222                               KINCARDINESHIRE.

stone records the names of nine of these persons, "who (as the
epitaph runs) "all died prisoners in Dunnottar Castle, anno 1685,
for their adherence to the word of God and Scotland's covenant-
ed work of Reformation."  It was while employed in his habitual
task of clearing the simple but expressive inscription of this mo-
nument, that "Old Mortality" was first seen by Sir Walter Scott,
then on a visit to the late Mr Walker, minister of the parish.  On
that occasion, a circumstance occurred which has some resem-
blance to an incident in "the Antiquary." Sir Walter had pro-
posed and superintended an exploration of the large but dilapidat-
ed well in Dunnottar Castle, in the bottom of which, accord-
ing to tradition, was buried the family plate of the Earl Marischal.
On the second day of a laborious search, an ancient vessel was
found among the stones and rubbish, which, it was not doubted,
was a part of the hidden treasure; but, after an anxious examina-
tion of it, much amusement was occasioned by one of the party *
confessing that it was an old brass tea kettle which he had found
means to have thrown into the well the previous night. A roof-
less building in the church-yard, having the name of the Maris-
chal Aisle, had at one time been the family sepulchre. In an
underground vault, are fragments of leaden coffins, and small boxes
of the same material, containing no doubt the relics of some of the
once noblest of the land, but, sic transit gloria mundi, neither in-
scription nor tradition now tells their history, or even their names.
The only other noticeable matters of antiquity in the parish are two
tombstones, which lay on what was formerly a piece of waste
ground close by the town of Stonehaven, and were lately taken up
and erected near the spot. They covered the graves of persons
who, it is understood, died of the plague. One of them, on which
tho word "Pest" is still legible, bears to have been in memory of
"Magnus Tailliour," who died in 1608, and the other is dedicat-
ed to the memory of two children, "an honest man's bairn," of
ther name of Brockie, who died in 1648. It would appear from
these monuments, as well as from the tradition connected with
them, that the plague had visited; this, parish at these two pe-
riods.
	Modern Buildings.--The only gentleman's seat in the parish, is
Dunnottar House, now the property of General Forbes. Its erec-
tion was begin forty years ago by Alexander Allardyce, Esq. who,

<FOOTNOTE>The late Francis Logie, Esq.


