
                            NENTHORN.                   221

the improved breed. The average value of a good draught-horse
is L. 30.
                      V.- PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets, and Means of Communication.-The nearest market
and post-town is Kelso, four miles distant from the church, which
is in the centre; but much of the farm produce is sold at Dalkeith
or Berwick, to which places there are good roads, whence the carts
return with coals, lime, or bone-dust. Within the last forty years
the roads have been greatly improved. Two bridges have been
thrown over the Eden, which had formerly to be forded on foot or
horseback, often at much risk. Old parishioners remember well
when there was scarcely any passage for wheel-carriages from Nen-
thorn to Kelso in wet weather, whereas the same course is now
travelled over daily by a stage-coach at the rate of eight or nine
miles per hour. A private post delivers letters and newspapers
every day,-the former at the charge of 1d.; the latter, free.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which was built in 1802 on
a very contracted scale, is disgracefully situated at a place where
two roads meet, without enclosure of any sort, and without a bell.
It inconveniently accommodates 140 sitters, including the private
galleries of Sir W. Don and Mr Roy of Nenthorn. The church-
yard, where the old church stood, is at a considerable distance, em-
bosomed among trees in a sequestered spot by the side of the Eden.
The teinds are valued and exhausted; and the living, all derived
from the teinds, has varied from L. 220 to L. 135. Of late years
the average is barely the minimum. It is paid, one-half in money,
and the other in wheat, barley, oats, and pease, according to the
fiar prices. The glebe consists of rather more than 7 1/2 acres, and
is worth L. 22 a year of rent. A suitable new manse is in the
course of erection; the old one, built more than a century ago, and
which had undergone various mutations, having become unfit for
use or repair. This, with the office-houses and garden attached,
occupies half an acre more, apart from the glebe.
   Till 1776 this parish belonged to the presbytery of Lauder or
Earlstoun, but at that date it was detached by act of Assembly, and
annexed to that of Kelso, as being more convenient.
   Of the population, 49 families belong to the Established church,
and 19 to the Secession and Relief bodies. There are also 1 Ca-
meronian and 1 Episcopalian. The communicants in the parish
church average from 90 to 100. By the great majority of the
people Christian ordinances are duly appreciated, and the public


