
			     BORTHWICK.	                        183

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villaqes.--There are six villages of considerable six in the pa-
rish with many groups of scattered cottages over the whole of the
district. More than one-half of the population are collected in
the villages--the rest being distributed either among the groups
of cottages--or living as hinds upon the different farms.
Ford is portioned out between three adjoining parishes, which
meet at the bridge in the centre of the village.  It was once a beau-
tiful and thriving place, quietly embosomed in its own little valleys--
but has lately fallen much into decay;--that part of it which be-
longs to the parish of Borthwick contains five families--and the
number of the inmates is about 20.
   Dewarton is one of the most considerable--and certainly the
neatest looking village in the parish.  It consists chiefly of feus
on the estate of Vogrie.  The houses are ranged in one line
along the road--the opposite side being occupied by a small plan-
tation, along which a copious stream of pure water, flows at all
times, supplying the inhabitants with the means of cleanliness and
comfort, and adding much to the pleasant and healthful appear-
ance of the place.  When the present incumbents first knew it, it
was chiefly tenanted by aged people--but of law years it has been
occupied by persons in the prime of life, who have numerous fa-
milies;--and there is now no part of the parish where a greater
number of children may be observed, enjoying the sports of the
evening, and giving an animated air to the village., Their edu-
cation, however, it is to be regretted is not in all instances so well
attended to, as might be expected.  The numbers of inhabitants
is about 150.
   Newlandrigg is a much older village than Dewarton, but it lies
much out of the common thoroughfare, and has little connected
with it to awaken a spirit of animation or of enterprise.  Several
of the houses are at present untenanted, and some are falling into
entire decay.  A considerable number of old people take up their
residence in it.  The entire number of the population is about 100.
   Clay Houses derives its name from an ancient inn of the the same
denomination, which stood by the way side, when the road to
Gala Water and the south passed in this line.  A part of the old
Clay House still remains, though considerably altered by addi-
tions--and several other more recent date, having been erected
in the neighborhood.  The number of inhabitants is about 40.
   Stobbs Mills is a village of recent date, having been built al-


