
224                         LANARKSHIRE.

The Camlachie Burn, which was formed into a dam for moving ma-
chinery to raise water from the river for the use of the washing-
house then opposite to Charlotte Street, being frequently stagnant
in the summer months, became very offensive. At that period the
only entries to the Green from the west were by crooked lanes from
the Salt Market Street and the slaughter-house. At the bottom
of the Green, now the site of the public offices, the corporation of
skinners had a triple range of tan-pits supplied by filthy water from
the Molendinar Burn, which ran open in the middle of a narrow
street, and the slaughter-house was placed immediately to the west
of the tan-pits on the bank of the river, now East Clyde Street.
The dung of the slaughter-house, and the intestines of slaughter-
ed animals were collected in heaps, and allowed to remain for
months, long after putrefaction had taken place. A glue-work and
a manufactory of therm from the intestines of animals recently
slaughtered; and rees fitted up for the retail of coals and culm,--
completed the nuisance. The bank of the river, east from the
Stockwell Street Bridge was used by the police asa receptacle for
the filth of the streets.
	Coal in the Green.--Unsuccessful attempts having been made
from time to time to find coal in the lands belonging to the cor-
poration, Dr Cleland procured permission to make the experiment
of boring in the green. He began by erecting a temporary building,
into which none were admitted but two operatives and occasionally
a mining engineer. The operation of boring commenced on 18th
December 1821, and ended on 17th September 1822,--the chis-
el during that period having gone through various strata to the
depth of 366 feet 1 inch, including various seams of coal. A re-
gular daily journal of these operations he embodied in a report, ac-
companied with folio engraved plans and sections exhibiting the
extent of the coal field, and the thickness of seven seams found in
the bore, viz. mossdale, rough ell, rough main, humph, splint ell,
splint main, and sour-milk, containing in whole about 1,500,000
tons; so that if the output was restricted to 15,000 tons annully, the
coal field in the Glasgow Green would last 100 years. Although
Dr Cleland has shown, and eminent mining engineers have subse-
quently certified, that the corporation of Glasgow is possessed of
this valuable property, we have no desire in the present state of the
funds, to see the beautiful green cut up even with a single coal-pit.
	It appears from the Rev. Mr Bowers' account of Old Monkland
in the former Statistical Account of Scotland, that, in 1792, Mr


