
	308       	               PERTHSHIRE,

	set all calculation at defiance. The total rental of the parish,
	however, as nearly as can be ascertained, may be about L. 4250.
				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   Market-Town.-Alloa, which is about ten miles distant from
	the centre of the parish, is properly the market and post-town, al-
	though there is a penny-post to Dollar, which is about seven miles
	nearer.
	   Means of Communication.-There may be about six miles of
	turnpike road in the parish,-one line stretching from Dollar to a
	bridge over the Devon, on the road to Milnathort; and another
	from the Rumbling Bridge to about a mile up Glendovan.  One
	coach from Glasgow to Perth passes through the parish daily, and
	another from Edinburgh to Crieff three times a week.  The num-
	ber of bridges in the parish over the Devon is four, all in good
	repair. The first is on the road from the Yetts to Milnathort;
	the second at Fossoway Church;-the third is the Rumbling
	Bridge, on the new road from the south;-and the fourth the
	Vicar's Bridge, on the old county road from the south, about
	two miles east from Dollar. At the Rumbling Bridge, before the
	present arch was built, there was one beneath it, at about 86 feet
	above the stream, which still is allowed to remain, and adds much
	to the effect of the scenery when viewed from below. It was very
	narrow, and had no parapet, which must have made it very dan-
	gerous at any time, and particularly at night. The Vicar's Bridge
	is supposed to derive its name from an event that took place at
	the commencement of the Reformation. It was there where the
	Vicar of Dollar, who had embraced the Protestant faith, met with
	an untimely end from the hands of his persecutors.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated to the north-east
	of the principal village called the Pool, very conveniently for the
	villagers, but not equally so for those residing in the west end
	of the parish. It appears to have been built since the Roman Ca-
	tholic times, as the font stone is used to form part of the front
	wall. The following dates are cut on stone in different parts of
 	the building-1620, 1699, 1715, 1789,-wbich, as far as can be
	ascertained, indicate that the church was rebuilt at the first of
	these periods; got a thorough repair at the second, when the first
	active Presbyterian clergyman was settled after the Revolution;
	was again repaired at the third; and was partly rebuilt and re-
	paired at the last. At present, it is rather ruinous, and not suffi-
	cient for accommodating the population in connection with the Es-

