
                          ULVA					345

the north side of the parish, are the creeks of Laorin, lockwin-
gary, Pollaeb Broig, and Bay of Calgarry, which last opens to-
wards Tiree.
               PARISH OIF ULVA.
               li, animals were a frequent source
According to -Dr MacCulloc
of the names given to many of the Hebridean islands, and, amongst
          le, 44 Ulva" as of Scandinavian ety
others,,be gives, as an examp
inology' taking its derivation from the Scandinavian word Ulffr.
the Isle of Wolves.
This parish consists of the Islands of Ulva, Gometm, Little
Colonsa, staffa, and a portion of the mainland of Mull, and er,-
tends to about 60 square miles, exclusive of those parts occupied
by sea. The Island of Ulva, occupyhng IS square miles, is se-
,parated from the mainland of Mull by a narrow channel of about
100 yards, called the Sound of Ulva. To the west of Ulva is
Gometra, and to the south and south-west of Ulva, Colonsa and
Staffa.
Dr MaeCtilloch, in treating of the basaltic columns of Ulva,
says, 11 they are often as regular as those of Staffa, although on a'
much less scale, and pass gradually from that regularity of form
into the most shapeless masses. In many places they afford ele-
gant and picturesque compositions, which, although passed every
day by the crowds who visit Staffa, appear to have been unnoticed.
If either their numbers, extent, or picturesque appearance be con.
sidered, they are more deserving of admiration than even those of
the Giants' Causeway; and bad they been the only basaltic co-,
lumns on this coast, they might have acquired'the fame they merit.
13ut Ulva is eclipsed by the superior lustre of Staffa; and while
the mass of mankind is content to follow the individual who first
led the way, its beauties will probably be still consigned to neglect'
On the south side of Ulva, and near a place called the Castles,
being a collection of columns resembling fortalices, is the farm of
C,Ove, so named from an extensive cave about a quarter of a mile
from the shore. In the face of an abrupt rock, rising perpeddi-
e,ularly to a height of 90 or 100 feet, is the entrance of this-'cave
Presenting the appearance of an arch, having a span of 37: f6et
from the mouth of the cave to its extremity, the length id 60 tee
the breadth 58, and the height at an average 80 feet; tINe too
and interior exhibiting as much the appearance of art as natures;
the bottom of the cave being covered with dr earth, and no water


