
                          WILTON.                            85

 No instance is known of any person, who has arrived at the age
of fifteen years, being unable to read or write.  The people are
alive to the benefits of education, and send their children early to
school.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid for the last seven years, including a few who
receive an occasional supply, is 55; and the average sum allowed to
each individual is 2s. 2d. per week.  The annual average amount
of contributions levied by assessment upon the heritors and tenants
for the same period is L.308.  As the church collections derive
no benefit from the principal and several other heritors who are
non-resident, this fund would go but a very short way in reliewing
the necessities of the poor.  The present mode of assessment is
certainly the best, because all are compelled to contribute in pro-
portion to their interest in the parish; whereas were the principle
of voluntary contribution adopted, many, it is to be feared, from a
parsimonious spirits, would give with a sparing band.  No doubt, the
maintenance of the poor is a burden, but it is one of those burdens
which must be borne; and there is no other way of doing it, but by a
legal provision or individual benevolence.  In large towns, where
many are wealthy and disposed to charity, the poor may find in some
degree a precarious subsistence; but it is altogether impracticable
in country parishes, where many of their neighbours are nearly as
necessitous as themselves, and of consequence have little to spare.
Nothing can be more preposterous, than the idea of maintaining
50 or 60 paupers by spontaneous benevolence, where not only the
means are awanting, but where even the benevolent themselves
have frequently little time to devote to the business of finding out
and relieving the wants of the poor.  Much has also been said about
the rapid increase of pauperism, but it will be found in this as in
many other parishes, that the number of poor has not increased with
the increase of the population.  There were between 30 and 40
paupers when the population was 900, and the average number for
the last seven years is only 55, though the population in that
time has been more than doubled.  The expense of maintenance
has also been loudly complained of; but it seldom occurs to those
who make this complaint, that not only the value of produce has
been much enhanced, bu6t also that neither the number of the poor,
nor their weekly aliment, has borne anything like a proportion to
the increase of rents within these last fifty years; and it ought,
moreover, to be considered, that even the poor themselves contri-


