
600                      PERTHSHIRE.

   Antiquitids.- Next to the monastery, the object of greatest in
terest is the house now called the Abbey of Culross, so called
from its being situated in the immediate neighbourhood of the old
abbey or monastery.  It was built by Edward lord Bruce of Kin-
loss, about 200 years ago, and here it is said Jing James VI. was
entertained when he visited the proprietors.  The abbey with the
lands annexed came into the possession of the Dundonald family
by marriage, and both were purchased about thirty-five years ago
by Sir Robert Preston of Valleyfield, Bart., to whose representa-
tives they have descended since his death.
   The church of this place was dedicated to the Virgin Mary,
and also to St Serf or Servanus, who resided here, and who edu-
cated St Mungo or Kentigern, the Patron Saint of Glasgow.
   The festival of St Serf was kept yearly on the 1st of July, when
the inhabitants marched in procession, carrying green boughs.
The custom has not altogether disappeared, although the day has
been altered to the 4th of June, the birth day of his late Majesty
George III.
   A convent was sent to the Abbey of Cuiross from the Abbey
of Kinloss. The last abbot of this place was Alexander, son of
Sir James Colville of Ochiltree, who was admitted a Lord of Ses-
sion anno 1574.  Sir James, brother of Alexander, was raised to
the dignity of Lord Colvhlle of Culross in 1609, when the King
gave him a grant of the dissolved abbey.
   At the Reformation, the rental of the abbey amounted to
L.708, 16s. 7d.money; besides considerable payments in kind,
of wheat, barley, oats,&c. At that time there were nine monks
in the convent of the Cisterth`n order.
   About a quarter of a mile to the west of the abbey, are the
ruins of the former parish church; but which, as appears from the
terms of an act of Parliament of Charles I. sanctioning the use of
the present, as the parish church had not been in use "in the
memorie of man."
   At the east end of the town are the remains of a chapel, called St
Mungo's Chapel, near to which, tradition says, that saint was born.
   Modern Buildings.-Close on the banks of the Forth, is a mo-
dern house called Castle Hill, anciently Dunermarle, that is, the
castle by or near the sea.  The ancient castle of this name is said
to have been a stronghold of the Macduffs, Thanes of Fife, and
was considered to mark the utmost boundary of their dominion. Ac-
cording to tradition, it was in the ancient Castle, only small vesti-


