
     The Statistical Account.

who both in Scotland and in England possess much ground
equally useless to the country, toi commence similar improve-
ments, it would be a most grateful consideration superadded
to the pleasure already arising from the progress of the infant
colony*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since writing the above account, it was found that the inhabitants still la-
boured under two material disadvantages.  First, That there was neither,
within their reach, any public worship, nor any meansd of obtaining religious
instruction in the Gaelic tongue; and the bulk of them are too imperfectly ac-
quainted with the English, to be capable of receiving much instruction in that
language.  Secondly, The difficulty of procuring proper education for their chil-
dren; the distance of the parish school from the greater number, being such as
almost to preclude a possibility of sending them thither, and their circumstan-
ces not enabling them to support the expence of a teacher.  In this situation it oc-
curred that an application to the Society for propagating Christian Knowledge,
might probably be attended with success.  For though by the rules of that So-
ciety, its benefactors are confined chiefly to the Highlands yet as almost the
whole inhabitants of the moss are Highlanders, they seemed to have a well-
founded claim to the aid of the Society.  Application having accordingly been
made byt he proprietor the Society was pleased to enter very warmly into the
situation of these poor people, and with the greatest alacrity agreed to the ap-
pointment of an experienced teacher, who was settled in the moss at Martin-
mas 1793.  This teacher, who is well acquainted both with the Gaelic and
the English languages, officiates through the weck as schoolmaster, and on
Sundays convenes the people in the schoolhouse, where be instructs them in
the principles of religion, and says prayers to them in their native tongue.
   In order to promote this establishment, and with a view to procure a teacher
better qualified than common the proprietor has engaged to contribute has-
sterl. yearly, ove and above L. 10 a year allowed by the Society, and the
conditions commonly required by them, furnishing gratis, a school-house, a
dwelling-house, a kail-yard, fuel, and the maintenance of cow.  And as a
farther encouragement, he has voluntarily given the schoolmaster free of rent,
about an acre of carse land, formerly rented at a guinea.


