
     of Stronsay and Eday.

age tithes then paid in kind, which at different periods after-
wards were converted into money at low rates, by mutual
contracts between tenants or heritors, on the one part, and

<FOOTNOTE>

"bishop; he should he clad with an honest surplice, and go before the proces-
"sion with a white wand after the manner of a bedlar.  But the first of the
"fix boys shall be nominate and sustained by the bishop.  The 2d, By the
"prebendar of St. Magnus.  3d, By the prebendar of St. John.  4th, By the
"prebendar of St. Laurence.  5th, By the prebendar of St. Catharine.  6th,
"By the prebendar of St. Duthas.  And every one of them shall have twenty
"shillings in the year.  They shall be taper-bearers, and shall sing the re-
"sponses Moreover, we assign to the said provost, dignities, canons and pre-
"bendars, certain defunct lands for the manses of every one of them at the
"said cathedral kirk.  But our will is, that every one of them, within three
"years after getting peaceable possession of their benefices, to build an honest
"manse, according to the value of the fruits of the benefice in which he may
"rest or sheep, otherwise he shall not be judged to reside among others.
"Likewise, we will and ordain a vicar an continual pension of ten merks
"Scots money, and an half last of victual every year, with the manse of eve-
"ry paroch vicarage erected in the present foundation, from the fruits and
"emoluments nomned and imposed by us and our successors; who shall be
"bound to serve his cure personally by himself as oft as it shall be vacant, if
"need shall be.  But the bishop shall be canon of St. Ollay, etc.; which ap-
"plication is attested and subscriber by the bishop and his chapter, on the
"28th October, 1544 years, before these witnesses, honourable, honest and
"discreet men, viz; by (signed) Robertus Orcadin, Episcopus, Nicholas
"Halero de Orphan, manu propria; Stephanus Culros, rector de Stronsay;
"Petrus Houston, rector de Hoy; Joannes Maxwell, rector Beata Maria,
"de Sanday; Malcolmus Halero, archideaconus Zetlan‘, ac prebendario
"Sanetæ Trinitatis, Magnus Strang, prebendarius Sanetæ Columbæ.  After
reciting fully the application above mentioned, with the attestations thereof,
the foundation proceeds to the confirmation and erection above specified,
and fanctions it in these terms:  "But if any one shall presume to contra-
"vene or infringe, as God forbid, this present foundation, in whole or in any
"part thereof, directly or indirectly, by whatever colour or pretence, he shall
"know, that he will incur the wrath of Almighty God, of the blessed Vir-
"gin Mary, and of all the saints, and especially of St Magnus our patron,


