
SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                                           143

not confirm the allegation against them.  The following document, which I obtained
possession of at the kirk door before it was made public:, and which was issued and
signed by four members of the Morton Lodge in Lerwick, requires no ow0ment.
Though for certain    reasons I withhold names, the authors justly deserve to be held
up to general worn.
,1 At a meeting held in Morton Lodge, at Lerwick, upon the Tath day of August
1815, it was reported and faithfully declared upon ogah, by M. B. in Ea-sting parish
in Shetland, that an woollen web, the property of BL B., ihirts and other thing-, also
of great value belonging to M. B. ; as also, ummy suits of mutches, which belonged
to M. B. ; all these, as above stated, has been stolen from the green 9fC. during the
first part of this present month. Notice is hereby given, that cruelty forms no             part
of masonry, yet justice to the injured party must be done, and that if these          things so
stolen are not returned back before next meeting of masons upon that business, or at
furthest, in fifteen days fromthis date, a calamity ofa severe nature may fall on all'that
parish in which the present crop may be blasted by store", and the per-son or p'ersons
guilty shall he publickly led throw the parishes in the neighbourhood on day light.
and that by evil spirits not seen by others.  This, paper to be intimated at the ]Virk
door, that none may plead ignorance.  Given under our hands at Lerwick, by autbo-
rity of Morton Lodge."
I shall,4 add one instance more of superstitious belief, which appears to have ta-
ken a firm bold of the mind of the Shetlander, at a very early period ; and which,
like the others above enumerated, still retains its hold, though, perhaps, under some
modifications.  It is called - casting the heart." It has long been believed, that
when a person is emaciated with sickness, his heart is worn away, or taken away by
some evil genii.  A person skilled in 11 casting the heart" is sent for, who, with
many mystic ceremonies, melts lead, pours it through the bowl of a key or pair of
scir.sors,beldoverasieve,whichisalsoplacedoverabasonofcoldwater. Thelead
is melted and pouted again and again, till      it assumes something like *be appearance of
an heart, at least the operator strives to convince the patient and his friends that this
is the case.   It is worn, suspended from the neck, next the skin, that the cure may
be completed.  The ceremony, as described by Miss Campbell of Lerwick, is as ful-
lows.-
11 When people are afflicted with consumptive complaints in Zetland, they imagine
that the heart of the person so affiected. has been wasted away by the enchantment
of the fairies, or witchcraft of some other evil b6ngs.  Old -women, and sometimes
men profess to cure this disease.  The patient must undergo the following curious
and very ridiculous operation: He is directed to sit upon the bottom of a large cook-
ing pot, turned upon its mouth ; a large pewter dish is placed or held upon his head ;
upon the dish a bason or bowl is set nearly full of cold water; into this water the
operator pours some melted lead through the teeth of a common dressing comb.  A
large key is also employed in this operation. All this is performed with many           s1rango
incantations and gesticulations, If the lead falls into a shapeless lump, they declare
that the heart and lungs of the patient are completely wasted away ; that they will
have infinite trouble, and perhaps, after all, will not be able to bring back the heart
andluiigstotheirnaturalandhealthfulform.  Theleadisagainmeltedandriininto
the water through the teeth of the comb; it most likely assumes some shape, which
the operator assures the spectators is the exact form of the patient's heart in its dis-
eased state.  The lead is repeatedly melted, and poured through the comb into the
water ; every time it is asserted to be more and more like the natural heart and lungs,
and the bewitchment, of course, is renderedweaker anrl weaker.  The patient under-
goes this three times, with some days between each operation.  When the last cast of
the lead is over, the operator shows it round, and points out how exactly every part
of the heart and lungs are restored to their natural and proper shape.  If the patient
dies (perhaps his death is hurried on by the fatigue and agitation occasioned by this
murnmery), his death is ascribed to some oversight in the strict performance of all
the relative parts of this casting of the heart.  The moon must be at a certai age,
in
and it must be performed at a certain turning of the tide and hour of the night
numberless other things must be attended to.  The operator will take anything they
please to give, if it should be the half of all their goods and chattels, but be must not
touchmoney. Heap intshowever,aparticularplace,whe                    re a Danish own. worth
fivepence current in Mand, is to be laid (as many as they like-tbe more the better.
no doubt); this money is for the fairies, who come, it is asserted, and take it away ;
but the poor honest operator must not, and will not finger it, otherwise his trouble
Would come to nought, and the spell that bound the patient would be firmer than ever.


