
282                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

in their calling,--just in their dealings,--and obliging in their
manners.  The people in general are sober, pious, and regular in
their attendance upon public worship. They are kind and hospi-
table to stranger, and ever ready to relieve the distressed.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--
The total number of imperial acres in the parish is                     11,575
Acres in the parish cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,              8,061
In rough pasture,                                                        2,009
Flow-moss,                                                                 900
About 400 acres of that moss, by proper drainage and surface-culture, might
	be converted into meadow or pasture-ground.
Capable of being cultivated with a profitable application of capital,    1,400
Under wood,                                                                605
	The trees which are planted or indigenous are chiefly Scots
firs, larches, beeches, birch, alder, oak, and ash. The general
management of the wood is such as reflects very great credit on
the judgement and taste of the several proprietors.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of the arable land per acre
is 18s. 3d.; of grazing, for cow or ox, at the rate of L.3; full-
grown sheep, 10s.
	Rate of Wages.--Labourers have commonly 1s. a-day in sum-
mer, and 9d. in winter, with victuals; or 1s. 6d. and 1s. 3d. with-
out victuals. Masons receive 3s. and carpenters 2s. 6d. per day
without victuals.
	Husbandry.-The common mode of rotation is six years. But
it is neither rigidly enforced by the land-owner, nor strictly adher-
ed to by the tenant. The manures which are principally used for
meliorating the soil and raising crops are lime and dung collected
upon the different farms. Lime can be conveniently carted from
Donkins and Blacketrigg, in Middlebie, and from Caldronlee,
near Springkell, in this parish, at 1s. 2d. per Carlisle bushel, which
contains a little less than three Winchester bushels. The crops
to which most attention is paid in the greater part of this parish,
and which, indeed, most liberally  reward the labours of the hus-
bandman, are barley, oats, and potatoes. Barley may be consider-
ed, in a great measure, as an article for the market. Wheat, of
which there is not much sown, generally answers well, as it is ne-
ver sown but when the land is in high cultivation. Turnips are
here a precarious crop, except on, the best land. A crop of po-
tatoes, even in common years, is the most valuable that is raised.
An immense number of swine is annually fed in this quarter.


