
70                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

hills, and near the different lochs, except Loch Naver, the soil is
a deep moss.
   Zoology.-It is reported traditionally, that bears and wolves at
one period existed in this parish. But this must have been when
those extensive forests of fir grew in this country, the remains of
which are still found deeply imbedded in moss, and are raised by
the parishioners for roofing their houses, and other domestic pur-
poses. The only species of animals which existed in comparatively
modern times in the parish, but which have now disappeared, are
goats. About forty years ago, they were numerous, and serviceable
to the inhabitants; but, by the introduction of the sheep-farming
system, they have been entirely exterminated.
   The sheep-farmers rear the Cheviot or white-faced kind of
sheep. The lotters have a breed of small Highland cattle; a few
ponies of a similar description; and sheep of the black-faced kind.
   On Bein Chlibrig, and the adjacent higher hills, there are con-
siderable flocks of red deer. Hares and rabbits are found in the
parish. Ptarmigan, black-cock, grouse, partridge, plover, and snipe,
are numerous in the hills, moors, and inland glens. A great num-
ber of aquatic fowl frequent the sea-coast and fresh-water lakes;
and the woods of Strathnaver are throngly tenanted by various
classes of birds. The cuckoo, lapwing, and swallow pay their an-
nual visits; and, so far as they escape the vigilance of game-
keepers and vermin-destroyers-foxes, otters, wild cats, eagles,
hawks, ravens, and carrion-crows, are to be found.
   In the larger rivers and lakes, there is abundance of salmon; and
in the lesser lochs and streams, trout are found in considerable
quantities. There is a rich supply of cod, ling, haddock, and her-
ring, in their season, on the sea-coast. Turbot and mackerel have
been taken occasionally, and lobster is caught fort the London market.
   Botany- The herbage of this parish is of a mixed character,
varying according to the elevation of its mountains, hills, valleys,
and shore ground: and, on the whole, the parish affords an inte-
resting field for the botanist. If there be few rare plants, there is a
rich profusion of those already well known in this country. The
mountains, hills, and moors are generally covered with the com-
mon red heather, deer-hair, and a long tough grass, called Flying
Bent. In the softer marshes, there are extensive plots of cotton-
grass. With a trifling exception, all the trees in the parish are in-
digenous. Of these, there is a considerable variety,-such as the
hazel or nut-tree, alder, roan-tree or mountain-ash, willows, and


