
                        WESTRUTHER.                          69

of General during the reign of George II., and having made him-
self conspicuous also in the political world, he was appointed go-
vernor of Virginia, where he died.
   Family of Home of Bassendean.-The family of the Homes of
Bassendean have also for centuries been connected with this pa-
rish, and borne always a most respectable rank in the county. The
only member of this family, however, known to have been eminent
in public life was George Home, who lived in the troublous
period of the seventeenth century.  Being a zealous Presbyterian,
and having, in conjunction with the lairds of Polwarth, Torwood-
lee, and others, used all his influence to oppose the arbitrary
measures of the court, and preserve the integrity of Presbyterian
worship, he was proscribed, and an order issued for his apprehen-
sion. He had just time to escape, when the officers arrived,-the
place of his concealment being a vault contiguous to his own man-
sion at Bassendean. In that retreat his necessities were supplied
by the tender and assiduous care of his wife; and he would pro-
bably have entirely eluded the vigilance of the King's myrmidons,
had not the advancing pregnancy of his wife, exciting their suspi-
cions that he was not far distant, forced him to consult for his safe-
ty in a remoter place. He succeeded in effecting his escape to
Holland, then the liberal asylum of the Scottish refugees, and
joining his former associates, concerted in that foreign land mea-
sures for the restoration of freedom at home. Bassendean was one
of that little band of Christian patriots, consisting only of eleven,
who, with the Earl of Argyle at their head, met at Amsterdam an
17th April 1685, "and resolved to declare and undertake a war
against the Duke of York and his assisters, for restoring and set-
tling the true religion, and the native rights and liberties of the
three kingdoms." He shared in all the troubles of Argyle's expe-
dition, and at length, after the Revolution, he was restored to Bas-
sendean, where he lived to enjoy the fruits of that civil and religious
liberty which he had done and suffered so much to establish. His
remains are buried within the old chapel there.
   James Bassantin, son of the Laird of Bassantin, flourished dur-
ing the reign of James IV., and enjoyed a high reputation for his
extensive acquirements in the physical sciences. To improve him-
self in his favourite pursuits he made the tour of Europe, to as-
certain the state of science on the Continent. On a vacancy oc-
curring in the mathematical chair of the university of Paris, he
was elected professor; and his prelections, which were honoured
with a numerous attendance of students from all parts of France


