
                             SOUTHEND.                             425

auxiliaries sent by Lord Antrim to assist the royal cause in the
struggle between Charles I. and his Parliament.  Alexander
served under Montrose as his major-general; and immediately
after the battle of Inverlochy, where Argyle was defeated on the
2d of February 1644, his father, Coll, invaded Kintyre, and took
possession of ht as his inheritance.  When Montrose was appointed
Captain-General of Scotland, he conferred the honour of knight-
hood on his major-general; and, after the battle of Philiphatigh,
the Earl of Huntly in the north, and Sir Alexander Macdonald
in 1he south, were the only chieftains that remained in arms
against the Covenanters.  After subduing Huntly, Lieutenant-
General Leslie marched south, and being joined by the Earl of
Argyle at Inverary, they invaded Kintyre, and, after a skirmish
which took place at Rownaherine, in the parish of Killean, on
the 25th May 1647, they retreated to Dunaverty.  Sir Alexander
placed his kinsman, Archibald Macdonald of Sanda, a very gal-
lant and experienced officer, who had also served under Montrose,
assisted by Archibald Og, or Young, his son, with 300 men in
the fortress, with a few of the clan Macdonald who had joined
them, and went himself with his father and the remainder of his
forces, to Islay.  General Leslie having been joined by the Mar-
quis of Argyle and a vast number of his clan, who collected to
his standard, as he went along, proceeded to Dunaverty, and re-
gularly invested the castle, which was for a considerable time
most gallantly defended against an army ten times the number of
the garrison.  During the month of June, several desperate as-
saults were made upon it, but the asrailants were always repulsed
with considerable loss.  About the 10th of July, however, the
besiegers discovered that the garrison was supplied with water,
by means of pipes communicating with a spring without, and a
well within.  These were cut off, and when a party from the
fortress made an attempt to supply themselves from a stream near
the base of the rock, they were all slain.  The want of water, in
the dry sultry month of July, drove the besieged to despair; and,
as it was impossible to hold out any longer, a flag of truce was
sent to General Leslie and the Marquis of Argyle, offering to
surrender on such terms as might be agreed on, and, after seve-
ral stipulations proposed by Archibald Og, Macdonald of Sanda
had been rejected, the garrison at last surrendered to the mercy
of the kingdom.  General Leslie afterwards made a nice dis-
tinction, that the besieged had yielded themselves to the king-


