
                               ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.               263

      action took place, in which Flora appeared on deck, where, with her
      wonted magnanimity, she inspired the seamen with courage, and
      assured them of success.  Although her arm was broken in the
      engagement, yet her native spirit of heroism was not in the least
      degree damped.  She never more left Skye.  She had seven
      children, five sons and two daughters, besides some who died in
      infancy; all her sons were officers, who distinguished themselves
      in the service of their king and country.  Her daughters, on the
      other hand, became officers' wives.  Ann was the lady of Major
      Alexander Macleod, and died at Stein, in this island, about six
      years ago.  Her second daughter, Frances, was married to Lieu-
      tenant Donald Macdonald of Cuiderach.  Of this interesting fa-
      mily, none are now alive.  The celebrated Flora lived to an ad-
      vanced period of life, and retained to the last that vivacity of cha-
      racter and that amiableness of disposition, by which she was al-
      ways distinguished.  On the 5th of March 1790, she departed
      this life, little more than two years before the death of her hus-
      band.  Her remains were interred in the burying-ground of this
      parish, within a square piece of coarse wall, which was erected
      about the year 1766 to enclose the tombs of the Kingsburgh fa-
      mily.  Her funeral, it is said, was attended by no fewer than 3000
      individuals, of every rank and class, and all were liberally served
      with refreshments. *
         Now that the spirit of Jacobitism is gone, and the world at large

      <FOOTNOTE>In the same burying-place various members of tbe Kingsburg family were in.
      terred, as may be seen from the following inscription on a marble slab, which was
      procured many years ago by Lieutenant-Colonel John Macdonald of Exeter, to be
      placed over his mother's (Flora's) grave.  The slab was, however, broken in convey-
      ing it to this place from the south ; and no fragment of it is now left by tourist,
      who have carried it off in pieces as curiosities.  The inscription was as follows:
        " In the family mausoleum at Kilmuir, lie interred the remains of the following
      members of the Kingsburgh family, viz. Alexander Macdonald of Kingslaurgh ; his
      son Allan, his sons Charles and James ; his son John, and two daughters ; and of
      Flora Macdonald, who died in March 1790, aged 68._A name that will be mentioned-
      ed in history, and if courage and fidelity be virtues, mentioned with honour."-" She
      was a woman of middle stature, soft features, gentle manners, and elegant presence.
      So wrote Johnson."
         The above confused inscription embraces the names of most of the Kingsburgh
      family, whose remains slumber within the square piece of rude building, already al-
      luded to.  The remains of Flora's last surviving daughter, Mrs Major Macleod, wera
      consigned to their kindred dust about six years since.  The said Mrs Major Macleod
      has left only one daughter, Miss Mary Macleod, still alive at Stein.
         Dr Johnson and his fellow-traveller Boswell, while on their tour through the He-
      brides in 1773, visited Flora and family at Kingsburgh, and were much struck with
      that lady's appearance, and elegance of manners.  So great was Flora's enthusiasm
      for the prince and his success, that she carried with her to America a part of the sheet
      in which he slept at Kingsburgh, intending that, when, or where she might die, it
      should be used for her shroud.  She brought it back from Amemica, and it is said,
      that, according to her own request, it was the shroud in which she was lowered into
      the grave.


