
     Statistical Account

bour called Uya found.  Balta, on the east of Unst, an
islet on which cattle are put to graze, forms the fine road
or harbour of Balta found.  Watswick, on the S. W. side of
the parish, is another harbour, but  much more open and
less-extensive, than either of two already mentioned.
The principal bays are Harlswick, Norwick, Burra-firth,
Woodwick, and Wick:  In any of these, vessels may an-
chor for a tide or two, but none of them is a safe harbour.
Besides the small isles of Uya and Balta, which protect the
harbours named after them, the islets of Hasgruna and
Hunie, with the holms of Sha-Burra-firth, Woodwick,
Newgord, Hogaland, and Weatherholm, are also appenda-
ges of Unst.  The tides slow nearly southward, and ebb
northward:  The windings of the coast, however, occasion
them to vary slightly from these directions.  The
greatest velocity of the current in spring tides, is at the rate
of 6 miles an hour.  Off Lambaness, the N. E. point of
Unst, and of all Shetland, where there is a free communi-
cation between the Atlantic Ocean and the northern seas,
the current flows with such rapidity, as to rise to an high
swell that proves dangerous to the fishermen, even in
calm weather*.

   Caves and Rivulets.-Around the coast there are a va-
riety of natural caves.  At Sha there is one, the roof of which
is supported by natural pillars of an octagonal figure.  At
Burra-firth there is a number of caves, opening from the sea,

<FOOTNOTE>

*The ancient inhabitants of the islands set up, on the eminences a-
round the harbours, warts, or marks to direct the course of vessels sailing
along the coast, placing one near the point of each arm of the har-
bour, and a third near the bottom.  But although this be the northern ex-
tremity of the British dominations and although these parts, be not a little
frequented, and even late in the year, by ships trading to the White Sea,
and the northern parts of Norway, yet government has not hitherto been
induced to erect a light house any where the shores of this island.


