
6                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

east is Monkrigg, the elegant new mansion of the Honourable Cap-
tain Keith, R. N. To the south, again, and within view of Lennox-
love is Coalston, the seat of the family of Brown, the most an-
cient family in the parish, now possessed by its amiable and ex-
cellent representative, the Countess of Dalhousie. On the north
of the Tyne, and west of the town of Haddington, are the estates
and Houses of Clerkington, belonging to Colonel Robert Houston:
Letham, the property of Sir Thomas Hepburn, Bart.; Alderston,
that of Robert Stewart, Esq. M. P.; and Huntington, of William
Ainslie, Esq.
   Eminent Men.-It appears that Haddington was at one time a
royal residence, and that Alexander 11. was born there in the year
1198. But it is much more distinguished as the birth-place of the
illustrious Scotch Reformer, JohnKnox. He was born in the Gifford-
gait, adjoining to the town, in 1505, and afterwards educated at the
grammar-school of the burgh. Some writers, misled probably by
the name of the Gifford-gait, or way that leads to Gifford, have
said "that he was born at Gifford, near Haddington."  But,
in the first place, immemorial, unopposed, unchallenged tradition
has fixed this suburb of Haddington on the old Gifford road, as the
place of his nativity, and the site of the house is still shown; and
next, though Gifford, as a barony, has existed and been known by
that appellation since Hugh de Gifford settled in East Lothian
under David I., and received from William the Lion the manor of
Yester; yet there is reason to believe that Gifford, as a village, did
not exist in the time of the Reformer, nor for more than a century
afterwards. Indeed the present village of Gifford is comparatively
of modern origin; owing its rise and locality chiefly to the removal
of the ancient church of Bothans from the vicinity of the mansion
house of Yester to its present site, about the beginning of the eight-
eenth century. Previous to this period, tradition speaks only of a
single house there, Gifford-ha', which, in the colloquial parlance
of the country, is still applied to designate the village.*

<FOOTNOTE>his first visit to this part of the island, he heard there was not so much as a park in
Scotland. The wall was twelve feet in height, but many years ago, was reduced to
seven. At this place the excellent species of apples called Lethingtons were first cul-
tivated, having been brought from France about the middle of the sixteenth century.
    The following extracts from the records of the town-council of Haddington, which
extend as far back as 6th March 1424, are illustrative of the antiquities of the burgh
and of those olden times as to education. "October 6, 1559. The council thought it
expedient to fee Mr Robert Dormont to be skoillmaister of the burgh, with 24 merks
in the year, payable off the common gude; and allowed for 'ilk town bairn' 12d.
termly of school-house fee, and 4d. termly from the parents or friends of the bairn as
use and wont was. The council to find Mr Dormont "ane charmer and skoill-house
maill tre.'" In February 1563, is a contract between the town and Thomas Cumyn



