
     of Methven.

a Norman, came to England with WILLIAM the Conqueror.
-The first religious establishment here was a Provostry,

<FOOTNOTE>

Scotland, and became very flourishing.  To Sir ROGER MOW-
BRAY belonged the barones of Kelly, Eckford, Dalmony, and
Methven, lying in the shires of Forfar, Roxburgh, Linlithgow,
and Perth : But, for adhering to the Baliol and English inte-
rest, his lands were consiscated by ROBERT L. who bestowed
Fokford, Kelly, and Methven, on his son in law, WALTER, the
8th hereditary Lord High Steward of Scotland, whose son, Ro-
bert, was afterwards King, and the 2d of the name, in right
of his mother MARJORY BRUCE, daughter of ROBERT I.  The
Lordship of Methven was granted by him to WALTER STEW-
ART, Earl of ATHOLE, his 2d son, by Enphame Ross, his 2d
wife ; and, after his torfeiture, remained in the Crown a consi-
derable time.  It became part of the dowery land usualy ap-
propriated for the maintenance of the Queen Dowager of Scot-
land, together with the Lordship and Castle of Stirling, and
the lands of Balquhidder, etc. all of which were settled on
MARGARET, Queen Dowager of James IV. who, in the year
1524, having divorced her 2 d husband, Archibald Earl of
Angus, married Henry Stewart, 2 d son of Andrew Lord Evan-
dale, afterwards Ochiltree, a descendant of Robert Duke of
Albany, son of King Robert II. Margaret was the eldest
daughter of Henry VII of England, in whose right JAMES VI.
of Scotland, her great grandson, succeded to that Crown, on
the death of Queen ELIZABETH.  She procured for her third
husband a peerage from her son JAMES V. under the title of
LORD METHVEN, anno 1528 ; and, on this occasion, the barony
of Methven was dissolved from the Crown, and erected into a
Lordship, in savour of Henry Stewart and his heirs male, on
the Queen's resigning her jointure of the Lordship of Stirling.
By Lord Methven she had a daughter, who died in infancy, be-
fore herself.  The Queen died at the Castle of Methven, in
1540 ; and was buried at Perth, beside the body of King James
I. Lord METHVEN afterwards married Janet Stewart, daugh-
ter of the Earl of Atholl, by whom he had a son, Henry II.
Lord Methven, who married Jean, daughter of Patrick Lord
RUTHVEN, and was killed at Broughton, by a cannon' ball from
the Castle of Edinburgh, in 1572, leaving a son, Henry III.
Lord Methven, who died without issue. This 3d Lord Meth-
ven is mentioned on the authority of Stewart's Genealogical Ac-
count of the House of Stewart.  In the year 1584, the Lordship
of Methven and Balquindder was conferred on LODOWICK


