
                                     PERTH.                         79

       churches, mills, fishings, harbours, public market, coal and wood
       yards, lime sheds, and a dung depot. The total value of this pro-
       perty, after deducting debts, which amount to L. 28,474, 11s. 1d. *
       and which are in the fair way of being liquidated, is estimated at
       L. 67,510, 11s. 10d., and the estimate is under what it should be.
       The total revenue is L. 6300, lls. 9d., and its expenditure
       L. 5169, 4s. The whole of the propertx and of the revenue is
       let by public roup, and security is taken from the lessee. The
       records kept are-the minutes of council-a register of deeds-a
       register and minute-book of sasines. At the annual election of
       the council, there is a committee appointed for the government of
       the financial concerns of the burgh, composed of men who, by
       reason of their knowledge of commercial dealings, are qualified to
       control financial administration. The magistrates and council
       possess, by charter and usage, the power of imposing certain cus-
       toms, and by statute, the power of levying cess-the customs levi-
       able at the different ports, the flesh-market customs, the meal-
       market dues, the weighhouse dues, the shore dues; all of these
       duties are applied to the "common good" of the town. These
       facts appear in the Report of the Commission on Municipal Cor-
       porations for 1833.
          The privileged bodies of the burgh consist of two classes, the
       Guildry Corporation, and the Corporation of Trades.
          The Guildry Corporation consist of dealers who are said to ex-
       ercise certain "sciences." The whole are styled merchant-bur-
       gesses. These sciences are four,-merchants, maltmen, surgeons,
       and dyers. The power of administering their public rights is vested
       in the Guild Court. The Guild Court consist of eleven members.
       The dean, who is the president, the lord provost, the three mer-
       chant bailies ex officio, four guild brethren, elected by the whole
       guildry, and two tradesmen, elected by the Court of Convenery.
       It exercises certain judicial functions and meets regularly on the

       and crafts. By an authorized measurement, it was found to be, in whole, 293 acres.
       In 1609, it was let for nineteen years, at the rent of 100 merks. It was afterwards
       planted with oaks, firs &c. In 1800, it began to be cleared of the wood, and feued.
       The aggregate amount of grassum prices was L. 4671, 10s. The feu-duties are
       paid principally in grain, and the aggregate amount is 310 1/4 bolls of wheat, 251
       bolls of barley, and L.17 in money, giving on an average of seven years an estimated
       income of L. 800, 11s. 6d.
        The town-council were induced, toward the end of the seventeenth century, to
       believe that coal might be found in the muir; a considerable sum of money was ex-
       pended in the search. It was relinquished as hopeless in 1697, and the apparatus
       sold for 2s. 6d. per stone.

       <FOOTNOTE>The debt of the burgh in 1675 was about 90,000 or 91,000 merks.


