
       	206                       SUTHERLANDSHIE.

	ness was imperfectly understood, and when he could only com-
	mand a limited number of fishermen, sufficiently skilful and ex-
	perienced, had to incur expenses and run risks, now guarded
	against ; and, at that time, the bounty often formed his only pro-
        fit,-while without it, it is probable that the business would have
	lingered or decayed.  As the trade prospered under the bounty
	system, several individuals without capital appeared as curers.
	They engaged a few inefficient boats, and the premium promised
	to the crews was often made a postponed payment, consequent
	on the sale of the cured fish.  If regular curing premises could
	not be procured, an open area with portable sheds was used.  The
	staves, the salt, and the other curing materials were obtained up-
	on credit; and whenever the barrels were packed, and branded by
	the fishery officer, the bounty was payable and obtained, and this
	advance paid off the pressing current expenses.  Latterly, curers
	of this description increased too rapidly; but the bounty, which
	originally worked so much good, (although as the trade increased
	and was understood, it fostered unsound speculation,) was withdrawn
	in time to place the berring-fisbery on a more safe foundation ;
	because now, few persons will or can adventure in it, who are not
	possessed of some capital or credit.
	   The regulations as to the size of the barrel, the curing and
	packing of the fish, and the branding of the barrels, are still at-
	tended to ; and indeed, these regulations are so well calculated to
	secure the proper curing of the fish, that self-interest alone must
	compel the respectable curer to observe them strictly.  Fishery
	officers are still retained at the different stations, whose duty it is
	to brand all cured herrings submitted to them, in barrels of the
	legal size, if of good quality, and regularly cured; and their
	brand, a crown, stamps them as of prime quality; and thus the fish
	acquire a character, without which the curer could not obtain the
	current market-price.  The barrel is, in all respects, the same as
	when the bounty was granted.  The breadth of the staves is ge-
	nerally about three inches and a half, and the number in a barrel
	is 18.  The barrel contains 32 gallons; and the number of hoops
	varies from 16 and 17 to 18.  For the West India market an iron
	hoop at each end is added.  The effect of these regulations is
	equally beneficial to the public as to the curer; for, without them,
	or similar checks, boatmen and inexperienced persons would pack
	fish, without regard to quality, mode of cure, or size and descrip-
	tion of barrel) ; and a quantity of inferior and bad fish would get


