
704                        FIFESHIRE.

times to which they refer, and bear a strong testimony to the ad-
vantages which the country at large derives from the National
Church, and show with what intelligence and zeal the men who
then administered her affairs laboured to reform a rude people,
and to promote their intellectual and moral advancement.  The
discipline exercised was strict and minute.  And, though the
power that was sometimes assumed, may now appear unwarrant-
able, yet, when we consider the state of the times referred to, and
the faithful ministrations with which it was accompanied, we shall
be constrained to admit both that it was not overstretched, and
that it was used simply with a view to the good of the people
themselves.  Indeed, almost all beneficial undertakings seem to
have then originated with the Established Church, or to have
been countenanced and furthered by her.  The interests of edu-
cation, the maintenance of the poor, the ransoming of such as had
been carried into slavery, the repairing of damage occasioned by
fire, the Building or improving of harbours, bridges, and other
public works-these objects, in addition to the more peculiar du-
ties of their office, engaged the attention of ministers and elders,
and showed them to have been men of sagacity and benevolence
no less than of piety.

<FOOTNOTE>The following extracts may be regarded as confirmatory of these remarks, as well
as interesting in themselves:-"The 3 of November 1643, We, ministeris of the Pres-
byterie of Dunfer. haifing resolvit to intertene a bursar at the new colledge in St An-
drews, we stentet qt every kirk within the said Presbyterie suld pay yt'he mycht
be intertened and Carnock was stentetto pay 3 libs. and thairfor Mr John...... present
bursar, cam to my house the day foresaid, and receivit the said 3 libs."-"Oct. 3.
1647. Having mist some of our people out of the church this afternoon, it was en-
acted, that some of our elders, day about, should go through the parish one the Lord's
day, and see who was absent remaining in their houses; and if some just and lawll
cause detained them not, that thex should be censured."  This regulation was long
after continued in Carnock.-"Oct. 29, 1647. I did exhort the elders that they
wold be carefull to search and try the parish if ther wer any neighbour at discord
wt another, and let them be warned in before the sessioune, that their friendship
might be mad, and the day appointed for this purpose to be Thursday next. Nov.
4. The glk day Andrew Creich and David Anderson came in, and were reconciled."
"Nov. 14. There was delivered to Robt. Creich, our ruling elder, for the repairing of
Cramment brig, 4 lib., qlk was delivered."-" November 21. I did shew unto the
sessions, that one day of the week must be attendit for weekly examinations, and
that one or more elders should be always present."-" Decem. 12. The qlk day it was
ordained by the sessione, that the children-of poor ones should have the benefit of
learning to read, and therefore because they are unable to pay ther quarter payments
the sessione ordains," &c.-Decem. 19. Orders given procure "directiones for,
family worship," for the use ofthe parishioners.-,, Apr. . Ordained, that no more
than 24 persons be at penny bridalls, under a penalty of a dollar."-" My Lord Kin-
cardine came to Carnock this 12 of this instant of Oct. and, having held a court, her,
settled the maintenance of the school to be the somme of a hundred pounds," &C.--
March I8 1649. Deacons appointed,-15 Febr. "A general Collection throw the
parocbe for the, poor' ordered.-" 7 Marcb 1652. Publick intimation was made from
the pulpit of a collection for the supplie of somme prisoners that were taken captive at
Dunbar, and are now very hardlie dealt withal."-6th July 1656. The session, at a


