
                  NEWBURGH.                          61

ticle of which is to be found in the superinctimbent p"t,- or iu- tkk
underlying stratum. What peculiar agency has,produced thiS?,
The lowest bed of the series and the depth of which is unkoown,
is a plastic clay or till, containing boulders of the secondary.rock*
mixed up with the debris of the old red sandstone. : TheS surface
of the ground here is about 40 feet above the level of the Tay,
and the geologist will naturally inquire, whether -it occupied the
same level, or what was its condition, during the formation of the
above-mentioned deposits ?
The soil in the upper part of the parish. though generally of
little depth, is of great fertilitv. It mostly consists of either a loose
black loam, or of a more compact ferruginous mould. Here the
entire property of Pitcairly, through an intelligent and enterprising
tenantry, has been brought into the highest state of cultivationi,and
marks itself out to the traveller among the Ochils as an insulated
spot of singular beauty and fertility. The soil on the north-east
of the town, where the ground is low and flat, consists of the rich"
clay, not inferior to the best portions of the Carre of.Gowrie.,Il;
Botany.-It were easy to give a full and detailed account of this
branch of natural history, as the writer has examined, the thinks
every plant within the bounds of the parish, with the exception Qf
the Lichens and some of the Fungi. The celebrated Don used fre-
quently to traverse this neighbourhood, and  the results of  his re-
searches are amply detailed in his Catalogue as well as. iq Hocker's
Flora Scotica, where, from the frequency of reference, the student
will find that Newburgh, in proportion to its extent, contributes
liberally to the Flora of the island. Along with the usual pialkts
common in the neighbourhqod, the following are of rare
On the banks of Tay and woods of Mugdrum, along with, sgioll or
eight species of Ranunculus, the Lychnis, Valeriane, Veronica, Seir-
pus, Carex, Juncus, and Glaux, there are to be found Geun rivale,
Alisma plantago, Cicuta virosa, Iris peudacorus, Arundo phyrag-
mites, Artemisia maritima, Senecio aquaticus; also Gaophalinon
supinum and gallicum, Erythraa pulchella, Gentiena compeatriz,

<FOOTNOTE>The soil within the enclosures of the Abbey is a remarkably deep block lonun,
which, as tradition will have it, was brought by the monks from Irebod, and is there
fore untrodden by venomous reptiles! Classical authority can be additioned to attemp
the fact, although experience be against it. " Serpantes alist inubxion. Nufluques
venenatum animal ibi aluit. "-Lesly's Historia Section." Nominated enium a serpanti-
bus lividis in es unquam est visum. Neeq. In ullis, circure regione Scotish tants corum
copis conspectum. Ipes vidi adoloscentom puerili lado in carupo salisteum in sodium
colubrorum gregem incidisce se intactum ilursum abysec"-Berthius. Vita Wil.
Regis, Lib. xiii.



