
                  PARISH OF PORT OF MENTEITH. *

      PRERBYTERY OF DUNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING

                                        , MINISTER.


                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
       Name,&c.-THIS parish is not known to have ever had any other
     name.  The principal of the landing-places of the Priory of Inch,
     mahome and of Talla, a seat of the Earls of Menteith, was natu-
     rally called, by eminence, Port, a word of the same meaning in
     Gaelic as in English;. and, when a church was built here, it gave
     its name to the parish.
       In the Parliamentary erection of the abbacies of Dryburgh and
     Cambuskenneth and priory of Inchmahome into a temporal lord-
     ship in 1606, the parish of Port is mentioned as having anciently
     belonged to the Priory.
       In January 1615, the parish of Lany was dismembered, and
     part of it annexed to that of Port;+ of which the dimensions have
     since been, in extreme length from east to west, about 9 Eng-
     lish miles; and in breadth, 6.  The southern confine is nearly 8,
     the northern 3 only.  The general shape is an irregular square.
        Topographical 4ppearances.-About half of the parisb is  moun-
     tainous moor and level peat-moss; and the productive surface
     is farther diminished by lakes, the largest of which is in the
     centre, and towards five miler in circumference; and the rest,
     five in number, amount jointly to a third of the other.  The
     mountainous tract is on the north at the commencement of
     the Scottish Highlands, to which the transition from the low-
     lands is here abrupt.   The lake of Inchhmahome, close to the


<FOOTNOTE> Principally drawn up from an account written by a late incumbent, the Rev.
     William M'Gregor Stirling.
         See Manuscript note by a land-owner of the parish of Port, Alexander Graham,
     Esq.  of Duchray, Writer to his Majesty's Signet, made in or before the 1724,
     and inserted with his hand in the Macfarlane Collections in the Advocates' Library,
     Edinburgh. Mr Graham states, as the reason of the dismemberment of Lany, the
     smallness of the stipend.


