
          ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                         337

ninth century. Another portion, consisting of a very high tower,
was added by Alastair Crotach, or the Humphbacked, 400 years
later. These two towers were conjoined,, by means of a long low
edifice, erected by Rory Mor, who was knighted in the days of
Jame.s VI. Various additions have been made to it since, and
the whole now forms a large mass of gray building, which, espe-
cially at a distance, presents a very imposing appearance. It is
situated on a precipitous rock, washed on one side by the sea; on
another, by a stream of some size; on a third, it is guarded by
what was at one time a moat, consisting of a natural hollow between
the castle rock and another steep rock at some yards' distance;
on the fourth, the base is easily accessible, but owing to the height
of the rock, and to its being surmounted everywhere by a wall with
deep embrasures, even here it would be difficult to storm it, if at
all well garrisoned. The entrance was of old from the sea side,
by a very long, steep, and narrow stair; but-a new approach has
been of late formed by throwing a bridge over the cliasm already
noticed, which now renders it of easy access. There is a small
but very convenient harbour right before it, and a spring of excel-
lent water rising on the top of the rock which forms the court-
vard. These were the two circumstances which probably went
i.rthest to determine the site of this fortalice when its foundation
was laid.*
   Among the ancient relics preserved in the castle, the "Fairy
flag," which, according to tradition, is the palladium ofthe Mac
leod family, the hinge on which their fortune turns, claims the first
notice.
   This once celebrated banner, partly owing to the inroads of
months, and partly to the still more destructive inroads of curious
visitors, many of whom carried off portions of it, is now dwindled
down to very small dimensions. The fabric is of strong silk of a
yellow colour. It is said to have been taken as a prize by one of
the Macleods from a Saracen chief during the Crusades, and to
possess three miraculous propdrties, -first, when displayed in bat-
tle, to multiply the number of the Macleods threefold; second,
when spread on the niiptial bed, to make it productive; and third,

<FOOTNOTE>Sir Walter Scott, in his Diary of 1814, gives a minute account of the Castle of
Dunvegan, which, notwithstanding his unrivalled power, and generally minute accu-
racy in the description of old towers and castles, is more picturelue than correct
and in describing the scene to be witnessed from the window the , "haunted
chamber," he allows his imagination to deceive him completely, when be states that
"Macleod's Maidens," formed an interesting part of it. These pillars are not visible
from any point within four miles of the castle.
                  "Aliquando dormitat bonus Homerus."


