
566			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

have their children educated, and there is no family at such a dis-
tance from the schools as to preclude the children from attending.
   There is a private school at Holywood village, in which English
reading and sewing are taught. It is conducted by two females.
   Poor.--In 1790, when the population was 736, the poor on tbe
roll were 15. At this date, the population is 1066, and the poor
are only 16. Six of this number are above eighty years of age,
and three, are above seventy. They are supported by the collec-
tions, and from a fund created at a former period by the surplus
of the collections. This surplus fund is L. 270, but is on the de-
crease. Two of the poor receive L. 4, 4s. per annum; one L. 4;
and the rest from 8s. to 14s. a quarter, according to their circum-
stances. Except three, they are all able to aid in supporting them-
selves. In addition, each person on the roll living in the parish is
allowed 12 cwt. of coals every winter; and a number of poor
householders, but not on the roll, have the same allowance of coals.
This plan has been pursued for the last fifteen years.
   The nobility of Scottish independence exists strongly among the
poor of this parish; but it never fails to wane, soon after a person
is recognized among the class of parish paupers.
   The collections amount to about L. 40 per annum.
   There is no person a beggar belonging to the parish, nor would
any be allowed, while there are funds to relieve the poor.
   Fuel.--The fuel used is partly coal and partly peat. English
coal is sold at Dumfries, from 14s. to 15s. per ton. Sanquhar
coal, five miles distant, is sold at the same rate. Many of the
farmers lead their coals from Sanquhar, a distance of twenty-three
miles, sold at 5s. per ton.
   Library.--Forty years ago, a library was formed in this parish.
It contains many standard works, chiefly in doctrinal and practical
Christianity, the evidences of religion and church history. It is
supported by subscription.

   December 1837.


