
     of St Monance.

I have seen, being sometimes called St Menin, sometimes
St Monan, and in modern times, and at present, St Monance.
-As to the derivation, amidst the many reports, what to
me seems most probable, is, That it originated from the
hermit who served at the chapel, and which gave name to
the town.  And as it became the place of public worship
for the parish, and the town the most populous part of it,
through time the parish came to be called St Monance a-
lone.  For before the period of annexation, the village of
Abercrombie was pretty populous, but since has very much
diminished.  At present, it consists only of one farm-house
and offices, the houses of two other small tenants, and a few
cottages.  The manse and glebe are still in it.  The parish
is of small extent, and forms nearly a parallelogram, ex-
tending from the S. E. where it is washed by the frith of
Forth, to the N. W.  The breadth from W. to E. is about
a short English mile, and from S. to N. 1 1/2.  mile.  The
land rises suddenly from the sea, but of no extraordinary
height; after which it is flat, with a very gentle and easy
ascent upwards to Abercrombie, about a mile, and then de-
clines in the same manner towards the N. the surface af-
fording a very beautiful appearance.  The soil in general
is a light loam, and friable, very little clay, all quite free
of stones, and very fertile and manageable.  The whole is
arable, excepting a trifle in a natural state, and which is ca-
pable of cultivation, The sea coast is flat and rocky.  The
rocks consist of free and lime stone, and a great quantity of

<FOOTNOTE>

presbytery granted their request quoad sacra.  But whether any applica-
tion was afterward made to the Lords of plantation, and the same con-
firmed by them or not does not appear.  After which the name of the
parish in the records of presbytery, stood thus: The parish of Abercrombie
with St Monance.-At that period, the church (or chapel, as then called)
of Abercrombie was suffered to go into ruin, and an old Gothic chapel at
St Monance (of which more afterward) became the place of public wor-


