
                       GREENOCK.                             419

-ing the experiments which led to these improvements, he ap-
proached very near to Dr Black's celebrated discovery of latent
heat, which was then for the first time communicated to him
by Dr Black.  In the year 1769, he secured his title to his im-
provement for saving steam and fuel in fire-engines, by patent,
--Dr Roebuck of the Carron Iron Works, who assisted him in the
practical application of his invention, having a share of the patent.
After this Dr Roebuck was induced, for certain considerations, to
transfer his share of the patent to Mr Boulton of Soho, near Bir-
mingham, and Mr Watt entered into partnership with Mr Boul-
ton as a steam-engine manufacturer.  An act for prolonging the
patent for twenty-five years was obtained in 1775, and the busi-
ness was commenced under the firm of Boulton and Watt.  The
steam-engine had hitherto been applied only to the pumping of
water.  His inventive genius was next employed in applying the
power of steam to giving a rotatory motion to mills; and his con-
trivances for this purpose were secured to him by patents in the
years 1781, 1782, 1784, and 1785.  He brought the steam-en-
gine to its perfection by the application of the centrifugal regular-
ing force of the governor.
   The discoveries and contrivances which we have thus briefly de-
tailed, entitle Mr Watt to the name of the inventor, as Mr Jeffrey
has justly observed, rather than the improver of the steam-engine.
"It was," says that eloquent writer, "by his inventions that its
action was so regulated as to make it capable of being applied to
the finest and most delicate manufactures, and its power so in-
creased as to set weight and solidity at defiance.  By his admirable
contrivances it has become a thing stupendous alike for its force
and its flexibility--for the prodigious power which it can exert,
and the ease, and precision, and ductility with which it can be va-
ried, distributed, and applied.  The trunk of an elephant that can
pick up a pin, or rend an oak, is as nothing to it.  It can engrave
a seal, and crush masses of obdurate metal like wax before it--
draw out without breaking a thread as fine as gossamer, and lift a
ship of war like a bauble in the air.  It can embroider muslin, and
forge anchors, cut steel into ribbands, and impel loaded vessels
against the fury of the winds and waves."
   In the earlier part of Mr Watt's life, and before he entered in-
to partnership with Mr Boulton, he was employed as a civil en-
gineer, and in that capacity made surveys for the Crinan, the Ca-
ledonian, and other canals, which have since been executed with




