
86                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

tached, she was frequently visited by ladies and gentlemen of
the first distinction in both kingdoms.  Her remains were brought,
at her own desire, from London, where she died, and inter-
red at Kinrara, on the 12th day of May 1812, in a spot of
ground which she often pointed out in the course of her walks,
as the place where she wished her mortal remains to lie.  This
spot is marked by a monument erected by her husband, the late
Duke of Gordon, constructed of beautiful hewn granite selected
among the Grampian mountains, some of them at a distance of
more than twenty miles.
  Soon after the decease of the Duchess of Gordon the Marquis
and Marchioness of Huntly took possession of Kinrara, where for
several years they resided annually from the beginning of August
to the beginning of November, and were visited during that period
by their numerous noble friends, from all parts of the kingdom.*
Since the Marquis succeeded to the Dukedom of Gordon, their
annual visits to Kinrara have been discontinued, and the place has
been let for shooting-quarters to Sir George Sitwell, Baronet.
  Belleville, a district of this parish, has been rendered classical
ground by the residence of James Macpherson, Esq. the collector
and translator of Ossian's Poems. By his literary works, Mr
Macpherson raised himself from the humble situation of a paro-
chial schoolmaster to a distinguished reputation among men of let-
ters, and realised an ample fortune, by which he was enabled to
purchase a good deal of landed property in his native country. His
remains were carried from Belleville, where he died, to West-
minster Abbey, and deposited, agreeably to his own particular in-
struction, in Poet's Comer.  Belleville is now the residence of Sir
David Brewster, whose scientific acquirements entitle him to no-
tice here, and to whom the writer of this account is indebted for
some important information.  It is unnecessary to add, that Sir
David is a valuable acquisition to the society of this remote but
beautiful Highland glen, where he enjoys ease with dignity.
  Land-owners.-According to Mr Shaw, in his history of the pro-
vince of Moray, the Barony of Dunachton came into the possession
of the Laird of Mackintosh about the year 1500, by his marrying the
heiress, daughter of tbe Baron of Dunachton.  Here Mackintosh had
a castle, which was burnt in the year 1689, and was never rebuilt.
South Kinrara and DaInavert, the remaining part of Mackintosh's

<FOOTNOTE>In autumn 1821,-Kinrara was honoured by a visit from Prince Leopold, now
King of Belgium; where he remained ten days, highly gratified with the princely
entertainment of Kinrara cottage.


