
50                          RENFREWSHIRE.
individuals and families of independent fortune resident in the pa-
rishes.
   The number of proprietors of land, having L. 50 and upwards
of yearly rent, resident and non-resident, about 9.
   Character of the People.--The author of this article, in his Ac-
count of the parish of Neilston, inserted in the former work, ven-
tured to state his opinion on the effects of some of the cotton
mills, and other public works with which the parish abounded,
upon the morals and health of the people.* The lapse of
forty years has not induced the author to alter the opinion which
he then expressed on this subject. Where a population is
composed like that of Houston and Killallan, of people from all
quarters and of all sentiments in religion and politics, it is difficult
to delineate their character. He hopes, however, that they are
not behind any of their neighbours, who are similarly situated, in
intellectual, moral and religious improvement.
               		IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--Draining and straightening of ridges have been
practised for many years. The farm houses are almost all slated
and commodious. Leases generally for nineteen years.
   Rent of Land.--Rent of arable land from L. 2 to L. 3, and in
some situations L. 4 per acre. The valued rent of the parish is
L.4057, 8s. Scots; the real rent probably L. 9000 Sterling.
   Recent Agricultural Improvements.-Mr Fleming of Barochan
lately returned from India, where he was a District-Judge, and
afterwards a Circuit-Judge for many years, when he had leisure
from, the important duties of his office, amused himself with agri-
cultural and chemical experiments; and is now improving here his
paternal estate to a considerable extent.+ The scarcity and the
consequent dearness of commnn manure is among the greatest ob-
stacles to a agricultural improvements in this part of the country. He
has, therefore, lately made many experiments of oil mixed with
mossas a manure,-which he has found answer well for top-dressing
grass lands, and also for various crops; and if oil can be purchased
at L.18 Sterling per ton, he is of opinion it can be used profitably
as a substitute for common manure. +

<FOOTNOTE>
   Vide Volume second of former Statistical Account; parisb of Neilston. The
account of this parish was, with some others, translated into French, and transmitted
by Sir John Sinclair to some of the foreign cabinets, as specimens of statistics.
   It is said, that Mr Fleming, when in India, made several new and valuable im-
provements in the preparation of oplum.
   An extensive use of oil compost might be to the fisheries, by increasing
the demand for oil, which has decreased since the introduction of gas.
                    			4

