
   114                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

                   V.-PAROCRIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-There is scarcely a village in the parish, the hamlet
at the church containing Only eighteen houses.
   Post-Office.-The nearest post-office is at Uphall, which is dis-
tant little more than a mile.
   Market-Towns.-The markets frequented by the farmers are
those of Linlithgow and Bathgate, which are about five miles re-
spectively from the centres of the two districts of the parish.
   Means of Communication.-The road from Edinburgh to Fal-
kirk passes through the northern extremity for about half a mile,
and the middle Glasgow road nearly touches the southern border.
The parish roads are kept in excellent repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situate in the south-
ern corner of the smallest section of the parish; but in the most
convenient position possible for the generality of the inhabitants.
It was in a great measure rebuilt in the beginning of last century,
and having undergone a thorough repair in 1822, it is at present
in excellent order, and is neat and comfortable. It is provided
with 153 sittings, which might easily be increased, if required, to
aboIut 200. It is about four miles by the road from the most dis-
tant house. Considering the smallness of the population, the at-
tendance is generally good. The manse is supposed to have been
built about 1606; but an addition was made in 1800; and though
the accommodation is not extensive, it is, on the whole, sufficiently
comfortable. The glebe and garden contain about four and a-half
Scotch acres of good ground. The stipend consists of 58 bolls,
3 firlots, 3 lippies of oatmeal; 58 bolls, 3 firlots, 3 lippies of bar-
ley; and L. 146, 11s. of money. In the Report of the Religious
Instruction Commissioners it is valued at L. 256, 11s. 8d., from
an average of five years previous to 1836. The same report va-
lued the unexhausted teind at L. 140, 11s. 1d.
   Education.-The parish school and school-house, recently re-
built, are in good order. The teacher has the maximum salary;
but the fees are small, and sometimes not well paid. The average
attendance may be about 50 scholars, who are instructed in read-
ing, writing, and arithmetic. On the extreme border of the pa-
rish, where it meets those of Uphall and Livingstone, a school
was erected by the late Robert Wardeu, Esq., to whom the pa-
rochial institutions were, in many respects, beholden. Though
highly useful in the locality, its attendance has fluctuated much;
and it would be greatly benefited by an endowment. In summer,



