
                     PARISH OF EAST KILBRIDE.

              PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                  THE REV. HENRY MONCREIFF, MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name.-THE last syllable of the word Kilbride is a contraction
for Bridget or Brghid, the Gaelic name of a saint, greatly famed
in the legends of the Church of Rome.  Disputes have been rais-
ed as to the place of her nativity, and it was supposed by Arch-
bishop Usher, that there might be two saints of the same name,
one belonging to Ireland, and the other to Scotland.  However
this may be, many places in Scotland have been dedicated to St
Bridget.  It is probable that the church of East Kilbride was ori-
ginally one of the buildings erected in honour of her.  The syl-
lable Kil comes from Cil, a Gaelic word for a church or burying-
place; and the name signifies the church or burying-place belonging
to St Bridget.  The parish is called East Kilbride, to distinguish
it from West Kilbride, in the county of Ayr.
   Boundaries, Extent, Situation, Topography, &c.-The village
of East Kilbride is seven miles distant from Glasgow, as the crow
flies.  By the best and most frequented road, the distance is
nearly eight miles.  The position of the village may be represented
as rather more than six miles and a half to the south, and some-
what more than a mile and a half to the east, of the western me-
tropolis.  The most northern point of the parish lies about a mile
to the north-east of Kittockside, which has been described as the
pleasantest village in it, and which is not far from its north-
western boundary.  This point is about four miles from Glas-
gow, as the crow flies, and about two miles to the west of the
point at which the parish is most frequently enterd and which is
situated about six miles from Glasgow bv the main road, a short
way to the north of the village of Nersthon, the name of which
is a contraction for North-East Town.  The circumference of
the parish is very irregular and uodulating in its outline.  In
other respects, the shape is that of a sand-glass, the breadth in


