
184			   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

most entirely with a view to the accommodation of the workmen
employed in the neighbouring powder manufactory. The people,
though employed in a hazardous occupation, are far from being
reckless or unprincipled in their habits. On the contrary,the au-
thor has always found them to be among the most regular and
exemplary of his  parishioners-and they are at present superin-
tended by a master who makes their religious and moral improve-
ment an object of his conscientious attention. The number of in-
habitants is about 70.
  Castleton is a quiet village in the, western extremity of the pa-
rish. It is tenanted by about eight families, who are chiefly em-
ployed in agriculture.  They live in great harmony with each other,
-and are, indeed, free from most of the ordinary causes of dis-
sension or of vicious indulgence.
   Middleton was formerly a place of some importance, and, in-
deed, the chief village of the parish.  The great road to the south
formerly passed through it-and it was one of the chief seats of
the tinkers or gypsies. The new road, however, has taken a dif-
ferent line-the tinkers have resigned their former occupations,
and have become mixed up with the native inhabitants-and this
once stirring and adventurous village is now a place of great quiet,
and chiefly remarkable for the retired and unobtrusive character                                                               a
of those  who inhabit it. There are two farm-houses connected
With it, in the employment of which several of the inhabitants are
engaged,-the rest of the population being either old people, or
persons occupied in such trades as are necessary for the accom-
modation of any similar collection of houses. The general appear-
ance of the village is by no means unpleasing. The number of
the inhabitants is about 12O.
  Besides these more considerable villages, there are, we have said,
several groups of cottages in different parts of the parish, which
can scarcely aspire to the dignity of villages, though, they add much
to the general effect of the landscape. The inhabitants are chief-
ly occupied in such miscellaneous employments as are demanded
by the wants or conveniences of the surrounding country. The
most remarkable of these are,-The Brewery, which takes its
name from a building formerly used in the brewing of ale, but of
which only one high and very hard wall now remains.-Bell's
Mains, a collection of moss-covered cottages, which stand near the
highway, and at that particular part where the old avenue to the
grounds of Arniston formerly opened.-Fushie Bridge, well known


