
376                         KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

no estate has changed proprietors, except by death, since the end
of last century. The Gordons of Kenmure and collateral branches
of the same family, were for centuries proprietors of almost the
whole of the parish; but it is above a hundred years since any per-
son of that name had property in it.
	Eminent Characters.--The most eminent person connected with
this parish is Samuel Rutherford, who was minister of Anwoth
from 1627 to 1639, with the exception of about eighteen months
previously to February 1638, during which he was banished to
Aberdeen. Of his numerous writings the first, namely, Exerci-
tationes Apologelica pro Divina Gratia, was published in 1636,
when be held the cure of Anwoth. It issued from a foreign
press (Armsterdam,) and was dedicated to Lord Konmure, who,
as patron of the parish, was the means of bringing him to Gallo-
way, and who had a seat (Rusco Castle,) in this parish.  Ruther-
ford was appointed Professor of Divinity in St Mary's College,
St Andrews, in 1639; and, about eight years thereafter, he was
elected Principal of that College. But the people of Anwoth
were so anxious to retain him as their pastor, that they presented
a strong petition to the commission of the General Assembly to
that effect. (See the petition of the Elderschip and Parraish-
enerie of ye paraisben of Anweth," in Murray's Life of Ruther-
ford, p. 353.) It has appended to it 180 names. Another ap-
plication, of a similar tendency, was laid before the same body,
entitled "The Humble Petition of Galloway," signed by ninety-
five persons. (lb. 354.) Nor was Rutherford less averse to be se-
parated from his flock than they were to retain him, for he pre-
sented to the commission an urgent remonstrance from himself
against the propriety of his removal. (lb. 151.) These various
applications, however, were unsuccessful, and he was removed to
St Andrews in the year already mentioned. But, notwithstand-
ing the lapse of upwards of two centuries, Rutherford's name is
still held in high veneration by the people of Anwoth; and a mo-
nument, consisting of a square granite pyramid, has, within the
last three years, been erected to his memory. It is placed on
Boreland Hill, is 56 feet high, and cost L.206, 6s.*
	Of Sir Godfrey M'Culloch of Merton, who resided at Cardo-
ness, (of which he was the alleged proprietor,) in this parish, and

<FOOTNOTE>The Rev. Dr Cooke of Belfast preached a sermon on the form of Boreland on
the 9th September 1838, when a collection was made to assist in raising the monu-
ment, which amounted to L.51, Is, 10d. So great an interest was felt throughout
Anwoth ard the neigbbouring parishes, and the object so highly appreciated by the
people, that no fewer than nearly 5000 persons were present,


