
                             DALKEITH.                     477

the First Book of Discipline in 1560;--he was the intimate and
confidential friend of Knox and James Earl of Murray, so long as
the lived;--he adhered throughout to the faction of England, and
was a favourite with Queen Elizabeth.  But although he was a
powerful instrument in promoting the cause of the Reformation,
he looked upon Christianity too exclusively with the eye of a states-
man; he was eager to establish an Erastian Episcopacy; he ob-
jected to the meeting of the General Assembly of the Church with-
out his authority; and even proposed a discussion as to whether
the civil magistrate should not be also the head of the church.
     In 1561, he was chosen a member of the privy council, and was
raised to the office of Lord High Chancellor on the 7th of Janu-
ary 1563-4;--an office which he held till 1565-6, when he was
obliged to flee in consequence of being accessary to the murder of
Rizzio.  He was induced to engage in that foul transaction, partly
to blige the king, and partly to prevent the attainder of some of his
friends, and the revocation of some disposition which had been
granted to himself and them during the Queen's minority,--
measures which it had been resolved to accomplish in the ap-
proching Parliament. By this crime he incurred the Queen's
deep displeasure, and continued in banishment till his pardon was
procured through the influence of Bothwell, who shortly after be-
came a great favourite at Court.
     On his return from England, in 1566-7, Morton spent some days
at the Castle of Whittingham, in company with Bothwell, Lething-
ton, and his relative, Archibald Douglas, the proprietor of the place.
Here he was made acquainted with the dark desigus that were
forming against the unfortunate Darnley. Tradition still points
out the venerable yew tree, near the old Castle of Whittingham,
under whose ample and gloomy shade the foul conspiracy was talk-
ed over a considerable time before its execution.*  But, though
aware of the impending m,urder, he declined taking any part in
the perpetration of the horrid deed; and, with consummate art,
he afterwards directed his plans in such a manner as to seem in-
clined to proceed against the conspirators, while he always avoid-
ed taking any decided step for that purpose.  True to his object
of promoting his own aggrandizement, he vacillated between the
parties, received favours from Mary and Bothwell, and then
joined the party that opposed them.  And, notwithstanding his
solemn promise to permit the Queen to be at the liberty after sur-
rrender at Carberry Hill, in 1567, he caused her to be sent to Loch-

<FOOTNOTE>* Communicated by the Rev. Mr Lumaden of Whittingham.






