
                           EDINBURGH.                      701

into the hands of their cashier on 29th December 1727. 3. The
surplus of the malt duty produced from 1734 to 1784 a grand
total of L.36,000; but it afterwards fell off, greatly in subsequent
years, and yielded nothing after the year 1799.
   Out of these sums the board was enabled to save L. 10,000,
which they added to the L. 30,000 already accumulated: hence
the principal fund of L. 40,000, which was placed in the Royal
Bank at 5 per cent. interest. The interest of this sum added to
the L. 2000 of annuity made the income L. 4000 a-year, be-
sides those sums which arose from the surplusage of the malt
duty posterior to 1784.
   About ten years after the Rebellion of 1745, an act was passed,
26 George II. c. 20, for encouraging and improving the manufac-
turing of linen in the Highlands of Scotland, by which it was pro-
vided, "that from and after the expiration of the term for which
the bounties on the exportation of British and Irish coarse linen
by the said hereinbefore, recited acts are granted, continued,
and made payable, the sum of L. 3000 be paid yearly, and every
year for the space of nine years, to the cashier of the said
commissioners and trustees for improving fisheries and manu-
factures of Scotland, to be charged and chargeable upon and pay-
able out of any of the customs, duties, excises, or other revenues
in Scotland introduced by the Treaty of Union, or to which the
subjects of Scotland are or shall be liable, and to be applied by
the said commissioners and trustees for encouraging and improv-
ing the manufacturing of linens in the Highlands of Scotland only,
and only in those parts thereof wherein the manufacture of linens
have either not been already introduced, or if the same hath been
introduced have not yet arrived to any considerable degree of per-
fection." The purposes to which this annual sum is devoted by
the act are "for instructing and exciting the inhabitants of most
parts of Scotland to raises prepare, and spin flax and hemps, to
be used in the manufacture of coarse linen, and to weave yarn
there spun into such linen, and for providing the said inbabitants
with fit materials and utensils for those purposes, and for distri-
buting, the rewards and prizes to the growers, preparers, and, spin-
ners of such flax and hemp, and to the weavers and other manu-
facturers of such linen in respect to the quality or excellence of
the flax or hemp so raised and prepared, and of the yarn so spun,
wove, or otherwise manufactured, and for such other like uses as
by the said trustees shall be thought proper for promoting the true
   EDINBURGH.                                  Y y


