
324                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of Melville and Lugton, ceased to form a separate parish only in
1633.
   In the reign of James III., the church of Lasswade was, by the
Pope's authority, detached from St Salvator's Church, St An-
drews, and annexed to the Collegiate Church of Restalrig.
   Boundaries.--The parish is bounded on the west, by Colinton;
on the north, by Colinton and Liberton; on the east, by Dalkeith,
Newbattle, and Cockpen; and on the south, by Roslin and Glen-
cross. It is extremely irregular in its figure.
   Mountains.--The parish extends to the very top of the east
range of the Pentland hills. But the narrow strip into which it
is reduced, does not include any of the more remarkable elevations.
The northern boundary of this strip runs along the very summit
of the hills named Kirk Yetton and Allermuir. The higher of
these, viz.  Allermuir, is 1606 feet above the level of the sea.
   Climate.--The climate varies considerably, which will not ap-
pear to be remarkable, when it is stated, that the elevation ranges
between 270 and 1600 feet, within. the distance of six miles.
Around and in the immediate neighbourhood of the beautiful
village of Lasswade, which is situated near the lowest point in the
scale of elevation, the climate is mild, and the air soft and agree-
able. Hence vegetation is here both early and luxuriant, showing
a striking contrast with the more elevated districts of this and the
surrounding parishes. And the same circumstance has rendered
the village of Lasswade a place of considerable resort to the inha-
bitants of Edinburgh and Leith, numbers of whom annually spend
the summer months in this delightful locality.
   River.--The river North Esk runs through the parish nearly
three miles, and skirts it upwards of another mile. Few streams
are more remarkable than this, for lovely and picturesque scenery.
The walk from Gorton to Springfield leads through a locality of
rich and varied beauty.
   Mineralogy.--The general feature of the geological structure
of the parish is the same as that of the neighbouring parish of
Roslin. In both parishes, red sandstone rest on coal and there
is an abundant supply of both minerals. The coal mines are
wrought chiefly in the vicinity of Loan head, and have been long
in operation.
                      II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Characters.--Several distinguished individuals have
been connected with the parish, viz.  William Drummond of Haw-


