
68                         FIFESHIRE.

after a chequered life, spent amidst the toils and cruelties of civil
war, engaged in the cloistered services of a penitent ecclesiastic;
but no inscription points out the place of his interment, and whe-
ther the coffin may be his, or that of the unfortunate. Prince to
whom tradition has assigned it, is a point which cannot now be sa-
tisfactorily determined. Of the famous causeway, which extended
between Lindores and the church of Ecelesia Magirdum, in the
parish of Dron, whither the monks annually went to meet the nuns
of Elcho, who there paid their devotions to their patron saint, not
a vestige remains. In the hills on the south of the ruin, the
Monks'and the Abbots' Wells are still pointed out to strangers, but
the present, generation have even lost the recollection, as they re-
pose but little faith in their virtues, of the many miraculous cures
which at very remote period, were ascribed to these waters.
Upon the whole, the ruins of the Abbey of Lindores cannot be said
to present anything remarkable to the prying eye of the antiquary,
as the imperfect record of its affairs contains little interesting to
the historian; stately fruit trees ascend front the floors of its once
sacred balls, and, interspersed as these are with ivy, hazel, and
flowers of all hues and colour, viewed in conjunction with moulder-
ing fragments of the building, give to the place at large a pictu-
resque, but melancholy air of grandeur.
   The parish likewise contains two crosses of remote antiquity.
One of these is situated a little to the westward of the town, among
the woods, and usually called by the local name of Mugdrum Cross.
The term, Mugdrum is obviously a corruption of Magridin, the
saint in whose honour it may have been erected, and to whom the
lands of Mugdrum were dedicated. It consists of one large stone,
as the representation here shows, placed upright in another, and
though the transept is now completely broken off, and all, the up-
per portion,obliterated, so that the shaft only remains, there can
be no doubt, from the appearance of the stone itself, as well as
from its resemblance to the monuments of similar date and charac-
ter, that a cruciform portion at one time surmounted what now ex-
ists. Fig. 1 represents the east face, which is divided into four
compartments. The upper two, which together occupy nearly
one-half of the stone, are of equal size, and contain each the re-
mains of a man on horseback, but the rider and posterior portion

           Why do you laugh to see my shaven crown?
           My cell, my cloister, and my booded gown?
           This is the power of that Soveraine Queen,
           By whom monks, monarchs monks have been.


