
                         TORPHICHEN.                          49

pidations by which this ancient and very remarkable building has
suffered so severely, it must be gratifying to know, as it is to re-
cord, that it will be preserved henceforth from any such violence
and desecration. Its present Noble proprietor, Lord Torphichen,
has with great good taste and judgment recently protected it from
the wasting ravages of time and the weather by roofing it com-
pletely anew, and closing the rents and chinks which here and
there had deeply scarred its hoary and venerable walls; so that re-
mote ages may continue to contemplate the sole remaining monu-
ment of what was once a mistaken, yet a very gallant Order of
vowed and consecrated warriors, many of whose exploits shed lustre
on the darkness of the middle-ages, like the path of a meteor
through the gloom of a lowering sky.
   In the interior of the transept or choir, at its south end, beneath
one of the windows, is a curious arch, in the form of a canopy,
about six feet in span, within which it is said the bodies of the
knights were laid before interment, and during the performance
of the funeral rites; and close beside it is a font for holy water.
There is an antiquely carved stone, built into a comparatively mo-
dern part of the inner wall on the west side, on which the follows
ing inscription may with difficulty, and perhaps also with some un-
certainty, be read; "Gualterus Lindesay, Justiciarius Generalis
de Scotland, et Principalis Preceptor Torphicensis, 1538." The
inscription is in what is termed the black letter characters, and is
embarrassed by several abbreviations; but the above seems to be
its true reading, as far as can be made out.
   In the churchyard stands a short square stone pillar, with the
outline of a St John's or Maltese enass rudely carved on it.  From
this as from a centre was measured in ancient times the sanctuary
of Torphichen, which gave, at least, temporary protection to any
person accused of crimes less than capital. Its limits were mark-
ed by four stones, each hearing the St John's Cross, erected as
near as might be on the cardinal points, east, west, north and
south, each a Scotch mile from the central stone in the church-
yard adjoining the preceptory. They all still occupy their origi-
nal positions.
   In a field  adjoining the old peel-like mansion of Kipps, there
are the remains, of a Druid circle. The central stone, of a large
size, probably the stone of sacrifice, still occupies, its original po-
sition, but has been split asunder, which tradition says was done
by lighting. Some of the stones that formed the circle have
LINLITHGOW.                                 D


