
     Statistical Account

quotient of 4391 7/23 acres; the 3 d of which being in tillage,
leaves 2928 of pasture.  Two acres to each cow, makes
them in number 1464.  The butter and cheese from each
cow is valued at L. 4 a-year.  The value then of the pas-
ture land in the parish, by this calculation, is L. 5856, be-
sides profits upon young cattle, and swine fed upon the whey.
1463 acres, which is 1-3d of 4391, producing 7 bolls the
acre, will yield 10,241 bolls of oats, which, at 1 s. the peck,
comes to L. 8192, 16s. added to L. 5856, is L. 14,048,
from which, is the gross rent, the expense of feed, ma-
nure, labour, the interest of stock, tear and wear of utensils,
etc. etc. be deduced, there will remain a sum equal at least
to the rent; and it is evident, that the intention of proprie-
tors is to allow their tenants to make one good rent for the
use of the soil, one for defraying the expense of labour, etc.
and one for the maintenance of their families, etc.  While
this is the case, master and tenant have reason to be plea-
sed with one another.  It is not affirmed that the above
statement is exactly the truth.  It cannot, however, be far
from it; and it serves to establish this fact, that while pro-
prietors wish to have a reasonable rent for their lands, they
wish also to avoid oppression towards their tenants.  At
present the value of land is greatly on the increase, and
the reason is, that every thing it produces is also increased
in value.  Butter is here sold for 11 d. the lb.; cheese for
7 s. the stone.  This last article is of that kind which is

<FOOTNOTE>

farm, and the pasture at L. 1: 14: 10.  Under the influence of such gen-
tlemen, agriculture must flourish.  But as men are apt to overlook that
which is familiar to their fight and constantly within their reach, it is ne-
cessary to call in the attention, and to fix it on those objects where it may
find useful instruction.  With this view so much has been written of parti-
cular persons, that when Sir John Sinclair's publication shall be comple-
ted, and of which it is intended we shall all be possessed, the actual far-
mers among us may read in it what would otherwise too much escape
them.


