
			    FOULDEN.                              265

is placed in the heart of the parish, is in excellent repair, and the
interior might be seated so as to accommodate the whole popula-
tion. The manse was built in 1772; an addition was made to it
in 1813. The site of the church and manse is peculiarly beauti-
ful; sheltered to the east and north by the stately and ancient trees
within the pleasure grounds of Foulden House; while the view to
the south and west is rich and varied, and only bounded by the
Cheviots and Eildons. The grebe is 8 acres in extent, and is let
for L. 24 annually. The stipend is L. 59, 9s. 3d. 38 b. 2 f. 2 p.
2 2/3 1. barley, and 77 b. 1 f. 1 p. 1 1/3 l. oats. Those in connection
with the Established church are 284, and the communicants at the
last dispensation of the sacrament were 160. There are 106 Se-
ceders, and 3 Catholics.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish.
The teacher has the legal accommodations, and the highest salary.
The quarterly school fees are 7s. 6d. for Latin, Greek, and ma-
thematics; 5s. for arithmetic; 4s. for reading and writing; and 3s.
for reading alone. The yearly amount of fees actually paid is
L. 10; and of other emoluments, L. 10. Education is universal,
and duly appreciated.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are 12 paupers, and their
average monthly allowance is 8s. 2d. This is entirely defrayed by
assessment; the church collections, with the exception of the sa-
cramental ones, going to pay the precentor, beadle, and session-
clerk. Repugnance to apply for parochial relief is very little felt,
-the inevitable consequence of compulsory assessments; which,
nevertheless, under due regulations, is the best, and the only equit-
able mode of supporting the necessitous.
   Inns,&c.There are no inns, alehouses, &c. in the parish., For-
merly two fairs were held at the village, and were much resorted
to; but now one only is held, and that, too, but nominally. The
principal fuel is coal; which is procured at Berwick, and costs 6d.
per boll. A cart load, such as one horse can draw, is delivered
for 6s. 7 1/2d.
   Upon the whole, the parish of Foulden has fully kept pace in
improvement and embellishment with the rest of Berwickshire, since
the last Statistical Account of it was written.

   October 1834.


