
     of Cambuslang.

mena, which took place under Mr M'Culloch's ministry, commonly call-
ed "Cambuslang coversions."  In treating of this subject, it will be
proper to give a brief historical view, first of the facts, and then of the
opinions entertained concerning them*.

   The kirk of Cambuslang being small and in bad repair, the minister,
when the weather was favourable, used to preach in a tent, erected close
by a rivulet, at the foot of a bank or brae near the kirk, which is still call-
ed "the preaching or conversion brae."  No place could be better form-
ed by the hand of nature for field preaching; as the brae rises gradually
from the place where the tent stood, in the form of an amphitheatre, so
that every person in the audience could see and hear the preacher distinctly.
Mr M'Culloch, for about a year before this work began, had preached on
the doctrine of regeneration; and upon the Sabbath evenings after ser-
mon, frequently read to his hearers, missives, attestations and journals, he
had received from his correspondents, giving an account of conversion,
which had taken place in differrent parts of the world, especially in New
England under Mr Whitefield's ministry.  These missives, attestations and
journals, were at the same time published weekly at Glasgow, in halfpen-
ny pamphlets; and had an extensive circulation in this and the neigh-
bouring parishes.  The fruits of these instructions were a more than or-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In drawing up this account, besides the session-records, the follow-
ing pamphlets, which were all published in 1742, have been consulted:
1. "An account of some remarkable events at Cambuslang, a village
"about 4 miles from Glasgow, as related by different parties." 2.  "An
"answer to ditto," dated "Gorbals, 29th March." 3.  "A short narra-
"tive of the extraordinary work of the Spirit of God at Cambuslang,
"with attestations of ministers and preachers," dated, "Cambuslang,
"8th May." 4.  "Act of the Associate Presbytery anent a fast,"dated,
"Dunfermline, 15th July." 5.  "Divine influence, the true spring of
"the extraordinary work at Cambuslang: by A. Webster, minister at
"Edinburgh," dated, "30th August." 6.  "A faithful narrative of
"the extraordinary work at Kilsyth, with a preface, by James Robe,
"minister there; 29th July." 7.  "A review of Mr Robe's preface,
"&c. by James Fisher, minister of the Associate Congregation at Glas-
"gow; October." 8.  "Two letters by Mr Robe to Mr Fisher; De-
"cember." 9.  "Divine influence, the true spring, etc. edit. 2. with a
"preface and additions, in answer to Mr Fisher's review, by A. Web-
"ster, minister at Edinburgh; December."  Other pamphlets published
since 1742, have also been consulted.


