
34                          RENFREWSHIRE.
Commission for Plantation of Kirks; but that decreer has not,hi-
th,erto taken effect in practice.
Topographical -dppearances.-There are no mountains in the
parish; but it has an undulating surfaee throughout, with many
gpdtle swells or hills, and flat lands or valleys of various shapes and
sizes, and in man places intersected with streams,-so that the
whores has a very beautiful and picturesque appearance. At the
southern.extremity, where the parish joins the Mearns, there is a
continued range of bills sloping to the south and north. The ac.-
e--Iivities of: the hills vary from one in ten to one in twenty: the
greatest height, is about 300 feet; and the least, about 30 feet
above the level of the sea. The general slope is from the south-
east to the north-west.
Hydrography.-The White Cart is the only water in the pa-
rish that can, he called a river. It runs about four miles, either
through the parish, or as the boundary with Cathcart and the
Abbey parish of Paisley. Its source is in Baglesharn moors,
after,passin-a through the parishes of Eaglesham, East Kilbrideg
M-earns, Carinunnock,, Eastwood, Abbey of Paisley, and Inchinnan,
it joins the river Clyde, about seven miles below Glasgow.: Nopart
,of; it is navigable till it reaches Paisley. The bed of the river has
been deepened belov that towii, and the navigation to the Clyde
,eonapleted by a short cut or I canal. There are, besides the Cart,
two smaller streams,. Auldhouse Burn and, Brock Burn. The for-
DW- issues from an, extensive lake in the parish of Mearns, called
tlip,Br-other loch and joins tbe-river Cartat Pollockshaws.  The
I after rises also in the Mearns, and joins the water Of Levern at the
                    we rn
4te extreirtit of the parish; and thence, as well as farther up
                      y
,Gabon stream, the Lavern is the boundary between Eastwood and the
Abbey, parish of, PP, Asloy, until it joins the river Cart near Cruick-
C. astle --., There are no springs in the parish of any note, if we
ex Pt one in the, gleb which discharges about elevdn 'unpe
Pe
     *ts OF04 -minuto., It is perennial,, and seemr,, to be affected
,y. dromg iior rain.  There were; several Vrinp':of,
     u.,  ',naig4O9#6     6elds, 6utthey have4all been"n-
     ,(I i. the            ng
               burn..
                         or,. dipof, th
                   diwtwo
               i;!F!froin tw northwest to.!he south-e"t.
trip be&va6es from,,one.-in six t-ono
lut-irequeutdorsm
               d .lace the beds less or more, and sometimes
                     LSP
                      4

