
242                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

quality, however, is good; and on the banks of the Teviot, espe-
cially, it is not excelled, in respect of depth and richness, by that
of any district of Roxburghshire.

                          II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     Historical Notices, &c.--This parish consists of the two united
parishes of Longnewton and Ancrum, the former of which was
annexed to the latter, towards the end of the seventeenth century.
Of the old church of Longnewton there are now no remains, but
its burying-ground is still made use of by some of the inhabitants
of that western district.
     The church of Ancrum anciently belonged to the Bishopric
of Glasgow, of which University, indeed, many of the lands here
still hold: and Longnewton was subject to the same Episcopal
superintendence, though its revenues belonged to the monastery of
Jedburgh.  It appears from the documents referred to in "Cale-
donia," that, upon the dissolution of the establishment of Lindis-
fern, Ancrum with Teviotdale was annexed to the see of Glas-
gow, and that Teviotdale was erected into a separate archdeaconry
in 1238./F*
     At one period, there were two villages here, distinguished from
each other by the names of Over and Nether Ancrum.  The former
stood on the north side of the Ale, in the immediate vicinity of
Ancrum House, according to the usual precaution adopted in these
feudal times, when juxtaposition and mutual protection were so
essentially requisite between the Lord of the Manor and his vas-
sals.  Of this village, however, nothing now remains, except
one or two dilapidated houses, bearing date 1592.  But on the
opposite side of the river, still stands the other village referred to,
though most of it appears to be of a more modern erection.  Both
of these villages were burned to the ground during the destructive
expeditions of Sir Ralph Evers in 1544, and the Earl of Hertford
in 1545.
     The most remarkable event of a historical nature connected with
this parish is the battle of Ancrum Moor, which was fought about
a mile and a-half to the north of the village; but on the particu-
lars of this battle it seems unnecessary to enter, as there are notices

<FOOTNOTE>*
     There are various documents relating to the parish of Ancrum in the Chartu-
lary of Glasgow; in particular, them is, in the early part of the thirteenth century,
a curious charter by Radulphus Burnard of Faringdune (Farnington,) in wich he
grants " Deo et besto Kentigerno et domino Waltero Epo., Glasguen et omnibus
successoribus suis, "in perpetuum focale de Peteriis meis de Faringdune ad domum
suam de Alnecrumb," &c.


