
40                          SELKIRKSHHRE.

large, strong, grooved, semicircular teeth, and inhabits the low
grounds, but is extremely rare.  Only three have been observed;
one of which, when running, stopt at times, and stood upright with
its fore-paws over its eyes, like a weasel or squirrel." *

    The woodlands of this district were formerly inhabited by vari-
ous animals that have disappeared; as the urus, the stag, and an-
other species of deer.  The wolf, the mountain-boar, and the wild
cat, were common in early times.  We learn from the old song,
that Ettrick forest abounded with "the hart, the hynd, the doe,
the roe, and of a' beasts great plentic;" and hence it was long re-
served for the royal chace.  The names of places too, some of
them common to different spots, still refer to the animals by which
they were frequented; thus we have Ox-cleugh, Deer-law, Hart-
leap, Hynd-hope, Fawn-burn, Wolf-cleugh, Brock-hill, Swine-brae,
Cat-slack, &c.  A few otter may be found about the rivers, but
badgers are now very rare, and foxes nearly extirpated.  Hares,
however, and in the lower parts of the parish rabbits, are plentiful.
Black and red grouse, partridges, snipes, with a few pheasants,
are the principal game.  In 1649, and for long afterwards, the
black-cock and grey-hen were found on the hills, but at length
disappeared, till they gradually returned from the S.W. border,
about the same time that means were taken to introduce them by
the late Duke of Buccleuch.  When the season is severe, swans
arrive from the north.
   Most of the lakes are stored with pike, perch, eels, trout, and
minnow. It is curious that the pike are now seldom seen in St
Mary's, where they once were abundant, and larger than in the upper
loch.  Salmon, grilse, whitling, trout, eels, par, minnows, barbels,
and stircklebacks, tenant the rivers.  Formerly many lampreys
came up to spawn, weighing six or seven pounds, but are now rare.
A minute species, however, about the thickness of a crow-quill, is
abundant, and may be seen in swarms during the month of May,
frequenting the shallow streams, where it deposits its spawn on fine
sand.  In an economical point of view, the different varieties of
trout, though of late years much thinned, are alone important.
Salmon and grilse abound only during close-time.  They ascend
the rivers for spawning in the beginning of October with what is

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Edinburgh Encyel., Art SELKIRKSHIRE, written by Mr William Laidlaw,
who examined both species. The alpine was found on Blackhouse heights: the other,
with the white tip on the tail, which probably indicated the male, at Blackhouse and
Craig Haugh.


