
     1058                          PERTHSHIRE.

     \1a cloth of state, by the Lord of Angus, "Chamberlaine ap-
     pointed by the King  for that day."  He was afterwards conducted
     to the Kirk of Scone.  Of this "kirk" there remains now only
     an aisle, which was probably erected by the first Lord Scone.
     On the north side is his monument, finely executed in marble and
     alabaster, and on which there is a long inscription.   Here, also, is
     statue of his Lordship in armour.  He is represented kneeling
     on a cushion at an altar, with a book lying open before him.
     On either side of the large statue is a man in armour; the one
     said tn be the Marquis of Tullibardine, and the other the Earl
     Marischal.
       This kirk, we are told, was prepared for the coronation, with a
     table, whereupon the honours * were laid. "A chair was also set
     in a fitting place for his Majesty's hearing sermon, over against
     the minister, and another chair on the other side, where he sat
     when he received the Crown, beyond which there was a bench
     decently covered.  Besides these, there was a stage for the throne.
     All being quickly composed into attention," the sermon was
     preached by Master David Douglas, Moderator of the Commis-
     sion of the General Assembly.  His text was 2d Kings xi. 12, 17.
     After the King had been solemnly sworn, he signed the National
     Covenant, the League and Covenant, and a copy of his oath.
     Having taken the coronation oath, and having been invested with
     the royal robes instead of the prince's robe with which he entered,
     the King was brought to the chair on the north side of the kirk,
     and then Archibald Marquis of Argyle, having taken the crown,
     in his hands, and the minister havinng prayed, the said Marquis
     put the crown on the King&s head. "It was remarkable," says
     Sir Walter Scott, "that upon this occasion the crown was borne
     by the unhappy Marquis of Argyle, who was put to death in no
     very legal manner, immediately after the Restoration, using upon
     the scaffold these remarkable words, 'I placed the crown on the
     King's head, and in reward, he brings mine to the block.' " It
     is supposed that the seat of the-Scone family, now removed to the
     parish church in New Scone, was used at this time, and that

<FOOTNOTE> These honours, consisting of the crown, sceptre, and sword of state, &c. were
    soon after this carried to Dunnottar Castle.  After being preserved in a remarkable
    manner by the dexterity of Mrs Granger, wife of the minister of Kinneff, they con-
    tinued to be produced in public, during the sittings of the Scottish Parliament, down
    to the Union, when it was stipulated that they should be kept in Scotland in all time
    coming. It was, however, supposed by many, that they had been removed to Lon-
    don, until on February 4, 1818, they were found in the Crown-Room of Edinburgh
    Castle, deposited in a chest, in the very state in which they had been placed there in
    1907, Vide "Description of the Regalia of Scotland" by Sir Walter Scott.



