
                           LASSWADE.                      333

ing: width at top, 10 yards; width at bottom, 5 yards; depth,
3 yards.  The diameter runs parallel with, the burn, and rests on
the top of the high and steep bank while the arc extends upwards
from the bank.
   The Cast.--At Springfield, stretching in a south-east direction
from a ford in the river North Esk, is a deep and narrow road,
named The Cast, probably a contraction for Via ad castra.  This
road, in several places, is nearly six feet below the surface of the
adjoining fields; and it is so confined in breadth, that it can admit
only of a single cart at a time.  It is of unknown antiquity, and
probably was one of the old Roman roads by which intercourse
was kept up between two camps.  Should this conjecture be cor-
rect, this road must have been in existence for at least fifteen or
sixteen hundred years.  There is not more of it now remaining
than about half a mile.
   Military Station.--Near Mavisbank House, which is on the op-
posite side of the river North Esk from Springfield, is a mound of
earth, of considerable elevation.  It is circular in its form, and sur-
rounded with ramparts, now cut into terraces.  Here, several ar-
ticles made of brass, and evidently belonging to a remote period,
have been found.  Among these are weapons, bridle-bits, chirur-
gical instruments,  still fibula, &c. They are still to be soon at
Penicuik House, the seat of the former proprietor.  On a neigh-
bouring farm is a tumulus, where several urns, filled with burnt
bones, have been dug up.
   Modem Buildings.--The most remarkable is  Melville Castle,
the elegant seat of Lord Melville.  It was built more than half a
century ago on the site of the old house of that name, which, tra-
dition says, belonged to David Rizzio, and was occasionally inha-
bited by Queen Mary.
   Mavisbank House is also an elegant building and is situated in
one of the most picturesque localities in Scotland.
   Springfield House, the residence of the Honourable Mrs Leslie
Cumming, is placed in a situation which is unrivalled in beauty.
   Mills--There are two corn-mills in the parish, both below the
village of Lasswade, on the Esk.

                   <TABLE=III.--POPULATION.>
   In the parish of Lasswade, quoad civilia, the number of the po-
pulation at difference periods was as follows:---
			1755        2190
  			1791        3000
			1831        4252
                        1841        5022


