
			   INVERESK.                          265

being slain in the sight of the Scottish camp, Lord Hume himself
severely wounded, and his son taken prisoner.*
   Still the position of the Scottish army was so formidable, that
they could neither be attacked with advantage, nor brought to
battle; and when the Protector was returning from again recon-
noitring, be was overtaken by a herald from, the enemy, the first
item of whose message was for an exchange of prisoners; the se-
cond, allowing retreat to the English without molestation; and the
third, that, on the non-acceptance of these overtures, the Earl of
Huntly, anxious to spare the effusion of blood, was anxious to en-
counter the Protector twenty to twenty, ten to ten, or, if he would
so far honour him, man to man.
   Although these conditions were rejected, it was yet found, after
consultation with the principal officers, that, if our rulers would
keep their Queen unfettered by any matrimonial tie until she be-
came of age, the Protector would consent to retreat from the king-
dom.  This communication from the English being taken as a mark
of weakness, was straightway rejected, and nothing remained but
an appeal to arms.  The Scots, impatient for the contest, left
their strong position, and crossed the Esk to meet the English,
whose fleet, consisting of thirty-five ships of war, with thirty tran-
sports, was anchored in the bay, and continued pouring cannon-
shot among them as they crossed the bridge, by which the Master
of Graham, son of the Earl of Montrose, with many others, was
slain. To this fire from the sea and the river they were exposed,
until they gained the cover of Inveresk Brae, and descended east-
wards through the How-mire, when they found themselves imme-
diately in contact with the enemy.  We need give no description
of a battle so disastrous, and so well known.  After four hours
tremendous fighting, in which the English cavalry had in vain at-
tempted to break through the foot battalions commanded by the
Earl of Angus, the Highlanders gave themselves up to their plun-
dering propensities, and were stripping the slain, when a retrograde
movement was mistaken by there for a flight.  The same panic
seized the borough troops, who threw down their arms, and follow-
ed the Highlanders.  The Scots fled in three different  ways,--
some towards Edinburgh, some towards the coast, and; some to-
wards Dalkeith--and on each side the  carnage was dreadful. But
we cannot do better than use the succinct words of quaint old Pat.

<FOOTNOTE>Patten's Account, p.46-7. Hayward in Kennet, Vol. ii p. 282. Tyler's His-
tory, Vol. vi. p. 26-7.


