
     of Banff.

   Mineral Springs.-As a matter connected with the health
of the inhabitants of this place, and, under proper manage-
ment, beneficial to the public at large, it may be proper to 
mention a powerful chalybeat spring, (the Well of Boindie),
within two short miles of Banff.
   In chronic cases, attended with debility and relaxation,
where tonic medicines are admissible, the water is used with
manifest advantage; but, unfortunately, this well is consi-
dered by the country people at large as a Panacea, and re-
sorted to as such by great numbers, afflicted with diseases
very opposite in their natures.  The result is what may na-
turally be inferred; many are cured or relieved, while 
others return not only disappointed of expected benefit, but
suffering under aggravated complaints.  They sometimes, 
too, place as much dependence on the quantity, as on the
quality, of the water.  Having but little time to spare to
the fashionable avocations of a watering-place, they are very 
diligent during the stay, and are often known to swallow

<FOOTNOTE>

one against escaping the infection; and then there are only five chances in
favour of a person escaping with life.  The whole chances in his favour,
therefore, are but five and one-fortieth, or fix at most; whereas, by authen-
tic accounts of some late general inoculations, it appears that out of 146
only one died.  On other occasions the proportion has been one in 500.  A
risk scarcely to be accounted for, when we consider what different consti-
tutions must exist among such a number of patients, and the strong proba-
bility of the death of fully that number, among so many infants, from other
disorders, if inoculation had been entirely out of the question.  See an ad-
mirable Sermon on the Lawfulness of Inoculation, by G. Gregory, F.A.S.
author of Essays Historical and Moral.
A surgeon in the north, presuming that self-interest has a stronger hold on
man that superstition, has lately opened a policy in insurance for the amall-
pox!  If a subscriber gives him two guineas for inoculating his child, the
surgeon, in the event of the child's death, pays ten guineas to the parent.
for every guinea subscribed, four guineas; for one half guinea, two gui-
neas; and for a crown, one guinea.


