
			ISLAND OF SKYE-PORTREE.                    227

	And scarce, very scarce, indeed, as arable land is, no speculation
	whatever could be more precarious and less profitable than the
	conversion of either moor or pasture into arable land. The ex-
	pense attending such an operation would far exceed any advantage
	that could reasonably be expected from such a process. The soil,
	naturally barren and unproductive, is everywhere interspersed with
	springs and spouts of water, and to drain it to any extent would be
	endless work. Even where draining was, resorted to in a pretty
	regular and systematic manner, and when the land was allowed to
	remain for any length of time out of culture, it would, in the course
	of a few years, revert to its original raw, sour, and unproductive
	state, and all the expense incurred would be irredeemably lost;
	and being kept in cultivation, the produce would fall far short of
	compensation for the time, trouble, and expense necessarily and
	unavoidably employed. The small patches of land cultivated by
	the cottar-tenants, though they are at some pains to improve them,
	often yield no more than two returns. Even on the supposition
	that a person would succeed, with much expense and labour, upon
	an improved system, to improve the lands in this parish, by drains,
	enclosures, and all other plans successfully pursued in the south
	country for bringing it into cultivation, after all this, he would ul-
	timately be disappointed by the climate. It is very rare, indeed,
	that in this parish there is a favourable seed-time, and in harvest,
	heavy rains and strong gales of wind prevail, by which the corn
	crops are either lodged or shaken, and thus all the hopes of the
	husbandman are in a great measure frustrated. Top-dressing,
	which in other quarters is found a profitable improvement either
	for pasture or natural hay, would not pay on the sterile soil of the
	parish of Portree. As neither the lands nor the climate  in this
	parish are suitable for agricultural purposes, so neither is the pas,
	ture land under the best arrangement. There is a great extent
	of hill grazing which is occupied as a common, not only by the
	small tenants to whose farms that common is attached, and by
	whom rent is paid for it, but also, by cattle-dealers, and likewise
	by persons from every part of the island indiscriminately, who send
	cattle and homes to graze there in the summer months. This
	mode of tenure is productive of many disadvantages and evils; it
	occasions disputes and quarrels among the immediate neighbours
	in possession; it excites in their minds envy, anger, and even ma-
	lice one to another. It is highly injurious to the interest of the


