
   162                        BANFFSHIRE.

   covered in the parish, in having handles attached, and in being
   glazed over with a substance resembling the exterior coating of
   the coarse earthen-ware of the present day. On the eastern brow
   of the hill of Alvah, is a large tumulus or cairn, consisting chiefly of
   small stones and earth. It is of an elliptical form, covering an area
   of about 20 falls, and in the centre rising to the beigbt of 7 ot
   8 feet, but has never been sufficiently opened to disclose any re-
   mains of antiquity. Two smaller unopened cairns are also to be
   seen on the hill of Tipperty, and on the farm of Itlaw. There is
   also on the farm of Auchenbadie an apparently artificial mound of
   earth, nearly fifty feet high. It is known by the name of Ha'-hill;
   but there is no tradition respecting it, nor have any remains of
   antiquity been found in it. On the farm of Burreldales, there
   remain four large stones of a Druidical circle, and on the farm of
   Newtown of Montblairy, one large stone marks the site where, a
   few years ago, stood another circle of much larger dimensions.
   Some time ago, a Druidical circle was found under ground, in dig-
   ging deep into an old garden on the farm of Wardend. The ruins
   of the ancient castle which once stood near Montblairy are levelled
   with the ground, and the swamp on which it stood has now be-
   come a fruitful field. According to tradition, the castle in ques-
   tion was built by one of the Stewarts, Earls of Bueban; but by
   which of them, or for what purpose, the writer has been unable to
   discover. In regard to the ancient chapel, (now also entirely de-
   molished), which flood in its vicinity, tradition is entirely silent.
   As already stated, Alexander Stewart, Earl of Mar, had the ba-
   rony of Montblairy, about the year 1400, and, as it is certain that
   he founded a chaplainry in the Garioch, the chapel in question
   may, probably, have been something in connection with that foun-
   dation. Whilst noting antiquities, it may also be mentioned that
   about 1000 acres of the poorest soil in the parish bear marks of
   cultivation at a period very remote; and that in the haughs of
   Sandlaw, and in the moss to the north of Maunderlea, and else-
   where, trees of considerable size have been frequently found deeply
   imbedded in the soil. In the haughs of Sandlaw, they have been
   discovered lying at the depth of 8 or 10 feet from the surface;
   and in the moss, many of the trees, consisting chiefly of fir, oak,
   and alder, bear the marks of fire distinctly visible, while others are
   found with the roots uppermost, near the surface, and with their
   trunks deerply sunk. In some cases, the root of one tree has been
   found right above the stump of another.


