
886                       LANARKSHIRE.

lished in Glasgow by subscription, and there appear to have been
nearly nine hundred copies subscribed for.
   Before the reign of King Robert Bruce, nearly two-thirds of
this parish belonged to the powerful family of the Cummins.  The
whole was forfeited by the treachery of John Cummin, whom
Bruce killed at Dumfries.  The same possessions were given, in
the year 1382, to John Lindsay of Dunrode, successor to James
Lindsay, who assisted the king in killing the traitor.  The Lind-
says, preferring their new possessions in Kilbride to their ancient
family seat, near Gourock, took up their residence in the parish.
It is reported that the last representative of this family was remark-
able for his haughtiness, oppression, and every kind of vice.
Among the instances of his cruelty it is told, that, when playing
on the ice, he ordered a hole to be made in it, and one of his vas-
sals, who had inadvertently disobliged him in some trifling cir-
cumstance, to be immediately drowned.  The place has ever since
been called Crawford's Hole, from the name of the man who per-
ished in it.  Tradition also mentions, that this haughty and cruel
chieftain was soon afterwards brought very low, and that, having
worn out the remains of a wretched life, he at length died in a
barn belonging to one of his former tenants. " Such," says Mr
Ure, " was the miserable end of one of the greatest and most
opulent families in this country."
   The family of Lickprivick, made a considerable figure long
before the reign of Robert Bruce.  On account of singular
services, they obtained, in the year 1397, the heritable title of
Sergeantcy and Coronership in the Lordship of Kilbride, along
with considerable emoluments inseparable from it.  The charter
was renewed to them by James I. of Scotland, James IV., and
James VI.  More recently, the title, with the profits, became con-
nected with the estate of Torrance.  One of the Lickprivick fa-
mily was printer to James VI.  The name appears to have now
become extinct in this part of the country.  Mr Ure mentions the
death of the last person bearing it, of whom he had heard, as having
taken place at Strathavon, a few years before he published his book.
   The family of which the present Sir William A. Maxwell,
Bart. of Calderwood is the representative, may be traced back, in
their connection with this parish, and by the name of Maxwell, to
so early a period as the reign of Alexander III.  The family, re-
presented by Miss Stuart of Torrance, the principal proprietor of
the parish, derive their origin, through the Stuarts of Castlemilk,


