
     Of Clackmannan.

   There is another old tower situated on the banks of the
Devon, belonging to Lord Catheart.  It has been for
many years in the possession of his family, and is still more
entire than the tower of Clackmannar.  There was also

<FOOTNOTE>

lands in marriage with his daughters, whose posterity carry his arms,
wirh alterations namely, Johnston, Kilpatrick, Mosset, Tweedy, Tait,
Litle, Corry, Hert, Greir, Jardin, Boys.  By his second wife, Judiths,
daughter to William of Langcaster, Lord of Kendell, he had,
   IV. William, third Lord of Annandale and Cleveland, a vialant re-
ligious nobleman, who lived in the days of K. Alexander II. in the 10th
year of his reigne.  He is witness in a charter granted by him to Abbey
of Kelso; he confirmed his predecessor's donation to the monastery of
Kelso and Guisburgh, adding moreover a new gift of certain lands in
Hertlepool to the canons of Guisburgh.  He married Isabel, daughter to
William the Lyon, begotten upon the daughter de Avencil.
   V. Robert his son, third of that name, and fourth Lord Annandale and
Cleaveland, married Isabella, daughter to Gilbert of Clare, Earl of Clare,
Glocester, and Hertfoord; had three sons, 1. Robert, his successor;
2. John, of whom many of the surname of Bruce in Scotland are de-
scended; 3. Sir Bernard, of Conington, in England.
   VI. Robert, fourth of that name, and fifth Lord of Annandale, mar-
ried Isabell, second daughter to Prince David Earl of Huntington and
Chester, and got with her the lordship of Garioch.  He was, for his ex-
ceeding valour, firnamed the Noble.  In the year 1264, he, with John
Balioll, Lord of Galloway, was sent with an army to the assistance of K.
Henry the III. of England against the Barons.
   VII. Robert, his son, fifth of that name, Lord of Annandale and Ga-
rioch, married Martha Countess of Carrick.
   The clandesline marriage. spoken of by our historians, was not be-
twixt her and the Lord Robert Bruce, but with Thomas Mackintegart,
her first husband; who (being Earl of Carrick in her right), in the year
1270, was sent with other noblemen to the wars of the Holy Land with
1000 soldiers; and, dying there without issue, left his lady a widow,
whose marriage the King produced to his cousin Lord Robert Bruce,
whereby he became Earl of Carrick.  She bare many children to him;
1. Robert, sixth of that name, thereafter King of Scotland; 2. Edward
Ear; of Carrick and King of Ireland; 3. Sir Neil Bruce, taken in Kil-


