
526                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

the hills are covered with thriving plantations.  Farther up, the
scenery is of a different, but not less beautiful character.  The
strath becomes narrower, the mountains rise up precipitously, and
on their sides, reaching almost to the river, here and there are
clumps of coppice-woods, composed chiefly of birch interspersed
occasionally with pines and aspens, which are in fine contrast; and
in spring and autumn the whole is beautifully tinged with shades
of almost every varied hue.  The highest district consists almost
entirely of moorland and mountain, and is of a bleak and barren
appearance, particularly toward the source of the Don.
   Besides the strath of the Don, there are five or six glens, wild
and sequestered, indeed, but not destitute of beauty and interest,
which generally lie nearly at right angles to the main strath, bend-
ing towards the west at the upper end.  Except in Glenkindy, the
lower part of Glenernan, and the plantations of Auchenach in
Glennochty, there is little or no wood in them, unless it be some
detached bushes (clumps) of natural birch ; yet these glens, in the
stillness of a summer afternoon, with the clear streams flowing
through the soft green glades, and the mountains rising abruptly
on either side covered to the top with long thick heath in full
bloom, afford a richness of beauty rising almost to grandeur.
   Situated in, or in a branch of, the Grampians, the glens just
mentioned are separated by masses of mountains, many of which
are of considerable altitude ; yet there is little either in their con-
formation or character that requires particular notice.  The most
remarkable mountain which, although not actually in the parish,
lies contiguous to the southern boundary, is Morven, 2880 feet
(according to Dr S. Keith) above the level of the sea.  The
principal mountains in the parish are Scroulach, 2700 feet, resting
towards the west on the Glaschill over which the old military line
of road passes from the south, by Corgarff Castle to Fort George,
Cairnmore, and Ben-Newe, each 1800 feet ; and Lonach, * 1200
feet.  There is also worthy of notice a mountain named the Green-
hill, so called from the absence of heath and the north and south-
east side being partially covered with verdure.  It is composed of ser-
pertine.  A quarry has recently been opened on the north side, from
which large masses are with little difficulty extracted.  It is easily
dressed for building purposes, and looks well in coursed ruble-work

<FOOTNOTE>Lonach is the slogan or watch-word of the Strathdon men.  On the summit of
this hill, a large cairn was erected, in 1823, by the tenantry in honour of Sir Charles
Forbes's elevation to a Baronetcy, with an inscription.


