
124                  CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

  6. 7 do. 4 feet splint, and 8 feet cherry, called nine-feet coal, with bands of iron.
stone on top.
  7. 2 feet splint and cherry, with 9 inches of black band ironstone on the top.
  8. 3 feet cherry.
  9. 4 do. cherry coal, also called under-five-feet.
 10. 3 1/2 do. splint coal.
 11. 4 do. splint and cherry, called Coalsnaughton Main coal.

   The above seams are contained in a space of 110 fathoms,
the under seam of four feet being 110 fathoms below the two feet.
The coals are separated from each other by strata of various
thickness, composed chiefly of sandstone, slaty sandstone, bitu-
minous and argillaceous shale, fire or indurated clay, and beds of
silicious and argillaceous ironstone.
   The principal collieries in the parish are the Clackmannan
colliery, the Devon colliery, Kennet and Gurtary colliery. The
Alloa Coal Company, although their works are not situated in
the parish, have extended their underground operations consider-
ably into it.
   The seams of coal that are chiefly worked, are the upper five-feet,
the nine-feet, the under-five-feet or cherry, and the three-feet and
a-half or splint coal. These are all of the best quality, and most ex-
tensive; the others are inferior, except the upper two-feet seam,
which is excellent, but has only been found on the northern part of
the parish, and worked to a small extent by the Devon Iron Com-
pany. The lower seam is not a bad furnace-coal, but will not
answer for house use, and has been very little worked here. The
upper five and nine-feet coals are only worked at present by the
Devon Iron Company, and the produce is mostly used for melt-
ing iron. The under five-feet is worked by the Alloa Coal
Company, and the cherry and splint by the Clackmannan Coal
Company. The splint is also worked at Kennet colliery.
   Coal has been worked here for upwards of 200 years, and to
a great extent. The wastes in many of the seams extend over
several hundred acres; yet the greater part of the coal remains to
be worked, and would last, at the present rate of working, for more
than 200 years.
   The quantity of coals put out daily by the above works ave-
rages about 500 tons, 200 tons of which are consumed in the
parish, mostly at Devon Iron-works for melting iron; the rest is
shipped to various parts of Scotland. A considerable quantity
is also shipped to the continent yearly  The value of each ton
is about 5s., making the value of the daily produce L. 125. Up-


