
                           STITCHELL AND HUME.                457

gle, Bart.of Stitchell; Sir Hugh Purves Campbell Hume, Bart.;
and Mr Baillie of Mellerstain.
Mansions.--The chief mansion in the parish is that of Stitchell
house, belonging to Sir John Pringle.
  Antiquities,&c.-The Castle of Hume, which stands in the pa-
rish, was for ages a noted defence to its neighborhood, during the
contentions and wars on the borders. The Earls of Home resid-
ed in it. Our southern neighbours often besieged it. It was
surrendered to the Duke of Somerset in the year 1547, and re-
taken in the year 1549. It is said that Oliver Cromwell, when
at Haddington, sent a summons to the Governor, ordering him to
surrender the castle ; but that the then Governor returned for an-
swer, that  " He Willie Wastle, stood firm in his castle, and that
all the dogs of his town should not drive Willie Wastle down."
Oliver Cromwell, however, after considerable difficulties, made
himself master of it, and in a great measure demolished it. There
is a tradition generally believed in the country, that when King
James II. went to bcsiege the Castle of Roxburgh, he left his
Queen in Hume Castle; that one day when she was upon the
road to visit her royal husband, she was met about half a mile
east of Stitchell House, by a messenger, with the melancholy ac-
count of his Majesty's being killed by the bursting of a cannon.
This sad news brought on her pains, and she was immediately de-
livered of child, upon a hill, ever since called Queen's Cairn.*


<TABLE=POPULATUON>
                             III.-POPULATION.

Amount of the population of the united parishes in 1831    -   834
                                                   1835    -   850
Number of families in the parish in 1831,                  -   186
                chiefly employed hn agriculture            -   129
                           trade,manufactures, or handicrafts,  23

  The number of illegitimate births in the course of the last
three years is 7.
                              IV.--INDUSTRY.

  Agriculture.--The number of standard imperial acres in the
united parishes is 5478. Almost ,ill are in tillage.
The real rental of the parish is about L. 8000 per annum.
  A considerable part of the land is of a strong soil, and bears good
crops. The lands are well enclosed.

                         V.--PAITOCIIIAL ECONOMY.

  Ecclesiastical.--Number of families connected with the
Established Church, 101 ; of Dissenting or Seceding families,

<FOOTNOTE>Old Sttitistical Account.
      ROXBURGH.                         G g



