
                                         METHVEN.                          147

           tion reports that there is a stone in the heart of it,but, like the
           Golenos oak, it must be cut up to ascertain this.
              A black Italian poplar, Populus accledesca, stands by the bum-
           side at Tippermallo, which was planted on the 5th May 1776.  By
           a measurement of it taken in 1836, it was found to contain 300
           cubic feet of timber; at 3 feet from the ground the girth is 11 feet
           6 inches.  There are perhaps but few instances of such a rapid
           increase of timber, this being at the rate of 5 feet yearly since it
           was planted.
              The management of woods and plantations is now better under-
           stood and more sucbessfully practised than formerly, when the error
           of planting too thick, which is still too prevalent, and of neglecting
           to thin in proper time, operated so injuriously against the rearing
           of timber trees. The planter by this method may have had in
           rome instances an earlier return of profit, when small wood was
           in request, and this is the only recommendation which in gene-
           ral can be bestowed upon too thick planting.   There is perhaps
           n.o proprietor in Scotland who has realized a greater amount for
           trees of his ownplanting than the venerable Lord Lynedocb, from
           whose plantations many thousands have been shipped to England.
                                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
              Land,owners.-The chief land-owners are, Robert Smythe,
           Esq. of Metbven; Lord Lynedoch; Lord Efibank; and Baroness
           Keith.  The property belonging to the latter forms part of this
           parish only quoad civilian and is situated at a distance of several
           miles north-east from the rest of the parish, on the confines of the
           parish of Auchtergaven, and at the bottom of the Grampian hills.
           The parish otherwise is of a compact form.  The relative propor-
           tion of the lands in the parish, belonging to each of these
           tors, may be estimated at a half, a fourth, an eighth, and a sixteeinth
           respectively, and the remainder, being about another sixteenth, is
           held by small proprietors and feuars.  The ancient valuation of the
           parish, as appe`rs by the county cess-books, and that by which the
           public rates are still charged, is L. 6400, 4s. 6d.  Scots.
              Parish Register.-Tbe earliest register of this parish extant, or
           known ever to have existed, appears to have been commenced in
           the year 1662, and, with the exception of nineteen years, that is
           from 1730 to 1749, the record has been continued up to the present
           time.  This omission is supposed to have been occassioned by the
           political troubles which then distracted the country,- at least no
           other cause for it can now be assigned.  The register is not volu-


