	               		GIRVAN.                   405

arithmetic, book-keeping, geography, and navigation. Mrs Crau-
furd's Will also provides that ten of said forty children, who shall
be found best qualified by voice and ear, shall be taught sacred
music by the precentor of the parish church, for which, indepen-
dently of the sum left to the schoolmaster, he shall receive L. 12
annually, but which L. 12 has also been found subject to a deduc-
tion of 10 per cent. for legacy-duty. The teacher may receive
about L. 50 a-year of school fees. A few years ago, a school
was instituted in the town by subscription, with the view chiefly of
teaching the children of poor families to read the Scriptures and
learn the catechism. A penny a-week is charged for each child
whose parents can afford to give it; but those vho are considered
unable to pay even that small sum are allowed to send their chil-
dren free. This school is generally attended by from 100 to 150
children, and has no doubt been the means of doing considerable
good. Besides this subscription-school, there are always a good
many private schools, both in the town and the landward part of
the parish, most of which are well attended, and in which the or-
dinary branches are respectably taught, and the fees extremely
moderate; so that, all things considered, the rising generation can-
not be said to be in any want of the means of education.
	Libraries.--For upwards of thirty years, there has been a sub-
scription library in the parish, but the annual contribution being
low, it has never risen to great importance. Two circulating li-
braries have been opened of late, which, from their novelty per-
haps, seem to have higher attractions for the younger part of the,
community, and promise, of course, to be more extensively useful.
A library has also been instituted by the Agricultural Society of
the district, the use of which, however, is exclusively confined to
their own members.
	Benevolent Societies.--Ever since the weaving of cotton was in-
troduced into Girvan, the propriety of encouraging benevolent so-
cieties has appeared evident to all the influential part of the com-
munity; hence one of these societies har been formed after an-
other, till ihey have reached the number of twelve. They con-
sist generally of from 60 to 80 members each; and their main, ob-
ject is to supply sick and infirm members with aliment, amounting,
in most cases to 5s. weekly, when confined to bed, and 2s. 6d.
when walking about, but unable to work. These societies are
highly commendable. They are, with few exceptions, well conduct-
ed, and have been the chief means, no doubt, of saving the parish


