
               		MORVERNS.                               165

are Oransay and Carna, both situated in Loch  Sunart, the north-
ernboundary.  The former is a barren, rocky, and narrow island, about
two miles in length, and so much intersected by bays and inlets
as to be in several parts of it nearly intersected by water.  It;
curves towards the land at both ends.  At the northern extremity
it is accessible on foot at certain periods of the tide, while at the
south end by a deep, clear, though narrow channel, it gives ad-
mittance to Druimbuy Loch, which separates it from the main-
land,-a loch now little known or frequented, but which presents
one of the safest anchorages even on the west coast.
   Carna lies a short way to the north-east of Oransay, at the im-
mediate entrance of Loch Teagus. It is considerably elevated.
The summit is rocky and broken ; but this island affords, at the
same time, by its verdure and fertility, especially on the east side
of it, a pleasing contrast to its somewhat forbidding looking asso,
ciate.
   Mountains, &c.-The highest mountains are Ben-eaddan, Ben-
na-hua, Si'ain na Rapaich.  Ben-eaddan is 2306 feet - above
the level of the sea.  Towards the summit it is accessible by a
singular flight of steps formed by excavations in the rock, known
to the inhabitants of the country, as Ceumanan-Fhin, or Fingal's
steps or stair.  The north-east side of the hill, though covered
with verdure in the memory of persons still living, is now completely
exposed, and presents ample opportunity to the geologist of exa-
mining the different strata and formations of the mountain.
   Climate.-The climate of this, as of every other district on the
west coast, is extremely variable.  Upon the whole, however, it is
characterized by great mildness.  In the immediate proximity of
the Atlantic, the lofty pinnacles of Mull interposing, and the pre-
vailing winds westerly, the country must obviously have its full
share of the prevailing moisture of the west coast ; and, accord-
ingly, in so far as observations have been made, the quantity of
rain here equals, though it is hoped it does not surpass, that wbich
falls at Greenock, being, as it is understood, from 30 to 36 inches
annually.  The country, however, is not subject to, heavy snows
and, though there are occasional falls of considerable depth, yet,
surrounded and indented. as the parish is by water, tkey are not of
longng continuance.  The greatest fall of which there is any record
took place in the  year 1782, still memomble as the Year of the
" greatsnow." The fall commenced on the 7th of March and sus-
pended all spring operations.  Its long continuance maybe judged
of by the fact, that an individual, who had been interrupted in


