
                         STEVENSTON.                      441

and to superintend its operation. This was in 1719, only five
years after the stcam-engine had begun to be employed at New-
castle; and this was the second that had set up in Scotland.
The cylinder, however, of Newcomen's engine, which was purchas-
ed, was only 18 inches in diameter, and the engineer, after carry-
ing on for some time an unsuccessful contest, decamped in the
night. another engineer from Newcastle was engaged, but still
the water could not be kept under. Seeing, however, a good
field of coal, he took, as one of the partners of an English com-
pany, the lease, which the shipmasters willingly gave up, agree-
ing to pay, as they had done, L. 250 a-year, for thirty-one years.
This new Company carried on the works till 1728, when they
failed. The coal and salt-works came then into the hands of a
company in Falmouth, who carried them on till 1731, when
they also failed. A law-suit having taken place, the Lords of
Session, in 1732, appointed Mr John Cuninghame of Windyhall,
as factor and manager, to carry on the works. About this time,
James Cuninghame of Auchenharvie died, and was succeeded by
his son, Robert, a minor.Mr Cuninghame of Windyhall seems
to have proceeded with great spirit, and set up an engine of 38
inches cylinder at the deep shank at Stevenston. In 1733, Ro-
bert Cuninghame of Auchenharvie died, and his sisters succeeded
as heirs-portioners. In 1737, the oldest of them was married to
Mr John Reid, second son of the Rev. Mr Reid, minister of Ste-
venston; and soon after this Mr Cuninghame of Windyhall ceased
to be manager of the public works,--Mr John Reid of Sea
Bank, we believe, taking the charge of them
	From this time, for more than a quarter of a century, they were
carried on under the direction of the heirs-portioners, but with lit-
tle success, it would appear, as in 1763 they were let for nineteen
years to Mr A. Crawford, with two breaks in the lease. He died
in 1765, and his friends availed themselves of the first of these
breaks, and gave up the lease about 1767.
	Brighter days, however, were now about to arise. In 1770,
Robert, the eldest son of John Reid of Sea Bank, succeeded his
father, and, in consequence of a special agreement with the heirs-
portioners, became possessed of the estate of Auchenharvie, and
added the name of Cuninghame to his own. The right for fifty-
seven years, which had been retained when Ardeer was sold, of
working the coal on that property, having now expired, he enter
ed into a copartnery with Mr Warner, of Ardeer, to work the coal


