
                       NEWBURGH.                               65

seems to have been an object of ambition to the aspiring ecclesi-
astics of the day.It was founded by, David Earl of Huntingdon
in the year 1178,in memory of his taking Ptolemais in the Holy
Land. It was bestowed upon the monks of St Benedict, of the
order of the Tironenses, was dedicated to the Virgin Mary and St
Andrew the apostle, and from grants bestowed upon it, from time
to time, it came to be one of the most richly endowed monasteries
in the kingdom. The founder of it died at Geconlay, and was
buried at Soltray in the year 1219. Robert the Bruce pretend-
ed to the crown by his mother, daughter to this Earl, in 1218. St
Bernard was the founder of the order at Tiron of France, who, in
addition to the rules instituted by St Benedict, added new regula-
tions of his own, which required that each of the brethren should
practice within the convent whatever mechanical art he knew. Ac-
cordingly, the monasteries of the order contained within them paint-
ers, carvers, carpenters, smiths, masons, vine-dressers, and hus-
bandmen, who were under the direction of an elder, and the pro-
fits of their work were applied to the common use.
   David I. was the greatest benefactor of the order, who visited
the original monastery, and on his return sent for thirteen monks
in the year 1113, whom he afterwards made provision for in the
monastery of Kelso, which was erected in the immediate vicinity
of his palace there. The monasteries of Aberbrothoc, Lindores,
and Kilwinning were planted from Kelso; but the Abbot John grant-
ed a charter, in which he quits all claim to the subjection and
obedience of the Abbot of Aberbrothoc; and it is probable that the
convents of Lindores and Kilwinning obtained a similar exemption,
as there is no mention of their being subject to the parent monas-
tery.
   In the chartulary of Lindores preserved in the Advocates' Library
there are two charters of Earl David, by the one of which he grants
" to the church of St Mary and St Andrew of Lindoris, and the
monks there serving God, the island which is called Fedinch, (Mug-
drum ?) and all the fishings in Tay, adjoining the said island, ex-
cept one, viz. a yair at Tolcrik." and by the other, the Earl gives
to his monks of Lindores "a right of taking stone from his quarry
in Irneside, both for their church and other buildings." By an-
other charter, King William the Lyon granted to the Abbey a full
toft in each of the royal burghs of Berwick, Strivolen (Stirling,)
Crail, Perth, Forfare, Munros, Aberdene.-Atexander III. in two
charters granted "to the abbot and convent their whole wood in

   FIFE.  			E



