
                          BALFRON.                            291

   Eminent Men.--The first to be noticed is Alexander, fifth Earl
of Glencairn. "There is hardly," says Chambers, "any patriotic
name in Scottish history entitled to more of the credit of a firm and
zealous pursuit of liberty, than Alexander, fifth Earl of Glencairn."
The friend, the associate, and the protector of Knox, he has well
earned this character. In all the struggles by which Scotland
was distinguished for civil and for religious liberty, from 1554
till 1574, when Glencairn died, he took an active and prominent
part, and of this every reader of Scottish history is aware.
   The next distinguished person connected with this parish, is the
Inventor of Logarithms, Napier of Edinbelly and of Merchis-
ton; to whom, in the opinion of Hume the historian, the title
of a great man is more justly due than to any other which his
country ever produced. He was born in the year 1550, and in
the year 1617 he died, at Merchiston Castle, in the neighbour-
hood of Edinburgh. Of this latter fact there is, we believe, little
doubt; but as to the place of his birth, this is involved in some ob-
scurity, there being little else to guide us on this point than the
tradition of the country; and upon this Balfron, in common with
some other parishes, lays claim to having been the birth-place of
this great man. It is quite certain that Edinbelly, in this parish,
did belong to the Napiers, for many years; that the same family
became the proprietors of Culcreuch; and that Sir William Na-
pier of Milliken, as the representative of the Napiers of Cul-
creuch, was, in Edinburgh, in 1818, served heir and lineal repre-
sentative of John Napier, the Inventor of the Logarithms.  Thus
the two families are identified, namely, the Culcreuch Napiers, and
the Edinbelly Napiers. Now, we believe that John Napier was born
in Edinbelly, and not at Drumbeg, as is occasionally alleged; be-
cause, though the Napiers had property in Drymen parish, still
there was no house on the property which could be supposed a man-
sion suitable to the consequence of the family. Drumbeg, the spot
which local tradition assigns, is mentioned by authors as "an ob-
scure spot." In point of fact, it is a very common thatched farm-
house, whereas the remains of the mansion-house of Edinbelly, in
Balfron parish, are still in existence; and the arms of the family
are yet to be seen on the wall of what was part of the original
house. This of itself is a circumstance which marks the charac-
ter of the mansion, and assigns the status of the owner. But
there is another circumstance in connection with this matter, that
ought not to be forgotten. In the year 1593, we find Napier


