
                        CULLEN.                             333

   Fordyce.  The moorish waste ground also on the farm of Seafield,
   is thin and rocky, standing high and exposed to the cold north
   winds.  Little or none of it could be converted into arable land,
   unless at an expense which would render the undertaking unprofitable.
     Of the ground included in the Cullen House Park, about 30
   acres are under wood, the greater part of which was planted with
   in the last thirty years by the present Earl of Seafield.  These
   plantations consist chiefly of oak, ash, beech, elm, plane, maple,
   birch, lime, horse-chestnut, sweet chestnut, mountain-ash, and
   larch ; and, with the exception of a small part exposed to the
   northern blasts, are all thriving with a luxuriance, which is not exceeded
   by any plantations in the north of Scotland, or perhaps in
   the island.   Many of the elms planted about 100 years ago have
   attained the height of 97 feet, and measure from 10 to 12 feet in
   circumference, at 10 feet from the ground.  Among the forest
   trees are interpersed a great variety of ornamental shrubs, which
   appear in great beauty.  Many of the  trees of older date are of
   large size, and contrast finely with those recently planted.  An
   aged elm, overhanging a rocky bank of the water of Cullen above
   Cullen House, measures 16 feet in circumference, at 12 feet from
   the ground, and standing alone with wide spreading boughs, forms
   a beautiful feature in the landscape.  Several ash trees in the park
   measure from 8 to 12 feet in circumference, at 12 feet from the
   ground, and have attained a height of 100 feet. Some of the old
   larch and lime trees are also of great size and beauty; and there
   is a cedar which has attained a growth, believed to be uncommon
   in the north of Scotland, measuring 6 feet in circumference, at 16
   feet from the ground.  As the plantations about Cullen House
   have been laid out chiefly for ornament and shelter, they are perhaps
   not so much thinned and pruned, as might be proper, were
   the increase of the value of the timber the sole object in view.
   That part of the Cullen House Park not under wood, is, for the
   most part, kept in pasture, and produces grass of the richest quality ;
   the soil being uncommonly fine, and having all been in, cultivatton
   from time immemorial before being added to the park.
     The arable lands let to the inhabitants of CuUen are laid off in
   small lots. Few persons are in possession of more than what is
   requisite for tbe keep of a cow.  The rents of these lots vary from
   L.1, 3s 9d. to L3, 11s. 4d. per imperial  acre. Of the whole
   arable land let in the parish, the average rent is L.1, 16s. per im-


