
                            ST MADOES.                           621

movements to and fro) as they are ready to be ejected from the,
glumes, which expand under the influence of a bright sun, and de-
votes them to the use of its future progeny,___piercing their body as
a nidus for its eggs,___and these being hatched, their place of shel-
ter is converted into nourishment for the young brood. If the
maggots escape this enemy, they spring downwards, and soon pe-
netrate from half to three quarter of an inch under the surface of
the soil, where, if undisturbed, they remain till a suitable tempe-
rature produces a transformation, and brings them from the tor-
pidity of the chrysalis into the activity of the fly-state. The safe-
ty of the wheat crop from their ravages, seems in a great mea-
sure, to depend upon the period at which this tdmperature occurs.
If it take place about the time when the wheat comes in the ear,
and the weather be quiet, mild, and favourable for laying eggs, the
race is perpetuated in perilous multitudes; but if the temperature
occur too early or too late for wheat,daring, or should it be ac-
companied with strong sunshine and a sharp breeze, their num-
bers are proportionally diminished. The havoc which the wheat-
fly made in the Carse of Gowrie district of the crops of 1827,
1828, 1829, and 1830 is almost incredible. It has been com-
puted, that during those four years, little less a sum than L.100,000
Sterling was, through its instrumentality, lost to the tenantry.
This loss was felt the more that,the wheat crop is that on which
they mainly count to meet the rent-day. Many of them had a
sore wrestle ere they could rise above it, and there are some who
have not yet been able to overcome the difficulties which it gene-
rated. Had the landlords not been patient and indulgent, as ge-
nerally they were,___though only in a few cases to the extent which
a just view of their own interest, as well as of the comfort of their
tenantry, should have dictated,___perhaps half the number of these,
or even more, would have been compelled to abandon what their
industry and frugality entitled them to cherish,___the hope of a com-
fortable subsistence for their families, and on the wrecj of their
property to embark in doubtful speculation for some distant coun-
try. During the seasons that the wheat-fly committed such de-
predations, many remedies were proposed for the purpose of pre-
venting future injurx from its attacks,___some founded on the idea
of its possible extirpation or subjugation, others on the alleged ex-
istence of one or more species of wheat which it refuses to employ-
as a residuum for its eggs. No attempt, however, of any conse-
quence was made to apply these remedies. Before they had been


