
			KILWINNING.                         821

Earl of Glencairn, who, mindful of the dictum of Knox, "pull down
the nests, and the rooks will fly away," destroyed that stately and
splendid fabric, whose elegant remains still silently point to the sky.
A part of the Abbey church was afterwards repaired and fitted up as
a place of Presbyterian worship. It continued in use till 1775, when
it was removed, and the present parish church was built on its site.
The "fair steiple," which Timothy Pont did see, remained till
1814, when it fell from natural decay. It was a huge square tower,
32 feet on each side, and 103 feet high. The following year, a
beautiful tower about the same heights, and 28 feet square, was
erected on the same situation, and separate from the church. The
south gable of the transept, and one of its finely proportioned
arches, a Saxon gateway, and some mouldering walls, are the only
indications and memorials now extant of the once splendid results
of superstitious piety and Italian art.
	The following is a list of the ministers of Kilwinning from the
time of the Reformation:
	1.  William Kilpatrick. In the "Register of ministers and their
Stipends sen the yeir of God 1567," his stipend is said to be L.80,
and in the "Buik of Assignationis of the Ministeris and Reidaris
stipendis" for the year 1576, it is given as L.100, with the kirk-
land of Kilwinning. A "reidare" at Kilwinning was at the same
time allowed a stipend of "L.20, but without kirkland."
	2.  Alexander Wryttoun. In 1598, he subscribes an admission
in favour of Mr Alexander Campbell to the kirk of Ardrossan. In
1606, he was infeft in a house in Kilwinning.
	3.  David Barclay is mentioned as minister and parson of Kil-
winning in 1609.
	4.  John Glassford, whose name occurs in the records of the
regality of Kilwinning in 1619. He is mentioned in the preface
to Fergusson's Sermons as one of the "eminent, learned, and
pious meu" who had laboured among the congregation at Kilwin'.
ning.
	5.  Robert Baillie, afterwards the celebrated Principal of the
University of Glasgow, and author, besides other works, of those
letters and journals which throw so much light on the history of
his own times. In 1622 he received Episcopal order from Arch-
bishop Law of Glasgow, and became tutor to the son of the Earl
of Eglinton, by whom he was presented to the living of Kilwin-
ning. The exact period of his incumbenc

