
384                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

large loosely-cemented quart zose particles. Strata of limestone and
ironstone are found to pass through this parish, which-dip into the
sea, near to its eastern extremity. Freestone, of a good quality is
quarried to a considerable extent, on account of the increase of
buildings both at Portobello and Joppa. In a portion of the glebe
near the loch, beds of quarts sandstone and of siliceous limestone
crop out. The trap rock on which these strata rest afford grains
of olivine, and of augite, along with crystals of basaltic hornblende.
In the bed of Duddingston-burn, there is a stratum of black-co-
loured stone, soft, smooth, and unctuous in appearance and to the
touch, which, as it admits of a fine polish, might be cut into beau-
tiful jambr and mantel-pieces for chimneys. Petroleum and
manganese have been found in small quantities in the crevices of
the freestone quarries. On the sea-coast, many curious and rare
specimens of petrified plants and trees have been found in the in-
terstices of the rocks and stones. Some of these resembled the
finest Marseilles quitting; others were evidently petrifactions of
reeds, and of exotic plants now known to be indigenous in tropical
regions. Pieces of chalcedony, porphyry, agate, and jasper have
been frequently found along the shore of the Frith in this parish.
Strata of clay have been found so pure, that crucibles and bricks
formed of it are capable of resisting beat to a high degree. Marl
of different kinds, and some of a rich quality, is found abundantly
in Duddingston-loch, along the side of the property of Sir Ro-
bert Keith Dick. Formerly, large quantities of this substance
were used as manure, but the abundant supply of that article from
Edinburgh, of a more fertilizing nature, has put an end to its be-
ing now used in this manner.
 Botany.-The plants found in this parish are very numerous,
perhaps more so than in any parish of Scotland; and if we were to in-
clude the King's Park and Arthur's Seat, a more extensive field for
the researches of the botanist, in so small a space, could not be
found. As we are particularly desirous to pay the greatest at-
tention to this branch of our subject, it is proposed to enumerate,
-first, the plants which are found in and around the loeb, and then
-the plants which have been discovered in the other parts of this
parish. In accordance with this plan, we mention, the following:

Hippuris vulgaris       Lemna minor              Galiant palustre
Chara vulgaria          --- gibba                Potamogeton crispum
Callitriche aquatica    Iris pseudaeorus         ------ pectinatum
Veronica scutellata     Scirpus palustris        Myosotis palustris
---- anagallis          Phalaris arundinacea     ---- versicolor
---- Beccabunga         Arundo phragmites        Menyanthes trifoliata
Lemna trisulca          Aira aquatica            Lysimachia thyrsiflora




