
                           KNOCKANDO.                            73

dings take place,- the people having some absurd superstition
against Monday and Friday.
     Within the last few years a visible improvement has taken place
upon the dress of the people, especially amongst the females,-
caps and bonnets being now pretty generally worn. Many of the
younger children are dressed in the kilt and hose. The men gene-
rally wear the tartan plaid over coats and trowsers of broad cloth.
However plain and homely the parishioners may appear to dress in
general ; for kirk and market they always reserve a suit of good
clothes. Of late, there has also been an improvement in cleanli-
ness, although there is still considerable room for more, both with-
out and within doors. Except by a few families, butcher-meat is
not much used. Fish is becoming more common amongst the
peasantry than formerly, whilst tea and sugar are rapidly gaining
ground.
     Character of the People.- The parishioners of Knockando are
exceedingly kind and hospitable, according to their means ; ever
ready to pity the sorrows and supply the wants of the vagrant pau-
per. They arefrugal, and, generally speaking, industrious and sober.
It is to be regretted that the blessings and benefits of education
have not been prized as they ought,- it being not uncommon to find
individuals unable to read and write. This, however, is partly ac-
counted for by the former miserable state of the roads. Itmust also
be admitted, that, there are too frequent instances of unlawful inter-
course between the sexes ; and that poaching, both in a game and
the salmon fishery, prevails to some extent. Smuggling, which
was formerly very common, is now almost entirely suppressed.
                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture and Rural Economy.- Few parishes in Scotland of
the same extent contain more waste land capable of improvement
and cultivation. A good deal of hill pastures, which was formerly
stocked with sheep, is now brought into cultivation. Some of the
hills and waste moors might be profitably planted with larches and
Scotch firs, which would not only add shelter to the cultitivated fields,
but at the same time, tend much to adorn and beautily the parish.
     On the estate of Easter Elchies there are about, 500 acres in
constant or occasional cultivation, and about 100 which have never
been cultivated, the half of which, however, might, by proper drain-
ing, be brought under tillage. There is no undivided common,
except where turf and peat are cut for fuel.
     There are about ninety acres of wood, consisting of Scotch fir


