
        210                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

        lower class of the people, and its accompaniments,-the insufficient
        food, bad houses, and the baneful practice of illicit distillation. The
        most obvious cure for this unhappy state of things would be to in-
        crease the size of the lots; to proportion the rents to the produce of
        the land; to grant leases to the more deserving of the people, and
        to assist the others to leave the country.  The present wretched po-
        verty-stricken population would thus be encouraged to build better
        houses, and cultivate their lands to better purpose, and enabled to
        provide themselves with such boats and tackle as should put it in
        their power to prosecute the herring fishery with a better prospect
        of success than at present.  To these must be added, as a matter
        involving the moral as well as the physical welfare of the people,
        the providing greater facilities and more efficient means of educa-
        tion than at present exist.   Two schools are indispensable, one of
        them situated at Letterfearn, and the other at the head of the
        loch, for the latter of which a permanent endowment for a teacher
        capable of teaching the ordinary branches of education, would be
        required.   There is also need of some species of local police, to
        settle the disputes, and suppress the minor offences, which the
        presence of a resident magistracy would tend much to prevent.
           November 1836.


                        PARISH OF DINGWALL.

                  PRESBYTERY OF DINGWALL, SYNOD OF ROSS.

                THE REV.  HECTOR BETHUNE, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

         THE parish of Dingwall, consisting of the royal burgh of that
       name, with an inconsiderable tract of the surrounding country, is
       situated at the western extremity of the Frith of Cromarty.
         Name.-A diversity of opinion exists as to the origin of the name
       "Dingwall." The accomplished author of the former Statistical Ac-
       count derives it from "Digma Vallis," words indicative of the richness
       and fertility of the low grounds, which constitute a great part of the
       parish.  Others, with perhaps greater probability, consider it, like
       that of several of the towns on this coast, of Scandinavian origin,
       and refer it to a word expressive of its being the seat of justice.
       It is certainly not Celtic, as the Highlanders have not yet become

       <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Angus Bethune, Esq.


