
     of Dowally.

find it little, if at all, inferior to that which is imported.
Their crop of it is always best after grass.
   No great proportion of the oats and barley raised in the
parish are sold.  The rents are paid almost exclusively from
the price of the yarn spun by the women during winter*.
   When the farmer is not employed in the culture of his
crop, he is employed through a great part of the summer in
providing fuel.  After the sowing of his barley is finished,
which happens generally in the beginning of June, he goes
to be moss, with the whole men, women, children, and
horses, of the farm; nor is it before the middle or end of
July that he is able, (though the time depends much on the
nature of the season, as favourable or unfavourable to the
drying of the peats), to prepare and lead home a sufficient
quantity.  Their mosses are not at a great distance, and the
roads to them are tolerably good, yet still this is found a
laborious, inconvenient, and, after all, a very precarious
way of obtaining fuel.  It seems probable that the farmers
will soon see it for their advantage to drive coals from
Perth, for a part, if not the whole, of the fuel they re-
quire+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In spinning, the women are very industrious and expert.  Many of
them use a wheel with two flyers; on one of this construction they will
spin about a third more than on one with a single flyer only.  A spindle of
yarn, of the rate of 2 hanks from the lb. costs 1 s. 3 d for the spinning; and
if at the rate of 6 hanks from the lb. it costs 2 s.  In the one case, a woman
spins 8 hier a day, and in the other only 4.

+In wet seasons the farmers are unable to procure a due supply for then
own family consumption.  This failure is felt in Dunkeld as well as here,
for the poor there rely, in some measure, for fuel in the winter on the peats
which are occasionally for sale from the farmer's surplus stock; and when
peats are scarce, they find coals too extravegantly high-priced for their slen-
der finances.  It would be of great benefit to the poor of Dunkeld, if a so-
ciety were formed for purchasing coals in summer, when they are at the
lowest price in Perth, and for laying them up, and selling them at the ori-
ginal cost in winter.  This would be great charity at small expense.


