
484                      FORFARSHIRE.

Eassie glebe, 7 acres, 789 poles, moor portion of do. 1 acre, 2 62
poles; Nevay glebe, 2 acres, 229 poles; in all, 11 acres, 1 rood,
12 square yards.
	When the manse was removed, it was at the same time resolved
by the heritors that there should be an excambion of the old
glebes for a new one adjoining the new manse. The persons
appointed by the Presbytery and heritors to inspect and value the
ground round the new manse, reported, "that 15 imperial acres
would be equal in value, quantity and quality considered, to the
aforesaid glebe of Eassie, moor portion of the same, and glebe of
Nevay."
	The stipend at present is 174 balls, half meal, and half barley,
with L. 2, 5s. 6d. of vicarage. At the lart process for an aug-
mentation, the Court gave 15 chalders, but this was understood
to be beyond the amount of free teind in the parish. An inves-
tigation into the state of the teinds was instituted by the late in-
cumbent, but was abandoned in consequence of his receiving from
Lord Wharncliffe, about whose teinds chiefly there was any doubt,
a number of acres of land rent free, as an equivalent. The matter
has not yet been brought to a conclusion.
        Education.-There is no other school in the parish except the
parochial school. The schoolmaster has the maximum salary.
On account of bad health he retired last year, on the full salary,
leaving the house, garden, and school fees to the assistant teacher,
who now discharges all the duties of that office. The parents, in
general, are anxious to give, education to their children. The
number present at last examination was nearly 1OO,-a large at-
tendance considering tbe size of the parish.
	A Sabbath school is also taught by the minister and assistant
teacher.
        Poor.-The poor usually on the roll seldom exceed six. The
average allowance to each is 6s. a month, with coals and house
rent; although 8s. and 6s. a month have been given. The average
rage yearly collections for the last seven years has been upwards
of L. 30. There is a fund of L.226 in the Dundee Bank. Somd
years ago, a handsome bequest of L. 100 was made to the kirk-
session by the late Miss Ogilvie of West Hall, a daughter of a
former, minister of the parish, for occasional assistance to the in-
dustrious poor not on the roll of paupers.
	There is also a parish library. The oldest parish register that
has been preserved is dated 1717.
	September 1842.


