
                          EDINBURGH.                              633

Elizabeth, lie so far relented. A show of a trial of thirteen of the
citizens was made at Perth, and one of this number failing to ap-
pear, judgawat was given against- the whole, the community were
declared rebels, and their revenues confiscated. For fifteen days
the city remained in a state of anareby; but upon the supplication
of the magistrates and council, and their offer to submit them-
selves entirely to the King's mercy, he restored the community
against the forfeiture tinder certain conditions and a fine of 20,000
merks for the crown. The clergy were also pardoned and allow-
ed to return.

On the death of Queen Elizabeth in 1603, James took his de.
parture from Scotland to ascend the throne of England. On the
Sunday previous, he went to St Giles' church, where a crowded
congregation were assembled to take' leave of their monarch. An
exhortatory discourse was delivered, which the King took in good
part, and at its conclusion, observing the people to be deeply A&
fected, he addressed them in the warmest language of friendship,;
requesting them not to be dejected at his departure, since as his
power to serve them was increased, his inclinations, be assured
them, were not diminished.
For a period of tbirty-five years after the accession of James to
the English throne, the city of Edinburgh appears to have en-
joyed a state of comparative tranquillity and repose. The tell.
gious disputes between the King and people seem to have been
buried in oblivion. As a mark of royal favour the provost was al-
lowed to have a sword of state borne before him, and the magis.
trates to wear.robes,of office on public occasions.
In 1618. James paid his last visit to the city; on which occa-
sion be was received with great pomp and pageantry, and'pre-1
dented with 10,000 merks in a silver basin.

The same harmony prevailed in the beginning of Charles the.
First's reign., That monarch also visited Edinburgh in the year,
1628, and was received with great pomp by, the Lord Provost and
magistrates in their robes, attended by 200 armed young Inew
dressed in doublets of white satin and black velvet breeches.  The
streets were hung with tapestry, and lined by train, bands, through
which - the monarch passed to the palace.
But this good understanding was of short continuance. Charles
was resolved on forcing on the nation a system and 1orms of re-
ligion to which they were repuguant, and hence: arouse, unlawful
Persecution on the one band, and discontent and open rebellion


