
                 URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER.

slope, to the ridge of hill called the Maolbuie. The surface is
nearly regular, there being nothing to diversify it, beyond here
and there a knoll or a hollow. There is no elevation that deserves
the name of hill, or depression that can be called a valley. In
short, to an observer situated on the north of the Frith, this parish
presents the appearance of an inclined plane, having the east
end somewhat more elevated than the west. The lower grounds
are almost entirely brought into cultivation; those parts which the
plough has not yet reached are rapidly diminishing in extent, and
are generally covered with furze or whin, and broom. But towards
the Maotbuie, the uncultivated ground produces nothing better
than stunted heath ; and in that part of the parish which adjoins
Killearnan, there is a moss of some extent, supplying the inhabitants
with a spongy kind of peat, which is used for fuel.
  Of natural scenery, a surface so uniform can scarcely be expected
to present much. With the exception of one or two burns
or ravines of rather a romantic character, there is nothing in the
parish that merits any notice. One of these, the Findon-burn,
has a fine cascade of about 20 feet, which, pouring its waters into a
yawning gorge, formed by a sudden widening of the fissure on each
side, the banks above rising boldly, and being covered with oak,
birch, and hazel, there is nothing wanting to complete the interest
of the scene, but a sufficient body of water. This gloomy chasm
was, in the olden times, fully believed by the common people, to
be the abode of some ideal being, called in Gaelic a Bhaobh, or
a Bhean Shith. To what class of animals this same Baobh belongs
naturalists have not, it is supposed, yet been able to decide. That
she (for a female she was understood to be) exercised  no slight
influence over the fears of the superstitious Highlanders, till a
period not very remote, is well known. Her reign however, in this
part of the country terminated long age, the last of the race who
figured in the history of this parish having not been heard of for
100 years. Of this lady a marvellous story used, to be related by
the old people, who have, now gone to the silence of the grave.
They fully believed that she held intercourse with a man  whose
name and residence were specified, and that he was repeatedly absent
months from his own family, being on those occasion in the
company of his Dulcinea, the Baobh. But happily such silly ideas
have vanished before the enlightening influence of Christian education
  But although this, parish cannot boost of much scenery within


