
                               KINGUSSIE.                         65

certain ruin along with them.  By the improvements in agriculture,
however, these noxious influences have been to a great degree re-
moved.  The wet swampy lands have now nearly all given place
to dry cultivated fields,-a circumstance which has benefited the
country in regard at once to temperature, salubrity, and appearance.
The prevailing distempers in the parish are inflammation, dropsy,
apoplexy, and rheumatism.  These are to be ascribed chiefly to the
nature of the food upon which the peasantry in general subsist, and
to the variableness and rigour of the climate.
  Hydrography.--Although the parish contains several lakes,
scarcely any of them merit particular notice.  Loch Errochd is
a fine sheet of water, generally reckoned about sixteen miles
long, but of these only about six lie within the boundaries of
  Kingussie.   Throughout the greater part of this extent, the sce-
nery is rather tame and bleak,-till towards the point where the
parish terminates, when the banks assume a precipitous aspect, and
are slightly wooded.  None of the other lakes exceed a mile and a-
half in length, by three quarters of a mile in breadth; but, though
small, they are by no means devoid of natural beauty.  One of
them, Loch Gynag, contains a small island, on which can be still
traced the remains of what is said to have been a castle.  The prin-
cipal river is the Spey, which, as already noticed, intersects the pa-
rish.  After leaving Laggan, where it has its rise, it meanders from
west to east in a series of beautiful curves, for upwards of seven
miles, through a rich vale slightly wooded with natural birch and
alder.  Its average velocity in this parish may be about three miles
an hour.  Its depth varies from 2 to 16 feet; its width may be on
an average, from 80 to 100 feet.  The other rivers in the parish
are the Truim, which, for a considerable distance, forms its western
boundary; the Tromie, which serves to divide it from Insh, on the
east,both running in a northerly direction; the Gynag and the
Calder, which How to the south; all of these are tributary to the
Spey.  Most of them have their sources within the parish, and vary
in length from 5 to 11 miles.  The Spey, after a course of nearly
100 miles, discharges itself into the Moray Firth.
The soil in the meadows, and along the banks of the several
streams, consists in general of three strata. The upper of these
is alluvial, and composed of a sort of sandy slime, covering a light
loam, which forms the second,-andthis last generallyincurnibent on
a bed of clay.  The higher grounds are for the most part of a loamy
nature, and generally intermixed with sand.  The meadow grounds
     INVERNESS.                      E


