
                            NIGG.  	                        29

of a triangular shape. On the one side of this upper compart-
ment, are two priest-like figures, attired in long garments, and fur-
nished each with a book. They incline forward, as if intent on read-
ing and devotion. Betwixt them, is a small circular table, which may
represent an altar; and above it there is the representation of a dove
in the act of descending to carry away the sacrifice offered. It has
a circular cake in its bill. Under the table, two dogs of large size and
ill-boding appearance, seem restrained by the priestly incantations
of the human figures, from executing their hellish purposes. Under
the triangular top, and on the same side with the hieroglyphics al-
ready mentioned, the surface contains the figure of a cross beset with
serpents. The spaces above and below the arms of the cross are
divided into rectangular compartments of mathematical exactness.
These, according to Mr Hugh Miller's account, "are embossed
into rows of circular knobs, covered over as if by basket-work, with
the intricate foldings of myriads of snakes; and which may be ei-
tber deemed to allude to the serpent and apple of the fall--thus
placed in no inapt neighbourbood to the cross; or to symbolize
(for even the knobs may be supposed to consist wholly of serpents)
that of which the serpent has ever been held emblematic, and
which we cannot regard as less appositely introduced--a complex
wisdom or an incomprehensible eternity. The hieroglyphics of
the opposite side are in lower relief, and though the various,
fret work of the border is executed in a style of much elegance,
the whole seems to owe less to the care of the sculptor. The
centre is occupied by what, from its size, we may deem the
chief figure of the group; it is that of a man attired in long gar-
ments, caressing a fawn; and directly fronting him, there are the
figures of a lamb and a harp. The whole is perhaps emblemati-
cal of peace, and may be supposed to tell the same story with the
upper hieroglyphic of the reverse. In the space beneath, there is
the figure of a man furnished with cymbals, which he seems clash-
ing with much glee, and that of a horse and its rider, surrounded
by animals of the chase, while in the upper part of the stone,
there are dogs, deer, and armed huntsmen, and surmounting the
whole, an eagle or raven." So far Mr Miller's description. The
present writer has nothing to add,-except, that he considers
the cross side of the stone as intended to emblematize the
fall and salvation of man; and the reverse side to represent the
Scandinavian heaven. It is well known that the belief of all ages
and countries, has been, with respect to the future world of happi-


