
                             LARGO.                            435

  The shore is flat and sandy, with the exception of red sandstone
and minute portions of coal near the surface. Lime and sandstone,
with numerous boulders of trap, are found throughout the parish,
the limestone Iying below slate-clay, and ironstone being frequent
in the sandstone bed. The limestone, in some, places is 15 feet
thick, of a gray colour, and the superincumbent strata are general-
ly argillo-calcareous rock, a bed of shale and sandstone. Organic
remains are rare, although corallines and occasionally shells do oc-
cur. There is only one good freestone quarry, which is wrought
at considerable expense, from the great thickness of earth above
the rock. Many years ago, coal was wrought in large quantities,
especially near the coast. At present, there are three seams
wrought, but none of them are of the first quality. To the north
of New Gilston a singular mass of rum coal is found, under the
mass of overlying trap on the south. It is an inflammable bitu-
mitious shale, and is extensively used for lime-burning. It is known
to be 80 feet thick, and is wrought in an open quarry. On the estate
of Teuchats, in the north centre of the parish, is a limestone rock
of excellent quality, and much esteemed for building. The work-
ing of it here had nearly ceased; but, a new level has been lately
brought up, and a deeper cut in the lime commenced. It is car-
ried on in the parish of Ceres, where the same bed runs to a great
extent. The soil on the north is generally of a thick black mould,
on a wet bottom; in the south, of a black loam, partly on a wet,
and partly on a dry bottom-interspersed with fields of light land;
rich breaking clay is peculiar to the south-east; and there are some
tracks to the west of Largo Law, of a more obdurate nature, and
on a wet bottom.
  Plantations, &c.-In the north-east quarter, are extensive plan-
tations of Scotch fir and larch. Interspersed among these, and
particularly in all recent plantings, are varieties of hard-wood, as
oak, ash, elm, beech, and plane. There is a grove of very an-
cient limes at Lundin House. The planes about Largo House are
remarkable for their size; and several elms deserve notice for their
singular and fantastic beauty. There do not appear to be any in-
digenous plants of a rare species. The subsoil in tbe more souther-
ly gardens is rotten rock, and they are found very productive in
fruit, especially pears, and favourable to the growtb of plants, both
of a hardy and tender kind. Shrubs from New  Holland, as the
Leptospermum baccatum, stand the winter well. The Acacia, and


