
82                    FIFESHIRE.

   Topographical Appearances, Boundaries, &c.-The craggy aspect
of the shore where the town is situated has now almost disappeared,
the rocks which stood between the houses and the water having been
removed, and better accommodation afforded for boats and vessels;
dwelling-houses also have been erected close upon the beach. The
parish stretches along the south margin of the river, from its mouth,
where it empties itself into the German Ocean, to about five miles
up. Its breadth is variable, extending in some places to about a
mile and a-half from the river, and in others to about half a mile.
It is narrowest near the middle, where the village is situated, and
widens towards the east and west. It is bounded on the south by
the parishes of Forgan or St Fillans, and Leuchars. The eastern
part of the parish is flat and low, but on the west it is high and
rocky. From the village eastward to the mouth of the river, the
shore is flat and in general sandy, and at low-water there is a large
extent of sands left bare by the tide. On the west of the village
the shore is rocky and irregular.
   The atmosphere is here generally cool and salubrious, although
the sea breeze to which this part of the country is exposed gives a
sharpness to the air which is not felt in more inland districts. The
proofs of a wholesome climate which this parish presents are early
crops, and a healthy population.
   Except the Tay, which, as has just been stated, constitutes the
northern boundary, no river bounds or intersects the parish. There
is, however, abundance of excellent water in the higher parts of the
parish, issuing in springs from strata of hard whinstone. Hence
water is generally obtained without difficulty, and most of the in-
habitants are supplied with this valuable article upon their own pre-
mises. Among the whin rocks, there are considerable quantities of
beautiful spar; and in some of the rocks by the river side blue and
red pebble stones are plentiful.
   This parish contains a considerable variety of soil. The eastern
part, which is flat and sandy, contains in some places a light loam
on a bed of sand, and in these places there are raised tolerably good
crops of oats, barley, and rye, and also some wheat. There is also
a very considerable extent of links, affording a slight pasturage for
sheep and cattle, and supplying also a considerable, quantity of rab-
bits. The profit arising from this latter source, however, are not
so great as formerly, in consequence of the great reduction in the
price of their skins, which some years ago sold at 8s. per dozen,
but now (1635) seldom bring mere than 3s. 6d. or 4s. In  the west-
				3

