
                       CAMERON                               309

Rent  of Land.-The rent of land varies considerably in the
parish. The land on the north side of the parish under the
plough  may be let at from L. 1 to L. 2 per Scotch acre. On
the south side, it may be let at from 10s. to L. 1, 6s. per do.
The rents of the farms which are let from year to year in grass,
vary from 2s. 6d. to L. 3; the average perhaps about L.1 per
Scotch acre. Should these farms be broken up, thoroughly liuaed
and drained, and afterwards laid down in grass, or only drained
and limed on the surface, I would consider it as a very profitable
outlay of capital, besides giving employment to a great many la-
bourers in the district.
  The real rent of the parish arising from land, as nearly as can
be ascertained, is L. 8600: arising from mines, &c. L. 400.
  Rate of Wages.-The yearly wages of an unmarried ploughman
are, L.10, 10s. or L.11, with 6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal, and one Scotch
pint of new milk from the cow, and one boll of potatoes of 4 ewt.
for supper, with lodging in a bothy, and coals; of a married plough-
man, L 8, with a cow kept for him during the year, or L.10 without
a cow - but with one Scotch pint of sweet milk, as much ground
as will plant half a boll of potatoes, and as much as half a peck of
linseed will sow, together with a house and garden. the yearly
wages of a female servant who lives in the house are, from L.5, 5s. to
L-7. Women who work out of doors have 8d. per day w out
victuals, from eight in the morning to six in the evening, with an
hour for dinner; takingup potatoes, 1s. with dinner; day-labourers
are paid 1s. 4d. in winter, and Is. 6d. in summer, without victuals,
from eight in the morning to darkness in winter, and from eight in
the morning to six in the evening in si4mmer, bavidg one hour
allowed for dinner; wrights and masons have 2s. 6d. per day for
the same hours; smiths are generally paid from L. 1, 15s. to
L.2, 10s. per pair of horses, not furnishing either the mould-board
or side-plates of the ploughs.
  Live Stock.-Some years ago the Teeswater breed of cattle was
greatly esteemed, or crosses from that and the Fifeshire; but
the Fifeshire is now greatly preferred, and the pure breed sells
at high prices. The Teeswater kind, was found to be not so
bads nor so easily fattened, the flesh coarser, and they did
not attain the weight that they are brought to in  England,---
whereas the Fife cattle were found to be much hardier, easier kept
and fattened, the flesh much more fine and delicately and the ani-
inal to reach the same and often more ' weight than the Toeswater.
  Husbandry.- There is, nothing; remarktble in  husbandry of


