
			ESKDALEMUIR.                       411

perienced, although lesser ones have been far from unfrequent.
Every part of Nithsdale, Annandale, and the lower part of Esk-
dale, that could take in sheep was filled with them from Crawfurd-
muir, Tweedsmuir, Ettrick, and Yarrow, the head of Tiviotdale,
Ewes, and Eskdalemuir; and had the frost continued eight days
longer, there is no saying what the farmers would have done. Nor
was all this owing to the great depth of snow, for it was by no
means considerable. The whole of the evil was occasioned by
the snow falling wet, or becoming so, and then freezing, which lock-
ed up the pastures from the sheep. The common rate per score,
for twenty-four hours, even for this imperfect kind of support, was
from 10d. to 1s. 6d." No such thing as flying in this parish is
now ever thought of,--the pastures in Annandale, to which they
usually fled, having in many places been subdivided and enclosed.
Hay parks were begun at home. The dung which lay useless
formerly, was employed to enrich them. This gave a considerable
quantity of led hay for the sheep; and in addition to this, it was
found that the better kind of bog hay when well got, could subsist
sheep very well, till the thaw came. In place, therefore, of their
being hungered before they went to Annandale, half starved while
there, and half-drowned in the burns on their way home when the
thaw came, they continue at home, thrive better, and much money
is saved to the farmer.
	An additional fund of support for young cattle and sheep has
lately been introduced into this parish from Liddesdale by Mr
James Elliot, tenant of Yetbyre,--in mowing the flying bent and
converting it into hay. Before he began the practice, it was al-
lowed to wither, to be carried about by the winds, and stop the cur-
rent of the drains. But since that time, several have followed his
example, and found their account in it. It is not so nutritive as
bog bay, but if cut early when full of sap, it is far from being des-
picable;-and what adds to its value is, that it is found on farms
where bog hay is not abundant.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--Our roads are not turnpike, but
made and kept in repair by an yearly assessment, laid on by those
heritors, of the parish who are Commissioners of Supply, always be-
fore the 30th April; on which day the Commissioners of Supply for
the county meet at Dumfries, to receive and sanction the assess-
inent of the county. The rate is paid one-half by the heritors, and
one-half by the tenants. There are about twenty-one miles of this


