
         390                        PERTHSHIRE.

         of the soil consist of clay, and the other third consist of what is
         called black land, being in general a fine vegetable mould.  Of the
         former, five-sevenths annually are kept under a grain crop, and of
         the latter, seven-tweyths, according to the following method of ro-
         tation : In the clay, the rotations, generally speaking, are these
         seven : fallow, wheat, beans and pease, wheat, barley, grass, and
         oats, or, in some rare instances, wheat.  In the black land, they
         are these six: potatoes, wheat, turnips and pease, barley, grass,
         and oats or wbeat.  From the difficulty of obtaining a sufficient
         crop of grass so often as once in six or seven years, some farmers
         have introduced a rotation of sevens, even in the black land, and of
         eights in the clay; while others seem to think that, adhering to the
         ordinary rotations, in regard to the other crops, it would be better,
         where circumstances admit, to divide the land so that this import-
         ant production should not be required from the same soil, more
         than once in every alternate course of rotation.
            The drilling of grains has seldom been attempted in this parish.
         At the time of the former Statistical Report, indeed, and for se-
         veral years afterwards, the drilling of beans, with the usual inter-
         mixture of pease, was a common practice, and some recent at-
         tempts have been made to revive it in the district.   These how-
         ever, have been without success, from the prevailing opinion, that
         the increase of crop would not afford sufficient remuneration for
         the increase of labour and expense.  One plough is required for
         about every thirty Scotch acres that a farm may contain.  Not-
         withstanding the curvilinear direction of the ridges, no more beau-
         tiful specimens can anywhere be seen than in this district, of equal
         and regular ploughing.
            The rate of production on the best soils is very high.  Fallow
         wheat has often made a return of 16 bolls per Scotbh acre, and
         even considerably more.  Oats, also, in fine soil, and under fa-
         vourable circumstances, have sometimes yielded 16 bolls.  Barley
         has yielded 13 bolls ; and pease and beans have occasionally pro-
         duced 14 or 15 bolls.  All theser however, are much, above the
         average.  Taking in all kinds of grain and all kind's of soil, the
         average fate, of production is thought' to be only between 7 and
         8 bolls per Scotch acre.   Hay is sometimes so abundant a crop,
         that even the first cutting yields between  300 and 400 stones per
         acre; but even 300 is reckoned a good crop, and considerably
         above the average.

         <Footnote>The Perthshire wheat boll is, equal to 3 bushels, 3 pecks, 1.9442 gallons, impe-
         rial measure; and the boll for other grain is equal to 5 bushels, 3 pecks, 0.6009 gal-
         lons. The Scotch is to the imperial acre as l26 to 100.


