
                                   PERTH.                            69

      dozen of glassis brokine, with mony owder silver pissis and peuder
      vescillis, and then the Jhng made ane great solleime aith to defend
      the hail libertie of this brouche."  With reference to this strange
      occurrence, I may here remark, that James V. demeaned himself
      in a manner somewhat similar on another occasion.  There is a
      carter of the Abbot of Melrose, A.  D. 1535, constituting that
      prince the bailiff or steward of the Abbey of Melrose, vesting in
      him all the powers which pertained to that office, and requiring him
      to be answerable to the abbot for his exercise of the same.  Sure-
      ly James VI. did not act so far beneath his dignity in becoming the
      Provost of a city, as James V. in becoming the bailiff of an abbey.
         Notwithstanding the very positive and circumstantial manner in
      which this matter is presented to our belief, I am much disposed
      to call in question the truth of the fact as related ; and my simple
      reason is, that there is not only no mention of it made in the
      town's records, but a distinct relation given of the election of Sir
      David Murray of Golspetrie, knight-comptroller, to be Provost.
      And it is remarkable that his election was, (what had not taken
      place before) entered in two books-the red book and the book
      of general entry.  It is impossible to believe that such a very
      extraordinary evdnt, as the election of the King to be Provost,
      would be passed without any notice whatever being taken of it in
      the records.
         In 1652, Cromwell demolished the cross and applied its mate-
      rials to the erection of his citadel.  In 1668, after the restoration
      of Charles 11. the magistrates contracted with Mr Mylne of Bal-
      fargie, the King's master mason, to rebuild it, and make it as ele-
      gant as any in Scotland, for L. 200; and in the following year,
      when it was finished, they issued an order to write Lord Lyon for
      a license to Charles Wilson to gild it with the royal arms, and
      those of the town.  It had a spacious terrace above.  It was twelve
      feet high, and had a flight of steps within.  On the anniversary of
      the Restoration, 29th May 1669, " the treasurer was appointed to
      cover the terrass of the new crois with a carpet, and to prepare
      glasses and two gallons (Scots) of French wine, to be run out of
      the mouths of lions, bears, and griffin, and other hdads with which
      the cross was ornamented."  In 1765, the town-council, in, consi-
      deration of the cross being an impediment on the street, empower-
      ed the magistrates to remove it.  It was thereafter disposed of
      at a public sale to a mason, he being the highest bidder, for five
      pounds.  He immediately took it down, and carried off the stones.


