
                              YESTER.                       165

of late, the post-man travelled between Gifford and Haddington
(which is the post-town) twice a-day;-bringing letters from the
north mail in the morning, and from the south mail in the after-
noon. But, this summer, he has travelled only once a-day; the
reason of which probably is, that this is an "age of economy and
retrenchment." Possibly, however, if the sixpence a-day which
was lately taken off his small wages were restored, he might be able
once more to afford the Gifford people the benefit of a double
journey per diem. There are two carriers, each of whom travels
between Gifford and Edinburgh every week; leaving Gifford on
Tuesdays and Fridays, and Edinburgh on Wednesdays and Satur-
days. The bridges and fences throughout this parish are kept
generally in the best condition.
   Villages.-There are three villages in the parish, viz. Gifford,
Long Yester, and Long Newton. The last two, which are situ-
ated at the foot of the Lammermoors, are inconsiderable. The
village of Gifford is generally admired for the beauty of its situa-
tion, and the regularity of its buildings. It is situated on the east
bank of Gifford-water. Nearly all the houses in the two princi-
pal streets are of two stories, and possess an air of great comfort.
One of these streets runs along part of the avenue leading to Yes-
ter House: and at the northern extremity stands the school and
dwelling-house, surmounted by a small spire. The church is si-
tuated at the extremity of the other street. About a third part of
the houses in Gifford is the Marquis of Tweeddale's property,-the
rest are held of him in feud or fief. The amount of feu-duty paid an-
nually to the Marquis by the feuars (of whom there are about forty)
is L. 13, 17s. 11d. It may be interesting to mention the tenure
by which these feus are held. The conditions are, that each feuar
should "attend the Marquis of Tweeddale the space of two days
yearly, sufficiently mounted with horse and arms, upon his own pro-
per charges and expenses, when he shall be desired to do the sa-
men:"-also that he should "attend other two days at the Mar-
quis' expense;"-should "ride at two fairs yearly in Gifford," and
"perform a darg or day's work yearly for winning of hay in the
parks of Yester." The feuars were exempted by the Marquis
"from all cess, taxations, ministers' stipends, and other public bur-
thens." They obtained from the superior, long ago, a grant of a
piece of land near Gifford, called the Common, consisting of 60
acres, and worth at least L. 100 per annum; 14 acres are at pre-


