
             		  CRUDEN.                           979

distance of about two miles, is the Bay of Cruden, a fine, sandy
beach, at the south end of which a range of sunken rocks runs
far into the sea, called the Scares of Cruden.  The rocks from
this place, all along the south, are black basalts, and very formi-
dable.
   Climate.-The temperature of the atmosphere is, in general,
sharp and piercing, especially when the wind blows from the sea.
Not many years ago, a large mass of rock near Dunbay was
shivered in pieces, and some parts of it thrown a considerable dis-
tance towards the land.  There are springs of good water, and a
few chalybeate ones.
   In ancient times, there were large forests of oak and hard-wood
surrounding the parish.  But now, only a few old trees remain in
different places, and these of very diminutive appearance.  We
have a few clumps of something like brushwood, and lately some
plantations have been tried, which promise to succeed.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Proprietors.-It is with grief that the writer of this has to men-
tion that the Earl of Errol's property in this parish is now greatly
diminished.  His Lordship is still the principal heritor.  But
there are now on the estates which formerly belonged to his fa-
mily nine other proprietors.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers reach back only
to the beginning of the eighteenth century.
   Manufactories.-The thread manufactories, which were so
flourishing, in the beginning of my day, and employed so many
people, are now completely gone.  A carding and spinning-mill
was lately erected on the estate of Aquaharney, and carries on
business to a considerable extent.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
        Population in 1801,    -    1934
                      1811,    -    1967
                      1821,    -    2258
                      1831,    -    2120
                      1841,    -    2349

   There are no villages in the parish except those of Bullers-
buchan, Ward, and Whinnyfold, which all belong to the Earl of
Errol.  There are only at present four residing heritors.  The
number of proprietors of land yielding above L.50 a-year of rent
is 11.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Rent.-The rental of the parish is about L.10,000 a-year.


