
                              SLAINS.                               595

1500; but there is no permanent pasture save a little along
the coast.  The rent varies from L.1 to L.4 per acre; and by a
regulation lately introduced, it is paid in grain, half oats half bear,
at the fiars prices.  The duration of leases is nineteen years.
Several farm-houses have been lately built, which are in every re-
spect more comfortable and commodious than the old ones; and
on the expiry of the leases, now at hand, there will be a consider-
able number of new erections.  Bone dust and steam conveyance
have united in producing a new and improved system of rearing
and feeding cattle; and the attention of the farmer has of late
been greatly turned to that profitable branch of industry, which
has certainly attained to a wonderful degree of perfection.  Total
number of cattle, as far as can be ascertained, 1118; amount of
cattle sold, L.1242; bolls of corn and bear, 3992.
   Fisheries.-The inhabitants of the only two villages, Collieston
and Old Castle, are chiefly employed, and wholly dependent upon
white-fishing, and realize an excellent livelihood from their labo-
rious and very dangerous avocation.  They are superior to other
working, tradesmen in the property which they possess, never
interfere in the politics of the day, and are most regular attendants
on the public ordinances of religion.  There is a great variety of
fish caught, viz. ling, whiting, mackerel, turbot, holibut, skate,
soles, flounders of different species; but what they chiefly depend
upon, are haddrocks and cod, which they catch in oreat abundance.
They smoke and cure the haddocks principally for the Leith and
Glasgow markets, which at an average fetch about 9s. the hundred,
six score to the hundred.  The haddock-fishing yields L.1 weekly
per man, when the weather permits their going to sea, and they
are not allowed to go oftener than twice a-day, a regulation pro-
perly introduced by the tacksman of the river Ythan, to prevent
the extravagant consumption of bait mussels, and in order to re-
serve a sufficient quantity for the neighbouring villages.  The
mussels are sold at the Aberdeen market from 6d. to 9d. per
peck; but the fishermen here pay a stipulated sum yearly,-the
young men L.3 each, and those above sixty years of age, L.2.
They are allowed to gather the mussels only on their own side of
the river.  The cod-fishing continues from October to February
inclusive, and the fish are contracted for by a merchant who pic-
kles and barrels them for the London market, at the average
amount of L.1, 8s. per barrel, each containing about seventy fish,
for which he pays to the fishermen 4d. a-piece over head.  The


