
46		      	DUMBARTONSHIRE.

   Sprewl Craufurd of Cowdohill.--The Craufurds are believed
to have been from a very remote period in, possession of the estate
Cloberhill; but we have not been able to trace their history
farther back than the beginning of last century, when it was con-
veyed by Hugh Craufurd to John Sprewl of Cowdon, in Ren-
frewshire, who had married his only child Isabel. This John
Sprewl, in the year 1716, made a new deed of entail, by which be
destined the lands of Cloberhill and Drumchapel to the heirs-male,
and failing them, the heirs whatsomever of this marriage binding
them to assume the name and designation of Sprewl Craufurd of
Cowdonhill. On his death without heirs-male, the estate de-
volved on the issue of the marriage of his eighth daughter Agnes
with ---Hunter, Esq., whose grandson, Andrew Hunter Sprewl
Craufurd, is the present proprietor; and as, he has hitherto no
male issue, the presumptive heir is the late Chief Baron of the
English Exchequer, Sir William Alexander, Knight, grandson
of the eldest daughter of the entailer. * Within these few years,
there, was in the possession of this family a curious heir-loom-
a silver spoon, the circular mouth-piece of which is not less than
three inches in diameter. Inscribed on it are the terms of its tenure,
according to which the title of the present holder cannot be dis-
puted.
          "This spoon I leave in legacy,
     	   To the maist mouthed Craufurd after me. 1480."
Of a later date are the following lines.
            This spoon, you see,
            Is left in legacy;
            If ony pawn't or sell't,
            Cursed let him be."
   The Duke of Montrose has a valuable estate in the parish, part
of the ancient barony of Mugdock; and the Earl of Glasgow, as
heir-at-law to the Crawford estates, to which, however, his title
is at present under dispute, has lately succeeded to the lands of
Knightswood; but it would be out of place to attempt any ac-
count of these Noble; families.
   Kilpatrick Lairds.--A century or more ago, the Kilpatrick
lairds were noted for their convivial habits, and many anecdotes
of their reckless revelry are current in local tradition. Their so-
cial meetings were often prolonged for days together, with little
intermission from hard drinking. On one of these occasions, the
laird of Garscadden was observed to sit very quiet for some times
and his countenance at length to undergo a change; of which one

  <FOOTNOTE> Sir William succeded to the estate on the death of Mr Crawford in 1837.
				3


