
                   DOLLAR.                                  119

in cases of sickness and want of work. In addition to the money
distributed to the poor from the kirk-session funds, a collection is
made annually at the church-door, and a subscription paper is
handed round the parish, to obtain a fund for the supply of coals,
&c. for the poor in general, during the severity of winter. The
money raised in this way is very considerable, and does great credit
to the more wealthy of the parish. The collections at the church-
door have, for some years past, amounted to something more than
L.50. There was paid into the poor's box last year, after de-
ducting the session-clerks dues, L. 2, 10s. for proclamations of mar-
riage, L. 1, I8s. 6d. for the use of the mortcloth, and L. 1, 7s. for
lairs or ground purchased for burying. To the above must be
added the interest of L.319, the amount of several bequests to
the poor, and a small sum derived from the letting of the commu-
nion seats. Both heritors and kirk-session are very averse to have
recourse to an assessment; but, if the number of the poor increase
as rapidly as it has done of late years, it will be impossible much
longer to stave off an assessment.
   Fairs.--There are four fairs, according to the Almanacks,
held in Dollar, but only two of them deserve to be noticed, the
fairs in May and October. In both of these fairs, cattle are chiefly
sold; horses or sheep are seldom seen in these markets. At the
May fair, 'the chief transaction is the sale of cattle that have been
kept during the winter on straw and a few turnips. They are
bought up by butchers and others, who have grass parks to stock
during the summer. At the October fair, young cattle chiefly are
sold as winterers to farmers and others, who require manure, and
are resold at the May market.
   Inns.--There is only one inn in the parish; but about five or six
alehouses. There are, besides, four or five houses where spirits and
malt liquors are sold over the counter. The number of alehouses
and retail-shops for spirits, has of late diminished, but without the
effect of increasing temperance. Clubs are now forled for drink-
ing in houses. We are sorry to be obliged to add, that whisky
is often sold in retail-shops on Sabbath. One of the greatest nui-
sances arising from whisky-drinking, is the licensing of the house
at the toll-bar.
   Fuel.--Coal is universally used as fuel, of which there is an abun-
dant supply, as two extensive collieries are wrought in the parish,
or in the immediate neighbourhood. The price of coal at the
coal-bill or fold, is only 5s. per ton, and the distance to the vil-
lage is so inconsiderable, that the driving makes only a trifling
addition to the price.


