
84                        WIGTONSHIRE.

pose them to consist of vapour or smoke; but on a nearer approach,
they are found to consist of living creatures, engaged in ceaseless
action, performing the most graceful evolutions; and on listening,
will be heard the rush of their little wings and the piping of their
tiny voices. These flies have, I believe, their nativity in the water,
from which they emerge to an ephemeral existence in the region of
air. One species of them go through a very singular process--throw-
ing off the skin. They fix themselves to a tree or bush, or any resting
place, and literally crawl out of their skin, and, having left behind
them their exuviae, hie themselves off freshed agility to
their aerial dance. On remaining for a short time by the water
edge, I have found myself covered with the filmy skins of these
gay ephemerae.
   Botany.--The parish is not remarkable for the production of
any rare plants.
   The plantations consist of beech, ash, elm, oak, plane, birch,
alder, Scotch, larch, and spurce firs. The beech, ash, and plane
thrive best. There are some large and beautiful ash trees at
Castle-Kennedy. The larch only thrives in sheltered situations.
                   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Ancient Accounts of the Parish.--In 1684, Mr Andrew Symson,
minister of Kirkinner, drew up what he calls "a large Description
of Galloway." In that work there is an account of each parish in
Wigtonshire. In it will be found some notices regarding the geo-
graphical position, antiquities, and remarkable objects of the parish
of Inch. Mr Symson's "Description" remained in MS. in the Ad-
vocates' Library, till 1823, when it was printed for the first time.
   The parish of Inch comprehended at one time the modern pa-
rish of Portpatrick, and part of the parish of Stranraer. In 1628,
Portpatrick, which had been popularly called the black quarter of
Inch, was erected into a distinct parish. About the same time,
or soon after, a part of Inch was detached to form, with a part of
Leswalt, the new parish of Stranraer. To compensate for these
disjuncions, the whole of the old parish of Sulseat was annexed
to Inch. The manse and glebe remain at Soulseat; the parish
church is at Inch.
   Eminent Men.--The celebrated Marshal Stair was connected
with this parish by property and residence. His military talents
and achievements, and the part he took in the political proceedings
of his day, are matters of history. When out of place this dis-
tinguished nobleman resided much in the country, and delighted


