
                BUNKLE AND PRESTON.

PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

      THE REV. ARCHIBALD M'CONECHY, MINISTER.


                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE name of this parish has at diffe-
rent times been variously written. The more ancient orthography
was Bonkile on Bonkle, which has for more than half a century been
changed into Bunkle or Buncle. Some derive the name Bunkle from
the Latin bona cella, while others refer it to the Celtic origin, bon or
bun signifying the foot or base, and cell or kill, a cell or chapel;
which etymology is quite descriptive of the place. The word
Preston, the name of the annexed parish, is supposed by some to
come from the Saxon, signifying the town of the priests; by others
from the Gaelic Preas, signifying a thicket or copsewood, and tun,
a town or farm.
   The form of this united parish is very irregular. The greatest
distance between the farthest points may be 5 or 6 miles; yet the
mean length is only 4 1/2 miles, and the mean breadth 3 1/4. It is
bounded on the N. and E. by Abbey St Bathans and Coldingham;
on the S. E. by Chirnside; on the S. and W. by the river Whit-
adder, which separates it from Edrom and Dunse. This beauti-
ful river, abounding with salmon and trout, is often visited by the
angler.
   Topographical Appearances.-The lower district of the parish
is nearly level, gently inclining, with small undulations, to the
south-east. The Lammermoor hills traverse the northern divi-
sion,-the southern ridge of which, called Bunkle Edge, is more
than 700 feet above the level of the sea, but scarcely the half of
that height above its own base. These hills commence at St
Abbs' Head, in the parish of Coldingham, and extend in a westerly
direction through the whole of Berwickshire, occasionally assuming
in their progress a grand and picturesque appearance.
   Meteorology.-The atmosphere in this neighbourhood is gene-
rally clear and salubrious, though sometimes, especially in spring
and autumn, subject to a thick haze or mist, which always happens



