
242                            RENFREWSHIRE.

   " May 16,1650.-The solemne thanksgiving for ye overthrow given by the m-tye
of God to James Grahame, appointed to be keiped Wednesday come eight days, ac-
cording to ye appointment of ye comission of the gnall assemblie."
   " Penult May 1650.  Produced the confessions of Janet Wood, in Neilston-the
prebrie finding her guiltie of grow sorcerie and witchcraft, they have earnestlie re-
comendet ye same to ye lords of secret counsell or comittee of estates, for granting
ane comission for her tryall and censure."
   " Sept. 1650. In respect our armye in ye feilds against ye sectaries is scattered
at Dunbar, and yt ye gentelmen and ministris of ther westerne shyres are to meet at
Kilmarnock, the prebrie appoints Mrs Allexr Dunlope and John Mauld to repaire
thither, and to concurr wth them in any good and necessary course for saiftie of the
cause and kingdorne."
   " 10th August 1653.  This day. unexpectedlie, Capitane Greene, one of the In-
glish armye, with ane partie of souldiers, invadit the presbitrie, and by violence in-
terupted their sitting, carried them out to ane house in the town, and deteined them
yr as prisoners, alledging yt all presbries were discharged, and had no power to sitt.
Therefter they being dismissed, did again conveine, and considring the greit dis-
traction of the tyms, and the uncertantie of the continuation of yr liberties appointed
the ordination of Mr William Thomson to the ministrie at Merns, to be at Merns
the morrrow, and the day to be observed as ane day of humiliatioun."
   " Primo September 1653.  Compeared Capitane John Greene, one of the In-
glishe officers, who, declaireing that he was come to sitt with the presbrie and attend
all their dyets, that he might know what they did in their meetings, did exhibit ane
warrand from Collonell Lilburne to that purpose.  The prebrie did declaire their
great dissatisfaction yrwith, and yt with their consent be sould not sitt with them,
whereupon he did forbear for the tym."
   " 25th April 1660.  Mr Hugh Peebles reports, that as was appointed he did re-
buke before the congregation Loghwinzoch, Alexander Hamilton in Kilbarchan pa-
rish, and Kathrine Blair, his wife, for scandalous conversing, eating, and drinking
wt the Lord Sempell and the rest of his Popish family now excommunicat particu-
larly at their superstitious observance of Yool, also Giles Sempell for the same fault,
and for dauncing with them at the same occasion ; item James Allason, John Gilles,
Ninian Tarbert, for profaning the Lord's day in the house of Castle-Sempill, at their
superstitious observing of Yool tyde."
   " August 18, 1664.  Robert finny parochiner in Pasley, being sumoned for his
abuse upon his marriage day, by bringing a bagpipe thorow the toune of Pasley, with
many horse, playing along to the scandal of the people, contrary to orders made for-
merly in this place against such abuses, and is appointed to be rebuked publickly be-
fore the congregation, and to pay six pounds Scots of fine for his fault.
   " Decr. 20, 1666.-Anent those within the presbytric who were in arms in the
late rebellious insurrection, the brethren report, that none to their knowledge within
the presbytrie were actually joyned with their body who were in arms, only the young
goodman of Caldwell, in the parish of Neilston, was with the Iaird of Caldwell in arms
going to these rebells, as also William Porterfield of Quarreltown, in the parish of
Pasley, now vacant, also Alexr. Porterfield, the said William his brother in the parish
of Kilphallan, now vacant also, and their names now already known and published
in the printed papers.  Two also now given up as suspected persons, who had fled
their houses, when searched for by the soldiers, in the parish of Eastwood, Gavin
PhiLsill in Pollocktoun, and Archibald Chisne, who also are already made known to
his Majestie's forces, who are endeavouring to apprehend them "
   Jany. 12, 1681.-The said day the Aets of Synod vere read, and the brethren in-
terrogat as to their observing thereof, all of them reports, that they say the Lord's
prayer, and either sings or says the doxologies. And they promise that so soon as
the country shall in any measure settle cheerfully, to go about obedience to the act of
the administration of the Lord's Supper."
   " Dec. 21, 1681.-The Moderator produces ane order, pticularlie directed to him
foom the Archb., requiring him, in presence of the remanent brethren, to administer
the oath called the Test to all schoolmasters, doctors, and chaplains within the bounds
of the presbytrie, and to report his diligence hereanent, betwixt and the first of Ja-
nuarie 1682."
  " Feb. 7, 1683.-This day ye Moderator and brethren, eonforme to ane act of sy-
nod gave into Bayly Paterson in Renfrew, ye shiref deputes substitute, ye following
list of disorderly schoolmasters within ye bounds, who have not taken the test, viz.
James Cowie in Kilbarchan, Peter Pew in Nilstoun, Mr Wm Reid in Lochwnoch,


