
	               KILMARNOCK.                              537

yards. In several places, a bed of beautiful white freestone, about
ten feet thick, is visible. Where the freestone rests on trap, it is
full of mica, and very much calcined. Several attempts have late-
ly been made in that quarter to obtain coal. Throughout the
south-west, the coal-metals alone prevail. Proceeding up Kil-
martock water, sandstone of various qualities is met with, and near
the Dean Castle, a fine bed of excellent white freestone, 40 feet
thick, has long been wrought; it is sold at 10d. per cart-load, and
affords a plentiful supply of stone for all kinds of buildings in the
town.
	A considerable quantity of fire-bricks is manufactured at the
same place; they sell at L. 4 per thousand. A little farther up, we
find greenstone similar to that found at Polbeath burn; it is dis-
tinctly visible for nearly half a mile, and in one place forms a beau-
tiful little waterfall. Along the north-west, the coal metals alone
are found; in these, balls of ironstone are frequently got, and beds
of it are often met with below them.
	Few fossil remains have been observed. Ferns are frequently met
with in the shales, and reeds in the freestone. Several specimens
of the Lepidodendron have been got in the freestone of the coal for-
mation, clearly showing that this was once a much warmer climate.
Zoophytes have been found in mountain limestone, belonging to
the tribes Encrinites, and Pentacrinites. Several species of bivalve
shells have also been met with.
	No ores, we believe, have been discovered.
	The following appears to be a correct statement regarding the
soil. "In general, it is a strong rich soil, consisting of clay, with
a mixture of sand; and near the moors, some moss. There are some
fine holms along the banks of the Irvine, consisting of sand and fine
loam brought down by the river, and left on its banks after floods."
Along the west and south, the soil is lighter than northward;
there it comes more closely in contact with the till, and of course
stiffens. The banks of the Irvine have been raised so as to pre-
vent those inundations of the neighbouring holms, which used to
be experienced annually. The system of tile-draining, which has
been very extensively introduced, has had the most beneficial effects
on the clayey soil. It is always kept dry and ready for the opera-
tions of the husbandman, and the face of the country has in con-
sequence assumed a far more rich and beautiful appearance. Coal
mines are the only sort wrought in the parish. They are situated
in the estate of His Grace the Duke of Portland, and wrought by


