            PARISH OF ROBERTON.

   PRESBYTERY OF SELKIRK, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

      THE REV.  ALEXANDER NIVISON, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Extent, Boundaries.-THE, extent of Roberton parish in length
is about 13 miles, and in breadth about 5.  It contains about 48
square miles.  It is bounded on the north by the parishes of Et-
trick, Yarrow, Ashkirk, and Selkirk; on the east, by Ashkirk and
Wilton; on the south, by Hawick, and Cavers; and on the west by
Eskdalemoor, and Ettrick.
  Topographical Appearances.-The parish is hilly; but no single
bill rises nearly to the height of the Ettrick ones on the north, or
those of Liddesdale on the south.  The most elevated is the range
to the west of the parish, upon the boundaries of Dumfries-shire,
containing the hills of Craicknioor, the Culm or Coom, (evidently
from the Latin culmen), and one of a rather conical figure, called
the Criblaw of Craick.  None of these, it is thought, much ex-
ceeds 1300 feet above the level of the sea. This range of hills
lies north and south.  The acclivities are in some places precipi-
tous, but generally moderate, and the suminits are flat.  Two other
ranges of hills, of less elevation, fall from the above, in an eastern
direction; and between these is the water and vale of Borthwick.
The one range rises on the south of Borthwick water, and declines
again towards Tiviot river; the other rises on the north side and
declines a little towards Ale-water.  The vale of Borthwick is ge-
nerally narrow.
   Meteorology.-The situation of the parish, at nearly equal dis-
tances from the east and west seas, determines in a great degree
the temperature and climate.  It has been ascertained that nearly
one-third more rain falls in this neighbourhood than in the neigh-
bourhood of Edinburgh.  July and August are the warmert and
driest months in the year, though in these we have sometimes

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr Andrew Hogg, formerly schoolmaster of Roberton, now
schoolmaster of Wilton.


