
4			BERWICKSHIRE.

members.  It must be well known to most readers of Scottish his-
tory, that about the end of July 1482, when James III. and his
army were encamped in the vicinity of Lauder, the nobles held in
the old church their celebrated conferences, which terminated in
the murder of six of the king's minions, whom they hanged over a
bridge crossing the Leader, a little below Thirlstane castle.
   Maps, &c.-A map of Lauderdale was sketched in the reign of
Charles I. by Mr Timothy Pont, son of the famous Rev. Robert
Pont, and is to be found in Blaeu's Atlas Scotiae. Since that pe-
riod, surveys of the county, including Lauderdale, have been made
by various respectable individuals.  In a large map of Berwick-
shire, surveyed in 1825 and 1826, and published by Thomas Sharp
and Company, London, the boundaries of this parish, with its prin-
cipal localities, seem to be distinctly and correctly delineated.
   Eminent Men.-Among various distinguished persons connect-
ed with the parish by residence, may be reckoned Sir John Mait-
land, Lord Thirlstane, who was successively Lord Privy Seal, Se-
cretary of State, and Chancellor of Scotland, in the reign of James
VI. As chancellor, he accompanied the King in his matrimonial
excursion to Denmark, where he became intimately acquainted
with the celebrated Tycho Brahe. He was a very able and up-
right statesman, and, by the wise exercise of his high political and
moral influence, he contributed, in no small degree, to promote the
peace and prosperity of the National Church. In the end of the
year 1595, when on his deathbed, be was visited by Andrew
Melville, along with his nephew, Bruce, one of the ministers of
Edinburgh, and the conversation which he then held with them,
was most satisfactory to his visitors. "The loss of this excellent
statesman was quickly felt by the nation, and must be viewed as a
principal means of bringing on the evils with which the church was
soon after assailed." The king, too, extremely regretted his death,
and honoured him with an epitaph of his own composition.
   It is not perhaps very generally known, that Mr James Guthrie,
the first of our Presbyterian ministers who suffered unto death after
the Restoration for his intrepid adherence to the cause of truth,
was for some time Minister of this place. He was settled at Lau-
der in 1638, appears to have been translated to Stirling in 1649,
and was martyred at Edinburgh in 1661.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are the Earl of Lauder-
dale, the Marquis of Tweeddale, Lord Maitland, Adam Fairholme,

				3


