
98                   CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

bar, Messrs Cranston, Thomson, and Jeffrey-, Proceeding on
the same advice, the trustees allowed a free admission to the cbil-
dren of the -poor of the parish of Dollar, and to all other--, whether
natives of the parish or occasional settlers, on payment of school-
fees. Counsel were also of opinion that the trustees might make
allowances to assist the more deserving of the poor scholars after
they had left school, -either in the farther prosecution of their
education, or in following any of the mechanical professions. The
trustees, therefore, set about the erection of a large public build-
ing, corresponding to the ample means they possessed, and to the
number of classes they intended to open-giving to each class a
separate classroom. For some of the more important of the
classes they appointed teachers immediately-providing temporary
accommodation for them, and the rest they added when the build-
ing was completed. The design of the building was given by
William Playfair, Esq. architect, Edinburgh. It is a Grecian
building, 186 feet in length, and 63 feet in breadth. In the
centre of the front, which looks to the west, there is an ele-
gant portico of six columns, and the top of the wall all round
is surmounted with a block course to conceal the different roofs
and chimneys. The whole of the centre of the building is occu-
pied by a great ball or library, 45J feet in length, and 45 feet in
breadth, which is lighted by a cupola in the roof, the height from
the upper part of the dome, which is supported by fluted columns,
being 45 feet to the floor. The rest of the building is occupied
kycommodious and lofty class-rooms, the trustees'room, in which
is a museum., and the janitor's house.
  The different teachers appointed by the trustees of the Dollar
Institution are as follows : A teacher of EDglisb, a teacher of
writing and Arithmetic, a teacher of Latin and Greek, a teacher
of modern languages, a teacher of drawing, a teacher of
mathematics, and also a female teacher of sewing and fancy-
work for the girls of the parish. A class for geography is like-
wise taught for six months during summer, and an infant school-
bouse.bas been added to the establishment. There is also a class
for botany taught during the summer months. The appoint-
ments of all the masters, are during the pleasure of the trus-
tees.Tbe.first arrangement, with regard to the income of the
masterswas to give each a fixed salar , with a house, for teach-
ing the poor children of the parish gratis; and they were farther
allowe,d.to exact from those pupils who were not entitled to gratis


