
		ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.                          1069

gudewives to start with for Bartle fair of Kincardine. A new order
of things has now gradually sprung up, and the dress and habits of
the people are similar to those in other rural parishes in the county.
	It may be also observed, that, fifty years ago, many a legendary
tale, blended with some historical facts respecting the parish, was
told; it is said that, at some very remote period, an irruption had
been made through the Grampians by an overwhelming host of in-
vaders; that these were assailed by the natives from the woods, rocks,
and hills, and finally routed at Knockic ; * that a line of tumuli and
cairns marks the graves of fallen Danes and northern marauders;
that Macbeth fled from Dunsinane, and maintained himself for
three years among the fastnesses of Marr; and that, in one of his
flights for life, and unattended, through Aboyne-himself exhausted
and his mare jaded-he dismounted to drink from a well situated
at the point + from which he could first see his castle of Peel Bog,
distant about two miles, and, obtaining a bit of bread from a herd
boy, asked him the name of the well, and being, told that it was
Brien (Braon), he ejaculated, "wo is me, the spell is gone, and
my doom is sealed." It is said also, that feuds and conflicts often
raged between the Forbeses and the Gordons, the Gordons and
Farquharsons; and that, after one memorable foray, orphan chil-
dren were carried towards the banks of the Spey; and that some
of their descendants are still to be found there bearing the
name of "Strathdee." It is said that the vassals of Aboyne suf-
fered in Marr's year, the 45, and in the wars of Montrose and
Dundee; and that Mackay, after "Killiecrankie," visited Strath-
dee with fire and sword; and, in forcing the pass of Ballater,
that, with hand granades, he fired the heath and burned the
forest of Culblean, encamped at Tarland, and, with other pa-
rishes, laid Aboyne under contribution. Hence the couplet,
             Wo to the day John Tam was married,
	     Culblean was burn'd, and Cromar was harried.
	Instead of listening much to such traditionary tales and imper-
fectly recorded facts, the people now take an interest in reading
standard works on history and general science, and have provided
themselves with a pretty extensive parochial library.

<FOOTNOTE>Knockice. i. e. (Gaelic) Cnochdi, derived from a little hill, and many cairns in
its neigbbourhood.
          The pass in which the well is situated is known by the name of Tilliebreen, i, e,
Sitleadh (the dh quidscent) braon-water formed rain falling on opposite hills, and
running along their base. One of the hills here alluded to is Mortlick, (the slack of
death,) on the base of which, and in a mountain pass, Macbeth now stood. Hence
the name of the hill rather than that of the well might have conjured up sad forebod-
ings to his superstitious mind.

	December 1842,


