
160                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	The unexampled popularity of Mons Meg may perhaps justify
the following brief outline of her subsequent history and travels.
From the following entry in the Treasurer's books, she appears
to have been carried by James IV., July 10, 1489, to the siege
of Dumbarton,-- "Item, to the gunners to drink-silver when they
carit Mons, by the King's commands, 18s". Mons, however,
from her enormous size and weight, proved exceedingly unmanage-
able; and after having been brought back from Dumbarton to
Edinburgh, she enjoyed an interval of eight years' inglorious re-
pose. When James, however, in 1497, sat down before Nor-
ham, the great gun was, with infinite labour and expense, convey-
ed to the siege, and some of the items regarding her transport are
amusing. The construction of a new cradle or carriage for her
seems to have been a work of great labour. Thus on July 24,
1497, we have "Item, to pyanaris to bere ye trees to be Mon's new
cradill to her at St Leonards, quhare scho lay, iiish. vid.;" and
again, July 28, "Item, for xiii stane of irne to mak graith to
Monsis new cradill, and geolokiss to ga with her, xxxsh. iiiid."
"Item, to vii wrightis for twa dayis and a half ya maid Monsis
Mons." "Item, for viii elne of canvas to be Monsis claiths to
cover her." "Item, for mare talloun to Mons." "Item, to Sir
Thomas Galbraith for paynting Monsis claiths, xiiiish." "Item,
to the minstralis that playit before Mons doune the grait, xiiiish."
	The next occasion of Meg's making a noise in the world, was
in 1548, at the nuptials of Queen Mary and the Dauphin of
France, when the following entry occurs,-- "certain pyanaris for
their labouris in raising Monss out of her lair, and for finding and
carrying her bullet after she war shot frae Waldie Muir back to
the castle of Edinburgh, a distance of two miles, 10s." On the
19th December 1650, when the Castle of Edinburgh capitulated
to the parliamentary troops, in the list of ordnance delivered by
the governor to Colonel Moncke is specially mentioned "The
great iron murderer, called Muckle Megg."
	In 1682, in firing a salute in honour of James, Duke of York,
Meg unfortunately sustained some damage, in having part of the
iron hoop next the touch-hole blown away. The disaster is thus
refered to by Robert Fergusson:
			"Oh Willawins! Mons Meg for you,
			'Twas firing cracked thy muckle mou."
	To the great grief of the inhabitants of Edinburgh, this gigan-


