
                       CROSS AND BURNESS.                      101

this respect, to get rid of, and they have so closely followed the
excellent directions which have been given them, that their fish
are acknowledged equal, if not superior, to any that come to mar-
ket.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Of the population, there are adherents of
the Established church, of all ages, in both parishes, 810. Of these
447 are communicants.
   The adherents of Dissenters of all ages are 181 ; of these, 96
communicate with the United Associate Seceders, who have their
meeting-house in Lady parish, and 3 are Anabaptists.  There is
one parish church in Cross and another in Burness, and divine
service is performed in each on the alternate Sundays.  This is a
source of great inconvenience both to minister and people.  There
are in both parishes 102 families further than two miles; 64 families
further than four miles; and 28 families further than six miles distant
from one of the churches ; and this tends much to prevent, on the
part of the people, a regular Sabbatical attendance at either place
of worship.  But supposing the people were in general able, as
they are very willing, to give a regular weekly attendance, there
would still be the serious and palpable want of church accommo-
dation, for the church of Cross has only 248 sittings, and that of
Burness, including those of the passage, 262.  To accommodate,
therefore, two-thirds of the church adherents, 292 more sittings
are awanting in Cross church, and in Burness, 278.  Indeed,
neither of the churches can accommodate even the communicants
of the establishment.  The remedy for this evil would be either
the erection of one convenient church for both parishes in a cen-
tral situation, or dividing the parishes quoad sacra, and appointing a
pastor to each.
   The manse is rather an old house, but kept in good repair by
the heritors.  It is situated in Cross parish, and there, is a glebe
of about twenty acre, with garden and offices attached.  The
other glebe in Burness parish, which is rented for L.10 or L.12,
has been already noticed.  The stipend, payable almost entirely
in money, including L.66, 7s. 4d. drawn from the Island of North
Ronaldshay, formerly, united with these parishes, amounts, with
allowance for communion elements, to L.210.
   Education.-There is only one parochial school in the island,
situated at the junction of the three parishes, and there is no other
school in Cross or Burness, though female schools are much


