
450                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   The people in general are fully alive to the benefits of educa-
tion.
   Charitable Institutions.-There are four friendly societies. Of
these, two have for their object relief to the members when laid
off work by sickness or accidents, &c. The other two are what
are called "Dead Societies," and their purpose is to provide, by
a sort of mutual insurance, the means of defraying funeral ex-
penses. The sum allowed, however, is more than sufficient, in
ordinary cases, for its nominal object, and affords, beyond this, a
seasonable supply to the family or relations of the deceased.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The poor on the permanent roll,
including children of widows, &c. amount to 51. The average
number of persons receiving occasional relief, on account of tem-
porary distress, is about 15. The allowance varies, of course, ac-
cording to circumstances, in both cases. A common allowance
to paupers on the permanent roll is 5s. or 6s. per month; in some
cases it rises to 10s. or upwards. The annual expenditure for the
poor on an average of seven years, viz. from 1836 to 1842, inclu-
sive, was,-enrolled paupers, L. 105, 15s. 31d.; occasional relief,
L. 9, 5s. 4 1/2d. The average amount of church-door collections
for this period was L. 14, 11s. 3 1/2d.; of mortcloth dues, &c. L. 2,
3s. 5 1/2d. The sum required in addition to the church-door col-
lections and mortcloth dues, being by much the greatest propor-
tion, is raised by assessment laid on according to the valued rent.
It cannot be said that there is very much remaining of the old
Scotch indisposition to seek parochial relief, nor much evidence af-
forded in this way that it is considered as degrading. Honour-
able exceptions do, however, occasionally occur. In the support
of the poor, all classes are creditably alive to the duties of private
charity, and by none are they felt in a better spirit, or discharged
with greater kindness, than by neighbours themselves in the hum-
bler walks of life, and often but a little way removed from the
condition of those with whom they are ready to share their own
scanty supplies.
   Inns.-There are two inns in the parish.-one at Burnwynd,
eight miles from Edinburgh, on the Glasgow road, and one at
Little-Vantage, on the Lanark road. There are five public-houses.
   Fuel.-The common fuel is coal. Peat is also used, but to a
very small extent, and this at the south-west extremity of the pa-
rish. The coal is brought from a very considerable distance, and
is proportionally expensive.
   May 1844.


