
     University and King's College of Aberdeen.

been issued*.  Bishop Elphinston was at that time keeper of
the privy seal: he stood high in the favour of the King, and
at all times possessed much influence in parliament: "In con-
"ciliis regni (says Leslie) non solum interfuit sed pene pr‘fuit."

     HISTORY.

   Commencement of Education.-It cannot be determined from
any of the college records, how long it was after the date of
Pope Alexander's bull of erection, before the teaching and
lectures began.  We may take it for granted that at least nine
years elapsed, as the date of Bishop Elphinston's first foun-
dation is anno 1505.  This point might have been determi-
ned with sufficient precision, if Hector Boece, when describ-
ing very particularly his polite reception, by the canons of
the cathedral of Aberdeen, on his arrival from Paris, had
thought proper to subjoin a date: for his words (vit‘ p. 2,
fol. 26,) imply, that the teaching must have begun upon his
arrival, and, as appears from his relation, with the happiest
consequences: "Exactƒ inde et perseveranti diligentiƒ effec-
"tum est, ut brevi post tempore pr‘stante disciplinƒ viri ex
"Aberdonensi universali academia prodierunt, in divinis li-
"teris, et utroque jure; permulti in philosophia."

     VOL. ULT. I

<FOOTNOTE>

*Act 5th, Parliament of King James IV, 'It is statute and ordained throu
'all the realme, that all barrones, and freeholders, that are of substance, put
'their eldest sonnes and aires to the schules, fra they be six or nine yeires of
'age, and till remain at the grammar schules quhill they be competentlie foun-
'ded, and have perfire Latine, and thereafter to remaine three yeires at the
'schules of arts and jure, swa that they may have knawledge and undestand-
'ing of the lawes: Throu the quhilks justice may remaine universally throu
'all the realme; swa that they that ar schireffs or judges ordinaris under the
'Kingis hienesse, may have knawledge to doe justice, that the puir people suld
'have na neede to seek our soveraine Lordie auditour tor ilk small injurie:
'and what barronn or freeholder of substance that holdes not his sonne at the
'schules, as said is, havand na lauchfull essoinzle, bot failzies herein sra knaw-
'ledge may be gotten thereof, he fall pay to the King the summe of twentie
'pound.'


