
26                         PEEBLES-SHIRE.

the same purpose to the sheep, in enabling them to bear the famine of
a snowy winter, as the hump upon the back does to the camel, in
empowering him to survive the still greater privations of the desert.
     Diseases.--On this head it may only be remarked, that, about
sixty or seventy years ago, ague or intermittent fever was, during
the easterly winds of spring, very common in habitations that were
situated near the level of the haughs, along the river to the east-
ward of the Leithen; but, from a cause not satisfactorily ascertain-
ed, it is now unknown.
     Hydrography--Sprinqs.--The mineral spring at Innerleithen has
become of late years greatly frequented.  It was formerly called the
Dow-well, from the circumstance, that, long before the healing virtues
of the water were discovered, pigeons from the neighbouring coun-
try resorted to it.   Had it been known in ancient times as a medi-
cinal water, without doubt the Roman Catholic clergy would have
taken advantage of the fact, and dedicated it to some saint.
     The well springs from the base of the Lee-pen, and is about 200
feet above the street of the village.  The mountain appears to be
composed of greywacke, clay-slate, and red felspar-porphyry.  Ori-
ginally the water issued at one spring, and that in no great quanti-
ty.  The ground about it was wet and miry, and on one side only
there was a form or long bench, which was used by the aged and in-
firm, who resorted to the hill.  Its celebrity, however, increased,
and a few years ago, Lord Traquair, the proprietor of the village,
erected a neat and commodious building at the mineral spring, with
a verandah in front, from which the water is served out to the visitors.
     In digging for the source of the spring (that the water might be
obtained as free as possible from any connection with the surface,)
it was found to branch in two streams of different strength.  These
were analysed in 1822 by Dr Fyfe, and a quart bottle of each was
found to contain the following ingredients: 1st stream, 36 grains,
viz. carbonate of magnesia, 5.3; muriate of lime, 9.5; muriate of
soda, 21.2 = 36.--2d stream, 60.6 grains, viz. carbonate of mag-
nesia, 10.2; muriate of lime 19.4; muriate of soda, 31. = 60.6.
The large quantity of carbonate of magnesia(seven parts in 10,000 of
water,) renders it probable that it must contain a quantity of car-
bonic acid sufficient to constitute an acidulous spring, in order
to be capable of holding the earth in solution.  These waters,
which have now rendered Innerleithen a place of fashionable re-
sort, have long been celebrated for the cure of old wounds, dis-
eases of the eyes, and for relieving stomach and bilious complaints;


