
     of Kirkoswald.

able.  The valuation of the parish, according to its present
limits, is 3903 L. 18 s. Scots.  The present rent is about
4000 L. Sterling yearly.  The shore part of the parish, com-
prehending above 4000 acres, is rented from 1 s. to 8 s.
acre.  Several farms of considerable extent, give the highest
of these rents, and many others 15 s. per acre.  The higher
grounds of the parish, to the south of the post road, are ren-
ted from 4 s. to 8 s. Forty years ago, the rent of the parish
was exceedingly low.  Farms upon the shore, which now
yield 15 s. per acre, did not give above 5 s.  In the higher
part of the parish, there is a barony, consisting of above 1100
acres, which was at that time rented at 50 L. and it now gives

<FOOTNOTE>

thriving plantations; the execution of which, together with a
new garden and hot houses is carrying on with great taste and
elegance.  Upon these accounts, this edifice is visited with plea-
sure by all persons of taste, whether residing in the country or
strangers.
   Near to the castle, and immediately under some of the build-
ings, are the coves or caves of Cullean.  There are fix in num-
ber.  Of the three towards the west, the larger has its entry
as low as high water mark, the roof is about 50 feet high; and
has the appearance as if two large rocks had fallen together,
forming a Gothic arch, though very irregular; it extends in-
wards about 200 feet, and varies in breadth.  It communicates
with the other two, which are both considerably less, but of
much the same irregular form.  Towards the east are the other
three coves, which likewise communicate with each other.  They
are nearly of the same height and figure with the former; but
their extent has not been precisely ascertained.  Whether these
coves are natural or artificial, and if artificial, what has been their
design, no tradition whatever informs us.  One circumstance, how-
ever, cannot be omitted.  To the largest of the three west-most
coves, is a door or entry, built of free-stone, with a window three
feet above the door, of the same kind of work; above both these,
there is an apartment, from which might be sent down what-
ever could annoy the assailants of the door.  This last circum-
stance is well known to take place in many of the old castles in
the country, and seems to indicate, that at least this part of, the
coves has been at one period or another, the abode of some of
the inhabitants of this country.


