
                PORT-GLASGOW.                                  73

largely taken advantage of by those for whose benefit it was de-
signed, and has in fact proved a great blessing to the community.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-Above 170 persons at an average
receive stated relief from.the parish. To each of these a weekly
allowance is given of from 9d. to 2s. a-week, according to circum-
stances, and a considerable number of them receive additional aid
to the amount of from L. 1, 5s. to L. 2 a-year, in the shape of
house rent. A large item in the expenditure is incurred by the
support of orphan children, amounting at present to above 20
in number, each of whom costs the parish nearly L. 6 in the year
for board and clothing. With a view to check intemperance
among the poor, and secure for them at,least one substantial meal
in the day, it was resolved a few years ago to try the  use of a per-
manent soup-kitchen. A commodious place was fitted up for the
purpose, where eighty quarts, at an average, of excellent broth
have been dealt out to the poor-every day, Sabbath excepted. A
ticket bearing the value of one penny entitles the pauper to a quart
of soup and a halfpenny roll of bread, which together are worth
three halfpence. Some of the poor people would prefer to have
the money at their own disposal, but they are in general well pleas-
ed; and, on the whole, the experiment has fully realized the ad-
vantages that were expected to result from it, and may be consi-
dered to have demonstrated the utility of the plan, both in regard
to comfort and economy.
  The maintenance of the poor in this parish, as in, most other
sea-port towns, is attended with a very heavy expense. For seve-
ral years past the amount of expenditure has average about
L.600 a-year. But this large sum is raised by the inhabitants
without having recourse to the aid of an assesment. With the
exception of what is derived from the interest of a small sum of
money, from the rent of a house, from charges for proclamation of
banns, and the use of a mortcloth, and some other incedental
sources of revenue,-with these trifling exceptions, the whole
amount is contributed by voluntary collections at the doors of the
churches. In the year 1834, there  was collected L.17, Os. 11 d.
church L.384, 13s. 9ld., at the chapeL of Ease, L. 17, Os. 11 1/2d.
by the Dissenters L. 8, 3s. Id. From this statement it appears
that the members of the Established Church, who constitute about
three-fourths of the church-going population, contribute nearly
49-50ths of what is required for the maintenance of the parochial
poor.


