
                     KILBARCHAN.                          373

where in our happy country, well-directed and persevering in-
dustry, with prudence, rarely fails of securing a suitable re-
turn.  The eager longing, both amongst agriculturists and
handicrafts, for emigration to the western world, as to a modern
land of promise, has of late years greatly abated, and seems now
to have died awav.  Not a few, both of individuals and families,
have returned.
                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
  The great preponderance of employment in this parish is that
of operative manufacturers and handicrafts; and in this village the
hand-loom is all but universally employed.  The unprecedentedly
flourishing state of this branch of our national industry for some
years, in the close of the last and beginning of the present cen-
tury, when in certain times 1Os. per day could be earned by a good
workman, naturally attracted to it almost the entire disposable la-
bour of such a place as this; and the rapid and steady increase is
manifest from the following statement of the results of actual enu-
meration in 1791 and 1836.

               1791. Looms in the village,                   383
                      Do. in the country,                     20

In a population of 2,506, as by Rev. Mr Maxwell's Statistics, 417

               1836. Looms in the village,                   800
                      Do. in the country,                     30

     In a population of 4806, by Government Census of 1831,  830

The latter number of hand-looms is given on the authority of the
person deputed to London by the petitioners for a " Board of
Trade," in order to protect the operatives against an undue de-
pression of wages.
  Agriculture, incomparably the most important branch of our
natural industry, though employing but a small minority of
the inhabitants of this parish, is admitted to have made a fair
progress, in this, as compared with other districts in the neigh-
bourhood.  In 1695, a survey was made of the inhabitants of
this county, with a view to the imposition of a general poll-
tax.  The original lists were in the hands of the late Dr
Boog, when the following specimens were furnished of a few
parishes differently circumstanced in respect of mechanical in-
dustry.


