
                          HUMBIE.                          101

being attracted on the one side by the mountainous range of Lam-
mermoor, and on the other by the Frith of Forth.
   Hydrography.-There are three brooks in the parish, each
having a stone bridge of one arch. All of them issue from the
hills above named, at a little distance from each, other; and on
reaching the valley, they take an easterly course,-when Keith
and Humbie streams meet a little below the church: and nearly
two miles below, they are joined by Birns-water, which from its
source forms the eastern boundary of the parish. There is abun-
dance of trout in these rivulets, some of which are of good flavour,
The rivulets have a quantity and fall of water sufficient for ma-
chinery.
   Mineralogy.-There seems to, abundance of iron ore in many
places; and there are also some appearances of coal, but none has
yet been wrought,-as the contiguous parishes abound in good coal,
and also in limestone. The former is got for 9d. the load, the lat-
ter for 1s. 8d. per boll. The soil is very various; in some places,
rich and loamy; in some, light and sandy; in others, clayey or
mossy. Still, however, by skill and industry, it yields in general
fair crops of turnip and every kind of grain.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-Of the proprietors of Whitburgh, by far the
most ancient family now resident in the parish, several were dis-
tinguished for personal strength and courage, as well as for their
liberality of disposition. Sir Adam Hepburn, a Senator of the Col-
lege of Justice, early in the seventeenth century, was highly esteem-
ed for his patriotic spirit and generous beneficence to the parish.
He built at his own expense the first bridge on Humbie-water,
which still bears his name, and the date of 1645. He also gave
in donation to the heritors to serve for a manse,-a house, which
then stood close to the church, with about three Scotch acres of
haugh and bank. Hugh, Scott of Harden, a gentleman of extensive
property and baronial hospitality, lately, succeeded to the Hep-
burns of Humbie.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, the Earl of Hopetoun;
Sir Neil Menzies, Bart.; Hugh Scott, Esq. of Harden,; and Andrew
Fletcher, Esq. of Saltoun.
   Parochial Registers.-In former times, the parochial registers
were ver ill kept,-some of them having been entirely lost or de-
stroyed; they do not reach further back than l00 years.




