
                          ALFORD.                         521

   The teacher has not at present the legal accommodation ; but is
as well provided for by the heritors, and with his own consent, in
an excellent farm-house, with a proper teaching room near it,
somewhat more centrical for the parish than the church.
   All the inhabitants have learnt to read and write, and always
have been, and now are, alive to the benefits of education.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-The parish makes a yearly
collection for the Infirmary at Aberdeen, and so possesses the right
of sending patients there.  It collects also for a pauper lunatic
fund, at present in the course of being established under the ma-
nagement of the presbytery.  There vere two Friendly Societies in
the parish; but, having felt annoyed by the act 1828 in some man-
ner that we do not pretend to explain, the most important of them
is dissolved.  It is much to be regretted that anything should
have disconcerted these voluntary associations; for they certainly
here served to ward off pauperism from not a few persons.  Their
rates might not have been judiciously established at first; but, with
the usual prudence of the people, they had introduced clauses in
their regulations, that their expenditure should be limited by their
income, which would, ultimately have secured their stability and
efliciency.  At present all spirit for such societies is quite extin-
guished, under the apprehension that the laws regarding them may
be again changed.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor re-
ceiving Parochial aid is 7. chiefly aged females.  The average
sum given to each cannot easily be stated, as the allowances vary
continually, according to circumstances carefully ascertained every
half year by the kirk-session.
   The sums for their relief are yearly:

<TABLE>
Collections in the church.  .          .          .            .	       L. 27 10  0
Interest of L. 200 legacies, after deducting L. 2 of one legacy left, to
   the schoolmaster of the parish,     .         .         .           .     6  0  0
Interest of L. 130, gradually saved,	      .       .          .         5  4  0
									                   -----------
									                   L. 38 14  0

   The L.130 form a fund, to which the session, with consent of
the heritors, can have recourse for supplying the wants of a more
numerous poor, who would require aid in any year of great scar-
city.
   A plan, adopted by the inhabitants, for providing for peculiar
cases of distress, has succeeded so well, that it deserves to be de-
scribed.
   When any great loss has overtaken a poor family, loss by


