
                             DALGETY.                           187

salt water at flood tides into a large reservoir, which contains as
much water as is necessary for a week's consumption. This com-
pletely secures the deposition of all mud and sand, so that the water
becomes quite pure before it is used for making salt. There are
large salt pans, which make annually about 30,000 bushels, the
sales of which amount to about L. 1600.
  Harbours.-The harbour at St David's seems originally to have
been very indifferently constructed, as appears from the remains of
the old pier. Within these four years, the proprietor, Sir Philip
Durham, has made great improvements, at an expense of nearly
L. 2000, so that vessels of 450 to 500 tons burddn can come in and
load with safety, and command from seventeen to eighteen feet of
water. These extensive additions were much wanted, without which
it would have been impossible to have effected the present exten-
sive sales. All that is now wanting is the finishing of the new railway to
make Fordel colliery, with the harbour of St David's, one of the most
complete coal-works in Scotland. The annual circulation of money
at the Fordel and Cuttlehill c-ollieries, and at the salt-works at St
David's may be estimated at nearly L. 22,000. The number of
men, women, and children who derive their support from the above
works exceeds 800, or nearly two-thirds of the whole parish. When
we consider the various advantages of which such works are pro-
ductive to the parish, and to the neighbourbood, they reflect the
highest honour on their benevolent proprietor, who for many years
has received little emolument from them. The number of houses
occupied by the families of work-people belonging to the colleiry
is about 130. The number of men employed is 100; unmar-
ried men and boys, 186; women and girls, 120; making a total
of 536, actually employed. This number is independent of those
who are engaged in the shipping of coals, in the salt-works, and
in driving waggons, which require upwards of 50 horses.
  These people are paid every fourteen days. Their wages are
very good; a collier, when the work is going on well, can earn about
3s. per day. They have likewise very comfortable houses and
gardens, which are kept up at the expense of the proprietor. The
only fossil remains found in the strata are some simple petrifac-
tions of a species of fern now extinct. There  are also some bi-
valves, and other shells amongst the argillaceous schistus. In the
upper part of the parish, there are frequently found trunks of trees,
next to the strata beneath the moss, petrified into a soft sandstone;


