
                            TARBAT.                          463

found in great numbers from May till August, and sold to vessels
employed in collecting them for the London market. The fishermen
are, in general, industrious and frugal in their habits. Many
of them have good houses, and there are a few comparatively
wealthy. The only vessel belonging to the place is the property
of a fisherman. She is quite new, and cost L. 700.
   Remarks on the Agricultural state of the Parish since the year
1798.-At the commencement of this period, the parish of Tarbat
may be said to have been among the farthest back in the
county, with respect to modern husbandry. There was neither
grass, turnips, nor wheat sown in any part of the parish, except
at the place of Geanies and a little at Bindal. All farming implements
were of the rudest description. The only carts to be
seen, except at the place above-mentioned, were what are called
tumblers, or basket carts. The plough had almost no iron about
it; and the usual price for making one was two pecks of oats, the
materials being always, furnished by the farmer. It was generally
drawn by from ten to fourteen oxen, cows, or horses, with the
whole family in attendance; and in the case of small crofts,
with the united cattle, ploughmen, and drivers of two or three
families, whose deafening clamours may be faintly conceived
by those who disturb the inhabitants of a well-stocked rookery.
The corn-stacks were generally three in number; one for the
laird, one for seed and sale, aud one for family use : the barn
was filled in the first place. In the case of the larger farms, a
stack sometimes consisted of as much as sixty bolls of bear, with
twenty of pease on the top, and was never thatched,-the pease
being considered sufficient protection from all injury.
   There were no roads in the parish, nor any harbour on the
coast at which grain could be shipped. The village of Portmaholmack,
in which there are at present 400 souls, consisted then
of three houses and two storehouses for receiving rents, which
were all paid in oatmeal and bear.
   The peasantry were a quiet, decent, industrious people, ready
to learn, and of exemplary sobriety, honesty, and piety. Their
dress, which was very simple, was almost all home-made. In reference
to which, it may be worth while mentioning, that even at
church, when, in their best robes, they had among  them, except
those who came from the place of Geanies, only six hats, and an
equal number of printed gowns; yet they always appeared clean
and respectable.


