
                               ARDCHATTAN.                    471

     starive crystals are sometimes clear and colourless, at other times
     of a dark and yellowish hue; and by lapidaries, they are consi-
     dered not inferior to those found in the Grampians, and well known
     by the name of Cairngorms.
       Ben-nan-aighean, or "the mountain of the heifers," lies south-
     east of the former, and its swelling sides and peering top are seen
     to most advantage when viewed from near to the Glen-etive chapel.
     Of great height, even among these high mountains, it yields but
     very indifferent pasture; nor is there a single particle of vegetation
     to be met with after ascending half-way up to its granite peak.
     As in the case of Ben-starive, rock-crystals are found about its
     base, and in the channels of its many streams.
       Ben-chaorach, or "the mountain of the sheep," rises in close
     proximity to Ben-starive.  Inferior to the latter in altitude and
     extent, it is yet a nobly-shaped mountain, and, as the name im-
     ports, seems to have been always considered well adapted for pas-
     turing the fleecy race.
       Ben-ketlan is situated to the north of Ben-chaorach, exceeds
     it in height and in the beauty of its outline, and, what most prac-
     tical men will be disposed to regard as of at least equal importance,
     excels it also in productive qualities.  The Alt-chetlan stream
     forms its boundary on the one hand, and Alt-chaoran on the other.
       We now come to the two most striking of all the masses in this
     wilderness of mountains, those to which the significant names of
     Buachail Etive, or "the keepers of Etive," have been given.
     These mountains may be seen in the distance by the traveller, soon
     after he has left Bunawe, but they assume a bolder aspect in pro-
     portion as they are approached; and, a little beyond the termina-
     tion of the loch, they seem to frown in solemn sullenness on the
     puny mortals who venture to encroach on the solitudes over which
     they have for ages so patiently kept watch. They are distinguished
     by the names of the greater and the lesser, or Buachail-mor and
     Buachail-beg, not so much from their comparative elevation as
     from their extent; the former stretching eastward for six or seven
     miles till near to "King's House," and terminating in that direc-
     tion as precipitously as towards Loch-etive, while the Buachail-
     beg does not extend to more than half that distance.  Neither of
     them is supposed to be less than 3000 feet in height.
       Ben-veedan, distinguished also by the adjunct of "Nambian,"
     or "of the deer skins," from the many deer killed there, is sepa-
     rated from Buachail-beg by the "l/a1rig", or "mountain pass" of


