

120                          SHETLAND

for sowens. There is another kind of meal, called " burstane,"
prepared by drying the grain very hard in a pot.  This is usually
ground on the quern or hand-mill.
   The price of seed-oats is from 9d. to 1s. per stone of 17 pounds;
and the price of meal is generally from 1s. 6d. to 2s. for the same
weight.  The merchants, when taking meal in barter for their
articles, usually allow 1d. per pound.
   Bear or Big.-Bear or big is generally cultivated in preference
to barley, being esteemed more hardy, and less liable to be shaken.
There are two kinds of bear, one having four rows of grain on the
stalk, and the other having six.   This latter kind is much shorter
in the head than the former.  Bear is prepared for meal in the
same way as oats; but it is allowed to cool, after being taken off
the kiln, before it is rubbed.  Seed-bear is sold from 10d. to 1s.
3d. per stone of 17 pounds; and bear-meal from 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d.
per stone.  The manure of the bear-land is always prepared dur-
ing the previous summer, so that it is allowed to rot for eight or
ten months, before it is used; and, instead of being laid on the
top of the delved ground, it is delved under.
   Wheat.-Wheat is a grain which has very seldom been attempt-
ed to be raised in the parish.  In 1821, a small quantity of spring
wheat was sowed on the glebe, which strawed most abundantly,
but was light in the grain.  The following spring, another trial
was made, with seed from the former year's produce; but still a
light crop as to grain, though the straw was abundant.  More
sun, less fog, and a longer summer are required, before wheat
crops can be cultivated with any prospect of success.
   Cabbage, &c.-Cabbage, turnips, carrots, &c. thrive well in
the gardens, but have never been cultivated to any extent in
the fields.  Cabbage are used as food for both man and beast,
and considerable quantities of them are raised.  Some families
plant upwards of 3000.  They are all of the late or winter cab-
bage, and their cultivation is confined entirely to the yards or
gardens.  Turnips of every description seem to agree well with
the soil and climate; but when a few of them are sowed in the
fields, they must be taken up when the other crops are taken into
the barn-yard.  Carrots, &c. come to great perfection, and are
particularly well flavoured.  The want of enclosures, however,
prevents the cultivation of these and other crops, which might be
raised with advantage.
  Rotation of Crops.-Such a thing as a rotation of crops has



