
190                        ARGYLESHIRE.

want of roads, which renders communication with the parish on
the east or mainland side almost impracticable.  There are no
roads.  The only approximation to a road is along the Sound of
Mull, and of this line there are not above five continuous miles
on which even a cart can be driven with safety.  The interior is
pathless.  How the country should thus have remained, in so im-
portant a respect, in the rear of every other, it is unnecessary here
to mention, further, than to observe that the Government grant, so
beneficial elsewhere, was not accepted of under the stipulation an-
nexed to it; and that the county line, as it is termed, does not extend
to or embrace this parish.  Various lines have been surveyed, all of
them perhaps very good.  Since this engineering process com-
menced, steam navigation has been introduced, and railroads have
followed. There is, however the less cause to complain, as the prin-
cipal streams have of late years been supplied with very substan-
tial bridges.  Even in this respect, however, " much remains
to do."
   There are several safe anchorages alone, the coasts.  Ardtor-
nish, wholly free from shoals or rocks, presents, especially with
north and north-westerly winds, a safe anchorage.  The entrance to
Lochalin is narrow, and forlarge vessels especially, at certain periods
of the tide, which runs there with great rapidity, somewhat shallow;
but the loch must still be classed among the best harbours.  Un-
derneath the village, a substantial pier has been constructed by the
proprietor.  Onwards to the north, there are several safe creeks
and inlets for small craft, as also bays which, in quarters less fa-
voured, would be considered very desirable places of resort.
Perhaps, however, the best harbour in the parish is that formerly
referred to, Drimbuy loch.  It is somewhat out of the ordinary tract,
but would prove, if well known, a safe retreat to many a tempest-
tossed vessel, prevented by south-westerly gales from taking the
bay of Tobermory, or, as has sometimes happened, by these gales,
blown out of that anchorage, safe and commodious though it con-
fessedly is.  Neither Drimbuy, however, nor yet the other excel-
lent barbours in the opposite side of Loch Suinart are, it is under-
stood, laid down in ordinary charts,-a culpable omission (not
easily accounted for) on the part of those having the charge of
these useful publications.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish consists of the two parishes of
Kilcalumkill and Kilumtaith, united, it is believed, shortly after the
Reformation.  The incumbent officiates alternately at two places


