
                             ABERLOUR.                         115

  Spey, has likewise, as well as the difference of climate, formerly men-
  tioned, a marked effect on the period and continuance of vegetation.
  In the latter situation, where the soil is comparatively lightand sandy,
  vegetation is early, but the growth of grass, &c. generally begins
  to fail by midsummer; whereas in the more retentive soil of Glen-
  rinnes, vegetation is but partial until the day is longest; but here
  the grazing continues good in autumn, when the fields on Spey side
  are comparatively bare.
     Zoology.-The migratory birds, the cuckoo, lapwing, and swal-
  low, make their appearance here at stated seasons during spring and
  summer and disappear towards autumn, sometimes a little earlier
  or later, according to the comparative mildness of the season. The
  woodcock, too, generally appears in autumn, and disappears again
  about the end of April.  Roe-deer may be found on the hill of
  Carron, and black-cock may be generally found there, although
  not very numerous.  Partridges, plover, grouse, and hares abound
  on the hills of the parish, particularly Benrinnes, which is under-
  stood to be the nursery of game, to the moors of the surrounding
  country, to a great distance.  There are also snipes and wild ducks
  to be found in the vale of Glenrinnes.  White hares, ptarmigans,
  and eagles are sometimes seen on the top of Benrinnes.  Foxes
  and wild cats still exist in the parish, but are becoming more, rare
     There is good salmon and trout fishing in the Spey and Fid-
  dich.  Several pools in the former opposite to this parish are sup-
  posed to equal any other, for rod-fishing, in the whole course of that
  river.
     The fishing commences on the 1st of February, and closes on
  the 14th September; and a little after the latter period, the fish
  come up for spawning, and, sometime before the former, they re-
  turn again to the sea.
     During the time of spawning, a small bird called the water-cock
  abounds in the Spey and its tributaries, which is considered very
  destructive in diving and picking up the spawn.
     Formerly any person, who succeeded in killing one of these birds,
  was allowed, as a reward, the privilege of fishing in the close sea-
  son; but, for a long time back, this has been lost sight of.
     Plantations.-Tbere are several thriving plantations of firs on
  the hilly parts of the districts of Aberlour, Allachie, and Carron,
  with some elm and ash trees nearer the, river, the banks of which
  are, in many parts, covered with birch of a remarkable size.


