
                          DUNNET.                         39

yard: " Here lies Margaret Wallace, daughter of William Wal-
lace, who was murdered by Alexander Calder, son of Alexander
Calder, in Dunnet, because he could not have her in marriage;
August 29, in the year of God 1635." There is still a tra-
dition that the murder was committed on a Sunday morning,
and that the murderer, by fleeing to Orkney, escaped punish-
ment.
   Land-owners.-The parish is divided into three properties, be-
twixt James Traill, Esq. of. Ratter; William Sinclair, Esq. of
Freswick ; and the Kirk-session.  The valued rent is L. 2309,
12s. 6d.  Scots, and the real rent about L. 3600.
    The average of births and baptisms for the last seven years has been 61
                   marriages for the same period has been       -      - 11
   There has not been a register of deaths or burials kept in the
parish.  Many of those whose forefathers, resided in the neigh-
bouring parishes have been buried with them, and many from
the neighbouring parishes have, for a similar reason, been buried
here.
  Antiquities.-Vestiges of three Roman Catholic chapels are still
visible.  One of them was situated at Dunnet- Head, and is supposed
to have been a place of penance.  There are a number of what are
called Pictish houses over the parish.  One of these at Ham is still
pretty entire.  They are supposed by Pennant to have been built
by the Danes, who at one time possessed all the lower district of
the county.  Their construction seems to have been a circular
room in the centre, contracting at the top like a bottle, by the pro-
jection of one stone over another, with a number of out-buildings
or cells all around.  A doorway and passage, covered with strong
lintels of stone, seem to have led into the contre apartment.
There is seldom any thing discovered in then when opened, ex-,
cept deer horns, bones, and shells, and occasionally a quern
stone.  They are uniformly situated in the best land, which leads
us to suppose they were the first settlements for cultivation
in the county.  Another peculiarity is, that there are always
several of them to be seen from the one you stand upon.  This may
have been for mutual alarm.  There are tumuli on all the prin-
cipal heights in the parish, chiefly composed of small stones, which
have evidently been in the fire. We are led to suppose they were
beacons. There is one on the highest point of Dunnet-Head,
one on the Hill of Barrock, and one on the Hill of Greenland.
   The principal building in the parish is the lighthouse, on


