
     of Little Dunkeld.

They are chiefly considered on account of the straw they pro-
duce, and as a meliorating crop for the land.
   The cultivation of artificial grasses has been hitherto little
practised; but great numbers of the farmers are now making
trials of them, and a general eagerness for these crops begins
to show itself.  Some few have adopted them into their scheme
of husbandry, and not one who has begun the practice would
be persuaded to quit it.  An acre laid down with 20 lb. of red
clover and a bushel of rye grass, will yield for the first crop
about 300 stone of hay, and a considerable second crop the
same season, for green feeding in the stall, if 25 bolls of lime
shells have been applied.  All the land in the parish is favour-
able to the growth of turnips.  When properly thinned, kept
clean and well dressed, the roots at an average, over a whole
field, will weigh 6 lb. avoirdupoise.  This vegetable will very
seldom outlive the severity of the winter in open air, but may
be saved by laying it up in a dry house or shed about the end
of October.  The residing heritors are very laudably setting an
example before the tenants with respect to both these crops;
Mr Stewart of Dalguise in particular, gives them a place in a
regular rotation of cropping, which he is pursuing with judge-
ment and perseverance, and much to his own emolument.
The eyes of all the farmers round him are eagerly fixed upon
his practice.
   There is no summer fallow used here, but in the way of
horse-hoed crops.  So far as the destruction of weeds, espe-
cially annuals, is the end of a fallow, it is effectually attained
by the horse hoeing of turnip and potatoes.
   This last root has proved more beneficial to the country than
perhaps any other production of the land, lint excepted.  It
has saved the tenants from the ruinous necessity of purchasing
meal for their families to a prodigious amount.  It is not above
22 years since potatoes were introduced into the field, and cul-

     2


