
           744                         PERTHSHIRE.

           if clayish generally Angus-shire oats; and if very inferior, Irish
           oats.  The English barley is generally sown.
              Draining has been carried on to a considerable extent, but em-
           banktnent might still be prosecuted in the western district of the
           parish to much advantage.  The state of farm buildings and en-
           closures has extremely improved within the last thirty or forty
           years; but there is still considerable room for further advances in
           these respects, in some parts of the parish.  The general duration
           of leases is nineteen years.  On the whole, these parishes are in a
           very thriving state as regards agricultural interests and operations,
           and this must certainly be ascribed in a great degree to the en-
           couragement afforded, and the example exhibited by the landed
           proprietors of the district.
              Quarries.--There is one quarry of excellent gray freestone,
           not, however, easily wrought, but admitting a fine polish.  There
           are several other quarries of freestone, but fit only for rubble vork.
           A slate quarry has been recently opened on Clathick property.

                               V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
              Markets.--There is no market-town or any village in these pa-
           rishes.  But at Crieff there is a market hold every Thursday,
           which is within half a mile of the east end of Monivaird; and an-
           other every Wednesday at Comrie, which is within a few hundred
           yards of the west end.
              Means of Communication.--Two excellent turnpike roads run
           through these parishes between Crieff and Comrie, each about
           six miles in length, the one line through Monivaird parish on the
           north side of the Earn, the other through Strowan parish, on the
           south side of the same river.  No mail or stage-coaches travel on
           these roads.  A runner carrying the mail passes every morning
           along the north line from Crieff to Comrie, and returns every, af-
           ternoon.  Two or three carriers also pass through, three or four
           times every week, on their way to or from Crieff, Perth, &c.
           There are five or six stone bridges in these parishes, or connect-
           ing them with the adjoining, all of which, with the fences, are in
           good repair.
              Ecclesiastical State.--Little is known regarding the ancient ec-
           clesiastical state of these parishes.  During the prevalence of Po-
           pery in Scotland, it would appear that Monivaird and Strowan
           were separate and distinct parishes, as it is stated in the former
           Statistical Account that the Earl of Strathearn, in the beginning
           of the thirteenth century, made a grant of the Church of St Ser-
					3


