
672                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

dents might participate in the accommodation, but the plan was
never put in practice.
   Meanwhile the seminary continued to increase in reputation
and in the number of students, while the liberality of the Govern-
ment and the contributions and donations of individuals added
considerably to its funds.  Additional professors were gradually
appointed.  In 1620 there were seven including the principal; in
1708 these were increased to fifteen; and from that period to the
present, the number has been increased to thirty two.
   In 1685, Sir Robert Sibbald was appointed professor of medi-
cine in the university.  But it was not till some years afterwards
that the fame of this seminary as a medical school was establish-
ed by the energies of the Monros, and supported and increased
by the eminent talents of Cullen, Black, Gregory, and others.
   In 1721, Dr Alexander Monro, Primus, while yet a very young
man, was appointed profersor of anatomy, and, other four professors
being appointed to the several departments of the healing art, a
regular course of medical education was begun; which in a short
time became celebrated throughout Europe.  The institution of
the Royal Infirmary about this time also added to the utility of the
medical school.
   Nor were the chairs of the physical sciences, at this period, less
ably filled.  James Gregory, the inventor of the reflecting tele-
scope, was professor of mathematics; and he was succeeded by his
two nephews of the same name, who first taught the Newtonian
philosophy in Scotland.  The celebrated Maclaurin was also one
of the professors, and he was succeeded by Playfair and Leslie.
Natural history first began to be taught by Drs Ramsay and
Walker; and a professorship of agriculture was added at a later
period.
  The professorship of public law was first instituted in 1707:
soom afterwards followed professorships of Civil and Scotch law;
and a class of Conveyancing was established in 1825.
   With the extension of professorships and the rapid increase in
the number of students, the old College buildings were found to
be too small for the required accommodation.  Many of the class-
rooms were enlarged several times; but the still increasing influx
of students rendered new buildings indispensable.
   In 1763, the idea of a new building for the tniversity was agi-
tated, and public subscriptions were commented for this purpose;
but nothing was accomplished till 1789, when a considerable sum
                              4

