 
1112                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

ancient family of Irvine of Drum. They continued in possession
of the Irvines for about a century; and it may deserve mention,
that Katharine, daughter of Alexander Irvine of Lenturk, was the
wife of the famous Robert Gordon of Straloch, by whom he had
eleven sons and six daughters; the fifth son being James Gordon,
parson of Rothiemay, author of a "History of Scots Affairs" from
1637 to 1641, and of "A Description of both Towns of Aber-
deen,"with a map thereof, which he delivered to the town-coun-
cil on the 16th October 1661; and in consideration "that he had
been at great paines in draughting" it "upon ane meikle cairt of
paper," and that it was "weill done," they ordained him to re-
ceive "ane silver piece or cup wechtand twentie unce, and ane
silk hatt, with ane silk gown to his bedfellow." Both these works
have lately been printed for the Spalding Club.* About the mid-
dle of the eighteenth century, Lynturk had come into the posses-
sion of Gordon of Cairnfield. It was purchased from that family
in 1816 by Peter M'Combie, late merchant in Aberdeen; and by
him it was left to his nephew, William M'Combie, Esq. the pre-
sent proprietor.
    Cushnie.-In 1222, a person of the name of Adam de Cusse-
nin is a witness to a deed of the Earl of Mar; and he probably
derived his surname from the lands conferred upon him, accord-
ing to the custom of that time. Nisbet states, that he had seen
a charter of Hugh de Abernethy of the lands of "Owrebenchery"
to William de Federeth, in the reign of Alexander III. If this be
the same with 'Corbanchory,' in the barony of Cushnie, which
seems very probable, it would serve to connect the Abernethies
with the Leslies as proprietors of Cushnie. For, in the reign of
Robert I. Alexander de Abernethy left three daughters co-
heiresses, one of whom was married to Norman de Lesly, and
brought to him the barony of Ballinbreich,+ in which Cushnie is
often said to be by annexation; and we find Andrew de Lesly in
possession of the barony of Cusheny in 1374, when a grant of his
of the lands of Culmelly and Ald Culmelly to Bernard de Ker-
gyll was confirmed by Robert II. Again, in 1390, Robert III.
granted a charter to Norman de Lesly, son of Andrew, of the ba-
rony of Cussehene, with other lands.f++ These were the progeni-
tors of the Earls of Rothes, and the lands of Cushnie appear to
have remained in their possession till the early part of the fifteenth

<FOOTNOTE>* Gordon's Scots Affairs, Vol. i. pp. Pref 29, lxiii.
    + Jamieson's Culdees, pp. 128, 129.        + Reg. Mag. Sigilli, pp. 100, 187.


