
     of Cluny.

   Rivulets and Improvements.-No large river runs through
the parish, but the brooks and rivulets abound in trouts, pike,
and eels.  And the large rivulet or burn of Cluny, breeds pearls.
Some years ago, a Jew employed people to fish them, and a
great many were got, some of them large and of a good wa-
ter, which were carried to London to be disposed of.
   Improvements are extensively carrying on by the two prin-
cipal heritors of the district, Mr Gordon of Cluny, one of
the Barons of his Majesty's Exchequer, and Miss Frazer of
Castle Frazer; the former has inclosed 200 acres of land
about his house, partly with hedge and ditch, and beautiful
belts or stripes of planting, partly with stone dykes, and part-
ly with ditches.  He has also planted 200 acres of barren

<FOOTNOTE>

gether with the manufacturers at Aberdeen, and the decrease of
subtenants distress the farmers much for want of servants.  And
even gentlemen find it difficult to get hands to carry on their
improvements; but this evil, like many others, will probably
cure itself.  It will probably oblige the farmers to give up
with the old husbandry, which required many hands, and to
betake themselves to the new, which requires fewer hands, and
yet produces more corn.  The dress of all the country people
in the district was, some years ago, both for men and women,
of cloth made of their own sheep wool, Kilmarnock or Dundee
bonnets, and shoes of leather tanned by themselves.  Then every
servant lad and maid had a quey or steer, sometimes two, and
a score or more of sheep, to enable them to marry, and to be-
gin the world with.  Now every servant lad almost, must have
his Sunday's coat of English broad cloth, a vest and breeches of
Manchester cotton, a high crowned hat, and watch in his pocket.
The servant maids are dressed in poplins, muffins, lawns, and
ribbons.  And both sexes have little else than finery to enter
the world with, which occasions marriage to be delayed longer
than formerly, and often brings distress along with it.  How
devoutly, therefore, is it to be wished, that the partriotic la-
bours of the Wool Society at Edinburgh, for meliorating this
breed of sheep, and the quality as well as quantity of wool, may
speedily succeed, and the benefits generally prevail over the na-
tion.  By this means, large sums would be kept in the country,
which are now sent out of it for apparel, and the human species
also be multiplied.


