
114                                SHETLAND.


at Sand in Sandsting, and anothe at Twalt in Aithsting. The minister
oficiated at each every alternate Sabbath. The present kirk was

kings, it was named a halbert, from the Teutonic, hale, a court, and barde, an axe.
In the true spirit, therefore, of archaiological reasoning, it may be pronounced that
the blade of this variety of the Shetland steinbarte and the hypothetical handle to
which it is fastened, constitute the rude form of the northern halbert.
The blades of steiiibartes are very abundantly found in Shetiland. Not unfreqnent.
ly, several of them are discovered buried together, thus indicating a little armoury,
from which a number of weapons migbt he distributed on an emergency, by the hand
of some chief to a small band of natives met together, on the alarm ofcommon danger.
Assemblages of these weapons have been found in the parishes of Walls, of Delting,
and in the Island of Unst. In Northmavine, says Mr Low of Orkney, seven were
discovered under ground, disposed in a circular arrangement, with the points of each
directed towards the centre of the ring:-it is a pity tbat the number of these weapons
was not nine, corresponding to the nine wounds of a lance in the form of a circle,
which the deified Scandinavian hero Odin gave himself, when by an act of suicide,
he showed an example of death to his surrounding followers. At any rate, the
circular arrangement of the weapons remains, indicative of a mystical allusion, and
that is quite sufficient to provoke an antiquarian inference.
Regarding the people by whom these stone-axes were used, the natives of Shetland
have not the least tradition, and this circumstance is a proof of their great antiquity.
They are supposed to have dropt from the clouds, endowed with the power of protecting
the houses in which they are preserved from the effects of thunder; hence
they are commonly named thunder-bolts, &c.-Iter ii. Some of the stone-axes, as
Dr Hibbert observes, are of green porphyry, but I have seen some of them formed
out of are markably compact grey-coloured stone. And even the green porphyry in
some of them, from a particular chemical action to which they have been exposed,
have, in a great measure, lost their distinguishing tint, and become of a whitish grey-
colour. I have specimens of the stone-axe of various dimensions, from 5 1/2 inches to
6, 8, 10, and 15 inches in length. The cutting edge of the smallest is two inches,
and o the largest 3 1/2 inches broad; and they gradually taper to a point at the opposite
cremity. All the specimens in my possession are convex on both sides, but
more so on the one side than on the other.
I have some steinbartes of an oval figure, and others of an heart-shape, with the
                 apex considerably shortened, both formed of the two kinds of stone above mentioned.
                 The largest of the oval ones is 8 1/2 inches long, and 4 inches deep. The cutting edge
                 extends to two-thirds of its circumference, and the remaining third is rounded off,
                 apparently for the purpose of holding in the hand. The heart-shaped one bag a cutting
		 edge in every part. I have one different in shape from either of these two; it
                 describes almost a semicircle on the one end, and draws towards a point at the other.
                 The semicircle, and as far as the point have cutting edges; the back is half an inch
                 thick, nearly straight, and rounded off. Several stone axes, on removing the surface
                 of the ground, were found lying together, a short time ago, within the dikes of Stonadale.
                    It has been maintained, that the larger steinbartes were used as warlike weapons.
                 This may have been the case; but that they were inserted in an haft or handle, appears
		 to me very doubtful. From their tapering shape, no thong could have secured
	         them in such a position, and having no neck which the handle might grasp, the act
                 of lifting it to give a blow, would even be sufficient to cause it slip from its place.
                    Neither is any proof to be deduced from the appearance of the thin and broad-
                 shaped steinbartes, that they ever were use, as halberts. To have rendered them efficient
		 as a weapon of war, not only must the haft have been grooved, but there
                 ought also to have been a corresponding groove in the steinbarte, to retain it in its
                 place, something after the manner of dove-tailing in wood. As there are no marks
                 indicating this to have been the case, the steinbarte ought to have been perforated,
                 that it might have been firmly secured in the groove of the handle.
                 <FOOTNOTE>The larger steinbarte may have been used both as an offensive and a defensive weapon;
                 either by throwing it from the hand, or striking with it, when the combatants
	         came to close quarters-and the smaller steinbarte, it is probable, was formerly used
                 for domestic purposes, and held a similar place in the eighth or ninth century, which
                 a knife does in the nineteenth. That they are a very ancient instrument is without


