
             CRAIGNISH.                         53

the Marquis of Athole's men having been defeated by the natives
and drowned in the bay, while endeavouring to escape.  This
nobleman, having been employed in 1685 to suppress Argyle's in-
surrection, ravaged a great part of Argyleshire, and treated with
barbarous severity all the families of distinction who adhered to-
the interests of the unfortunate Earl, and more especially those
who bore the name of Campbell. Craignish, whose principal
proprietors were of that name, suffered severely from the inflic-
tions of his followers, and the inhabitants still relate anecdotes,
handed down by tradition, of their cruelties.
   Land-owners.--Of these the chief are, Captain Donald Camp-
bell, R.N. of Barbreck; John McDougall, Esq. of Lunga; and
Colin Campbell, Esq. of Jura.
   Parochial Registers.--These consist of the kirk-session record,
and the register of births, baptisms, and marriages.  The earliest
date of the kirk-session record is the 5th February 1745; and
that of the first entry in the register of births, baptisms, and mar-
riages, is the 7th June 1756.  The latter was not regularly kept
until 1791.  From that period to the present it has been cor-
rectly kept.
    Antiquities.--Several rude monuments, erected to commemo-
rate persons of distinction, are observable in many parts of the pa-
rish. Of these, the principal are the grey stones, already noticed,
as standing, in the valley of Barbreck.  Graves of about three and
a-half feet long, composed of flags nicely adjusted, and covered
with a massive stone, have often been met with, and upon being,
opened have been found to contain rude terra cotta vases, in which
the ashes of the dead were deposited.
   The ruins of two religious houses can still be traced. Of one
of these indeed, few vestiges remain.  It stood near the shore
a little to the north-east of the present church, and from its
being still called by the natives a house of prayer, it seems to
have been a Popish oratory. On a sloping field a little to the
west of it, a Popish priest was interred.  The other religious house
appears to have been the parish chapel.  Its walls are still stand-
ing.  It is situated on the eastern side of the parish, and about a
mile and a half from its southern extremity.  Around it lies the
principal burying ground.
   The vestiges of eleven Danish forts are also to be traced.  They
are, in general, small, built on circular eminences, and adapted to
the form of their site.  Their dimensions, as stated in the former


