
                      CRIEFF.                                487

nion, seems calculated to promote the progress of industry, and,
so far as regards the peculiarities of this distatic, the comfort and
happiness nf the labouring classes.  It is this : Let the popula-
tion be proportioned to what is required for the due management                  nt
of the land, and for the demand for labour, whether in-door or out-
door, existing or likely to exist among us; and with; matters in
this healty state, ntr valuable and institutions, religious, educational
and agricultural, improved and improving as they daily are, will
accomplish all else desirable.
   And now I close these Statistical Iucubations by saying, in be-
hall of my own section of the country, as -our Scottish classic said
in behalf of the country at large,
                 "Semper par the menis
                 Colat ; semper in wdibus
                 Tuis copla dextera
                 Large munera fundat--BVCHANAN,

June 1838

                         PARISH OF CRIEFF.

         PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER,SYNOD OF PERTH ANDSTTERLITE

                  THE REV. WILLIAM LAING, MINISTER.
                  JAMES FERGUSSO, ASSISTANT.*


       L-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Seenery, &c.-It is a very common opinion that this
name of the town and parish of Crieff is derived from  the Guelie
word Oeacbh, a tree; though nome have thought it probable that
it comes from Crybha Croic, the "haunch or side of the hill" on
which the town in built
   The town of Crieff hs situate near the foot of the Grampians,
about 17 miles west from Perth, and 22 north from Stirring. It
is the second in importance in Porthshire. It takes the rauk of
capital of upper Strathern; and it stands on the slope of a hill,
enjoying a fine Southern; exposure, and commanding a proflet
at coco sublime and beautiful. Many ancient seats of distinguish-
ed families are in the immediate nieghbourhood, of which not.
few are spacions and elegant; and these circumstance, together

<FOOTNOTE>"Drawn up by the Assistant Minister.


