
338                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

is procured. The other two are lime quarries; one at Rhodes,
and the other on the Balgone estate.
   Fisheries.-Fishing to a very limited extent only is carried on
from the burgh. To remedy this deficiency, a joint stock fishing
company is just established in North Berwick, with promising
views of success, for the supply of the town and neighbourhood,
and for the general curing of fish.
   Navigation.-The harbour is secure and commodious; large
sums, from time to time, have been expended in its enlargement and
improvement; and though dry at low writer, and somewhat difficult
of access, it is considered very safe in consequence of its being a
boomed harbour. There are nine vessels belonging to this port, of
various burthens, four of which engage in foreign trade, amounting
in all to 568 tons of old measure, and they are in constant employ-
ment. There has been considerable decrease of late years in the
grain and lime trade; but there has been increased traffic in the
exportation of turnips and potatoes, chiefly to the Newcastle and
London markets. No foreign vessel statedly trades to this sea-
port, but there is a considerable importation, occasionally of foreign
rape and oil-cake, and crushed bones, for manure. The coals for
the, town and its neighbourhood are generally imported. The
four largest vessels belonging to this port have been added to it
during the last three years.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market, &c.-North Berwick is a royal burgh, with a market-
place, and is duly supplied with all the necessaries and comforts of
ordinary life. The population is of the usual description; but the
resident gentry are here, more numerous, perhaps, than is common
in such small towns. There are two surgeons, and one bank,-
and a branch of the Western Bank of Scotland is on the eve of
being established.  Besides the burgh officer, it has no other
police. There is no village in the parish. There is a post-office
subordinate to the office at Haddington; the post arrives daily
about eleven in the forenoon, and departs at half-past twelve.
There is a stage-coach to Edinburgh every lawful day, which
leaves North Berwick at half-past seven in the morning, and
reaches Edinburgh in three hours and leaves Edinburgh in the
afternoon at four: it is conducted with great propriety. Four car-
riers go to Edinburgh on their respective days, in the course of the
week. The turnpike roads, and bridges, and fences, are in excel-
lent condition no; canal or railroad.


