
                          COLINTON.                127

feited in 1484. The tithes at one time, belonged to Lord Car-
lyle"-(See Reg. St Andrews and Parliam.  Rec.)
The patronage of this church was long hold, by the family of
Lauderdale, but how it came into their hands I cannot learn.  They
never seem to have had property in the parish. 1661, April 9.
An act was passed in favour of John, Earl of Lauderdale, restor-
ing what had been taken from him during the period of the Com-
monwealth, on which occasion Sir James Foulis of Collingtoun
protests, " that this shall be in nowise prejudicial to his rights
anent the patronage -of the kirk of Hailes or Collingtoun."-(Acts
of Scot. Parl.)-" Collingtoun protested that this should not pre-
judge his right to the town of Hailes."-(App.) This patronage
was sold by Lord Lauderdale in 1828 to the Patronage Society
for the large sum of L. 2000.  The price was paid by a num-
ber of gentlemen who held the patronage as their security. The
society, with its auxiliaries, had raised, it is understood, L.1500,
when the General Assembly, in 1835, passed the Act upon Calls,
which soon put an end to the labours of that society.  Some of the
gentlemen who had advanced the money having become anxious
to have the whole repaid, the patronage was again advertised for
sale, and it has been bought for something more than L.400 by
Mr Dunlop of Brockloch, in Ayrshire.
  Some have stated, on what grounds I know not, that  the church
Once stood where the mansion-house of Hailes at present stands.
It has long, however, occupied a more humble and more beautiful
position.  It stands, and has stood since, 1650, on a piece of round
by which the stream winds beautifully, and which is sheltered and
adorned by the high and wooded banks belonging to: Colinton House.
In 1771, the old church having become quite ruinous, it was rebuilt
in a plain manner. In 1817, it was rounds necessary to put a new
roof on the church, and to raise the walls four feet, This was done
at a considerable expense.  In 1835, the whole seating of the church
requiring to be renewed, and the accomodation being much too
small for the population,  (it contained  only 470 sittings), it was
proposed to enlarge as well to reseat it. After some delay,
necessarily arising out  of the various arrangements which re-
quired to be made, the plan was happily accomplishd, and the
church was reopened for public worship on the 31st December
1837. David Bryce, Esq. architect, Edinburgh, gave the plans
and superintended the erection. The external appearance is neat,
though very plain; while internally it has a light and elegant look,


