
52                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

tides at Alloa ferry, is about 10 feet in the middle of the river.
The amount of registered tonnage at Alloa. (including ships belong-
ing to Kincardine and Stirling), is upwards of 19,000 tons, which
is larger than at any port in the Firth, except Leith, and even that
port does not much exceed in this respect. The registered ton-
nage strictly belonging to Alloa' is 9662 tons, and the ships are of
a very superior class, being employed in trading to every quarter of
the globe. It may be remarked that the first importation of tea
to any port on the east of Scotland, after the China trade was
thrown open, was by the ship "Isabella" of Alloa, of 423 tons.
The cargo was landed at Leith.
   There is a very considerable coasting-trade carried on here, both
inwards and outwards. The number of vessels entered inwards
during the year 1838, was 600, and the number cleared outwards
1250.The importations coastwise, consist chiefly of corn for
the use of the numerous distilleries and breweries; wool, and ful-
ler's-earth for the woollen manufactures in the neigbbourhood, and
also groceries, wines, tea, &c. from London, Leith, and Glasgow.
The exports consist of coals (of which about 80,000 tons were
shipped during the year 1838, coastwise and to foreign ports), pig-
iron, woollen manufactures, glass, ale, whisky, leather, fire-bricks,
roofing-tiles, drain-tiles, and common bricks. The importations
from foreign ports consist of timber, battens, deals, hemp, oak-
bark, bones for agricultural purposes, &c. Altogether, we would
say, that Alloa, as to its shipping and trade, is in a very prospe-
rous condition, with every prospect of its further increase.

           	   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Town, Markets, &c.--The town of Alloa was noted so early as the
time of King Robert Bruce. It is under the jurisdiction of a ba-
ron bailie, appointed by the Earl of Mar and Kellie. Being vir-
tually the county town, the Sheriff and Justice of Peace Courts
are held here; and it is the polling place for the county of Clack-
mannan, in the election of a Member of Parliament. The prin-
cipal business of the surrounding district is carried on here. There
are markets on Wednesday and Saturday, the latter of which only
is we attended. The plan. of the town is irregular; but in the
principal streets, most of. the old houses have been replaced by
handsome, buildings, and many of the shops are of peculiar ele-
gance. John Street planned by John Earl of Mar, in the begin-
ning of the last century, is about 80 feet broad. It leads to the
harbour, terminating in a beautiful gravel walk, with a row of lime


