
24                           NAIRNSHIRE.

ing place in this branch of industry, making itself apparent in the
improved appearance of the country. A regular system of rota-
tion of crop (the six-shift) is enforced; and lime is coming much
into use. More attention, too, is paid to improving the breed of
cattle. These changes are owing partly to the advancing intelli-
gence of the farmers themselves, partly to the general spirit of im-
provement abroad, and in no small degree to the exertions of the
Nairnshire Farming Society which holds an annual meeting in the
parish, and awards premiums for the best of the various descrip-
tions of stock.

<TABLE>
	      The number of arable acres may be about	2,400
              Under pasture and moor,                  22,278
              Under wood,                               2,200

   The rent per arable acre ranges from L.1 to L.1, 10s. Farms
range in size from L.15 to L.190 of rent. The general duration
of leases is nineteen years. A common labourer's wages are, in
winter, 1s. 4d., in summer, 2s. per day; those of a tradesman, 2s.
to 2s. 6d. Provisions, such as meal, potatoes, &c. are in general
cheap. The woods in the parish consist partly of indigenous,
partly of planted timber. The indigenous wood is oak, ash, birch,
fir, and alder; the planted, beech, lime, larch, sycamore, and elm
                   V. PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The parish lying off the great lines of communication with the
south and east, there are no public conveyances passing through
it, the nearest point of their course being the town of Nairo, which
is six miles distant from the parish church. All the roads are
district roads, which are kept in a tolerable state of repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which is quite centrical,
was built in the year 1619, in consequence of a vow, made
by th then laird of Calder, when overtaken by a storm at
sea, that, should a kind Providence bring him safe to shore,
his first business on reaching home would be to elect a church
more convenient for the parishioners than the one then in
existence. It underwent a very extensive repair in 1830, when
it was also considerably enlarged, and is seated for 638 per-
sons. The manse, an excellent and commodious house, was
built in 1831. The glebe contains from nine to ten acre of
land, mostly arable, and may be worth about L.10 per annum. A
catechist is employed, who is supported by the parish. The people
are all warmly attached to the Established Churchs, and there is
but one Dissenting family in the parish, not natives of it. Great


