
274                   STIRLINGSHIRE.

jectural. Some writers have supposed that the word signifies
slender river, that is, "place on slender part of river." Others
have derived it from the following circumstance: that when
the Earl of Callander sent to plough a certain portion of the
parish, (then a moor,) he inquired of the servant on his return,
how it would work, to which the answer was, "It would slay both
man and mare."  Others have supposed, that, from its vicinity to
the Caledonian forest, it had often been the scene of conflict. In
proof of which, there is a rising ground a little to the south of the
church, called Castle-hill, where a fort once stood, but of which
no vestige remains, excepting the farm-house, which still goes by
the name Castle-hill; and a little to the eastward of this hill,
there is another rising ground where there are still some remains
of a trench, and which goes by the name of Kill-bills, because of
the numbers which were supposed to have been slain there. Be-
sides, there were adjacent to these, two cones of earth about forty
yards separate, wbich are supposed to have been raised as monu-
ments of peace, like the two at Dunipace. One of these still re-
main, and is evidently artificial; the other was levelled, and the
church of St Lawrence built upon it; the former still goes by the
name of the moat. The names of these places, with others of si-
milar import, such as Balcastle, Balquhatston, &c. confirm the
belief, that these grounds have been the arena of many a severe
battle. In the session records, the name is always spelt Slamanna,
dropping the letter n. It is highly probable that the name is of
Gaelic origin, purporting brown, or grey, or long heath, for the
parish must have been originally covered with heath.
  Situation and Extent.--This parish is bounded on the north-
west by the parish of Cumbernauld; on the west and south-west,
by the parish of New Monkland; on the east and south-east, by
the parish of Torphichen; and on the north and north-east, by
Muiravonside, Polmont, and Falkirk. At the north-west extremity
there is a point where three counties meet, viz. Stirling, Dumbar-
ton, and Lanark; and on the south, there is another point where the
counties of Stirling and Lanark meet with the county of Linlith-
gow. The parish of Slamanan-lies on the south of the water, of
Avon, and is from 5 to 6 miles in length, and about 3 in breadth.
In 1730, when the parish of Polmont, was disjoined from that of
Falkirk, a considerable portion of that parish which lies on the
north of the Avon, was annexed, quoad sacra, to the parish of
Slamanan, making the whole parish upwards of 6 miles in length,


