
     Statistical Account

   In addition to the above valuable account, transmitted by
the Reverend Mr Thomson, the present minister, it may
not be improper to subjoin the following short extracts,
from a "Description of the parish of Melrose," published
in 1743, by the Reverend Mr Milne, then pastor of that
parish.

   Abbeys.-The Monastery of Old Melrose was probably
founded about the end of the sixth century.  Bede* gives
us an account of its situation on the bank of the Tweed+,
and likewise of its abbots.  This place was a famous nursery
for learned and religious men; and probably continued till
the other one at the present Melrose was founded by King
David.  The convent of Old Melrose was inclosed with a

<FOOTNOTE>

L. 87, 5 s.  Until lately, the heritors made a demand of one half of the
weekly collections, and allowed the other half to be distributed by the
kirk-session; but considering that their terms of meeting are distant, and
that a great deal of distress might intervene, which would require instant
relief, they have now given up the whole collections, to be distributed by
the session.  These collections are employed to meet the wants of such
as may, through disease, be reduced to a temporary poverty; to augment
the pensions of those upon the heritors roll if found necessary; and if the
funds will admit, the heritors sometimes recommend some of their peti
tioners for a temporary supply, to be relieved out of them.  For these
reasons, there are no beggars in the parish,-that nuisance to society. and
oppression upon the public, particularly upon well-disposed people in the
lower ranks, who are less able to bear it.  In no place, indeed, are the
poor better attended to, or supported at so small an expence.  Charity
is here reduced to a regular system of operation, which does not leave its
objects to a precarious subsistence, but secures for them a certain well-
regulated relief in the day of poverty and distress; and the objects of
are as happy as their reduced circumstances will admit.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Venerable Bede was born A.D. 673.

+Bede's History, IV. 27.


