
388                       FIFESHIRE.

amount of stipend is L. 120, with a comfortable dwelling-house
and garden.
 The other Seceding congregation in the parish, which is in
connexion with the Original Burgher Synod, has been in ' existence
since 1800. The number of its members is under 200, Of whom
about one-half reside within the parish. This congregation is at
present without a minister; but the stipend of the one who lately
left them for another situation was L. 75, with a dwelling-house
and small garden.
 There are, besides those attached to these two congregatiom
of Seceders, a very few individuals within the parish, belonging to
the Relief and Independent denominations. The proportion
which the whole number of Seceders and Dissenters taken together,
bears to the number of those attached to the Established Church,
is very nearly as 19 to 23. Among all denominations, the places
of worship are in general well attended.
  Societies for Religious Purposes.-A society, denominated the
Kennoway Female Bible and Missionary Association, was formed
here in 1814; and another, styled the Kennoway Bible and Mis-
sionary Association, was instituted in 1819. Their annual pro-
ceeds average together rather more than L. 30. All denomina-
tions concur in these institutions.
  Education.-Besides the Parochial School, which is attended
on an average by 120 scholars, and is most efficiently taught,
there are two unendowed schools in the parish, one of which is a
female one :-and the children in the village of Star, in the West
end of the parish, enjoy the benefit of a school which is taught
just beyond the boundary. There are thus very few who can be
said to be inconveniently situated with respect to the means of
education. The parochial teacher has the maximum salary, with
the legal accommodations. The amount of his school fees may
be between L. 30 and L. 40.
  The list of fees for the parochial school is as under : English
reading, 2s. 6d. per quarter; reading and writing, 3s. per do.;
arithmetic, 4s. ; Latin and other branches, 5s.
  Library.-The only circulating library in the parish, is a juve-
nile. one connected with the Sabbath schools. It'contaiDs about
400.voluines, which are mostly very small.
  Savings Bank.-A savings bank was instituted for the parish
and'its. vie ity in September 1834; the business of which has
ever since been conducted principally by the writer of this Ac-


