
688                         LANARKSHIRE.

died the same year.  In 1319, William de Houk was nomi-
nated to the same office by Edward II.; * and William de Kirky-
tullach by Queen Margarett, + May l8, 1367.  The master and
brothers of the hospital of Polmadie received a precept from bishop
Glendoning, ++ dated May 10, 1391, commanding them to receive
Gillian de Vaux as a sister and portioner.  William de Cunyng-
ham,?? Vicar of Dundonald, was appointed to the mastership of
the hospital by the Earl of Lennox.  But Bishop Glendoning laid
claim to the right of presentation.  He, therefore, commanded
William de Cunyngham to give up his charge, under the pain of
excomlunication.  And on the 7th of January 1424, in the west
chapel of the Castle of Edinburgh, Duncan, Earl of Lennox, for-
mally surrendered to William Lauder, Bishop of Glasgow and
Chancellor of the kingdom, any real or supposed right he had to
present to the mastership of the Hospital of Polmadie, and to the
church of Strathblane.  In the year 1427, Bishop Cameron, with
the consent of the chapter, erected the Hospital of Polmadie and
the church of Strathblane into a prebend of his cathedral.  The
erection was confirmed by a bull of Pope Martin V.  The per-
son collated to this prebend was required to provide for the sup-
port of a vicar in the parish of Strathblane, and to give salaries to
four boys to sing in the choir of the cathedral.  The "vestiges
of religious houses" ** which were to be seen towards the end of
the last century in the neighbourhood of Polmadie, but which are
not visible now, were, it cannot be doubted, the ruins of the hos-
pital.
   St Ninian's Hospital.-Leprosy was formerly so prevalent in
this country as to claim the attention of the Scottish Parliament. ++
About the middle of the fourteenth century, an hospital for the
reception of persons afflicted with this frightful distemper was
founded by Lady Lochow, the daughter of Robert Duke of Al-
bany.  This hospital was dedicated to St Ninian.  The tract of
ground, therefore, on which ht stood, and on which a part of Hut-
chesontown is now built, was called St Ninian's Croft. ++++  There
was connected with the hospital of St Ninian a chapel, which was

<FOOTNOTE>Rym. Faed. Tom. iii. p. 786.      Cart. Clasg. Tom. i. p. 417,    Id. p. 445.
          Id. p. 459.                       Id. p. 557.                     Id. p. 523.
          Former Statistical Account of Scotland, Vol. v. p. 541.
          Ja. I. pa. 7. cap. 105.  There was a leper hospital at KIng-case, near the town
 of Ayr, which is said to have been founded by King Robert Bruce, who is represent-
 ed to have died himself of leprosy.  Spottiswood's Relig. Houses, App. to Hope's Mi-
 nor Practicks, p. 582.
          M'Ure's Hist. of Glasg. pp. 52-54.


