
298                              FIFESHIRE.

with the administration of church discipline (to those guilty of im-
moral conduct) which far exceeded in minuteness and severity the
discipline of modern times.
                        III-POPULATION.
   For a great length of time the population of the parish of An-
struther Easter has varied very little.

<TABLE>

		In 1744 it was	   -       -       -       -    -       1000
		   1764	          -          -         -         -       900
		At the date of former Statistical Account, above	1000
		In 1831,	                                        1007
	At present is believed that the number is considerably below	1000
	The average number of baptisms during last 7 years is,            16
	              of marriages,           do.	                  10
	No accurate record of the number of deaths has been kept.
	Number of families in the parish,	-       -          -     255
   In the former Statistical Account some instances of great age
are mentioned. At present there is one individual in the parish in
bar ninety-third year, having all her mental faculties in full vigour,
and able to attend divine ordinances every Sabbath.
   Of the inhabitants of this parish generally it may be said, they
are intelligent, but the vice of intemperance is by no means rare.
The privilege of the town as a royal burgb, in electing a repre-
sentative to Parliament, jointly with four other towns of nearly si-
milar size, has been against the. morality of the place, and it may
also be added against its industry.  The late change in the system of
election, and the classing of this with the large and populous towns
of Cupar and St Andrews in the exercise of the above mentioned
privilege, have already sensibly diminished the evils alluded to;
and it is hoped that the interruptions to regular industry will be
less frequent, and the temptations to immoral conduct less abun-
dant.  Infidelity has prevailed to some extent, chiefly through the
influence and example of one or two individuals.  The natural con-
sequence of this has followed; disrespect to religious ordinances,
and neglect of the moral and spiritual interests of the young.  It
is believed that worship is performed in comparatively few families.
It must, however, be added, that there is a large body of the inha-
bitants of this parish, whose general conduct and habits entitle
them to respect; and that there are a few who afford good evi-
dance of being actuated by the spirit and the principles of vital
Christianity.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Formerly ship-building was carried on here to a considerable
extent; but for the last ten year it has entirely ceased.  There is
a tan-work in the town, at which a considerable quantity of leather

