
                               PERTH.                           141

	   To those who are acquaninted with the localities of the city
	and its neighbourhood, it may be somewhat interesting to have
	the flollowing facts brought before them.  The walls, which were
	once esteemed a sufficiently strong protection, have complete-
	ly desappeared, except in one place on the north side, where
	a small fragment remains.  The fosse or aqueduct which sur-
	rounded the walls, and which was broad and open, has been
	much reduced in breadth, and been, since, about 1802, arched
	took place Canal Street was anpaved and narrow pathway,
	along which ran the aqueduct.  Between it and the South Inch
	there were gardens, which, having originally their principal en-
	trance by the Spey Port, were called the Spey Gardens.  In 1801,
	Marshall Place, on the South Inch, began to be built.  This occa-
	sioned the removal of the gardens, and the cutting down of the
	northern division of a beautiful avenue of lofty trees which sur-
	rounded the Inch.
	   The road to Inverss via Dunkeld was, at a remote period,
	nearly where it now is, only it commenced at the High Street Port,
	passed thourgh the Miln Wynde, and the field on which the barracks
	stand. Its course, as far as to the Bridge of Almond, was changed,
	at an after period,--and, commencing at the north end of the
	Skinner Gate, where was the North Port, ran through the centre of
	the North Inch, and the Muirtoun village.  In 1664-5, missives
	passed between the town-council and the presbytery of Dunkeld,
	"as to the helping fo the Muirtoun causeway."  The present line
	of road was formed about the year 1790.  Before this time, the
	north road to Stirling via Methven and Crieff, commenced at
	the High Street Port, and ran by Dove-cot-land, and Goodly Burn.
	The south road to Stirling commenced at the South Street Port,
and ran by the Hospital House, Earls Dykes, and Pittheaveless
	Castle.  The road to Edinburgh commenced at the same port,
	and ran by Leonard Causeway, and the Bridge of Craigie.  It
	was afterwards changed, when it issued from the Spey Port,
	and passed to Mordun Hill, through the east side fo the South
	Inch--intersectting the ruins of Cromwell's Citadel.  The present
	road to Edinburgh by Princes Street was not opened till about
	the year 1770.  The bridge over the Tay to the east of the city,
	which was destroyed by a flood in 1621, was not replaced till 1771.
	The river was crossed by means of boats and barges, which plied
	between the Quay at the foot of the High Street, and that on the


