
                              ROW.                          75

now mostly passed to strangers, and even the representation of
their several houses is in a great measure in abeyance.
   Meanwhile, the domain of Luss has extended itself on all sides,
and, in addition to its having stretched itself over nearly the whole,
territories of Macfarlane and Macaulay, it has swallowed up the
smaller possessions of a swarm of Detty proprietors in the parishes
of Row, Luss, and Arrochar. Sir hmes Colquhoun is now in pos-
session of the whole of this parish, with the exception of the estate
of Ardincaple, the property and beautiful residence of Lord John
Campbell.
  Antiquities.--The only buildings of any antiquity of which any
portion still remains, are a part of the present Castle of Ardincaple,
supposed to have been built about the twelfth century and the
imperfect walls of a chapel at Faslane. The author of Caledonia
says that this chapel was dedicated to St Michael. The date and
occasion of its erection are unknown, but it is probable that it was
built for the convenience of the Lennox, while they were either con-
stant or occasional residents at their castle of Faslane. Attach-
ed to the chapel is a burying-ground, which has now almost ceased
to be used. Of Faslane Castle, only the mound, raised by its
foundation is distinguishable. Similar traces of another castle
called Shandon, are discoverable on the bill side above the mo-
dern house of Shandon. Its name, "The Old Dun," would lead
to the supposition, that it was a still more ancient strong-hold than
the castle of Faslane. But tradition has handed down no memo-
rial regarding it to the present times, nor have any relics been
found among its ruins to lead to any information concerning it.
  Besides the Chapel of Faslane, there were of old three other
chapels within the bounds of the parish ; one of them in Glen-
frui either near the school-house there, or more probably on
the farm of Balnock, on which there are still some remains of a
burying-ground called Chapel Dermid. The other two were in
the barony of Millig; the one of them on the farm of Kirk-
michael, which has received its name from the saint to whom the
chapel was dedicated, and the other on the farm of Millig, called
also after the same saint, and till of late presenting some ruins.
   Until a very few years ago, the only good houses in the parish
were Ardincaple Castle, and the mansion house of Ardenconnel.
Now, however,there are many very beautiful ones along the banks
of the Gareloch, built on perpetual feu from the lands of Sir James
Colquhoun.


