
                    PAISLEY.                               275

their improvements in smelting, &c. have lately added greatly to the
extent of their business.  The first steam-engine made in Paisley was
lately set agoing as the propelling power to Mr Galloway's factory,
Causewayside.  It is of twenty horse power, and does great credit
to the makers, Messrs Barr and Macnab, of the Aborcorn foundery.
Messrs Reid and Hannah, are extensive makers of gasometers, iron
boats on the swift principle for canals, and factory machinery in
general.  Not a few specimens of their ingenuity and skill in the
second of these departments are to be found, not in Britain only,
but in several parts of the continent of Europe.  There are in the
town three brass founderies.
   There are in the thriving town of Johnston, two brass founderies,
and two for iron, on an extensive scale; with five machine manu-
factories, employing 120 individuals, and with a steam agency of
twenty-six horse power.  Indeed we are satisfied, from many symp-
toms, that this stirring and healthy place possesses in it the ele-
ments of a rapidly extending and wealthy community.
   Printing of silks and other fabrics has lately been attempted
in Paisley; but as yet it is on a limited scale.  We have one large
tan-work, the property of Joseph Whitehead, Esq. of Kilnside
House.  The structure, plan, and whole arrangement of this work,
are such as render it one of the first in the kingdom; and we un-
derstand that in excellence of work produced it is unrivalled.  We
have three breweries, two of them on a large scale.  We have also
three distilleries, two in the town, and one in the country ; one
large soap-work ; * seven extensive bleachfields : and one large
silk throwing mill, the property of Messrs Hervey, Brand, and, Co,
of Glasgow.
   Post-Office.-The mercantile progress of Paisley may be esti-
mated from the yearly returns of its post-office, which have been
as follows: 1720, L. 28, 13s, ; 1769, L. 223, 3s. 8d. ; 1809,
L.2814, 17s. 7d. ; 1834, L. 3194. +

                VI.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets and Fairs.-In the town of Paisley, Thursday is the
weekly market day.  During the year, there are four distinct fairs,

<FOOTNOTE>This work is one of the oldest in Britain.  It has existed for more than six-
ty years.  The original firm was Messrs Christie, Corse, and Co. ; it is not Mssrs
William Sim and Co., and the article produced at this work stands very high in the
market.
          It would be very desirable, in a commercial view, that the postage to Glasgow
were reduced from 4d. to 2d.  The revenue would be no loser.


