
                  ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                947

east of one foot in three.  Besides the common and the compact
galena, which are the principal ores, these veins contain small
quantities of green, black, and yellow lead ores, white and black
carbonates, sulphate, and sulphato-carbonates of lead, phos-
phates of lead, copper and iron pyrites, malachite, azure copper
ore, grey manganese, blende, and calamine.  Of the accompanying
minerals, the most prevalent are, quartz, calcareous spar, brown
spar, sparry ironstone, heavy spar, &c.  Veins of lead have been
found in the conterminous parish of Crawfordjohn, and might be
wrought to advantage.  Mineral indications, chiefly of heavy-spar, re-
sembling that at Leadhills and Wanlockhead, induced attempts to
discover lead at Cummertrees, in the high lands of Lesmahago, at
Howgate Mouth on Tinto in Carmichael, and at Newholm in Dol-
phinton, but without success.
   In most of the parishes in the Upper Ward ironstone is
found ; but in none has it been wrought except in Carnwath
and Carluke.  At Wilsontown in Carnwath, an iron-work of
considerable extent has been in operation since 1781,--except-
ing an interval of nine years, from 1812 to 1821. In Carluke,
works have recently been commenced by the Shotts and Coltness
Iron Companies, which have two furnaces in full operation : these
works promise to be exceedingly productive.  In Cambusnethan the
black-band ironstone is found in considerable abundance ; and at the
eastern extremity of the parish, the Shotts Company have two blast-
furnaces constantly employed.  In the parish of Bertram Shotts
there are two iron-works, the one in the southeast, the other
in the southwest of the parish.  The former, established by a
few private individuals in 1802, has ever since continued under
the very able and prosperous management of Mr John Baird.
Besides two blast-furnaces, which produce 160 tons of pig-iron
weekly, and a third, now nearly completed, there is connected
with the establishment a large engineering manufactory, in which
steam-engines and other machinery of the best quality are con-
structed : and of still longer standing is its extensive foundery, se-
cond in importance to that of the Carron Company. The Omoa
Works, at the south-east of the parish, were erected in 1787, and
have at present one furnace in operation.  The parish of New
Monkland abounds in ironstone of the most valuable kind, which
is found partly in balls and partly in seams.  The most common
seams are the mussel-band and the black-band ; the latter of
which, particularly valuable, is generally found about fourteen fa-
thoms below the splint coal.  From this parish the-iron-works of


