
                        MONYMUSK.                        469

tory granted to them, to God and the Church of Saint Mary of
Monymusk, giving the benediction of God and Saint Mary to all
who preserve the rights of the church."  Of the buildings of the
priory no remains now exist, unless the present parish church,
which is unquestionably very old, may, as is supposed, have been
co‰val with, and formed part of them.  The eastern part of the
church, commonly called the quire, and now seated for about for-
ty persons, is connected with the main part of the building by a
large opening through the end wall, arched in form of a semi-
circle.  It has a square tower at the west end, 5O feet high, through
which is the principal entry, with a large iron clock in it, purchas-
ed by the session in 1699, for L. 145, 6s. 8d. Scots, surmounted
by a spire 40 feet in height.  It was considerably enlarged by the
addition of an aisle on the north side, newly roofed and seated,
and had the spire renewed in 1822, and is now a very neat and
commodious place of worship, and will contain about 580 persons.
The sittings are all free; and, with the exception of those in the
east end already noticed, are apportioned by the heritor among
the several tenants and householders in the parish, the division
being subject to alteration at any time, as the circumstances of any
of the families may require.  The unappropriated seats are also
left free for the accommodation of strangers. *
   The present manse was originally built in 1737, and was tho-
roughly repaired, and enlarged by an additional building in 1824.
A set of new offices was also built in 1829 ; and it deserves to be
mentioned, on account of the laudable example in these times,
that the enlarged church accommodation, on being represented as
necessary, and the whole of the above-mentioned repairs and
buildings, to the amount of very nearly L. 1400, were most readily
agreed to, without any intervention whatever of the ecclesiastical
court, decreet having been asked merely as a matter of what was
judged necessary form, to sanction the plans.
   The glebe, exclusive of the garden and site of the manse and
offices, measures about 7 acres imperial, and may be worth about
L. 12.
   The stipend, the teinds having been exhausted at last augmen-
tation in 1824, is L. 162, 3s. 8 3/5d. in money; 51 bolls, 1 firlot,

<FOOTNOTE>In connection with the history of the church, it may not be unworthy of remark,
as it is believed to be rather a singular circumstance, that William Allan, the late
kirk-officer, who left the parish at Whitsunday 1835, is the fourth in lineal descent of
a family who have held that office successively for 133 years previous to the above
date.


