
188                           WIGTONSHIRE.

Ayr to Wigton, the place is rather a convenient resort for those
who are disposed to disturb the public peace.
	There is no other market-town in the parish, nor any other
village of any extent.
	Post-Offices.--There is a post-office in Newtonstewart, which
accommodates an extensive district. A letter-carrier has just
been appointed by the post-office, for delivering letters, free of ex-
pense, to the inhabitants, of the village.
	Means of Communication.--The turnpike road from the Cree
to the Bladenoch is about five miles long, and that from Newton-
stewart tn the High Bridge of Cree is about nine miles long, to
the bridge at which it crosses the river, and enters the stewartry
of Kirkcudbright.
	We have excellent parish roads in Penninghame, on which
there are no tolls. These roads extend in different directions,
and together may be in length about thirty miles. The roads
were formerly made of gravel, the quality of which in some places
is sharp and good; but the turnpike roads have now been all Ma-
cadamized, and the others are in the course of being Macadamized.
	One mail-coacb passes and repasses daily, along the London
and Portpatrick road; another goes to Portpatrick and returns,
by the Mahars daily, Sundays excepted; add a mail-gig runs daily,
Sundays excepted, to and from Girvan.
	There are regular carriers to Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dumfries,
the south end of the county, Stranraer and Girvan.
	There are good bridges over the Cree and the Bladenoch,
and over the rivulet so the roads through the parish. The bridge
over the Cree at Newtonstewart is elegant and substantial, built
of granite, with a freestone parapet. A bridge nearly on the
same place was destroyed by a flood in the beginning of the
present century. There is a new bridge on the same line of
road, over the Bladenoch, not yet quite finished, instead of the
very old one, a little higher on the river. The bridges on the pa-
rish roads over the rivulets are good generally, and in a good state
of repair.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situate in the vil-
lage of Newtonstewart,--conveniently for the great body of the
population, but it is at a very incovenient distance from the
extremities of the parish. The present church was built in
1777, and is in a very indifferent state of repair; but a new
church, adequate to the attending population, has been contracted



