
76                          SHETLAND.

                         III.-POPULATION.
   The population of this parish in 1755, amounted to 1009. In
1784, it had increased to 1657. And in 1831, it was very near
2500. The number of miles was 1091, and the number of fe-
males 1295. This great increase of population is to be attributed
to the dividing of the arable lands into smaller portions, for the
accommodation of those employed in the fishing, and the taking of
small farms from the undivided common, for a similar purpose. The
population is altogether a rural population. The early average
of births for the last seven years is 60, and of marriages 14 ; but
of deaths, it is impossible to say, as there are five different burial-
places in the parish, and no register oll such has ever been kept.
In this parish, there are only two persons or facilities of indepen-
dent fortune residing, and there are only two proprietors of land
of the yearly value of L.50 and upwards.
At present, there are 400 families in the parish, and about the
same number of inhabited houses. None are uninhabited, and
a few are now building.
   The circumstances of a vast number of families are so poor and
miserable, that cleanliness cannot be observed. On Sunday, how-
ever, they appear at church clean, and well-dressed. In former
times, their every-day dress was a coarse cloth of their own niaiiu-
facture made of wool ; now Scotch and English cloth is generally
used.
   The people may be said to be generally of an intellectual cha-
racter ; and, considering the opportunities they enjoy, they may
be also called a moral and i religious people.

                   IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-This parish is supposed to contain 60,000 acres
of land ; but, as only a small fractional part of th6 surface has ever
been measured, it is very difficult to say how many acres are cul-
tivated, or occasionally in tillage,-perhaps 6000 acres. The re-
mainder has never 'been cultivated, and is in a state of undivided
common; and it is difficult to say what number of acres, with the
profitable application of capital, could be added to the cultivated
land of the parish. Many suppose, that the only profitable way
to apply capital, in cultivating waste lands in Zetland, is to turn
these lands into permanent pasture, by sowing natural grasses for-
the rearing and feeding of cattle and sheep.
   The state of husbandry, with respect to cultivation and reclaim-
ing waste land, is low indeed,'except in a very few cases. Even


