
                            LONMAY.                           227

preceding 1830, were in great demand, and indeed still bear a high
price in the southern markets, and the top price in London.
The sbort-horned cattle, however, are beginning to supplant our
own Buchan breed.  A considerable difference of opinion prevails
as to their comparative merits.  One disadvantage belongs to the
large short-horned ox, that be is too heavy in the carcase for driv-
ing to a distant market.  His superiority consists in his feeding
to a greater weight, and coming sooner to the home-market for
the flesher.
   Sheep.-The sheep of this country are the produce of a mixed
breed.  They carry a weighty and tolerably fine fleece, and their
mutton is well flavoured, but inferior to the black or the white-faced
Highland six year-old wethers.  These last are imported annually, and
fed for the table.  Mr Bannerman of Crimonmogate has imported
some South Down and Lincolnshire sheep, and has a large stock
of fine half-bred English sheep in his lawn.
   Horses.-Great attention has been paid for some years past to
the rearing horses.  There is a very striking change in this
respect between the present strong, fine built draught horses,
ploughing in pairs, and the dwarfish small-boned beasts, six or even
eight of which used to be seen, forty years ago, attached to the clumsy
plough then in use.  Every year, prize stallions, both draught and
blood, travel through this and the neighbouring parishes.  General
Gordon of Cairness, six years ago, brought three fine Arab stal-
lions from Greece, two of which have got stock in the parish,
which promise well for the saddle.
   Pigs.-Pigs are raised in considerable number, and of a good
kind, being improved by a mixture of the Bedford and Westpha-
lia, Orkney and Chinese.  The close-hoofed kind have been also
tried, but have been given up on account of the redness of their
flesh.
   Husbandry.-The husbandry in this quarter deserves a very
different character from that bestowed on it in the former Statis-
tical Account of the parish, being in general both laboriously and
skilfully conducted.  Neither does it owe its advanncement as the
writer of the first account supposes, to the introduction of lime as
a manure, which in general does not suit, the soil being sandy; but
bone dust has been applied for the last five or six years, with very
great success both for green crops, for which it is chiefly used, and
for surface-dressing pasture, or for laying down with sown grasses.
Near the coast, sea-ware is mixed with compost for fallows, and


