
64				KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

land, is unknown. The general supposition is, that the name is
descriptive of the shape, which is broadest at the northern extre-
mity, but tapers towards the south till it terminates in a point with-
in high water mark, formed by the confluence of the Dee and the
Tarff. This derivation is countenanced by Chalmers in his Cale-
donia,-a work of great learning and industry, but, as might have
been expected in an undertaking which promises minute local infor-
mation, very frequently erroneous. The etymology is conjectural,
and so are several others which I have heard, connecting the
name with adventures of remote antiquity, but, although of some
interest, resting on authority to trivial to warrant their insertion
here.
	The parish is about eight miles in length from north to south,
and varies in breadth from three miles to half-a mile. It is se-
parated from the parished of Kirkcudbright and Kelton on the
east, by the Dee; from the parish of Twynholm on the west, for
two miles, by the Tarff; and on the upper part by two beautiful
mountain lochs called Trostree and Culcagrie. The northern
boundary is the parish of Balmaghie, from which it is not distin-
guished by any natural limit, except for half-a mile by a lock cal-
led Bargatton. The Tarff and Dee at the snuthern extremity,
separate it from the parishes of Twynholm and Kirkcudbright.
        Topography, SSc.-It presents considerable variety of topogra-
phical aspect. The southern and central parts consist of a narrow
and uneven ridge, which rises gradually from the junction of the
two rivers. The northern part expands into broken moorlands,
interspersed with wooded valleys and farms partially cultivated,
but in general exhibiting a very wild and rugged appearance. The
whole parish is arable, except an extensive farm or two at the up-
per extremity. The slopes to the south-west and east are ex-
tremely beautiful, and in a high state of cultivation. The soil is
excellent, and owing to the elevation and aspect of the ground, the
harvest is earlier in the lower farms than in those of the surround-
ing parishes. No wood has been planted for many years,-nume-
rous fine clumps of old trees are scattered up and down, but there
even been preserved. I give this slight sketch of Mr Robb, because, although un-
known to the world, he enjoyed some distinction in his neighbourhood, and is the
only person recently connected with the parish whose mental powers, land they been
sufficiently cultivated or happily directed, might have conducted the possessor to
eminence. The only specimen of his authorship that remains, is the Statistical Ac-
count which bears the name of his brother. the touches of satirical humour mark
it as the production of a man who was at least eccentric; and some curious informa-
tion, which it contains about the habits and character of the people, is worthy by being
preserved, and shall be referred to in the course of this article.



