

22			STIRLINGSHIRE.


the feudal jurisdictions were taken away in 1745, Falkirk again
became a burgh of barony, under the government of a bailie ap-
pointed by the proprietor of Callendar; but for many years past
no person has held that office. For a long period, the only dis-
pensers of law in the town, were the Justices of the Peace, who
held monthly courts for the recovery of small debts, &c. and the
suppression of riots. There was no jail or place of confinement
for criminals, and the inconvenience and expense of sending these
to Stirling, the county town, was severely felt. At length mea-
sures were taken for relieving this populous district from the hard-
ships under which it bad been labouring, and the matter having
been represented to Government, a resident sheriff-substitute was
appointed, who opened his court in Falkirk in July 1834. This
arrangement has been of great advantage to the place, the more
especially as, since then, apartments in the town steeple have been
fitted up and legalised as a prison; and it is now only necessary
to convey to the county jail, such criminals as may be committed
for trial before the Court of Justiciary.
   By the Reform Act, Falkirk is constituted a Parliamentary
burgh. Its boundaries are defined; and, along with Airdrie, Hamil-
ton, Lanark, and Linlithgow, returns a representative to Parliament.
By a subsequent act, the municipal government of the burgh is
vested in a provost, three bailies, a treasurer, and seven council-
lors ; but, having been called into existence without being provided
with the mea ns of defraying the necessary expenditure, the magis-
trates exercise no jurisdiction, nor have they as yet interfered with
the town's revenue. This is managed by the atent-masters, wbo,
from use and wont have exercised the power of levying an annual
assessment from the inhabitants, for supplying the town with water,
and other public purposes. The feuars are a separate body, who
annually choose office-bearers, and who, in consideration of their
surrendering about forty years ago certain privileges which they
held over the extensive moor or commonty on the south of Falkirk,
in order that it might be cultivated, acquired right to some heri-
table property, besides the town's customs. Their funds, are ap-
plied, towards objects of local improvement. Hitherto this system
has been held sufficient for managing the affairs of the town. The
police of the district is main tained by the county at large, by whom
several criminal officers are stationed in the place.
   Villages.--Beginning at the west end of the parish, the first we
notice is Bonnybridge. It is situated an the Glasgow turnpike
			   4


