

                                   MINTO.                           369

Satchell it is stated  that the lands returned by purchase tothe Scotts
of Buccleuch, while the representation of the family devolved on
William Scott of Burnhead and Crowbill, as lineal male descend-
ant of the first John Scott of Burnbead, younger brother of David
of Hassendean, and second son to Sir Walter Scott of Kirkurd.
The lands comprised originally in the barony of Hassendean have
long been separated; besides that still belonging to His Grace the
Duke of Buccleuch, a part forms the present estate of Teviot-
bank, another that of Harsendean-burn, while Hassendean-bank,
a fourth portion, belonged to the Duke of Roxburghe, and was sold
by him to Sir Gilbert Elliot of Minto to redeem the land-tax.
   Church at Minto and at Hassendean.-Of the church at Minto
notice occurs in the fourteenth century; and a curious circum-
stance respecting it, not easy to be explained, is learned from a
charter of Edward III. in 1374, that it at that time belonged to
the diocese of Lincoln.  When the lands of Hassendean were
granted by David I., the church was separately given by him to
the Bishop of Glasgow, and before the year 1181 the grant had
been confirmed by two Popes, Alexander and Lucius.  Shortly
afterwards, in 1192, the well known Joceline, Bishop of Glasgow,
who bad been Abbot of Melrose, gave to the monks of that abbey
the church lands and tithes of Hassendean, in pure and perpetual
alms, or, as it is expressed, " ad susceptionem pauperum et pere-
grinorum ad domum de Melros venientium." The cell built for
this purpose was known by the name of the Monk's Tower, and
the land belonging to it, which adjoins the present dwelling-house of
Hassendean-burn, is still called the Monk's Croft.  It was restrict-
ed by William the Lion to the pasturage of 200 ewes, 16 oxen,
and 4 cows. * In 1560, + these religious establishments were abolish-
ed, but the church was still continued, and, along with its perti-
nents, granted to Walter Earl of Buccleueh.  In 1576, we find a
Thomas Newbye, reader at Hassendean, the whole vicarage be-
ing vacant by demission of Mr Thomas Westoun; and from the
Criminal Trials we learn that, in 1590, this Newbye, along with

<FOOTNOTE>In 1488, William Douglas, vicar of the kirk at Hassendean, was bound and
obliged to " ane venerabil fader in God," Bernard Abbot of Meirose, not to interfere
with the claim of the abbot and convent, to the " erde silver of the quer of the said
kirk of Hassendean," on the ground of their long having been in. peaceable possesion
of " browkying and joying of the same."--Liber de Melros. This " erde silver of
the quer" was the money charged for burial in the choir.
     The "Liber de Melros" records the demission of the monastery of Melrose in
favour of William, Earl of Morton, to whom was also conveyed the patronage of
Hassendean, the deed, signed by James, Commendator of Melrose, bearing the date
of 1608.


