
                PARISH OF CLEISH.*
          PRFSBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FIFE.
             THE. REV. W. W. DUNCAN, MINISTER.'

I.-TopoGRAPHY AND NATURAL HiSTORY.
Extent, 4-c.-THis parish is about 6-1 Miles in length from east
to west, and about I mile in breadth, except at the east end, where
it is Ij mile from north to south ; it contains about 71 square miles.
It is bounded by Dunfermline parish on the south; Beath on the
south-east; Saline on the southwest; Portmoak and Ballingry on
the east ; on the north by Kinross and Fossaway. The north-east
end of the parish is about half a mile from the south side of Loch-
Leven.
Topo
.graphical Appearances.-The Cleisb hills form the highest
part of that elevated tract of ground which lies between Kinross-
shireand Dunfermline. Durnglow, the highest of them, is 1215 feet
above the level of the sea; it is flat on the top, and CODSPiCUOUS from
all the country round. The next highest are three hills called In-
gans, 1030, 1060, and 1048 feet in height. The arable land is from
380 to 500 feet above the level of the sea. No account has been
kept of the temperature or pressure of the atmosphere. In general,
it is considered a good summer day when the thermometer is from
55' to 58', between eight and nine in the morning; from 651 to
680 between one and two' and about 60' between nine and ten at
night. It is not often above 7W. The reporter only saw it twice
as high as 80',, except in the year 1826. That year it was often
higher; once at 8W. A moderate frost is from 20 to 80 (of Fah-
renheit) below freezing ; it is seldon-,- below 200,1 very seldom be -
low W. The prevailing winds are between south and west; after
these, the most frequent are from northeast; these last feel colder
than the others, even where the thermometer continues at the same
height. The west winds are strongest, often consisting of violent
blasts, with intermissions ; the east winds are more uniform and
Drawn up partly by the late Mr Daling, minister of the parish, and partly by
the present incumbent, Mr Duncan.


