
     Statistical Account

in different parts of it.  About a mile from the encampment,
there is a very large collection of round stones, and hard by
it a smaller one; some of the stones of a great size, which must
have cost great labour in gathering it: It is beyond a doubt,
that these stones were collected by the people, after battles
fought in the moor, in order to cover the graves of their he-
roes and chief captains, and to stand as monuments upon the
ground where they lay: what serves to confirm this account
is, that stone-coffins have been found on the spot, containing
the bones of such heroes*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-There is a considerable alte-
ration in the dress of the people of late years.  English cloths,
and those of Scotch manufacture are now much worn by all
ranks, and printed cottons have become a very general dress
among house-maids and others, who were wont to be clothed
with coarse woollen stuffs of home manufacture.  The trade
of this place has hitherto been but very insignificant, notwith-
standing of its many and superior local advantages.  All the
vessels trading from London, Leith, and Aberdeen, to the
northern counties, generally land at this place first, and take
their departure from it to these different quarters.  The quan-

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Sir Thomas Urquhart's account of this matter is to the following purpose,
leaving it to the reader to give it what credit he may think fit.  Speaking in
his genealogical table of Astioremon one of the forefathers of the Urquhart fa-
mily, and whom he makes grandson of Alcibrades the Athenian; he goes on to
observe, "That in the year before Christ 36 L, this Astioremon, by killing the
ontlandish king Ethus, first king of the Picts, in a duel, before the face of both
armies, gained the great battle of Famua, fought within a mile of Cromarty:
the relicks of that stranger king's trenches, head quarters and castramentation of
his whole army being, to this day, conspicuous to all that pass by."  Thus far
Sir Thomas.  Whatever be in this account, the farm town which, according to
him, gave name to the battle is still called Farnass, and is within a few gun-
shots of where the encampment was.

</UNREADABLE>


