
		               INVERARY.                            l7

These trees we taken, not as the largest, but as the most con-
venient, on entering the several clumps.  They are marked as the
above in feet and inches.  They were measured in 1836.
   Planted in 1771, larch, 8.0 1/4 feet; Scotch fir, 5.5 1/2; spruce,
6.2 1/4; beech, 6.2'; oak, 5.6; laburnum, 5.1. Planted in 1808,
larch, 3.11 1/2 feet , Scotch; fir, 2.6 ; silver fir, 3.3 2/3 ; spruce, 2.11 1/4
beech, 2.4 3/4; ash, 3.3 3/4; oak, 2.2  1/4; laburnum, 2.8; alder,;2.9 1/4.
   The above plantations are fair specimens of the increase or
growth of trees in this parish.
   There are several avenues of great beauty, the principal of which
are, a lime avenue, which leads from the castle to Essachosan ; a
beech avenue leading to Glensbira, and another of the same kind
behind and parallel with the burgh.
   There are also many trees worthy of notice on account of their
great size and beauty.  There is a lime growing near Essachosan
called the marriage tree, on account of the union of its branches,
which is often visited by travellers.  From a bole of considerable
size, it throws out two principal branches a little abote the ground,
which are firmly knit together at about twenty feet above the point
of separation, by a bar or branch formed of a process issuing from
one, or probably from both. It appears like a cross bar for hold-
ing the two branches together, and is a provision of nature against
the destruction of such trees as grow in this forked manner, which
is by no means uncommon.  It may be seen on numberless spruce
firs which frequently grow in this form, and which, with their long
stems, heavy tops, and ever-green foliage, present a large surface
to the winter storms.
   It is worthy of remark, that wherever the Wych elm grows, it
stretches its principal branches towards the prevailing wind and
even when growing on the shore, that it seems to court and luxu-
riate in the breeze, thus pointiing  out the means of planting those
bleak shore lands where every other tree perishes.  It way at least
be worthy of trial in such situations.

	             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The earl history of this parish may be presumed to correspond
in a great measure with that of other Highland districts, Which
were, like it, possessed by, many small proprietors.  We can only
conjecture from imperfect traditions what were the social habits of
its early inhabitants ; but every account would lead us to consider
them warlike and turbulent, yet faithful, friendly, and hospitable,


