
     Statistical Account

the Strachans, Forbesses, and Foulertons, who were proprie
tors of Thornton, have been buried.  In this aile, built anno
1615, there is a stately monument to the memory of D. Eliza-
beth Forbes, lady of Thornton; and of Sir James Strachan
Bart. her husband.  Its pillars, images, and other devices,
were finely cut, elegantly ornamented, and highly finished.
Near the centre of this monument is a Latin inscription,
but this is so defaced by age, and by a burning, occasioned by
the Covenanters, about the time of the Revolution, that it is
not now legible.  On the ceiling of this aile, which is of oak,
there is a numerous list of honourable and ancient families,
(with their coats of arms beautifully painted,) who were con-
nected with the family of Sir James Strachan of Thornton.  In
the east corner of this aile, there is a Font; and on the north-
east wall of the church, 2 presses near to each other, in which
were preserved the sacred utensils.  At the entry, ly the
stocks, almost consumed by age; and on the outside of the
church, strongly fixed to the wall, are the Joggs*.  Near
the gate of the church-yard stands a stone, and tradition says,
this was the cross where the weekly market stood.  About 6
years ago the church received a new roof.  By taking down
the old one, which was oak, there was destroyed a ceiling of
the same world, on which was beautifully carved a cross, a
crown, St Peter's keys, the armorials of bishop Elphingstone,
and Dunbar, and several other eminent bishops.  There was
also removed from the church an escutcheon of the family
of Lord Halkerton, thought to be a fine painting.  On the

<FOOTNOTE>

*These were never appropriated by the church, as instruments of punish-
ment and di grace; but were made use of, when the weekly market and an-
nual fair flood, to confine, and punish those who had broken the peace, or
used too much freedom with the property of others.  The stocks were used
for the feet, and the joggs for the neck of the offender, in which he was
confined, at least, during the time of the fair.


