
902                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

of disintegrated rock.  On the eastern side of the parish, there is a
diluvial deposit of clay of considerable depth ; but the soil, with
the exception of some spots, which, having been long under cul-
tivation, have been repeatedly ameliorated by a plentiful applica-
tion of lime, is retentive and unproductive.
   The whole parish, with the exception of that part of it which
rests on a bed of clay, is, due allowance being made for the less
productive powers of the inferior soils, well adapted for turnip
husbandry.  The richer grounds alone, the course both of the
Ythan and its tributary streams already mentioned, produce also
abundant crops of oats, and seldom fail, if under good manage-
ment, to show a rich sward of grass.
   In the northern districts, the soil is, for the most part, composed
of a loose blackish substance inclining to the nature of moss, with
a plentiful admixture of white sand, and lies on a diluvial deposit
of a white gravelly character.  The loose stones on the surface
have all that white or quartz-like appearance which it is believed
Uniformly indicates a poor soil, and certainly the soil in these dis-
tricts is poor enough.
   Plantations.-The extent of ground under wood is very limited.
The Scotch fir and larch seem to thrive tolerably well; but the
proximity of a boisterous ocean, all along the Buchan coast, ren-
ders this part of the country but ill adapted for the purposes of
planting.  The generally retentive character of the subsoil must
also be Considered to be highly prejudicial to the growth of wood.
The number of acres laid out in plantations is probably under 150;
and there is no full-grown timber in the parish, with the excep-
tion of a few straggling trees about the village of Ellon.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The kirk and kirk lands of Ellon belonged to the Cistertian
abbey of Kinloss in Moray.  It is probable that they were con,
ferred on this abbey at its foundation, in the middle of the twelfth
century.  They certainly belonged to it in the thirteenth cen-
tury, as we find that, at an early period of the century follow-
ing, Robert I. confirmed to the abbot of Kinloss, the advocation
and donation of the Kirk of Ellon.  The Kinloss monks probably
acquired Ellon from one of the earliest Earls of Buchan.  The
Buchan family seem to have been partial to the Cistertian order,
as they founded and endowed an abbey of this order at Deer.
   In former times, Ellon, from its belonging to the abbey of Kin-
loss, was frequently designated " Kinloss Ellon." From an early


