
52                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

the stipend to this amount were procured by the late incumbent in
1819.
   There are at present no Dissenting or Seceding families in the
parish.
   Poor.-Those who, from indigent circumstances, are at present
on the poor's roll, amount in number, this year, to 50. The funds
for their support are derived from weekly collections, fines paid by
delinquents, and donations from private and benevolent individuals,
and which, at an average, may amount annually to nearly L. 30.
The average yearly amount of church collections is L. 22, 7s. 10d.;
of dues of mortcloth, &c- L. 2, 3s. 2d.; of alms or legacies,
L. 3, 2s. 2d. In distributing the funds among them, the poor are
divided into various classes, receiving more or less, according to
their circumstances. The beritors pay no stated sum annually
to the poor, excepting one, viz. Thomas Urquhart, Esq. of Kin-
beachie, who, in lieu of the share allotted to him of the Maoil
Buidh common in this parish, pays to the poor two bolls of oat-
meal. This he does, not in consequence of any legal prescrip-
tion, but entirely of his own good will, and in order to set an ex-
ample to the other heritors, which, it is to be regretted, they have
not as yet followed.  The non-resident heritors give nothing what-
ever. Those who do reside in the parish give occasional donations,
chiefly of meal.

September 1836.


                   PARISH  OF LOGIE EASTER.

                    PRESBYTERY OF TAIN, SYNOD OF ROSS.

                  THE REV. NEIL KENNEDY, MINISTER.

       I -TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name Logie is of Gaelic derivation, (Laggie) sig-
nifying a hollow : and in this case if seems to have been applied to
the spot on which the ruins of the first Presbyterian church in
the, parish are still to be seen.
   Boundaries--Extent.--The parish is bounded by Kilmuir Easter
on the south ; by Nigg on the east; on the north-east by Fearn
by Tain on the north; and by Edderton on the west. It is 7 miles


