

                           DUNFERMLINE.                            895


       burgh pays to Government yearly the sum of L.78 of land-tax,
       or town-cess, besides a sum of L.8 or L.10, in support of the
       convention of royal burghs, all levied from the property of the in-
       habitants within burgh.
         Guild Court.-Formerly the Dean of the fraternity of Guildry
       was a member of Council, and presided in this court. Now, the
       Guild Magistrate is chosen by the Council themselves, and he
       and four councillors form the court. Their duty is to decide
       upon questions relative to ruinous tenements, and disputed
       marches within burgb, and to attend to the correctness of weights
       and measures.
         Police.-In 1811, a police bill was obtained from Parliament,
       not only for the purpose of regulating the police of the town, but
       of granting powers for paving, lighting, and cleansing the streets
       -for removing nuisances and obstructions therefrom, and for
       opening new and widening the present streets ; and likewise for
       increasing the supply of water for the uso of the burgh.
         This act has done much good, in promoting the accommoda-
       tion, health, security, and comfort of the community ; and, by
       continued vigorous management, it may be expected to preserve
       and increase these important civil advadtages.
          A county police having been lateiv established, Dunfermline
       has been made the headquarters for the western district of the
       county, where an inspector and two constables are stationed.
          There are a sheriff, a small debt, and a justice of peace court.
          Dunfermline unites with the burghs of Stirling, Inverkeithing,
       Culross, and South Queensferry, in sending a Member to the
       British House of Commons. Stirling is the returning burgh, and
       Lord Dalmeny the present member.
          Internal Communication, &c.-Dunfermline is a post-town.
          The length of the turnpike roads in the parish is about thirty-
       one miles.
          Two coaches daily leave Dunfermline for Edinburgh, and two
       return.  A coach goes every morning to Falkirk, for the Edin-
       burgh and Glasgow Railway, and returns in the evening.
          The bridges and fences in the parish are in good condition.
       There being no rivers, the bridoes are small.
          There are several railroads, chiefly for the conveyance of coal;
       one from the Elgin and Wellwood collieries to Charleston har-
       bour, and another from the Halbeath and Townhill collieries to
       the port at Inverkeithing.

