
                         GLADSMUIR.                      197

average, betwixt 80 and 100. The branches taught are such as
are usual in parish schools, including Latin, Greek, French, and
the practical parts of mathematics. The salary is the maximum,
L. 34, 4s. 4jd.; and the school fees amount to L. 40. The hours
of attendance are, in winter, from nine to half-past three, with half
an hour of interval; and in summer, from nine to four, with an
hour of interval. The school-house is too small; but in other
respects, it is comfortable enough. The schoolmaster's house
is large and commodious, consisting of two apartments below and
three above, with closets. It is damp, however. The apartments
are very low in the roof, and have much need of repairs. The
schoolmaster holds also the offices of session-clerk and heritor's
clerk, the fees of which amount to about L. 30 a-year.
   There has been a school in the village of Samuelston, from time
immemorial. In former times, the master was allowed L. 2 a-year
from the heritors; but that has been discontinued for a consider-
able time. Some years ago, when the schoolmasters' salaries were
augmented, an attempt was made to get a chalder of victual to be
divided betwixt the schoolmasters of Samuelston and Longniddry;
but it could not be obtained. The schoolmaster of Samuelaton
has a free house and school-house; and he got lately from the pro-
prietor a small piece of ground, as garden ground. That, with
the school fees, is all he has to live upon. The school fees are
small, and the number of scholars upon an average is about 30, af-
fording the schoolmaster an annual income of about L. 15, a mi-
serable pittance for the support of a man who holds the office of
a schoolmaster. Were the schoolmaster of Gladsmuir to depend
entirely upon voluntary support, his income could hardly be ex-
pected to be much better. To what a lamentable state, would edu-
cation in the country be then reduced!
   There is also a school at Longniddry of long standing. Here,
too, the schoolmaster is furnished with a free house and school-
house. Two years ago, when a new schoolmaster was appointed,
the people, very much to their credit, got the school-house repair-
ed and fitted up in a handsome manner. And last year, the
dwelling-house having only one apartment, had another added to
it, which makes the house pretty commodious. This is the more
praiseworthy, as the people are all of the labouring class. The
average number of scholars there, last season, was 60. An evening
school is also kept for the benefit of those who are at work through
the day. Besides the school fees, the teacher at Longniddry has


