
340               EDINBURGHSHIRE.

commanded by John de Segrave, who had previously divided his
troops into three equal divisions, and brought them up in success-
sion to the conflict.*
   Land-owners.--The following are the chief land-owners of the
parish, viz.  Robert Balfour Wardlaw Ramsay, Esq. of Whitehill;
Sir George Clerk, Bart. of Pennicuik; Sir Norman Macdonald
Lockhart, Bart. of Lee and Carnwath; George Mercer, Esq. of
Dryden; Robert Brown, Esq. of Firth; John Inglis, Esq. of
Auchindinny; Sir Francis Walker Drummond, Bart. of Haw-
thornden; the Earl of Rosslyn; the Earl of Rosebery; Archibald
Haig, Esq. of Seafield.
   Antiquities.--The principal antiquities are, Roslin Chapel and
Roslin Castle; the former being in a state of excellent pre-
servation, while the latter has long been in a most ruinous con-
dition.
   Roslin Chapel.--The founder of the illustrious family, to which
the chapel owes its erection, was one of the many Anglo-Norman
barons, whom the policy of King Malcolm Carimore allured from
England, after the Conquest, to settle in Scotland, where exten-
sive grants of land were bestowed on them.  His name was Wil-
liam de Santo Claro, the second son of Waldernus Compte de
St Claro, who came to England with William the Conqueror in
the year 1066.  His mother was Margaret, daughter to Richard
Duke of Normandy, and he was called, for his fair deportment,
"the Seemly St Claire."  This William de Santo Clara obtained
from King Malcolm a grant of the lands and the barony of Roslin.
These possessions were greatly increased by grants of land to the
family from succeeding monarchs.
   Founder of the Chapel.--The founder of the chapel was Wil-
liam St Clair, Prince of Orkney, and Duke of Oldenburgh, and
the name of his princess was Elizabeth Douglas.+  The existing
title of Earl of Rosslyn is British, and was first conferred on the

<FOOTNOTE>There are several names of places commemorative of circumstances connected
with this battle, such as "the Shin-banes Field," where many bones were afterwards
found; "the Hewan," where the onslaught of the enemy was most dreadful, from
the precipitous nature of the ground; "the Stinking Ric." where multitudes ot
the slain were buried, and, not being sufficiently covered, emitted an intolerable
stonch; and "the Killburn," a small brook said to have been discoloured with
blood for three days.  Tradition reports that Mount Marl, the name of a farm
belonging to Sir Francis Walker Drummond, Bart. of Hawthornden, and which
was included in the scene of the battle, derived its name from the following incident:
When the English forces were on the point of being finally routed, Marl, one of
their leaders, is said to have received this important hint from one of his retainers
"Mount Marl, and ride."

<FOOTNOTE>The various titles are recited in Father Hay's manuscript referred to.


