
			FETTERESSO.         		      257

   Attempts to obtain a correct statement of the produce of industry
in so extensive a parish have failed. The average of barley crops
in the better districts may be estimated at 5 quarters per acre; of
oats, 5 1/2: in the inferior, barley, or Chester bear, 3 1/2; oats,
4. Very great crops have been raised, 18 bolls of wheat per acres,
12 to 14 bolls of oats, &c.; but averages are often overrated, as
the experience of many a tenant has unfortunately proved.
   A considerable part of the best land is laid down in permanent
pasture, particularly on the estates of Fetteresso, Ury, and  Mu-
challs. It is let annually on the first and last of these, at rents
of from L. 2 to L. 4 per acre, to butchers, cattle-dealers, and fre-
quently to farmers, who sell their hay crop, most injudiciously, and
pay for pasture for their young stock.
   A very large sum is drawn for dairy produce. From the north-
ern district, the Aberdeen market is weekly attended, for the sale
of butter, cheese, poultry, eggs, &c. and from the southern, that
of Stonehaven. There are dealers in these articles in several
places, besides, within the parish. Almost every tenant now keeps
pigs. Even in Stonehaven there are many. They are purchased by
pork-merchants, when they reach from five to seven stones weight,
are slightly salted, and sent for immediate use to London in casks,
each containing a hundred-weight. About 600 were, in 1841,
thus disposed of, average weight six stones, and price 5s., amount
L.900.
   Mr Barclay of Ury has, from time to time, taken under his own
management farms on his property, (originally improved in part
by his father), and renewed that productiveness which tenants had
allowed to fall off, by fresh application of lime, manuring, drain-
ing, and in several instances, spade trenching, at a great expense.
Some of these farms he has re-let, at advauced and remunerating
rents. He has now, under his immediate charge, above 600 acres,
surrounding his mansion-house, and forming one of the most beau-
tiful farms to be seen in any part of the country. Every variety
of soil is found in it, and all is kept in the very highest order. A
considerable part consists of old pasture, in forming compost for
the top-dressing of which, 12,000 loads of moss have been used, with
much beneficial effect. The whole of the farm is enclosed, fully wa-
tered and sheltered by stone walls, hedges, and plantations. When
a field, which has been for a long course of years in grass, is broken
up for culture, the course pursued is, 1st year, oats; 2d, barley; 3d,
turnips, consumed on the ground by sheep; 4th, barley; 5th, grass,
              KINCARDINE.                                  R


