
                       ST FERGUS.                          207

and memorial ought not to perish. *  In October 1773, Mr John
Craigie + was ordained minister of St Fergus, and upon his trans-
lation to Old  Deer, Mr William Anderson, minister of Evie in
Orkney, was translated to this parish in 1798.  The present in-
cumbent was admitted assistant and successor to the former minis-
ter on the 7th March 1822, and on the 5th March of the follow-
ing year succeeded to the full possession of the benefice.
   Church, &c.-The church, which was built in 1763, is convenient-
ly situated.  It is in good repair, ceiled, and furnished with three
galleries.  On the gallery fronting the pulpit is an excellent clock.
In the year 1836, the parishioners, of their own accord, and at co-
siderable expense, without any aid asked or received from the heri-
tors, painted the interior of the church, walls, and wood-work, and
fitted up the pulpit, precentor's desk, and front of the galleries with
crimson cloth, and the windows with painted screens, so that it is
now one of the neatest country churches any where to be seen.  It
is seated for 610.  All the sittings are free, with the exception of
a small portion of the area including, the pew originally appropri-

<FOOTNOTE>"1772, Nov. 7.  Died the Rev. Mr Robert Garden, minister of this parish,
much regretted, who for many years had been afflicted with palsy, which made his
life altogether sedentary, yet so well did he bear up under that infirmity, that he
discharged the duties of his office with wonderful alacrity to the last.  And though
he had been obliged, on account of asthma and weakness of his limbs, to give over
preaching himself, yet after sermon he always addressed his congregation with that
cheerfulness and warmth which flowed from a real regard for their spiritual concerns,
exhorting, admonishing, and instructing with the greatest earnestness.  He was a
eheerful companion, a warm hearted friend and a zealous minister.  His attachments
were firm, his reproofs severe and undissembled.  Though his passions were quick,
and often hurried him into extravagances (which in the latter parr of his life was ra-
ther the effect of his disease, which deprived him of the power of composing his pas-
sions, and for which he was touched with real concerns when they had subsided,) yet
his enemies could not but acknowledge that he was an honest man and a Christian.
He was the poor man's friend; hewas no man's enemy; he had his foibles, which
is only to say he was a man, but he had his virtues too.  In him the deportment of
the gentleman and the decent gravity of the Christian were united.  He abhorred
to stain the Iatter in order to act the former.  He had his natural pride, but it was
always pointed to its proper object.  It was what was base and unbecoming that he
scorned.  He loved virtue even in rags.  In his confinement books were his amuse-
ment, and the Greek and Latin languages, but especially the former, were his delight.
He was the linguist and the good historian-fond to hear and apt to teach.  Whilst
these afforded him amusement, the sacred volume taught him wisdom and cheered
his hope.  The Rock of Ages, the Emmanuel, was the foundation on which he built.
He breathed his last, and bade adiu to earth and all its vanities, calling on God, Lord
Jesus receive my spirit."
          Mr Craigie possessed very popular talents as a preacher, a strong and well in-
formed mind,and a vein of humour often extremely keen and sacrastic.  The follow-
ing may serve as aman of the unsparing application of his wit, when the ocas-
sion seemed to justify it.  When on trials for ordination, he thought himself rather
roughly dealt with by his future brethen; an old Greek New Testament, very much
contracted, had been put into his hands, but which he contrived, however, to read with
ease, and when he was desired to stop, he expressed his sense of the supposed unkind-
ness he had experienced, in this caustic reply, "Well I shall do so, and if ye hae ony
mair buiks which ye canna read yoursells ye'll ken wha to apply to."


