
                          LESLIE.                          115

  Family of Rothes.-The most eminant characters connected with
the parish have been of the family of Rothes. The Duke created by
Charles II.; and the patent of the dukedom was only to male heirs.
He had only one daughter, who married the Earl of Haddington.
The Duke of Rothes was interred in the burying-place belonging to
the family in the churchyard.
   Eminent Men.-The celebrated Dr Pitcairn was a native of this
parish. There is a farm which belonged to him, and still retains his
name, and the ruins of the house in which he resided. The Dou-
glases of Strathendry are an old and respectable family in the county
of Fife. The late Lord Reston, one of the Senators of the Court
of Session, belonged to this family. The famous Adam Smith,
author of the Wealth of Nations, was a cadet of the Douglas fa-
mily. At one time, when residing at Strathendry, when a mere
child, he was stolen by some gypsies; and it was not till after a con-
siderable search had been made, that he was rescued from their
hands. The Rev. Ebenezer Erskine, One of the fathers of the Se-
cession church, was for a considerable time tutor or chaplain in the
Rothes family.
  Land-owners.-The chief landholders are, the Earl of Rothes,
Robert Douglas, Esq. of Strathendry, and General Balfour of Bal-
birnie.
  Antiquities.-Leslie Green is said to be the scene of the poem by
King James, styled Christ's Kirk on the Green. Although this has
not fully been authenticated, it yet seems very probable;and by Allan
Ramsay the scene is said to be Leslie in Fife. It is well known that
this was a favourite hunting-ground of the gay monarch. The games
until very lately were kept up. On the green, there is still a stone
called the bull-stone, considerably worn away on the sides, by the
friction of the rope by which the unfortunate animals were made
fast.
   A fragment of a deer's horn, now in the possession of G. Inglis,
was found some time ago in a bed of gravel, seven feet below the sur-
face. It is nine and a-half inches round at the bottom. The whole
horn was there, but so wasted, that no other part could be pre-
served Brass or rather bell-metal swords have been found; Ro-
man and Caledonian battle-axes, the latter of stone; flint arrow-
heads of particular fine workmanship. The Hon. Mrs Douglas of
Strathendry has some of these, and one head of a spear, which
seems to have belonged to a standard.
   There are several large stones erected ori different eminences.


