
368			ROSS AND CROMARTY.

rially injured by changes of weather, which not unfrequently oc-
casion much damage in many other districts.
   Zoology.-None of the rarer animals are to be found among us;
and even some of the more common species, which, thirty or forty
years ago, were to be met with in the parish, are now seldom or
never seen. Reynard himself, who used to make depredations of
a serious nature among the poultry, has been forced to decamp,
not for want of provision, but for lack of secure quarters. Of
breeds of cattle there are various kinds, but it is unnecessary to
specify them. Rabbits, introduced some years ago, have multi-
plied prodigiously, and cause a great deal of damage throughout
the parish. Pheasants are found in the woods about Conan. In
winter, the woodcock is to be seen; and occasionally the black-
cock shows his rich plumage. The snipe also is to be met with;
partridges are numerous; groups of plovers may be seen; but
the moorfowl has found it necessary to resort to higher ground.
The heron is no stranger among us; and the swan is sometimes
seen sailing in state on the Frith.
   Botany.-There is a considerable variety of plants to be found
through the parish, especially in the woods; but it has not been ob-
served that there are any of the rarer sorts--such as deserve parti-
eular notice here. The plants used for medicinal purposes are-
chiefly the foxglove (Diqitalis), both the purple and the white; the
latter is, however, very scarce among us; the whortleberry, (Arbu-
tus Uva- Ursi); the ground-ivy, (Hedera terrestris), considered
an excellent remedy in cases of dysuria; coltsfoot, ( Tussilago);
trefoil or buckbean, (Menyanthes trifoliata). It may be proper
to observe, that monkshood (Aconitum Napellus), though it cannot
be classed among the indigenous plants, has been found to have an
excellent effect in discussing indolent tumours. It was applied in
several cases in. the form of a strong tincture, and seemed to act
more powerfully than the ointment of the hydriodate of potass.
The trees which are indigenous to the parish are, the oak, the ash,
birch, quaking-ash, mountain-ash, gean, bird-cherry, holly, &c.
   Plantations.--There are pretty extensive plantations of fir and
larch on the properties of Ferrintosh and Conan. On the latter,
there is also a thriving plantation of hard-wood; and the grounds.
about Conan House, one of the seats of Sir Francis A. Mackenzie
of Gairloch, are beautifully ornamented with shrubberies and rows-
of trees of various kinds. On each of the properties of Findon
and Ferrintosh there is a wood of natural oak, interspersed with


