
72                           BANFFSHIRE.

the agricultural and manufacturing improvement of this part of the
country is still held in grateful respect and admiration. This
bleachfield continued a profitable concern for many years to the
manufacturer who held it, as well as furnished the means of sup-
port to a considerable number of people in the neighbourhood em-
ployed at it. From the falling off, however, of the linen trade in
this quarter, it has turned out latterly quite a losing concern, and
has been given up ; the machinery remaining a dead stock on the
owner's hand, and the bleachfield being converted into corn-land.
But the loss to him and to the people employed in his work, is not
the sole disadvantage which has resulted from the change as to
the linen trade. At one time, there were a good many thousand
pounds annually brought by it into this parish and neighbourbood.
There was not a house in Deskford, nor in any part of the adjoin-
ing country, without one or more spinnitig-wbeels in it. There
was not a female among the labouring classes who did not learn
to spin ; and even many of those who did not depend for support
upon the industry of their hands, thought it not beneath them to
learn the use of this simple small machine. When females be-
came unfit for the more laborious occupation of household or
farm-servants, this was their resource, and they could earn at it
from 4d. to 6d. per day, which was quite adequate for their sup-
port. But at the rate at which they are now paid, their earn-
ings, even with the same industry and exertion, scarcely amount
to one-third of that; and many of the aged and feeble hardly in the
live long day make out the sum of one single halfpenny. Yet still
even that is an object to them, for it is 3d. in the week, and the occu-
pation is an object to those who can find nothing else to do. Even
the aged lady of ninety-seven, who has been mentioned, is not com-
fortable unless she can have her wheel before her, and be "drawing
out a thread." Accordingly, when any fresh supply of flax comes to
the parish, which is but seldom and scantily procured, and more out
of charity than any other motive, there is the greatest possible
scramble among the old women to get a share of it. They will
travel miles and even to other parishes to obtain it ; and if they come
home without it, the disappointment is very great. Political
economists are of opinion, that there is no great hardship in chang-
ing employment from one species of industry to another. But,
whatever public or ultimate advantage may occasionally result from
such changes, there is no one who considers the power of habit on
human capabilities and character, who will question that a vast deal


