
642			FIFESHIRE.

right position, and in the form of a circle. The stones of which.
it was composed were of various sizes, from fifteen to twenty inches
in height; from eight to eighteen in breadth, and from four to
nine in thickness. Due south of the centre, and between it and
the inner circle, there were placed in a horizontal position, two
stones containing hieroglyphics in alto relievo, very entire. The
remaining space between the centre and the circle was laid with
pavement. At the distance of seven feet and a half from the
same central pillar, there was another circle of stones, thirty-two in
number, placed in an upright position, and very much resembling
those of the inner, circle. The stones in both circles were placed
close togetber. Between the circles there was neither pavement
nor stone of any description. Neither were perfect circles, the
diameter of one, from north to south, being fifteen feet one inch,
while its diameter from east to west was only fourteen feet nine
inches; in the same manner, the diameter of the other, from east
to west, was five feet ten inches, while from north to south it was
six feet one inch.
   It is curious to observe, that many of the stones here found, like
those discovered the year before, were sandstone, while, none of the
same kind can be got nearer than a quarry at Cupar moor, which
is seven miles distant.
   At the distance of a few yards on the south, there were also
discovered under ground two curious whinstones ; one resembles
in shape the frustum of a cone, with a smal I projectioin at the
greater end, through. which is a round hole. From this, at the
distance of nine inches, and also near the base, is a slit two and a
half im length, and extending inwards about an inch and a
half; on the side directly opposite to this slit, part of the stone is
broken off. The perpendicular height of the frustum is seven
inches, the diameter of the small end is seven and  a half inches,
and the diameter of the greater  end is eleven. At the top or
small end of the stone, there is an eccavation, around which is a
margin of rather, more than half an inch in breadth. From this
cavity, which is five inches in depth, and capable of containing
quart, there is a round hole reaching to the bottom of the stone.
   The other stone is much broken. Its shape appears to have
originally much resembled that of the former. its presents per-
perpendicular height is seven inches, the diameter of the greater end
is eleven, and that of the small end nine. Like the former, it has
a hole in the side near to the base, and reaching about three



