
                                   BORGUE.				55

      their picturesque situation; belong, it is probable, to the fifteenth
      or sixteenth centuries, and have not, for about 150 years, been
      applied to the uses for which they were respectively designed.
        Kirkandrews village itself is represented as a place of some note
      in earlier times.  Here, according to Simpson, and before his day,
      horse and foot races were periodically exhibited, and fairs were
      held within the precincts of the burying-ground, where multi-
      tudes from all quarters assembled.  Not far distant, at the farm
      called Rottraw, was a tower, of which the traces have now entirely
      disappeared.
        It may be mentioned, that many of the names of places in Bor-
      gue, such as Auchenbay, Knocbrex, Kildrarroch, Risk, Barma-
      gahan, give evidence that a Celtic or Celto-lrish people once in-
      habited the country.
        Eminent Characters.--The following may be mentioned as hav-
      ing some claim at least to local celebrity.   James Menteith was
      minister of Borgue for upwards of forty years at the close of the
      seventeenth, and beginning of the eighteenth century.  He was
      called from Kilmarnock, whither he had come from Ireland a few
      years before, by the heritors of Borgue, and the presbytery of
      Kirkcudbright. Menteith is described by the older inhabitants,
      on the report of a preceeding generation, as a man of remarkable
      piety and zeal; but as having his mind tinctured, in a considerable
      degree, with the superstition of these times.
        A manuscript account of his ministerial life and experience, ac-
      companied with his last advices to his children, is about to be pub-
      lished, and will be found well worthy of perusal.
        Thomas Rainy, a native of Carleton, in the parish of Borgue,
      left his native country about the middle of the last century, and,
      having realized a considerable fortune in the Island of Dominica,
      he entered into a correspondence with the minister and heritors
      of Borgue, with a view to ameliorate the circumstances of the
      poor, and the moral and spiritual condition of the parish.  The
      result of this correspondence was a compact with the heritors, by
      which, whilst they agree to make a handsome addition to the mi-
      nister's stipend, Mr Rainy engages to mortify L.3000 for building
      and helping to endow an academy, and a considerable additional
      sum for behoof of the poor's funds, to be at the disposal of the
      kirk-session.
         These conditions have been handsomely fulfilled by both par-
      ties, and Borgue, since the year 1803, has possessed one of the


