
     Statistical Account

versary.  In honour of this exploit, and of the weapon with
which it was atchieved, this place received the name of Dorn-
eich, or Dornoch, as it is now called*.

   Situation, Extent, Surface, Soil, Climate, etc.-Dornoch is the
presbytery seat; and, alternately with Thurso in Caithness,
that of the synod.  The burgh of Tain, in Rosshire, stands
on the south side of the frith, directly opposite to Dornoch;
and three computed miles to the westward of both, where the
frith becomes pretty' narrow, is the Meikle Ferry, so called in
contradistinction to another arm of the sea, called the Little
Ferry.  On each side of the former, there is a large boat for
transporting carriages, horses, and other cattle; as also a yawl
for the accommodation of foot passengers; but at the Little
Ferry these are found, on the east side only.  At this ferry,
four hands serve; and the same number at each side of the
Meikle Ferry.  Frequent complaints are heard of both; an evil
not peculiar to these ferries, nor likely to be remedied, until
the property and disposal of such be vested in the public, in-
stead of private proprietors, whose chief aim, naturally, is to
have as high a rent as possible.  This parish extends 9 miles
from E. to W. along the coast of the frith of Dornoch; and
from S. to N. or N. W. about 15 measured miles.  It has a
considerable extent of sea coast, not only upon the frith of
Dornoch, but also on that of the Little Ferry, which runs
about 4 miles up the country on the east side of the parish.
The shores produce shell fish, particularly cockles and muscles;

<FOOTNOTE>

*This tradition is countenanced by the horse-shoe, which is still retained in the
arms of the burgh.  In memory of the same event, a stone pillar was erected
on the spot, supporting at the top a cross, encompassed by a circle, which went
under the name of the Earl's Cross.  Standing on a sandy hillock, it was
gradually undermined by the winds:  several years ago it tumbled down, and
was broke to pieces; at present, only seattered fragments of it remain.


