
			RAFFORD.                                 241

variegated foliage with the deep-red of the cliffs on which they
grow. It is here also that this river has gained a notoriety for be-
ing the most rapid and dangerous of any in Scotland, oftentimes
after rain coming down from the gorges above breast-high, and
overtaking the passenger before he is aware of the danger. The
burns of Altyre and Rafford partake very much of the same cha-
racter. The declivities through which they pass are so rapid, and
their course lies so much through deposits of gravel, that they are
continually inundating the plains below with debris, which is a con-
stant annoyance and expensd to those through whose lands they
run. On the 6th August 1838, the whole region of the source
and course of the latter burn was visited by a water-spout, more
appalling, and more destructive in its effects, than any thing ever
witnessed in the memory of any one now living amongst us. Sweep-
ing bridges in its progress, and breaking down the banks, it covered
the plain below with sand and gravel to the extent of several acres,
and, in some places, to the depth of four feet. By this over-
wbelming calamity, the glebe, then bearing a beautiful crop of
wheat, was rendered useless; and, but for the liberality of the
heritors, who at a great expense carried away in part, and in part
trenched down the deposit, it would have been for ever lost to the
cure.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The geology of the parish has, in
common with the rest of the province, been lately defined in a
map which accompanies " Sketches of the Geology of Moray by
Patrick Duff, Esq." This unpretending but very able manual has
appeared seasonably for the guidance of the uninitiated in that
science, which is now occupying so much of the attention of the
learned, and for prosecuting which this province offers so favour-
able a field.  The parish does not differ in its formations from the
surrounding district, lying either on a bed of gneiss, or of grey and
red sandstone.   There is one point on the burn of Altyre where
these different formations are seen to unite, and which lately at-
tracted the observation of M. Agassiz, who visited the spot.   We
believe that the future will open new discoveries of an important
nature in this department, through the zeal and talent of Lady
Gordon Cumming, who has already done much for the interests
of this science; and of whom it has been well said, "that, while
others may advance it by their graphic descriptions, hers has been
the higher accomplishment of delineating, with unrivalled skill,
  ELGIN.  				    Q


