

                        ALYTH.                          1125

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Alyth is or rather was, a market town, and there is still a kind
of weekly market held on Tuesday.  The nearest regular market-
town in Blairgowrie, distant five miles.  Dundee, the nearest sea-
port, and the principal mart for this district, is seventeen miles from
the village, and fourteen from the southern boundary of the pa-
rish.  The situattion of the village is bealthy, and the inhabitants
are well supplied with excellent water.  A system of police has
been established, and a baronial court is held on the first Tuesday
of every month.
   There is no trunpike road in the parish, but the inhabitants en-
joy tolerable fcilities of communication by means of county roads,
which have been much improved of late years, and are generally
kept in good repair.  There are three stone bridges in the village
over the burn ; the newest and best of which ws built a few years
ago by Sir James Ramsay, with the view of improving the approach
to Bamff house.  About twenty-four years ago a bridge was built
over the Isla at Crathie, on the road from Alyth to Dundee, at an
expense of L.3500, raised by subscription.  By means of this
bridge, and of the Dundee and Newtyle Railway, the inhabitants
are enabled to keep up a constant intercourse with Dundee, and
have thus facilities for disposing of their produce, and for provid-
ing themselves with many of the comforts of life, which would
otherwise be beyond their reach.  There is a sub-office in the
village of Alyth, in connection with the post office at Meigle, four
miles distant.
   Fairs.-There are six annual fairs held  at Alyth, but two of
these, St Malogue's, and another about Christmas, known by the
uncaccountable name of Troit Fair, have fallen into disuse, and
are now merely nominal.  The others, two of which continue for
two days, are held in the Muir of Alyth, for the sale of sheep and
cattle.  They have been very much improved under the manage-
ment of John Hill, Esq. of Cotton, the present baron bailie.
   Public Houses.--There are eight public houses and four shops
licensed for the sale of spirits, all in the village.  They are in ge-
neral decently conducted, but their effect on the morals of the
people is decidedly prejudicial.  The number is less than it was
some years ago, but it might still be advantageously reduced by at
least one-half.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated in the vil-
lage, one mile from the western, three from thw southern and east-


