
     Statistical Account

   Sea Coast and Harbours.-That part of the coast washed
by the Atlantic is inaccessible to vessels of any burden,
and even to small boats, but in very good weather, on ac-
count of the rocks, shoals, and breakers that surround it.
In bad weather, when the wind blows upon this part of the
coast, the sea swells to a prodigious height, and rolls with
inexpressible violence against the shores, exhibiting a pro-
spect awfully grand beyond description.  The coast on
the E. side of the country is bold, except where it is inter-
sected by inlets of the sea, which form safe and commo-
dious harbours.  The harbour farthest to the northward is
called Cheesebay, of easy access from the S. E. where ves-
sels may ride with safety at all seasons of the year.  S. of
this lies the well-known harbour of Lochmaddie, much fre-
quented by ships trading from Ireland, and the W. of
England and Scotland to the Baltic.  It extends 5 or 6
miles into the country, and, on account of the great num-
ber of islands it contains, is subdivided into several harbours,
which are all safe and commodious.  This is certainly one
of the best stations for a village in the Western Islands,
being a good outlet for vessels going either S. or N. and in
the centre of the fishing stations from Ulapool to Tober-
morry.  A few miles S. of this harbour lies Lochevort, 
not much frequented on account of its vicinity to Loch-
maddie.  It extends 5 or 6 miles into the country.  The
entrance is narrow, but the anchoring ground safe.  At some
distance to the southward lies the harbour of Rueheva,
which is also very narrow at the entrance, and on that ac-
count not much frequented.  About a league farther S. lies
the harbour of Kellin, formed on one side by the island of
Grimsay, and on the other by a barren island called Rhona.
This harbour is very safe for vessels of no great burden,
and is near a good fishing ground.  Round about these
harbours, and all along the E. coast, the ground is barren,


