
                               JOHNSTONE			161

	There are only two regular sheep-farms, and of these the rent
may be about 5s. per sheep. Black-cattle being kept on the mix-
ed arable farms, it is difficult to state the proportion of rent paid
for them; but for the last two years the annual return to the farm-
ers, taking the average of young and old, does not exceed L. 2, l0s.
each.
	Rate of Wages.--The general rate of a day-labourer's wages,
without victuals, is 1s. 6d. in summer, and 1s. 4d. in Winter: and
of that of a mason or carpenter, from 1s. 10d. to 2s. 6d. Full
grown farm-servants, besides board, receive from L. 4 to 6;
and women from L. 2 to L. 3 per half-year.
	Breeds of Live Stoch.--On the two sheep-farms, the stock con-
sists partly of Cheviot, and partly of short, or black-faced sheep; and
on all the other farms, cows of the Galloway breed are kept, and their
produce usually sold at one and two years old, excepting one farm,

where a dairy stock of the pure Ayrshire breed is kept. The great-
est attention has been bestowed for these last fifty years by the pro-
prietor and his tenants in improving the breed of black-cattle. Bulls
have been brought from the best districts of Galloway, and occasion-
ally young queys of remarkable symmetry and beauty have been in-
troduced, and it is generally allowed, and, in fact proved, from the
numerous, premiums annually awarded to our tenantry from the
district or upper Annandale Agricultural Society, that this parish
now produces the purest breed of Galloway cattle that is to be
found in Dumfries-shire. It may be remarked, however, that the
dairy farm above alluded to, on which thirty cows are kept, is
considered to pay the tenant better than any of those on which the
Galloway stock is reared, and the usual mode of management in
the south practised.
	Husbandrx.--The reclaiming of waste land has been here car-
ried farther than it ought to have been with profit, either to the
landlord or tenant, it being found very difficult and expensive to
keep up the fertility of the poorer soils. Much, however, remains
to be done in the way of draining and top-dressing. The rotation
of crops is very regularly observed. The land being allowed to
remain four years in grass, two white crops are taken, succeeded
by a green crop sown out with grass seeds. Experience has
taught us that this system of management is the most proper for
the medium soils of the parish; but in the extremes of good and
bad land, this course ought in some cases to be deviated from.
The species of grain called bear or big, so common about half a



