
122                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

end of last century. On the estate of Fettercairn much, too, was
done by Sir John Stuart, by draining, planting, and other improve-
ments. But the most extensive improvements in the parish, since
the former Statistical Account was published, have been effected
on the estates of The Burn, Woodton, and Arnhall. The follow-
ing very hurried and superficial sketch of them is all that our li-
mits will admit of. In 1774, Lord Adam Gordon purchased
Woodton, a part of the estate of Balfour, from Captain Forbes;
and in 1780, the lands, properly called The Burn, lying between it
and the river, from Sir David Carnegie. For these two proper-
ties he paid L. 5250; and the annual rent which they then yield-
ed was only L. 113 11s. 1 1/2d. Sterling. They were both in the
wildest state of barrenness. In 1782, his Lordship began to im-
prove them; and for twenty years he went steadily on with his ope-
rations, till he had planted 526 acres of ground, converted much
moor into arable land, and so completely changed the appearance
and increased the value of them, that it was a subject of wonder
how so much could have been effected in so short a time. On
his Lordship's death, they were purchased for L. 20,000 Sterling,
including L. 1000 in name of household furniture, by the late Mr
Brodie of Arnhall, father of the present Duchess of Gordon.
	Mr Brodie had bought the estate of Arnhall, in 1796, from Sir
David Carnegie, for L. 22,500 Sterling. He completed such of
his Lordship's plans as had been left unfinished, and, extended and
carried on his improvements over all the estates till he had reclaim-
ed, from moss and moor ground, upwards of 400 acres of surface,
at an expense, on most of it, of L. 12, 1Os. per acre, built 500 roods
of stone dikes; made five miles of roads; and planted 220 acres
of waste ground. The extent of his improvements, and the im-
portance of them, lay be inferred from the fact that, when offer-
ed for sale, the three estates were purchased in 1814 for L. 70,000
Sterling, by the late Mr John Shand.
	On this gentleman the mantle of his predecessors seemed to
have fallen. They had done much, and yet much remained to be
done. In 1818 therefore, he began his operations on an extensive
district of deep moss, on the Arnhall estate. He cut a large drain
2 1/2 miles long, 9 feet deep, 18 feet, wide at top, and 4 1/2 at bottom,
and a multitude of smaller ones running into it at, right angles.
When the moss was thus brought to a state of dryness fit for work-
ing, upwards of 600 cart loads of gravel per acre, were mixed up
with, in some places to consolidate it, and make a proper soil for


