
     Statistical Account

the Tay at or near Dunkeld leaves these roads very imperfect.
This matter cannot be unworthy of the attention and assistance
of government.  The road from the Ferry last mentioned (a
county road) through the bishopric towards Taymouth, is
much frequented; but, notwithstanding many good bridges, in
wretched repair.  From its mouth to. Amulrie there are four
public bridges on the river Bran.  One of them is upon a
county road from Tay bridge to Perth.  This road if well exe-
cuted, would be of great advantage to a considerable tract of
country.  But so far as it has been made it is very poor work;
as are most of the roads made by means of the statute labour.
The people have seldom sufficient skill for this kind of work,
and always perform it with reluctance.  Roads are not likely
to be well made but by sufficient undertakers.-One may ven-
ture to pronounce, that so low a conversion as 6 d. or even 5 d.
per day of the statute labour, would be far preferable to the
labour in kind.  There is always a very good inn at Invar, and
a house lately built at Balnagaird on the Taymouth road, pro-
mises to be very comfortable to travellers*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antiquities, and Natural Curiosities.-A round mount at the bottom of
Birnam hill on the south east side is worthy of remark  It is faced with steep
oaks, except for a few yards where it was tortified by art.  This eminence
has been known for time immemorial, by the names of Court-hill, and Dun-
can's-Hill, and is believed to have been on some occasions occupied by the un-
fortunate Scottish king of that name.  It looks full in the face, at the distance
of about 12 miles, the celebrated Dunsman-Hill, the seat and fortress of
Macbeath.  Within the range of an arrow from this mount, are to be seen a
number of tumuli or small heaps of stones, about the length of a human body.
It is not unlikely that upon digging, human skeletons would be found under
these tumuli.  Higher up the same face of Birnam are the ruins of an oblong
square building, with circular turrets at the corners: It is called (in Gaelic)
Porhaillon.  Birnam was antiently a forest, and a part of the royal domain of
Scotland.-There is a beautiful little field some more than 2 miles above little
Dunkeld called Yore Haugh, (Dalmacoing) concerning which there is the fol-


