
226                           HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   Soil.-The soil is in general light and sandy, well adapted for
the cultivation of turnips. But there is a considerable extent also
of clay-soil, about a fourth perhaps of the parish.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-The principal historical fevent connected
with this parish, is the battle of Dunbar or Doonhill, fought be-
tween Cromwell and General Leslie, on the 3d of September, in
the year 1650. The latter had pitched his camp on the summit
of Doonhill, where he might have held at defiance the army of
the Commonwealth, had he not, contrary to his own better judg-
ment, been forced by the indiscretion of the clergy, who accom-
panied his army, "to descend into the plain, with a view of at-
tacking the English in their retreat. Cromwell, looking through
a glass, saw the enemy's camp in motion, upon which he exclaim-
ed, 'The Lord hath delivered them into my band,' and gave
orders immediately for an attack. The Scots, though double in
number to the English, were, soon put to flight, and pursued with
great slaughter." *  The remains of the encampment are still dis-
tinctly to be traced on the top of the hill.+
   Land-Owners.-The chief land-owners in the parish are: James
Sprot, Esq. of Spott, patron of the parish; Colonel Carfrae of
Bowerhouses, (both of whom have residences in the parish.); the
Duchess Dowager of Roxburghe; the Earl of Haddington; Sir
George Grant Suttie of Balgone; and Mrs Hamilton Nisbet
Ferguson of Biel.

<FOOTNOTE>Hume's History.
          A  minister of Spott, named John Kello, was executed in 1570, for the murder
of his wife, Margaret Thomson. As the case is altogether a singular one, the cir-
cumstances connected with it may be here briefly detailed. The murder was com-
mitted on a Sabbath. Having before divine worship suspended his wife behind a
door in the manse, he repaired to the church where, in the course of the service, he
was remarked to have delivered a more than usually eloquent sermon. The services
being over, and the congregation dismissed, he went to the residence of a neighbour,
stating to the lady of the house, that his wife (Mrs Kello) had for some time been
rather in a depressed state of mind, and that he had called to request that she would
kindly come over andjoin them in their family dinner, and endeavour to cheer her
up. The request was at once complied with. On arriving at the manse, to the
seeming amazement of both, the doors and windows of the manse were found barricad-
ed. After some little time, Mr Kello contrived to effectan entrance: A few moments
after, he came, running to a window, exclaiming to the lady who accompanied him,
"My wife, my wife, my beloved wife,is gone."  Kello being a man who had credit
for real piety, was never for a moment suspected of having perpetrated the murder.
Such crimes, however, seldom escape the Divine vengeance, even in this world. Some-
time after, being confined by indisposition, he was visited by Mr Simpson, then
minister of Dunbar,  to whom he related that on the preceding night he had dreamt
a distressing dream regarding his wife. This Mr S., probably from  some suspicions
in his own mind, at once applied to the dreamer, saying in the words of the Prophet
Nathan to David, "Thou art the man."  Conscience stricken, he made a full confes-
sion of his crime, and was executed at Edinburgh shortly afterwards.


