
70                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

newal of the encouragement formerly given to it, an iron boat was
lately procured, and the rate of going was increased from about four
to eight or nine miles an hour.  The experiment cannot be, by any
means, said to have failed, but the effect has not hitherto been so
favourable as might have been anticipated.
   Flax Manufacture.-The manufacture of flax is carried on to a
considerable extent in Aberdeen by three firms, all of which carry
on the several branches of spinning, bleaching, and the manufac-
ture of linen of every quality, from the coarsest floor-cloth and
Osnaburghs, to the finest shirting, and one of the houses is exten-
sively engaged in the manufacture of sewing thread.
   The aggregate power employed by them consists of steam to
the extent of about 460 horses' power, and water (used in the
mills on Don side, about two miles from Aberdeen,) to the extent
of about 250 horses' power.
   The number of persons employed in these branches of manu-
facture is about 7600, of whom nearly two-thirds work in the mills,
and the remainder are employed at the bleachfields, or as out-door
weavers.
   The amount of wages paid by these houses weekly is about
L.2600 or L.2700, at rates varying from 2s. 6d. to 8s. to girls,
and from 7s. to L.1 to weavers.
   Cotton Manufacture.-This branch of manufacture is carried on
at Aberdeen by four houses, all of which are employed as spinners,
and one of them also in power-loom weaving.
   Two of these houses have their works on Don side, about three
miles from Aberdeen.  The other two are in town.  The ag-
gregate of power employed by these firms is about 600 horses'
power, of which 260 are obtained by water power, the rest being
steam. *
   The number of bands employed in this branch is about 2000
or 2200, and the weekly amount of wages paid is from L.700 to
L.800.
   Woollen Manufacture.-There are in Aberdeen and the neigh-
bourhood two large houses engaged in the woollen trade, and four
or five small ones.  They are principally occupied in making of
worsted carpets and hosiery.  One of them is also employed in the
manufacture of broad cloth.

<FOOTNOTE>During the summer season, there is often a deficiency of water in the river, and
several stem-engines have been put up for the purpose of meeting this exigency.
This applies to the flax-mills on the Don.


