
42                      RENFREWSHIRE.

still in a tolerable state of repair.  Though, at the time when it was
built, it was reckoned one of the neatest churches in the district,-
it is far from possessing the elegance of many churches of more recent
erection.  It affords accommodations only for about 750 persons, so
that it is by no means sufficient for the population of the parish.  There
are no free sittings.  Sir John Maxwell, having more seats than are
required for the accommodation of his tenantry, lets a few seats an-
nually to such of the parishioners as are not otherwise accommodat-
ed.- The manse was rebuilt in 1791 nearly upon the old site, and
has undergone from time to time various repairs.  Though not equal
to some of the new manses, it is still a commodious house, and very
pleasantly situated.- The glebe, including the ground occupied by
the manse, offices, plantings, roads, and garden, contains about six
acres.  There are not, however, more than five arable acres; and
it cannot be valued above L.2 per acre.  There is no land allot-
ted for pasture: the minister receives in lieu of it only L.20
Scots.  The stipend which, at the date of the former Statistical Ac-
count, was 5 chalders of meal, 1 chalder of bear, and 400 merks
of money, including communion elements, has been since aug-
mented three times.  The last augmentation was given in 1824;
and its amount now is 8 chalders meal, 8 chalders barley, and
L. 15 for communion elements.
     There are the Chapels of Ease connected with the Established
Church.  There are two Seceding chapels or churches, furnishing
sittings for about 700 each, or 750,-one of which belongs to the
United Associate Synod,-and the other is connected with the
Synod of Original Seceders.  The stipend of the minister of the
latter is L. 125, with a manse, garden, and cow's grass, which may
be valued at L. 20.  The stipend of the minister of the former is
L. 130, without either manse or garden.  These stipends are raised
from the seat rents and collections.  We have no Episcopal or
Catholic chapels.  The Catholics, of whom it is said there are
about 700 in the parish, when they attend public worship, go to
Glasgow.  The parish church and the two Seceding meeting-
houses could accommodate only 2200; but,excepting upon sacra-
mental occations, they are seldom completely filled.  The neglect
of public worship is a growing evil; and the public works have at-
tracted and brought into the parish a great number of strangers,
who are very irregular in attending upon the ordinances of religion.
The ordinance of the Lord's supper is dispenced twice a year si-
multaneously in all the three places of worship.  The average


