
			KILTARLITY.                           487

and secures the good will of all who may have occasion to sojourn
in these parts.
   On the Glass, about a mile above Fasnacoil, there is a fall of
water about 30 feet high, called Easnambroc, from the number
of badgers which frequent the sandy soil in its neighbourbood.
At Invercannich, about four miles further down than Fasnacoil,
the river Cannich enters the Glass, and this river is again joined
by the river Farrar, in front of The Chisholm's seat, and assumes
the name of the Beauly for the rest of its course. Two excellent
bridges cross these rivers about a mile above their junction; and
near that which crosses the Farrar, and which is strongly built
with granite, stands the house of Struy, the seat of an ancient
and respectable branch of the clan Fraser, whose representative
is the next in succession, as heir of entail, to the estates of Lovat,
after the present chief, and the heirs-male of his body. The
rivers Cannich and Farrar flow through districts of the parish of
Kilmorack. The Beauly is the most considerable stream in the
parish, and, though not navigable further than the village of
Beauly, about a mile and a-half above where it falls into the
sea, it is of considerable use as a means of transporting timber
to where it can be conveniently shipped for exportation. The
distance from the point of confluence between the rivers Farrar
and Glass to the Beauly Firth, is about nine miles. To account
for the fact that the fishing of this river belongs altogether to
Lord Lovat, though proceeding through great part of the estates
of conterminous proprietor it is said that Simon Lord Lovat, on
the occasion of the family possession being forfeited after the Re-
bellion in 1715, requested his friend, the Duke of Gordon, who
was then in favour at Court, to present a petition, which he had
drawn out, to the king. The Duke did so, and it was found, on
perusing its contents, that Lord Lovat's request was so modest
and withal so strange, that the king, highly amused with the sup-
posed eccentricity which dictated it, immediately gave orders th a
it should be granted. His request was that "one lea rig behind
the castle might be given to him and his heirs in perpetuity."
The lea rig is said to have meant the river. The revenue to the
Noble proprietor from this source alone is very considerable, being
stated to be rented at nearly L. 2000 per annum. The fishing of
it gives employment to twelve men.
   About four miles below Erchless, the river leads to a small rus-
tic hamlet called Wester Eskadale, on an eminence above which,
though half-concealed by birch trees, appear the white walls and


