
272                        FORFARSHIRE.

the motto on the town's seal refers, mare ditat, rosa decorat. The
name in ancient charters, and which is still in common speech ap-
plied to it, is Monross,--Ross signifying a promontory, and Mon
or Moinh the back: these two names are certainly descriptive of
its situation at the back or more distant part of the promontory.
   Boundaries, Extent.--It is bounded on the east by the Ger-
man Ocean; on the north and south by the North and South
Esk,--the latter separating it from the parish of Craig, and the
former from the parish of St Cyrus. The North Esk is also
the boundary of the counties of Forfar and Kincardine. On the
west this parish is bounded by those of Dun and Logie Pert. Its
length between the two rivers is about 3 miles; its extreme breadth,
about the same.
   Topographical Appearances.--Towards the south, the parish
narrows to a peninsula of about a mile in width, formed between
the sea and the basin. On the west side of that peninsula the town
is built. Above the bridge, which is nearly a mile from the sea,
the river expands into what is called the Basin of Montrose, which
at high water presents the appearance of a lake of about nine miles
in circumference,--a circumstance which not only adds greatly to
the beauty of the scenery, but is highly valuable in a commercial
point of view, as the quantity of water carried to and from the sea
every tide prevents the formation of a bar at the mouth of the
river, thus rendering the harbour accessible, at all times of tide, to
all except the largest class of vessels. The lower part of the pa-
rish is level; towards the north-west there is a gradual ascent nearly
to its junction with the parishes of Dun and Logie. And although
the greatest height is inconsiderable, yet, from that part of the pa-
rish the view is rich and varied.
   Diseases.--There are no diseases that can be considered ende-
mic in the parish, though it certainly has its due share of catarrhs,
rheumatisms, sore throats, and all the common epidemics. In the
summer of 1833 we had a very gentle visitation of malignant cholera.
Sporadic cases of typhous fever are of frequent occurrence both in
the town and neighbourhood; but this disease has not prevailed to
any extent, nor assumed a malignant type since 1819, when the
mortality attending it was very great. It has been remarked, that
genuine Phthisis pulmonalis is less frequent here than in various
other parts of the country, though the other forms of scrofula are
by no means uncommon. Calculous disorders seem also to be com-
paratively rare. Upon the whole, the parish must be considered


