
     Statistical Account

   Instead of any leaving the parish for want of employment, or
there being any uninhabited houses, a demand for both daily
encreases, although upwards of 40 new houses have been built
within these few years.

   Natural Productions.-Comparing the fertility of the land in
this parish to what it was in former times, a very remarkable
difference will be found; there is no reason to doubt but that
one fifth more of provision is annually produced, than what
was raised in the same time, on the memory of many yet alive.
To account for this, recourse must be had to the history of so-
ciety in its progress from a rude to a civilized state.  It is ac-
knowledged by all, that when mankind were in an uncultivated
state, every individual provided for himself all the necessaries
of life; but as the manners of the human species improved,
the arts were divided among different hands, and individuals,
with the fruit of their respective employments, purchased from
the manufacturers of other commodities whatever they stood
in need of. Thus every thing was not only procured at
a much easier rate, but finished in much greater perfection.
It was but lately that Scotland, especially this part, and places
adjoining to populous towns and villages, arrived at a proper
knowledge of agriculture.  The learned Dr. Anderson's trea-
tife, and others on this subject, begin now to be read with ad-
vantage by farmers; and consequently the modern system of
husbandry is generally adopted.  The ministers too, who farms
about twenty acres, slatters himself that he has been of some

<FOOTNOTE>

ers of the truth, though they may dister in lesser matters.  It is well for the
ministerse of the established church, that their subsistence does not depend on
the caprice of the people, as the relievers here lately turned off an inoffensive old
man who had preached to them upwards of twenty years; and who must have
suffered in the evening of life, had not their injustice been compensated by the
benevolence of a son.


