
			LITTLE DUNKELD.         1015

	20,000 merks Scots, for the support of twelve poor men on
        his estate, of the Scotch Episcopal communion, appoiting his
	own heirs, and the heirs of three other families allied to his own,
	administrators of this fund. About 1740, a building was erected
	for the objects of the benefaction in the district of Murthly; but
	for certain reasons, the original plan was not carried out. In the
	former Statistical Account of this parish it is said that the sum
	had accumulated to L.2600 Sterling,-the interest of which is dis-
	tributed among certain poor persons in this and other parishes,
	without regard to their religious creed.
	  Library.-There is a small parish library, and the subscription
	is so low that the great body of parishioners have access to it.
                Fuel.-The fuel used by the common people is peat, which ap-
	pears to be abundant, but much of it of inferior quality. The se-
	curing of this necessary of life costs the people much care and la-
	bour. Coals are used by those who are in better condition. These
        are a very expensive fuel, from the extent of land carriage.
		Inns.- The number of inns in the parish is 14, too many for
	any parish in the kingdom. Within the compass of one mile, in
	the vicinity of the parish church, there are no less than four.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

		This parish may be said to hold its place in the general march
	of improvement since the former Statistical Account was written.
	Ploughing-matches have been long ago introduced; the rotation
	of crops better understood; the old clumsy wooden plough has
        almost universally been succeeded by the iron one; and on some
	of the larger farms, comfortable houses and good offices have been
	erected for the occupiers; yet, we are constrained to say that
	these advantages are, in too many cases, more than counterba-
	lanced by the very high rate at which farms in general are let in
	this parish. The roads in this parish are now excellent.
	January 1843.


