
     Statistical Account

country, of so bulky and heavy an article, is the chief ob-
stacle to improvements by means of lime.  When Aber-
deen carters are employed to transport lime-shells to this
country, they are paid at the rate of 11 s. or 12 s. for every
three bolls, according to the distance; three bolls weigh a-
bout 1300 cwt., and require two horses, as neither the roads
nor the horses are good.  Some reckon this the cheapest
way, but others hire the carters to deliver the shells 15 miles
from Aberdeen, where they take them up with their own
cattle; and they pay at the rate of 20 d. per boll; but it is not
uncommon to send horses and servants to Aberdeen with
grain, and even without a load, and to bring home lime-shells
in return.  As the Sunderland shells contain a greater quan-
tity of calcareous matter in the same bulk and in less weight,
than those of Charlestown, they are generally used here, and
at the rate of from 16 to 20 bolls per Scotch acre, which,
when properly applied, have constantly worked great effects.
The great expence of liming, especially in the carriage, which,
with their weak ill fed cattle, the country people cannot a-
void, has hitherto deterred them from using it as a manure to
any extent; and, indeed, without a total alternation of their
mode of cropping, it would be dangerous and hurtful to their
farms.  Heavy as the expence of procuring lime, in this coun-
try, is, the advantages of it in meliorating the soil, are so great,
that it may be looked upon as an article highly essential; and
necessary for attempting or carrying on improvements.  The
only means to diminish this expence, are either to discover
tolerable workable limestone in the country, or to lower the
expence of carriage.  The attempts to discover workable
lime-stone, have not hitherto been either general, or well
conducted, and though there are many indications of it in
the country, no regular quarry has been hitherto found.  It
is probable, that the gentlemen will soon turn their thoughts


