
             792                          PERTHSHIRE.

             farther towards the north, in consequence of which it was found
             necessary, last century, to add an arch to the old bridge to span
             that part of it that was penetrating northward. Formerly, the
             Earn, after gliding along the bank close to the manse, rolled
             through what is now the garden attached to the inn. This will
             be easily understood by any individual who looks towards the old
             bridge. He will perceive it could only be by such a direction of
             its stream, that it could sweep in at right angles to that ancient
             structure. The current at present strikes that bridge obliquely
             which could not have been the case when it was originally built,
             as bridges are placed at right angles to the current. It would have
             changed its bed much more, had not artificial embankments con-
             fined it; and this accounts for the comparatively few deflexions it
             has made from its course since the fourteenth century, when the
             old bridge was reared. The velocity of the Earn is from one and
             a half to two miles an hour.
               The fish found in the Earn consists of salmon, salmon trout,
             whitings, and pike. The whitings are found from August to April,
             pike, chiefly after floods, being carried down by the impetuosity of
             the current. The salmon-fishing on the Earn has materially de-
             clined in value. The fisheries connected with Moncrieffe pro-
             perty yield only L.31 per annum; at one period, they produced
             more.
               Pitkeathly and Dunbarny Mineral Waters.-There are two tra-
             ditions current in this quarter concerning these mineral waters.
             The first is, that the notice of the country people was first attracted
             to them by observing pigeons frequently resort to them. But the
             most prevalent tradition is, that their medicinal virtue was first
             discovered by reapers, who, when using them to quench their thirst
             at their mid-day meal, experienced their strong effects. The first
             authentic notice which is any where to be found concerning them
             is supplied by the session records of this parish. The following
             interesting extract from these documents bears the date 20th Sep-
             tember 1711: " Session met according to appointment, and took
             into consideration the profanation of the Sabbath by people fre-
             quenting the medicine well of Pitkeathly, whereupon some of the
             elders were desired to visit the well every Sabbath morning, and
             dehort the people from coming to it on the Lord's day, and in-
             quire what parishes they belong to, that word may be sent to their
             respective ministers to discharge them; * and John Vallance is

             <FOOTNOTE>It has been already mentioned, that the principal villafe in this parish was si-



