
                            DUDDINGSTON                 383

the lands of Duddingston belonged to the Duchess of Argyle, a
machine, named "chains and basket," was employed to raise the
water from a great depth. At the time this property was purchas-
ed by the late Earl of Abercorn in the year 1745, the coal mines
were let to a Mr Biggar of Woolmet, a man of very considerable
enterprize, who opened a level from the sea, in the form of a large
drain, more than three miles in extent, which he carried through
the estates of Duddingston, Niddry, and part of Edmonstone, as
fas as Woolmet-bank. This extensive level proved of great ad-
vantage to the proprietors of the more elevated coal-works, but, in
the end, completely ruined the collieries of Duddingston by an
overflow of water. About the year 1763, the Earl of Abercorn,
in order to clear the mines of this water, erected a powerful engine
which extended its operations to the depth of fifty-two fathoms.
This engine was rendered altogether useless in 1790, when, on
the 20th of March, the whole seams were overflowed and choked,
from the communications of the level with the higher grounds. It
may be mentioned also, that, before this time, another engine of
even greater power had been erected near the southern boundary
of the parish, to work the coal of Brunstane. The shaft of this
engine-pit reached to the depth of sixty fathoms, and intersected
three seams of coal; the first was seven feet thick, the second
nine, and the last fifteen. The other substances through which it
descended, were deep strata of a coarse res sandstone; and near-
est to the coal, a kind of pyrites schist, which the workmen called
"bands of bleas." There is much unexhausted coal in the pa-
rish; and the Marguis of Abercorn has lately leased the mines to
an English gentleman. A powerful steam-engine has recently
been erected, and it is expected that a large supply of coal will
shortly be obtained.
    On the beach at Joppa, immediately east of Portobello, suc-
cessive layers of shale, sandstone, and coal, are distinctly visible.
The stratum is here nearly vertical, and extends some hun-
dreds of yards, yet it is only a small portion of the depth of the
coal-field, and affords an instructive specimen of the partial eleva-
tions which take place through the whole country, and how diffi-
cult a matter it is to judge of the actual position of relative strata
from such casual views. The quarry, at the same place, shows
the northern portion of the coal-seams exposed to view. The dif-
ferent characters of the sandstone beds are easily seen, some layers
being fine-grained and compact, others friable, and composed of


