
     of Kilsyth.

   Various other branches of manufactures have been intro-
duced here.  But excepting the making of sickles, they have
generally failed.  At present, there are about 5 or 6 hands
constantly employed in this branch.  Their earnings are not
known; and in the situation they are at present, it would
be improper to make them public.  They furnish generally
about 1600 dozen of sickles every year; and send them all
over Scotland, especially to the north.
   The making of files was also attempted. And it might
have succeeded, had it not been owing to accidental circum-
stances, which made it be removed elsewhere.  The greatest
number that ever were employed in this branch, was 8 or 9.
And they furnished about 3000 dozen yearly.
   The starch manufactory was at one time begun, and there
was a fair prospect of success. But by mismanagement or
misfortune, it was given up.
   At present, there is only one who tans hides in the parish.
But 30 years ago, there were severals.  About that period,
there were two breweries likewise employed; but they are
both given up.
   It is said, that there are some marks of the truth of the
tradition, that, in Roman Catholic times, the parson carried

<FOOTNOTE>

this parish, and many elsewhere, were deeply involved.  It may afford some
picture of the times, and of the credulity of this nation, or at least neigh-
bourhood, to narrate his history.  With his staff in one hand, and his bundle
in another, he arrived at Kilsyth altogether a stranger.  At first he seemed
to have little or no command of cash; and of course little credit.  Even for
some months, he was looked upon with a jealous eye.
   But having got some how or other credit, or a cash account on some com-
pany in London, and his bills being honoured in a few instances at first, he
rapidly rose in credit, and by address and application to business, seemed to
be in a very flourishing way.  But alas!  it was at the expence of many, and
to the ruin of a few.  The amount of his debts, was L. 4000.


