
     of Crail.

beans are raised in the neighbourhood of the town in great
quantities, and of an excellent quality.  The crops of
wheat, oats, bear and barley, are plentiful.  Partly perhaps
from prejudice, and partly from a wish to accommodate
their practice to the general nature of the soil, which is ra-
ther late, as lying upon a cold bottom, many of the farmers
in this and the neighbouring parishes, still prefer for seed a
mixture of bear or big and barley, in different proportions,
which they call Ramble.  Though they admit, that when
equal quantities of these grains are mixed together, and
the produce repeatedly sown, the barley in a few years is
found generally to prevail; yet they are of opinion that
they can depend most upon this mongrel crop.  They think
that the bear, as being the earlier and hardier plant, cherish-
es the tender barley, and pushes it forward in its various
stages; that from its superior strength of straw, it prevents
the barley from lodging so much as it is apt to do, when
sown unmixed, a circumstance peculiarly prejudicial upon
a damp soil, from the great quantity of undergrowth it is
disposed to send up; and that, from the same quality, it
assists much in winning and preserving the whole crop in
late and rainy seasons.  Experience without doubt confirms
in some measure the truth of this train of reasoning; but
how far these advantages are counterbalanced by the infe-
riority of this mixed kind of grain to pure barley, yet re-
mains to be ascertained.  Great quantities of these grains,
with a full proportion of beans and wheat, are sent every
year to Glasgow, and its neighbourhood.  The open-
ing of the Canal between the Forth and the Clyde, has
been of immense advantage to the farmers and landholders
in this part of the country, who formerly could find no
good market for what corns they raised, beyond what was
required for home consumption.  The principal farms, a-
bout 20 in number, are of a moderate size.  Though seve-

     VOL. IX. 3 K


