
20			AYRSHIRE.

quod necessarium est ad propria aedificia sua de Are, et ad proprias
naves suas de Are faciendas." Many roots and pieces of oak and
other timber are at this day found in bogs, and various other places
in the parish, in tolerable preservation. The lands thus bestowed
have long since been disposed of, and are in the possession of va-
rious proprietors, but the superiority remains with the magistrates,
and their jurisdiction still extends over the whole of the united parish.
They were no doubt sold at what was considered a fair price at the
time, but what we would reckon trifling compared with the present
value of landed property. Had they been retained, they might have
now yielded to the town a rental of betwixt L. 8000 and L. 10,000
a year, which would have rendered it one of the richest burghs in
Scotland. It is perhaps as well as it is. It is better for a public
body to depend on the resources of enterprise and exertion, than
on large patrimonial possessions. The annual income of the town
amounts to upwards of L. 2000, arising from land, houses, feus,
customs, &c., and the expenditure to within a little of that sum,
paid in salaries, interest on borrowed money, public burdens, and
other disbursements.* The public debt is little short of L. 20,000,
the greater part of which has been laid out in the erection of the
large handsome range of new buildings at the cross, together with
the spire and Wallace Tower. In 1792, the town owed no debt,
but then its income amounted only to L. 740 yearly.
	History.--Ayr appears to have been a town of some importance,
long before the period to which authentic Scotch history extends.
It is not mentioned in any of the Roman authors that we know of,
but it is likely to have been well known to the Romans during
their occupation of Scotland, as one branch of their great military
road from Galloway into this district has been traced by some ob-
vious remains, as we shall afterwards see, to within a short distance
of where the town now stands, where it probably terminated as a
military station or sea-port. Various relics have been discovered,
such as urns and culinary utensils, at a considerable depth from
the surface, which seem to bear marks of Roman orighn. The
place is repeatedly mentioned in the history of Scotland. Indeed,
from its commanding position, as connected with the bay, and be-
ing a point of easy communication with a widely extended district,
it must always have been a place of considerable note. A castle

<FOOTNOTE>In 1835, the ordinary income was L. 2207, 5s. 10d., and the ordinary expendi-
ture was L. 1881, 3s.1Od, leaving a balance in favour of the town, of L. 326, 2s., but
the extraordinary expenditure is generally equal to the surplus revenue.


