
                         CORSTORPHINE.                           227

Scotch Universities, he applied himself to the study of divinity, and,
soon after entering the church, be was appointed provost of Cor-
storphine ; a place, says Crawford, of considerable dignity and re-
venue.  He was then advanced to be one of the King's chaplains,
and, by his talent and subserviency to his royal master, be raised
himself to offices, both civil and ecclesiastical, of great trust and in-
fluence.  In 1528, he was made Lord High Treasurer, afterwards
a Lord of Session, then Abbot of Holyroodhouse, which he is said
to have obtained as the result of a wager he took with King James V.
He was next promoted to be Bishop of Ross, and received in
commendam the Abbacy of Fearn.  He seems to have been a cor-
rupt and dissolute man, and to have aided in no small degree
in exciting popular detestation against the church to which he
belonged.  Shortly before his death, which happened in 1544,
he obtained letters of legitimation in favour of his three natural
children, to enable thern to succeed to the large fortune he had
amassed.
   James Scott was brother of Sir Alexander Scott, Vice Register
of Scotland in the reign of James V. He was bred to the church,
and, soon after entering into holy orders, was preferred to the
office of Provost of Corstorphine.  While Provost, he is said to
have built a house or manse Dear the collegiate church, for the
use of himself and his successors in office, and placed on it his
coat of arms, from which it appears that be was related to the
family of Buccleuch.* He was a man of great learning and in-
tegrity, and from his own acquirements, and the respect which
King James cherished for the memory of his relative the Regis-
ter, he was promoted to be Clerk to the Treasury, and afterwards
made a Lord of Session.
    The last Provost was Alexander M'Gill, who was probably
a layman, and held the office in commendam.  He quarrelled
with the Presbytery of Edinburgh in 1601, refusing obedience to
some of their orders, and, in consequences both he and  his wife,
who had absented herself from church for a long period, were or-
dered to make public confession, on pain of excommunication.
For a long time they resisted this order, till Mr Arthur, minister
of Corstorphine, actually commenced the process of excommuni-
cation, going through all the censures except the last prayer, which

<FOOTNOTE>Nisbet's Heraldry, Vol. ii.  The. house said to have belonged to the provosts is                        Y,                                        40             is
a large house adjoining to the churh-yard at the south west corner, which has the
initias A. S. Poes engraved on it, and a coat armorial partly defaced.


