
318                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the Ayrshire or Cunningham breed, and amount to about 560. Up-
on good pasture, each cow is expected to produce from sixteen to
eighteen stones of what is usually called Dunlop cheese; but, as
the pasture varies, the average may be fixed at twelve stones per
cow. During the last eight years, cheese of the above description
has varied in price from 7s. 6d. to 9s. 6d. per stone. The num-
ber of followers or young cows is about 160, of which 113 are usu-
ally reserved for keeping up the stock, and the remainder sold to
dealers from the south, when rising three years old. About 113
cows are either stall fed for the butcher, or sold as early calvers to
cowfeeders; or such as answer the purpose are kept through win-
ter, and fed on grass the following summer for the butcher.
	Every milk cow, in many parts of this parish, requires from two
to three acres of pasture, where the land has not been properly laid
down,--also house feeding, which consists of clover and tares in the
season, and turnips in autumn and at the end of the year. Dur-
ing winter, each cow requires not less than 160 stones of hay, ge-
nerally meadow. From the extensive agricultural improvements
which have been made and are still going on in this parish, few
or none of the west Highlanders or Galloway breed of cattle are
grazed or fed in this parish for the English market as formerly.
	Sheep.--Most of the farms in this parish have a great quantity
of hill pasture as well as arable land. The hills are stocked with
sheep of the black-faced breed,--these being found more suitable
for the climate than any other. Upon an average, the number
of sheep kept in this parish, on the different farms, amounts to
from 11,000 to 12,000. The number of lambs reared annually
is about 7000,--of which 2000 are reserved for keeping up the stock,
and the remainder carried to market, the average price of which,
for seven years immediately preceding 1834, amounted to about
L. 5 per score; and the price of sheep for the above period, about
L. 11 per score. Every score of sheep generally produces four stones
of wool, which was sold, during the years stated, at 7s. per stone;
but, in 1834, wool was greatly in demand, and prices exceedingly
high and much beyond the real value.
	Every 600 sheep require a shepherd, who is generally allowed
a certain number of sheep as part of his wages; and such shepherds
as are married, and do not live in the houses of their employers, are
allowed, besides a number of sheep, pasture for,one or two cows,
a,house, and a certain quantity of meal,--which in all may amount


