
     of Bendothy.

   Where the mortar* is uppermost, as in several places of
these grounds, especially such as are highest, it proves a wet
poor soil.  In some places, which had formerly been moor,
there is a thin black surface above the mortar, which has
been produced by rotten fog and moss; this proves a very
wet backward soil.  From small experiments it appears,
that such soil would be greatly improved by trencning.
Earth that has once been trenched, will never again acquire
the impenetrability and solidity which it had retained from
its first formation; besides, in such soil, there is no good
ground to lose from the top, by trenching.  The rock be-
low mortar, which is also of a red substance, when dug
from the bottom of wells, moulders in the air, and feems to
be rock marl.  Ground that has a bottom of gravel and
land has commonly a very thin foil above.  This is the
only sort of soil that baffles industry.  The Isla floods be-
tween 200 and 300 acres of these estates.  At high floods
it covers the breadth of half a mile from one side of the
river to the other.  Water made ground is generally dry
and fertile; more so than most of the other grounds that are
above the flood-mark of the river.  There is no vegetable
mould under the latter, in general; the former is in a great
measure composed of vetegable mould; this is some com-
pensation to the farmer for extraordinary trouble and great
risks in harvest when the watery element threatens to pos-
sess his property, Some farmer, drag their corns to higher
grounds when cut; others trust to the season, and some-

<FOOTNOTE>

*That red coarse clay, called mortar, is the basis of all the grounds
in this part of Strathmore.  Upon digging to a proper depth, it will always
be found at the bottom, either in the form of clay or rock.  Sand, gravel,
pure clay, black earth, are always incumbent on it, never otherwise Gra-
vel is found on ground near to rivers, (and on flat ground, which, though
remote from them, is not many dozen of feet above their level), rather
than elsewhere.


