
			    ARDERSIER.                         473

cupations to which their wives are subjected. They carry in creels
on their back to great distances immense loads of fish ; and they
carry their husbands to and from their boats, when, from the state
of the tide, they cannot get in or out dry-shod. This latter duty
influences the fashion of the costume of the females, which, as re-
gards their lower garments, is of peculiar brevity. The women
make the nets and bait the lines, and the fishermen, when not em-
ployed on the vasty deep, do little else than chew tobacco. They
still keep up the system of inviting the surrounding country to their
weddings; and although they are numerously attended, the com-
pany is not so select as it was wont to be in the olden time, when
the synod of Moray in 1640 deemed it necessary to record a mi-
nute forbidding " ministers or their wives to haunt penny bridals."
The fishers marry at an early age, and generally before they ac-
quire the means of furnishing a house even with the necessary ar-
ticles, To compensate in some measure for the deficiency, the
custom of thigging, as it is called, is adopted by the young wife a
few days after marriage. She, accompanied by her bride's-maid,
visits her neighbours and friends, and they each present her with
some little article of house-plenishing, generally a piece of earthen-
ware, usage permitting the visitor to choose what article she pleases.
  From the level nature or the ground between Campbelton and
Fort-George, long-bowls is a favourite game in the winter season.
Shooting at the popinjay, which is modernized into a target, is also
a popular amusement about the Christmas holidays. The best
marksman wins the prize, generally some agricultural implement
Each competitor, before firing, pays a certain sum to the exposer
of the prize, and the rivalry is pursued till the fixed value is rea-
lized.
  The habits of the people, as regards personal cleanliness, are
certainly improved within the last few years. Even the fishermen,
who, for the purpose of smoking their haddocks, and converting
them into speldings, had their fire-places in the middle of the
room, liberally giving unconstrained freedom to the smoke, are now
adopting the luxury of chimneys. Their ancient attachment to
the hog-stye and dunghill, which usually blockaded the entrance
to their houses, if, indeed, these were not sheltered by the same
roof, has received a withering chill ; chiefly from the appearance
a few years ago of cholera among them, and frow the exertions of
the Board of Health in effecting a drainage of the stagnant pools,
and in removing all nuisances.


