
284			        AYRSHIRE.

<TABLE>
	Of grain,		                                 L. 6400 0 0
         Of potatoes and turnips,                                       1700 0 0
         Of hay and hay-seed,                                           2600 0 0
         Of land in pasture,                                            1760 0 0
         Of miscellaneous produce, including a nursery garden,           800 0 0
                                                                   L. 13,260 0 0

	The general duration of leases is nineteen years, a period far too
limited to promote the improvement of agriculture, and the hap-
piness and welfare of the farmer.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Village.--Dalrymple is the only village in the parish, and is si-
tuated on the river Doon, about half way between Ayr and May-
bole. It formerly consisted of a few thatched cottages huddled
together round the churchyard; but about the beginning of this
century, the Marquis of Ailsa granted feus in a more eligible situa-
tion, and in a short time the present neat village, which is much ad-
mired by every stranger, was erected. A carrier from the village
goes to Ayr every Tuesday and Friday, and returns on the same
days; and as there is no post-office in the parish, he carries also
letters and newspapers.
	Means of Communication.--The London, Edinburgh, and Glas-
gow mail-coaches to and from Ireland pass every evening, about
half-past nine or ten, within a mile and a-half of the village; and
during a great part of the year, the Ayr and Dumfries stage-coach
goes on one day and returns on the next, for several miles, through
the upper part of the parish.
	Ecclesiastical State--."Of the more early history of the church
of Dalrymple," says Mr Chalmers in his Caledonia, "research has
found nothing. When James IV. re-established the chapel-royal
of Stirling in the beginning of the sixteenth century, he annexed
to it the church of Dalrymple, the revenues whereof formed one
of the prebends of that chapel.  The cure of the church was in
the meantime held by a curate. The patronage of the prebend
of Dalrymple belonged to the King; and even after the church
ceased to be connected with the cbapel-royal, the King continued
the patron of the same church."--The present church is pleasant-
ly situated on the river Doon, at the south-west extremity of the
parish.  It is near the village, but by no means convenient for the
families in the upper part of the parish, as they are distant from it
from four to six miles. It was rebuilt on the old foundation in a
very superficial manner in 1764, and as it is, besides, by far too
small for the population, it is to be hoped that the land-owners


