			RUTHWELL.                           237

5s. The amount of fees actually received by the parochial school-
master may be L. 45 a-year.
	The writer believes that there is not a single native parishioner
upwards of six or seven years of age who cannot read; nor does he
know of any individuals who have settled in the parish from a dis-
tance by whom this advantage is not enjoyed. There are several
females of the lowest class who cannot write, but, so far as he
knows, not a single male above the age of ten or twelve.
	Besides the weekly schools, there are three Sabbath schools re-
gularly taught in the parish, one in the manse during winter, and
in the church during summer; another in the village of Ruthwell;
and a third in the school-house of Locharwoods; at which, collec-
tively, about 120 scholars are instructed in the first principles of
religion. These schools have been attended with the happiest
effects, forming, as they do, a more intimate and salutary connec-
tion between the minister and his youthful parishioners, and serv-
ing to impress upon the minds both of parents and children the
paramount value of a Christian education. Such institutions have,
indeed, been objected to, from a fear lest they should take reli-
gious instruction out of the hands of parents, or at least render
these natural guardians less alive to the duty of personally incul-
cating on their offspring the truths and obligations of our hoiy
faith. But the experience of the writer has led him to form a di-
rectly contrary opinion; and lie can confidently affirm, that, since
the introduction of Sabbath schools into the parish, his people have
been visibly more attentive than formerly to the pious instruction
of their children at home,--a fact which he considers of unspeakable
importance, and which he believes to be consistent with the expe-
rience of all who have heartily adopted the system.
	Literature.--A parochial library was established in the parish
about thirteen br fourteen years ago, when a number of appropriate
books were procured by subscription; but there were only a few
individuals, beside the minister and principal schoolmaster, who
took a warm interest in the scheme; and the subscribers having
gradually dropt off, it is, at present entirely disused. An attempt,
however, is now making to revive this useful institution, which pro-
mises to be much more successful. * Meanwhile, a library connect-
ed with the Sabbath schools is in active operation, which furnishes,

<FOOTNOTE> Since writing the above the library has been revived with every prospect o
success.


