
360                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

with architectural ornaments, whilst Arthur's Oon was small and
altogether without ornament.
   In the absence of sufficient proof with respect to the use of the
building, and the precise time when it was erected, conjectures
have been various, and the several authors who have spoken of
the building have given different opinions.
   Nennius, a monk, who lived about the year 810, in his history
of British affairs, which, like the works of other authors of that
period, contains many fictitious, false, and erroneous statements,
contradicted by historian's of credit, describes Arthur's Oon, and
states, without adducing any proof, that it was built by Carausius,
who assumed the dignity of Emperor in Britain in 284, held out
against Maximian, the adopted son of Dioclesian, and ruled for
seven years.
   It does not appear that Arthur's Oon is mentioned by John
Fordun, who lived about 1340, and was the first who wrote a ge-
neral history of Scotland.
   Johannes Major, in his history of Scotland, ignorantly asserts
that Arthur's Oon was built by Julius Caesar, although it is known
from Caesar's Commentaries, and from other historians, that Ju-
lius Caesar never extended his power to this part of the country.
Johannes Major states, that in his time the building was called
Julius's Hof, i.e. Julius's House (hofe, Anglosaxon; houf, Scotch,
a court, a house). Perhaps it is this word hof which afterwards
passed into ofn, oven, and oon.
   Hector Boece, in his History of Scotland, which he published
in 1526, asserts, without any good grounds, that Arthur's Oon
was built by Vespasian, and that it was the tomb of Aulus Plau-
tius.
   Buchanan in his History of Scotland, which he published in
1582, describes Arthur's Oon in his florid style, but rather inac-
curately, and represents it erroneously, as similar to the conical
building in Glenelg, opposite to the Isle of Skye. But these
buildings, which have a form something like the tower at Martello,
in Corsica, are altogether different from Arthur's Oon. They
are of unbewn stone, and differ from Arthur's Oon in every other
respect, and are considered to be Danish.
   Buchanan in 1582, and Camden, in his Britannia in 1610, sup-
pose that Arthur's Oon was a temple dedicated to Terminus.
But no such temples of Terminus have been found amongst the
remains of the Romans; and it does not appear from the writings


