
                       NORTH KNAPDALE.                      641

eleven miles respectively from the churches of Kilmicbael Inver-
lussay and Tayvallich.
   Means of Communication.--There is a sub-post-office to Loch-
gilphead, in the village of Bellanoch, from which letters are de-
spatched and received three times a week. The road between
Lochgilphead and Keills, where there is a ferry to the Island of
Jura, passes for fifteen miles through the parish, sending off a
branch at the farm of Barinluasgan to the church of Kilmichael
Inverlussay. There is a new line of road in progress fro Inver-
lussay to Castle Swen, which, when completed, will be of essential
benefit to the whole of the east side of the parish, and to the dis,
trict of Knap in the parish of South Knapdale. The communi-
cation with this parish is easy by means of steam-boats, which, in
summer, ply daily between Glasgow and Inverness, passing
through the Crinan Canal, which bounds the parish at its north.
eastern extremity for four miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The following is a list of the ministers of
Knapdale as far back as I have been able to trace them: In 1639,
the Rev. Dugald Campbell was minister of Knapdale; in De-
cember 1658, the Synod ordered him to transport himself to
Lochaber, which was his first charge before he went to Knapdale.
In May 1661, he was allowed, at his own request, to return to
Knapdale. To him succeeded, in September 1687, the Rev.
Duncan Campbell, who died in March 1711. The Rev. John
M'Gilchrist was ordained and admitted minister of Knapdale
on the 12th April 1715, and, as the parish was so extensive,
on the 20th of the same year, the Rev. Patrick Pollick was
ordained and admitted second minister of the parish. The
former died on the 7th February 1723; the latter was appoint-
ed to South Knapdale in 1734. Mr Patrick Campbell was or-
dained and admitted minister of North Knapdale on the 28th
September 1725, and was translated to Inverary on the 27th No-
vember 1745. On the 10th June 1746, the Rev. Neill Campbell
was presented by Sir James Campbell of Auchnambreck, but was
rejected by a majority of the heritors and people. The Rev. Da-
niel Campbell was admitted on the 14th June 1748, and was
translated to Ardnamurcban on the 19tb July 1756. He was
succeeded by the Rev. Archibald Campbell, senior, who was or-
dained . and admitted on the 3d October 1759, and was translated
to Inverary on the 9tb June 1774. To him succeeded the Rev.
   ARGYLE.                                    s s


