
                                    WICK.			131

      Auchairn, Altimarlach, Drumdriy, which are significant in the
      Gaelic language.
        The Celtic inhabitants were invaded and evidently subjugated
      by the Pechts or Picts, a people of Scythic, or more properly
      Scuthic, extraction, who sailed from Scandinavia to Orkne:
      whence they passed into Caithness across the straits denominat-
      ed from them the Pechtland, softened into the Pentland, Frith,
      and spread themselves over almost the whole of Scotland.  Many
      traces of them are yet to be met with in the parish of Wick, both
      in traditions, and in the shape of those singular and curious ar-
      chitectural ruins called to this day by the common people, Pecht's
      houses.  The designation Cruithnich, pronounced Creenich, that
      is, wheatmen, by which the Pechts, are known in the Gaelic lan-
      guage-the durability of their habitations extending even to pre-
      sent times, when all traces of the turfen huts of their Celtic pre-
      decessors have long ago passed away-the legendary marvels of
      their strength and skill-and the superstitious awe with which,
      even to this day, the places of their residence are regard evince
      that the Pechts must have been a people greatly superior to the
      Celts, and far advanced beyond them in knowledge and civili-
      zation.
        About the year 910, Harrold the Fair-haired, a Norwegian
      king, having expelled the pirates who infested the Northern Seas,
      from the Orkneys, carried the war into Pictland, where he was
      defeated with great slaughter.  On his return to Norway, he
      granted the Oreadian Islands to Ronald, a powerful Norwegian
      chieftain, to comfort him for the loss of Ivar, his son, who had
      fallen in battle.  Ronald made over this grant to Sigurd, his bro-
      ther, who, having speedily reduced the Orcadians, passed into
      Caithness, and subdued it, with Sutherland and Ross, under his
      authority.  Under a succession of Norwegian earls, a very close
      and frequent intercourse subsisted after this event, for ages, be-
      tween the north of Scotland and Norway ; whence numerous bands
      of Norwegians successively came and settled in Caithness.  Sur-
      names of Norwegian extraction, as Swanson, son of Swen, Man-
      son, son of Magnus, Ronald, Harrold, &c. are frequent in this pa-
      rish.  The termination ster, softened from stadr, a steading, which
      enters into the, names of Camster, Ulbster, Stemster, Hauster,
      Thuster, Bilbster, Sibster, Wester, Thurster, and Nybster, shows

      <FOOTNOTE>Auch-charn, the field of the heap of stones.  Alt-na-marlach, thief's-burn.


