
     Of Kinghorn.

height, with a few joints or cracks in each, all parallel to
one another, and inclining towards the sea, to the E.  The
stream of lava, of which this mass of matter is composed,
appears to have flowed from W. to E., and pouring into the
sea, in this direction, from its impulse and resistance, to have
cooled, and chrystalized, and taken the easterly inclination
which it holds.  At a little distance from the Petty-cur, there
is a medicinal spring, commonly called the Kinghorn Spa *.
   Upon Inch-Keith, a small island about half way between
Kinghorn and Leith, and which is considered as belonging to
this parish, there are the ruins of a forth which was in repair
in the reign of Mary Queen of Scotland, and which was then
garrisoned with French soldiers.

   Population.-Upon comparing the late with the present
state of the population of this parish, the number of inhabi-
tants appears to have decreased to a considerable degree.  Ac-
cording to the returns made to Dr. Webster in the 1755, the
number of souls within the bounds of this parish, was 2389.
It now amounts to no more than 1768, including persons of
     VOL. XII. G g

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1618, the celebrated Dr. Anderson, inventor of the pills that
still go by his name, wrote a Treatise upon the nature and properties of this wa-
ter, with directions for using it.
It is impregnated, he says, with chrystal, gypsum, and nitre; is a powerful
diuretic, gives vigour and strength to debilitated constitutions, relieves such as
are troubled with a difficulty of breathing, and allayeth all inflammations in-
ternal and external; that it ought to be taken in the morning fasting, and
taken at the rock from which it issues.
But, for farther particulars, both with respect to the nature and properties of
this water, and the way of using it, we must refer the reader to the foresaid
Treatuse.  We shall only add, that Dr. Anderson concludes his account of it,
with informing us, that in his time, "this fair spring" was much frequented;
and that he himself had many opportunities of observing its salutary effects,
from his attending patients that were drinking the water.

</UNREADABLE>


