
544                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--There are three different quarters in the pa-
risb, where a number of cottages are collected, to the amount of
eight, ten, and twelve. There is nothing in it, deserving the
name of a village. The nearest market-town, where there is
also a post-office, is Lockerbie, distant from the church about
seven miles.  Dumfries, however, distant seventeen miles, supplies
the principal market, to which there are regular weekly carriers,
	Means of Communication.--The public roads have been greatly
improved, or rather almost entirely formed, within the last thirty
years. The country being considerably hilly, the roads were ori-
ginally ill planned; but improvements are made from time to time,
as the funds allow. There are two principal lines of road in the pa-
rish; the one from Dumfries, Lochmaben, and Lockerbie, towards
Eskdalemuir, Ettrick, and Hawick, extending four miles; the other
from Moffat, towards Langholm and Carlisle, extending eight miles.
There are three bridges over the rivulets, Dryfe, Corrie, and Milk,
the last of which divides this parish on the south-east from Tun-
dergarth, for seven or eight miles. The roads and bridges are
kept in good repair.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church stands near the Dryfe, on the
west side of the parish, and is far from being in a central situa-
tion; the parish not extending more than a mile from it on the
west; whereas, towards the north-east and south, it extends six.
At the same time, the densest part of the population is round the
church, and were a new one to be erected, it could not be perhaps
placed more conveniently than the present. The church was built
towards the beginning of the last century. An addition, in the lan-
guage of the country, a jam, was built to it in 1764. It is kept
in good repair, and forms a decent place of worship. It can ac-
commodate 312 sitters. The manse was built in 1803, some ad-
ditions and improvements having been since made. The glebe
contains nearly 28 Scots acres, and may be worth L. 16 or L. I8
a year. The Court modified the stipend in 1823 to sixteen chal-
ders, half barley, half oatmeal, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion
elements.
	The following distribution of the families of the parish among
the different religious denominations approaches pretty nearly the
truth. It is not professed to be perfectly accurate. In a number
of instances, the members of a family belong to more denominations
than one. Families belonging to the Established Church, 95;


