
232			  KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

estate, and their condescension and liberality to the poor and the
working population, have endeared them to all in the neighbour-
hood. This branch of tbe family of Nithsdale claims the dormant
title of Lord Harris.
	Parochial Registers.--The registers of the parish go no farther
back than the year 1714, and, generally speaking, have been very
imperfectly kept.
	Antiquities.--The ruins of the Abbey of Lincluden are situated
on the banks of the river Cairn, a little above its junction with the
Nith. This church or abbey originally belonged to the Benedic-
tine nuns. It was built during the reign of Malcolm IV. about
the year 1150, by Uthred, the father of Roland, the Lord of Gal-
loway. In the year 1400, this ancient piece of architecture was
changed from the character it orginally possessed, in consequence
of the irregular habits of the nuns, into a temporal baronx (M'Diar-
lid's Picture of Dumfries-shire.) About the beginning of the
sixteenth century, it became the property of the Nithsdale family,
and at present is in the possession of Marmaduke C. Maxwell,
Esq. Towards the east end of the chapel, is the tomb of Marga-
ret, daughter of Robert III. and wife of Archibald Earl of Dou-
glas, on which is an inscription but so much defaced that it can-
not now be deciphered. The ruins are in a very dilapidated state;
and although the whole must leave bden once a building Of much
grandeur and magnificence, its beauty is completely obscured.
There are many farms in the neighbourhood which have obviously
derived their names from this ancient establishment, for example,
Nunnery, College, &c.
	Adjoining to the church there is an old building which now con-
stitutes the burying-place of the Maxwell family. It was built in
the year 1568, and formed part of the church at that period used
as a Roman Catholic place of worship. There are many curiosi-
ties connected with this remnant of the olden times. Amongst
others, is a massy and curiously carved chair made of oak, which
originally belonged to the provost of Lincluden Abbey, after that
institution was changed into a temporal barony. In the absence,
however, of a distinct knowledge of the character of these ancient
relics, and the particular purposes to which they were once applied,
little can with any certainty be said of them. This remnant of
the Catholic times retains to this day the name of the choir, and
is understood to have formed the orchestra or place set apart for


