
206                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

jured by a bar or bank of sand, which the sea has raised at the,
mouth of the river, and which, by the large quantities of sea-weeds
collected upon it, prevents the salmon from entering with ease,
unless o when a land flood has cleared a passage for them.  The
salmon do not come up the river before the end of April, and from
that time till the end of July they are considered to be in the
greatest perfection.  They return to the sea in, December.  The
proprietor, of the salmon-fishing is Robert Arbuthnot, Esq. of Ugie
Bank.  It is let by him at present for seven years, at the average
rent of L.45 per annum.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication, &c.-There is no market-town in the
parish.  The nearest market-town is Peterhead, five miles dis-
tant, at which also is the nearest post-office.  Besides the Kirk-
town, there is a small village in the neigbbourhood,-an acquisition
which it would have been no disadvantage to the parish never to
have possessed.  The turnpike road from Peterhead to Fraser-
burgh traverses the whole length of the parish from south to
north, on which a coach runs three times a week between these
towns.  The bridge over the Ugie, in the line of the turnpike,
which was built in the reign of James II. of England, connects
St Fergus with the parish of Peterhead.
   Eeclesiastical State.-Incumbents.-In 1616, when the parish
assumed its present name, Mr James Robertson was minister.
He was succeeded by Mr John Robertson, but in what, year can-
not be ascertained.  He again was succeeded by Mr Alexander
Hepburn, who was deposed in 1716, for aiding and abetting a mob
to proclaim the Pretender King; and for praying for the Pretender
under the title of King James VIII.  After a long vacancy, during
which it, would appear from the records of Presbytery, that the
majority of the parishioners, or at least the most influential amongst
them, had adhered to the ministry of Mr Hepburn, and kept pos-
session of the church, Mr William Leslie was translated from
Chapel of Garioch to St Fergus in 1728, but died soon after.  In
1729, Mr James Leslie, a brother of the former incumbent, was
translated from Crimon & to St Fergus. *  On the 12th September
1745, - Mr, Robert Garden, a licentiate of the Presbytery of Kin-
cardine O'Neil, was admitted minister of this parish.  The fol-
lowing extra fromt the session records will shew, that his name

<FOOTNOTE>He was the father of the late and grandfather of the Present Dr Leslie of Fordoun.


