
			SORBIE.                                   25


this lake there issues a small stream, which runs from west to
east, through a rich valley, and falls Garliston Bay.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--In many parts of the parish, parti-
cularly on the north and north--west, there accur nurmerous beds of
transition rocks, varying in extent and thickness. These are dispos-
ed in horizontal and variously inclined positional and follow a direc-
tion from north-east to South-west. There is no granite, with the
exception of a few detached blocks, from two to three feet long.
which present the themselve's here and there on the surface. We are
not aware that any fossil organib remains have bedn found, belong-.
ing either to the animal or vegetable kingdom. Neither ores nor
any important minerals have been discovered in the parish. The
soil consists, for the most part, of a dry, brownish earth, mixed
more or less with till or gravel. In some of the valleys, a heavy
loam occurs, but its extent is inconsiderable. The subsoil con-
sists of till, gravel, and whinstone. In several districts marl was
once found under beds of moss, from one to three acres in extent,
but the greater part of it was exhausted about fifty or sixty years
ago, when it was dug up for the purpose of manure. There are
no mines of any kind in the parish.
	Zoology.--Sorbie contains none of the rarer species of animals.
Foxes once existed among the rocky cliffs on the sea coast, but
they are now believed to be wholly extinct. A great many years
ago, very large bullock and deer's horns were found in a bed of marl
at Palmallet. This parish, in common with the other parishes of
the Mahers, is distinguished for breeding that peculiar species
Of black-cattle, denominated  Galloways, which are well known
throughout the country. The horses are mostly of the draught
kind, but their breed is rather mixed. There is nothing very re-
markable in the quality or value of our sheep or hogs. Pike, per-
ches, and eels abound in Dowalton Loch, and trouts are found in
some of the larger streams. The firhes found in the sea are chief-
ly salmon, herlings, cod, and mackerel, all of which are of import-
ance in an economical point of view. There are no insects, which
are not common to other parts of the country. Those which are
most destructive to vegetation, in general, are the wire-worm and
grub. Those which are most injurious to fruit-trees are the ca-
terpillar and the wasp; the former attacking the flowers, and the
latter the fruit. A considerable variety of shell-fish is found on
the coast, such as the oyster, lobster, crab, &C. but none of these
are sought after for economical purposes.


