
                                    WICK.,

     taining 100 decked vessels. From the great increase of trade
     consequent on the prosperity of the herring-fishery, this harbour
     soon became quite inadequate, and a new one was planned, and
     in 1831 completed, at an expense of L. 40,000. It is unhappily
     exposed to the swell of the sea, which rolls in from the mouth of
     the bay.
       The best place, it is said, for a harbour on the eastern coast of
     Caithness, is at Sinclair's Bay, which is a part of the Bay of
     Keiss between Ackergill and Castle Girnigoe.
       Ecclesiastical State.-We learn from Tertullian that, before his
     time, Christianity was planted in parts of Britain which had been
     inaccessible to the Roman arms. There is good reason for be,
     lieving that, before this period, the Romans had a settlement to the
     north of the Grampians, of which Pteroton, hodiernally Inverness,
     was the capital. The Christian churches to which Tertullian alludes
     were collected from among the Celtic tribes, who seem to have
     occupied, in these ancient days, the whole of modern Scotland, up
     to the Pentland Frith. Their ministers were styled Culdeesi from
     Cuildich, dwellers in remote or sequestered places: and it was al-
     ways asserted by them, that their church had been planted by the
     immediate disciples of the Apostle John. The Pechts, who had
     invaded and subjugated the Celts, were heathens. The seat of
     their king was near Inverness, and their kingdom stretched north-
     wards to the Pentland Frith. In 566, the Pechtish sovereign,
     Brudy II. was converted and baptized by Colum, Abbot or Presi-
     dent of the Presbyterian College of Iona. At the Pechtish court
     Colum met an Oreadian prince, to whose protection, at the
     Culdee's request, Brudy recommended certain missionaries in
     Orkney. Presbyterian ministers, or Culdees from Iona, styled
     also I-colum-killi, the Island of Colum of the Cells, in allusion
     to the numerous churches which be planted, and from others
     of their colleges, were speedily settled over all the west and north
     of Scotland. The places of their residence are generally denot-
     ed by the prefix kil, which evidently signified a Culdean church;
     as Kilmarnock, Kildonan, &c. One of tbem had probably his re-
     sidence, within the parish of Wick, at a place called Kilministers,
     which, in pronunciation, is often shortened into Kilminster, Kilina-
     ster and Kilmster. In the very middle of the Moss of Kilminister
     are the ruins of a building, called, unto this day the Kirk o' Moss. A
     causeway, the traces of which are yet distinctly visible, led through
     the deep and otherwise impassable bog to this ancient place of


