
                           CUMBRAY.                               73

Solanum Dulcamara       Anthemia nobilis		Anagallis tenells
Hyoscyamus niger        Trifolium fragiferum          Pinguicula lusitanica
Conium maculatum        Lithospermum maritimum        Veronica anags His, &c. &c.

Heaths also of various kinds, such as common white heath, and fine-
leaved white heath, cross-leaved white heath &c. &c. with great
varieties of medicinal herbs, too tedious to mention.
	Till lately, there were but few trees in the parish; in-
deed, with the single exception of some eight or ten acres planted
about fifty years ago on Lord Glasgow's property, there was nothing
in the shape of plantation in the whole island; but, since 1822 the
Earl of Glasgow has planted upwards of 120 acres, all in the
form of beltings. The places so planted have been very well
chosen, the trees are thriving well, and tend at once both to shelter
the fields and to beautify the island. These plantings consists of com-
mon Scotch fir, Weymouth pine, common larch, black and white
spruce, common and mountain-ash tree, common birch common
chesnut tree, oriental plane-trees, English elm, common Scotch
oak, common lime tree, common and Huntingdon willow, Bed-
ford and Canadian poplar tree, Cytisus, laburnum, &c. &c. Be-
sides these, there are also a few others round some of the farm.
houses, but none of any great note, excepting one at Ballykellet, a
very large ash tree, and evidently of very long standing; it is sup-
posed to contain upwards of 65 feet solid, and measure 10 feet in
circumference.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	From the want of particular documents respecting the parish,
its history is very much involved in obscurity. There is, indeed, a
parish register, which is regularly kept, but it extends little farther
back than 100 years, the date of its first entry being in October
1730. From this circumstance very little is known of its ancient
history, only that it seems at one time to have been in the posses-
sion of the Norwegians, and, consequently, to have been very of,
ten the subject of contest between them and the Scots. This con-
test, however, seems to have ended with	the battle of the Largs,
when these, Norwegians were completely routed and driven from
the coast. Tradition points out a place here, on the brow of a hill,
where some of these invaders lay encamped, but no traces of the
camp itself are now to be seen. Mention is also made of a cathedral
which once stood here, and which is said to have been dedicated,
to Saint Columba, but of this nothing is known by the inhabitants,
and certainly no remains are to be seen. That such an establish-
ment, however, did really exist, in high probable, both from the


