
530                        ARGYLESHIRE.

   The salary of one of the parochial schoolmasters is L.25 Ster-
ling.  His other emoluments, arising from school fees, and from
his office as session-clerk, amount to L.12.  The salary of the
other is L.21 Sterling, with about L.6 of school fees. Both have
a dwelling-house and school-house provided for them by the he-
ritors.  It is in contemplation to establish a third parochial school,
which is much required. There are three Sabbath schools.
   Quoad Sacra parish of Oban.-- The quoad sacra parish of Oban
comprehends the town of Oban, and a small landward district,
extending in one direction about two miles, and in another about
two miles and a half from the town. The whole population, as
ascertained by a census taken within the last four years, is 1620
souls, of whom about 1400 reside in the town, and the remainder
in the landward part of the parish.
   The quoad sacra parish of Oban was erected in 1834, in
accordance with the General Assembly's Act respecting cha-
pels of ease. The present church is the first that was erect-
ed in the parish in connection with the Establishment, and was
built in 1821. Prior to its erection, Divine worship used to
be conducted, for a number of years, by ministers of the Esta-
blished Church, in a small and inconvenient building now occu-
pied as a school-room. The church affords accommodation for
530. Though this, compared with the population, is apparently
inadequate to the wants of the parisb, it is not really so, in conse-
quence of the number of inhabitants who do not understand the
Gaelic language, or who prefer English. These attend public
worship in the afternoon of Sabbatb,--the service being then con-
ducted in the English language, while that part of the inhabitants
who understand and prefer Gaelic attend in the forenoon; so that
there being two almost entirely distinct congregations, the church
accommodation is in effect greatly increased.
   The minister's stipend is L.100 perannum,which sum is raised
by means of the seat rents, assisted by an annual grant of L.20
from the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.
   At present no catechist is employed in the parish. For several
months of the year 1839, there was one in the employment of the
United Secession body.
   Dissenting Chapels.--1st, One connected with the United Se-
cession. It was built about five years ago. The minister's sti-
pend is believed to be L.90 per annum, which is guaranteed to
him by the United Secession Congregation in Glasgow, of which


