
		    		DINGWALL.                    227

   	These improvements were chiefly effected by the tenants who
   hold their lands on leases of nineteen or twenty-one years; and
   this demonstrates the great advantage resulting, not only to the
   proprietor, but to society generally, from such lease as secure to
   the occupier the fruits of his enterprise or skill. The lands about
   town are generally held on leases of five years, the proprietor be-
   ing unwilling to grant them for longer terms, as they might prove
   obstacles to improvements, and as the value of land is there more
   fluctuating.
	The farm-buildings throughout the parish are in good repair.
   They are in general substantial and commodious. The enclosures
   are chiefly sunk fences and hedges, the latter of which are very
   badly kept.
   	The chief obstacles to improvement on the part of the farmer
   here, arise from the frequent inability of the proprietor, owing to
   circumstances connected with the law of entail, to render the te-
   nant any assistance or encouragement in times of depression. The
   best remedy for this would undoubtedly be the conversion of
   money into grain rents, which would render the tenant independent
   to a great degree of fluctuation in the market prices.
   	There are three quarries in the parish; one of these, which
   is situated about one-fourth of a mile from the town, is the proper-
   ty of the public. It is a hard gray sandstone of good quality; but
   the labour and expense of excavating it are very great, owing to the
   depth of clay and breecia by which it is covered. The other two,
   which are private property, are of a fine light-blue colour, afford-
   ing stone fit for all kinds of work, and susceptible of a very fine
   polish. It has, however, one disadvantage; there is a small ad-
   mixture of iron pyrites, upon which the rain in time operates, and
   stains in a very ugly.manner the contiguous stones.
	There are no fisheries in this parish, with the exception of a
   stell salmon-fishing in the Conan, one-third of which belongs to
   the common good of the burgh, and from which it derives an ave-
   rage revenue of L.90. There is also belonging to the town a yair
   fishing in the frith, which pays a trifling rent, but, owing to mal-
   construction or some other cause, it has been for a few years past
   very unproductive.
   	The average gross amount of raw produce raised in the parish,
   which, owing to a variety of circumstances it would be almost im-
   possible to ascertain with accuracy, may be approximated thus:
   Assuming the six-course rotation described above to represent the


