
                             FYVIE.                              327

   In 1323, Albertinus was appointed to the cure and keeping of
the House of Fyvin, and in 1325, a letter was addressed to him
by Bernard, Abbot of Aberbrothock, for the maintenance of disci-
pline, and edjoining him with that view, "to hold a chapter regu-
larly three times a week, on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridayss,
to correct the irregularities of his brethren; to reform the divine
worship on Sabbatlis and festivals; to keep the fasts according to
the rule and canonical institution; and if any of the brethren
should be found drunken, noisy, abusive, rebellious, and disobe-
dient, to reclaim him, if possible, by good coupsel, otherwise to
punish him by silence, and bread and water, in a place of confine-
ment beyond the access of the seculars, and if still refractory, to
transmit him, with a statement of his delinquencies, to the parent
institution." *
   In the chartulary of Arbroath, various notices are contained re-
garding succeeding priors of Fyvie, and of leases granted of the
lands which belonged to the priory.  In 1470, one Alexander
Mason is Prior, of whom it is stated that be exerted himself great-
ly for the increase and repair of the buildings connected with the
establishment; that be rebuilt the cbapel; added offices, and en-
closed the garden with a wall.  The prior of Fyvie is frequent-
ly mentioned in the Rolls of the Scottish Parliament.  A little
before the Reformation, the possessions of the priory are said to
have been much dilapidated, though the lands which belonged to
it in the neighbourhood rented L.200 Sterling in 1792. +
   Parish Church.-The parish church of Fyvie, near to which the
priory was situated, was dedicated to St Peter, the memory of
which is still preserved in the name of Peterswell, in the immediate
vicinity.  William the Lion gave to the Abbey of Arbroath, the
church of Fyvin, with the chapels, lands, tithes, oblations, pastu-
rage, and other pertinents, between 1187 and 1200. ++
   In 1382, the husbandmen of Formartine, including the whole
parish of Fyvie, and part of Tarves, having incurred the penalty
of excommunication by Adam, Bishop of Aberdeen, for non-pay-
ment of the second tithes, were obliged to repair in a body to the
Bishop's chapel at Rayne, headed by John de Camera, bailie of-
Formartine, where, in presence of William de Spyny, cantor of
Moray; William de Ormys, kirk-treasurer of Aberdeen; Wil-
liam Garland, sub-dean of Moray; William Lang, vicar of Fyvie,

<FOOTNOTE>Chartulary of Arbroath, Adv. Lib. ii. pp. 58, 60.        Fyvie, Chart.
          Chart. Arbr. i. p. 118.


