
570                          AYRSHIRE.

are not on the monthly roll of paupers. The annual amount of
collections made at the church for behoof of the poor, is about
L. 26 : the poor have also the interest of L. 100, left by the late
Mrs Fullerton of Rosemount.
	When the funds for the support of the poor have been expend-
ed, the heritors voluntarily subscribe, according to their respective
valuations, for what may be required for that purpose.
	Inns, &c.--There are six houses in the parish where spirits and
ales are sold; three of there are in the village, the other three are
on the Glasgow and Portpatrick road, where the stage-coaches
and mails change horses.
	Fuel.--Coal is the only kind of fuel used in this parish: it is
procured from Fairlie, Gatehead, and Caprington coal-pits, in the
adjoining parishes of Dundonald and Riccarton.

	March 1839.

                       PARISH OF BEITH.

		PRESBYTERY OF 1RVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                   THE REV. GEORGE COLVILLE, MINISTER. *

		I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE name of the parish, according to Chalmers, is
Celtic, signifying birch.  There is reason to believe that the whole
of the district was once covered with wood.  Many names of places
indicate their derivation from this circumstance, as Woodside,
Threepwood, Fulwoodhead, Boughwood, &c. &c.
        Extent, Boundaries, &c.--The town lies in latitude 55&deg; 47'
north, and in longitude 4&deg; 39, west.  It consisted, at the beginning
of the seventeenth century, of a few houses set down at the kirk,
but now contains upwards of 300.  The parish lies in the form of
a triangle.  Its greatest length is from south-east to south-west,
which is 4 miles.  A small part of it, in the south-east, lies in
Renfrewshire, having been disjoined from Neilston and annexed
to Beith.  This was done about 1649, at which time the, bounds
the different preshyteries in the synod of Glasgow were care-
fully perembulated, with the view of forming new parishes where
required and of annexing or disjoing lands, to suit the conve-

<FOOTNOTE>This Account has been furnished by James Dobie, Esq. of Crummock.


