
90                        SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

to the latitude; such as the starling (Sturnus,) thrush (Turdus,)
wagtail (Motacilla alba,) lark (Alauda arvensis,) green linnet (Loxia
chloris,) swallow (Hirundo,) blackbird thrush, (T. merula,) cuckoo
(Cuculus canorus,) kingsfisher (Alcedo ispida,) wild picreon (Co-
lumba AEnas,) black-cock (Tetrao tetrix,) ptarmigan (T. lagopus,)
moorfowl (T.Scoticus,) partridge (T. perdix,) plover (Charadrius,)
&C.
   Among the water-fowls are gulls (Larus ridibundus, and L.
marinus ;) wildroose (Anser,) swan (A. cygnus,) duck (A. boschas,)
teal (A. crecca,) solan-goose (Pelecanus Bassanus,) puffin (Alca
arctica,) auk (A. torda,) and great auk (A.impennis,) crace
(Grus.)
   Fishes.-Skate (Raice,) piked dog-fish (S. acanthius,) eel (Mu-
rena anguilla,) coger, or sea eel, (M. conyer,) cod (G. morrhua,)
haddock (G. AEglefinus,) coal-fish (G. carbonarins,) whiting (G.
merlangus,) ling, (G. molva,) mackarel (Scomber,) turbot (Pleuro-
neetes hippoglossus,) sole (P. solea,) flounder (P. flesus et punctatus,)
salmon (Salmo,) trout (S. trutta et fario,) char (S. alpinus.)
   The shell-fish are:-Oysters (O. edulis,) cockles (C. edule,)
mussels (M. edulis,) &c.; univalves of different kinds, as well as
lobsters and crabs, are very numerous. The sands of Balnakiel
present beautiful specimens of conchology.
   Reptiles, 4-c.- Among the reptiles are: the viper (Coluber berus,)
adder (Anguis eryx,) lizards (Lacerta,) frogs (Rana,) toads (Bufo.)
Among the various species of insects and flies, the most peculiar
and numerous are gnats, provincially called midges ; these are
so annoying during the months of August and September in calm
warm and moist weather, that they interrupt all labour without
doors.
   Botany. The vegetation of this parish is materially affected
by its latitude, the vicinity of the sea, its position towards the wes-
tern shore, its diversity of surface, and its soil. On the northern
confines of Britain, the ordinary law by which the geographical
distribution of plants in retard of latitude is rerulated, bring to
very moderate elevations plants which, in the southern parts of the
Grampians, are found only on the ridges, and which are not pro-
duced at all in the south of Scotland, for want of a sufficiet ele-
vation to give the Alpine climate. In the parish of Durness, how-
ever, the descent of Alpine vegetation is greatly increased by its

<FOOTNOTE>This article was kindly communicated by Dr Graham, Professor of Botany in
the University of Edinburgh.


