
560			      AYRSHIRE.

schools, which are conducted by 142 teachers, and in which there
are 1288 scholars.
	We may here notice, that the late William Paterson, Esq. of
Ayr, left L. 90 a-year, to be apportioned by nine trustees amongst
young persons at school in Kilmarnock, applying for the same;
in order to promote emulation among the scholars, and to aid in
completing their education, whether here or elsewhere.
	The number of youths who cannot read or write, is very incon-
siderable. The natives of Kilmarnock, in general, are fully alive
to the benefits of education, and covet them above all things for
their children. They struggle hard to render them scholars, and
if possible great scholars. There are, however, exceptions, but
these are not numerous, and occur chiefly among those who are
natives if Ireland, or who have become poor and indifferent about
the education of their children, from the frequent use of ardent
spirits. The free school and the school of industry furnish a
remedy for this evil; for neglected children are readily admitted
into both, on application on the part of their parents. But the
greatest enemy to education in this and other commercial towns,
is a disposition on the part of poor parents to avail themselves of
the fruits of their children's industry. They can often procure em-
ployment for them in some of the factories, when, for the small
sum of 2s. or 3s. per week, they are daily confined ten or twelve
hours. As far as can be ascertained, there are about 200 adults
who cannot read or write, who are mostly natives of Ireland. The
general diffusion of education in the parish undoubtedly exerts a
most salutary influence on the conduct and morals of the inhabi-
tants. But there are two counteracting causes. The first is, the
constant influx of strangers, chiefly from Ireland, who have not en-
joyed the same advantages, and who, mingling with the natives,
imperceptibly influence their moral habits. The second is, the
great number of licences to retail ardent spirits in inns, shops, and
cellars, which are issued. Thus, the temptations to intemperance
are indefinitely multiplied, the morals of the people are gradually
deteriorated, and all the ties of society are corroded and weaken-
ed. The revenue, indeed, is increased, but the depravation of
morals is the consequence.
	The inhabitants of Kilmarnock have ever been ditinguished for
their attachment to the illutrious house of Hanover, and the prin-
ciples of the Revolution. *  When Lord Kilmarnock, in 1745, re-

<FOOTNOTE>Chambers' History.


