
       140                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

       miles from Glenelg, is the post-town.  Thither we send, in the
       meantime, at our own expense, by the ferry of Loch Duich; but
       it is expected that representations which have lately been made
       in the proper quarter, may lead to speedy improvement in this de-
       partment.*
         Ecclesiastical State.--It has been already noticed that the church
       is situated close by Kirktou, consequently in the nortbern extremi-
       ty of the parish; in fact, it is within two miles of the boundary of
       the neighbouring parish of Glensheal. The population of the
       Glenelg district comprises nearly two-thirds of the whole parish,
       and is, with the exception of a few families, exclusively Protes-
       tant.  It is divided between the northern and southern extremities,
       in the proportions of 1100 souls to the former, and 700 to the
       latter.  Arnisdale, the capital of the latter, is distant from the
       church and school-house at least thirteen miles, consequently can
       derive very little benefit from either.  The distribution of the po-
       pulation, and not any error in placing the church, thus renders it
       the place of religious assembly merely of one section of the pa-
       rish.  Situated as it is, it accommodates the largest division; built
       any where else, it either would accommodate a smaller proportion,
       or none at all.  The former would be the case bad it been erected
       at Arnisdale; the latter had it been placed at an intermediate
       point, with the view of serving both extremities of the district, as,
       from the distance and difficulty of access on each hand, seldom
       could any, and never the weak and infirm, come up to the house
       of God.  The accommodation afforded by the church has ac-
       cordingly never exceeded what is required for the northern section
       of the Glenelg district, with its population of 1100, as it never
       contained more than from 300 to 400 sittings.  About six years
       ago, it underwent a thorough repair, and now affords, so far as it
       goes, very comfortable accommodation.  The attendance on pub-
       lic worship is always good; and the average number of communi-
       cants for the whole parish is about 200.
         The two districts of Knodyart and Morar, bounded and sepa-
       rated as already described, have a population, with few exceptions,
       entirely Catholic.  To this portion of the parish the Committee
       of the General Assembly for the management of the Royal Buonty
       has, for a numberof years, assigned a missionary,--the order of his
       services being, that he preach two successive Sabbaths at two dif-
       ferent points in Knodyart, and the third at Arnisdale.  From this

       <FOOTNOTE>Since the foregoing written, a penny-post, three times a week, has been esta-
       blished from Loehalsh by the above route.


