
1156                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

  31. King William's Divinity Bursaries.-Besides the above,
there are two divinity bursars, founded by King William III. out
of the Bishop's rents, the patronage of which is in the Lords of
the Treasury, who select from a leet sent up by the Masters of
King's and Marischal Colleges.  These bursaries are common
to both colleges.  At first, their value was L.20 each; but Queen
Anne reduced them to L.10 each, and transferred L.20 in aid of
the salary of the Principal of King's College.  Although these
bursaries are said to be paid partly by Kings College and partly
by Marischal College, they have never, in point of fact, been paid
by either body, but always by the Exchequer.
  32. Bruce's Bursaries.-Founded about 1827 (but the money
not received till 1836,) by the Rev. George Bruce, for six
bursars in divinity, who receive L.10 each.  Patrons, the
Senatus.
  33. Davidson's Bursary.-Founded in 1827, by Mr William
Davidson, for one bursar, who receives L.14, 8s.  Those of the
name of Davidson to be preferred.  Patrons, the Senatus.
   By the above statement it appears that there are, on the thirty-
three foundations, 150 bursaries, including those in medicine and
theology, the aggregate annual value of which is above L.2000.
This is exclusive of the two Sunday preachers, who receive L.60
each on Dr Murray's foundation, and of the 17 boys educated
and supported at the school of Fordyce under Redhyth's foun-
dation.  There can be no manner of doubt that this large amount
of scholarship, large in proportion to the whole number of stu-
dents, is of the very greatest benefit in a country like Scotland,
where the inhabitants, although poor, are yet intelligent, and very
desirous of giving to their children a liberal education.
   It has been thought right to give the details of the original and
present state of these foundations, that the public may know how
well the funds thus entrusted to the college have been managed.
It will be seen, on referring to the above statement, that in every
case where the college has been at liberty to invest a capital sum
according to their judgment, this has been so judiciously and con-
scientiously done, and also so fortunately, that in every such in-
stance either the amount or the number, or both, of the bursaries
on a special fund, have been augmented.  In no case has the num-
ber been augmented without an addition to the value of the bur-
saries, and-in no one such case has the value been diminished.  It
has been said that the multiplicatinn of small bursaries produces
                               3

