
50                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

which, taking its rise from the West Loch, in the parish of Ed-
dlestone, runs in a more circuitous course, bounding and watering
the parish on the north-west. After leaving, the parish, it flows in
a similar direction, until it joins the North Esk in Dalkeith Park,
when they proceed until they join the Frith of Forth at Mussel-
burgh. The Gore-Water, one of the tributaries to the South
Esk, also bounds the eastern district of the parish on the west.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The Muirfoot Hills are of greywacke,
and most part of the parish abounds with lime and freestone, while
the detached district in the eastern part is full of coal.
   The only species of fossil organic remains hitherto found are
shells in limestones.
   Soil.-The lower part of the soil of the western district of the parish
is chiefly dry and sharp on a gravel bottom. In the higher part, there
is a considerable portion of mossy soil, from three inches to four
feet deep. The eastern district of the parish is chiefly made up
of strong clay. The light soils are much infested by quickens and
tussilago.
   Zoology.-The cattle bred here are chiefly of the short-horned
species, and the sheep of the black-faced kind. The rivers con-
tain trout, &c. Formerly salmon and sea-trout came up for spawn-
ing since the erection however, of dam-heads, &c. for carrying
on various manufactories, farther down the rivers, their ascent in
this direction has been entirely prevented.
   Botany.-The parish has been much adorned by plantations
formed by the late Lord Chief-Baron, Messrs Hepburne, formerly
proprietors, of the lands of Clerkington and Muirfoot, and the
present Earl of Rosebery, now in possession of these estates
The largest ash-tree is in the garden belonging to the manse, and
cannot be equalled in appearance and value by any in several of
the surrounding parishes.
		      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   An old account of the parish is lodged in the General Register
House at Edinburgh,* drawn up above 1627 apparently with a
view of ascertaining the teinds, from which it appears, the parishes
of Clerkingtoun and Muirfut were united to Tempill "be one de-
creel of the platt, anno 1618;" that a school was then established,
though no provision was made for it; and that the communicants
amounted to 300, being much the same number as at present. In

<FOOTNOTE>Printed with forty-eight others of the same period, for the use of the Maltland
Club.


