
                              SLAINS.                         597

rate of interest.  The amount of the weekly collections is about
L.43 Sterling; and were it not for the additional assistance they
get from the farmers, in the shape of meal, potatoes, &c, the funds
would altogether be inadequate to supply their necessities.
   Ale-houses.-There are three ale-houses in the parish, and one
wholesale spirit-merchant.
   Fuel.-The fuel chiefly used is peat, obtained from the moss
already mentioned, and which contains 245 acres.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The principal variation in the state of the parish since the
date of the last Account, is the vast and rapid improvement
of the system of husbandry.  At that period, old men affirm,
that it was no uncommon thing to see a plough drawn by six
horses, or by twelve oxen, and the work performed did not much
exceed in extent what is now done by a pair of either animals,
while the execution is inconceivably superior.  The improvement
of the implements of husbandry and breed of horses which has
been introduced, has thus greatly lessened the expense of farming
operations; as one man with his pair of horses will do even more
work than could formerly be executed by two men and a dozen of
oxen, with their clumsy and cumbrous implements.  Another im-
portant improvement since the year 1791, is the vast superiority
of the breed of cattle, the system of rearing and feeding, and the
great extent to which it is now carried on.  The breadth of land
under turnip cultivation is inconceivably greater than it was;
while the quality of the root itself is of a much better description,
as the growers have long devoted their most scrupulous attention
to the improvement of the seed.  Each man raises his own seed,
and carefully selects the best of each sort to plant out.  The prin-
cipal kinds are, the green top and yellow bottom, red top and yel-
low bottom, a few tankard, and a considerable portion of ruta-baga,
chiefly for feeding, in May and June.  It is much to be desired
that authentic information were obtained of the progress of the
drifting sands of Forvie, which now cover and lay desolate 1700
acres of land.  The traditionary tales, on this, subject are mere
legends, which in no manner can be depended upon.  The great-
est part of these links cannot be traversed without producing
in the mind feelings of dreariness and desolation, as they pre-
sent nothing but knolls and pinnacles of pure sand, of various
dimensions, scantily covered with bent.  Parts here and there
might be reclaimed, but it would be at an enormous expense, and


