
992                       PERTHSHIRE.

teinds of Dowally, and partly by grants made to the minister 6y
Queen Anne in 1704, and George II, in 1744. In lieu of manse
and glebe the incumbent has an yearly allowance of L. 60 Ster-
ling. Communion elements, L. 8, 6s. 8d.
	The Episcopalians, 25 in number, have no chapel in Dunkeld,
but it has been proposed to build one. The Roman Catholics for
years have performed worship in the house of one of their number.
Prince Maximilian and suite went there, for worship, on their visit
to Dunkeld, In 1845. About two years ago a small chapel was
consecrated on the Murthley estate, where the Catholic service is
now performed. The Congregational Union erected a chapel in
1800 in Dunkeld; they are few in number. The Independents
or Glassites were a strong body some years ago; only four or five
now reside in the town, but it is unknown whether or not they
meet together for worship.
	Schools.--In 1567, James VI. made a grant for the erection of
a grammar school at Dunkeld, which is designated by the charter
"the Royal School of Dunkeld." The right of presentation is
conferred on John Earl of Atholl, and his successors, but the exa-
mination and admission to office of the person presented is in-
trusted "to the superintendent of the church of God within the
bounds of Perthshire." By the grant it is declared, that the rec-
tor shall reside within the city of Dunkeld, and shall teach in the
school himself. * The salary, according to the grant, amounts to
L.67, 11s. 1d. Scots, exclusive of school fees. He has also an
official residence. The school and dwelling-house are kept up by
the Atholl family, the sole heritors of Dunkeld. The average
number of scholars may be estimated at 80. The branches of

dducation are similar to those taught in the first establishment in
Edinburgh. There are half-yearly examinations; one for recita-
tion exclusively, called the "Orations," which is succeeded by
a ball in the evening; the other examination is general, and is
conducted by the presbytery.
	There are in the town five unendowed schools for education,
but there is no infant school. The fees are moderate.
	In 1788, Jane Duchess of Atholl instituted a school for teach-
ing the different branches of female education, such as sewing,
tambouring, mc. with an annual salary to the teacher. By the
death of the late Duchess, the patronage and support of the semi-

<FOOTNOTE>He, is removable from office by a decree of the synod of the church, if found ne-
gligent in life or doctrine, affording a scandal to the young. The rector is also the
chaplain of St Ninian, and in virtus thereof, is the superior of the lands of Mucklarin


