
				LOCHMABEN.                    391

is a regular weekly market for pork, in which business is done to
a large amount. In order to give encouragement to these markets
small premiums were given both to the person who brought the
largest quantity to market, and also to the person who made the
largest purchases.
	Roads.--In this district, the roads of late have been much im-
proved and kept in excellent order. A road from Glasgow to
Carlisle runs for ten miles through the parish, but it is not much
frequented, as travellers prefer the one by Beatock Inn, to Lock-
erby. There is another excellent road which runs for six miles
through the parish, giving great facility and safest, at all seasons,
to travellers from the east to Dumfries. On this new line, a hand-
some bridge is built across the Annan. This road runs for a mile
along the north-west side of the Castle loch, and enters Lochma-
ben at the new church. No mail-coach passes through the
town, but a stage-coach runs from Dumfries by Lochmaben,
Lockerbie, and Ecclefechan to Langholm. It was at one time
contemplated to run the Dumfries mail by Lochmaben, but the
road trustees objected on account of the expense of building a
bridge across the AE, and of making a few miles of new road.
There is a daily post from Edinburgh ; a runner from Lochmaben
awaits the arrival of the mail at Dumfries, so that a letter put into
the Edinburgh post-office the previous evening at nine o'clock is
delivered next morning at Lochmaben about ten o'clock.
	Burgh of Lochmaben.--Lochmaben is a burgh of very ancient
date, though at this distance of time the time of its erection cannot
be correctly ascertained. The tradition is, that it was made a royal
burgh soon after the accession of Bruce to the throne. When
the Duke of Albany, the Lord of Annandale, was summoned in
1479, to answer the charges of treason, the summons was execut-
ed by the herald, at the market-cross of Dumfries, and also,
" apud crucem fori burgi de Lochmaben," and, moreover, at the cas-
tle of Lochmaben; and one of the witnesses of the execution at the
burgh and castle of Lochmaben, was Robert Henrison, Bailie of
Lochmaben. This shews that, in 1479, Lochmaben was a burgh,
and had its bailies, and a market-cross, at which the process of
the law was usually executed. Like other border towns, it suffer-
ed much from the inroads of the English, and was frequently burnt
and plundered, so that its charter and records were destroyed. In
1463, the Earl of Warwick led an army into, Dumfries-shire, and
burnt the town of Lochmaben. In 1484, the Earl of Douglas,


