
     of Mary-kirk.

increase the quantity.  One fourth of a farm is commonly sown
with grass feeds, and laid out for hay and pasture.  Another
fourth consists of summer fallow, and green crops; such as
turnips, mushlie, pease, and potatoes.  The other half of the
farm is sown with corn in any mode that may appear most be-
neficial to the farmer.  Little lintseed is sown except for fami-
ly use, unless the farmers mean to have wheat after it; and,
in that case, they dung and lime well.  In preparing for any
crop that has a soil with a wet bottom, they think it necessary
to drain it by every possible means; so that any water issuing
from the ground, or rain water on the surface, may gently
run off with the least damage to the soil or manure.  In
almost every farm, there are to be found all the necessary
and modern implements of husbandry, such as different
ploughs for light and deep soil, carts proper for victual,
dung, stones, lime and wood,-drag and light harrows, rol-
lers, fanners, etc.  No lime-stone quarries have as yet been
discovered.  Lime is to be procured at the distance of 4 or 5
miles; but most people bring it from a greater distance, from
east Mathers, which is about 7 or 8 miles; the price is the
same, 1 s 10 d per boll, lime-shells; but they think it of a
preferable quality.  The farmers have succeeded well in their
attempts to improve the breed of work horses, with which
they not only supply themselves, but are enabled to bring
what they do not stand in need of to market: but the breed
of black cattle has been less the object of their attention;
and the reason they give for it is, that weighty cattle destroy
their grass fields, much more than small cattle; sheep are entire-
ly gone, unless a few fed and sold to the butcher, or kept for
family use.  The farms are properly stocked with black cattle,
in proportion to the extent of each farm.  Part of the rent is
commonly paid in victual.  Services are sometimes contracted
for in the leased, but are not rigidly exacted.  Many of the


