
                           SANDWICK.                           51

that forests have formerly grown in these islands, where there is
nothing now that deserves to be called a tree, except in gardens.
   Soil.-The soil of Sandwick is of very different kinds in different
places. Immediately east of the bay, it is nothing but sand, which
blows about with the wind. In other places, there is a poor yellow
clay, formed by the wasting of the clay flag; and our best soil is
a rich black clayish loam. These are mixed together in infinite
proportions; but there is no depth of mossy soil or gravel. The
clays particularly rest on a retentive rocky subsoil, many parts of
which would be much improved by draining.
   Zoology.-The rarer species of animals only being wanted for
the Statistical Account, I would not be justified in inserting a
complete list, for which I must refer to Anderson's "Guide to the
Highlands and Islands," where one will be found, embracing those
of Mr Low, Drs Barry, Traill, Neill, and Mr Forbes, to which I
have nothing important to add. I may, however, mention, that
rabbits are very numerous in the sandy parts of this parish, and
hares, which were only introduced into Orkney a few years ago,
are now beginning to show themselves. Thousands of gulls, of
different species, with scarfs and other sea birds, as well as com-
mon pigeons, build on the shelves of our precipices, and some hun-
dreds of the pewit, or black-headed gull, on a little artificial holm
in the Loch of Skaill. A few pairs of wild swans remain some
months in winter in the Lochs of Stenness and Clumly. Wild
geese visit us every spring, and several species of duck are found
in all our lochs in considerable numbers. There are no trout or
other fish of any importance in our lochs; but in the Loch of
Stenness, trout, flounders, and various other species are got; and
there is great variety in the Atlantic, on our west shores; however,
it is only when the sea is smooth that boats can get out to fish.
Lobsters are caught in the bay for the London market.
   Botany.-The plants in this parish are not very different from
those in the neighbouring ones, except Hoy, where there is a con-
siderable number of alpine plants on the Ward Hill. The Scotch
primrose (Primula Scotica), and vernal squill, (Scilia verna), grow
abundantly in this, and most parishes of the county, with some
more plants that are rather rare in, the south of Scotland. But,
for catalogue of these, I must refer the botanist to the works of
Drs Barry and Neill, and my own contribution of 83 new species to
the Orkney Flora in Anderson's "Guide," which would occupy too
much space to republish here, as they contain altogether 545 species.
   It is, however, in cryptogamous plants that the Flora of Orkney


