
     of Glenisla.

worship, and as decent in their behaviour in other respects, as
their neighbours around them.

   Church and Poor.-The value of the living is L. 55:11:1 4/15
sterling.  The glebe and garden may be worth about L. 3 ster-
ling.  The king is patron of this living.  The manse and church
are very old.
   The number of poor who receive alms from the kirk-session
is about nine.  The yearly sum expended for their relief will
not exceed L. 12 sterling.  This sum is raised from the Sun-
day collections.  What further support they stand in need of
is supplied by charitable and well disposed persons.-The funds
belonging to the poor do not exceed L. 40 sterling.-By some
old records it appears, that in the year 1704, the Sunday collec-
tions did not exceed 3 d. a week, now at an average they a-
mount to 3 s. 6 d.-There are no travelling beggars belong-
ing to the parish; but in the time of sheep sharing it as much
insested with vagrants from adjacent parts of the country*.

     VOL. VI. 3 D

<FOOTNOTE>

*The price of barley and oats is generally regulated by the Dundee mar-
ket.  Indeed the grain produced in this district is not sufficient for the con-
sumption of the inhabitants.  Oat meal generally sells at 15 s. and barley meal
at 10 s. and 10 s. 6 d. per boll of 8 stones of 10 lb.-Beef, mutton, and pork, is
no less than 3 d. per lb. of 16 oz.-The price of a pig is 2 s. 6.1-of a has
8 d-of a duck 6 d. and of a chicken 3 d.  Butter is sold at 6 d. in summer,
and when salted, at 8 d. per lb of 22 ounces.-The stone of cheese is general-
ly 5 s. but the price varses according to its richness and age.  Ewe milk cheese
is sometimes sold at 7 s. per stone.
The wages of men-labourers are generally 1 s. per day, from March to Sep-
tember, with maintenance.  The women seldom line by the day, except in
the time of spinning wood, when they receive 3 d. per day with maintenance.
The day-wage, of a mason are 1 s. 1 d.-of a wright 1 s.-and of a taylor 6 d.
with maintenance.
Farm-servants generally draw from L. 7 to L. 8 sterling per annum, with
maintenance.-Women servants receive L. 3 sterling a year, along with some


