
178                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

are picked up good specimens of jasper. Its banks, as it flows
through the grounds near Crailing House, are precipitous, and pre-
sent a front of soft red sandstone. Nisbet also seems to owe its
name to its locality. It is an appellation applied to several places
both in England and Scotland; and the site of all of them, having
some proximity to a hill, vindicates the supposition of its being of
Saxon origin. Nes, Nese, Nase, in that language, signifies a promon-
tory or projection. According to this conjecture, the idea con-
veyed bv "Nisbet" is its being the front or nose-piece of a hill,-
a characteristic applicable enough to the Nisbet in question; for
on this side of the parish the ground rises to a considerable accli-
vity, which bears the name of Piniel-heugh, and is a point visible
at the distance of many miles. This green hill commands a most
pleasing and extensive view of the whole country around, taking in
the windings of the Tiviot westward, Tweeddale to the north, the
range of Cheviots southward, and the whole Merse as far as the
ocean in an eastern direction. It has been rendered more conspi-
cuous by a monumental pillar erected on its summit by the late
Marquis of Lothian, in commemoration of the victory obtained at
Waterloo. *
    Piniel-heugh is a formation of whinstone. Nearer the river,
and close to the village of Nisbet, are found excellent strata of
sandstone of a light colour, and of sufficient hardness for the pur-
poses of building. Two quarries have been opened, from which
were obtained the stones employed in building the new mansion at
Monteviot; some of the blocks measured twelve feet in length.
    Soil, &c.-In the former Statistical Account, a proof of the fine-
ness of the soil and mildness of climate is furnished, which is worth
preserving. It appears that about that time (forty years ago) an
attempt was made to cultivate tobacco in Scotland. "In one sea-
son a tenant in this district drew L. 115 for tobacco plants, and af-
terwards raised a crop on 12 or 13 acres, which he sold upon the
ground for L. 320: but an act of Parliament intervening, the pur-
chaser was unable to fulfil his bargaid, and the farmer was com-
pelled to dispose of his tobacco to Government at only 4d. per
pound, at which rate it brought him only L. 104."
    The soil of this parish is peculiarly dry and favourable to health,

<FOOTNOTE>This monument is a cylindrical column, with a spiral staircase. Its height is
150 feet. It stands on an ample base, and was built in a very substantial way from
whinstone quarried on the spot. It bears the following inscription :-To the Duke
Of Wellington and the British Army, William Kerr VI. Marquis of Lothian and
his Tenantry dedicate this monument, XXX June MDCCCXV.


