
894                            FIFESHIRE.

miums are awarded at the exhibitions, offered by the Society,
through the liberality of some of the landed gentlemen of the
district. Since 1824, there has been given away in premiums
considerably upwards of L.1000.
   Gas Company.__This was instituted 11th November 1828, and
its extensive work, situated towards the lower end of the town,
commenced lighting on the 28th October 1829. The cost of
the works, up to May 1843, was L.11,277, 13s. 6d., being
L.9200, the capital stock at the same period on 860 shares, and
L.2077, 13s. 6d., the old sinking fund, and premiums on shares
expanded on works. The original price of the shares was L.10,
and the present selling price is L.21. The nev sinking fund, at
May last, was L.992, 7s. Id. A dividend upon the original
stock of L.10 per cent. has been paid almost every year, and for
the last four years of L.12, 10s., notwithstanding the price of the
gas being understood to be as moderate as that of any other com-
pany, if not more so. It is furnished at present, by meter, at 7s.
6d. per 1000 cubicfeet, and has always been considered of
superior quality.

                      V.__PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Dunfermline is a market town and royal burgh. A corn mar-
ket is held at it every Tuesday for the sale of grain by sample,
and is well attended by the agriculturists of the district. There
is a weekly market also every Friday for butter, cheese, eggs, &c.
   The burgh is governed by a provost, two bailies, a treasurer, a
guild magistrate, a chamberlain, and sixteen councillors, with the
assistance of a town-clerk, who acts also as legal assessor. Their
election is regulated by the general amended municipal act of
Parliament, dated 24th August 1833. The provost and magis-
trates have the usual jurisdiction, civil and criminal, belonging to
magistrates of royal burghs. They hold regular courts, with the
town clerk as their assessor, once every week, on Wednesday, for
the disposal of police cases, and on the same day, besides the
ordinary court, what is denominated "The Nine Merk Court,"
for the recovery of small debts not exceeding ten shillings. Upon
the decreet of this last court, summary diligence can be executed.
They also hold a court twice a-year for granting certificates to
publicans. The provost is ex officio a justice of the peace, and
sits in tbe courts held by the justices.
   The annual revenue of the burgh is about L.1000, derived
from the rents of five small farms still belonging to it, &c. The


