
302                      ABERDEERNSHIRE.

   In the same vicinity, stand three tumuli, the largest at the base
of Robin's Height, called Meethillock, and the other two at no
great distance, and on the same level ground below.  It is conjectured
that these tumuli were raised by Bruce's army as posts of communi-
cation for his soldiers.  None of them have been opened.  So far
as the plough can yield information, there is every appearance of
their being artificial.  From the examination of one of them, the
second in size, called Tarry Duncan, on the farm of Cairnhill, ex-
cepting about four inches of black mould in the surface, the soil
beneath appears quite soft, and without any stones.  From observ-
ing that the ridge on which it stands has little on its surface but
clay, it would seem that the mould from it had been cleared away
to form this ttimulus.
   The third mentioned is indeed beyond the boundary of the pa-
rish, but still so near the others, that they have all evidently been
connected in their origin.  It is on the farm of Causeway End,
Kinore,-this farm being so called, it is said, because here ter-
minated a Roman causeway, which, running through the old moss
called Knightland moss, connected this place with Sliach.
   Another tumulus, at one time, stood at the north-east end of
the same range of high ground that forms at the west extremity,
Robin Height, and nearly two miles distant from it.  Many still
remember it.  When opened, a number of great stones, placed in
a circular form, were found within; but it is not reported that any
of them bore inscriptions.  The stones were used for fencing the
plantation which now covers this ridge, and all trace of the tumu-
lus seems to be removed.  A little way below this, and between
the properties of Newton Garry and Lessendrum, the head of a
spear or javelin, of large size, was found some time ago, as have
likewise been smaller ones, like arrow-heads, in other parts of the
parish.
   There is another hill in the parish, and not far from Huntly,
denominated the "Battle Hill," that deserves notice as the scene
of a conflict said to have taken place at a later period between the
Cummins and Gordons.  Hardly any thing connected with it has
been handed down beyond the name.  It stands not far from Cor-
vichen, a farm on the Gordon property, once a separate domain,
where a strong house or castle appears once to have stood.  Some
remains of its foundation are still to be traced.  On the opposite
side of the hollow, and standing over against the Battle Hill, Cor-
vichen, is the Ba Hill, taking its name very probably from a game


