
     Statistical Account

wooden wheels.  But where the ground is tolerably level,
many farmers now begin to use coups, drawn by a couple of
oxen, which make the work much easier and more expediti-
ous.  Horses are chiefly employed in cultivating the lands
about the burgh.  The method of farming there, for time
immemorial, has been remarkably uniform.  It consists of a
constant succession of barley; and though the lands be seldom
or never rested, it is surprising how much they produce, bearing
commonly six or seven returns.  When a quantity of sea ware
and tangles are thrown ashore (which often happens in a storm),
the farmers, in spring especially, are very attentive in gather-
ing it, and spreading it upon their lands; and they reckon it
an excellent manure for a barley crop.  They seldom take
time to mix it in a compost dunghill, though that might better
answer the purpose.  Of late, they have begun to use the roll-
er, which in light soil they find to be an advantage.  In the
country part of the parish, the tenants are not so accustomed
to raise green crops, but frequently sow oats in the same fields
for several years running, which renders them much less pro-
ductive.  A large quantity of potatoes is raised here, of a very
free and sweet quality.  Some of the farmers have flocks of
sheep, of a small kind, which are pastured on heath, and
among whins and broom; but their flocks are not numerous*.

   Improvements.-Here it may not be amiss to take notice of
a small improvement lately made by the minister of the parish,
which, in similar operations, may serve as an example and
encouragement to others.  Very near the manse, on the side
of the public road to Fortrose, there was a lake, covering be-
tween 3 and 4 acres, in winter filled with water, running

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The prices of labour, servants fees, and articles of provision, are much the
same as in the neighbouring parishes.  Most of them are nearly doubled fiace
the present minister was seatled.

</UNREADABLE>


