
                     PARISH OF LOCHALSH.

               PRESBYTERY OF LOCHCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                     THE REV. HECTOR M'LEAN, MINISTER. *

                      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
            Boundaries.-THE name of this parish is supposed to be of
        Danish origin.  The parish has for its western boundary the
        Kyle, or narrow sea which separates the adjacent Island of Skye
        from the mainland; the bays of Lochduich and Lochlong encom-
        pass it on the south ; and that range of high hills which divides
        the east from the west coast of Scotland, bounds it, on the east.
            Topographical Appearances.-The general appearance of the
        country is mountainous ;-but the hills are neither rocky nor co-
        vered with heath, as in the neighbouring country on the north.
        On the declivity of the smaller hills, and in the intermediate
        hollows, the soil is rich.  On the top, they are covered with thin
        moss. The whole produces excellent pasture.  The climate, as
        may be expected from the height of the hills, is exceedingly moist
        and rainy.
            Zoology.-Red-deer, mountain hares, and ptarmigan, frequent
        the higher hills.  In the lower, may be found roes, foxes, black-
        cocks, grouse,plovers, partridges, eagles, and a variety of hawks.
        The migratory birds are the woodcock, lapwing, cuckoo, land-
        rail, swallow,and mountain-finch, or snow-flake.  The sea coast
        abounds with a variety of water-fowl. +

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
            Land-owner.-Mrs Lillingstone of Lochalsh is sole proprietrix
        of the parish,-tbe real rent of which is L. 3280, 12s. 6d.
            Parochial Register.-A register of births and marriages has
        been kept in the parish, since the year 1820.  In 1836, the num-
        ber of births registered was 33; of marriages, 7.
            Within the last forty years, very great improvements have taken

        <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Duncan M'Arthur, Schoolmaster.
             Vide Old Statistical Account.


