
     Statistical Account

the register was complete.-There was no register kept
here preceding 1783, when there was an act of Parliament
for taking a small duty of 3 d. for every baptism, marriage
and burial registered in any parish.  This act is rather
defective, in that it does not oblige each parish to registrate;
from which defect, not only many parishes, but, as is said,
some counties, such as Sutherland, keep no register at all in
any of their parishes; and even where such registers are
kept, those that do not incline to registrate, and pay 3 d.
are not obliged to registrate at all.-There are no 10 heritors
or proprietors, 2 of whom only reside.  The inhabitants
are generally farmers and cottagers, or crofters, except
those afterwards mentioned.  Besides the fishermen, there
are 16 weavers, with 5 apprentices, 13 tailors, with 4 ap-
prentices, 14 shoemakers, with 4 apprentices, 3 smiths,
with 3 apprentices, 5 joiners or wrights, with 3 apprenti-
ces, 2 coopers, 2 masons, 1 turner or wheel-wright, 1 mer-
chant, and 8 millers; all of whom are employed in work-
ing for the inhabitants of the parish, and not in manufac-
turing articles for sale.  All are of the Established Church,
except about 6 families of Seceders.  There may be 380
houses; 30 new ones within these 10 years, and about 12
pulled down.  At an average, each family contains 4 or 5
persons, and each marriage produces from 5 to 7 children.
-There are only 3 small towns or villages, and about 100
persons in each.  In the village of Fearn are 2 mills, (for-
merly the Abbot's*), paying 12 chalders of rent yearly;
also 6 farmers, 1 distillery of whisky, 1 merchant's shop,
a smith's shop, a turner's shop, and a public-house, selling
drams, etc.  The village of Hiltown consists chiefly of fisher-
men.  There are 3 fishing boats in it, with 6 men in each.
That of Balintore also consists of fishermen, with 3 fish-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Abbot's income behoved to be very considerable, as his lands
and thirlage now amount to above L. 900 Sterling.


