
     of Craigie.

   Heritors, Rent, etc.-The number of heritors is 16, and
9 of them are resident.  Of the heritors who reside, three
have very considerable estates; the property of the o-
ther 6 is small.  The valued rent is L. 3236:13:3 Scotch.
From the improvements made by the superior kill and in-
dustry of the tenants, and also from the advanced price of
the produce of land, the rent has greatly increased within
these last 30 years; yet the tenants are in a better condi-
tion than they were before that time.  The leafes are com-
monly for 19 years.  The ground is cropped for 3 years, and
rests 6.  The number of Scotch acres is about 5500.  The
rent is from 10 s. to 20 s. per acre, taking the average of
which, the present rent of the parish must be about L. 4000
Sterling per annum.  But, as some of the land is in the
hands of the proprietors, that cannot be exactly ascertained.
The farms are very unequal.  Some are so small, as to be
under L. 20.  Some are from L. 40 to L. 60, and others are
as high as L. 140 per annum.

   Church, Manse, and Stipend.-The church was built anno
1776, is a neat and commodious place of worship, and may
contain about 600 people*.  The manse was built anno
1745, and has since been at different times repaired.  The
stipend consists partly of victual, and partly of money; and,
including the glebe, may amount to L. 96.  The right of
patronage belongs to William Campbell, Esq; of Craigie.

   Schools.-Here is a parochial school, and the master has
a legal salary, a house adjoining to the school, and also a

<FOOTNOTE>

*The kirk of Craigie is said to have been formerly called the Kirk in the
Forest, which name was probably given it, from its being surrounded by
woods; but few trees are now to be seen near it.  It is also said, that in this
church, schemes were concerted by some of the principal reformers, whose
estates lay in the neighbourhood, for opposing the measures of the Queen
Regent, and for promoting the interests of the Reformation, at its com-
mencement.


