
		             CROY AND DALCRORS.                  455

	was the work performed, that it is still serviceable and it may
	be worth remarking, that these were the only stone dikes along the
	high road from Kilravock to Aberdeen. Fortunately at this time
        of profound ignorance, the estates of Cantray and Croy were purchased
        at a judicial sale about the year 1774, by Mr Davidson, a
        native of Delnies, in the parish of Nairn; a man of singular saga-city,
        of most active powers of mind and practical good sense.
	Mr Davidson succeeded, to the astonishment of his countrymen,
	in reclaiming from useless wastes, upwards of 500 acres, by the
        expensive process of trenching, draining, blasting rocks and boulders,
        enclosing with double stone dikes, and sheltering the fields
        with suitable beltings of trees. His grandson, the present proprietor,
        has little more to do than walk in his steps; and emulate the
	example of his honoured and patriotic ancestor, who lived to see
	his improvements yield more than 30 per cent. On the original
	outlay; while his tenants not only profited by his example, but
	shared the sympathies of a liberal minded and a fatherly landlord.
	But Mr Davidson, though the first, is not the only one wbo ought
	to be recorded in the annals of Croy, with, gratitude, as the best
	friends of the country. Lachlan Mackintosh, Esq. of Raigrnore,
	a native of Croy, having purchased five properties in the parishes
	of Croy, Daviot and Inverness, containing many hundred acres of
	stinted heath, not capable of affording a scanty meal to as many
	sheep, commenced his extensive improvements, successfully over-
	coming obstacles, which only skill and capital, directed by his own
	characteristic energies, could surmount, and thus in a short time
	converting large tracts of barren moor into fields, yielding most
	luxuriant crops of wheat, oats, and barley, improving and adorning
	what formerly bad been a useless waste. About ten yeari ago, a
	deputation from the Highland Society of Scotland reported, that,
	in bringing land into cultivation, in improving, planting, liming,
	enclosing, draining, and building farm-offices, they considered his
	improvements double in amount of those of any other proprietor
	in the country. And if such had been, and still are his exertions
	in improving the physical appearance of the country, much more
	worthy of notice have been his long-continued and disinterested.
	exertions for its moral improvement; his name will be asso-
	ciated with every institution in the north, that tends to instruct the
        ignorant, assist the strugglings of merit, and alleviate the distresses
        of humanity. "Non ignota loquor."
	   General Sir John Rose of Holm has also contributed much to


