
66                              FORFARSHIRE.

had done during the whole period that has elapsed since any of
our race settled on its banks.
	The progress in agriculture has not been nearly so distinguish-
ed; but here also the improvements have been many and valuable.
It is in this period that thrashing-mills have been introduced; that
the land has been drained; that the alternate husbandry has been
practised; that wheat has been regularly cultivated; and there can
be no doubt that the culture of potatoes has increased from 70 to
80 per cent. Many of the inhabitants of Dundee take a piece of
ground from the farmers annually, plant, hoe, and take up their
potatoes themselves; and the dxdrcise is considered to be salutary
to those who are used to sedentary employments. It was former-
ly the custom, particularly among small farmers, to raise a quanti-
ty of flax annually, which the females were employed in spinning
during the winter months; and the cloth when manufactured, and
not used for household purposes, was sold, and constituted one of
the items of profit or of rent. The spinning-mills have abolished
this practice,--the sound of the wheel is no longer heard in the far-
mer's dwelling,--for this good reason, that the cloth can be bought
at a cheaper rate than the former expense of spinning, which has
been reduced from 2s. to 2 1/2d. per spindle. Females who formerly
gained their livelihood by spinning, have now taken to weaving,
and under certain restrictions, they do not suffer from the change
of employment.
	There can be no doubt that our agriculture is susceptible of
much improvement. The great evil under which this parish is now
suffering, is the frequent repetition of the same crop on the same
soil. There is a steady demand in Dundee for turnips, potatoes,
and grass; and these crops, particularly the grass, have become
deficient from frequent repetition. Indeed clover is now so com-
monly a failure, that tares are not unfrequently sown as a substi-
tute. Turnips, potatoes, and sown grasses, have been hntroduced
at a comparatively recent period. The appearance of the whole
face of nature has thus been changed; and the value of the pro-
duce of the soil has increased to an extent that cannot be well con-
ceived.

	December 1833.


