
                        BON HILL.                                     227

loch Union Friendly Society; 6. Bonhill, Levenbank, and Bal-
loch Friendly Society; 7. Bonhill Village Friendly Funeral
and Mortcloth Society. They are nearly all similar, and merely
differ in the sum paid at the death of a member. The first three (1st,
2d, and 3d,) give the sum of L.1, 1Os. to the nearest relation at
the death of a member, whereas the next three (4th, 5th, and 6th,)
give L.3 at death; also there is some trifling difference in their
way of electing preses, &c. &c. The object of the 7th is to al-
low, L, 5 and the use of the mortcloth to the nearest relation at
death of a member, and each member (when the number of mem-
bers exceedss 200), pays 6d, at the death of a member. Every male
or female upon admission into this socity must be above sixteen
years of age, and under sixty; whose residence or employment must
be in the village of Bonhill, and pay 1s. 6d, as entry-money. There
are thus no less than sseven benefit societies in the parish, all
nearly similar in their purposes, for  providing a weekly allowance
to sick members, and a sum for the respectable interment of such
as die. But, besides these, there exist smaller associations of a
like kind among particular kinds of workmen; as block-cutters,
block-printers, engravers, &c. And in cases of accident or sick-
ness, liberal contributions are often raised. Scarcely a pay day pas-
ses without some such subscription.
   There are 'no savings' banks in the parish.
   Mechanics' Institution.--The Vale of Leven Mechanics' Insti-
tution was commenced in 1834, consequently has been in opera-
tion for five years.
   The institution has not yet been able to erect a hall to itself,
and consequently is obliged to deliver its lectures in any room,
school, or church that can be most readily obtained.
   The support of the institution is derived to a certain extinct
from the donations of the surrounding gentlemen, but chiefly from
the fees paid by the students themselves; the fee paid for the
whole course is only 2s. 6d. The course generally comprehends
about twenty-six lectures, delivered, for the most part, on Saturday
night, that being the most convenient for the working population
here.
   The annexed table will show the attendance and increase for
the last five years:

<TABLE>
        Session 1834-5, the number of students was 108, at 5s. each.
                1835-6,            do.              69, at 2s. 6d.
                1836-7,            do.              86, at 2s. 6d.
                1837-8,            do.             142, at 2s. 6d.
                1838-9,            do              170, at 2s. 6d.


