
			       DUNDEE.                          27

tives of Ireland, who, from the low rate of wages they are accus-
tomed to at home, are supposed to have contributed to the reduc-
tion of the wages of labour here much below their proper level.
   The yarns are generally sent from the mills to the bleachfield,
or to the plash-mill, to be washed or whitened and prepared for
the loom. No running water being found in the immediate vici-
nity of the town suitable for these purposes, the operations of
cleansing and whitening are carried on at the distance of two or
three miles in the beautiful vale of the Dighty. Some of the
merchants import their own flax, spin their own yarns, manufac-
ture them into cloth, and export the cloth to the various foreign
markets. But more frequently the spinners sell their yarns to the
manufacturers, who either have looms of their own, or employ
others who have looms in their own houses. Some kinds of cloth
require more conveniences than others, and for these factories are
erected, and looms of a particular construction prepared. The
loom used generally is the common one with the fly-shuttle.
Some very broad looms are employed for weaving floor-cloths for
painting, for waggon-covers, and other purposes. Power-looms
have not been employed here, or at least not to any advantage,
and they are understood to be entirely laid aside.
   In weaving sail-cloth and other heavy goods, men only are em-
ployed. But the women are employed in the lighter fabrics, and
perform their work as well as the men. Formerly the women
were employed in spinning only, and some of the very coarsest ma-
terial is still hand-spun. But the general use of machinery has
almost wholly superseded that of the spinning-wheel, and sent the
females to a less appropriate labour for their support. Old men
and old women no longer able to undergo the labour of the loom,
and young persons of both sexes not yet strong enough for that
work, are employed in winding for the warper and the weaver,
and thereby contribute something to the general funds of the fa-
mily.
   The following extract from the books of the custom-house,
containing the returns connected with our staple for the quarter
ending the 5th January 1832, may serve to give to persons at a
distance a not unfavourable specimen of the state of the linen ma-
nufacture in Dundee at the present time.

                           IMPORTS,

   Flax, 107,552 cwts. 1 qr. 25 lb.      Hemp,  13,932 cwts. 1 qr. 24 lb.


