
                       ARTICLE GLASGOW.                        905

pale of Divine ordinances--though during the earlier period of her
history she was remarkable for her efforts in tbe cause of Church
Extension, and so recently as 1818 applied to the Legislature for an
enlargement of the number of churches in the Highlandsand Islands,
--an application which issued in tbe erection of the forty-three Parlia-
mentary churches,--still the provision which was made in the large
towns and populous districts of the Lowlands, where made atall, was
miserably inadequate.  This led to the building of Chapels of Ease,
which, though labouring under many disadvantages, it cannot be
doubted have, under God, been the means of instructing and
keeping many thousands within the pale of the Church, who
otherwise would have been driven beyond her boundaries, or sunk
into Heathenism.  To their honour also let it be recorded, that
they have rendered an important service to the cause of the poor, to
which Dissenting chapels, in general, cannot lay claim.  As a spe-
cimen it may be mentioned, that the Calton Chapel of Ease, now
the Mid Calton Church, from its opening in 1793, to January
1838, contributed not less than L.3897, 17s. 3 1/2d. to the poor;
the chapel in Anderston, now Anderston Church, from 1801, not
less than L.3535; the Gaelic Church, Duke Street, L.3000; Al-
bion Church, L.7000; St Columba Gaelic, L.12OO.
   Had these collections been regularly paid into the bank as
they were received, of course the sum would have been a very
large one at the present day.  In the case of Calton, for in-
stance, at simple interest, it would have been L.8659, 17s. 3 1/4d.,
at compound, L.15,359, 11s. 3 1/4d., and in the other cases in
a similar proportion ; but neither the Church courts nor the
chapels contended for such an application. *  They preferred as
much as possible to keep up the old Scriptural habit of Scotland,
viz. of contributing for the support of the poor on the Lord's Day.
The increase of assessments for the poor, and the more pressing
claims of their spiritual necessities, and the absence of state
endowment, may now render a different application of the col-

<FOOTNOTE>
    * From the opening of the parish church of St John's, in 1819, under Dr Chalmers,
down to September 1837, there was a sum raised, by collections for the support of the
poor amounting to L.7752, 11s. 4 1/2d.  The city was thus saved an assessment for the
poor to a similar extent; and I am informed by one of the elders, William Buchan-
an, Esq., who has devoted much attention to the subject, that the kirk-session and
court of deacons of St John's, have in all saved to the city of Glasgow, in support of
paupers, lunatics, orphans, foundlings, &c. upwards of L.9800.  It appears from Dr
Cleland's statement that the city churches, by ordinary collections, &c. raise L.2000
a year, which to the same extent diminishes the assessmment.  Owing to the multi-
plication of places of worship, and the progress of the assemnent deadening the dis-
position to give at the church door, the sum, it is believed, is now considerably less.


