
196                  BBRWICKSHIRE.

   The united grebe of Swinton and Simprin extends to twenty-one
acres of the annual-value of L. 63, or thereby.-The stipend of the
parish amounts to sixteen chalders, half barley and half oats.
There are no Dissenting, or Seceding, or Episcopalian, or Ro-
man Catholic chapels in this parish.
   A very few families, twenty-five in number, are connected with
the Secession; but the great body of the parishioners attend the
Established church,-the number of communicants at which varies,
from 440 to 470.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish, the one the
parochial school, and the other unendowed. * The usual branches
of education may be obtained at the parochial school; and it
may be noticed that the teacher is Mr Strahan, the joint editor,
with Mr Dickinson and Dr Smith, of Sleusner's Greek Lexicon.
Reading, writing, arithmetic, and mathematics are taught at the
unendowed schools.
   The schoolmaster of the parochial school has the maximum sa-
lary, and his school-fees may amount to L. 20 or L. 30. He is in
the enjoyment of all the legal accommodations.
   The charge for education per month is,-English reading, 1s.;
reading and writing, Is. 4d.; arithmetic, 2s.; Latin, 2s. 10d.;
Greek and Latin, 3s. 8d.; book-keeping, 3 sets, L. 1, 10s.; Na-
vigation., L. 1, 10s.; Algebra, L. 2, 2s. None of the children who
have reached the age of 15 are unable to write. Parents, in gene-
ral, are sensible of the advantages of education; and as there are
no parts of the parish so distant from the school as to prevent the
attendance of healthy children at any season of the year, the young
are, as a matter of course, instructed regularly to read and write,
and commonly also in arithmetic.
   Friendly Societies.-There is one male friendly society. It
has existed forty years, and has been attended with the best effects.
By protecting and encouraging, habits of sobriety and industry, and
fostering, therefore a spirit of independence as well as by the di-
rect relief which it occasionally affords it has contributed more than
any thing else to keep down the amount of paupers on our poors'
roll. For the last five years, the income of this society has.
considerably exceeded its expenditure, the former being L. 45,
12s. 01/2d., and the latter only L. 30, 17s. 85/4d. The entry

<FOOTNOTE>There are two Sabbath evening schools also, connected with the Sabbath School
Union. One, which meets in the church, is attended by 100 children, and conducted
by five teachers. The other is attended by 20 children, and is under the superinten-
dence of one teacher.


