
                   MINNIGAFF                      119

    Hydrography.-The parish contains abundance of springs,
    though none of any magnitude.  It abounds in lochs, there being
    ten within its boundaries, but none of great extent. The largest
    are Loch Trool and Loch Dee, neither of which exceed two miles
    in length. Loch Trool is situated  in a singularly picturesque spot,
    almost environed by lofty hills, down whose sides rush numerous
    rills, which at a distance appear like streaks of snow.  On the
    south and north, the hills rise from the very edge of the loch-that
    on the northern side rising precipitously. Eastwards the hills recede
    from the head of the loch, the intervening space being covered
    with waving woods and rich meadow land.  the lower end is
    beautifully wooded on the southern shore.  The hills on the op-
    posite side were formerly covered with wood, chiefly oak; but hav-
    ing been cut a number of years ago, the young shoots were de-
    stroyed by goats; and so effectually did they complete their de-
    vastations, that only a few solitary trees remain. The river Cree,
    which has its source in Loch Moan, on the boundaries of this pa-
    rish and Colmonell, is the most considerable stream. On issuing
    from the loch, its course for several miles is through a bleak moor-
    land district.  About a mile below the high bridge of Cree, it is
    joined by the water of Minnoch, a stream which rises in the parish
    of Barr.  On its junction with the latter stream, the Cree flows
    for several miles with an almost imperceptible current through
    rich meadows, and its breadth being considerably increased, it
    forms a beautiful sheet of water called the Loch of Cree.  Below
    the wood of Cree, the river loses its sluggishness, and flows for
    some mile through a fertile valley. About a mile above the
    church, the valley becomes contracted, and the river enters a nar-
    row gorge, the banks being richly fringed with wood.  This por-
    tion of the river is termed the "Gill," and the water, for a consi-
    derable distance, being level, it forms one of the finest views of
    river scenery in the south of Scotland.  at the village of Minni-
    gaff, its waters are augmented by the Penkill, a stream which has
    its sour on the eastern confines of the parish passinf
    through a mountainous district, is liable and impetuous
    floods.   Beneath Minnigaff, the  valley again expands, through
    which the river flows in a serpentine course. and after being in-
    creased by the water of Palnure, another mountain stream it pours
    its tribute into the Atlantic at the bay of Wigton.  It is na-
    vigable for vessels of eighty tons to Carty, within two miles of


