
			INVERESK.                              251

New Craighall; and shells of a mussel shape are also met with in the
shale at Cowpits, Pinkie-burn, &c.  It is matter of dispute whether
these lived in fresh or salt water.  All, however, are agreed, that
they are now in the position where they lived and died.   Now
this bed of mussel-shell extends for several miles, showing neces-
sarily a considerable extent of water.  This is farther proved by
the occurrence of fishes' teeth found at Craighall and neiglibour-
ing collieries; and similar proofs exist in every part of the Lo-
thians, that the strata composing them were deposited in the man-
ner already stated, namely, at the bottom of a reat lake or sea,
into which were transported trees, plants, vegetables of all kinds,
in great abundance.   Great numbers of fossil ferns and coniferous
trees have been found at all the collieries.*
   Several quarries of freestone are wrought within the parish.
Limestone also exists in abundance, although not wrought to any
extent at present, as a plentiful supply can be bad at Cousland,
formerly a part of this parish, but now annexed to the adjoining
parish of Cranston.  The most interesting and valuable of the
strata are the coal seams.  On each side of the Esk, which bi-
sects the parish from south to north, the ground rises with a gentle
inclination from the river.  The coal strata have the same incli-
nation.  The under coal extends from the river westward about
two miles and a half, and eastward about three miles and a half
to its surface edges.  Northward the coal-field crosses the Frith
of Forth, and southward extends about twenty miles along the
course of the rivers.  This coal-field, which contains forty beds
of coal (of which the thickest is 9 and the thinnest 2 1/2 feet in
thickness) is supposed to have more coal in a section of its centre
than any other coal-field in the island.  The coal-mines at present
wrought in this parish are the three upper beds of this formation.         .   .
Their respective thicknesses are 3, 4 1/2, and 4 feet.  The average
distance from the surface to the first of the beds is from 9 to 12
fathoms.  The depth of the deepest pit is 56 fathoms.  Foul air
occasionally causes inconvenience to the miners, but never to such
extent as to require the use of the safety-lamp.  It pirevails most
in south winds.  The principal, collieries are at New Craighall,
Monktonhall, and Edinonstone.  Formerly there were Collieries at
Pinkie-burn, Midfield -and Cowpits, but they have of late years
been abandoned.  At the pit at New Craighall there is erected,

<FOOTNOTE>See Memoir in the Trans. Roy. Soc. Vol. xiv. Part.I., by D. Milne Esq. to
whom the compiler is indebted for the above observations on the geology of this
parish.


