
     Of Kirkmichael.

   The same credulity that gives air-formed inhabitants to
green hillocks and solitary groves, has given their portion
of genii to rivers and fountains.  The presiding spirit of that
element, in Celtic mythology, was called Neithe.  The pri-
mitive of this word, signifies to wash, or purify with water.
In the name of some rivers, it is still retained, as in the
river Neithe of Abernethy in Strathspey.  To this day,
fountains are regarded with particular veneration over every
part of the Highlands.  The sick who resort to them for
health, address their vows to the presiding powers, and of-
fer presents to conciliate their favour.  These presents gene-
rally consist of a small piece of money, or a few fragrant
flowers.  The same reverence, in ancient times, seems to
have been entertained for fountains by every people in Eu-
rope.  The Romans who extended their worship to almost
every object in nature, did not forget in their ritual, the
homage due to fountains.  It is to this, Horace alludes in his
address to his limpid fountain of Blandusia.

     O fons Blandusiae splendidior vitro,
     Dulci digne mero, non sine floribus,
     Cras donaberis haedo*.

<FOOTNOTE>

November blasts, and assailed by a multitude of voices, louder than the noise
of rushing waters.
   About 50 years ago, a clergyman in the neighbourhood, whose faith was
more regulated by the scepticism of philosophy, than the credulity of supersti-
tion, could not be prevailed upon to yield his assent to the opinion of the times.
At length, however, he felt from experience, that he doubted what he ought
to have believed.  One night as he was returning home, at a late hour, from a
presbytery, he was seized by the fairies, and carried aloft into the air.  Through
fields of aether and sleecy clouds he journied many a mile, descrying, like San-
cho Panza on his Clavileno, the earth far distant below him, and no bigger than
a nut-shell.  Being thus sufficiently convinced of the reality of their existence,
they let him down at the door of his own house, where he afterward often re-
cited to the wondering circle, the marvelous tale of his adventure.
   *Some modern antiquaries have asserted, that the Celtic nations never wor-


