
     Of Chirnside.

   The last mentioned vestige of seudal antiquity was
that of the bastiles.  Those prisons, having a Norman
name, denote their introduction, or their more frequent 
erection by the conqueror.  They were more numerous
in the marches of the borders than anywhere else, for
obvious reasons, and they were also made much stronger.
Fully, and generally occupied, they could not fail to be,

     E 2

<FOOTNOTE>

to them, and came afterward to be acquired by the family of Home.  Both
these lords had, besides it, various fortresses of far more importance to them.
Between the two great proprietors, it is likely the baron's castle here had
been neglected, and allowed to fall to ruins.  This is the more presumable,
as its situation, on the south side of the bog, exposed it to be assaulted more
easily by the English invaders.  The erecting another fort, on the opposite
side of the mire, now called Ferny Castle, appears to have been no way ne-
cessary, unless it was supply the defect of the other.  A tower, however,
reported to have been built by an Earl of Dunbar, and conveniently situ-
ated for observation, hard by the church-yard, kept its place:  its demoli-
tion was not so long ago, nor so entire, but that the late beadle of Chirnside,
and other old people, had seen its ruins, and its grooved stones carried off,
by the masons.  Whether the Earl of Dunbar and March, who, along
with Lord Douglas, met the English warden of the marches, Lord Ne-
vilie, at Belly-mire, in the year 1586, for the purpose of concluding a truce,
as mentioned in the border history, may be reckoned to have been that
earl, who, according to tradition, built or repaired the tower of Chirnside,
is uncertain; but the fact recorded gives occasion to observe, why the
place of a bog was appointed for such a meeting.  It is accounted for, by
considering the violent and particular animosity, with which the parties, at
war in the borders, were inflamed against each other.  Their constant and
mutual defiances, and incursions, kept up resentment; so that when the
wardens were to meet for negotiating a truce, the infractions of it among
their armed trains, were always to be apprehended.  To prevent their
coming to blows or scuffles, they were kept at some distance from each o-
ther, by a slough, or intersection of the ground, chosen for their meeting,
until, at least, all the preliminaries were settled between the wardens.
Hence, Hauden stank, and the Bounden-road, are often mentioned as the
places of their conventions, for treaties; and yet, even those precautions
did not always prevail for their peaceable termination.


