
                                RATHO.                          105

   Another society, having similar objects in view, was instituted
two years ago; but its operations have not yet commenced, nor
are its articles embodied in a regular form.
   Savings Bank.-A savings bank existed some years ago, which
is now dissolved. At present the National Savings Bank serves the
same purpose, and, from the confidence with which it is deserved-
ly regarded, receives considerable contributions from the industri-
ous among the people.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor at present receiv-
ing regular parochial assistance is 26, being at the rate of one in
every 57 of the population. The sum allowed to these varies from 2s.
6d to 6s. per month;---4s. may be regarded as the average allowance
to individuals. In addition to this, each pauper receives a cart of
coals of 16 cwt. at the commencement of the year; and the more
necessitous of their number half a cart additional in the month of
March. Besides those receiving constant aid, a few receive occa-
sional assistance in money, and many more in coals. This class
amounted in 1835 to 19, in 1836 to 16, and in 1837-1838, owing to
the severity of the winter, to 30. The permanent funds from which
the poor are supported are, an assessment upon the heritors accord-
ing to their valued rent, which has hitherto generally been levied
at the rate of 2d. per pound Scotch valuation; the church collec-
tions and the mortcloth dues. The assessment in 1835 was
L.59, the collections, L. 58, 4s. 4d., and mortcloth money,
L.1, 8s. 1836, assessment, L. 71, 2s.; collections, L. 36, 11s.
2d.; mortcloth dues, L. 2, 9s. 1837, assessment, L. 76, 0s. 8d.;
collections, L. 29, 0s. 11d.; mortcloth dues, L. 5. The money,
with which the coals is purchased, is raised by a collection at the
church doors, and a subscription among the heritors and more
wealthy of the people. The sum thus raised amounted last year
to L.34. In addition to the assistance afforded from these sour-
ces to the indigent, a considerable number are supplied with ex-
cellent broth twice a week, at Dalmahoy House, by the liberality
of its charitable proprietor. In the case of any extraordinary ge-
neral pressure from the inclemency of the season, or of family or
individual distress, a subscription is the common means resorted
to, and it never fails in accomplishing the desired object.
   We regret to say, when on the subject of the parochial funds,
that there is not now the disposition there once was on the part of
the people generally, to contribute to the collections at the church
doors for behoof of the poor. The time was when scarcely an indivi-


