
     Statistical Account of the

to defend and patronise the doctors, masters and scholars, in
all their privileges and immunities, and cause the statutes and
institutions to be inviolably observed*.  The execution of
this mandate did not take place till the 25th of February
1496; on which day, within the cathedral church of Aber-
deen, William Elphinston, the worthy bishop of that diocese,
caused Matthew Pocock, a public notary, to publish the above
Bull, in presence of Mr Archi hold Lindsay, contor, Andrew
Liell, treasurer, and the other members of the chapter.  The
same Pope, by another Bull dated 1495, annexed the church
of Aberluthnot, now Marykirk, and haill revenue of the
Hospital of St. Germains, to the University.  By the charter
of confirmation of James IV. May 22d, 1497, the King em-
powers Bishop Elphinston to erect a College within the Uni-
versity, and to divide its revenues among the masters and
scholars as he shall think proper, according to commission
and authority given him by the Pope.  In consequence of
these powers, Bishop Elphinston, the chancellor, made and
published his first foundation in his lifetime; leaving, at his
death, a second or enlarged foundation, which was published
by his successor, Bishop Gavin Dunbar, in the cathedral, an-
no. 1531, after establishing its authenticity by a solemn inqui-
sition and proof+.  These two foundation charters are the

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are some differences between the Bull of Alexander VI. and the
Bull of Pope Nicholas V. in 1457, by which the University of Glasgow was
erected.  It appears, however, by the coincidence of expression that the per-
son who drew up,Pope Alexander's Bull for Aberdeen, had that of Pope Ni-
cholas before him; or perhaps there was a general form for all such grants,
thougn occasionally varied as circumstances might render necessary.  The ori-
ginal foundation-charter papal bulls, and other papers referred to, are still ex-
tant in the charter chest of King's College.

+Alexander Gordon was the immediate successor of Bishop Elphinston, but
lived little more than a year to enjoy his office; and was succeeded by Gavin
Dunbar, executor of Bishop Elphinston.


