
36                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

from want of skill or knowledge of the tides.  The frith is about
twelve miles broad opposite to Dunnet.
   Hydrography. There are ten small lakes on Dunnet-head;
they contain no fish of any kind.  There are three, of a mile each,
or thereby, in length, and about half that extent in breadth, in the
lower part of the parish, viz. the Loch of Hayland, Syster, and St
John's.  The principal mills are supplied by them with water. There
are a few trouts in the Loch of Syster; the others are frequented by
eels.  There is a considerable quantity of marl in Loch Hayland.
Loch Syster is also said to contain marl, but it has not been
searched.  The scenery Of Loch Syster is very lonely, being
nearly surrounded with deep moss in a barren district.
   Geology.-In this parish there are only two distinct formations
of rock.  Dunnet-head is altogether composed of freestone, chiefly
of a brownish colour, but some of it white, very hard and durable.
The strata dip or incline to the north-east, at an angle of nearly
45\1.  This headland contains 3000 acres.  The remainder of the
parish is the common flag-stone slate of the county, also generally
dipping to the north-east, at an angle of from 20\1 to 60\1.  No sim-
ple minerals have been discovered in the parish.  There are a
number of springs, much impregnated with iron; but this may
arise from the slate containing a considerable portion of that mi-
neral.
   There are great varieties of soil in the parish.  Dunnet-head is
entirely covered with moss, to a considerable depth, betwixt which
and the freestone, there is a bard pan, of moorland, making the
moss retentive of water.  The cultivated lands round Dunnet are
a dry black sandy loam; also on the shore of the Pentland Frith,
the soil is black loam lying on a sandy clay at about five feet from
the rock.  This soil is generally wet and difficult to drain; it has
no pan, but the clay being retentive, keeps the moisture on the
surface.  The southern districts of the parish are generally a
clayey loam, lying on a bed of clay, from 2 to 5 feet in depth.
Where the sl;ie is rotten-on the top, the land is dry; where it is
hard, the land is uniformly wet and retentive.  There are also
about 3000 acres of moss in the low ground, on the east of the
parish, varying in depth from  2 to 16 feet, lying on blue clay-
producing stunted heath and other coarse herbage.  In these
mosses, dwarf birch, hazel, and saughs are found near the bottom,
in considerable quantities, which show they were formerly covered
with brushwood. To the east of dunnet Bay, there are 2000


