
                        WHITTINGHAM.                           63

by some igneous force below. And the point of difference here is,
whether this granite is stratified or not; and Dr Hutton was of opi-
nion that no granite is stratified, for if so, this he imagined would
set aside his theory. His disciples, however, differ somewhat from
their master in this. And his acute and learned illustrator, Mr
Playfair, and the scientific Sir James Hall of Dunglass, admitted
that granite was to be found stratified, or in masses of great size,
with seams in it; yet, if it might be called stratified, it was very
different from other rocks having this name.
   The granite in Fasseney water has certainly some appearance,
of stratification, or of being divided by seams of considerable thick-
ness. And Mr Playfair affirms, that, though it was not admitted
by Dr Hutton in his theory, yet be was of opinion that it does not
oppose that theory in the smallest degree. Geologists may examine
and judge for themselves. Upon the banks of this stream iron
and copper ore have been found; a small piece of the former was
presented to Dr Hope many years ago. The writer of this has
a small specimen of each of them in his possession.
                      II.-CIVILL HISTORY.
   The Earls of March held their Baronial Court at Whittingham.
In 1363, Patrick Earl of March granted to Alexander de Riek-
linton the half of the lands of Spot, which Sir Alexander Ramsay
had resigned, "in plena curia nostra apud, Whytingeham." In
1372, George Earl of March gave in marriage with his sister
Agnes, to James Douglass of Dalkeith, the manor of Whittingham,
with the patronage of the chapel, when Whittingham and Penshiel
became a separate parish from Dunbar, which estate and patron-
age the Douglasses of Dalkeith possessed about 190 years.
   In October 1564, Queen Mary granted to James Earl of Mor-
ton who represented tbe Douglasses of Dalkeith, all their estates,
with the barony of Whittingham, the castle and mills, and also the
advowson of the church of Whittingham, and the Queen's grant
to that unworthy servant was ratified by Parliament the 19th day
of April 1567. *
   The next historical event which here occurred respects the
murderers of Darnley, King of Scotland. It appears from history
that the scene of this dreadful treason was laid in the castle of
Whittingham. Part of this ancient building is still inhabited.
Morton had just returned home from England, where he had been
expatriated for the murder of Rizzio, being now pardoned by the

                 <FOOTNOTE>Vide Caledonia.


