
                            LOGIE.                                 231

inhabitants.  It is a flourishing village, with a well attended school,
and an active woollen manufactory.  Blair Logie, famous for the
salubrity of its climate and goat-whey, is a beautiful clean village,
at the rocky base of tbe Ochils, commanded by the Old Place,
or Castle of Blair Logie, now the residence of a respectable hill
farmer. It contains little more tban 100 inhabitants.  Craigmill
is a small village at the southern base of the Abbey Craig, for-
merly celebrated for the smuggling propensities of its inhabitants;
but since the duty on spirits was lowered, it has been deprived of
this branch of trade. Population about 90. Causewayhead,
terminates the Long Causeway of Stirling, population about 200.
Bridge of Allan, a flourishing village on the banks of the Allan,
is now much resorted to on account of its proximity to the Airthrey
mineral springs, population near 200.
  Means of Communication.--There are four turnpike roads in
this parish, which meet in one point at the village of Causeway-
head, viz. the Crieff, Alloa, Dollar, and Stirling roads.  Their
joint extent amounts to about eleven or twelve miles.  The roads
are in indifferent repair, especially the Crieff road, which is always
in bad order, and rendered impassable by tolls.  There are no
fewer than seven turnpike gates and ebeek-bars in the parish, all
within about two miles of the manse.
   Stirling is the post-town from wbence letters are conveyed to
the different parts of the parish by letter-carriers on foot. Two
public coaches, besides the mail from Perth to Glasgow, pass
through the parish ; also an omnibus from Stirlin to Alloa, and
during summer an omnibus plies regularly several times a day be-
tween Bridge of Allan and Stirling.*
   A very elegant bridge has lately been thrown over the Forth
at Stirling, the old bridge having, been deemed unsafe.  The
bridge over the Allan is one of those narrow, old-fashioned, dan-
gerous bridges so common in this part of the country, which one
would hardly expect to find at the present day on a great public
road, such as that between Perth, Stirling, and Glasgow.  The
fences are chiefly tborn hedges, in good condition.
   Ecclesiaitical State.--The parish church could not be more
conveniently situated being nearly in the very centre of the pa-
rish.  It is thus placed, however, at the distance of two miles and
upwards from the two most populous villages, Menstrie, and Bridge
of Allan, which are situated, the one at the eastern, and the other

<FOOTNOTE>The steam-boats which ply between stirling and Newhaven afford cheap and
expeditious communication to all the country near the Forth.


