
			KILMARNOCK.                                551

	Potatoes are cultivated in this parish to a considerable extent.
The raising of the turnip also forms an important care to the agri-
culturist, as by its culture the land is cleansed and improved. On
its produce, the cattle are fed for the dairy and for slaughter, and
flocks of sheep, generally purchased at the Falkirk market, are fed
on it, in an ingenious way, by means of flakes or moveable palings,
which also prevent them from rambling over the field.
	The progress of agriculture was early promoted by an Agricul-
tural Society, formed in Kilmarnock in, 1792, which continues still
in active operation, and which, during its long career, has been
most useful in stimulating the exertions of the enterprizing and in-
genious farmer. Various gentlemen in and around the town have
lent their aid to this institution; and, of late years much of its
prosperity has been owing to the practical knowledge and perse-
vering exertions of Mr George Paxton, formerly its secretary.
	Manufactures.--The manufactures of Kilmarnock are various,
and some of them very extensive. The manufacture of worsted
printed shawls alone employs 1200 weavers, and about 200 prin-
ters. Between May 1830 and the 1st of June 1831, there were
1,128,814 of these shawls manufactured, the value of which
amounted to about L. 200,000. The annual value now is estimat-
ed at L. 230,000. This important branch of trade was introduced
into Scotland in 1824, at Greenholm printfield, here, by Mr Wil-
liam Hall, an ingenious and enterprizing calico-printer, and afforded
great relief when the muslin weaving was in a very depressed states.
	In the carpet factories, about 1200 persons are employed in
weaving Brussels, Venetian, Turkey, and Scotch carpets and rugs,
the quality and patterns of which are not surepassed by any in
Britain. The annual value of this branch of trade is about
L. 150,000. The Commissioners and Trustees for Manufactures,
&c. in Scotland, awarded in the competition for premiums for
1831, to Gregory, Thomson, and Company, for four carpets Tur-
key fabric, L. 150, and an extra premium of L. 30. And the
judges expressed the following opinion: The four carpets of the
Turkey fabric, the first, it is believed that ever made in Scot-
land, the judges thought deserved most particular notice; that they
are of a splendid description, and form an important addition to
the Scottish manufactures, and fully entitle the spirited manufac-
turers to the liberal premiums adjudged to them. The premiums
awarded to Kilmarnock amounted in all, in 1831, to L. 210.
	The manufacture of boots and shoes is vdry considerable. About


