
168 			 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

held out the fortress, until artillery was opened upon it, and then sur-
rendered it upon honour able terms. The place where the Protector's
cannons were stationed, seems to have been the rising ground im-
mediately behind the house at present occupied by the proprie-
tor of Currie;-and whether by good luck, or by advice from with-
in, Cromwell seems to have directed his artillery against the very
part of the wall, which was most likely soon to yield to his strength,
there being a chimney at that place, which renders the wall less
thick there than- it is throughout the rest of the building. The
effect of the cannonading is still visible on the eastern wall of the
castle.  Attempts, it is said, have been repeatedly made to repair
the damage done to the wall; but, from the difficulty of uniting
the ancient and the modern masonry, these attempts have been
unsuccessful.
   It appears from the foregoing review, that the Lords Borthwick
were, throughout the whole series of them, men of superior talents,
and of great respectability of character.  They took an active part in
all public and important transactions,--nor are there any names
that occur more frequently as attending, on the Scottish estates of
Parliament.  The vicinity of the family residence to Edinburgh
may no doubt in some measure account for the latter circumstance;
but it has also been well suggested, " that their power and talents,
unquestionably, rendered them able counsellors and powerful as-
sistants of the royal authority."
   The possessions belonging to this family seem at one time to
have been immense. In the conveyance of the Bortbwick estates,
executed August Ist 1538, there are comprehended the Moat of
Lochquarret, the Castle of the same, called the Castle of Borth-
wick ; half of Bateland in the county of Edinburgh ; Borthwick in
Selkirksbire; Legerwood, Glengelt, Colinlaw, and Brown House
in Berwicksbire; Ormiston, Herriot, Herriot-Muir, Hethpule, and
Whitfield in the county of Peebles; and Aberdour in Aberdeen-
shire; which lands, by this deed, are destined to William, Lord
Borthwick; John Borthwick, his son, and apparent heir; Sir John
Gordon of Gordon Hall; and William Borthwick of Crookstone,
and their heirs-mile respectively.
   But families, like everything else under the sun, have their
times of rise, of grandeur, and of ultimate decline--nor will even
general propriety of conduct altogether reverse this universal law.
The immense possessions of this once powerful and respectable
family have long fallen to other occupants--their race has become


