
868                          FIFESHIRE.

researches. He established excellent schools at his lime and
coal works, and was first president of the Mechanics' Institution
in Dunfermline, as well as personally assisted at its formation.
He was public spirited and enterprising, carrying his local im-
provements on his estate and works to an extent which embar-
rassed his private fortune. He was liberal and free from selfishness
in his charities ; and, in his private manners, happily blended the
suavity of the private gentleman with the dignity of the nobleman.
He died at Paris, on the l4th November 1841, in his 76th year,
much regretted by his tenantry and work-people, by whom he
was greatly esteemed. He is succeeded by his eldest son, by the
second marriage, James, 8th Earl of Elgin, and 12th Earl of
Kincardine, born 1811, a nobleman of very promising talents and
character, at present Governor of Jamaica.
   Pigfirrane Family.-This is the most ancient family resident
in the parish, and has had many members eminent for their pub-
lic services and private worth. The first mentioned of the family
was David de Halket, proprietor of the lands of Lumphennans
and Ballingall in Fife, who lived in the time of King David
Bruce, whose son Philip, designed " Dominus de Ballingall et
Lunfinnans," flourished in the reign of Robert II. and III, and
acquired the third part of the lands of Pitfirrane from his cousin,
William de Scott de Balweary, in 1399. To the deed of con-
veyance John de Torry, abbot of Dunfermline, and son of Philip,
was a witness. The first of the family found to be designed by
the title of Pitfirrane was David de Halket, grandson of Philip,
and son of Robert, who was sheriff of Kinross in 1372. He is
mentioned as early as 3d June 1404. 
   The first members of the family that were knighted were two
sons of George Halket, who lived in the reigns of Queen Mary
and King James VI. His eldest son, Robert, received the honour
from King James VI., and was served heir to his father, in the
lands of Pitfirrane, in 1595. A younger son, John, was knighted
by the same prince; and attaching himself to a military life, be
entered the service of the States of Holland, rose to the rank of
a colonel and had the command of a Scots regiment in the
Dutch service. He was likewise President of the Grand Court
Marishall, in Holland.
   Anne, daughter of Mr Thomas Murray, Provost of Elton, and
preceptor to Charles I., and second wife of Sir James Halket,
knighted at Dalkeith, 14th June 1633, was a lady of great

