
148                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

the protection of the dead, and are reckoned of a very good con-
struction.
   The manse is situate on the north side of the village, towards
the east end. In 1779, during the incumbency of the late Mr Col-
ville, the upper flat of the old manse was taken down, and two new
flats were built upon it, with a projecting wing behind, of the same
height with the rest of the building.
   The garden lies to the north and east of the manse, is inclosed
with a stone wall, and stocked with fruit trees. There are two tall
lime trees at the bottom, planted about the year 1680, by Mr Sin-
clair, then minister of the parish, which are still in great vigour.
The minister has the privilege of a road leading from the back-
court, round the garden to the glebe. That road was attempted
to be stopped by the neighbouring feuar, but it was secured two
years ago by a process before the Sheriff.
   The glebe contains about 7 1/2 acres of pretty good land. Ori-
ginally it lay all behind the garden, divided into three small fields.
But about the middle of the last century, the remotest field, some
of which was low and marshy, was excambed for another imme-
diately to the east of the street of Ormiston, which is now the best
part of the glebe. It is all inclosed, but the fences are getting old
and insufficient. There is coal below it, at no great depth; but for
want of a level it cannot be wrought without an engine, and there-
fore is not likely to be turned to any account. The stipend is ten
chalders of grain, and L. 41, 13s. 4d. of money, with L. 8, 6s. 8d.
for communion elements. From a want of teinds, it would not
have been what it now is, had not James Earl of Hopetoun, sole
heritor, allowed it to be twice augmented during the incumbency
of the late minister, that it might not fall below others in the
neighbourhood. The last augmentation was given in 1808.
   There are no Dissenting meeting-houses in the parish. The
number of families belonging to the Establishment is 168. There
are 19 families belonging to the Secession, who frequent different
meeting-houses, and a few are connected with no church. Some of
the servants in families connected with the Establishment belong
to Dissenting congregations, and vice versa. The average number
of communicants for the last twelve years is 270.
   A parish Bible Society was instituted in 1817, the funds of
which for some years, upon an average, have amounted to L. 6 a-
year. While the greater part of this sum has been generally sent
to the East Lothian Bible Society, a small part has always been


