
			   FORDYCE.                                    195

   poor to seek parochial relief, the reverse is now too frequently the
   case.
      Fairs.-There is a fair (All-Hallow Fair) held annually at
   Fordyce on the last Wednesday of October (old style); and an-
   other at the same place on the fourth Thursday of November
   (old style.) Both are for the sale of cattle and sheep; and the
   first has also been long one of the chief feeing markets of the dis-
   trict.
      Inns.-The number of alehouses and shops where ardent spirits
   are sold in Fordyce and Portsoy together, is no less than 24.
   The effect of licensing so many of these has been mnst injurious
   to the morals of the community; and the facility with which such
   licenses have been hitherto obtained cannot be too deeply lamented.
   A Society on the principle of total abstinence, has been lately es-
   tablisbed in Portsoy, and its influence in lessening the prevalence
   of intemperance has already been very gratifying. Though as yet
   of little more than three months standing, it has reduced the
   consumption of ardent spirits to nearly one-third less than it had
   been in the former quarter. Such arf influence needs only to be
   sufficiently extended, and made permanent, to drive intemperance
   speedily from the face of our land.
      Fuel.-The chief fuel is Enolish coals; but in the country dis-
   trict, a considerable quantity of peat is used, procured from the
   vicinity of the Knock Hill, and other adjacent places. The ex-
   pense of the latter, per load, may be estimated at 2s. while the or-
   dinary price of coals per barrel is ls. 3d. In the summer season
   the barrel may often be purchased at Is. ld. or ls. 2d.
		     MISCELLANOUS OBSERVATIONS.
      The valuation of this parish in the year 1690, after deducting
   the public burdens, was L. 8274 Scots, or L. 689, l0s. of Sterling
   money. In last Statistical account, the land rent is stated to be
   nearly L. 4000. It is now about double of this sum, thus afford-

   ing the best of all proofs of the success with which agricultural im-
   provements have been carried on during the last forty or fifty years.
   It is also within the same period, that the excellent turnpikes and
   the other best roads have been made. An extension, however, of
   the present system of draining, the raising of more fences, the in-
   troduction of a superior style in farm-buildings, and the planting
   of some of the waste parts, would still farther add to the present
   improved aspect of the parish; and while' the active spirit that
   is now showing itself gives promise of such meliorations in the


