
     Statistical Account

rent of Montquhitter parish is stated at 325 bolls of meal, and
about L. 210 sterling of money: at present, every item in-
cluded, it extends to L. 1400 a year.  Infield lets from 8 s. to
15 s. light land from 2 s. 6 d. to 8 s. and land by the side of rivu-
lets from 4 s. to 10 s. per acre.  Large tracts, almost on every
farm, are not valued.  At an average, farmers pay from L. 10
to L. 30, and crosters from L. 2 to L. 10 per annum.  Crofts
are slowly diminishing, two or more being sometimes set to
one tenant at a rising rent.-Most farmers fence, with dyke
and ditch, a small spot contiguous to their houses: but neither
the strength of their purses, nor the length of their leaves, af-
ford a sufficient temptation to rear a hedge, or to enclose with
stones.  Auchry's farm excepted, the rest of the parish is
naked and open.  Leaves are seldom or ever extended beyond
19 years; in which period, no man can establish a plan of ra-
tional farming, and realize the profits.  For the most part,
therefore, an exhausted farm devolves on an exhausted tenant,
whereby improvement of every kind is greatly retarded, and
the interest of all concerned materially injured.  A few pro-
prietors now let their lands on a liferent: flattered with the
hope of life, the tenant exerts himself to reclaim and improve;
-he dies, and his family lies at the mercy of a selfish mas-
ter.
   A number of services are exacted, but not rigorously, by
the proprietors, who would gladly commute them if the farmer
inclined; but the preceding article may fully inspire the belief,
that a man, who is not sufficiently encouraged to improve,
will be too much disposed to save a little money at the expence
of service.  Earl Fife has entirely emancipated his tenants;
and Mr Gordon of Letterfourie pays, at the usual rates, for
what services he requires from, his people in Asleed.
   These political evils, united with a cold soil impregnated
with mineral, are not sufficient, however, to counterbalance

     3


