
     The Statistical Account.

round.  Sometimes, but not often, epidemical fevers make
their way to us, to which the surgeon of the county (who
lives in this parish) gives different names at different periods.
Some of the old and young are cut off by them.  The mea-
sles and booping cough bear very hard on many children, but
not many die of them.  The small pox often prove fatal, as
the people in general, are still prejudiced against inoculation.
At the same time I am informed, that more than 260 chil-
dren have been inoculated in this county, within the course
of the last 20 years.  It has been the wish of many, that the
practice of inoculation should become universal, as it seems
more than probable that it would be the means of saving ma-
ny lives that might become useful to the community.  In or-
der to promote and extend this salutary practice, the bene-
volent Dr.  Buchan has recommended to the clergy to act as
physicians in this department.  The clergy, to be sure, should
do all the good they can, as well to the bodies and cir-
cumstances of men, as to their souls; and generally speaking,
the people have more confidence in their minister than in
any other; and besides it would go a great length towards
reconciling them to the measure that the clergy would serve
them gratis.  But then there is one serious objection to the
clergy's undertaking this business, and that is, supposing them
to acquire sufficient skill in it, that the people would not fol-
low the proper directions, and thereby the good end would
be defeated, and the physicians discouraged, and determined
to give up the business.  Many professional physicians com-
plain of this evil, and surely not without cause.  Many in
this county think spirituous liquors a cure for almost all dis-
eases, and the poor child in the small pox is plied hard with
whisky in all the stages of the disease, which never cures,
but seldom fails to kill.  Were there accomodations, however
inelegant, erected in every country parish in the best adapt-


