
                  ST ANDREWS.              451

the half of which are in a regular course of tillage,and the remain-
der form the links or downs, which extend from the estuary of the
Eden to the vicinity of the city, and which, while they are highly
useful as a place of recreation for the citizens, afford also pasture
for sheeps.
     A few years ago, there were several caves among the rocks over-
hanging the sea in the vicinity of the castle.  Their dimensions
were but small, and they bore strong marks of being, partly at least,
artificial.  But in consequence of the encroachments of the watery
element on this part of the coast, they have now almost entirely
disappeared.  About a miles to the east of the city, in the cliffs
which bounds the ocean, there is a natural cave of considerable di-
mensions, which is usuallu denominated Kinkell cave.  It penetrates
from seventy to eighty feet inwards, with a breadth in the the centre of
about twenty-five feet, and a height on the west side of ten or eleven
feet; but the roof, which seems to consist of single stone form-
ing throughout a perfect plane, dips so much towards the east as
to terminate in the floor, forming with it an acute angle.  Part of
the floor and the west side, where there is a constant dropping of
water from the roof, are covered with plants, which continue to
grow to nearly forty feet from entrance, which is much more
contracted than the cave itself.  This cave is easily accessible, and
it is frequently visited, especially during the summer months, by
the citizens and their visitants.
    The sea-coast of this parish is about six miles extent, of which
two to the north and east of the city are low, consisting of sand-
hills of little elevation, which form the eastern boundaries of the
linsk; and the remaining four are elevated from 50 to 100 feet, in
some places perpendicular, and presenting only the sandstone rock;
but in others, where layers of clay and other loose materials alter-
nate with the rock, the declivity is less abrupt, and the surface pre-
sents a covering of grass, with a variety of other native plants and
stunted shrubs interspersed.  In this line of coast, there are several in-
sulated rocks of considerable dimensions, as the Maiden Rock, which
is skirted by the sea, and which rises, like an irregular piece of
masonry, to a height of about forty feet, from a base of about the
same extent, and from six to twelve feet in thickness.  The rock and
spindle at Kinkell are striking objects, and will be afterwards al-
luded to; and the Buddo Rock, in the vicinity of Boarhills, is also
calculated to arrest the attention.
    Meteorology.-The following table, which was constructed with

