
378                INVERNESS-SHIRE.

formed, and the promontory on which the church is built. On
this beach, coals and lime are landed, and further east, on the
beach of Connage, towards Campbeltown and Fort George, the
woods cut down in the eastern district are shipped. As nothing
greater than a boulder is found along this sandy shore, vessels
could land their cargo at any place, except for the danger of the
tides being too low to carry them off. The sea recedes to a great
distance at low-water, except at Altirlie Point, where, in conse-
quence of the water receding very little, families from Inverness
frequently take lodgings during summer and autumn, in the fishing
village, and with thd neighbouring farmers, for the purpose of sea-
bathing.
   Meteorology.-The climate of the parish is of the same cha-
racter with that which prevails along the coast of Moray; and
were the soil as rich as the climate is genial, no district in Scot-
land, would surpass it in fertility. The superior farmers note, oc-
casionally, in their books, the character of the weather, especially
in seed-time and harvest, but, except by the writer, (whose register,
however, is of too recent a date and too irregularly kept to be of
any use,) no observations on the temperature by the thermometer,
nor estimates of the quantity of rain by the guage, have ever been
systematically made in the parish.
   The following notices of the time of sowing and reaping are
taken from the farm-books of John Gollan, Esq. of Gollanfield,
and James Strother, Esq. one of our most intelligent and systema-
tic farmers.
   Note of sowing and reaping at Balmachree, west end of Pettie,
by Mr Strother:-

<TABLE>
	       Sowing began  and ended.   Reaping began
              1832, March 11,  April 9.    August 29.
              1833,       13, March 30.    September 1.
              1834,       13, April  6.    August 20.
	      1835,       25,       17.    ------ 19.
              1836,       19,       25.    September 1.
              1837,  April 5,       30.    August 28.
              0838, March 28,    May 2.    September 17.

   At the east end of Pettie, about six miles east of Mr Strother's
farm, J. Gollan, Esq. of Gollanfield has recorded his sowings as
follows:-

<FOOTNOTE>For the last four years less wheat has been sown in November, which presents
a greater breadth of barley in spring, and accounts for the lateness of concluding the
spring sowing. The harvest is generally concluded in six weeks. In 1826 it re-
quired eight weeks.


