
126                   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

asked what reward they expected for all their services, they re-
plied, that "they never had a prospect of great things; but, if
his majesty would bestow upon them the thirty pund land of the
Hassock and Cumloden, they woukd be very thankful." To this
he cheerfully assented, and their descendants possessed the lands
for may centuries. The eldest, M'Kie of Larg, assumed for
arms, two ravens proper, upon a field argent, with an arrow through
their heads. The armorial bdarings of Murdoch of Cumloden
were argent, on achief gules; a raven volant, pierced by an arrow.*
The ruins of the Castle of Larg are visible, a short distance from
the New Galloway road. The family of M'Kie failed in the
male line, and the property descended to the family of Heron of
Heron, who had married Margaret M'kie, daughter of the last
Laird of Larg, and is now possessed by their descendent, Lady
Heron Maxwell. The family of M'Lurg of Machermore had
become extinct in the sixteenth century, and, in the course of last
century, Murdoch of Cumloden, the lineal descendant of the se-
cond son, sold that portion od the lands gifted to his ancestor.
	Eminent Characters.--The late celebrated Dr Alexander Mur-
ray, Professor of Oriental Languages in the university of Edin-
burgh, was a native of this parish. He was descended of respect-
able parents, though of an humble rank in life,--his father, Ro-
bert Murray, being a shepherd on the farms of Tennotrie and
Kitterrick. At the latter place, his son, Alexander, was born on
the 22d October 1775. Young Murray early displayed an eager
desire for acquiring knowledge, and, though too distant to attend
school, ere he had atained his eight year, his "fame for won-
drous reading and a great memory was the discourse of the whole
glen." His father's circumstances not enabling him to pay the
expense of lodging and wages if he sent his son to school, it was
not till 1784 that he spent a few months at a school in New Gal-
loway, which he was obliged to quit by illoness. In 1789, his fa-
ther's family removed nearer to Minningaff, which change enable
him to attend the parish school. Here he was distinguished for
his assiduity and diligence in his studies, and extraordinary facility
in the acquirement of languages. His attendance at school, how-
ever, was very irregular, as he occasionally engaged with various
farmers to teach their children. In 1794, by the aid of some
friends, among vhom the l`te Rev. J. G. Maitland, minister of
the parish, and the late venerable Principal Baird are conspicuous,

<FOOTNOTE>From an account of the parish, Macfarlane MSS., Advocates Library.



