
     of Muirhouse.

<FOOTNOTE>

be sworn to the subscribed to by all the professors of the Reformed reli-
gion, and by all his Majesty's good subject.
   In the Solemn League, the government of the Church of Scotland is se-
cured, their loyalty to the King declared, but limited with their religion
and liberties, and they are bound to extirpate Popery and Prelacy in
both kingdoms; yet they are not bound expressly to introduce Presbyte-
ries into England.  In this particular, the sectarians outwitted the Pres-
byterians.  For, though the Episcopal government was totally abolished
in England, yet the Presbyterian never was thoroughtly settled in that
kingdom.  In a word, the design of the Presbyterians in the Solemn
League was to introduce an uniformity between the two kingdoms in doc-
trine, worship, and church-government, and they made considerable ad-
vances in that work, but the Independents and Sectarians had no such
design.
   In 1643, the Assembly of divines sat down at Westminster.  They
continued their sessions four or five years, and corresponded with our
Assemblies and their commissions.  Our Assemblies sent Commissioners to
the Westminster Assembly.  In the first year of their meeting, they a-
greed on proportions as to church, government, and the ordination of mi-
nister, with were approved by out General Assembly.  But as to the
directory for worship, the Westmister Assembly, as appears by their letter
to out Assembly, did not advise it to be so strickly imposed, as to make
it unlawful to recede from it in any thing.
   The Westminster Assembly agreed on a Confession of Faith, in 1647,
which was approved by our Assembly met at Edinburgh, August 3,
that year.  They agreed also on the Larger and Shorter Catechisms,
which was approved by our Assembly in 1748.  Thus these two As-
semblies carried on the work of Reformation and Uniformity, in of far as
both churches agreed in their principles concerning doctrine, workship,
and government.  But after the year 1648, no more progress was made in
this intended uniformity.  Our divisions in Scotland, and the prevailing
power of the sectaries in England, put a final stop to all these designs of
uniformity and reformation in both kingdoms.
   King Charles 1. being at this time prisoner in the Isle of Wight, the
Parliament of Scotland demanded, that the King should be liberated, and
brought to London in safety and honour, and that religion should be esta-
blished in England according to their covenant and treaties, and for this end
appointed an army to be raised of 30,0000 foot and 6000 horse.  The Gene-
ral Assembly insisted, that he should be obliged to settle religion in his
dominions according to the covenants.  Both parties were loyal, and for the
King's liberation, but differed on the terms.  The Assembly made and act,
commanding all ministers to preach against engaging in war with Eng-

     VOL. XIII Y


