
552                         FORFARSHIRE.

active operation. About 100 hands are employed. The business
carried on is chiefly the making of machinery for spinning-mills.
The village has also a cart and plough manufactory, of long es-
tablished repute.
	In Broughty Ferry an establishment for curing cod prepares
400 fish per week for exportation when the season is favourable.
Here also are two roperies, and a foundry, besides breweries, bake-
houses, &c. and the several manufactories common in a large
village.
	Several tanneries, a fulling-mill, a lintseed-oil-mill, a bleach-
field on the old system, and a thread-mill, which were in opera-
tion during last century, have been discontinued for upwards of
forty years.
  Navigation.-We have no regular harbour in this parish; but
coal and lime vessels of small tonnage deliver their cargoes all

`long the coast,-the receding tide leaving them dry on the slop-
ing sandy beach. Small vessels are occasionally built at Broughty
Ferry, where the nature of the shore permits them to be launched
at once into deep water. Indeed, on account of the depth of wa-
ter, and the natural shelter which would be afforded for shipping,
the construction of a harbour there, for the larger vessels engag-
ed in the Dundee trade, has often been spoken of as easy, desir-
able, and likely to be gone into at no distant period. And as the
railway passes, along the very brink of the river, perhaps this may
be a cause of the speedy effectuation of the project.

      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The market-town is Dundee, from which, the remotest part of
the parish is not distant more than seven miles. A half-yearly
market for cattle, horses, &c. used to, be held at Monifieth, and
the semblance,of it is still kept up. Within these thirty years it
was of considerable importance; but of late it has dwindled into
nothing.
	Broughty-Ferry is a large village, containing in all nearly 2200
inhabitants, situated chiefly in this parish, though a small part be-
longs to the parish of Dundee. Fifty years ago it consisted of
about half-a dozen fishermen's huts; but the proprietor having
begun to feu about the year 1790, it started at once into a consi-
derable tnwn, and is still rapidly increasing. It presents a clean
and neat appearance; and from the river, the view of the village
in front, with the villas of the more wealthy on sloping back-
ground, is very picturesque. The streets, most unaccountably,


