
				CRAIG.                      261

be remarked, that, besides the private benefactions of residing
heritors to the poor, they derive much benefit from the circum-
stance of such families being of our own communion, and attend-
ing the Established church, which has generally been the case for
a century past. During forty years and upwards, no poor have
had occasion to beg,--the parish being both able and willing to
maintain its own poor. Many, however, are apt to give liberally
to strolling vagrants or sturdy beggars, who infest this district and
the neighbourhood,--an evil severely felt, and which stands much
in need of an effectual remedy." This description is still strictly
applicable to the state of the poor in this parish.
	The average annual amount of contributions for their relief is
about L. 136; arising from church collections, L.70, 13s.; from
donations, L.22; from interest of poor's funds, L. 43, 7s. *
	These funds are ordinarily sufficient for the stated supply of the
poor in the parish; and when any peculiar case of distress occurs,
or any general pressure upon the more necessitous arisee, which
the kirk-session are unable to relieve, an extraordinary collection
in the church, a subscription through the parish, or application to
the heritors, never fails to procure the required supply.
	There is gradually less appearance of unwillingness among the
poor to seek parochial relief, but in general they do not apply with-
out necessity; and several instances do still occasionally occur of
great reluctance to accept of it, even when offered. One remark-
able instance recently occurred, of a person living by his labour
wishing to make some repayment of what his mother and sister had
received from the poor-funds.
  Alehouses.--There is an undue proportion of alehouses in the
parish, there being not less than thirteen already licensed, and
two additional in preparation, which allows one alehouse to every
twenty-four families in the parish. Their influence is most perni-
cious in every respect; and it is truly lamentable to perceive the in-
sensibility so generally manifested by the more influential classes to
the rapidly increasing evils among the lower orders of the commu-
nity, which so obviously proceed from this fertile source of corrup-
tion.
   Fuel.--The fuel generally used is coal, brought by sea from the
English coast and the Firtb of Fortb,--the former at the rate of
1s. 2d. per barrel, or about 12s. for a one-horse cart load,--and

<FOOTNOTE>Of the poor's funds at interest, amounting in all to L.850, the sum of L.100
was presented in 1800 by the present Sir David Scott, Bart. Brighton; L. 500 was
left in 1806 by Robert Williamson, Esq. London. a native of the parish ; and L. 50
was left in 1828 by Mrs Scott of Usan, Iong a resident in the parish.



