
     Statistical Account

Glenwhurry Hill, into the Cleugh, and round towards Pen-
breck; whence it would seem, that the spar found in this

render them less attentive, obliging, and useful; to deter them
from marriage, by wasting those funds, that might be a consid-
erable aid in maintaining a family, when they should be married;
to deprive them of an independent resource, in case of any un-
fortunate accident, or in the time of sickness, or under the frail-
ties of old age; and to put it out of their power to exert and
gratify some of the best principles, and feelings of the human
heart, by contributing to the relief and support of their aged
parents, in similar circumstances of bodiy infirmity, disease, and
distress; in short, as it tends to annihilate all the advantages
resulting from the raised price of their service and labour.  That
this is too often realised, needs rather to be regretted than prov-
ed; especially, in the case of females of the above denomination;
in so much, that the cotton and silk manufacturers, and the ven-
ders of their goods, are generally supposed to be the only gain-
ers, by the present high advance of wages.  No matter, the il-
lusion goes on; the woollen manufacture is almost annihilated;
the farmer suffers, agriculture declines apace, some have reduced
their tillage to one half, others to a third of its former extent,
and others have given it up altogether.  Should this course
prevail, the probable consequences, as has been noticed, behove
to be fatal to the country, which may God prevent.  But
in ordinary cases miracles are not to be expected.  Means must
be used.  These need hardly be specified.  They will readily
occur to those whose province it is to devise, and who have it
in their power to administer the relief that is so much wanted.
Only, in general, it would certainly be of no small service to
the country, were the hint, given about 50 years ago by the
amiable and elegant SHENSTONE, properly improved. Strongly
impressed with what he then beheld, and presageful, as it would
seem, of still worse to come, by the above absurd and ruinous
system; his gentle but nobly zealous Muse could not refrain from
venting her plaintive patriotic sorrow, in these and the like pa-
thetic strains, which may now too well be resumed with redoub-
led energy:

     Will no bright maid, by worth, by titles known,
     Give the rich growth of British hills to fame?
     And let her charms and her example own,
     That virtue's dress, and beauty's are the same?


