
                     GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON ORKNEY.                    207

             In some places, the coast is flat and Tandy; others, bold and
        rocky, forming-a range of perpendicular or overhanging precipices,
        that resist the encroachment of the waves, while the lower andL
        softer portions- of land have been swept away by their fury. As
        in most other parts of the world, these precipices are highest on
        the west side, those of Hoy, reaching the height of 1000 feet
        perpendicular. They present sublime scenery, and magnificent
        exhibitions of strata for the geologist. They are frequented by a
        variety of sea-fowl, which build, in some places, as closely as pi-
        geons in a dove-cot, on the harder strata that protrude beyond the
        softer, with remarkable regularity.
            The gradual destruction of the precipices gives rise to nume,
        rous caves and fissures. These add greatly to the interest of the
        scene, which, when the waves dash against them, is one of the
        grandest in nature.
            This cluster of islands is generally divided into the Mainland or
        Pomona, which contains more than half of the population, viz.
        15,787,-tlie North Isles containing 8360,-and the South Isles,
        4700.
            Meteorology.-It will be seen, from the tables. inserted in
        the account of Sandwick, that the mean, annual temperature
        of Orkney is 46-1/4; whence it appears, that neither are our win-
        ters so cold, nor our summers so hot, as those of places where
        the mean annual temperature is much the same as ours,
        such as Applegarth in Dumfries-sbire, (Vide account of that
        parish.) Again, comparing our table with that kept for nine
        years by Mr Hutchison, in Glasgow, where the meau anaual
        temperature is 49.75, or 3-10 above that of Orkney, I find that the
        temperature of November, December, and January is almost th ei
        same in both places; but that of Glasgow gradually rises above ours
        in spring. In May, June, July, and August it is 70 above ours and
        falls again in September and October. This is what might be an-
        ticipated fr6-rn the insular Situation of Orkney; the tempe'rature.of
        the deep surrounding ocean not being quickly changed, and the
        uniformity of its temperature producing such a uniformity near its
        shores, that excessive beat, -and long-continued frost, are equally
        rare. This arrangement may be pleasant or favourable to animal
        life, but it is far from favourable to vegetation, as the luxuriance
        of our common crops depends on the tewperAtu re of three or four-
        months in summer, while they are on the ground, and not at all on
        that of the rest of the year; and if we could gain a few degrees


