
                              ECKFORD               225

intended either as a reservoir for water, or as a depository for goods.
Some have averred that it was occassionally employed as a prison,
and perhaps this averment is founded on fact. There  is an air-hole on
the south side of it, but it is so constructed that not a ray of light can
possibly ba admitted. This vault measures about 10 feet long, 17
feet broad, and 9 feet deep.   The only entrance to it was by an aper-
ture at the top, "and this was kept shut as necessity required, by a
large stone/f* with an iron ring in it."   The roof, which rose several
feet above the level of the dungeon, was arched, but it is now com-
pletely gone.   Anciently, this fortress was surrounded by an inner
and an outer wall : the former has entirely disappeared, but some
remains of the latter still exist.   The space between these walls,
as may be inferred from the history of all border strengths, was
primarily approriated for the reception of cattle, in which the
wealth of the marchmen principally consisted. A moat once sur-
rounded the whole out-works, and of this some traces are still to
be seen.   Probably, it was supplied with water from a spring, which
lies about a quarter of a mile to the south.
 This fortress, from its great importance, was often the scene of
hostile invasion in ancient times.   In the reign of Henry VIII.
the Earl of Surrey, after destroying a number of places in the neigh-
bourhood, attempted to take it by assault; but he asserts in a let-
ter addressed to his sovereign, on the 21st May 1523, that, had
the owner not agreed to capitulate, he would have been unable to
have obtained possession of it at all.   With the exceptions of Fast
Castle and Dunbar Castle, he represents it as the strongest place in
Scotland ; but this he did, in all likelihood, to magnify his own ex-
ploits, in the eye of his capricious master.   This castle, there is
reason to believe, ceased to be regularly occupied by the noble fami-
ly of Roxburghe, shortly before the death of Sir Robert Ker in
1650, and since that period, it has been allowed, in all probability
gradually, to go into a state of dilapidation.   According to the
testimony, however, of Wodrow, the historian, Henry Hall of
Haughhead, and some others of the Covenanters, were confined
as prisoners here in 1666;   but the former, through the influence
of the then Earl of Roxburghe, his friend and relation, ac-
complished his release.   The ancient key of this fortress was ac-
cidentally discoverd by a boy some years ago.   It was dragged out
from an aperture in the inside of the wall, close to the main door,
where for nearly two centuries it had probably lain undisturbed.   It

<FOOTNOTE>The Rev. Mr Paton, the writer of the last account, observes, that this stone and
ring some persons had seen who were alive in his day.

    ROXBURGH.                                    P


