
     Statistical Account

proprietors, sensible that it wasted the means, and corrupted
the morals of the people, have endeavoured to check it, by
suppressing the retail of it.  Thus, the poorer sort are mo-
derate from necessity; those of the higher rank are so from
choice.-There has been only a part of two estates sold with-
in these 30 years.  The last sold, about 3 years ago, for 20
years purchase of the land rent.  The kelp shores were also
sold at 50 l. Sterling, purchase money, per ton, of what the
shores usually yielded, that is, at 20 years purchase also, sup-
posing the kelp to give a neat profit to the purchaser of 50 s.
per ton only.  Landed property was formerly sold cheaper
than this, which is perhaps high enough, as the farms are,
and have been, it is generally allowed, too high rented.  It
is supposed, that the rents of many farms could not be made
effectual, if it were not for some advantages which the farm-
ers have, by the price allowed them for making the kelp,
which, in some places, is 40 s. per ton, or more; and the
cottagers make it for 20 s. or 24 s. per ton; so that the farm-
er has the difference to go to his credit, in payment of the
land rent.  Without some assistance of this kind, the land
rent would be nominal only, and not effectual; by reason
that it is necessary to keep a great number of horses, for the
purpose of manuring the land with the sea-ware; and the
price of horses is double of what it was 50 years ago, and
the wages of servants nearly treble of what it was then, while
the advance in the price of grain does not hold pace with
the expence of raising it; and besides, there are no fixed
markets to which the farmers can bring their grain and other
articles to sale.  The people, in general, are well disposed to
humane actions.  There are few whose circumstances will
admit of their performing generous ones, although some in-
stances might, too, be given.  The assistant to the late in-
cumbent in Ladykirk parish had bed and board at the house


