
                         DUNBOG.                            211

works of a like nature,--and in ransoming those of our countrymen
who had been carried into a terrible slavery by the Sallee rovers or
Turkish corsairs. Towards the close of the seventeenth century we
find such entries as the following: "Given out to ane indigent gentle-
man 6 B. Given to ane dumb man 4 B. Given to ane poor sojer 1 B.
A collection for ane Pollonian minister 4 B. Given to a ship-
broken man 4 B. To ane indigent gentlewoman 10 B. To a de-
posed minister's wife 6 B. To a distressed minister L. 1, 8s. To
ane Episcopal minister called James Spark, who came from Ire-
land, 12 B. To Mr John Constantine, a Neapolitan and Ca-
puchin friar, who had renounced Poperie, as he said, 12 B. To a
suppliant John Lauder, 12 B, having lost 25,000 merks in ane ship
coming from France to Greenock." Of another sort, we have such
entries as these: " 1671. Given to John Rule and John Cunninham,
two men that had their houses burnt at Sligo, 12 sh. 1675, De-
cember 25, a voluntary contribution for rebuilding of the town
of Kelso, which was burnt down." Some years after a collection
is made to assist in rebuilding Newburgh, which had been burnt
down. The instances of relief granted to individual sufferers by
fire are almost without number. Of a class still more interest-
ing, we may venture to give a few specimens. "In 1678, February
10, the minister did intimate a voluntar contribution this day
eight days for the relief of some Montrose seamen taken by the
Turks." Again, October 3d, 1680, "There was two acts read for
a voluntar contribution, the one in favour of John Atchison, skipper
in Pittenweem, his mate, Alexander Black, ten mariners and two
passengers, taken by Turkish men of war, and carried up to Sallee
and there ever since slaves. The other in favour of Robert Angus
skipper in Burntisland, who was taken by a Turkish man of wait
belonging to Algiers and was kept as a slave since."--The Bar-
bary corsairs seem to have been the terror and scourge of British
sailors in the seventeenth century. A few years in advance we
fall on the tracer of a new enemy. "1707, July 20, Given to
George Hamilton, a man taken by the French pirates, and retaken
by the Dutch, and who had five children, 10sh." Again " November
80, this day there was given to James Forbes and his wife, in
their distress, they being robbed by the French pirates, 12 R"
But it is curious and instructive to remark how effectually the
church was made to promote the general interests of the country.
For example, in 1677, September 16, the minister "read an order
Of the privy-council, for a contribution this day eight days, for help-


