
			KIRKDEN.                                   385

nite, and gneiss.  They are all considerably attributed, and whe-
stber their transportation to their present locality is to be attributed'
to the Noachian deluge, or to whatever cause, the agency must
have been tremendous.   They arm fully twenty miles distant from
the Grampians, where they abound in situ, and in the interval
there are very bold activities, which could not fail to impede-
their transference thither.  There are very distinct traces of gla-
cier action throughout the valleys of the Vinny and the Lunan.
The moraines are exceedingly well marked.
	Soil, &c.--The soil being the debris resulting from the disinte-
gration of our rocks, is chiefly a friable clay, sometimes mixed
with gravel and arenaceous deposits.  Ht is naturally cold and
shallow, but owing to judicious tillage, and the importation of marl,
which is abundant in the neighbouring lakes, it has of late been
greatly improved, and is now capable of bearing every sort of crop.
	Quarries.--There are two excellent freestone, quarries wrought,
as occasion requires,--which afford employment to a considerable
number of men.
	Botany.--There is abundance of plantation in many parts of
this parish, but little or no natural wood.  The soil, Wben left
uncultivated, seems disposed to  produce whins, broom, fear and
heather.  That extensive natural forests at one time,7 however,
waved over this county, is abundantly vouched for by tradition.
	Among the plants seemingly indigenous, or now spontaneously
produced by the soil, we find, besides the more ordinary kinds,
the Orobus sylvaticus, Solanum Dulcamara, Radiola millegrana,
Chelidonium majus,  Dipsacus sylvestris, Veronica Beccabunga,
Cistus helianthemum, Trifolium ornithpodioides, T. striatum, T.
campestre, the latter often mistaken for T. pratense.  Among the
habitats of marshy districts and woods, are found--Menyanthestri,
foliata, Nuphar lutea, and occasionally, Nymphea alba, Cicuta
virosa, Subularia aquatica, Typha latifolia, &c. besides three spe-
cies of Orchis, viz. viridis, albida, and conopsea.  The poisonous
Atropa Belladonna and Digitalis purpurea are abundanf; and
Flora at the proper season unfolds on the banks of rivulets and
ravines, a rich display of varied garditure of the classes geranium,
avena, anemonies, &c.  Wild mustard, Sinapis arvensis, is plentiful
on the cultivated lands, and, proves highly pernicious to the crops
	Zoology.-The breed of cattle reared, here is superior, namely
the Galloway or polled kind; altbough many people, not know-
ing whence the aborigines were imported, ignorantly denominate
them the Angus breed.


