
			PARISH OF CAMBUSLANG.

	 PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

            THE REV. JOHN ROBERTSON, D. D. MINISTER.*

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--IN the last Statistical Report, it is stated that this pa-
rish was anciently called Drumsargard; but this appears to be a
mistake. In the seventeenth century, the name of the barony of
Drumsharg or Drumsargard, which includes the larger portion of the
parish, was changed to Cambuslang, the name the parish always
bore; and hence, probably, the misapprehension into which the late
Dr Meek, Anderson in his Diplom. Scotiae, and others have fallen.
Cam in the British and Celtic, transformed by the Scoto-Saxons
into Cambus, signifies bending or bowed,--usg or uisg means water,
--and glan, which in composition becomes lan, denotes a bank or
bank of a water;--thus Cambuslang appears to signify the "water
with the bending bank." But whether the Cam or Cambus is to be
sought for in the bending banks of the rivulet which passes the
church, or in the magnificent sweep of the Clyde, as it winds round
the northern end of the parish, it is impossible to say.
	Extent--Boundaries.--The length of the parish from near
Stonymeadow toll-bar on the south, to the Clyde near Kenmuir on
the, north, is 3 1/2 miles; and from the eastern boundary of Carmun-
nock near Fishes Coat, on the west, to the point where the waters
of the Calder fall into the Clyde on the east, it is nearly the same
across. It is bounded by the Clyde on the north, which separates
it from the parish of Old Monkland; by the Calder on the east,
which separates it from Blantyre; by part of Blantyre and Kil-
bryde, on the south; and by Carmunnock and Rutherglen, on the
west.
	Topographical Appearances.--It forms a very irregular quadri-
lateral figure, one part of it jutting a considerable way into the pa-

<FOOTNOTE>
      * Drawn up by the Rev. William Patrick. The notes to the account of the "Cam-
buslang Work " are supplied by a clergyman who was for some time minister of an
adjoining parish.


