
                                   MOCHRUM.                    61

great elevation; but, being intermixed with each other, at mode-
rate distance, they exhibit a variety of prospect not unpleasing to
the traveller, nor unprofitable to the owner. From the eastern
boundary, along the Bay of Luce, for several miles, the soil with
a few exceptions, is excellent, being mostly of a fine light, and in
some places, a strong deep loam. Approaching towards the center
of the parish, it becomes gradually more thin and stony, while a
large extent, on the east and west, sides, mostly consisting of rocky
eminences, or mossy swamps and lakes, exhibits a bleak and bar-
ren prospect, and is chiefly used for pasture. There are, how-
ever, scattered up and down in this bleak region, some small
pieces of good dry arable land. Owing, perhaps, to the general
dryness of the soil, the openness of the country, and its fine expo-
sure to the sea air, the climate is remarkably healthful.
        "Sea Coast.-A flat smooth gravel beach, mostly about 50 yards,
wide, runs along from the eastern, till within a mile of the west-
ern extremity of the parish, where it is intercepted by a steep rocky
hill projecting into the sea, and forming a bold inaccessible shore.
	"Parallel to the beach, the land, rising suddenly, foms a steep
bank or precipice, which renders the access from the shore into
the country, in many places, rather difficult." *
        Geology.-Here, as in the county generaly, the rocks belong
to the Neptunian series of the transition class.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Land-owners.-The chief land-owners in the parish are, Sir
William Maxwell, Bart. and the Marquis of Bute.
	The real rental of the parish is about L. 8000 per annum.
        Parochial Registers.-In these, births, marriages, and all mat-
ters of church discipline are recorded; but until the settlement of
the present incumbent in 1822, there were no parochial registers
regularly kept.
        "Antiquities.-Near by the church, which is situated about a
mile right into the parish from Port-William, there is a pretty
large earthen mound, quite entire, with a deep ditch or fosse
round it.
	"On the eastern extremity of the sea coast at the summit of a
steep bank, there are very distinct remains of an Anglo-Saxon
camp. And, within two miles of the western extremity, also hard
by the shore, stand the ruins of a small manse and church, called
St Finian's Chapel, probably from the famous Saint of that name.

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Old Stat. Account.


