
                           GLASSARY.                            679

the fracture towards the tops of the hills. They are often speckled
with red, in consequence of partial decomposition. Masses of por-
phyry, several miles in extent, Jut through the prevailing rook to
a height of 700 or 800 feet at Camlodden, and at the points of
junction the slate appears redder in colour and friable.
   Towards the west and south-west part of Glassary, the slate be-
comes less micaceous by degrees, the porphyry disappears, and
the hills soften down both in form and height. Clay slate and
chlorite slate, of a dark green colour, and abounding in pyrites,
form the rocks of this district, frequently interstratified with grey
felspar of varying thickness, containing oxide of iron, and traversed
at different angles by veins of greenstone.
   On the shores of Lochawe, sections of the rock have been laid
open in forming the road, which exposes at some points the junc-
tion of the slate with the granitic rocks on which it is superincum-
bent. These sections are also important in an economical point
of view, showing that, from the slate of this district, flags of any
size and suitable for any purpose may be found with the least pos-
sible trouble; while the antiquarian may also learn from them how
easily the stones which formed the Druidical circles, the flags which
roofed ancient castles, and formed the stone-coffins of the dead,
might have been obtained.
   The strata extend in the direction of south-east and north-west,
with occasional contortions, such as are generally found in schis-
tose rocks, and they dip south-west.
   Limestone is found abundantly interspersed through the schistus
in many parts of the parish; and a copper-mine was opened by
the present Duke of Argyle on the farm of Brainchaoille, which,
though the ore was excellent in quality, was not found to occur in
such quantity as to remunerate the working, and was therefore
abandoned.
   Boulder stones of various sizes are met with, of a rounded form
received by attrition, and consisting of the granite and porphyry,
&c. of the neighbouring hills.
   The soil varies with the character of the subjacent rocks.
Along the banks of Lochfyne, towards the south-east part of the
parish, it is gravelly, reposing on rock or clay, or sometimes
mingled with peat; while on the south-west end, and along the
banks of Lochawe, the soil is a deep and dark loam for the most
part, and of a fertile quality. Peat occurs at all elevations, and
in all parts of the parish.


