
66                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

Carriden towards the Castle of Blackness, where it once ended,
just as it did upon Clyde at Dunglass." The "Peanvahel" or
"Penveltum" of Bede, however, he thinks corresponds, with the
present Walton which, he says, "derived its name from the wall,
as it stood upon its track." In the former Statistical Account of
the Parish, the wall is said to have terminated at "Waltown;"
and Camden, in his "Britannia," Vol. iii. p. 318, states, that
"Antoninus Pius's wall may be traced to Carriden, and probably
ended at Waltoun, the Penvahl of Bede." The locality of Wal-
ton, however, affords a sufficient ground of conviction that,
though evidently the site of a Roman fort or station, it neither
formed the termination of the wall nor stood upon its track; as,
instead of being situated close upon the shore of the Frith in the
line of direction obviously taken by the wall from Kinneil to
Grange, and thereby completing the line of defence, it diverges
towards the south at a considerable angle to the distance of about
a mile, over irregular ground, and affords no advantage that could
recommend it as the last station of so elaborate a work. Besides,
Walton, instead of being two miles, as it ought to be according to
Bede's account, is about four miles from Abercorn; and, instead
of being derived from the "Penueltum" of Bede, or from any re-
lation it had to the wall, the name seems to trace its origin to a
noted well or fountain of water that was constructed there to sup-
ply the military posted at the station, and which, in the memory
of the present tenant of the farm, went by the name of the Roman
well, pronounced Scotice, wall, having been filled up above fifty
years ago; and where still, at a little distance from the former re-
servoir, an unfailing supply of excellent water at all seasons is
delivered from a square stone-built conduit, large enough to re-
ceive the body of a man. I am satisfied, in short, that the wall
terminated either at Carriden or Blackness, and, with highest
probability, at the former, its remains, till very lately, being pretty
clearly traceable to a small tumulus to the south-east of Grange
House, called in modern phrase, the "Deacon's Stone," and a
farm steading, little more than a gun-shot to the west of the tu-
mulus called "Graham's Dyke," affording unquestionable evi-
dence that this was the identical line of its direction, and either
them forming a most desirable position for completing the line
of deffince, besides correspondiug most nearly with the geogaphi-
cal description of the more ancient writers upon the subject. *
It Oughtn.6t, verhaps to 1e owitted. thq another Qpinion is hold upon the subject. *

<FOOTNOTE>It ought not, perhaps, to be omitted, that another opinion is held upon the sub-


