
			TORPHICHEN.    			         37

the Bathgate range of hill.  That range is chiefly composed of
trap-rock as its central mass, with successive strata of limestone,
carboniferous shale, coal, sandstone, and thick beds of clay, gra-
vel, and other alluvial deposits. The ridge seems to have been
produced by igneous agency, upheaving the superinctumbest stra.
ta, bursting through them in the centre, in some places overly
ing them, in others rending them asunder and trusting them aside
till it displayed the disturbing material in various aspects, occa-
sionally in that of columnar trap. The dip of the superincum-
bent strata is accordingly very steep, in some places almost per-
pendicular, in others a foot in five or six, and gradually diminish-
ing till it reach the level of the adjoining country.  The pie-
turesquely undulating range of the Torphicben hills, already de-
scribed, is also composed of trap; and where it has been decom-
posed around their sides and bases, or in hollows, it has formed a
peculiarly rich and fertile soil, though of no great depth. On the
Hilderston hills, on the west side of the bathgate ridge, there is
a coal mine, the mouth of which must be at least 800 feet above
the level of the sea. This height has been manifestly caused by
the upheaving of the ridge where the trap forced its way from be
neath, raising in its passage the superincumbeat strata, as the mine
is worked in from the top where the coal crops out, Nearly oppo-
site, on the eastern shoulder of the same hill, there is a limestone
quarry, in which many shells are found, chiefly ammonites, some
of which are unusually large.  Some fossil fishes are also said
to have been found.  A coal mine has been recently opened in
the hollow between the Kipp hills, the Torphichen wavy range, and
the continuation of the Bathgate, range, running through Cath-
law estate.  The coal bed seems to lie in a kind of basin formed
by these ridges, and can scarcely be expected to be very produc-
tive or permanent from the nature of the situation.
   In Bowden hill is another limestone quarry, or rather mine, en-
tered by a horizontal shaft in the sigle of the hill, and chambered
out regularly, leaving columns support the roof of what is be-
coming an immense cave.
   Along the course of the Leggis burn there rans a chain of ac-
nical sand-hills, of such a regular figure, as to have led to the er-
roneous popular belief that they are artificial, and have been rais-
ed at some distant period as monumental mounds.  They are,
however, obviously natural, being composed entirely of fine sea-
sand, washed together into regular heaps and banks by the action


