
12                   EDINBURGHSHIRE

Mrs Gilmour of Craigmillar; Richard Trotter, Esq. of Mor-
tonhall; David Anderson, Esq. of Moredun; and Sir William
Rae, are the only proprietors of any note who do reside, and some
of these only occasionally. Their residence, however, and the
efforts made, and contributions given for the temporal and spiritual
good of the people, are a source of great advantage to the parish.
     Insane Persons.---There are several insane persons. The kirk-
session lately maintained wholly or in part no fewer than five, one
of whom had been supported in the same way for thirty years, and
cost the parish about L. 600.
     Peculiar Games.---The only peculiar games here are what are
called "carter's plays." The carters have friendly societies for the
purpose of supporting each other in old age or during ill-health,
and with the view partly of securing a day's recreation, and partly
of recruiting their numbers and funds, they have an annual pro-
cession. Every man decorates his cart-horse with flowers and rib-
bons, and a regular procession is made, accompanied by a band of
music, tbrough this and some of the neighbouring parishes. To
crown all, there is an uncouth uproarious race with cart-horses on
the public road, which draws forth a crowd of Edinburgh idlers,
and all ends in a dinner, for which a fixed sum is paid. Much
rioting and profligacy often take place in connexion with these amuse-
ments, and the whole scene is melancholy. There are other so-
cieties in the parish which have also annual parades with a similar
result. These societies have undoubtedly been in some respects
useful, but the: " plays" are fortunately rapidly declining; and it is
to be hoped that savings' banks, in which there is neither risk nor
temptation to drunkenness, will soon become the universal depo-
sitories for the surplus earnings of the people.
     General Habits of the People.---Amongst sdmany people, there
is of course a great variety of character. The farmers are a highly
respectable class of men,---men of great skill and capital, some of
whose ancestors have been here for 200 years, and their servants
have in general clean comfortable houses, and are very sober and
industrious. The colliers and carters, on the other hand, are, in
many instances, improvident and careless, although amongst both
classes,there are many exceptions. Some of the people are ex-
cessively ignorant; a few grown up persons can neither read nor
write. In the villages, generally, there is I lament to say, a me-
lancholy want of vital religion, and, in many instances, even of the
appearance of it. There is also amongst some of the people a sin-
gular torpor and insensibility to moral and religious obligations.


