
                           DUNBARNY.                        817

quent period, for the average amount of baptisms annually was,
from 1658 to 1700, 35, considerably higher than it has since been.
After 1700 it seems slowly to have-declined, till, in 1755, it was
reduced to 764.
   Population of the Bridge of Earn,                292 souls, 85 families.
                     village of Kintulloch,         108        36
                     landward part of the parish,   762       234
   Number employed in agriculture,                                   97
   Labourers,                                                        25
   Weavers,                                                          11
   Number employed in trade, and manufactures, and handicraft,      129
   There are of insane and fatuous persons, 14: blind, none;
deaf and dumb, 2.
   The average rate of mortality for the last ten years is 12, or one
in the hundred; a remarkable proof of the extreme salubrity of
this district. The average number of births and marriages can-
not be given with an approximation to rigid accuracy.
   Villages.-The Bridge of Earn may be said to consist of two
villages, an old and a new. The first houses which existed in the
Bridge of Earn were built by Mr John Gillocb, wright and un-
dertaker, who obtained, about 1769, a ninety-nine years' lease of
an acre and a half of ground, from Sir William Moncrieffe, com-
prehending the tract of land between the old bridge of Earn and
Seales bridge.
   Alexander Wilson purchased from him the houses next the old
bridge; but there was a stipulation in the bargain that L.1 per
annum would still be paid to him for what is called the shore, or
beach where ships unload their goods. Hence, when the former
sold one of his houses with the shore to Robert Ford, the latter
was bound to pay L.1 per annum to Mr Gilloch. Robert Ford's
family possess the shore, and levy duty from the vessels that sail
to the bridge and disburden their cargoes there.
   Gilloch pays yearly a rent of L.3 to the house of Moncrieffe,
and is bound at the end of the ninety-nine years' lease (of which
only thirty years are now to ruu) to leave a house of the value of
L.10 on each of the half acres above specified.
   The new village of the Bridge of Earn was erected ten years
ago. Its buildings are so disposed as to form a row or street, and
have been much admired for the symmetrical regularity of their
architecture.
   The village of Kintulloch is situated about half a mile south-
west from the parish church, and is terminated by a magnificent

    PERTH.                       3


