
208                        FORFARSHIRE.

German Ocean, and with the hoar-frosts to which the lower parts
of the parish are more exposed than the higher, is remarkably pure
and healthful. In proof of this, we have no diseases that can be
said to be local. Agues, which were prevalent before drainage
commenced, are now unknown; fevers of every kind occasionally
make their appearance, yet they are not epidemical. Consump-
tion, scrofula, hooping-cough, croup, measles, inflammation, and
typhus fever, may be said to be our most prevalent diseases.
	Hydrography.--This parish is generally well supplied vith water
by means of the numerous springs in which it abounds. These
springs are partly perennial, and partly periodical. The perennial
springs appear all to flow from sandstone rocks, and probably from
the rocks composing the basis nf the southern range of the Siedlaw
hills. Their water is pure and soft. Their temperature generally
corresponds to that of the atmosphere; and they have no peculia-
rities worthy of remark. There is one perennial spring, however,
at the Kirktown, that justly deserves observation, not so much
on account of the quality of its water, which is excellent, as on
account of the quantity which it discharges. To convey some
idea of its uncommon strength, it was found, on pretty accurate
measurement, to discharge no less a quantity than 25 imperial gal-
lons per minute, 1500 per hour, and 36,000 per day. In some,
parts of the parish, particularly the more elevated, there are a few
periodical springs, which flow during winter and spring, and then
cease to flow till the return of winter. Their water is, compara-
tively, much inferior in quality to that of the perennial springs.
Being chiefly the offspring of surface-water imbibed by the earth,
it is impure, hard, and strongly impregnated with the properties of
the media through which it is conveyed. Besides the two kinds
of springs already mentioned, there are several mineral springs,
generally distinguished by the name of chalybeate, because they
contain a portion of iron in solution. Their waters are exceed-
ingly hard, unpleasant, and ill adapted for washing and bleaching
clothes, and for culinary purposes. There are also two beautiful
mineral springs from copper ore, the waters of which, though ex-
hibiting a glistening surface, are extremely impure, of an offensive
smell, and a disagreeable taste.
	Although this parish can boast of no river, yet it is beautifully
diversified by a large rivulet, called Kerbit, which, taking its rise
in Dilty-Moss, in the parish of Carmylie, seven miles distant east-
ward, follows a north-west direction, till it forms a junction with the


