
62                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

to every blast that blows, without a tree to shelter, or a shrub to
variegate the drear inhospitable place.
   The amount of stipend, by decree of the Court of Teinds, is six-
teen chalders of victual, half barley and half oatmeal; but as yet
it is uncertain whether there are teinds in this parish to make this
amount good.
  There is a missionary clergyman at Fort-Augustus, who is sup-
ported from the Royal Bounty granted for the Reformation of the
Highlands and Islands. There is a very snug, comfortable church
there, originally built and kept in repair by voluntary subscrip-
tion, to which Government a few years ago liberally contributed.
   There is a Popish meeting-house on the farthest farm west in
the parish, adjoining Glengarry.
   The number of Papists in the parish is 318. What proportion
of these attend their meeting-house, the writer does not know.
There are no Dissenters or Seceders.
 In good weather, divine service at the Established church is ge-
nerally pretty well attended. The average number of communi-
cants used to be about 280; but in 1831 there are not so many.
  Education.-There are one parochial school and three other
schools in the parish. In the parochial school, and in one of the
other schools, the branches taught are, English and Gaelic read-
ing, writing, arithmetic, Latin, and sometimes book-keeping.
In the two other schools are taught English reading, and arith-
metic. The salary of the parish school is L. 30; garden allow-
ance about L. 2, 2s.; school fees L. 12. The emoluments of the
other teachers consist entirely of school fees, and are both very
small and precarious. The parochial teacher thinks he has not
the legal accommodation. The expense of reading is 8s. in the
year; reading and writing, 10s. ; all other branches, 12s. The
number of the young betwixt six and fifteen vears of age who can-
not read is 1.57. The number of persons upwards of fifteen years
of age who cannot read is 451; of those who can read but cannot
write, 235. The people in general have very inadequate notions
of education, and do not continue their children at school long
enough for their making any valuable progress.
  In a parish where the population is thin and scattered over so
large an extent, there must be some so distant from school as to
be unable to attend, particularly in winter, when, being least occu-
pied with their vocations, they are most disposed to attend.
  One school at Fort-Augustus, with an efficient teacher, having a


