
		    BATHGATE.			157

   Among rarer insects, the humming-bird moth,(Macroglussa
stellatarum), and the death's head moth (Acherontia Atropos) may
may be mentioned as having been met with.
   Botany.-Of the rarer species of plants found in this parish, the
following may be mentioned:
Paris quadrifolia	Orchis bifolia		Iris paeudacorus
Adoxa moschatellina	Polygonium bistorta	Asperula odorata
Cistus helianthemum	Anthoxanthum odoratum	Glycoma hederacea
Erysimum alliaria	Pinguicula vulgaris	Saxifraga granulata
Solanuum Dulcamara	Senecio saracenious	Ranunculus ficaria
Malva moschata		Hippuris vulgaris	Linum catharticum.
The Geranium phtaum and Saponaria officinalis have been	found
growing wild: but it is not certain that they are indigenous.
			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There is little of historical interest connected with this parish.
The barony of Bathgate formed part of the dower of Marjory
Bruce, "the lass who brought the sceptre into the Stewarts'
house."  A castle on it, situate in the low grounds south of the
town, which must then have been a morass, * was from this date
occasionally inhabited by the royal family.  Here Walter Stewart
himself died in 1328.  Hardly a vestige even of the foundations
of the castle is now to be discovered.  Kitchen utensils of brass,
have, however, sometimes been found about it; and coffins formed
of flat stones, have been torn up by the plough in the neighbour-
ing grounds.  Some of the inhabitants of this parish suffered
hardship and loss in the time of the Covenanters.  One man, by
name James Davie, was shot by one of a party of dragoons, who
dispersed a congregation assembled in a hollow on the farm of
Blackdub, in the western part of the parish.  The worshippers had
escaped across a strip of deep moss, which interposed an effectual
obstacle to the progress of their mounted pursuers.  But while
they stood on the other side gazing at their enemies, and thinking
themselves quite safe, the troopers fired their carbines at them
across the moss.  The only shot that took effect killed Davie.
His body lies in the old churchyard of Bathgate, + with this in-

<FOOTNOTE>Some remains of the causeways, by which access was obtained to the castle
through this morass, still exist.
          There are two grave-yards in this parish.  The old is a full mile to the south-
east of the town.  It surrounds the crumbling walls of what was once the parish
church.  When this church was built, and when abandoned, is utterly unknown.
There was at least one other church between this ancient one and the present church.
No feasible conjecture occurs to account for the adoption of a site for the church so
far from the town, and so inconvenient for almost the whole inhabitants of the pa-
rish, except this that it might have been originally the chapel connected with the
Stewarts' castle.  The new churchyard is in the centre of the town, surrounding the
present church.


