
924                           PERTHSHIRE.

ling-houses in the town, although the high price charged for it,
(14s. per 1000 feet), and the expense of pipes and fittings, has
somewhat retarded its introduction into general use among the
poorer classes. The company now pays an annual dividend of five
per cent. to the holders of the stock. There is a branch of the
Bank of Scotland, and another of the Commercial Bank in the
town.
   There is no other place in the parish deserving the name of
village.
   Means of Communication.--Besides private roads, there are
three public roads which intersect the parish, viz. 1. the Great
North Road from Perth to Fort George, which enters the parish
at its southern boundary, about two miles from the town ; 2.
The road from Cupar- Angus to Blairgowrie, which was made a
turnpike in the year 1832, and is now kept in excellent repair.
It enters this parish about two miles to the south of the town, and
terminates at Blairgowrie; 3. The line of road from Kirriemuir,
Forfar, &c. to Dunkeld, passes through the town and across the
parish from east to west. There is not much traffic on this line
of road, even in summer, and it is not therefore kept in a very
sufficient state of repair.
   There are five bridges in the parish, viz. the Bridge of Blair-
gowrie, by which the Great North Road crosses the Ericht, the
Bridge of Craighall, where it recrosses the river; the Bridge
of Cally, where it crosses the Ardle; the Bridge of Carsie, by
which it crosses the water of Lunan, and the bridge of Lornty,
where the old military road crossed the Lornty. These bridges
are all in tolerably good repair; but they are all built on the old
construction, with a considerable rise in the centre, and very
narrow. The Bridges of Craighall and Cally, especially, are
not only too narrow to admit of the passage of two vehicles meet-
ing, but also form an acute angle with the road, which renders
them both inconvenient and dangerous. At the Bridge of
Cally, there is a very steep ascent on both sides from the
bridge, with an almost perpendicular declivity on one side of the
road, quite unprotected by any fence or parapet, so that any car-
riage going too near the side of the road would infallibly be
hurled down the steep bank to the river, a depth of from 60 to
100 feet. Besides the bridges above enumerated, there is a very
elegant suspension bridge of iron over the Ericht, erected by


