
			STIRLING                         447

to the county exclusive of the parish, 107 ; came from beyond
the county, 59. The offences for which they were committed
were as follows: --viz. theft, III receipt of theft, 3 ; fraud and wil-
ful imposition, 6; embezzlement, 2 ; perjury, I ; uttering base
coin, 4; forgery, 3 ; housebreaking, 13; assault, 66 ; malicious
mischief, 6 ; poaching, 2 ; prison-breaking, 1 ; desertion, 8; cul-
pable homicide, 1 ; concealment of pregnancy, 1 ; child-murder, 3.
   In the same proportion there would be for the whole year as
follows: viz.; total committed, 289; from the parish, 81 ; county,
133; beyond, 75. And the more frequently occurring offences
would be; theft,139 ; Housebreaking, 16; assault, 83; deser-
tion, 10 ; wilful fraud and imposition, 7 or 8; malicious mischief,
7or 8; and uttering base coin, 5.
   It is proper to mention, that the one case of alleged child-mur-
der, for which three persons were committed to prison, turned out
a complete failure. No doubt was left of the innocence of the
parties.
   The prison is pretty well secured ; and as much attention is
paid to the health of the prisoners in respect of diet, lodging, &c.
as can be done in the circumstances of the case. The building
is unfit for a jail in many respects; in particular, as not admitting
of proper classification, a defect highly injurious to the inmates,
and especially to the younger and less hardened offenders. It is
a nuisance to the neighbourbood; and the windows looking down
upon the Street have often afforded a medium of communication
with persons beneath. It has long been earnestly desired that a
new jail should be built in a different locality; and there is said to
be now some prospect of it. The jail is under the charge of a
governor, who has a salary of L.50 from the burgh, and L. 54
from the counties of Clackmannan and Kinross, with certain fees,
which amount to about L. 10 more. He has an assistant, or un-
der jailer. It is under the direction and control of the Board of
Commissioners, and inspector, appointed by a late Act of Parlia-
ment. A chaplain is much needed for the religious instruction of
the prisoners, and the Board are empowered to provide one, but
have not yet taken any steps towards such an appointment. The
ministers of Stirling are unable to pay adequate attention to the
jail. Their visits are of necessity miscellaneous and unfrequent.
A few ladies regularly visit, and communicate religious instruction
to, the female prisoners; and there is reason to trust, that benefit
has been received by some of them.
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.-There are 96 of these, of different


