
	 		     STRANRAER.                            99

are at least equal to a glebe. It was evidently the intention of the
benevolent donor to place his successors in office on a footing with
their neighbours, or, to use his own words," to encourage my suc-
cessors in office in all time coming." Although it would be Pre-
sumption in me to call in question the legality of the decision of
the Supreme Court of Scotland, I cannot avoid saying, that it to-
tally defeats the generous intention of the donor, and holds out but
little encouragement to such benevolent individuals, as, knowing
the peculiar state of any particular parish, may contribute of his
private fortune to better the circumstances of the officiating cler-
gyman of that parish. The lands mortified to supply the place of
a glebe were valued by the Court of Session, in the year 1821, at
L. 56, when farm produce was double the value that it has been
for some years. The same benevolent clergyman who mortified
the lands, left a house and garden in the town to supply the want
of a manse; but as it was condemned by the presbyters about twenty
years ago and as the funds which Mr Laurie had in view to repair
it (the vacant stipend,) have not, for many years, been available,
the house is in a state of ruin.
        Stipend.- My present emoluments are L. 150 per annum, the mi-
nimum. That portion of stipend, L. 24, 10s. 8d. per year, payable,
by the magistrates, has now been four years in arrear. The magis-
trates have proposed to assess the inbabitants for the amount, but
hitherto the assessment has been resisted. I believe that Stran-
raer is the only instance in Scotland of a royal burgh, the seat of
a presbytery, having only one minister, and that minister on the
small stipend list.
        Chapels of Ease.- There are no chapels of ease attached to the
Established Church, nor any missionaries or catechists. The fol-
lowing are the places of worship within the parish not connected
with the Establishment: 1 Reformed Presbyterian; 2 United Se-
cession; } Relief; and 1 Catholic chapel. The ministers of the
above churhes are chiefly paid by seat rents. None of their
stipends exceed L. 150; and they average from L. 100, to L. 120
per annum.
	Of the population (in 1835) 1729 belonged to the Established
Church; 1033 to the Protestant Dissenting congregations; and
161 to the Catholics; 151 not known to belong to any religious
denomination. From the above statement, it would appear that,
since the census taken in 1831, the population has decreased from
3829 to 3074. This is to be accounted for in the following man-


