 
             458                        ARGYLESHIRE.

              the fertile banks between the Islands of Devar and Sanda have
              amply rewarded the labours of these enterprising men. More
              than 500 families derive their support from the produce of this
              fishing.
                Plantations.-Tbe mansion-house of Limecraigs is embosomed
              in trees, some of which are upwards of 150 years of age. They con-
              sist of ash and plane-trees. Plantations have also been formed
              within the last twenty years on the estate of Knockrioch, the pro-
              perty of John L. Stewart, Esq. of Glenbuckie; on the estate of
              Drummore, the property of D. L. Galbreath, Esq.; on Oatfield,
              the property of Colin M'Eacbran, Esq.; on Lossit, the property
              of George M'Neal, Esq. of Ugadale; on Killdalloig, the property
              of John Eyton Campbell, Esq.; and on Askomil, the property of
              Miss Campbell, heiress of the late Captain Peter Campbell, H. E.
              L. C. S.; all of which thrive well, and consist of larch, Scotch fir,
              elm, ash, plane tree, spruce, fir, mountain-ash, and a variety of
              willows.
               
                                II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
                The late Dr Smith has given, in the former Statistical Account,
              so full and interesting an account of the Dalrhudinian monarchs,
              who reigned in this country, that we shall do nothing more than
              advert to the subject.  The three sons of Erc, called Lorne, An-
              gus, and Fergus, who came from Ireland to this parish in 503,
              were the founders of this kingdom of the Scots.  Of all these
              Dalreudinian Kings, Aidan was the most renowned; he car-
              ried his victorious arms from Ireland, where be fought many
              battles, to the Isle of Man.  He was interred, according to For-
              dun, in Kilkerran in the year 605.  After the union of the Scots
              and Picts, when Kenneth had removed the seat of his government
              from the west ern to the eastern coast of Scotland, this remote and
              deserted corner soon became a prey to foreign invaders, the
              Danes and Norwegians. The visitations of this restless and mer-
              ciless people were looked upon with horror.
               Somerled, a powerful chief in Kintyre, formed a matrimonial
              alliance with King Harold, by marrying his grand-daughter.
              His son, Reginald, was even a more powerful prince, for he
              formed alliances with the kings of England.  He was the an-
              cestor of the M'Donalds, who, as Lords of the Isles, reigned for
              centuries.  Angus M'Donald, Lord of the Isles, was the friend
              and protector of the gallant Bruce in his adversity.  His grand-
              son, John, at first espoused the cause of Baliol, but returned to

