
 		             KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                1245

	Lennox hills which run with little interruption from the Castle
	of Stirling, on the Forth, to the Castle of Dumbarton, on the
	Clyde, the principal portion of these hills being seen from this
	parish.
	The intermediate district of Monteith, to which the descrip-
	tion refers, is from this point very interesting.   Here are the
	extremes of cultivation and sterility.   To the west lies Moss
	Flanders, with its thousands of uncultivated acres; in the cen-
	tre and eastern portions of the Strath are seen the fruits of agri-
	cultural intelligence, enterprise, and success; and the more ele-
	vated situations in the west, north, south, and east, are adorned
	with the mansion-botises and ornamented parks of the different
	proprietors, and the comfortable houses of their tenantry.  This
	grand and beautiful variety of objects is seen from this parish, be-
	cause it forms, as it were, a centre, of which they are the circum-
	ference.
	   Soil and Climate.-The carse portion of this parish is com-
	pletely flat, and includes the moss of Kincardine, and a part of Moss
	Flanders.  The soil of the small carse, where it has been clear-
	ed of moss, is generally of a rich blue clay, of great depth, and
	very productive, capable of bearing all kinds of grain and green
	crops.
	   The dryfield rises from the carse into a gently swelling ridge,
	which generally slopes to the south, except at the northwestern
	extremity of the parish, where the slope is to the north and south.
	This ridge joins the picturesque bills in the parishes of Port and
	Callander.  The soil is a light loam, and produces excellent oats,
	barley, potatoes, turnips, and grass.  The subsoil is generally tilly
	or rocky.
	   Meteorology.-There is a considerable difference in the tem-
	perature of the atmosphere in the higher and lower divisions of
	this parhsh.  The south-eastern division is about 20, and the north-
	western about 300 feet above the level of the sea.  In the lat-
	ter, the air is com aratively cold, and the vegetation later and
	more uncertain; while in the former, the atmosphere is mild,
	the heat greater, and the laud also being better, the crops are
	earlier, more abundant, and of better quality.  But in coase-
	quence of the length and breadth of she carse, in which the
	rents of air meet with no interruption for many miles, the high
	winds, especially when the mountains are covered with snow, are


