
     Statistical Account

azure skies, and the splendour of the glorious sun, riding in
the brightness of his majesty-have something so charmingly
wild and romantic, and so congenial to the contemplative
mind, as surpasses all description, and presents a scene, of which
the most fervid imagination can scarcely form an idea.
   The traveller, who is so callous, as to behold all this, and
not feel the greatness and majesty of the ALMIGHTY ARCHI-
TECT impressed upon his heart, must, indeed, be strangely void
of sense, of taste, and of sentiment.  It affords a lesson, wor-
thy of travelling up the mountain to learn.  Benevis, and the
surrounding mountains, do, indeed, strongly excite the idea of
Burnet, of their being the fragments of a once demolished
world.-Few can perform a journey to the top of Benevis, and
make proper observations, going and returning, in less than
7 hours; and still fewer, without feeling, in their limbs, the
effects of the fatigue, for a day or two after.

   Minerals.-There is no coal mine in the parish; but a
vein of lead ore has been lately discovered, upon the west side
of Benevis, running east and west, cross a burn, in the heart
of a solid rock of fine red granite, with a slope outwards, as it
descends; and, but for this slope, in a vertical position.  It is
four or five inches thick; composed of about one third of
ore, and the rest, of white marcasite, with a mixture of sul-
phur; and seems to grow thicker, and richer, as it descends.
The access is not difficult; and the perpendicular height,
about 300 yards from the bottom of the valley.  Two other
parallel narrow veins, are to be seen a few yards lower down.
Though a trial could be easily made, none has, as yet, been
attempted.  But, no doubt, Mr. Cameron of Glenevis, the
proprietor of this mountain, so famous among Scottish hills, will
be induced, by the promising appearance, to make a trial.  At
Inverscaddle, belonging to Mr. Cameron of Fassfern, there is
another vein, of the same kind, which has been tried, but not

     2


