
     of Cambuslang.

circumstances, was the general opinion of those, who are known in the
Church of Scotland, by the name of the Moderate party.  The only ex-
traordinary circumstance relating to this work, is the external effects on
the bodies of men, by which it manifested itself; and these, they thought,
might be sufficiently explained by the operation of natural causes.  The
soul and body, they observed, are to intimately connected, that they mu-
tually sympathise with each other, and whatever gives pleasure or  pain
to the one, gives likewise pleasure or pain to the other.  All the passions
of the mind, especially those which are of a violent nature, discover
themselves by some corresponding outward expression.  When an event,
whether joyful or sorrowful, is communicated in such an interesting
manner as to affect our minds strongly, it will also affect our bodies in
proportion.  As this is the case with regard to such of men's concerns as
are present and temporal, is it not reasonable that it should also be the
case with regard to such of them as are future and eternal?  If they be
deeply affected by the preaching of the word.  If, on the one hand, their
fears be alarmed by the threatenings of the law, and the dread of ever-
lasting punishment; or if, on the other hand, while in this wretched si-
tuation, their hopes be elavated by the assurance of pardon, and the pro-
spect of eternal happiness; is it not natural that the feelings of their
minds should discover themselves both by their words and actions?
The sermons preached at Cambuslang, during this memorable work, it is
alledged, were addressed, not to the understanding of the bearers, but to
their imaginations and passions; and especially to the passions of fear
and hope.  "Their lost and undone condition by nature was represent-
" ed in a manner the most awful and alarming.  They were brought to
" Mount Sinai, where thunder roars, and lightenings flash.  They were
" encouraged by the precious promises of the gospel, by the consolations
" which are in Jesus, and the wonders of his grace.  They were con-
" ducted to Mount Calvary, and exhorted to behold, with the eye of
" faith, the healing virtues, which flowed from the wounds of their Sa-
" viour, expiring upon the cross."  The natural tendency and effects of
these instructions were aided and strengthened by peculiary circumstances.
The opinions of the Methodists, respecting the sensible operations of the
Spirit of God in the work of regeneration; the sudden and almost in-
stantaneous conversions, which took place under Mr Whitefield's mini-
stry, were well  known at Cambuslang.  Mr M'Culloch was a great
admirer of Mr Whitefield, and employed him repeatedly to preach in
his pulpit.  He frequently discoursed on the wonderful convertions in
New England; and was at great pains to communicate to his people, the
papers which gave an account of them.  In this task, he was successfully
     VOL. V. M m


