
            740                         PERTHSHIRE.

               In the year 17--, there was found, about one hundred yards to
            the westward of the old church of Monivaird, a barrow contain-
            ing a stone-coffin, in which were inclosed two coarse earthen urns,
            the one filled with burnt bones, the other containing the bones of
            the head.  Of these, the under jaw-bone and the teeth were
            very entire.  In the stone-coffin was also found a stone-hatchet
            bluish-coloured, very hard, about four inches long, and of a trian-
            gular shape,--a remain which proves the barrow of very remote
            antiquity-prior to the use of iron.  The stone-hatchet is pre-
            served at Ochtertyre.  A barrow was discovered some years ago
            at Balmuicks, on the estate of Lawers, at the north-west extre-
            mity of the parish, but has never been opened or examined.
               Throughout the parish several other barrows have been found,
            but they have been removed for the purpose of building stone
            fences, and no memorial now remains of the illustrious dead whom
            they once covered.
               A cross, bearing the initials of Jesus Nazarenus Rex Judaeo-
            rum, still stands, a little to the south-west of the present mansion-
            house of Strowan, on a spot where the market of Strowan was
            formerly held.  The ruins of an old chapel are still discernible to
            the south of the house of Lawers.
               The most remarkable ruin presently existing in these parishes
            is an old castle, situated on the north of the Loch of Monivaird,
            on a peninsula, which, being separated from the mainland by a
            very narrow isthmus, must in former times have been often con-
            verted into an island, and approached only by a drawbridge, for
            the purposes of strength and security.  The building, which is
            now reduced to a square tower of about 17 by 18 feet within walls,
            had formerly been more extensive.  The walls are about five or
            six feet in thickness, and still hard as adamant.  There is a vague
            tradition that this castle belonged to the Red Cumin, Bruce's an-
            tagonist and rival for the throne of Scotland.  And in the charter
            by which the lands of Ochtertyre came into the family of the pre-
            sent proprietor, and which is dated 1467, it receives the appella-
            tion of antiquum fortalicium, from which it appears, that, even at
            the distance of 400 years, it was regarded as an old building.
            The proper name of it is Castle Cluggy.  Sir William Murray,
            first Baronet of Ochtertyre, inhabited this castle for some time
            about 1660, during the usurpation nf Cromwell ; and the spot on
            which it stood, then received the name of the Dry Isle.  In the
            lake of Ochtertyre, about 80 yards distant from the Dry Isle, is


