
394                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

maglass, who was killed at the battle of Culloden. It is said, that
after the battle, his body with fifty others was thrown into a pit;
and, that so far did the King's troops carry their animosity, that
for six weeks they guarded the field, and would not grant the
consolation to his friends of placing the body in the family bury-
ing-ground. At the end of that period, it is said, that, by pouring
some ankers of whisky into the opened grave, it was found possible,
to remove the body to the church-yard of Pettie.
   Since the year 1606, when Lachlan, the third Of that name, and
sixteenth Laird of Mackintosh, was btried in Pettie, it has been
the family burying -ground of the chiefs of clan Chattan. In 1651,
Duncan Mackintosh was buried in Dunlichity, it being found
impossible to bury him in Pettie, from the number of English
troops then in the place. * The remains of four chiefs and two
of their ladies are laid in the vault; the other members of the
family are interred within the enclosure. (Moyhall MS.).
   It is said that in 1746, when the Highlanders under Prince
Charles found themselves at a loss for balls, they meditated a re-
surrection of the chiefs and their ladies, with the view of converting
the leaden coffins into bullets.
                        III.-POPULATION.
   Were one to form a judgment merely from the uncommonly
crowded aspect of the churchyard, which is almost literally paved
with all varieties of ancient tombstones, bearing the curiously
wrought emblems of the avocations in which life was spent, and
those of mortality blended together; or from witnessing the fre-
quent funerals from neighbouring parishes, he would at once
conclude that the parish must have been very populous in former
times. This conclusion is supported by the evidence of the re-
gister of marriages and baptisms for many years subsequent to
1704.
   Average of both for seven years, from 1704 inclusive, bap-
tisms, 62; marriages, 16; and we must remember that there was
less care in recording births at that period than in thd present
day.
      Amount of population by census of 1821,     1758
                                        1831,     1826
   A considerable decrease in the population would have been mani-
fested at the last census, compared with that immediately preceding
it, from the extent to which the conversion of clusters ofcrofts and

<FOOTNOTE> Kirk-session record has this entry:-14th September 1651. No session, for
many elders were absent through the report of the approach of the English army.


