
                       POLMONT.                      195

John G. Drummond, Esq. of Abbotsgrange; and Captain Dal-
gleish of Reddoch,-all of whom are non resident; and among
the chief resident proprietors are, Sir Thomas Livingstone, Bart.
of West-quarter; William Logan, Esq. of Clarkstone; Thomas
Walker, Esq. of Polmont Bank; James Milne, Esq. of Haypark;
and William Johnstone, Esq. of Meadowbank. There is a pecu-
liarity connected with the resident proprietors, which should be
mentioned. Many of them, though the annual value of their lands
be not great, are possessed of independent fortunes, derived from
other sources. In the Carse, the properties generally do not con-
sist of more than forty or fifty acres each, yet there have been few
changes among the owners. For several generations, the same
lands have been held, in various instances, by the same families.
   Parochial Registers.-There are registers of births and of pro-
clamations, both of which commence at the origin of the parish.
There is also a register of funerals,which extends back for fifty years.
   Antiquities.-The Roman Wall, commonly called Graham's
Dike, erected by the Emperor Antoninus Pius about the year,
140, and stretching from the Frith of Fortb to the Frith of Clyde,
passed through the parish. All remains of it have disappeared,
though some existed only a few years ago. On the hill beyond
Redding is a stone, known in the neigbbourhood by the name of
Wallace's Stone, and, if tradition be credited, commemorative of
the place where the famous Sir William Wallace, in consequence
of his quarrel with Sir John Stewart, another of the Scottish chiefs,
viewed the battle of Falkirk, from the site of which it is distantabout
two miles, and of which it commands a prospects sullen and inac-
tive spectator. But, whatever be the credit attached to the tradi-
tion, the stone is obviously of recent origin, and on examination,
will disappoint the antiquary.
   Modern Buildings.-Most of the houses of the resident proprie-
tors are modern,-Polmont Park, Parkhill, Clarkstonel, Polmont
House, Millfield, Polmont Bank, &c.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

                           III.-POPULATION.
   Amount of population in 1755, by Dr Webster's Return,      1094
                           1791,                              1400
                           1801,                              2194
                           1811,                              1827
                           1821,                              2171
                           1831,                              3200
                           1835, December, by a census taken
                             by the writer of this report,    3107
  These statements require, perhaps, some explanation. In 1801,
the colliery at Shielhill was in active operation, and hence the large


