
                         ORMISTON.                            147

the water coming from the mill trough, and in frost and the melt-
ing of snows was hardly passable even by horses and carriages.
Foot-passengers used to go round close by the wall of the mill.
The road between them and at both ends was raised to a level
with the bridges. This formed one of the greatest improvements
that had been made in Ormiston for many years. With the view of
keeping the turnpike road in good repair, two additional tolls were
erected, one at the church, the other about a mile south of Tranent.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated at the point
where the roads from Ormiston and Paiston unite towards the
west, about a mile and a-half south-west from the village, and also
from the manse, which is in the village. It is within little more
than a quarter of a-mile from the western extremity of the parish,
three miles from the eastern, and two and a-half from the northern.
The old church was more centrical. It was situate close by the
house of Ormiston Hall to the west; and it and the church-yard
were both within the orchard of the proprietor. And as Mr Sin-
clair states, in the account given into the Presbytery, in 1649, the
inhabitants had no other way of getting into the church-yard than
by the Laird's garden door. The church-yard also was represented
as too small for the parish. The aisle attached to it is still stand-
ing in pretty good preservation. Were a new church to be built,
an excellent situation for it would be found on a field of flat high
land immediately to the west of the village. Its present situa-
tion is very inconvenient for the minister and the greater part of
the population, who are not nearer it than a mile and a-half. It
was built in 1696, in a plain style, with a small belfry, and no
ornaments. It is cold and damp, and very uncomfortable in winter;
but of late has been considerably improved. At first, it was only
partially seated, families providing themselves with chairs and stools
as they found it convenient. The area in the centre of the church
was in that state twenty years ago,-about which time it was filled
up with good substantial pews; and it was not, till last winter that
the seating was complete. It affords accommodation for 300 per-
sons. The seats are all free; some of them are appropriated to
particular families, but a considerable proportion are common.
   The church-yard is perhaps the smallest in the country, being
only about 46 yards by 24, including the church and offering-house.
An additional piece of ground was kept in reserve for it by
Earls of Hopetoun, but only a small partL of it, has been taken in.
The soil is a retentive clay and very wet. Mort-safes. are used for


