
        180                   ORKNEY.

                         III.--POPULATION.
         No information can be obtained respecting the ancient state
       of the population.  In 1831, it amounted to 857 persons--382
       males, and 475 females.  According to the return made to Dr
       Webster in 1755, and according to the enumeration by Mr Scolly,
       the incumbent in 1772, it was at these respective periods, nearly
       the same as at present.  But, at the time at which the last Sta-
       tistical Account was drawn up, there was a considerable decrease,
       owing, it was alleged, to "the continual drain of men to the navy,
       to the northern fisheries, and, above all, to Hudson's Bay.  Be-
       fore the year 1741, the Hudson's Bay Company's servants were
       all taken from England, Ireland, or the Shetland Isles.  About
       1741 or 1743, they began to'get a few from Orkney, and, finding
       them to be submissive and industrious, they now take most or all
       of their trades-folk and contracted servants from this country."
       Whatever effect these supposed causes may have bad upon the
       population forty years ago, they certainly do not seem at present
       to exercise anv sensible influence over it.
         The only person of independent fortune residing in the parish,
       is Mr Baikie of Tankerness.  And the number of proprietors of
       land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards, is three, viz. those
       mentioned as the chief land-owners.  The number of families is
       156, and of inhabited houses, 146.  There is one fatuous, and
       one blind person.
         One peculiarity in the customs of the people that may be men-
       tioned, is, that the majority of the men may be said to have no
       fixed profession, but are farmers, fishermen, and artisans, at dif-
       ferent seasons of the year.  Another is, that each tenant claims
       an exclusive right to the fields which he rents, only during the
       time that the crop is on the ground.  Although a little improve-
       ment in this respect has, of late, begun to manifest itself, yet, what
       was written for the last Statistical Account, will, in general, still
       apply.  "All the cattle, horses, sheep, swine, geese, &c. go at
       large, for about nine months of the year.  As soon as any one te-
       nant cuts and brings in his corn, the whole country becomes at
       once a common, and all his neighbours must follow his example,
       or leave their crops, ripe or unripe, to be trodden down and de-
       stroyed."
         The people are decent in their external appearance.  And al-
       though their habits, in regard to the preparation of food, and
       cleansing of kitchen utensils, might, in some cases, give offence to


