
656                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of the Earl of Hopetoun is placed in front of the Royal Bank. A
colossal statue of her Majesty Queen Victoria, sculptured by
Steele, was completed in 1844, and now adorns the summit of the
Royal Institution.
   Monument to Sir Walter Scott.-The foundation stone of this
monument was laid in 1840, in the ground in front of Princes
Street. The monument consists of a Gothic aisle, surmounted
by a spire, from a design by Mr Kemp architect. A statue by
Steele is to be placed in the arched aisle.
   Equestrian Statue of the Duke of Wellington.-This fine
bronzed statue is to be erected on a granite pedestal immediately
in front of the Register Office.
                  IV.-ECCLESIASTICAL STATE.
   The oldest religious establishment in Edinburgh, of which we
have any mention, is St Giles, which, in the year 854, is enume-
rated by Simeon of Durham as one of the churches belonging to
the Bishoprick of Lindisfern, or Holy Island. Numerous other
chapels and religious houseS were afterwards founded, but there
remains now few traces of any of these. The chapel of Holy-
rood, St Anthony's chapel, founded by the Knights-Templars,
the church of Restalrig, the Trinity church, and St Giles, are
now the only remnants of ancient architecture in the city or neigh-
bourhood. We shall here enumerate those religious houses for-
merly existing in Edinburgh, but which were abolished at or before
the period of the Reformation:-
   Church of St Mary in the Field.-This was a large handsome
building in which a provost and ten prebendaries officiated. It
was adjoining to, and probably built about the same time as the
Monastery of Black Friars. This monastery was instituted in
1230 by Alexander II. It occupied the situation of the old High
School, while St Mary's church was on the ground now occupied
by the University. The house of the provost of this monastery
was the Kirk of Field where Darnley wais murdered.-Monastery
of Greyfriars was situated on the south side of the Grassmarket,
opposite the West Bow. It was founded by James I. for the en-
couragement of relegion and learning. Cornelius of Zurich, a
Franciscan of Colgne, of great learning, along with others, were
invited from Germany; and on their arrival the house for their re-
ception was fitted up with such magnificence that the modest
friars were with diffulty persuaded to occupy it.-Marisun Dieu


