
			 MOUSWALD.                           443

which runs into broom in the course of three or four years, even
when laid down in good heart with grass seeds. Towards the
eastern part of the parhsh, where the grounds rise considerably
higher, the soil is tolerably deep and rich, and produces good crops
of ever description.
	Within the bounds of this parish, there are 882 acres of moss.
Nevertheless, the air is pure and healthy,--which is attributed to
the vicinity of the sea, distant four miles from the centre of the pa-
rish. The medium temperature is about 46&deg; and the prevailing
winds are from the south-west; and from the same quarter we
have the heaviest falls of rain.
Hydrography.--The only river in the parish is the Lochar, which
runs through it, for a very few yards. There are several rivulets
that have their source in the higher grounds, and abundantly wa-
ter the parish, falling into the Lochar. There is also a copious
supply of spring wells. The well of St Peter's, which is nearly
100 yards west from the church, is one continued spring for 30 or
40 yards. This spring, even in the severest frosts; never freezes,
nor does the rivulet into which it runs freeze for a considerable
distance after their junction.
	Geology.--The chief rocks in this parish are greywacke and
greywacke slate. Indeed, the soil of the best land in the parish is
formed from the decomposition of these rocks. On the farm of
Bucklerhole a blue limestone rock is found, the same as that at
Rookan, in the neighbouring parish of Torthorwald, which ef-
fervesces freely with abids. The substratum of Lochar Moss is
chiefly fine white sand,--affording a strong and incontrovertible
proof that at one time the tide must have overflown the whole of
this extensive moss.
	Zoology.--All the common birds are found in great numbers in
this parish. Among the more rare that are met with, we may
mention without observing any particular ornithological classifica-
tion, the golden-crested wren (Regulus cristatus,) found in the
woods of Rockhall, and the long-tailed titmotse (Parus caudatus,)
found also in the same place. The woodlark (Alauda arboreal,)
the gray wagtail (Motacilla boarula,) the yellow wagtail (M. fla-
va,) are also common. The moor buzzard (Circus aeruginosus)
is occasionally seen in the Lochar Moss. The bullfinch (Loxia
pyrrhula,) the goldfinch (Fringilla carduelis,) the commnn linnet
(Linaria vulgaris,) are abundant. The jay (Corvus glanda-
rius,) the missel-thrush (Turdus viscivorus,) and the common


