
                         KILMORIE.                           47

and supposed to be of Norwegian origin. This has been cupplant-
ed by the black-faced; and it again, in one instance, but to a con-
siderable extent, has been crossed with the Cheviot. It was feared
that these would not be sufficiently hardy for the climate, but so
far as the experiment has gone, they have not in any degree de-
teriorated but have fully realize the expectation of the farmer.
   The native breed of cattle, seems to have been a mongrel of
Galloway, Ayr, and Argyleshire, with little attention either
to size or, symmetry; they were consequently reckened in the
market of an inferior description. Very considerable attention
has been paid to their improvement since 1810, in the first instance
by the proprietor, who introduced bulls of a superior breed from
Argyleshire, giving the fee use of them to the tenantry. Since
that period the tenantry themselves have taken an interest in the
matter, and the improvement has been most marked and rapid.
Should the same system i be persevered in for a few years longer;
Arran will not be behind any part of the, Highlands in its breed
of black-cattle.
   Goats are now kept only on one farm, and here they have long
since ceased to milk them.
   The roe, the wild boar, and capercailzie, are said to have been
at one time very abundant in the parish; and the fact of its being
part of the Royal hunting domain, gives credibility to the tradition's
but they have been long since extinct. Black-game and grease
swarm in the most unbounded profusion. The piarmigan is
found on the tops of the granate mountains, and partridges are
sometimes met with on the low-lands of the Southend. Plovera
and starlings are common. Eagles, kites, hawks of various kinds,
owls, and carrion-crows, were so at one time likewise; but since
the proprietor has given a premium for their destruction, they
have nearly been extirpated. The smaller birds, such as spar-
rows, hullfinches, &c. have become vastly more numerous since
these enemies of their kind have been destroyed.
Several species of snakes are found in the woods, glens, and
moorlands adjoining the arable ground; but seldom if ever in the
heights of the intetior. The largest of them is between three
and four feet long.
   Trout and salmon are found in all the rivers, trout in all the
Inkea, and salmon in Loch Lorse. Neither are by any income ??
abundant as they were forty years age. The decreased is partly ow-
ing to the want of protection in close-time, and partly to the use


