
                        PEEBLES.
the parish of Peebles, separating it from Innerleithen, was the pro-
perty of that family,-extending to about thirty miles.
  Some branches of the family of Frazer acquired extensive pro-
perty in East-Lothian,and we learn from Crawford's Lives of the
Officers of State, that a branch of that family was proprietor of
the lands of Forton, in the parish of Athelstaneford. Frazer
of FOrton seems to have given from his lands of East Forton ten
bolls of wheat and ten bolls of barley, to the monks of the Cross
Church of Peebles; and that quantity of grain continued to be
delivered to the minister of the Holy Cross Church of Peebles
after the Reformation, when monastic institutions were abolished
in Scotland.  That donation of grain from the lands of Forton
had been reckoned so valuable, that it was included in the deed of
entail of the March estate, and has descended to the Earl of
Wemyes and March, the heir of entail.
 In 1218, Patrick, the fifth Earl of Dunbar, founded a monas-
tery of Red friars at Dunbar; and Christian Bruce, wife of Patrick,
the seventh Earl of Dunbar, and only daughter of Robert the
Bruce, competitor with Baliol for the throne of Scotland, built a
noble mansion for the Red friars at Dunbar.  That establishment
was suppressed at Dunbar sometime before the Reformation; and
in the inventory of the late Duke of Queensberry's papers, is the
following extract: "Gift by King James the Fifth, under the
Great Seal, to the Holy Cross Church of Peebles, of a house in
Dunbar built by Christian Bruce, Countess of Dunbar, and given
by her to the brethren of the order of the Holy Trinity, formerly
at Dunbar, then translated to Peebles, dated 5th July 1529."
  It appears from other documents, that sundry houses in the
West Port of Edinburh, and certain lands in the parish of Cra-
mond, had been gifted to the Cross Church of Peebles. All the
above sources of income appear to have been conferred on William
Earl of March, second son of the Duke of Queensberry, at the pe-
riods of the Revolution of 1688, and of the Union in 1707, together
with fifty acres of rich glebe land lying in the vicinity of the church,
-only four acres being reserved for the minister of the parish of
Peebles.
  Dr Pennecuik mentions three churches and three old steeples.
The third church was the chapel attached to the castle, which in
former times stood on the mound called the Castle-hill, on which
the present church is built. The chapel stood twenty or thirty
yards to the east of the present church, and occupied the middle




