
                                   HUTTON AND CORRIE.                  549

         tion of this.  Not to mention the powerful reasons for suppression
         formerly mentioned, it appears even an act of humanity to stop the
         multiplication of this idle and profligate race; and compel them, if
         possible, to betake themselves to a life of industry, honesty, and
         decency.  The oppression they occasion, moreover, prevents a due
         attention to our own poor, and it is not unfrequently alleged by
         many, that the expense of strangers is so heavy, that they have
         little to spare for the other.  The same argument is employed to
         excuse their very indifferent contributions to public charities, or
         the funds of religious societies.
            Several of the counties of Scotland are now bestirring them-
         selves, and taking measures to root out this great national evil.
         And there appears little doubt, that the evil has only to be grap-
         pled with in order to be subdued. Should these counties perse-
         vere, and similar measures become general over the kingdom, the
         suppression of vagrant begging can still only be expected to be gra-
         dual. It appears to be a mistaken idea that it can be rendered im-
         mediately complete.  Humanity points to a gradual abolition.  It
         would be most distressing, should the wanderers find every door
         shut against them at once. By taking steady measures for a gra-
         dual suppression, they will obtain a fair warning, that the trade of
         begging is an unlawful one, and there is every reason to hope that
         they will gradually disappear. The great means to be employed,
         in accomplishing this measure, is to get the law of settlement en-
         forced.  The limits prescribed to the writer prevent his attending
         to this and some other matters.  Let it merely be observed in con-
         clusion, that when vagrants are sent to their place of settlement,
         they will accumulate in some quarters to very great numbers; and
         the parishes may find it difficult to provide for them.  It is to be
         hoped that collections and contributions will not be refused in be-
         half of cases attended with distressing circumstances. *

         <FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, the county of Dumfries has adopted measures for
         the suppression of vagrant mendacity.  A few years ago, the synod of Dumfries ap-
         pointed a committee of their number to attend the meetings of the Commissioner of
         Supply, with a view to this object. After some delay, the commissioners directed
         the various parishes within the bounds of the synod to send reports, in order to
         enable them to judge whether the country was dispoded and prepared to co-operate
         in putting a stop to the evil.  These reports having been judged satisfactory, the
         commissioners voted L. 300 per annum for the payment of constables to be employed
         over the county; it being understood that such parishes only would be entitled to
         the gratuitous services of constables, which should adopt the necessary regulations for
         putting a stop to vagrant begging.  These regulations require station-houses to be
         provided in necessary places, where vagrants may get relief, and occasionally lodging,
         in passing, the parishioners steadily refusing alms.  It is usual for a number of con-
         tiguous parishes to form themselves into a union.  Notwithstanding that the measures


