
128                        LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

grounds of the parish. Traces of the military road on the south
side of the rampart have been recently discovered near Inneravon,
and also in two different fields east from Kinneil House. It is ge-
nerally supposed that a station existed at Inneravon, and proba-
bly there was another at Kinneil. The wall was constructed, not
by one, but by several individuals, at different periods; and they
seem to have terminated the work at different places. * Hence
has arisen some diversity of opinion regarding the site of the place
whose name Bede and Nennius have so particularly recorded, and
near to which, according to them, was the eastern termination of
the rampart. The notices of ancient historians and the researches
of modern times, point to one or the other of two localities, + viz.
to Kinneil in this parish, and to Weltoun in the parish of Carri-
den, as the place referred to by Bede and Nennius. Perhaps the
name or names mentioned by these authors refer to both + places,
and not to one of them exclusively. Cenail,& (which Nennius
mentions as Scottish, i. e. Celtic, indicating an earlier period,)
may refer to Kinneil,| where the earliest termination of the wall
is generally supposed to have been; and Penguaul, Penfahel, and

<FOOTNOTE>The situation of Kinneil, commanding so extensive a view of the Frith of Forth,
was most suitable for a watch-tower, and especially for one terminating the line of
forts erected between Forth and Clyde by Agricola. The wall afterwards construct-
ed by Lollius Urbicus might advantageously have terminated at this watch-tower;
and the situation being one of importance, and probably much frequented, a village
might spring up in its vicinity at an early period. And though afterwards, on dif-
ferent occasions, additional forts or towers were erected, and the wall was repaired,
and extended farther east, yet the village in the vicinity of the original termination of
the rampart would retain its name, even though another station might be erected near
the more recent termination, and a name of similar import given to it. A village
near the eastern termination of the wall of Severus was called Wallsend.
         The termination of the wall, according to Gildas, was near Carriden, about two
miles west from Abercorn;-according to Bede, about two miles west from Aber-
corn, at a place called Penfahel or Peneltun;-according to Nennius, at a place cal-
led Penguaul, or Peneltun, or Cenail;-and, according to Fordun, near Carriden.
It was the opinion of Sibbald, one of the earliest antiquarians who considered this sub-
ject, that Penvahel or Peneltun of Bede was the very same as Walltown or Weltoun
near Carriden. Yet more recent and abler antiquarians have considered Cenail, Pen-
vahel, and Peneltun of the more ancient authors the same as Kinneil.
         Regarding Nennius, Ritson remarks, "He had already confounded the wall of
the real Severus with that of Antoninus, and now confounds another Severus with
somebody else." Perhaps in this instance he has confounded two names which, though
of similar import, refer to two different localities.
         Cenail is evidenly Celtic, and may be derived from Cean, "head" or "end," and
fal, "sod," "turf," "wall," or "fence"-the possessive case of which is fhail, having
fh perfectly quiesoent. Cenail may thus signify "end of the turf wall" or "wall-
end." Penguaul or Penvahel is Cambro-British, signifying "wall-head" or "wall-
end;" and Peneltun has the same signification, with the addition of the Saxon ter-
mination "tun"
         Censil, mentioned only by Nennius, (who does not specify distance nor mention
Carriden or Abercorn,) corresponds with Kinneil, at least in pronunciation; whilst,
in respect of both pronunciation and distance, Penvahel and Peneltun of Bede cor-
respond better with Weltoun in Carriden than with Kinneil.


