
110                      BERWICKSHIRE.

within a century, (i. e. that is since 1730,) burials have taken
place here.
   It is a favourite article of belief in this quarter, that a subterra-
nean passage exists leading from the nunnery of St Bathans, be-
low the Whitadder, to the church of Strafontane, by which the
nuns went, unseen, to be confessed by the clergy there.

                      III.-POPULATION.
   The parish is thinly inhabited, the whole population by the
census of 1831 amounting to no more than 121 souls, of whom 66
are males, and 55 females. As compared with the number of in-
habitants in 1821, there is a decrease of 29 souls in the popula-
tion; but this diminution is accounted for by the circumstance of
young unmarried men being preferred to married men as servants,
by some of the tenants who now occupy the farms. It appears,
however, that the population of this parish, though subject to tem-
porary fluctuation, has gradually decreased in numbers for two cen-
turies past. This seems chiefly to have arisen from the enlarge-
ment of farms, two or three being now united into one. Thus the
farm of Abbey St Bathans consists of lands which, till within these
last hundred years, were divided into three separate farms, viz. St
Bathans, Frampath, and Hardhissells; and besides a corn-mill,
there was a waulk-mill on the same estate, till within these fifty
years.
   There is in the parish one resident proprietor of land of the
yearly value of about L. 50. The number of unmarried men up-
wards of fifty years of age is 4, and of unmarried women upwards
of forty-five, 3.
   The whole number of houses in the parish is 29, of which 23
are inhabited; and the number of families also 23.
   The inhabitants are in general sober, frugal, and industrious in
their habits, and are contented with their situation and circumstan-
ces, which are such as to afford them, in a reasonable degree, the
comforts and advantages of society.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The parish consists of six farms, containing in all about 5000
acres of land. Of this surface about 2600 acres are hill pasture,
never cultivated; about 100 acres are covered with wood; and the
remainder, about 2300 acres, are arable.
   Husbandry.-The lands, like other parts of Lammermoor, are
in general more adapted to the breeding of cattle and sheep than
to the raising of corn; but on the several farms there is a consider-
                                4




