
328                        FORPARSHIRE.

profit, 100; undivided common, 90; and about 15 acres of Scotch
fir.
        Rent of Land &c.-The average rent of an imperial acre of cul-
tivated land is about L. 2 Sterling. The price of grazing an ox or
cow L. 2, and if kept through the winter on turnips and straw, L. 2
more. Sheep may be pastured for the year at L. 7 per score.
	The cattle are the pure Angus breed, and the black-polled. On
one farm, the Angus is crossed with the Teeswater breed, which
makes them much stronger, more valuable, and fit for the butcher
one year sooner. The state of husbandry is not inferior to that of any
in the country. Two successive grain crops are never taken with-
out a fallow or green crop intervening. The duration of leases is nine-
teen years. The farm-steadings are in general very indifferent. Some
of them, however, are undergoing repairs. Except on the farm of
Arbikie, there are few fields in the parish that are inclosed; the land
being better adapted for grain than pasture. Inclosures would, no
doubt, be highly beneficial, and if the farmer had less discourag-
ing, prospects than he has, owing to the depressed state of the
grain markets, these and other improvements would be made, which
would mutually benefit the landlord and tenant.
	At the influx of the Lunan into the sea, and along the sea coast,
salmon-fishing, by means of stake-nets, is carried on very success-
fully.

<TABLE=Produce>
        	    The total value of the annual produce of grain raised in the parish may be
	        estimated at                         L. 4160   0  0
	    Potatoes and turnips,                        824   0  0
	    Hay and pasture,                             910   0  0
	    Flax,                                         40   0  0
	    Gardens,                                      40   0  0
	    Fisheries,                                   420   0  0
                                                          __________
                                                      L. 6,394  0  0

                       V.-PAROCHICAL ECONOMX.

        Market-towns.-The market-towns are Montrose and Arbroath,
the former at a distance of four, and the latter of eight miles from
the greater part of the Parish.
        Means of Communication, &c.-The nearest post-office is that of
Chance Inn, in the neighbouring parish of Inverkeilor. There are
six public coaches that pass through the parish, each lawful day,-
three to the south, and an equal number to the north. The coast
road to Edinburgh, on which, these coaches pass, intersects the
parish. The other roads are maintained by the statue labour,
and are, in general, well adapted to the wants of the population.


