
               CROSS AND BURNESS.                            109

and the greater part are much below this.  It was the policy
of the landlords in this country to subdivide the land, and encourage
the increase of population as much as possible, for the purpose
of obtaining a sufficient number of labourers to manufacture
the kelp; and now when they would fain adopt an opposite
policy, and enlarge the size of their farms, the excess of population
meets them with an insuperable difficulty.  Until a few years
ago, indeed, there was no such thing as a separate and distinct farm,
in this island; it was divided into five townships or districts, each
containing a considerable number of houses scattered up and down,
amongst which the land, both pasture and arable, was equally divided;
and that none might have the advantage of another, not only
was every plot of arable ground divided, but an exchange made
every year, so that improvement was impossible, and the industrious
had no encouragement for their industry.  In 1832, this
system was wisely broken up, and the whole island squared off into
little farms, lying continuous to the several houses.  A new and,
higher scale of rents was, at the same time, agreed upon, which rendered
the measure unpopular; but considerable allowances were forsorne
years to be made for improvements in drains and enclosures,
of which the more industrious have so far availed themselves,
as both great to improve their farms, and to pay their rent with-,
out much difficulty.   But excepting on the larger farm, and partially
on one or two others, there is no reaular rotation kept up.
The land is alternately cropped with bear and oats-a mode of
cultivation which is not likely to be soon abandoned, as it is much
favoured by the large quantities of sea-weed drifted to the shore,
and almost rendered necessary by the demand for winter fodder
to their cattle. They can consequently grow nothing but the inferior
kinds of grain, bear, or bigg, and the small grey or black
oat.  About 1500 bolls of the former are raised, and 1200 of the,
latter; and of these quantities nearly one-third is exported. The
bear commonly weighs 44 lbs. per bushel ; after turnips it has been
found to weigh as high as 48 lbs.; and the oats are generally from
25 to 28 lbs.
  Although, however, the old system of alternate cropping is still
prevalent, great improvements in farming have taken place during,
the last twelve years, chiefly owiijg to the good example and just
dicious management of the gentleman, (Mr Robert Scarth,) who,
during that period, has been acting as factor on the property
There was then but one cart in the island, which was never used


