                             FALKIRK.                           9

in 1715, the titles of Linlithgow and Callendar centred in James,
fifth Earl of Linlithgow, and fourth Earl of Callendar. He and
William, third Viscount Kilsyth, having joined in that rebellion,
their estates were confiscated and their titles forfeited. The Earl
escaped to the continent, where he died. Sir Thomas Livingstone
of Westquarter and Bedlormie, Bart., is said to be his lineal de-
scendant. The estate of Callendar was sold about the year 1720
to the York.Buildings Company, whose affairs having become
disordered, it was brought to sale under authority of the Court
of Session in 1783, and was purchased by the late William Forbes,
Esq., merchant in London, father of the present proprietor.
William Boyd, fourth Earl of Kilmarnock, married Lady Anne
Livingstone, only surviving child of the above-mentioned James
Earl of Linlithgow and Callendar. He connected himself with
the Rebellion of 1745, and having been convicted of high treason,
was beheaded at London on 18th August 1746, in the 42d year
of his age, and his remains were interred in the Tower. While
the estate was the property of the York-Buildings Company, they
granted a lease of it to the Earl and his Countess, which expired
about the year 1777.
   The estate of Kerse, now belonging to the Earl of Zetland,
was formerly the property of the family of Hope. In 1638,
it was purchased by Sir Thomas Hope, King's Advocate, from
Sir William Livingstone of Kilsyth. By destination it fell to
his second son, Sir Thomas Hope, one of the Lords of Session,
and afterwards Lord Justice-General. The estate was purchased
many years ago by Lawrence Dundas, Esq., merchant in Edin-
burgh, who was created a Baronet in 1762; and, in 1794, his son,
Sir Thomas, was advanced to the Peerage under the title of Lord
Dundas. He died in 1820, and was succeeded by his son, Law-
rence, who, in 1838, bad conferred on him the title of Earl of
Zetland. In consequence of his death in the following year, the
estate and honours devolved on his son, Thomas, the present Earl.
   James Wilson, D. D., minister of the parish, was a native
of Lanarkshire ; became pastor of a Dissenting chapel at Stock,
port, in England ; was translated to Mid-Calder in 1793, and to
Falkirk in 1794. He died in 1829. In 1801, he published a
History of Egypt in three volumes, and, in 1819, Prayers for Fa-
mailies and Individuals. Besides these, he was the author of some
smaller publications. He had a numerous family, all of whom


