
                           CHIEFF.                            503

Close to this road, and near the field where, the stewards of the
King's estate of Strathearn were wont to hold their courts, stands
a large upright stone, which is understood to have been either a
memorial of some Roman event, or the remains of a Druidical
circle; and, while both suppositions are likely enough, it is im-
possible to say which should have the preferece.  It is well known
that many of these circles once existed in the neighbourhood,
though most of them have been removed for agricultural purposes.
There is one, at least a part of one, in the parj in front of Fern-
tower-House. The largest, and several of the smaller, stones of
the circle are still remaining.  And the spot is remarkable for
more than Druidical rites.  It was the scene of a deadly ren-
contre, which took place in the year 1413 between Patrick
Graeme, who had become D`rl of Strathearn, by marrying its
heiress, a grand-daughter of Robert II., and Sir John Drummond
of Coneraig, who was then Steward of Strathearn.  The Earl was
slain by Sir John, and the life of the survivor was embittered ever
after. It is also the spot which, according to popular tradition,
Sir John Cope, chose for his camp, so long as he remained in this
neighboiirbood, during the troubles of the year 1745.  There is
a very fine well, which still goes by the name of "Cope's Well,"
and, in a bog near it, an old sword was lately found, which cer-
tainly confirms the truth of the tradition. This sword is atill at
Ferntower House; but there is another sword there, which is a
trophy of far greater importance, viz. that of Tippoo Saib, which
was presented to General Sir David Baird, in the name of the
British army in India, immediately after the storming of Seringa-
patam.   There are several other articles at  Ferntower, which it
may be proper to mention,-such as a magnificent Egyptian saddle,
-massy silk window curtains, which were manufactured for Na-
poleon Bonaparte,-and the remains of what is supposed to have,
been the bracelets of the Countess of Strathearn, who is said to
have been imprisoned at Tom-a-Chaistail, before the castle was
consumed by fire. The bracelets have manifestly undergone the
action of fire; and the sald thing is true of the stones that were
dug out when the foundation of General Baird's monument was
being cleared. But, for a full  account of this matter, we would
refer the reader to, the New Statistical Account of Monivaird.
  Inchbrakie's Ring.-There is a curious relic in the family of
Inchbrakie, and the history of it is as curious as itself. It is well
known that, at no very distant period, there was a war of exter-


