
406                          AYRSHIRE.

from being heavily assessed for the support of the poor. With
the exception of one female society, instituted about sixteen years
ago, under the patronage of Mrs Craufurd of Ardmillan, and con-
sisting originally of 66, but latterly of 70, members,--the others
are all male societies.
     Poor.--The average annual amount of contributions for relief of
the poor is L. 170; of which L. 70 arise from church collections,
and L. 75 are voluntarily contributed by the heritors in the pro-
portion of their respective valuations; and L. 15 arise from the
interest of money mortified by the late Mrs Craufurd of Ardmillan.
     Savings Bank.--A savings bank was instituted in the parish, about
the same time as the female society, and chiefly under the aus-
pices of the same benevolent individual. Farm and house-servants
h`ve been the principal depositors; but as the bulk of the popu-
lation consists chiefly of Irish weavers, who, with very few excep-
tions, indeed, can never he induced to deposit a single shilling, this
institution has by no means realized the sanguine expectations of
its original promoters.

		        MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     In conclusion, it may be observed, that this parish has under-
gone, altogether, a very great change since the last Statistical Ac-
count was published. The population is nearly four times what
it was then; the high lands have been enclosed; small planta-
tions have sprung up; and good and convenient roads have been
made, which have contributed much to the melioration of thousands
of acres of coarse pasture land, by affording a greater facility to the
application of manure. In short, an entirely new mode of husbandry
has been adopted, and is still progressing. In the town, too, the state
of things is very different at the present day, from what it was forty
years ago. Then, there were only about 100 looms employed in
the weaving of cotton; now, there are nearly 2000;--then, there
were no means of transacting money matters within a less distance
than twenty-one miles; now, there are two respectable branch-
banks, in each of which a very considerable deal of business is
done;--then, neither beef nor mutton was exposed for sale, frol
Marinmas to Whitsunday; now, there is a regular market for
both during the whole year;-then, the exportation of grain
was merely or ever heard of; now, it is no uncommon thing to see
10,O00 or 12,000 bolls of wheat shipped in a few months. These
must be allowed to be great changes; but changes greater still
may be expetted, from a railroad and an extended harbour.
	September 1837.


