
1144                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

Alexander Middleton, and his son, Dr George Middleton, * George
Chalmers, and the late Dr Roderick Macleod.  The present Prin.
cipal is Dr William Jack.
   The office of sub-principal is peculiar to thisuniversity, and is
held ky one of the Regents, who, in addition to his duties as Pro-
fessor, must supply the place of the Principal in his absence.  The
first Sub-Principal was William Hay, who accompanied Boece
from Paris, where he had also taught Philosophy.  A large pro-
portion of the Principals have passed through the office of Sub-
Principal.
   There is no salary attached to the office, but there is a house
and glebe which belongs of right to that Regent who may be Sub-
Principal.
   Originally, each of the Regents carried his own class of students
through all the branches of philosophy in the curriculum of arts,
and this system continued till a comparatively recent period.  But,
at present, each Regent confines himself to one subject, out of the
four principal courses in arts, namely, Greek, Mathematics, Na-
tural Philosophy, and Moral Philosophy.
   The present Sub-Principal is Dr Hugh Macpherson, who is
also Professor of Greek.  The salary of this chair is made up of
L.80, 15s. from Royal grants, of fixed money, and victual sala-
ries; and of his share, one-tenth of the balances above described.
From all these sources, it amounted in 1836 to L.220; to which
is to be added the amount of fees from students attending the
Greek class, which in 1836 was L.250, but has diminished consi-
derably since that time.  In the above salary is included about L.20
derived from the Sub-Principal's share of a glebe or College croft,
   The first Regent is at present Mr John Tulloch, A.M., Pro.
fessor of Mathematics.  The salary of this chair, derived from
sources similar to those above-described, amounted in 1836 to
about L. 195, and the class-fees to about L.150.  He has a house
and garden close to the College, with a share of the College croft,
the latter included in the above salary.
   The third Regent, at present, is Dr John Fleming, Professor
of Natural Philosophy.  The salary of this chair in 1836 was about
L.195, the class-fees about L.160.  This Professor likewise has
a house and garden, with a share of the College croft, the latter
being included in the salary.

<FOOTNOTE>Dr George. Middleton was the father of Sir Charles Middleton, first Lord
Burham.


