
                      PRESTONPANS.                             305

   Extent.-Territorially, this parish is one of the smallest in Scot-
land. It contains about 760 acres, is quad civilian about 2 12 miles
long, and 1 broad; and is bounded on the north by the Frith of
Forth; on the east and south, by the parish of Tranent; and on the
west, by Inveresk.
   Topographical Appearances.-With the exception of one or two
inconsiderable knolls to the south-west of the ancient village of
Preston, the whole parish is very flat. At the same time, forming
in part the southern boundary of a wide bay, it commands a very
extensive prospect. There is nothing more truly picturesque in the
scenery of the Lowlands than the seaward view from the low sandy
beach to the east of the village of Preston pans. Its bulwark to the
sea is composed of reefs of low rocks, in which there are very cha-
racteristic proofs of the strong pressure of the waters of the Frith
on its southern shore. At low water, in one part of the rocks, se-
veral circular holes of almost similar depth, which are obvious-
ly the remains of garden-wells, are well fitted to teach the inhabi-
tants the importance of guarding the natural bulwarks of their vil-
lage against violation.
   Geology.-In the shale and sandstone connected with the coal-
field in this parish, the common vegetable fossils are very abundant.
Branches of trees, with clear impressions of aquatic plants, princi-
pally of the Juncus tribe, may be found on carefully searching, the
rubbish thrown out from the borings of new shafts. Indeed, there
are few districts in which fossil botany on a limited scale may be
more easily studied than the neighbourhood of Prestonpans.
   Zoology-Mammalia.-In so small a parish as this, it cannot be
thought that the Mammalia will be numerous. The wood-mouse
(Mus sylvaticus), common shrew (Sorex araneus), and the weasel
(Mustela vulgaris), are common. The stoat (Mustelo erminea, is
sometimes though rarely seen. Several years ago, an albino of the
brown rat (Mus decumanus), was shot. It is now in the minister's
Possession, and in colour is yellowish-white. Although its skin is
entirely free from signs of disease, its general form and aspect are
those commonly connected with internal disorganization. Of the
amphibious quadrupeds which visit the waters of the Frith, the
Phoca vitulina, though now comparatively rare on the southern
shore, is the most common in this neighborhood.
   Aves.-The ornithology is rich both in aquatic and land birds.
In the Frith, at their varied seasons, the divers ducks and gulls,
may be seen in great numbers, now floating at the will of the tide


