
     of Kirkoswald.

gun on this coast, which promises to be very productive.
White fish fell for 1 d. and salmon from 2 d. to 5 d. per lib*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antient and Modern Buildings.-Upon a small promontory
on the barony of Turnberry, now the property of the Earl of
Cassillis, are the ruins of the famous castle of Turnberry, the seat
of the Earls of Carrick.  When or by whom it was built, is al-
together uncertain.  Authentic history, however, informs us,
that in 1274, Martha, Countess of Carrick, lived in this her
castle, and was that year married to Robert Bruce Earl of An-
nandale.  From this marriage sprung the Kings of Scotland, of
the race of Stewart.  In 1306, Turnberry was held by an Eng-
lish garrison, under Earl Percy; and some years after this we
find that King Robert Bruce stormed the castle, still in possession
of the English, routed and expelled the garrison, but at the ex-
pence of the destruction of the building.  After this we do not
hear of its being inhabited.
   The situation of this castle is most delightful, having a full
prospect of the whole firth of Clyde, as above described.  Upon
the land side, it looks over a rich plain of above 600 acres.
This plain is bounded by the hills, which rise in a beautiful am-
phitheatre.  Little now is known as to the extent of this an-
tient building.  There still remain the vestige of a ditch, and
part of the buttressess of the draw-bridge.  There is a passage,
which opens towards the sea, arched above, leading to a large
apartment in the castle, which by tradition is said to have been
the kitchen.  This castle has been built of whin stone, and is
remarkable for the very strong cement that has been used in
building it.  The ruins, as they now lie, cover an acre of ground.
   The next remarkable old building in the parish, is the Abbey
of Crossregall or Crossreguill, founded by Duncan King of Scot-
land, in 1260 situated two miles east from the village.  It is
more entire than any abbey in the west of Scotland.  The side
walls of the church and choir still remain to the height of four-
teen feet.  It has been exceedingly well lighted within.  To-
wards the east remains the nitch, where the principal altar stood.
On the right of this is the vestry, and the Abbot's ecclesiastical
court, all entire, and arched very much in the style of the Ca-
thedral at Glasgow.  There are besides, several vaults and cells,
all built of fine hewn-stone.  At the east end of the abbey, stand
the ruins of the Abbot's first house, with only the outer walls
remaining.  On the well end of the abbey, stands the last house
which the Abbot inhabited; in this the stair is entire from top
to bottom, with several apartments regularly divided; all of free-


