
				BENDOCHY.                         1187

	  Chief Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, Patrick Mur-
	ray, Esq. of Simprim; Lord Wharncliffe; George Kinloch, Esq. of
	Kinloch; Sir James Ramsay, Bart. of Bamff; and Colonel W.
	Macdonald of Powderhall.
	  Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers are contained in
	seven volumes.  The earliest date of the baptisin register is 23d
	January 1642.  It has been regularly kept, with the exception of
	a blank from 12th May 1695, to 29th December 170O.  The
	proceedings of session commence with 11th September 1692,
	and are continued regularly to this date, with the exception of
	some omissions in thd end of last century, and beginning of this.
	The marriage register begins in 1700, and the record of procla-
	mation of banns has been regularly kept.  There is no register
	of deaths.  The minutes of session in the end of the seventeenth,
	and more especially during the beginning of the eighteenth cen-
	tury, give curious proof of the rigid discipline, and somewhat in-
	quisitorial surveillance exercised by the ecclesiastical guardians of
	the people in those days.  The following selections throw light
	on the history of the period.  Regarding one offender, "the ses-
	sion thouyat fitt to bring him in sackcloth, and cause him acknow-
	ledge his guilt on his knees."  And regarding another, she ap-
	pears for the twentieth time before the congregation on the stool
	of repentance.  Again, T. B. "being examined anent what was
	alleged anent his stricking Thomas Craigie (a boy) on the Sab-
	bath day, answered that the said Thomas threw in a stone among
	the children, and that he went out and only shot him over, he
	being removed, the members after discoursing of it, thought, fitt to
	dismiss him with the session rebook."  Again, the laird of ------
	having been cited, appeared, and being asked whether he did
	"scandalously go out on the fast day with his gun," answered,
	"that he went out only to fleg the tod from his sheep."  He
	was dismissed with the session rebuke.  It would seem that some
	of the elders were appointed occasionally to perambulate the pa-
	rish during the time of divine service, for the purpose of disco-
	vering who were absent from public worship, and how they were
	occupied.  Notwithstanding such vigilance, the records contain
	melancholy proof, that, in this parish at least, these were not "the
	purest times" of the church.  The limits of civil and ecclesiastical
	jurisdiction seem, at this period, not to have been much better under-
	stood than now.  Thus, "received from G. B. 2 lib. 9sh, with
	other 2 lib. paid by him before to the session, is accepted as sa-


