
			PORTPATRICK.                         139

	The Cingula pulla may be easily found among the abundant
Cingula parva at the roots of the small Algae north of the
harbour. The Pholas candida and Pholas crispata may be dug
up from the clay in the harbour, and the Tellina fabula from the
sand. Beams of wood used in the harbour works recently exhi-
bited remarkable ravages of the Teredo navalis. The baskets
used by the fishermen for capturing the Buccinum undatum fre-
quently contain the Fusus antiquus, Fusus corneus, Triton erina-
ceus, Nasa reticulata, Nasa incrassata, and sometimes Restellaria
pes-pelecani, Trochus magus, Fusus nebula, Turritella terebra,
Scalaria clatharatulus, Cypraea Europaea, Natica glaucina, and Te-
rebra reticulata. Entangled with the baskets adhering to other
shells may also be found Modiola vulgaris, Capulus Hungaricus,
Emarginula fissura, Chiton ruber and Chiton fascicularis. In the
roots of the larger Algae on the coast the Arca lactea has been
found, and the Hiatella arctica frequently. On the shore of
Killantringan Bay, cast up by the sea, the Pectunculus pilosus,
Pectunculus decussatus, Nucula nuclea, Venus cassina, and Venus
fusciata have been gathered, as also the Lima fragalis. In the
same bay, on the rocks and stones, the Chinton laevigatus may be
found often of a very large size. One lately found measured 13
lines in length, and 7 in breadth. Oysters have been dredged
off Old Dunskey Castle, and among them the Cyprina Islandica.
	Much attention is paid in this parish to the rearing of the
black hornless breed of cattle peculiar to Galloway.
	Botany.--No very careful survey is known to have been made
of the vegetable production of this parish. There seems to be a
rich field for the study of the Cryptogamic genera. The ferns,
Ophioglossum vulgatum and Botrychium lunaria, are found on the
high ground north of the town. Of the phaenogamous plants
that abound along the coast, the following may be mentioned;
Statice armeria, Scilla verna, Cistus helianthemum, Pyrethum ma-
ritimum, Anthyllis vulneria, Geranium sanguineum, Gentiana
officinalis, Erithraea littoralis, Daucus carota, Hypericum pulch-
rum, and Hypericum humifusum. The Crithmum maritimum,
Inula crithmoides, and Carlina vulgaris, are found on the rocks
of the shore, near the southern boundary of the parish. The
Coronopus Ruellii grows abundantly near the town. The Adoza
moschatellina and the Echium vulgare are found in the parish, as
also occasionally a pure white variety of the Hyacinthus non-
scriptus. The Vaccinium oxycoccos abounds hn the boggy moor to
the north-west.


