
                      ROTHES.                             231

   The second largest proprietor in the parish is R. Wharton
 Duff, Esq of Orton.  His property lies towards the lower end of
 the parish, and, unlike many of the landed gentry, be resides the
 greater part of the year on his estate.  Orton House is a large
 and handsome edifice of four stories, containing ample accommo-
 dation for a family, and stands within less than half a mile from
 the banks of the Spey. The grounds about the house are, taste.
 fully laid out and carefully kept. and a large and well sheltered
 garden and orchard yield an abundant supply of vegetables and
 fruit.  Besides bding embellished with a variety of the more or-
 namental trees and shrubs, Orton House is encompassed with a
 considerable extent of thriving plantation, principally of Scotch
 fir, but interspersed to no small extent with larch and various kinds
 of hard-wood, as oak, beech, ash, and elm. The valued rent of
 Mr Wharton Duff's property is L.501, 12s. 2d. Scots.
   At the northern extremity of the parish the Duke of Richmond
 possesses a small property called Inchberry. The soil in this part
 of the parish is inferior, and inclined to moor and gravel, and co-
 vers an extent of 835 imperial acres. Of these, 170 acres are
 under cultivation, 20 in pasture, 20 in planting, and 625 in moor.
 Of the moor land, none, or scarcely any, could with a profitable
 application of capital, be added to the cultivated land. It is all
 undivided, and pastured upon in common by the cattle belonging
 to his Grace's tenants of Incbberry. Valued rent is L.134, 0s. 8d.
 Scots, and the real rental may be stated at L.141.
   One side of the glen of Rotbes belongs to the family of Logie.
 At Bircbfield, there is a commodious house and productive gar-
 den, lying at the base of a high ridge of hill ground, beautified
 with a large plantation of natural birches, which stretches along
 the side of the glen to a good distance. From the appearance, it
 is evident that the house was originally intended to be a proprie-
 tor's residence, but at present it is occupied by one of the tenants
 Valued rent is L.74, 15s. Scots. The opposite side of the glen
 is partly the property of William Robertson, Esq. of Auchinroath,
 but it is limited in extent, and, excepting a thriving plantation of
 Scotch firs and larches, is not particularly valuable. There is a
 snug, comfortable house, suitable to the size and quality of the
 property.  Valued rent is L.35 Scots.
   On the east side of the Spey, in the county of Banff, the penin-
 sula of Aikenway, already alluded to, and projecting from the
 base of Beneagen, is the property of William Grant Macdowal,


