
30                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the south. In this tract, there is a very long strip of valuable
meadow along the water of Lochar, and a small tributary stream;
but all the rest is a barren moss, neither cultivated nor inhabited ;
-being part of what is known by the name of Lochar Moss. Ac-
cording to Crawford's map of the county of Dumfries, this parish
contains 8 3/4 square miles, and 5600 English acres.
	Lochar-Moss, * which lies along the west side of this parish, is
of great extent, being about thirteen miles long, and, at an average,
from two to three miles broad. The slow running-water or river
called Lochar divides it nearly from north to south. The moss
on the west side of the water is in the parishes of Dumfries and
Caerlaverock; that on the east side, is in the parishes of Tinwald,
Torthorwald, Mousewald, and Ruthwell.
	Meteorology.--The temperature of the atmosphere here is
in general mild; rather moist than otherwise. No effluvia in-
jurious to health arise from the great tract of Lochar Moss.
Agues are hardly known in this district, except when brought
from other parts of the country. The most prevailing winds are
from the south-west; and from the same quarter, the most frequent
rains come. The temperature of the air is in spring milder here
than in the Lothians; but the latter enjoy a great advantage over
us in autumn, as their weather is then much drier and steadier than
ours. Indeed, I believe these differences of climate and weather
are general between the east and west coasts, both of England and
Scotland.
	Geology.--The geology of this parish seems very simple. The
soil of the greater part of the good land in it is formed from the
debris of greywacke or transition rock, which is the prevailing rock
of the ridge that separates the valleys of Nith and Annan, along
the west side of which Torthorwald lies. In this and the adjoin-
ing parish of Tinwald, there is perhaps a greater quantity of good
land lying together, than is to be met with anywhere else in Nithsdale.
The soil is strong enough for wheat, and dry enough for turnips;
thus possessing two of the most valuable properties of good land.
	There are neither coals, nor lime, nor stone quarries in this
parish. Stones, which in many places are found near the surface,
have been used a good deal in building dikes; but when exposed
to the weather many of them crumble down, and consequently the
dikes are not lasting fences. Thorn hedges, when properly taken

<FOOTNOTE>See Statistical Account of the parish of Dunfries.


