
320                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

which agitated the other parts of the kingdom, had always, become
matters of history, before the natives of the north had received any
intelligence respecting them. It is only when events immediately
affect a people's own interests that they fairly excite the; but
even in a case of this kind, the inhabitants of a rural district are so
scattered, that any temporary excitement soon passes away from
want of the assurance and confidence inspired by numbers and
union. Towards the end of last century, when sheep began to be
generally introduced into the north, and numbers of the tenantry
were ejected to makd way for them, the minds of the people were
so excited by witnessing such frequent instances of what they con-
ceived to be wanton oppression and cruelty, that numbers of them
assembled, and collecting together all the sheep in Sutherland and
the north-eastern parts of Ross-shire, drove them in one mass as far
as Kiltearn, when they were dispersed by a party of the 42d Regi-
ment, then stationed at Fort George, under the command of Co-
lonel Sir Hector Munro. Several of the rioters were apprehend-
ed and tried at Inverness; two of them were sentenced to transport-
ation, but afterwards escaped from jail.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners of the parish are five in num-
ber; Sir Hugh Munro of Fowlis; H. A. J. Munro of Novar; Cap-
tain E. B. Fraser of Balcony; Simon Mackenzie of Mountgerald;
and Duncan Davidson of Tulloch; all of them, except Captain
Fraser, non-resident in the parish. Two of them, Novar and Tul-
loch, though proprietors in this parish, have their residences in the
neighbouring ones. It is much to be regretted, indeed, that absen-
teeism is become so very common throughout the whole country.
                               -------- Mansions once
                Knew their own masters.
                Now the legitimate and rightful lord
                Is but a transient guest;

and in too many cases, not even that. The people are remarkably
senshble to any kindness shewn them, particularly by a countryman;
and the presence of a landlord, by furnishing a stimulus to good
conduct and honourable exertions, could not fail to be productive
of the most beneficial results.
   Antiquities.-In all quarters of the parish were found, at one
time, numbers of cairns or heaps of stones, usually covering a grave
rudely formed of large flat stones. It has been conjectured that
the object in collecting these heaps, was to protect the dead bo-
dies from wolves, bears, and other ravenous animals which formerly


