
             WHITEKIRK AND TYNNINGHAME.                        31

called our Lady's Well, in honour of the virgin, within a gunshot
of the church of White kirk, and partaking, as was formerly be-
lieved, of the sanctity of that establishment. In times when more
miracles were supposed to be wrought than at present, and pilgrim-
ages more in vogue, it was said to be famous for the cure of bar-
renness. But the well and its virtues have been sacrificed to what
the creed of those times would have considered a sordid and un-
hallowed agriculture. Drains and ditches have not left the pilgrim
a drop to drink.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-There is a great variety of soil in the
parish. On both sides of the river it is alluvial, but much of it be-
yond the reach of running water, is of a dark-coloured loam, and
in some places more or less mixed with red clay. Even on the very
highest ground, the soil is good, though thin  being incumbent on
whinstone rock, but so near the surface, as to admit only of a very
shallow furrow.
The sea coast from the mouth of the river Tyne to Peffer, a
small rivulet, a mile and a half westward, is sandy, with the excep-
tion of Ravensheugh and the small promontory of Whitberry,
which are of trap (augite greenstone, basaltic greellstone, trap tuf-
fa,) and red sandstone. The sandstone near to the trap is variously
changed. From the farm-house of Scoughall to the boundary
of the parish at Tantailon Castle, especially that part of it to the
westward of the old mansion house of Auldhame, the cliffs are
precipitous and rugged, in some places not less than about 100
feet high, overhanging the sea. These cliffs, and the ledges of
rockwhich run from them into the sea, composed of red sandstones
red clay iron stone, red and green slaty clays, red trap tuff, &c.,
have been described by the highest authority, Professor Jameson,
in his Geognosy of East Lothian, published in the Memoirs of the
Wernerian Society. *

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY
   Land-owners.-There are but three Heritors; each of them
possessing what was formerly a separate parish. Tynninghame be-
longs to the Earl of Haddington, the present Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland; Whitekirk to Sir David Baird of , Newbyth, Bart.; and
Auldhame to George Sligo, Esq. The residences of the two for-
iner have the benefit of great shelter from the woods which sur-
round them; and Seacliffe House, where Mr Sligo lives, has the
command of some of the finest sea views that are any where to be

<FOOTNOTE>The Ravensheugh point of Dr Macknight in the Wernerian Memoirs is, ac-
cording to Mr Hay Cunningham, Whitberry Point.


