
682                     PERTHSHIRE.

three quarters, and the latter, four miles and a-half. * Another
boat after the same model has been very recently placed on the
ferry, at Meikleour, five miles below Caputh boat, by which the
Blairgowrie and Stanley roads are joined.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church stands on a commanding emi-
nence about 400 yards due nor of the boat. Though placed near
the south border of the parish, and above eight miles from the
northern extremity, it could not have been situated more conve-
niently, being in the heart of the population, and nearly equidis-
tant from the west and eastern extremities.  It was built in 1798,
and is a plain and commodious structure, seated for 800, but easily
containing 1000. It has at this present date (Oct. 1839) under-
gone considerable repairs and improvements, both, internally and
externally, and has received a new porch at each end, by which it
is rendered more comfortable.  The old church stood on the ris-
ing ground, called the Mute-hill, about 600 yards west of the pre-
sent, and where the burying-ground still is, around which a most
substantial new wall is just now building and nearly completed.
The ground on which the present church is built was given by the
late Sir Alexarder M. Mackenzie, on condition that no hnterment
should take place within the new enclosure. There are no seats
let, save two or, three pews, belonging to a, property attached,
quoad sacra, to another parish, let on behoof of the poor at a very
low rate. The heritor's subdivide their respective portions among
their tenants. But while the farmers have accommodation for
their families, many of the villagers have no family seats, and are
obliged to press into any empty space they can find.
   Manse.-- The manse was built in 1803, and last year was re-
iron and cousiderably enlarged, and is now a commodious and
comfortable habitation. It is situated  in a most choice and shel-
tered spot, having the little wooded brae, on the top of which the old
church stood, immediately at its back, concealing it from the Dun-
keld road, and the glebe in front stretching down to the river,
which is about 200 yards south of it, and the splendid new castle
of Murthly rising among the gigantic trees on the further bank,
and the classic. Birnam hill, towering in majestic grandeur in the
distance. The offices were built in 1818, and are in excellent
order. The glebe consists of 10 1/2 Scotch acress of superio
arable land contigous to the T`x, of the yearly value of L.27.

<FOOTNOTE>The inventor and fabricator of this boat was Mr James Fraser of Dowally, who
had sherly before constructed a similar one to ply upon the Tummel at Logierait.


