
572				FORFARSHIRE.

	In order to  observe the precise character and position of these
strata, it is necessary, as they dip towards the south, to trace their
connection with rocks of an older date, to the northward.
	The Carse of Gowrie is bounded on the north by the Sidlaw
range of hills, chiefly composed of trap rocks, which separates it
from Strathmore. On crossing these hills the gray sandstone is
again founds reclining on the north side of them, dipping to the
north. And in traversing Strathmore, we find the central part of
it is chiefly occupied by red sandstone as at Cupar Angus, these
sandstones being in every way precisely similar to those of the
Carse of Gowrie. But on approaching the northern side of Strath-
more, towards Blair-Gowrie, the red sandstone begins to assume
the character of a conglomerate, which, on tracing it along the
beds of the streams which intersect the high ground to the north
of Strathmore, becomes a course red conglomerate, having all the
characteristics of the old red sandstone conglomerate. On tra-
cing it still farther north, as in the bed of the Ericht to the north
of Craighall House, it passes into a coar gray coglomerate,
mized at some points with finer grained portions in ` romewhat
stratified position, which is at once recognized as belonging to the
greywacke series. The colour of this conglomerate is remarka-
bly similar to that of the gray sandstones of Strathmore and the
Carse of Gowrie, and the finer portions of it are remarkably simi-
lar to many of the gray sandstone strata.
	Thus, then, we find these sandstone strata occupying the valleys
of Strathmore and the Carse of Gowrie, and that as we approach the
borders of the Grampian range, they assume the character of con-
glomerates. There seems no reason for considering these conglo-
merates as belonging to another deposit, but simply as an instance
of a well known fact in geology, that newer stratified rocks on ap-
proaching primary rocks very frequently assume a different cha-
racter, being, usually much, less highly comminuted in their consti-
tuent parts. From, this it would undoubtenly seem, that these red
and gray conglomerates are the equivalents of the red and gray
sandstones, which, merely assume a finer texture, when found in a
more distinctly stratified form, occupying the low country, and at
a greater distance from the older rocks.
	lt might seem out of placed to enter here into a detailed argu-
mentative statement regarding the various views edopted by geo-
logists, as to the precise character of the strata in this, district, and

therefore in some degree of the various theories of the red sand-


