
     of Lamington.

roll or rate, in which are marked their number, and every
one's moiety or portion.  There are now 9 on the roll.  What
a pity is it, and matter of grief to the poor, that the heritors
do not reside in the parish! * 

   Diseases.-The diseases incident to this parish, and most pre-
valent, are, intermitting fevers, rheumatism, Erysipelas or St.
Anthony's Fire, and the dropsy; colds and coughs are fre-
quent here; consumptions of late years have carried off seve-
ral young persons of both sexes between 10 and 20 years of
age.  The small pox is not now so dangerous as it formerly
has been.  In 1787 there were in the parish between 20 and
30 inoculated, and they all recovered; and in the year 1792
about as many, who in like manner all did well.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a Roman camp at White-Hill, near Culter, at one end of the
parish in Lamington; at the other end of it in Wandel, at Cold Chapel, there
are two Roman camps, one on the road-side between Cold Chapel and Little
Gill, and the other on the Arbor-hill, so called, because formerly it may
have abounded with trees.  At the foot of one of the hills there is a place cal-
led Rob's Bog, which, in time of war with England, being covered over with
rushes by the Scotch, and the English taking it for safe ground, and passing
through it on horse back at full speed, fell into it, and perished there; the
stratagem being ascribed to Rob one of the commanders of the Scotch army,
the place derived its name from him.
   In Birwick heights there is an indelible mark of a furnace, where it is said
that a fire was always kept by the druids.  Opposite to Lamington, on the
other side of the Clyde, is an high mountain called Tinto, or the hill of fire,
on which it may be supposed that in like manner a fire was always kept.
   In one of the hills above Wandel mill there is Wallace's camp, so called
from that great Scotch warrior, who encamped here.  There were in this pa-
rish anciently four great buildings, called towers; two in Wandel, and two in
Lamington, one in the town, and another in the mains; but to say nothing of
the three former, it may be mentioned of the latter that the walls still remain
some stories high, very thick and strong.  It was built by a laird of Laming-


