
     Statistical Account

tage it may bring to the revenue; and it will bear a question,
whether their profits are, upon the whole much increase
by it.

<UNREADABLE>

   Commerce.-What quantity of grain, of the growth of
this parish, may be fold, is impossible to say with certainty.
There must, however, he something considerable, besides the
victual rent, which is at least the half of what is paid, and
which seldom, if ever, fails to be exported.  The West
Highlands is the common market. Indeed, it requires no
small quantity of grain to maintain the inhabitants+.  Besides
what victual they may dispose of, after paying their rents,
and maintaining their families, which is more or less in pro-
portion to the extent of their farms, and the number of eaters,
they fell annually 1, 2, or 3 young cattle, as they can spare.
These being poorly fed, at all seasons, bring but little money
And when no demand comes from the South, they are at a
loss to dispose of them, owing chiefly to the narrowness of
the country.  The general run of stots and queys, reared,
here, from 3 to 4 years old, seldom fetch above 30 s. or 40 s.,
according to their size and shape.  Milk cows anti labouring
oxen, particularly the latter, give a tolerable price, and, of
late years, have risen greatly in their value.  Horses, consi-
dering their small size, fell exceedingly high.  This, circum-
stance is just beginning to induce gentlemen, and some of the
more substantial farmers, to use a larger size than the original
breed of the country.  Instead of 4 garrons, as they are here
called, drawing a plough, 2 tolerable sized horses are used by
several.  From the great number necessary to carry on work
of every fort, agreeable to the practice of the country, they

</UNREADABLE>

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

+Oat and beer meal, with what milk they can afford, are the chief articles
of their subsistence.  Very little butcher meat is used amongst them.  The on-
ly vegetables are few cabages and potatoes

</UNREADABLE>


