
288                      LANARKSHIRE.

the parsonage of Cambuslang. Mr Robert Raa, reader at Hamil-
ton, had L. 22, 4s. 5d. of stipend. In 1590, Mr Davidson was first
minister, and Mr Gavin Hamilton, second minister, of Hamilton.
The latter had 4 chalders and 4 bolls of bear, 1 chalder 4 bolls of
meal, and 12 bolls of wheat. Mr John Raa, reader, had out of
the vicarage of Hamilton L. 4, 8s. 10d. and out of the deanery of
Glasgow, L. 17, 15s. 6d. For many years after, there was only
one minister, with a stipend payable out of the third of the dean-
ery of Glasgow. By the act 1606, c. 1, the bishops were restored
to their temporalities; and by 1617, c. 2, the manses, glebes, and
other patrimony, with certain restrictions, were also restored. With
the interruption only of the period of Cromwell's usurpation, epis-
copacy continued down to 1689, when presbytery was fully restored.
Soon after (May 13th 1692) Mr Robert Wylie, formerly minis-
ter of Askirk, was admitted minister of Hamilton, on the under-
standing, that, as formerly, he was to have a colleague. In that
view, an address was presented to the presbytery, praying leave to
give a call to Mr Alexander Findlater, who having been lately set-
tled in the parish of Avondale, was very reluctant to quit his flock.
Strong objections were accordingly made by Mr Findlater and the
commissioners from Hamilton, which ended in a reference by the
presbytery to the synod. After a good deal of procedure, which
was carried the length of suspending Mr Findlater for resisting to
be removed to Hamilton, he at length complied, and was admitted
as second minister, January 9, 1695. Mr Wylie, the first Minister,
complains that "the presbytery were so far from assisting him in
getting Hamilton provided with another minister, conform to their
promise to him at his entry, that they did, without any valid ground,
what in them lay to impede the same." Of all the heritors who con-
curred in attaining this desirable object, none was more anxious to
carry the measure hnto execution than Anne Duchess of Hamilton.
	The present church stands on a high ground (at one period) to
the south of the town; but it is now more centrical, from the streets
which have been built to the south and west. The body of the
church is a circle with four cross aisles. The design, which in
general is, accounted very elegant, was by Adam the elder. It
is capable of containing about 800 sitters. The minister of the
first charge has a glebe of about twenty-seven acres which was ex-
cambed some years ago for three acres and a-half in the Ha-
milton haughs. No manse has as yet been erected upon it. The
minister of the second charge has a manse but no glebe. The
				4


