
                   PARISH OF LAUDER.

  PRESBYTERY OF LAUDER, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

           THE REV. PETER COSENS, MINISTER.

           I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries.--IT cannot be doubted that the town of
Lauder gave its name to the parish, and that the town derived its
name from that of the river, near to which it is situated.  This is,
indeed, now, and has long been, called Leader water; but since it
is termed Lauder by Camden in his Britannia, and the vale through
which it flows has, from time immemorial, been termed Lauder-
dale, its more ancient, and, probably, its original name was Lauder.
The etymology of Leader, or Lauder, is traced by certain antiqua-
ries to Laudur, a Celtic word, denoting the lesser river, or the river
which breaks forth.   And, accordingly, the Leader, though it be a
comparatively small stream, swelled, as it occasionally is, by tor-
rents from the neighbouring hills, rises rapidly, bursts its banks, and
floods its fertile haughs.
   In point of area, the parish of Lauder seems to be the largest
in Berwickshire.  The distance between its northern and southern
confines is not less than 13 miles.  This, however, is somewhat
more than its absolute length; for toward the south it is complete-
ly intersected to the extent of 1 1/2 mile, by an angular part of the
lands of Blainslie, which belong to the parish of Melrose, and the
county of Roxburgh.  Its entire length, then, is 11 1/2 miles.  Its
greatest breadth is 8 or 9 miles, and its medium breadth about 5,
so that its extent is nearly 58 square miles.  On the north and
north-west it is bounded by Gifford and Channel kirk; on the west
and south-west by Stow and Melrose; on the south and south-
east by Melrose, Earlston, and Legerwood; and on the east and
north-east by Westruther, Longformacus, and Cranshaws.
   Topographical Appearances.-The parish is of an irregular oblong
figure  Two-thirds of it are moorish and hilly.  Its northern limits,
for several miles, are formed by the Lammermoor hills, one of which,
called Lammerlaw, the highest in the parish, is about 1500 feet
   BERWICK.                     A


