
         364                       PERTHSHIRE.

         as was before observed, the want, as far as agriculture is concern-
         ed, is not greatly felt.  The tenants are, in general, men of skill
         and capital, as well as of activity and industry, and are, devotedly,
         attached to their profession,-the most important, without doubt,
         that can occupy the attention of mankind.  They farm on the most
         approved methods.  Their leases are of various duration, varying
         according to circumstances.  Those, for example, on the lands of
         the Earl of Wemyss and March, are commonly of nineteen years
         continuance, with few or no restrictions, except towards their con-
         clusion; while those, on the contrary, on the l`nds of Mr Macgill
         have been of fourteen, fifteen, and even in one instance, of thirty-
         eight years continuance, or a double nineteen,-at the expiration
         of which, it may not be improper to observe, the rental of the lands
         was nearly quintupled, through the attention and industry of the
         tenant, and the altered state of the country.
            The staple article of their produce is wheat, which the farmers
         raise in considerable quantities, as well as barley, oats, beans, &c.
         of the finest quality.  Potatoes have, also, of late years been raised
         in considerable quantities for the London market, and by the price
         which they have procured, in that great emporium, have not un-
         frequently, tended to compensate, in some measure, the evils of a
         bad or deficient harvest.
            Before the cultivation of potatoes, on the present large and ex-
         tensive scale, it was not an unusual practice to lay down in fallow
         a certain proportion of the land, in the general course of rotation.
         The raising, however, of this valuable article for the London mar-
         ket has, in many cases, superseded or rendered this practice unne-
         cessary, as the attention, labour, and care, which are necessary for
         its prodtbtion, tend thoroughly to clean the ground, and to pre-
         pare it for a succession of culmiferous crops.  If, therefore, this
         useful esculent, the native of a foreign clime, should, in the course
         of time, happen to die out,-a circumstance which is not impossi-
         ble, the want would be greatly felt, not only by the country at
         large, to whom it affords an abundant supply of wholesome pro-
         vision, but'also by the husbandman, to whose exhausted fields it
         affords a seasonable mid refreshing change.
            On the flats and levels, where the water might be apt to stagnate,
         draining is practised in this parish, with the happiest success. The
         tenants seem to be fully aware of the necessity of keeping the
         ground dry, if they expect to receive a suitable recompense for
	 their labours.


