
                        NORTH BERWICK.                         319

are constantly kept for the conveyance of visitors to the far-famed
rock. The shore to the west is somewhat flat and sandy, but to
the east it is generally high and rocky, with several rugged project-
ing headlands, terminating north-east with the extensive lofty pre-
cipice on which stand the venerable and classic ruins of Tantallan
Castle.
   Directly opposite to the town of North Berwick, a mile from the
shore, is an island, about a mile in circumference, called Craigleith.
It is a bare barren rock, inhabited only by rabbits and sea-fowl. The
jack-daws are in immense numbers, and it is a favourite residence
of the Tommy-norrie, alias the Coulterneb or puffin. The town-
council had resolved, many years ago, In pecuniary difficulties, to sell
this island, and it was intended to dispose of it by lottery. Arrange-
ments were gone into accordingly; but it was discovered that such
a transaction would have been illegal; and in 1814 it was sold to
Sir Hew Dalrymple, Bart. for L. 400. It is now conjoined with
the North Berwick barony. Steamers and other vessels regularly
pass in the channel between the island and North Berwick. Oc-
casionally in storms from the north-east or east, the tremendous
dashing and breaking of the mighty waves on the white precipitous
cliffs on the eastern part of this island, create a scene, peculiarly
sublime.
   Climate.-On the whole, the climate is peculiarly salubrious.
There is no prevalent distemper, no ague; and pulmonary consump-
tion is peculiarly rare. The register of deaths for the last six
months of 1838 gives only two adults, and three young children.
Throughout 1838, the recorded deaths in the parish are only five
adults, and seven children. The winter is generally clear and
mild; in spring, however, from the prevalence of the east and
north-east winds, it is often keenly cold; the geniality of summer
and autumn is amply Attested in the crowded influx of strangers for
the enjoyment of sea-bathing and perambulation among the beau-
tiful scenery around.
   Hydrography.-The Frith of Forth bounds the parish on the
south and east, semi-circumambient to Auldhame Bay. One or two
insignificant streamlets wind their course to the Forth, but are
scarcely more than the confluence of drains or trivial marshes. Mill-
Burn, however, deserves notice, meandering its way round the west
and south base of the Law, and through a sweetly secluded and
wooded ravine, styled the Glen,-a delightful retreat and walk, shel-
tered from every wind, and opening at its termination on a splendid


