
                          KINCARDINE.                         431

ance for garden of L.2, 2s. 9 1/4d., makes L.36, 7s. 1 3/4d.  The school fees
scarcely amount to L. 5 annually.  The average number of
scholars attending may be about 60, but in winter they exceed
100.  The branches of instruction taught are reading, writing,
Latin, arithmetic, and mathematics.  Amongst those who have
held the situation of parochial schoolmaster of Kincardine, since
its establishment, which took place a century ago, the following deserve
to be mentioned: James Dallas, minister of Contin 1793-1825;
David Carment, who was schoolmaster from 1789 to 1790,
with a salary of L.5, 6s. 8d., present minister of Rosskeen ; George
Winehouse, from 1803 to 1805, present minister of Auchterhouse,
in the presbytery of Dundee; Alexander Ross, from 1822 to
1829, in which latter year he was ordained by the late Dr
Mackintosh of Tain, to the "Gaelic and English congregation at
Dundas in Upper Canada," (now Aldborougb, presbytery of Toronto;)
Charles Laing, from 1829, till his death, which took place
at Aberdeen, while attending the divinity classes there in 1833;
and the present " schoolmaster of Kincardine," Henry Macleodi,
who was appointed in 1833.
  There is a school at Strathcarron supported by the Society
for Propagating Christian Knowledge, who give a salary of L. 15
per annum.  There is also a female school taught on the second
patent of the same society, with a salary of L.5. Besides
these endowed schools there are five through different parts of the
parish, which are supported entirely by individual subscription.
There are five additional schools required besides the above number;
as in several populous districts the children are without the
benefits of any education whatever.
   Literature.-There was a parochial library established here in
1823, intended principally as a Sabbath school library; the works
contained in it are chiefly, Christian biography, accounts of missions,
and tracts.
   There was a reading-club also established lately, which promises
to succeed well.  The secretary purchases annually works
of travels, biography, and general literature, and each member has
them for about three weeks : at the end of the year, they are sold
amongst the subscribers.  The annual subscription is considerably
less than a guinea; the number of subscribers at present amounts
to sixteen.
   Savings Bank.-A Savings Bank was established this year in
Tain and is named " the National Security Savings Bank of


