
         638                        PERTHSHIRE.

	and in breadth 7 miles.  The length of the Atholl division from
	north-west to south-east is 7, its breadth varies from 5 to 7 miles.
	It is bounded on the north-east, by the parish of Kirkmichael; on the
	south-east, by Logieraht; on the south-west, by Dull; and on the
	west and north-west, by Blair Atholl.  The Atholl division of the
	parish is bisected by the Garry and the Tummel.  It lies princi-
	pally, however, to the north of these rivers.  The arable land rises
	in some places more gradually, in others with greater acclivity from
	their banks. The only striking mountain is Beinvrackie, Beinn
	Bhreacaidh, a " spreckled mountain,"-a motntain which forms a
	prominent feature in the scenery of the whole surrounding country,
	and, from whatever situation viewed, is always graceful, and
	grand.  The prospect from it is remarkably fine, and abundantly
	compensates the trouble of ascending it.  Its elevation above the
	level of the sea is nearly 3000 feet.  In the Strathardle district
	the general appearance is bleak and mountainous.  The rich green
	hills of Glenfarnate stand, however, in pleasant contrast to the
	sombre and sterile aspect of the surrounding mountains ; and the
	young and rising plantations of Kindrogan and Dirnanaen give a
	clad-like appearance to the eastern extremity of the valley.  The
	Strath is watered by the Briarachan and the Ardle, and is brought
	into a state of good cultivation through the persevering exertions of
	its industrious tenantry.
	   Meteorology.-The climate varies considerably in different parts
	of the parish.  The Strathardle district is often clotbed in the white
	robe of winter, while in the Atholl division there is not a particle
	of snow.  And it has often been remarked, that the tempera-
	ture is very different from what it was some sixty or seventy years
	ago.  In exchange for the great and long-continued heat of sum-
	mer and the excessive  cold of winter which was then experienced,
	we have now very little of fine summer weather, and, with few ex-
	ceptions, the winters are generally mild and temperate.  Winter
	1838 was one of these exceptions.  In February of that year the
        cold was intense, the thermometer stood at 3&deg; of Fahrenheit; and
	the 5th -January 1839, the barometer stood 27 1/2 inches, a de-
	gree of depression never before witnessed here.  Of late, during
        the summer months the thermometer ranged from 45&deg; to 75&deg;, and
        in  winter from 20&deg; to 50&deg;.  Situated nearly in the centre betwixt
	the Atlantic and German Oceans, the air here is not so humid
	as it is little more to the south-west.  Nur geographical posi-


