
                  EDINBURGH.                               623

marriage of William with a cousin of King Henry, the castle was
restored as a dower to the queen.
   Alexander II., the son of William the Lion, held a parliament
in Edinburgh in the year 1215 for the first time. But it was not
till long after this period that the city began to assume the lead
as the capital of the empire. In 1456 parliaments began to be
regularly held in the city. During the warlike incursions of Ed-
ward I. into Scotland, Edinburgh Castle was besieged and taken
in the year 1296; and remained in possession of the English for
seventeen years, until it was again recaptured by Randolph Earl of
Moray.
   After this the castle was demolished by Robert, that it might
not again harbour the English forces; but Edward III. again re-
built and fortified it. It did not long remain, however, in the
possession of the English; having been recovered by stratagem
by William the Douglas and a few of his brave followers.
   The oldest charter now extant is that granted to the city by
King Robert I., dated 28th May 1329, which includes the harbour
and mills on the Water of Leith. His grandson Robert III. con-
ferred on the burgesses the right of erecting houses within the pre-
cincts of the Castle, on condition of their being persons of good fame.
King James II. was crowned at the palace of Holyrood House;
and, being a minor, remained for some time for protection in the
Castle.
   The exiled and unfortunate Henry VI. of England also fled to
Edinburgh in 1461, and was kindly received and treated by the
burgesses.
   In 1842, James III., a weak and facile prince, took refuge in
Edinburgh from his turbulent nobles; and the burgesses so warm-
ly and effectually espoused his cause, that, in gratitude for their
services, this monarch granted them two charters, in which the
provost was made hereditary high sheriff within the city; an office
which the chief magistrate still enjoys. He also granted to the
council the power of making statutes and by laws for the govern-
ment of the city, and a right to the customs of merchandise at the
port of Leith. To the incorporated trades was presented a stan-
dard, which still exists, called the blue blanket.
   Many of the citizens of Edinburgh shared the disastrous fate
of their King, James IV., and his army at the fatal battle of Flod-
den Field. On the tidings of this complete overthrow reaching
the city, the inhabitants behaved with great firmness and conside-


