
     Statistical Account

classes is Gaelic.  It would be almost unnecessary to say any-
thing of this language to those who understand it.  They know its
energy and power; the ease with which it is compounded;
the boldness of its figures; its majesty, in addressing the
Deity; and its tenderness in expressing the finest feelings of
the human heart.  But its genius and constitution, the struc-
ture of its nouns and verbs, and the affinity it has to some
other languages, are not so much attended to.  These point
at a very remote aera, and would seem to deduce the origin
of this language from a very high antiquity,*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The etymology of every farm and hill in this country is Gaelic, and is
descriptive of their situation, or of some other peculiar quality:  A few of these
small only be given, because disquisitions of this nature may appear tiresome to
those who have no knowledge of the language, while they afford amusement and
information to others.  Any Gaelic words, that occur, are spelled according to
the English orthography, to render them legible by English readers.
   Leney, in Gaelic Lan-nuib, i.e. full of wood.  The plains of Leney were
formerly covered with stately alders, the skirts of the hills with oaks, the front
and brow of the hills and glens with birches.  The alders and birches have
mostly disappeared; the oak woods are preserved.
   Laoir, a hoof, or rather, in the Scotch dialect, a clute, which signifies a single
hoof of an animal that has the hoofs cloven.  This, and other places of that
name, exactly resemble that part of the animal, being encompassed by two ri-
vulets, the one running in a streight, and the other in a curve line, forming a
very acute angle at the point where they meet.
   Kilmahog, in Gaelic Kil-ma-chug, i.e. the cell of St. Hog, or Chug.  The
festival of St. Chug, is the 26th day of November, which is a cattle market in
this country.
   Tom-bea, the birch hill.
Aney, a-n-eih, the ford of deer, where they passed from the forest of Glen-
finlas to the forest of Gleneitney.
Ardbullary, (ard-chul-rui), the shealing, with a height at its back.
1 2 3 3 1 2
Glengyle, Clean-goul, the forked glen.
   Coil-chra, Coil-chro, the wood of nuts.  This is the largest hazle wood in
this country, and might, at a very small expence, be converted into an oak
wood.  This and r hazle woods, are interspersed with straggling


