
354			BERWICKSHIRE.

supplying a female labourer, his wife or daughter, or hired servant,
to be employed in the work of the farm, for daily pay, except dur-
ing harvest, when her work is given as for rent of the house which
he occupies.
   The average number of births yearly for the last seven years
amounts almost to 14. In the register, an account is kept of burials,
not of deaths; of burials the average is 8,-but this is not a cor-
rect shewing, of the mortality in the parish, because many people
being in possession of a burying-place from their parents or more
distant progenitors, inter their dead in the churchyard, who do not
reside, or may never have resided, within the parish. The average
number of marriages is 4.
The number of persons under 15 years of age,			221
		      betwixt 15 and 30,			179
		      betwixt 30 and 50,			112
		      betwixt 60 and 70,		         43
		      above 70,	  				  9
Number of families in the parish,      			         98
		   chiefly employed in agriculture,	         88
		   in trade or handicraft,			 10
   There is only one proprietor of land resident, Colonel Shil-
linglaw of Birkhillside. Some of the farmers are understood, in re-
spect to fortune, to be independent of their profession ; and, as the
farms are large, all have a considerable capital vested in stock, &c.
   John Murray, Esq. of Uplaw, although not a proprietor, should
be mentioned in an account of this parish, as his family has been
longer connected with it than any other now resident,-that family
having held the farm of Corsbie since 1671. In 1690, his ances-
tor, John Murray of Uplaw, was ordained by Mr Calderwood one
of the elders for arranging parochial affairs, then in a state of much
confusion; and seems to have possessed great influence among the
inhabitants,-an influence which his descendants have never ceased
to retain.
   Character, &c. of the People.-They are commonly sober-mind-
ed, industrious, and temperate. Their houses, are in general
good and comfortable, well furnished, and kept with great atten-
tion to cleanliness. They seldom eat butcher-meat; but they
keep a cow, have a pig, which they fatten for their families, and
get, as part of wages, more meal and potatoes than in some in-
stances they consume. They appear to enjoy in a reasonable de-
gree the comforts and advantages of society, and to be quite con-
tented with their situation and circumstances.
   During the last three years, there have been 8 illegitimate births
in the parish.


