
                              ST MADOES.                         613

bedded in the sandstone. When they do occur they are general-
ly small, very rarely so large as a pigeon's egg, always water-
worn, and belonging to the primitive rocks. In the brecciated
beds innumerable nodules appear both of brown and green matter
flatly elliptical in form, compact in texture, but soft and soapy to
the touch. These are generally supposed to be indurated clay.
     The dip of the strata varies exceedingly. In the Cot-town of
St Madoes quarry, it is about 1O&deg; tovards north-west. In that of
Clashbennic, which, to the most casual observation, presents ex-
traordinary dislocation and confusion, it will be found in one cor-
ner not more than 2&deg;, and in another as much as 36&deg; and perhaps
in opposite directions, but the grand dip of the strata is tndoubted.
ly towards north-east. The cause of peculiar disturbance in the
stratification is a local one. It is found in the protrusion of a mass
of trap, conically formed, through the strata. This exists in one
of the most dislocated portions of the quarry, and from deep work-
ing was brought into view. The apex of the trap cone might be
from sixteen to eighteen feet below the surface of the highest bed.
The Sidlaw hills, which form the northern boundary of the Carse
of Gowrie, are a trap range, and bear in them evidences of having
been lifted through the old red sandstone strata. In various parts
at different elevations, portions of these are discovered, generally
in great confusion, the lines of stratification being almost indiscer-
nible; and whenever they appear in contact with the trap they are
highly indurated. In other parts along the base of the hills, the
sandstone is found beneath the trap, the latter having manifestly
flowed over it. The ridge of sandstone already referred to, which
runs nearly parallel to the Sidlaws from the wert shde of this pa-
rish to the east of the village of Errol, in all probability owed its
elevation to the same agency by which the adjacent trap-hills were
heaved up. From the circumstance however, distinctly ascertain-
ed, that the strata to the south of the Tay have their dip and in-
clin`tion in a south-eastern direction, while generally those to the-
north of the Tay have their dip and inclination in an opposite di-
rection, the great axis of elevation applicable to both must be sought
for about the line of the present estuary of the Tay.
     Organic Remains.___Various kinds of these, some of, them high-
ly interesting, have been found in both of the fore-mentionied quar-
ries. In them, as in all of the old red sandstone quarries of the,
district, there may be perceived multitudes of circular spots, vary-
ing in diameter from one to eight or ten inches, distinguished by



