
           410                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

           attach the rents of her small estate, and imprison herself. The
	   two former were executed with the utmost rigour, and herself ob-
	   liged to fly, as is mentioned above, in her narrative to the Parlia-
	   ment. She continued in concealment in Sutherland until the year
	   1686, when, by the interest of friends, the Council allowed her to
	   return home to Pitcallion, (or Pitculzean, as it is now spelt.)
	      Dr Robertson of Kiltearn.-Here, too, the name of the late Rev.
	   Harry Robertson, D. D., minister of Kiltearn, is well entitled to a
	   place, as connected with this parish by birth. Harry, eldest son
	   of the Rev. Gilbert Robertson, minister of Kincardine, and Chris-
	   tian Bain, daughter of the Rev. John Bain, minister of Ding-
	   wall, (1716-1736,) was born at the manse of Kincardine, on the
           2d of November 1748. Having been licensed by the presbytery
	   of Tain in the year 1770, he was ordained and admitted to the
	   parish of Clyne, 8th May 1771; and translated theuce to Kiltearn,
	   on the 9th May 1776. He died at Kiltearn manse, 28th July 1815,
	   in the 67th year of his age, and 45th of his ministry.
	      Family of Ross.- The clan Ross, as far back as tradition goes,
	   were the proprietors and inhabitants of this district. They still re-
	   tain three-fourths of the property of the parish, and are by much
	   the most prevalent name in it. Vestiges of the ancient resi-
	   dence of their chiefs are to be seen in a beautiful field, between
	   the church and the sea side. The field terminates in a steep bank
	   banging over the sea, called the Bank of the Gate, and at the bot-
	   tom there is a spring of excellent water, which bears the name of
	   the Lady's Well. The chief of the clan and his most powerful and
	   confidential friends dwelt here; as pasture for cattle, with fishing
	   and hunting, the favourite employment of the Highlanders, could
	   be easily had in the greatest variety. The chief of the Rosses
	   is mentioned at a very remote period in the neighbourhood of St
	   Duthus. This must have happened when he was invested with the
	   power and jurisdiction of Thane, for the town, then a village, close
	   by the sanctuary of St Duthus, still retains the name of that
	   holy man in Gaelic, (Baile-Dhuthaich,) and in English it is cal-
	   led Tain.* The ancient earldom of Ross was created by King
	   Malcolm Ill., when he held a Parliament at Forfar about the
	   middle of the eleventh century; in the year 1221, Ferquhard
	   Ross, who founded the Abbey of Fearn, was possessor of the title,

           <FOOTNOTE>

               DutHac or Duffus was bishop of Ross temp. Alexande II., and died in 1249:
           he was of a noble family, and for his great piety was canonized, the 8th of March be-
           ing appointed as a festival day in honour of him.


