
     of Morbattle.

great tendency to call forth every active power of the hu-
man nature; to make them combat, with firmness, every
opposition that may occur, and, with resolution to over-
come the difficulties that lie in the way.  Animated with
such a prospect, they will early acquire habits of industry:
A manly spirit will stimulate the whole of their conduct,
and naturally lead them to abhor every unworthy pursuit:
Success, in a greater or less degree, will crown their lau-
dable endeavours.  A conduct and a result quite the re-
verse must infallibly characterize those unhappy creatures,
whose lot in society precludes them the hopes of ever rai-
sing their condition above that of mean servitude: The
depression of all that is manly in the soul; a rooted envy
at the prosperity of others, which they can never attain; a
chilling prospect of nothing but insignificancy, obscurity
and poverty to themselves and their offspring; and a long
train of other evils, are the natural consequences of such a
forlorn situation.  Persons, thus depressed are unavoidably
capable, and frequently willing to engage in the most ini-
quitous, base, and cruel designs.  To prevent any class of
men from falling into so deplorable a condition, every pre-
caution should be taken by the community.  This ought
especially to be done with respect to the department of
agriculture.  Encouragement should be given to the mean-
est servant of rising in the line of his business till he become
a master.  And are there not many knowing and wealthy
farmers in Britain, who can remember the time when they
were employed in the lowest service of husbandry?  This
encouragement is indeed held out to mechanics, and to
those engaged in most other pursuits of life; but this can
hardly be said to be, at present, the case with respect to
farming, in those districts, where large farms are univer-
sally adopted.  It is not in the nature of things, especially
now when the necessaries of life have risen to so high a


