
                         PENICUIK.                      45

tive in paper duty as the whole sister kingdom. The above-
mentioned machines, which require the attendance of only one man
and two lads, accomplish as much nearly as, 30 men and lads could
perform formerly by the vat; yet the continually increasing demands
and the consequent extension of the works, has kept up if not mul-
tiplied the number engaged in this manufacture. There are at
present about 400 men, women, and children, continually employ-
ed from ten to twelve hours per diem, six days in the Week;
the men receiving from 2s. to 3s. per diem, the women from 9d.
to 1s. 8d., and the children from 6d. to 10d. As the work is not,
except perhaps in its first stage of rag-cutting, unhealthy, the mills
ventillated and heated, the workers, well paid and, comfortably
lodged, no prejudicial effects result from the manufacture, and
the morals are in general very exemplary.*

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The village of Penicuik has no regular market, but its nume-
rous shops furnish at all times every necessary and luxury of do-
mestic life. It has annually two fairs, held on the third Friday
of March, and first Friday of October, chiefly for hiring servants.
The police consists of a number of special constables, who act under
the bailie of the barony; their services are seldom required. The
bailie holds a court monthly. Besides Penicuik, which contains a
population of 687 souls, there are three other hamlets in the pa-
rish, Kirkhill, with 394 souls; Howgate with about 120; and Nine-
mile-Burn with upwards of 20 families.
   Means of Communication.-Three great turnpike roads traverse
the parish from north to South, via the old Dumfries road by How-
gate; the new one by Penicuik, and a lately much improved line
by Nine-mile Burn. There is also another turnpike road recent-
ly opened, running diagonally to these, and connecting Penicuik
with Linton, while a parallel line is being carried through be-
tween Penicuik and Nine-Mile Burn. The parish is, therefore,
in all directions intersected by good roads.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is conveniently situated
in regard to the great bulk of the population, upwards 1200 souls
residing in its immediate vicinity; but it is widely removed
the eastern and western extremities of the parish, from which it is
upwards of four and six miles distant. It is a chaste structure of

<FOOTNOTE>Since these details which refer to 1836, were received, the duly on paper has
been reduced to one-half, and a great extension has followed in the production of that
article. Steam power has been required to ski that of water, often incapable of ac-
complishing the work in demand.


