
  100                     BANFFSHIRE.

  tleman and a few others have also subdivided and enclosed their
  fields with very substantial stone dikes; but in general very little
  has been done in the way of enclosing, though this is one of the
  greatest improvements for the country.
     Produce-

  <TABLE>

  The average produce of grain of all kinds may be reckoned about
        10,000 bolls.-value,                             L. 7500   0  0
        432 acres of turnip,                                2592   0  0
        108 do. of potatoes,                                 865   0  0
        60760 stones of hay,                                1518  15  0
        Value of pasture,                                   1318   0  0

                                                         L. 13,793 15 0

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     There are neither villages nor market-towns in the parish. The
  nearest market-town is' Huntly, which is about four miles from
  the parish church, but only about one mile from that part of the
  parish which is bounded by Huntly. The means of communica-
  tion enjoyed by the parish are tolerably good. Some of the by-
  roads, as it may be supposed, are very indifferent in winter or
  after much rain; but as there are about four miles of turnpike
  on the line of road from Huntly to Rhynie and Kinnethmont, on
  which two public coaches travel daily, and about one mile and a half
  through the Foudland hills, which on the one side joins the turnpike
  road from Huntly to Aberdeen, and on the other leads to the vil-
  lage of Insch in the Garioch,-the parish, upon the whole, enjoys
  considerable facilities in the way of communication with the prin-
  cipal market-towns to which the farmers have occasion to resort.
     Ecclesiastical State.- The kirk was built in the year 1621, but
  it has at different periods undergone so many repairs and changes
  that, with the exception of the steeple, there is perhaps very
  little of the old building now remaining. It was new seated,
  and otherwise substantially repaired, about twelve years ago. It
  is nearly centrical to the greater part of the population, though
  the extreme distance of a small part of it, on one side, is near-
  ly seven miles, and on the other about four.  It affords accommoda-
  tion for about 550 persons, and the sittings are all free. A very sub-
  stantial and commodious new manse was built in the year 1821.
  The grebe, including the garden and sites of the manse and offi-
  ces, is about eleven Scotch acres, and may be estimated at about
  L. 16 a year. The stipend is fourteen chalders of victual, one-half
  in barley, and the other in meal, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for affording
  communion elements. Number of families attending the Establish-
  ed Church about 160; persons of all ages, 500; number of Dissent-


