
	               LARBERT.                              355

works at their first foundation, and for some years after. He con-
ducted the management with great industry and attention. After
he had retired from the management, the works were managed by
Charles Gascoigne.
Charles Gascoigne was the son-in-law of Samuel Garbet, one
of the partners above-mentioned. Before be came to Carron,
Charles Gascoigne was a drysalter, i. e. a wholesale dealer in
drugs and chemical preparations in London. He was a man of
good abilities, and was active in promoting the improvement of the
works; but the establishment had not then become profitable, as
it afterwards did.
   Whilst Mr Gascoigne was manager of the Carron Iron-works,
an offer was made him to enter into the service of the Empress
Catherine 11. of Russia, who wanted to have iron-works erected
in her dominions, for the purpose of making cast-iron guns, cast-
iron shot, and shells. This offer was made through the medium
of the late Admiral Greig, a native of Inverkeithing, and at that
time a distinguished admiral in the Russian service. When a man
is tolerably at ease in his circumstances, he does not readily re-
nounce his country, and become the liege-subject, the bondman,
of another sovereign. He would think it degrading and disho-
nourable to take such a step. But Mr Gascoigne was in diffi-
culties-he was not even with the world-his affairs were embarras-
sed and insolvent. Being thus disagreeably situated in his native
country, Mr Gaqcoigne was in a fit disposition to quit it, and seize
the opportunity presented to him of trying whether fortune would
be more favourable to his projects in the dominions of the Czarina.
He was a man of the world, able and enterprising; consequently, he
accepted the offer, and went to Russia, taking with him, although
contrary to law, several skilful workmen from Carron, who were able
to erect and conduct the different parts and branehes of an iron-work.
By these means, he crected iron-works for the Russian Government
at Petrozavodsky, and afterwards for smelting iron by pit coal,
at a place near the Black Sea, and the country of the Don Cos-
sack. Charles Gascoigne was Knight of the order of St Wladimir,
and had the rank of General in the Russian service. He died

   <FOOTNOTE>Petrozavodsky a town of7500 inhabitants, the capital of the government of Olo-
netz, situated near the lake Onega; Latitude 61&deg; 48/; 210 English miles north.
east of St Petersburg, With which it has a communication, part of the way, by water-
carriage. At this place the Russian government has iron smelting-furnaces, worked
with charcoal of wood, an iron cannon-foundery, anchor-forges, and other works for the
use of the navy andartillery. Some of these works were established by the Czar Peter I.

<MAP=Arthur's Onn from the drawing of Gordon in 1725>


