
          BROUGHTON, GLENHOLM, AND KILBUCHO.                  79

the three, is a lovely green solitary height, declining suddenly
to the Tweed on the one side, and on the other rising with a
gentle acclivity from Holms water.  The rest of the eminences
are continuous chains or mountainous ranges.  One of these ridges,
which separates Broughton from Stobo and Kirkurd, extends for
more than three miles from south to north; another, which divides
Glenholm from Kilbucho and Culter, runs for nearly five miles
from north-east to south-west, and a third runs parallel with the
Tweed in a southerly direction for upwards of three miles; a fourth
range passes through the middle of the old parish of Kilbucho
from east to west for about two miles; and a fift, though of less
elevation, divides the parish of Broughton into tow unequal parts.
These heights are in general steep, but accessible.  Culterfell,
which is partly in Glenholm, is 2430 feet above the level of the
sea.  Cardon, in the immediate neighbourhood, with Chapelgill
attached to it, is nearly as high.  The other remarkable heights
are Mossfennan Wormwell, and Blakup, in Glenholm; Pyket-
stane and Broughton-hop in Broughton, which vary from 1500 to
1800 feet above the level of the sea; and Goseland in Kilbucho,
of almost equal altitude.  Between those chains or ridges above-
mentioned are some fine fertile valleys.
  Glenholm, in particular, is a delightful pastoral vale, stretching
from the site of the old church about four miles, and intersected
by a limpid stream, whose windings cheat the eye so as to render
it doubtful whether it be flowing up or down the glen.  Its tribu-
tary streams descent through Glenhigton, Glencotho, Glenkirk,
and Glenlude.  At the confluence of each of there rills with Holms
water, stands the dwelling of a shepherd, around which a Sabbath-
like serenity reighns, save when the gathering or shearing, or wash-
ing of the sheep takes place, as described by the poet,

          "Urged to the giddy brink much is the toil,
          The clamour much of men and boys, and dogs,
          Ere the soft fearful people to the flood
          Commit their woolly sides."

  Biggar water, which forms the boundary betwixt the Broughton
on the north, and the Glenholm and Kilbucho divisions of the pa-
rish on the south, pervades a tract of moss and meadow, receiving
in its course the tribute of Kilbucho and Broughton burs, and
Holms water; and after its junction with the last, becomes the boun-
dary for half a mile betwixt Stobo and Glenholm.  Broughton burn
falls into it at a right angle from the north, and Kilbucho burn and
Holms water at similar angles from the south or south-west, and


