
                           PETERHEAD.                         367

ing.  As has been before-mentioned, a carding and spinning-mill,
on a small scale, has lately been erected on the estate of Boddam;
and if the projector of it shall be successful, others may be indu-
ced to commence works of a similar nature, a sufficient quantity of
water could be accumulated as a moving power, and there are va-
rious falls unoccupied.
   From the increase of population in Peterhead, the excellence
of the harhours, the highly cultivated district adjoining the con-
sequent abundance of provisions, and the excellent and cheap ma-
terials for building, found in the neighbourhood, it may be pre-
sumed that those having a knowledge of manufactures would find it
their interest to settle at Peterhead.
   Brick-work.-The Invernettie brick-work has been in operation
for about forty years.  It is now within the Parliamentary boundary
of the burgh, and is situated about a mile to the south of the town.
The bed of clay is wrought to the depth of thirty to forty feet.
Building bricks and tiles of excellent quality are made at this work ;
and, besides what are required in the district, a very considerable
quantity is exported annually, chiefly to the Moray Frith.  The
proprietors have lately erected a small harbour in the immediate
vicinity of the work, for the accommodation of their trade.
   Rope-work.A rope-work is carried on, on the west side of the
turnpike road, between the town and the brick-work, and another
in the town.  The business done is considerable, chiefly in mak-
ing ropes for ships belonging to Peterhead, or frequenting the port.
   Gas-work-In 1833 a joint-stock company was established in
Peterhead for the manufacture of gas.  The buildings are situated
in Longate, and the business is conducted by a board of directors
and a manager.
   Kelp or Sea-ware.-The kelp shores in this parish during the
late war were of considerable value, yielding a rental of upwards
of L. 120 per annum.  They are now unlet, as it has been found
here that kelp will not yield more than the expense of manufac-
turing it ; it is, therefore, of importance to find out any other use-
ful purpose to which the sea-ware or fuci can be applied.  It will
be found that the kelp-ware may be cut, dried, and carried to a
considerable distance at less expense than the wet ware cast on
shore by the violence of the sea; and a single cart-load of dried
ware is equal to six cart-loads of wet ware,-for example, a cart-
load may be cut and carried on shore for 6d. and dried for 3d.,
which is equal to 4s. 6d. for a load of dried ware; and as six loads


