
338			    ABERDEENSHIRE.

parish belong to the Established Church.  There are four places
of worship within it, two of them in connection with the Esta-
blishment, and two with the communion of Scotch Episcopaliani.
The parish church was built in 1808.  It is a large and commodious
structure, well situated for the parish generally, and contains suf-
ficient accommodation.  The former unwieldy bf this pa-
rish is now grealtly improved by the erection, in the year 1883, of
a new church at Millbrex, in the north-east quarter of it, and the
annexation of a considerable portion of territory to it :  Besides
this there are two small annexations, quoad sacra, of portions of
this parish to adjoining parishes, one on the south to the parish
of Daviot, with a population of about 70, one on the west to the
parish of Rayne, with a population of about 40. The gross po-
pulation of the district that still remains under the charge of the
parish minister is about 2500.  The people are regular in attend-
ance upon public worship.  The average number of the congrega-
tion in the parish church may be stated at 1000.
   The manse was built in 1830, and offices in 1831.  They are
very complete and commodious, and bear evidence of a liberal
spirit in the heritors, and a desire on their part that the clergy
should partake of the higher measure of comfort that now obtains
in society.  The present stipend is 16 1/2 chalders of victual, one-
half in meal, the other in bear, converted at the fiars' prices, with
L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.  The glebe is small but
fertile.
   The church of Millbrex, built in 1833, enlarged in 1836, and
containing about 500 sittings, is placed so as to accommodate the
northern quarter of this parish, with a portion of the adjoining pa-
rish of Montquhitter.  There is a population annexed to it of nearly
1000 souls, viz. from Fyvie, 739; from Montquhitter, 250.  The
Earl of Aberdeen, the principal proprietor of the district where
it is situated, gave the handsome donation of L. 100 towards its
erection, together with a site for the building, an allocation of
kind as glebe for the minister, and a privilege of fuel; and the
people of the two parishes of Fyvie and Montquhitter contributed
liberally.  In the year 1835, a manse and office-houses were built
at Millbrex, also by subscription, within the two parishes interested,
with the assistance of the presbytery of Turriff.  They are, particu-
larly the former, substantial and commodious.  The whole ex-
pense of the buildings, &c. connected with this establishment may
be stated at L. 600.  It is entirely cleared, with the exception


