
         			ANWOTH.                 385

the patron. The number of communicants in the parish church
has not of late years been less than 250, nor more than 300.
There is a Dissenting chapel in Anwoth at Fleet Street, belong-
ing to the Secession, but only about forty persons in the parish
attend it. The number of Roman Catholics is about 20. There
are a few " Free Church" adherents in the parish, who attend
public worship in Gatehouse. The following is a list of the mi-
nisters of the parish since the Revolution : Michael Bruce, 1689;
Thomas Hay, 1696; George Garthshore, 1714; William Ainslie,
1724; John Welsh, 1727;, Robert Carson, 1753; Willham Gor-
done, 1770; Hugh Gordon, 1790; Thomas Turnbull, 1809;
Thomas Johnstone, 1839.
	Education.--There is one parish school with the maximum sa-
lary, besides two Sabbath schools. The salary of the parochial
teacher is the maximum. There are 20 children whose parents
are unable to pay school fees, who receive their education gratis.
	Poor.--The number of paupers on the permanent roll is 16;
on the occasional, 6. There is no legal assessment. The church
collections on Sabbath average fiilly L. 40 yearly ; and there is an
annual income of L. 4, 10s. 4d. from a mortification ; in addition to
which there is a small sum, varying in amount, from the usual
parochial sources. But the heritors voluntarily contribute such a
sum additional (generally about L. 30) as may be required for the
support of the poor. From the poor's funds are paid the salaries
of the precentor, beadle, session-clerk, presbytery and synod clerks
and presbytery officer. The total sum disbursed in 1843 was
L. 80. Mr Murray of Broughton makes an annual allowance to
a medical man for attending the poor, both in Girthon and An-
woth. There is no pawnbroker's shop in the parish ; nor is there
any begging on the part of the inhabitants.
	Inns.--There are two inns, both in Fleet Street.
	Savings Bank.--There is no institution of this kind in the pa-
rish ; but not a few of the parishioners take advantage of the sav-
ings bank in Gatehouse.
	Library.--There is one circulating library in the parish.

			   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Anwoth, from its being chiefly a pastoral parish, has perhaps
undergone as few changes within the last fifty years as any other
district in the south of Scotland. There are, however, some de-
partments in which a favourable contrast may be drawn, within
that period. A new turnpike road has been made through the
	KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                        B b


