
44                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

equal, perhaps, to fully one-third of all the other produce of the
farm. Within the last thirty years, much attention has been paid
to improve the breed, both of horses and cattle; and towards this,
agricultural associations have aided much. The convenience of
sending marketable live-stock to London by steam-vessels is look-
ed forward to with much pleasure. No sheep are reared in this
parish.
        Husbandry.-The convertible system of husbandry is universal-
ly followed. The four, five, six, and seven shifts are tried, but the
five and six are the most common, i. e. two years grass, one year
oats, one year turnips, one year barldy with grass seeds; or two
years grass, two years oats, one year turnips, one year barley with
grass seeds.  Oats, Chester, and barley, or bear, are the grains com-
monly raised, and a change of seed every fourth year is found very
beneficial. Wheat and pease do not generally succeed. Beans are
beginning to be tried, and seem to do pretty well. A considerable
breadth of potatoes is now always planted. The purple and the
speckled, or large American as it is called, are found generally the
best and most profitable crop. A few partial failures of the pota-
toe crop have happened within these two years, but not from seed
raised in the parish. A few tares are commonly sown for green
fodder for horses and cows, towards the end of the year.
	The agricultural part of operations is, in general, conducted with
much skill and neatness. Lime, until peace prices with war rents
took place, was plentifully applied, which in most cases answered
well, particularly with newly reclaimed land and sown grass, but
is now much more sparingly used. Bone-dust is becoming gene-
rally used in part for turnips, which seems to answer pretty well
with them, but a half dunging is found necessary for the next crop
with grass seeds. The usual duration of leases is nineteen years.
The tenant is bound to the rules of good husbandry, but is gene-
rally allowed tn consult his own advantage, unless where some very
unfair dealing appears. Farm-buildings, with a few exceptions,
are but very indifferent; and there are hardly any enclosures in the
parish, except temporary ones of paling, which have now become
common, and are found to be more advantageous in every respect,
than to have the corn eaten, and the cattle constantly driven about
by a careless and merciless boy.
	An active spirit of improvement has prevailed here particularly for
the last twenty years, and much waste ground has been reclaimed and
brought into full cropping during that time. To some farms, from


