
570			GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

schools; and in the dress and appearance of the people, and all
the markets for produce and necessaries,--this may be almost con-
sidered as a new county; so greatly has it been improved in less
than fifty years; and now England and Scotland enjoy the bene-
fits of their union, to their mutual advantage, and to a great ex-
tent.
	6. One obvious cause of this advance in prosperity has been
the constant and growing encouragement in the markets for land
produce, which has gone on for a long period, notwithstanding
some years or times of stagnation; and if the present state of the
markets would improve, the tide of advance would soon recom-
mence, and the cultivated lands of this county might be farther
meliorated and rendered more productive, perhaps to an extent
equal to all that has yet been done for them. In 1656, a return
of the valued rents of the land was made up for all Scotland, and
those of Dumfries-shire came in Sterling money to rather above
L. 13,000; hut in 1808, the returns of the same lands had risen
to above L. 200,000, about sixteen times the land rents of 1656.
It appears, indeed, from the statistical reports made up from forty to
fifty years ago, that even then the real rents of land were advan-
ced to eight times the old valued rents on the average of Scotland;
and that in some counties they were twelve times as great. These
are unquestionable facts, long before the public, and never se-
riously contradicted, being incapable of refutation. It may be
stated, that, according to a statement of the numbers, duties, and
livings of the clergy of Scotland in 1807, the average prices of
the necessaries of life had risen to five times the prices only fifty
years before. It is certain that land rents rose in Dumfries-shire
much above those of 1808; but that events occurred thereafter
to reduce them by abatements and otherwise, so that now, after
twenty-seven years, the amount is not more, perhaps, than in 1808.
	7. The agriculture of Dumfries-shire may be considered as a
national object. The lands which are devoted to farming, and
whose rental is about L. 200,000, at twenty-five years purchase
are worth five millions Sterling; and the buildings have cost the
land proprietors, at two and a half years rents, another half million.
The farmers do not find it safe to enter on leases with less than
about L. 5 of capital and credit per arable acre in course of culti-
vation, which, for 160,000 acres in the rotation fields, added to
10s. per acre for nearly three times as great an extent not in cul-
tivation, would indicate in all a farming capital ef about one mil-


