
     of Edderachylis.

tarmigans, wild-pigeons, partridges, and all kinds of small
birds, with great varieties of sea sowls.
   There are in the parish considerable woods, in the more in-
land part, fir for building houses, and making farm untensils,
mostly birch, and far from the shore: those which antiently
grew upon the shore, of which there are still some remains in
different places, have been destroyed.
   There are appearances of mines in this parish, which have
never yet been investigated by persons of skill, as well as white
marble, particularly in Fomme bhein, a part of the deer forest.
Near Island Hands, upon the main land, is found a kind of
light grey coloured stone, heavy, and perfectly free of sand
and gritty matter, and of so fine a consistence as to admit of
being cut and fashioned with a kinse, and bored through with
a gimlet, without these tools being hurt by it.  It is used by
many for sinkers to their haud lines in fishing.
   The air is reckoned wholesome, though often damp from
the vicinity of the ocean, and of very high mountain, but the
frequency of very violent storms purishes it.  The thatched hou-
fes, which all the houses here are to a very few, require a new
cover every year to render them water tight; and the stuff u-
sed for this purpose is either straw, long grass, rushes, fern, or
heath; but this cover must be bound artfully with new hopes made
of either heath, straw, or the crops of trees twisted, all which
occasions no small trouble and expence to the inhabitants, yet
without them, every house would insallibly be unroosed, and
destroyed in a short time.  Rains here are frequent and heavy,
but not quite to frequent as in most places to the S. of this
coast, and the weather is generally milder; for though snow
falls deep sometimes, and remains long upon the highest moun-
tains, yet upon the shore it is seldom of any continuance, for
the exposure to the S. W. and the shelter from the storms of
the N. and E. by the hills and rocks, render the hibirations

     P p 2


