
514                          FORFARSHIRE.

merly, as stated in last Statistical Account, great numbers of lob-
sters taken and shipped to London (16,000 in a season); but
the breed has been much exhausted, as now, not 1000 are got
during a-year. Haddocks are taken in great plenty, and are either
smoked and taken to the Dundes market, or sold fresh in Ar-
broath and through the country. Their price, for full size, varies
from 10d. to 1s. 6d. per dozen. Skate and halibut are also taken;
the latter are sold by weight, at 1d. per pound. Almost the whole
boats annually depar to the north, on the second week of July,
to the herring-fishing, where they remain for about six weeks;
and each boat confracts for 200 crans, at prices varying between
9s. and 13s. per cran with two bottles of spirits to each man
weekly; and most of the boats, for a number of years, have made
up their number of crans. Their bait for white-fishing is dragged
for in the mouth of the Tay, or purchased from the lessees in the
mouth of the Eden, and deposited among the rocks near their own
village, till required.
	The firhers are a stout, healthy, and generally sober people,
The pilotage of the entrance to the Tay, however, threatens to
introduce the employment of their money with less economy and
sobriety than formerly.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Eeclesiastical State.-The parish church is of the old Anglo.
Saxon order of architecture, with nave, and arches, and side aisles.
Besides being dedicated to St Vigeans, St Sebastian also had a
chapel in it, which was supported by a small mortified sum.  It is
built beside the Brothock, on a rock of the soft variegated sand-
stone formerly described, which evidently had been left when a
more powerful stream than the present flowed through the valley.
There are similar rocky knolls in the same gle, and at the mouth
of the Luman and Elliot. In the churchyard, there formerly stood
a large cross over the grave of some person of eminence, richly
carved in hieroglyphical figures of the kind found on sepulchral
stone in some other places of Scotland. The cross has been
long agon demolished, but the stalk remains, with characters at the
base, hitherto undecyphered. There is a square tower by way of
spire at the end of the church, once, no doubt, a sanctuary for of-
fenders. It had three stories, and is said to have accommodated
the officiating monk during his turn of service in the church. *

<FOOTNOTE>The teinds of this parish were greated by William I., wish consent of Hagh,
Bishop of St Andrews, to the Abbey of Arbrouth, being the first grant of teinds so


