
160	                   RENFREWSHIRE.

Levern and Locher, immense quantities ironstone may be
observed cropping out on the banks of those streams.  The de-
tached ironstone bands and balls, which are to be found as con-
comitant strata of almost all the coal-works in the county, are also
worthy of notice." " It is therefore highly probable that a mineral
which the county contains in such profusion, will in some future
period be held in higher estimation prove an addition to the wealth
and importance of this county, and give a new spring to the in-
genuity and exertion of its inhabitants." *
   Botany. +-The surface of the Abbey parish, being considerably
deversified with hill and heath, wood and glen, fields of various
soils, marshes, and running waters, it necessarily presents many
congenial habitats for wild plants.  The hills are not, however, suf-
ficiently high to produce any decidedly characteristic effect upon
their Flora: nor is the parish so circumstanced as that it can boast
of the particular plants to be found near the sea-shore.  The num-
ber, therefore, of what may be termed rare plants may not be so
numerous as in some localities, yet their variety is amply sufficient
both to interest and to instruct the student of nature.
   The high grounds in the parish, known by the name of Stane-
ley, Gleniffer, and Ferneeze hills, which consist entirely of por-
phyritic and other trap rocks, whose soil is, for the most part, of
a moorish nature, and which slope towards the north, are in many
places covered with the Ulex, Cytisus, and Pteris aquilina, but, on
certain dry and sheltered localities, the following among many other
plants occur, viz. Epipactis latifolia, Listera ovata, Gymnadenia
conopsea, Jasione montana, Erythraea Centaurium, Gentiana cam-
pestris, Campanula rotundifolia, Vaccinium Myrtillus, Gnaphalium
dioicum and minimum, Viola canina, lutea, tricolor, &c.  On
the more marshy grounds the Orchis maculata, mascula and lati-
folia are abundant, together with Parnassia, Ajuga, Comarum, Eu-
phrasia, Pedicularis, Cardamine, various species of Ranunculus, Po-
lygala vulgaris of various colours, and Prunella vulgaris, both blue
and white.
   In the high mossy districts, the Calluna vulgaris, Erica tetralix,
Vaccinium Oxycoccos, Narthecium Ossifragum, Pinguicula vulga-
ris, Drosera rotundifolia, and in Paisley moss, D. longifolia, where

<FOOTNOTE>Wilson's Survey, p. 25.
   The notices respecting the Botany and Zoology of the parish have been furnished
by Dr A. R. Young, formerly of this town, but now resident at Dunoon,-an in-
dividual distinguished for his knowledge in both of these departments of natural
science.


