
                        BALMERINO.                       585

  The Abbey of Balmerino seems to have been richly endowed,
when we consider the abstemious habits and severe rules enjoined
upon the order. Queen Emergarde bestowed upon it the lands
of Cultrach, Balmurynach and Ardin, which she bought from Sir
Adam de Stawell for 1000 merks Sterling;* and she left 200
merks, to be bestowed by her executors in purchasing from Lau-
rence de Abernithy, a full resignation of his interest in the lands
of Cultrach, Balnedan, Balnedart, Corteby and Balmurynach.
King Alexander granted the foundation charter on 3d February
1230,+ and added to the lands bestowed by his mother, the church
and lands of Lochmure (?) in Angus and Petgornoc and Drum-
dol in Fife. David de Lindesay gives it an annuity out of his mill
of Kirkhuet, which was confirmed by King Alexander II. in 1233.
The preceptory of Gadvan, near Denbog, in Fife, with the house
and lands, belonged also to this abbey ; and two or three monks
of their order constantly resided in that place. t
  Balmerino, in the course of the thirteenth, or early in the
fourteenth century, received several benefactions from persons of
the family of Kynner, of lands in the territories of Kynner and
Cotholoc ; a fishing in Tay from Sir David de Berkeley of Brechin;
the quarry of Nydin from Hugh de Nydin; and numerous small
burgage possessions in Perth, Dundee, Crail, and Anstruther.
In the year 1561, at the time of the dissolution of the monasteries,
the revenues of this abbey were, in money L.704, 2s. 101/2d.; wheat,
4 chalders; oats, 1 chalder, 14 bolls, I firlot, 3 1/2 pecks; meal, 15
chalders, 12 bolls, 2 firlots; bear 21 chalders, 12 bolls, 3 firlots,
l 1/2 peck; total 43 chalders, 6 bolls, 3 firlots, I peck; and 763
poultry.
  The monks of Balmerino did not always adhere rigidly to the
rules of their order. With the progress of their wealth, and the
benefactions which were from time to time bestowed upon them,
they became gradually more and more relaxed in their habits, till
they came, according to the Franciscan of Buchanan, to share in
all the corruptions of the times. In 1533, a special commission
was appointed to visit and reform the monasteries thoughout Scot-
land. The faults which particularly called forth this animadver-
sion, were infringements of the rule which forbade the brethren to
possess any private property, but to have all things in common;

<FOOTNOTE>  Anno 1225, Chartul of Balmerinoch, Advocates Library.       + Ibid.
 + Keith's Scottish Bishops, edited by Dr Russell, 1824.
  Harleian M SS. 2363. Monastic Annals of Tiviotdale.


