
                          LIBERTON.                      23

pend, on an average of seven years, ending in 1835, was, L. 326.
14s. 7d.; but it was only augmented to its present amount in 1830.
  New Churches.-There is a new church in the parish, erected
in connexion with the General Assembly's Church Extension
Scheme, for which the people are in a great measure indebted to
the zeal of Mr Anderson of Moredun.  Several of the other he-
ritors have contributed handsomely towards its erection and
support.  It is erected in Gilmerton, and was opened on the
20th April 1837.  It is seated for 300 people.  It cost, includ-
ing the expense of the gate and walls, L. 600, raised, partly by
subscription, and partly by a grant from the Assembly's Commit-
tee.  It is quite free from debt.  The ground on which it is erect-
ed, and which extends to 1 rood, 20 poles, and 20 yards imperial
measure, is feued by the Liberton kirk-session from fair David Baird
for L. 2 a-year.  A constitution for this church was granted by the
Assembly in 1838, and the first minister, the Rev.  Walter Fair-
lie from Whitehaven, was inducted on the 16th of August of the
same year.  The new parish contains a population of nearly 1100
persons, the greatest distance of any of the people from church be-
ing scarcely more than one mile.  It is bounded by Lasswade, Dal-
keith, Newton, and Liberton.  The minister of the new church
receives L. 80 a-year, raised by a subscription of L. 5 a-year each,
from a number of gentlemen, chiefly connected with Liberton, and
by annual collections here and at Gilmerton.  But we are ear-
nestly expecting a more secure and competent endowment from
Government.  The seats are all free, and the collections, amount-
ing to from L.32 to L.35 annually, after defraying the necessary
expenses, are given to the poor.  At the first dispensation of the
Lord's Supper in the new church the number of communicants
was 130, but this number issligbtly diminished, owing to the break-
ing up of the colliery.  A subscription has been commenced, for
the building of a manse to the minister of Gilmerton, which amounts
already to L. 180.  Great and obvious good has already. resulted
from the erection of this church.
  Missionaries.-There was a catechist employed in this parish
last year under the management of the kirk-session, and, supported
by a subscription, which amounted to about L.34.   His place has
not been, supplied.  A missionary is at present employed in the
eastern district of the parish, and in parts of the parishes of Inver-
esk,,Duddingston, and Portobello, where  it would, be most desirable
to have a new church erected.  The missionary is a  licentiate to


