
				ALVES.                         101


	  Library.-There is one parochial library; it is stationed at
	Bishopmill.
	  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
	receiving parochial aid is 28.  The average sum allotted to each
	yearly is 18s.; the annual amount of church collections is L.20; the
 	annual amount of interest for money lent out from the poors' fund
 	is nearly L.11.  There is an independent disposition among the
	poor, restraining them from seeking parochial relief, while they
	are healthy and able to work; but when old age or distress comes
	upon them, they do not consider it as degrading to apply for relief,
	  Alehouses.- There is no inn in the parish, and but four alehouses,
	two of which are toll-houses; and the fewness of these is, without
	doubt, much in favour of the morals of the people.
	  Fuel.-Some peats and turf are still used for fuel, as also a
	good deal of wood; but the principal fuel, and perhaps the cheap-
	est is English coal, imported to Burghead and Lossiemouth, at an
	average price of about Is. 1Od. per barrel.

	  October 1835.


				PARISH OF ALVES.

		      PRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY.

	             THE REV.  ALEXANDER GENTLE, MINISTER.


		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	  Extent, Boundaries.-THE boundary of this parish is irregular,
       especially towards the north.  It includes about one mile of the
       coast of the Moray Frith, half way between Burghead and Find-
       born; and for about a mile and a half inland, the parish is confin-
       ed to a mile in breadth b Duffus on the east, and Kinloss on
       the west, along the sea coast; after which, it extends in breadth,
       east and west, about 5 1/2 miles.  The south boundary is the
       ridge the hill of Pluscarden, which is about 6 1/2 miles from the
       sea.  The church and manse, situated on the north of the turnpike,
       are readily observed by passengers about midway between Elgin
       and Forres.  On the south, Alves joins the landward part of the
       parish of Elgin; on the east, the parish of  New Spynie; on the
       north, the parish of Duffus, the coast of the Moray Frith, and part


