
                        AUCHTERGAVEN.                         433

Drummond Stewart, Bart. of Gr`ndtully; * James Wylie, Esq. of
Airlywight; Robert Robertson, Esq. of Tullybelton; and the poor
of the parish of Cockslands, under the management of the kirk-
session.  The lands of Tullybeagles belong to Lady Keith.  The
Duchess of Atholl has her locality lands in this parish.
  Parish Begisters. + The first entry in the parish register is
dated 7th December 1740.  Since that time the cash collected
at the church for the poor, the dates of marriages and baptisms,
and the minutes of the kirk-session, as well as the money distri-
buted to the poor, have been regularly kept; and are contained
in four folio voluimes: the fourth having been provided lately for
keeping a roll of male heads of families communicants, in compli-
ance with the regulations for carrying into effect the recent act of
the General Assembly on Calls.
  Antiquities.-In the vicinity of the Stare Dam, at Meikle Ob-
ney, in the farm of Middle Blelock, and at some other places of
the parish, are found instances of those large rude blocks of stone
set on end, so common in Scotland, and of which the original de-
sign is so imperfectly known.  To the north of Balwharn in the
lands of Tullybeagles, were found, a few years ago, at the ruins of
an old chapel, some old coins, and presented, it is said, to the Li-
terary and Antiquarian Society of Perth.  On the south m`rch of
Berryhill farm, in the same lands of Tullybeagles, there is the
site of another chapel, where there was a burying-place, where hu-
man bones have been recently dug up; and till of late, the people
in the neighbourhood used on the first Sabbath of May, to drink
out of the Holy Well there.  This sacred place is on the banks of
the Ordie.  On the banks of the Tay, near Stanley, are the remains
of an old castle or round tower, called Inchbervis, and by some,
Inverbervie, of which nothing now is known, except a tradition that
it was at one time a religious house in connection with the Abbey

<FOOTNOTE> Sir John died in May last in Paris; his remains were brought to Dundes by
steam, and were interred in the family burying ground at Murthly on the 6th of June
1638.  The tenantry, to the number 0f 400, were at the funeral.  He is succeeded
by his brother William, who is at present in North America.
    + The parish registers must have got into disorder durin a vacancy: for on the
23d February 1741, not many weeks after the present register colmences, is the fol-
lowing minute. " Session constituted by Mr M'Lagan, minister of Little Dunkeld,
In regard there has been for some time no register of sessional deed in this parish,
nor any clerk's fee, the session this day enact, that for the future one be kept, and
that the sum of twelvd pounds Scots be paid yearly to their clerk for that purpose.
They also appoint their present clerk to buy a book at their expense, for entering
their records." The clerk at this time was Mr Kemp, schoolmaster of the parish
afterwards minister of the parish of Gask, and father of the late Dr Kemp, one of the
ministers of the Tolbooth Church, Edinburgh.
    PERTH.                                    E e


