
                             LAUDER.                             3

is inclined to clay, and, there is also a considerable quantity of
rich loam upon a gravelly or sandy bottom.
   Botany.-Till lately there were but few plantations in the pa-
rish. The oldest is Egrop or Edgarhope wood, comprehending
about 100 acres. It is situated on the side of a hill, in the upper
part of which grow chiefly the larch and the Scottish fir, while
towards the bottom it abounds with oak, elm, and ash. In the
park at Thirlstane Castle there am some remarkably fine hard-
wood trees of great dimensions. An elm, the largest in the park,
measures in girth, at three feet from the ground, fifteen feet.
These trees am probably 150 years old. On the estate of the
Earl of Lauderdale various new plantations, covering several hun-
dred acres, and designed with much taste, have been recently exe-
cuted, and appear to be thriving admirably. At Chapel, too,
in the southern part of the parish, there are ninety acres under
wood, fir, ash, oak, and beech, to the growth of which, especially of
the two last species, the soil in that quarter is most congenial.
                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-From the chartularies of monasteries, and
the title-deeds of certain estates, it appears that, as a kirk town,
Lauder is as ancient at least as the reign of David I.; that it, with
its lands on Leader water, was granted by that monarch to Sir
Hugh Moreville, constable of Scotland; that his territorial rights
descended to a long succession of heirs, chiefly females, who in-
troduced the Lords of Galloway and the Baliols; and that, when
for their political delinquencies these were deprived of their estates,
Lauder and its territory became the property of Sir James Doug-
las, and afterwards of the Earl of Angus. The lands of Thirlstane,
in the parish were granted by Sir Hugh Moreville to one of his,
friends, whose grand-daughter, the heiress of Thirlstane, married,
Sir Richard Mautaland or Maitland, the ancestor of the present-
noble family of Maitland, to which the greatest part of the parish
now belongs. In former times, Lauderdale, which now forms one
of the three large divisions of the county, was a separate Regality,
or almost independent jurisdiction, under the name of a Bailiary.
   The town of Lauder is the only royal burgh in the county. Its
original charter having been destroyed, it obtained from James IV.,
in 1502, a new charter, which was confirmed by act of Parlia-
ment dated the 28th June 1633. Lauder has also been the seat
of the presbytery of the bounds since the year 1768,-the former
seat, Earlston, being convenient for the accommodation of the


