
436                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

to the inhabitants of the district. The rock is about forty feet
thick; it rests on sandstone, and is itself surmounted by thick beds
of shale alternating with thin beds of clay ironstone. In addition
to these sedimentary rocks, we have whinstone in abundance, al-
most everywhere. It is found cropping out in many parts of the
lower district, but not in such masses as to disturb the general
level. On the central terrace, it forms craggy prominences at
Hallcraig and Lawhead, and in Corston Hill it appears often
enough to show that of it chiefly the hill is composed. This
neighbourhood affords some interesting illustrations of the ig-
neous theory of the origin of trap. At raw it is seen bursting
through, and, in its course, turning up the ends of the strata; at
Lawhead and at Red craig, it is spread out above them; and in
a quarry to the north of Auchinoon farm-house, we find it capped
by another rock evidently stratified, but very different from those
of that class which prevails in the district. The probability is,
that it is shale or sandstone, altered by contact with the igneous
mass when first raised into its present position.
   The parish may also be considered as rich in the geological
records of former ages. Several of the layers of the workable
limestone consist almost entirely of shells, and the superimposed
shale abounds in impressions of plants in great variety, and some
of them of great beauty. The freestone quarries also afford nu-
merous specimens of fossil ferns. Although the system of rocks,
which underlies the parish, is supposed to be closely connected
with the coal measures, no coal has ever been worked in it. A
seam was discovered by boring on the estate of Ormiston, a con-
siderable time ago, but no shaft was sunk; and, more recently, a
mine was driven into the north side of Auchinoon Hill, the pro-
perty of the Earl of Morton, where a bed about twenty inches
thick crops out in the bank of a small stream, but the quality was
not deemed such as to encourage farther operations.
   The alluvium over the greater part of the north end of the pa-
rish is made up of a mixture of clay and sand, abounding in blocks
of rolled whinstone. In some spots, there are beds of coarse gra-
vel, and in other, deposits of pure sand of considerable depth.
The soil here is of good quality, and produces excellent crops of
all kinds. To the south, the subsoil is yellow clay, with a much
smaller admixture of sand, and has a less abundant covering of
vegetable mould. On the tops of the hills, the soil is a turfy
loam, exchanged in a few spots of limited dimensions for peat-
earth.


