
18	          	   FORFARSHIRE.

There are several large and handsome halls, and among the mo-
dern public buildings are to be noticed the Royal Infirmary; the
Royal Lunatic Asylum; a splendid coffee-room; and there is in
the course of being built an elegant Academy.
	Churches.-The churches, with the exception of St David's,
lately erected at the north-western district of the parish, stand in
the centre of the town; and as a new street has lately been open-
ed from them leading to the river,-and as these buildings within
these last six years have undergone great repairs, and their pris-
tine look has in a great measure been restored, they now exhibit
a magnificent spebtacle to the beholder. *
	Rpinning-Mills.-Among the modern buildings in this place,
the spinning-mills are not to be overlooked,-upon account of their
number, the multitude of persons employed, the capital therein
vested, and the profits which from them have been derived. Till
within these last thirty years, the spinning of yarns was effect-
ed by hand-wheels, and in this way a great proportion of the female
population earned their bread. But about or before that period,
attempts had been made to spin flax by means of machinery erected
in mills. The attempt was found to succeed so well, and to do the
work so much better and cheaper, and more expeditiously than the
former way, that the number of mills has increased in this town
during the last twenty years. By this invention the wealth of many
individuals has been much increased, the trade being now carried
on to a much greater extent than what could possibly have been
done in the old way of hand-spinning. It is a question, however,
whether the invention has contributed to the improvement of the
morals of those employed. Aware of the demoralizing tendency
of such great works, not a few of the masters have introduced schools
into them, at which the labourers may have the benefit of educa-
tion; and in some there are also Sabbath schools.

			III.-POPULATION.

	The destructinn or abstraction of the ancient records of the
town during itr various sieges, and especially when it was stormed
by Monck in 1651, prevents us giving any thing like a satisfactory
account of its population in earlier times. There are some Coun-
cil minutes dated as far back as 1587, and a record of the names of
burgesses beginning in 1513; but these throw little light on the

<FOOTNOTE>See branch of Parochial Economy in this Account.


