
                         PARISH OF LINTON.

        PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

              THE REV. ALEXANDER FORRESTER, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name and Boundaries.-LINTON no doubt derives its name from
Lyne, one of the tributary streams of Tweed, rising out of that high
ground which separates the county from Mid-Lothian on the north,
and is a continuation of the Pentland range. In former times, it ap-
pears to have been written Lyneton and Lynton. There is a parish
of the same name in the county of Roxburgh. There is also a con-
siderable village so called, in the county of East-Lothian and pa-
rish of Prestonkirk; and there are several parishes in England of
the name of Linton.
   It is bounded on the east by Pennycuik; on the south by New-
lands, and Kirkurd; on the west by Dolphinton and Dunsyre;
and on the north by West-Calder, Mid-Calder, and Kirknewton.
It is distant sixteen miles from Edinburgh, and is understood to con-
tain about twenty-five square miles.
   Meteorology-Climate.-Situated 600 feet above the level of
the sea, the climate may be considered moist, and more subject to
boisterous weather than regions of less elevation. It is, however,
healthy, and not subject to any particular distemper. In common
with districts of the same elevation, it is subject to autumnal frosts.
At the same time, it must be remarked, that of late years, this
peculiarity of our atmosphere has been greatly corrected by the
draining of our marshy low lying grounds, and it is hoped, as this
improvement goes on, that in future this part of the country will
be less subject to this evil.
   Mineralogy.-The rocks in this parish are chiefly those of the
coal and porphyry formations. Coal and limestone have been long
wrought at Carlops. At present there is also a regular sale of
coal both at Harlaimuir and Coalyburn at l0d. per load, which is
two cwt. Lime is also sold at Whitfield; the price is 1s. 6d. per
boll, and 20,000 bolls have been disposed of in a season. At
Deepsykehead there is a good freestone quarry. In several other


