
                            ANCRUM.                             243

of it to be found in almost all the Scottish histories, the fullest
account being given by Tytler.  We may just mention, that it
took place in the year 1545, and arose out of an inroad into Scot-
land by Sir Ralph Evers, and Sir Bryan Layton, for the purpose
of taking possession of the territories of Teviotdale and the Merse,
which had been conferred upon them by a grant from Henry VIII,
and in which battle they were defeated with great loss.  It may
be added, that it was on this occasion that the gallant Earl of
Angus (Bell the Cat) whose property in the Merse and Teviot-
dale was thus in such eminent peril, said of Evers and Layton,
when he heard of their threatened incursions; "If they come to
take seizin in my lands, I shall bear them witness to it, and per-
haps write them an investiture with sharp pens and red ink."
     Antiquities.--This parish presents prominently few objects of     '
curiosity to the notice of the antiquary.  But like the rest of the
border country which saw the original inhabitants, the Romans,
the Danes, and the Saxons, successively dispute its possession, it
contains various scenes calculated to awaken a deep interest.  Of
this description are the ruins of the Maltan walls, which enclosed,
at no distant period, an acre and a-half, within the area of which
were visible various vaults and subterraneous passages, but of which
there is now nothing to be seen except a small remnant of the
outer wall./F*  According to tradition, this was once an establishment
of the Knights of Malta, or Knights Hospitallers of St John; and
though there is not in Keith or Spottiswoode, any notice of any re-
ligious house or hospital at Ancrum, we learn from various sources,
that a religious establishment existed there as early as the reign
of David I.  But be the tradition right or wrong in reference to
this building, it is evident, that the adjacent field has been used
for the purpose of interment, human bones and entire skeletons
having been frequently turned up by the spade and plough.
     Near the Maltan walls, in the opposite grounds of Ancrum
House, and for a considerable way up the Ale, are also to be seen
various caves, amounting in all to fifteen, hewn out of the rocky
banks of the river in the most inaccessible places.  These caves
have doubtless been intended and used for places of concealment
in the times of the border wars.  And many of them must have

<FOOTNOTE>*
     Since the above was written the remnant referred to has fallen to the ground,
its decay having been doubtless hastened by the extraordinary severity of the past
winter: so that nothing now remains of the "Maltan walls" but a heap of rubbish,
and in all likelihood within a short period there will not be even a stone left to mark
the site of this relic of antiquity.


