
292                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

accommodation.  He has the benefit of the Dick bequest.  The
fees in the different schools vary from L.10 to L.25 per annum.  The
average expense per quarter is from 1s. 6d. to 5s.  All upwards of
fifteen years of age can read.  A few cannot write.  The people
are, in general, alive to the benefits of education, and even the
poorer classes show a laudable anxiety to have their families in-
structed in the common branches.  There is only one corner so re-
mote from the parish school as to be inaccessible to their children.
Their distance, however, from the school of Culsamond is only
about two miles.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons presently
receiving parochial aid is 38, and each at an average is allowed
about 10d. per week.
   The sums arising from church collections amount to about
L.40 per annum; and from other sources about L.8.  There is
still a general reluctance among the people to seek parochial aid;
but this disposition is neither so common nor so strong as formerly.
   Market.--One market, called Donan Fair, is held in the Kirk-
town in the month of April, for the sale of sheep, cattle, &c.
The market derives its name from Donan, formerlv the tutelary
saint of the parish.
   Alehouses.-There are 7 alehouses, but these have little bad
effect on the morals of the people, as the individuals licensed are
decent and respectable characters.
   FueL-Peat and turf are the only kinds of fuel to be got in the
parish.  English coals are a good deal used by many of the inha-
bitants.  They are driven from Banff and Macduff, about eighteen
miles distant.
                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The most striking variations betwixt the present state of the
parish, and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical
Account, are to be found in the improved mode of laying out and
enclosing the fields; in the great increase of turnip husbandry,
and the consequent fattening of a number of cattle for the home
and London markets; in a stricter attention to the rotation of
crops; and in the general superiority of the various cross-roads,
thereby affording increased facilities for agricultural improvement.

   January 1840.


