
                        BENDOCHY.                        1193

   From these tables, it is very evident that the farmer, fifty years
ago, ought to have been much more favourably situated than the
farmer of the present day.  The expense of labour was less; the price
of the implements of husbandry much less; the value of agricultural
produce, with the exception of the important item of cattle, little
inferior to what it is now; while the rent seems to have been about
a third of what it is at present.  There are, however, probably
ten times as many cattle fed for the butcher now as formerly.  It
is in his byre that the farmer looks for his rent.  He would need
now to do so.  But unless grain rises in value, or some latent pro-
ductive power in the soil be discovered, or the farmer's outlay be
diminished, it is not easy to see how he can continue long to pay
his present rent, when that rent is a fixed money one.  The breed
of cattle that is preferred is a cross betwixt the Teeswater bull
and the Angus-shire cow.  Attention is paid to both of these varie-
ties in the lowland part of the parish, while in the higher districts,
the Highland breeds prevail.  The cattle for feeding are tied up
(chiefly two-year-olds) in October.  The queys are sold out in
January, and the oxen in April and May.  They are fed in the
early part of the season mostly on yellow turnips, and, after that,
chiefly on potatoes.  There are no stocks of sheep kept in the
parish; but one-half of the turnips are consumed on the ground
by sheep which are bought in October, or the turnips are let for
this purpose.  The farming on the banks of the Isla and Ericht
is probably as good as in any district of Scotland.  While the soil
is well suited for the culture of wheat, it possesses the property
(an invaluable one in these times) of being equally adapted for
the cultivation of green crops.  Bone-dust was early introduced,
and with it the turnips are almost exclusively grown.  More lately,
some experiments have been made with guano, which seem to
show that it will prove a valuable addition to our manures.  Fur-
row-draining has been carried on to some considerable extent with
tbe best results, the happiest of which is probably the growing
conviction, that much remains to be done in this department of
agricultural improvement.  Of recent local improvements, however,
by far the most important has been the embanking of the Ericht and
Isla, whereby 500 acres of the most fertile and valuable soil, not
in the parish only, but in Strathmore, have been rescued from the
ravages of the watery element.  These embankments were erected
at a great expense under the direction of Mr Blackadder, civil-
engineer, Glammis, and they have hitherto answered the purpose


