
                       PARISH OF EDDLESTONE.

       PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

               THE REV. PATRICK ROBERTSON, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Extent and Boundaries.-THE parish of Eddlestone is 10 miles
in length from north to south, and 7 from east to west. Its
greatest breadth is at the southern extremity, and it gradually con-
tracts as it approaches the north, where its breadth does not exceed
two miles. It is bounded on the north and northeast by the pa-
rishes of Pennycuick and Temple, on the south-east by the parish
of Innerleithen, oil the south and southwest by the parishes of
Peebles and Lyne, and on the west by Newlands.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.-The hills in general are of a
very tame description, being smooth, and for the most part green to
their summits. The highest is Dundroich, or the Druid's hill,
which is 2100 feet above the level of the sea, and from which in a
clear day can be seen the Cheviot hills, with part of Teviotdale,
Annandale, Clydesdale, Perthshire, Fifeshire; the Firth of Forth,
the city of Edinburgh, and the counties of East, West, and Mid-
Lothian.
   At the base of this hill, there is a lake two miles in circumfe-
rence, abounding with pike, eels, and perch. This lake gives rise
to the water of South Esk, which empties itself into the sea at Mus-
selburgh.
   The climate is dry and bracing,-the easterly fogs seldom reach
the southern extremity of the parish, and there are no distempers
peculiar to the district.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Land-owners.-Mr Mackenzie of Portmore is the principal land-
owner, being proprietor of more than half the parish. Lord Eli-
bank is patron, and second heritor; Lord Cringletie is third.
   Parochial Registers.-A parochial register of births and baptisms,
marriages and deaths, has been regularly kept since 26th Decem-
ber 1725. It is worthy of remark, that this register at first seems
to have been kept solely for ecclesiastical purposes, the baptisms
only being recorded, and not the births, from the year 1725 till


