
     Statistical Account

15 s. more than this.  These servants they consider as cheaper
than their cottagers; but they are not always to be got; and
they seldom engage for a whole year; and they usually divide
the year into 3 parts; that is, from the 11th November to the
11th June, they engage in the service of the farmers; from
the 11th June to the last of August, they burn kelp; from
the last of August to the 11th November, they engage for
the harvest; and, by this division of the year, they make
more than if they were to engage for the whole year at the
above wages.  For their work in harvest, they receive pay-
ment in bear.  A woman receives about a boll of bear, a
man about 1 1/4 boll; and this besides their maintenance during
the time.  The wages of domestic servants also vary.  The
wages of a servant-maid is from 10 s. to a guinea yearly, in
proportion as they are capable.  Besides this, they receive
shoes, and other small articles.  As the wages vary, I can
only state with precision what I myself pay, which is nearly,
or rather higher, than the average wages here.

<TABLE>

                                                                                                                            L.   s.   d.
                                                     Sterling Money
                                                       L.   s.   d.
Wages to a maid-servant who takes care of a child,   
  and also sews white seam occasionally, in mo-
  ney,                                L. 1   1   0
Ditto, a pair of shoes, 3 s. 6 d. with
  Christmas present and other things,     0   7   6
                                         ----------
Yearly wages, with perquisites, to one servant,        1    8    6
Wages to a servant maid kept for spinning yarn,          
  in money,                           L. 0   15   0     
Ditto, a pair of shoes, with Christmas                 
  present and other small articles,      0    7   6    
                                       -------------   
                                                       1    2    6
                               Carried over,       L.  2   11    0

</TABLE>


