
                           DALSERF.                       755

some time without ordination,-the parish minister exchanging
pulpits with him, and dispensing ordinances and discipline as might
be required.  In due time a constitution was obtained for Lark-
hall Chapel, and Mr Macletchie having been chosen by the peo-
ple as their minister, was ordained, 27th July 1837, as first minis-
ter of the quoad sacra parish of Larkhall.  Having shortly after-
wards been removed to the newly erected quoad sacra parish of
Gartsberrie, he was in due time and form succeeded by Mr Ro-
bert Orange Broomfield, now minister of Larkball, formerly of
the Scottish chapel at Stamfordham in Northumberland, and who
was settled in his present charge, 26th July 1838.  The minister
of Larkhall is paid in the same way as other ministers of the same
description under the Assembly's Extension Scheme, namely, out
of the seat rents.  He has a bond for L. 70.  The church con-
tains 720 sittings, of which 450 are let.  There are 30 free sit-
tings, and it is an article of the constitution, that one-half of the
sittings shall not exceed 3s. a sitting, and that a strict preference
shall be given to the parishioners.  A considerable sum of debt
has hitherto hung over the chapel.  Active measures, however, are
at presentin operation for getting it liquidated, and there is no reason
to doubt that it will speedily be cleared off.  The collections, by
consent of the heritors, recorded in their minutes, go to the bene-
fit of the chapel funds.  It is provided by the constitution, that as
soon as an endowment is obtained, one-fourth of said collections
shall be given to the poor.  The parish laid off by the presbytery
for this new erection, comprises the lands of Broomhill, West
Machan, Meadowbill, and Muirsbot, with all that portion of Dal-
serf which lies between this line and the river Avon-along with
considerable stripes of the parish of Hamilton to the north and
west.  The whole population or the quoad sacra parish of Lark-
hall is upwards of 2200.
   There is a Relief Meeting-House at Larkhall, built about the
same time with the new church there.  It has no gallery as yet,
and contains about 400 sittings on the ground area. The state of
its affairs is not known to the writer of this article.  The first or-
dained minister died some time ago, and has just been succeeded
by another.  There is, besides, a small Independent congregation
at Larkhall, of a good many years standing.  It consists at present-
of eight or ten persons who meet on Sabbath along with their aged
and worthy minister for social worship.  He has a sort of endow
ment, consisting of a two storey house and garden, conferred upon


