
     Statistical Account

   Situation, Extent, etc-The church and manse of Gamrie
are built in a very extraordinary and romantic situation, on
a sloping piece of ground in the middle of a hill, and not a
mile from the town and harbour of Gardentown.  By two
headlands, called Gamrie and Group head, which project a
considerable way into the sea, a beautiful bay is formed, where
there is fine anchoring ground, and vessels can ride in safety.
At high water, a person could sling a stone into the sea from
the church; and looking out of it, it has the appearance, to
a stranger, as if the sea washed its foundations.  The church
is built, after the manner of some very old edifices, with un-
flacked lime, and with very thick walls, and, although it has
already stood upwards of 700 years, it may, is the roof be
kept in proper repair, last for hundreds of years to come.
The north side of Gamrie parish is bounded by that part of
the German Ocean called the Moray Firth; on the east by
the parish of Aberdour; on the south by the parishes of
Monwhiter and King Edward; and on the west by the river
Dovern, which separates the parish of Gamrie from Banff.
This parish stretches 9 1/2 miles along the sea-coast, which is a
very bold one.  It is almost a continued chain of stupendous
rocks, in many places perpendicular, and 200 yards above
the sea.  It is between 3 and 4 miles broad.  Gamrie parish
lies in the county of Banff, presbytery of Turriff, and synod
of Aberdeen.  The soil, in many places, is very fertile, and
in others is barren; and though much has been done of late
years, there is still great scope for improvement.  The hilly
ground is in general covered with heath, and in some places
with a coarse kind of grass, on which sheep and young cattle
are fed.  Sheep, indeed, are very much banished from the
parish.  When Mr Wilson first came to the parish, there
was scarcely a farmer who had not a flock; but now there
are only two or three that have any at all.  This is in a great


