
                      ROSENEATH.                                  121

   Dr Anderson, the well known founder of the Andersonian Insti-
tution of Glasgow, was the son of a former minister of the parish,
and was born in the manse. He was a man of eminent talent
and various attainments, and will long be remembered as having first
realized the idea of bringing within reach of the labouring classes
the philosophy and science of the chartered universities.
   Matthew Stewart, one of the most distinguished of the Scottish
mathematical scholars, perhaps better known as the father of the
celebrated Dugald Stewart, was for some years minister of Rose-
neath. There are still current among the older people, some ra-
ther amusing traditions respecting his singular absence of mind,
and the avenue of vew trees, in itself so remarkable, leading
from the church to the old family seat of the Campbells of Ma-
more, has acquired rather a classical interest, from having been the
frequent and favourite scene of his peripatetic meditations. *

                       III.--POPULATION.
   Since the date of the former Statistical Account, the popula-
tion has been gradually increasing. Then it was stated to be only
394, now it consists of 709 souls. The agricultural improvements
of the intermediate period easily account for this: having render-
ed necessary the employment of additional labourers, and increas-
ed the productiveness of the soil. The Government census of 1831
shows a still higher number, but that was a partial augumentation
arising from a temporary cause, the working of two slate quarries
which had been opened on two different properties, but which have
since been closed.
   The number of families is 156, and the average of births, mar-
riages, and deaths, during the last seven years, has been 17, 4,
and 9 1/2 respectively.
   It may be remarked, that, while the average of each family is
not more than 4 7/60, the average of children born in each produc-
tive marriage is so high as 5 5/11; nor is it unworthy of note, that
from a calculation regarded as accurate that of all the children

<FOOTNOTE>It seems not just to pass over, without some particular notice, the extraordinary
instance of Isabella Campbell, who, indeed, although in humble life, might have been
named among the eminent persons connected with the parish. Successive editions
of her memoirs, consisting of many thousand copies, have been printed; and it may
he truly said, that wherever the English language is spoken, the knowledge of her
godly example has found its way. The letters, although she had no other advantage
than what the cottage school afforded, are written with great elegance and beauty,
admirably showing how the habitual contemplation of the glorious revelation of Divine
truth may supersede the ordinary means of mental cultivation and refinement.


