
				BENDOCHY.                           1177

	  Extent, Divisions, &c.--This parish lies towards the eastern
	boundary of Perthshire, and the church stands in north latitude
      56\d 33\d, and longitude 5' from Edinburgh, being two miles from
	Coupar-Angus, nearly fifteen miles from Perth, and seventeen
	from Dundee.  As an approximation to the truth it may be stated,
	that the whole extent of the parish is in imperial acres 10,000, in
	square miles 16.  The length of that part of the parish which is
	contiguous is about 7 miles, and its greatest breadth about 1 1/2 miles.
	The parish consists of two great divisions, the hifhland and low-
	land, and each of these again admits of a very natural subdivision.
	  The lowland part of the parish is divided into two nearly equal
	parts by the river Ericht.  That portion lying west of the Ericht,
	(in which the church, manse, and school-house are situated,) is se-
	parated from the parish of Coupar-Angus on the south by the river
	Isla, with the exception of a small slip of land belonging to the estates
	of Bendocby and Mudhall, which is on the south of the Isla; while
	on the north and west it is bounded by the parish of Blairgowrie.
	It consists chiefly of a ridge sloping gradually upon the one side
	towards the Isla, and on the other towards the Monk Mire.  Its
	greatest height may be 90 feet above the level of the Isla, and 190
	above the level of the sea.  The summit and sides of this rising
	ground are varied by gentle undulations, and there is a good deal
	of perfectly level ground along the banks of the Isla, and towards
	the confluence of the Ericht and Isla.  The other part of the
	lowland division of the parish lying eastward of the Ericht, after
	stretching out into a level haugh from the banks of the Ericht
	and Isla, rises with a gradual ascent, and finally forms a part of
	the frontier of the Grampians.  The highest part of this ridge
	may be 800 feet above the level of the sea.  It is bounded on the
	east and north, by the parish of Alyth; on the west, by Rattray;
	and on the south the Isla flows betwixt it and the parish of Cou-
	par-Angus.
	  Betwixt the Highland and lowland divisions of the parish, the
	two parishes of Rattray and Blairgowrie intervene; and that part
	of the Highland division which is nearest to the parish church is
	about eight miles distant, while its remotest point is upwards of
	thirteen miles off. The Highland division is bisected by a small
	portion of the parish of Blairgowrie.  It is thus not only widely


        <FOOTNOTE> (why called a hill I know not) is bounded on the north by the Monk Mire, and on
	the south by the Isla; or the church is on the base of the eminence, bounded on
	two sides by the Isla and Ericht.  Select for yourself, reader, and acknowledge
	with thankfulness the plastic powers of Gaelic etymology!



