
     of Urr.

   Population.-The number of souls in Urr, at Whitsunday

<TABLE>

last, above 10 years of age, was            997
And under that period of life,              357
                                           ----
                            In all,        1354
The return to Dr. Webster, in 1755, was,   1193
                                           ----
                               Increase,    161

</TABLE>

Though the present minister of Urr could never discover
any roll, drawn up by his immediate predecessor, distinctly
specifying the number of inhabitants in the parish, yet he is
assured by the precentor, who did his duty also under the for-
mer, incumbent, that about 25 years ago, the whole number
of people in Urr, of all denominations, hardly amounted to
900.  This account of matters appears perpectly credible.
The villages in the parish have almost all arisen, within these
last 12 years; and the inhabitants of these, and of sundry
small farms, lately cut off from larger possessions, being sub-
tracted from the population of the parish, as above stated,
there is hardly a remainder of 900*.  It may here be asked,
whence the increase of population above stated has arisen,
especially in a district of country where no manufacturers are

<FOOTNOTE>

*Owing to the number of Dissenters, as well as to the considerable extent
of the parish, it is impossible to be particular as to BIRTHS and DEATHS.  In
a track of country, 14 miles long by 5 miles broad, or more in some places,
it would be exceedingly inconvenient to bring to church, (especially in winter),
infants of a few days old.  Owing to this, the present minister has not baptised
ten children in the church during his incumbency (22 years).  And very few
marriages have been solemnized in the church during that space.  Thus it be-
comes impossible precisely to fix the annual number of baptism and marriages:
And to say the truth, those which are solemnized out of the church are but
carelessly recorded.  As to BURIALS, no record of them was ever kept.-The
males are considerably more numerous than the females.  The want of labourers,
in a wide country, where the proprietors are mostly or all affluent, the influx of
Irishmen, drivers from home by tythes, &c. and the easiness of subsistence, render
the acquisition of male citizens, such as they are, daily and abundant.


