
     Statistical Account

   Tares.-Upon the large farms, tares have lately been in-
troduced and sown at different periods, so as to come in for

<FOOTNOTE>

to two ounces, poured down the throat, has been used with success.  It has
also been recommended, to fill an empty egg-shell with tar, and to put it
down the throat into the stomach with the hand.  This also has been attend-
ed with success; and at Castle-Huntly above a dozen of cattle were reco-
vered upon the very first experiment, after seeing this remedy recommended
in the newspapers.  to give this the better chance of success, the egg must
be kept whole in the hand, and pressed as far down as possible, while the
animal's head is kept up by those who assist at the operation, and who may
facilitate the introduction of the egg into the stomach, by stroaking the
outside of the throat downwards, after the hand which introduced the egg
is removed;- and it is remarkable, that as soon as the animal has performed
deglutition, a quantity of soul ill smelling air comes up, and very soon after
the disease begins to abate and to go off.  It has also been proposed to
force a round flexible stick into the stomach, from the idea, that if its mouth,
(i.e. the mouth of the stomach), can be opened by any means, the cure
will be effected; which is a very reasonable conjecture.
But Dr MONRO at Edinburgh, the celebrated Professor of Anatomy in
that University, has improved upon this.  He recommends a flexible tube, made
of spiral wire, and covered with leather; to one end of which is fixed as brass
knob full of holes, which is meant to be introduced into the stomach, and as
the tube is flexible, it fits itself to the throat, and being hollow, a strong wire,
with a probe point, can be introduced at the opening of the other end,
by which it can be kept as clear and pervious as possible.  this is extreme-
ly necessary; for without some such means, the holes in the brass nob, and
perhaps the tube itself, might be filled by the viscous mucilaginous mat-
ter in the stomach, and the intention totally defeated.  However, at any
rate, the introduction of this instrument is a great point gained; and the
first explosion of detached air through the tube, will most probably give
relief, while the wire keeps the passage open, to render the remedy complete
and more certain.  Mr Walker in a book, published in 1794, under the
title of Rowlin's Cow Doctor, has given a full account of this elastic tube,
copied from the Caledonian Mercury, into which it was inserted in March
1791, with Dr MONRO's permission; and having got one of these tubes for
black cattle from Mr Still, cutler in Edinburgh, who makes them for eight shil-
lings a-piece, he got some such made on a smaller scale for sheep, and tells us,
p. 123. "that they have been found of infinite service in saving the lives
" of sheep in sought or brake-sought;" by which is understood, the swel-
ling of the stomach, from the fermentation of the food.


