
592                           LANARKSHIRE.

present population amountingto 2125. It was erected, in 1662, into
a burgh of barony, under the name of Kirkstyle, with the privilege
of holding a weekly market, and a fair twice in the year. This pri-
vilege, so far as the weekly market is concerned, has not been act-
ed upon; but the town is well supplied with shops for the sale of
bread, * butcber-meat, and every other article of provision. The
recent act for the establishment of municipal government in Scotch
towns, having been taken advantage of by Carluke, a tax of six-
pence a pound on house rent is levied for the purpose of support-
ing a few constables, and of cleaning and lighting the streets.
	There are three small villages hn the parish, viz. Braidwood,
Kilcadzow, and Yieldshields; and if the different lines of houses,
lately erected by the Shotts Iron Company for the accommodation of
their work-people, and which have been prudently placed at a con-
siderable distance from each other, were taken into account, they
would, together constitute another populous village. They have
already erected 94 excellent dwellings.
	Means of Communication.--The parish is intersected with nu-
merous parish roads, amounting, in all, to upwards of 35 miles, on
which about L.300 are annually expended. Five miles of the Stir-
ling and Carlisle highway, and three miles of the one between
Glasgow and Carnwath, lie within our limits.
	There are no stage-coaches running on our roads, the mail be-
ing brought from Airdrie and Lanark by a gig; but there is a re-
port that the Glasgow and Wishaw Railway is to be prolonged to
the neighbourhood of Carluke town.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church, a substantial building, erect-
ed in 1799, at an expense of L.1000, is situated almost in the
centre of the parish, and is consequently as conveniently placed as
it could be; none of the inhabitants being more than four miles dis-

<FOOTNOTE>vidual (if not more) who remembers since the village of Carluke contained only four
cottages, with the kirk and manse. At that period, there were neither made roads,
no even enclosures (with the exception, perhaps, ofa few on the banks of the Clyde,)
within the parish. Wheeled carriages had never been seen, the only means of con-
veyance being sledges or horseback. The inhabitants of the upper part of the parish
had to find their way to kirk and mill, along the side of Carlke burn, "but mony's
the time," quoth our informant, " that we laired and stock fast and firm." At a still
earlier date, there is an entry in the heritors' books, directing eight horses to be sup-
plied for the conveyance of 400 slates, with which to repair the roof of the church.
Compare this with the loads of metal now conveyed by one horse along the Iran Com-
pany's railways.
        Forty yews ago, the only " baker's bread" used in the parish, was 1s. 6d. worth,
brought weekly from Glasgow or Lanark. of this quantity, sixpence worth went
to the manse, whilst the remaining shilling's worth was intended for " lying in wives"
and other sick people.


