
                PARISH OF JEDBURGH.

    PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

        THE REV. JOHN PURVES, MINISTER.

       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

  Name.-The name of this parish appears to have been at a for-
mer period indiscriminately written, Gedworde, Jedworth, Jedwood,
and Jedburgh. The name of the river, which is the only essential
part of these compounds, being anciently written Ged, and per-
haps Gad, has given rise to the probable conjecture, that this was
the principal seat of the Gadeni, a tribe who inhabited the district
between the river Tiviot and Northumberland.
  Extent, &c.-The parish consists of two detached portions, which
are in figure exceedingly irregular. The first or lower division, (in-
which is situate the town of Jedburgh in Long. 10/10* W. in time,
and Lat. 55&deg; 28' 45' N.) is in some places seven miles long and five
broad; and the second, or higher division, is five miles long and four
broad. The whole parish contains 38 square miles. It is bounded
by the parishes of Ancrum and Crailing on the north; by Oxnam and
Exkford on the east; by Bedrule and Southdean on the west; and
by the county of Northumberland on the south. It is interested
by Oxnam and Southdean.
  Topographical Appearances.-The surface is greatly diversified,
presentin an agreable variety of hills and valleys. Through its
centre runs the deep sinuous valley of the Jed; whilst the higher
ground on either side, indented by numerous ravines, rises by an
undulating ascent to the height of nearly 300 feet above the level
of the river. The highest hill in the neighbourhood of Jedburgh
is the Dunian, which is 1120 feet above the level of the sea; but
its summit is in the parish of Bedrule. In the higher part of the
parish, there are several beautiful green hills of a conical form, two
of which are upwards of 110 feet above the sea; but, being situate
near the Carter Fell, a mountain of the Cheviot range, the height
of which is 2020 feet, their elveation is not conspicuous.
  Climate.-The climate varies considerably. In Jedburgh and

  BOXBURGH.                      A



