

                                FALKLAND.                           933

       to Edinburgh on a pike, and his body interred in the place where
       he fell.
         Falkland affords a title to the English family of Carey.  Sir
       Henry Carey of Berkhamstead, Hertfordshire, was created a peer
       of Scotland by the style and title of Viscount Falkland, 10th No-
       vember 1620.  He was the individual who brought to James the
       earliest tidings of Elizabeth's death.
         The residence of James VI. in Falkland did not induce the
       people of the town to embrace his views on church government;
       for in 1673 Mr Robert Gillespie, a preacher among the Cove-
       nanters, was brought before the Council for having, kept a con-
       venticle in the town of Falkland.  Gillespie refused to mention
       the names of his audience, and for this offence he was carried
       to the Bass Rock (then the chief state prison in Scotland,)
       and subjected to a long confinement.  About the same period
       Mr Donald Cargill, who "suffered" at Edinburgh in 1681,
       preached one Sunday on the Lomond Hills, and baptized a
       great many children.  Both he and Gillespie, although their in-
       itials are only given, are mentioned in the "Memoirs of Emilia
       Geddie," a native of Falkland.  The subject of this curious and
       scarce old tract was born about the year 1665.  She was interred
       to the present burial ground, in the east wall of which a monu-
       ment was erected to her memory.
         Among the individuals connected in more recent times with the
       parish, who have risen to some degree of eminence, mention should
       be made of Dr Doig, so long the rector of the Grammar School
       of Stirling.  He was at one time parish schoolmaster of Falkland.
       He was much esteemed by his contetmporaries for his learning.
       He published several Latin and English poems, and left behind
       him in manuscript an immense variety of literary, historical, and
       philological treatises.
         The late Sergeant Spankie, a distinguished member of the
       English Bar, was a native of Falkland.  His father was the minis-
       ter of the parish.\f
         Proprietors.-There are sixteen proprietors of land of the yearly
       value of L.50 and upwards.  The chief proprietors are, O. Tyn-
       dall Bruce, Esq. of Falkland; William Johnston, Esq. of Lath-


<FOOTNOTE>Perhaps it will interestt the poetical antiquary to know, that "Jenny Nettles"
       hanged herself upon a tree in the wood of Falkland.  She was buried on the Nuthill
       estate under "a cairn" of stones, where her bones were recently discovered.



