
964                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

Another burn, called the water of Kelly, from its running through
the land, and near the House of Kelly or Haddo House, is said,
at its junction with the Ythan in this parish, to have produced a
pearl of great value.  According to a tradition which earl be tra-
ced to the end of the seventeenth century, one of the crown jewels
is reported to have been found at the mouth of the water of Kelly.
It was presented to King James VI. in 1620, by Sir Thomas
Menzies of Cults, and in the language of Skene, in his succinct
view of Aberdeen, published in 1685, appears to have been, " for
beauty and bigness, the best that was at any time found in Scot-
land."
   There are two lakes within the policies of Haddo House, called
the upper and the lower lakes, of which the latter is wholly in the
parish of Methlick, while one-half of the former is in that of
Tarves.  Each is beautifully embosomed in wood.  The lower
one, in its formation by the present proprietor, required only a very
small embankment, and is almost altogether natural.  Together
they contain nearly 40 acres.  They are enlivened by the presence
of swans, Canadian geese, and native water-fowls of various de-
scriptions, and in great numbers.  About two years ago, a wild
swan having been taken on the lower lake, and pinioned, now as-
sociates with the tame ones.
   The springs in this parish are numerous and perennial, and the
water thereof is of excellent quality.  About two miles in a north-
easterly direction from the church, there is a strong spring, which
was some years ago in great vogue, and frequented by many from
distant parts of the country, in consequence of the supposed salu-
brity of its waters, which were applied both externally and inter-
nally with alleged success, especially in cutaneous diseases.  The
water has been frequently subjected to chemical analysis; but it
has not been found to possess saline impregnations of any import-
ance.  It is very pure spring water.
   Geology, Soil, &c.-There is nothing remarkable in the geolo-
gical appearance of the parish.  Gneiss and syenite are the rocks
which prevail.  Some years ago, a limestone quarry was wrought
at Inverebrie, and a considerable quantity of lime procured from
it; but it is now shut.
   The best land may be said to lie within one mile and a half on
either side of the river.  It is a yellow loam on a bottom of rock
and gravel.  As you ascend on both sides from the valley, the soil
becomes poorer, and is principally a light black mould on a moor-


