
78                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

  Rent.--The average rent of arable land per acre may be stated
at L. 1, 5s, the highest at L. 3. Average rent to the farmer of
grazing a full-grown ox or milk-cow is about L. 6; of black cat-
tle, not housed in winter, L. 3, 1Os.
   The sheep are almost all of the black-faced breed. There are,
however, a few Cbeviots. The average rate of grazing a full-grown
one to the farmer is about 5s. Male farm-servants who live with the
farmer, receive at an average L. 8 in the half-year, and female farm-
servants receive L. 4. Masons, carpenters, and other artisans are
usually paid 3s. 6d. per day. Leases run for the term of nine-
teen years, and hitherto they have not been understood to have
been very unfavourable to the tenant. A few of the farm-build-
ings may be considered as tolerably good. But the greater nurn-
ber of them are very much otherwise. It can scarcely be said that
there are any unconquerable obstacles in the way of a much great-
er improvement of the land. With the facility of obtaining ma-
nure from Greenock, and lime in the parish, and from Ireland by
sea, willing tenants, and an encouraging landlord, might consider-
ably change the face of the fields to the better. But both land-
lord and tenant must move together.
   Quarries.--Lime is occasionally wrought, but in consequence
of the superior quality of the Irish lime, and the facility and cheap -
ness of its carriage by water, the lime quarries in the parish are
neither constantly nor extensively worked. Slate also has been
occasionally wrought, but it, too, is interior in quality, and therefore
little called for. In the southern part of the parish, there is a
coarse freestone, occasionally quarried for building. All attempts
to obtain coal have failed.
   Fisheries.--Tbe fisheries in the Gareloch and Loch-Long are
not very profitable, nor much attended to, except for a short time
during the spring and early part of the summer. Neither the
quarries nor the fisheries, therefore, add much to the produce of the
parish. Nor does it grow more grain, with the exception, perhaps,
of a little barley, than it sufficient for the consumption of the in-
habitants and the use of the farmer's establishments. There may
be about L. 1000 worth of potatoes sent out of the parish yearly,
and L.500 worth of hay. These sums, with the addition of some-
what were than L. 100 from the timber and copse-wood cut, may
probably be conceived as the whole produce of the parish, not con-
sumed or used in itself. The rental of the parish may amount to
between L. 4000 and L. 5000, nine-tenths of which is drawn by


