
FETLAR AND NORTH YELL.                           27

IV.-INDUSTRY.
All the males in the two parishes, except a1ew to be hereafter
mentioned, are ftployed in agriculture.  Those who are employ-
ed in the home fishery, have all something to do with the cultiva-
tion of land, as heads of families, or children, or servants belong-
ing to the family.  There cannot be said to be any manufactures
amODg us.  A few, at their leisure intervals from the work of the
farm or fishing, (for these two occupations are conjoined), employ
themselves in weaving 46 hame claith," or in making and-mendiDg
clothes or shoes.  In the two parishes, there may be ten or twelve
persons, who are chiefly employed as masons; but all of these have
small farms, and most of them are engaged in the herring-fishing
in the season.  In Fetlar, there are two retail merchants for tea,
spirits, cloths, &c. and the same number in North Yell. There
are in Fetlar, 123 men at the ling and herring fishing; 32 at Green-
land and Davis' Straits; and 26 superannuated labourers.  In
North Yell, there are 128 ling and herring fishers; 25 at Green-
land and Davis' Straits; and about the same number superannu-
ated.
We cannot reckon, in the two parishes, more than five or six.
menservants, all above 20.  Of women-servants, there are 38 in,
Fetlar, and 44 in North Yell.
,4yriculture.-I cannot give an accurate account of the number
of acres cultivated and uncultivated in the two parishes; but there
are in Fetlar 7861 merks, and in North Yell, 634 merks of cul-
tivated land, each merk being about three-fourths of an acre.
Of uncultivated land, there may be in Fetlar from 10,000 to
12,000 acres, all undivided common, except 1200 acres, and a
great proportion of which might be cultivated with a profitable
application of capital.
In North Yell, there may be from 12,000 to 15,000 acres un-
cultivated, all undivided common; much of which might he im-
proved, though it is much more rugged than Fetlar, and not
nearly so capable of being cultivated.
Rent of Land.-The average rent of land in Fetlar is about
16s. per merk, and in North Yell, about L. 1, with privilege,of
hill pasture.  The expense of grazing an ox or cow for the sum-
mer is 6s., and a sheep for the year Is. 6d.
Prices.-The price of oats per lispund of 32 lbs. is Is. 9d.; of
bear, Is. 8d.; of potatoes, 6d. per anker of 10 gallons; wool,
from 8d. to 1s. per pound; wadmal or claith, from Is. to Is. 4d.;


