
102                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   Mansion-Houses.-Of modern buildings, the mansion of Mr
Anderson of Whitburgh is the best. It was built twenty-four
years ago. Keith-house, one of the seats of the Earl Marshal,
may,mentioned on account of what it once was,-having been a
large and elegant building, according to the taste of the times, and
suited to the splendour of a family then the most opulent and
powerful in the kingdom. The timber with which it was built was
a present from the King of Denmark, as a testimony of the high
opinion which he had formed of the Earl when employed to treat
concerning the marriage of the Princess Anne of Denmark with
James VI.
   The ruins of a Roman Catholic chapel still remain in front of Keith
House, with a cemetery attached to it, which is still used by some
of the parishioners. Mr John Keynart, minister of Duffus, was vicar
of Keith in the year 1595, when he sold the living, which afforded
twelve chalders of victual, and three husbands of land, for a mere
trifle, to the Earl Marshal. All succeeding proprietors have kept
possession of the lands.

                       III.-POPULATION.
   The population of the parish must once have been greater than
at present, as some vestiges of several small villages may still be
traced.

<TABLE>
                 Population in 1801,             785
                               1811,             837
                               1821,             837
                               1831,             875

   The average number of births for the last seven years is 15, of
deaths 9, of marriages 7.
   There are 10 landed proprietors in the parish; but only two of
them are at present resident. Their yearly rentals vary from L. 300
to L. 1500 Sterling respectively.
   There are 7 bachelors and 6 widowers, all upwards of fifty years
of age; and both taken together just equal the number of unmar-
ried women above forty-five.

<TABLE>
Number of families in the parish                                 190
                    chiefly employed in agriculture              123
                          in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  21

   It is a melancholy fact, that there are 8 insane persons in one
family, and one in each of two others; but all of them are harm-
less and inoffensive. The parents of these individuals are correct
in their conduct and industrious, though they discover such a degree
of mental imbecility as might indicate that the malady is hereditary.




