
112                       FIFESHIRE.

undulations of the land from the Lomond Hills down to the ri-
ver Leven, and intersected by two streams, one flowing from the
north to the south, the other smaller stream, the Cambie, from the
west, both falling into the Leven, a short way below leslie House
-give a pleasing variety to the landscape. With very-little,
exception the whole lands in the parish are arable. The fields are
well divided either by hedges or substantial stone dikes. The
woods of Leslie House are remarkably fine; indeed, it may be
safely said, that no place in Scotland surpasses them, consisting of
oak, beech, and ash, some of a very large growth. The admirer
of rural variety will be entertained here with every circumstance of
beauty, which he can expect from diversified nature, hill and val-
ley, wood and water.
   Meteorology.-Under this head, it may be only observed, that
there has not been the shock of an earthquake within many hun-
dred miles of this parish since the year 1815, but what was indi-
cated by the waters of the Leven. On the 6th January of that
year, the loch was heaved up in a peculiar manner. All the news-
papers were carefully examined to see in what part of the country
it had taken place; but no account appeared for many months till
the ice broke up, and the first arrivals from Bergen, Norway, brought
accounts of a shock that had taken place on that very day at Ber-
gen. Meteoric stones have fallen in this neighbourhood.
  The climate is particularly salubrious. The village stands on
table-land, which rises from the Leven on the south; there is, there-
fore, a free ventilation, and the water carried off; so that, with the
slightest attention paid to cleanliness, there cannot be a more
healthy place. Certainly the most prevalent complaint is rheu-
matism among the old, which may be accounted for by the fact,
that when bleaching was first introduced into this neighbourhood,
the women stood in the cold water to wash the yarn. This is now
obviated by the improved methods of carrying on the bleaching
operations.
  Hydrography.-The only river of note is the Leven, which is
the southern boundary of the parish, It issues from Loch Leven,
and, after a run of about twelve miles, falls into the sea at the town
of Leven. The scenery is particularly beautiful as it passes through
the policy ofthe Earl of Rothes. Although of so short a course,
the water is particularly valuable, there being forty-three or forty-
five public works upon it, the falls valued at L. 1106, 4s. The
water being soft is well adapted to bleachfields.


