
     Statistical Account

piece of gold, about 18 inches under ground.  It was
very soft and pliable, and about L. 12 in value; on one end
of it, was plainly seen the word Helenus, in raised Roman
capitals, evidently effected by a stamp; and on the other
end, in pricked or doted characters, the letters M. B.  Some
have pronounced it an ornament for the wrist, others a
sibula for fastening a garment.  It was given to the late
Mr Irving Of Bonshaw*.

<FOOTNOTE>

each side of which is 2 feet.  The time and occasion of its erection
is uncertain.  The following is the most probable.
   In 1483, the Duke of Albany, and Earl of Douglas, who for some
time had been exiles in England, wishing to learn the dispositions of
their countrymen towards them, made an incursion into their native
country, went to Lochmaben, and plundered the market there.  In the
mean time, a Master of Maxwell, son of Baron Maxwell of Caerlaveroc,
upon whom the wardenship of the borders had devolved, in consequence
of his father's imprisonment in England, receiving intelligence of this
affair, assembled his friends and dependents to repel and chastise the in-
solence of these rebels.  He came up with them at Barnwork, where the
action commenced, and was fought to Kirkconnell, when Douglas was
taken prisoner, and the Duke of Albany made his escape.  Having now
recovered the booty, and obtained a complete victory, he was pursuing
the broken remains of the hostile army; and being wearied with the fa-
tigues of the engagement, and the wounds which he is said to have re-
ceived in battle, was supporting himself with his spear, resting by its
handle upon the crutch of his saddle, when one Gass, from the parish
of Cummertrees, who had fought under him in the engagement, coming
up, thrust him through, on account of a sentence, which he, as master
warden of the marches, had passed upon a cousin of Gass.  This cross is
said to have been erected upon the spot where Maxwell fell, and the ex-
ecrable deed was committed, to perpetuate the remembrance thereof to
posterity.

*In the burial-ground of Kirkconnell, are still to be seen the tomb-
stones of Eair Helen, and her favourite lover Adam Fleeming.  She was
a daughter of the family of Kirkconnell, and fell a victim to the jealousy
of a lover.  Being courted by two young gentlemen at the same time,

     I


