
     Statistical Account

the most profitable branch of employment to the farmer.  In
provement in this department has gone hand in hand with
that of agriculture, and has not, in its effects, been less re-
markable or beneficial.  By means of that great and rapid rise
in the price of cattle, to which, chiefly, the origin of improve-
ment in this country may be traced, the farmer has been in-
duced and enabled to meliorate his pasture land; in conse-
quence of which, and in part also of attention to the breed,
the stock has in a few years greatly increased in number, and
still more in value.  The cattle are mostly of the well known
Galloway breed, intermixed with a few imported from Ire-
land and Argyleshire.  A considerable number is here com-
pletely fattened for the markets of this country; but by much
the greater part is bought up by drovers, to be more highly
fed for the English market, in the richer pastures of the South.
   The moorland in the mountainous part of the parish, hither-
to regarded as incapable of melioration, is mostly employed
in the pasturing of sheep.  By a judicious selection of the best
and strongest sheep for the purpose of breeding, the stock has
of late been considerably mended, and the attention to that
subject, which now begins to be more generally awakened, will
no doubt gradually lead to higher improvement.  When fed
to proper age, they are much esteemed for the delicacy of their
flesh; but the farmers believe it more profitable, on the whole,
to bring them to market at two, or, at most, three years old.
They are found to be extremely hardy, but are in general of
rather a small size, and their wool is not remarkable either
for quantity or fineness.  The most intelligent farmers, how-
ever, seem very much to doubt the expediency of importing
a larger and more delicate race; and, though not averse to ex-
periment, will probably be cautious in parting with the pre-
sent hardy breed of the country, inured to the cold, wetness,
and bleak exposure of their native hills.


