
306                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Historical notices.--The first Lords of Sanquhar were of the
Ross or Roose family, cadets of the Earls of Ross, Lords of the
Isles of Scotland. Robert de Ross was the last of the line at San-
quhar who bore that name; William, second son of Thomas Lord
of Creighton, who flourished in the reign of Robert Brus, mar-
ried his daughter, Isobel, by whom be had a son. The father hav-
ing come to the possession of the title of Lord of Creighton died
in 1360, and his son by this lady became Lord of Sanquhar. Sir
Robert Creighton, great grandson of Isobel de Ross, was appointed
by James III. in 1464, heritable sheriff of Dumfries-shire. In
1630, the barony of Sanquhar was purchased by Sir William Dou-
glas of Drumlanrig, on which he had it mortgage. The Queens-
berry family for some time resided in the castle of Sanquhar be-
fore that of Drumlanrig was built.*
	Eminent Men.--Mr Robert Crichton of Eliock, connected with
this parish, was an eminent lawyer and advocate to Queen Mary
and King James VI., and a Lord of Session. His eldest son,
James, went abroad when young, and was intimately and exten-
sively acquainted with literature and science, and so eminently ac-
complished in all kinds of bodily exercises, that he was the wonder
of the age, and generally known by the appellation of the Admi-
rable Crichton. The apartment in Eliock House in which he was
born has been carefully preserved in its original state by the sue-
cessive proprietors.+
	Parochial Registers.--A register of births in the parish has been
kept from 1757, but it is very defective, particularly near the pe-
riod of its commencement. Many are not recorded.

<TABLE=Population>
			III.-POPULATION.
        The population of the parish was in  1755,       1998
					     1786,       2500
				             1800,       2350
    			                     1811,       2709
			                     1821,       3026
			                     1831,       3268
	Of the population in 1831, 1536 were males, and 1732 were
females. Among the chief causes of the increase of population
may be mentioned, the greater numbers which have been employed

<FOOTNOTE>Near Sanquhar Castle there was found about fifty years ago a stone with the
following striking inscriptions: " Here lies the good Sir John Ross of Ryehill; Here
lies,the good good Sir John Ross; Here lies the good good good Sir John Ross."
          Mr Robert Crichton, immediately after the birth of this his illustrious son, hav-
ing sold Eliock to the family of Dalziell, afterwards Earls of Carnwath, removed to
Cluny, an estate which he had acquired in Perthshire. From this circumstance it
has been erroneously supposed by some that the Admirable Crichton was born at
Cluny.

                                      l


