
				BORTHWICK.                167

was in the said place with the Queenis Majestie.  My Lord Duk
hearing of this enterprize, thinking well he could be in mair secu-
ritie in the field than in ane house, passit forth and red away.
   " Her Majestie, in mennis claithes, butit and spurrit, departit
that samin nicht of Borthwick to Dunbar, quhairof na man knew
saif my Lord Duk and sum of his servants, wha met her Majestie
a myll off Borthwick, and conveyed her hieness to Dunbar."
   " There seems," says Sir Walter, " to have been an interval
of nearly two days betwixt the escape of Bothwell from Borth,
wick Castle and the subsequent flight of the Queen in disguise to
Dunbar.  If during that interval, Mary could have determined on,
separating her fortunes from those of the deservedly detested Both-
well, her page in history might have closed more happily."*
   As the fifth Lord Borthwick was a faithful adherent, of Queen
Mary, his great grandson, John the eighth Lord, was a follower
of the King during the great civil war.  After the unfortunate battle,
at Dunbar, and while the victorious troops of Cromwell were de-
vastating the Lothians, Borthwick Castle held out gallantly, and
the garrison employed themselves to the last in annoying the enemy,
This soon drew upon them the vengeance of Cromwell, who sent
the following characteristic summons, dated at Edinburgh 18th No-
vember 1650, and endorsed, 11 For the Governor of Borthwick
Castle, tbese.--Sir,--I thought fitt to send this trumpett to you,
to let you know, that if you please to walk away with your com-
pany, and deliver the house to such as I shall send to receive it, you
shall have liberty to carry off your armes and goods, and such other
necessaries as you have.  You harboured such parties in your house,
as have basely and inhumanely murdered our men ; if you necessi-
tate me to bend my cannon against you, you must expect what I
doubt you will not be pleased with.  I expect your present answer,
and rest your servant, O. CROMWELL."
   Notwithstanding this very significant epistle, the Governor of
Borthwick Castle, supposed to have been Lord Borthwick himself,

<FOOTNOTE>The place at which the Queen is understood to have met with the servants of
Bothwell when she escaped from Borthwick Castle,"butit and spurred, and in the guize
of a page,"--is Cakewuir, which lies at a short distance across the moor towards the
south-east. Mary's flight, therefore, was necessarily across that wild and open tract of
heathy country, which intervenes between Borthwick and Cakemuir.  A room which
she occupied in this latter castle is still shewn. She proceeded from this, in company
with Bothwell's servants, Linton on her way to Dunbar. At Linton she
met Bothwell, and came back with him to Faside Castle and Carberry hill,--where,
exactly one month after their unfortunate marriage, they parted for ever,-- he to be-
come a pirate and a madman, and to die in a dungeon in Denmark--and she to en-
dure a long life of captivity and sorrow, and at last to perish by a bloody execution,


