
438                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

in extreme infancy, vaccination, but, above all, the annihiIation
of smuggling.  The improvements in every respect, since illicit
distillation has been happily put down, are truly astonishing.
Falsehood, swearing, drunkenness, and other immoral practices,
although they linger with a few of the old and hardened, are fast
disappearing; and in their place are progressing, good manners,
cleanliness, sobriety, exemplary attention to their moral and reli-
gious duties, and diligence at their different avocations.  The
people are generally hardy, active, and intellectual; and since
smuggling has come to an end, manifest a strong desire for read-
ing and general information.  The establishment of a library in
the neighbourhood has been ofgreat use.

                          IV-INDUSTRY.
   The inhabitants are all employed in agriculture, as farmers,
crofters, and farm servants, with a few mechanics.  The soil is
generally very good, and were the farms, properly arranged, and
leases of proper endurance given great improvements would cer-
tainly take place. There is excellent limestone, easily wrought,
yielding upwards of seventy per cent; and inexhaustible peat moss, of
superior quality.  Draining, enclosing, and planting would greatly
ameliorate the climate; and although the humane and truly be-
nevolent proprietor, the Earl of Fife, gives very little encourage-
ment here, yet the people are farming, notwithstanding their many
disadvantages, on the most improved system of agriculture, raising
good crops of turnips, potatoes, hay, bear, and oats.  The Mains
farm at the castle is perhaps as well managed in every respect as
any in Scotland.  Roads are much wanted.  It is to be wished
that the Noble proprietor mav soon turn his attention to the im-
provement of this beautiful but still much neglected part of his
princely estates.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-About twenty years ago, there were from
twenty to thirty Roman Catholics in the parish.  With the ex-
eeption of two old people (Roman Catholics) there are no Dis-
senters of any denomination froth the Established Presbyterian
church.  Divine service in the church is well attended.  The
number of cominunican ts is about 300.  The stipend from teinds
(exhausted) is L.33, 0s. 8d.; from Government, L.125; in all,
L.158, 6s. 8d.  The glebe is worth about L.10 annually; and
the manse is in excellent condition.
   Poor.-The average annual collections for the benefit of the
                            4


