
                           HUTTON.                                 165

mer times shrunk from accepting parish relief, is gradually expiring.
The people do not consider it as any disgrace to be on the poors' roll;
but, in imitation of their southern neighbours, claim the allowance
as a right. Instances still occur, however, where the good old feel-
ing is visible, and where aged and infirm persons are averse to have
recourse to the parish for relief, till reduced to do so by extreme
necessity. Aged unmarried females and widows form the great
proportion of the persons receiving parochial aid. Some of these
last have numerous families. The sick, aged, and infirm, are the
only persons who are admitted on the roll. The heritors, in ge-
neral, are very liberal to the poor. Their wants are carefully at-
tended to; and here, at least, the system of poor rates has not
dried up the springs of private charity.
   Inns.-There are eight inns or alehouses in the parish, none of
which are much frequented, and one-half of which would be more
than sufficient.
   Fuel.-The fuel used is coal, which is all brought from the other
side of the Tweed, from about three or four miles distance, and at
an expense of about 5s. per one horse cart-load, besides driving.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the last Statistical Account, rents have been more than
doubled; a taste for reading, and a desire of acquiring useful in-
formation, have been more generally diffused; the people are bet-
ter dressed, and live more comfortably; the salutary influence, of
education is more extensively felt; and attention to the outward
ordinances of religion has not declined.

   Since this Statistical Report was written, the building of a new
parish church has commenced, and is now proceeding, after a
handsome design by an architect of taste, and of sufficient size to
afford ample accommodation for the parishioners.
   There is also almost a certain prospect of a bridge being soon
constructed across the Whitadder, near Hutton mill, connecting
this parish with that of Foulden, and opening up greater facilities
of communication with the internal parts of the county, and its
only sea-port, that of Eye mouth. A beautiful plan of a bridge
has been furnished by Mr Jardine of Edinburgh, civil-engineer,
-for the carrying of which into execution, a subscription has been
entered into, and the requisite amount almost obtained. The
liberal sum of L. 600 has been subscribed by a considerable heri-
tor of this parish, and several other handsome sums by neighbour-
ing gentlemen. No public improvement was more needed.
   July 18, 1834.


