                           BALMACI.EI.LAN.                                103


      Remarkable Characters, &c -- There is no event of importance
connected with the civil history of this parish.  In 1545, Ar.
Scott, parson of Balmaclellan, along with the prior of Inchma-
home, was appointed tutor to the infant Mary of Scotr, and sent
to France with her in 1548 when betrothed to the Dauphin.
     The Rev. Thomas Verner, a man eminent for piety, was or-
dained minister of the parish, previous to the Restoration, outlived
the persecution, and died so late as 1716, being the last of the
old Presbyterian ministers that survived the Revolution, and father
of the Church at the time of his death.
     The Rev. Samuel Smith of Borgue, the talented and accom-
plished author of an Agricultural Survey of Galloway, was a native
of Balmaclellan.
     Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are Viscount Kenmure
and John Eden Spalding, Esq. of Holm.
     Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers have not been
regularly kept, and are not voluminous. The earliest entry was
made in 1747.
     Antiquities.--On Dalarran Holm there is a standing stone of
great size but without any inscription, which is said to mark the
spot where a Danish warrior fell in a bloody battle. Broken
spears have been discovered at different periods in its vicinity.
     There is a moot-hill near the village; and, not long ago, a ball
and seven pins of large dimensions were found buried in a moss
where peat had been out from time immemorial.  Mr Train, the
antiquarian, and well-known friend of Sir Walter Scott, gives the
following account of this interesting relic, now in his possession.
     "A few years ago, as the servants of Mr Bell of Baryown were
casting peats on Ironmacaunnie Moor, when cutting near the bot-
tom of the moss, they laid open with their spades what appeared
to be the instruments of an ancient game, consisting of an oaken
ball, eighteen inches in circumference, and seven wooden pins,
each thirteen inches in length, of a conical shape, with a circular
top.  These ancient "Reel-pins," as they are termed by Strutt
in his "Sports and Pastimes of the People," were all standing
erect on the hard till, equidistant from each other, with the ex-
ception of two, which pointed towards the ball, that lay about a
yard in front, from which it may be inferred they were overthrown
in the course of the game. The ball has been formed of solid
oak, and, from its decayed state, must have remained undisturbed


