
         366                           PERTHSHIRE.

         hill, belonging to the estate of Kembach, in a state of nature, over,

         grown with furze and broom, but which seem well adapted for
         larches, or the several species of hard wood, and which, in the course
         of time, would abundantly repay the expense of their cultivation,
         besides beautifying and adorning the country, already, in many
         places, too bare and naked.
            There is no village of any kind in the parish, nor any turnpike,
         and the roads through it, which are kept in good repair, are sup-
         ported by the statute labour.
            The tenants, chiefly, employ upon their farms, unmarried ser-
         wants, who live together in a small house termed a " bothy," one of
         which is attached to each farm,-a circumstance, not perhaps, the
         most favourable for their morals, as they are thereby, in some
         measure removed from the inspection and superintendence of their
         masters.  They are often extremely migratory, removing frequent-
         ly at the expiration of the year, according as humour or caprice
         may dictate, and, like birds of passage, taking their departure to
         other lands.
                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
           Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated at the south-east
         corner of the parish, most inconveniently for the great body of the
         parishioners.  It is extremely narrow, and appears, from some in-
         scriptions upon the walls, to have been built more than two hun-
         dred years ago.  The floor, which is composed of clay, is about
         two feet below the level of the church-yard without, and is, of con-
         sequence, extremely damp and uncomfortable.  The timber of the
         windows is so much corroded by the injuries of time, as in some
         places, to be almost reduced to dust, and in other places, has li-
         terary fallen from the glass.  A plan for a new church has, how-
         ever, been drawn, and which, it is hoped, will soon be built in a
         more eligible situation.
           The manse is a modern edifice, having been built about twenty
         years ago.  The glebe consists of 6 Scotch acres or thereby, and
         the stipend amounts to 15 chalders of victual, nearly one-half oat-
         meal, and the other, half barley, payable by the highest county
         fiar, and L. 100 Scots for communion elements.   The E`rl of
         Wemyss and March is patron.
           There are in the parish 20 Dissenting or Seceding families.
           Education.-The school is situated much more conveniently,
         being in the middle of the parish, and is attended by nearly 70
         scholars,  who are instrubted in the various branches of education
                                       3


