
                               ROSLIN.			345

Dance of Death.  Commencing at the top of the arch, and
descending to the right, the figures, which can be recognized, are,
a king, a courtier, a cardinal, a bishop, a lady admiring her por-
trait, an abbess, and an abbot; and each of these is accompanied
with a figure of death dancing off with his prey.  Again, com-
mencing at the top of the arch, and descending to the left, the
following figures are quite distinct: a farmer, a husband and wife,
a child, a sportsman, a gardener and spade, a carpenter, and
a ploughman.  Each of these also is accompanied by a figure
of death, carrying off the individual; and he is represented as in
the act of making the separation between the husband amd wife.
On the capitals of the three pillars, which are between the east
aisle and the east chapel, are thirteen angels with musical instru-
ments, representing the heavenly host praising God.  At the
south end of the east chapel, the arch is ornamented with human
figures, and also with foliage; the human figures being supposed
to be a warrior, with helmet, and sword, and spear; and a monk
drinking, a crouched figure of death, a man with wide sleeves,
a soldier, a female praying, a woman sitting in a chair, and a
queen.
   On the architrave of the north aisle connecting the first and second
pillar from the east, Samson is represented pulling down the house on
the Philistines.  The capital of the third pillar has an elephant, Sam-
son killing the lion, and two hands grasping cockle-shells; and the
capital of the opposite pilaster has a shield bearing a lamb, which
carries a banner within a double tressure.  The capital of the
next pillar represents the angels rolling back the stone from the
door of the sepulchre.  The capital of the next pillar has the
disciples looking from afar to the crucifixion, which is represented
on the capital of the opposite pilaster, where nine figures and a
ladder are to be distinctly seen.  On the next and last pillar in
this row are represented two doves, and the prodigal son feeding
swine.
   On the west wall of the north aisle, in the corner, is the monu-
ment of George, Earl of Caithness, with the following inscription
in capital letters: "Hic jacet nobilis ac potens Dominus Georgius
quondam comes Cathaneusis Dominus Sinclar, justiciarius Here-
ditarius diocesis Cathanensis, qui obiit Edinburgi 9 die mensis
Septembris, anno Domini 1582"
  Above the inscription are his armorial bearings, with the motto.
 "Commit thy verk to God."


