
     Statistical Account

   Patron, Heritors, Stipend, School, Poor, etc.-The Earl
of Kintore is patron, and also chief heritor of the pa-
rish.  He has no residence in it.  The only other 
heritor without the burgh is Duncan Forbes Mitchell,
Esq; of Thainstone, who has a residence in it.  That
estate is said to have belonged some time to the Thanes
of the county; but while the Forbesses possessed it be-
fore the Mitchells, it was called Cammiestane, which is

<FOOTNOTE>

Price of Labour.-The wages of common mechanicks, who only work
for the neighbourhood, is much the same as in other parishes already pu-
blished.  Day labourers get 6 d. in summer, and 4 d. in winter, besides
victuals; it is not many years since 6 d. and even 5 d. a-day without vic-
tuals, were their wages.  The wages of farm-servants have increased rapid-
ly for some years past.  A servant, who two years ago would have asked
little more than L. 5. a-year, for the most laborious part of a farmer's
work, now asks from L. 8 to L. 10.  This is known, proceeds partly from
the great demand for servants, to manufacturers andto undertakers, for
different branches of work; but it is chiefly owing to the humour that for
some time past has prevailed among landed gentlemen, for turning out cot-
tagers.  It is acknowledged, that country cottagers are the feed of ser
vants, and their situation more favourable for health, industry, and good
morals, than situation in the vicinity of a great town; and where a 
country is much depopulated of them, the dearness and scacenes of la-
bourers to work, must be felt first indeed by the farmers, but must soon be
felt by the landed gentlemen themselves, in hindering the increase of their
rents, and even bringing them down, and impeding the improvement of
their land.  Indeed the present wages, and maintenance of servants, are
much more than the rent of many our farmers.  This makes it the more 
necessary to take off the most impolitic duty upon the coal; taking that
off, would soon increase the revenue, by increasing the number of people
who pay taxes, for it would encourage gentlemen to have their estates
better peopled again; and it would render the work about peats mostly
unnecessary, which is at present the whole summer-work of most farmers,
and it would enable them to employ their labour and horses, more use-
fully, in improving their farms; and I would not wonder, if purchasing 
coal were in the power of crofters, to hear soon of heritors, in their leases
obliging their tenants to keep so many families of cottagers.


