
               EDDERTOUN.                          451

gie-Easter, Kilmuir-Easter, Alness, Urquhart, Kirkmichael, and
others. The plainest sermons are often accompanied by the
most extraordinary effects ; and in all the above-mentioned pa-
risbes, there are one or more week-day evening sermons and prayer-
meetings in church ; and the,anxiety to attend on. every such oc-
casion continues unabated among the great body of the people.
Congregations which formerly would appear to great advantage,
when contrasted with others, throughout any part of the country,
south or north, in respect to attendance on Divine service, and
orderly demeanour during public worship, appear now quite altered,
-while many of those once comparatively careless are awakened to
a deep and abiding concern. It is premature to judge as to the sa-
ing effects on individual cases; but there can be little doubt, that
the work is of Divine origin, and of a saving and permanent cha-
racter already in many instances.
   This parish also shared in the benefits of a revival of religion,
which took place towards the beginning of last century.
   Poaching, even in olden times, was rare; and smuggling has
been extinct since the commencement of this century, to the, marked
benefit, temporal and spiritual, of the inhabitants of this parish.

                   IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture- It is impossible to give the exact number of acres
in this parish, as there has been no survey taken of the Balnagown
estates-the largest in the parish-for many years, the last being
in 1808 ; and the many changes which have taken place since that
period, especially in cultivation and tillage of the different farms
on that estate,. make it quite unnecessary and useless to give the
measurement then taken. Even the total number of acres is unat-
tainable at present, as large tracts of moor-land and hill pasturage
seem to have been left unsurveyed.
   The rental of the BaInagown estates here is as follows:
       Barony of Westray (or West Struic,)	-    L.1443 4 7
       Estate of Meikle'D......n,'	- 	       155 19 2
	Do. Little D......n,	-	               183 6  9

                                       Total rental.  L.1742 10 6
   The following is the measurement of the property belonging to
the Duke of Sutherland in this parish:
                            Acres. Roods.

	 Arable land,   	184	3   - L.1745  3  6
	Improveable pasture,	 25	1    -	 10   2  0
	Hill pasture,	     13,160	0   - 	221   5	 0
	Planted Wood,	         60	0     L.406  10  6 Present value
        Natural wood,            60     0                    per annum

                             13,440 Acres Scots measures


