
     of Halkirk.

and it were to be wished that it had been suppressed.  Be-
sides, of late years, since distillation prevailed so much, the
use of whisky has almost superseded that of ale, which about
forty years ago was the ordinary drink, both in taverns
and private houses, and not near so hurtful and inconve-
nient to the people.  The heavy duty on malt, contributed
not a little to this disagreeable circumstance, by which
means this beverage, so useful and convenient to the coun-
try people, when used in moderation, is in danger of being
at last entirely in disuse, and no drink will be relished but
what directly intoxicates the brain and inflames the blood.
   The usual hire of a day-labourer is almost double what
it was about 20 years ago.  This is both natural and rea-
sonable, because, as has been already observed, the expence
of living has greatly increased in that period.  It is various,
according to the various jobs in which they are employed.
The average here, per day, I would estimate at 9 d.; and
the sum necessary to support a family, consisting of man,
wife, and 4 children, per week, at 3 s. 6 d.  Both the hire
and the expence of living are yearly very much on the in-
crease.  The farmer is the only man who will suffer most
by this progress, if he will not have more advantages than
he has at present to keep pace with it.  We have rather
too many who are idly disposed, and who will not work,
unless compelled to it by the extremity of the last neces-
sity; for if they happen to have what will enable them to
hold it out until night, or any prospect of any other shift,
though at the expence of their more industrious neighbours,
to whom they are no small burden, they have no concern
about their debts, or any provision for to-morrow.  Though
these are a grievance to the country, yet the British army
is much indebted to them; and, indeed, if this is a relief
to themselves, it is no small one to their neighbours, who
are glad to be free of such idle and useless drones.  From

     I


