
154                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

reduce their wages by that amount. This illiberal suspicion has
long since died away. The investments for the most part are made
by farm-servants at the terms of Whitsunday and Martinmas. The
most numerous class of contributors are the servant-girls.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Average number of persons receiv-
ing parochial aid, 15. Average sum allotted to each person per
annum, L. 4. Annual amount of contributions for their relief,
L. 64: of this sum, L. 22 are procured from church collections;
L. 9 from interest of money; and the remainder by assessment
upon the heritors and tenants, in equal proportions.
   A poors' rate was established in the parish in 1752, and has
continued ever since. The heritors and kirk-session meet twice
a-year, and fix the aliment for each pauper for the ensuing half-
year. The clerk is instructed to draw the stent to the amount
required, and the minister and kirk-session have a discretionary
power to the extent of one-half of the weekly collections, to meet
any contingencies that may occur.
   There is still a strong aversion on the part of the poor to apply
for parochial aid. During the last ten years, not one direct appli-
cation for aid has been made by the party requiring relief. Many
of them would rather die of want, than acknowledge their poverty
and ask the benefit of the funds.
   Fairs.-There is a fair held annually in the village on the 25th
September. It was formerly a great cattle-market. The only
business now transacted is the hiring of farm-servants for the winter
half-year.
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.-There is only one alehouse in the parish,
the demoralizing effects of which are rapidly increasing. Twenty
years ago, almost the only thing called for was a bottle of small-
beer; but since the late reduction in the duty on spirits, a great
change has taken place in the habits of the people. Whisky,
harsh and undiluted, is now the favourite, and almost the only, be-
verage; and drunkenness is rapidly extending among a class of men
who formerly were habitually sober, viz. farm-servants and labour-
ers. A marked improvement, however, has taken place in the
habits of the tenantry and the better classes of society; and the
deep drinking that was so prevalent among them forty years ago,
is now of very rare occurrence.
   Fuel.-The only fuel which the parish contains is peats, which
the peasantry manufacture for themselves. Coals are procured at
a moderate expense from the adjoining pits of Mid-Lothian.
   April 1834.                    3


