
<APPENDIX>

xxxiii

   135. What is generally a day's wages for labourers in husbandry, and
other work? and what per day for carpenters, bricklayers, masons, tai-
lors, &c.?
   136. What is the fuel commonly made use of? Is it coal, wood, heath,
peat, furze, or whins? What are the prices paid on the spot; and whence
is the fuel procured?
   137. What, at an average, may be the expence of a common labourer,
when married? and is the wages he receives sufficient to enable him to bring
up a family?
   138. What are the usual wages of male and female servants in the dif-
ferent branches of husbandry?
   139. What the wages of domestic servants?
   140. How many ploughs are there in the parish? and of what kinds?
   141. How many carts and waggons?
   142. How many carriages; and of what sorts?
   143. Are there any villages in the parish? and how are they situated?
   144. Are there any crosses or obelisks erected in the parish?
   145. Are there any remains or ruins of monasteries or religious houses?
   146. Are there any Roman, Saxon, Danish, or Pictish castles, camps, al-
tars, roads, forts, or other remains of antiquity? and what traditions or hi-
storical accounts are there of them?
   147. Have there been any medals, coins, arms, or other pieces of anti-
quity dug up in the parish? When were they found? And in whose cus-
tody are they now?
   148. Are there any barrows, or tumuli? Have any been opened? And
what has been found therein?
   149. Have there been any remarkable battles fought in the parish? On
what spot?  At what time?  By whom?  And what traditions are there re-
specting the same?
   150. Has the parish either given birth or burial to any man eminent for
learning, or distinguished for any other valuable qualification?
   151. Are the people of the country remarkable for strength, size, com-
plexion, or any other personal or mental qualities?
   152. What is the general size of the people?
   153. What is the greatest height which any individual in the parish has
attained, properly authenticated?
   154. Are the people disposed to industry? What manufactures are car-
ried on in the parish? And what number of hands are employed therein?
   155. Are the people fond of a sea-faring life? What is the number of
boats and of larger vessels belonging to the parish? And what number of
seamen have entered into the navy during any preceding war?

     VOL. XX. d


