
     of Cathcart.

births, marriages, and deaths, has been regularly kept in the
parish from the beginning of the present century.  Of late,
indeed, some degree of irregularity is like to ensue, from
the reluctance discovered by dissenters to give in their
names.  It is difficult to convince these people, that many
important consequences to their own interest, may be pro-
moted by such a practice.  We have no records of the Ses-
sion, farther back than the Revolution.

   Church, etc.-The present parish church was rebuilt,
A. D. 1744, since which time, it has met with several re-
pairs, and is now, compared with other country kirks, in
tolerable good order.  The original structure of the manse
is very old.  From time to time, it has received many
additions and repairs, but so little profit is there in patc-
ing up an old buildings, that, although much money has
been expended, both by the heritors and the posses-
for, it is far from being complete or comfortable.  The
stipend annexed to this cure, at present, is 8 chalders of
victual, of which there are 108 bolls of meal, and 20 bolls
of bear paid in kind; with L. 90 Scotch from the vicarage
teinds, and an allowance of L. 40 Scotch for communion
elements.  The glebe scarcely amounts to 4 acres.

     VOL. V. Y y

<FOOTNOTE>

but small progress.  This terrible malady often returns, and sweeps away
the rising hopes of their families, and yet will not have recourse to
such an obvious method of mitigating its severity.  No, their religious
scruples, in this matter, will not yield to the influence of reason and ex-
perience.  The fever most prevalent here is the slow nervous kind, and
is most frequent after feed time harvest, especially in cold rainy sea-
sons.  It seems to be more immediately brought on by lowness of spirits,
occasioned by excessive fatigue, without proper food or accommodation,
to prevent its bad effects.  To this we may add, that the practice of
crowding numbers together in low damp houses, contributes not a little,
both to increase its severity, to the person immediately affected, and to
spread it more widely through the neighbourhood.


