
                      CLEISH,                             49

peat-moss, which had been for ages used for fuel, was a few years
ago, brought into culture by the servitude of digging peats having
been given up. The three proprietors, the Lord Chief Cominis-
sioner, Mr Bogie, and Mr Stedman of Fruix, all encouraged the
culture of this moss, through which the great north road passes.
It was in extent between forty and fifty acres, of which there is
now hardly any thing to be seen, being all either converted into
corn land, or covered with trees, which are in a very promising state
with respect to growth.
 '' The last-mentioned properties, viz. East Mill, Fruix, and Gair-
ney, may extend to between three and four hundred acres, and
with the estates of Blair Adam and Barns, constitute what is con-
sidered as the eastern district of the parish of Cleish.
  '' The estate of Barns, which adjoins that of Blair Adam on the
north, was the property of a respectable family of Kinross-shire.
Mr Robert Burt, who succeeded to it in 1750, upon the death of
his father, became factor on the estate of Blair Adam at that
period, and continued to discharge that duty until 1768, when
Mr Henry Burt, his eldest Son, was appointed to the situation.
  '' Mr John Adam, the father of the late Lord Chief Commis-
sioner, carried on his improvements on a very extensive scale,
while be and Mr Burt were factors on his estate,--and they had
his leave and indeed his injunctions to take from his large nurseries
whatever trees they wished to plant on the estate of Barns; so that
the last mentioned property was cultivated and planted with trees
in a manner similar to that of Blair Adam, so much so, that they
almost appear to be the work of the same persons."
               V.-PAROCHIAL,L ECONOMY.
  Market-Town, &c.-The nearest market-town is Kinross, about
three miles north from the centre of the parish. A great part of
the grain, butter, and cheese produced is sold at Dunfermline,
which is eight or nine miles distant. The turnpike roads from
Queensferry and from Dunfermline to Kinross cmas the parish
from South to north. The roads here are good and still improving.
the bridges were built not many years ago, and are in good order.
There is a post-office at Blair- Adam, in the east end of the parish:
the principal office for the district is that of Kinross.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated about four miles.

<FOOTNOTE>The above remarks are from the pen of the late Lord Chief Commisioner of the
Jury Court, whose warm interest alike in the confort of his people and the imporve-
ment of his property, has caused his death to be felt in this parish as an irreparable
loss.
KIINROSS,                                                         D


