
     Statistical Account

and stock.  But this union of farms cannot be said to be in
favour of population, though, if proprietors would allot small
spots of ground at an easy rate to the poorer people, and be
at pains to establish manufactures among them, the improve-
ment of the country and population might go hand in hand;
the people might keep their country and live happy; and the
proprietors in the end would find it redound much to their
credit and interest.  There has, indeed, no emigration to
America taken place from this parish as yet, but a yearly
drain to the low country for service, etc. owing to the
union of farms, and the general poverty of the country,
where there are no manufactures to employ, and little pro-
duce to support the inhabitants.-The farms, as presently
possessed, are 32 in number, of which 17 are in the hands of
gentlemen tacksmen, and for the msot part stocked with
sheep; 5 in lease to shepherds; and 10 occupied by small te-
nants.  The annual average of kelp manufactured and sold
may be about 70 tons; and the common rate of manufactur-
ing it is 1 L. 10 s. per ton.-The exports are, cows, horses,
sheep, wool, kelp, timber, and barks.  The imports consist
of many articles; the principal of which are, meal yearly in
great quantities, tanned leather, iron, tar, ropes, smearing
butter, merchant goods of various kinds, etc*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common prices of labour are, a man servant, for a
year, from 4 L. to 5 L.; a single woman from 1 L. 5 s. to 2 L. ex-
clusive of shoes and maintenance, and other perquisites, all which
are daily increasing in value.  Formerly farms were generally
managed by married, or cottage, servants, with us called work-
men.  The common encouragement for these was holding of 5
or 6 soums in cows and sheep, which was then valued at 10 s.
the soum; with us they had one fourth part of what crops were
made, and maintenance throughout the year, except the time
employed in ploughing the ground and reaping the crops; this
mode was found very inconvenient and expensive, and is now al-
most totally disused.  A day labourer earns 1 s. per day; taylors are


