
238                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

supposed to have worshipped. We have heard that an attempt was
made, some years ago, to ascertain its contents; but it ended in
disappointment, as nothing else was found than a few empty earth-
en jars.
  In Lake Kinellan stands an artificial island, resting upon logs
of oak, on which the family of Seaforth bad at one period an house
of strength; and a quarter of a mile eastward, is the place of Blar'
na'n Ceann, or field of heads,-so named, from having been the
scene of a very sanguinary conflict between the Mackenzies of Sea-
forth, and Macdonells of Glengarry. The latter, according to
tradition, came, as was the fashion in those days, to resent an old
feud by force of arms, but were routed after great slaughter; and,
being pursued by the Mackenzies to the confluence of the rivers
Rasay and Connon at Moy, were there forced into the water, and
drowned.
  There is still in Loch Achilty a small island, likewise supposed
to be artificial. It belonged to MacLea Mor, i. e. Great Mac-
Lea, who possessed, at the same time, a large extent of property
in the parish; and who was wont, in seasons of danger, to retire to
the island as a place of refuge from his enemies. The ruins of the
buildings which he there occupied may still be traced. A niche
was long seen in the wall of the church, called Cruist Mhic' a
Lea, from its having formed part of a vault in which that family
was buried.
  Modern Buildings.-At Coul, in the eastern part of the parish,
a new mansion-house was built in 1821, which is handsome and
commodious. The surrounding grounds have been tastefully laid
out, and the garden is kept in a superior style.
  Two churches have been, of late years, erected in this parish,
-one at Keanlochhuchart, in 1825-and the other in Strathcon-
non, in 1830,-upon the Government grant for building additional
places of worship in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.

<TABLE=Population>
 			III.-POPULATION.

	By Dr Webster's census in 1755, the population was - 1949
	According to last Statistical Account in 1792, 	-    2000
	By the census of 1831, 	-      -      -       -      2029

  The number of males in 1831 was 943, of females 1080. The
inhabitants, being partial to the place of their nativity, do not re-
move from it while they can earn a subsistence, until they are swept
off to make way for extensive farmers.

<TABLE>
   The average of births for the last seven years has been    55
	      of marriages,    -           -           -      14
                                3


