
                             ALLOA.                             17


and Kellie, there was part of a natural wood when the last Statis-
tical Account was written, a very small portion of which now
remains. We are informed by Mr Tytler, that, in ancient times,
so long ago as the reign of David II., this district of Clackman-
nanshire, contained royal forests, in which, by a grant from the
King, the monks of Holyrood had the right of cutting wood for
building and other purposes, and of pasture for their swine. * We
may well suppose, however, that no two pictures could be more
dissimilar than Scotland in the thirteenth and fourteenth, and
Scotland in the nineteenth century; for tbe present sylvan vegeta-
tion can have little or no resemblance to the old; as trees from
the continent of Europe, from Asia, and from America, now sup-
ply the place of those which once indigenously occupied the soil,
   The gardens and grounds at Alloa were the first that were laid
out on a great scale in Scotland; and, with the advice of Le Nau-
tre, they were indebted to the taste of John, the late Earl of Mar,
who began to plant them in the year 1706. They would have
exhibited to the fastidious Dr Johnson, had be travelled this way,
as fine timber of fourscore years growth as his favourite England
can produce. Alloa park, which includes all the older plantations,
is very much enlarged, containing now no less than 480 imperial
acres, one-half of which has been planted; and, in several of its
more elevated parts, the present noble proprietor has introduced
a variety of fine trees, in clumps and otherwise, very taste-
fully arranged. The beauty of, park scenery is here well dis-
played in a finely diversified surface, where hanging lawns, screen-
ed with wood, are connected with valleys. This extensive and beau-
tiful park, thus rich in the beauties of liberal nature, is not less
rich in historic associations; for here much that is memorable in
Scottish history has a "local habitition." The great variety of
trees, both indigenous and exotic, makes a fine contrast in every
season of the year; of these the following are some of the more
remarkable:

Quercus Robur         Quercus coccinea  	 Querous Cerris
        Ilex                  sessifiera                 Esculus

<FOOTNOTE>A foreign traveller, Hartmunn Schedel, (In "Historia Etatum Mundi," Nu-
remburg, 1498,) gives a description of Scotland in the reign of James II. "The
following miracle," he says, "was pressented to us. We now poor people almost ask-
ed coming to church and begging; upon which they received stones, for which they
expressed thanks, and showed the greatest joy. This kind of stone being composed
of sulphur or other fat matter, is burned instead of wood, of which the country is
destitute." This, perhaps veracious traveller does not say what part of Scotland he
traveled; but it is evident that he had arrived at a place where the old forest were
all exterminated, where modern planting had not commenced, and where coal was
just beginning to be wrought.

   CLACKMANNAN.                                      B


