
     Statistical Account

   Tradesmen, Poor, etc.-Exclusive to thsoe settled at
the village, there are artificers in the parish, 3

<FOOTNOTE>

this view, every thing should be done to render the access by land to this
place less difficult, and the condition of the inhabitants there, more easy and
comfortable.  As the circumstances of the country do not, at present, af-
ford the advantages of a regular market, it is indispensably necessary, that
settlers in this village, should have spots of ground allotted to them, for fur-
nishing some of the most necessary articles of daily consumption, and these
spots should be let at such moderate rates, as would be not only an
imducement, but even an encouragement to persons of some substance and
enterprise to settle at this place.  Instead of this being the case at present,
an universal complaint prevails among the inhabitants of the dearness of
the rent, which the society exact for their ground there.  It is not to be
wondered at, that the gentlemen, who have the direction of the society's
affairs, and who, perhaps, only know the Highlands from the cursory ob-
servations of a short tour made by themselves, or others, in the finest sum-
mer weather, are apt to form too favourable an opinion of the general va-
lue of land in this part of the kingdom.  They have themselves, it is like-
ly, been in the habit of seeing land let every year, at the rate of from 20 s.
to 40 s. an acre, perhaps at much more; and it is natural for them, there-
fore, to think, that sufficient allowance is made for the difference of qua-
lity and situation, when the lands about Tobermory are let at about 5 s. an
acre.  This, however, will be found a mistaken notion; and when these
respectable characters shall have acquired a more intimate knowledge of
the extreme meanness of the soil about Tobermory, its barrenness as to
produce, and its disadvantages in regard to climate, and access to manures,
as their great object is to relieve and assist the people, there is no doubt,
but they would judge 5 s. an acre too great a rent to be demanded in
the infancy of a remote establishment, so circumstanced.  In corrobo-
ration of what has been now advanced, let it be considered, that a
small Highland cow cannot be kept alive upon less than 6 or 7 acres of
the commom run of land about Tobermory, besides a great deal of la-
bour and expense, in finding winter provision for her.  And if to this is
added, the expense which her owner must be put to in enclosing his small
lot of ground, not to mention that of building his house, it will appear,
when every thing is laid together, that this scanty accommodation stands
him dearer, in proportion to the returns he has from it, than the highest
priced accommodation of settlers near large cities in Scotland or England,
where trade and manufacture flourish.


