
52              	DUMBARTONSHIRE.

<TABLE>
The number of families, giving an average of 5.27 persons to each family is	567
						inhabited houses, .   .  .   . 	442
						uninhabited houses, .  .  .  .	  9

   In the parish, or belonging to it, there are 4 persons insane ; 4
fatuous; 2 blind; 1 deaf; and 1 deaf and dumb. There are 17
proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 or upwards; and
I beneath that value. We have 6 or 7 resident families of inde-
pendent fortune.
   Habits, Circumstances, &c.-The habits of the people are no
way peculiar. There is a growing taste for neatness and cleanli-
ness in personal appearance and domestic arrangements. The
comforts and advantages of society are enjoyed in a very conside-
rable degree; and, were it not for the depressed state of agricul-
ture, all classes would have reason to be satisfied with their con-
dition. Oatmeal, both in the form of porridge and of cakes, po-
tatoes, milk and cheese, barley-broth with butcher-meat, or her-
ring, are the ordinary food of the peasantry. Wheaten bread,
butter, tea, and coffee, are in more common use with the villagers.
The circumstances of the latter class, employed chiefly in cotton-
spinning and calico printing have been very prosperous for some
years past; but contentment does not always accompany pros-
perity ; and during the year 1834 we bad very serious distur-
bances at Milngavie and Dasholm, in consequence of a general
strike by the united printers. This attempt at dictating to their
masters, as uniformly happens where the latter have resolution
enough to resist the demands of the Unionists, has entirely failed
of success, and has been the occasion of a great number of the
printers being deprived of their employment, by the introduction
of hand-loom weavers and other operatives into their places.
   Character ofInhabitants.-The inhabitants are intelligent and
Shrewd in the ordinary affairs of life, and many of them possess
no small share of acquired knowledge. The ancient religious
character of the Scottish peasantry is scarcely maintained among
us; and, of our villagers especially, there are numbers by whom
religious ordinances are much neglected. In general, however,
religion has a bold of the minds of the people; many of them are
well read in their Bibles; and from not a few houses the morning
and evening sacrifice of family worship is still offered up. The
chief stain on their moral character arises from the vice of intem-
perance. Till the reduction of the duty on whisky, smuggling
was carried on to a considerable extent, but is now unknown


