
                      LATHERON.                                    89

this parish, very little cart be noticed under, this head. Judging,
however, from the number and variety of the remains of those
places of strength which it contains, together with the other war.
like relics of barbarous and feuditl times with vvhith it is every-
where bestudded, there can be no doubt that it formed th,6 scono
of many a well fought field. But, as usually happent in such
cases, tradition has been very fertile in suppleying, the lack of more
correction formation. One tradition out of many may be noticed as
highly probable. It refers to the last invasion of this county by the
Danes. On that occasion they landed near the town of Thurso
under the command of the young Prince of Denmark, and the
natives, not being in sufficient strength to oppose them, retreated
across the county, followed by the invaders, till they came to the
hill of Ben-a-gheil, in this parish, distant twenty miles from Thurso.
By this time, the ranks of the natives having been greatly increased
in number, and being now in view of the coast where their retteat
must be stopped, deriving courage also from the very favourable
position they occupied on this hill,-they resolved to try,the lhte
of a pitched battle. Having taken their ground, the enethy soon
came up and attempted to dislodge them, when they poured dawn
in one dense mass broke the enemy's ranks killed their leader,
and routed their whole force. A huge stone, placed perpendicular
in the ground, resembling a pillar, marks the place- where the
Prince fell; and from this occurrence the hill itself seems to de-
rive its Gaelic name, Ben-a-gheil, signifying the hill where they
yielded, or were overcome.
   Eminent Men.- One of the most etninent men known to have
been connected with this parish, was the late Sir John Sinclair
of Ulbster, Bart. author of the former Statistical Account of
Scatland, the Code of Agriculture, &c. &c.; a man who was an
ornament to the age in which he lived, and of whom any parish
or county might deservedly boast., Sir John was principal pro
prietor in this parish, and the estate of Langwelli then, in his pos-
session was his favourite resort during the periods of his earliest
and most extensive improvements in the several departments of
plantation, agriculture, and sheep-farming, in the first and last
of which he completely succeeded; and much of the beauty and
utility of this valuable property is owing to his spirited and prese-
vering exertions, seconded, as they were, by the skill and good



