
				CULROSS.                              605

	he receives from a charitable foundation L. 10 for teahing twelve
	poor scholars, and may make from L. 20 to L. 30 in school fees.
	The salary of the teacher of the endowed school is L. 36, with a
	house and small garden.  On account of his salary, he is required
	to teach twenty poor scholars and to keep a Sabbath school.  He
  charges fees from all attending, above the number on the list of
	poor scholars.
    In both schools, the ordinary branches of education are taught;
  and the parish teacher is required, besides, to be able to give
	instruction in Latin, French, practical mathematics, and the
	elements of Greek ; and the same branches are expected to
	be taught in the endowed school.  Number of children under
  six years of age learning to read, 15; between six and fifteen
  years of age who are learning to read, 165; who are learning
  writing, 97 ; arithmetic, 67 ; Latin, 3 ; Greek, 2 ; mathema-
  tics, 13; geography, 32; total number at school, 180.  There
	is no person in the parish above the aoe of childhood who
	cannot read ; and only about 40 individuals, and these chiefly
	elderly females, who cannot write.  The inhabitants appear in ge-
	neral alive to the advantages of education.  Fees at the parish
	school, 3s. for reading; 3s. 6d. for writing with reading ; and 4s.
	for arithmetic along with the two other branches.  Those at the
	other public school are nearly the same as the above.
	  Charitable and other Institutions.--Compared with the popula-
  tion, the funds for giving relief to the indigent are very ample.
  Besides the one for education, already mentioned, there are diffe-
	rent establishments for affording relief to the poor, or to those who
	have fallen into decayed circumstances.
     Dr Bill, a native of Culross, who was settled in London as a pby-
	sician, and who died there in the year 1738, mortified a sum of money,
	which, won by savings made in former times, amounts to L. 1000;
	the interest of which is employed in giving quarterly allowances in
  money to four decayed tradesmen, and two tradesmen's widows
  in the educating and putting to apprenticeship of some young per-
	sons of the town and parish of Culross; and in providing a bursa-
	ry for a student for four years at any of the Universities in Scot-
	land.
	  In 1639, Sir George Bruce of Carnock founded an hospital in
  the west end of the town, for the maintenance of six decayed poor
	and aged Women, widows of colliers or salters, or, if these be defi-
	cient, to other decayed poor and aged women in the parish of Cul-


