
                             LONMAY.                                235

scheme, along with a hundred others throughout Scotland; and
it is feared no persuasion will be available for their re-construction.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid for the last four years, 44; total funds,
including collections at church, penalties, and interest of about
L.250 lent out, and voluntary donations from heritors, L.66.-
Charge upon the funds: session-clerk and officer, doctor's bill
and coffins, say L.10, 10s., leaving L.55 amongst 44 persons,
L.1, 5s. each.
   The munificent bequest of the late Mr Burnett of Aberdeen
to the kirk-session of the several parishes in the county of Aber-
deen for behoof of the poor, affords a payment to each parish
once in about eight years.  This has been employed by the
kirk-session of Lonmay as a floating fund to meet exigencies.
Very few applications are made personally for aid.  Support is
professedly not the system, and relief is afforded in as quiet and
efficient a manner as possible, so as to go hand in hand, without
interfering, with private charity.  The field, however, we are
sorry to observe, has for some years past been growing more ex-
tensive, and difficulties are sensibly felt in dealing prudently with
the evil.  There is now introduced a very guarded observance of
the law of settlement, which has occasioned a great watchfulness
of the characters and regard to the circumstances of new comers,
both on the part of the kirk-sessions and heritors.
   Fairs.-There are two held annually on the same ground, one
in spring and the other in autumn, for cattle and sheep, and also for
feeing farm-servants. *
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.-Of petty public houses there are few.  Yet
these, and the licensed whisky shops, five or six in number, are to
be considered an evil in the parish, and they are in general truly a
curse to the country, affording temptations to intemperance, which
are by no means withstood.
   Fuel.-Peat moss is used generally for fuel, brought from the
estates of Crimonmogate and Kinninmonth.  The tenantry on the
other estates purchase it at a price which the proprietors have been,
from time to time, advancing; so that, if along with the present high
price of this article, its carriage also was to be estimated at its pro-

<FOOTNOTE>It is most desirable that order should be taken to remove by sunset the booths
for the sale of spirits, &c. and that the constabulary force should clear these markets
at that time.


