
                         DALMENY.                                 105

ing a decrease of 204 from that of 1821. It is almost entirely-
agricultural, with the exception of about fifty families in the town
of Queensferry, (part of which belongs to Dalmeny,) and at Now-
balls,-who are engaged in fishing and various domestic trades.
Amount of population in 1841, 1393.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Most of the farm-houses, and several of the office-houses, are
slated; the former generally substantial and commodious, and in
some instances elegant. The farms comprise from 80 to upwards
of 300 acres; some of them cultivated with a degree of skill and
enterprise highly creditable.
   The four rotation system is that commonly in use; but, of late
years, the grazing of cattle and the better breeds of sheep have
thrown a much larger portion into pasture than formerly,-a prac-
tice which is found not only to yield a better immediate return
than a constant succession of white and green crops, but greatly
to improve the land, and render it more productive. The parish
is now almost universally drained according to the improved mode
of placing the drains in every alternate furrow, at the distance of
thirty-six feet apart, the tenant paying, besides the carriages, a
percentage during his lease, on the outlay of the landlord. The
soil of the higher grounds, which is chiefly clay on a cold bottom
bordering in some places an till, passes in its descent to the lower
grounds into the richest loam. One field, in particular, known by
the name of the Kirk Park, is so exceedingly fertile, as to have
acquired the distinction of "perpetual soil". The minister's gar-
den, which is of the same quality, and immediately adjoins it, is
said to have produced abundant crops of potatoes and other ve-
getables, for six or seven years successively, without manure.
   The number of acres in the parish is about 5850 imperial,
of which about 1000 belong to the estate of Craigiehall, 2600
to that of Dalmeny, 1600 to that of Dundas, and 650 to that
of Hopetoun. This last portion is chiefly in the disjoined part
called Auldcathy, of which the, Earl of Hopetoun is the sole
proprietor. The portion of it actually under the plough, which
may,stated at 4000 acres imperial, is let on leases of nineteen
years, at a rent of from L. 1, 5s. to L. 3, averaging L. 2, 3s. 6d.,
payable for the most part in money and grain. The pasture
which may amount to 1000 acres, about 700 of which are within
the grounds of Dalmeny Park, is let annually 4 from L. 2 to
L. 2, 10s. per imperial acre. There are under wood, about 850




