
96                     ARGYLESHIRE.

Dr M'Intyre in the year 1765, a suitable volume was provided, in
which he recorded every parochial event and occurrence which he
deemed Of any importance. The volume, however, has not been
kept in the best preservation, nor does it furnish a very correct re.
cord of baptisms.and marriages. It is, notwithstanding, from the
circumstance already stated, an interesting volume. The record
of Inishail parish dates from the settlement of Dr M'Intyre.
   The kirk-session of Muckairn were, from time immemorial, till
of late, in the habit of exorcising a pastoral superintendence over
a district of the parish of Inishail, in the neighbourbood. of that
church and parish, and to which it was annexed quoad sacra, dur-
ing the.time of the Commonwealth. All the births, and marriages,
and cases of discipline, that occurred in that district were insert-
ed in the register of Muckairn, as they are still, and its poor were
admitted to a participation in the funds at the regular distribution,
on the same footing with the poor of the parish.
   Antiquities.--Besides the castles already described, viz. Caol-
churn and Traocheil-lein, there are several others in the parish.
Acballader Castle is situate in the braes of the parish of Glen.
urchy, and was built either by Sir Colin Campbell of the Castles,
as he is designated, and first Laird of Glenurchy of that name, or
by his son, Black Sir Duncan of the Cowl. Sir Colin is said to
have built no fewer than seven castles, viz. Taymouth, Finlarig,
Edinample, and Lochdochard, in the county of Perth, and Caol-
churn, Benculdine, and. Achallader, in the county of Argyle.
   The exact period of its erection is not known. Its object is
obvious,-tbat of preventing the raids and forays of the Lochaber
clans. It served at the same time as a hunting-lodge, when the
Noble owner chose to enjoy the pleasures of the chase in the ad-
jacent forests of Bendourain, Corichbaa, and Glenceitlein. On
the slope 'of a bill in the neighbourhood, several cairns, now partly
overgrown with heath and moss, indicate the spot where a bloody
conflict was, fought, of which some tradition still survives.
  On a height overhanging the water of Teatle, on the farm of
Duchoille, may be seen the ruins of an old fort or castle. Tra-
dition does not indicate either the object or period of its erec-
ion. It was. built of dry stone, and resembles those old ruins
so frequent in the Western Isles, which are called Danish
forts. Another, apparently of the same description, stood on
the farm of Barchastiallain a little to the westward of the inn
of Dalmally. A different origin, however, has been ascribed it.


