

                             BALQUHIDDER.                       347

  riages kept in the parish, the earliest date of which is November
  1696: it is regularly kept.
    Mansion-Houses.-There are two mansion-houses, Edinample
  Castle, and Glenbuckie House, the former built some centuries
  back, and the latter about ten years ago.

                       III.-POPULATION.
    The greatest number of souls in the parish, so far back as can
  be traced, was 1592; by last census, the population was 1049.
  The yearly average of births for the last seven years is 24, and
  that of marriages 9.
    There are 9 proprietors of land, whose rentals all exceed L. 50
  yearly.
    Gaelic is the language generally spoken, but it has been ra-
  ther losing ground within the last forty years.

<TABLE>
  Number of families in the parish,                                218
                chiefly employed in agriculture,                   113
                          in trade, manufactures, or handicraft, .  30

                        IV.-INIDUSTRY.
    Agriculture- The number of acres which are occasionally under
  tillage, has not been ascertained. The arable land and hill pas-
  ture are generally let together, excepting some small lots, consist-
  ing of a few acres arable land and meadow, which may be rented
  at the average of L. 1 per acre.
    Live-Stock.-The common breeds of sheep and cattle are the
  black-faced sheep and West Highland cattle, and considerable at-
  tention is paid to improve them, by introducing sheep and cattle from
  other stocks.  As a proof of the attention which is paid to the im-
  provement of sheep stock in this parish, it may be stated that they
  generally bring the highest prices at the Falkirk Tryst.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Town.-There is no market-town in the parish, and the
  nearest market-town is Callander, distant from the Clachan about
  twelve miles.
    Villages.-There are two small villages in the parish, one in
  Strathyre, and the other at Lochearnhead, both on the turnpike
  road that leads from Stirling to Fortwilliam.
    Means of Communication.-The length of the turnpike road
  through the parish is eleven miles.  There is a post-office at
  Lochearnhead.  There are two bridges on the river Balvag, and
  in full repair.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situate about the centre Of
  the parish conveniently, at that time, for the population.  In the


