
                             LAUDER.                             15

furnished chiefly with religious books, which are lent to the young
attending the Sabbath evening schools, (of which there are two,)
as well as to persons more advanced in age.
   Friendly Society.-A friendly society had been in the parish
many years previous to 1814, when, in consequence of the ex-
penses incurred by a litigations with one of its members, its funds
were wasted, and the society dissolved. Another, the Brotherly
Society of Free Masons, formed in 1772, still exists, having at pre-
sent 82 brethren, and to such of them as are in distress, not ob-
viously occasioned by their own immoral conduct, it affords season-
able pecuniary relief.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persona at pre-
sent receiving regular parochial relief is 22; of these, one, who
is fatuous, receives 4s. per week; one, old and feeble, 3s. 6d.; and
another, with a young family, also 3s. 6d.; these sums being the
highest weekly allowances given to any of our paupers. The
remaining 19 get from 1s. 3d. to 2s. Including the three who re-
ceive the highest sums, each pauper receives at an average per
week about 2s. 1d., or per year, L.5, 8s. 4d., so that the whole of
the enrolled poor receive at the rate of L.119, 3s. 4d. in the year.
This expenditure is, met by an assessment laid upon the heritors,
who hold a meeting along with the minister and elders every half
year, for the purpose of adjusting the roll and fixing the requisite
supplies. The present annual assessment is L. 150, of which L. 30
are expended in the payment of house rent to several persons not
yet taken on the roll, and of salary to the heritors' clerk, who col-
lects the money and distributes it monthly. The church collec
tions (in 1832) L. 39, 17s., and the money derived from the use of
mortcloths, L. 9, 5s.; from use of a hearse, L. 6; and from the in-
terest of L. 100, (mortified by the Rev. James Lindsay, a former
minister of the parish,) L. 4, amounting in all to L. 59, 2s., are con-
fided by the heritors to the sole disposal of the members of the
session. From that sum they give to their clerk (who also provides
a precentor) L. 5 yearly; to the beadle, L. 2; to the presbytery and
synod clerks, and to the presbytery officer, L. 1. Of the balance,
L. 51, 2s., they give at each of the half yearly meetings about L. 16
in donations, varying from 5s. to 12s., to a considerable number of
persons verging towards pauperism, and a part of it they allot from
time to time to the relief of such of the poor as may be in want,
occasioned by the pressure of personal or domestic affliction. From
their funds they also defray the expense connected with the burial


