
     of Thurso.

ry were concerned; but after being carried on some years,
it was discontinued, and entirely neglected for near 50
years, when the House of Charles and Robert Fall of Dun-
bar*, in the year 1780, entered into contract with all the
fishermen in the county, to take, at certain fixed prices, all
the cod and ling they could catch.  Curers were stationed
at different places round the coast, who received the fish the
instant they were brought on shore; and thus encouraged,
the fishermen again began to seek for cod and ling, and
their success exceeded their most fanguine expectations.  But
still there is room for considerable extention and improve-
ment in this branch of the fisher.

   Sect. III.  Lobster Fishery.-Very little has hitherto
been done in lobster fishing in Caithness, although there can
be no doubt but that the coast abounds with that species of
fish.  In Thurso Bay, and at Mey, it has been tried with
pretty good success, but not to that extent as to make it an
object of attention to the London fishmongers.

   SECT. IV.  London Smacks.-Before the commencement
of the present war, a London cod smack never was seen in
Pentland Frith.  Being driven from the Dogger Bank, by
the annoyance of French and Dutch privateers, they ven-
tured to explore, the northern coasts of Caithness and Su-
therland, in search of cod; and now, as a proof of their suc-
cess, and that they find no danger in the experiment, it is
no uncommon thing, to see five and twenty London smacks

     VOL. XX. 3 X

<FOOTNOTE>

*It was principally at the instigation, and by the encouragement of Sir
John Sinclair, that the Meffrs Falls engaged in this undertaking.  The conse-
quence was, that great numbers of men, were so much accustomed to the sea,
as to be little inclined to enter into the military service, when he raised his
two battalions of Fencibles.  Hence it may be inferred, that when agri-
culture, commerce, manufactures, and the fisheries, are established all over
the Highlands, the military spirit will of course subside, and the military
strength of the country must be diminished.


