
   130                      ELGINSHIRE.

   we could mention many, from the recital of whose reckless deeds
   in the shedding of human blood, we should recoil with horror.
      From among many, we shall select John Macandrew of Delna-
   hartnich, who, on account of his diminutive size, obtained the cog-
   nomen of Ian beag Macandra, little John Macandrew.  At the
   period in question, the laird or tacksman of Achaluachrach, previ-
   ous to his union with a young maiden of his own country, made a
   predatory incursion into the lowlands, from whence he carried away
   all the best cattle belonging to Rose of Kilravock, in Nairnshire.
   He reached in safety with his booty as far as the Cr•-clach, in the
   braes of Strathdearn, where he rested for the night.  While the
   hungry cattle fed with eagerness upon the rich pasture of this ce-
   lebrated glen, the freebooters fared no less sumptuously, on a
   plentiful supply, of broiled steaks, from the, buttocks of one of the
   fattest of the beeves. So secure did the reivers consider them-
   selves from pursuit, that they did not use the precaution of setting a
   proper watch, but entrusted this important post to a boy who
   followed them from home; who no sooner had his post assigned
   him, than, overcome by fatigue, he threw himself down on the heath
   and fell fast asleep. Though Kilravock was far advanced in
   life, and lame besides, he no sooner missed his cattle, than he
   collected the most efficient of his retainers, and issued the crois
   taridh, and followed the tract of his cattle; so that by the time
   he came in sight of the beasts, he found himself at the head of a
   numerous and resolute band; among whom our hero held an ad-
   vanced post.  Though Kilravock's party outnumbered the reivers,
   so assured were they of encountering a formidable resistance, that
   they used every necessary precaution. Being, by the concurring
   favourable circumstances of the darkness of the night, and som-
   nolency of the faithless sentinel, enabled to surround the bothy
   in which the reivers were feasting, a shower of arrows from the
   pursuers was the first intimation they had of danger. The bothy
   was so closely besieged as to admit of no egress; those withim
   laboured under the disadvantage of shooting at random, where-
   as the pursuers were so favoured by the light within the bothy
   that their arrows did fearful execution.  John Macandrew's eye was
   in search of the chief, whom he soon recognized amid his follow-
   ers, by the superiority of his dress; an arrow from John's bow, pin-
   ned him to the beam against which he leaned; which feat was no
   sooner observed by Mackintosh of Kyleachy than he exclaimed--
   "Dia as buaidh leat Ian Mhic Anndra, tha thamb an Dalnahait.


