
                        GARGUNNOCK.                        59

  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons on
the poor roll is 7 or 8; and about the same number receive occa-
sional relief. The heritors, greatly to their honour, are very at-
tentive to the necessities of the poor. The average sum allotted
to each pauper is 4s. 6d. per month. Besides the weekly collec-
tions at the church gate, there are other funds, which have been
mortified at different times, by charitable individuals, for the bene-
fit of the poor. The funds for the poor consist of two sums bear-
ing interest; one sum of L.266, 15s. 7d. is deposited in the Bank
of Scotland; and the other sum of L. 365, is lent to the trustees
of the turnpike road between Stirling and Dumbarton. The peo-
ple of this parish are of an independent spirit, and they do not ap-
ply for parish relief, except in cases of extreme necessity.
    Alehouses.--The number of alehouses in the parish is four.
    There is one distillery, on the estate of Gargunnock.
The people in general cultivate temperate habits, and verv few
of them drink to excess.
    Fuel.--The fuel chiefly used is coal, brought from Bannockburn,
the distance of nine miles. The price of a cart load of coals of
15 cwt., is 11s. 6d, including carriage. Peats are also brought
from the waoss of Kincardine, at 3s. 6d. per cart load. A few of
the farmers bring peats on sleds from the Lennox hills.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The present state of the parish is distinguished from that which
existed forty years ago, by some striking variations and improve-
ments. The elegant and -beautiful house of Leckie, and also the
beautiful house of Meiklewood, Colonel, Graham's suspension-
bridge over the Forth, and the fine level line of road through the
carse lands of the parish, did not then exist. The new systems of
wedge or stone draining had not then been introduced and brought
into general operation. In consequence of this superior system of
draining, and other modern improvements in agriculture, the land
has increased above one-half in value; and, therefore, the rental of
the parish has been more than doubled within the last forty years.
The rental was then stated at L. 3000; it is now upwards of
L.6500. The new line of road through the carse lands has been
much improved, though it has lost much, in point of scenery. The
old Dumbarton road, which, at the time when the last Statistical
Account was written, passed by Touch, Gargunnock House, the
manse, and church, and village, Leckie, and Boquhan, to the vil-
lage of Kippen, was in many places beautified with fine scenery;


