
		      PENCAITLAND.                       349

pointed one of the Commissioners from Scotland to attend the
famous Westminster Assembluy , but, owing to some cause or other,
was prevented from attending. He frequently preached before the
Scotch Parliament during the course of the civil war, " and
shunned not to declare the whole counsel of God." He labolured
much for the restoration of Charles II to the throne of his an-
cestors, and was appointed to preach at the ordination of that mo-
narch, at Scone on the 1st January 1651. It was said of him in
his own day, " that few contributed more to the Restoration than
Mr Douglas, and derived less benefit from it." Subsequently to
this period, be was settled minister of this parish under the Indul-
gence, and died about the year 1673, full of years and of honours.
  Another person of distinction connected with this parish, was
Sir John Lauder, Lord Fountainhall. He was an eminent lawyer
and statesman, and not less remarkable for his zealous attachment
to the Protestant faith, than for his exemplary conduct in the va-
rious relations Of life. His industry as a writer on subjects con-
nected with his profession was very great, and the fruits of his la-
bours are justly regarded as most valuable. Besides the two vo-
lumes published under the title of "Fountainhall's Decisions," he
left three quarto and ten folio volumes of manuscripts, and there
is reason to believe from his references, that some others were lost.
   James Hamilton, son of Lord Presmennan, was appointed one
of the Judges of the Court of Session, and also a Lord of Justici-
are by the title of Lord Pencaitland. Although he, confined himself
almost entirely to the duties of his own profession, yet the worth of
his character was extensively known and highly estimated. It seems
to have been in the person of this gentleman, that the connection of
his family with the estate of Pencaitland was formed-a connection
which reflected great honour on their own character, and that
has proved to be a signal benefit to this place. It would be im-
proper to pass over without some notice, George Seton, fifth and
last Earl of Winton. He was eminent for his high rank in society,
for the antiquity of his family, and for his chivalrous but disastrous
attachment to the House of Stuart. He joined in the rebellion
in 1715, was taken prisoner at Preston, tried for high treason,
sentenced to be executed, and his estates and honours forfeited to
the Crown. He found means to escape out of the Tower of London,
and fled to Rome, where he died unmarried, about the age of 70.
   " Thus terminated one of the principal houses in Britain, after
subsisting for upwards of 600 years in East Lothian, and laying
  HADDINGTON.				z


