
                        MONZIE.                               263

the stately mansion of Monzie, embosomed among trees of the largest
growth, in " the full efflorescence and stateliness of their manhood."
The whole is bounded on both sides by hills of considerable though
unequal elevation, and in front by the Knock, rearing its perpen-
dicular masses of pine into the middle air.  Here also, including
the neighbouring village of Gilmerton, with the numerous farm-
houses upon the estates of Monzie and Cultoquhey, are congre-
gated two-thirds of the whole population.  To one stationed upon
the Highland road, east from the church, the view is of great
beauty.  In the foreground are the luxuriant woods, the rich pas-
tures, and the House of Monzie, beautifully harmonizing with and
forming an appropriate centre point to the whole.  Extending the
line of vision out of this narrow valley westward, we have, in the
middle distance, the dark rampart of the Comrie hills, and far be-
yond and above these, the delighted eye descries and rests with
rapture upon Benvorlich, Benmore, and Benledi, blending their
lofty summits with the blue tints of heaven.  Were it not a well-
authenticated fact, that Dr Johnson regarded Scotland as a region
destitute of trees, one might be tempted to conclude, that he had
visited this spot, and received from it his first impression of the
" Happy Valley," in Rasselas.
   Glenalmond.-Glenalmond, to the eastward of its junction with
the Vale of Monzie, is an open cultivated country, but here the
banks of the river suddenly assume the form and character of lofty
hills; their bases on the opposite sides of the glen approaching so
near, as, in some places, barely to leave room for the bed of the
river.  They may be said to average from 1000 to 1200 feet in
height.  They are entirely destitute of trees, but here and there
may be seen a stinted shrub, seeking a scanty subsistence among
the rocks.   One of the highest eminences on the east side of the
glen is crowned with the ruins of a Celtic fort, and upon the top
of a hill on the opposite side of the glen is a cairn.  The river
Almond here measures 70 feet in width.  Its waters are transpa-
rent, and run with considerable velocity over a bed of rock and
gravel.  Its general depth varies from a few inches to several feet.
This romantic pass continues for upwards of two miles, and, on ac-
count of its narrowness, is familiarly known by the name of the
" Small Glen."  A new road leading to the Highlands, runs
through it, formed upon the most approved principles of engineer-
ing, and kept in a state of admirable repair.  It is nearly upon the
same line with the military road, formed by Government for the


