
     of Glasford.

difficulty, collects the hard earned fruits of his industry from
the reluctant hands of forty*.
   Provision is made for the poor by half yearly assessments.
Their average number for 10 years preceding 1792, is 7;
and the annual sum for their support, at an average, during
that period, is 24 L

   Character.-The inhabitants of this parish cannot be distin-
guished from their neighbours either by their virtues or their
vices.  They are, in general, sober, contented, and hospitable.
The manufacturing class, possessing these qualities, are also
industrious.  In the memory of no man living, has there
been any belonging to it who has suffered capital punish-
ment; nor is it known here that there is one instance on
record.  The parish is not furnished with the accommoda-
tions of an inn.  There are, indeed, four houses where ale
and British spirits are sold; but it is not probable that any of
the landlords shall become rich in the trade.
   In this parish there are a few Burghers and Antiburghers,
and some of the Relief denomination.  In former times,
both here and elsewhere, the Antiburghers, the strictest sect,
would not allow a church clergyman to pray in their fami-
lies.  If at any time this indulgence was granted him, it was
upon condition that he should go about the duty not as a

<FOOTNOTE>

*Under these circumstances of mortification and disappoint-
ment, a country schoolmaster soon feels disgusted at his situa-
tion; and, instead of bestowing the necessary application to the
school where he is established, his mind is occupied in contri-
ving the most likely means of bettering his condition elsewhere.
It were to be wished that a nation, liberal and enlightened in
other respects, would concur in adopting some effectual plan to
rescue, a very useful body of men from unmerited neglect and
misery.  Let a decent competence be annexed to the office, and
from that moment schoolmasters will discharge their trust with
fidelity to the public, and credit to themselves.


