
                          DALKEITH.                          507

adopted here, that, in the present season, there is not an acre of
plain fallow in the parish.
   The leases on the Dalkeith property are of fourteen years' du-
ration. This may be said to be too short a term; but as we have
remarked, that the most expensive operation, that of draining, is
originally performed at the cost of the landlord, and as few or no
changes take place, little if any inconvenience can be said to be
felt.
   The whole parish is in a high state of cultivation. The prac-
tice of grazing for one or two years, "in place of taking hay," is
coming more into repute, farmers finding it advantageous now and
then to rest and recruit their over cropped lands. The farm-
houses and offices are of the best description; the fences, chiefly
beautiful, close, well-kept thorn-hedges, are excellent; while the
roads throughout the parish are kept in the highest state of repair.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Town.-The town of Dalkeith stands on an elevated peninsula
between the North and South Esk. It lies in the direction of
north-east and south-west. The principal street extends from
the Duke's gate, at the east end of the town, to the railway
depot, a distance of two-thirds of a mile; its average breadth
from the Duke's gate to the centre of the town westward is
about eighty-five feet, and in this place chiefly the market
is held. The remainder of the High Street has a breadth of
only about one-third of that already mentioned. Parallel to the
High Street to the south is the back street, which is but partially
occupied with houses. It is a continuation of the Musselburgh
road, and passes through the town on the way to the village of
Newbattle. The town is intersected across in three places by
the main road from Edinburgh. This road diverges into two
branches at the toll-bar, near Bridge End. The principal branch,
which lies farthest east, enters the High Street, and passes through
the centre of the town to New-mills; the second branch speedily
diverges again, into two, one of which is narrow, and forms what
is called the North and West Wynd; the other is broad, and
passes through Henry's Row, now called Buccleuch Street; they
unite again on the south of the town. The space between the
principal streets is occupied by a great number of densely-peopled
closes and lanes. The town is upon the whole well built; many
of the houses, especially in the High Street, are of recent con.


