
                 INVERNESS.                                    33

to 9247. A house-surgeon, a matron, besides nurses and keepers,
and female-servants, constantly reside in the Infirmary;
and the medical managers in Inverness give their attendance gratis
by rotation.
   Dispensary.-In 1832 a Dispensary was opened by subscription
on the Green of  Muirtown, for bestowing medicines gratuitously
to the sick poor, and it has proved of much use, especially during
the visitations of cholera.
   Friendly Societies.-There are at present nine Friendly Societies
in Inverness, the average rates of contribution to which are from
1s. 6d. to 2s. per. quarter, with 10s. to 15s. of entry money, and
a small extra contribution on account of the expense of a member's
funeral.  When ill a member receives from 3s. to 5s. a week; but
if he is disabled from work for more than six weeks he then gets a
quarterly allowence proportioned to the state of the funds, which
it is believed are not at present increasing.  When prudently and
honestly managed these societies have certainly done good.
   Savings Bank.-There is no savings bank receiving deposits
from the industrious poor at present,-a circumstance much to be
regretted. It was discontinued on the death of the individual who
atterly conducted it.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.- The Sunday collections for the
poor average in'the year amount to L. 100; four special quarterly
collectios at L. 42, to L. 168; rents of kirk-session lands, and in-
interest of money left by charitable persons for the parochial poor,
L.192; total, L. 460; out of which, besides providing for burials,
orphans, and other contingencies, the kirk-session furnish pecuniary
assistance to about 310 paupers, by stated weekly or quarterly al-
lowances, varying from 6d. a week to L. 1 and L. 2 a year. *
   The magistrates of the town have also, several charitable mor-
tifications at their disposal, the interests of which are laid out for
the poor.  The lesser charities amount to L. 717. A fund left by
the late Mr Jonathan Anderson of Glasgow, for the support of
decayed householders is now worth L. 3845.  A German of the
ame of Klien, in 1803, bequeathed a sum for the same purpose, of
L.1000; and Captain William Mackintosh of Farr, and of the Hin-
dostan East Indiaman, left a fund for the education of boys of the
same of Mackintosh, of the families of Farr, Holm, Dalmigavy, and

<FOOTNOTE>Distribution of soals and meal are occassionally made in quantities not ex-
ceedingly a shilling's worth to each applicant, the number so assisted being from 700
received broth from a soup kitchen supported by public subscription.
   INVERNESS.


