
548                        LANARKSHIRE.

multitude of roundish sand-knolls, varying indefinitely in shape,
and height; some of them being only 15, others more than 60
feet above the general level. The hollows between some of these
heights being completely land-locked, have become mosses, both
from the remains of old woods, the aggregation of vegetable re-
mains blown into them by the wind, and the successive growth and
decay of plants peculiar to such spots. These moss beds, together
with some fields of the same nature, but wider in extent, which
are situated in the centre of the parish, tend rather to hurt the
general aspects,--a blemish which is not a little added to, by stag-
nant pools of moss water, plentifully stocked with rank carices and
scirpi; and the never-failing tenant of such spots the eriophoron.
Yet even in spots of this character, the eye is often agreeably re-
lieved by a pleasing diversity of cultivated eminences, some of
which, being crowned with wood, possess not a little beauty. The
southern portion of the parish is very picturesque and beautiful.
The Clyde, which here forms the boundary, having escaped from
its concealment behind the lofty hill of Tinto, and flowed for se-
veral miles in a serpentine channel through holm lands of the most
fertile description, becomes on reaching the parish a large and
noble river. Its banks being ornamented with rich pastures, and
an agreeable intermixture of woods and plantations, the landscape
has an air of great elegance. Embosomed amid forest scenery, and
on a bank sloping gradually towards the Clyde, stands Carstairs
House, a magnificent modern mansion in the Gothic style, the
seat of Henry Monteith, Esq. the principal heritor and patron
of the parish. The surrounding lawns, the shrubberies and plan-
tations, the avenues, and the approach from the village, are all
laid out in the best taste, and kept in the best order. Adjoining
the house is a rich garden, well planned, and completely sheltered
on all sides, which produces almost every variety of fruit. The
cottage of Brownrig, belonging to the same gentleman, adorns the
northern side of the parish, with the woods amid which it stands,
and a sloping, or rather hanging, garden on the banks of the River
Mouse, and, is soon to become the summer residence of Lord Ful-
lerton, one of the Senators of the College of Justice. The vil-
lage, which contains the parish church, with a handsome spire, is a
most beautiful and picturesque spot, presenting an object which
charms the eye from whatever quarter it is approached. Natu-
rally well situated, it has, been vastly improved and beautified by the
present proprietor. Before the estate of Carstairs fell into his


