
			KIRKMAIDEN.                        205

monks of Soulseat, for the yearly payment of 300 merks and 100
bolls of bear, small measure. The  church of Kirkmaiden was
vested in the King by the act of 1587. A portion of the revenues
of this church was assigned as a stipend to the Protestant minister
of the parish, and the remainder was afterwards granted by Charles
I. in 1630, as part of the stipend for the minister of the newly es-
tablished parish of Portpatrick, in which grant the King reserved
to himself and his successors the patronage of the church of
Kirkmaiden. But King James had heretofore, in September 1602,
granted the five merk land of Drumore, with the patronage of the
church of Kirkmaiden, to Ninian Adair of Khnhilt, whose son Ro-
bert obtained a ratification of this grant in the Parliament of 1641.
Symson says, in his account of Galloway, " The King's Majesty
is patron of the parish of Kirkmaiden, although the lairds, of Kin-
hilt pretend a right thereto, and are in possession." The Earl
of Stair (as proprietor of the lands of Drumore) has long been
the patron of thir parish. As the old church of Kirkmaiden was
situated in a very inconvenient situation in the southern extremity
of the parish, the parishioners gave in a representation to the Ge-
neral Assembly, praying for a new church in a more central situa-
tion. This was referred to Parliament, and the Parliament in
October 1639 remitted the prayer to the commissioners to be ap-
pointed for the plantation of kirks. The desire of the petitioners
was granted, and a new church was built in a more central situa-
tion." The following extract from the presbytery records gives
a somewhat different account of the removal of the church to its
present site.
	" Presbytery at Kirkmaiden, the 10th day of July 1638-Up-
on the whilk day, the parochiners of Kirkmaiden presented ane
supplication, desiring that, in respect their kirk was builded at the
most extreme part of the paroch, and lay very inconvdniently, that
they would appoint some more convenient place.--Whilk the brethren
having. considered, thought it reasonable, and assigned a part in
Corghie, in the midst of the parish, for building a new kirk--de-
siring the Lords of Council, by petition, to grant their letters to
further the same, and to ratify the same in tyme coming." The
Session records say, " that the building of the church commen-
ced in 1638. On the 5th of March in that year, the National Co-
venant was renewed at Edinburgh, and by order subscribed by all
the congregations within the kingdom." It was subscribed at Kirk-
maiden the 25th March in that year, and from this circumstance


