
                             TONGLAND.                        87

sons, that the stench arising from their dead bodies resembles that
of a large animal cast away on the shore. I had often perceived
this disagreeable smell before I ascertained the cause. But the
most singular thing connected with the appearance of the eel fry
in the river is the simultaneous arrival of the old eels, who regu-
larly prey upon their own offspring, which they take in a variety
of ways; sometimes lying nearly covered with the young brood,
and devouring them at their leisure; sometimes singling them out
and pursuing them as a hawk does a small bird, and sucking them
in at the surface of the water with a loud smack. It was long
before I knew whence this very peculiar sound proceeded, which
may be heard incessantly repeated in one large deep pool, when
the river is low and the weather calm.
   Adders are very numerous in the moors. The "refulgent
lamp" of the glow-worm is often visible. On hot moist even-
ings I have seen multitudes of these beautiful insects scatter.
ed like  "sparkling gems" over our meadows. From a bog,
about a mile from the manse, I have frequently brought a plen-
tiful crop to my garden, which, for many nights after their
transportation, they would continue to illuminate. I had thrown
seven one night into a grass plot in front of my house, and was
much amused, next evening, at the alarm of One of my servants,
who rushed suddenly into my room, exclaiming, that the grass
before the door was "in a bleeze." The poor woman, who never
in her life had seen so many glow-worms, had some reason for her
apprehensions, as many a "bleeze" is less brilliant than the lustre
of these earth-born pleiades.

                           II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities, &c.--On one of the wildest and least frequented
moors is a Druidical circle and cairn. The stones which compose
the circle are eleven in number, with a twelfth one in the centre,
the summits of them all just appearing at the surface of the ground.
The large pile of stones which constitutes the cairn, is a few paces
to the westward of the circle. Not far from these, on Kirkconnel
moor, is the grave of a martyr called M'Clement, who was slain
along with four others, and buried on that spot during "the perse-
cution" in 1685. One of his fellow-sufferers is interred in the
church-yard of Anwoth, where there is a long rhymed epitaph on
his gravestone, which is printed in the "Cloud of Witnesses." Ten
years ago, a sermon was preached on the spot where he was killed,
and a collection made to defray the expense of a monument to his


