
                         BATHGATE.                          165

the late Mr Marjoribanks, given his own personal security to his
co-trustees, that they should not be put to expense in the matter.
After a litigation which lasted till 1814, the will was almost en-
tirely set aside. Only L. 14,500 were received by the trustees, in-
stead of L. 60,000 or L.70,000, as the testator intended.* As the
remittances reached this country, the trustees began to salary the
teachers in the parish, and to employ others, till they had five
schools with six teachers in different parts of the parish, to all of
which the children of the inhabitants had gratuitous admission. In
1831, the funds having considerably increased, the trustees com-
menced the erection of a building to the south-east of the town,
which was opened as the Bathgate Academy in the autumn of
1833. It is a handsome structure, consisting of a centre and two
wings connected by two colonnades. In each wing are two class-
rooms 36 feet by 24. Behind one of the colonnades is the room
for writing and arithmetic, 36 by 29. The centre, and the part
of the building behind the other colonnade, are occupied by the
library-room and a very good house for the rector. There is a full
acre of playground in front. There are, at present, four masters
in the Academy: a rector, who takes charge of all the pupils who
learn Greek, Latin, or French, and who also has classes for draw-
ing, music, and composition; a master for writing, arithmetic, and
mathematics; and two for English. The rector and two English
masters also teach their own pupils geography. A sewing mistress
was added to the establishment a year ago.
   At these three schools, above 600 scholars are in steady attend-
ance; and from 60 to 80 more may be entered in the course of a
twelve month. At the last examination of the Academy, which
was in August, there were 537 attending, of whom 6 studied
Greek; 47 Latin; 71 French; 178 geography; 71 drew geogra-
phical sketches; 75 practiced English composition, and were train-
ed in drawing, and the elements of musical composition; 368
learned writing; as many arithmetic; and 8 mathematics.
   The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accommodation and
the maximum salary, and receives about L. 26 in fees. The rec-
tor of the academy has a free house, garden, and a salary of L. 140
per annum; the other three masters each L. 105. The unendow-
ed teacher receives about L. 26 from fees. The rate of fees in the
parochial school is, for English, 2s. 6d. a-quarter; English with

<FOOTNOTE>The testator's meaning could be improved; but the language of the will was de-
clared not to express what he meant it to express.


