
     of Callander.

many ages in that family.  It was forfeited in the reign of
James I. or II., and given to the Livingstons, who were after-
wards created earls, by that title.  They either enlarged or
rebuilt the castle*, and inscribed the name of their own fa-
mily, and the year, on the door-head.  This land was sold to
the family of PERTH, about the year 1630, in whole posses-
sion it now remains.
   There is, in the plain of Bochastle, an artificial bank+, in
a straight line, of the length of 60 paces.  It has the appear-
ance of a tire or two of seats, on the W. side, for the accom-
modation of spectators, with butts at each end.  There is a
curious conical hill or mount, at Callander, where the old
church stood++.  This mount, which seems to be artificial, is

     VOL. XI. 4 H

<FOOTNOTE>

*This castle was mostly taken down in 1737, to build a mill and a dam
dike; and the remainder was so much undermined by these mutilations, that it
fell down about 17 years ago.  The present manse was built out of these ruins.
The cement was so strong, that the stones would break before the fragments
could be torn asunder.  Oyster shells were found in abundance, buried about
the foot of the castle, which shows that no quarry lime was then discovered, at
least in this part of the kingdom.  From this early practice of using calcined
shells for mortar, the burnt lime-stone is still called shells.  And it is probable,
that the strong band which took place, and is so much admired in old buildings,
is not owing to any intrinsic or superior quality in the lime of these times; but
to the precaution of pouring, into every course of the wall, liquid mortar, of
new stacked lime, while the building was going on.  The calcined shells were
carefully kept from rain or moisture, under a proper cover, and taken in small
quantities at a time, which were succesively stacked and sanded for immediate
use.

+Some persons allege, that this bank, and a similar one on the opposite side
of the Dun, and almost at equal distances from it, were lines of approach to re-
duce the fort; but the country had no weapon of offence, at that period, that
could make any execution at so great distance.

++This beautiful hill has acquired additional celebrity, by being chosen


