
140		    DUMBARTONSHIRE.


curs in the Records of Parliament, 11th October 1466. They
were probably ennobled by James II. who died in 1460.
  In 1563, Lord Fleming held the Castle of Dumbarton for Queen
Mary, when Captain Crawford, having bribed some of the workmen
about the Castle, surprised and took it. Lord Fleming made
his escape; but Lady Fleming, the French Ambassador Verac,
together with John Hamilton, Archbishop of St Andrews, were
made prisoners.
  By patent dated Whitehall, ]9th March 1606, John, sixth
Lord Fleming, was created Earl of Wigton and Lord Fleming of
Biggar and Cumbernauld. John, sixth Earl, went with James II.
to St Germains, voted against the Union with England, and, being
suspected on the breaking out of the Rebellion in 1715, was, by
a warrant of Major-General Williams, the Governor, committed
prisoner to Edinburgh Castle, 20tb August 1715, and on 24th
June 1716, was liberated by an order of the High Court of Jus-
ticiary. In 1736, he was made King's Chamberlain of Fife, died
in 1744, and was succeeded in his titles and estates by his brother
Charles, who dying 26th May 1747, unmarried, the estates de-
volved to his niece, Lady Clementina Fleming, only child of John
sixth Earl. She married, in 1735, Charles Elphinstone, third
son of Lord Elphinstone, and who became afterwards tenth Lord
Elphinstone.  She died lst January 1799, being eighty years of
age. As heir of entail, the estates of Biggar and Cumbernauld
devolved upon her second grandson, the Honourable Charles Fle-
ming, an Admiral in her Majesty's Navy.
  The barony of Leinzie, comprehending the parishes of Kirkin-
tilloch and Cumbernauld, originally belonged to Stirlingshire.  In
the reign of Robert I. or David II., Malcolm Fleming, then Sheriff
of Dumbarton, got them disjoined from Stirlingshire and annexed
to Dumbarton, while Drymen, Killearn, and other parishes were
disjoined from Dumbarton and annexed to Stirling.  An act of
Parliament in 1503 restored them to their original counties ; but
this act having been repealed, 8th May 1509, Leinzie was again
annexed to Dumbarton, and Drymen, &c. to Stirlingshire. In
1339, or thereabouts, another attempt was made to alter this ar-
rangement, but was defeated by the Earl of Mar, then Sheriff of
Stirlingshire. Since then, no change has been made in this ar-
rangement. *

<FOOTNOTE>Vide, Chaliners' Caledonia, Hailes' Annals, Wood's Peerage.


