
     of Dunlop.

extent, the harvest is concluded some seasons five* sooner in
the western than it is in the eastern extremity of it.  But the
principal produce, or manufacture, as it may be called, of the
parish, is cheese.  For this it has been long known and distin-
guished, in so much that all the cheese made in the coun-
try about it, when carried to Paisley, Glasgow, or farther,
goes by the name of Dunlop cheese, and finds a better
market on that account.  Nor is this preference to be as-
cribed altogether to prejudice; for it is certainly as good as
ever it was, and equal, if not superior, to what is made any
where else.  The practice of making sweet-milk cheese,
as it is called, was first introduced into this parish by one
Barbara Gilmour, whose grandson is still living, and is pro-
prietor of the same farm.  Having gone to Ireland, to a-
void the hardships which people were then exposed to on
account of religion, she is said to have brought it with her
when she returned about the time of the Revolution.  Since
that period, cheese has been the great and almost the only
business of Dunlop.  Sensible that their situation was more
favourable for this than for any other purpose, the people
bestowed upon it the greatest care, and turned it to the best
advantage.-They have inclosed their ground, have but a
third or fourth of it in tillage, and the rest in grass, which
is always a plentiful crop, and of the finest quality.  They
are very attentive both to the colour and shape of their
cows, which are rather small than otherwise, and common-
ly of their own raising.  And as these feed in inclosures,
free from the restraints of herdings, and are not brought in-
to houses during the night, from the beginning of May to
the end of harvest, the quantity of milk which they give
is very great.  I am sorry that under this article I cannot
give the reader all the information I could wish, either as
     Vol. IX.      3 Y

<FOOTNOTE>

*Perhaps the word omitted by the author is "weeks."


