
             ISLAND OF SKYE-DUTRINISH.                        325

vided by a considerable stream, here called the Amhainn Mhor,
the Large River; a title which, however, it scarcely deserves to
enjoy. There are neither streams nor valleys in any other por-
tion of the parish worthy of mention.
   Caves, &c.-There are some caves, and an immense nummber of
caverns and hollows in the rocks along the coast, formed evidently
by the action of the waves on the barrier which opposed their
progress. Indeed, the coast for several miles presents the ap-
pearance of an almost endless variety of Gothic arches, some of
them only a few feet in height, others rising as high as fifty or,sixty
feet; some regular and symmetrical, according to the strictest rules
of art; while others look as if the builder in constructing them
had taxed his powers to heap together all that was grotesque and
incongruous. Some of these caves are above tide-mark, but into
many of them the sea rushes with a deep and hollow murmur,
which is most solemn and awe-inspiring. One of them, called
Uamh a Choinnleir, or the Cave of the Candlestick, possibly be-
cause on account of its darkness, it requires to be entered with a
candle, is near 100 feet in length, about 50 feet in height, and
presents a scene of gloomy grandeur well worth the visiting. An-
other which I examined is 120 feet in length, 40 feet in height,
and about 10 in breadth. A third, called ldrigil Cave, which is
but small in comparison with those now mentioned, has yet a me-
lancholy interest attached to it, as having been for some time one
of the many dismal prisons in which the unfortunate and ill-used
Lady Grange was confined. It is now frequently resorted to as
a dwelling by the fishermen who follow their trade on the coast.
They here hang up their nets to dry, cure their fish, cook their
victuals, and sleep soundly on the dry sand with which part of the
cave is strewn.
   It is somewhat singular regarding these caves, that while there
is water oozing through most of them, there is no stalactitic for-
mation, no calcareous accretion of any kind to be found in them.
The basaltic rock appears black and bare all of them.
   Coast.-The coast, owing to the numerous arms of the sea, al-
ready adverted to, is no less than 70 miles in extent. It presents
many headlands of stupendous height, and forming scenes of
singular wildness and magnificence.  Within the lochs, however,
the ground shelves down with a moderate declivity, and affords a
great variety of commodious landing-places.  Lochs Dunvegan
and Grieshernish form safe roadsteads for vessels of the largest


