
       18                    SHETLAND.

       for Promoting Religious Knowledge among the Poor.  One in
       Bressay is kept by an elder.
         Almost all who can get to school between eight and fifteen
       years of age, are now beginning to read, and a greater proportion
       than before to write.  Upwards of fifteen years of age there are
       at least twenty who, confessedly, cannot read.  I believe that not
       more than twenty or thirty are capable of the smallest epistolary
       correspondence.  The institution of the Assembly school has
       excited a desire for education in Bressay beyond what existed be-
       fore, and the people appear sensible of the great advantage of
       having a teacher so well qualified as the present.  The district of
       Quarff remains wholly destitute of a teacher, and there a school
       is loudly called for.
         Friendl Sociely.--In this parish, there is a branch of the Shet-
       land Fishermen's Fund, for decayed fishermen and their widows.
       The annual payment, 2s. and a little entry money at first.  In
       this parish, there are 46 contributors; 18 widows at present,
       who receive each 14s.; six decayed members, who, altogether, re-
       ceive L. 1, 14s. 6d.
         The nett stock of the general fund is at present, L. 2485, 16s.
       7 1/2 d.  Its concerns are diligently superintended by William Mouat,
       Esq., the general treasurer.  This excellent institution would
       have prospered much more, had it not been for some unfounded
       prejudices fostered among the peasantry.

 <TABLE=Poor.-Bressay>

          Poor.--Bressay.
             Average of yearly collections,       .       .        L. 12 11 7
            Rent of mortified land,      .       .       .             4  4 0
            Interest of mortified money, .       .       .             0 13 6

         On the poor's roll are 32 persons at present, who receive at an
       average each only 8s. yearly.  Temporary supplies and funeral
       charges amount commonly to L. 2.

<TABLE=Burra and Quarff>

                                   Burra and Quarff.

            Average of yearly collections,	 .       .         L. 9  0 0
            Rent of mortified land,	 .       .       .            4  0 0
            Interest on a tall and account, variable, at an average.  3  0 0

       But it is sometimes necessary to draw small sums besides, from,
       the money in account.  Poor on the roll, 25, receiving altogether
       L.8, 6s.  Occasional supplies, 19s.
         The mortified land in Burra ought to yield at least double what
       it does.  But for nearly a hundred years, various causes have
       contributed to render this spot of ground of no avail for the
       pions and charitable purposes of the mortifier.
         It must be evident, that, if the distressed poor did not receive


