
406                         FIFESHIRE.

  Geology and Mineralogy.- This parish, in a geological point of
view, is very interesting, not only as illustrating general geological
principles, but also from the varied and beautiful displays it affords of
the numerous Neptunian and Plutonian rocks of the coal formation,
and of the fossil organic remains which it contains. Since the atten-
tion of naturalists was first directed to the natural history of this dis-
trict, by the observations of Professor Jameson, read tothe Wernerian
Society, few parts of Scotland have. been more visited by native and
foreign geologists, and the Professor himself still pays us an annual
visit with his class of Natural History. We regret that the limited
nature of this work prevents us from communicating more than the
following observations.
  The southern part of this parish may be reoarded as a centre
from which the strata radiate in opposite directions, thus af-
fording an example of the qua.qua versal dip. Supposing the
spectator to look southward, he will have on his left KiDgborn
and lncbkeitb, consisting of strata of tbe coal formation, dippidg
to the east. In front, be will have the country between Newbaven
and the Pentland range, where the strata dip south ; while on the
right, the strata cross the Fritb in the direction of Incbeolm, the
dip being westerly. Behind the dip is to the north. Hence it
would seem as if this part of the country bad originally been flat,
and been upheaved by some great subterranean force, whose cen-
tre of action has been somewhere near Burntisland.
  The rocks belong to the coal formation, and are principally lime.-
stone, sandstone, ironstone, slate-clay, bituminous shale, green-
stone, basalt, trap tuffa, &e. At the boundary between Kinghorn
and Burntisland, there are beds of sandstone and ]imestone, which
are cut across by greenstone and trap tuffa. Here also ocetir
masses of sandstone, limestone, and slate-clay, imbedded in tufa-
ceous rock. Coal has also been ascertained to exist.
  At Whinnyhall quarries in the south-east part of the parish,
the strata have been laid open to a considerable extent. In the
lowest quarry, or that nearest tb-- sea, they occur in the folloWiDg
order:-tbe lowest is limestone, then slate-clay, felspar, slate-clay,
and bituminous shale of a dark shade of colour, ironstone, sand-
stone, alluvium. The dip is eastward. In the next quarry to the
north, the same strata occur, exhibiting a beautiful bend or wave-
The-felspar is here seen bursting through the coal formation, af-
fording a very good specimen of a slip or fault. Another example

