
                    PARISH OF COLMONELL.

 		  PRESBYTERY OF STRANRAER, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

		      THE REV. THOMAS BLAIR, MINISTER.

           I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name--Boundaries.--IT cannot be ascertained how this parish
received its present name. Some derive it from St Columba,
others from the Latin word Columba, a pigeon, because the woods
abound with wood-pigeons. Craigneil, a place nearly opposite
the village, signifies in Gaelic the lime-rock, and from this it has
been conjectured by some that Colmonell or Colmoneil may have
reference to the natural appearance of the distribt--the parish
abounding in limestone. Its greatest length is about 19 1/2 miles,
and its greatest breadth 7. The superficial contents may be esti-
mated at 56,800 acres. It is bounded on the west, by the parish
of Ballantrae; on the east, by Girvan and Bar; on the South, by
Minnigaff, Penningham, and Kirkcowan; and on the north, by
the Frith of Clyde.
	Topographical Appearances.--The holms on the banks of the
Stinchar, Dhuisk, and Lendal are of a rich alluvial soil, and bear
excellent crops of wheat, barley, oats, &c. The declivities on the
banks of these streams are beautifully clothed with a mixture of
oak, ask, elm, larch, alder, and birch; and in many places are suffi-
ciently gentle to admit of cultivation. The higher grounds in some
places are of a cold stiff clayey nature, with gravelly bottom, but
for the most part moorland, and where the attempt has been made,
they are brought with great difficulty into cultivation. They are
fitter for sheep-farming than pasture. The hills which frame the
valleys, are of no great elevation. Their greatest height is about
700 feet above the level of the sea; and on each side of the Stin-
char, they are generally composed of mountain limestone.
	Hydrography.--Stinchar is the most considerable and beautiful
river in the parish. It has its source in the parish of Bar, and
on entering this, winds its clear waters in a westerly direction
through it for nearly nine miles. In its course, it is joined by the


