
     Statistical Account

small part of them divided among the proprietors, and they
are all overstocked with cattle; while at the same time no re-
gulations are put in practice for proportioning the share of each
tenant's stock to his respective title to the common.  The pro-
prietors, however, seem to be now determined to divide these
hills, and will, no doubt, take care to put them under proper

<FOOTNOTE>

clause; expressing the motive of the royal grant; " For the lang, true and
"faithful service done to him by the said Sir William, and spending his time
"therein, and for the late service done, being at the preserving of the king's
"life frae the late conspiracy of umquhile John Earl of Gowrie, upon the
"5th of August last."  This clause is inserted in the original charter to the
above lands, etc. dated 16th July 1606; and in the subsequent charters grant-
ed by the son and grandsons of that King.-Remains of Druidical circles, of
circular buildings called castles, and prodigious piles called cairns, so frequent
in other parts of the Highlands, are to be seen in different parts of this parish
zoo.  A stone bridge over the Bran, a little above Trochrie, is reckoned among
the oldest in Perthshire.
   The fall upon the Bran at the hermitage has been mentioned; but there is
another just a mile further up the river, which cannot be passed over in silence.
It is called the Rumbling Bridge.  In dry weather there is little water in the
Bran, and this object is not very striking; but during a considerable swell of
the river it appears a very different character.  For several hundred feet above
the fall, the stream thunders with prodigious force down a craggy bottom, ex-
hibiting a most dreadful cataract; then precipitating itself over a high cliff, it
dashes upon the bottom of a small bason with such fury as to lose almost every
appearance of a liquid, and passing next into a deep, dark, and narrow chasm,
it hides itself for a little below a bridge and some huge fragments of rock sus-
pended, mid-way down, in the passage, till it appears again on the other side
of the bridge, moving in a more peaceful current, as if tired with violent agi-
tation.  The chasm is formed by rocks of equal height, awful and ruinous, a-
bout 12 feet asunder, bending towards each other at top, and every moment
threathing tremenduous collision.  The water rising above the bason into an at-
mosphere 100 feet high, resembling white smoke, and in sunshine presenting
beautiful rainbows; woody precipices, the hoarse terrific roar of the torrent,
and the rocking of the solid ground; all conspire to heighten the grandeur of
the scene, and the whole affects the mind with a certain pleasing kind of a-
mazement and horror.


