
520                        LANARKSHIRE.

at l`st relinquished, though the heavy spar, being of the same kind
with that at Leadhills, indicated, in the opinion of the workmen,
the vicinity of lead ore. Leaving it to more skilful geologists to
assign to their proper epochs or formations the different strata of
the parish, I shall mention a few of the more conspicuous ones.
The greater part of the parish seems to consist of the old red sand-
stone rock, forming an excellent material for building either houses
dry stone fences, and sometimes vulgarly called ruble or rag-
stone. It forms a great part of Carmichael, Whitecastle, and
Drumalbin Hills. The next rock is compact felspar and felspar
porphyry. On the hill which lies north of the manse, the felspar
porphyry is found in juxtaposition with the old red sandstone,
in an overlying position, both rocks inclining to the north-west.
In the Crossridge hill, or rising ground to the southeast of the
manse, there is a stratum of clay slate, vulgarly called camstone,
passing into greywacke slate, dipping to the north-west, at an
angle of 35&deg;, under a conglomerate sandstone. In ascending the
rivulet which flows between the two hills, a stratum of greywacke
slate is seen dipping under another stratum of red sandstone.
Stonehill consists wholly of the now sandstone formation, and con-
tains an excellent quarry, from which are carried annually many
tons of hewn stone. In the western extremity of the parish, the
independent coal formation occurs, including many valuable seams
of coal. In the indurated clay, in the limestone and sandstone,
dipping under the lowest coal seam, which crops out near the
bridge over Ponfeigh burn, are found in great abundance bivalves
of the genus Productus, also Crinoidae, and vegetable remains.
The valley or plain bounded by Tinto, Crossridge, and Drumalbin
Hills, consists of a very deep alluvial deposit, composed of gravel
and clay, or what is called till, containing water-rolled stones of al-
most every description. One very large block, near the Side farm-
house, laid bare by the action of the burn, detached from some
quartzy rock, contains many curious organic remains. In a stone
fence near the church, is found a large block of gneiss, which has
probably been carried by a current of water, and deposited in the
alluvial soil, as no rock of that formation is to be found within
a great distance. Near Douglas Water are several alluvial, de-
posits, consisting of rounded hills or ridges of sand or gravel,
lying in the direction of east and west, and nearly parallel to the
Tinto range.
	Before quittitig the geology of the parish, the writer of this ac-


