
                           FALKIRK.                         17

Crop hay per Scots acre, are considered as a fair return. Much
more is occasionally reaped, but the above quantities will certainly
exceed rather tban fall below the average.
  "Grain rents, now so generally in use, are universal through-
out the district. The principle, however, is not carried out
to its full extent, wheat being the only article of produce by
which the value of the rents is estimated; in other words the
farms are universally let for a certain number of bushels of wheat
per acre. Ten is by much the most usual number, although a
few of the farms are held at nine bushels per acre. The value of
the wheat is, of course, determined by tbe fiars' prices of the
county, and varies, frequently to a very considerable extent, yearly.
In order, in some measure, to regulate this--to prevent the rents
from rising too high in scarce years, and falling too low after
plentiful harvests, it is becoming usual to fix a miximum and mi-
nimum price at which the wheat shall be convertible into money;
wben the fiars' prices exceed or fall below them. Of late L.3, 16s.
has in several instances been agreed on as the maximum, and
L.2, 10s. per quarter as the minimum price, preventing a ten
bushel rent from falling below L.3, 2s. 6d., or rising above L.4,
7s. 6d. per acre. But as the average of the county fiars for the
last seven years, does not quite reach, L.2, l0s. per quarter, the
former of these sums may be taken as the average rent of the
parish."
  Agricultural Society.--The Agricultural Association of the
Eastern District of Stirlingshire was formed here two years ago.
The Earl of Dunmore is patron, and Mr Forbes, president. Its
object is to promote scientific and practical improvements in agri-
culture. Two cattle shows ate held annually in the immediate
neighbourhood of the town, at which premiums are awarded.
  Horticultural Society.--There is also a Horticultural Society in
Falkirk, under respectable patronage. The members have four
exhibitions of fruits and flowers in the course of the summer season,
  Manufactures.--The Falkirk Iron Works are situated half a
mile from the town, on the south of the Forth and Clyde Canal,
and connected therewith by a basin. They employ about 500
men and boys in the manufacture of every description of small
castings and cast-iron articles; such as pans, pots, kettles, stoves,
grates, &c. for home and export sale. Most of the workmen are
employed in moulding these articles, and are paid according to
the quantity of work they perform. The industrious and sober
   STIRLING.                         B


