
               440                     ARGYLESHIRE.

               order Cetacea or whale tribe frequent the coast during the her-
               ring-fishing season, but disappear on the -approach of winter.  Of
               these we may mention the Greenland whale (Ralcena Mysticetus,)
               the gramptis (Delphinus Grampus,) the great dolphin (D.  Tursio,)
               from twelve to fifteen feet in length, with a pointed inuzzle or
               beak; and the common porpoise (D.  Phoccena,) with a rounded
               muzzle, seldom exceeding six feet in length.    In the year 1817,
               a whale was found dead off Portree, and towed to the sbore,
               which measured ninety feet in length and fifty-two in circumfe-
               rence.  The breadth of the tail was eighteen feet.
                 Fishes.-Trout abound in the streams and lakes, and salmon in
               the bays and rivers; and almost every kind of British fish may be
               taken off the coast.    Cod, line, coalfish or stanelock, hake,
               mackerel, haddock, and whiting are found in shoals upon the
               banks in every direction.
                Birds.-The birds of prey are, the golden eagle (Jquila Chry-
               saetos,) the common or white-tailed (A.fulvus ;) the peregrine
               falcon (Falco peregrinus,) the merfin (F. 4esalon,) the kestril (F.
               Tinnunculus,) the sparrowhawk (F.  Nisus,) the kite or fork-tailed
               gled (F.  Milvus,) the common buzzard (F. buteo,) the lien-barrier
               (Buteo Cyaneus,) the harpy or moor buzzard (F. rufus;) the raven
               (Corvus Corax,) hooded-crow, magpie, &c.
                Of the owl tribe we have two species, the barn owl (Strix
               flammea,) and the brown owl (S. Brachyotos,) which is a bird of
               passage.  Game birds are, black same, which are numerous; red
               grouse, which are less abundant since the improvement of the
               moors by burning and draining; partridges are still scarce,
               but rapidly increasing; golden and green plover, snipe and wood-
               cock, which are abundant in winter.  Wild-duck and teal are to be
               found in the moor lakes.
                  Botany.-There is here a good and varied field for the botanist.
               The Osmunda reyalis, the pride of the British ferns, is scattered
               in frequent patches among the common bracken, more especially
               on the Skipness estate.  The Bidens tripartita or bur-marigold
               which is an uncommon plant, grows abundantly on the mossy
               ground.  In the salt marshes, there is the water dropwort (IEnanthe
               pimpinelloides.) The Sedum anglicum grows thickly on the rocks
               fronting the sea.  Some of the larger StJohn's wort (Hypericum
               Androsa,mum) is found among the wooded cliffs; and on the dry
               sand in Carradale ba , above high-water mark, are some plants of
               great beauty and interest.  The bright-blue-flowered oyster plant
               (Lithospermum maritimum,) and the Convolvolus Soldanella are fre-



