
	816	                        FIFESHIRE.

	located by the Presbytery of Kirkcaldy to this new church.  The
	minister is paid from the seat rents, and the collections made
	at the church doors.
	   A Burgher Dissenting chapel has existed in the town for up-
	wards of sixty years.  The minister is paid on the voluntary prin-
	ciple, and of course his stipend varies.
	   There are also a few Anabaptists, who meet together for wor-
	ship.
 	  There are about 700 communicants in the parish belonging to
	the Established Church of Scotland.  About 500 of these belong
	to the parish church, and the remaining 200 attend at Inver-
	tiel new church, and at Auchtertool and Abbotshall churches,-
	these being more contiguous to some portions of the landward pa-
	rish than the church at Kinghorn.
 	  There are 165 communicants in the parish belonging to the
	Burgher meeting-house, and nearly 100 more in communion with
	other Dissenting congregations in Kirkcaldy and Burntisland.
	   The attendance on the ordinances of religion at the parish
	church is full and regular.
	   A Female Bible and Missionary Society collects annually at an
	average, L.6, 10s.  And the collections at the parish church,
	with parochial contributions for religious, and charitable purposes,
	average L.20 per annum.  Since December, (four months ago),
	there have been L.16 collected for coals to the poor; for the four
	schemes of the church, L.10, 16s., besides L.6 from an indivi-
	dual for church extension, to aid the supplementary fund.  This
	was in addition to L.14 formerly given for the same object.
	   Education.-The burgh and parochial school of Kinghorn is
	an object which attracts attention, on account of its equipments
	and accommodation as a seminary for youth.  It is a handsome
	building at the west end of Kinghorn, standing within an enclosure
	tastefully laid out with shrubs and plants.  There is also a bowl-
	ing-green, besides the play ground, with gymnastic poles for the
	children.
	   In addition to the large room aIlotted to the parochial teacher,
	there are two smaller ones, well fitted up, -one for an infant
	school, and the other for drawing classes.  This apartment is fre-
	quently used by the parochial teacher for monitors' classes.  In
	the centre of the building, there is a museum well furnished with
	good specimens of mineralogy, geology, zoology, conchology, and
	anatomy.  There, are also a few good casts from the busts of emi-
					 3


