
                     KIRKCALDY.                                 759

sioners, chosen in terms of a statute passed in 1829.  The commis-
sioners are, the provost, two bailies, dean of guild, and treasurer of
the burgh, and the convener of the seven incorporated trades; three
commissioners chosen by the Prime Gilt Society, which is com-
posed of ship-owners and ship-masters; three chosen by the mer-
chant traffickers; and two chosen by the county of Fife.  The
revenue of the harbour belongs to the town, and the trustees have
no funds, except such sums as may be granted to them by the town-
council for the use of the harbour. It has been improved and ex-
tended at various times; but, being accessible by heavily laden ves-
sels only at spring-tides, it is exceedingly inconvenient and disad-
vantageous for merchants, whose profits now depend so much on
quickness of dispatch.  It is also unsafe and incommodious for
vessels.  The want of a good harbour here has long been felt and
complained of; and this seems to have an adverse influence on
the increase of the trade of the town.  Attempts are now making
to supply this want.  About a month ago, the town-council resolv-
ed to improve the barbour by extending the east pier, according
to a plan furnisbed by James Leslie, Esq. civil-engineer, Dundee.
Contractors have been advertised for, and the work is expected to
proceed this year.  It will cost L.10,000.  This, however, is only
a part of the proposed improvement and extension.  The comple-
tion of the plan is supposed to require from L.30,000 to L.40,000;
but the council have wisely determined to proceed according to
their pecuniary means, and not all at once to overburden the town
with debt.  The revenue of the harbour is the chief income of the
town; and this seems to impose on the council an obligation to
provide as good accommodation as possible for vessels that fre-
quent the harbour.  The shore-dues have increased very rapidly
of late years.  The tacksman of the shore-dues complained to the
council, in 1744, of the loss he was sustaining by his lease.  For
the ease and encouragement of the tacksman, " the council doe
agree to set him the shoar-dues for this current year at four pounds
Sterling, and recommend to the clerk to get him to enact there-
fore with a sufficient cautioner."
   In 1791 the shore-dues were L.135; in 1811 a little above
L.300; in 1823, let at L.625.  In 1825, the council took the
collection of them into their own bands; and in 1827 they amounted
to L.1191; and in 1842, including the commuted anchorage of
steam-boats, and exclusive of the charges of collecting, they
amounted to L.1715.

<FOOTNOTE> Report from Commissioners on Municipal Corporations in Scotland.


