
     of Kirkpatrick-Fleeming.

the mort-cloth, and some other perquisites, may amount
to L. 30 annually*.

   Fossils and Fuel.-There is upon one of the proprietor's
estate, a very considerable body of limestone of the first
quality.  The tenant, who farms the quarries, is bound
by compact to supply the tenants upon the estate, at 7 d.
the bushel; and for every bushel fold from the estate, 1 d.
is paid to the proprietor, the only rent exacted.  There

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a very reason, however, to expect, that the number of poor
in this parish will, in future, gradually decrease, with the more exten-
sive operation of society of a benevolent complexion, which about 7
years ago, was formed here, under the appellation of the Brotherly So-
ciety of Kirkpatrick Fleeming.  By this institution, it is intended, in the
days of health and prosperity, to make provision for old age, sickness, and
infirmity.  Societies of this kind must have considerable influence upon the
prosperity and happiness of a country, and consequently merit every
attention and support.  By combining the interest of individuals, they
have a tendency to strengthen the social principle, and enlarge the circle
of friendship; while, by the provision which is thus made for indigence
and poverty, man is prevented from becoming burdensome to man.
His wants are supplied without hurting the delicacy of nature, or check-
ing that decent pride and independence of mind, which animate mankind
to bear with fortitude the hardships of the most difficult and try-
ing situations, and with patience to struggle against the turbulence and
impetuosity of those evils, with which human life in every situation, a-
bounds.  With pleasure the humble labourer, and useful artisan, may
reflect, that while he is thus making provision for himself against the evil
day, which may soon overtake him, the well-earned fuits of his present
labours, now contribute to soothe the calamities, and soften the miseries
of those around him.  The plan upon which the Society proceeds, is
this:  Every member, upon admission, pays 2 s. 6 d. and while he con-
tinues a member, 1 s. 6 d. quarterly, which are added to the stock.  The
money thus collected is, according to certain stated and fixed regulations,
distributed by the stewards to such members as are found proper objects
of relief.  The stewards are elected yearly, and responsible for their ma-
nagement during their continuance in office.


