
704			AYRSHIRE.

Mr Cochran, but it appears now to be either lost or withdrawn
from that collection. In 1836, a stone coffin, containing remains
of human bones, was discovered on the farm of Langlands, about
three-quarters of a mile north of Kilbirnie. The tumulus over
it was by much the most remarkable object of the kind in this
quarter. It stood on the level part of a field, skirted by the
Garnock on the west, from which it was fifty yards distant. It
was of a circular form, 100 feet in diameter, and six feet in height.
Originally, it had been much higher, but, about the beginning of
the century, a great quantity of stones were taken from its summit
to form a road in the neigbbourbood. What remained of it in
1830, was composed of stones of various dimensions intermixed
with earth. Few of these were heavier than a man could carry,
excepting a row placed seven feet within the line of the base, and
some three or four feet apart, each of which might weigh half a ton.
The coffin or chest, which was formed of six flat stones neatly
fitted together, measured 2 feet 7 inches in length; 1 foot 9
inches in breadth ; and 1 foot 7 inches in depth. It was situated
in the centre of the tumulus, and its longitudinal position was north
and south. It contained nothing but bones very much decayed,
and the greater part of which lay in its south end. Many of these,
on being handled and exposed to the air, crumbled into dust, but se-
veral of the fragments which have been preserved can be distinct-
ly recognized as belonging to the human species. In the spring
of 1837, every vestige of this primeval monument was removed.
	The mound situated at Nether-mill, incidentally mentioned
above, is of an irregular pyramidal form, about 18 yards in length,
9 in breadth, and between 5 and 6 in height. It is, we doubt
not, artificial, and has apparently been formed by excavating the
adjoining bank, which overlooks it. This opinion, though not
supported by popular belief or local tradition, is strengthened by the
unstratified appearance of the composition of the mound, and by
the circumstance of the stone-coffin already noticed, being disco-
vered in its immediate vicinity.
	Coin.--In tilling a field last year, near the ruins of Glengar-
nock castle there was turned up a silver coin about the size of a
modern shilling. It is in excellent preservation, having apparent-
ly been little worn, and weighs about one drachm thirty-five grains.
The obverse bears the Scottish shield and crown, supported by
the letter M. and R. Legend, Maria. Dei. G. Scotor. Regina.
1566. On the reverse, a large cross, with four less in its quar-


