

                            ABERNETHY.                      855

of the family of Moncrieffe was the Moncrieffe of Culfargie, in
this parish.  Alexander Moncrieffe, deposed in 1740, and one of
the fathers of the Secession ; and his son, Matthew, the second
minister of the Seceding congregation at Abernethy, belonged to
this family, and were proprietors of Culfargie.  It would appear,
from the document adverted to, as well as from the presbytery
books, that persons of the same name, and probably belonging to
the same family, had been ministers of Abernethy before the
Revolution.
  The first of these was Archibald Moncrieffe, who, after re-
ceiving his education in England, returned to his native country,
and became minister of Abernethy about 1579 or 1580. He
appears to have taken an active part in the disputes of the times
between the Court and the Church, and in general to have sup-
ported the Court party.  In the act of the Secret Council for
support of the Protestant religion in 1589, his elder brother and
himself are both named as commissioners.  He supported the
King's measure, violent as they were, in the Provincial Assembly
of Perth, in 1607. But this is not surprising, when it is observed
that his two brothers-in-law, David Murray of Balgonie, and Sir
George Auchinleck of Balmanno, were joint commissioners for the
King, with Sir David Murray of Arngask, the comptroller.
Being appointed to attend the meeting of Assembly, they con-
tended, with most incessant violence, to carry a point the King
had much at heart, viz. the appointment of bishops to be per-
petual moderators of the Church courts. Mr Archibald Mon-
crieffe does not appear to have had fortitude to resist their influ-
ence.  He was accused, besides, of aspiring to a bisboprick, and
was for some time in the Court list for that situation, though he
never obtained it.  These facts are detailed in the manuscript
copy of Calderwood's history, a much more compldte and larger
work than the printed book wbich bears bis name.  Mr Archibald
Moncrieffe was also named by the Court party to be a member
of the meeting, then called the " Privy Conference at the Ge.
neral Assembly of Perth in 1618 (a committee the same in sub-
stance with regard to the ecclesiastical assemblies which the Lords
of the articles were with regard to the Parliament of Scotland);
and although he does not appear to have attended, he was no-
minated one of the Court of High Commission in 1619.  His
father had acquired the property of the monastery of Elcho,
which was in the vicinity, and, in 1601, Archibald Moncrieffe,


