
		         TWYNHOLM.                            45

principal heritor for the two glebes of Twynholm and Kirkchrist,
about seventy years ago.
	The stipend consists nf 97 bolls, 2 firlots, 2 pecks, 31 lippies of
oatmeal, and the same, quantity of barley, with L. 55, 8s, 4d. in
money, derived from lands where the teinds are exhausted, and
including L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. The average
amount of the stipend for the last five years has been about L.226,
Os. 11d. besides the above L.8 6s. 8d.
	There is no other place gf worship of any description within
the parish besides the parish church.
	Number of families attending the Established Church, 145;
Roman Catholicr, 7 ; other denominations, 5; total, 157. In-
dividuals belonging to the Established Church, 734; Roman Ca-
tholics, 34; other denominations, 29; total, 797. The Roman
Catholics are mostly of Irish descent. They and the Seceders
attend their respective places of worship in Kirkcudbright.
	Divine service is well attended by the greater number of the
parishioners. There are, however, some who are careless of di-
vine ordinances, and who neglect to train their children in church-
going habits. This is partly to be ascrhbed to the unfortunate
circumstance, that they have no sittings in church which they can
call their own ; but there is also a disinclination to attend. The
average number of communicants for some years past has been 300.
	Education.--There are at present three schools in the parish,
The parochial school is situated close by the church, and in ht all
the ordinary branches are taught, besides mathematics, Latin, and
French to those who choose. The higher branches of learning
are, however, seldom in demand. There is a female school at the
Doon, in the south end of the parish. The school-house at the
Doon was built, and a salary is allowed to the teacher by the Noble
family of St Mary's Isle, who also take a deep interest in the pro-
sperity of the school, and pay it frequent visits. The parochial
schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and his fees may alount
to from L.12 to L.1 5 a-year. A Sabbath school has been in  ope -
ration for four years, and much benefit has been derived from it.
The average attendance at present is about 50. Several of the
children of Roman Catholic families attend, and seem to take as
much interest in the religious instruction, as the children of Pro-
testants.
	Poor and Parochial Fund.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid for some years back has been about 20.


