
			KIRKMABRECK.                            313

	Kirkdale.--The old church of this parish, which Was dedicated
to St. Michael the Archangel, stood in the valley of a small
stream which falls into Wigton Bay. Chalmers in his Caledonia
says, that even the ruins of the ancient Cyre have disappeared.
This, however, is a mistake; the time-worn and ivy-clad ruins of
this ancient place of worship still stand in the midst of, the old
cemetery of Kirkdale; and what was once a sanctuary for the
living, has now become the sepulchre of the dead. Indeed it has
long been the burying-place of the ancient family of the M'Cul-
lochs of Barholm, and, so late as the year 1836, the remains of
the most estimable and deeply-lamented lady of the present. Mr
M'Culloch of Barholm were buried there. The Kirkdale church-
yard is also still preserved as the burying-place of some of the
oldest families in the parish. The Hannays of Kirkdale and
Mochrum have here, their family vault, which is handsomely and
substantially built of granite. The churchyard itself is of small
dimensions, and has been originally surrounded, but is now com-
pletely overshadowed with trees. It is impossible to conceive a
more lonely spot. The situation is solitude itself,--remote--ro-
mantic--placed in a dreary vale, in the bosom of a wood sur-
rounded by hills--within sight of the troubled ocean, and within
hearing of the ceaseless wailings of the stream. Nothing can
surpass the solemnity of the scene. In entering the churchyard,
the living feel as already in communion with the dead, and behold,
in the most striking manner, "How still and peaceful is the grave."
	The church of Kirkdale belonged to the King in the reign of
James IV., who, tranrferred it to the priory of Whithorn. It ap-
pears that, in July 1505, the King presented, Mr Richard Aiken-
head to the rectory of Kirkdale, vacant, by the decease of Sir
Robert Fard.*  In November 1508, Henry, the prior of Candi-
da Casa, obtained a charter from James IV. of the church of
Kirkdale. This charter was granted at the priory, while the
King  was on a pilgrimage to the ancient seat of St Ninians.+
With this priory this church remained till the Reformation, when
it was vested in the King by the General Act of Annexation in
1587. At the Reformation, the tithes of Kirkdale were let, by
the prior and canons for L.24 Scots yearly.++  When James VI.
re-established Episcopacy, be granted, in 1606, to the Bishop of

<FOOTNOTE>Priv. Seal Reg. iii. 10.        Reg. Mag. Sig. C. xv. 78.
          MS. Rental Book, fo, 75.


