
			        DOUGLAS.                           496

that, owing to the low rate of weavers' wages, there are a greater num-
ber of children than usual, whose parents cannot afford to send them
to school, an association is now forming for the purpose of raising
a fund for insuring to the children of the most indigent the bles-
sings of education; and it is to be hoped that it will be so liberal-
ly supported as to effect completely its benevolent and most import-
ant purpose. There are likewise two Sabbath schools in the town,
both of which are well attended. The salary of the parish teacher
is the maximum, and an elegant school-room, with a dwelling-house
for the schoolmaster above, was built about eight years ago, at
the expense of Lord Douglas. A yearly salary of L. 5 is likewise
allowed by his Lordship to the principal teacher at Rigside, where
a commodious school-house is now being built at the expense of
the same generous nobleman.
	Library.--There is a subscription library in the town of Dou-
glas, containing about 1000 volumes, tolerably well chosen. It is
gradually increasing, although the fund is but small.
	Poor.--The proportion, of paupers is great. The average num-
ber who have regular aliment from the parish funds is 46 ; but there
are many besides who receive occasional relief. The heritors raise
by voluntary assessment the fund necessary for the maintenance
of the poor and other parochial purposes, the assessment vary-
ing from 9d. to 1s. in the pound of valued rent. The church
collections average about L. 45 yearly, and to this fund is likewise
to be added the interest of L. 110 bequeathed to the poor. The
late John Gillespie, Esq. of Sunnyside left L. 100 for the benefit
of the poor of this parish, who are not on the roll of paupers, in-
trusting the annual distribution of the interest to the minister of
the parish and the senior surgeon. Among the same class of poor
are distributed the collections, averaging about L. 8, drawn on the
Sabbath of the sacrament, and other days set apart for divine ser-
vice on that occasion. In few parishes in Scotland, indeed, are
the wants of the poor more humanely attended to. An annual
donation of a cart of coals is made by lord Douglas to every poor
family in the parish, upwards of 130 hearths being cheered by this
liberal present at the most inclement season of the year. In times
of severe pressure from the dulness of trade, the poor have always
had a certain resource in the liberality of his Lordship, who, with
no less judgment that beneficence, employs them in useful labour,
by which the place or the public is benefited, while they are saved
from the degrading feelings and the evil habits that would result


