
332                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   The Bass for many generations was the property of an ancient fa-
mily, styled Lauder of the Bass, one of whom is stated to have been
a compatriot of Wallace. The family residence, however, it is be-
lieved, was not on the Bass, but in the town of North Berwick. A
large flat stone in the desolated cemetery at the Auld Kirk, is said
to mark their burial-place. This family, it would seem, at length fell
into decay, and the Bass underwent various transferences. It was
purchased by government in October 1671, from Sir Andrew Ram-
say of Abbotshall, for the sum of L. 4000. Bigotry was then ram-
pant, and tyranny was triumphant. The prisons of our northern
kingdom were gorged with the persecuted, and the Bass was con-
verted into a state-prison for the Covenanters under Charles II. It
served this debased purpose during the reigns of the last two deluded
monarchs of the House of Stuart. It held out for several years af-
ter the Revolution against the new dynasty, amidst numerous and
vigorous enterprises for its subjection, and was signalized as the last
place in Great Britain that yielded to the dominion of William III.
In February 1701, he directed the fortifications to be demolished.
Ultimately, in 1706, the Bass was granted by the crown to Presi-
dent Sir Hew Dalrymple for one Scots penny, reserving the power
of refortifying the Bass, if Government at any time should think
it proper to do so. The fort and the prison were afterwards dis-
mantled. The walls remain in naked desolation.
   The Bass is an impressive historical scene in the eyes of en-
lightened and thoughtful men. It is an object of deep national
interest, associated with the great scheme of civil and religious
freedom. No one should view it without holy gratitude to God
for the removal of the mournful oppressive gloom in which the
political liberties of these realms, a century and a-half ago, were
ensbrouded; and for the advanced constitutional freedom of these
better and illuminated times in which we are privileged to exist. It
is not here we can have space to dwell on one of the foulest pages of
our country's annals; on the enormous injustice, the cruel and bitter
sorrows, and the accumulated and intolerable wrongs it records; in
the reviewal of which the mind and the heart of every man, alive
to the inalienable rights of man, fail within him in abhorrence,
indignation, and shame. But the names of these venerated cap-
tives of the Bass, these Presbyterian faithful, deserve to remain
in imperishable remembrance. *

<FOOTNOTE>Sea Or Crichton's "Memoirs of Blackader," in which he has given a collected
enumeration of the sufferers, mostly from Wodrow's History, which he has carefully
collated with the records of the Privy Council.


