1146                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

civilists were George Nicolson, Lord Kemnay, James Scougall,
Lord Whitehill, and David Dalrymple, Lord Westhall, all three
Judges of the Court of Session.
   The salary of this chair, in 1836, amounted to about L.200.
The fees are quite trifling.  Indeed, the chair was long a sine-
cure, but of late has been rendered effective.  The present civilist
is Dr Patrick Davidson, who lectures once a-week during the
winter session, without exacting any fee.  The civilist derives a
small and very uncertain emolument from	the degrees of LL. D.
occasionally conferred by the University.  He has no house, but
enjoys the rent of a small glebe.
   The Mediciner or Professor of Medicine was the only master
on the original foundation who was not an ecclesiastic.  Both
Bishop Elphinston and King James IV. took great interest in
medicine, in which the King was even a proficient.  The first
mediciner was Dr James Cuming, a man of great learning in his
profession.  Among his successors were Dr James Gregory (son
of James Gregory, Professor of Mathematics in Marischal Col-
lege, and afterwards in Edinburgh, inventor of the Gregorian or
reflecting telescope,) and his two sons, James and John, the latter
of whom became Professor of the Theory and Practice of Medi-
cine in Edinburgh, and wrote " A Father's Legacy to his Daugh-
ters," and other works.  This Dr John Gregory made repeated
efforts to establish permanent medical lectures in Aberdeen, but
failed, from the then limited number of medical students.  More
recently, a joint medical school was established, conducted by the
Professors of Medicine in King's and Marischal Colleges, assisted
by lecturers on the various branches of medical science, to be no-
minated alternately by the two colleges.  Before 1839, however,
this joint school ceased to exist; and since that period, the Uni-
versity has established an independent school of medicine, in
which all the branches of medical study are taught by the present
mediciner and eight lecturers, appointed by the Senatus.  This
school is flourishing, and a convenient building for the lecturers
has just been erected by subscription.
   The salary of the Mediciner, in 1836, amounted to about
L.210.  The class-fees and fees for graduation (of which latter
apart accrues to the Mediciner, as Promoter to the degree of
M.D.,) have amounted, since 1839, on an average, to about
L 100 more.  There is a house and garden attached to the chair.
   The present Mediciner is Dr William Gregory, grandson of


