
264                     BANFFSHIRE.

  The present incumbent raised a process of augmentation of sti.
pend before the Teind Court, which, however, was refused in No-
vember 1838, on the ground that his ministerial labours were dimi-
nished on account of the erection of a chapel at Buckie, on the
Church Extension principle.
   There are three Chapels of Ease attached to the Established
church in this parish; one situated at the Enzie, which was built
in the year 1785, and seated for 404. This chapel was erect-
ed from money raised by a general collection made through all
the churches of Scotland, as recommended by the General As-
sembly.  It is endowed, `nd the fund arises from lands left by a
Mr Anderson, which were purchased by Alexander, late Duke of
Gordon, and the price received was more advantageously vested
in other property. It is under the management of the Commit-
tee of the Royal Bounty, along with the constituent members of
the presbytery of Fordyce, within whose bounds it is situated.
The clergyman receives annually from the Procurator of the
Church the sum of L.62, 8s. His other emoluments arise from
seat rents, which are let so low as from 1s. to 3d. annually, and a
glebe of eight acres, for which two bolls of barley are paid to his
Grace the Duke of Richmond. The ground is rather of an infe-
rior quality, and its value may be about L.1 per acre. There is
no manse, but the clergymen resides in a very comfortable house at-
tached to a farm which has always been let to the incumbent.
The whole emoluments, exclusive of what may arise from the pro-
fits of the farm, may amount to L.70 per annum. There are no
free sitings, but as the seats are let at so very moderate a rate, this
really can scarcely be felt as any inconvenience. The funds aris-
ing from the weekly collections are under the management of the
kirk-session. The yearly amount varies from L.18 to L.21.  Out
of this sum, as they have no benefactions, they maintain their own
poor, whose number at' present on the roll is 33, and pay the
church officer and precentor.  The population is 1703, and di-
vine service is well attended. - Communicants 340.
   The other chapel connected with.the Establishment is situated

<FOOTNOTE>"Thomas Hay, reidar at Rathven, his stipend xx ti, &a."
   In the same register for the Schyre of Tueddail, parochin Ettilstoun, the following
   is recorded, which we think worthy of a place in this report' "Mr George Hay, mi-
   nister and persoun, the thryd of this personage and Rathven, alsweill by runis as to
   cum extending to lxviij tQ xvj s viiij d j chalder j boll beir of Rathven,__iiij chal-
   ders, ix bollis of meill for Ettilstoun. Providing always he insist diligentlie in the
   ministrie, and als,cause his kirk quhar he makis not continuall residence to be suffi-
   ciently servit, and that he charge the kirk with na further stipend."


