
               KILMARTIN.                                 551

family, while no order of succession, calculated to throw light on
this obscure class of rocks, is apparent.  The bard hornblende
slate, where found, is easily split into large slabs for building, &c.
and no doubt roofing slate might be obtained from the chlorite
slate; indeed a similar rock has lately been quarried with suc-
cess on the banks of the Crinan Canal, just beyond the limits of
the parish.  As usual in the mica slate formation, limited beds
of crystalline limestone are met with in many parts, interstra-
tified somewhat irregularly, within the slaty beds.  They afford
no trace of organic remains, but frequently seem to, bear evidence
of igneous action.  The rock has sometimes quite a calcined ap-
pearance, and fragments of the limestone are often observed lying
some distance within the adjoining schist, as also fragments of the
slate within the limestone.  These calcareous beds occasionally
contain more or less silex, but the purer varieties are extensively
burned for building and agricultural purposes.
   The strata within this district are highly inclined, seldom less
than at an angle of 45&deg;, much more frequently nearly vertical, as
may be seen along the road near Kilmartin, also on the western
shores of Lochawe and elsewhere.  The dip is generally to the
south-east; the strike, with little variation, is north-east and south-
west, or east-north-east and west-south-west.  It may be con-
cluded that this elevation of the strata is due to the action of the
trap, which shows itself in many parts of the parish, as well as of
the adjoining district.  This intrusive rock sometimes appears in
the form of vertical dikes twelve or fourteen feet in width, running
often at nearly right angles to the strike of the sedimentary beds;
at other times, it is found in roundish irregular masses, and not
unfrequently is split in horizontal fractures, displaying an imper-
fectly columnar structure.  Whenever the neighbouring rock can
be observed, it is almost always found to be much indurated near
the trap, while occasionally the traces of stratification are so en-
tirely obliterated, as to require a well-practised eye to decide who-
ther it belongs to hornblende slate, for instance, or basalt.  In
conclusion, it may be observed, that the rocks in this parish pre-
sent most of the varieties and phenomena common to the mica
slate series elsewhere, while the area is too small to afford much
opportunity of elucidating any of the difficulties that confessedly
attach to this little known formation, which still requires the at-
tentive study of our best geologists.  These rocks, though appa-
rently so hard, seem to decompose readily by the action of the


