
               KIRKCALDY.                              751

   At tile time of taking the census there was no apparent cause
for any unusual influx or decrease in the population of this parish.
Very few have emigrated of late years from this place.

<TABLE>
         Number of famiKes in the parish,                                        1057
	Houses, or part of houses usually occupied by one family that are empty,  87
	Houses building,                                                           5
	No register of deaths is kept; but the average number of burials an-
            nually in the church-yard during the last ten years,	          82 1/10

   This must be rather under than above the number of deaths in
the parish.
   No noble family has a residence within the parish, and very few
otbers, except annuitants, that live upon their fortunes indepen-
dently of business.  There are only two landed proprietors whose
yearly incomes from their land within the parish exceed L.100, viz.
James Townsend Oswald, Esq. of Dunnikier, and John Fergus,
Esq. of Strathore.  The property of Mr Fergus, however, lies
chiefly in adjoining parishes.
   A spirit of enterprise, directed and regulated by that prudent
caution which naturally accompanies the possession and employ-
ment of real capital in business, pervades this manufacturing and
commercial community, and prevents the town from being visited
with those sudden and ruinous convulsions, which the rashness of
mere speculators, whom injurious facilities of obtaining credit
raise up and sustain for a time, too frequently brings upon other
trading districts.  The habits and conduct of the merchants and
manufacturers, who are commonly capitalists to a greater extent
than is general throughout the country, in the management of their
business, and the nature of the trade itself, give a steadiness to
the various branches of industry, and exercise a very salutary in-
fluence on the community generally.
   The demoralizing practice of smuggling, chiefly from Holland,
prevailed here at one time to a great extent.  It has now almost
entirely disappeared.  Of late years, the officers have never de-
tected smuggling, except, and this very seldom, in the case of
small craft from France, which sometimes bring along with their
cargoes of fruit, larger quantities of brandy than the crew may be
thought to require as sea-store.

                  IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-This parish contains 1050 imperial acres, of which
160 acres are planted.  With this exception, all of it is under cultiva-
tion; but, from its small extent, it affords little scope for remarks


