
                                 BRESSAY.                            17

   value; it is said to contain twelve marks of land, and, according to
   present rents here, would let for L. 12. The stipend is L.150,
   of which L.] 17, 17s. 1Od. arise from the parish.
      There are two places called meeting-houses in Burra that may
   perhaps, each contain 100; one of Independents, and the others
   Wesleyans.  I am told that twenty or thirty only are in commu-
   nion with either.  Many of them, when their hours of meeting differ,
   attend the parish church. Two or three individuals only at parti-
   cular times have appeared as Dissenters in Quarff or Bressay.
      The three parish churches in summer are well attended.  Cer-
   tainly those of Bressay and Burra are not too large for the popula-
   tion. The situation of young persons here, all along, has been quite
   deplorable.  Till lately, they had no opportunity of anything de-
   serving the narne of education; and even, though there had been
   anxiety shown to bring them to church, there was not, and tbere
   is not, room for the tenth part of them either in Bressay or Burra
   churches.  The average number of communicants in Bressay is
   290.  When there was only one church for the west district, there
   might be there 150.  But, since the erection of the Government
   church, arrangements not having been completed between Quarff
   and Burra, and the contiguous parts, the number of communicants
   cannot be accurately specified.
      Education.-There are three regular, and commonly four small
   private, schools in these, parishes.
      The parish school is in Bressay. The salary is L.25, 13S. ;
   amount of fees, L. 1, 6s. ; -quarter payments for reading, 10d. ;
   writing, 2s.; arithmetic, 2s., 6d.; a set of book-keeping, 3s. At
   last examination, there were 25 scholars present.
      The Assembly schoolmaster in Bressay has L. 20 of salary;
   amount of fees at present L.9. A school is supported by the
   Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, in Burra.  The
   salary L.15; amount of school-fees, L.1. Rate of quarter pay-
   ments, for reading, 10d.; writing, 1s. 4d.; arithmetic, 2s. 6d.
   Number of scholars at present, 26.
     For more than twenty years, there have been two schools in
   Bressa, and one in Burra, taught by women, having each 1.5 or More
   scholars.  That in Burra, and one of these in Bressay, are extreme-
   ly useful for the younger children.
      Sabbath schools are kept by the Assembly and Society teachers,
   and one in Quarff, by a catechist of the Edinburgh Society
     SHETLAND.                           B


