
268			AYRSHIRE.

fected by the construction of roads for internal access in almost
every farm. * The only portion of the parish which seems to re-
quire a common drain of any considerable size to be yet made, is
the fine plain running along from Hunterston to Ardneill; by
which means, a considerable portion of very manageable land might
still be greatly improve. But as this would affect different pro-
perties, difficulties must attend any arrangements thereto. Great-
er facility might yet certainly be obtained in the procuring of
lime, by the further improvement of roads, and perhaps by some
arrangement for its importation by sea. It need hardly be ob-
served, nothing could more immediately tend to encourage im-
provement, than a reduction of the cost of an article so essential
to the proper management of land.
	In reflecting on the improvements which have been effected
since the era of the first Account, there is no change more pleas-
ing to contemplate, than that which has taken place in the man-
ners and habits of the people themselves. This is especially ob-
servable of the rural portion of the community, though certainly
great progress has been made in the domestic and personal con-
dition of all. At the former period, farm-houses, almost without
exception, presented no indications of superior comfort or refine-
ment to the ordinary habitations of labourers, differing, indeed, in
nothing from such, but in their more ample stores and greater
means of rude hospitality. As a criterion, there was not probably
at that period a carpeted parlour to be met with in a farm-house
within the parish. Now matters are reversed, very few being with-
out that mark of decent comfort; whilst the general economy of
most in every way corresponds with this indication of refinement.
	But the chief advantage of which this parish probably is sus-
ceptible, is as a sea-bathing station and coast residence, though
hitherto very little has been attempted towards such an object.
The sea-shore all the way from the fine harbour of Ardrossan to
Portincross northward, a reach of above five miles, is in all re-
spects peculiarly suitable for such a purpose. Bordering on the

<FOOTNOTE>Our existing road laws seem much to require alteration and amendment. What
is called Statute labour money, is levied most unjustly as regards all town commu-
nities, they having no control in its expenditure, which is at the sole disposal of a
certain class of proprietors of land, and who of course naturally enough direct its ap-
plication in a great measure to their own farm-roads. All roads of any considerable
thoroughfare should probably be constituted turnpike, whilst a general act might be
framed, empowering all towns and villages who chose to avail themselves of the pri-
vilege, to assess themselves for the maintenance and improvement of their streets.
Purely agricultural lines should be wholly made and maintained  by the owners of
the lands they affect.


