
     Statistical Account

Innes first presbyterian parson of Mortlach after the Revolu-
tion.  It is in the wall, beside the minister's seat, under which
he was buried*.  There are likewise some very ancient look-
ing grave stones with Saxon characters, below the seats and in
the passages; but it would take a great deal of trouble to make
out what is upon them, and, except to a patient and inquisi-
tive antiquary, the labour would perhaps be very ill repaid+.

   School.-The school is very useful; but the schoolmaster,

<FOOTNOTE>

per vetustam familiam de Craighead, paulo abhinc superstitem
proxime et legitime oriondus; illa ex splendida et potenti Gran-
teorum familia, eodem quaque modo originem trahens ortu non
obscuri, suis tamen virtutibus illustriores; opibus affluxerunt,
et liberis ingenue educatis, floruere pie, juste et sobtie vixerunt,
et sic in Domino mortem obiere.  Illa anno Domini 1694,
aetatis fuæ sexagesimo.

     M. S.

   Mri. Hugonis Innes, filii honorabilis viri Johannis Innes de
Leichnet, qui, cum, annos triginta quatuor, sacra in hoc tem-
plo peregisset, obiit anno Christi 1733, natus annos LXVIII.
Posuit hoc monumentum pia ac dilectissima conjux Eliz.  Aber-
nethie filia Domini de Mayen.

*This gentleman, it is said, was possessed of a considerable
share both of bodily strength and personal courage; and, in
those days, if various anecdotes which are told of him be true,
it seems he had occasion for the exercise of these qualities, in
the discharge of his clerical functions.

+On the banks of the Dullan, a little below the present church
or ancient cathedral, appears the foundation of a house, over-
grown with grass, which would be walked over with little no-
tice, if one were not told, that here was the bishop's palace:
And not far from thence is a part of the public road, on the
opposite side of the same rivulet, leading to the east, called Gor-
don's cross; the first design or use of which cannot now with
certainty be discovered; and suppositions are endless.  It might
be for some religious purpose, or it may have been a market
place.  A round stone, which is thought to have been the pedes-
tal of the cross, remains to be seen.


