
          76                          PERTHSHIRE.

          the said errand himself, and what he would offer for the said licence.
          Whereupon his wisdom was incalled, and proposed the matter to
          them, and offered for licence forty pounds Scots money, to be
          paid immediately to Andrew Bell, master of the hospital, in name
          of the session, and thereupon the council and session granted li-
          berty to bury the said corpse in the burial called Balleises burial,
          within the said kirk."  And to give one other instance:  "Penult
          day of April 1639, Lady Stormont buried beside her mother, in
          the north east neuk of the kirk of Perth, and to pay a hundred
          pounds money Scots, to be delivered to George Bisset, master of
          the hospital, before the breaking of the ground."
             For a long time this practice, reprehensible in every point of
          view, has ceased in Perth.  The only exception has been, if ex-
          ception it can be called, is the access which the Aldie family have
          in the Middle Church to their vault, under the north wall and the
          adjoining street.
             Theere was a grave-yard around the church.  It is now completely
          concealed.  There are streets over it. The only mention made of it
          in the session records refers to facts which shew that there was not
          an over strict regard paid to its sacredness as the depository of the
          dead.  Thus in 1587, "ordains no stables to be in the kirk-yard
          after Whitsunday, and if ever they be found hereafter, any of the
          setters thereof to pay ten pounds."  And again in 1603, "For as
          meikle as the causways of the kirkyard are greatly abused by the
          repair of horses and sleds, the sessions request David Sibbald to
          set up an stock in the West Kirk Vennel, for staying of their pas-
          sage on the west side of the kirk."  Thus it appears that there
          had been through sufferance a thoroughfare through the burying
          ground.  Perhaps it had at this time become less an object of
          official care, as a new and spacious place for burying had been lately
          provided in 1580.  That place is well known by the name of the
          Grayfriars burying-ground.  It was the site of the Grayfriars
          Monastery, which at the period of the Reformation was destroyed
          by the over-excited multitude.
             In the session records, there is a minute of date 2d November 1602,
          which seems to convey the idea that at that time paupers, inter-
          red at the expense of the session funds, had no coffins provided for
          them.  It is in these words, "The session ordains the master of the
          hospital, with all diligence, cause make an common mort kist, where-
          by the dead corpses of the poor ones may be honestly carried to the
          burial."  And there is a similar minute in the records for 1618.


