
                            TYRIE.                         719

place where it manifests itself in this parish to where it terminates
in Rathen, may be estimated to be about three or four miles.
   The great strata of granite rocks pursue the same south-west-
erly course.  The stone itself is composed of quartz, shorl, fel-
spar, and mica,-the last, however, in very minute quantities.  It
is of a pale-grayish hue.  Examples of it are found in all shades
of formation, from the loose and uncompressed to the closely
packed and the firmly-cemented blcoks, capable of receiving the
finest polish, and adapted for the most durable buildings.  Oc-
casional blocks of granite are discoverable in every valley ; but
they most frequently appear to form the frame-work on which
are deposited all the  superincumbent strata of the mountain-
ous range bisecting the parish, and also the greater part of
the massy plains, &c. of the upper part.  The granite quar-
ries which have been opened, furnish blocks of about ten tons
weight ; but what farther sizes might be procured it is impossible
to say, without deeper excavations than what have been hitherto
made.  The stones already procured have been obtained with com-
parative ease, and consequently with comparatively little expense.
From these quarries have been taken the materials for building
great part of the dressed work of the pier of the harbour of fra-
serburgh, and for the ornamental work of the modern buildings of
that town, as well as of those in our more immediate neighbour-
hood.  Such a trade, if we may call it a trade, has been a source
of some revenue to the proprietor, and to several industrious arti-
sans and labourers ; and, as long as the facility of transportation,
furnished by means of the adjoining turnpike road of Freserburgh,
exists, combined with the little cost in clearing away the superin-
cumbent rubbish or soil, and the easiness of quarrying, and the
little expense of dressing, owing to the comparative softness of the
stone when newly quarried,-so long will, in all probability, such a
source of revenue to the  proprietor continue.  Iron undoubtedly
we have ; but not in sufficient quantity to render it a profitable
speculation to embark in the process of smelting it.
   Mossy soils we have in vast abundance.  With a few solitary
exceptions, these are confined to one continuous plain, measuring
about three miles long by two and a half or three miles broad.
They not only supply fuel, but are capable of being converted into
productive land.
   This parish seems, from the nature of its soil, to be adapted
not so much for a grazing district, as for the production of oats, its


