
                          KINGHORN.                          809

Dunfermline, that every seventh one caught at Kinghorn should be
sent to the ecclesiastics of that place.\f-Except a few human bones
dug, up in forming the foundation for the extension of St Leonard's
spinning mill, nothing has of late years given any indication that that
place was formerly consecrated ground.-Instead of the deep-ton-
ed vespers sounding for prayers from St Leonard's Tower, there
is now heard the sharp and enlivening bell summoning the healthy
light-hearted young people to the spinning manufactory.The
ploughshare passes uninterruptedly over the spot where stood thegrim stately walls of Glammis Tower.
   After Robert II. had given away this royal residence to Sir John
Lyon and his successors, the Kings of Scotland still possessed a
domicile in Kinghorn, to which they had recourse in crossing to
Fife from Edinburgh. In the old orchard of Abden, there were
not long ago removed the remains of a building, which tradition
declared belonged to the King, and the road to which, from the
shore or landing-place, was called the King's gate. This is coun-
tenanced by the fact, that the property of Abden belonged to the
Crown; and in the ancient charter of this property, granted by
Cardinal Beaton to Sir John Melville, there is a distinct reserva-
tion that the King, in crossing to Kinghorn, should enjoy free lodg-
ings, and the hospitality of Abden at any time he should require
it. And the crown charter confirming the same to the son, (the
father having been executed for high treason and his lands confis-
cated,) shows that it continued. Crown property, so that the Scot-
tish monarchs had always a residence of one kind or other in
Kinghorn. The present proprietor, Mr Stocks, possesses both
charters,-the one by Cardinal Beaton has attached to it the seal
of that ecclesiastical dignitary, as well as that of St Andrews; and
he holds it under the same reservation which the Cardinal him-
self, and his immediate successors did. It is thus evident that
royalty has still a right to this ancient privilege, a fact probably al-
together unknown to the present interesting and beloved posses-
sor of the throne of these realms. There are several objects yet

<FOOTNOTE>The present incumbents of Dunfermline would fare but ill if they depended on
any portion of this grant. Not a phoca, is now sought after, for any purpose  what-
ever.
<FOOTNOTE>The words of the charter referring to the above reservation are,"reservatis no-
bis nostrisque regiis successoribus in hujusmodi mansione hospiltalite et residentia to-
ties quoties, contigerit nobis ibidem supervenire et declinare quamdiu nobis placluerit
seu visum fenerit nostris propriis sumptibus  ac etiam pro solutione at prostatione no-
bis quse cunque alia servatis et divoris quse continenter in antiquis infedofamentis os
rentalibus diotarum terrarum ac duplicans, ditam feudifirmam primo anno introitus
cujualibert ad dictam mansions domun Greenbrass head, Parsons's croft alia-
que pramfat lisdem spectan.

