
                           CARRIDEN.                           75

   Friendly Societies.-There were two Friendly Societies in exis-
tence in 1834, and had been for some years before-one for the
support of its members when disabled by sickness or infirmity, the
other for defraying the funeral expenses incurred at the death of
a member, or of a member's wife or child. At present the latter
only is in existence.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers up-
on the roll for the seven years ending in 1834, was 3 1/1 5/4, to each of
whom the average sum allotted yearly was L.2, 2s. 6 1/2d. Be-
sides those upon the roll, there are others who are allowed occa-
sional relief. The funds for this expenditure proceed partly from
the church collections, and the proclamation and mortcloth dues,
and partly from an assessment laid on the landlord and tenant, and
which, for the seven years above specified, averaged L.36, 6s. 3 1/7d.
per annum. It is much to be regretted, that the disposition, once
so honourable a trait in the Scottish character, to live indepen-
dently of parochial aid, is greatly on the decline.
   Ale-houses.-Of these there are too many amongst us for the
moral well-being of the people. There are six houses in all where
spirituous liquors are sold.
                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In more remote times, the aspect of the parish must have been con-
siderably different from what it is at present. The surface was for-
merly much more thickly studded with human habitations and
scenes of human industry, grouped together in little patches, than
it is now; many of which have disappeared altogether, while of
some a few faint vestiges still remain. At one time a considera-
ble establishment of salt-works, now wholly obliterated, existed
near where the, present church is situated, and was named in the
former Statistical Account, "Benhard-pans." Nearly a mile dis-
tant from the church to the east, another series of erections of the
same kind was stationed, called Carris-pans, probably a corruption
of Carriden-pans, of which the only relic to be seen is the stakes,
that mark out the boundary of the "bucket pat," that is, the re-
servoir that held the sea water that was to be subjected to the
process of evaporation. Bonhard appears to have been once the
seat of a village inhabited by the labourers that were employed at
the coal-works formerly in operation there. Little Carriden, si-
tuated a short distance eastward from the Muirhouses, but now
extinct, was within these twenty years  in existence. From time
to time, the smaller farm steadings have been gradually disappear-
ing. And the villages that continue to exist discover symptoms


