
                                  GLENSHEIL.                         209

         always take place on a Monday.  The cattle are purchased by
         drovers from the south of Scotland, or from the neighbouring pa-
         rishes.  The markets are held at Sheilhouse.  Although a good
         deal of whisky is drunk on these occasions, there is not much
         drunkenness, and a fight rarely occurs.  The practice of exposing
         pedlar's wares at these meetings, which has been lately introdu-
         ced, threatens, by attracting young females to them, to do injury to
         their morals.
            Inns.-Besides the inns above-mentioned, some of the poorer
         inhabitants are in the practice of retailing spirits clandestinely, and,
         notwithstanding every endeavour to discourage it, this nuisance
         prevails to a pernicious extent.
            Fuel.-The fuel chiefly used is peat.  This is manufactured in
         the elevated situations where alone moss occurs, and the carriage of
         it is a very laborious service, as it can only be transported in creels,
         sometimes on the backs of horses, but more frequently on those
         of men and even women.  In the houses of the farmers, besides
         peats for the kitchen, some tons of coals are always procured for
         the other apartments.  The firing required for a family of this
         class cannot be estimated at less than from L.15 to L.20 per
         annum.

                         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
            The most striking variations betwixt the present state of the
         parish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical
         Account, consist in the introduction of the sheep husbandry, and
         of the lotting system.   The moral and physical effects of these
         changes have been already noticed.  A less equivocal benefit has
         been derived from the opening of the communication to the east-
         ward, and the more extensive diffusion of education.
            In all these respects, however, there is room for much improve-
         ment.  The district of Letterfearn suffers much from the want of
         a road, the inhabitants being thereby in great measure deprived
         of the advantage which those of the eastern portion of the parish
         derive from the communication with Inverness, and subjected to
         much inconvenience otherwise. They complain, and not without
         reason, that though they have been taxed with road-money like
         the people of other parts of the country, their district bus not
         shared in the benefit of its outlay.  Bath in attending the church
         and the school, the want of a road is much felt.  Another evil
         demanding attention is the great and increasing poverty of the
            ROSS AND CROMARTY.                         0


