
                       CROMDALE.                             437

native of this parish.    Sir James has given many proofs decisive
of his ardent attachment to his native parish, and of the lively interest
he takes it) the welfare of its inhabitants.  This amiable and
distinguished man is well known as the author of some valuable
medical works. - His services, at the head of his department, during
the whole of the Peninsular war, were allowed to be of the
greatest importance, and frequently mentioned in the Duke of
Wellington's Dispatches in the most laudatory terms.  According
to the parochial register, Sir James M'Grigor was born on the
9th of April 1771, so that the worthy Baronet has just completed
his seventieth year.
  Land-Owners.-The Right Honourable the Earl of Seafield
is sole proprietor of the parish.  It was before-mentioned that the
Grants got possession of part of the lands of Strathspey, by a
royal gift, about 500 years ago.
   Parochial Registers.-There  are three volumes of parish, registers,
the oldest commencing in 1726; litit all have been imperfectly
kept, till about 1780.
  Antiquities.-The old Castle of Muckerach, in the northwest
part of the parish, is rather a picturesque ruin, and beautifully
situated ; but it is now much dilapidated ; the roof has entirely
fallen away.  Muckerach was the first possession of the Grants
of Rothiemurchus. The castle was built by Patrick Grant, second
son of John Grant of Freuchy, and fourteenth laird of Grant,
and Margaret Stewart, daughter of the Earl of Athol, his spouse,
in 1598.  To this son the Laird of Giant, gave a feu-charter on
the lands of Muckerach ; but on his subsequently acquiring the
lands of Rothiemurchus, lie gave them to his son, and redeemed
Muckerach.
  The celebrated Castle or Fort of Lochindorb is the only other
antiquity of note in the parish.   The castle is built on an island
in a large lake of that name, distant about seven or eight
miles north of Castle Grant.  The island is fully more than a
Scotch acre in extent, and every part of it is occupied by the castellated
wall, in many places 20 feet high, and supposed to have
been much higher, According to Mr Shaw, in his History of
the Province of Moray, when the Earl of March defeated and
killed the Earl of Athol at Kilblair in 1335, and raised the siege
of Kildrummie Castle, the Earl of Athol's.  Lady fled to the Castle
of Lochindorb Sir Alexander Gordon laid siege to it; but next
year, he was obliged to raise the siege.  The castle and adjacent


