
			KIRKPATRICK-DURHAM.                   261

here, as elsewhere, to introduce among the young men,habits of
idleness, and a disregard of the laws, which not only destroy their
own respectability, but threaten to entail distressing effects upon
the succeeding generation.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	The number of acres may be stated in round numbers at
20,000, of which about 8000 are either cultivated or occa-
sionally in tillage. A great portion of the remainder is used
as pasture for black-cattle or sheep, while a considerable tract
is included under the names of bogs, mosses, and muirs. The
wood covers perhaps 400 or 500 acres. Of the uncultivated
land a large proportion lies in the northern district of the parish;
and there are many hundred acres in that quarter capable of
yielding a very profitable return to an enterprising capitalist.
With the exception of the natural wood, which is to be found
chiefly on the estates of Kilquhanity and Kirklebride, the trees in
this parish are for the most part but recently planted, and consist
of the common hard-wooded kinds, which are largely intermixed
with larch in order to afford them the necessary protection from
severe winds. The average rent of land over the whole parish
may be stated at 7s. per imperial acre; but in the southern and
western districts it may fairly be estimated at L.1 or L.1, 5s.
	The rate of labour varies in winter from ls. to ls. 4d. a day, and
in summer from ls. 4d. to ls. 8d. The mode of husbandry will be
found to differ very little, if at all, from that pursued in the neigh-
bouring district.  The attention of the farmers is chiefly directed
to the breeding and rearing of black-cattle for the southern mar-
kets. Their leases generally last for fifteen years, and their houses
and onsteads are convenient and comfortable.
	It would be impossible to give any accurate account of the
value of the annual produce of different sorts yielded by the soil.
The annual rental of the parish is about L.6600. A great pro-
portion of the farmers engage in the cattle trade, either speculat-
ing on their own account, or acting as commisrion agents for the
great dealers. The trade is proverbially insecure, its success or
failure in each enterprise depending on a rise or fall of prices,
which very generally can neither be foreseen nor controlled.
	Manufactures.-There is no branch of manufactures carried on
to any extent in the parish. The different societies for the en-
couragement of trade, manifactures and commerce, mentioned in
Dr Lamotie's account, have long,since died a natural death, and


