	                KIRKCONNEL.                              319

to nearly L. 30 per annum. The expense of smearing a score of
sheep may be about 5s. and pasturage L. 4 per annum.
	Rental--Heritors, &c.--The rental of the property in this parish
of the Duke of Buccleuch (who is nearly the sole proprietor)
amounts to L. 4160, 7s. 6 1/2d; that of the other heritors, (who are only
four in number,) does not exceed L. 450.* The total valuation of
the parish is 6964 merks Scots.
	Employments--Wages.--With a very few exceptions, the working
classes of the community are mostly employed in agricultural pur-
suits or as day labourers. A few families are employed in working
coals in the adjoining p`rish, and may earn from 1s. 8d. to 2s. per
day. The latter are sober, industrious, well-behaved, and well-in-
formed, and by no means of that description of character which is
generally ascribed to their craft. As the time employed in their
mining operations is not above six hours, they generally spend their
spare hours either in reading, or in working where they can find
employment, in order to add a little more to their gains for the sup-
port of their families.
	There are the following trades in the parish: masons, 2; tailors,
6; shoemakers, 4; weavers, 15; stone-dikers, 8; blacksmiths,
10; house-carpenters, 4; corn-miller, 1; innkeepers, 5; flesher,
1; merchant, 1; cooper, 1.
	There are no public works of any description within the parish,
except an iron-plating forge, upon a very small scale, and employ-
ing about eight or ten men in its various departments.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce yearly
raised in the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, is as
follows:

<TABLE>
	Produce of grain of all kinds, including fodder, deducting seed, L. 7830  0   0
        Of potatoes, turnips, &c.                                           1880  0   0
        Of hay,                                                             1292  0   0
        Dairy produce,                                                      2800  0   0
        Sheep, vool, and lambs, young cattle,                               3280  0   0
        Gardens and orchards,                                                480  0   0
                              Total yearly value of produce,           L. 17,562  0   0

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--The roads are in a good state of
repair; but bridges are much wanted on the great public road in
the upper district of this parish. A public coach runs daily through
this parish from Glasgow to Carlisle, and from Carlisle to Glas-

<FOOTNOTE>A small portion of land, not amounting to more than three-fourths of an acre, was held
under charter so far back as the year 1444; the reddendum of which "unus solidus
monetae regni Scotiae," is to be paid "ministro ministranti ad altare beatae virginisa;"
and afterwards by clare constat from Lord William Crichton of Sanquhar to the mi-
nister of the parish and his successor in office.


