
8                           ARGYLESHIRE.

for several yards throughout them. The direction of the strata
is N. W. and S. E.; the dip is N. E, and the inclination varies.
   The mica-slate formation would, if alone, give the form of the
letter y to the arable portion or valleys in the parish, by the meet-
ing of Glenaray and Glenshira near the burgh; but about four
miles N. N. E. of the town, Glenaray is suddenly contracted by
a mass of rock, which appears overlaying the mica-slate, and thus
changes the character of the valley, giving it that waving and
varying outline of height and hollow which distinguishes a por-
phyritic district. This rock is red felspar porphyry, and it stretches
along through the whole extent of the parish to the S. W., some-
times disappearing, sometimes jutting up far above the schistus.
The consequence is, that the form of the parish is changed,--that
the porphyry forms a valley on each side of it, and divides the in-
habited portion of the parish into the form of the letter X.
  The junction of the porphyry with the mica-slate may be seen
at many points. Sometimes, as on the east side of the mass of
porphyry which overhangs the village called the Furnace, they
appear together, the mica-slate changed in colour from grey to
yellowish-brown, and, in consistency, from firmness to friableness
and brokenness of aspect; while at other times, as two miles above
the burgh of Inveraray, in the channel of the river, immediately
above the third stone bridge over the Aray, the porphyry appears
through the mica-slate, leaving the latter unchanged in colour and
unaltered in position. At the latter place, masses of the mica-
slate, seem enclosed in porphyry.
  The porphyry varies in character. Sometimes it is composed
wholly of felspar, with only a few crystals of quartz or lighter-co-
loured felspar; at other times it is found with hornblende, quartz,
and small portions of mica. Sometimes also, it is of a red, and
at others of a grey colour. The limestone occurs frequently in
beds in the mica-slate. It is also found interposing with mic`-slate.
A remarkable instance of this occurs in the channel of the Water
of Douglas, above the bigh-road, where a section of the mountain,
of about 100 feet in height, is exposed, consisting entirely of al-
ternate strata of limestone and mica-slate, the strata varying in
thickness from five inches to as many feet. A variety occurs at
the foot of Dunqhuaich, which is used as a marble. Veins of
greenstone also traverse the porphyry and mica-slate, but scarcely
appearing through them.


