
326                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

Heirs of the late James Hay, Esq. L.80.  Total valued rental,
L.6145, 6s. 8d.
   Parochial Registers.-The early parochial registers are very
imperfect, and do not extend far back.  The first entries of bap-
tisms and marriages are in 1685, and the register of discipline
commences in 1721.  There are chasms in both till about 1760,
from which period they are regular.  The accounts of the collec-
tions and disbursements for the poor are kept in Scotch money
till the year 1763.  While some of the entries are curious, the only
point of public interest which could be gathered from them, is the
great difference which they show to have taken place in the value
of money within the last half century.
   Antiquities-Priory.-This was a cell of the Abbey of Ar-
broath, said by Spotswood to have been founded along with a pa-
rish church, by Fergus, Earl of Buchan, in 1179, whose donation
of it to the Abbey was afterwards confirmed by his daughter,
Margaret, Countess of Buchan, and wife of Sir William Cumming. *
In another account, the foundation is ascribed to King William
the Lion; and in a deed of date 1285, Reginald le Cheyne is said
to have founded the religious house on the lands of Ardlogy, that
is, the priory, while it appears from another deed, that be bestow-
ed on this house his lands of Ardlogy and Leuchendy the same
year. +  The truth may be, that the house was originally founded
by the Earl of Buchan; that this was confirmed by King William;
and that a re-endowment was made a century later by the Baron of
Inverugie.  The site of the priory was on the north bank of the
Ythan, about a mile below the castle, and the outline of a part of
it, said to have been the chapel, is still distinguishable on the crest
of a gentle eminence, about 150 yards north-east of the present
bridge of Lewes.  In the memory of persons still living, a good
part of the ruin was standing.
   In 1285, Reginald le Cheyne gave to the priory, as above-men-
tioned, the lands of Ardlogy and Leuchendy; and the same year,
Henry, Bishop of Aberdeen, at the instance of the abbot and con-
vent of Aberbrothock, granted a deed, ordaining that the emolu-
ments of the vicarage of Fyvin, then vacant, should belong hence-
forth to the priory, provided that 100 shillings were annually
given to a perpetual chaplain, who should go about the parish and
dispense the sacraments to the parishioners. ++

<FOOTNOTE>Appendix to Keiths Bishops.          Char. of Arbroath, Adv. Lib. i. pp. 17.21.
          Ibid.


