                  DUNFERMLINE.                           863
ble, serjeant or mayor fees. None, I believe, are now paid as ad-
miralty fees, these not being derivable from land.
   Memorable Historical Events.-Only a few of these can be
briefly noticed.
   The Chartulary records one important fact respecting the ho-
mage formerly claimed by England from the Scottish Kings. It
is a deed " concerning the homage which Alexander Ill., King
of Scots, paid to Edward I., King of England, for his lands which
be held in the kingdom of England." This was in 1278.
   Edward 1. visited Dunfermline in 1291, 1296, 1303, and 1304.
   In 1303, he took up his winter quarters here, where he was
joined by his Queen and a part of his nobility, and employed
himself in receiving the submission of those Scottish barons
and great men who had not made their peace during his pro-
gress through the kingdom, in 1296. It was at this period, also
previous to his departure, which, according to some, took place in
February, and others in March following, that his soldiers, doubt-
less by his orders or with his approbation, shewed their gratitude
for the ample and magnificent accommodation which they had so
long enjoyed here, by setting fire to the Abbey, whereby it was
reduced to a shadow of what it formerly was.
On the 4th March 1323, Robert Bruce bad a son born to him
in Dunfermline, when the palace must have been in some degree
repaired, who, after a long minority, ascended the throne under
the title of David 11.
   In 1385, a large body of Frenchmen were lodged in Dunferm-
line, as there were in some other inland towns, as Queensferry,
Kelso, Dunbar, and Dalkeith, Edinburgh not being able to accom-
modate them all, on the occasion of John de Vienne, the famous
admiral of France, having come over to this country in the reign
of Robert II., in consequence of an application from the Scots to
the regency of the French King, Charles VI., with a great number
of knights and others, the flower of the French army, and of private
soldiers, to assist the Scots in the invasion of England.
   On this occasion, too, Froissart mentions that Richard II. of
England having burned Edinburgh, " he and his Lords went to
Dunfermline, a tolerably handsome town, where is a large and
fair abbey of black monks, in which the Kings of Scotland have
been accustomed to be buried. The King was lodged in the ab-
bey, but after his departure, the army seized it and burnt both
that and the town." Hume says, generally, tbat the King treat-

