
     Of Pettinain.

course, employed in tillage:  the remaining part, which may 
be nearly of the same extent, is either coarse pasture-ground 
and moss, or is covered with plantations of trees.  The church 
and village are situated towards the N. E. extremity of the 
parish, about half a mile from the nearest part of the river;
5 1/2 miles to the eastward of Lanark, and 7 miles to the north- 
westward of Biggar.  There is only one hill in the parish 
that divides itself into two summits, which are sometimes 
distinguished by the names of Pettinain and Westraw hills. 
The last, and most westerly of these is the highest, and rises 
about 500 feet above the level of Clyde, and about 1000 feet 
above that of the sea.  The other part of the hill extends it- 
self, in a long bending ridge, towards the S., and runs into 
the neighbouring parish of Covington.  These high grounds 
are mostly covered with short heath, intermixed, in several 
places, with bent, and other coarse grass.  This gives them a 
bleak appearance, and renders them, comparatively, of small 
value.  A large track of moorish and mostly ground lies im-
mediately behind the hill, on the S.; and in such a high situ-
ation, that it would not be advisable to attempt to cultivate 
any part of it.  The rest of the lands in the parish, which lie 
lower, are generally of much better quality, and more agree-
able appearance.  The haughs, or holms, belonging to this 
and the neighbouring parishes on the opposite side of the river, 
are very extensive; and are clad in beautiful verdure during 
the summer months.  The Clyde, which has formed these 
haughs, by depositing its mud, and which, by its frequent in-
undations, annually enriches them, adds greatly to their beau-
ty, by its various windings.  The grounds, interposed be-
tween these haughs and the hill, are finely diversified by beau-
tiful swells.  The extensive plantations of Westraw, and the 
hedges, which separate or subdivide the farms, give a plea-
sing look of cultivation to this part of the parish.  The west


