
242                        HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   A little to the south of lnnerwick Castle, on the right of the Old-
hamstocks road, slight remains are still visible of a structure, re-
moved some years ago, called Edinkens Bridge-a name which
has been traced, by conjecture or tradition, to Edwin, King
of Northumbria. In a mortification, issued at the beginning
of the eighteenth century, by William Nisbet of Dirleton, as
recorded in the kirk-session books, this edifice is called the
Bridge of Edincain-a name which almost exactly coincides with
the present one of Edinkens Bridge. In the course of the suc-
ceeding century, however; it is called, in the parochial registers,
King Edward's Bridge; and in the former Statistical Report of
the parish, it bears the name of Edirken's, which is there traced
to, that, not of Edwin, but of Edward. Near this bridge there
stood, some years ago, four large stones, such as might be sup-
posed to indicate the burial-place of some distinguished person.
These were removed a considerable time ago; but last year (1835)
the Place whore they stood was identified, and a subterranean exa-
mination instituted at the spot. Besides a few small stones, which
were found at the depth of four feet-not enclosed, however, in
any kind of coffin-a large urn was discovered, surrounded with
black ashes, and containing a quantity of bones very white, and
apparently burned. Among these was a small under-jaw, as if of
a female, or young person. The urn, when found, was inverted,
and its situation was quite shallow. From these details it might
be rash to deduce any decided historical results. But if some dis-
tinguished individual named Edwin was here interred, it is proba-
ble either that the conjecture of a gentleman who took an active
part in the investigation is true, that the person in question was a
Northumbrian prince, who was slain in the eleventh century, when
flying from William the Conqueror to the residence of Malcolm
IV., (and not the King from whom the city of Edinburgh de-
rives its name, who is recorded to have died at an entirely different
place,) or that the name of Edinkens originated in the indivi-
dual from whom Edinshold, on the hill of Cockburnlaw, among
the neighbouring Larnmermoors, is called-supposing that inidivi-
dual, (who is represented with something of the character of a
feebooter,) to have been identical with neither of the Northum-
brian princes already mentioned.
   Chalmers speaks of two beautiful tumuli, apparently sepulchres,
as existing in the parish of Innerwick; but what mounds he means,
by the description, is uncertain. The failure to discover to what


