
786                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

thinks the fittest objects; and, in this way, it assists our poor's
funds, and affords relief to many of the most necessitous.
   Fairs.-There are two annual fairs at Ballater for the sale of
horses, cattle, and sheep,-the one on the first Tuesday of May,
O.S. the other on the second Monday and Tuesday of Septem-
ber, O.S.  There is also a Martinmas fair at the same place for
engaging servants, the sale of grain, and paying and receiving
money; and it holds on Saturday immediately preceding 21st
November, N. S.
   Inns.-In these parishes there are 11 inns and alehouses, most
of them respectable in their way.
   Fuel.-The general kind of fuel is peats, procured from mosses
in the hills at the cost of from 3s. to 4s. 6d. per single horse cart-
load, according to the distance and other circumstances.  Wood,
though expensive, is also used; and coals from Aberdeen at the,
cost of 2s. per cwt., including carriage, which, dear as they are,
many people consider to be the cheapest kind of fuel.

   July 1842.

                           PARISH OF BIRSE.

           PRESBYTERY OF KINCARDINE O'NEIL, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                   THE REV. GEORGE SMITH, MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of the parish is derived from a Gaelic word
signifying bush, and seems to express what was formerly the ge-
neral appearance of the district in which it is situated.
   Extent, &c.-The parish is of great extent, being on the south
side along the top of the Grampians, and on the west side from
the top of the Grampians to the river Dee, about ten miles long.
On the north side, it is about eight miles long, and on the east it
is about six miles.  This parish forms the south-east point of
Aberdeenshire; and is bounded on the east by the parish of Stra-
chan, which is in the county of Kineardine, and along the Gram-
plans; on the South, by a part of the same parish, and by Loch-
lee, in the county of Forfar; on the west, by a mountain range


