
816                         LANARKSHIRE.

in the parosch."  We find one of the elders, too, regularly termed
" Whitehill" upon the session roll, even when " Lammingtoune"
himself was present, while all the other elders are entered in their
own names, in the minutes.  And that this Whitehill must have
been a person of some note, appears from the fact of his being re
turned elder to the General Assembly, at the time when Sir Wil-
liam Baillie was discharged on account of his accession to some
engagement in behalf of his suffering Prince, Charles 1. And,
again, at a meeting of heritors for the erection of a school,
June 15, 1697, " there were present of the heritors, the Laird of
Lammingtoune, the Laird of Littlegill, the tutors of John Donald-
son, portioner in Lammingtoune, as also the minister, who was
clothed with a commission for Mr John Watson, portioner in Lam-
mingtoune,"-and yet further, on this point, at a meeting of he-
ritors for the poor, in 1699 the Laird of Lammingtoune himself
appears with a commission from the same " Mr John Watson,"
who, in the close of the same minute, is twice expressly designated
as " Laird Watson."
   Parochial Registers.-The oldest parochial register at present
known to be in existence, commences with " the first sessione
holden be Mr John Crawfurds" bearing date at " Lammingtoune
Kirk, 6th of February 1645."  That there must, however, have
been one of a prior date, is evident from the following extract
from the minute of that sederunt ! " Ordered the sessione books to
be brought against the next day."  It is much to be regretted that
those sessiom books here ordered, have been lost, and not less so
that those which still exist are rendered almost useless from the
careless way in which they have been preserved,-being not only
tattered and torn, but in many parts totally illegible from damp,
and falling to pieces on being handled ever so delicately.  From
what is entire, however, it is evident that not only the volume
mentioned, (which ends with October 16, 1660, embracing nearly the
whole of the incumbency of Mr John Crawford, who was ejected
by the strong hand of arbitrary power in 1662,) but likewise the
volume commencing about 1695 and ending 1709, as also the
next, beginning 1715 and ending 1722, have all been carefully kept,
and especially the one first mentioned,  The next in succession
commences in 1738 and ends 1753; another then commences, and
ends in 1768.  The sixt begins at the induction of the late in-
cumbent, the Rev. Thomas Mitchell, in September 1774, and ends
with 1813.  A great proportion of this volume is distinctly written


