
     Statistical Account

and allum.  And I understand they can supply the whole
consumpt of the country*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1754, a cotton mill was built at North Woodside in this parish,
by Mr. William Gillespie, which gives employment to about 400 persons, men,
women and children.  This, with the people engaged in the bleachfield, and
otherwise, has made Woodside a considerable village, while it has become the
seat of plenty and comfort, the happy consequence of industry and manufac-
tures.  Sensible of the advantages of religion and good morals, to promote the
industry and happiness of the people, the benevolent proprietor pays particular
attention to these.  He has not only engaged a matter to teach the children,
through the week, to read, but he has also sitted up, and supports at his own
expense, a place for public worship on the Lord's day, where a decent congre-
gation regularly assembles.  And in the afternoon, the preacher publicly cate-
chises and instructs the children.  The knowledge thus diffused among the chil-
dren and the inhabitants of that part of the parish, is an honourable testimony
to the fidelity and diligence of Mr. James Steven the preacher; and the good
effects, it is to be hoped, will extend, at least among some, much farther than
merely that regularity, sobriety, and industry, which serve to much to promote
their temporal prosperity and comfort.  The yarn spun at this mill, employ
about 450 weavers, exclusive of those who get their bread by winding, flarch-
ing, etc.
   In 1772, the same gentleman established a printfield at Anderston, which,
with the bleachfield, give employment to between 300 and 400 people.  The
cloth there printed, may employ 500 or 600 operative weavers.  Besides there,
there are several other bleachfields at Finnieston, Calton, Springfield, and other
places, conducted upon the most improved principles, and which give bread to
a great number of persons.  About 30 years ago, a very large brewery was
erected near Anderston, for brewing ale and porter, both for foreign and home
consumpt.  To so great an extent do they carry on business, that near a 912
part of the whole excise of Scotland has been paid by them.
At Partick on the river Kelvin, there are very extensive wheat mills erected.
the greatest part of which belong to the incorporation of bakers in Glasgow.
The mills are well constructed, and much machinery introduced for the abridge-
ment of labour.  At the bakers wheat mills alone, at an average of the 4 last
years from May 1786 to May 1790, 36,113 bolls of wheat and a-half have been
annually milled.

   Seed-time and Harvest.-The time of sowing wheat, is from the middle of
September to the middle of October; oats, pease, beans, and flax, from the


