
28                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

appellation of an inn in Linton; besides which there are nine ale-
houses in Linton, and one in Preston. Their very mischievous
effect on the morals of the people, especially of young unmarried
men, cannot be questioned,
   Fuel.-The fuel universally. used is coals, and whatever brush-
wood can be obtained free of expense. The nearest coal pit is at
a distance of ten miles. The price at the pit is 4-,Ld. per cwt. or
15s. per ton. Coals are also to be had at Dunbar, which is only
six miles distant; but they are much more expensive.

                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   It does not appear that since the last Statistical Account the
condition of the peasantry has undergone much change in respect of
comfort, though some change has taken place in their style of liv-
ing, especially in the use of cotton in place of woollen goods. Blank-
ets, which used formerly to be spun by the females in every family,
are now becoming a rare article of household furniture among young
people. There is now no employment for old women in spinning,
which was formerly the support of many when unfit for out-door work,
and kept many from the poors' roll, who have now no other resource;
and this is a branch of industry which few of the present rising ge-
neration learn. In connection with this the trade of country wea-
vers is altogether destroyed, which has brought some upon the poors
roll, who, though still able to pursue their own occupations, are too
old and infirm to betake themselves to new ones.
   The great unnecessary increase of public-houses since the duty
on spirits was lowered has led to very dissipated habits in many
of the labouring classes, which cannot be too much regretted. It
is some matter of consolation, however, that their number is less
than it was a few years ago. Now the whole number in the
parish, as stated above, is eleven; once there were no fewer
than nineteen, but still their number far exceeds what can be re-
quired for the necessary wants of the population. There is rea-
son, however, to suppose that the diminution arises from want of
employment. A greater number of resident tenants and heritors
would unquestionably have a material effect on the morals of the
people. There is only one resident heritor and three none-resi-
dent tenants, who have thirty-five families under them.

   May 1835.


