
70			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

(although one regrets to consider these "delicate creations," as
a mere coinage of the brain,) but simply by the manner in which
certain species of agarics cast their seed, is now, I believe, univer-
sally agreed on by naturalists; but I am not aware of a satisfac-
tory reason having been assigned for the circular figure which the
clusters uniformly assume. To what species or variety the aga-
rics composing the rings are to be referred, is also a matter of dis-
pute. Lightfoot, without hesitation, pronounces it to be the Ag.
coriaceus, or fairy agaric, called by the French Mousseron, and
describes tbe pileus as being of the size of a half-crown, a little
convex or elevated in the centre; while Withering, after quoting
a number of authors, and giving his reasons for differing from
Lightfoot, decides that it is the Ag. praealtus, which is a large
species, and strengthens his conclusion by the respectable autho-
rity of Ray, who subjoins to an imperfect character of the plant
the English name of Scotch bonnets. This confusion and contra-
riety of opinion has arisen, as it appears to me, from its being sup-
posed that the phenomenon of the fairy ring, is exhibited by one
species of agaric only. The season in which I write prevents me
from verifying my observation by a reference to specimens, or
distinctly stating what the different kinds are; but I can confi-
dently affirm that two kinds, at least, propagate in a ring--the
one corresponding exactly with Lightfoot's description of the Ag.
coriaceus, the other, so far as I remember, with Ray's account, as
quoted by Withering, of the Ag. praealtus. Great variation ex-
ists in the diameters of these rings, some of them being only a few
inches, while others extend to nearly twenty feet. The circles,
especially the smaller ones, are often completely formed.
	Woods and Plantations.--The following trees, indigenous and
cultivated, occur within the bounds of the parish: alder, ash,
birch, bird's cherry, beech, crab tree, elder, elm, hawthorn, hazel,
horse chestnut, laburnum, larch, lime, mountain-ash, oak, plane,
poplar, Scotch fir, silver fir, service tree, spruce, wild cherry, and
willow. The plantations consist principally of ash, larch, lime, and
oak. The oldest and finest trees are those which surround the church
and manse. They are planes and beeches, the former upwards
of one hundred years old, the latter about eighty-five, as nearly as
I could ascertain from the testimony of some aged people, now
dead, who recollected them when newly planted.
	Zoology--Wild Animals.--The fox is very common. The bad-

   				     6


