
     of St Monance.

   Migratory Birds, etc.-There are the swallow and mar-
tin, the plover both green and gray, the cuckoo, and but
few woodcock.  Through the whole of the year, the sea
gulls, (called by the vulgar sea maws,) frequently come
upon land; but when they do so, it assuredly prognosticates
high winds, with falls of rain from the E. and S. E. and as
soon as the storm abates, they return again to the frith, their
natural element.  I saw some time ago, a golden crested
wren, and the only one that hath appeared to me in this
country.  Its size was much about that of the common
wren, and nearly the same in the colour of the body.  The
crown of the head was ornamented with a circle of feathers
of a fiery orange, or golden colour, with a beautiful bright
spot of yellow in the centre.  Hares and partridges abound;
a few quails, and some foxes and rabbits in the light
grounds.

   Town of St Monance, etc.-The town is situated upon a
spot of a triangular form; one side of which verges upon,
and is washed by the frith of Forth, the other two sides are
covered by the rising grounds.  And as it enjoys a S. and
S. E. exposure, it is defended against the cold bleak winds,
from the N. E. N. and N. W.  Its situation is thereby
mild and kindly even in winter, when blowing from these
points; but quite the reverse, when the wind blows upon
the shore.  There is a harbour belonging to the town, the

<FOOTNOTE>

the hand line for the tanny cod, (or red ware cod, as they call it,) among
the rocks and sea weed  The hands used in these, are commonly a man
and boy, and sometimes only one man.  Of the number of hands used in
the fishing here, only such as are advanced in life hold close by it.  The
young men engage to the ships employed in the whale fishing: return
when the herring fishing comes on in autumn; and, when that is over.
engage themselves in voyages in private ships, in different places, during
the winter season.  By this means St Monance becomes a good nursery
for sea men.


