
56                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

an his eldest son's attaining his majority. Except what may be
given occasionally in private, individual charities, these are all the
funds at the disposal of the kirk-session ; and it is evident they are
utterly inadequate to afford the poor any material relief. And yet
it is seldom that any of the poor are seen begging from door to door,
though it is evident that they endure great privations. The princi-
pal fare of the lower order of society is potatoes, which, though a
wholesome, is not a very nourishing food, especially for aged people.
The article of salt is so much reduced in price that the poor can
procure it for use with their potatoes. I am happy, in this place,
to bear testimony to the kindly disposition of the higher classes of
society, in this place, towards their poorer fellow creatures.
   Education.- There are two schools in the parish,-the parochial
school, near the church, and an Assembly school in the district of
Scotsburn. Both are efficiently carried on and  well attended.
The Gaelic language is generally spoken by the people; and being
itself one of the most ancient and expressive dialects known, I
should feel sincere regret that it should become extinct. The young
people all can speak English, and read the Scriptures in that lan-
guage.
   The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the maximum, exclu-
sive of school fees; and the Assembly teacher receives L. 20 yearly.
The fees of the latter amount to very little, as the parents cannot
afford to pay them. I sincerely trust the Government of the coun-
try will turn their attention soon to the duty of providing a more
suitable remuneration to this most deserving class of society. We
have also two Sabbath evening schools in the parish, one station-
ary, and the other migratory, to suit several districts. And Mr
Charles C. Ross of Shandwick has given a house and a salary,
to establish a female school for instructing the young women
of the parish in the branches that are suited to their views and
stations in life. This instance of generosity deserves to be imi-
tated.
                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In conclusion, I am most thankful to bear testimony to the re-
ligious, sober, and industrious habits of the parishioners in general.
At the same time, I cannot help regretting the unnecessary number
of dram and alehouses in the parish, as affording a temptation to
the unwary to squander away the fruits of their labour and
industry, and acquire habits of dissipation and vice. I sincerely


