
122                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

son, the greater supply of food, and the state of excitement and
activity in which all connected with the fishing live during the
period of its continuance, are no doubt the great counteracting
preservatives. Indigestion, arising from the almost exclusive vege-
table food of the commonalty, is very frequent. The small ten-
ants, especially the females, are perhaps most liable to this com-
plaint; which seems to be on the increase. Small-pox is seldom
long absent from the parish, and is often very fatal. Great numbers
of the people have a strange antipathy to vaccination. They brand
it as a tempting of Providence; whereas their rejection of this
preservative is this sin. British cholera is endemic and epi-
demic, and often makes its appearance, especially in the latter
form. It is never fatal in ordinary circumstances. Pestilential
cholera visited Wick during the fishing season of 1832, a short
while after its appearance at Thurso. The number of cases re-
ported amounted to 306, of which 66 proved fatal.
   From various calculations it appears, that the proportion of sick,
ness in the different sexes gives 141 1/4 females to lOO males. Under
twenty years of age, more males are sick than females; between
twenty and seventy more females than males; and above the lat-
ter age, they are equal. The proportion of sickness to such a
degree as to demand medical attention, is about 5 1/2 or 6 per
cent. of the population. The deaths are about 20 per cent. of
the sick.
   Instances of great longevity are not uncommon. There is at
present an old lady, resident in the burgh, who has entered into her
101st year, and an old farmer, in the landward part of the parish,
who has entered into his 102nd. Both these venerable persons are
in the perfect possession of all their mental and bodily faculties.
   Maniacs are very rare. Idiots and fatuous persons are remark-
ably common.
   A singular lusus nature, which occurred in the person of a child
in the neighbourhood of Wick, about eighteen years ago, may
here be mentioned. This child had a perfect eye on the back of
the head. It lived for two years; and it is evident had the use of
the supernumerary organ, from its never allowing a cap to be
kept over it.
   Hydrography.-It is needless to describe the well-known stormy
Moray Frith, which, as has already been said, forms the eastern
boundary of the parish of Wick.


