
                        FOWLIS WESTER.                        261

superior condition, and new ones have been constructed, which
increase the facilities of internal communication.  Farm-stead-
ings were then covered with thatch, and indifferent in building and
accommodation; but they are all now slated, well built, and adapt-
ed for every necessary purpose.  Wheat, potatoes, turnips, and ar-
tifici`l grasses are cultivated in a much greater breadth. More
manure is laid on the soil, and it is ameliorated by fences, cleaning
and draining.  Horses and harness, the different breeds of cattle
and sheep, and all the implements of husbandry are much improv-
ed. In short, such is the degree of agricultural science general-
ly diffused, and the high state of the culture of the soil, that there
is now little prospect of any great future improvement.  No doubt
more waste ground might be profitably planted and enclosed, and
the present enclosures greatly improved. The immediate de-
mands on the soil are so pressing, that less attention is paid to a
permanent than a prdsent advantage. By being too frequently in
tillage, and operated upon by stimulating manures, it is in some
parts in a state of exhaustion, and would require rest to consoli-
date and invigorate its powers of vegetation.
   The cottage system is established in the parish, and has the
effect of promoting the industry and independence of the labour-
ing classes.  It might, however, be extended.  Had labourers and
artisans a garden attached to their house, and as much ground at
a moderate rent as would feed a cow, waste land would be culti-
vated, and they would continue longer in a state of comfort and
independence.  Mr Jacob, who was employed some years ago by
the Britirh Government to inquire into the agricultural system
of the continental nations, has laid before the public a detailed
account of an establishment of this nature in Holland. Such agri-
cultural settlements are deserving of attention. They would yield
a due return to the landlord, at a moderate rent, afford profitable
employment to the population, furnish them with many of the ne-
cessaries of life, and lessen the tendency to pauperism, an increas-
ing evil.

   May 1837.


