
450                        ARGYLESHIRE.
cultural pursuits ; 52 are supported by handicraft, and the rem-
nant live in the double capacity of crofters and fishermen.
   The decrease in the amount of the population of late may be
accounted for in various ways, such as emigration to America and
other places ; the erection of subdivided farms into one; and in
some instances it is owing to a system adopted by a few of the
land-owners, of farming or grazing portions of their own estate.
   Languaqe.-Gaelic is the language universally spoken by the
natives. Most of them, especially the young, can converse in
English with tolerable accuracy.
   Character and Habits of the People.-In both the character aiid
habits of the people, there h`s been a very decided improvement.
Smuggling, which at one time was the chief employment of the
crofters and fishermen in winter, is now almost entirely suppressed
and abandoned. The fierce and daring encounters of the Skipness
men with the nfficers of the excise, were long proverbial. It was
no uncommon exploit with them to overpower a whole crew of
cuttersmen, then to carry off their oars and tackle, and coolly set
them adrift in their own boats.
  The stated weekly services of the sanctuary, by the aid of a
missionary instead of every alternate Sabbath, as formerly; the
appointment of an efficient body of elders; the establishment of
the Assembly's schools, with their admirable teachers, joined to
the influence of the resident gentry, have all combined to improve
the character and mora]S, Dot less than to promote the happiness
and comfort of all classes of the people.
                IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Husbandry.-As no general survey or measurement of the pa-
rish has, for many years, taken place, and as many acres of waste
land have lately been reclaimed, it is impossible to state with ac-
curacy the relative quantity of arable and pasture land. The
mode of tillage, from the mixed employment of the majority of
the people, has, until lately, been but partial and defective. Within
the last few years, several of the land-owners have introduced the
most approved system of manuring, StODe and tile-draining, toge-
ther with the proper rotation of crops, and the results have been
such as to convince their tenants of the great capabilities of the
soil, when under judichous management.
   Fishery.-The herring-fishing has long been the occupation of
the families who reside upon the coast. A great improvement has
of late years taken place, both in the size of the vessels, and the


