
                        INNERLEITHEN.                      31

only 59, while in the country it has been 141.  The temporary
lodgers in the village during summer are of course not included in
the above state of the population.  We are unable to assign any
satisfactory reason for the increase,--the manufactory in the parish
having employed more hands when the last account was written than
it does at present, and the quantity of land in village being more
now than it was then.
  The number of persons residing in the village at this time, not
including summer lodgers, is 447; in the country, 363.
  It is important to add, that the number of lodgers in the village
for the benefit of the waters in the course of the summer 1832 was
no less than 1438.

<TABLE>

1. Number of families in the parish,    -     -     -     -     -     -     -    160
          of families chiefly employed in agriculture,    -     -     -     -     59
                                       in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,     33
                                       other families,    -     -     -     -     68
2. The average number of births yearly for the last seven years,      -     -     10
                      of deaths,        -     -     -     -     -     -     -      7
                      of marriages,     -     -     -     -     -     -     -      5
3. The number of persons at present under 15 years of age,      -     -     -    346
                                    upwards of 70,  -     -     -     -     -     24

  There are three gentlemen, all of moderate fortune, resident in
the parish, and on their own lands.
  The number of proprietors of land is 8; and the property of only
one of these is below L. 50 a-year.
  Amusements of the People.--The people in this parish have been
always much addicted to athletic exercises and games, which have
probably been much encouraged by the dry soil and the climate,
and by the beautiful village green.  The latter, though considered
as the common property of the village, has been appropriated, feued,
and built upon.  The fondness of the young men of the village for
the sports of the place attracted the attention Of the visitors, and
induced them often to participate.  The gay loungers at the water-
ing-place came habitually to take an interest in the games; and in
1827 forty-two noblemen, knights, and gentlemen joined in insti-
tuting an annual competition for prizes in all gymnastic exercises;
an annual sum being subscribed for defraying the expenses.  The
records of the St Ronan's Club (as it is called) show that the young
men of the village have carried off their share at least of the honours
awarded.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The extent of land that bears
the marks of having been occasionally in tillage iiiav be fully 2400


