
982                          PERTHSHIRE.

occupied by the present buildings in the city of Dunkeld called
Atboll Street. It is recorded, that the bishop bought the lands of

quam-vestibus et ornamentis decoravit, quam fere per omnin exaltavit." His epi-
taph was,
    	      Hac, Dunkeldensis cIeri decus, eegis et sosis
              Gaufridus tumba pausat, sub patre Columba.--Fordum, ut supra.
	After Galfrid, Mill places Richard, but
	David was elected in 1250, though never consecrated.--Catal. of Bish. p. 50.
	10. Richard of Inverkeithing was appointed 1250. He was one of the Regents of
the kingdom during the minority of Alexander 111. (Foed. i. 566), and Chancellor,
1255-7.--Chalmers's Caled. Vol. i. P. 713. Cardinal Ottonbonus de Fieschi, in 1266,
came as Legate from the Pope to Scotland, and required a contribution from the
Church to defray the expense of his visitation. The King, with the advice of the
clergy, forbade it to be levied. The Legate called a council, and Richard was de-
puted by the Bishops to attend it: "Ne quid, ipsis absentibus in eorum prejudicium
statueretur."--Fordun,lib. x. c. 24. He died in 1272, "vir," says the same author,
lib. x. c. 30, "magnae maturitatis et gravitates, qui fuit fidelissiunus regis et regni
consilliarius et justitia inflexibilis."
	11. Robert de Stuteville. He was a man of high birth, and Dean of Dunkeld.
According to Mill, he filled the see twenty-eight yearr with great character, and
died in 1300. Historical facts, hovever, seem to disprove the time of his death, for,
	12. Mathew was elected in 1295 or earlier. In that year, he appears as one of the
Commissioners sent to France to negociate with Philip an alliance, by the marriage
of the daughter of the Count of Anjou with the son and heir of Ballol.--Foedera, t.
ii. p. 695.  By the treaty, L. 1500 was stipulated as the lady's jointure; and of this
sum, L. 500 was secured upon Crown lands in Scotland," annui redditus de quibus
mille libris Sterlingorum in locis infrascriptis, videlicet, de Lanark, de Kadioir (ho-
die, Hamilton), de Maldisley, de Cunyngbam, de Haddington, et de Castro de Dun-
de in agro Scotise affidebit eidem." Mill says, that in Mathew's time" St. Michael
killed the English Governor of Perth for oppressing the canons." The same writer
states, that this bishop died in 1312. But be must have died in 1309, as appears from
Foed. t. iii. p. 194. A bishop of Dunkeld appears as one of the ten Scottish
commissioners who met the twenty commissioners of the English nation, by order of
Edward, at London, September 1305, immediately after the unjust death of William
Wallace, to dstablish regulations for the government of Scotland.--Ryley, 503, as
quoted An. of Scot. v. i. p. 312. Chalmers's Caled. Vol. i. p. 671.
	13. William Sinclair. On the death of Mathew, John de Leek was elected by the
chapter, and Edward applied to the Pope and the College of Cardinals, Foed. t. iii. p.
164-165, earnestly urging the confirmation of his election; but the partisans of Robert
Bruce, who favoured the election of William Sinclair, brother to the Laird of Rod-
lin, prevailed. Leek was in 1311 appointed Archbishop of Dublin. In a letter of
thanks for this appointment, written by Edward to the Pope, he is styled," Johan-
nis de Leek capellanus noster karissimus, nuper Dunkeldensis ecclesise electus"--
Foed. t. iii. 258. Sinclair then was consecrated without opposition to the see of Dun-
keld. It has been asserted, that in 1332 he assisted at the coronation of Edward Ba-
liol, at Scone: and that his signature is found at that disgraceful instrument, by
which the Scottish Parliament, held at Edinburgh in 1333, surrendered the inde-
pendence and liberty of their country to the English monarch. Lord Hailes is of this
opinion.--Vol. ii. p. 172-188. But it ought to be stated, that very shortly before the
coronation, the bishop opposed Baliol in the field, near to Pertb, and was taken pri-
soner with many noblemen, all of whom were forced, from their desperate condition,
to take the oath of allegiance to Baliol.--Buch. Hist. Sinclair's conduct was the re-
sult of necessity. He was witness to an agreement in 1329, and is bishop 1334--
Foed. Ang, Vol. iv.--and he died 1337. Mill says Duncan succeeded. Keith says
that, although these different dates are all well vouched, yet
	14. Walter was bishop as early as 1324.--Cart. Gleag, He is said to have this par-
ticular and remarkable designation, "Episcopi Dunkeldensis ae conservatoris totits
cleri Scoticani." Keith says it is possible that William Sinclair may have died in
1323, and Walter have succeeded, and then another bishop of the name of William
Chosen, and established in the see. It is difficult to reconcile this with Scottish
history. Mill has neither Walter nor William in his catalogue. When Walter or
William died is unknown.
	15. Duncan. Mill says that he died in 1363. But this is an error, for
 	16. John assumed the mitre in 1356.  He was present in the Parliament which
met at Edinburgh, and agreed to pay 100,000 merks to the English for the ransom


