
648                            FIFESHIRE.

tion of ground generally produces as many potatoes as afford a suf-
ficient supply for the family, and enable them to feed a pig.
The foreman or principal servant receives in addition to the above
from L. 1 to L. 3, and all the milk of a cow, instead of a pint of
milk per day. Men employed as day-labourers receive each gene-
rally 1s. 6d. per day in summer, and 1s. 4d. in winter. Women when
employed in the fields get each 8d. per day of nine hours work, but
when taking up potatoes they receive 1s. per day and their dinner.
Female domestic servants receive about L. 6 per annum. Shear-
ers are paid for cutting and binding, wheat 4 1/2d. a threave, and for
barley and, oats 3 1/2d. a threave. When the crops of grain are cut
by the acre, the sum given per acre is 12s. Masons receive ge-
nerally from 2s. 6d. to 2s. 8d. per day of ten hours without vic-
tuals. The rate of mason work is, for Galloway dikes from 7s. 6d.
to 8s. 6d. per rood of 36 square yards; for close dry stone dikes
10s. 6d.; for stone and lime dikes, from 16s. to L. 1 ; for ruble
from L. 1, 8s. to L. 1, 12s. Smiths usually contract to do
the work of the farmer by the pair of horses at L. 2 annually.
This includes their shoeing, and keeping ploughs, harrows,
grapes, and forks in good repair. Carpenters receive from 1s.
10d. to 2s. per day of ten hours and their victuals, or from 2s. 4d.
to, 2s. 6d. without victuals. The price of wood is ash, 2s. per
cubic foot, Scotch fir 10d., larch fir, 1s. 2d., and elm, 2s.
   Prices.- The price of different articles manufactured in the pa-
rish for the purposes of rural economy is, a two-borse cart with iron
axle  completely mounted, L. 10; a single horse cart do. L. 9; an
iron two-horse plough, L. 3, 15s; do. with iron swingle-trees,
L. 4, 10s; an iron,grubber for drilled crops, L. 3, 3s; an iron
drill harrow, L 1, 10s; a pair of iron common harrows fully mount-
ed with rider and single-trees of iron, L. 2, 10s; a pair of wood-
en common harrows, fully mounted with rider and single-trees
of wood, L. 1,  14s. The wooden harrows iii the parish are gradu-
ally giving place to these of iron and iron ploughs are universally
in use. There are in the parish eight thrashing machines worked
by horses, every farm having; one. The flail is entirely laid aside,
except by those who have less than twelve acres of ground.
   Live-Stock.-The cattle, are generally of the old  Fife breed,
which is greatly preferred by all the rearers, of stock in the parish
except by an individual, who thinks more highly of the improved
short horns or Teeswater,  and whose lands, from being rich and well
sheltered, are well adapted for them. The number of milk cows



