
     of Ecclesgreig, or St. Cyrus.

their grandeur, from the summit of the hill, on either side.
But you cannot judge, from the appearance of the adjacent
grounds, which are highly cultivated, and rise not above the
level of the surrounding fields, that there are any such objects
as dens, till you come close upon them; and the illusion
heightens greatly the pleasure of the spectator.  Dens sink
suddenly from the common level of the country, and seem to
owe their origin to some small rivulet or stream; which, issu-
ing from springs on the higher lands, and meeting with soft
materials in its way, has washed all these away, in the course
of ages, till it found the hard bottom, and met with such re-
sistance, as occasioned its sudden, and almost perpendicular
fall in some places, which has formed two fine cascades in
this parish.-The dens here are 5 in number: Den Fenel, the
Den of Laurieston, the Burn or Den of Woodston, the Den of
Morphy, and Den Side.  The 3 first run in a direction from
N. to S., and the 2 last from E. to W. The rivulets which
have formed the former, run into the German sea; those
which have formed the latter run into the North Esk.  Den
Fenel is an abbreviation of Fenella's Den*.

   Cascades.-Over this den, at the distance of 7 miles from
Montrose, there is a bridge of one arch, resting on a rock on
each side, along which goes the great post road, from Mon-
trose to Aberdeen.  A little below the bridge, where the den
grows more narrow, the cliffs are very steep and rugged, mad

<FOOTNOTE>

*This FENELLA was the daughter of the EARL of ANGUS, a powerful no-
bleman in those days.  There is a tradition in the parish, and it agrees to the
account given by JOHANNES MAJOR, who wrote the Antiquities of the Mearns,
that, after the cruel and base murder of KENNETH III., to which Fenella was
instigated by the loss of her son, she fled from her castle of Kincardine, to this
den; but, being pursued and overtaken in it, suffered the punishment due to her
treachery.


