
296                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

There is a considerable difference inclimate between the lower and
upper parts of the parish,-the crops being a week or ten days ear-
lier in the land to the north of Tranent than they are to the south,
which is above 200 feet higher. Draining has been generally prac-
tised with much advantage, and of late years great benefit has
arisen from the introduction of tile-draining. As an instance of
the effect of draining, the land, which in 1745 separated the two
armies, was described as an impassable morass, but it now bears good
crops along its whole extent. Tile-draining is still in the act of
being vigorously carried on, and experience every year proves
more strongly the advantages to be derived from it.
   The ordinary duration of leases is for the period of nineteen years,
and the stipulations are generally of an equitable nature between
landlord and tenant.
   The state of the farm-buildings is generally good, and the pa-
rish is, upon the whole, well enclosed with hedges and ditches,
though this important part of agriculture might with advantage
admit of more extension.
   The principal improvement which has been made since the last
Statistical Account, is the cultivation of all the arable part of the
links near the sea, and the whole of Tranent moor. By this means,
above 300 Scots acres have been brought under culture and en-
closed.
   Quarries and Mines.-There are several sandstone quarries in
the parish adapted for building, though too soft to bear long ex-
posure to the atmosphere without injury. The trap dikes also, de-
scribed under "Mineralogy," afford good materials for the roads.
   The extensive coal mines of the parish have already been pretty
fully described under Mineralogy. It is only necessary to add, that
about 300 males, 100 females and children, are generally employed
at them.
   The mode of working the coal strata is that usually adopted, name-
ly, "stoop and room," or a sufficient number of pillars of coal left to
support the roof. Few horses have as yet been used, the baskets of
coals being pushed by men along iron railways below ground, to the
bottom of the pit, where they are raised by a horse gin or steam
power. Most of the modern improvements in mining have been
introduced, and of late years some of the pits have been "tubbed,"
or cased round with cast iron segments which form a cylinder.
The operation is performed thus: A "wedging crib" or circle,
formed of pieces of oak is laid upon the hard stratum, the


