
282			KINCARDINESHIRE.

dition, encountered the Scots near the Stone of Morphy; and that
a battle had ther taken place, is probable, from the immense num-
ber of stone-coffins, containing human bones, which have been
found, particularly in and near a field called "the sick man's
shade," close by the stone. The farm adjoining that on which
the pillar stands, bears the name of Comeston, or, as it is written
in old records, Camuston. The names of Wardroperton and
Scotstown, two farms bordering on the latter, seem to indicate the
position of the Scottish army; and a den quite close. to the pillar
is called Dannie's den, which seems easily convertible into Da-
nish den. The form of the stone, which is a plain unsculptured
obelisk of 13 feet in height above the ground, and tapering from
4 feet in breadth at the base, to 2 at the top, seems also to corre-
spond with the description of other Danish monuments in differedt
parts of Scotland.
	The Camp of Pitbeadl`y.--On the most prominent part of the
hill of Pitbeadlay (i. e. the grave of the house on the hill), there is
a small circular camp, which, within a few years, was in a state of
tolerable preservation. It is nearly forty yards in diameter, and
had a ditch, and a wall of turf and stones, and a central building
constructed of stone. Some remains of human bones were lately
exhumed within its inclosure. There is, however, no tradition
connected with it.
	Den Fenella.--This place takes its name from Fenella, daugh-
ter of the Earl of Angus, who, on attempting to escape from her
castle of Kincardine, in the parish of Fordoun, after the murder
of Kenneth Ill., was overtaken here by her pursuers, and put to
death.  This is the traditionary account given by John Major, in
his Antiquities of the Mearns.
	Some notices from the session records, regarding the state of
the parish in the years 1715 and 1716, are transcribed below. *

<FOOTNOTE>Otober 9, 1715. This day Mr John Lamy, sometime prelaticall incumbent
here, did violently intrud himiself upon this church and parish, being assisted by ane
armed band of ruffians brought from other parishes, especially from Fernall and Kin-
naird, who did violently deforce our minister when he was coming to perform divine
worship, as he had done twenty years before; but such was the fury otthe mob, th`t
they would not suffer him to come near the churchyard, Mr Lamy in the meantime
being possest in the pulpit. so that he was forced to retire to his own house, where
be preached to such as could have access to hear him." There is a blank in the re-
cord from this date to February 5, 1716, when it thus proceeds:--"This day, the
rebells having all past by this church about two a clock in the afternoon, the minis-
ter ordered the bell to be. rung, and repossest himself again of his pulpit, to the great
satisfaction of all present; an there being but few that day in the church, it being
about three a clock before divine worship could be begun, the minister lectured from
the 3d Psalm so long as the day would permitt." "February 12,1716. This day,


