
198                          FIFESHIRE.


discipline proceedings, births, marriages, and poors' funds have had
each their distinct and appropriate register.

                      III.-POPULATION.

  The official report of Dr Webster, eighty years ago, states that the
total number of inhabitants then amounted to 998. The Parlia-
mentary census of 1821 represents the population at 1027; and
that of 1831 at 958, of whom there are 488 males, and 470 fe-
males. According to this last return, there are 224 families resi-
dent under 198 roofs. Of those families, 66 are employed in
agriculture; 153 in manufactures, trade, and handicraft; and 5
in other avocations. It may not be irrelevant to mention, that,
during a course of pastoral visitation, which was made in the
months of February and March of the present year, when a mi-
nute numerical survey was taken, the total population was ascertain-
ed to be 1050 souls. Of that number, 755 are above twelve years
of age, and 295 have not yet reached that period.
   Resident Heritors.-he country seat of one of the principal
heritors is usually occupied by himself and family during one-half
of the year. With this exception, and that of a small proprietor,
there are no residing heritors.
   The annual average of births during the last seven years has
been about 26 ; deaths, 13; of marriages, 1l.
  Character and Habits of the People.-Sobriety, industry, and
respect for religion are qualities, which, with few exceptions, mark
the great mass of the population. Considerable attention is paid
to neatness of dress and cleanliness of personal appearance. And
in such estimation is neatness of apparel held, that the want of rai-
ment equal in quality to that of a next door neighbour is, in some
instances, viewed as a valid apology for absence from church, not
only when there exists no decided disinclination, but, on the contrary,
a seeming anxiety to attend, While a commendable regard to per-
sonal and domestic spruceness is often observable, yet some of those
families and individuals occasionally discover a neglect of various
essential branches of comfort and convenience. Now and then
the stagnant puddle and the nauseous dunghill form a striking
contrast to the interior aspect of the contiguous dwelling- On old
handsel Monday, there is a general cessation of professional labour;
neighbourly visits are interchanged, and raffles are practised.
   During the three years preceding the 1st june last, the number
of illegitimate birth in,the parish was 9.


