
		        CRAMOND.	                         597

built a few years ago by Mr Davidson, the proprietor. The
old mansion of Muir House, said to have been built about the year
1690, with the exception of two staircases, is entirely destroyed.
   About half a mile to the south-west of Cramond Bridge is
New Saughton, a commodious mansion, the property of Lady
Aberdour. The ancient name of this mansion was Cammo. It
was built in the year 1693, by John Menzies of Cammo. It is
embosomed amid fine old wood, and the grounds adjoining pos-
sess much picturesque beauty.
   Almost immediately adjoining the old Cramond bridge, stands
Braehead, the property of William H. Crawford, Esq. of Crawford-
land. The Howisons of Braehead are of old standing in the pa-
rish, and, from tradition, we are informed that part of the property
of Braehead was obtained from one of the Kings of Scotland as
a reward for service rendered by one of their ancestors, who came
to the rescue of his Majesty when attacked by a gang of gipsies
or robbers, and who, with a flail for his weapon, and fortiter pug-
nans, delivered the Laird, of Ballengeich from his assailants.
   The tenure by which this royal gift of land is held is the pre-
senting of a basin of water and a napkin to the King of Scotland,
to wash his hands if so inclined, which was according done by
Mr Crawford at the banquet given to George IV. in Edinburgh in
1822.  The rose water then used has ever since been hermeti-
cally sealed up, and the towel which dried the hands of Majesty
on that occasion has never since been used for any other pur-
pose.
   On the south-east boundary of the parish, at the foot of Cor-
storphine Hill, stands Craig-Crook, the residence of the Right
Honourable Lord Jeffrey. Viewed from the Queensferry road,
this ancient-looking mansion, with the wood-covered hill behind,
has a very striking appearance.
   The revenue arising from the estate of Craig-Crook and North
Clermiston in this parish, is devoted to charitable purposes,in
conformity to a deed of mortification executed by John Strachan,
W.S., who died in 1719. The proceeds arising from this pro-
perty are ordained to be distributed amongst "poor old men, wo-
men, and orphans." The trustees upon the Craig-Crook Mor-
tification, as appointed by the will of the said John Strachan, con-
sist of the Presbytery of Edinburgh, two advocates, and two
writers to the Signet.
   Eminent Men.-Of the distinguished individuals who have been


