
    398                             RENFREWSHIRE.

   The distribution of lands in English acres throughout the pa-
Rish may be thus stated:

<TABLE>
      Arable i. e. in tillage or cultivated grasses,      6100 acres.
      Natural pasture and meadow,                         3980
      Moss an moor, little susceptible of cultivation,    5368
      Plantations, hedges, &c.                              60
							------
                                  English acres,        15,503

   About 70 acres and 22 falls English are in the possession of the
villagers.  Part of it is let as a farm at the annual rental of L. 16
Sterling; but the villagers retain the right of casting peat and turf,
and use the ground between the two rows of houses for bleaching.
It will be seen from the above statements that a considerable
portion of the parish is not arable, but consists of natural pasture,
meadows, and mosses.  A great deal of that sort of moss
which Dr Anderson terms heath-mould, but which the farmers here
term hill-moss, prevails in the upper, and especially in the western
parts of the parish.  It is an incrustation of moss, frequently only
a few inches in thickness, which grows over the dry trap rocks, in
hilly ground, and on sandy or gravelly soil, where water easily per-
colates, and where the declivity is such as to facilitate its escape
from the surface.  There are several thousand acres of this sort
of moss in the parish, all of which is more or less susceptible of
improvement although much of it, from being inaccessible to the
plough, could not be permanently cultivated. At present, besides
the common moss plantEr which go to the production of that sort of
soil, the only plants which it carries with unsparing profusion are,
the Calluna vulgaris, or common ling, and the Erica tetralix and
cinerea, or cross-leaved, and fine-leaved heath, with a few junci,                                                                          junci,
carices, &c.  A much more improvable soil is found in the bent-
moss, which is chiefly found on the sides and skirts of hills and reclining
lands, or as a margin to the flow mosses.  It is from this
soil that peat for fuel is cut.  Those deep beds of moss earth,
abounding with moisture, termed, as above, flow-moss, are not so
common here, owing to the nature of the subsoil and foundation
rock, neither of which are favourable for the retention of moisture.
In the lower parts of the parish the soil is mostly a thin earth,
sometimes on a gravelly but mostly on a dry whinnx bottom.
   The following table will give an idea of the amount of arable
land in a majority of the different farms on the Eglinton estate,
with the average number of cows and horses on each  farm.  The
moor and meadow ground is also given.  It may be here stated
                          4


