
     Statistical Account

these 40 years, and from the faulty state of some parts of 
it, the heritors it is probable will find it more for their in-
terest to build a new one, than to keep in good repair the
old fabric.  The Earl of Kellie is patron.  The manse and 
office-houses were built about 60 years ago.  It is a commo-
dious house, beautifully situated, but will also soon need re-
pair.  The minister's stipend at present is, 5 bolls of wheat,
40 bolls 1 peck and 2 lippies of bear; 66 bolls 3 firlots
2 pecks and 2 lippies of meal; and L. 243: 16:10 Scots
money, of which L. 60 Scots for communion-elements, with
a glebe between 7 and 8 acres.-The parochial school-house
was built about 50 years ago, and is in good repair.  The
master's salary is L. 6.  He has besides L. 7, 10 s. yearly,
being the rent of a few acres of land, mortified by a pre-
decessor of his for behoof of the schoolmaster of Carnbee.
His school fees are, 1 s. 6 d. for teaching English, 2 s. for
writing, and 2 s. 6 d. for Latin or arithmetic, the quarter; his
income may be about L. 40.-From the list kept of the poor,
it appears, at an average, there are 8 yearly upon the public
funds of charity in the parish.  Some of these have a allow-
ed them 5 s. and others only 2 s. a-month.  When industri-
ous householders come to be in want, as soon as the lesson
have proper information of the same, they generally get
conveyed to them what will buy a sirlot or two of meal,
a cart-load of caols, or help to pay the surgeons bill for me-
dicines and attendance, when they have been long in bad
health.  Poor however as they are, they seem very averse
at first to take any assistance from the public funds, in to
much that instances have occurred of their returning the
money, though not many months after they found them-
selves under the necessity of applying for it.  About 60 or
70 years ago, it was very common here for householders in
rather poor circumstances, to apply to the kirk-session for
the loan of a small sum of money, for which they granted


