
	                    OLD LUCE.                           75

	There is one Dissenting chapel in this parish connected with the
United Secession Church. The stipend of the minister is L. 80,
raised chiefly from seat-rents and sabbatical contributions. The
number of actual members is about 80 the average attendance
about 150.
	Public worship in the Established Church is remarkably well at-
tended. The average number of communicants amounts to up-
wards of 600. The number of families attending the Establish-
ed Church is 321; of Roman Catholic families, 19; of Dissenting
or Seceding families, 25, whereof 9 are Cameronians, who attend
Divine service, some in Stranraer, and others in Newtonstewart.
	Education.--There are five schools at present in this parish,
four of which are supported chiefly by the fees. The parish school-
master receives the minimum salary, with the legal accommoda-
tions. His fees may amount to L. 40 a year: and he has about
L. 4 a year from other sources. The branches of education taught
in the parish school, and the rates of these branches per quarter,
are as follows: English reading and grammar, 3s.; Latin, 4s.
arithmetic, 4s.; practical mathematics, 4s.; geography and history,
4s.; writing and book-keeping, 4s. The more common branches
of education only are taught in the other four schools; and the
average attendance at each may be about 30.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--About 30 persons annually re-
ceive parochial aid; but the sum allotted per week varies accord-
ing to the peculiar circumstances of the different persons receiving
relief. The amount of contributions for the poor is about L. 80
annually. No assessment for the relief of such persons has at any
time taken place in this parish. The late Earl of Stair mortified
L. 270 in behalf of the poor in this parish. A strong aversion
from seeking parochial aid exists among the native inhabitants of
the parish.
	Fairs.--One fair is held in the month of May, in the village of
Glenluce, for the purpose of engaging servants to work during the
seasons of hay-making and harvest; but for several years it has
been attended by few, and all business of importance is transacted
on Fridays at the neighbouring market-town of Stranraer.
	Inns and Ale-houses.--There are 3 inns and 6 or 7 ale-houses in,
this parish; but nothing remarkable is observed as to their effects
on the moral character of the people.
	Fuel.--The fuel generally used in this parish is peat, obtained
frorq extensive tracts of moss.
	January 1839.



