
646                           AYRSHIRE.

be prejudicial to the pasture, was given up. A few farms, or ra-
ther portions of a few farms, produce potatoes and turnips in suffi-
cient quantity to afford a fair remuneration; but, in general, the
case is otherwise, and most of our farmers accordingly content
themselves with raising no more potatoes than what will serve
their families. The remainder of the dung is often spread on lea,
and seldom or never fails to raise an excellent crop of beans. The
following crop of oats is, in many cases, nearly double of what it
would else have probably beeng, and thus, as has been remarked,
they have the bean crop to the bargain. Comparatively little has
yet been done in the way of draining, but, as it is known that
both landlords and tenants are fast, becoming convinced of the
utility of the practice, there can be little doubt of its soon be-
coming general, and of green cropping being carried to a far greater
extent than hitherto.
	Nineteen years is the general duration of leases.
	The state of farm-buildings is, with few exceptions, good. The
enclosures, consisting almost entirely of thorn hedges, are gene-
rally kept with considerable care.
	Not many years ago there were three quarries of freestone in
the parish, but the working of one of them, though a valuable
stone for several purposes, and in great abundance, has been given
up, chiefly on account of the greatness of the dip and consequent
expense of raising it. The other two are in full operation; that
on the lands of Druindow supplies the greater proportion of the
building material, required in the neighbourhood; that on Gar-
rochburn (fine white freestone) is 14 feet in depth, very bard,
and fit for every kind of mason-work, takes a fine polish, makes
excellent pavement, and is well adapted for making grinding-
stones for any kind of edge tools; the beds run from 27 to 8
inches in thickness. There is about 6 feet of fine white clay on
the top of the bed, and about 13 feet of the same beneath it.
About 40 tons of the stone are raised annually, and about 17 tons
is the average amount sold.
	Produce.--The writer is unable to state with any thing like
accuracy the average gross amount of raw produce raised in the
parish; but believes it to be nearly as follows:--

<TABLE>
	4500 bolls of white cord, beans. and pease,
	1400 both of potatoes and turnips.
	1600 stones of cheeese

	The 222, young cattle reared in the parish may be fairly esti-


