
30                           SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

Lieutenant of the county of Sutherland, and heir to the estates and
titles of the family, married to Lady Harriet Howard, daughter of
the Earl of Carlisle; Lord Francis, heir to the property of the late
Duke of Bridgewater, married to Miss Greville, niece of the Duke
of Portland; Lady Charlotte, married to the Earl of Surrey, son
and heir of the Duke of Norfolk; and Lady Elizabeth, married to
Earl Grosvenor, son and heir of the Marquis of Westminster -
all of whom have families, consisting each of sons and daughters.
As a statesman the Duke of Siiiherland is enlightened, libe-
ral, firm, and independent; possessing the well-merited charac-
ter of inflexible integrity and of high honour.  His Grace, then
Earl Gower, was ambassador, from this country, at the court of
France, at the memorable period of the French Revolution, which
began in 1789.

Her Grace the Duchess of Sutherland has, by universal con-
sent, been always regarded as endowed with great talent, accomplish-
ments, and beauty; and, in respect to character, is eminent and ex-
-emplary, in the highest degree, and a great ornament to her ex-
alted rank and station; the natural fruit and reward of which qua-
lities are richly exhibited, in the good conduct and great prospe-
rity and happiness of her family.  The noble Marquis follows the
paternal example,-favouriDg and promoting, as a statesman, all
those measures which appear calculated to benefit the empire, and
-to render its institutions pure and permanent.  The younger SOD,
,Lord Francis, has already, in connection with former administra-
tions, served his country successively as Secretary of State for Ire-
land, and minister at war, and, in a literary capacity, is author of some

<FOOTNOTE>His Grace died at Dunrobin, on 19th July 1833, greatly lamented by all de-
scriptions of persons in the county; and his remains repose in the cathedral at Dor-
noch.  No nphleman's funeral could be attended with a demonstration either more
true,,or more appropriate, of esteem and veneration, than that of his Grace; and
never, in:this county, was there a scene at once so decorous, so imposing, and so im-
pressive.  Not only did the relatives of the noble deceased, and the gentlemen and
,cler2vinen connected with his domains, give their attendance on the solemn occa.
Sion'; but also the general population of all the parishes, who, while the procession
passed along, lined the road leading from Dunrobin to Dornoch.  In testimony of
:their great esteem and respect, the gentlenfen and tenantry on his Grace's estates in
this country, are, at their joint expense, to erect a monument to his memory, to be
situated on the summit of the hill II Beinn a Bhragidh," in this parish - and a simi-
Ur manifestation of esteem and respect, takes place on the English estates. His
Grace's eldest son succeeds to his titles and cst-tes; but the Duchess Countess of
Sutherland not only enjoys her own estates, but also liferents the whole of the ex-
tensive and'yaluabfe estates purchased by the late DukJ in this country; a bequest
as merited as it is munificent. For never, in any rank of life, was there one who
discharged the duties of the connubial relation in a more exem
did her Grace.


