
104                   CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

   We believe it is pretty generally known that this castle, venera-
ble for its antiquity, was consigned to the flames by the Marquis
of Montrose in the year 1644. After the battles of Auldearne and
Alford, in the north, in which the gallant Marquis was completely
successful, he determined to march to the south of Scotland, in
order to put a final period, as he boasted, to the power of the Co-
venanters; and the decisive victory which he gained next year at
Kilsyth, nearly showed that it was no empty boast. On his way
to the south, after his great success in the north, he made a halt
at Kinross, and proceeded westward to Dollar, to burn the castle
there, and the houses in the neighbourhood belonging to the vas-
sals of the Earl of Argyle. Not content with wreaking their ven-
geance on the proud castle of their feudal enemy, they burnt at
the same time every house in Dollar and Muckhart; the inha-
bitants of both parishes being vassals of the Duke of Argyle. It
is said two houses, the one in Dollar and the other in Muckhart,
escaped the vengeance of the savage clans, through a mistake on
their part. The one in Dollar they imagined belonged to the ab-
bey of Dunfermline; and the other being situated on the borders
of Fossaway parish, they supposed to belong to that parish, and
not to Muckhart.
  It appears from charters belonging to the family of Argyle, that
the Lordship of Campbell, on which the castle stands, was in the
possession of that family as far back as the year 1465, and con-
tinued in their possession till 1805, when the lordship of Camp-
bell, with the castle, was purchased by Crawfurd Tait, Esq. the pro-
prietor of the adjoining estate of Harviestoun. In the year 1489,
by Act of the Scottish Parliament, the name of Castle- Gloom
was changed to Castle-Campbell, by which name it is now gene-
rally known. It is correctly stated in the former Statistical Ac-
count of Dollar, that the lands called the lordship of Campbell
were held of the Bishop of Dunkeld: but it has been said errone-
ously by others, that Castle Campbell was given by Shevez, Bi-
shop of St Andrews, to the Earl of Argyle, as a reward for his
having been an abettor in the disputed title of precedency between
the Archbishop of St Andrews and the Archbishop of Glasgow.
This is a mistake, as appears from the Reliquiae Divi Andreae, pub-
lished by George Martine in 1683. It is not said, in the Reliquiae
Divi Andreae, that Castle-Campbell was given to the Earl of Ar-
gyle by the Bishop of St Andrews. It was Muckhartshire, which
was a separate barony to the east of Dollar, that was so given,


