
     of Roxburgh.

heritors, on whom the greatest of stipends finally falls.
The law indeed authorities a minister to uplift his whole
modified stipend, until localled, from any proprietor, who
has sufficient teinds within the parish.  This, however,
though strictly legal, is generally thought an ungracious
step, is difficult to render effectual, and is seldom or never
followed, unless necessity urges.  The glebe is of consider-
able extent, but not including a grass-glebe, nor has the
minister any thing in lieu thereof that he knows of, has
been all inclosed and much improven at the present incum-
bent's sole expence.  But being naturally of a wet, cold
bottom, and intersected by a very destructive rivulet, it
will require constant attention to keep the fences in re-
pair, and the land in any tolerable state of culture or fruit-
fulness.  The minister's garden is now very good, and his
office-houses are suitable, had their situation been dry.-The
number of scholars attending the parochial school is gene-
rally about 30 in summer, and 40 in winter.  The school-
master's salary is L. 100 Scotch, and a darg of turf cast on
Roxburgh moor, according to use and want.  Besides his
legal salary, he has several little perquisites, such as 10 s.
per annum as precentor and session-clerk; 20 s. per annum
as heritors clerk; for each proclamation of banns, 1 s.; for
every registration of baptism, 6 d.; and 4 1/2 d. for each te-
stimonial of moral character; these are here given by the
authority of the kirk-session.  The school-wages are 1 s.
per quarter for reading; 1 s. 6 d. for writing; and 2 s. for
arithmetic.  Besides the parochial, there are two schools in
this parish, which accommodate children who live at a di-
stance from the village.  The salary of the masters of these
two schools is given by their employers.  It is much to be
wished that country schoolmasters had more liberal appoint-
ments.  The Duke of Roxburgh, whose attention to all
such public institutions deserves the highest praise, has aug-


