
212				ELGINSHIRE.

and L. 20. The stipend was augmented in 1819 to 66 bolls,
2 1/5 lippies meal; 94 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 peck, 1 2/5 lippies bar-
ley; 1s bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, 2/5 lippies oats; and L.60,
1Os. 6 3/4d. Sterling. The teind is exhausted. The extent of
the glebe is between four and five acres, value about L. 1, 8s.
per acre. The manse was built in 1820, and, having been re-
paired in 1839, is at present in good condition. The accom-
modation it affords is not extensive but the plan, furnished
by the late Mr Gillespie of Edinburglh, is very neat. The parish
church is centrically situated, being distant from the extremities
of the parish,on either side about two miles. There is no chapel
of ease, but there is a place of worship in Findhorn wherein a Dis-
senting preacher at one time officiated. When the present in-
cumbent was admitted, more than twenty years ago, it was vacant,
and under the burden of some debt. This debt he paid off, and,
with consent of the subscribers, took possession of the house, and
he has since been in the practice of preaching in it on the Sabbath
avening, generally once a month.
  Education.-In the parish, there are two schools,-the paro-
chial, and an Assembly school in Findhorn. The parochial school-
master's salary is L.35, his fees are about L.12, his other emolu-
ments may amount to L.10, besides the yearly allowance from Mr
Dick's bequest to the schoolmasters in the shires of Aberdeen,
Banff, and Moray, which may be something about L.30. The
present incumbent keeps an assistant, and the school is well and
efficiently taught. The teacher at Findhorn has a salary of L.20
per annum from the General Assembly's Education Committee,
and his fees may amount to other L.12. The proprietor, H. A.
J. Munro of Novar, who gives liberally every encouragement to
educational institutions and plans, allows him L.10 per annum for
cow's grass and other accommodations.  A school-room and dwel-
ling-house, affording excellent accommodation, were built a few
years ago. The building cost something above L.160, which sum
was raised by private subscriptions, and public collections in
the parish. By the want of population in the immediate lo-
cality, the attendance on the parish school is comparatively
small; but, betwixt these two schools, and a femaIe school sup-
ported partly by subscription, there are from 150 to 170 children
attending the means of instruction generally,-a proof that the
people, for most part, are alive to the benefits of education.
There are not above five or six persons in the parish above fifteen


