
                          STIRLING.                      423

of the presbytery, August 8, 1581; and those of the synod of
Perth and Stirling, in 1638.
   Ancient Buildings and other Antiquities.--Several of these have
been already more or less particularly indicated.  The following
may be noticed in addition.  On the right hand, proceeding up
the Castle Wynd, stands a spacious quadrangular edifice, known
by the name of Argyle House, or Argyle's Lodging, occupied as
a military hospital for the garrison in the castle.  It is of massive
and handsome architecture, according to the style of the period.
It was erected in 1632, by Sir William Alexander, created in 1633
Earl of Stirling, a person of great and various accomplishments.
After his death in 1640, it became the property of the family of Ar-
gyle, who removed the arms of Stirling from some parts of the build-
ing, and substituted their own.   While it continued in this family, it
was for a short time, in 1680, the residence of James VII. then
Duke of York; at whose instance, five years afterwards, the Earl
of Argyle, his entertainer, was put to death.  Here the Duke of
Argyle, his grandson, resided and held his council of war during
the Rebellion of 1715. It afterwards passed into the hands of the
Wrights of Loss, near Menstrie; and from them, to Macgregor of
Balhaldie.  It was sold about 1797 or 1798, by the representa-
tives of the late Mr Macgregor, to a company of gentlemen resid-
ing in and about Stirling, who retained it till the beginning of the
present century; when it was purchased by the Crown, and con-
verted to its present useful purpose.  It contains many spacious
apartments well adapted to the use to which they are put.  The
chaplain of the castle is here accommodated with a large and con-
venient lodging.  The ground intervening between this edifice and
St Mary's Wynd anciently formed part of the property.--Almost
immediately contiguous to the south-west corner of the church,
stands Cowan's Hospital, erected in 1639. The front is ornamented
with a statue of its founder. It is a handsome house; and crowns
suitably with its pinnacles, seen above the neighbouring, trees the
romantic height it occupies.  The lower apartment is the Guild-
Hall.  The upper is used as a school-room.--The venerable
edifice, under whose roof are the two parochial churches, is of
great antiquity, having been erected in 1494. The church of the
Dominicans or Black Friars had been, for a long period previous
to this date, the principal place of worship for the people of Stir-
ling.  It stood on the outside of the town; on ground now occu-
pied, partly by what is called Spring Garden, and partly by the


