
                         DURISDEER.                           329

accommodation for 350 persons, and all the sittings are free. The
manse was built in 1763, and repaired partially in 1826. The
extent of the glebe is 22 acres, and, with the manse and garden,
may be L. 30 per annum in value. The stipend is 15 chalders
of victual, one-half meal, the other barley, with L. 100 Scots for
communion elements. The average amount of the stipend yearly
is L. 240. The number of families attending the Established
Church is 206, and divine service is in general well attended. The
average number of communicants is 260. The number of fami-
lies attending the chapel of Dissenters and Seceders is 85.
	Edubation.--There are two parochial schools and two private:
branches taught are, Latin and Greek, English, writing, arith-
metic and book-keeping. The salaries of the parochial teachers
are, L. 30, 1s. 6d. and L. 24, 12s. and the yearly amount of fees
paid to each may be L. 10. One of the parochial schoolmasters
has the legal accommodations; the other has neither a dwelling-
house nor school-house.
	Poor.-- There are, at present, 17 persons receiving parochial aid.
The highest sum allowed per annum is L. 4, and the lowest L. 1.
The annual amount for the support of the poor is L. 40; of which
sum L. 24 arise from church collections, and the remainder from
mortifications for the behoof of the poor. A disposition to refrain
from seeking parochial relief certainly prevails.
	Inns, &c.--There are five houses licensed to sell spirits.
        Fuel.--Coal is principally used for fuel, though some occasion-
ally use peat. The coal is procured at Sanquhar, at 7s. or 8s.
per cart load--about ten hundred weight.
                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The improved mode of agriculture, the new farm-steadings, the
enclosures, and the increased facilities of internal communication
by roads and bridges, are the most striking differences betwixt
the present state of the parish and that which existed at the time
of the former Statistical Account.

	October 1835.

	DEMFRIES.                       Y


