
			  BORTHWICK.				179

from unavoidable circumstances, been left unfinished, much has re-
cently been done for improving and beautifying the estate by ex-
tensive plantations, and by the formation of superb and judiciously
arranged shrubberies.  The glens in them neighborhood of the house
have always been objects of admiration to visitors--many fine tress
spring from the bottom of the valleys with picturesque and com-
manding effect--and the garden is in the most improved style
of such luxuries.  Eventually, there is reason to believe, that
Vogrie will be a highly cultivated portion of the general landscape
and will do honour to the taste and judgment of those who have
lately devoted themselves to the improvement of it.
   Harvieston House seems to have been originally of the same
general style of building with Vogrie, though on a smaller scale,
suited to the limited possessions of the proprietor of whom it is
the seat.  Some additions, however, have been made to it, which
have somewhat improved its originally tame and unornamented as-
pect--and the adjoining lawn and shrubbery grounds are not un-
tastefully sprinkled with trees--some of which are of considerable
size and value. The ground is naturally swampy, but every thing
was done by the late proprietor to give to the place all the advantages
of which it is susceptible. He used to say, that when he first got
his property, a great part of it was in such a state that he could
not walk over it; and that he had ultimately expended as much
money in bringing it into its present state, as would have enabled
him to cover it with bank notes. The bowling green, with its
adjacent shrubbery, has an air of much neatness, and of tasteful
arrangement.

<TABLE=III.--POPULATION>
	    In 1755, the population of the parish was 910
	    In 1801,      .    .    .      .    .     842
	    In 1821,      .    .    .      .    .    1345
	    In 1881,      .    .    .      .    .    1470

   There has been a gradual increase in the numbers, till the pre-
sent year, the increase in the entirely upon the im-
proving state of the country, which render more-hands necessary
for carrying on the labours of the field, and for supplying the ac-
cessory wants of those who are so employed.
   The tenantry are almost all of them men of supervisor character
and information; and few district, it is believed, could produce a
better specimen of Scottish yeomanry.
   Although this is in the heart of a coal district, and though
there are villages all round us peopled by colliers, it is of late


