
500                       LANARKSHIRE.

Wainlockhead to Leadhills, and the highest points of which, at cer-
tain places, constitute the boundaries of this parish, continues for
seven or eight miles from the latter village, to the confluence of Dun-
eaton and Clyde, having Glengonner on the south of it, and Duneaton
part of the way on the north, and may reasonably be supposed to
have veins of lead in it throughout the whole of its course: as, with-
in these few years, a lead mine was profitably wrought at Snar's
head, near its upper extremity; as, within the memory of persons
still alive, lead was got at Glendouran, near the middle; and, as,
about eighteen years ago, there was a discovery of lead sufficiently
encouraging made at Craighead, within a mile of its lower extremity.
There are vestiges of a work on the lands of Abington, which is
reported to have been made in search of gold, and prosecuted
with considerable success. In a manuscript journal of the move-
ments of the Earl of Selkirk, in the beginning of last century,
I have learned it was mentioned, that his Lordship came to
Crawfordjohn, and "visited the silver mines, &c." which are de-
clared by tradition to have been near the Kirkburn. When im-
proving a road some years back, what was denominated the copper
vein was again come upon, and several pieces of spar, with the cop-
per in it, were to be seen lying scattered near the road ; and, upon
the lands both of Glespin and Netherton, there have been repeat-
ed indications of coal observed. And, certainly, any recent efforts
upon these lands, or those of Whitecleugh and Lettershaws, were
conducted in such a manner, and brought to an end so abruptly,
that to any one of an enterprising spirit, a failure in these in-
stances, will be regarded as nothing else than a powerful incitement
to greater exertions.
	Zoology.--The adder, (Vipera communis,) weasel, hedgehog,
and polecat, are often to be seen ; the otter, fox, and squirrel sel-
dom. Black game, grouse, partridges, and hares are very nume-
rous. About forty years ago, there was on the trees of Gilkerscleugh
an extensive heronry, but in the course of time, and after many se-
vere contests with their multiplying foes, the herons were killed or
dispersed and the victorious rooks occupied their place. Against
the rooks in their turn a hot war by agents of another kind having
ranged for some years, powder and shot at last either destroyed or
frightened them from their residence; and, at the suggestion of a
preprietor, alarmed for his fish ponds. the same effectual means
were resorted to last spring, for the extermination of the few herons
which had begun to congregate at Glespin. A solitary tame rab-
bit, some years ago formed an intinmacy with a hare; and the nume-


