
                   DUNOON AND KILMUN.                         619

cial. A Fisherman's Society also existed in Dunoon for many years
past, but has recently, been dissolved, them being but few of the
inhabitants, scarcely indeed any, following that occupation exclu-
sively.
                   V.-PARROCHIIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town, properly'so called; and the two vil-
lages supplying their place to every practical purpose, have been
already described.
   With respect to means of communication, the parish enjoys
them abundantly. There are three post-offices in the united
parish,-Dunoon, Kilmun, and Ardentirnny. At Dunoon there
are, in the winter season, two arrivals and despatches of mail
daily, and in summer three a-day. The other two post-offices
have one daily receipt and despatch. Properly speaking, there
are no turnpike roads, there being no turnpikes or tolls within the
county of Argyle hitherto. The length.of roads in the parish is
reckoned at forty-nine miles. A road now runs along its whole coast
from one extremity to the other; the portion of this read extend-
ing from near Strone point, to the boundary on that side of the
Glenfinart estate, having been executed last year by private sub.
scription, and affording much benefit to the parish at large, espe-
cially to its visitors in the summer season, to whom this road
opens up a most interesting and ektensive drive. Another road
from the southern extremity of Loch Eck to the place of Whistle-
field on that lake, was also executed a few vears ago by private
subscription, and opens up a direct line of communication with
Strachur, Inveraray, and the western parts of Argyleshire. On
the road from Kiltnun to Ioch Eck, was ruti the first steam car-
riage on a common road, it is believed, in Scotland. It was an
enterprise of Mr Napier; and though no catastrophe, happily,
marked its operation, the enterprise was abandoned, as was a
steamer on Loch Eck, to the great deliverance from scandal of
that peaceful qnd interesting Highland scene. Substantial wooden
bridges have been recently erected on the Eachaig the Little
Eachaig, and the Massan, and afford much-needed aecommoda-
tion., making the lines of communication throughout the parish
complete. The roads are generally kept in good order and re-
pair. The exactions of statute-labour money under the present
Act of Parliament are accounted burdensome., and pressing
too unequally both on residents for a time merely, and on the
poorer classes. The provisions of an Act about to'be passed


