
                       NORTH UIST.                       179

     supported by an assessment, which bears heavily uponall classes
     of the inhabitants, together with a small sum allowedby the post-
     office.
        The internal communication has been immensely improved, with-
     in the last twenty years.  There are now no less than eighty miles
     of good roads.  Of these nearly fifty miles have been made -by
     the statute labour, and a heavy assessment on the occupiers of the
     land.  With the extension of roads, the introduction of carts has
     kept pace; of which there are, at this moment, in the parish 180.
     From the rapid increase which has taken place in regard to
     this excellent improvement, it may be sanguinely anticipated
     that at no distant period every person able to keep a horse will
     have his cart also.  The rootle, too, and the clumsy plough de-
     scribed in the former statistics, have given way to the modern
     plough.  The greater number of the tacksmen use Morton's iron
     plough; and every small tenant has a plough of a lighter descrip-_
     tion, quite sufficient for his purposes.  Including all, there are
     nearly as many ploughs as are families in this parish.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated near the
     centre of the parish, about fifteen miles from each extremity.
     The densest part of the population is within four miles on either
     side.  It was built in the year 1764, when the number of inhabi-
     tants was comparatively small.  It affords accommodation for no
     more than 400, being about one-fifth of the population within
     reach of it. There are no seat rents paid.
        In this parish, there has never been a manse. The minister always
     occupied a farm-house, with a farm. The grebe is worth about L.40
     Sterling.  The proprietor pays L.61, 13s. 4d. of the stipend, with
     L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.  The balance of L.88, 6s. 8d.
     is paid from the Exchequer, to make up tbe atipend to L.150. In the
     northern section of the parish, there is a Government church, which
     was finished in 1828. In the south part of the parish or district
     of Carinish, is placed a missionary minister, supported by the
     Committee for-Managing the Royal Bounty.  It is hoped that,
     at no distant period, this district will likewise form a separate pa-
     rish, with endowment for church and school.   Excluding the Go-
     vernment church parish from the calculation, the average number of
     communicants is 490.  This number includes the Mission dis-
     trict.  Divine service is well attended at all the places,6f public
     worship.  The population is wholly Presbyterian, with the excep-
     tion of two Episcopalian families, and two individuals Roman Ca-


