
                      DUNDEE.                           5

Carse of Gowrie on the north and west, has mostly disappeared
from this parish; leaving only the more durable masses of trap,
which had been formerly included in it. Such appears to be the
geological history of the rocks which form the hill of Balgay, the
Law, and other eminences of whin in the parish. On the eastern
shoulder of the Law, indeed, the trap is still, at a considerable ele-
vation, immersed in the, amygdaloid, through which a tunnel has
lately been cut in forming the line of a railway into Strathmore.
In the place named the Den, at the east end of the town, the junc-
tion of the sandstone with the trap may be observed, presenting
phenomena well worthy of the attention of the geologist. Much
of the trap in the parish is of a tufaceous nature, and though, when
newly opened upon, seemingly very fit for road metal, moulders away
in the course of a few months, generally weathering in concentric
lamellae. Nor, indeed, is the trap of the Law much worthy of
confidence as a road metal. Its most remarkable features are its
almost resinous lustre and highly conchoidal fracture.  Other
masses of trap in the parish, however, such as that forming the rock
of the Magdalene Yard, and the quarry near Stobs' Muir, are ex-
tremely durable.
   Zoology.-Under this head the parish presents little that is in-
teresting. In none of the strata have organic remains (so far as
we are aware) been met with, though, in the analogous rocks of
the neighbourhood, even those of vertebrated animals have been
found.* It is perhaps worthy of remark, that the golden-crested
wren (Regulus cristatus) occasionally nestles in the hill of Balgay,
and that the water-shrew (Sorex fodiens) is by no means rare in
the brooks of the neigh6ourhood. The fish of greatest conside-
ration in the river is the salmon; but a description of the manner
of fishing it belongs more properly to other parishes. Among the
Invertebrata, few species occur worthy of notice. In pools of water on
the rock at Broughty Ferry, however, a very beautiful Sabella (Cuv.)
seemingly the T. Fabricia of the Fauna Graenlandica, which does
not appear to have been previously recognized as an inhabitant of
our country, is to be met with. At the point of the Magdalene
Yard, also, the student will always be able to procure alive, at the
proper season, several interesting zoophytes, and, among others,
the Campanularia gelatinosa, and Coryna squamata. (See Flem.
Phil. Zool. Pl. V. fig. 1 and 3.)

<FOOTNOTE>See a paper by the Rev. Dr Fleming of Clackmannan, Edin. Journal of Nat.
History and Geographical Science, New series, No. 2.


