
     Statistical Account

old it is, we cannot certainly say.  The latter was built about
30 years ago, as being a more convenient situation than that
of the former, for the passage over to Leith.  This harbour
was lately very much choked up, and in danger of being lost,
from the great quantity of sand continually drifting from the
W. at low water, with the wasterly winds, and accumulating
within it.  But by means of 2 basons, the largest of which
was only finished within these few months, (the former hav-
ing been found insufficient for the purpose), it is now thought
that this bank of sand will be completely removed, and the
harbour be kept clear of it, and open for the future.  With-
in these few months also, there has been a light-house erected
upon the end of this key, for the benefit of the passage-boats.
It is, however, the opinion of many, that had the money
which has been expended upon the Petty-cur, and its basons,
been laid out upon the extending of the key, and upon the
otherwise improving of the old harbour, not only all the pur-
poses of the Ferry might have been equally well answered,
but a safe and capacious bason might have been formed, for
the admission of ships of considerable burthen.  As they are
at present, neither the one nor the other will admit vessels of
above 150 tons.  Should ever Kinghorn become a great ma-
nufacturing and commercial town, this plan might still be put
in execution.  Hitherto, it cannot be said to have ever been
either.  Formerly, indeed, there were a few brigs, and seve-
ral sloops belonging to this town; but these were generally
either freighted by merchants residing in other places, or en-
gaged in smuggling.  At present there are only two small
sloops employed in the coasting trade, that sail from this port,
with 9 passage-boats, of about 50 or 60 tons each, and a few
pinnaces that ply the ferry.  As for manufactures, though
till of late, since the introduction of stocking-frames, there
was, for a long time, a considerable quantity of thread-stock-


