
                             LARGS.                        803

to about 300 ; cattle fattened about 484 : sheep kept upon the
high lands, about 4680,besides a few English sheep on some of
the low lands: the number of horses about 130, and of horses
rearing about 30; the old practice of hiring horses is now almost
exploded.  Swine are very generally kept.
   Great improvemets have been made, and are in progress upon
the different estates and farms in the parish, within these few years.
Upon Kelburn estate, Mr Johnstone, the active and intelligent
factor of the Earl of Glasgow, has more than doubled the value
of many of the parks; he has also added much to the beauty of
the estate, by plantations, laid off to great advantage.  Upon Bris-
bane estate, much also has been done about the mansion-house, in
extending the lawn, by removing the old garden, and in making a
new approach.  The tenants have also been doing a great deal in
draining and bringing in waste lands, particularly the tenants of
Bankhead and South Whittleburn.  The tenant of south Con-
stable wood has done much in that way ; the tenant of Quarter has
also, within the last year, drained twelve acres upon the most ap-
proved plan.  The proprietor cuts the drains and quarries the
stones, the tenant carts the stones and fills the drains.  The drains
when furrow, and at the distance of 12 feet, are, at the sur-
face, 20 inches, 2 1/2 feet deep, and 10 inches at the bottom; the
stones thin, and all set upon their edges, and covered with
broken metal to within 9 inches of the surface.  The leading or
principal drains are never less than 2 1/2 feet deep, 2 feet wide at
the surface, and 14 inches at the bottom, when set; when piped,
not less than 20 inches at the bottom ; the depth of the leading
drains depends upon the nature of the soil.  Mr Wilson of Knock,
by laying out a very considerable sum in bringing in waste lands,
draining, liming, planting, making roads and bridges, has not on-
ly beautified that estate, but more than doubled its value.  Cap-
tain Alexander Montgomery, R. N., well known in the district for
his laudable zeal in all institutions calculated to advance the com-
fort and improve the condition of the farmer, has much improved
the lands of Bridgend, upon the estate of Skelmorlie.  Mr Stew-
art has also improved his lands of Blackhouse, and Mr Lang, his
lands of Routenburn.  The tenant of Auchengarth upon the Third-
part estate bas also done much in liming and draining.
   Quarries.--In the grounds of Haylee, there was a quarry of
excellent sandstone, from which the greater part of the newly
erected houses were built; but, being exhausted, a new quarry has


