
   194                         ELGINSHIRE.

   8. The church collections for the poor, for the last seven years,
   have averaged about L.29; which, along with donations from the
   beritors of about L.10 per annum, (after deducting L.4, 10s. to
   the session-clerk, precentor, and beadle), are distributed regularly,
   three times a year, by the kirk-session, according to the compara-
   tive degrees of need of the applicants, and varying from 12s. to
   L.1, 7s. per. annum to each. These sums are very inadequate as
   means of efficient relief. But the, deficiency is in a good measure
   supplied by the beneficence of the heritors to the poor on thdir re-
   spective properties; of which an excellent example is set by the
   Earl of Moray, who allows to a considerable number one peck of
   meal each, or 1s. per week. Several aged and infirm individuals
   on the property of Mr Cumming Bruce are not only supplied with
   soup, twice a-week, from the kitchen at Dunphail, but bave also,
   along with others, meal regularly, and occasionally blankets and
   clothing, bestowed on them by him and his lady. The poor on
   the estate of Logie still continue to be remembered by the pro-
   prietress and her family, though now residing at a distance from
   the parish, with all their characteristic liberality and kindness.
   Nor would it be proper to omit to notice in this statement of good
   offices to the poor, the readiness of the people themselves to con-
   tribute to the aid of the necessitous, whether residing in their im-
   mediate neighborbood, or when application is made to them from
   other quarters. In the course of tbe severe winter preceding last,
   unaided by any of the heritors, save a small contribution from one
   of them, they raised among themselves in meal and money about
   L. 17 for beboof of the poor of the parish. The collections in
   church in aid of the schemes recohitnended by the General As-
   sembly average from L.6 to L.7 annually.
     Inns.--There are two. small inns in the parish for the accommo-
   dation of travellers. To these there can be no objections when
   used, only for their proper purpose. But it is matter of regret, for
   obvious reasons, that, toll-keepers should be allowed to convert
   their houses into dram-shops.
     Fuel.--The fuel generally used is peat, of which a plentiful
   supply, in favourable seasons, is obtained from the mosses in dif-
   forent parts of the parish. Coals are brought from the sea-port of
   Finhorn, where they are imported from England.

   February.1842.


