
722                    EDINDURGHSHIRE.

uncertain; but be is supposed to have left at his death, which oc-
curred in l624, not less than L. 50,00O Sterling. After bequeath-
ing a large portion of thing to his relatives, friends, and servants,
both in England and Scotland, he left the residue in trust to
the magistrates and ministers of Edinburgh, to endow an hospital
"for the maintenance, relief, and bringing up of so many poor and
fatherless boys, freemen's sons of the town of Edinburgh, as the
sum should, be sufficient for." The sum received by the governors
from Heriots executors amounted to L. 23,625. In 1628 the
present magnificent Gothic building was commenced; the plan,
it is said, was furnished by Inigo Jones; and the whole was super-
intended by Dr Balcanqual, Dean of Rochester, who was ap-
pointed by Heriot to see his will put in execution. The pro-
gress of & building was interrupted for several years during
the civil wars; but it was resumed in 1642, and nearly finished
in 1650. The total expense is stated to have amounted to,
L. 30,000,-a sum exceeding the whole original bequest. This
can only be accounted for by supposing that, for the intervening
years, the money had been laid out at high interest, 8 and 10
per cent. being the usual interest of the period,-and thus a
sum had been amassed, not only sufficient to complete the build-
ing, but also to support the establishment afterwards. It was not,
however, till 1659 that the institution was really opened for the
reception of boys. During the nine previous years, it had been
used as an hospital for the sick soldiers of Oliver Cromwell, and
was only at last given up by General Monk, at the request of the
governors.
   The building is in the form of a square, the sides of which
measure 162 feet outside the walls. In the centre is an open
paved court, and on two sides of this court are piazzas, with a
walk within of six feet in breadth. The corners of the building
are surmounted by turrets, and over the gateway is a spire, with
clock. There are upwards of 200 windows, all variously and taste-
fully ornamented with carved work. On the south side of the
building is a handsome chapel; and the halls in the interior are
spacious, while the dormitories are comfortable and well aired.
Some years ago, a thorough repair and several additions were made
to the buildings, including a porter's lodge, in the style of the ori-
ginal edifice.
   In 1776 the annual revenues of the hospital amounted to L. 1966.
Since that period, however, in consequence of the increased value


