
64                     RENFREWSHIRE.

the height of 9 feet, and to the height of 11 feet in spring-tides.
Very few fishes are taken at this place, and these only small in size,
and of the most common kinds. During the winter months, immense
quantities of sea-fowl frequent the river, including barnacle, teal,
and other species of the duck tribe.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Proprietors.-The landward part of this parish belongs to Mr
Farquhar of London, who purchased it from Lord Belhaven a few
years ago. The same gentleman also holds the right of superiority
over a considerable part of the town, with the gardens adjoining to
it, upon which he levies an annual feu-duty at the rate of L. 2 per
acre. Of the remaining portion of the town, the superiority is vest-
ed in the city of Glasgow. The Castle of Newark stands at the
eastern extremity of the bay to which it has given its name, on a
point of land projecting into the river, and which commands a mag-
nificent view of the surrounding scenery. It is built in the castel-
lated form, and when fortified, must have been a place of great
strength. The building has been long in a ruinous condition, and
is now interesting only as a venerable monument of feudal grandeur,
a memorial of the spirit and character of a barbarous age.
   Town.-In its general appearance, the town presents an aspect
of neatness and regularity, not often to be met with. The streets
are straight, and for the most part cross each other at right angles;
while the houses, pretty nearly equal in size, and generally white-
washed, give to the whole a light and uniform appearance. The
only modern buildings worthy of notice are the town-house and the
parish church. Of these the former is of plain but substantial work-
manship, ornamented in front with a portico, resting on four mass
fluted pillars surmounted with a handsome spire, which rises from
the centre. The ground floor has been chiefly laid out in shops;
but the upper story, in addition to the chambers of the council and
town-clerk, contains a large and commodious reading-room, with
several apartments which are occupied as counting-rooms for mer-
cantile business. The parish church was built in 1823, and con-
tains accommodation for above 1200 sitters. It is square in form,
and plain in the outward appearance, but has been much and de-
servedly admired for the simple elegance of its internal construc-
tion. The wealthier inhabitants of the place did themselves great
honour, and set a valuable example to others, by gratuitously con-
tributing L.1500 towards the expense of its erection. There are
two other Places of public worship; the one, a chapel of ease be-


