
66                             ORKNEY.

charge, with a resident pastor, &c. The careless observance
of the Sabbath is often remarked in double charges, where the
people are deprived of the public ordinances of religion every al-
ternate Sabbath, and I lament that some of this carelessness still
adheres to a few of the old: yet I have cause to rejoice in the evi-
dent improvement of the young, who are generally regular in at-
tending public worship, and a Sabbath school,-the more advanced
being taught in church, immediately after public worship, and the
very young in district schools. A portion of these meet in the
Secession chapel.
  In short, the improvement effected here affords every encourage-
ment for disjoining the other united parishes.
  Library.-A parochial library was instituted immediately after
I came to reside here for the use of which each family pays 6d. a
year. It now contains 164 works, chiefly on religious subjects, be-
sides religious periodicals. There are 74 subscribers.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number on the poor's
roll for three years is 20, and the average sum allotted to each, 9s.
4d. a year.  The average amount of annual contributions for their
relief during the same period, is L.11, 9s. 7d., which is all derived
from church collections, and marriage dues, except 8s., which is the
rent of a bit of ground devoted to the poor. Out of this sum,
however, there are several salaries to be paid. I have never ob-
served any reluctance to accept of parochial relief.
  Fairs, Inns, and Fuel.-There is one cattle fair held near the
east boundary in June. There are four alehouses, which are too
many, and have very bad effects on the morals of the people, in-
ducing habits of intemperance. Sandwick is worse provided with
fuel, than any other parish in this neighbourbood, having no good
moss from which coal-peats can be procured. By use and wont,
however, the people have access to extensive mosses in, Harray;
but as these are six miles from the centre of this parish, the labour
and expense of carting them home are very great.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  Since the time of the last Statistical Account, the greatest im-
provements that have been introduced in agriculture are, better
horses, the common plough instead of the single-stilted, the ge-
neral introduction of carts, a good made road to Stromness, the
commencement of green crop among the cottagers, and of a regu-
lar rotation on the glebe. The late plankings have shown the
quantity of arable and pasture land to be much more than formerly,
and the real rents are exceedingly increased. Servants' wages are


