
     of Senquhar.

through it.  This dyke may be distinctly traced at the surface
for a mile in length.  There are, indeed, dykes met with run-
ning in different directions, through the coal strata, some of
which are evidently formed by fire, consisting mostly of vitri-
fied matter.  The situation of the coal on each side of these
kinds of dykes, give the strongest reason to believe that they
are the production of fire, for wherever the coal comes in
contact with them, it is so much burnt and impregnated with
sulphur, as to render it useless.  The other kinds of dykes
that are met with appear to have been chasms formed in the
strata, many of them of no inconsiderable width.  They are
filled with the fragments of the different strata in which these
chasms form sections, and with a part of the surface on their
sides falling in.  These fragments, etc. are found to be strong-
ly cemented or concreted by mineral substances, of which iron
seems to be the principal.  In lately cutting through one of
these dykes, there was found among the cemented fragments
of sand stone, argillaceous rock, etc. a part of a tree which
from its bark appeared to have been birch.  The bark being
broke, it was found, that it contained sand stone.  From a
combination of circumstances there is reason to believe, that
in the long process of time, the wood being entirely consumed,
while the bark was left, the water in the chasm had conveyed
into it a felicious sand, which concreted in the shape of the
tree.  In beds of stratified matter which cover the coals, there
are found various sorts of sea shells, and in some of the strata
visible impressions of vegetable bodies, among which it is not
unfrequent to meet with fern and other cannons productions;
some of which have been selected, and are preserved in the ca-
binets of naturalists.  In the names have also been found
some small beds of fullers earth.  Lame-stone was unknown in the
parish, till very lately it has been discovered on the skirts of
Auchentaggart hill.  A small trial has been made of it where


