
        736                           PERTHSHIRE.

        and succeeded in their object, were returning in triumph to their
        homes.  At this juncture, Duncan Campbell of Dunstaffnage, at-
        tended by a body of his followers, arrived from Argyleshire, bent
        an avenging the death of his father-in-law, Drummond of Monzie,
        who, with his two sons, had recently before been killed by some
        of the Murrays.  The Campbells and Drummonds united their
        respective parties, and the Murrays being now out-numbered, were
        in their turn forced to retreat, and take refuge within the walls of
        the church of Monivaird.  There, for a time, they eluded the
        search of "the avangers;" and the Master of Drummond was at
        length about to give up the quest, when, unfortunately, one of the
        Murrays observing a Highlander within musket-shot of the church,
        and unable, even in such perilous circumstances, to restrain his
        thirst for blood, fired upon him, and thus at once attracted the
        notice of their pursuers, and increased their apetite for revenge.
        The sacredness of the place afforded no protection to its inmates,
        but for a while its natural advantages promised to stand them in
        better stead.  To the summons of surrender the Murrays returned
        a haughty defiance, and for a time repelled all the assaults of
        their foes.  At length the Drummonds, unable to draw them
        from their retreat, or to force its defences, called for fire, and in-
        stantly the heath covered church was enveloped in flames.  No
        quarter was given by the infuriated Drummonds, and all within
        the church perished on the spot. * James IV. administered the
        laws of the kingdom too firmly and impartially to allow this bloody
        massacre to pass unpunished; and William, the Master of Drum-
        mond, son of John, first Lord Drummoud, was immediately ap-
        prehended, and conveyed to Stirling, where he, with several of
        his followers, was tried, condemned, and beheaded. *
           Families.-From Knox's History of the Reformation it ap-
        pears that Colonel, Campbell of Lawers commanded a regiment
        of Reformers, and contributed considerably by his good services
        to the success of the great cause of civil and religious liberty in
        Scotland.  His successor was-created Earl of Loudoun, (having

        <FOOTNOTE>According to our traditions, twenty three men perished in this scene of outrage
        In the Rev. Mr Porteous's account, it is more generally stated, that " A great num-
        ber were burned to death;" while Sir Walter Scott, in the introduction to the "Le
        gend of Montrose" (Waverley Novels, Vol. xv.,) makes the number "eight score of
        the Murrays, with their wives and children;" and adds, that one of the Murrays
        was permitted to escape from the burning kirk by a Drummond, upon whom he had
        a  formerly conferred a favour.  The fact of such a scene having occurred on this spot
        is beyond a doubt.  In 1809, on laying the foundation of the mousoleum on the said
        of the old "heath-covered kirk," a quantity of charred wood was found, supposed to
        be the remains of part of the timber burned in 1511.


