
240                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

number of communicants is 430. There is no meeting-house in the
parish.
     The present manse was built in 1777, is small, but at present
in good repair.
     The glebe, which lies between the manse and the river, contains
7 acres 18 poles. It is land of the very best quality, and of cor-
responding value. It has produced remarkably abundant crops.
     The stipend is 14 1/4 chalders meal and barley, and L.44 money.
     Education.--There are three schools in the parish, the parochial
and two side-schools.  Of the latter, one is at Hadden, and was par-
tially endowed by Lady Ker in the seventeenth century. The other
is at Lempitlaw, and was endowed bv the heritors in 1814, by ap-
propriating for that purpose L.100 vacant stipend. In the parish
school the branches of education taught are the same as in other
countrv schools. The schoolmaster's salary is L.30.  His emolu-
ments from fees, which, per quarter, are, 2s. 6d. for reading; 3s.
for reading and writing; 4s. for reading, writing, and arithmetic;
7s. 6d. for Latin, amount to about L.40.  He has at present no
garden, but has from the heritors L.2 in lieu thereof. In the two
other schools, there is no Latin taught, but all the other branches
of a common country education.  At Hadden, the emoluments al-
together scarcely exceed L. 15; at Lempitlaw, they may be about
L.30.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.--The poor are supported by legal
assessment. The number on the roll is 43; their average allow-
ance L.3, 14s. 9d. per annum.  In some cases, the allowance grant-
ed by the heritors is increased by the session.  Those who have
been assisted in this way during the past year amount to 16, and
the average assistance to each is IIs. per annum.  The average
annual amount of assessments for the poor is L.160, 14s. 3d.; of
church collections, L.10, 9s. 5d.
    It has not been observed that there is any indisposition on the
part of the poor to apply for parochial relief.  Applications have
sometimes been made,--more, seemingly, from a desire to add to the
little comforts already possessed, than to remove pressing want,-
more from a preference of dependence on a public fund, than of de-
pendence on children in narrow circumstances, who, it is to be fear-
ed,too often make their parents sensible of their dependence. Such,
applications when rejected, are uniformly attended with a feeling of
experienced injustice on the part of the applicants.  Vicinity to
England may in some degree account for this.
March 1837.


