
     of Wick.

   New Harbour.-The new harbour is not only an object of the
highest importance to the town itself and its immediate neigh-
bourhood, but to the kingdom at large.  It would be the means
of saving many vessels which, when overtaken by storms or
contrary winds, have no place of shelter, between Cromarty
and Stromness; whence on this dangerous coast, from the
want of a harbour, many vessels have been driven ashore, and
many lives lost.  A harbour commodious for a number of
vessels, and safe in all weather, might be made at Wick.  This
would be particularly beneficial during the herring fishery,
which has been much retarded from the want of such a shel-
ter.  In 1791, no less than 34 vessels lay there on the bounty,
pent up in very narrow bounds, and in constant danger of
running foul of one another.  The proposed plan for this har-
bour however could not be executed without considerable ex-
pence.  It was laid before the British Fishery Society, who
sent persons of skill to take an exact survey of the grounds,
and to report their opinions, which was in favour of the mea-
sure.  A correspondence has in consequence been entered into,
with Benjamin Dunbar of Hempriggs, the proprietor, for fen-
ing out, on the south side of the water, opposite to the town
of Wick, several hundred acres of land, for building a fish-
ing village.  The harbour at present, is very apt to be choak-
ed up by banks of sand, thrown up at the mouth of the
river, and which are only cleared away by strong floods.
There is another inconvenience often felt at this place, that
vessels must frequently wait both for a fair wind and a stream
tide, as they do not always answer at the same time.  Along
the coast near Wick, are a number of creeks, or goes, into
which, during the herring fishing season, small boats resort,
which, at other times, are laid up in a fine bason, at a little
distance to the north, called the Broad Haven of Wick.

   Staxigoe.-Near Wick is the creek of Staxigoe, deriving its
name from a pyramidical rock, commonly called here a stack,


