
                           FARR.                             79

not exceeding L.20. Little can be said yet of the advantages of
this bank, as the first deposit was made in this parish only on the
15th day of February last; but considerable benefit is anticipated
from it to day-labourers, fishermen, and farm-servants, in the course
of a few years. The Duke of Sutherland is deeply interested in
its prosperity.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 76; and the average sum allowed them
is from 13s. to 3s. per annum, according to their circumstances,
as certified by the elders of their respective districts. The an-
nual average amount of contributions for their support, during the
last five years, has been about L. 27 Sterling, arising from church
collections, amounting to L. 20 per annum, and from donations by
heritors, amounting to L. 8 on an average of the last five years.
No other method of procuring funds for the poor has been resorted
to, and in general they seem content with the existing system. The
Marchioness of Stafford, now Duchess Countess of Sutherland, for
more than twenty years gave, and continues to give, an annual do-
nation of L. 6 to the poor of this parish. Occasional donations
have been given, besides, by members of the Noble family when
visiting this parish, and when important changes by marriages and
births took place among them; and by such means, a small fund
is at interest for the benefit of the poor.
   Market.-There is a market held at Bettyhill, near this place,
on the first Wednesday of November, (N. S.) for general traffic.
   Inns.-There are three licensed inns, so situated as to be con-
venient to the parishioners and the public at large. Tippling-
houses are entirely suppressed, and their extinction has a good ef-
fect on the morals of the people in general.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   When the former Account was written, a considerable number of
tacksmen, natives of the parish, occupied extensive farms in diffe-
rent parts of it; and with them, a dense population of subtenants
resided in the interior straths and glens. Now, however, all the
lands, both hill and dale, which they possessed, are held in lease
by a few sheep-farmers, all non-resident gentlemen, some of them
living in Caithness, some on the south coast of this county, and
some in England; and the straths, in which hundreds of families
lived comfortably, are now tenanted by about twenty-four families
of herds. In place of the scores of Highland cattle, horses, sheep,
and goats, which formerly were brought to market, or used for do-


