
                               DENNY.                            123

last thirty years, to improve their dwellings. Increased com-
fort and tasteful arrangement are gradually advancing.  One now
meets with boarded floors, plastered walls and ceilings, and in some
instances, with parlours furnished with tables, sofas, and carpets.
  A commodious building, adjoining to the town of Denny, for
the parochial school, is now in progress. This structure will
be an ornament to the town, and serves, among other paro-
chial improvements, to give evidence of the care with which Mr
Forbes attends to the educational interest of the youth of the
parish, and the domestic comfort of the teacher.
   Mills and Manufactories.--There are eleven of these on the
banks of Carron, within a mile and a-half of the town of Denny.
There are seven of them modern buildings; one for manufacturing
oatmeal and pot-barley, one for millboards, one for dye-stuffs,
and three for spinning sheep's wool. Herbertshire Mill, the
oldest establishment in the parish- for manufacturing paper,
and the other mills, were the work of last century. Two dis-
tilleries have been also erected, one in Denny and another at
Bankier, already mentioned. A spade-manufactory. about a
mile and a-half down the Bonny from Bankier, has been set ago-
ing, within these few years; and, lastly, a considerable wheat-
en, flour, oatmeal, and pot-barley mill, with a small saw-mill,
were built, some time since, at Bonnyford, in the eastern ex-
tremity of the parish. The waters of Bonny not furnishing ade-
quate power for meeting the demand for the manufactories here,
a steam-engine is erected and put to work, when necessary.
                       III.--POPULATION.
There are no accounts of the population previous to 1755. In
that year, the parochial population, as reported by Dr Webster,
amounted to 1392 souls; as reported by Mr Fergus in 1790, it
was 1400; as taken by the writer hereof, bv personal communica-
tion in the years 1800 and 1801, it was found to be, 1967; by
Government census in 1821, 3364; Ditto, 1831, 8843; as com-
municated in 1837, and reported to the Royal Commissioners on
Religious Instruction when in Denny on 27th February 1838,
--4300.
  The increase of manufacturing is obviously the main cause of
the great and progressive increase which has taken place, and
which seems to be steadily continuing. Denny has such advanta-
ges of situation, that before another century revolves, it may be a
large manufacturing town, with its provost and bailles, churches,


