

         ALVAH.                                      157

are disponed to Sir John Stewart, afterwards created Earl of
Atholl; but with this lordship he does not seem to have received
any of the lands of Alvah, for we find that his younger brother,
Sir James Stewart, received a charter of Strathalvah from King
James II. in 1466, and of the lands of Sandlach (Sandlaw,) in
1492.   These two Stewarts were sons of Sir James Stewart, com-
monly called the Black Knight of Lorn, and of Joanna, dowager
of King James I., and were, consequently, uterine brothers of
King James II., for which they seem to have been distinguished
by many marks of royal favour.  The former (Sir John Stewart,) was
created Earl of Atholl, and the latter, (Sir James Stewart, known
also by the name of Hearty James,) received Strathalvah and Sand-
law, as already stated, and was created Earl of Buchan in 1469, and
appointed great Chamberlain of Scotland in 1471.  From seve-
ral existing charters, it appears that the Stewarts, and afterwards
the Douglases, Earls of Buchan, retained property in the parish
of Alva upwards of 150 years after the last mentioned date.  From
the worked printed by command of King George Ill. in 1811, and
entitled, "Inquisitionum ad Capellam Domini Regis Retornatum,
quae in publicis archivis Scotiae adhuc servantur abbreviatis,"* it ap-
  
From this work the following excerpts may be quoted as possessing great local
interes  at the present time:
Feb. 19, 1593.--Joannes Johnston, haeres Georgii Johnston, de eodem, patris,--in
annuo reditu L. 4O du villis et terris de Sandlaw in parochia de Strathavauch.
December 17, 1624.--Alexander Fraser de Philorth, haeres masculus domini Al-
exandri Fraser de Fraserburgh militis, patris,--in terris de Tibbertie, (Tipperty);
villa et terris de Outlaw (Itlaw); terris de Forefauldis (Firfold); villa et terris de
   Bremlaw (Greenlaw); villa et terris de Feltichead, (Fattyhcad,) cum Newtown de
Outlaw.
October 7, 1625.  Walterus Ogilvie de Banff, haeres domini Georgii Ogilvie de
Dunluggas, militis, patris,--in terris de Outlaw et Tipperties comprehendentibus
terras dominicales vulgo Maynes de Tipperty, Brockiestown, Kiltrie-knock, Briggis
hillock, Barbit hill, Rosyburn cum molendino.
January 11, 1628,--Dom.  Geo.  Ogilvie de Carnousies, miles, baronetus, haares
Georgii Ogilvie de Carnousie, patris,--in terris de Nether Dachries (Deuchries) in-
fra baroniam de Strathalvach--terris de Craighead de Alva, et terris vocatis Keaw
in parochia de Alva.
June 15, 1648.-Patrioius Comes de Kinghorne, Dominus Lyon et Glames, haeres
masculus Joannis Comitis de Kinghorne, domini Lyon et Glames, patris,--in dimi-
dietate terrarum et Baronia de Montblairy et salmonum piscarise in dicta aqua de
Doverne; dirnidietate terrarum de Rylands, dimidietate Blacktown, Hairwood-hill,
(Herod-hill) Over Deuchries, dimidietate Auchinbadie cum piscatione, dimidietate
Stanieley, Balgray et Knockin.
August 5, 1669.--Christina, Isobella, et Elizabetha, Hackats, haeredes portionarise
Walteri Hackat de Meyen, patris,--in 3 aratris terrarum baroniea de Outlaw. viz.
8 bovatis terrae de Outlaw, et 4 bovatis terrae, villa, et terrarum de Brockiestown, 8
bovatis terrae villa et terrarum de Outlaw, et 4 bovatis terrae de Outlaw, apud molem-
dinum de Rosseburrie, extendentibus, in toto, ad 3 aratra terrarum infra parochiam de Alwach.
  October 29, 1695.--Johannes Commes de Strathmore et Kinghorne, &c. haeres
Patricii Comitis de Strathmore et Kinghorne, vicecomitis Lyon, dom.  Glamis--in
reliquo comitatus et praedii de Buchan, comprehendente (interalias)--terras de Mont-
blairy, Rylands, Deuchris, Blacktown, Hairwood Hill, Newton de Montbairy.


