
		          MAUCHLINE.                              167

of the late act of Parliament. These societies are most beneficial to
the place. They keep alive the spirit of independence, by prevent-
ing any of their members from falling on the parish funds, and thus
becoming regular paupers.
	A Savings Bank was established in 1815. The investments,
mostly from the labouring classes, amount to L. 900; the sums an-
nually invested about L. 140, while nearly as much is withdrawn.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid is 40. They are paid monthly, and receive
5s. each on an average. The funds arising from church collections,
mortcloth dues, &c. L. 50; the annual expenditure, L. 120. The
difference is made up by an assessment annually agreed to by the
heritors. None receive parochial aid but the aged and infirm,
such as are unable to work for their own support, and whose rela-
tions are unable to maintain them. It is considered degrading, so
that none but the necessitous make application.
	Prison.--About six years ago, a lock-up-house, consisting of
two cells, was built in the town. It is not designed as a place of
long confinement. It serves the purpose of intimidating the dis-
orderly.
	Fairs.--There are seven fairs in the town, chiefly for the buy-
ing and selling of cattle. There is also a horse-race in the end of-
April.'
	Inns, Alehouses,&c.--There are two very good inns, besides 15
alehouses and spirit-shops, but those who keep them commonly deal
in other articles, as grocery goods, &c. Alehouses, &c. are evi-
dently injurious to the morals of the people, as they lead to dissi-
pation, with all its ruinous consequences. The justices of the peace
in this district are careful that none obtain license but such as are
of a good moral character.
	Fuel, consisting chiefly of coal, is brought from the neighbour-
ing parish of Auchinleck, and also from the parish of Riccarton, a
distance of eight miles, and costs. 8s. per ton. Peat is procured
from the parish of Sorn, and costs 4s. per cart.

        	  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the last Statistical Account was written, many importan
alterations have taken place. The inhabitants are now better edu-
cated, consequently more intelligent. Those superstitious obser-
vances which were formerly counted oracular, and in which impli-
cit confidence was pla ced, are now altogether neglected, or prac-
tised- merely for amusement. The existence of ghosts, witches,
&c. is now discredited. Fanaticism and bigotry hide their dimi-


