
                                KINLOSS.                       211

much obviated by numerous active and skilful pilots, who under,
stand the windings so well, that little damage has ever occurred,
-one vessel only of all that have entered.for the last forty years
having been injured; and even this accident was said to have been
occasioned by the fault of the master. The truth is, that both
the run at the entrance and the harbour itself are capable of re-
ceiving much larger vessels than usually frequent them. The
depth of water in the shallowest part of the channel is 10 1/2 feet
during the lowest neap-tide, and in stream tide it is from 13 to 17
feet, being greater than that of any other barbour on the coast
from Aberdeen to Invemess. The bay, from the bar at the north
to its termination south, is three and a half miles long, its breadth
varying from five-eighths of a mile to two miles. A great part of
it is dry at low water; but in the run of the river, which, in some
places, is about half a mile broad, there is, at the lowest ebb of
stream tides, from 12 to 15 feet water, and the largest vessels
which enter lie afloat at low water in perfect safety.
     Skip-building.-This is a branch of trade which has of late been
carried on with considerable spirit, under the auspices of Mr Tho-
mas Davidson, and other enterprising merchants. They have
brought a, ship-carpenter from the south, who has settled in the
place, and employs about twelve men. For the last five years ten
vessels altogether, built of the fine oak and larch of Darnaway,
have been sent off the stocks into the watery element.
     Ecclesiastical State.-Kinloss, disjoined from Alves, Rafford,
and Forres, was erected into a separate parish in 1657. The
patrons are the Earl of Moray and Brodie of Lethen. After the
Reformation, the abbey was for some time used as a place of wor-
ship, and might have so been to this day, had not its dilapidation
early taken place, as already narrated. The present church was
built in 1765, and in 1830 it underwent a thorough repair; but,
although too small for the accommodation of the parish, the heri-
tors would not enlarge it. The kirk-session, however, with their
consent, made an addition to it, capable of accommodating 200
additional,sitters, and now there is sufficient room for all the church-
going population. The people belong all to the Establishment,
with the exception of one family of Independents, consisting Of
man and wife, and another of Episcopalians, two members even of
which are in communion with the church. The attachment felt
towards the Church is strong, and the contributions annually made
in behalf of its religious schemes liberal, being between L. 13


