
                         KIRKCALDY.                     761

duty on spirits sent to England being now paid in Scotland,
whereas, prior to 1826, this duty was paid in England.  The in-
crease would have been L.40,000 more, bad not the duties on
beer, candles, tiles, leather, and salt been repealed since 1819.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands upon the rising
ground to the north of the High Street, near the middle of the
town,-a convenient situation for the population.  It was erected
in 1807.  It is large and handsome, and Gothic in its style.  It
is oblong, with the pulpit at the end of it, and contains 1500 sit-
tings.  The fitting up and finish of its interior are chaste, without
any superfluity of ornament ; and it has an air of elegance supe-
rior to what is commonly met with in churches in Scotland.  The
building, from its style and elevated situation, would be an orna-
ment to the town, were its architectural effect not destroyed by
part of an old tower being attached to the west end of it, which is
not only in itself devoid of beauty, but is destitute of historical in-
terest, and even of the common attraction of a ruin, which, in the
Lestimation of antiquarians, might have justified its preservation, to
deface an elegant building, and offend the eye of strangers.  It
must indicate to strangers either a scarcity of money, or a want of
taste in the inhabitants.  Its removal, and the erection of a tower
or spire, which would form a prominent and commanding object
from Leith to the mouth of the Frith of Forth, bave long been
projected and talked of, but have hitherto been prevented, chiefly
from the difficulty of raising the requisite funds.
   The age of the old church was unknown.  It was repaired and
enlarged in 1643.  It required repairs in 1806 that would have
cost L.700.  Instead of expending such a sum in repairs, the he-
ritors resolved to erect a new church, if money for this purpose
could be raised.  The novel method adopted by the heritors to
free themselves from the expense of erecting it, has done much
to restrict accommodation for the parishioners in the present
church.  Instead of providing funds by an assessment, as law di-
rects, they resolved to procure plans, and to ascertain, before pro-
ceeding to build, what sum could be realized by the sale of pews.
After the plan of the proposed church had been exhibited for the
inspection of the inhabitants, a committee of the heritors, appoint-
ed for the purpose, proceeded to sell the pews by public roup.  In
the articles and conditions of sale, the following clause was insert-
ed : " in case a sum sufficient for finishing the church shall not
be received from the sale of seats, it will be in the power of the


