
50                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

been broken and removed, in order to give place to the plough;
yet the outline of the circle may still be traced, which has been
of considerable extent. There is an upright stone at no great
distance, connected, probably, with this ancient place of supersti-
tious worship, but of which the express use is not now known.
   On the top of Bowden Hill are the traces of a camp, with a
deep trench surrounding it. Some antiquarians term it a Roman
camp; but its circular, or rather oval shape, scarcely permits it
to be regarded as Roman. Some term it Danish, which is at
least equally, improbable, as this district was never peculiarly sub-
ject to the incursions of those invaders. Tradition gives no in-
formation respecting it, and history is equally silent. On the
Lochcote Hills, in the immediate vicinity, there is a large cairn,
and not far from it have been found several stone-coffins, which,
being opened, were found to contain human bones. A very dim
and uncertain tradition speaks of some bloody battles having been
fought in this neighbourhood, but states nothing as to the date,
or the parties between whom the contest was waged.
   On the rising grounds above the Loogie Burn, there were se-
veral stone coffins found a few years ago, of a very simple con-
struction, being merely thin stones set on edge, to mark the
length and breadth of the grave, with one long flat stone-cover
laid upon them; the bottom being merely the natural sand of
which that ridge is composed.  Nothing is known respecting the
time or cause of these sepultures, beyond the usual vague tradition
of battles in times immemorial.
   Bridge Castle still remains in Dearly its original condition,
though shorn of its original splendour. It was formerly the seat
of the Earls of Linlithgow, and still shows remains of its former
importance in a few trees of great age and considerable magnitude,
especially in height, by which it is partially surrounded.
   About two miles to the south-west, may, by diligent search, be
discovered the ruins of the foundation of Ogilface Castle, the seat
of the ancient family of De Bosco, Barons of Ogilface.  It fell at
lenght into the hands of the Earls of Linlithgow, and upon the
fall of that family, ceased to exist as a barony, and was sold in
portions to different proprietors, the chief of whom is now R.C.
Buchanan,  Esq. It must have been a place of some strength,
though of no great size, as appears from the outline of the ruins of
the faundation, as far as that can be still traced.
   Bedlormie has also been a place of considerable antiquity and


