
438                       FORFARSHIRE.

ant on procuring the necessary quantities of peat' or coal, seem to
be the chief hinderances to its being more generally prepared,
both for building and manure. Towards the south part of Cor-
tachy, near to the base of the Milehill, there is a large vein of
blue slate. It has been partially wrought; but the slates are so
small and brittle, as not to be considered of sufficient value to de-
fray the expense of working. It is not unlikely that greater exer-
tions than have hitherto been made in this parish to procure good
slate, may yet be attended with the wished-for success.
	Soils.-There are various kinds of soil in the united parish. A
considerable portion of the arable lands consists of a sharp gravel,
inclining in several places to a fine gravelly loam, and in other
parts to a thin, bard, and stony soil, or to sand. In the southern
district of the parish, the soil has a considerable quantity of clay
in its composition, incumbent on a till or mortar subsoil. On the
bases of the hills, a considerable portion of the soil is fine and
deel, other parts of it are thin, hard, and stony, or contain large
quantities of moss. In the valleys of Wateresk and Clova there
is a great quantity of alluvial soil formed from the sediment of the
waters; it is rather inclined to sand, with particles of moss in its
composition, giving it a dark brown colour. In comparison with
the other soils, it may be termed a deep sandy loam. Most of
the lands where this soil prevails have been cultivated, and, in or-
dinary dry seasons, yield excellent crops of various kinds. When
the summers are rainy, the crops are apt to be more or less injur-
ed by the overflowing of the waters of the Esk. This Injury to
which the crops are exposed has, of late years, been very much
diminished, by the numerous drains which have been formed, at
great expense, for carrying off the stagnant waters, as soon as the
channel of the river can receive them. Those parts of the above
soil which remain uncultivated, produce abundant crops of grass,
fit either for pasture or bay.
	Boulders, many of them of large size, are to be found in the se-
veral soils. These are easily accounted for, from their nearness
to the rocks on the sides of the mountains from which they have
been separated.
        Zoology.-Wild quadrupeds found in the united parish: Red-
deer, roebuck, common hare, alpine or white hare, fox, polecat,
otter, badger, rabbit, weasel, hedgehog, &c.-Wild birds: Gold-
en eagle, erne, hawk,  glede, heron, raven, hooded-crow, rook, jay,
moorfowl, ptarmigan, black-cock, wild-duck, partridge, snipe, teal-
dock, starling, water and ring-onzels, fieldfare, rail, &c.



