
434                         ARGYLESHIRE.

ing gradually from the stream of Coniglen, which flows part it on the
south-east. It was built in the year 1774, and is at present in a
good state of repair. It is capable of accomodating 600 persons.
The sittings are all free.
  The manse was built in the year 1818. The extent of the
glebe is 8 acres 1 rood, Scotch measure, and may be valued at
L. 15 Sterling. The amount of the stipend is L.58, 9s. 9 1/4d.,
paid by the heritors, with an allowance of L.8, 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements; and L.91, 10s. 7d. more is allowed from the
Exchequer.
  There is also, as already stated, a Relief meeting-house, which
was built in 1798, when a number of the lovland tenants who did
not relish sermons in the Gaelic language, applied to the late
Duke of Argyle for ground to build a place of worship, which he
was pleased to grant; but as the bulk of the population are High-
landers, and as many of the Lowlanders have emigrated to
America, it is but thinly attended.
  Education.-There are four schools in the parish,-a parochial
school; one connected with the Society in Scotland for Propa-
gating Christian Knowledge; one in the east side of the parish,
at Glenhervie, to which His Grace the Duke of Argyle gives L.4;
and an unendowed school. Parochial schoolmaster's salary, L.34,
4s. 4 1/2d.; fees, L.30: total, L.64, 4s. 4 1/2d. Society schoolmas-
ter, L.16 from the Society; from the Duke of Argyle, L.5; fees,
L.10: total, L.31. The parochial schoolmaster has the legal ac-
commodations.*

<FOOTNOTE>I beg to mention one well authenticated circumstance, for the purpose of show-
ing how high our privileges are, compared with those of our forefathers in this
country. About one hundred and forty years ago, there appears to have been a great
scarcity of Bibles in the parish. There was an Irish Bible, the property of the kirk-
session, the gift of the illustrious Boyle. I find in the old records of the presbytery
of Kintyre, an urgent application from Mr M'Neill of Tirfergus, a respectable he-
ritor of the parish, for the use of this Bible. The following particulars are extracts
from the records of presbytery. "At Campbeltown, 3d August 1692, for as much
as John M'Neill of Tirfergus addressed the presbytery for the loan of the Irish Bible
gifted by Sir Robert Boyle to the parish of Southend, in Kintyre, for the use of the
ministers that shall be in the said parish, promising that he will have special care of
it, and that he shall return it upon demand,-the presbytery considering the pre-
sent vacancy of Southend, the presbytery condescends that Mr Robert Duncanson
(in whose custody the said Bible is at present) deliver the same to the said John
M'Neill, he being obliged to return the same in as good order as he now received it
to the future minister of the said parish, or to any other whom the presbytery of
Kintyre shall appoint, under the penalty of such a sum as the presbytery shall no-
minate."
  "At Campbeltown, the 14th December 1692, forasmuch as the presbytery con-
vened at Campbeltown, the 3rd day of August 1692, allowed Mr Robert Duncaston
to give to John M'Neill of Tirfergus the use of the Irish Bible bestowed by Mr R.
Boyle on the parish of Southend, the said John M'Neill giving in his obligation
to be accountable for the same, Mr Robert Duncaston declared that he did deliver


