

278                         INVERNESS-SHIRE.

population, without making any provision adequate for their sup-
port. The proprietor, with humane intentions, divided the vari-
ous hamlets into lots and crofts of small extent, for the purpose of
supplying each family with less or more possessions. But this is
not all; the people themselves having once seen the system in-
troduced, went on for years dividing and subdividing their small al-
lotments, that they might share them in trifling patches with their
sons and daughters, who, by these means, branched out into sepa-
rate families, built separate dwellings, and thus multiplied with
amazing rapidity. Farms, in this manner cut tip and mutilated,
cannot possibly yield what will pay the rents and support their oc-
cupiers. To effect both these ends, there is an annual efflux of
men and women to the south country in quest of employment,
which is but a toilsome resource, attended with no real benefit.
The lands are consequently left to the management of the aged
and infirm, and to children who cannot be expected to effect any
improvements, even were the system acted on more adapted than
it is for that purpose.
   Besides the families just mentioned, who occupy distinct por-'
tions of land by subset or otherwise, there is a vast number of poor
cottars, who have no lands, but live directly or indirectly on those
who have. The means to which they resort for this purpose are,
to obtain patches of ground from their neighbours for raising po-
tatues and a little corn, on what is called Leth- coise," or the
half-foot system. By this system the farmer or crofter gives
only the ground, and one-half of the seed to the cottar, who tills
it, and manures it if necessary with sea-ware, (Alga marina,) then
supplies the other half of the seed, and returns the one-half of the
whole produce in harvest to the land occupier, as a compensation
for the use of the ground.
   Another great bar in the way of improvements, is the want of
horses and ploughs to till the ground. The divisions of land are
in general so small, that most of the tenants are unable to main-
tain even one horse.  The crofter, therefore, must till his posses -
sions with his own hands! The instrument which he uses for this
purpose is the "cas-chr6m" or crooWed-spade. This primitive
kind of utensil resembles the stilt of a plough, with a straight piece
of wood attached to the lower end of it, forming an obtuse angle,
and having a socket of iron called the "ceap," on tlje part which
enters the ground. - The stilt is held with both hands, and the
lower part or, sole is driven into the ground by means of a peg,


