
                        FALA AND SOUTRA.                    535

and waters, which now stretch extensive to the eye, give such a
throb of pleasure to the heart as is not to be described." l* Even
after his descent from Soutra's ridge to the lower but still elevat-
ed region, this pleasure of the tourist is prolonged. Seldom is
the view of so many noted and lovel spots included within a drive
of a couple of miles.  The beautiful villa and grounds of Woodcot,
adorned by the cascade of Linndean, forcing its troubled waters
through the gorge which there divides Soutra from Humbie,
lies immediately beneath the road.  The beautifully undulating
parish of Humbie, its lovely hills cultivated or planted to their
summits, its retired valleys giving shelter to many a comfortable
mansion, and its meandering streams diffusive of beauty and fer,
tility, next spreads itself along the northern base of Lammermoor.
There the ancient sites of Hamilton and Fala Halls, (although
their mansions are now deserted and dismantled,) by the sin-
gular beauty of their situation, their cultivated fields and wooded
inclosures, and their intersecting rills,-and then the church on
the summit of a " law," + with its adjacent village, also occupying
a commanding situation, with the commodious inn of Blackshiels,
a village in itself,-and the mansion-houses of Whitburgh and
Costerton, the one on an elevated, the other in a retired and most
romantic situation,-afford every variety of delight to the lover of
the picturesque.  At some miles distance, Saltoun Hall elevates
its imposing, front, displays its extensive plantations, occupying the
whole extent of a lovely valley: and Elphinstone tower, occupying
a lofty summit, lifts up its embattled walls on high.  Within a still
wider range, but still, by the aid of a clear sky, within the sphere
of distinct Vision, are the town and environs of Haddington,--
then, Traprain Law, the Bass, the Isle of May, Berwick-Law,
the Earl of Hopetoun's Monument, Inchkeith, Arthur's Seat, and
between it and the Pentland hills, the Castle of Edinburgh, con-
spicuous in all its strength and majesty, delight and astonish by
their multiplied attractions.  Still farther, the Forth, its shipping
and steamers quite discernible,' and beyond, the Lomonds and
Laws of Fife in full view, to the East Neuk itself, complete a
landscape of extraordinary beauty.
  Climate.-The climate is very salubrious, although the air is
sharp and sometimes loaded with fogs caused by the wet and

<FOOTNOTE>Former Statistical Account.
     Chalmers in his Caledonladerives the name Pala from Fab, oftheAnirloSaxon.
which signifies "speolkled," and "law," the sort of hill on which the church stands.



