
                 PARISH OF COLDINGHAM,

PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

         THE REV. JAMES HOME ROBERTSON, MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE origin of the name Coldingham. cannot be dis-
tinctly traced. It is most probably Saxon; in which language
Ham signifies a village, Col-den a cold vale,-these terms correctly
describing the situation of the present village, which is much expos-
ed to cold winds from the east and north-east.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is of great extent, and of
a very irregular figure;-its extreme length from cast to west being
12 miles; its breadth 9. It comprehends about 57,600 impe-
rial acres, upwards of 5000 of which, termed Coldingliam com-
mon, are moorland, scarcely capable of cultivation. It is bound-
ed on the north-cast and north by the German Ocean, and the
opening into the Firth of Forth at St Abb's Head; on the north-
west and west by Cockburnspath parish; on the south-west by
the parishes of Abbey St Bathans and Bunkle; on the south by
Chirnside; and on south-east and east by the parishes of Ayton
and Eyemouth.
   It is still one of the largest parishes in the county of Berwick,
and previous to the Reformation it comprehended most of the pa-
rishes just mentioned as at present constituting its boundaries. It
was then termed in its charters Coldinghamshire. It is very un-
even in its surface. A range of hills forming part of the Lammer-
moor range runs in parallel lines from east to west, intersected by
valleys of considerable extent, and by numerous small streams.
None of these hills are of great elevation; the highest, Wardlaw
Bank, is 640 feet above the level of the sea; and the largest of
these streams is the Eye, which, after traversing the whole length
of the parish, falls into the sea at Eye mouth.
   Caves, &c.-Numerous caves and fissures, formerly the haunts of
smugglers, exist in the neighbourhood of St Abb's Head, some of
these of considerable dimensions, excavated out of the solid reek,


