
64                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

trees, De Candolle of Geneva calculates their average annual in-
crease in diameter at one-twelfth of an inch,-which is more than
double of what is shown in this table; and by that rule the age of
the one yew is 404 years, and of the other, 492. If we assume
that the increase of the oak, as in the table, is 15 inches in cir-
cumference, or 5 in diameter, during a period of forty years;
then, on the supposition that its growth has been equable, the age
of the tree is 424 years. The age of the silver fir is known to be
about 100 years, while it nearly equals the oak, however old it
may be, in circumference, and, from its greater height, exceeds it
in cubic contents.
                        II.--HISTORY.
  Land-owners.--The greater part of the parish belonged, at an
early period, to the family of Montrose, who still retain the supe-
riority, though they have alienated all the property but one farm.
Originally, the patron of a church was proprietor of the parish an-
nexed to it. In 1429, six churches, Cambuslang, Tarbolton,
Eaglesham, Luss, Kirkmahoe, and Killearn, were, with consent of
the patrons, erected into prebends of the cathedral of Glasgow.*
Vicars were appointed afterwards to these parishes; and, as an il-
lustration of their comparative opulence, the stipend assigned to
Killearn was fifteen merks, while that of the others was twenty.+ In
that erection, Patrick Lord de Graham is mentioned as patron of
Killearn. In 1560, William, second Earl of Montrose, gave to
his youngest son, by a charter of that date, the lands of Killearn,
lbert, and Drumbeg. + A descendant of that family represented
the county in the British Parliament, during the earlier part of
last century. When he entered England, be could not fail to ob-
serve the nakedness of his native land. He was the first in this
district who attempted, by plantations, to improve the climate, and
to adorn the country. Besides the usual forest trees, of which
tbere, are many beautiful specimens at Killearn, he was among the
first that introduced the larch into Scotland. From want of time-
ly thinning, the larch trees have not thriven, as they are remarka-
ble only for extreme height; many of them being 100, and one

<FOOTNOTE>Chartulary of Glasgow, in Connel on Tythes, Vol. iii. Appendix, No. 13.
  The following table shows the rent of Luss and Killearn at later times:-
    Luss, Valued rent 1656, L. 1500 Scots.  Real rept 1841, L.7000.
    Killearn,     Do           2840 Do.          Do.          6900.
     Douglas' Peerage- Article Montrose. These names continue still unchanged.
lbeert, according to Dr Macleod of St Columba's, Glasgow, signifies the Well of
Sacrifice, equivalent to Holywell in Ireland. Drumbeg is Celtic for little ridge.


