
               NEILSTON.                             347
arithmetic, and there are four female schools where the common
branches of education, with needle-work are taught. The num-
ber of scholars at all of these schools amounts to about 1000.
The parochial teacher has the maximum salaryi but his garden
ground is deficient When the present school and school-house are
finished, he will have one of the finest schoolhouses in the county,
and double the amount of accommodation which the law allows hin't.
Though education is cheap, there are numbers of the young
between six and fifteen years of age. who cannot read or write, and
not afew upwards of fifteen years of age who are in the same situa-
tion.Their number cannot be ascertained precisely, as tliev are
oftenunwilling to acknowledge their ignorance. They are chiefly
Irish.These persons bitterly lament their want, and, with the
greatbody of the people, are keenly alive to the beDefitS of edu-
cation, and anxious, to have their children taught., The number of
schools and scholars in the parish is the best evidence of this.
What is wanting in such a wealthy parish as this is an ae-a-
demy placed in a central locality between Neilston and Barrheadi
Grahamstor; and Newton Ralston, where the higher branches of
education would be taught by well qualified and approved teachers.
This is a desideratu?n which the present minister has long pointed
out as well worthy of `ttention.
Notwithstanding the prevalence of education, it must be aflirm.
ed that among the lower orders of the people, dissipation, the
profadatioii of the Lord's day, and uncleanliness, are as common as
ever. The Sabbath schools have not made the youth more observant
than before of the fifth commandmen L Respect for superiors is
seemingly laid aside; and the conduct of boys, adults ajid men, at the
elections for a member of Parliament, has only to be witnessed, to
convince any one that education has not purified their hearts, bet-
tered their dispositions, humanized tbeir,feelings, or rendered their
manners more courteous. . Politics, faction, and party spirit, at
such tiles, seem to take Christianity out of their hearts, if it
ever was in iL Kindness is only preserved for friends; and the
most rancorous and savage dispositions are cherished foreirwmie
Their cry is liberty; yet the liberty they take to themselves
they wlU not allow to others. Indeed, education never has,
and never will have, any real permanent eitect ou the mind and
manners of - mankind, unless it be'a Christian education, which
alone can bring forth the fruits of righteousness,-" Glary -to God
in the bighest,,on earth peace, and    d will to the dhildren of men,
                    900

