
     Statistical Account

small burdens, this sum is distributed among the poor, who
are satisfied.  They understand their effects, at death, to be-
long to the funds; but this is rather a preventive of impro-
per application, than any source of emolument, there being
seldom occasion to demand hoarded substance from relations.
In 1783, by the exertions of charity within the parish, with
a small allowance of meal from government, the poor were
supplied, and some families extraordinarily helped, without
encroachment on the funds.  That season increased the spi-
rit of industry, repressed intemperance, and introduced, by
importation, some new and earlier kinds of oats into this
country.-In 1787, three fishermen, loss off the Cove, left
widows, children, and depending relatives, for whom, besides
the collections in this and the neighbouring parish, a sub-
scription was opened in Aberdeen, and, from the generous
humanity of persons there, and some others, near 60 L. were
contributed.  In 1790, 6 men perished, leaving 5 widows
and 25 children, one half helpless, for whom, by the heri-
tors, by collections in the nearer parishes, and principally in
Aberdeen, above 131 L. were contributed.  Both there sums,
under the management of some gentlemen, do afford an aid
half yearly to the poor families; and the children are taught
and inured to industry, promising to fill the place of their
fathers in an useful, and not easily supplied employment.  In
view to the helpless condition of a fisherman in old age, any
savings through life being almost unknown to him, in 1772 a
plan was proposed to the fishers in Torry, to give in 2 s. 6 d.
each, and 1 s. annually; some captains of ships, and others,
adding a little gratuitously.  There was an odd 2 d. in the
division of their pilotage fare, which they added.  By the
attention of some gentlemen, natives of this place, the mo-
ney, allowed to accumulate on interest, without distribution,
for 10 years, has risen to 170 L. and 11 L. are annually divid-


