
			   MONEYDIE.                           205

kind of soil, and to find nourishment where hardly any other trees
will grow, there is little doubt that it will turn out a profitable
mode of employing waste land.
  Rent.-The rent of arable land varies from 1Os. to L. 3 per
acre.  The average in the old parish is about L. 1, 10s., and in
Logiealmond L. 1, 3s.  The real rent of the whole parish is about
L. 7800, whereof about L. 3700 are in Loglealmond.  The valued
rent is L. 3023 Scots.
  Improvement.-That great improvements have been introduced
into the practice of agriculture within the last forty years, are suf-
ficiently indicated by the fact, that the rental of the parish, which
was then only L. 2600, is now exabtly trebled; a circumstance
which cannot be attributed to any rise that has taken place in the
price of corn, for at the close of last century, the value of wheat
did not differ materially from that which it has borne for the last
five or six years.  Within the period before-mentioned, however,
an immense deal has been done in the way of draining, enclosing,
and improving waste land.  The system of run-rig, which then
prevailed to a great extent, is now completely abolished; numbers
of small pendieles are thrown together into One large farm ; and
land, which formerly afforded subsistence to a hundred or a hundred
and fifty individuals, is now in the possession of one tenant, not
giving food to above twelve or fifteen persons, but proportionably
augmenting the rent to the landlord.  From these, causes, together
with various improvements in agricultural irnplements,-the intro-
duction of new and improved seeds, better systems of rotation, and
in general the superior character of the whole mode of farm manage-
ment, land which used seldom to yheld more than three or four
returns, now produces eight or ten, and sometimes more.
  The most decided improvement that has of late years been in-
troduced is the application of bones as a manure for raising tur-
nips.  By means of this discovery, the farmer is now enabled to
apply the whold strength of his dunghill to his potatoe crop ; and
by sowing his turnips with bones, and then eating them off the
ground with sheep, his whole fallow break is completely manured,
and put in excellent order for the succeeding crop of barley.  The
advantages of this system are greal.  Of late years, the quantity
of potatoes raised in this part of the country, and exported to the
London market, has been very large.  With the low price of grain
for some time past, the chief dependence of many farmers for pay-
ing their rent has been upon the potatoe crop.  But experience


