
                           MARKINCH.                             659

Soon after the publication of the last Statistical Report, a company
from Newcastle, projected an iron-work on the Balgonie estate.
Much expense was incurred, and the scheme had a sufficient trial,
but ultimately proved unsuccessful, and the enterprising indivi-
duals engaged in it suffered considerable loss. It has long since
been abandoned. The stone, however, containing in some por-
tions as much as 80 per cent. ore, has frequently been exported
to the Tyne for smelting. At present the working of it inter-
feres with a seam of coal, and is entirely suspended.
   Balbirnie Coal.-The coal so denominated lies on both banks
of the Leven, principally on the estate of Balbirnie, but partly in
the lands of Rothes and Coull, in one continuous seam. A por-
tion of the field belonging to the Earl of Rothes has at different
times been leased to the proprietor of Balbirnie, who possesses pecu-
liar advantages for working it, as the greater portion of the coal that
is level free, and also more than half the under level, are in the Bal-
birnie estate. This coal was wrought at a very remote period, but
not extensively, previously to the year 1730,-when the nature of
the field was more accurately ascertained by means of bores,-
proceeding from the old wastes in the direction of the river, from
whence a mine carried across the metals, rendered the field level
free to a very considerable extent. In fact no otber means of
drainage seems to have been resorted to for a period of forty years,
during which time upwards of 365,000 tons of coals are computed
to have been raised and sold. The Balbirnie coal is now drained
by means of water-engines on the Leven; that on Coull by a
steam-engine.
   The field is somewhat irregular in shape, but approaches most
nearly the figure of an ellipse or horse-shoe. It is what is called
a Trough Coal. The dip of the Balbirnie seams is very irregu-
lar. On the east side it is sometimes 45&deg;, on the west 12&deg;. The
seams are three in number, and in thickness as follows:-1st Up-
per coal, a soft cherry, 1 foot 6 inches; 2d, Main seam, cherry
   The following is a section of the strata passed through in sink-
ing a bore on the south crop, near Newton Bridge, about half a
mile from the village of Markinch:

<TABLE>
                         Fath. Ft. In.                           Fath.   Ft.  In.
1. Surface,               0     1   6     4. Grave bed,           0      4     6
2. Sand, mixed with gra-                  5. Dark blue bleas      0      1     0
    vel,                  1     0   4     6. Whitish fire clay    0      2     6
3. Brown clay, mixed with                 7. White freestone with
    whinstone,            7     3   8        partings             2      3     8


