
     of Cross, Burness, etc.

this circumstance, too, the shores are more easily wrought.
5thly, As there are few high or craggy cliffs in these islands,
the crop is not in such danger in harvest from the sea spray,
which is often hurtful in other parts of this country.
   The disadvantages of these islands are as follows, 1st, Al-
though there is a great proportion of these islands in com-
mon or waste grounds, they have, through the scarcity of
fuel, been mostly cut up, and consequently produce but a ve-
ry short heath, on which, indeed, the cattle are let out to
pasture; but it yields but a scanty nourishment, and they
must be fed with straw, until the grass comes up, which is
not usually before June, as the fields are all open, and herd-
ing not in use till then.  2dly, There are no mosses in these
islands from which to cut peats, so that the inhabitants are
obliged to go over to the island of Eday, and cut them there,
which occasions them great trouble and expence.  Those few
who can afford it partly use coals from Newcastle, which, by
reason of the duty are dear; and therefore they justly consider
the duty as a great hardship, since it subjects the poor inha-
bitants of the extremity of the empire to the same expence in
this, as the rich inhabitants of the south, and to pay to go-
vernment, while those of the rich counties of Lothian and
Fife are exempted.  3dly, There are no ferrymen appointed,
which is a great inconvenience in going to and from these,
and many other islands in this county.  4thly, There are no
public or regular markets at which the farmers can sell the
produce of their farms, or supply themselves with what they
want to buy.  5thly, As almost all the proprietors reside else-
where, the rents are all carried away to be spent out of these
islands, and none of it returned either to labourers, or to the
poor in acts of charity and benevolence, (except 8 l. Sterling
yearly from Mr Traill, sheriff-depute of Caithness) as would
be the case if they were resident.  6thly, The weights are


