
     Of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen.

this office most of the letters directed to the parish
come*.

   Character of the Inhabitants, etc.-The people, in ge-
neral, are sober, industrious, humane, and ready enough
to follow any branch of business that they see clearly is for
their advantage.  The ground they have to labour, and
the method of labouring, show their industry and perse-
verance.  The number of poor they support, shows their
humanity; as also 2 shipwrecks that happened within
these 6 years.  In both instances, the poor sailors were
treated with kindness and humanity.  One of these ves-
sels was wrecked in Ross; and it is very remarkable,
that a quantity of cork, very useful, and much wanted
in the country for their nets, scattered over a strand of up-
wards of a mile in extent, was not touched by the in-
habitants, though many were too poor to buy it, even if
they had an opportunity.  It has been mentioned al-
ready, the attempts made by the Duke of Argyll to em-
ploy the idle hands in the country, in fishing and quar-
rying of marble.  He has now sent flax among them to
be spun; and as both men and women see their interests
very clearly, it is to be hoped, that his Grace's humane
intentions will, by degrees, have the effects he meant.

     VOL. XIV. D d

<FOOTNOTE>

*A few get their letters by Auchnacraig, which is at the distance of
24 computed miles from the point of Ross.  For some years back, the
private gentlemen in Ross and Brolass engaged a man, whom we call
a runner, to go once a week to Aross; but this year several of these gen-
tlemen going to the army, and others of them having removed to some
other parts of Mull, there is no runner; the few gentlemen remaining not
being able to employ one, the letters come, as opportnuninty of-
fers, from Aross post office.  They sometimes lie there for a month.
There is no way of remedying this evil, but by establishing a post
office at the head of Lochscridair; but perhaps this would be too
much expense for any benefit the public at large could receive from it.
Any letters directed to residenters in the parish, ought to be by Aross.


