
830                         FIFESHIRE.

Dunfermline, as in other places; and when trade was prosperous,
even to be exported to foreign parts.  Although it continued to
be wrought by crop-levels long after 1291, there was little expor-
tation till the middle of last century.  Even so late as 1763, the
writer of the last Statistical Account of the parish, states that the
annual value of exported coal was only L.200, and in 1771, that
it did not exceed L.500 Sterling.  The coal-mines became after
1771, and have continued to be, very lucrative to many of the pro-
prietors.  "From a remote period," the same writer records,
"the family of Pitferrane obtained from Government the privilege
of exporting these coals to foreign parts, free of all duty whatever.
The original privilege was renewed by Queen Anne, on Decem-
ber 21, 1706, and ratified in Parliament on March 21, 1707.  The
family continued to enjoy the privilege till 1788, when it was pur-
chased by Government for L.40,000 Sterling, when the property
that could injure the revenue was nearly exhausted."
   Although the coal in the parish has thus been dug for upwards
of five centuries, it is still most abundant.  Nearly 3000 acres are
calculated as still to work, a portion of that quantity having been
ascertained by general boring, and the rest conjectured on good
grounds to be of the coal-formation, with such interruptions, more
or less slight, as commonly occur in coal-fields.
   The coal-strata extend from Culalo Hills on the east to the
Saline Hills on the west, and pervade in that line of bearing the
whole of the parish of Dunfermline.  In some parts there have
been discovered 10 or 12 seams to the dip, the aggregate thick-
ness of which amounts to upwards of 40 feet, contained in beds
varying from a few inches to seven or eight feet in thickness.
These are different in quality as well as in thickness, but in gene-
ral improve towards the west.  By being divested of part of their
bitumen, they partake of more heat and durability, and, from a
hard splint, they become a rich caking cubical coal, until they
approach the trap hills, when they lose their bituminous quality
altogether, and are changed into a blind anthracite, or glance-coal.*
   Elgin Colliery.-The largest proprietor is the Earl of Elgin,
who possesses a coal-field, the whole area of which, wrought and
unwrought, may be stated at from 2600 to 2700 acres.
   The coal-seams are of various quality, and some of them, es-
pecially the deepest, are extremely valuable.  Almost all the coal

<FOOTNOTE> This coal is termed by the workmen in Fife, Rotten ratchell, or Foul rahill, and
is used in furnaces of steam-engines and breweries.
                                      1

