
26                       KINROSS-SHIRE.

connected with if, subjected to any pecuniary loss. The deposi-
tors received every farthing they had lodged in the bank, and that,
too, with bank interest.
   Notwithstanding the fate of the Savings Bank, and the trouble
which it occasioned to its managers, a new one has of late been set
afoot, and promises to do well. A new provident institution has
been in operation since May 1837. It transacts with the branch
of the British Linen at Kinross, receiving three instead of two per
cent., the common bank interest, and handing over deposits to the
British Linen, or to their owners, as soon as they amount to L.5.
There is in this, as in the former savings establishment, an auxiliary
fund.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
who at present receive Parochial aid under the joint management of
the heritors and kirk-session is 36; add for occasional paupers 4;
total 40. The average. sum allotted to each per week is from Is.
to 1s. 6d. The church collections in the support of the poor are
from L. 30 to L. 36.
   These collections, together with mortcloth dues, (which dues of
late have been much diminished,) are not sufficient to prevent an
assessment, which it is no wonder that heritors should dislike, see-
ing it falls entirely on them. But such a mode of provision ought
to be an object of aversion to every friend of the best interests of
the poor and the parish at large. It is most earnestly to be wish-
ed, that what is termed the Voluntary Principle, and which many,
besides Churchmen, think has nothing to recommend it in religion,
should have the fullest scope, and be more than ever acted on, in
the maintenance and management of the poor.
   A very common and commendable mode of occasional relief, in
cases of want and distress, unforeseen and urgent, is for two or more
respectable individuals to go about with a subscription paper, in
which they insert the names of subscribers, and the sums which
have been subscribed and paid.
   There are here neither alms nor poor-houses, and long may it
be so; but there is a sum of L. 100 Scots (L. 8, 6s. 8d. Sterling,)
distributed annually by the kirk-session among 17 females selected
by them, and whose chief recommendations are age, destitution,
and bodily infirmity. Each receives 10s. with the exception of
the last chosen, who gets only 6s. 8d. These females are said
to be on the .hospital list, because the distribution made to them
is in lieu of an hospital,


