
464                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

this charter provision is made for the recovery of these lands by
giving others of equal value in exchange. This circumstance is
remarkable, principally, as it has led him incidentally to mention
his lands of Dalkeith, which are here for the first time expressly at-
tached to the family of Graham.-To this charter his seal was
appended, and still remains entire. It is three escallops, without
any mark of cadency.
   He sat in the famous Parliament held at Brigham, in Berwick-
shire, in 1290,* to conclude a most important treaty between
England and Scotland, in consequence of the minority of Mar-
garet Princess of Norway; and, on her unexpected demise in
1292, be became One of the arbiters on the part of Robert Bruce,
in his competition with John Baliol for the crown of Scotland.+
He swore allegiance to Edward I. in 1296.+  He married Mary,
one of the heirs of the late Marjory of Muscamp, Countess of
Strathern, by whom he had a son and heir. He died in the reign
of Robert I. before the year 1316.
   Sir John de Graham succeeded his father, Sir Nicholas.
He gave a charter to the Abbey of Holyroodhouse about the
year 1303.**  He confirmed to the monks of Melrose the grants
made to them by his father, which were ratified by Robert I. on
the 25th December 1316. He made to the same monks a grant
of some lands in Eskdale, and also the patronage of Westerkyrker,
in the diocese of Glasgow, to each of which charters his seal is
appended.++  It is probable that it is this John de Graham
whose name is inserted in the famous letter of the barons of Scot-
land to the Pope in 1320. Being of the same name, he has been
confounded with Sir John de Graham of Dundaff, who so nobly
supported Wallace in defense of the liberties of his country, and
who fell in the disastrous Battle of Falkirk on the 22d July 1298.++
Sir John Graham of Dalkeith and Abercorn, on his decease, left
a son and two daughters.
   The second Sir John de Graham, son of the preceding, flou-

<FOOTNOTE>Rymer's Foedera, ii. 471. +Ibid. ii. 553.
Wood's Peerage, Vol. ii. 233
"Tenementum de Halsyntoun in vice. de Berwick, by Patrick Earl of March,
   whilks lands Maria, sponsa Nicholai de Grahame, militis et una haeredum
quondam Marjorize de Musco Campo, Comitisse de Stratherne, prafato Patricio, per
fustim et baculum sursum reddidit."-Robertson's Index, p.ii.38.
     Wood's Peerage, Vol. ii. 234 note.
     Ego Johannes de Graham, miles, filius, et haeres Domini Nicholai de Graham,
&c. Chart. of Melrose, Vol. ii. page 341. Bann. Club, Edin. 1837.
     Sir James Dalrymple's Coll., p.397.
     Wood's Peerage, Vol.ii. p. 234, note.
     Compare Dalrymple's Annals of Sootland, anno 1298, and note, Vol. i. P. 311,
with Chalmer's Caledonia, Vol. i. p. 547, note.
					   3


