
2                      SELKIRKSHIRE.

   Topographical appearance, Climate, &c.-The parish is com-
pletely of a hilly character; but, from being all very elevated, the
different peaks have not that marked appearance they otherwise
would have. The most remarkable lie between the Ettrick and
Tweed. Of these the Three Brethren Cairn is 1978 feet, and
the Peat Law 1964, above the level of the sea. The mean tem-
perature of the atmosphere, as given in the former account, is 43
of Fahrenheit; the medium height of the barometer 29 2/10; and
the mean quantity of rain 31 1/2 inches. The rivers are the Ettrick,
Yarrow, and Tweed. Their course through the parish is east-
ward. They are of the most romantic character, and their banks
beautifully wooded.
   Selkirk parish presents few features worthy the attention of the
geologist. The rocks belong to the transition series, and are chief-
ly greywacke, greywacke-slate, clay-slate, &c. which are disposed
in strata in general pretty highly inclined, and ranging from N. W.
to N. E. None of the more rare or useful minerals are to be
met with. * The soil is light and dry, and in consequence the
crops are early. The whole parish, and all the surrounding
district, as already noticed, was in early times one vast forest, of
which the only traces now left are a few bare and stunted trees,
overhanging the Ettrick and Yarrow; and for a long time there was
scarcely the semblance of a wood to be met with. But of late, proprie-
tors more alive to their true interest, have manifested considerable
care in planting those parts of their estates unfit for pasture or agri-
culture; and there are now, particularly about the Haining and
Bowhill, large forest, which in a few years must prove very pro-
ductive, and even at present furnish a quantity of annual thinnings.
The trees best adapted to the soil seem to be the common pine,
birch, and oak. There is no natural wood; but it is affirmed,
that, were the hills left to the free and unfettered operations of
nature, forests of spontaneous growth would immediately spring
up and cover the face of the country.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-The parish, from its contiguity to the borders
of the kingdom, was frequently the scene of predatory incursions, and
its inhabitants furnished their quota in many of the most celebrated
wars of the Scottish kings. So early as the twelfth century, we find

<FOOTNOTE>For other particulars relative to the Natural History of this district, see the Ac-
count of Yarrow, p. 30, et seq.



