
                            MAXTON.                             119

and granted by Robert I. to the cannons of Jedburgh, and this grant
was confirmed by Robert II. in 1395.
   About a mile to the west of the place where the village of Ru-
therford formerly was, stand the ruins of Littledean Tower, beau-
tifully situated on a high banks of the river, and once a place of
some strenght. It was long the residence of the kerrs of Little-
dean,-a family of some note on the borders; but it was finally
deserted by them about a century ago, since which time it has fal-
len into complete decay.
   On a high ridge between the parishes of Maxton and Ancrum
was fought the battle of Ancrum muir, in which the Scots, under
the Earls of Arran and Angus, obtained a great victory over the
forces of Henry VIII., commanded by Sir Ralph rivers and Sir
Bryan Laiton. A young female, caalled Lilliard, fought on the
side of the scots, like another Joan of Arc, and fell in this battle.
She was buried on the spot, and a stone erected over her remains,
which is yet standing, and in homely rhymes commemorates her
desperate valour and untimely fate. The place yet retains the
name of Lilliard's Edge.
   On the declivity of the hill, and near this place, are the vesti-
ges of a Roman camp; and close by the west side of it, there passes
a Roman road, which crosses the Tiviot near the mouth of Jed
water, and the Tweed near Melrose. This road goes along the
whole western boundary of the parish, and in one part of its course
is very entire, and planted over with trees, though in another it is
now nearly, or rather altogether, obliterated by the operations of
agriculture.
                      III.-POPULATION.
   It appears by the return made to Dr Webster in 1755, that the
whole parish then contained only 397 souls. Twenty-seven years
after, the number was reduced to 326. In 1801, the Parliamen-
tary census states it at 368; in 1811, it was 438; in 1821, it had
risen to 463; and in 1831, it was 461. As there are no towns, vil-
lages, manufactories, or employment of any kind but on the several
farms, the increase of population after 1782 must have been owing
to the improved and more extended cultivation of the soil which took
place after that time, and particularly to the introduction of the tur-
nip husbandry, which requires the assistance of more hands than
were wanted on the old system. In 1831, of the 461 inhabitants
of the parish, there were,



