
772                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

within these three years, has added large, works for the manufacture
of prussiate of potash, which confers a great benefit upon the poor
in the surrounding districts, who collect animal matter, such as
boofs, horns, rags, &c. and who find a ready sale for the same at
the manufactory. The residue from the manufacturing of this
article has been proved to be a most valuable manure, of which
several hundreds of tons are annually disposed of to the farmers in
the neighbourhood. There are upwards of 2000 tons of coals
consumed annually in then works.
   In addition to the above named, the spirited proprietor is now
erecting works for the manufacturing of ultramarine blue, which
has never yet been manufactured in Scotland, the art having
hitherto been chiefly confined to, find the trade principally sup-
plied from, the continent, where it has been carried on under letters
patent; and a similar protection we understand, it is the intention
of the proprietor to adopt.
   Miller and Arthur, Shore, Timber Bush and Little Carron,
manufacturers and exporters of colours, paints, and varnishes, re-
finers of animal and vegetable oils, and manufacturers of machin-
ery, railway, colliery, and waggon grease, employ about seventy
hands, men, women, and boys.
   The glass manufactories of Leith consist of seven cones,
which are capable of being used for all kinds of glass. At present,
the manufacture of bottles only is carried on, employing from
80 to 90 work-people; but it is hoped, now that the excise duty
has been repealed and all fiscal restrictions removed, that the
other branches of glass manufacture, viz. plate-glass, window-
glass, and crystal, will be immediately resumed, and that these
old and colebrated works will again present the enlivening bustle
and stir of former days, when every cone was in operation.
One of the cones is very old, having been built after the Re-
bellion in 1745 by the soldiers stationed in Edinburgh Castle, it
being impossible then, from the state of the times, to obtain any
brick-builder throughout the country. Bottles of large magni-
tude have been made at these works; and it is a matter of fact,
that at one time there was blown by a workman there, a bottle
equal to the size fully more that a hogshead.
   There are several cast-iron founderies connceted with Leith and
Edinburgh, saw-mills on the Water of Leith, soap and candle
works, rope-works, sail-cloth manufactories, and ship-building.


