
                116                    ORKNEY.

                The Bay of Picrowall is quite of a different description. * It is
             a remarkably fine basin, not above tbree-quarters of a mile broad
             at the entrance, but within wide and spacious, and nearly of a
             circular form. The bottom is sand, and excellent anchoring
             ground. The place being completely land-locked, any vessel
             moored in it is quite safe from every point of wind. But it is also
             too ebb for admitting vessels of a very large size. It may be
             deemed safe for all below 200 tons burden, but not above that
             size.
                The Bay of Noop, which faces the north, lies quite open and
             exposed to the fury of the Atlantic. With a gale blowing on shore,
             there is no safety for any vessel entering this bay; and not a few
             have met their sad fate from a reef of rocks that lie quite across
             the bay, called the Bow of Rackwick.
                The Bay of Rapness, at the opposite extremity of the island,
             looks to the south, and is also an open bay, and therefore far from
             being a safe, one, especially when the wind blows from any point
             touching the south or south-east.
                Headlands.-The principal headlands around this isle are the
             Noop-bead, or the stack of Noop, on the north; the flag of Inno-
             val on the west; the Knowe of Skae on the south-west; the Neve
             or Ness of Ackerness on the north-east; the Point of Rapness on
             the south-east; and Weatherness on the north-east, in the southern
	     extremity of the island. In the Island of Papay, as there are
             no bays, there may be said to be no headlands of any note.
                Meteorology.-The temperature of Westray may be said to be
             much on a par with that of the other islands or the country at
             large. The medium heat will be found to amount to 45&deg;; the
             range of the thermometer, between the extremes of cold in winter
             and heat in summer, from 25&deg; to 75&deg;; and that of the barometer,
             three inches.
                Hydrography.-This island is bounded on the south by a frith
             rapid and broad, which separates it from the Island of Ronsay and
             Eglisbay by a distance of about eight miles. It is called Westray
             Frith, and has its strength of current from the Atlantic rolling into
             it from the west, and the German Ocean from the east. One
             part of it is peculiarly dangerous, as, at a certain time of the
             tide, the last of the ebb, contrary currents meet, and rolling up

             <FOOTNOTE>There being originally a small pier erected at the head of the bay for boats the
             adjacent district is called Wall,-hence, Pier-o'-wall.
                                                 4


