
                         BORROWSTOWNNESS.                     125

one hundred and eighty years ago; and what is more deserving of no-
tice, as connected with the gradual changes which take place in es-
tuaries, he also observed growing on the shore, Thalictrum minus,
and Arundo arenaria, a strictly maritime plant, and so well known
to bind the loose sand of the sea shore; neither of which are now
to be seen; a circumstance of some importance, as it confirms the
supposition derived from other observations, that there has been a
great increase of the sleeches since Sibbald's time, and in some
spots even a change from a comparatively sandy to a muddy beach.
On searching the shore eastward, the same plants do not begin to
appear for several miles, until the shore changes its character.
   The natural copse wood of Kinneil, the only one in the county,
affords, as might be expected, some rather peculiar plants, among
which may be reckoned Betonica, officinalis, very rare in this part
of Scotland, and Habenaria albida, for which it is a singular sta-
tion, that being a plant of hilly pastures. It is chiefly in this wood
that the additions to the Scottish Cryptogamia were found, and
which will be afterwards specified. Geranium phaeum, Listera Ni-
dus-Avis, Arum maculatum, are a few of the rarer flowering plants
to be met with in the woods. In regard to the comparative pre-
valence of natural orders, the Graminiae are the most numerous
in species, the Orchidiae somewhat deficient. The common reed
fills the ditches and wet places of the carse lands. Poa aquatica,
and Festuca elatior, grasses of highly nutritive properties, are
abundant by the side of the Avon.
   Of the Cryptogamia, the Musci are not uninteresting. Hyp-
num murale and Tortula revoluta are frequent in old stone walls
about Kinneil. Tetraphis Browniana and Jungermannia furcata
occur in fruit; the latter very rare in the Dean plantation. Di-
cranum flexuosum covers the entire bank at Tod's Mill in abun-
dant fructification. Hypnum piliferum is common, but not in
fruit, although it may be obtained in that state about Hopetoun
woods, in the parish of Abercorn.
   Of the Lichenes and Algae, there is nothing particular to be
said. The marines are very scarce, from the nature of the beach.
   The Fungi now remain to be noticed, which, as they have not
been so extensively investigated in Scotland, as other plants, may,
on that account, be expected to afford greater novelties. The
agarics are particularly numerous. In this parish two localities
for these may be distinguished as abounding in kinds of generally
different forms and qualities. In the rich old pastures of Kinneil


