
     of Dunfermline.

charter of confirmation, the same monarch grants to the
abbey the seventh, (after the tithe,) of all the seals caught
at Kinghorn*.  Bastards, it would appear, were in gene-
ral excluded from monasteries; Pope Innocent+, at the re-
quest of the abbot of Dunfermline, grants him permission
to admit one bastard into the number of his monks with
this exception, "dummodo non fit de adulterio, vel in-
cestuofo coitu procreatus."  The first abbot of this mona-
stery was Gosfridus, formerly prior of Canterbury, ordain-
ed in the year 1128.  The last abbot was George Durie,
commendator and arch-dean of St Andrew's.  The ab-
bey was a magnificent and very extensive building, but
fell an early sacrifice to the barbarous policy of the Eng-
lish, being almost entirely burnt down by them, in the be-
ginning of the 14th century.  Edward I. of England win-
tered at Dunfermline in 1303.  "In that place there was
an abbey of the Benedictine order, a building so spacious,
that according to an English historian, three sovereign
princes, with all their retinue, might have been lodged

<FOOTNOTE>

*Malcolm IV. grants to the abbot and monks the heads, (the tongues
excepted), of certain fishes, supposed to be a small kind of whales caught
in some particular distinct of the Forth, near the abbey church.  The
words of the giant are,  "Pio salute animae predecessoris mei Davidis
Regis, capita piscium qui dicuntur crespeis praeter linguam, qui in meo
Dominio ex illa parte Scottwater applicuerint, in qua parte illorum Ec-
clesia fita cst."  Malcolm IV. likewise gave them a grant of the half of
the blubber (dimidium sagiminis) of the crespeis, or small whales, which
should be taken between the Tay and Forth for the use of the church,
"ad luminaria coram altribus prenominatae Ecclefiae."-Several indul-
gences granted by different pontiffs are recorded in the chartulary of this
abbey.  As oil of olives could not be procured within the diocese of St
Andrew's, Pope Nicholas, by bull in 1459, grants a free indulgence to
make use of butter, (et aliis lacticiniis) during Lent, and on all other
days when animal food was forbidden.

   +It does not appear which of the pontiffs of that name.


