
     Statistical Account

   Near the kirk of this parish, there is a fountain once high-
ly celebrated, and anciently dedicated to St. Michael.  Many
a patient have its waters restored to health, and many more
have attested the efficacy of their virtues.  But, as the pre-
siding power is sometimes capricious, and apt to desert his
charge, it now lies neglected, choked with weeds, unho-
noured, and unfrequented.  In better days it was not so; for
the winged guardian under the semblance of a fly, was never
absent from his duty.  If the sober matron wished to know

<FOOTNOTE>

shipped rivers, and had no divinities appropriated to them.  Several ancient au-
thorities, however, might be adduced to evince the contrary.  Gildas expressly
says, "Ut omittam," talking of the Britons, "montes ipso', aut colles, aut flu-
vios, quibus divinus honor a creco tunc populo cumulabatur."  The vulgar in
many parts of the Highlands, even at present, not only pay a sacred regard to
particular fountains, but are firmly persuaded that certain lakes are inhabited
by spirits.  In Strathspey, there is a lake still called Loch-nan Spioradan; the
lake of spirits.  Two of these are supposed frequently to make their appearance,
the one under the form of a horse beautifully caparisoned, with golden trap-
pings.  With the bit of his bridle, the anti-conjurer of this parish expels jea-
lousy, and cures other maladies of the mind.  The other under that of a bull
docile as Jupiter wasting Europa over the Hellespont.  The former is called,
an each uisg, the horse of the water; the latter, an taru uisg, the bull of the
water.  The inhaidan mhare, or mermaid, is another spirit supposed to re-
side in the waters.  Before the rivers are swelled by heavy rains, she is fre-
quently seen, and all the attributes of a beautiful virgin ascribed to that part
of her person that is visible.  Her figure is enchanting, and her voice melodious
as that of the Syrens.  But fair as she is, her appearance never fails to announce
some melancholy accident on her native element.  It is always considered as a 
sure prognostication of drowning.
   In Celtic mythology to the above named, is added a fourth spirit.  When the
waters are agitated by a violent current of wind, and streams are swept from
their surface and driven before the blast, or whirled in circling eddies aloft in
the air, the vulgar, to this day, consider this phenomenon as the effect of the
angry spirit operating upon that element.  They call it by a very expressive
name, the mariach shine, or the rider of the storm.  Anvona is also reckoned
as a divinity of the waters, derived from anfadh, a storm or hurricane, a com-
pound from an, a particle of privation, and feadh, serenity, tranquillity.
 

