
404                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

  Agricultural Society.-At the suggestion of James Douglas,
Esq. of Cavers, and under the patronage of his Grace the Duke
of Buccleuch, an Agricultural Society for the west of Teviotdale
was formed here in 1835.  The object of this association is, to
promote the interests of agriculture in general, and more especial-
ly to give premiums for the most approved breeds of horses, cattle,
and sheep.  The parisher of Ancrum,  Ashkirk, Bedrule, Bow-
den, Cavers, Hawick, Hobkirk, Kirkton, Lilliesleaf, Minto, Ro-
berton, Southdean, and Wilton are comprehended within the sphere
of its operations; and the annual general meeting takes place at
Hawick on the first Thursday of August.  The probable advan-
tages of this association, it being yet in its infancy, it is scarcely
possible to estimate at present.  In the meantime, however, it
promises well; and from the support it has already received, and
the encouragement to competition and improvement it holds out,
it is not unreasonable to expect that it will ultimately be of great
benefit to the district.
  Manufactures.-In this place, employment is afforded to a con-
siderable number of hands, in the manufacture of thongs, gloves,
candles, machinery, and in the tanning of leather and dressing of
sheep skins.  But the woollen manufacture is that for which the
town is chiefly distinguished, and which is specially deserving of
notice, as well from the extent to which it is carried on at the pre-
sent time, as from the rapid progress it has been making of late
years.
  In attempting, however, to give an idea of this department of
trade, we find it difficult to keep strictly within the parochial bound-
ary,  Some of the mills are erected on this side of the Teviot,
and are comprehended within the limits of this parish, and some
of them on the other, which falls within the parish of Wilton, whilst
the great majority both of proprietors and operatives are resident
in the town of Hawick.  Instead, therefore, of detaching the one
altogether from the other, for the sake of adhering to what is pro-
perly parochial, we deem it better, as they are otherwise very close-
ly connected, to include them both in the following remarks.
  The working of coarse stockings on the frame was commenced
by Bailie John Hardie in 1771, and followed upon a larger scale
by Mr John Nixon in 1780,  but little comparatively seems to have
been: done anterior to the introduction of machinery for the spin-
ning of yarn.  This appears to have taken place about the begin-
ing of this century, from which time, and without any material

                                3


