

                            ETTRICK                              69

              In the year 1821,  .    . 475
              ___________ 1831,  .    . 530

   The average of baptism for these last four years, viz. from 1829
to 183, both inclusive, is 18; of marriages, 3; of deaths, 7. The
number of families in the parish is 89.
   The number of persons employed in agriculture is 75; in ma-
nufactures, retail trade, or handicraft, 24; of professional or other
educated men, 4; of laboureres not agricultural, 37. The only re-
sident proprietor is Lord Napier.
   The people speak the dialect of the forest, which is simple and
soft in its tones, and, we should think, rather agreeable to the ear of
a stranger. They are a reading people, and well-informed on almost
every subject. We can still trace amongst them the seeds of the
gospel as sown here by the venerable Boston. They are quite and
inoffensive, and seem to cultivate all the dispositions which tend to
peace and good agreement, to religion and morality.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY

   Agriculture and Rural Economy-The number of acres in the
parish has been stated at 43,968. Of these about 217 are under
the plough, and about 163 acres are constantly waste, or in permanent 
pasture, whereof 120 are meadow. Hard and soft wood alike
rejoice in the soil; and were the lands only protected indeed from
the flocks, we could almost believe "that every foot of ground
would again spring up in natural wood." There are besides about
2700 acres now enclosed. Of these there are or more fields
of greater or less extent on every  farm.
   The parish cnsists of twenty-nine farms, there being no com-
mon lands now. Of these, nine are only occupied by resident te-
nants, the reamining twenty being led farms. Those tenants who
do reside amongst us are mostly bachelors,-respectable in the
world,-and as wealthy and well-doing as the pressure of these hard
past times will admit. But the day seems coming when every
farm must have its own tenant, with his growing and flourishing
young family around him, like the shepherds and shepherdesses of
our border legends.
   Rent of Land, &c.-The hills and low lands taken together,
though in general fertile and productive, as far as the climate will
admit,and rich as pasture, yet, owing to the distance from mar-


