
266                          FIFESHIRE.

fathoms. This bore, besides the tipper seams of coal, passed
through a stratum of ochre upwards of 4 feet thick, and three
seams of fire clay, two of which are of the finest quality. These
operations were preparatory to working the main coal; but the pro-
prietor died soon after, and his heirs are under entail.
   A bed of ochre four feet thick, lying on the estates of Durie
and Aithernie, has been wrought for several years, of which a con-
siderable quantity is exported.

                    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

   The town of Leven is a burgh of barony holding under the fa-
mily of Durie; but, having no local government till very lately,
it possesses no records, and there is nothing worthy nf remark in
its history. There is a very accurate plan of the estate of Durie,
which comprehends about three-fifths of the parish; but there has
been no general survey of the parish.
    Eminent Men.--Of the family of Gibson, the former proprietors
of Durie, was Sir Alexander Gibson, Lord Durie, a Lord of Ses-
sion, and collector of the reports, well known in the Scottish law,
under the title of Durie's Decisions. Of this judge, a remarkable
circumstance is recorded, which indicates a very unsettled state of
society, and shews with what a feeble hand the authority of the
Government was administered, when such an outrage could be com-
mitted with impunity, and even without inquiry. In the early part of
the seventeenth century, the then Earl of Traquair had a law-
suit depending before the Court of Session, which was of,great im-
portance to his family; and, having reason to believe that the opi-
nion of Lord Durie was unfavourable to his interest, he employed
Willie Armstrong, a noted freebooter of these times, to convey
his Lordship out of the way, until the cause should be decided.
Accordingly, when the Judge was taking his usual airing on horse-
back upon Leith sands, he was forcibly dragged from his horse by
Armstrong near the Figgate Whins, and carried blindfold to an
old castle in Annandale, called the tower of Graham. Here he
remained closely immured for three months, debarred from all in-
tercourse with human kind, and receiving his food through an
aperture in the wall. His friends had concluded him dead, and
bad gone into mourning, supposing that he bad'been thrown from
his horse into the sea; but, upon the law-suit terminating in favour of
Lord Traquair, he was brought back in the same mysterious man-
nor, and set down upon the very spot where he had been taken
up. Another Lord Durie, in 1652, was one of the commission-


