
16                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

rent burghs in Scotland, and were applauded by them for their ju-
dicious management of the funds, and the correct state of public
accounts. Inverbervie now joins with Montrose, Brechin, Ar-
broath, and Forfar, in returning a Member to Parliament. By the
enactments in the new Municipal Bill, this, as well as other burghs,
will experience a great change; and time will only shew its work-
ing, either for good or evil. If the successors of the present ma-
gistrates, (who will, no doubt, come into office in the course of
another year,) strive to imitate their predecessors in that unanimity,
fidelity, and zeal for the public good, which have distinguished all
their proceedings under the old Burgh Bill, there may be yet hope
for the public weal under the new regulations. The present re-
venue of the burgh is about L.120.
	The Fishing Village of Gourdon.--This is the only village in the
parish, and it contained, when the census was taken in 1831, a po-
pulation of 238 souls. It is situated at the southmost point of the
parish, and is rather more than a mile distant from the burgh. It
is a place rising daily into importance, by the success nf the fish-
eries and the increase of the grain trade. Several large and ex-
cellent granaries have been erected in it, during the last eight or
ten years, containing extensive sheds on the ground floors for lime,
coals, &c. The granaries are capable of holding 4570 quarters
grain, the lime sheds, 3200 bolls, and the coal sheds, 12,700 bar-
rels. During the course of the last three or four years, the grain
shipped at the port of Gourdon may be computed at nearly 30,000
quarters yearly, two-thirds being barley and bear, and one-third
beans, pease, and oats.
	There are seven small boats belonging to the village, which are
generally employed in the haddock and cod fishery, and manned
commonly by six or seven men. There are ten larger boats, which
the fishermen employ during the season for herring fishing, and
manned, each, by five able bodied men, who go to the berring sta-
tions about the middle of July yearly, and continue at the fishing
for six weeks or two months. The yearly income of every indus-
trious fisherman in Gourdon may be betwixt, L.40 and L.50.
	The water, at high-tide, rises 17 feet in the harbour of Gour-
don at the point of the quay; and ships, drawing 12 feet water2
can enter at low tide, and lie at anchor until it make. It is in
contemplation to improve this harbour, which is capable of great
improvements. In its present state, eight or nine small vessels can
be moored in it; and if the proposed improvements go only they


