
416                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

or no wood to relieve the eye, except in the north-western quar-
ter.
   Soil.-The soil is a light friable loam with a gravelly subsoil;
and in a very few instances the soil is clayey, with a bard retentive
subsoil; but in general, there is no great depth of soil.
   Hydrography.-The Don, as already noticed, flows through the
parish, and is the only river in it.  The stream or water of Descry
bounds the parish for about a mile on the west; it flows al-
most due north, and then bends away toward the north-west,
and empties itself into the Don.  In the north-western quar-
ter, the water or burn of Kindie separates Towie from Strath-
don, and flows in a south-west direction till it meets the Don.
There are three or four smaller streamlets, which rise in the south
and south-east quarters of the parish, and flow all in nearly a north-
eastern direction to the Don,-one of which, called the burn of
Towie, has a course of upwards of two miles, through a beautiful,
secluded, and deep ravine.
   Springs.-The parish is generally well supplied with springs of
excellent water.  There are also some mineral springs; but as they
have never been analyzed, an account of their properties cannot
be given.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Limestone of a very hard and inferior
quality has been occasionally wrought in different localities, for
agricultural purposes.  Granite rock is known only in one place,
where, however, it is surrounded by plantations.  There are
pretty certain indications of freestone about a quarter of a mile
south from the church; but, being in a low wet situation, it is
doubtful whether a quarry could be profitably opened.  On the
farm of Glencui, too, there are indications of serpentine, although
it has never been employed for any useful or ornamental purpose.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY
   Eminent Men.-The most distinguished individual connected
by birth with this parish is the Rev. Duncan Mearns, D.D., Pro-
fessor of Divinity, King's College, Old Aberdeen.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, Harry Leith Lumsden,
Esq. of Auchindoir; John David Gordon, Esq. of Wardbouse;
Sir Alexander Leith, K.C. B. of Freefield; the Hon. the Master
of Forbes; Sir Charles Forbes, Bart. of Newe and Edinglassie;
none of whom have any seat or residence in the parish.
   Parochial Registers.-The register has been always regularly
kept: the earliest entry in it is dated 1751.


