
     of Borthwick.

great part of the land has been so repeatedly limed, and so
cruelly cropped after, that this most valuable species of ma-
nure now ceases to operate or produce any considerable ef-
fect.  Here of late much has been done, and it is to be
hoped that the proprietors and farmers will still go on, and
avail themselves of the advantages of their situation.  They
have at command coal and lime, neither of which has yet
been discovered farther south, in this direction at least, till
you approach the borders of England.
   The valued rent of this parish is L. 5600, 18s.  Scots.  From
the present state of the property, its real value cannot be
precisely ascertained, but must be very considerable.
The rents are said to have been about doubled within
these 30 years; and from various considerations, it is
probable that at this day the tenants have better bargains
than their predecessors had, previous to the period men-
tioned.

   Price of Labour, and Employment of the People.-In this
parish services of every kind are almost entirely abolished, and
in general the farmers pays money* for all.  In the villages, of
which there are four small ones in the parish, we here and
there meet with a mason, a wright, a weaver, or a tailor, but
the people are chieftly employed in husbandry.  No manu-
factures or commerce of any consequence are in these bounds.

     Vol. XIII. 4 K

<FOOTNOTE>

*A certain quantity of poultry, indeed, must still, in many instances,
be furnished to the proprietors by their tenants, which the latter, when
not allowed to give money in lieu of it, consider as a very great grievance.
Here the price of labour in very high.  A man-servant, who lives and eats,
in the house, is allowed as wages from L. 6, 10s. to L. 9, and a woman-
servant from L. 3 to L. 4 a-year: a day-labourer earns from 1 s. to 1 s 6 d.
a-day, according to the nature of this employment.  The wages of both
sexes in harvest are regulated weekly by what is given to those who hire
shemselves at Dalkeith each Monday morning.


