
136                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

1781.  The glebe consists of about 7 imperial acres, 4 of good
land, 3 of bad-value L.1O per annum.
   The stipend is 16 chalders of victual, half meal half barley-
barley Linlithgow measure.
   About 280 families in the parish, and, in general, between 500
and 600 persons attend the Established Church every Sabbath.
   There are 8 families of Episcopalians, and 7 of Seceders in the
parish.
   The Established Church is remarkably well attended.  Within
the last seven years, the number of communicants has increased
from 527 to 598.
   Education.-There are two schools,-one parochial and the other
on the teacher's own adventure.  The latter receives small sums from
some of the heritors occasionally as a reward.  Salary of parochial
school is L.32; amount of fees of each school about L.20 a year.
The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accommodation. School-
fees per quarter, 2s. for English; 3s. for English `nd writing; 4s. for
arithmetic; and 5s. for Latin.  Till the present parochial schoolmas-
ter fell into bad health, when it was given up, an academy was kept
at the parochial school for nearly fifty years, attended by from 20
to 30 gentlemen's sons, at L.30 a-year for board and education.
The academy was the means of giving better education to the
parishioners than any of their neighbours had an opportunity of
obtaining.  Many of the younger farmers belonging to the parish,
who received their education at the Udny Academy, attended se-
veral sessions at the Aberdeen universities.  Some of the, par
rishioners' sons became professional men, who, had it not been for
the academy, would have been in humble life.
   There is not a person in the parish above fifteen years of age
who cannot read and write.
   Poor and Parochial Fund.-About 31 receive parochial aid, at
the average rate of L.1, 16s. per annum.  Besides these, several
are maintained at from 2s. to 3s. per week, and many get occa-
sional supplies.
   Average collection on Sundays at the church 10s.  The poor's
fund has also the interest of a mortified sum of L.350.  Use of
mortcloth yields about L.2, .15s. per annum; and fines for im-
moralities L.3 per annum; accidental legacies, in small sums, may
yield L.8 per annum, and gifts from charitable individuals may
yield L.4 per annum.  It is much to be regretted that many of
the poor, when once the receive a little relief, anxiously look for
                                4


