
630			FORFARSHIRE.

considered his right to do so, having himself presented it, as ap-
pears from the following inscription on the only cup which was
recovered, and still in use:-"This cup is gifted by Mr
John Ochterlonny, minister of Aberlemno, for the celebration of
the Lord's Supper in the said church, 1683."  From the above,
it is evident that the Presbyterian ministry was not fully resumed
in this parish until the year 1722; and even then, and for some time
thereafter, a considerable number of the parishioners attended
Mr Ochterlonny's ministry in his own house, the Castle of Flem-
mington . From about the year 1715, the office of the ministry
in this parish has been held by the above-named Thomas Mitchell
and his descendants, by father, son, and grandson, the last of
whom died in May 1841. From 1722 to the present time, there
is continuous record of the transactions of the session, also of
births and marriages, with an imperfect one of deaths.
   Antiquities.-Places of sepulture have been found in several parts
of the parish. Cairns of stones, and rude stone coffins, evidently
put together in haste, mark in various places the ancient battle-
field.  It is evident that the neighbourhood of the church has
either been the scene of a succession of sanguinary conflicts, or
else some great and protracted struggle has rolled, hither and
thither, its tide of death, over the adjoining fields. In removing
the stones from a tumulus some years ago, on the farm of Carse-
gownie, a stone coffin was found in the centre with an urn; also,
all around the circumference of the cairn, there was a continua-
tion of similar coffins, but of ruder construction, pointing out, in
all probability, the spot where a chief had fallen, and where his
followers, in defending him, had fallen with him: and where, having
met with a commoh death, they found also a common grave, yet
marked with a difference similar to that which had distinguished
them in life. A few hundred yards to the north of the church,
there is a monumental stone, about 8 feet in height, ornamented
on one side with a cross, richly carved, and with two female figures
in the garb and attitude of mourning. The other side is sculp-
tured in relievo, with men, some on horseback, and others on
foot, intermingled with dogs. Near to this one are two smaller
stones, which also have been ornamented; but the hand of time
has greatly defaced them.
   One of the most perfect of these battle-field memorials is in
the church-yard. On one side of this stone there is a curious



