
                            FALKIRK.                             25

ported. They are two in number. The largest is bonded, and 
forms a square of about three acres. Norway, Prussia, and Amer-
rica are the countries with which this branch of trade is maintained.
It forms a principal part of the traffic of the place.
   The basin and harbour afford accommodation to the vessels
until they pass through the canal, or discharge their cargoes.
The larger class unload here, and the proportion of their goods
destined for Glasgow are carried through by means of lighters,-
boats built expressly for canal navigation. There are, besides
these, three private wharfs on the banks of the Carron.
   The want of accommodation at the port has been long com-
plained of. Proposals and plans of enlargement were made many
years ago, when the canal did not yield a fifth of its present re-
venue. In 1838, effective measures were adopted. The lake
Earl of Zetland and the Forth and Clyde Canal Committee em-
ployed Mr Macneill, civil-engineer in London, to take surveys,
and to submit a report of improvements. His reports has been
adopted, and, since April 1838, 2000 artificers and labourers have
been employed in working it out. The report embraces the fol-
lowing particulars, 1. the changing of the direction of the Grange
burn. 2. The formation of a wet dock on the south-east of the
present harbour, 27 feet in depth, and of such dimensions as to
contain forty sail of the largest class of steam and merchant ves-
sels. The sea lock, to shut the dock, is proposed to be 300 feet
long and 70 broad. The formation at Bristol of a lock a few feet
larger, deprives this one of the boast of being the largest in the
world, and leaves it only the second place. 3. The deepening of
the River Carron, so as to allow canal traders drawing nine feet
of water to arrive and depart at low tide. 4. An enlargement of
the easter timber basin, and a junction betwixt it and the wet
dock by means of a canal ten feet deep. Above twenty acres of
land have been allotted for these improvements; and, by 1843,
they are expected to be in such a state of forwardness as to admit
vessels into the wet dock. The facilities afforded to shipping
will thus be greatly increased; and as Grangemouth has every
local advantage from its being the east port  of Glasgow, and its
close communication with the German Ocean, it will possess every
accommodation to invite the resort of commerce.
   The canal does not communicate immediately with the Forth,
but is connected with it by the river Carron. The course of
this river has undergone many changes. At one period it flowed




