
  		UNITED PARISHES OF

            DAVIOT AND DUNLICHITY. *

      PRESBYTERY OF INVERNESS, SYNOD OF MORAY.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-DUNLICHITY,the larger, and probably the older of these
parishes, is so called from a high mountain or rather hill, at the
bottom of which stands the church; Dun-le-Catti, that is the bill
which is in the middle of and bisects the territory of the Catti. The
descendents of this ancient, numerous, and warlike people, under
the various appellations of Mackintosh, Macgillivray, Macbean,
Macqueen, Shaw, Macphail, Smith or Gow, Davidson, Clark, and
others, who are all followers of Mackintosh of Mackintosh as their
chief, and Captain of Clanchattan, are at least nine to ten at this
time, of the proprietors and possessors of land for a great tract on
either side of this hill. On its summit is a large upright stone,
called the " Watching Stone". There are also unequivocal marks
of its having been used	as a place of rendezvous, or for making sig-
nals, according to the	manner that prevailed among our ancestors
in remote ages.
  Daviot or Davie is said to be a name given to this parish in me-
mory of David Earl of Crawford, who built the fort or stronghold
to be hereafter described. But, by the manner in which it is pro-
nounced in Gaelic, this etymology seems forced and unnatural;
yet tradition has not preserved any other.
  Extent, Boundaries, &c.-These parishes lie nearly south-west
and north-east, on both sides of the river Nairn, and extend in
length about 23 miles. Their greatest breadth of ground ave,
rages from 4 to 51/2 miles, and their least scarcely one and a-half.
They contain from eighty to ninety square miles,, They are bound-
ed on the south and east by the united parishes of Moy and Da-
larossie ; on the west and north-west, by the parishes of Boleskine
and Dores; on the north and, north-east, by those of Inverness,

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. James Macphail.
INVERNESS.                                                L


