
                   CRAIL.                                   945

year there have been a few intances of a sort of influeza among
horses, but they have in general recovered. Judging from history
and experience, the climate of this parish may be considered as
highly conducive to health; and there can be no doubt that, from
its proximity to the sea, it is less exposed to the extremes of beat
and cold than more elevated situations.
   Epidemics, or contagious diseases, (unless what are common
to children,) are scarcely known here. Within these few yearsi
several people have died beyond ninety years of age, and there
still a number in wonderful health and activity, who are upon
the borders of it.
Geology and Botany.-The geological structure of this parish,
as seen along the shore, consists entirely of the coal formation
including sandstone, sbale, clay, ironstone, and coal. The usual
dip of the strata is towards the east ; but on the western part of
the parish,where lime and coal are still wrought, the dip is to
the west. On the west of the harbour, different seams of coal
appears and clay-ironstone in thin bands alternate with the share.
The action of the advancing tide is very remarkable on the east
of the harbour, where the priory stood. The ruins, which were
there about half a century ago, are now entirely swept away, and
only the gateway from the land, with a small partof the founda-
tion of a vall in the alluvial soil, remains to point out its site.
   At the very extremity of Fifeness, a pure white sandstone oc-
curs particularly adapted for various economical purposes. As
plants used in medicine, the Pareitaria officinalis and Conium ma-
culatum may be mentioned. On the rocks under the castle the
Cheiranthus Cheiri occurs; and on the sea-cliffs to the west of the
harbour, the Brassica oleracea maintains its place in a congenial lo-
cality. In a sinall garden an the sea margin at Fifeness is the-
Lavatera arboreal which once bad a habitat on the islands of the
Frith. The Asplenium marinum is met with among the rocks on 
the south shore.
   Of the less common aigm may be mentioned the Alaria escu-
lenta and the Himanthalia lorea, which grow abundantly about
Fifeness.
   Woods.-The plantations in this parish are of very limited ex-
tent, not exceeding seventy or eight acres, chiefly fir; of which
about fifty are on the lands of Airdrie and Redwells, ten or twelve
on Kin muir, about eight on Sipsies, and four on Wormistones.
A good number of the trees about Airdrie and Wormistone, chiefly
   FIFE.                         30


