

     98                          FIFESHIRE.

     The great employment of the people is agricultural.  In the 
     former Statistical Account of this parish, the writer mentions,
     in regard to this class, that there are about twenty-four extensive
     farmers whose families amount to 192 souls.  Since that time many
     of the smaller farms have disappeared,-better divisions of the
     land have been made,-and handsomer and more complete stead-
     ings built.
       Fishing.-Thiere is no regular fishing establishment connected
     with the parish, however well situated for it.  The want of a proper
     harbour, and the violent surge to which the shore is exposed in 
     easterly gales, render the employment of capital in that way very
     unprofitable.  During spring and summer, one or two boats carry
     on the lobster and crab and skate and hand-line fishing, steadily;
     and occasionally in the summer evenings, the weavers and farm-
     servants go off to the fishing; but these latter never make it an ar-
     ticle of trade, and are contented with thereby obtaining a change
     of wholesome food for their families.  A number of young persons,
     from their proximity to the sea, are induced to pursue that line of
     life.  Few go into the army.  Many, after serving an apprentice-
     ship in Dundee or Anstruther, as carpenters, go on board of mer-
     chant vessels in that capacity; some go annually to the whale fish-
     ing in the north seas, and when at home during winter practise
     their trade of weavers, shoemakers, &c.
       Manufacture.-The only branch of manufacture carried on in
     the parish is weaving.  The kinds of cloth beside linen (for home
     use) which are wrought are called Osnaburgh and Dowlas.  There
     are thirty-one looms in constant use.  The number of yards wov-
     en is about 100,000 each year.  In the present depressed state
     of that trade, I am informed that, if preparing the yarn be done by
     the family, the average amount of wages, during last winter, (1831,)
     is only rated at Is. per day; while, if done by other hands, it does not
     exceed 10d.  Weavers (1836) are now making 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d.
     and good hands 1s. 8d. per day.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       There is one village in the parish. St Andrews and An-
     strutber are the two market-towns, where the grain produce is
     chiefly sold; the former distant six and a-half, and the latter seven
     miles. Corn and potatoes are shipped at both these places, and
     also at Crail, the post-town, three miles distant to the south-east.
       The great coast-road of the county passes from south to north
     for four miles through the lower part of the parish, and through

