
                  ATHELSTANEFORD.                          47

   The late Robert Blair, Lord President of the Court of Session
in Scotland, a gentleman distinguished no less for his private vir-
tues than for his high attainments as a lawyer, and his unrivalled
character as a judge, was a native of this parish, of which his fa-
ther was minister. When but a boy, in the fourth year of his age,
he had the misfortune to lose his revered father; but his educa-
tion was carefully attended to by his excellent mother, and by his
maternal uncle, William Law, Esq. of Elvingston, Sheriff of Had-
dingtonshire. Mr Blair died 1811, aged sixty-eight. His death
was greatly lamented, and deemed a public loss.
   Mr John Home, author of the Tragedy of Douglas, succeeded
Mr Blair, as minister of this parish. He was ordained at Athel-
staneford, 11th February 1747. Although he was ten years mi-
nister here, he never took up his residence in the manse. When
at home be lodged in the village; but he had a very unsettled ha-
bit, generally moving from place to place, and living with his friends.
He was a welcome guest at the houses of many of the gentlemen
of East Lothian; and was exceedingly fond of gay company. *
   Mr Archibald Skirving, distinguished as a portrait-painter, was
a native of this parish. He pursued his studies at Rome for a
considerable time with intense application, and rose to eminence
in his profession. He was never afflicted with any bodily trouble


                In this same spot, at such an hour,
                He viewed the scene, and felt its power;
                At this same hour, a saint in Heaven,
                He feels o'er death the triumph given.

                Charmed by thy verse, to court thy theme,
                Cheered by thy Scripture borrowed beam,
                Sweet Poet, way we fearless trust
                To God our souls, to earth our dust.

<FOOTNOTE>It appears that he was admonished by his Presbytery for being absent from his
parish three months, 1755, without leave asked or given. His Tragedy of Douglas
appears to have been performed for the first time in the month of December 1756;
for, in January following, the Presbytery of Edinburgh wrote a letter to the Presby-
tery of Haddington, informing them, "That a gentleman of their number had at-
tended the Play-house in Edinburgh, for a number of nights successively, during the
representation of a profane play called Douglas, of which that gentleman was com-
monly reported to be the author; and that, as the scandal happened within the bounds
of the Presbytery of Edinburgh, that body had thought themselves bound in duty to
give regular intimation of the same to the Presbytery of Haddington." Before the Pres-
bytery of Haddington could enter on this matter, Douglas had begun to be acted on the
London stage, and Mr Home had set off for that city in the: beginning of February,
and did not return to his charge until 4th May that year. It does not appear, from
the Record of the Presbytery, that any thing was done by the Presbytery relative to
the letter from the, Presbytery of Edinburgh, nor with respect to Mr Howes long
absence from his charge; it being understood that, after the term of Whitsunday,
he was to resign his charge; and this he did at a meeting of Presbytery held at
Athelstaneford, 7th June 1757.
                                       *


