
                          EDDERACHILLIS.                       123

   cultivated than the rest. The arable land of the island of Handa
   is of a similar quality.
      Zoology.-The domestic animals need not be enumerated under
   this head, as reference will be made to them in another part of
   this account. The wild animals common to the rest of the High-
   lands are to be met with. The first to be noticed is the red-deer
   Cervus elaphus), and not inapplicably named the monarch of
   the forest. In this country, where so much is done for preserv-
   ing and propagating his species, we are called upon to pay more
   than ordinary attention in delineating what has been done. The
   Reay forest, or Diru-moir, has had always a place amongst the
   principal forests in Scotland; a character in this respect it main-
   tained for many generations, till within the last quarter of a cen-
   tury, when it gradually declined, owing to the introduction of
   sheep. Upon the expiry of the leases of such part of the forest as
   had been thus allotted for sheep,-the Duke of Sutherland has re-
   stored the whole to what it originally was, excluding sheep, and
   placing the range in charge of foresters solely for the preservation
   of deer. This not only amply provides for the animal most cha-
   racteristic of the country, and most conducive to the sportsman's
   adventures, but also relieves the whole neighbouring sheep-walks
   of the greater part of the deer that roamed over them, the main-
   tenance of which was a considerable burden. The extent of terri-
   tory so exclusively laid off for deer cannot be less than 60,000
   acres, whereof the half is in this parish, and the rest in Durness,
   inhabited by some thousands of deer, and inferior as a forest to
   none in Scotland. Sir Robert Gordon, in his History of the Earl-
   dom of Sutherland, written in the year 1630, gives the following
   account of the forest, viz.-" The halfe of the Diri-moire, which
   lyes toward the north and north-west, doth appertain of late to
   Macky, by the Erle of Southerland, his gift and disposition. In
   the Diri-more, ther is a hill called Arkill; all the deir that arbred
   therein, or hant within the bounds of that hill, have forked taills,
   thrie inches long, whereby they are easailie known and decerned
   from all other deir." The description thus given of the deer hav-
   ing forked tails is still applicable.
      It may be added, that the Laxford affords angling for salmon
   and trout, not to be surpassed by any river in the north.
      The quadrupeds and birds are thus described in Sir Robert
   Gordon's work of 1630, and have since undergone very little
   chancre, viz. " All these forrests and schases are verie profitable for


