
	526                     FIFESHIRE.

	It is singular enough, that the plaid and bonnet should now be both
	regaining their former estimation. There exists also among the
	people a considerable deal of information, and a general desire for
	knowledge. A subscription and circulating library was commenced
	by them in 1828. It consists now of 500 volumes, in which there
	is varied as well as much useful reading. There are 100 subscrib-
	ers to this library.
    During the last three years, there were 3 illegitimate births in
	the parish.

                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
    Agriculture.-The valued rent of the parish is L.8248, 1s. 1d.
	Scotch. There are 8000 acres of land in the parish. Of these, about
	four-tenths are in tillage, five-tenths in grass, and one-tenth in plant-
	ing and moor. There is little of moor land. The average rent per
	acre is L.1, 10s. The farm-houses, and the enclosures on the
	farms, are, in general, good. The produce does not exceed greatly
	the double of the rent, which is paid from the land. The gross pro-
	duce cannot be much under 30,000 bolls of corn, and 15,000 do.
	potatoes. Dr Arnot, in his time, makes 12,000 of corn and 2000
	of potatoes! But in a parish where so many have their patch of
	corn, and their planting of potatoes, in addition to their live-stock,
	it is impossible to form a correct estimate of the real produce.
	About ninety years ago, there were 20 flocks of sheep kept in the
	parish. Now there is not one; but there is a great number of
	cattle fed for the market. The last Statistical Account states 90
	to be the number of ploughs. They are now 130 at least. A
	quantity of pork also is sent from this to London.
    The rent of a cottage is L.2. It is to be regretted, however,
	that the cottar system does not prevail to any extent here. The
	farms very in extent from 40 to 365 Scotch acres. The farmers
	have adopted, with great success, the various improvements that have
	been lately suggested in the system of agriculture, and the land is
	everywhere in a high state of cultivation. Draining has been car-
	ried on to a very great extent; and as there are either quarries or
	plenty of stones in the neighbourhood, the drains are almost all
	regularly built. The fields are well enclosed, and in general with
	stone fences.  There is one thrashing-mill, which is driven by steam,
  three thrashing-mills, and one mill for making butter, driven
  by water. There is also one windmill, which thrashes corn, and
	makes meal, and saws wood. It was erected on the property of
	Greenside, by the present proprietor, and serves admirably for the


