

362                           FIFESHLILF.

unconnected with an other part of it, on the north-east border of
y
Dunino.
The parish of Dunino was once much more extensive than at
present. It contained the estate of Boniiyton adjoining on the
north, and which lately rented at L. 530 a-year; and it contained
on the west, the farm of Brigton, containing 222 acres imperial,
and worth now L. 300 annually. Of late years, it has been con-
tended by Mr Hannah, proprietor of Kingsmtiir, that his proper-
ty, consisting of 844 acres Scotch, does not lie in Dunino parish,
but in that of Crail. This theory has not the slightest founda-
tion. Kingsrnuir had originally belonged to the Earl of Fife, but
was forfeited to the Crown. It was bestowed by Jaynes V. on
a gentleman, for assisting to carrv military stores to France,
about the year 1540; and in 1600, there is an infeftment in favour
of the same gentleman's family. Latterly, Kir)gsniuir became part
of the town's revenue of Crail, and afterwards was purchased by
the town's revenue of Leith. It became again the property of the
Crown, and, posterior to the Restoration, was gifted by Charles
II. to a follower of his fortunes, Colonel Borthwick, and who, in
1693, is stated, by the kirk-session register, as also proprietor of the
estate of Dunino. In 1710, according to Sir Robert Sibbald, it
was wholly waste. In 1727, according to the presbvtery record,
it contained but fotir families, the pastoral care of which people
was then annexed by the presbyterv to the parish of DuniDo. This
pastoral cliarg,--' has since been twice repeated by the pre sbytery,
the last time so recently as the year 1829. The poor in KiDgs-
muir have been regularly supported by the parish of Dunino. The
father and uncle of the present proprietor of KiDgSMuir, in eleven
of their leases, assert that Kingsmuir lies in Dunino parish ; and
in a part of Kingsmuir sold by them to the then proprietor of Bal-
caithly, it is declared thrice in the-cbarter of conveyance, that
Kino,smuir is situated in Dunino parish, and there is no opposite
evidence whatever. The present proprietor of KingsmuirS Darne
is inserted in the baptismal register of Duiiino. A few years ago,
the heritors of-DuDino raised -in -action before the Court of Ses-
sion against the proprietor of Kingsmuir, to find the property,
quoad temporalia, in the parish of Dunino, and both the Outer and
Inner I-louse decerned in favotir'of the heritors. At last, weary
Of the contest, both parties withdrew, each paying his own ex-
penses. ]Rut neither the United College of St Andrews, who are
patrons of Dunino parish, nor the minister of Duniiio, had any


