
	294                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	been parcelled out, to the extent of 4325 Seoteb acres; and ex-
	cept the Morrich M•r, (which, as already mentioned, has been
	recently overblown with sand,) together with the quarries and
	mosses of the hill district, there now remains little or none of
	the burgh property open to the people, that is not too distant,
	or too barren to be made use of. The rent of arable land ave-
	rages about L. 1, 10s. per acre; in different districts, however,
	varying very considerably. The rate of farm-labour is about 1s.
	a-day in winter, and 1s. 6d. in summer; the total expense of a
	farm-servant amounts to about L. 22 per year. The general dura-
	tion of leases is nineteen years; only that the fields around the
	town, (being in general cultivated by townsmen, and bringing
	a higher rent,) are let annually, or at very short terms. Agri-
	culture has, of late years, rapidly advanced. The improved sys-
	tems have been almost universally adopted, and crops are raised,
	scarcely if at all surpassed in quality, in any district of Scotland.
	The cultivation of wheat, in particular, has made rapid strides.
	Twenty or even ten years ago, it was dealt in only by a very few of
	the larger farmers; while now, there is scarcely a cottar who does
	not grow some. It has been found to answer well for the soil; and,
	in accordance with this, has been the quickness of its reception.
	There have been many improvements of late on the various estates,
	chiefly in the way of reclaiming waste land, draining, fencing,
	planting, &c.; irrigation has been practised only in one large field
	belonging to Mr Ross of Cromarty, and in it (in consequence, it
	is thought, of the over-purity of the water,) the experiment has not
	been crowned with success. The same proprietor has contributed
	much to adorn the face of the country, by the tasteful manner in
	which he conducts his operations, so that beauty as well as profit
	may be the result.
	  Quarries.-Those at present wrought are the common property
	of the burghers, being situated in the hill of Tain. The procuring
	of the finest white sandstone is attended with no expense but that
	of quarryiog it.
 	  Fisheries.-The village of Inver, situated at the eastern extre-
	mity ot the parish, is tbe only fishing station, although the town is
	often supplied, besides, from other quarters. Haddock and flounder
	are the staple kinds of fish; cod, whiting, skate are also found in
	abundance, as is herring in its season.  Haddocks sell at the rate
	of one or two (sometimes even three or four) for 1d. according to
	the season of the yea   No salmon-fishings are: carried on. The


