
80               KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	The hang or bag-net consists of two nets, of which one has
meshes of the cotamon size; the other, meshes five or six times
larger. This being drawn across the lower end of a pool, and a
stop-net across the top, several men beat the surface of the water
with long poles, and pounce the rocks and stones so as to scare
the salmon from their haunts. Thus attacked, many of them make
a desperate effort to escape down the stream, and, striking with
violence against the small-mesbed net, carry it through a large
mesh of the other, and thus get so completely entangled by their
fins and gills, that their farther attempts to escape are fruitless.
It might be supposed, indeed, that very few fish could get away;
but this is by no means the case, for it is a singular circumstance,
that, after a good many have been entangled, multitudes continue
in the pool, that no exertions of the fisherman's can drive into the
net. They will come close up to it, and may be seen swimming
within the bag made by the current; but, on being approached,
instead of dashing downwards, they move to the centre of the pool

opinions unreservedly, and to suggest such plans as may have occurred to them in
furtherance of the general object for which they have been appointed.
	2. The next thing to be done is to cause every obstruction in the channel of the
river to be swept away, and no mode of taking salmon allowed, except what requires
the application of the hand.
	3. The third thing to be done is, to require from every individual having property
on the river, a return of the number of salmon taken by him or by his leave in the
course of the season.
	4. And the fourth thing to be done is, to provide for the protection of the breed-
ing fish, This can only be effected by a numerous, active, faithful, and well paid po-
lice. This police should be brought from a distance, and periodically shifted from one
station to another, like excise officers. Nor should any person in the district have a
word to say, either in their nomination or removal. Reckoning the average weight of
each salmon at 6 lbs. (which is under the fac) I should say that a tax of one half-penny
per lb. would be quite enough to defray the expense of this establishment. Unless these
or similar measures of practical energy be adopted to put an end to river poaching, we
shall never have a permanently abundant supply of salmon ; and still less a progres-
sive increase. lt is grievous to see, as I have done often, large and beautiful fish
offered for sale, in a state totally unfit for use, and if habitually used, certain to pro-
duce bad erects on the health. Unlimited reliance must not be placed on the fecun-
dity of the salmon, which is far from being so great as many people think. Looking
at the quantity of roe in a single fish, it would no doubt be incalculable, did each roe
produce a salmon; but not to speak of the casualties it is exposed to, both while be-
ing deposited, and ever, after being covered up, a very large proportion of it is bar-
ren, having either accidentally lost, or been incapable of receiving, impregnation.  I
cannot pretend to state the proportion, (although, I think, it might be ascertained,
and it is worth ascertaining,) between the number of roe in any one salmon, and the
number offish produced by that salmon, which arrive at maturity; but rhave heard
it roughly guessed at one in one bundred; The cause of the continued decrease in the
numbers of these valuable fish are to be found at our doors; and we need seek for
no other, such as the multiplication ofsteam-boats, saw-mills, &c.
	Their disappearance from some rivers in Norway may be accounted for by the
quantity of saw-dust thrown into them from the mills; and from the Mersey, by the
number of the ships, or still more, by the evacuation through the Irwell of the Pud-
dle of Manchester; but causes similar to these will not apply here, nor are they re-
quired,--those which I have specified, being quite sufficient to account for the past,
and to insure a future diminution.



