
724                         PERTHSHIRE.

     Strowan is a corruption of St Rowen, Rowan or Ronan, the tu-
telar saint of Strowan parish. St Rowen is said to have lived
about A. D. 660, was a clergyman, and proprietor of the estate
now called Strowan.  He was famous for his learning, travelled
through France and Italy, and became a professor in one of the
German universities. According, to Bede, he engaged with Finan,
Bishop of Lindisferne or Holy Island, in a protracted controversy
respecting the day on which Easter should be observed; the
Bishop and all the British, churches contending for one day; the
Pope and Church of Rome, supported by Rowen, for another. *
Many names in the neighbourhood derive their origin from St
Rowen. Thus, Pol-Ronan, or the Pool of St Ronan, is a deep
linn in the river Earn, about 100 yards above the bridge of
Strowan; Fil-Ronan, i. e. "the festival of St Ronan," is the
Gaelic name given to Strowan fair or market, formerly held on
the site of the present mansion-house of Strowan, close by the
pool above-mentioned. The name Rowan was also given to a
spring of fine water adjoining the mansion-bouse of Strowan, and
to a dam-dike across the river, where the Saint bad a cruive which
supplied him with fhsh on his fasting days.
     Extent, Boundaries, and Figure.-These united parishes, of
which Monivaird forms the northern, and Strowan  the southern
division, are situated in the upper part of Strathearn, and are
bounded by the parish of  Monzie on the north, by the parishes of
Monzie and Crieff on the east, by that of Muthil on the south,
and by that of Comrie on the west. In figure they may be said
to approach nearest to an  irregular ellipse or oval, of which the
transverse or longer axis  extends in length about 9 miles from
north to south; and the conjugate, about 6 miles from east to
west in breadth. Two arms of the parish, however, project be-
yond this general outline into the adjacent parish of Comrie, and
are annexed to it quoadsacra, viz. one on the south-west, in the
direction of Glenartney, comprehending the farms of Easter and
Wester Meiggar, Findoglen, Auchnashelloch, Colnacarry, Trian,
Drumchork, Dunivarran, and Milnmaik; and the other up Glen-

<FOOTNOTE>He left three acres of ground to the bellman of Strovan, requiring the cbar-
ter which accompanied the grant, as the service to be rendered in return, that the
bellman and his heirs should ring the holy bell of St Powan under his gown when
mass was said. The name Dewar in Gaelic signifies a bellman; and a family of
Dewars, some of whom still survive, occupied ` piece of ground at Strowan for seve-
ral generations under this grant, and until within these few years. The bell, appa-
rently made of brass and iron, but wanting the tongue, is in the possession of the
present proprietor of Stowan, Thomas Graham Stirling, Esq.


