
                           ARDNAMURCHAN.                         125

Sunart, a neat and comfortable inn.  Farther back, on the same
or east side of the valley, are seen the well-managed farm and ex-
cellent farm-house and offices of Drimantarran, an extensive flat
of improved and productive moss; and, on the other, far, up the
lower slopes of the hills, to the upper extremity of the glen, the
dwellings and well-cultivated crofts of numerous cottagers.  Close
by the quiet stream which divides the valley, and tolerably centri-
cally situated, stands the Government church, and at some dis-
tance northward, overlooking the place of worship, and the most
populous part of the glen, on a sheltered yet elevated situation,
the low-roofed manse of the minister.  The level part, which is
not many yards above the level of the sea, is nowhere above a few,
hundred yards broad; but the tops of the bounding-hills are seve-
ral miles distant, so that they do not overhang but shelter the val-
ley, which is consequently warm, sunny, and cheerful.  Opening
in the opposite direction upon Loch Shiel, immediately on the
other side of a high mountain range, and little, if at all, above the
same level, is another valley of some miles extent from north to
south.  The hill sides are here precipitous, and overshadow the
strath below, and there is a wild and sombre grandeur in the sce-
nery, well and beautifully relieved by some acres of level and good
land, and the neat little arable enclosures and farm-house of Pol-
lock, situated where the hills, whose cliffs are there adorned with
partial coverings of bircb, expand, and receive into their bosom a
magnificent bay of Loch Shiel.
   Glenaheurich is a valley in Sunart of some note, containing a
lake of considerable size, a good farm-house, and remarkably fine
sheep pasture.  It is situated a few miles north of Sirontian.  To
the same district also pertain about two miles of the great glen,
which runs from the head of locb Sunart to the shores of the
Linne Hiloch, and which connects the peninsula composed of
Morven and Kingerloch with the mainland.
   Glenaladale.-About six or seven miles east of Pollock, a val-
ley of this name in Moidart opens to the south upon Loch Shiel,
the flat or strath being about 300 yards broad, but little above the
level of the lake, and consisting of some tolerable arable and im-
provable pasture.  The hills which confine it are towards Loch
Shiel, green, rounded, and swelling.  It is about two miles long,
running from south to north.
   Kinlochmoidart.-At the head of Lochmoidart, which indents
the western extremity of this district, the high bounding ranges


