
               KILMUIR WESTER AND SUDDY.                              59

23 poles, arable; 406 acres, I rood, 25 poles, wood; 160 acres,
0 roods, 7 poles, pasture; total, 754 acres, 0 roods, 15 poles.-
4. Drynie, belonging to George Graham, Esq., 620 acres, 1 rood,
30 poles, arable; 465 acres, 0 roods, 21 poles, wood; 539 acres,
1 rood, 14 poles, pasture ; total, 1624 acres, 3 roods, 25 poles.-
5. Suddie, belonging to Sir James W. Mackenzie, Bart.-the
exact number of acres not known.
In such an extent of arable land, every variety of soil and sub-
soil is to be found, but the following statement may be considered
nearly correct:-Clay loam, three twelfths; sandy loam, four;
moory soil, two; alluvial deposit, one; moss, one; gravel, one.
The soil is, in general, good ; but great part of the subsoil is
rather retentive, probably five-twelfths of it.
The plantations are chiefly fir, (common fir, with a mixture of
larch,) but upon Allangrange, and at Belmaduthy House, all the
varieties of hard wood are to be found growing to maturity; and
upon Kilcoy's property, there is a considerable extent of planted
oak, for which he received a premium from the Highland So-
ciety. Upon great part of the pasture-ground, a stratum of iron
crust intervenes betwixt a shallow vegetable mould and a deep
clay soil, with a mixture of loose gravel or broken sandstone;
and without the process of trenching, no species of trees would
grow to maturity,-but, if trenched to the depth of from eighteen
to fourteen inches, the whole would be well adapted for arable
cultivation.
   The property of Allangrange was laid off, enclosed, and improv-
ed in the most judicious manner, (previously to the date of the last
Statistical Account, in which the improvements are particularly
detailed) by the proprietor himself, whose strong mind and vigorous
understanding, made him look beyond the age in which he lived.
He left but few acres of his property in an unproductive state, and,
as he anticipated, his son now reaps the full benefit of his judici-
ous application of capital. On Suddy, the improvements were also
early and considerable. On Easter Kessock, the late Sir William
Fettes had not commenced on the same scale in which he car-
ried on at Redcastle, in the parish of Killearnan. But upon
Muirends, Munlochy, and Bellfield, or Wester Kessock,-to the
great credit of the proprietor,-considerable improvements have
been completed. Belmacduthy, Kilcoy's present seat, was pre-
viously improved. On Muirends, which forms an extensive tract
of very fine land, the farms have been made of convenient size,


