
     of Greenock.

attempted among them, which, when discovered, meet
with instant and consign punishment.

   Natural Curiosities.-To this, and other hints of natural
curiosities in the parish, given above, several others might
he added.  From the scooping of the rocks, for instance, a
good way above high water mark, the fine polish of the gra-
vel, and shells of the same kind with those which are at this
time found on the shore, it is evident, that the sea has great-
ly receded.  The contexture of sea-pebbles*, as they are call-
ed, which are scattered on some parts of the shore, and some
pretty large blocks of greyish which, scarcely yielding to any
force but that of gunpowder, and in texture perfectly resem-
bling Shakespeare's unwedgeable and gnarled oak,' it will
not be easy to account for, on the principles of any of those
theories of the earth, which in succession have been, with
too much confidence, ushered into the world.  Though
some of the springs, with which the Greenock hills abound,
are, in some degree, impregnated with iron, in general
they emit the purest water+, which is collected into sun-
dry reservoirs, and thence conducted, in leaden pipes, to the
different parts of the town.  In widening the crevices of
the rocks, from which the water issues, one is surprised to
observe, sometimes ten or a dozen frogs of different sizes,
and of a dark colour, forced into day by the increased
stream.  Wheter they were natives of the place from
whence they came, entered in their tadpole state, or soon
after, it is certain, that if the opening had not been enlar-
ged, they could not have got out; and it is remarkable, a
circumstance on which one might moralife, that all of them
make the utmost effort to return to their cold dark dungeon.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The regular figure which some of these have assumed from attrition,
are sometimes very remarkable.

+The fine verdure below these springs, shews, that pasture, as has
often been hinted, may be meliorated by making water run over it.


