
     of Auchterbouse.

   School.-The branches taught are, the principles of the
English and Latin languages; the principles of the Chris-
tian religon; writing, arithmetick, book keeping, geo-
metry, trigonometry, and mensuration.  And in an even-
ing school, kept in the winter months, for the accomo-
dation of those who cannot attend the day school, all the
above mentioned branches, except Latin, are taught, and
also church musick.  The school fees are 1 s. 6 d. the
quarter for reading English; 2 s. for reading and writing;
and 2 s. 6 d. for reading, writing, and arithmetick:  and
no higher quarter fees have hitherto been charged for any
branch taught at the school; only those learning the Latin
language pay 2s. 6d. the quarter, for 4 quarters in the
year, no deduction being made for about 6 weeks of a va-
cation in time of harvest.  The number of scholars
since 1788 (the time of the present schoolmaster's settle-
ment), taking one year with another, have, in the middle
of winter and in the middle of summer, exceed 50.  The
number at the evening school about 18*.

     3 U 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*All the parochial schools, within the bounds of the presbytery, are
visited and strictly examined annually by the presbytery, and a report of
the state o each school entered upon the record.  The presbytery is
formed into three committees; the first meeting of each committee fix-
ed, who have power to settle the subsequent meetings.  The examina-
tion of the several schools is accomplished within three or four weeks.
This plan, pursued for these six years past, has been productive of the
very best effects; having acted as a stimulous both upon masters and scho-
lars, and proved highly gratifying to parents, and the inhabitants in ge-
neral.  In some parishes, there are heritors who attend the examination.
And there is one gentleman (Mr Paterson of Castle Huntly), who not
only gives his countenance upon these occasions, but distributes preminms
to the scholars who most excel.  The school of Auchterhouse has given
particular satisfaction to the committee, which has been repeatedly ex-
pressed, and inserted in the presbytery record.-For some years past, a
practice has been established here, which, as it is not general, though


