
			FOWLIS WESTER.			     251

in the same elevation,-having a southern exposure, and command-
ing a view of Strathearn, Strathmore, and the Ochil and Lomond
Hills, forming the grand and distant outline of this extensive pro-
spect.
   At the distance of a mile to the east of the manse, once stood
the castle of the Earl of Strathearn, on the east side of a den in
which the burn of Dury runs. The site was peculiarly appropri-
ate for this Celtic chief, the great proprietor and chief magistrate
of the district.  The House of Gorthy was situated to the, south-
east of this, on the side of another den of the same name with it-
self. It is now demolished, but the lawn is still marked by vene-
rable trees with which, it was ornamented. Behind a division of
the south mountain range, and towards the eastern extremity of
the parish, is the estate of Keillor, in which there is a considerable
proportion of fertile soil, well cultivated, and partially inclosed.
Here stood an ancient castle, with a den on each side of it, which
a rivulet has formed into a peninsula.
   To the north of the lands of Keillor is the Almond, a beauti-
ful river, which intersects the parish for the course of two miles.
On the verge of this river, in a small but sweet spot, Mr T. Mer-
cer has a neat cottage, embossed in wood and hills, which tower
above it. West from this at Buchanty, there is a small oopse, which,
as well as the picturesque scenery above and below the bridge,
are much admired, and numbered among the attractions of the
district. There the water in the river finds its noisy way, over
fragments and clusters of stones and rocks, torn asunder and hol-
lowed, and worn into a variety of forms, and chasms, and pools,
which with trees hanging on its side, in a deep mass of shade,
and the soft spray of the cascade, when tinged with the pris-
matic rays of the sun, form a coup d'oeil, truly romantic. To the
north-east of this, is the part of the parish in Logiealmond, in
which there is a breadth of arable land, which rises with conside-
rable acclivity to the northern mountain range. This range feeds
numerous flocks of sheep, and gradually descends on the north side,
to the termination of the parish, at the river Braan, famed for its
scenery and cascades as it approaches the city of Dunkeld. In the
same range, are the hills of Conachan, at the western extremity of
the parish, which are pastured with sheep, and extend to Strona-
veille in Wester Glenalmond.
   Hydrography._The parish is abundantly supplied with water.
Copious perennial springs issue from rocks, and are soft and cool


