
                          PARISH OF MADDERTY.

               PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH AND
                                 STIRLING.

                   THE REV.  WILLIAM STODDART, MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
             Situation.--THIS parish is situated on the western boundaries
          of the parishes of Gask and Trinity-Gask, and on the eastern of
          Crieff.  It has Fowlis on the north, and part of Trinity-Gask on
          the south.  The climate is rather wet and cold.
             Hydrography.--The only water or rivulet worth notice in the
          parish is the Pow, which, for a long way, is confined in a canal or
          cut dug to straighten its course nearly a century ago.  This cut is
          about 24 feet in width, and 6 in depth.  The Pow rises from
          the red moss about a mile eastward of the parish ; one part runs
          eastward, and empties itself into the river Almond, and the other
          part runs westward, and empties itself into the Erne at Innerpef-
          fray.  The descent of the part that runs westward is so very
          gradual, that the water appears generally stagnant.  The lands ad-
          jacent are low and flat; which, with other circumstances, exposes
          them to frequent inundations.  This would certainly have a ten-
          dency to enrich and fertilize the lands, could these floodings be
          kept under control.  Embankments and sluices may to a very con-
          siderable extent, but cannot altogether, prevent the damage sus-
          tained by these floodings.  At present, from the want of sufficient-
          ly high embankments, a very heavy loss is frequently sustained.
                                 II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
             Parochial Registers.--The register of baptisms commences 25th
          July 1709; the kirk session minutes commence in February 1701;
          the register of collections, 1741 ; the minutes of the meeting of
          heritors, 1796.
	     Land-owners.--These are, Lady Preston Baird of Fern Tower,
          valued rent, L.1191, 15s. 2d. ; Major Moray of Abercairney,
          L.508, 15s.; W. L. Campbell, Esq. of Williamstone, L.274, 8s.


