
62                     ARGYLESHIHE.

south the ground is high, and consists of hill and dale. Glen-
euchar, so called from a river of that name running through it,
extends for about six miles intersecting the parish of Kilninver
from east to west. The strath or low ground produces good crops
of corn and potatoes, and the hills, in rainy seasons, yield excellent
pasture. The Braes of Lorn, another glen or strath running pa-
rallel with Gleneuchar on the south, is inferior to it in point of
extent and tillage, but far superior on account of the richness of
the pasture, and the abundance of limestone and peat which it
affords
  In the west end of the parish, called Nether Lorn, there are
about three miles of arable land, consisting of clayey soil and
black loam on sand or slate. It is highly cultivated, and produces
excellent crops of corn, barley, bear, potatoes, turnips, clover, and
rye grass.
  Except rich pasture and fine perennial springs, there is nothing
very remarkable, connected with the hills in the parish. The
highest is Ben-chapull or "mares' mountain," towering above all
the neighbouring hills, and commanding a very extensive and de-
lightful view to the west and north. It is about 1500 feet above
the level of the sea. The other hills extend in four different
range, and terminate on the sea coast. On the south side of
Gleneuchar, there appears to have been a volcanic eruption or the
shock of an earthquake, whose effects present a grotesque and
awful appearance.
  Topographical Appearances.- The united parish has about
fourteen miles of sea coast, with a number of bays and in-
lets, which afford a safe and convenient anchorage. From the
estuary of the river Euchar to the sound of Claebanseil, a dis-
tance of five miles, there are two promontories, high and rocky,
forming an extensive and beautiful bay, having a clayey bottom
and a smooth and sandy shore. From thence to the sound
of Clachan, the coast is very rugged and dangerous to ship-
ping. The rocks are composed of sandstone and slate, with
veins of whinstone interspersed. The sound above-mentioned,
which forms the western boundary of Kilninver, is about two miles
long, and averages about eighty feet broad. It runs smooth and
straight, with a strong current, and forms a beautiful canal. Though
it is passable at some places at low water, and a regular ferry al-
ways available, yet the inconvenience was generally felt and com-
plained of: A bridge at length was built, consisting of a single


