
614                           PERTSHIRE.

their ull yellowish colour. On investigation each of them is found
to derive its circularity from being the section of a sphere, and not
to be only a thin superficial lamina. Moreover, at the centre of
the sphere, there is generally to be discerned a speck differing in
appearance from what sorrounds it, and lately, I have found num-
bers of these spheres formed around ` very small portion of scaly
substance, so that there can be little doubt they have orginated
from the influence of organic matter.
     In both qaurries, scales of fishes exist in great quantities; the
deeper the beds, the more abundant are they, particularly in those
of a breeciated character. There is one variety very prevelent.
Specimens of this may be picked up any time. Their ordinary
size is about an inch and a half in diameter, and a sixteenth of an
inch in thickness; but they tenth have been found as large as three
inches in diameter, and a tenth of an inch thickness. Besides
this variety, which is the only one that hitherto has been publicly
noticed, I have discovered other five, which are obviously distinct,
three of them in Clashbennie, and two in Cot-town quarry. All
of these are of rare occurance. Somd of them are large scales,
being from two to three inches in diameter; one has a strong re-
semblance to those of the Megalyckthys Hibberti. Besides scales,
the teeth, spines, jaw-bones and other bones of fishes are some-
times to be met with; portions of rays and fins, more rarely; co-
prolites frequently; and I have in my possession the eye of a fish,
with its pupil, lid, and other appendages imbedded in a piece of
sandstone, all as vividly exhibiting the external organization, as
though it had immediately fallen from its original position.
     Considering the quantity of scales with which the strata abound,
it is to be wondered at, that only a very few specimens have been
found, exhibiting either complete impressions, or impressions of
any large or important parts of fishes. A good many years ago,
a specimne which is obviously the fossilized portion of a fish, extending
it is seven inches long, two inches in depth, and about three quar-
ters of an inch thick. Although their beds are marked, there are
now no scales upon it, neither are there any traces of fins to be
discovered. This fossil has, by M. Agassiz, been set down to the
specimen was discovered, which could serve to determine to what
genus of fishes those scales, so abundantly distributed throughout



