
740                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

home or abroad. He is reported to, have realised a large fortune
from the sale of his works, which at the present day continue to
bear a high price, when the impressions are good.
   Another pupil of Cooper's Andrew Bell, the celebrated pro-
jector and proprietor of the four or five first editions of the great
national work the Encyclopaedia Britannica, was the first means,
however, of benefiting engraving in Edinburgh, for to the great
encouragement which that publication met with we are indebted
principally for the stimulus given to engraving. During the early
period of Bell's business up to 1800 the performances in the art
of engraving in Edinburgh were sufficiently unpretending, if not
actually mean; but this enterprising man, joining to tolerable pro-
ficiency as an artist, admirable tack as a man of business, had
the merit of searching out and rearing up a host of talented young
men as apprentices some of whom afterwards went to London
and adorned the capital with their works, then equal in merit to
any of their rivals; while others, whose lot was cast in Edinbergh,
were the first to produce engravings at all worthy of the name,
and all of which have been done subsequently to the year
1795.
   In the present Account, it appears most advisable to refer to the
works rather than to the names of the engravers, which might be
thought invidious, seeing that some of them are still alive; and
we commence with two of the plates of King Lear, engraved for
Boydel's Shakspeare, and one of the murder of the princes in the
Tower for the same work; portraits of the late Dr Spence and
of Earl Denbigh; portraits of the late Lord Justice-Clerk Brax-
field, and President Campbell; Death of Sir Ralph Abercromby.
Many plates from Wilkie's and Allan's pictures have been ren-
dered with much truth and richness of workmanship; and the
classical views of Greece and Italy, by the late H. W. Williams,
all engraved in Edinburgh, are certainly got up in a style equal to
that of any modern work. When, in conclusion, we have mentioned
the print of Daniel in the Lions' Den, after the celebrated picture
by Rubens in the palace at Hamilton, we have nearly exhausted
our enumeration of picture engraving upon any thing approximat-
ing to a great scale produced in the capital of Scotland up to the
present time. The great and increasing demand by the public
for illustrated works, and the encouragement field out to pub-
lishers to embark their capital in them, have called into active
exertion a number of talented engravers.
   Previous to 1790, there were only about two, or at most three,


