
230                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

into the county by John Rennie, Esq. of Phantassie and others
are grazed on the various farms; and great numbers of sheep of
the Leicester, Cheviot, and black-faced breeds, and of black and
short-horned cattle are annually fattened on turnips.
   Husbandry.-It is needless to say, that the general character
of husbandry pursued is of the most improved kind. This parish
can boast of some farmers as much distinguished for zeal, and en-
terprise, and success, in their profession, as any in East Lothian.
Turnips are cultivated to a great extent, and on some farms the
land is grazed always for two, and occasionally for four or five
years. There are various rotations followed, according to the va-
rious soils. On what is considered a heavier soil the ordinary
rotation is, 1. turnips; 2. barley or wheat; 3. two years grass; 4.
oats. On the lightest soils, the following is the rotation: 1. tur-
nips; 2. barley, or wheat; 3. grass for three years, and occasion-
ally for four or five years; 4. oats. On a strong clay soil the ro-
tation is either, 1. fallow; 2. wheat; 3. one year grass; 4. oats;
or, 1. fallow; 2. wheat; 3 grass; 4. oats; 9. beans and pease;
6. wheat. A considerable extent of waste meadow or muirland has
been reclaimed, and brought under the plough, on the north base
of the Lammermuirs. Bones, rape-dust, and other manures, not
the produce of the farm-yard, are more or less used by every far-
mer. The general duration of leases, and that which is found to be
most advantageous, for both landlord and tenant, is nineteen years.
The state of farm-buildings and enclosures, is in general good.
It would be an improvement, were slates used instead of tiles.
The roads, in this parish, with the exception of that between Spott
village and Dunbar, are not in very good repair.
   Produce.-The annual average gross amount of raw produce,
raised in the parish, is, as nearly as can be ascertained, as follows:

<TABLE>
              Produce of grain of all kinds,        L. 10836  0  0
                         turnips and potatoes,          4045  0  0
              Yearly value of land in grass,            2544  0  0
                                                       -----------
                                             Total, L. 17425  0  0
   Manufactures.-The only thing of this sort carried on in the
parish, is a manufactory of potato-starch, or flour, on the farm
of Easter Broomhouse. It employs six women for six months
in the year. The flour is principally used by manufacturers of
cloth; and sometimes by bakers and confections in large towns.
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-towns.-The nearest market-town is Dunbar; but the


