
            558                          PERTHSHIRE.

               The tale and the song have now also ceased to cheer the win-
            ter ingle; and our old people often complain, that the reign
            of ancient faith and brotherly neigHbourhood, which knew no guile,
            is usurped by mercenary and selfish aims, which have complete-
            ly done away with that clannish and family attachment, for which
            Highlanders in former times were so celebrated.
               At that time, the women, when they went abroad, dressed in lin-
            sey-woolsey, or other homespun apparel, their finest attire; and it
            was exceedingly rare to meet a woman at church or market, with a
            straw bonnet or umbrella. Now, the meanest servant maid can-
            not appear at either, without being provided with both.
               Excepting in families of independent circumstances, tea was then
            unknown. Now, it is almost incredible how much is expended on
            this article by our peasantry. There was, then, little if any clover
            or turnip sown in the parish; now, even the crofter who rents a few
            acrds, must have his little plot allotted and enclosed for the former,
            and a ridge or two for the latter. Very great changes for the bet-
            ter have also taken place, in the management of funerals, late-
            wakes, and weddings. Instead of the unseemly scenes and rints
            which frequently took place on such occasions, the strictest pro-
            priety and decorum now prevail. In husbandry, also, a most re-
            markable improvement has taken place: and societies for the ad-
            vancement of every branch of agricultural improvements have been
            established among us, the beneficial effects of which are visible.

               July 1838.

                             PARISH OF BLAIR-ATHOLL.

            	  PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                         THE REV. JOHN STEWART, MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE four separate parishes of Blair,
Lude, Kilmaveonaig, and Strowan, constitute what is now gene-
rally designated the parish of Blair Atholl. Though the condi-
tions and period of the annexation of these parishes are unknown, it
is certain that their union took place before 1632. The names



