
			LEWIS-LOCHS.				161

game is more abundant, with the exception of partridges and
pheasants, of which there are none.
   All the insects peculiar to this climate, are abundant in the
Lewis. Caterpillars have been, of late years, particularly so,-as
is also that noxious insect, the grub-worm.
   Every kind of fish which is to be met in the northern seas, fre-
quents the Lewis coast. There were great takings of herring in
some lochs in this island, in past years, particularly in Loch Roag;
but the herring fishing has not been prosperous, of late years.
Herrings frequent the Lewis coast, in great shoals, every Septem-
ber. They seem in perpetual progress towards the east. It is sel-
dom that a few stragglers from the main body visits the locbs in
which they formerly so much abounded. The desertion of the
Lewis lochs by the herrings, is attributed by some to the constant
reaping yearly of the sea-weed or weir along the coast Whatever
truth may be in this opinion, it is certain that the decrease of the
quantity of herrings taken in the Lewis has kept pace with the in
crease of the quantity of kelp manufactured on the island. Cod
and ling are taken in considerable abundance. But the quantity of
them taken, is not equal to that taken in former years,-notwith-
standing of the improvement which has taken place in the fishing
materials, and the great increase of fishermen. At present, there
are about sixty tons taken annually in the parish of Lochs.
   The fresh water lakes of Lewis abound with black trout, all
of one kind, but differing in size and quality, in different lakes.
Carp are to be met with here, but rarely. The only river in
the parish of Lochs, which produces salmon, is the river of Laxay.
The river Creed, which separates the parish of Loclis from the
parish of Stornoway, produces a few salmon also; but they are
not so abundant, nor so good in quality on the river Creed, as in
the river of Laxay. The proper season for fishing this rivers
commences in November, and continues until July. 'The fish
taken in the early part of the season, are always the best. I have,
been induced to believe, by the testimony of several respectable
people in this island, who have had ample opportunities of knowingi
that salmon spawn every second year only. It is perfectly well
known here, that while'the salmon which spawned.are 'poor and
black in the months of November, December, January, February,
and March, during these months other salmon come from the
sea, fat and fresh; and that the winter is the best s6ason'for fish-
ing,-not that salmon is taken in greater abundance during that
ROSS, AND CROMARTY.
                      L


