
                 DAVIOT AND DUNLICHITY.                        519

walls and towers, excepting a small breach at the main gate, were
all entire about eighty-four years ago; and, had they suffered no
injury besides natural decay, might have remained for centuries
as a specimen of the superior skill of our ancient masonry. In
the year 1784, a wadset was obtained from the laird of Mack-
intosh of the lands of Daviot, where the castle stood; and
it is much to be regretted, that, in a country where stones are so
plentiful as to be an encumbrance, this noble and only monument
of antiquitity should have been partly destroyed for furnishing ma-
terials to a modern farm-house and offices. Still, however, a
magnificent ruin remained; but it must shock the feelings of every
person of taste, to be told that its total destruction was gradually
accomplished during a period of forty years prior to 1794, for no
other purpose than that of procuring the old lime and rubbish for
the possessor's dung-hill.
     On the west, and close to the manse of Daviot, is a hill, round
at the top, called Dun-Daviot, which appears to have been a sig-
nal-post in former times, and seems to have formed a line of tele-
graphic communication betwixt Dun-Evan, near Calder, on the east,
and Dun-Dardil, on Loch Ness side, on the west, and Craig Pha-
dric, near Inverness, on the north.
     There are the remains of several Druidical temples in the pa-
rishes. Those in the most perfect state are to be seen at Daviot,
Gask, Tordarroch, and Farr. Various tilmuli have been opened,
and a stone coffin was found in the centre of each of them, con-
taining ashes; in a few, there were emptY urns.
     On the west side of the small hill called Tork, in, the parish of
Dunlichity, is Chapel field, where, it is said, the parish church or
chapel stood before it was transferred to Dunlichity. At this spot
are still to be seen a number of graves which are marked out by
small round stones.
     Modern Buildings.- Within the last twenty years, the following
buildings have been erected, viz. the commodious mansion-house
of Daviot, by the late Alexander Mackintosh of Mackintosh; an
elegant and large addition to the House of Farr, by Colonel Mack-
intosh; the church of Daviot, Episcopal cbapel at Croacby of
Aberarder; and the two parochial school-houses; the three farm-
steadings, with thrashing-mills, at Culclachie, Daviot, and Farr,
with several tenants' houses. The whole are built of stone and
lime, and are also slated.


