
           132                           PERTHSHIRE.

           are L.88,6s.31/2d, and for the church fund, L.25,-in all L. 113,
           6s. 3 1/2d.
              The funds arising from the assessment are distributed to the
           poor of the parish generally, without any respect to religious
           denominations.  The funds arising from the church collec-
           tions are distributed to the poor belonging to the Established
           church, and to those especially who are advanced in life, as they
           are supposed to have contributed to these in the days of their
           strength and prosperity.  The parish was in 1807 divided into four
           parishes by a decreet of the Court of Session, and it was ordered
           in that decreet, that the money collected for the poor in each
           church should be placed at the disposal of the sessions of the four
           parishes, forming one general session.  This general session ac-
           cordingly distributes these funds. it has a meeting on the first
           Thursday of every month for this purpose.  It has been alleged
           that the proceeds of these two funds should be thrown together as
           a common stock for the support of the parish poor generally.  But
           to this there are material objections. The Dissenters and Se-
           ceders have collections at the doors of their meeting-houses for
           their own poor exclusively, and they will not consent that these
           collections shall form part of a common stock or the parochial
           poor. If, therefore, the legally assessed funds, and the Establish-
           ed Church charities, be made common stock, the poor connected
           with the Establishment will be in less favourable circumstances
           than the poor in connection with the Secession, It is reasonable
           that if the church door collections be joined to the assersed funds,
           so should the meetinghouse collections.
              The number who receive out of the session funds is 219; and
           the number who receive out of the assessed funds is 576 ; but a
           good many poor receive out of both.
              The following Incorporations give to their poor members, whose
           number at present is 217,

           <TABLE>

           The Guildry,         L. 800      The Hammermen, -     L. 120
           The Glovers,            670      The Shoemakers,     -    90
           The Wrights,    -       350      The Bakers,         -    60
           The Tailors,    -       150      The Flashers,       -    30
                                 -------                        -------
                                L. 1970                          L. 300

              There are charity societies.  The sums distributed by them in
           the year. 1833 were as follows: by the Destitute Sick Society,
           L.74, 6s. 6d. by the Aged and Indigent Female Society,
           L. 67, 10s. by the Society for Clothing Indigent Females, L.60
           l8s. 5d.; by the Society for Clothing Old Men, L.118,8s.6d. The


