
                      ELGIN.                                 3

   The Lossie is the only stream of any magnitude in the parish.
It either skirts or winds through it, rather a sluggish course of
about eight miles, part of which it forms the northern boundary,
and falls into the Moray Frith at the shipping port of Lossiemouth,
five miles north-east of Elgin.  Running through a flat country,
it requires to be confined to its channel by artificial banks, which
it frequently overflows, damaging the crops on the adjoining fields,
and occasioning considerable expense to the proprietors, in repairs.
This was particularly the case in the disastrous floods of August
1829, so accurately and graphically described in Sir Thomas D.
Lauder's book on the subject.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-On either of these branches of sci-
ence there is very little to interest the naturalist. The hilly ridge
which separates Pluscarden from Mosstowie is of hard sandstone,
not liable to be decomposed by the action of air and water; and,
where the strata are visible, they appear to be nearly parallel to the
horizon.  About a mile south of Elgin, there is a bed of secondary
limestone, lying in the direction of east to west, and which may
be traced eastward through the parishes of St Andrews and Ur-
quhart to a rock visible at low water in the Moray Frith. This bed
is adulterated with sand, clay, and oxide of iron.  These impuri-
ties give the lime a dark colour, but. it is found to answer very well
for agricultural purposes, and for mortar to buildings of an infe-
rior description.  There is a great variety of soil in the parish.
Much of the arable land is light and sandy, part is inclined to clay,
and part is a rich loam, particularly on the banks of the Lossie.
   Woods.-About seventy years ago the lowland district of Mo-
ray was one of the barest in Scotland.  Scarce a tree was to be
seen, except a few ashes in the avenue leading to the mansion of
some old family. James the Second Earl of Fife was the first ex-
tensive planter, and his example w`s soon followed by the neigh.
bouring land-owners, so that there is now hardly an uncultivated
knoll or ridge to be seen which is not covered with wood.  The
oldest plantation in this parish is at Main, the property of the Earl
of Seafield, and it barely reaches to half a century.  Many hun-
dreds of acres on the estates of the Earl of Fife and George Duff,
Esq. of Milton Duff, which, less than twenty years ago were naked
moor, are now clothed with almost every variety of forest trees.
These, and the plantations at Westerton, the property of Colonel
Alexander Hay, greatly improve the scenery of Pluscarden, and
render the interesting ruins of the priory much more beautiful and


