
                                    BELLIE.                             115

     tifications, churchyard -cities, &c.'making tbia receipts in all about
     L. 45 yearly ; out of which, besides the regular allowance to those
     on the roll, extra supplies are given in cases of sickness, funeral
     expenses are paid, &c. also the session-clerk, precentor, and church
     officer; so that there is but a small sum reserved in hand; and
     probably so much the better,-for it seenms to be generally ac-
     knowledged that, wherever a large fund is accumulated, the claim-
     ants increase in number.
        Gray's Hospital at Elgin, to which the poor of all the parishes,
     within the county have access, on presenting the certificate of their
     parish minister, is of incalculable benefit ; and the lunatic asy-
     lum, lately attached to it, capable of receiving ten patients at a
     time, is likely to be found a valuable addition for the relief of the
     parishes of this county.

     October 1835.



                            PARISH OF BELLIE.

                   PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                       THE REV. DAVID DEWAR, MINISTER. *

                        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name.-The name has been traced by some to the Gaelie.
       Bellaidth, signifying broom; and by others to Beul-aith, signify-
       ing the mouth of the ford.
          Boundaries, Extent, &c.-The parish is of an oblong quadran-
       gular figure, but narrower at the northern than at the opposite ex-
       treme.  Its length, from north to soutb varies from 5 to 6 mile.
       Its greatest breadth is 4 miles; its mean breadth 3; and its su-.
       perficial contents in square miles, very nearly 19.  The Spey is
       the boundary on the west; the Moray Frith on the north Rath-
       ven on the east; Keith and Boharm on the south.
       Meteorology.- The following meteorological table, embracing a
       period of ten successive years, is extracted from a register care-
       fully kept by an eminent naturalist, vho long resided at Gordon
       Castle.

       <FOOTNOTE>
       Drawn up by the late incumbent of the parish, the Rev. William Rannie.


