
180                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

It was once wrought and lost sight of, and, after several attempts
to hit upon it were unsuccessful, it has long been given up. Free-
stone and whinstone are more abundant. Two freestone quarries
are now wrought,-Kingscavil, from which the palace of Linlith-
gow was built,-and East Binny, well known in modern public
buildings in Edinburgh and elsewhere. This quarry is remarka-
ble for the bitumen which is found in it, and which is sometimes
melted and made into candles, which burn with a bright flame.
   Manufactures.-This is not a manufacturing district; but there
are several species of manufacture in the town and neighbourhood.
The leather trade, in its various branches, may be called the
staple of the town. It is said to have been introduced into the
town by the soldiers of Cromwell. There are 24 master boot
and shoe-makers, employing 276 journeymen, and 43 apprentices.
The wages of the former are 10s. per week, and of the latter 3s.
Thirty women are also employed as women's boot-binders, whose
weekly wages average 4s. 6d. There are five master tanners,
employing 28 men in this trade, the rate of wages is determined
by the skill of the workmen. A tanner, bred to the employment,
receives 13s. per week, while the average wages of what are called
labouring tanners, that is, men not brought up to the work, are
only 9s. The master couriers amount to nine, employing about
50 men, whose average rate of wages is 14s. per week. In the
shoe trade, the hours are long-from six to six, and often later.
In the currying branch of the trade, the men work only ten hours
a-day. The tanning and currying departments are in a prosperous
condition, and the shoe-makers are well employed. There was
a temporary depression in the last-named trade some time back,
but it has again revived.
   There is a very extensive distillery in, the town, which gives
employment to a number of men. There is also a brewery.
   In the vicinity, upon the river Avon, there is a paper-mill, and
a large calico-printing establishment, both in full employment;
the former produces a considerable quantity of paper, made by
machinery, and the latter has been, even during the late melan-
choly depression of trade in other parts of the country, prosperous.
The village of Linlithgow Bridge is almost entirely dependent
upon the print field. Two glue-works are also in activity, and
supply work to a portion of the population. A number of women,
principally unmarried, are engaged in sewing for Glasgow manu-
facturing houses. This employment can scarcely be termed re-


