
            168                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

            than the former, and so in some measure removed from the raging of
            the ocean.  The rocks are not very high.  The soil is sandy, though
            covered with verdure.  The present name of these islands sufficient-
            ly indicates who are their principal inhabitants.  The ancient name
            was Eilean na Gaeil, the island of strangers, from the Danes hav-
            ing been said to have landed upon it.  The principal bays are
            those of Torrisdale and Tongue; the former is open and tem-
            pestuous, affording little or no shelter for vessels; the latter is the
            Kyle, or arm of the sea, already noticed.  Its length is about ten
            miles, the average breadth about a-mile and a-half. Its depth is
            nowhere great, and, from the shifting nature of its sand banks, na.
            vigation is difficult and often perilous.  There is, however, good
            anchorage for sbips of any burden at the Rabbit Islands, where they
            may ride with safety in storms from most directions.  A fine road--
            stead is also to be found in its neighbourhood at Talmine, a pret-
            ty bay that branches off the west side of the Kyle.  It has a smooth
            beach, and a fine bottom -is much sheltered from the most tem-
            pestuous winds,-and commands a ready exit to the ocean.  At
            present, it is one of the principal fishing stations on the coast.
            By the erection of quays, and by connecting the mainland with a
            small island lying close by on the north side, it might be made
            one of the most commodious harbours in the north.  Almost op-
            posite to Talmine, on the east side of the Kyle, there is the creek
            of Sculomy, which at present shelters a few fishing-boats, but which
            an inconsiderable expense might render a safe station for many
            more.
              Meteorology.-Considering the latitude of this parish, its tem-
            perature is mild, and the climate is very salubrious, though the
            state of the atmosphere is in general extremely changeable.  The
            heat is not so great in summer, nor the cold so intense in winter,
            as these seem to be in some of the southern parts of Scotland.
            Placed in a central position between the west and east coasts of
            the island, it is not visited by those frequent deluges of rain which
            are peculiar to the former, nor so exposed to those piercing blight-
            ing winds which prevail in the latter.  The prevailing winds are
            the south-west and northwest.  The severest storms are from
            the south-west,-the most frequent from the north-west.  The
            prevalent distempers, as connected with the climate, are rheumatism
            and inflammatory complaints; but more common than either are
            disorders of the stomach among the poorer-people, arising from a
            diet often too scanly, and sometimes unwholesome.  Luminous
                                          3


