
    480                  ARGYLESHIRE.

    on the same river. The highest are the cascades formed by the
    streams which rush down the precipitous sides of Buachail-etivd.
    One of these, the cascades of "Vrogie," " Eas-a-bhrogieh," situ-
    ated two miles beyond the housd of Dalness, is very remarkable,
    not merely from its elevation, but also from the peculiar character
    of its channel. At about 300 feet from the bottom of this cascade,
    the rock is so formed that there is a natural recess of at least 50
    yards, to which there is a winding access. When arrived at the
    interior of this recess, one is surrounded on every side by high
    and almost perpendicular rocks, while the light of day can be
    seen only through a narrow vista of more than 600 feet high.
    About a mile onwards, in the same glen, is another lofty cas-
    cade called Eas-an-fhir-mhoir, or "the cascade of the great one;"
    and, at a distance of two miles farther, in the same direction,
    another called "Eas-a-bhodich," or "the hermit's cascade."
       On Ben-treelachan in Glen-etive many falls are to be seen,-
    Eas-doire-Dhonachie," or "the fall of the grove of Duncan," be-
    ing the most conspicuous. On the larger Esraganan, two pretty
    falls, though on a comparatively small scale,-and on the lesser
    stream of that name, there are several, among which, one will be
    found to possess considerable boldness and beauty. Some of the
    cascades on Ben-cruachan, are to be seen in travelling the road
    from Glenorchy to Bunawe, and will naturally attract the notice of
    the traveller.
       Geology and Mineralogy.-The fev following remarks on geology
    are from a paper by Dr MacCulloch, on the Geology of Ben Cru-
    achan, published in the Transactions of the Geological Society)
    14th December 1814. 11 The rocks of which our mountains are
    composed are chiefly the nica-slate, penetrated in various directions
    by veins of quartz, granite or micaceotis granular quartz, and por-
    phyry, of which the Buachail Etive mountains consist. Thejunction
    of the granite with the schistus is seen at the base of Ben Cruach-
    an above Bunawe. Large veins may be seen proceeding from the
    great mass nf the mountain, and ramifying into innumerable small
    divisions, penetrating and traversing the schistus in all directions."
       The immense masses of granite along the shores of Loch-etive
    might, it is believed, be iurned to some 'account by the 'roprie-
    tors. This kind of stone, it is well known, may be dressed so as
    to acquire a good polish. It can now be cut with wedges to any di-
    mensions. -When dressed it has a fine appearances and in dura-
    bility it is surpassed by no other stone.  Persons who have seen
                    4


