
44                           FORFARSHIRE.

subscriptions and collections, for its stppnrt; and four missionaries
are employed daily in going from house to house, among the poorer
and more ignorant of the people. At present there is a plan form-
ing to obtain another society in connection with the Church of Scot-
land, so as to employ, if possible, a missionary in the district of each
of the established ministers.
	The average amount of contributions by religious societies in
Dundee (including the city mission) is about L. 550. The ex-
traordinary collections for charitable and religious purposes in the
churches and chapels of all denominations may amount to about
L. 600.
        Education.-The whole number of schools in Dundee is 80,
at which, by the nearest calculation, 3700 children are receiving
education. There is no parochial school, properly so called; but
a Sessional School, conducted on Mr Wood's plan, has lately been
established for poor children. It is attended at present by 165
children; and the salary of the teacher is L. 80. * In the Royal
Orphan Institution, in addition to eighteen orphans who reside in
the house, 116 scholars receive education at 1s. a quarter, the
funds providing books, &c. A seminary in Tay Square, built by
private individuals, and superintended by three teachers, has at pre-
sent about 230 scholars, and is successful. In the private schools
there is no salary, and the fees for reading, writing, and arithmetic,
average 4s. 6d. a quarter. There are also several boarding-schools
for young ladies, of very great and deserved respectability.
	In the grammar-school, there are two masters for Latin and
Greek. Their fees, 10s. 6d. a quarter, producing to each L. 60 a
year; and their salaries L. 50 each. The public English school
has also two masters, one for English, the other for writing and
arithmetic. Their fees, 6s. a quarter, yielding to each about L. 70
a year; and their salaries L. 30 and L. 20. The academy was
begun about forty years ago, and became more prosperous and per-
manent, from a legacy of L. 6000 by Mr Webster of London,
which became available in the year 1800. From this the academy
derives an income of L. 100 a-year, which pays the fees of twenty-
five bursars, attending the mathematical classes. There are in the
academy at present four masters; the branches taught being ma-
thematics, natural philosophy, chemistry, moral philosophy, logics,

<FOOTNOTE>At present there is a committee appointed, and a scheme in progress to obtain
a Sessional School to contain about 500, which would doubtless be a great boon to the
town. The Town-Council, on an application being made to them, have agreed to
give ground for the purpose.


