
814                            AYRSHIRE.

2 1/2 feet in thickness, is found at the depth of seven fathoms below
the limestone. It was partially wrought, some years ago, at
Monkredding and Mountgreenan. Other seams are supposed to
exist lower down, having been found in contemporaneous strata,
in the adjoining parishes. Beyond the outburst of the main coal,
limestone is found, appearing near the surface at Bunnnach,
Lylestone, Cloubeath, and Mountgreenan. Where it has been
worked, it is five feet thick, and of good quality. It runs below
the main coal, at a distance from it of about 170 fathoms. At
Cartleburn, one mile to the north of the town, a bed of limestone,
eighteen feet thick, is found cropping out. It has sometimes
been wrought, and is of good quality, being almost entirely com-
posed of fossil shells. The working of this bed was confined to
the above locality, the outburst not having been found in any other
place.
	Ironstone bands, it is not doubted, might be found in abundance
in connexion with the limestone beds, but have not been explored.
They are seen, however, in corresponding strata on the Ardrossan
shore, where they are numerous, and some of them are of the
black-band kind, so much prized by ironmasters.
	In some of the shales which intervene betwixt the coals, fossil
vegetable remains, chiefly of the fern tribe, are found in great
abundance. Balls of ironstone, in great quantities, and of various
sizes, likewise occur, and also fossil shell-fish, generally mussels,
with, their shapes as entire and well-defined as if gathered alive
upon the shore.
	The nature of the various soils has been already adverted to.
The subsoil generally, throughout the parish, consists of a tenaci-
ous blue clay, thickly interspersed with boulders, chiefly of wbin-
stone, and of various sizes. In some parts, a bed of gravel is found
above the blue clay and stones, and above the gravel a deposit of
clay, entirely free from stones. It is used for making draining-
tiles and building-bricks.
        Zoology.--Among the mammalia may be mentioned Lutra vul-
garis, the other, a most successful salmon-fisher, occasionally de-
tected poaching in the Garnock. From the near neighbourhood
of the Irish Channel, the seafowl which frequent it are often seen
in this parish, the rarer descriptions of which may be found speci-
fied in the Statistical Account of Stevenston. The following is a
list, imperfect we fear, of the rarer birds that may be found in this
parish;--
				3

