
838                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

legacies of L.100 each have been bequeathed to the poor, which
make the amount of their funds at present L.36O at 4 per cent.
The average annual amount of collection, &c. applicable to the
poor is from  L.35 to L.40. But as there are generally from 45 to
50 and sometimes 60 * paupers on the roll, this provision is at all
times small, and often quite inadequate.  And recourse must then
be had to the heritors, who have never refused to contribute when
called on.  One lady, a proprietrix, has for years sent L.5 for their
behoof at the commencement of winter, and she and some of the
other proprietors give aid in meal or money to the poor on their
estates during winter.  I may here add, that, till necessity com-
pelled, no application was made for aid from the poor's funds, and
none receiving aid are permitted to beg beyond the bounds of the
parish.
   Education.-There are three parochial schools in the parish,
placed one in each of the divisions already mentioned, at two
of which, Greek and Latin may be taught, and at all of them,
arithmetic, book-keeping, the practical parts of mathematics,
writing, reading English, and English grammar.  As to the sala-
ries of the teachers, the heritors, of course, assess themselves
in three chalders of victual ; but as one of the teachers has the
benefit of a small mortification, and another derives emolument as
clerk to the presbytery and the Justices of the Peace of the dis-
trict, acting under the Commutation Road and Small-Debt Acts,
the conversion of the three chalders paid by the heritors has been
divided among them.  The salary of each, on an average may be
estimated at about L.25, and their school fees about L.20 more
each.  They all have the legal accommodation as to houses, and
the original schoolmaster has the legal garden.  They have also
all been found entitled to the benefit of Dick's Mortification.
The people are alive to the education of their children, so much
so, that I am justified in saying that there are few, if any, children
above six years of age who cannot read the New Testament, and
few of the rising generation in the parish above twelve who cannot
write.  Indeed, I have reason to believe, that there are not above
six or seven persons in the parish who cannot read a plain chapter
of the Bible.
   Libraries.-There are three circulating libraries in the parish,

<FOOTNOTE>The necessities of the poor have forced the session to uplift nearly L. 130 of these
funds.


