
618                               AYRSHIRE.

	We regret that there is, at present, no Society for missionary
or religous purposes, and, so far we have learned, there never
has been. A prayer meeting was held for many years in the vil-
lage, but has been discontinued. We hope, however, to have
others of a simillar nature speedily commenced.
	Poor.-- The average number of paupers has, of late years, been
about 30; the number upon the occasional list is rather more.--
The average amount of aliment yearly is L. 6, lowest, L. 1, 5s.;
average allowance monthly, 6s. 6d. There are two insane persons
who receive each L.14 annually. The assessment of the heritors
is voluntary, and amounts to L. 150 per annum; collections at
church doors, L. 48; the sums arising from proclamation and
mortcloth dues, L. 5: in all L. 200. But out of this fund are
paid the salaries of the precentor, beadle, and the person employ-
ed in cleaning the church, as well as any small repairs upon
the in church, manse, and school-house. Besides these disburse-
ments to the poor, there are between seventy and eighty cart-loads
of coal given to them annually by a few of the proprietors, and
which the farmers in the neighbourhood drive gratuitously.
	Innus, Alehouses.--There are 18 of such houses in the parish,
which, considering its neighbourhood to Kilmarnock, are far too
many for any good or useful purpose.
	Fuel.--Coal is the only fuel in use, and it is got at very reason-
able prices. The price of the fire-coal at the pit-mouth, at pre-
sent, varies from 5s. to 6s. per imperial ton.

                       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Many changes have taken place in the parish since the last
Statistical Account was drawn up in l792, and many of them de-
cided improvements. The people seem more intelligent; their
wages are much higher, in some cases doubled; their comforts
upon the whole greater. From the tile-draining the land has sin-
gularly  improved, being, in consequence, now able to produce
much better, crops, and with greater certainty, than before. A
considerable quantity of moss has been rendered arable since that
time, there were 250. Instance of longevity seem now to be more
numerous than formerly; and the population has nearly trebeled.
On most properties, the farm-steadings have been much improved;
and the facilities of communication of every kind are now much
more numerous. Church accomodaton has been greatly in-
creased; education is carried on with greater spirit, and the bran-


