
     Statistical Account

of the plain eastward from Stirling, has at one period been
covered with moss; and that the arable lands on both sides of
the river, have been recovered from the moss, by dint of la-
bour, in a course of ages.  It is probable that the whole of
this extensive plain, had been previously under water.  Shells,
both separate and collected into beds, are found throughout
the carse; and it is not long since fish bones of a considerable
size, have been met with in the neighbourhood of Stirling.
The mass of clay would naturally be accumulated and levelled
by the operation of the tides.  The period in which this part
of the country was under water, must be very remote, as on
this subject both history and tradition are equally silent.
After the recession of the waters, the same space must have
been occupied with trees and shrubs These would be pro-
duced by the same causes, which, in process of time, cover
ground that is left without culture, with various vegetable
productions.  A forest would at last appear; and by the fall
and putrefaction of this forest, the moss, in its present state,
has unquestionably been formed.  Oaks of a great size, are
still found on the subjacent earth, where the moss has been
cleared away.  Many of these are in good preservation;
when exposed to the air for some time, they become hard;
and when put to use, prove very durable.  They are rarely
serviceable for furniture; but suit very well for roof timber,
stobs, and bridges over moss ditches.  Other trees, such as
birch, alder, black-saugh, rowan, hawthorn, and hazle, are
also found; hazle nuts are frequently met with.  The trunks
or bodies of these trees, are generally consumed; but the
roots remain.  It is natural to enquire, how this great forest
should happen to be overthrown.  A hurricane of wind oc-
curs at first, as a possible cause of this great effect.  But in
this case it is obvious, that the trees must either have been
broken about the middle, or torn up by the roots, and would


