
802                         LANARKSHIRE.

ture, viz. one at Uddingston ; two at Bellshill ; one at Holytown;
one at Thankerton colliery; one at Legbrannock; and two at
Chapel Hall; in all, 11 day schools; with one exception, all
well attended.  There are also 7 well attended Sabbath schools
in the parish, which have been sources of great benefit to the children
in the populous districts where they are established.
   The people in general are alive to the benefits of education, and
do not fail to have their children taught English reading, writing,
and arithmetic.  Among the children of the colliers, who are frequently
moving from one parish to another, a few may be found
destitute of these qualifications.
   A parish library was established in 1798. Some of the original
subscribers were tainted with Paine's principles, and several
books were introduced, which were calculated neither to establish
the faith, nor to improve the morals of the readers.  On that account,
its dissolution some years ago occasioned no regret to the
serious part of the community.  Several families have excellent
private libraries, and new and expensive publications can easily be
procured from the libraries in Hamilton and Glasgow.
   There are four libraries connected with the Sabbath schools,
   Charities.-In 1577, the Countess of Forfar mortified a sum
to send a boy to the College of, Glasgow, " born of honest
parents within the regality of Bothwell, ten years of age, and educated
within the school of Bothwell."  One John Scott was sent
in 1777. The terms of the deed have rendered the mortification
useless to those for wbose benefit it was intended; and it is said
that the faculty of the University have appropriated the annual
proceeds to the enlarging of the class-rooms of the College, and
other purposes, which they consider, as the deed requires, to be
" for the glory of God."
   James Hamilton, late mason in Glasgow, bequeathed L. 200 to
the parish of Bothwell in 1778 to " remain in the hands of the
session as a sunk stock, the yearly annual interest to be applied
for the purpose of paying the apprentice-fee of one or more apprentices
to creditable tradesmen of the city of Glasgow, of the
nomination and appointment of the minister and elders, or the
major part of them,"-blood relatives to be preferred.  The testamentary
trustee on the estate of James Hamilton became
bankrupt, and only a small part of the sum bequeathed was recovered
by the kirk-session.  The annual interest is applied as
deed directs.


