
     Statistical Account

   Kelp.-The manufacture of kelp was tried here, for the
first time, in the year 1780.  But the bays are, in general,
too shallow, and the shores too much exposed to the ocean,
to afford any great quantity of sea-weeds for this purpose.
About 10 tons of kelp are annually prepared here; the ex-
pence of making it may be from L. 2 to L. 2, 10 s. a ton,
varying as the shores are more or less accessible; and the
price which it brings is about L. 4 the ton.

   Agriculture.-Before the fishery became an object of
such general attention, agriculture was in a more thriving
state.  The farms have been since subdivided into smaller
portions, and the number of the ploughs has decreased.
The land annually plowed for black oats, bear, and potatoes,
may be about 1500 acres.  Tang and sea ware are used a
manures,* wherever they can be produced.  The plough
is of a peculiar structure, light and simple+.  It has only one
stilt; the stock is double feathered; the ploughman walks
not behind the plough, but at the left side; the drivers walks
backwards; 2 horses and 2 oxen, or 4 horses are
yoked abreast in it.  A man may bear this plough to any
distance in one hand. The greater part of our ground, how-
ever, is too rocky to be plowed, and is therefore delved
with spades; and these are often used in the culture even of

<FOOTNOTE>

*The people in this parish have a singular mode of preserving the
dung for manure.  It is not, as in other places, carried daily out of the
stalls or byres in which the cattle stand, but is spread through the whole
area of the house, and left to accumulate, till the cattle can no longer find
entrance between the floor and the roof.  Dry earth is sometimes carried
in, and strewed as a mixture among the dung.  And quantities of grass
and short heath are, in August, every year, shown upon the hills, and af-
ter being left for some time to wither, carried home, put up in stacks like
hay, and useful from time to time in spreading the byres, so as to keep the
cattle dry and warm amidst the dung accumulating under them.  When
the house is filled, the dung is carried out to be spread upon the fields.
+See the copperplate. 


