
                      BORROWSTOWNNESS.                           143

it necessary, that Bo'ness should be erected into a parish by itself,
bounded on the south, by Graham's Dike; on the north, by the
sea; on the east, by Thirlestone; and on the west, by the castle
wall, commonly called "Capie's Wall." Some objection appears
to have been made to the measure, as it was effected whilst James,
Duke of Hamilton, the sole proprietor of the lands and teinds of
the parish, was detained in England. However, in December
1669, William and Anne, Duke and Duchess of Hamilton, ob-
tained an Act of the Scots Parliament, declaring the church built
within the town to be "the kirk of the hail barony of Kinneil
and Bo'ness."  From that period, the parishes have been united,
and considered as one.
   The following have been the ministers of Bo'ness after Mr M.
Potter: Mr John Brand, ordained 3d January 1694; Mr William
Brand, ordained 1739; Mr Patrick Baillie, ordained 14th May
1747; Mr John Morton, ordained 10th May 1792; Dr Robert
Rennie, ordained 9th April 1795; present incumbent, admitted
13th February 1834.
   The parish church of Bo'ness, at the period of the disjunction
from Kinneil, was a long narrow building, with round-topped win-
dows. Having become the church of the united parishes, an act
of Parliament was obtained for repairing it, in the year 1672, and
the Duke of Hamilton added a large aisle for himself and his ten-
ants. In 1775, according to an agreement between the Duke's
commissioners and the town, the aisle was taken down, and the
church nearly rebuilt, of an oblong figure, 69 feet by 48, within
the walls. In 1820, the south wall, and part of the east wall were
rebuilt, and the galleries were reconstructed and made uniform;
so that the church is now a plain, neat, substantial building, and
in good repair. *
   The church is seated for the accommodation of 950, but might
accommodate 100 more, if the vacant spaces in the galleries were
seated.
   The Duke of Hamilton has 30 pews, containing 169 seats, oc-
cupied  by his tenants, and by the colliers connected with his
works. The representatives, who manage the church-funds, let

<FOOTNOTE>Several curious memorials of the frequent intercourse between Holland and
Bo'ness still remain. The pulpit was brought from Holland, and is a curious spe-
men of ancient art and taste; and the oldest pulpit Bible in an Amsterdam edition of
the Geneva Bible, reprinted from an Edinburgh edition of 1610, having several of
the usual maps and figurative illustrations. The New Testament is an English
translation, by L. Tompson, of Beza's version. The volume is clapsed and English
with brass.


