
54                         AYRSHIRE.

only experiment of the kind that has yet been made by any of our
townsmen. This work, from a very trifling commencement, with
a few hands employed for the spinning of cotton into yarn, and a
fly-wheels moved by a single individual, has grown up in the course
of time to be an extensive and complicated manufactory, in which
thousands of pounds have been invested with a large remunerative
return, and upwards of a hundred workers of different kinds are
constantly employed. But this is not all. So successful and en-
couraging has the speculation been, that it is about to be nearly
doubled in all its details. A large and spacious addition to the
buildings has already been contracted for, and will speedily be
erected; an additional steam engine of forty horse-power has been
ordered; and nearly a hundred more hands will be required to the
establishment, in its various departments. The hours of labour
and other matters are regulated by the late Act of Parliament in
regard to manufactories. The carpet-weavers are employed from
twelve to fourteen hours a day, and being all paid by the piece, they
can earn about L. 2 in three weeks. A brother of the proprietor of
this work carries on a manufactory at what is called the Dutch
Mill on the Doon, near Burns' monument, for carding, spinning,
and weaving wool into plaiding or blankets, in which about 30
hands are employed in and out of the mill. The machinery is all
wrought by water. This also is a thriving concern, and has been
greatly increased during the last few years.
      Other Produce.--Unfortunately, there are hardly any other ma-
nufactures belonging to the town or parish, worthy of notice. Shoe-
making was carried on to a great extent during the war, but it is
now greatly reduced. There is one tradesman who still does a good
deal of business in the export trade in this way, chiefly to the
British colonies. He employs betwixt 80 and 100 tradesmen,
but his orders are mostly from export dealer in Glasgow. There
are about 200 shoemakers in the town, and upwards of that number,
probably 250, of hand-loom weavers who work to orders from
manufacturing towns at a distance. In tanning and carrying, there
is also a little business done, and about 20 workmen employed in
three separate establishments. The raw material manufactured
amounts to a few thousand hides and skins annually, which are dis-
posed of mostly in Ayr, Kilmarnock, and Glasgow. The periods of
labour are from eight to ten hours in winter, and from ten to twelve
hours in summer, and the remunerative return for the capital thus
employed is believed to be encouraging. The flowers and point-


