
     of Alloa.

in this parish.  The last erected was by a farmer, who has
only 60 Scotch, or 76 English acres of ground; and as im-
provements are daily making in them, and the price is redu-
ced, it is probable that, in a very short time, they will be held
to be as indispensibly necessary to a farm as the fanners*.
   There is no particular rotation or course of crops universal-
ly followed here.  The turnip husbandry cannot be well
adopted, as the low grounds are carse, or rich clay, and most
of the higher grounds have a subsoil, of a cold stiff till (or
barren clay); so that the damage done, by poaching the ground,
in taking off the crop, overbalances any advantage, that could
possibly accrue from the cultivation of that useful root, so
beneficial to farmers, in a more favourable soil+.-The fol-
lowing rotation is practised by fume of the farmers, on carse
lands:  The 1st year, fallow; the 2 d, wheat; the 3 d, beans;
the 4th, barley and grass seeds; the 5th, hay; the second
crop cut for soiling horses and cattle in the house; then broke
up in the 6th year for oats.  Sometimes a crop of hay is taken
in the 6th, soiling, etc. and then it is broke up in the 7th year

<FOOTNOTE>

riod may be dated the excellent plowing that appears in this small county; and
as many places, in distant parts of the country, have followed the example, it
is to be hoped, that they have reaped equal benefit from it.  The name, there-
sore of HUGH REOCH, of the Hiltown of Alloa, deserves to be gratefully remem-
bered by every lover of agriculture.
   *The threshing machines, or mills, were first introduced into common use
in this small county, Mr. GEORGE MEIKLE having erected one that went by
water, at Kilbagie, in the neighbouring parish of Clackmannan, in 1787.  It
was Mr. Meikle, who erected the machinery of the mills of Alloa.
   +Those who attempted turnips have been obliged to give them up, as well
as the sowing of wheat on a clover lay; for whether it got 1, 2, or 3 plowings,
a light brown grub worm destroyed the root of the wheat.  This misfortune
might possibly be overcome, if a large quantity of hot Lime were laid on the clo-
ver just before it is plowed up.  This, however, is only conjecture, as no suf-
ficient trial has yet been made of it.


