
110              HADDINGTONSHIRE.

have since satisfactory shown * to refer to Mountfaucon
in Paris, where Dunbar resided at the period of the composition of
the poem. It is evident, however, from his own language ("Flyting,"
line 110,) that he was a native of one of the Lothians, and as he
is generally supposed to have been the immediate descendant of
Sir Patrick Dunbar of Beill in East Lothian, there is every pre-
sumption that some part of the country of Haddingston was the
scene of his birth: but as to what particular locality is entitled to
claim this distinction there is no evidence whatever.
   Patrick Scougall, afterwards well known as Bishop of Aber-
deen, was the incumbent of his parish for upwards of five years.
He was translated from Leuchars, and inducted into yje parochial
charge of Salton, 29th January 1659. In April 1664, he was ele-
vated to the bishopric. +
   Henry Scougall, hisson, the author of the much and justify esteem-
ed work "The Life of God in the Soul of Man," was born at Sal-
ton during his father's incumbency, some time in June 1660. Equal-
ly dintinguised by his superior talents, and his eminent piety, he
attained at an early period of life to those honourable stations which
are in general reserved for age and experience. At nineteen, he
filled the chair of philosophy at Aberdeen; four years afterwards,
he accepted the living ao Auchterless, where he ably and zealously
discharged the functions of the holy ministry; and after an incum-
bency of two years, being then only twenty-five, he was again re-
called to his academical pursuits, and for the remainder of his life
filled the office of Professor of Divinity in King's College, Aber-
deen. His mortal career, however, though bright and useful, was

           And yet Mount Falcone gallows is oure fair
           For to be fleyit wi' sic a feckless face."

<FOOTNOTE> Montfaucon was then the common place of execution in Paris; and it is to this that
the allusion appears to have been intended.
   Dunbar's choef-d'oeuvres are considered to be "The Throssil and the Rois," de-
signed to commemorate the union of James IV. with Margaret of England; "The
Goldin Terge," and the "Daunce of the seven deadly sins." He has been termed by
way of eminence "the Horace of Scotland," and his genius and merit as a poet have
been unresrevedly eulogised by almost every critic. It is to be regretted, however,
that the meed of praise which has so lavisly been bestowed upon him has never been
qualified by the consideration, that the tendency of many of his composition is im-
moral and even profane; and if it be doubtful whether he is entitled to be designated
the Horace of his country, in point of poetical genuis, there is unfortunately little
doubt that, in point of licentiousness of sentiment, the appellation is too justy merited.
     For a full and satisfactory explanation of this error, see Laing's edition of Dun-
bar's Poems, Vol. ii. pp. 429, 32, Edin. 1834, to which we are indebted for the
statement made in the text.
     During the period of his incumbency the eldership appears to have been much
more numerous in proportion to the amount of population than in more modern times.
From the kirk-sesion records it appears, that in 1663-65, when the number of the
inhabitants of the parish was probably under 600, there were no fewer than thirteen
elder in office.



