
                     PARISH OF LOGIE.

              PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                THE REV. ANDREW MELVILLE, MINISTER.

    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-The name of this parish is supposed to be Gaelic, sig-
nifying a hollow among hills. This is descriptive of the place in which
the church is situated. The name Logie is frequently conjoined
with some other name or epithet, referring probably either to
something peculiar in the situation of the place, or to some per-
son particularly connected with it;-as Logie Almond, Blair Lo-
gie, Logierait. This parish was anciently called Logie Mur-
doch.
Extent, Boundaries, &c.-Its length is nearly 4 miles, its breadth
from 1 to 11, and consequently it contains from 4 to 5 square
miles. Its figure is an irregular oblong, bounded on the east by
the parishes of Forgan and Leuchars; on the south, by Leuchars
and Dairsie ; on the west and north, by Kilmany. It occupies the
south-eastern extremity of that range of high land which, rising
to the northward of Stirling under the name of the Ochil hills,
stretches eastward, gradually sinkiDg in elevation, till it terminates
in the plain, which bounds the bay of St Andrews between the
Fritb of Tay and the estuary of the river Eden. Its surface is
irregular and hilly. But none of the hills rise to more than 500
or 600 feet above the level of the sea. The highest, which is in
the east end of the parish, is called Incblawbill, about 5 miles from
the shore of the German ocean. -
Meteorology.-No accurate meteorological accounts leave been
kept here. The air is colder, the snow falls deeper and lies long-
er than in'the adjacent low country, but not so much as materi-
ally to retard the operations of agriculture in spring, or the ripen-
ing of the crops in autumn. The prevailing wind in spring, and in
the beginnipg of summer, is east and north-east, frequently dry but
cold, and hurtful to vegetation ; blowing probably from the snow-
clad mountains of Norway, and not much softened by its short pas-


