
320                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

200 horses in the parish. There may now be 300, all ages in-
cluded.
	Swine undoubtedly once ran wild in the woodlands of Galloway,
and many were reared in this district during the middle ages. Of
this there are many intimations in the charters of the twelfth and
thirteenth centuries. Swine were even paid as can to the King
from Galloway.* This practice has of course been long ago abo-
lished, but Galloway still maintains its reputation for breeding
swine. In this parish there are a great many reared for the New-
ton-Stewart, Castle-Douglas, and Dumfries markets. Some of
the old residenters still retain the wild breed, but in general those
of a larger size are reared. Those from twelve to eighteen stone
are found to take the market best, and will bring at present 5s.
per stone of 14 pounds.
	In the old Statistical Account it is estimated that there were,
in 1794,500 goats in the parish. There is now not half that
number, although there are still a few upon Drumore, Larg, &c.
and in Creetown a few families keep them for the sake of their
milk, which is both wholesome and nutritious.
	Ichthyology.--The prejudices of the Celtic people did not al-
low them to apply to the waters for their subsistence from fishery,
and neither in Ireland nor in Galloway have the inhabitants ever
profited, as much as they might have done, from the fish which
abound upon their shores and in their rivers. Yet Camden
speaks at the beginning of the seventeenth century, as if the Gal-
loway men practised the art of catching fish in the sea, as well as
in the lakes and rivulets, and he specifies the incredible number
of eels which they took in their creels.+  Yet, says Chalmers, no
professed fishers have ever settled along the shores of the Solway.
The fishing of the Stewartry in the sea has been carried on hi-
therto in a desultory manner. There is now a considerable change
for the better in this respect. Deep sea fishing is practised
upon our shores, and it is hoped that the success which has at-
tended the experhments which have been recently made at Kirk-
dale, &c. will stimulate both proprietors and tacksmen to still
greater exertion to procure for the use of man a much larger share
of the treasures of the deep.
	There is a great variety of fish in the Bay of Wigton and in
the Cree. The following is a list of those known to and found by
the fishermen, viz. salmon, sea trout, herling, cod, herring, spur-

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmeres's Caledonia.              Brit. Ed. 1607, page 692.



                                            6



