
14                             FIFESHIRE

midst of the very light in Which the people of this country have so
long rejoiced.
  Though there were oriainally two parishes in this Locality, there
is only a piece of land of bout three acres got in exchange for the
old kirk-yard, and which goes under the name of grebe for the firrt
minister, belonging to the living. Till the decision of the House
of Lords in the case of Ayr, there was riot even one manse. Since
that decision, a manse has been built for the firrt minister. The
second minister, though his stipend is paid out of the teinds, hag
neither manse nor glebe.
  Since the last Account was written, the number of dissenting
chapels has very much increased, in consequence, no doubt, of the
increase of the populatinn, added to the want of accommodation
in the parish church. There is an Episcopalian chapel; two cha-
pels belonging to the Relief connection; one to the Associate Sy-
nod; one to the Old Light Burghers, or Original Seceders; one to
the Baptists, and one to the Glassites. Till the late voluntary move-
ments began in the country, the different dissenting bodies stood
well affected to the church; and, while they retained their own
particular tenets, lived in a kindly understanding with the church.
The mass of the people are still well affected as before, and show
a disposition to go hand in hand with the church in all those mat-
ters which tend to promote peace and good feeling. The exact
number of Dissenters and Seceders in the parish, it has been found
impracticable to ascertain.
  Divine service is, in general, well attended in the Established
Church, and also in the dissenting chapels. The average number
of cominicants in the church is 1237. The stipends of the Es-
tablished ministers are IS chalders each, half meal half barley, with
L. 10 each for communion elements. The stipends allowed by
their people to the dissenting ministers are from L. 80 to L. 12o
per annum.
  There is a 13ible Society and a Missionary Society in the pa-
rish, but supported by contributors from adjoining parisbes. Their
contributions are not great, and not on the increase. The Bible
Society suffered by the Apocryphal controversy a few years ago;
and the Missimry Society is suffering now by the voluntary dis-
tobances, and by the misundertanding that these have produced
betwixt churchmen and dissenters.
  Education.--There is not, and, strictly -speaking, never has been,


