
     Statistical Account

1586*.  Anew manse was built in summer 1775, but the
walls drew water, till they were rough plastered (or, as it
is termed. harled) on the outside.  The offices were new
built in 1769, and have since been twice thatched with
heath, but still let in rain water.  The Stipend was modified
in 1769 to be 800 merk Scots, and 60 merks Scots for
communion-elements, with 48 bolls of meal, at 8 stone
weight the boll.  The glebe consists of 4 Scotch acres and
28 falls; but of these there are only about 3 acres 2 roods
and 17 falls that are arable.  There is besides grass for two
small cows, but no grass for a horse +.-There is a school-
house built within the church-yard, and slated.  The
schoolmaster's salary is only 12 bolls of meal, at 9 stone
weight the boll.  There may be in winter time between

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1711 the church got strong new deals (or, as they called it, sark-
ing) put upon the couples, but few new couples were put in  And as the
lower part of the inner half of the back wall, in one place had sunk down
from the half above it, and the other half on the outside in that place
seemed to bend inwards, and some of the couples were rotten; the heritors,
in 1790, agreed with a mason to repair and uphold the church for seven
years.  He caused underfoot (as they term it) the inner part of the back
wall that had sunk down, and took down the outside half of the sore wall,
half the length of the house, and rebuilt it.  He also put in a few new
couples, rough plastered the walls on the outside, and pointed the
slates.

+The presbytery of Aberlour, therefore, in Apirl 1791, decreed 3 roods and
36 talls of arable land nearest tot he kirk and glebe, with 23 falls of grass,
also bordering upon the globe, as grass for a horse.  This decreet of the pres-
bystery, General Grant suspended, and interdicted the minister to possess
the ground.  Against the suspension and interdict the minister entered a
protest; but as the is an old man and saw the process would be expensive,
he did not insist to discuss the suspension and interdict.  He therefore com-
promised the affair with General Grant, upon receiving a small piece of ara-
ble land, and some pasture ground, (not so near to the glebe as what the
presbytery had appointed for him), a part of which was over-run with broom,
and a part of it was a quagmire and overspread with alder.  This he is to
possess during his incumbency, and to pay for it a rent of 10 s Sterling an-
nually.  But General Grant has since made a large road through it.


