
                            HADDINGTON                    5
1831. From Sunderland and Newcastle, its next step was to Had-
dington, passing over the intermediate country and populous towns
of Berwick and Dunbar. As soon as its arrival was ascertained,
a board of health was formed, and the most prompt measures
were used for cleansing the streets and alleys of the town; white-
washing and fumigating infected or suspected houses, liberally
distributing flannel clothing to the poorer classes, and amply sup-
plying them daily with nourishing food from a soup-kitchen. A
commodius hospital was found and fitted up to receive patients,
and the medical faculty were in constant attendance. The num-
ber of cases in all was 125, of which were, 50 men, 66 women, 1
boy, and 8 girls. Of these 57 died, (two or three of the cases hap-
pened to be passing strangers who brought the disease with them.)
It chiefly attacked the intemperate and dissipated in the humbler
ranks, though others of better condition and habits, but of feeble
constitution, fell victims to its violence. It reached Haddington on
17th December 1831, and entirely left the place on 22d February
following. In one night there were 8 deaths. The expenses incur-
red during these two months amounted to about L. 400, of which
L. 150 were contributed from the county subscription fund, L. 112
by collections at the church doors, and the remainder by voluntary
subscription.
   Seats of the Nobility and Gentry.-The landward part of the
parish is studded and embellished with the family seats or mansions
of the nobility and gentry;-Amisfield, on the south bank of
Tyne, belonging to the Earl of Wemyss and March; Stevenson,
about half a-mile to the eastward, the seat of Sir John Gordon
Sinclair, Bart.; Lennoxlove, anciently Lethington, about a mile to
the south of Haddington, the seat of Lord Blantyre. * Part of this
latter mansion is very ancient, having been built by the Giffords.
The square tower, it is believed, is not surpassed in strength and
height by any fortalice in Scotland. Lethington was long the chief
residence of the Lauderdale family. Sir Richard Maitland, and
Secretary Maitland lived here, and John Duke of Lauderdale was
born, and spent most of his days in same place. + A little to the

<FOOTNOTE>The change of name was made by Alexander Lord Blantyre in honour of, and
gratitude to his relation and munificent benefactress, Frances Duchess of Lennox and
Richmond, who, by a large bequest, enabled him to purchase it. She was a lady of
great beauty and accomplishments, and so passionately admired by Charles II. that
he sought to honour her by having her person represented on the coinage under the
emblematic figure of Britannia.
    The first park wall, enclosing an extent of surface somewhat more than a mile
square, was built by the Duke of Lauderdale (in the space, it is said, of six weeks,)
in consequence of a sarcastic remark of the Duke of York-intimating that, before


