
648                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The ranges of mountains and hills here lie in general from east
to west, from which lower and shorter ridges are at various dis-
tances jutting out in a south and north direction ; and between
these are embosomed fertile valleys of different sizes and exposure,
according to their position, on the north or south of the river Dee.
   Climate.-The climate is rather variable, and yet, from the pu-
rity of the air, and the absence of marshes and stagnant waters,
it is remarkably healthy ; so much so, that many strangers visit
our bamlets for the benefit of their health during the summer
months.
   Hydrography.-The only lakes worthy of notice, are Loch Cal-
lader, and Loch Bhrodichan, both situated among the hills and
on the estate of Invercauld.  The former is said to contain small
delicate salmon, weighing from seven to eight pounds, and the lat-
ter, excellent red trout.  The largest of these lakes is about two
miles in circumference ; but, being seldom visited except by fisher-
men, neither the depth nor temperature of either has been as-
certained.  The principal river is the Dee, which takes its rise
high up on the side of Breriach, a mountain close to Cairntoul,
already mentioned; and according to Dr Skene Keith's account,
the well or fountain whence the Dee springs, is 4060 feet above
the level of the sea, and the top of said mountain, is 4220 feet.
   The Dee, receiving in its progress the tributary streams issu-
ing from other five fountains in that vicinity, and afterwards the
Luidh, the Coich, the Cluney, &c. runs through Braemar and
Crathie in a serpentine course, intersecting the parish longitudi-
nally about the middle, and after running upwards of ninety miles,
empties itself in the German Ocean at Aberdeen, where it forms
the harbour of that opulent and flourishing city.
   There are several linns or cascades in Braemar, but the most
noted is the Linn of Dee, which is about three miles above Mar
Lodge, where the river is confined for a number of yards between
two rocks in so narrow a space, that some persons have been har-
dy enough to stop across it.  This natural curiority is much visit-
ed and admired by strangers, as are likewise the cascades of Coir-
mulzie and Garvalt.  The former is between Mar Lodge and Cas-
tletown, and the latter is about three miles farther down the strath,
on the south and in the heart of a beautiful forest
belonging to Invercauld.
   Geology.-The rocks here are generally pure granite, of vari-
ous shades, and of a hard quality, which renders the stone suscep-
                                   4


