                                                    
                        DALMENY.                            95

John de Craigie, who made a conspicuous figure about 1360, in-
herited the baronies of Craigie and Blackwood in Lanarkshire, and
married, in 1387, John Stewart, a younger son of Sir Robert Stew-
art of Durrisdeer. Their posterity continued at Craigiehall for
about 250 years, and ultimately sold it in 1643 to John Fairholm,
treasurer of the city of Edinburgh. It appears from Calderholm,
History (fo. 515,) that Henry Stewart of Craigiehall was chan-
cellor of the jury summoned at Linlithgow in 1606, to try those
Presbyterian ministers who had been indited on a charge of high-
treason for having denied the King's authority in matters ecclesi-
astical. Tradition says that, having been one of the majority who
found them guilty, agreeably to some prophetic intimation, his
family never afterwards prospered; whilst that of Mr Hope, who
defended them, and who was created a baronet by James VI., and
held the office of King's Advocate, both under that monarch and
Charles I., notwithstanding his known partiality to the Presbyte-
rian cause, rose progressively to the affluence and importance since
enjoyed by them. The descendants of the family of Stewart, who
were also proprietors of Leuchold and Newhalls, have continued
in the parish ever since, highly respected, but are now reduced to
a single female representative, resident in Queensferry, with whom it
is likely to become extinct. The present proprietor is the third in
lineal descent from Charles, first Earl of Hopetoun, who acquired
the estate in right of his lady, Henrietta, only surviving child of
William, Marquis of Annandale, who had previously come into
possession, also by marriage with the grand-daughter of the above-
mentioned John Fairholm. The family assumed the name of
Weir or Vere, on the marriage of the Honourable ChaAes Hope,
second son of the foresaid. Earl of Hopetoun, with the heiress of
Blackwood in Lanarkshire, whose ancestors held that property by
uninterrupted succession from the time of David I., by grant from
the Abbey of Kelso.
   The extensive barony of Barnbougle and Dalmeny, belonging
to the Earl of Rosebery, adjoins the lands of Craigiehall to the
north. The spacious park of Dalmeny, in which stands the ruins
of Barnbougle Castle, and the mansion, now the residence of the
family, built by the present noble proprietor, comprehends the
whole area bounded by the road from Cramond Bridge to New-
halls on the south  and between the river Almond on the east, and
the Frith of Forth on the north. The grounds which rise from the
shore to a considerable elevation, in a constant succession of un-


