
                              ECKFORD.                         233

sence of the congregation in token of their repentance and humi-
liation.  The manse/f* was built in 1775, but since then it has under-
gone several repairs.  In the year 1808, some additions were made
to it, but these, perhaps from want of a proper inspector, were very
insufficiently executed.  The chief apartment of the house is, in
appearance, a very handsome one, but it has not been occupied for
several winters past, in consequence of its extreme cold.  The ex-
tent of the glebe is about 7 acres, and its value may be rated at about
L. 1, 15s. per acre.  The stipend amounts to 15 chalders, half meal
and half barley, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion expenses, and
forty-two pounds of cheese from the tenant of Cessford, in the way
of vicarage tithes.  Besides this, the minister has a servitude for
turf on a piece of moor-land, which lies on the south side of Wood-
enhill, and which is about two miles distant from the manse.  The
moor belongs partly to the Duke of Roxburghe and partly to the
Duke of Buccleuch, but the road to it lies through the farm of
Wooden, the property of the latter nobleman.  There are no  dis-
senting or seceding chapels in the parish.  There are 153 families
attending the church, and 69 attending meeting-houses in the vici-
nity.  The parish church is well attended.  The average number
of communicants for some years past has amounted to about 312.
The number of examinable persons that worship at the parish
church amounts to upwards of 520.  There is one Episcopalian
family, which generally attends the Established Church./f+
  Education.--There are two parochial schools in the parish, the
one at Eckford, and the other at Caverton mill, and both teachers
have the legal emoluments.  The teacher at Eckford has the maxi-
mum salary, L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d., with fees amounting at an average to
L. 21 annually.  The teacher at Caverton-mill has L. 17, 2s. 2 1/4d.
with feeS amounting at an average to L. 17 annually, with the inte-
rest of L. 40 of mortified money.  The former has, at an average,
about 70 scholars, and the latter about 46.  There is also a
school at Cessford, which is upwards of two miles distant from the
parish schools, and which is attended at an average by 38 scholars.
With the exception of a free school-house he receives only his fees,
which amount to about L. 18 annually.  The people are in gene-

<FOOTNOTE>Close to the manse on the glebe Is Eckford brae, which was a place notable for
tent-preaching in former time.  Thither at particular seasons immense multitudes
from the surrounding country were wont to resort.  Here Boston and other eminent
divines used to dispense to the people the bread Of life.
Close to the entry to the churchyard has been erected by the heritors a neat
cottage for the beadle, along with a commodious stable for the benefit of the parish-
ioners.

  ROXBURGH.


