
                 DESKFORD.                                             71

is l7s. 6d. per imperial acre. The rate of agrictiltural labour in suminer
is from 1s. 3d. to 1s. with victuals, and in winter from 1s. to 10d.
The wages of masons are 1s. 6d., of wrights, 1s. 6d., and of tailors 1s.,
- all with victuals.
  Live-Stock. - The breeds of cattle and of sheep are of a mixed
kind. Great improvements have of late been made in the way of
draining and cultivation. Lime and bone manure are both used
with excellent effect, when the soil is rendered dry. Considerable
quantities of fish manure are likewise used even by some of the
tenants in the upper parts of the parish. The leases are in general
for nineteen years. The farm-buildings are mostly of an
inferior description. The proprietor allows for houses built of
stone and lime, slated, and upon a plan approved of, to the extent
of two years rent; but as this is either not paid till the termination
of the lease, or, if given at the commencement, high interest
is charged,- the encouragement is not found to be very great. The
stvle of the buildings has, however, of late been somewhat improved.
Slating is more used; and there are now few or no black or feal
houses. Even the very poorest contrive to get them built of stone
and mortar of some kind or other.
  Quarries. - The excellent limestone quarry, which is in the
upper end of the parish, has been already mentioned, and is of
great advantage to Deskford and part of the adjoining district.
There are no other quarries of any value or extent, and good
stones for building are rather scarce.
  Produce. - The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is,
<TABLE>
  Of grain of all kinds,           L.3233 15  0
           potatoes,                  484 14  0
           turnips,                   809  5  0
           hay and pasture,          1501 10  0
           flax,                       33  4  0
                                    ____________
Total yearly value of raw produce, L. 6062 8  0

  Manufactures. - There was, as already mentioned, till lately, a
bleachfield in the parish. It was established as early as 1752,
under the patronage of the then Lord Deskford, afterwards Earl
of Findlater and Seafield, * a nobleman whose enlightened zeal for

<FOOTNOTE>One of the modes which his Lordship adopted, for the acwmplishment of his, patriotic
and enlightened objects, was to bring from the south, where the subjects were
then better understood, persons well acquainted with agriculture and manufactures,
to settle on his estate, and to exemplify and conduct the improvements which he meditated;
and likewise by inducing the sons of the most respectable of his tenants to
go themselves, and study those subjects where they were then most thoroughly understood.


