
     of Chirnside.

   Village, Agriculture, etc.-The line of the village
runs, as it has done for various generations, in two
rows of houses, E. and W., over the broad summit of 
the hill, to the length of more than half a mile.  An-
other row of them, not so compact, descends the hill in
a S. direction.  Departing from the former, at an open-
ing near the middle, called the corss, and properly the
cross, it has the church for its termination.  A little
aside from the other houses in this line, called the Kirk-
gate, stands the manse, with the glebe-ground on three
sides of it, at the distance of about 100 yards, or more,
from the church, in a lower situation.  Before the di-
vision of the lands of the barony, into the separate
shares of its proprietors in the 1740, and for many
years after that period, the village houses made that
mean appearance common to all others in the country.
Reared at the expense of the landholders, and furnished
gratis to the farmers, or, at a very small rent, to other
tenants, they were of such construction, in their mate-
rials and dimensions, as, in comparison with those now
built, we would call the best of them hovels, or huddles
of stone, clay and wood.  Until the late Mr. Hall,
clerk of Session, erected his two pavilions as office-houses
to a future mansion, and the deceased Mr. Home of
Ninewells, in the year 1745, built the present dwelling-
house of his family, and some repairs were made on

<FOOTNOTE>

former is of several colours; light, grey, pale, blue, dark; and
some whiten and red.  It proves equally good in each of these colours,
when soft, at least, with the  exception of the last one, which rather
participates of sand.  As the stony sort is often found very hard, it has
been taken, even by gentlemen acquainted  with its ordinary appearance,
for common stone, and built into sences.  The total ruin of them, in 2
or 3 years, discovered, to their surprise, hte mistake they had made.
Its application as a manure will be afterward considered.


