
           200                     INVERNESS-1HIRE.

            west shore is both rocky and sandy.  The principal bays are in
            the east side, and  constitute excellent And safe harbours for ship-
            Ping such as Bayhierava (or inland bay), Uilevay, Castlebay,
            Watersaybey, Flodday sound, and Ottirvore.  All these enter-
            led from the head.  The principal headland in Barray is Berneray
            or Barray-head, from whence many ships steer their course for
            America.  The name of the larger islands of which the parish of
            Barray is formed, and which are mostly inhabited, are as follows:
            Watersay, Sanderay, Pabbay, Mingulay, and Berneray to the
            south ; Flodday, Heillisay, Gighay, Uidhay, and several others of
            a smaller description, not inhabited, to the east and north-east.
                Meteorolqy.-The most prevalent winds in Barray, as well as
            in the rest of the Western Isles, are south-west ud north-west.
            The most violent gales that' blow are generally from the south-                                                                    Y     -
            west, and their dreadful effects are visible on, such parts of the
            islands as are composed of loose drifting sand, 7and exposed to the
            Atlaptie sales.  There, the sand is driven to and fro by every sua-
            cessive, gale, leaving nothing behind but the rocky skeletons of
            granite or whinstone, where once the ground was clothed with a
            beautiful variety of red and white natural clover.  The same wind
            carries along with it great quantities of rain during a part of the
            autunin, and most of the winter; but in the month of March, the
            wind occasionally veers round to the east, with cold dry weather.
            Due north and south winds are not very frequent and rarely con-
            tinue above two or three days at a time.
               Although the climate is, in general, variable and fluctuating, yet
           it is far from being unfavourable to the human constitution, as in-
           stanees longevity have occurred here, as frequently as in any
           Other part of Scotland; and there are still to be found in the pa-
           rish a few',who have exceeded a hundred years with all their men-
           talk faculties unimpaired.  The quantity of rain that falls cannot
           with any degree of accuracy be ascertained, as no regular meteo-
           tOlogical tables are kept; but the quantity that, falls in Barray is
           in general far less than what falls in any Of the adjacent islands
           perhaps owing to the lowness of its hills.  The climate is, upon
           the whole mild from its Being surrounded by the sea, and, the
           reflection of the sun upon the sandy soil, of which a great part of
           the island is composed, to which also may be ascribed the early
           vegetation and ripening of corn and grasses.  Sown bay has been
           ous dawn here in the month of June, and'barleyl sometimes as
           early as the latter end of July or beginning of August; and in-



