
168                           AYRSHIRE.

nished heads. People of different opinions in religion now regard
each other as brethren.
	The employments of the labouring classes have undergone a very
great change. The erection of cotton-mills upon an extensive scale
at the neighbouring village of Catrine (which have been conduct-
ed with unexampled spirit and success) has diffused comfort and
happiness to all around. Here the labourer finds employment, and
here the farmer finds a ready market for his produce. Spinning,
weaving, tambouring, and sewing, have been extensive sources of
employment. Common weavers have built for themselves houses,
planted gardens, and lived in a style of ease and comfort. But
there is a tide in the affairs of men; within the last fifteen years,
a variety of causes having brought on a stagnation in commerce,
(the most extensive calamity of the kind that has ever been felt in
this country,) which has swept away all the particular advantages
of the weaver, till at last be is fully more the child of penury and
toil than almost any other mechanics Perhaps, with respect to real
comfort, the labouring classes, taking them altogether, are at pre-
sent rather behind what they were at the time of the last Statisti-
cal Account.

	The systen of agriculture has also undergone a considerable change.
Some thirty or forty years ago, this parish, like most of its neigh-
bours, bad gone far in adopting or imitating the agriculture of our
eastern counties, and wheat, of course, formed the leading article in
its cultivation; nearly the whole stock of manure was annually ex-
pended in supporting the new system; bear and barley were nearly
Abandoned; even oats, which have always given, and which per-
haps always will give, the most steady and certain return, began to
be in a great measure neglected. Alongst with wheat, summer
fallow and green cropping were also adopted. But the system had
not been many years pursued, before it was discovered that the
soil and climate of this neighbourhood were decidedly unfavourable
to its profitable continuance. So long, however, as the war prices
for grain were obtained, the system was enabled to prolong its
feeble existence; but the return of peace, with the consequent
peace prices of agricultural produce, seems now to have, in this
quarter finally sealed  fate of the system. The soil of the pa-
rish is not, indeed, generally suited for raising bear and barley, al-
though a considerable portion of it is decidedly so; and if to that
portion of it only their cultivation were confined, they would most
certainly yield a profitable return
       July 1887.


