
656                          FIFESHIRE.

drainage of the marshy ground in the neighbourhood, the village
has extended itself on all sides, and now contains a population of
1300 inhabitants. Being neither a royal burgh, however, nor
burgh of barony, its annually chosen magistracy is but a nominal
thing; while want of funds, and much more of the authority neces-
sary to levy an assessment, has hitherto prevented the adoption of
those measures of internal police and embellishment, which are
really indispensable to the health and comfort of a crowded and
increasing population.
   Extent.-The extent of the parish is about 6 miles in length by
5 in breadth. Its superficial area may be estimated at 10,200 im-
perial acres.
   Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the country
is varied and picturesque. From the Lomond Hills, as a back-
ground on the north, it slopes gently toward the south and east.
The parish is intersected by four fertile valleys, watered by as
many streams, which unite towards the eastern extremity. The
valleys are separated by corresponding ridges of low hills; each
chain rising gradually above the other in tbe direction of the sum-
mit level. Nor are thriving and extensive plantations wanting to,
heighten the natural beauties of the landscape,-and the varied
succession of hill and dale. The proportion of wood is conside-
rable, and being principally of the ornamental kind, and in the vi-
cinity of gentlemen's seats and villas, it is so disposed as to pro-
duce the most favourable effect.
   Geology-In this department we shall confine ourselves to a
plain statement of facts, abstaining as much as possible from spe-
culative conclusions, and avoiding all reference to conflicting theo-
ries.
   We first notice the remarkable range of low hills composed of
fine sand, and water-worn stones, skirting the northern side of the
valley of the Leven. These hills vary in height, generally ac-
cording to their distance from the course of the stream, or lowest
level. Those of them that are isolated and detached, form an
acute angle with the axis of the valley; that is, supposing the
valley of the Leven to run in a south-easterly direction, the emi-
nences in question extend lengthways, almost due east and west.
The southern slope will be found to be in almost all instances
very gradual, while the declivity towards the north is as invariably
bold and abrupt. Hence, if our observations are correct, we think


