
                     HAMILTON.                              267

in assistance from the country. A whole street of houses was burn-
ed, and their ruins were allowed to remain for many years.
	On the death of the Duke of Douglas in 1761, the house of Ha-
milton, as male representatives of the Douglasses, laid claim to the
estates, under a persuasion, that Mr Douglas, son and heir of Lady
Jane Stewart, sister of the Duke of Douglas, was a supposititious
child, taken at Paris from the real parents. A long law-suit was
the result. It was decided in Paris, and in the Court of Session,
in favour of the Hamiltons; but on an appeal to the House of Peers,
was ultimately decided in favour of Mr Douglas, since created Lord
Douglas.
	In 1777, Douglas Duke of Hamilton, coming of age, raised in
Hamilton, for the service of the country, the 82d Regiment of Foot,
which afterwards highly distinguished itself in the American war.
	On 11th June 1782, the Duke of Hamilton, as Duke of Bran-
don in England, was called to take his seat in the House of Lords
as a British Peer. This paved the way to all the Scottish nobi-
lity who have since attained similar honours and privileges.
	Eminent Men.--This parish has been the birth-place and occa-
sional residence of many eminent characters. The celebrated Dr
Cullen, sometimes represented as born at Lanark in 1712, ap-
pears distinctly from the session books of Hamilton to have been
born two years later in the parish of Hamilton. Dr Cullen was
magistrate of Hamilton for several years.--The celebrated Lord
Cochrane, now Earl Dundonald, spent many of his early years in
the parish.--The father of the late Professor Millar of Glasgow
was parochial clergyman here; as was also the father of the late
Dr Baillie of London, and of his celebrated sister, Joanna Baillie.
Family of Hamilton.--The estate of Cadzow, now Hamilton,
comprises more than one-half of the parish. It had remained in
the Crown from a very remote antiquity, till 1316, when it was
bestowed on Walter Fitz Gilbert de Hamilton, by Bruce, imme-
diately after the battle of Bannockburn. It has continued in the
hands of his descendants ever since. This noble family although,
the first in the kingdom for rank, has not been above 600 years in
Scotland. The first of them is supposed to have been an English-
gentleman of the line of Mellent and Leicester. In 1445, they
were ennobled by the title of Lord Hamilton. In 1474, James
first Lord Hamilton married the Princess Mary, eldest daughter
of James II. King of Scotland, and widow of Thomas Boyd, Earl
Of Aran. By this connection his descendants came to be declared


