
    118               KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

    Dee being the natural boundary ; and on the north find north,-
    west, by the parishes of Straiton, Barr, and Colmonell.
      Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the parish
   is mountainous, being a portion of the range of hills stretching
   from St Abb's Head on the eastern coast.  In the south-western
   extremity, a stripe of carse land extends for several miles along
   the Cree, but it is of no great breadth.  The highest hill is the
   Meyrick, which is 2500 feet above the level of the sea.  Cairns-
   muir hill, though lower, appears nearly as high as the Meyrick
   from its base rising almost frol the level of the sea.  From
   the summit of Cairnsmuir, a most extensive and varied pro-
   spect is enjoyed.  At its base, the Palnure flows through a beauti-
   ful valle ornamented by the finely wooded grounds around the
   mansions of Cairnsmuir and Bargaly.  Westwards, the House of
   Kirouchtree, the seat of Lady Heron Maxwell, is visible amid the
   old trees by which it is embosomed.  On the Penkill Water is si-
   tuated the romantic cottage of Cumloden, the summer residence
   of the Earl of Galloway.  The " crystal Cree," in its serpentine
   course, appears like a stream of molten silver, till it disappears
   among the upland hills. On its banks, the most prominent object
   is the town of Newton-Stewart, with its beautiful new church and
   elegant spire, beyond comparison the most splendid church in
   Galloway.  Beyond the Cree, Wigtonshire lies extended, diversi-
   fied by hill and dale, verdant pastures and fruitful fields, orna-
   mented by the seat of the nobility and gentry, with which it is
   studded.  To seaward, teh Isle of Man is distinctly seen, and the
   Irish mountains are visible in the distance.  Southwards is seen
   the vale of Fleet, with the pleasant town of Gatehouse, embel-
   lished by the richly-wooded pleasure-grounds around the splendid
   mansion of Cally.  Onwards appears the ancient burgh of Kirk-
   cudbright, with its beautiful environs, and the horizon is bounded
   by the blue mountains of Cumberland.
         Climate.- In the lower part of the parish, the barometer
   ranges from 28 to 31 inches, rarely falling below the former
   or exceeding the latter point.  The elimate is mild, though
   rather humid.  The person mentioned in the las Account as
   being 118 years of age, died aged 121. In 1831, a man died up-
   wards of 100 years old.  This spring two females died, the one
   aged 91 and the other 92. An old man still survives who is 95
   years of age.


