
170                     PERTHSHIRE.

burnt bones; particularly two large urns, mentioned in the notes
to "The Muse's Threnodie," and conjectured there, and in the
last Statistical Account, to have contained the ashes of Agricola's
son, who died in the eighth ydar of his expedition into Britain,
and of Aulus Atticus, who was killed in the celebrated battle with
Galgacus, at the foot of the Grampian Mountains. It is stated
by Tacitus, and noticed by Buchanan, that Agricola reached the
Tay in the third year of his expedition; and it is expressly stated
by Agricola himself, in his address to his soldiers before the bat-
tle with Galgacus, as given by Tacitus, that they were then in the
eighth year of that expedition. The camp at Orrea, therefore, ex-
isted for five years previous to that battle. If it was fought, as has
been supposed, at Battle-dikes, or to the east of Blairgowrie, then
it must have been from Orrea that Agricola marched with his
light-armed troops, previous to that battle; and probably to it, or
to the station in medio (at Inchuthel) that he led his army after
the battle, when, Tacitus tells us, he conducted them into the bor-
ders of the Horesti. * Orrea also continued to be an important
station during the twenty-five years that Lollius Urbicus was Lieu-
tenant in Britain, that is, down to the year 161. It was no doubt
abandoned, along with all the other country to the north of
Adrian's wall between the Tyne and the Solway, in the year 170.
But there is as little doubt that it was again occupied by the Em-

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers has supposed that the battle with Galgacus vas fought at Victoria,
(or Dalgenross) near the Ruchel, at the top of Strathearn; and that Agricola ap-
proached the scene of action, from Fife, through Gleneagles. But in order to make
good this idea, he is obliged to get rid of the direct testimony of Tacitus, who says
expressly, that Agricrla, in the third year of his expedition, subdued all the nations
as far as the Tay. (Nationibus usque ad Taum (aestuario nomen est) subactis.)
And for this purpose he has recourse to a supposition, which appears a very strange
one. He says that by Taum is meant the Solway Frith. And why? because the
British word Taw signifies "any thing spread out," which he thinks is an appro-
priate description of the Solway.  But he forgets that Tacitus directly affirms that
Taus is the name of the frith, and consequently that it cannot be taken as a descrip-
tion of it. For the same purpose, when Tacitus states that, after the battle, Agricola
led his troops into the borders of the Horesti, as Victoria is in their territory, he is
obliged to suppose that the author me`ns that he led back his troops to the borders
of the Horesti; which is an interpretation which the passage will not bear. Taci-
tus' expression is, "in fines Horestorum exercitum deducit," which clearly implies
that he was without their bounds. Had it been the intention of the historian to sax
that he led back his army from Victoria to Carnock, which were both within the ter-
ritories of the Horesti, as Chalmers makes him do, he must necessarily have said,
"ad fines Horestorum exercitum reducit;" and could not have expressed himself as
he has done. Lastly, the idea that the battle took place at the top of Strathearn is ir-
reconcilable with the account of Tacitus, when he says that Agricola came to the Mons
Grampius with his light troops, having sent his feet before him, "praemissa classe."
How could he possibly be said to have sent his fleet before him, when it must neces-
sarily have sailed in an easterly course, down the Frith of Forth, whilst he was him-
self to march from the camp at Carnock to the top of Strathearn, in a north wester-
ly direction? But this would be quite properly said, if he sent his fleet from the Tay
to the Esk, (the station AEscica) whilst he proceeded in a shorter direction from
Orrea across the country, towards the same point.


