
                             ROXBURGH.                          131

the desired effect, and the place which had been a centre of rapine
and violence for many ages, was reduced to a heap of ruins. Sub-
sequently, in the year 1547, the Duke of Somerset, having occasion
to remain with his army for some time in the neighbourhood, and
observing the ruined fortress to be a convenient situation, repaired
it, so as to make it capable of receiving an English garrison. Traces
of these repairs still appear among the ruins, which are now co-
vered with trees. The mighty change the castle has undergone,
while it reminds of former times, conveys a lesson of the instabi-
lity of worldly greatness.
   There is adjoining to the village, and near the river, the ruin of
a fort or tower, of which there were many in the border districts.
It is denominated Roxburgh Tower, Wallace Tower, and also
Sunlaw's Tower, * and evidently formed part of a chain of com-
munication between the castle of Roxburgh and other towers on
the rivers Kale, Jed, &c. It appears from history, that these
towers had at various times received injuries from the incursions
of the English mauraders, but were finally demolished, and re-
duced to ruin in the reign of Mary Queen of Scots, and in the
year 1545, by an army under the command of Hertford, after-
wards the Duke of Somerset. Nothing remains of this tower
but the ground apartments, strongly arched over, and used, in
all probability, as places of security far cattle. Concerning this
tower, there are various traditional stories; but, as the truth of
most of them is open to suspicion, and as all of them are much
exaggerated, they are withheld from this Account.
  About midway between Roxburgh Tower and Ormiston Tower,
situated about two miles up, the river Tiviot, and on a considerable
eminence, are the remains of a camp, probably formed for the pro-
tection of the towers of Roxburgh and Ormiston.
  The great Roman road, from the Frith of Forth to York, &c.
runs through the south-west corner of this parish, along which,
till lately, cattle purchased at the Scottish markets were driven
into England.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>

                         III.-POPULATION.
            Population in 1782, by former Account,  1100
                          1791, -      -        -    900
                          1811, -      -        -    946
                          1821, -      -        -    926
                          1831, -      -        -    962

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Monastic Annals, p. 98.


