
                                      UNST.                                        47

Amount of ling, tusk, and cod-fish exported from Unst, which may be
considered a fair average, 190 tons at L. 17,                           L. 3230  0  0
Seath or coal-fish, 20 tons at L.9,                                         180  0  0
840 barrels of herring would nett,                                          504  0  0
Add to this fish of all kinds used by the inhabitants as food, at an ave-
rage less than 1/2d., per diem, each person,                               2000  0  0
                                                                         _____________
                                                                 Total, L. 5914  0  0
  Produce of Land.-The amount of produce raised annually in
this parish, consisting, of corn, potatoes, turnips, cabbages, hay,
grazing, of cattle, sheep, and horses, and swine, together with fowls,
eggs, &c. may be averaged at L. 4 Sterling per acre, or merk of
cultivated ground, or somewhat above L. 8000 Sterling per an-
num.
   Manufactures. -Articles of woollen hosiery, chiefly consisting
of stockings and gloves, are the principal manufacture in this parish.
They are knit by the females, and are highly prized for their
softness and the beauty of their texture. The demand for Zetland
hosiery is not nearly so great now as formerly ; yet the quantity
sold is still very considerable. Stockings vary in price from 1s. to
10s. per pair, (a few pairs of extraordinary fineness are sold for
L. 2 per pair), and gloves from Is. to 10s., or even sometimes as
high as 15s. per pair. The only other manufacture of any account
is a coarse kind of woollen cloth, which is dyed blue, black, or red,
according to fancy, and constitutes a considerable part of the daily
wear of both men and women.

                   V. PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

  The only market-town in Zetland is Lerwick, at least forty
miles distant from this parish by sea. Cattle are driven by land
to be sold there, at very considerable expense, and with great
toil, through bleak swampy mossy bills, without any trace of a
road or bridge, and they have also to be transported in boats,
over two sounds or arms of the sea, where the tide runs
with extreme rapidity, and renders the passage uncertain and
dangerous. When the inhabitants are disposed to sell any other
part of their produce at Lerwick, they carry it thither in
their own boats, and bring back with them such necessaries as,
their families stand in need of, and they can afford to purchase.
Until about the year 1820, this was the only, mode of communi-
cation betwixt Unst and Lerwick, where the general post-office is
established, and all letters and newspapers coming from, the
southward had to remain there, to wait any opportunity that
might occur, unless when it was found expedient to dispatch an
express, at a considerable expense. To remedy this inconveni


