
222                       RENFREWSHIRE.

that after the liberty granted in July 1687, the three presbyteries
of Glasgow, Paisley, and Dumbarton, from the small number of
ministers in each, formed themselves into one presbytery, whose
meetings seem to have been held in Glasgow, as from one of our
presbytery minutes, it appears that the actings of the court at that
period, are recorded in the book of the presbytery of Glasgow.
This arrangement continued only for a few months, as the presby-
tery of Paisley appear to have resumed their meetings at their own
seat in December following. *
   Presbytery Records.-As Paisley has long been the seat of a
presbytery, and as the original parish, of which we are giving an
account, comprehends more than one-half of the parishes now in-
cluded within the bounds of that presbytery, it seems natural for-
us to take some notice of its records.  They are preserved in four-
teen volumes.
   The first volume commences 16th September 1602, and termi-
nates abruptly 24th December 1607, part of the record having been
evidently lost or destroyed.  The volume has suffered from damp,
but is entire, and perfectly legible so far as it goes.
   The second volume commences 20th April 1626, and ends 9th
September 1647.  This volume is in tolerable preservation.
   The third volume has suffered more from damp than any of the
preceding, and the edges of a few of the pages at the beginning have
decayed, but there is not much obliteration in consequence.  It
commences 22d September 1647, although the date is worn away
and the first page happens to be bound up between the third and
fourth leaves. " A copy of the Acts anent the Discipline of the Kirk
apud Glasgow 8 Aprilis 1612," has been introduced at the begin-
ning of the volume.  It ends 29th March 1660, but has the synod's
docquet dated 4th October 1660.
   The fourth volume commences 25th April 1660, but stops short
at the 6th page, after entering the minate of the sederunt of June
13th of the same year.  Several blank leaves then occur, and at
pages 19th commences the transactionsfrom December 27, 1687, thus
omitting the record of the proceedings of the whole Episcopal pe-

<FOOTNOTE>The following is the minute on the occasion , (27th Dec. 1687,) "After the liber-
ty in July 1687, by the appointment of the grali meeting at Edr. in August, in ye
year fored, the presbiteries of Glasgow, Paisley, and Dumbrittone, did joine together
and made up one presbitrie, by reasone of the paucitie of minrs which continued
book of Glasgow."-Presbytery Records.


