
                                    WEEM.                            705

       nounced one of the grandest objects of the kind ]in Scotland, and
       it may be wondered that it has, not been a resort for travellers, as
       the fine view from its top would amply repay their labour in
       climbing it.  Castle Menzies, with its rich haughs of Appin, a
       great part of Lochtay, and the towering summits of Benlawers and
       Benmore, the highest points of that line of the Grampians, are the
       most striking objects on the west side; Aberfeldy with the wooded
       den of Moness, and the rich and beautiful valley of Strathtay, with
       its circle of hills behind, and a higher and more extended circle
       of Atholl hills beyond them, on the east side; while the windings
       of the Tay, from west to east, enliven the whole of this interest-
       ing scene,
         Hydrography.--There is a fine spring about the middle of the
       rock of Weem, with which the superstitious notion had been once
       connected, that St David, the patron of it, on receiving a suitable
       offering, would grant such wishes as were preferred to him.  The
       spring was cleaned out a few years back, and several proofs of
       wishes preferred were found in it, from a half-crown piece down to
       far more humble offerings.  Tradition relates of this guardian
       saint, that he was one of the lairds of the place who had turned
       monk, and that he had a chapel on a shelf of the rock, still called
       Craig an-t'sheapail, or the chapel rock.
         Loch Tay is the principal lake connected with this parish, but
      there are two hill lakes of considerable size on an extensive farm,
      called Lochs in Glenlyon.  The river Dochart rises on the borders
      Of Argyleshire, and receives the waters of the Lochay, which
      rises in the western hills of the glen of that name, very near the
      west end of Loch Tay, into which it flows.  The river, on issuing
      from the east end of the lake, takes the name of Tay, receives the
      Lyon between Taymouth and Castle Menzies, and the Quaich after
      taking the name of Bran, a little above Dunkeld.  The name both
      of the river and of the lake has most probably been derived from
      the Gaelic word Teth, wbich may signify either hot or warm; and
      the well-known fact that Loch Tay is never known to freeze during
      coldest winter, must have procured this name for it, and for the                                                                                                                                            9
      river after issuing from it.

      <FOOTNOTE>had undergone a suitable preparation for executing the commission intrusted to him
      by an apprenticeship of some years in the Mission of Glenco:  That about sixty years
      ago, he had been requested by the baronet of that time to conduct Mr. Playfair (af-
      terwards Principal), to the top of the rock by the most difficult passes consistent with
      safety; and that when he had executed the commission to the letter, Mr. Playfair on
      looking back at the rock which he seconded, exclaimed. " Has there ever been a li-
      ring creature here before ?" and received for answer " Oh yes, goats and eagles."
         PERTH.


