
140	      		    WIGTONSHIRE.

	Of forest trees, the elm, sycamore, and ash, are the favourites
of the climate. The pinaster, spruce, and silver firs, and the
oak, thrive tolerably well. The attempt to cultivate Scotch fir
and larch has proved a decided failure.

                     		II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	There seems to be very little in the civil history of Portpatrick
which, in a brief account like the present, is worthy of notice apart
from the general History of Galloway, of which a brief review may
be found in Chalmers' Caledonia, Vol. iii., with frequent reference
to authorities and to sources of more ample information. Some
manuscripts connected with the hhstory of the family of Montgo-
mery were published at Belfast in 1830, in one volume l2mo. There
is a large plan of the property of the principal heritor in his house
at Dunskeys, exhibiting the agricultural divisions of about two-
thirds of the surface of the whole p`rish, with the measurement of
each field in acres.
	Portpatrick was long celebrated as the Gretna Green for Ire-
land. Parties who could not obtain ecclesiastical sanction of their
marriage on the other side of the channel, with all the expedition
or secrecy which the opposition of relatives or other circumstances
rendered desirable, found their way to this place, and on satisfy-
ing the minister that there was no legal objection to their union,
were admitted to the benefit of proclamation in the parish church
immediately on their arrival, and were married without delay.
These marriages are registered in the records of the kirk-session,
and attested by the minister and the witnesses. The fees exact-
ed on these occasions varied according to the rank and ability of
the parties. The lowest sum that was accepted at one time was
L. 5, but it was latterly raised to L. 10, payable tn the minister,
and L. 1 to the session-clerk. This practice was abandoned in
1826, in consequence of the interference of the church courts; but
during the preceding period of about fifty years, the records of
these marriages exhibits the names of 198 gentlemen, 15 officers
of the army or navy, and 13 noblemen.
	Eminent Characters.--The late Sir James Hunter Blair, Bart.
was sometime Lord Provost of Edinburgh, and its representative
in Parliament. He was distinguished for the activity and intelli-
gence with which he engaged in the general affairs of Scotland as
a Member of Parliament, and for the influence which he had in
promoting the improvement of the city over which he presided as
a magistrate. At the at same time he was not forgetful of the inte-


