
   30                         NAIRNSHIRE.

   The prevailing shrubby plants of the upper division of the parish are,
   Calluna vulgaris, Erica Tetralix, E. cinerea, Ilex Aquifolium, Juniperus
   communis, Rosa canina, Rubus ideus, and several dwarf species
   of Salix. In the lower division, where the surface is encumbered
   by a thick mass of diluvial sand and gravel, the distinguishing
   shrubby plants are, Cytisus Scoparius, Ulex,Europ'us, Genista
   anglica, &c.  In the upper division, ferns or brackens form the
   most plentiful undergrowth in the ravines and precipitous bank.
   Of these the spreading "bracken curtain," Pteris aquilina, is the
   most abundant; and the elegant Asplenium viride is not unfrequent.
   There are also, where water is stagnant, Pinguicula vulgaris,
   Trollius Europaeus, and Pedicularis palustris. The romantic
   banks of the Findhorn contain treasures for the botanist which
   it would be endless to enumerate; and, with very few exceptions,
   the whole woodland flora of the two counties of Elgin and Nairn
   might be gathered within the parish.  A few of the more rare are,
   Veronica montana, Milium effusum, Melica nutans, Festuca calamaria
   Pyrola minor, and Stellaria nemorum.  All the culinary or pot
   herbs are foreign introductions.  Some of the flowers of wild plants
   were formerly used by the peasants as dyes for cloth; but they
   have fallen into total disuse.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
     A large portion of this parish formerly belonged to the family
   of Falconer of Halkerton, now Earls of Kintore, who held it at
   least as early as the year 1295, and continued to possess it till the
   commencement of the seventeenth century, when they sold it to
   Grant of Freuchie, ancestor of the present Earl of Seafield, from
   whom again it was purchased, with a variety of other lands, in
   1634, by Alexander Brodie of Lethen, second son of David, Laird
   of Brodie.  Another, but much smaller, portion of the parish has
   been for centuries in the possession of the family of Campbell of
   Calder, now Earls of Cawdor.  And a third portion, situated on
   the south bank of the Findborn, now the property of George
   Montgomery Cuningbame, Esq. of Fairness, belonged of old to
   the family of Rose of Kilravock, who again had acquired it, at a
   period still more distant, partly from the Dunbars of Cunzie and
   Kilbuyack, and partly from Patrick Hepburn, Bishop of Moray.
   The remainder of the parish consists of the lands of Mid-Fleenes
   and Acharait, now belonging to Colonel Gordon of Cluny; the
   lands of Dallasbrachty and Craigcroy, which belonged in 1526
   to James Dunbar of Cunzie and Kilbuyack, and are now the pro.


