
136                        STIRLINGSHIRE.


Abstinence Society, 1837; Denny and Dunipace Funeral So-
ciety, 1837; Denny Farmer's Society, 1838; Denny and Duni-
pace Mutual Instruction Society, 1838; Independent Order of
Odd Fellows Friendly Society, 1838.
 Savings' Bank.-There was an attempt made, in 1825, to set
on foot a savings bank, which failed. Mr Gray, the Actuary of
the Glasgow Savings Bank, and other benevolent individuals, re-
newed the attempt in 1837. There is a fear of consequences,
if masters should know what gains their servants make. It failed
also.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial relief is 32. The average amount alotted to
each per month, 5s. 9d. The average annual amount of contri-
butions for their relief, collected at church doors, L.14, 5s. 7d.;
assessment, L.72. No other regular mode of procuring funds.
   Every winter, however, some benevolent persons give donations
of coals, which the farmers lay down gratis at the doors of the
poor. L.7 or L.8 per annum, on an average, used to be added to
the poor's funds, by mortcloth dues. But there is hardly ever now
a mortcloth put over the coffin.
  One meets now and then with persons who, in the old Scottish
spirit, refuse aid from the poor's funds. In general, however, they
are abundantly clamorous.
    When the new church came to be used as a place of worship
in 1814, a dispute among the heritors arose as to the division
of the sittings. This suit continued five years. Never was
the parish happier than during these five years, and never
was the church better or more regularly attended, and never
were the collections at the church door more liberal. The peo-
ple paid no seat rents, and they poured their money into the
church plate; L.] 6s. and L.1, 10s. were not uncommon collec-
tions in these days, on ordinary Sabbath days. The average of
each of the fifty-two Sabbaths of the year, was L.], 2s. The plea
was ended, and the heritors demanded seat rents. The people
considered this unreasonable: but, rather than leave the Establish-
ment, they came to an understanding that they would pay seat
rents, but withhold their contributions at the church door. There
was no assessment for the poor, at that time. The collections
began gradually to diminish. Offence was taken at the session
having sent a lunatic to the Glasgow Asylum. The lunatic was
recalled and given to his relations. Objections were then taken to


