
                         NEWBURGH.                      77

60 to 150 tons burden, belong to individuals connected with New-
burgh, and they are chiefly engaged in the coal trade. Two
packets are regularly employed in conveying the raw material, used
in the manufacturing of linens, from Dundee. The wood-yards are
supplied from America, Norway, and Memel; and the cargoes
are often brought here in vessels belonging to these countries.
Notwithstanding, there is a considerable appearance both of real
trade and stir at the shore of Newburgh,-as most of the potatoes
from Kinross, Strathearn, and the surrounding district, are ship-
ped at this port for the London market; while, on the other hand,
the generality of vessels, bound for Perth, must often wait here the
flow of the tide, and not a few of them unload part of their car-
goes before they can, even with the tide, proceed farther up the
river.
   Upon the whole, the trade and commercial enterprise of New-
burgh will bear a comparison with those of places of much larger
dimensions, and of greater external decorations. Two branches,
one of the Commercial and the other of the Central Bank of
Scotland, lately established, attest its domestic prosperity; and a
revenue from customs of a very considerable amount, annually con-
veyed to the Exchequer, demonstrates its importance in a national
point of view. Its local advantages are many, and, from the ra-
pidly increasing wealth of its spirited merchants, there can be little
doubt, but that every succeeding year will witness an extension of
its business.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-I. The post-office of Newburgh.
A foot-runner conveys every morning at eight o'clock the mail-bags
from the Bridge of Earn to this place, and leaves again at five
o'clock P. M. to meet the evening mails at the same village. 2.
The turnpike road between the county towns of Perth and Fife-
shire passes through the town of Newburgh; and about a mile to
the eastward, at the village of Glenburnie, a road has been lately
opened through the Ochils to Auchtermuchty, and the lime and
coal fields of Fife. 3. A stage-coach, from Perth to Kirkaldy,
passes daily during the summer months, and in winter on the al-
ternate days from the one place to the other. There are also
throughout the whole season, except when the river is interrupted
with ice, several steam-boats which ply daily between Perth and
Dundee, all of which touch at the shore of Newburgh. A regu-
lar passage-boat sails between the Pow of Errol and this during the



