
     of Muirkirk.

earlier; and its view is the more pleasing as it announces
that the severity of the winter is past, and that 'the time of
'the singing of birds' is approaching.

   Climate and Diseases.-The air is naturally sharp, and fa-
vourable to health, though often loaded with vapours and
damps, owing to the mosses and marshy grounds, so frequent-
ly to be me with, and the surrounding hills which intercept
the clouds.  It is no wonder that both of these taken toge-
ther should form an atmosphere not perfectly dry.  As a
proof of this, a few days will affect, with mouldiness on its
surface, any thing placed on an earthen floor or lower storey:
A convincing proof that the atmosphere would, in all pro-
bability, prove unfavourable to the health of the inhabitants,
were it not for the frequent high winds which disperse, the
moist vapours, or at least change their places, and prevent them
from stagnating.  Neither this, nor indeed any other cause,
arising from situation, affect the inhabitants with those dis-
tempers which are commonly produced by a moist air or damp
situation.  There are here no peculiar diseases, nor any o-
ther that do not equally affect other countries, and other si-

     VOL. VII. 4 G

<FOOTNOTE>

But, the curlew, though one of its earlier birds, has never been
so fortunate, and as the writer of this cannot deck him in poe-
tic plumes, like the other, he begs leave in humble prose to
relate the following anecdote in his praise.  A country gentle-
man, from the west of Scotland, and who lived in a parish very
similar to this, both in soil and climate, being occasionally in
England for a few weeks, was, one delightful summer evening,
asked out to hear the nightingale.  His friend informing him,
at the same time, that this bird was a native of England, and
never to be heard in his own country.  After he had listened,
with attention, for some time, upon being asked if he was not
much delighted with the nightingale "It's a' very gude,"
replied the other, in the dialect of his own country, "But I
"wad na' gie the wheeple of a whaup for a the nightingales that
"ever sang."


