
          172                           ORKNEY.

          in the course of the year; also calculated from observations made
          during seventeen years:--North, &c. 75 days; east, &c. 82.14
          days; south, &c. 107.14 days; west, &c. 100.72.
              Hydrography.-Deersound is the best roadstead contiguous
          to this place.  Notwithstanding several sinuosities in its shores, it
          may be said to lie nearly north-east and south-west.  It is four
          miles long from the point of Ness, which forms one side of its en-
          trance, to its innermost part, and from one to two miles broad.
          Being well defended on all sides, its mouth six or seven fa-
          thoms deep, and its bottom consisting of clean sandy ground mixed
          with clay, it forms a safe retreat for vessels of all sizes.  Good
          anchorage may be found in many parts of it; but perhaps the
          safest place is that behind the point of Kirbister, on the Deerness
          shore.  The most common resort for vessels, however, and at all
          times a sufficiently safe situation, is in six fathoms water, about
          three-fourths of a mile from the point of Ness, and towards the
          St Andrews side of the bay, where the pilot's rule for bringing up
          a vessel is, to bring her into a straight line with the Mull-bead of
          Deerness and the point of Ness, and then anchor within that line.
          Wallace, in his History of Orkney, says, that "Deersound is
          capable of sheltering the greatest navies."  It is not now much
          frequented.  Formerly, a few ships bound for Davis's Straits or
          Greenlaud, and some engaged in the Iceland fishery, touched here,
          principally for the sake of hiring men.  But, since the burning in
          1823 of Mr Scoresby's ship, the Fame of Hull, a name occurring
          in almost all scientific dissertations on the arctic regions, no whale-
          fishing, vessel has been seen here; and, by the Iceland fishermen,
          it has been almost deserted since last French war.
             Inganess Bay, the ouly other bay falling under our observation
          at present, is still less frequented, being exposed to the open sea
          from the north-east.  It lies in the same direction as Deersound,
          but on the north-west side of the parish.  It is bounded on the
          west and south by St Ola.  Its length is two miles and a half, its
          breadth upwards of one, and its depth from two and a half to twelve
          fathoms.  The best anchorage is about a mile from its inner ex-
          tremity, in six or six one-half fathoms water; and this is quite safe
          in certain directions of the wind.  There is no tideway in either
          of these bays, except the little occasioned by the ebb and flow of
          their own waters.
              In the north end of the parish is the only sheet of fresh water
          deserving the name of lake.  Its length is one mile; its breadth,
          three-fourths; and its greatest depth in winter, eleven feet of wa-


