
510     		  DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

There are also five inns,--enough, and more than enough,for
the morals of the people. It is at same time true, that in gene-
ral the people merit the character of sobriety. The farmers are
intelligent, some of them remarkably so, while their servants, the
shepherds, in the more pastoral parts of the parish, perbaps from
the leisure they enjoy, and their distance from society, exhibit more
information, particularly on matters connected with religion, than
others who occupy a corresponding grade in society. The situa-
tion of the lower classes ought to be unusually comfortable at pre-
sent from the abundance of work, and the cheapness of provisions.
If the calculation be a fair one, that the labourer is well provided
when he can earn a peck or half a stone of meal in the day, he must
be much better provided when he can earn double,--as is here often
the case. The labourer's wages in winter are 1s. 4d.; in summer,
1s. 6d. sometimes 1s. 8d. per day; while the wright and mason con-
sider themselves entitled to 2s. The rate of labour varies less
throughout the year than may seem altogether reasonable. But the
wants of the labourer are even greater in winter than in summer,
though his labour at this period cannot be so productive to his em-
ployer. The wages of a man-servant may be stated at about L. 6 in
the half year, while those of female servants vary from L. 2 to L. 3,
or even L. 4. The food of this class of the inhabitants is plain, but
substantial and nutritive. Oatmeal in the morning constitutes the
regular food of the agricultural labourer; the same, or potatoes, in
the evening; and generally they have broth with butcher meat of
some kind, or cheese, to dinner.

			   IV--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--It is by no means an easy matter to give correct de-
tails regarding the agriculture of the parish. The utmost, therefore,
that can be offered, is only an approximation to the truth. It contains
from thirty-five to forty farms of very varying extent; and perhaps
about an eighth of the whole surface might admit of being brought
under tillage. This, however, could not be effected without great
expense, and the land not already reclaimed is much more profit-
ably occupied in the feeding of sheep. There are probably not
more than two proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and
upwards, resident upon their own lands in the parish. Extensive plan-
tations have, lately been made in it, of all the more common kinds of
timber, which in a few years will greatly increase its beauty. Up-
on the estate of the Duke of Buccleuch, the extensive plantations
are rapidly increasing. Preparations are already made for plant-


