
			CRAWFORDJOHN.                           501

rous progeny, though in colour like the hare, were in shape and
size liker the rabbit. They did not exactly burrow, but excavated
such holes that they were nearly concealed in them. It is under-
stood that they have now all become the prey of the swift-footed
collies. A pair of fieldfares have twice remained the whole year,
and built their nests near the manse. In the winter of l834, a
Corvus graculus or red-legged crow appeared in the vicinity of the
village, and was shot. A blackbird with a white head remained
for some time, and was seen by many persons lately at Gilkers-
cleugh; and at Townhead the appearance of a black sparrow was
an occasion of equal curiosity to many.
	The common trout is very numerous in all the burns and streams.
The dark-coloured in Blackburn is still as famous as when the last
Statistical Report was drawn up; in it there are also eels, one of
which I saw 2 feet 8 inches long. Unfortunately for those who
enjoy the amusement of angling, persons from villages in the ad-
jacent parishes are accustomed every season to come with nets, and
contrive to destroy a greater number of trouts, than they find it
possible, or convenient to carry home.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	I have neither seen nor heard of any documents or papers which
serve to throw light on the history of the parish, or which detail
any remarkable events that have occurred in it; and there is no
tradition of persons having been born in it, who have become great-
ly distinguished in the world. Mr Robert Davidson, father of the
late Principal of the University of Glasgow, was minister here
from 1713 to 1749 ; and his memory is still cherished in the neigh-
bourhood as an able and faithful pastor, who was always prepared
for the emergencies of life; who instantaneously penetrated the mo-
tives of human conduct; and who, by his practical exposition of absur-
dities, and his humorous representation of real occurrences, at once
maintained the ascendancy of a superior mind, and contributed to
the harmless amusement of his friends and associates. Mr Davidson
was succeeded by Mr William Millar, whose ministry was prolonged
to fifty years; a Nathaniel, indeed, as was declared of him in a fu-
neral sermon, in whom there was no guile, and who, though unable,
from his childlike simplicity, to relish the broad humour of his pre-
decessor, or to enjoy with high zest the inimitably told stories, and
inexhaustible wit of the kind-hearted neighbour, * who pronounced
upon him the above merited panygeric,--yet, from his perfect ac-

<FOOTNOTE>The Rev. W. M'Cubbin, late minister of Douglas, who died in 1820.

    LANARK.                            K k


