
                           FINTRAY.                       171

perform the operative parts.  The advantages which attend the
manufacture of cloths here, are a plentiful supply of excellent
water, and a powerful waterfall, which saves the expenses of steam-
power.  Wages are also lower here than in manufacturing districts
where provisions are high.  Considerable encouragement has been
given to this manufactory by the Board of Trustees for the En-
couragement of Manufactures in Scotland, who have annually
given considerable premiums, in the gaining of which the Messrs
Crombie have been very successful.
   Since the year 1836, a branch of manufacture has sprung up
in the south of Scotland, which has had the effect of considerably
decreasing the consumpt of fine cloths throughout the kingdom.
The article alluded to is plaid, or what is now more usually de-
nominated "tweed."  The managers at Cothal Mills, finding that
their clothing machines were particularly well adapted to the ma-
nufacture of this article, by working finer wools than were gene-
rally used for these goods, soon produced stuffs that found a ready
market in London as well as in Scotland.  The consequence has
been, that, from the steady demand, they have been enabled to
double their production, and of course the number of hands has
been increased.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town, &c.-Fintray is distant from Aberdeen, the
nearest market-town, from eight to thirteen miles; from six to
seven of which miles are turnpike, and the rest good commutation
roads. The road from Keith-hall to Aberdeen divides the parish
into nearly two equal parts.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The present church of Fintray was built
in 1821, and is neat, substantial, and commodious.  It is the only
place of worship in the parish.  It is about equally distant from
the east and west boundaries of the parish, but much nearer to the
south boundary than the north.  It would accommodate nearly
860 persons having been purposely built large, to meet an increase
of population.  It is divided among the heritors in the proportion
of their valued rents; the heritors subdivide it among their tenants,
and no seat-rents are demanded or paid. The average number of
communicants is about 450.  The congregation, on an ordinary
Sabbath and favourable day, may be reckoned a full half of the
gross population.  There are only a few Dissenters in the parish,
and not one of these is a native of the parish;  almost the whole
of them belong to the Cothal Mills' Manufactory.


