
186                          FIFESHIRE.

which will last many centuries at the present extent of sales, which
may be estimated at nearly 230,000 tons.
  The average annual sales from Fordel colliery may be estimated
at nearly 70,000 tons. The mode by which the coals are conveyed
to the shipping harbour is by a wooden railway laid with beech and
fir, having wood-sleepers every two feet apart. The road is laid
double, having one fir rail below, and a beech rail above. Wag-
gons containing three tons are drawn by one and sometimes by two
horses, to the shipping port of St David's, and emptied into the
vessels by machines erected for that purpose. This waggon way
is upheld at a very great expense; but extensive operations have
been going on for some time, preparing a new line of road for an
iron railway, which, when finished, will be an immense saving annu-
ally, independently of the greater facility and expedition with which
shipments may then be made. The superior quality of the Fordel
coal is now known over the whole of Europe, and being particular-
larly adapted for steam navigation, it has gained an ascendancy over
most of the Scotch and English coal for that purpose. Besides
being so well adapted for all household uses, it is also much in
request by bakers, brewers, manufacturers; and large exports are
made to the continent and to America, which is in a great measure
to be attributed to the exertions of the spirited proprietor of the
works, Admiral Sir Philip Durham, G. C. B. who has used every
means, and has spared no expense, in proving the superior qualities
of the Fordel coal, especially for the purpose of raising steam.
  In the present state of the coal trade in the river Forth, there is
little encouragement to make any extensive improvements. It has
undergone a complete change within the last twenty-five years. And
this has been particularly the ease since 1820, when a more exten-
sive sale of English coal was introduced into the Scotch market.
In 1824, the prices revived a little, which gave a new stimulus to
the coal proprietors, but at present they are again much reduced.
  The following are the prices at which coals are put on board ves-
sels at the harbour of St David's from the Fordel colliery : Best
splint great coal, 9s. per ton; chew coal, 6s. 6d. ; mixed house-
hold coal, 6s. 6d.; small coal, 3s. 10d. And even at these very re-
duced prices it is difficult to effect the ordinary sales; and in many
cases coals are sold at the cost price.
  Salt-works.-In connection with the colliery and railway for the
exportation of coal at St David's, there are very extensive salt-work,
upon the best principles. There is a steam-engine for drawing the


