
22                         NAIRNSHIRE.

beth. The room is shown in which the bloody deed was perpe-
trated; and until a few years ago, when it was accidentally de-
stroyed by fire a bed stood in this room, known as King Duncan's
bed. It is not improbable that the latter part of the tradition
may be correct; the fatal bed may in some way, and at some pe-
riod, have been transferred to this castle; and this, if so, will ac-
count for the enlarged edition of the story which bas descended
to our times; but considerable doubt may well be entertained as
to the rest, when it is borne in mind that the worthy King was
put to death nearly 400 years before the castle bad a being. It
is a piece of history more to be relied on, that the well known
Lord Lovat of the Rebellion lay hid for some time from his pur-
suers in a distant and secret apartment of this building. Sir
Hugh Campbell of Calder, who lived at the close of the seven-
teenth century, was a gentleman who took a very active part in
ecclesiastical affairs. Although, we believe, a Presbyterian, he
contended for the necessity of an injunction being laid upon the
clergy to repeat the Lord's Prayer some time during the services
of the Sabbath. To accomplish this object, he repeatedly ad-
dressed letters to the presbyter of Inverness, to Principal Car-
stairs of Edinburgh, and to the General Assembly, and finally
published a work upon the subject; copies of which are still oc-
casionally to be met with. Mr Shaw, author of a very interesting
and valuable work, the History of the Province of Moray, was,
previous to his translation to Elgin, for a considerable period, mi-
nister of this parish. It would appear, that, in the dark times of
Charles II., the demon of persecution reached even this quiet and
rural parish. A most interesti ng manuscript journal, kept by a Mrs
Lilias Dunbar or Campbell, a native of, and resident in, the parish,
still, exists. This lady was a ward and relative of the family of Cal-
der, lived in the castle, and afterwards married one of the cadets of
the house, Mr Campbell of Torrich. She joined the Presbyterian
party, was in the babit of hearing the outed ministers, and gives
an account of perils encountered in this way; among others, of
her being carried away, and nearly drowned in crossing the swol-
len river of Nairn (there being no bridge), to hear the celebrated
Mr Thomas Hogg, wbo used often to preach in the contiguous
parish of Croy, especially at Kilravock. For her offences in this
respect, she was seized, thrown into the Jail of Elgin, and was on
the eve of being for ever banished her native land, when, oppor-
tunely for her, the news arrived of the King's death, and she was


