
336                           HADDINGTONSHIRE.

dung afterwards applied, which is then, by another furrow, covered
in; and, should the weather permit, it gets an additional one before
sowing, in order to kill any animals that may make their appearance;
and it is then sown about the middle of October. In March, grass
seeds are sown amongst it, and harrowed in, occasionally only rol-
led; and the following year commonly pastured. In January the
land is ploughed, and in March sown with oats. It is again plough-
ed in winter. In March, it is harrowed before drawing off the drills
for a crop of beans. When that is finished, the dung is applied, the
seed deposited, and finally both covered in. In summer, they are
hand-hoed, the paring and grubbing plough put through them
before the bean begins to blossom, and afterwards not unfrequent-
ly furrowed up by a double moulded plough. After removal of crop
from the ground, it is ploughed and sown with wheat. The land
for turnip is ploughed during winter. In spring, it is then reduced
by frequent ploughings, harrowings, and rollings, when it is drawn
off into drills, dung applied, drills reversed, then sown. Should the
weather be favourable in producing a braird in the course of a
month, the plough and hand-hoe are among them. Upon removal
of the crop from the ground, it is ploughed, and sown with barley
or spring wheat; in the spring with grass seeds at same time; then
it is either pastured or cut for hay the following year, which is suc-
ceeded by a crop of oats, and this completes the rotation. The
distribution of the land, under different modes of cultivation is as
follows:-

<TABLE>
            Turnips about   -   -                 200 acres annually grown.
            Barley,   -   -   -   -               230
            Wheat, upwards of   -   -             800
            Oats,   -   -   -   -                 500
            Beans, pease, and tares, about   -    430
            Potatoes,   -   -   -                  80
            Clover and rye-grass upwards of   -   500

   There is an assessment of L. 2 levied upon each ploughgate
for the support of the poor, of which the landlord pays one-half.
The sum of L. 2 is paid for every sixty acres as road money
There are 52 1/2 ploughgates in the parish.
   The rate of grazing for the season is L. 6 for a cow, and about
10s. 6d. for a sheep.
   Wages.-Farm-servants are generally paid in grain. The wages
of a hind are 72 bushels of oats; 18 of barley, 8 of beans, 1 pair
of shoes; L. 1 for lint; cow's grass; 1000 yards of potato
ground, and a house, for which the master receives eighteen days work
of a shearer in harvest; the hind has leave to keep a pig. La-


