
     Statistical Account

the affair was decided.  A hawthorn bush, commonly
known here by the name of Queen Mary's thorn, mark-
ed out the spot, till it decayed through age; but another
has lately been planted in its place by the late James Hill,
Esq; propeirtor of the ground, to preserve the remem-
brance of these interesting circumtances.

   Heritors and Population.-There are 17 heritors at pre-
sent in the parish, who rank upom the cess roll of the shire,

<FOOTNOTE>

a narrow entry, which might have been secured by a ditch and draw-
bridge, is pretty steep and difficult; so that in times when the art of at-
tack was not to well understood, it might have made a considerable de-
fence.  The square tower, of which the original building consisted, ap-
pears to have had annexed to it, a more modern house, which is now
completely removed.  The castle, was within these 50 years inhabited,
but was given up by its proprietor to be demolished, upon removing to
another dwelling.  The materials were sold to a tradesman in Glasgow,
who hoped thereby to enrich himself.  Having taken off the roof, he was
proceeding with the rest of the building, when he found himself obliged
to stop by the resistance he met with, from the strength and thickness of
the walls.  Having been left since that time in a dismantled state, it has
scarcely suffered any farther injury from the influence of the weather.
Few parishes have experienced such a frequent change of proprietors.
Two considerable families sprung up immediately after the removal of
the Lords of Cathcart.  The Scruples of Cathcart descended from the
Lords of Semple, and the Blairs of Boghem, who were also Blairs of Blair,
in Ayrshire.  Their estates again, have long ago been parcelled out, a-
mong many different proprietors, who are continually alienating their
lands.  In such a neighbourhood, this is naturally to be expected.
Some persons with to sell their lands, and try their fortune in trade; o-
thers again, from the fruits of their industry, are enabled to purchase,
and to retire to the country.  This is attended with a double advantage
to the community.  The prospect of obtaining an independent situation
in the country, gives a more vigorous spring to the exertions of the man
of business, while the lands benefiting by the renewed efforts of the suc-
ceeding proprietors, attain to a higher state of cultivation and improve-
ment.  Hence we may safely conclude, that whatever has a tendency to
obstruct the free sale and disposal of landed property, especially in com-
mercial countries, ought to be removed.


