
			DALZIEL.                             447

leaves, resembling chickweed, which gives it a chequered appear-
ance. The dip is to the north, and the rise of course to the south.
The freestone quarries also affect the same inclination.  On the
Clyde, however, at the Camp, the dip is to the east.
	The greater portion of the surface of this parish is a yellow clay.
There is, however, a considerable quantity of what is called croft
land in almost every farm. The haughs and holms on the Clyde
are a rich loam on a sandy or gravelly subsoil.
	Zoology.--By an act James IV. Parl. 6th, cap. 74--for planting
and policy--it is enacted, that "every Lord and Laird make parks
with deer, stanks, i. e. fish-ponds, and cunningars or rabbit warrens."
Accordingly there was here formerly a park well stocked with deer.
There are also the remains of an ancient cruive dam at the camp,
which indicates that the salmon were (which was really the case,)
more abundant than at present.  Forty-five years ago, they were
often caught here in great quantities. Since the erection of the
dam at Blantyre cotton works, and from other causes, they have
become very scarce. The cunningar belonging to Dalziel still
retains its ancient name. The coneys or rabbits, which occupied
that spot, have been long ago extirpated, and the field levelled,
and regularly cultivated. A number of these animals have, how
ever, lately made their appearance in this quarter, report says, in-
troduced by sportsmen for the purpose of furnishing food for the
foxes. The cunningar is now on the opposite side of the Clyde,
though still in the parish, from which it seems to have been cut
off at no very remote period, by the river assuming a new channel
and leaving the old one nearly dry,--now termed the dead waters.
The haughs of Dalziel are famous for the number and the excel-
lence of the hares which they produce.
	The Caprimulgus Europaeus or goatsucker is common in the
woods. The Lanius excubitor or common shrike is also occasion-
ally observed. The Turdus iliacus and Turdus pilaris or redwing
and fieldfare thrushes, were observed this season to be absent little
more than three months, a flock having been seen in the begin-
ning of May, and again in the beginning of August. The Frin-
gilla spinus or siskin is very common, also Purus caudatus or long-
tailed titmouse. There was, till within these twelve years, an ex-
tensive rookery contiguous to Dalziel House; but by cutting the
Scotch fir trees, (to which crows are partial) driving down their
nests and other means, they were completely expelled. In pas-
sing the spot from which they had been driven vi et armis, they


