
                          INNERWICK.                           247

presented the church, with certain pertinents, to the monks of Pais-
ley. This grant was confirmed by Malcolm IV. and, intjie twelfth
century, the Episcopal authority of St Andrews declared in fa-
your of the monks holding possession of the church, and assigned
to the vicar a garden near the burying-ground, and some other
land. The monks retained the church of Innerwick until the Re-
formation. In 1670, Sir Peter Wedderburn obtained a grant of
the rectory and vicarage tithes. The present patron is Mrs Fer-
guson of Dirleton.
   The church, which was built in 1784, is a very plain structure.
It stands on an elevation in the village of Innerwick, and is con-
veniently situated for the lower part of the parish; but most of the
families who reside in the hill-district are at a distance of from five
to eight miles from their parish-church. To the greater part of
these, however, the church of Cranshaws, or that of Abbey St Ba-
than's, is much nearer. In the church of Innerwick, as in those of
other country parishes, the seats are distributed among the farms.
A few sittings, however, have been let at a small specified sum.
The attendance, as compared with that of many parishes, is good,
but even in this respect there is room for improvement. By far
the greater number of families in the parish belong to the Esta-
blisbed Church. About 120 persons, however, including children,
are Dissenters, chiefly of the United Secession. Five elders are
associated with the minister in the care of the parish.
   In an ancient Taxatio the church of Innerwick is valued so
low as thirty merks. The present stipend is 16 chalders, half
barley, and half oats; exclusive of L. 10 for communion elements.
The last augmentation occurred about twelve years ago. The
teinds are not by any means exhausted. The manse was enlarg-
ed and repaired a few years ago, and is now a handsome and com-
modious house. The glebe consists of five acres of arable land,
and is let at L. 3 per acre.  There is no grass glebe.
   Education.-There are two week-day schools in the parish,
both of which are in the village of Innerwick, viz. the parish
school, and a private school for girls under the charge of a fe-
male teacher. The attendance at these varies according to the
season of the year. In winter there are, at the two together,
about 120 scholars. Some children belonging to the parish go
elsewhere to school. The fees in both schools are moderate.
There is a pervading disposition among parents to give their chil-
dren a common education, and most of them are in circumstances


