
392                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

also said, that, about the commencement of my predecessor's in-
cumbency, the fairies endeavoured to steal a new-born infant from
its mother, at Lag-chree. Of this nefarious attempt, and of the
sensation which it occasioned, there is a history in MS. by a vene-
rable person who was parish schoolmaster at the time.
   When Darnaway was building, the joists of Castle Stuart were
taken out, nearly to the entire destruction of its beautiful mouldings
and friezes; but they could be put to no use in the new edifice. For
several years, the Castle had stood unroofed ; and from neglect,
the heavy projections were tearing the walls asunder. Of late
years the eastern wing has been rendered habitable; the whole
building has received a roof sufficient to preserve the walls; and,
by the introduction of long bars of iron, the progress of the rent.
in the walls has been stopped, and their existence can now scarcely
be detected. The interior of the building is one open space, from
the vaults which cover in the lowest story and form the floor of
the second; to the roof. The garden of Castle Stuart about
twenty-five years ago, was the favourite resort of the school-boy,
who used to repair, from Inverness and other quarters, to it as a
paradise in which to spend his holiday. The turrets of the castle
could scarcely be seen at that time, surrounded as it was by an old
and flourishing orchard. The Castle now stands in naked majesty,
in an arable field, only distinguished from other fields, by a hedge
of asb-trees, which have weathered some hundred winters. It must
be added, that the destruction of the trees was accomplished with-
out the knowledge and to the vexation of the Earl of Moray. In
1796, when the Earl of Moray was made a British peer, he took
the title of Lord Stuart of Castle Stuart.
   There are several of those circles of stones called Druidical
circles. Besides those still existing, there were, about thirty years
ago, two more on. Flemington, the stones of which were taken to
build the offices. On the farm of Hillbead, there is a large cairn,
in the immediate neighbourhood of which a stone coffin was ex-
lellivated, many years ago. At Loch Flemington, there are what are
supposed to be the traces of a Flemish camp. Some years ago, pis-
tols rudely, mounted with silver, and marked A. M. P. were found
in the mud of the same loch, where they had probably lain since
the battle of Colloden. It  is also said that a castle at one time
stood on an island in this loch, and that in very dry summers its
foundations can be discerned. A clay urn, protected in a frame
of square stones, was discovered, in clearing the foundation for a
                    		 	       3


