
548                    ARGYLESHIRE.

Craignish; on the north-east, by the parish of Dalavich; and on
the south-east, by Lochawe and the parish of Glassary.
   Topographical Appearances.-
the parish stretches, for about five miles, along the north bank of
Lochawe, and is much diversified by hill and dale.  The land
rises abruptly from the margin of the lake to the elevation of about
1000 feet, and the descent is equally steep on the other side,
where it marches with the parish of Craignish.  Along the base
of this range of hills, there is a thriving belt of copsewood, con-
sisting of oak, ash, rich, hazel, &c., which, together with the
projecting headlands, and rich verdure reaching to the very sum-
mit, presents to the eye of the spectator a strikingly bold and
beautiful outline, particularly in sailing along Lochawe.  The
same continuous ridge of hills--bounded by Craignish and Loch
Craignish on the one side, and by the valley of Kilmartin on the
other--extends westward about seven miles, until it terminates
at Duntroon, near the entrance to Loch Crinan.
   Most of the higher eminences in this parish command remark-
ably beautiful and extensive views, particularly Craiginterave, or the
Bull rock, about a mile west of the Ford of Lochawe--Benvan,
adjoining the hill of Kilmartin, which is 1200 feet above the level
of the sea, commanding a view of Ben Cruachan, Benloi, hills of
Glencrow, Cowall, the coasts of Ayr and Kintyre, and the Island of
Arran--the Cairn of Duchara, on the property of Mr Campbell of
Glenmore, which commands a view of the whole western coast, for
about sixty miles. But undoubtedly the finest prospect which this
district affords, is from the hill above Poltalloch, the ancient seat
of the Malcolms of Poltalloch, on the south-eastern shore of Loch
Craignish.  The view from this point extends from the Island of
Islay to the mountains of Mull, Morven, Kingarloch, and Appin.
But it is not so much its extent, as the variety and picturesque
forms of the objects seen within it, and especially the very happy
manner in which they are grouped and placed before the eye, that
constitutes the great charm of this splendid panorama.  The coast
is singularly indented with long peninsular ridges, and islands run-
ning in the same north-easterly direction; thus forming a succes-
sion of narrow inlets that give a peculiarly picturesque character
to the scenery.  One of the most remarkable of these, Loch
Craignish, lies in all its length, immediately beneath the spectator.
Its southern shore is sleep and rocky, and for several miles is
clothed with luxuriant woods, interspersed with full-grown trees,


