
                                  DUTHIL.                               135

	let from which it derives its name, was built in 1791, and is in ex-
	cellent repair.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-Part of this parish was detached to form
	the quoad sacra parish of Rothiemurchus.  The church, an excel-
	lent edifice, built in 1826, is situated within two and a-half miles
	of the eastern extremity of the parish.  It is seated for the accom-
	modation of between 800 and 900 persons; the seats are all free.
        The manse was built in 1704; rebuilt in 1763.  In 1804, it got
	a thorough repair, and an additional wing of two apartments, be-
	sides attics.  Not with standing various patchings it received subse-
 	quent to the last mentioned year, it was found necessary last sum-
	mer to take it down.  The new manse is not yet finished; but
	it bids fair to yield all necessary accommodation.  The glebe
	does not exceed three acres, including manse, offices, and, garden.
	The stipend is fifteen chalders, half meal, half barley, payable ac-
	cording to the fiars of the county, with L.100 Scots for com-
	munion elements.
	   There are (properly speaking) no Dissenters in the parish.  About
	twenty families profess to be of the Established Church, but absent
	themselves from all places of worship.  Their leader, a self-consti-
	tuted teacher, visits them periodically.  One principal feature in his
	and their creed, is a deep-rooted and bitter enmity against the
	Establishment.  The name of this sect has not as yet found a
	place, in any nomenclature.  The communicants may average about
	160.
	    Education.-There are four schools in the parish,-1st, the pa-
	rochial; 2d, a school endowed by the Society for Propagating
	Christian Knowledge; 3d, one partly so by the Education Society
	of Inverness; and 4th, a school of industry.  The parochial school-
	master's salary is L.25, 13s. 5d.  In such years as the present,
	when the people are reduced to destitution by the failure of their
	crops, the school fees are merely nominal.  The higher branches
	would be taught, but the poverty of the people preclude, their as-
	piring beyond the ordinary branches of education for their chil-
	dren.  The teacher has the legal accommodation of house and gar-
	den.  So well is the parish supplied with schools, that all that are
	desirous, can have access to one or other of them.  It is to be regret-
	ted that the people are by no means so alive to the benefits of edu-
	cation as might be wished.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at pre-
	sent upon the roll is 29. There are no funds for their re-


