
                               PAISLEY.                         213

the walls of the nave rise 33 feet higher, and the parapet is pierced
by embrasures.  From the ground to the roof of the building, the
height is 82, and to the top of the belfry 90 feet.
   The west front of the church is an elevation of much dignity
composed of a grand central and two lateral compartments, se-
parated and flanked by buttresses, three of, which are terminated
by recently erected cones, a similar of which is on the east
end of the nave.  These cones are by no means ornamental.
The centre of the front is horizontally divided into three com-
partments, in the lowest one of which there is a grand door-way
very deeply recessed, flanked by two elegant blank arches, nar-
rowly pointed, and adorned, as well as the arch of the great door-
way, by a moulding filled with the toothed ornament.  The mould-
ings of the principal arch rise from the capitals of fifteen slender
shafts, alternately relieved and attached.  In the second com-
partment are two well-proportioned windows, 26 feet in height,
by 9 1/2 in breadth, and divided into three simply pointed lights,
the upper part being filled with tracery, consisting of circles and
triangles.  In the spandrils between, and on each side of these
windows, are three Gothic inches, each 7 feet in height, in which
images, it is said, were at one time placed.  Each of these is
ornamented with a wreath of toothed ornament, similar to that
of the great archway, and four blank quatrefoils occupy the spaces
between their pointed arches.  The uppermost compartment con-
tains one large window, 19 feet by 14 feet 9 inches, of five trefoil
headed lights, above which is elaborate flowing tracery, filling
the whole arch of the window.  Each of the side compartments
of this imposing front is pierced by a single window, of the lancet
or narrow pointed form.
   The ailes are 1ighted by pointed windows, in the decorated
style, divided by mullions into two, three, and in some, four lights,
the arched heads filled with flowing tracery of diversified cha-
racter.  Of the four in the north aile, the first and second from the
transept seem to have undergone less change than the others, as
their architecture has  more the appearance of antiquity, or at least
bears fewer marks of alteration or renovation than that of the
others.  This remark applies also to the second, from the west
end of the south aile.  On the north wall toward its west end,
is a porch, above which is erected the present vestry.  Through
thisporch is an entrance, in a style of architecture somewhat si-
milar to that of the western.  On the left wall of the portice is


