
                             CARRIDEN.                          61

it is one of the few ancient fortified places in Scotland that are
stipulated to be preserved in a state of repair. In 1548, under
the regency of the Earl of Arran, the castle was garrisoned by
the French, whom Henry 11. sent over under the command of
Monsieur D'Ess‚, to support the pretensions which he derived
from the matrimonial alliance that was contemplated between the
Princess Mary and his eldest son the Dauphin. When Mary of
Guise was promoted to be Regent, the castle again came into the
possession of the French; but on the 14th April 1560, it was
taken from them by the Sheriff of Linlithgow. In February 1871
it was manned with a garrison by Lord Claud Hamilton, a zealous
partizan of the Queen; and it appears to have been held in her
interest till February 1573 when it was delivered up to the Re-
gent, the Earl of Morton, along with 50,000 double ducats, being
the Queen's dowry, which had been brought from France by
James Kirkaldy the preceding month, and with the written docu-
ments relative thereto. During the occupancy of the castle by
the Queen's troops in April 1572, an in road was made by them
upon the opposite coast, when they "spoulzeit" the towns, and
returned to Blackness with considerable booty. On two occasions
during the same period, an attempt was made upon the castle by
the opposite party. In the same month and year as last men-
tioned, a ship of war, well furnished with artillery was sent from
Leith to "asseige" the castle, but was driven from the station
where she had cast anchor, with great danger, by the violence of
the weather; and in the year following, an attack was made to
carry the place by surprise, which failed of success by "the gar-
rison being on the alert."*
   During the troublous times of the struggle between Presbytery
and Episcopacy, the castle appears to have been employed chiefly
for the purposes of a state prison, and was the place of confine-
ment where many, who were obnoxious to Government for their
known adherence to the principles of religious and civil liberty,
were immured. By a decreet of the secret council of James VI.
in February 1584, the celebrated Andrew Melville was adjudged
to be committed to ward in the Castle of Blackness for declining
their authority to decide upon the doctrine taught in a public dis-
course which he had delivered at St Andrews. After the warrant
of committal had been served upon him, however, he made his
escape to Berwick. During the same year, the clergy in and near

<FOOTNOTE>Diurnal of Occurrents.


