
152                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.

barley, exclusive of L. 8, 6s. 8d. for furnishing communion element.
But as part of the teinds were surrendered, the stipend, as allocat-
ed, and now payable to the incumbent, stands thus:

<TABLE>

Surrendered money teind,                                                       L. 95  0  6
10 chalders, 5 bolls, 3 pecks, 1 4/16 lip. of grain, at L. 18, 12s. per chalder, 140  5  0

                                                                              L. 236  5  6
                              Deduct for communion elements,                       8  6  8

                                                                              L. 227 18 10
   Number of persons attending the Established church 736; of
those who attend chapels of Seceders and Dissenters, 100.
   Divine service at the Established church is well attended, those
at a considerable distance being in general most regular. The
average number of communicants at the Established church is 212,
and the average amount of church collections yearly for the support
of the poor of the parish is L. 22; for religious and other chari-
table purposes, L. 5.
   It is a singular fact in the ecclesiastical history of the parish,
that the present incumbent and his forefathers have been mini-
sters of Eddlestone for 137 years. James Robertson, the present
incumbent's great-grandfather, was ordained minister of Eddlestone
in 1697, and served the cure for fifty years. He died in 1747,
and was succeeded by his son, Alexander, who had been his or-
dained assistant and successor for a number of years. After his
death in 1772, he was succeeded by his son, Dr Patrick Robert-
son, who performed all the clerical duties of the parish for the
space of fifty years. He died in the month of May 1822, and
was succeeded by his son, the present incumbent, who had been
ordained his assistant and successor in 1819. There is reason to
believe that this is the only instance in the history of the Church
of Scotland, of four individuals of the same family, in uninterrupted
succession from father to son, serving the cure of the same parish.
   Such a connection is of a more than ordinarily hallowed nature,
and tends to unite more closely the pastor and his flock in the
bonds of mutual love and affection. And to a rightly constituted
and virtuous mind, it must be a matter of pleasing and interesting
reflection, to consider that many of those who now wait upon the
ministry of the present incumbent, are the descendants of the very
men who, 137 years ago, listened in the same place to the pas-
toral admonitions of his great-grandfather.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only school in the parish.
The branches generally taught in it are English reading, writing,
and arithmetic, Latin, Greek, French, and mathematics. The


