
     Statistical Account

from 3 L. to 4 L. yearly, and of a labouring man-servant from
7 L-to 10 L. Mason's daily wages are from is. 8 d. to 2 s.;
those of house carpenters from 1 s. 3 d. to 1 s. 6 d. and of day
labourers 1 s. at an average through the year.

   Constitution, Privileges, etc.-The privileges of the town of
Dundee, as a free and royal borough, are very ancient.  A
charter by King Robert Bruce, dated March 14th, in the 22d
year of his reign, and proceeding upon a recognition of its
privileges by a jury, mentions its being possesed of them in
the time of his predecessor, William, who began to reign in
1165; and that they were as ample as those enjoyed by the
town of Berwick, or by any borough in Scotland.  This char-
ter, the recognition on which it proceeds, with the designa-
tions of the jury, and the commission to Bernard, Abbot of
Arbroath, and Mr. Alex.  Fraser, Chancellor of Scotland, to
preside as King's Lieutenants at the trial, whether now in ex-
istence or not, were in the possession of the Council not above
50 years ago; and the writer of this article has had an oppor-
tunity to fee copies of them, with translations from the Latin,
made by Mr. George Bruce, then rector of the grammar
school.  These rights appear also to have been confirmed and
enlarged by many succeeding princes; particularly, by David
Bruce, James II. James IV. Queen Mary, James VI. and
Charles I.  So uncommon are some of there, that by an edict
of David Bruce, the villages of Coupar in Angus, Kettins,
Kirriemuir, and Alyth, are prohibited from holding markets;
and all persons discharged, under the highest penalties, from
attending them, as being within the liberties of Dundee.  Be-
sides a confirmation of rights, Queen Mary's charter conveys
to the town all the possessions of the Dominican friars, Mi,
norites, Franciscans, and Gray Sisters, St, Clement's church,
and its chaplainries; with all their revenues and lands, among
which were a third part of the lands of Craigie; and, in par-


