
     Of Kemnay.

nett, Esq. of Kemany, are the only heritors of the parish.
Mr. Burnett resides in it.  The living is 30 L. 16 s. 8 d.  Ster-
ling of money, 28 1/2 bolls of meal at 8 1/2 stone the boll, and
15 bolls of bear, which, with the glebe, may amount to
nearly 60 L. a-year.  The Earl of Kintore is patron.  The
manse was built in 1680, by Dr. James Willox, then mini-
ster of Kemnay, and at his sole expense*.  The church is
48 years older than the manse.  It was new roosed, plaster-
ed, and adorned in the inside, with great raste and elegance,
by the late Mr. Burnett of Kemnay; but the walls are not
likely to stand long.-There is a tolerable school-house here+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Bishop of Aberdeen and his assessors had, upon Dr. Willox's petition,
appointed a new manse at Kemnay, which was built by the heritors, and pro-
nounced sufficient by the Bishop and his presbyters.  But Dr. Willox was so
much displeased with it, that he immediately began to build a house for him-
self, which was finished in 1680, as appears from the inscription over the entry,
which contains his own and his wife's name, and the date of the building.  The
house built by the heritors was converted into a barn, and continued to be
occupied as such till the year 1786, when it made way for a new brew-
house, all the offices having been new built in that year.  The walls of the
manse are built of stone and mortar.  They are very thick, and plastered on
the inside with clay.  It was, when it was built, and many years after, so
much superior in every respect to the other manses in this part of Scotland, that
from its singularity, and from the circumstance of the minister having been are
the expense of the building, it was long known by the name of Castle Folly.
The floors and roof have been occasionally repaired; but no addition to it has
been made.  And yet, though there is not so much room in it as in modern
manses, it is still no uncomfortable house.
+State of the Parish in 1782 and 1783.-I did not reside in Kemnay dur-
ing those two years.  But from occasional visits to it, which were pretty fre-
quent, I learned that a great number of the inhabitants were in extreme dis-
tress, owing to the lateness of the harvest, and the unexampled severity of the
season in 1782, and the impossibility of procuring good seed in spring 1783.
Scarcely any of the corns were ripened here, beford the frok came on in 1782.
The majority of the inhabitants lived on pease and barley-meal, imported at
 

