
178                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

It was formerly found in Perch-hall Loch; and the last got there
was in 1814, when the loch was partially drained.
	Reptiles.--The reptiles found in the parish are, 1. Lacerta agilis,
common about Dinwiddie Hill and eastern moors. 2. Vipera com-
munis, adder, occasionally seen on the eastern side of the Annan,
occurring in dark and light-coloured varieties. 3. Triton aguati-
cus, water-eft, common in ditches. 4. Triton vulgaris, common eft,
occasionally found in stone dikes. 5. Rana temporaria, common
frog. And 6. Bufo vulgaris, common toad.
	Birds.--Besides the more common species, there are to be
found in the parish the following
	Land Birds.--Peregrine falcon (Falco peregritus), an occa-
sional visitant, passing to and from its eyries in the higher and
wilder parts of the county.
	Merlin (F. asalon) most frequently seen in winter.
	Moor-buzzard (Circus aeruginosus); one or two of these birds
have occasionally frequented the Perch-Hall loch in the parish.
They are rare in thhs county, and appear about the larger swamps
and mosses at uncertain intervals.
	Hen-harrier, or ringtail, (C. cyanus), after the season of incu-
bation leaves the hills, and, with its brood, visits the low country
daily, roosting among whins and long heather.
	The four common owls are met with. The rarest is the short-
eared (Otus brackyotos); it continues during the whole year, and
breeds in the high grounds on the eastern border of the parish.
	The water-ousel (Cinclus aquaticus) is abundant on all the
mountain streams, and migrates during winter in considerable num-
bers to the banks of the Annan.
	Among the true thrushes, the missel thrush (Turdus viscivo-
rous) deserves notice, on account of its increase during the last
few years. Fifteen years ago, they were rarely to be seen; but
in consequence of the increased extent of plantations, they are
now frequently met with in pairs, or in parties of five or six. A

<FOOTNOTE>Note by Sir William Jardine.--Anguis fragilie I have never found in the pa-
rish, though there are several stations where it probably may be met with. It has
been got in Raehills woods, and is particularly abundant in the woods of Craigieburn.
The Natrix Dumfrisiensis of Fleming, I have never been able to trace in this coun-
ty, or indeed elsewher Rana esculenta I think I have seen, but cannot at present
speak with certainty, it is not uncommon in Scotland. Bufo rubeta or natter-jack
is abundant at Southerness, in Galloway. I am not aware of another Scotch habitat
of this species.
                                          3

