
        		      DUNDEE.                                17

king's gallery wits fitted up for the magistrates in 1612, and is still
in the possession of an inhabitant of Dundee.
	The iron rod, as tradition reports, about three feet in length,
upon which was fixed the head of Lumsden, the governor of the
town when it was taken by Monck in 1651, is in the possession of
Mr Rogers before-mentioned.
	In 1831, while the workmen were clearing away the old houses
and rock from the ground intended as a new street from the Cross
to the Meadows, at the top of the Mint Close, they discovered the
remains of our ancient mint, which was erected by Robert Bruce
in 1311. The smelting furnace was almost entire. *
	Cowgate Port.--In order to defend Dundee from the attacks of
enemies, the town in ancient times was surrounded by a double
wall; and in each of the streets leading to the west, north, and cast,
were two gates or ports. There is now scarcely any part of the wall
remaining, except a few yards at the burying-ground; and as the
ports had ceased not only to be useful, but had become inconve-
nient, these were removed about sixty years ago, except the Cow-
gate Port, which is still kept in good preservation.
	This port has been allowed to stand, and has lately been re-
paired, from respect to the memory of the famous Mr George
Wishart, and his affectionate services to the inhabitants of Dun-
dee during the dreadful plague in 1544. At that time, this mi-
nister is said to have preached from the top of the Cowgate Port,
from Psalm cvii. 20: "He sent his word and healed them, and
delivered them from their destruction; "--the diseased being re-
moved out of the town to booths or huts built for them without
the port, and the healthy being placed in the inside of the gate, in
which situation this good man administered consolation and ad-
vice to both.
	On the lands of Balgay, there is one of those subterranean
dwellings, or places of retreat, ascribed to the ancient Picts, and
though it has never been explored, yet it is believed to be of great
extent.
	Modern Buildings.--Within these last forty years Dundee has
been much improved,--new and spacious streets have been open-
ed--narrow lanes have been removed,--and in the place of old
shabby houses, there have been built many substantial dwellings.

<FOOTNOTE>In the original MS. preserved among the Archives of the Church, there is a de-
tailed account of ancient coins, a seal, and a royal ring, found in this parish.
	FORFAR.                            B


