
234                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

vate school, said to be only L.8.  For the first school there is suffi-
cient acommodation provided.  The Kinninmonth school was built
by general subscription, and the teacher rents a house and small
piece of ground.  The St Comb's school and schoolmaster's
apartments were built by the proprietor, General Gordon, at his
own expense.  The ordinary expense of education is shown by the
foregoing statement of fees, to be from 8s. per annum for children,
to L.1, 4s. per annum for scholars learning Latin and mathema-
tics.  There are only four or five persons between six and ten
years of age who have never been at school, and these will be
educated at the public expense.  There are some old persons who
cannot read or write.  As a proof how much alive the people are
to the benefits of education, we shall state in addition, the num-
ber of scholars now in attendance at the several schools in the pa-
rish:-

<TABLE>
                 Learning           English                   Book.     Math.
                  English. Writing. grammar. Latin.  Arith.  keeping. and geo.
1st, or Lonmay,	   16	      24       4       2       19	     2       2
2d, or Kinninmonth,  26	      16      10       0       26	     0       0
3d, or St Combs,     35	      13       0       0	  4	     0       0

Total Number at present at Lonmay school, 58; Kinninmonth,
68; St Combs, 52; parochial private school, 52; girls' schools,
23; dames' school, 14; scholars belonging to Lonmay at other
schools in different parishes, 8; scholars belonging to other pa-
rishes attending schools in Lonmay, 27; total scholars belong-
ing to Lonmay, 248, being upwards of one-eighth of the whole
population.
   When the present incumbent came to his pastoral charge here
about twenty-three years ago, there was but one school, attended
on an average by 47 or 48 scholars yearly.  The heritors in
1820 having complied with the supplication made to them, and
additional means of education having been provided, the schools
were no sooner opened than they were filled with scholars, and
the private schools followed thereafter.  Then was afforded the
present happy result, well worthy of the observation of every well-
wisher to the interests of Christianity and of general civilization,
who has it in his power "to go and do likewise."
   Friendly Society.-There was a Friendly Society instituted at
St Combs.  Considerable trouble was taken in forming it, but
after the fishermen had almost all joined, and the infant institution,
was advancing prosperously, came the ill-judged legislative inter-
ference proposed by Mr Kennedy, M. P., which upset this useful


