
16     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Language, Customs, &c.--The language universally spoken by
thd lower ranks is the lowland Scotch, which has, however, with-
in the last forty years, lost much of its national peculiarity,--many
words which were then used having now become obsolete.
	We have already mentioned the "siller gun." This royal gift
is competed for at least once in seven years, and oftener if the
trades think fit. Upon such occasions, every member of the in-
corporations is bound under a penalty to appear armed with a
firelock, and to answer to his name. This done, the whole march
in due form to some convenient open ground in the neighbourhood,
and there contend for the prize by shooting in rotation at a target.
The succesful marksman returns to the town in front of the pro-
cession, bearing attached to his hat, and adorned with ribbons, the
piece of ordnance, of which he is the nominal custodier until the
next trial of skill takes place.
	There are annual races on Tinwald Downs in the month
of September, at which period assemblies are held in the town.
The theatre is generally open for two or three months in the
year.
	The people have of late made considerable advances in cleanli-
ness; and the practice of going barefoot, formerly so common
throughout Scotland, is here fast losing ground. The standard
articles of food amongst the lower orders are potatoes, porridge, oat-
cakes, and milk; salt herrings are also very much used. Al-
though a great deal of poverty exists in the obscure parts of the
town, the inhabitants in general seem to enjoy in a very considerable
degree the comforts and advantages of society, and are contented
with their situation and circumstances.
	Character of the people.--The people are generally intelligent,
and although there are many amongst the labouring classes who
can neither read nor write, yet these are, in but a very few in-
stances, natives of Sotland. Living in a district where no manu-
factures are carried on upon an extensive scale, the inhabitants
have not amongst them those exciting motives to discnntent and
insubordination which exists more or less in all manufabturing
towns. They possess the character of being decent in their exter-
nal deportment, and respectful to their superiors. Poaching, how-
ever, both in game and in the salmon fisheries, prevails to a con-
siderable extent.


