
			KIRKCUDBRIGHT.			    7

with it, and several dikes of it cross the Dee above Tongland
bridge. Along the shore of Kirkcudbright and the Solway Frith,
there are at least sixteen trap dikes. Of these, two are amygda-
loid; several are compact felspar; and the remainder claystone
porphyry, and felspar porphyry. These dikes are all more or less
tortuous, and in two cases they send veins into the greywacke.
In front of a recess in the precipitous part of the shore, a little to
the north of Torrs' point, a dike of felspar porphyry shoots up into
a column of about 20 feet in height, with changed greywacke
clinging to its sides. Another dike of felspar porphyry contains
kernel-looking masses, some of them an inch in diameter, filled
with a soft white mineral resembling gypsum, surrounded by a
shell of a harder mineral. In one of the dikes of amygdaloid, the
kernels are uniformly largest in the centre, and gradually di-
minish towards the sides, till the dike becomes a greenstone,
showing the effect of the more rapid cooling of the parts nearest
the greywacke in lessening the size of the gas bubbles in the
volcanic matter, at the time of its protruding. There are like-
wise seen on the shore several wide fissures, filled with angular
pieces of greywacke, imbedded in a cement of felspar, or calca-
reous spar, forming a breccia; and adjoining a dike of felspar por-
phyry on the shore west of Raeberryhill, is a tortuous dike of
quartz from two to five feet thick. Of these dikes the claystone
porphyry are highest above the greywacke, then the felspar por-
phyry ; and the compact felspar, is on a level with the greywacke
or sinks below it. There are numerous veins of calcareous spar
visible along the shore, and a few of barytes and quartz; and
sometimes these are coloured red with oxide of iron.
	Several trap dikes exist in the interior of the parish;	one
is seen in Gribdae, one crosses the road near the Brockloch, very
much desintegrated, and another is visible north of Lochfergus
House. On the shore of Little Balmae the grains composing the
greywacke increase in size, consisting principally of angular frag-
ments of quartz; and here, but for its argillaceous cement, it would
be a gritstone. Here are also large nodules of fine grained com-
pact greywacke imbedded in slaty strata of the same rock. The
coarse greywacke is seen also protruding in front of Howell House.
On Howell shore, several fossils have been found belonging to the
genus Orthoceras. In various places along the shore, the ripple
mark may be distinctly seen on the face of the strata. The
whole of the greywacke on the shore is very much broken and


