
                         ELLON.                               927

cases, make great proficiency, in the higher departments of En-
glish grammar and geography.  Indeed, an avidity for a knowledge
of the subjects last mentioned seems to pervade all classes of the
pupils; and such knowledge is happily beginning in consequence
to be more and more regarded by the public at large, as an es-
sential element of even the most ordinary education.  Besides
geography, and English grammar, geometry, practical mathema-
tics, Latin, and, in some instances, the elements of Greek and
French, are taught in the parochial schools.  Both the parochial
teachers are well qualified to give lessons in all these branches;
but instruction in the higher departments last adverted to is sel-
dom required, save in the original parish school.  Religious in-
struction is carefully attended to in both schools; and Sabbath
schools, for promoting the same object, are taught by each of the
parochial schoolmasters for eight months of the year.  The Sab-
bath schools are well attended, and the improvement of the young
in religious knowledge, and, it is hoped, in a just sense also of the
infinite importance of Divine things, has been much advanced by
them.  Mr Lillie, as master of the original parish school, has
a house and garden.  He enjoys the maximum salary, and re-
ceives, it is believed, from the Trustees of the Dick Bequest,
the allowance awarded by them to their highest class of teachers.
His school fees may amount to about L.40 per annum, and his
gross yearly emoluments, therefore, will be upwards of L.100.
The second parochial schoolmaster has only the minimum salary,
and, to make up even this allowance, the annual value of his ac-
commodations requires to be taken into account.  Though, at
the examination instituted by the Trustees of the Dick Bequest,
for entrant schoolmasters in the three counties entitled to the be-
nefit of their fund, he was found to be the first man of his year,
yet, as the limited numbers attending his school have an effect,
in terms of the regulations adopted by that body, in reducing the
allowance to be awarded to him, his emoluments, from the same,
do not probably exceed an annual sum of L.30.  His school fees
may be estimated at 1.20 additional, so that his gross income,
exclusive of the value of accommodations, will be somewhere
about L.70 per annum.
   In addition to the two parochial schools, there are four schooIs
in the parish, taught by individuals, for the most part on their
own adventuress and a fifth seminary, of the same character, on


