
646                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

communion, is L.16, 10s.; interest of money lent, L.4; donations
from heritors and casual revenue, L. 10 = L.30, 10s.
   Fairs.-There are no great fairs held within the bounds; but
half yearly markets for engaging servants kept at Pitmachie, a few
days before the respective terms of Whitsunday and Martinmas,
old style.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There are four resident merchants, and
also four licensed ale-houses in the bounds. *

     March 1839.
   Revised May 1842.

			UNITED PARISH OF

 	 	      CRATHIE AND BRAEMAR.

      PRESBYTERY OF KINCARDINE: O'NEIL, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

            THE REV. ARCHIBALD ANDERSON, MINISTER. +

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Extent, Boundaries, &c.-THE name Crathie is evident-
ly of Gaelic origin, and seems to be a compound of the two words,
Crag and tir, or thir, signifying the rocky, or stony land.  The face
of the country favours much this derivation.

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above statement was written, an excellent addition has been made to the
manse. It is now one of the most commodious in the neighbourbood.  New offices
have also been built.  The old school-house having been found too small and un-
comfortable, a new one has been erected, capable of containing between eighty and
ninety scholars : also a very neat dwelling-house for the schoolmaster.  The people,
in general, are alive to the benefits of education,--few, ifany, being unable to read.
Two Sabbath classes are taught by the present incumbent, one before sermon for
children, between ten and fifteen years of age, the other after, for intending commu-
nicants.  Public worship is uncommonly well attended. so much so, that the church
in summer is found to be, rather too small, and additional seats have been erected in
the Passages for children, and those who have no right to sittings.  There are only
two families of Dissenters, consisting of six individuals,in the parish. One of these
belongs to the Episcopal persuasion, the other to the United Secession church.  The
parochial collections have been rather on the increase; the average being now be-
tween 8s. and 9s.  During the last three years about L. 30 has been transmitted
to the General Assembly's Schemes; and nearly the same amount to other charita-
ble institutions.  Intemperance appears to be on the decrease, and a marked change
to the better has been observable of late years among the parishioners.  It is rather
remarkable that the population has neither increased nor diminished during the last
ten years, being the very same by the census for 1831, and that of 1841.
          Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. Alexander Macfarlane.

