
294                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

cairns, there was discovered an urn of peculiar shape, containing
calcined bones.  There were also found several human skulls, and
a short sword with an iron handle.  The latter, with the urn, were,
a few years ago, presented to the Society of Antiquaries at Edin-
burgh, by Mr Gordon of Cairnbulg.  The foundation of one of
these cairns exhibits a large mass of vitritied matter, resembling
what is found in vitrified forts.  On a rising ground east of the
church, there have been found at various times urns of different
sizes, containing calcined bones.  In one of these, a large boar's
tusk was discovered about twelve years ago, which is now in the
Museum of the Royal Societv of Edinburgh.
   On the boundary of this parish with that of Lonmay, there is a
well called the Rood Well; but regarding it, there is no particular
tradition.
   There are also two mounds, or hillocks, of earth, near the
church, and not a mile asunder, that seem to have been formed
by the hands of men.  They are nearly circular, and slope to-
wards the top, forming there an horizontal plain, somewhat cir-
cular also, of about 30 yards diameter.  Both are pretty steep all
around; except that access to the top is tolerably easy on one
quarter of each, by means of the rising ground adjoining.  The
one is called Trefor Hill, and the other St Oyne's.  Some think
they have been old encampments.
   "There are two old castles in the parish both in ruins-Cairn-
builg and Inverallocbie, which seem to have been places of consi-
derable strength, especially Cairnbuilg,-tbe walls of which are
almost entire, and of prodigious thickness.  It was the family seat
of Lord Salton's predecessors, and called Philorth, till sold by
Sir Alexander Fraser in 1613 to Fraser of Durris, when its name
was changed to Cairnbuilg: And Sir Alexander then transferred
its former name to another house that belonged to him, about a
mile to the westward, which it still retains, and has been the seat
of the Saltoun family ever since.
   "Inverallochie appears to be inferior in strength to Cairnbuilg.
No date is seen about either of them.  Till of late, a stone above
the entry to Inverallochie bore, with the Cumines' arms, the fol-
lowing inscription: "I, Jordan Cuming gat this house and land
for bigging the abbey of Deer." (Old Statistical Account.)
   Buildings.-Mr Gordon, of Cairnbulg, about thirty years ago,
built a mansion-house on the estate of Cortes, which then belonged
to him, but is now the property of James Strahan, Esq. the only


