
76                         KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

    Fish and Fisheries.--Perch, pike, trout, and eels are found in
the lochs. In one loch it is said there are char, but that is un-
certain. Smelts or sparlings are taken sometimes in the Dee,
but very seldom. The pearl mussel is so frequent as to be used
for ornamental purposes. The salmon of the Dee are highly es-
teemed for their richness and flavour, being considered superior
in these respects to those of the neigbbouring rivers.  Of late they
have increased prodigiously in numbers, for which various reasons
may be assigned,--the removal of stake-nets, which intercepted
multitudes in the estuary of the Dee and, in certain states of the
weather, prevented a single fish from passing upwards, and the
much greater attention, now paid in winter to the protection of the
breeders, of which great numbers used to be destroyed with spears
by torch-light when in the act of depositing their spawn in the
shallow fords. * Although in a state at that time totally unfit to
be eaten, the disgusting practice of destroying them for food pre-
vailed to an incredible extent. In the remoter tributaries of the
Dee, it prevails still; and the instincts of the fish leading it to the
highest and the shallowest streamlets it can reach, render the de-
tection and punishment of the poachers a work of much trouble
and expense. The protection of the salmon fry, too, in the spring,
deserves to be mentioned as another probable cause of the increase.
Every school boy knows they are the boldest of fish in seizing the
fly; and it is generally by the capture of a few dozens of them
that he is initiated into the mysteries of angling, and fired with the
passion for it. The effect of taking fry with the rod, however, has
been much exaggerated. No doubt for every fry that is killed, a
salmon is lost; but the influence on the annual produce of a river
from the loss of all the fry which it is possible to take in a season,
is too insignificant to be reckoned, compared with the loss occa-
sioned by the destruction of a single breeding salmon. The dis-
covery lately made by Mr Shaw of the identity between the sal-
mon fry and the par, and the curious investigations respecting the
habits of the salmon in which the prosecution of his experiments
engaged him, are the most interesting and remarkable circumstances
that ever have occurred in connection with the natural history of
this valuable fish. I have termed it a discovery, having not the
slightest doubt, from what has fallen under my personal observa-
tion, that although the identity had been long, suspected, Mr Shaw

<FOOTNOTE>The increase, however, is not steadily progressivey,--an abundant season being
sometimes succeeded by one of comparative scarcity, and vice versa. The causes of
variation aduait being explained; but the explanation would involve a number of de-
tails, too great for the space allotted to this, article. See, however, page 79, note.



