

                             LEWIS--BARVAS                            147

   The inhabitants are all agricultural, and of the few that are ar-
tisans none devote their time exclusively to their trades.
   Character, Language, andd Habits of the People.-The inhabitants
are about the middle size, of a sallow complexion, probably occa-
sioned by the peat smoke in which they are constantly enveloped.
The men are well-proportioned, hardy, robust, and healthy, and
the women are modest, comely, and many of them good-looking.
The Gaelic is the only language, and has been from time imme-
morial; and it is spoken, in the opinion of competent judges, with
grammatical correctness and classical purity. In their habits, much
cleanliness can scarcely be expected, considering their poverty
and the wretchedness of their habitations, especially while the
present system, which has prevailed for ages, continues, of having
the cattle under the same roof with themselves, entering at the
same door, and allowing their manure to accumulate without being
removed except once a year. Their mode of living most closely
approaches the pastora:-without arts, trade, or manufacture, na-
vigation or literature, their whole round of duty consists in secur-
ing fuel, in sowing and reaping their scanty crops, and in rearing
their flocks, and tending them at pasture. Yet in these limited
circumstances, while supplied with food and clothing of the plain-
est description, and able to pay their rents, their simple cottages
are abodes of happiness and contentment. Blue kelt is almost
the only dress worn by the men, and stuffs, variously striped, by the
women, with under dresses of plaiding, all home made. In many
instances, however, cotton shirts and print gowns are beginning
to supersede the use of some of these articles. The formation of
the female habits, with their whole appearances, closely resembles
that of the "Wandering Bavarians," or Swiss "buy a broom"
singers, whor itinerate through this country.
   Their ordinary food consists of oat and barley meal, potatoes
and milk, variously prepared. Their domestic economy is frugal
and moderate beyond conception. The produce of a foreign soil,
as tea, coffee, and sugar, and the common conveniences of art, as
knives, forks, &c. are to them altogether alien.
   They are remarkable for sobriety and hospitality in their own
sphere; possess vivacity of intellect, acuteness and sagacity, and
are tainted with few vices except such as poverty in similar cir-
cumstances begets. They are, in general, tolerably well-versed
in the Scriptures, and afford several examples of uprightness and
piety.



