
612			FORFARSHIRE.

Melgund, and Carrity. They all afford excellent fishing for small
trout. Salmon seldom frequent them, except at the spawning
season. The Burn of Crombie may also be mentioned. It passes
the village of Kingoldrum, and, after forming a sort of semicircle,
falls into the Melgum. There are several springs in different
parts of the parish, the waters of which are chalybeate. There is
a cascade, or rather a series of waterfalls, called the Loups of
Kenny. The river Melgum suddenly enters a narrow, deep, and
tortuous channel, in passing through which it is precipitated at
short intervals from a very considerable height. The scenery
here is much admired.
   Geology.-The parish is characterized by several parallel ridges,
which run from east to south-west.  The lowest of these, namely,
the Kaimes of Airlie, is composed of the great conglomerate.
On the top of the ridge the imbedded pebbles are very numerous;
but where the ridge falls to the north and south, the sandstone
greatly predominates, and is here used for building. The dip is
various.  The next ridge is that of the Kirktonhill, Schurroch,
&c. It is trap, or rather conglomerate composed of various
trap rocks. To the north of this ridge, in the valley which
intervenes betwixt it and the next, occurs a dike of serpentine, the
features of which are very interesting, and which are very fully
described by Mr Lyell, in Vol. iii. of the Edinburgh Journal of
Science. As it occurs at the West Balloch, in the parish of Kirrie-
muir, this dike is very remarkable, and well worthy of minute inspec-
tion.  "After leaving the West Balloch," says Mr Lyell, "it first
appears, at the distance of about four miles, on the farm of Burn-
side, in the parisb of Kingoldrum.  The small burn in whose
channel it is here obscurely exposed, falls afterwards into the Back-
burn.  The rocks, which are there clearly seen associated toge-
ther, are greenstone, with serpentine, containing much dolomite,
and a red indurated rock abounding in brown spar.  A little higher
up, as on the Carrity, the claystone porphyry appears, which must
not be considered as having any connection with the serpentine.
If we continue our line to the south-westward for about two miles,
we arrive at the ravine through which the Melgum flows, when
the serpentine is not recognizable, unless it be considered as re-
presented by the great dike of greenstone which crosses the river
immediately below the mill of Shannaly. " To the north of this
dike of serpentihe lies another range of hills, composed of trap
conglomerate, clay porphyry, and greywacke.  The hills of Cran-


