
     Statistical Account

inferior, and the measure less than that of Otter.  I
the Kerry the Bute measure is made use of, and in Otter
the Kintyre or Campbelton measure.  The one is to the
other as 17 to 16, i.e. the 16 pecks in Otter are equal
to 17 pecks in Kerry; and the 3 firlots, or 12 pecks, in
Otter, are equal to the Linlithgow boll*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The parish was very seldom, if ever, known to produce grain suf-
ficient for its own consumption; but as the quantity imported yearly
must necessarily differ, in proportion to the favourableness or unfavour-
ableness of the season, and the fertility of the crops, it is impossible to
say, with accuracy, what the real amount of the imported grain may be,
much less to guess at the average.  In some remarkable good seasons,
very little is required; in very bad ones, a great deal is necessary.  The
deficiency is supplied by Irish meal, imported first to Clyde, and from
thence by the packets to this parish, or by Dumfries meal carried coast-
wise to the same place, and by the conveyance above mentioned, hither.
These packets, which go irregularly from this parish to Greenock, are,
upon the whole, much against the interest of the country.  In the first
place, they are a temptation to all ranks and degrees of people, to pur-
chase many useless articles, which they could very conveniently dispense
with; and thus they are daily draining the country of its cash.  In the
next place, they are the means of raising the price of every article for the
use of the table, such as veal, lamb, hens, eggs, etc.; all which things
are sent from here to Greenock, being always high a and ready market.
This is particularly against tradesmen, and all others whose tables
depend entirely upon the markets, having no farms of their own to
supply them.  To dispose of these articles is a sufficient excuse, and
the conveniency of the packet a strong enough inducement to a num-
ber of young persons of too much curiosity to pay frequent visits to
Greenock and Port-Glasgow, idle away their time, sometimes fall into
bad company, and often spend more money before they return, than the
value of the cargo they carried abroad with them.  At best, they do but
exchange the useful commodities they had to dispose of for things trisling
and supertiuous, which serve to keep up the extravagance of dress, and
are of no real advantage.  Had the parish been, indeed, a place of trade,
or manufacture, packets would certainly be useful, and even necessary;
but this not being the case, neither likely to be so, either less or more,
it is difficult to say what good end they serve; and their hurt to the
country is visible in many respects.


