
	l214                        PERTHSHIRE.

	here is not well known, as he does not appear to have had any
	property in the neighbourhood.
	   Ensisnent Characters.-- Besides Thomas Charteris, the founder
	of the Kinfauns family, another eminent individual connected with
	this parish deserves to be noticed, viz. the Right Honourable
	Robert Craigie, Lord President of the Court of Session, the
	grandfather of the present proprietor of the estate of Glendoick.
	It was he who purchased the lands belonging to said estate, and
	built the mansion-house, in which he afterwards occasionally re-
	sided, when his professional duties permitted.
	   Parochial Registers.--The registers of this p`rish, regularly
	kept, are only two in number; viz. a register of  both births and bap-
	tisms, and a register of marriages.  Both these commence in
	1646, and are continued to the present time, except that in the
	former there is a blank from 1691 to 1700, and in the latter,
	from 1692 to 1700.  Since the year 1825, what was before only
	a register of baptisms, has been a register of both births and bap-
	tisms.  Previous to that year, only the child's name and the date
	of its baptism, together with the name, designation, and residence
	of the father, were set down; the date of its birth and name of
	the mother being seldom, if ever, mentioned.  The average an-
	nual number of births or baptisms registered is 16; but, as many
	parents are very neglectful in getting their children's births and,
	baptisms entered this probably falls somewhat short of the total
	number of births in the parish.  The average annual number of
	marriages, for the last ten years, is 6 1/2, and there can be no doubt
	but that this is correct.
	   There has never been any thing that could be called a regular
	register of deaths kept in this parish.  In the year 1783, a re-
	gister of burials was commenced, which was discontinued again in
	1793.  The total number of burials, as shown by that register
	for those ten years, is only 53, averaging about five annually,
	which must have been greatly below the real number.  From
	1793, indeed, to 1816, the dates of both the deaths and burials
	of a few distinguished persons, amounting to only nine in all, are
	set down; but, since the, last-mentioned year, no register what-
	ever  of this kind has been kept.
	   Besides the above, there are also the minutes of the kirk-ses-
	sion, composing a record pf church discipline, which is occassion-
	ally examined and attested by the presbytery.  A strict account
	in likewise kept of the management of the poor's funds, and-this
					4

