
     Statisfical Account

is harsh and anstere, and fond of severity and punishment,
is not fit to command a Highland corps; but their officers, do
them justice, speak to them in a discreet friendly manner, 
and encourage them by a little familiarity, and they
find them respectful, attached and obedient.  The vaga-
bonds that are recruited in cities and towns, ought never to 
be allowed to mix with them.  The method adopted by
Government of late, in making their Highland Fencibles 
provincial ones, is a wise measure, and will answer the end 
proposed.  It is peculiar to this parish to have two heri-
tors, who have got each a Fencible regiment.  The Duke 
of Gordon and Sir James Grant, and who have not only 
raised them in three weeks and a few days, but have each
of them supernumeraries, for additional companies in form-
ing a considerable part of second battalions, if Government
should need them; and all recruited in an easy, discreet,
smooth manner, without force or compulsion.  Men so plea-
santly got, and so content when well used, cannot miss of
giving satisfaction to their officers, and may be relied on by
the nation.  The people here are loyal to a degree that 
cannot be surpassed; amazingly attached to their King, be-
cause they like his character and his virtues, and that he is
a good man.  Political or religious fanaticism have got no
footing here; of course it is very easy to live in peace a-
mong them.  There are no religious sectaries here, the peo-
ple being all of the Established Church.  Their language,
their garb, their social situation, their climate and modes of
husbandry, have kept them hitherto a people different in 
character and manners, from the inhabitants of the low
country, and from being misled by the doctrines of those
itinerant fanatics that insest the coast.  The poisouns doc-
trines of political pamphlet writers, have made no progress
among them; yet many of the people here seem often
much dissatisfied with their condition in some respects.


