
  250                          BANFFSHIRE.

  seen at nightfall, flying with great rapidity round the manse and 
  garden.
     Birds of Game.-The common grouse, partridge, pheasant,
  much on the increase, as also the wood-pigeon.  The rock-pigeon
  is found in considerable numbers among the high rocks between
  the villages of Findochtie and  Portnockie.
     Grallae.-The heron, water-hen, woodcock, common snipe,
  jack-snipe, lapwing, golden-plover, ringed-plover, grey plover,
  sanderling, and the oyster catcher.
     Aquatic Birds.-Cormorant, scart or shag, kittywake, common
  gull, black-backed-gull, and the herring-gull.  The eider-duck,
  velvet-duck, teal-duck, common wild-duck, and coot.  The red-
  breasted-merganser, razor-billed-auk, puffin, little grebe, and
  nortbern diver, in severe winters.
     Fishes.-In the burns of Tynet, Gollachie, and Buckie, salmon
  is sometimes taken, but only when there is a high flood.  A con-
  siderable number, however, is taken in the stake-nets at Porteasy
  and Portgordon, on their passage to the mouth of the Spey.
  The common trout and the eel are the only other species found
  in these burns.
     Along the coast, the following are taken; viz. gowdie, haddock,
  cod, whiting, coal-fish,(the fry called podleys, colmeys, and sethes,)
  ling, tusk, halibut, erroneously called turbot; plaice, flounder,
  sole, sea-perch, and mackerel.  The herring, most abundant in
  this parish some years ago; pilchard, and sprat or garvie; stur-
  geon, taken lately in a stake-net at Portgordon; skate or flaire;
  thornback, distinguished by a row of strong spines running along
  the back; sea-dog, accompanying the shoals of herrings, and used
  as manure; wolf-fish, sword-fish, and lump-fish, or lump-sucker,
  with the John Doree, taken occasionally.
     The lobster, and crab or parten, are abundant; and, about
  forty-six years ago, the fishers on the coast entered into a contract
  for five years, with a London company, to fish for lobsters.  The
  Company furnished the skiffs and tackling, and were reimbursed
  by instalments.  They took all their lobsters at 2 1/2 d. a-Piece, pro-
  vided they measured six inches from the point of the nose to the
  end, of the boss; and, when under that size, two were esteemed
  equivalent to one.  The success of the white and herring-fishers,
  and the amazing quantities of lobsters caught on the coast of Caith-
  ness, which the company purchased at a considerably lower price,
  put an end to this branch of industry.


