
     Statistical Account

<TABLE>

Saddle and carriage       Cattle    808
  horses,             8   Sheep,   1200 

</TABLE>

   Minerals and Mineral Springs.-On the lands of Leith-
hall, there is a marble quarry, on those of Craighall, free-
stone, and marl and limestone on Cults; but the want of
stock or of industry has hitherto prevented the tenants from
availing themselves of this last source of opulence.  There
are two mineral springs on Colonel Hay's estate, one of
them on a farm named Earlsfield, is of late fallen into disre-
pute.  The other in the moss of the Melshach, of the cha-
lybeate kind, is still in great reputation among the com-
mon people+.

   Fuel.-The fuel in general use is peats; but as the mos-
ses are wearing out, some of the heritors carry coals from
Aberdeen to save them, and to have their principal apart-
ments more comfortably warmed in winter.  In former a-
ges, the moss of Kirkhill has been covered with wood; for
so late as 30 years ago, trees in abundance were found
by digging a few feet below the surface.  And, among o-
ther kinds, mention is made of an oak about 40 feet long,
and thick in proportion.  Fir, juniper, hazel, alder, oak,
were all blended together in this sport.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Horses sell from L. 3 to L. 15; oxen and cows, from L.3 to L 8;
wedders and ewes and lambs, from 4 s. to 8 s.  The only swine raised
for sale, are a few about the mills, which bring from L.1 to L. 3.
   +They use it both internally and externally in the summer season,
particularly in the month of May.  Its sanative qualities are not confined
to man, they are supposed to extend even to brutes.  As this spring pro-
bably obtained vogue at first in days of ignorance and superstition, it
would appear that it became customary to leave at the well part of the
clothes of the sick and diseased, and harness of the cattle, as an offering
of gratitude to the divinity who bestowed healing virtues on its waters.
And now, even though the superstitious principle no longer exists, the
accustomed offerings are still presented.


