
          276                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

          a pleasant walk., The parish church, which is perhaps the most
          comfortable and commodious in the north of Scotland, was built
          in 1832, after a legal contest before the Court of Session for nearly
          two years, arising out of the opposition of a minority of the heritors,
          some of whom have since ceased to be heritors,-the late Duke of
          Sutherland having, a few years ago, purchased the far greater por-
          tion of the inland or Highland districts of the parish. The church
          is seated for 1360 persons, and may contain about 1600, if closely
          occupied. The attendance on the Sabbath may be reckoned at
          from 1200 to 140O. We have no Dissenters of any kind or class,
          if we except three individuals, who occasionally attend church.
          As for voluntaries we know nothing about them; they cannot
          vegetate here. The Highland soil does not seem favourable to the
          growth of voluntaryism. We do at times get a solitary importation
          from the south, but they do not thrive, and become quite quiescent
          after a few months residence in the north. We sometimes, too,
          are visited by a kind of itinerant Independents, who baptise the
          children of all and sundry who apply to them, whether the parents
          be church members or not. The population of Ardross, though
          removed, at a distance of from six to twelve miles, from the parish
          church, in general attend regularly, even in winter. The sittings are
          or ought to be free; but it is believed that the feuars in the diffe-
          rent villages, do pay a small sum annually for their sittings,-which
          is not, however, given to the poor, as it is thought it should be.
          The manse was built in 1825, and is large and commodious. There
          are two small glebes, one adjoining the manse, of four English
          acres, of good and fertile soil,-the other is contiguous to the ruins
          of an old kirk, called Noinikil, (the cell or chapel of St Ninian),
          and consists of about an acre and a-half, in three different divisions,
          which are let b the minister to a tenant in the neighbourhood.
          How this glebe came to be so curtailed, cannot now be ascertained.
          There is no grass glebe,-which is felt to be a seriou's inconvenience;
          but the ministers of Rosskeen seem to have disliked litigation, and
          to have submitted to privations, rather than claim, at the risk of
          an expensive law-suit, what was their undoubted right.
             The stipend is 16 chalders, half meal half barley, and L.10 for
          communion elements. An augmentation was given in 1822, dur-
          the-life of the late incumbent; but it was less than it would
          otherwise have been, from the cry of agricultural distress so called,
          which was particularly loud and lugubrious, at the period referred
          to: whereas, we have thougth that a very simple remedy might be


