
684                      ARGYLESHIRE.

ed himself of the prevailing mirth to go forth unperceived to ap-
ply the burning torch, and who was now hastening back. The
two met, not unwilling foes, in an intervening wood.  They fought.
The chieftain fell, and Castle Fionn-chairn was not built again,
nor the sway of the Mac Mhic Jain any more submitted to.
   The Knights of Lochawe in all probability obtained the influ-
ence in this district which the MacDonalds had lost. For they
lived at Ard-chonnail Castle, in the parish of Dalavich, and only
a few miles distant. There is, however, no relation known to us
of the time in which they became possessors of the land, though
the fact is certain that their clansmen were long, and till lately
continued to be, nearly the sole proprietors.
  Several powerful families of that race were resident in the pa-
rish. Campbell of Achnabreck was only second to Argyle in the
county. This family lived at Lochgair in a mansion of great size,-
but which was cast to the ground when the property went to other
hands.  They held their baron bailie courts at Kilmichail, then a
populous village, and a place of considerable importance, not only
in the parish but also in the county. The Campbells of Eder-
line also held large possessions in this parish. But now Kilmory
alone remains to the descendants of the former, and Achaneilain
to those of the latter. *  Among the old heritors also, were the
Campbells of Kirnan, who appear by the records of the Pres-
bytery of Inverary to have been, for one generation after another,
supporters of the Reformation and elders in the Church. Their
valued rent was L.37, 1s. nearly one-nineteenth of the whole.
From them Thomas Campbell the poet was descended. And it
is said that it was in the old manse of Kilmichail, after visiting
the old house and garden of Kirnan, which are about a mile and a
half distant in the valley of Glassary, that lie wrote the beautiful
lines, "On visiting a scene in Argyleshire." The two first stan-
zas are descriptive of many such other places in this parish, to
which descendants may look with similar feelings. *

<FOOTNOTE>The Rev. Dugald Campbell, minister of Glassary, is this descendant.
     +At the silence of twilight's contemplative hour,
     I have mused in a sorrowful mood,
     On the wind-shaken weeds that embosom the bower,
     Where the home of my forefathers stood.
     All ruin'd and wild is their roofless abode,
     And lonely the dark raven's sheltering tree;
     And travell'd by few is the grass-covered road,
     Where the hunter of deer and the warrior trode,
     To his hills that encircle the sea.


