
     of Montrose.

portioned.  Having fallen into decay, the heritors, town-
council, kirk-session, trades, and proprietors of seats, agreed
unanimously to build another in its stead; the dimensions
of which, are 98 by 65 feet over walls.  The plan has
been formed with deliberation;-it has been compared
with modern chuches;-it has been submitted to the in-
spection of some skilful architects;-and, it is to be hoped,
will be executed in such a manner as to merit public appro-
bation*.

   4.  The Episcopal chapel.-This chapel was founded in
1722.  It is an ornament to the town, and was even praised
by the author of the Rambler, in his Tour through Scot-
land, as a neat and cleanly place of public worship.

   5.  Public Schools.-In this town there are a great num-
ber of private schools, in which all ordinary braches of
male and female education are taught; but the public
schools, patronised by the town-council and kirk-session,
are three.  The grammar-school, in which Latin alone is
taught.  The writing-school, in which, besides writing,

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is but justice to the inhabitants of Montrose, to take this opportu-
nity of stating the very liberal and Christian-like manner, in which the dif-
ferent sects have uniformly conducted themselves to each other.  The
town-council and session, lately petitioned the managers of the Episcopal
and Anti-bugher churches, that the members of the established church
might have the liberty of enjoying divine service in their meeting-houses,
till the parish-church was rebuilt.  They, and their congregations, not
only granted this petition, but declared, in the handsomest manner, their
willingness to submit to considerable inconveniencies, in order to accommo-
date their fellow Christians to their wishes.  It is not long since the Anti-
burgher congregation applied for liberty, to have their minister ordained in
the established church, as their own was repairing at that time, and liberty
was readily granted.  Thus they have soon found an opportunity to express
their gratitude in kind, and given occasion to remark, that a generous
action may meet with a return in a way little expected.
     VOL.V. E


