
     of Kinnaird.

nually 10 or 12 black-cattle, in which he finds his advantage;
but few make the rearing of horses an object of equal atten-
tion, though, it is certain, they could breed them much more
hardy and durable for work than foreign horses are found
to be, and at a third of expence at which they purchase these
horses*.

   Situation of Tradesmen.-The tradesmen in the parish are
In general industrious and well employed; and it adds much
to the comfort and health of the weavers especially, that along
with their houses, they have so much good land divided among
them, as enables them to keep cows and small horses, and gives
enough of wholesome exercise, without taking too much time
and attention from their principal business.  Their condition
would be meliorated if the proprietors would divide the lands
more equally among them, and prevent the possibility of en-
grossing:-by this, envy and animosity would be prevented, and
the peace and prosperity of them all would be much promoted.

   Stipend, School, and Poor.-The church was built in 1674,
and the manse in 1786.  It was so superficially executed, as
already to need repair, as well as the church.  The stipend is
6 bolls of wheat; 30 bolls, 1 sirlot, and 2 pecks of barley;

<FOOTNOTE>

*Labouring servants here have great encouragement.  Their common wa-
ges are from L. 8 to L. 10; besides a sufficient allowance of milk and meal
for their maintenance.  Those who distinguish themselves for fidelity and di-
ligence in service often get more.  With such wages they may not only live
comfortably, but if they are virtuous and frugal, while young and in health,
may provide for their support in a time of distress, or when the infirmities of
declining life unsit them for labour.  Servants, who are faithful, attentive,
and sober, are very much valued; and, besides their high wages, have so ma-
ny advantages from the voluntary attention of their masters, that they are
often able, after 10 or 12 years service, to stock small farms for themselves.


