
516                     FORFARSHIRE.

	The average numbers who communicate at any one time in the
parish church and in Inverbrothock are about 800 in each; but in
St Vigeans district, there are, besides, about 245 communicants,
who communicate in seven neighbouring parishes.
	The stipend of the parish minister was augmented and modified
in 1819, and is 17 chalders, old measure; or 5 quarters, 5 bushels,
3 pecks, 1 gallon wheat; 12 quarters, 1 pecks, 1 gallon bear;
84 quarters, 5 bushels, and 1 gallon barley; and 130 bolls, 1 fir-
lot, 2 pecks oatmeal, with L. 10 for communion elements;
amounting on an average of late years, by the fiars prices of the
country, to about L. 260.
	The manse, offices, and garddn wall were built in 1817, at an
expense of L.700, and are every way suitable for the accommoda-
tion of a minister. The glebe, which was described by a prede-
cessor as one of the worst of th county, contains about seven and
a-half acres imperial, and, in general, is not unproductive.

  Education.-There are seven schools in the parish, five being
within the St Vigeans district, two in Inverbrothock, and one in
Ladyloan.  One of these, though in St Vigeans, was built for
Inverbrothock by subscription, and by aid from Government,
schoolmaster's salary is the maximum.  He enjoys, besides, a mor-
tification of L. 20 annually, for teaching five poor scholars, ac-
cording to a bequest from Mr Colville, late town-clerk of Arbroath.
	The fees may amount to L.40, and his emoluments as session-
clerk to as much.  He has, besides, a commodiuos house and gar-
den, the former of which was built about twenty years ago.
	The number of scholars generally attending the seven schools
is about 790.
	The number of those who cannot read at all, above twelve years
of age, may be reckoned about 80; but of the laborious classes of
society, the number who can only read so as to understand but
very imperfectly what they do read, is much greater than is sup-
posed. I should think, from what I have experienced in commu-
nicants before their first admhssion to the Lord's supper, that one-
seventh of the peasantry is not too high an estimate of the pro-
portion in this class.

  Savings Bank.-There is no saving bank for St Vigeans, dis-
tinct from that of Arbroath, and the accounts of the two parishes
are so intermingled that the exact amount of deposits from each
cannot be ascertained. But assuming that one-third of the depo.


