
   320                    BANFFSHIRE.

   time."\f* From what has been stated,it might be supposed, that our
   good town of Cullen would have been spared from farther violence.
   Such, however, was not the case; for, about the middle of May in
   the came year Montrose sent a party of his troops to Cullen, and
   burnt the whole town to the ground, first plundering and carrying
   off every thing valuable, then consuming the remainder in one
   common blaze; and, doubtless, many of the aged, infirm, and
   helpless, fell victims to the devouring element.
       Family of Findlater and Seafield.-This noble and ancient fa -
   mily is descended from Gilchrist, a man of high rank, and a fa-
   vourite of King Malcolm Canmore, whom that monarch created
   Earl of Angus.  He lived after the year 1120, and was among
   the first in Scotland upon whom the title of Earl was conferred.
   His son, Gilibrede, the second Earl of Angus, was a great war-
   rior, and lived in the reigns of David I., Malcolm IV., and Wil-
   liam the Lion.  He had six sons, of whom Gilbert, the third, was
   ancestor of the present family of Seafield. He was a man of
   great abilities; and, agreeably to the custom of these early times,
   assumed his name from his lands of Ogilvie, viz.  Gilbert de
   Ogilvie. +
       Sir Walter Ogilvie of Auchleven, the eighth in direct lineal de-
   scent from the aforesaid Gilbert de Ogilvie, and second son of Sir
   Walter Ogilvie of Lintrethan, Lord High Treasurer of Scotland in
   1425, married, in 1437, Margaret, daughter and heiress of Sir
   John Sinclair of Deskford and Findlater, who was killed at the
   battle of Harlaw, in 1411. The baronies thus acquired by Sir
   Walter Ogilvie of Auchleven became the chief titles of his family;
   and, in accordance with ancient usage in such cases, he quartered
   the arms of Sinclair of Deskford with, his paternal coat of Ogilvie.
   In 1440, he obtained two charters, under the Great Seal of the
   lands and baronies of Deskford, Findlater, &c.  Sir Walter Ogilvie
   of Deskford and Findlater, the sixth indirect lineal descent from

   <FOOTNOTE>Spalding's History.
             The following is the reason, assigned by some historians, for Gilbert changing
   his name to that of 0gilvie:-The Gilchrists having unfortunately incurred the re-
   sentment of their sovereign, were, in consequence, long subjected to the loss of the
   royal favour. The king one day, in taking the diversion of hunting, imprudent-
   ly separated himself from his retinue, and was attacked by a band of robbers. At
   that critical moment the Gilchrists made their appearance, and, having dispersed
   the robbers, had the good fortune to rescue the king upon which, the differences
   formerly existing between them were immediately made up ; the king intimating to
   them, that he would grant them, without reserve, whatever favour they chose to ask;
   but adding, at the same time a condition, that, for the future, they should hold and
   bear the name of Ogilvie; as the monarch in his wrath had previously sworn, that no
   man, within his kingdom, should be suffered to live, and bear the name of Gilchrist.


