
        			STRANRAER.                               95

	The parish consists entirely of the burgh, the buildings of which
cover a space of ground extending to about forty acres. In the year
1617, it was erected and created a royal burgh by authority of the
Crown, and a portion of the parish of Leswalt, as also of Soulseat,
now called Inch, were disponed to the burgh. The corporation
consists of a provost, two bailies, a dean of guild, and fifteen coun-
cillors. Stranraer is the seat of the presbytery of the same name.
The Parliamentary constituency at present is 217. The revenue
of the corporation in 1833 was L. 225.
	It is bounded on the east and south by the parish of Inch; on the
west by the parish of Leswalt; and on the north by Lochryan, a
very beautiful bay, about 10 miles in length. The villages of
Clayhole and Hillhead, in the parish of Leswalt and Tradeston, in
the parish of Inch, being separated from Stranraer by an ideal line,
are usually considered by strangers, and even by the inhabitants, as
part of the town. They contain a population of about 1000.
	Climate.--The climate is temperate, and has always been con-
sidered healthy. The atmosphere is pure and free from fogs. The
winters in general are mild, except when north or north-east winds
prevail, which they seldom do for any length of time.
	Zoology.--Various kinds of fish abound in Lochryan, such as
skate, flounders, turbot, halibut, cod, haddocks, whitings, crabs,
and lobsters. I sometimes hear it said, that, if the fishermen were
more industrious, our fish-market would be better supplied than it
is. Lochryan at one time was famous for its herring-fishery. I
have heard old people say that they have known 300 sail-boats in
the bay at one time, which had come from the Highlands and other
places, in order to fish or purchase herrings. For many years past
the shoals of herrings may be said to have deserted the loch.
Oysters, of an excellent quality, and in great abundance, are to be
found in the bay, particularly on a sand-bank called the Scar, which
runs a considerable way across the loch from south-west to north-
east.

			 II--CIVIL HTSTORY.
	Land-owners.--As above-mentioned, the parish is entirely bur-
gal, but the whole property is not directly held burgage,--part, be-
longing to the Earl of Stair, is let in long leases of 99 and 999
years, and part is subfeued by Vans Agnew of Sheuchan. The
remainder is held burgage, and the magistrates exercise jurisdic-
tion over the whole parish.
	Eminent-Characters.--The famous John Livingstone was mi-


