
                             LARBERT.                             373

cupies a part of the time of the females in many of the cottages, the
only manufactory of importance in the parish, is the iron manufac-
tory at Carron. The number of people employed in this great
work, and the consequent demand for every product of the soil,
from an oak tree, to a cabbage plant, renders an account of the pa-
rish of Larbert and the Carron Iron-works almost identical.
  The Carron iron-works were first established at Carron in the
year 1760, by a company consisting of Messrs Roebucks, Garbet
and Cadells,-Dr Roebuck being from Sheffield, and Mr Gar-
bet from Birmingham. They procured workmen from these two
places, which have been so long famous for their manufactured
productions in iron and other metals; and these workmen aided
essentially in the erection and establishment of the Carron Iron-
works. A charter was obtained in 1773, and judicious arrange-
ments were made, which eventually contributed to the success of
the works. The sit e of this work was chosen on account of the
abundance of coal, and also the great water-power. The iron-
stone and limestone are brought from a considerable distance. It
has been ever found that manufacture follows coal. The potteries
at Newcastle-under. Lyne, situated in the centre of England, reo-
ceive the flint from near Gravesend, the sand from Lynn, and the
clay from Devonshire: Coal alone is found in Staffordshire, where
the potteries are situated.
  The command of water at Carron, both for water-power to turn
wheels, and also as a mean of transport, is considerable. Above
the foundery, is a reservoir covering thirty acres of land. A cut
from the centre of the works connects them with the Carron River.
The goods are stowed in lighters, which drop down to Grange-
mouth with the tide, where they are shipped in smacks for the
London market. A double rail-road communicates with the Forth
and Clyde Canal, and thus the goods are conveyed to Glasgow
and Liverpool.
  In the year 1786, the management of the works was committed
to Mr Joseph Stainton, who improved the works, and by unre-
mitting diligence in the execution of orders, and great attention
to the quality of the goods offered to the public, placed the foun.
dery in the high position which it now holds in the estimation of

  <FOOTNOTE>All the ironstone used is of the species called by mineralogists clay ironstone.
Some of it is got in the coal measures at Carron Halll, a mile from the works. Some
at Banton, Tarnrawer, and other places in the parish of Kilsyt4' ten miles ditant,
and brought down bv the Forth and Clyde Canal. Some i collected at different
Places on the shore a the Frith of Forth. Some is got from other places.


