
                            PAISLEY.                          163

   The following birds have been seen or killed in the parish, or its
immediate vicinity, viz. Perdix cinerea, Lagopus Scoticus and oc-
casionally on the high grounds, Tetrao tetrix, and Coturnix vulga-
ris.  The Columba Palumbus is abundant.  The most common
birds of prey are the Buteo Nisus, and Palumbarius, Falco. AEsalon,
and Circus cyaneus, but the Falco peregrinus and Tinnunculus,
and Buteo vulgaris and aeruginosus, have also been kiiled.  The
Aluco flammeus, and Strix stridula, are not unfrequently seen, but
the Otus vulgaris and brachyotus are to be considered as rare birds
in the parish.  Between the 8th and 18th of April, the Hirundo
riparia, rustica, and urbica, make their appearance; the first, gene-
rally by the 9th, while the Cypselus Apus seldom arrives till the end
of the month. By the beginning of October, they take their depar-
ture.  The Turdus viscivorus, musicus, and Merula, are common,
the torquatus is rare, but the T. pilaris and iliacus, are regular
winter visitants.  The Caprimulgus Europaeus, Muscicapa grisola,
Sylvia rubocola and Phoenicurus visit the parish in summer; the S.
rubecula continues throughout the year, our earliest songster in
spring, and the last in autumn.  The following summer-birds are
occasionally seen : Curruca sylvia, sylviella, locustella, hortensis,
sibilatrix, atricapilla, and Regulus trochilus.  The Accentor mo-
dularis, Troglodytes vulgaris, and Regulus cristatus, remain in the
parish the whole year, as also the Motacilla alba and boarula; the
M. flava is to be seen only during the summer months.  The Loxia
curvirostra, Pyrrhula vulgaris, Sturnus vulgaris, are all regular vi-
sitants.  The Alauda arvensis, Emberiza citrinella, miliaria, Schoe-
niculus are common; the E. cirlus and nivalis, visit only in the win-
ter months.  The Parus major, caeruleus, caudatus, and palustris,
Pyrgita domestica, Fringilla coelebs, cannabina, linaria, and cardue-
lis, are all abundant, except the last species, which is seen only oc-
casionally.  On the Argyleshire coast, they are very numernus, coming
to the shore in large flocks during frosty weather.  The Alcedo
ispida, Certhia familiaris, and Garrulus glandarius, are rare birds;
the first has frequently been observed on the banks of the rivers, and
the two last in the woods of Crookston.  The Pica caudata, Cor-
vus frugilegus an d monedula are common ; the C. corone and cor-
nix very rare.  In April, the Cuculus canorus pays his annual visit,
and takes his departure in July.  On the river banks, the Ardea
cinerea, Rallus aquaticus, Gallinula chloropus and porzona, Fuli-
ca atra, Totanus fuscus, macularia, and hypoleucos, are frequent-
ly observed.  The T. glareola, calidris, and glottis, are compara-
tively rare.  The Numenius arquata, Tringa alpina, and sometimes


