
                      COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                      165

      The cattle, horses and sheep, of Shetland, are of races now al-
   most peculiar toit; possessing many of the good points of high breed,
   they add the invaluable one of hardihood. The cow is small, the
   four quarters seldom weighing more than 2 cwt.;  the quality of
   her milk is excellent, and its quantity, in relation to her size, abun-
   dant, sometimes reaching sixteen imperial quarts a-day.  The ox
   is active, gentle, and docile, and for draught is better suited
   to the present state of Shetland, than the horse.  Both ox and
   cow are often 14 and 16 years old, before they are fattened for the
   knife, and yet the beef is observed to be tender, fine-grained, and
   highly flavoured.    Owing to the scantiness of their winter fod-
   der, they are usually very lean, when put to summer grazing ; thus,
   much of the beef is what is termed new.  Their food is natural
   pasture, containing many aromatic plants.  The breed is a pecu-
   liar one, and the animal having arrived at adult age, the full fla-
   vour is attained, different in this from high bred stall-fed cattle,
   which, though they have reached their full size, have not gain-
   ed in all respects the maturity of their kind.  Much beef is
   annually salted and exported.  A little nitre is generally used in
   the curing;. but it is an injurious addition.   Simply strewing a
   sufficient quantity of bay salt, in largish crystals, between each
   layer of beef in the cask, applying' pressure, and changing the
   pickle of a saturated strength two or three times, as it becomes
   foul or bloody, seems to be one of the best modes of curing beef,
   and which I myself regularly practise.  The flesh of cattle killed,
   when the moon is groWiDg, has been thought to stand curing bet-
   ter than when it is in the wane; and there may be reason in this;
   a more plethoric and sthenic state may be induced in the animal,
   and hence a more tonic condition of the muscular fibre, and
   more vigorous health of the whole system. There are se-
   veral situations where flocks of brood cows, suckling their
   calves, and going out, all the year round, could be kept with
   great advantage  they would require little more looking after
   than brood wares, and  when old they are equally valuable for
   the butcher as when young. Cattle seem constitutionally bar-
   dier than horses.   Nature has adapted them to a, wider geographi-
   cal range, while the native country of the horse is limited to, a
   warm and dry climate, and he never can be brougbt to bear with
   inpunity so great alternations of cold and moisture.   The Shet-
   land poney is well known and generally esteemed for hardihood,
   strength, and spirit, in which he is surpassed by none of his size,


