
     Statistical Account

and Arithmetic 2 s 6 d.  During the harvest vacation, which
lasts about two months, the schoolmaster receives no wages.
Supposing the scholars at an average to be 25, each at a
medium yielding 2 s., the teacher earns yearly by his school
8 L. 6 s. 8 d.; besides an offering given by the scholars at Candle-
mas, with a free house, 2 L. 10 s.; these, with a yearly salary of
100 merks Scotch, give the schoolmaster 19 L. 17 s. 9 d. per an-
num, a provision too scanty, for the comfortable subsistence of
one qualified to discharge the duties of this important office.
There has, for this reason, been there 30 years past a suc-
cession of teachers in Shotts, unknown, it is supposed, in any
other part of the kingdom.  It is painful to add, that, either
through the total want of a school-master, or the carelessness,
the imprudence, or incapacity of those in this office, the ris-
ing generation, for these ten years past, have, in the golden
season of youth, been in a great measure prevented from ac-
quiring that knowledge, and those habits, which, in the sub-
sequent part of life, can render them good men, and good
citizens.  For the same reason, connected with the careless-
ness, if not obstinacy of Seceders, the parish records of Shotts
are so extremely inaccurate and deficient, that no decision,
even for the smallest average, could rest upon their evidence.
   Poor.-The poor in Shotts, for many years past, have been
supported by assessment.  Upon the first Tuesdays of Feb-
ruary and August, agreeable to act of Parliament, the heri-
tors and elders meet in a conjunct body.  After the num-
ber to be admittted upon the roll, and the supply to be gran-
ted each claimant, are settled, the sum wanted for the ensu-
ing six months is laid on.  This the treasurer is authorised to
to levy, the one half from the heritors, the other half from
the tenants, in proportion to their several valuations.  At
each meeting a standing committee is also appointed, to su-
perintend the operations of the treasurer, and to give advice


