
			    LINTON.                            163

    ing up to them a more ready and direct communication to the
    south. As nearly three miles of this road from Linton have already
    been made, it remains with the gentlemen to the north of the slap
    to show an equally favourable disposition to the undertaking, and
    they may be assured that they will be readily met by the heritors
    of Linton from the south.
	Ecclesiastical State.-The church and manse were built in 1781.
    To the manse are attached the ordinary offices and a garden, with
    fourteen acres of arable land. The stipend consists of fifteen chal-
    ders, half barley and half meal, payable at the rate of the fiars of
    the county. When grain gives L. 1 per boll, it may be calculated
    at L. 240; at present it is below that sum.
	There are two classes of dissenters in the parish. One of them,
    the United Secession church, has a meeting-house in Linton. The
    number of communicants belonging to it in this parish at present is
    124, the rest of the congregation being made up from the six neigh-
    bouring parishes. The other sect of dissenters belong to the Re-
    lief, and have a meeting-house in the parish of Newlands, and fifty
    members belonging to Linton form part of that congregation. In
    this parish there are 300 communicants belonging to the Establish-
    ed church.
	Education.-Mr Thomas Brown, a preacher of the gospel, is
    schoolmaster, with the maximum salary of L. 34 Sterling, and a
    house and garden. His terms of teaching are 2s. per quarter for
    English reading; and including writing, arithmetic, and Latin,
    are respectively 2s. 6d., 3s., and 5s. per quarter. The number of
    scholars during the winter quarters is about 100, and nearly the
    same in spring and during the rest of the year. The ordinary
    branches of education, with geography, are taught. Classical li-
    terature here is rather on the decline at present. L. 10 a-year,
    exclusive of wages of teaching, may be the amount of his other
    emoluments. A considerable part of the population being situated
    about three miles and upwards from the parish school, many of the
    children attend two private schools in the eastern part of the pa-
    rish, and at Ninemileburn, in Penicuick; also at Dolphinton,
    Kirkurd, and at Lamancha, in the parish of Newlands. Two Sab-
    bath evening schools are held at Linton and one at Carlops, where
    the Scriptures are read, and examinations of the children also are
    carried on. There are at present attending the Sabbath evening
    school of Linton about 70, and at Carlops, 40.
	Library.-A parish library was begun about forty years ago,
    and consists of upwards of 500 volumes on history, travels, essays,


