
680                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

were Maitland of Pithichie, Principal Chalmers of King's College,
and a few other low country gentlemen who happened to be with
the army.  Musket balls are still occasionally turned up on the
field of battle by the plough.
   Antiquities.-Among the curious remains of antiquity deserving
notice are the Bass and the Koning or Conyng Hillock, two tu-
mili of conical form.  About the name and origin of these, espe-
cially the former, antiquarians have been much perplexed.  There
are at least two other places in Scotland called by this name,-
the Bass at the mouth of the Forth, and the Bass near Dryburgh
on the Tweed.  Chalmers, in his Caledonia, quotes an Icelandic
Dictionary to show that Bass signifies, in that tongue, Pinnaculum,
and a Celtic work to prove, that, among the Celts, it signifies a
rock, a rock under water, something low.  The French bas, ac-
cording to him, is derivable from a Celtic source.  He might
have added, that in the Celtic tongue, bas signifies death.  In
none of its features does the Bass resemble any of the earth forts
found in Scotland.  Some maintain that it had been used for
judicial purposes; that it was the central court for the district to
which appeals lay from the local courts held within the circles of
stones, still popularly, thougli very erroneously, called Druidical
circles.  That the Bass, being in existence, may have been so
employed, seems not improbable; yet it far surpasses in magni-
tude any of the places which we know for certain to have been
used for judicial purposes.  Thus on Sunday, 2d May 1349, the
Justice-General of the north of Scotland, attended by many no-
bles, held a criminal court, "apud stantes lapides de Rayne en le
Gariach;" and the chief seat of the Bishop of Aberdeen's courts
was the small mount called Tilliedron.  The old popular belief,
that it would be of evil omen, unhappy, or dangerous to interfere
with the Bass, as the plague or pest was buried in it, and if open-
ed might escape, at once suggests the idea that it is of sepulchral
character.  Such traditions are found connected with not a few
other sepulchral tumuli in Scotland, equalling it in size, and other-
wise resembling it; and Dr Clarke, in his Russian travels, describ-
ing some burrows on the Steppes of the Don in that country, re-
lates that the inhabitants were abhorrent from the idea of their
being opened, lest the plague should escape from them.  These
tumuli, the Doctor has no doubt, are sepulchral.  But if the Bass
be of this kind, whose remains does it probably cover?  When the
bodies of the chiefs were burnt, says Mr Pinkerton, describing the


