
                       NEW LUCE.                               77

phet," as he is still commonly desigmted, who was minister of
New Luce for three years previously to 1662 when he was eject-
ed from his office, Charles II. having, in the preceding year, re-
stored Episcopacy as the national religion. Peden, on retiring
from the parish, skulked about from place to places instructing
and encouraging the people. He was at length apprehended and
confined a close prisoner to the Bass. He afterwards received
sentence of banishment to Virginia, but the captain off the ves-
sel which was meant to carry him and others, to their place of
transportation, having refused to convey them, he was liberated,
But his sufferings werenot yet over. He was again oblized to
conceal himself. He found a retreat sometimes in Ireland, some-
times in Scotland, till at length in 1686, death put an end to his
sufferings in the sixtieth year of his age. "Peden's Prophecies,"
a pamphlet published after his death, and which even yet has be-
lievers in its statements, "were palmed," says Wodrow, "on this
great man.  By all the rules of charity, I reckon myself obliged
to take these prophecies to have been most injuriously fathered
on Mr Peden." His name, we may state, is still held in high ve-
neration among the common people.

<TABLE=POPULATION>
                     III-POPULATION.

                    Population in 1801,    368
                                  1811,    457
                                  1821,    609
                                  1831,    628

Number of families in 1831,        		              117
         chiefly employed in agriculture,                   59
                    trade, manufactures, or handicraft,     16

Number of illegitimate births in the parish during the last three
years, 8.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--This parish contains thirty-two farms; three of
these belong to Sir James D. Hay; two to Thomas M'Mick-
ing, Esq. of Miltonise; one to Captain Macdowall of Logan;
and all the rest to the Earl of Stair. The above farms have been
considerably improved, within these last thirty years, by new houses,
march-dikes, and fences dividing the meadow and arable land
from the moor pasture; and likewise b now roads from this vil-
lage to Glenluce and Stranraer, and towards the toll-bar at the
head of Glenap, in Ballantrae, and towards Rarhill, in Colmonell.
	There are not above ten acres of land planted in this parish,
although trees thrive well; and there are some hundreds of acres
upon the; banks of rivers well adapted for planting, an& fit for little
else, which would beautify the country, afford shelter, and turn to
good amount in point of gain.



