
			KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                          27

aggravated nature. Poaching in game still prevails, though to a
trifling, extent, considering the temptation the great abundance of
game presents, the facility of turning into money, and the poverty
of some of the inhabitants. Smuggling is now almost unknown,
and no regular pawnbroking has ever been carried on in the pa-
rish.
			IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--There are about 3000 acres in tillage, and 500
which remain constantly in waste or pasture. About 500 acres
have been planted. The management of the plantations is good.
	Rent.--The average rent of arable land is about L. 1 per acre. A
cow or ox can be grazed for L.4 for the year, and a sheep for 5s.
	Wages.--The rate of wages for farm labourers and country ar-
tisans may be stated at 1s. 4d. per day. Men servants, on an ave-
rage, receive about L.4, and women servants L.2 half-yearly, with
victuals.  Masons' wages average 2s. 6d. per day, and house car-
penters, 2s.
	Cattle are of the Galloway breed, and sheep of the Leicester.
	The general duration of leases extend to fifteen years; but
leases are not numerous.
	The state of farm buildings and enclosures is good.
	Draining is now much attended to.
	Fisheries.--The river Dee contains three valuable salmon-fish-
eries. The rent of the Tongland fishing, which belongs to Alex-
ander Murray, Esq. of Broughton, was once as high as L.705.
Its present amount is not correctly known. It is extremely pro-
ductive. Three hundred fish have been taken out of a pool called
the Sandbed, on the Kirkcudbright side of the river, at one draught;
and even during last season, one draught yielded no fewer than 100
salmon and grilses with three trouts. Out of another pool called
the Sheep-Dubb, on the same side of the river, were taken at one
time last summer, 589 fish, some of them of a large size. The
burgh has a fishery, which lets at present at L.80 per annum; and
Lord Selkirk possesses a third, the rent of which is generally sup-
posed to be about L.150. This is also a productive fishery, and
the qtality of the salmon cannot be surpassed; they are princi
pally taken in yairs. A considerable quantity of excellent cod is
caught off the mouth of the river by hooks fastened to lines.
	Produce.--The average amount of raw produce raised in the
parish cannot be exactly ascertained. The following may ap-
roach the truth.


