
			NEWTON.				  573

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-With the exception of the policy at Edinonstone,
and some plantations of the Duke of Buccleuch, the whole of the
parish is under cultivation, and that according to the most ap-
proved methods of farming, -every improvement being forthwith
introduced, so soon as brought into notice and tested by experi-
ence. It is unnecessary, however, to enlarge on this head, the
system pursued in the Lothians being so well understood. The
four shift rotation is that generally followed; but on the largest
farm in the parish, the Berwickshire system, of allowing the land
to lie two years in pasture, has been introduced, it is believed,
with advantage, and probably would become more general, were
the fields provided with sufficient fences, which is not the case at
present, as never being required.
   There are above 80 acres of wood in Dalkeith Park in this pa-
rish, planted at different times chiefly with oak in a very thriving
state, and, as may be supposed, under the best management.
There is also some fine old wood in the policy at Edmonstone.
   The average rent of land is from L. 4 to L. 5 per acre, Scots
measure, and it is all arable. The rate of labour is nine and ten
shillings a-week for day-labourers, and 9d. per diem for women.
In the collieries, labourers, such as banksmen, &c. have twelve shil-
lings. Farm-servants who are engaged by the year are allowed
6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal, 3 to 4 bolls of potatoes, L. 16 money, and
when they can stack and sow, &c., L. 18;-grieve L. 21, with the
foregoing in each case, and in addition, a month's meat in harvest
   The land, as already stated, being all under tillage, there is no
rearing of stock with the exception of a few horses. On the farm
already alluded tog where grazing has been introduced, the stock
is purchased from year to year to be fed for the butcher; and there
are only one or two cows kept on each farm for a supply of dairy
produce to the respective families.
   The leases are all of nineteen years' duration, with the excep-
tion of the Buccleuch property, where they are limited to fourteen.
   The state of the farm-buildings is generally excellent, and steam
power is now being extensively introduced for the thrashing-mill.
The same, however, cannot be said for the enclosures, since prac-
tically they are of little or no benefit. The hedge-rows, where-
ever they exist, are kept with the greatest neatness.
   The principal improvement, of late years, is frequent or furrow
EDINBURGH.                                    O o


