
			      HUTTON.                          157

thirty or forty tradesmen, twenty fishermen, and a few persons em-
ployed in a brick manufactory, the whole parochial population, is
agricultural. In the prosperity of agriculture, therefore, the people
of this parish have a direct interest.
   The whole number of acres cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,
is 4950: and the banks of the Whitadder and Tweed, which are
too steep for the plough, and which embrace about 61 acres, are
the only parts of the parish which have never been under culture.
Some of these, however, produce excellent natural pasture.  About
250 acres are under wood, which thrives remarkably well, and has
a healthy appearance.
   The trees planted are generally oak, ash, elm, plane, beech, and
the various sorts of fir. To this branch of rural economy consider -
able attention is paid by the proprietors. The trees planted are suit-
able to the soil, and for the most part are thinned and pruned at pro-
per seasons.  Sales of wood frequently take place, and it is readily
purchased at fair prices, and found useful for country purposes.
There is a considerable quantity of wood upon the estates of Broad-
meadows, Paxton, and Fishwick, and it is rapidly improving.
   Rent of Land.-The rent of land varies from 10s. to, 4 per
English acre, and the average rent of the land of the whole parish
is L. 1, 15s. per acre. For grazing an ox or cow the average rent
is L. 4.
   Rate of Wages.-Labourers employed in agricultural operations,
such as ditching, cutting drains, and filling them up, receive for
wages, at the rate of 9s. per week, winter and summer: masons
and carpenters, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per day: men employed as
shearers during harvest have, for some years past, received 2s. 6d.
per day, and women 2s. 2d., with their victuals. A hind, or mar-
ried farm-servant's gains, as they are called, are, a cow's keep,
10 bolls of oats or meal, 3 bolls of barley, I boll of pease or
beans, and about a quarter of an acre of potatoes,-besides what is
called sheep-money, amounting to L. 3 or L. 4. His coals are also
driven by his master. A cottage is provided for him, in return for
which he must find a person to shear during harvest, and to carry
stacks,&c. He must also keep a bondager to work at field work for his
master throughout the year,  at  the rate of 1Od.per day.  The system
of employing hinds as agricultural labourers is excellent, and general-
ly adopted in this parish, and indeed in the county at large. To the
practice of the north of Scotland, where farm labour is chiefly exe,
euted by unmarried men, who herd together in a bothy, it is cer-
tain far superior. The hind has a house and small garden of his


