
   170				ELGINSHIRE.

   don  for the education of such unfortunate children, and one blind
   girl has been recently sent to the Edinburgh Blind Asylum.
   			      IV.-- INDUSTRY.
      There are no manufactures in Forres, but such as are required
   for the supply of the town and neighbourbood, and these consist
   in the production of the more ordinary kinds of handicraft labour.
   The principal trade of the shopkeepers and dealers is in the retail
   of all varieties of goods and wares usually required to meet the
   consumption of a populous agricultural district, and such is now
   the facility and readiness of communication, and ease of transpor-
   tation of goods, that almost every article of ordinary consumption
   can be purchased of equal quality, and as cheaply, in this north.
   ern burgh, as in the manufacturing marts of the south.
      Agriculture.-- As no accurate plans exist of some of the estates
   in the parish, it is impossible to state precisely the extent of land
   it contains.  The following statement, however, has been taken
   from certain data afforded, and may be considered as a near ap-
   proximation to the truth.

   <TABLE>
     Cultivated,         -     3900 Imperial acres.
     Uncultivated,       -     700
     Under wood, about   -     1200

   There is at present no ground in a state of undivided common.
   Within the last few years, the only common in the parish, consist-
   ing of a large moor, wag divided under authority of the sheriff and
   a great part of it has been since enclosed and planted.  Of the
   uncultivated land there is an extent of about 200 acres, which
   might be profitably converted into arable land.  It consists of a
   high moor, belonging in property to the town corporation.  Por-
   tions of it have, within the last few years, been judiciously let by
   the magistrates, in small allotments, on improving leases, and se-
   veral of the tenants have already succeeded in raising luxuriant
   crops in places, which, until of late, presented a very barren and
   rugged appearance.
      The cultivated land is chiefly divided into farms varying in size
   from 20 to 150 acres: but there is also a considerable extent of
   ground immediately adjacent to the town, occupied in small tene-
   ments under ten acres.  These are held by various classes of per-
   sons in the burgh, who engage in a limited way in agricultural
   pursuits.
      The larger forms are generally held on  leases, the usual dura-
   tion of which is nineteen years, although shorter leases are also
   				3


