
		       DUNDEE.                                45

drawing, and the modern languages. The salaries of the teachers
are L. 80 to the first teacher, L. 50 to the second, L. 35 to the
French, and L. 35 to the drawing-master. Their corresponding
fees, according to the arrangement made at the last appointment
of a teacher, are L. 178, L. 140, L. 70, and L. 35.
	The building for the public schools having long been unsuitable
for the town, new seminaries are in the course of being erected.
They are to cost, it is supposed, about L. 8000, three-fourths of
which has already been procured, partly from subscriptions, and
partly from a tax on beer. In order to encourage subscriptions,
the magistrates have divided the patronage with the public. A
plan by Mr Angus of Edinburgh having been adopted, and a site
procured at the meadows, in the very centre of the town, the
ground is to be laid out by Mr Brewster, architect, and a handsome
edifice already raises its head soon to receive our generous youth,
and form a splendid termination to the new street which has just
been opened in front of the Town-House. When the building is
finished, the classes of the academy and of the grammar-school will
all be taught under its roof.
	Five schools have lately been opened in connection with several
of our spinning-mills, the rooms provided, and the teachers paid,
by the masters of the works. The branches taught are reading,
writing, arithmetic, and sometimes geography; the number at pre-
sent attending is about 500; and it is no unusual thing to see the
masters of the works kindly assisting their teachers, after the
business of the day, in instructing this hitherto much neglected
class of children.
	The system of infant schools was introduced into the town about
three years ago, by a committee of enlightened and benevolent
ladies. They have school at the Hawk Hill, and another at the
Wallace Feus (with which is connected a school for instructing girls
in plain work) under their direction. A third has lately been esta-
blished at the Hill Town, under the management of gentlemen.
These institutions have been supported by subscription, and at
one time they received L. 178 from a sale of ladies' work, origi-
nated by the ladies, who are interested in their success. The
habits of attention and subordination produced in the children by
this method of instruction are highly beneficial, and the religious
knowledge which is communicated must be useful. The number
attending at present is 400. A school has also been opened lately
for girls of the working-classes, at which those who leave the infant
schools are preferred. It is attended by sixty-five.


