
     Statistical Account

brewery, about 870 bolls the same year.  The brewery pays
between 300 L. and 400 L. a-year of excise duty.-There is
nothing uncommon or remarkable in the future, form, or ap-
pearance, or inhabitants of the parish.  They are generally
from 5 feet 6 inches, to 5 feet 9 inches high; their shape and
size seem to indicate health and strenght, and in fact, they
possels a considerable share of both.  There are few 6 feet
high.  Several young persons betake themselves to a seafer-
ing life, and a few to the army.  There are some people in
the parish from 79 to 84 years of age, and 2 gentlemen died
some years ago, each in his 86th year.  One Alexander Burns
died some time since in the 96th year of his age.  On almost all
the large farms in the parish, both young men and married
cottagers are employed as servants.  The farmers generally
dress in a plain manner; the common colour of their clothes
is blue; and many of them still wear the Scotch broad bon-
net.  The dress of a number of the men servants is a little
showy, and rather superior so that of the females of the
same rank.  Many of the farmers are now accommodated
with good houses, built of stone, and stated, and generally of
the size of ordinary manses*.
   In the W. side of the parish, the farmers sow earlier than
those in the E, yet the corns are generally earlier cut down

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Their mode of living is considerably altered since the year 1734, and yet
few of them like up to what they could afford.  Their attention to their buis-
ness, and finance, prevents them from going to any excess in their family
expenses.  In, there were not 3 farmers in the parish who had a dozen
knives and their houses, now these implements abound in almost all
their houses.  Few of them at that time drank tea, it is now common among
people of inferior station.  There were not then 6 watches among the farmers;
now many of the men servants have them, and there are above 100 watches
and about 80 clocks in the. In 1754, it was common for the farmer and
his wife to cat at the same 
room.

</UNREADABLE>


