
     Statistical Account

the middle of March to the middle of April; barley from
the middle of April to the end of May; potatoes and
pease from the middle to the end of April; flax from the
23d of April the 10th of May, turnips from the 1st of
June to the middle of July, all in drills, except what are
late sown, and intended to shoot out in the following spring.
Yams for horses have been lately introduced, and planted
somewhat sooner than potatoes.  Some English rye is sown
in October.  Hay harvest commences the second week of
July; barley and rye harvest, the first week of Septem-
ber; pease and oats the second week of that month; and
in some seasons, they are all more early.  But these dates,
both of sowing and reaping, refer chiefly to the low coun-
try; in the hilly parts of the parish, they are in general
10 days later*.  The parish owes much of its improvement
to the late John Mackenzie, Esq; of Delvin.  By direct-
ing the attention of the trustees for manufactures, &c. to
this part of the country, by bestowing well-judged rewards
and giving encouragement in various ways, he excited a
spirit of industry and improvement, which has operated
with energy and success.  The valued rent of the parish
is L. 9369:3:4 Scots.  The real rent, (including the rent
of houses and fishings, and reckoning the victual-rent at

<FOOTNOTE>

*The names of places are mostly derived from the Gaelic:  As, Inch-
tuthel, or Innis-tuile, 'The Island in a flooded Stream.'  Dungarthill,
or Dungart, 'The round Hill in the Corn-field,' ('Hill' is a modern ad-
dition).  Kincairney, or Keancairnrie, 'The Top or Head of the King's
Cairn.'  Cairnmure, or Cairnmore, 'The great Cairn or Heap' Aird,
'A Height.'  Drummathaty, or Drummartie, 'The gravelly ridge.'
Drumbeltie, 'The Ridge of Beltin,' or, 'The Fire of Bel on May-day.'
Fongorth, 'The hungry Soil;' or Fonnart, 'The Land of Stones.'  Dal-
beathy, 'The Birch Haugh,' &c.-  Some are Saxen:  As, Denhead; Sten-
son, that is, Stane-town or stone-town; Haughend, Birkenburn, Meik-
lour, Litleour, are apparently compounded from the Saxon and British:
Meiklour, (situated on the Tay,) 'The great Water;' Littleour, (situa
ted on the burn of Lunan), 'The little Water.'


