
                    	 KINLOSS.                            205

   is found, in some, places, a stratum of gravel, and betwixt them,
   at the depth of eight or ten feet from the surface, a bed of shells,
   province almost to demonstration, that, at a remote period, the sea
   must have overflown the land that is now cultivated. The pro.
   portion of peat earth or moss is not very great, being limited to
   a few acres on each side of the turnpike leading to Forres, imme-
   diately below the plantations of Grange. The subsoil, as else-
   where, is principally sand. The soil, in general  is capable, un-
   der good management, of producing plentifully every species of
   crop, and the abbey lands especially are considered equal in qua-
   lity to any in Moraysbire.
      Zoology.-In this department, there is little variety. Hares,
   partridges, and rabbits are the only game that abounds in the pa-
   risb. The wild-duck is occasionally found along the shores.
   Weasels are numerous. The fox has not been seen for some
   years; but he had, not long ago, his lodgement in the wood of
   Blackstob. Salmon, which abound, are allowed to go up to the
   spawning ground at the beginning of August. - They deposit Lheir
   spawn about October, and return to the sea in November. The
   only shellfish that are found are mussels and cockles. The for
   mer are used for fish-bait more than food, and are bought by the,
   fishermen at a high price from the proprietor or his tenant. The!
   latter are gathered free, and sold by those who gatber them in the
   country and towns around.
                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      At the downfall of the Roman Catholic hierarchy, when the re-
   ligious houses were dissolved, Mr Edward Bruce of Clackmannart
   got the lands belonging to Kinloss Abbey, the only one in the
   province of Moray, in commendam, and was created Baron Kin-
   loss in 1601, and his son Thomas, Earl of Elgin, and Ba ron
   Bruce of Kinloss, 1633. By him the lands and feu-duties were
   sold to Brodie of Lethen.
      Land-owners.-The present proprietors with their respective
   valuations and rentals are,
              H.A. J. Munro, Esq. of Novar,                  L.2000
              Sir J. P. Grant of Rothiemurcbus, Bart.	          280
              Sir  G. M'Pberson Grant of Ballindalloch, Bart.   360
              Major P. Grant Peterkin of Grange,	         1100
              J. Campbell Brodie, Esq. of Lethen,	          450
              John Dunbar. Esq. of Seapark	                 50

                                            Rental,	       L.4240

      Parochial Begisters.-The parochial registers were carried away


