
                           TORPHICHEN.                           51

some strength.  Its general structure resembles that of the Border
peels, consisting of a single square tower, the under storey of
which is constructed with a vault or stone arch, nearly fire-proof,
for greater security against sudden and desperate assault. Such
is also the structure of Kipps, on a smaller scale.
   Modern Buildings.-Of these there are none of any peculiar,
importance, except perhaps Wallhouse, the seat of W.D. Gil-
lon, Esq., and that at present being built by Mr Hume at
Lochcote, which, when finished, will be an ornament to the dis-
trict. There are of mills one for oats alone, one for oats and
barley, two lint-mills, and two woollen-mills, all generally well
employed.
               <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
   The census of 1841 may be taken, as giving an accurate view of
the parish at present:
   Population residing in villages,-Torphichen, 430; Blackridge, 94, .  524
                          the country, about     .     .     .    .     893

                                                                       1417
   The average of births, deaths, and marriages cannot be exactly
ascertained, owing to the migrations to, and connections with
other adjoining parishes, but may be estimated at about
              Births, 24; deaths, 16; marriages, 5, annually.
     The average number of persons under 15 years of age,       .       505
                                   betwixt 15 and 30,     .             335
                                           30 and 50,        .          259
                                           50 and 70,       .           143
                                     above 70,       .         .         68
   There are no resident nobility, and very few families of inde-
pendent fortune residing in the parish. The number of proprie-
tors of land of the yearly value of L.50 and upwards, 25,
                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land, about L.1
per acre; average rent of grazing, L.3 per ox or cow per annum.
   Wages.-Rates of labour average 1s. 8d. per day summer; 1s.
3d. winter for men and for women about 10d. summer and winter.
   Live-Stock.-The breeds of sheep and cattle are of the common
kind. A few of the Ayrshire cattle have been introduced, and
some improvement in that respect is taking place. The chief im-
provement in agriculture of which the district is susceptible, and
which indeed it requires, is draining, much of the land being, very
wet. Some progress is making in this branch also; but the want of
resident landholders, and of disposable capital, must tend greatly to
impede agricultural improvement.  The general duration ???


