
	980                           FIFESHIRE.

	attached, the produce is equally divided among the fishermen, the
	owner of the boat being entitled to a double share. In this mode of
	fishing a considerable expense is also incurred, both in the purchase
	of mussels for bait, which are generally brought from the Eden,
	beyond St Andrews, and also by the frequent loss of their fishing
	tackle. In summer, tlie fish are generally taken to Fisherrow and
	Newhaven, or to Dundee and Perth; and in wititer they are gene-
	rally brought into the harbour and sold to the fish-curers, or to,
	the cadgers, who cart them to a great distance, and dispose of
	them in the different towns through which they pass. The fish-
	curers smoke the haddocks and pickle the eod which they 
	chase, and send them to the Glasgow, Liverpool, and London
	markets. Besides.tbe fishermen who are engaged in the fishing,
	the means of subsistence are afforded to a number of other individ u-
	als, such as coopers, carters, and women who are employed in
	cleaning and curing the fish.  It would be difficult to ascertain
	the amount of money which is brought in from the deep in the
	course of the year; but estimating each fishing boat at 120 crans
	on an average in ordinary years, the sum realized, at 10s. per
	cran, would amount to L.6000, besides the profits arising from the
	take of cod and baddocks, &e. during the summer season, which
	is very considerable; but when the expense of keeping up their
	lines and the payment of their bait are taken into consideration,
	these apparent gains are mtich diminished. A cart load of mus-
	sels brought from the Eden costs from 20s. to 22s., and the lines
	which are employed in fishing by each fisberman extend to 1800
	feet in winter, and double that length in summer, so that when
	the whole or even a portion of the line is lost, a considerable sum
	is necessary to repair the deficiency.
	Many of the.fishermen are in respectable circumstances, and
	careful in the management of their substance, but it is matter of
	deep regret that the same cannot be said of all of them.
	   Mrs D. Bethune, as the superhor, is entitled to every fourteenth
	fish of the different kinds, with the exception of herring, of which
	she has a right to every eighteenth ; but instead of exacting the redt
	in fish, an agreement has been entered into with the fishermen,
	by which they consent, in lieu of the fish, to pay L.40 annually.
	   As the harbour is intended merely for fishing boats, no ships or
	foreign vessels are allowed to enter it.

	               V.PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Cellardyke is the only town in the parish, and Kilreinny the


