
                        KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.               1271

     want of sufficient water-power made the process very slow.  He
     was successful, however, in showing the practicability of the plan
     of floating which he had adopted.
        In the year 1783, his son, George Home Drummond, Esq.,
     succeeded him.  At this time by the genius and perseverance of
     Mr George Meikle of Alloa, the son of the inventor of the thrash-
     ing machine, a water-wheel was invented for raising a large supply
     of water for floating the moss.  It was lined with buckets round
     the whole inner circumference, made about four revolutions In a
     minute, and in that time raised from forty to sixty hogsheads of
     water.  This it discharged into a cistern connected with it, seven-
     teen feet above the surface of the stream which supplied the wheel.
     with water and turned the whole.  From the cistern, the water
     flowed partly in pipes and partly in an open canal about 1754
     yards in length into the reservoirs in the moss.
       The water-power being thus procured, the floating by means
     of spade labour became comparatively easy, and the Forth served
     as a recipient for carrying the moss into the Frith.  By the
     end of October 1787, the wheel, pipes, and aqueduct were all fi-
     nished and the result realized the most sanguine expectations of
     all parties.   The total expense exceeded L.1000.  The tenants
     voluntarily enaged to pay the interest of the money so expended,
     but the proprietor generously relieved them from this engagement.
       During the time of the great wheel, occasional and expensive
     repairs were necessary.   Its labours commenced in 1787, and
     ended in 1839.   At the time of the erection of the wheel from
     1200 to 1300 acres were still to be cleared of Mr Drumcaond's
     moss, and a great number of settlers were required for this pur-
     pose.  These were procured chiefly from the parishes of Callan-
     der, Balqubidder, and Killin.  The population in. this moss soon
     increased to from 800 to 1000, and the colony increased in pro-
     sperity, until they became in many  instances so independent in
     their circumstances, as to become farmers on a larger scale.
     When a new line of turnpike road was made along the north side
     of the moss, giving  them easier access to and from the mills and
     markets, so grateful were they to the proprietor, who had at
     great expense encouraged this road, that they made him a volun-
     tary offer of one hundred guineas for its advantages to themselves,
     which offer he generously declined.
        By the system of improvement which was then adopted, and
     which has been in operation since that time, nearly the whole of


