
174                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

shire breed; but whether that will be more advantageous than
the other kinds, is not yet ascertained.
	Husbandry.--The farms are partly under a fifth, and partly
under a seventh shift rotation. In case of the former, two-fhfths
of the arable land are under grain crop; one-fifth under green
crop, viz. turnips and potatoes; one-fifth in hay, and one fifth in
pasture grass. In case of the latter, three-sevenths are in grain
crop; one-seventh under green crop one-seventh in hay and two-
sevenths are pastured.
	During the currency of the present leases, which were all for
nineteen years, a great deal of waste land has been reclaimed by
the tenants,--generally by trenching; as the number of large
stones renders plowing impossible. Drains are cut where necessary
and filled up; the stones are all turned up, blown with gun pow-
der and carted off the field; and lime, from fifteen to twenty bolls
per imperial acre, applied; but dung must also be used, before a
new field is fully productive. The farm-buildings in the whole
parish, are, in general, in good repair, and all belong to the pro-
prietor. The want of capital is an obstacle to improving waste
land, by the tenants; but even if they had the command of capital,
a nineteen years lease is too short to repay a tenant for improving
effectually. Some part of the expense, perhaps a half, should be
borne by the proprietor. There is limestone in various parts of
the parish, but no quarry has been regularly wrought; nor is the
quality of the rock properly ascertained.
	Fishings.--There are two or three salmon-fishings on the Dee,
within the parish; but the produce has diminished yearly for some
time, and is now insignificant. This decrease is attributed to the
mode of fishing with bag-nets at the mouth of the river, which
intercepts the fish; and it may be also owing, partly, to the exten-
sive works carried on for several years, in improving the harbour,
of Aberdeen, where the river empties itself.
	Produce.--The yearly produce of the parish may be estimated
as follows:

<TABLE>
Total imperial acres under cultivation, 4000, as far at least as the writer of this re-
	port has been able to ascertain.
Two-fifths of which in grain crop (oats and barley,) 4 quarters per acre, exclusive
	of seed, 1600 acre X 4 = 6400 quarters at L. 1, 1s.           L. 6720   0 0
800 acres turnips, potatoes, and cabbages, L.5 per acre,                 4000   0 0
Hay, 500 acres at 100 stone of 21 lb. Dutch, = 50,000  stones at
	5d. per stone,                                                   1041  13 4
Pasture land and hay too poor to cut,                                    1000   0 0
Do. hills for pasturing sheep, 2000 sheep at 2s. 6deach.                  250   0 0
                                    4

