
70                       RENFREWSHIRE.

same kind on the west coast of Scotland; and, from its large ex-
tent and spacious quays, with a depth of water equal to twenty-five
feet alongside of them, will hold out very superior advantages to
the trade, both in point of security and convenience.
   A pretty correct idea may be formed of the improving trade of
this port, by a reference to the amount of harbour revenue collect-
ed during some of the preceding years. The revenue derived from
the harbour in 1831, amounted to L.1454, 0s. 9d.; in 1834, to
L. 1639, 6s. The charges levied at this port are all on the most
moderate scale, and fall very considerably below the rates imposed
at the neighbouring ports of Greenock and Glasgow.  To mer-
chants engaged in the trade of Clyde, the harbour of Port-Glas-
gow now presents the double advantage of comparatively low charges
and vastly superior accommodation.
  Besides, the privileges of the warehousing system at this port
are on a footing equal to those of any other port in the kingdom.
Warehouse-room is provided on a very extensive scale, and is open
for the general accommodation of the trade on very moderate terms.
The buildings are all of stone, and, with one exception, they are
all of special security. In addition to the regular bonded ware-
houses, there is a large area for receiving wood into bond, and an
excellent warehouse for crushing refined sugars, in which large
quantities of that article are prepared for exportation to the Me-
diterranean markets.
                   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church stands in a very con-
venient situation, and is in excellent repair. It affords accommo-
dation for 1260 sitters, including 50 free sittings for the poor, and
is ordinarily attended by a congregation of about 1150 persons.
The present stipend of the minister, as fixed in 1823, is L. 250,
with an allowance of L. 27 yearly for a house, and L. 3 for a gar-
den.  The sum of L. 5 is allowed for communion elements; and,
to meet the expenses of an additional communion in the winter, the
sum of L. 15 is granted. The average revenue actually drawn for
seat-rents in the, parish church during the last ten years has been at
the rate of L. 489, 16s. per annum. For some years a parochial
missionary has been employed here, whose salary is raised by con-
tributions from the congregation connected with the parish church.
In the year 1774, a chapel of ease was built in this place, capable
of accommodating 1500 sitters, and which for a long time conti-


