
504                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Bennevis and its satellites to the east, form the southern side or
section of Glenspean. This glen commences about the foot of Ben-
nevis, and extends to the north of High Bridge, about ten miles.
It gradually becomes narrower for fourteen miles, until a little
above Keppoch, the whole breadth is occupied by the bed of the
rapid river Spean.  Three miles above that, it begins again to ex-
pand; and it terminates at the west end of Loch Laggan. The
hills forming the northern boundaries of this glen are not so ma-
jestic, nor so continuous as those on the south side. Near the
centre, it is joined by Glenroy, This glen rises in a northeast di-
rection, and terminates at the confines of the parish of Laggan.
The two sides of Glenroy are formed of pretty high hills. Through
a part of this parish ruins the great Caledonian glen, from the
west end of Loch Lochy to the east end of Loch Oich, a distance
of nearly fifteen miles. Between these two lakes a portion of the
Caledonian Canal is cut for about three miles. On each side this
glen are lofty mountains rising precipitously from their base. Near-
ly half way between Inverness and Fort-William, Glenroy branches
off to the north, at right angles from the great Caledonian Glen
already mentioned, and joins Glenquoich; and at its northwestern
extremity, it joins the district of Knoidart.
  Sheep and Sheep-walks.-The hills and glens of this parish af-
ford the most excellent pasture for sheep and black-cattle,-par-
ticularly the former. It is supposed that there are upwards of
100,000 sheep reared in this parish every year. Some of the
sheep farms are upwards of 100 square miles in extent. Mr
Cameron, Carychvilly, the most extensive grazier in the north,
stated a few years ago, that the preceding year be bad clipped
upwards of 37,000 sheep. Some of his farms, however, are
situated in other parishes. Mr Greig of Tullach, and the Messrs
M'Donell of Keppoch, are supposed to have each near 100 square
miles under sheep; the one on the north, and the other on the
south banks of the Spean. Glenquoich at one time paid about
L.1200 of yearly rent, and could graze perhaps 10,000 sheep,
besides a proportionate number of black-cattle.
  Perhaps there is no part of the Highlands where nature has
done more, and landlords so little, for the benefit of the inhabit-

In the direction which they supposed the Duchess to have taken. The sound of the
bell reverberating against the rocks, reacbed the delighted ears of her Grace; and
she was thus ultimately rescued from the effects of her Sabbath day's excursion.


