
                           TRAQUAIR                            41

camp, the battle was fought, and on descending Minchmoor
into the lovely vale of Yarrow, they met the dragoons flying in
all directions.  Instead of taking the direct route back, they were
forced, along with the crowd, up the banks of the stream, and on
passing the farm or castle of Tinnis, the blacksmith threw the bag
of gold into the draw-well of the place.  Often has the well been
searched for the treasure, but as often in vain. *
   Maps, &c.-It is believed that each landed proprietor in the pa-
rish has a separate map and plan of his own estate. A few paint-
ings, and, we doubt not, many private documents, connected more
especially with the history of the family, and of the Lord Treasurer
of Scotland in particular, are to be found in the possession of the
noble family of Traquair.
   Eminent Characters.-This Lord Treasurer, and Commissioner
to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 1639, is
certainly the most eminent character connected with this parish;
but as his life has long become matter of general history, it would
be useless to do more than simply allude to it here. It may be ad-
ded as a circumstance of merely local interest, that he cut a new
course for the river Tweed for nearly two miles, to carry it away
from under the battlements of his castle.
   Mr Brodie, ironmaster, late of Carey Street, London, of Calcut,
in the county of Salop, and of Temple Bar, in this county, of whom
honourable mention is made in the former Statistical Account, was
a native of this parish. When he left Scotland, unlike most
Scotsmen, he was very ill educated, and to his latest day could
with difficulty sign his own name.  He had only his "har'st fee,"
amounting to 17s. 6d. in his pocket, and the rudiments of his trade
as blacksmith, with which to begin the world; but by his own ge-
nius, or, as some pretend, by purchasing from an Italian the plan of
register-stoves, he accumulated a fortune of nearly half a million.
The only monuments of him now remaining in the parish are a

<FOOTNOTE>Such traditions, however, are not always nor altogether void of foundation, as
will appear from the following anecdotes:  When the author of the most lovely of
almost all modern pastorals, "Lucy's Flitten"-a song, the locality of which is feign-
edly fixed at the Glen,-was beginning his extensive improvements on the farm of
Traquir-know, which he then rented, he set about draining a moss into which it was
said large quantities of silver plate had been thrown, which belonged to persons who
had died of the plague. During the operation, some half dozen pewter plates of no
great value were found; and a pint stoup of a form and a quality of that metal so rich,
that a tinker to whom it was sold, some years afterwards returned very anxiously in-
quiring for more of the same kind.  Another tradition, said to be found in the Scot's
Chronicles, says that there is a bull's hide full of gold lying concealed some where
between St. Bryde's Well and Allasprain; and several coins have been found from
time to time in that locality.


