
102                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

tity of fish to be delivered is large, they do not get to bed for days
together. This makes it a very fatiguing and even oppressive em-
ployment. But the prospect of success is so very enticing, that
it is submitted to with wonderful cheerfulness.
   The boats used in this parish may contain from 30 to 50 crans
or barrels (for both are nearly alike,) of berrings, and it is diffi-
cult to say which of the sights is most pleasingly interesting to
a stranger, that of beholding on a fine evening the whole coast,
as far as the eye can reach, covered with human beings in their
little barks, as they issue forth from every creek, and disperse in
different directions, full of life; or that of attending at one of the
stations in the morning, and witnessing t be return of 40, 60, or
100 boats, all crowding into one creek, most of them, perhaps,
laden with fish to the gunwale, and then the scene of bustle and
animation that succeeds and continues till night ! And what
ought not to be omitted as being still more delightful to a serious-
ly contemplative mind, it is not unusual, where there are boats
having individuals of acknowledged piety, for the crew to en-
gage in worship after shooting their nets. On these occasions
a portion of a psalm is sung, followed with prayer, and the effect
is represented as truly solemn and heart-stirring, as the melodious
strains of the Gaelic music, carried along the surface of the
waters, (several being similarly engaged,) spread throughout the
whole fleet.
  But not unfrequently the scene is sadly reversed, for in the
inidst of the joys of life, we often are in death. A storm suddenly
arises during the nigbl The boats are all riding quietly at their
nets and unprepared to meet it. Some endeavour to haul their
nets, others cut from them, and make for the place of great-
est shelter, whilst others, afraid to put up sail and encounter it,
abide by their nets in the hope of the storm's abating. In propor-
tion to the danger at sea, are the confusion and anxiety on land.
The shores are instantly crowded by inquiring relatives, hurrying
from place to place in search of husbands, brothers, or sons.
Astonishing instances of preservation often occur; but no season
passes without serious losses to individuals, either of boats, or nets,
and sometimes of lives. The riiks are very great, and the em-
ployment, even when successful, most trying to the constitution.
lines following presents a pretty correct state of the fishing. of
1838 at the different stations in the parish. The fishing stations
with the boats attached to each. are, Dunbeath 76 Latheron-


