
20      		KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

land exhibits the site of a pretty entire fort, of about forty paces in
diameter. This eminence overlooks a vast extent of country, and
no enemy could have approached the fortress without being seen
at a considerable distance. Between this and Galtway, traces of
a Roman camp are still visible on Bombie Mains; and the re-
mains of two British posts appear at no great distance. The farm
of Little Sypland contains a large British fort: between the
strongholds on the two Syplands, is the site of a Roman camp near
Whinnyligget.
	In the farm of Carse was a British fort, of about fifty paces in dia-
meter, placed there in all probability, to protect a ford nearly op-
posite in the Dee, and to overlook a portion of the river.
	Castles.--On an island in Lochfergus, now drained, stood the
strong mansion of the ancient Lords of Galloway. There were
two fortified islands in the lake, the larger, about 90 paces in dia-
meter, was called Palace Isle, and the smaller, Stable Isle.
	The Lords of Galloway, as formerly noticed, had another castle
in the immediate vicinity of the burgH, named Kirkcudbright-
Castle. In old deeds, the lands are called Castle-Mains; but now
the place bears the name of Castledykes. The castle was sur-
rounded by a deep ditch, or fosse, into which the tide at high
water probably flowed. Traces of the building are still apparent,
though it has been long since demolished.
	The Maclellans had a castle at Bombie, from which they took
their title; but it is now a heap of ruins. They had another and
a stronger castle at Raeberry, also in the parish of Kirkcudbright.
It stood upon a rock which overhung a terrific precipice above the
Solway Frith, and was disjoined from the main land by a deep
fosse, with a strong wall. Across it, was a huge drawbridge, said to
have been made of bard freestone. The wall and drawbridge are
supposed to have been destroyed about ninety yeans ago, and the
interior buildings about two hundred years prior to that time. At
present, nothing remains but the site and fosse.
	Antiquities--Burgh.--The town of Kirkcudbright was ancient-
ly encompassed by a wall and fosse. None of the wall is now vi-
sible, though the fosse, or ditch, is still open in several places.
The space within the wall was almost a square, each side being
about 350 yards long. The town had one gate at the river, and
another on the side next the Barhill, called the Meikle Yett. *

<FOOTNOTE>The three globular stones which stood above it are placed on the gate of the
churchyard.


