
                        PERTH.                             27

of the fourteenth century.  Speaking of the Horestii, a people
who inhabited the greater part of the county of Fife, and that por-
tion of the county of Perth which lies to the south of the Tay, he
says that their towns were Alauna, Lindum, and Victoria,-that
the last named of these was the most illustrious not only in name
but in reality, and that it was built by Agricola oil the river Tay,
20 miles from the exit of that river into the sea.  There is here
a description of the situation of Perth as accurate as could be look-
ed for in a history written at that period.  The distance between
it and the exit of the river into the sea is indeed more than 20
miles.  It is 26 miles.  But Hoffman, in his Lexicon, published
1677, fives us computations of distances which very much corre-
spond with that here given by Richard, supposing Victoria and
Perth to be the same place.  Hoffman says that Perth is distant
from Dunkeld 12 miles, whereas it is 15-from Stirling 23 miles
whereas it is 32-from Edinburgh 32 miles, wherdas it is 43; and.
it is a strong corroborative circumstance, that there are four mili-
tary or Roman roads from different quarters, all leading to, if not
centering in, Perth: one from Aberdour through the town of
Kinross; another from North Queensferry through Kinross also;
a third from Stirling through Dunblane, and the Roman camp at
Ardoch; and a fourth from Abernethy, These have been describ-
ed and commented on by Sir Robert Sibbald in his history.
   Perth was a burgh in the reign of Edgar 1106, as appears from
a charter granted by Mauricius de Cromad, in favour of John
Mercer, burgess of Perth, of the lands of Meicklour. * The charter
of confirmation by James V1. makes particular mention of one
which had been granted to it by David I., who died 1153.  King
David's charter was renewed and confirmed by William the Lion,
which, is extant./f+
   Ancient Metropolis.-Prior to James II. Perth was the capital of
Scotland.  The Kings were crowned at Scone, in its immediate vi-
cinity, and had a residence in the city. That monarch was born in

the Castle of Edinburgh, and was crowned there 1447, whither the
Parliament And courts of justice were in a short time thereafter re-
moved.  But Perth retained its priority as the capital till 1482, in the

<FOOTNOTE>See Statistical Account of Perth by Rev. Mr Scott.
    In the city records for 1657, there is the following entry respecting inventory of
the town's writs : " King William foundit the burgh of Perth anno Domini Icq. ii. c.
ten years, with divers privileges, and deceast within four years after he rang fourtie-
nyn years fra the incarnatione Icq. ii. c. fiftie-six years;" and which inventory men-                   I
tions a charter by King Willaim (now reffered to) to the town of Perth, after the
destruction thereof by the great inundation of water, and describing the privileges                                   the to-wn'oi
granted therby, as also other charters by King Robert the Second, King James II.
-being twelve in all, and which are severally describe.


