
                                 ERROL.                        393

     has been conrtructed along the shore to the east of Port-Allen,
     which extends considerably more than a quarter of a mile in length,
     and encloses a space which is fully wider than that on the west.
     The general plan and proportions of the work are the same as in
     that already described; but the state of the ground has, in the
     latter case, been more favourable, and the rich soil immediately
     within the embankment has been greatly saved, by cutting down
     the steep clayey banks of the former boundary, and emploving- the
     material thus procured in forming the foundation of the new.
     When this part of the unddrtaking is finished, Mr Allen will have
     recovered about one hundred imperial acres; and this is only the
     commencement of a process which by degrees may be carried to a
     much greater extent.  The rest of the shores do not yet appear
     to be quite ready for embankidg, but when this sball be the case,
     and supposing just the same breadth to be  enclosed along the
     whole, the amount would not be ldss than another hundred acres.
     To facilitate such a result, a strong projecting stone dike has been
     put out between one side of his property and that of Murie, which
     intersects it on the west; and another between it and that of Sea,
     side on the east.   These walls are abntt three feet above the or-
     dinary high-water mark; and the latter extends in, towards, the
     channel of the river, not less than 600 yards.      At the same time,
     smaller intermediate dikes have been built for the same purpose ;
     and the embankments already executed will afford further facili-
     ties for prosecuting the same plan, and will prepare the way for
     the erection of others, by which they themselves may be enclos-
     ed and superseded, or rather levelled for the enriching of the new-
     ly acquired territory.  Not many years can elapse, when  all the
     three properties contiguous to the river must in this way receive an
     extensive and most valuable increase.
        Quarries.-The only quarry now wrought in the parish, is the
     sandstone quarry at Clashbennie, in the mode of working which
     there is nothing peculiar.  The quantity of rock annually quar-
     ried and disposed of is between 4000 and 5000 tons.
       Fishings.-The onlv fishinlrs are the salmon and the smelt, or
     sparling fhsbings.  They belong exclusively to three proprietors
     only one of who attempts a fishing of the latter kind.  The ave-
     rage annual rent of the principal salmon fishing is about L 100,
     that of the second, about L. 20 ; and'that of the third, little more
     than L. 10.  The rdnt of the sparling fishing  also about L. 10.
        Gross Amount of Raw Produce.- The average gross amount of


