
	     ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                       241

frog, mouse, rat, snail, &c. can have no existence in it, although
all the other islands of the parish abound with them. It is credi-
tably reported, that mice have been carefully carried thither several
times for experiment, but upon landing them that they instantly died.
  Names of Ramlets, &c.-In this and in most other parishes of
the Hebrides the names of hamlets, hills, bays, promontories, &c.
are evidently, for the most part, of Scandinavian origin. In some
cases, however, Gaelic roots with Scandinavian terminations, and
vice versa, are to be met with. It is a remarkable fact, that the
names given to certain localities by the natives of a foreign land,
have been retained for so many ages and generations, as is the
case here and elsewhere. When the prevalence of Scandinavian
names is taken into consideration, and the great disproportion
which they bear to those of Celtic origin, it will appear evident,
that the number, power, and influence of the aboriginal popu-
lation was but small in comparison with that of the Norwe-
gian invaders. Most promontories end with the termination
"nish," which must be the same with the French "nez," the
Latin "nasus," the English "nose," the Gaelic "innis," an
island or promontory, all meaning the projecting feature. We
have therefore Hunish, Vaternish, Skernish, &c. In other parts
of Scotland, such places have the termination "ness," as Strom-
ness, Tarbetness, Buchanness, &c. The barony of Troternish
seems evidently to derive its name from Trodda, a small island
which is situated near the northern point of it, and the termination
"nish,"-that is Trodda-nish, now pronounced Troternish, the
point or territory of Trodda. A great variety of places terminate
in "bost," as Orbost, Libost, Skeabost, Carbost, &c.; so do a
number in "burg," as Resaburg, Scuddeburg, &c. Many ham-
lets end with "garry," as Flodigarry, Osmagarry, &c.; many
with "latter," as Hunglatter, Seoglatter, &c.; many with "shad-
der," as Elishadder, Marishadder, &c.; many with "sta" and
"stadt," as Sbulista, Delista, Herbusta, Monkstadt, Brunistadt,
&c. As has been already observed, many places derive their
appellations from saints, such as the followers of St Columba, and
others; but these, although frequently much corrupted, are pure-
ly of Celtic origin. It is most remarkable, that no trace or vo-
cable of the Scandinavian language is found, in any shape. in the
language of the country, except names of hamlets and other loca-
lities. The language of the inhabitants is purely Celtic.
  Meteorology.-As the parish is so much encompassed by sea,


