
     Statistical Account

culated for pasture than cropping.  The staple produce of the 
parish is bear, oats and potatoes. Flax heretofore was raised, 
though but in small quantities, from the extreme difficulty of
manufacturing it through the want of mills.  As this incon-
veniency is now completely remedied, and as the soil is na-
turally favourable to the rearing of this valuable article, it is 
expected, from the industry of the inhabitants, and the en-
couragement and countenance they daily meet with from one 
of the principal proprietors*, that this branch of husbandry
will soon turn to a vey great account in this place.
   The oats in this parish are in such estimation, as to be
bought for feed throughout the country; a distinction solely
owing to the quality of the soil, which is peculiarly adapted
to this species of grain.  the bear is also comparatively good,
weighing from 16 to 18 stone the boll.  The whole produce 
of the parish may be at least reckoned 7000 bolls meal and 
bear, and the average export about 4000 bolls.  Marl and 
sea-weed are chiefly used as manures, and are found in great
abundance, and without much expence of labour.

   Agriculture.-There are perhaps few parishes in the N.
which have of late made more commendable exertions in agri-
cultural improvements, than the parish of Olrick.  On the 
estate of Castlehill, the property of Mr. Traill, a rotation of 
crops among the tenantry begins to prevail.  The following 
is an account of the improvements made on a small farm on
this estate, occupied by one Donald Coghill.  The rent of 
the farm 20 L.  Sterling. In spring 1791, he laid down 3 1/2
acres under rye-grass and clover, from which he raised 800

<FOOTNOTE>

*The gentleman here alluded to, is Mr. Traill of Hobbester, Sheriff-depute
of the country, who has lately got erected a lint-mill, a barley-mill, and corn-mill
of the best construction, and has also a threshing-machine, all excepting the lint-
mill, moved by one wheel, and driven by the same stream.


