
218                            RENFREWSHIRE.

two large arches, now filled up, notice in our account of the tran-
sept and choir.  The roof is groinped, the ribs springing diagonal-
ly from two slender triplicated shafts on the southern side.  Under
the elevated pavement, at the east end, is a large vault 14 feet, deep,
the burying place of the Abercorn family; and on the south wall,
between the large arches we noticed, is an inseription in memory
of some younger branches of the Hamilton family.  Nearly in the
centre of the lower floor is an altar tomb, commonly called " Queen
Bleary's tomb," which, after lying for many years in a mutilated state,
and exposed in the open air, wasfound, about twenty years ago, among
the fragments of other pieces of sculpture.  It was reconstructed,
coated with stone-coloured cement, and placed in itspresent position,
under the direction of the late Dr Boog, to whose taste tlae inhabi-
tants of Paisley are much indebted, not only for the transporta-
tion of this monument, from the cloister court to its present sheltered
situation, but also for the removal of those ignoble buildings, which,
at one time shaded the western facade of the church, blocking up
the great doorway, and part of the fine windows.  Round the up-
per part of the tomb is a series of compartments, filled with bold-
ly sculptured figures of ecclesiastics, quatrefoils, and shields with
armorial bearings.  On the slab, which is the top of the monu-
ment, projecting so as to form a kind of moulded cornice over the
sides and ends of the tomb, is the figure of a female, in a recum-
bent posture, with hands closed, in the attitude of prayer, the
head resting on a cushion, and over the head an elegant canopy,
of the kind common over Gothic niches.  But whether this figure
originaly rested on the tomb, or whether all the parts put together
belonged to tho same tomb, or whether the tomb itself may not
have been once an altar belonging to the private chapel, or to
the parochial church, we cannot pretend to determine.
   This chapel being vaulted, and containing nothing but this
monument, has an echo so remarkable as to have obtained for
it the name of " the sounding aile."  Instrumental or vocal
music performed in it has a curious effect, from the prolongation
and consequent mingling of the notes.  The noise and re-
verberation arising from the sudden and forcible shutting of the
door, after the entrance of a visitor, are often very starling.  But
on the whole, the account of their effects, as recorded by Pen-
nant * and others, is rather exaggerated, or perhaps the erection of

<FOOTNOTE>Pennant's Tour.
                                   4


