
330                     LANARKSHIRE.

crop, the harvest is now much earlier than in former times, and the
crops much more abundant.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	It is supposed that in the charter-chest of the Marquis of Lo-
thian, there are a variety of papers which, if examined, might illus-
trate the state of the parish before the Reformation. A chapel or
church at Crawford was dedicated to Constantine, King of the
Scots, about the year 943; and the greater part of the parish be-
longed at one time to the monastery of Newbattle, and the lesser
part to Holyrood.
	Eminent Men.--The celebrated poet Allan Ramsay was a na-
tive of this parish. He was born at Leadhills, and lived there for
fifteen years, when he went to Edinburgh, and commenced a cir-
culating library.
	James Taylor, son of one of the overseers of the mines, first
suggested to Mr Miller of Dalswinton, the idea of propelling ves-
sels by the power of steam, and assisted that gentleman in his ex-
periments. He was born here in the year 1757, and died at Cum-
nock in 1825. Setting aside the invention of Jonathan Hulls in
1736, which led to no practical use, the above individual has cer-
tainly the distinguished honour of first applying steam power to
propel vessels on water. The successful experiments were made
at Dalswinton in 1788.*
	William Symington, practical engineer, was likewise a native of
this village, and deserves notice from his having been employed
by Mr Miller and Mr Taylor in fitting up the steam-engine on
board the pleasure boat at Dalswinton, and afterwards suggesting
the application of that power to land-carriages.
	Land-Owners.--The chief land-owners in the parish are, in the
order of their valuations, Lord Hopetoun, Henry Colebrooke, Esq.
Lord Balgray, Lord Douglas, the Duke of Buccleuch, George Ir-
ving, Esq. and Mr John Forsyth; there are five other smaller
land-owners.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest date of the parochial regis-
ter is 1707. This register has been regularly kept, but is now in
a very bad state.
	Antiquities.--Although there are no remains of religious houses

<FOOTNOTE>For a more particular amount of this splendid discovery, reference may be made
to a biographical sketch of Mr Taylor in No. 58 of Chambers' Edinburgh Journal;
also a Brief Account of the rise and progress of steam navigation, with an impartial
inquiry into the claims of the principal pretenders to the honour of that important
discovery, lately printed at Ayr; and lastly to the newspapers at the period of the
discovery.


