
                        ORWELL.                             53

Portmoak and Strathimiglo on the east. A small part of this pa-
rish is annexed quoad sacra to that of Arngask.
   The southern portion of the parish is generally level, diversified
with gently swelling heights. North of Milnathort, it rises gra-
dually to the top of the high grounds called the Braes of Orwell,
and thence more suddenly to different eminences on the Ochil
hills. The highest of these hills, at nearly the north-western ex-
tremity of the parish, scarcely exceeds 1000 or 1100 feet above the
level of the sea ; and the lowest part of the parish on the margin of
Lochleven is about 335 feet above the same level. The average
height of the cultivated portion may be about 450 feet.
  Climate, &-c.-The climate, on the whole, is healthy. Former-
ly ague was very prevalent on some farms, but now, owing to drain-
age, is scarcely known. The most common diseases are fevers and
consumptions. During the early part of winter and spring, the
low grounds suffer considerably from hoar-frost.  The height of
the barometer is at the same station very variable, but may be
stated on an average at 29.5. The thermometer has never been
observed lower than 7&deg;, and seldom attains 70&deg; in the shade,-the
mean temperature being about 46.6&deg;. From the proximity of the
Ochil Hills on the north, of the Lomond and Bishop Hills on
the east, and Benarty on the south, the quantity of rain that falls
in the parish, and throughout the county, is above the average
for Scotland. Even when not actually raining, the atmosphere
generally may be called moist, as Leslie's hygrometer rarely ex-
ceeds 25&deg; in the finest weather, and on an average is not more
than 15&deg;. These observations were made at an altitude of 400
feet above the level of the sea, and only apply to it.
   Polar lights are frequent during the end of autumn and beginning
of winter. The cast wind prevails for three or four, months
during spring and beginning of summer; and its influence is considerably
felt, not withstanding the high barrier interposed by the
Lomond and Bishop hills. In the evenings the mist, or, as it is
called in the district, the eastern haar, is observed slowly crown-
ing their summits, or descending their sides in vast masses, and
extending itself far to the west, beyond the boundaries of the
county. But the prevailing wind is the south-west, which blows
the greater part of the year with considerable violence. This cir-
cumstance may be attributed to the funnel-shaped nature of the
district; the western portion of which being the low strath which
stretches by Dollar to Alloa; -the eastern, that by Strathmigle-
into Fife.


