
72                        FIFESHIRE.

ing bank to the south-east of the town, and commands an exten-
sive view of the river Tay, and fertile Carse of Gowrie. The
House of Mugdrum, beautifully situated on the banks of the river
to the north-west of the town, is a large and extensive building,
and was erected in 1786. The shore of Newburgh consisted till
of late of three continuous piers, projecting into the south deep
of the Tay. Two additional ones towards the eastward have, with-
in these few years, been completed, with several dwelling-houses,
store-houses, granaries, and other conveniences for commerce.
The street, which has been long paved with stones, has just been
relaid with new blocks of excellent quality; the elevations along
the southern range have been either taken away, or levelled down
to a more gentle slope; so that from the superior style of archi-
tecture which now prevails throughout the town, and the increas-
ed dimension of the houses, Newburgh may be considered as hav-
ing some pretensions to neatness, as well as cleanness in its gene-
ral outline and character. These buildings are all constructed of
the greenstone trap, found in the parish or immediate neighbour-
hood, with the exception of the ornamental parts, which are form-
ed of freestone from the quarries of Cupar-moor, Hilton, Cullelo,
and Kingoodie. A gas company has just been formed, and opera-
tions will immediately commence for the manufactory and intro-
duction to our streets and houses, of this beautiful element of light.

<TABLE=POPULATION.>     III.-POPULATION

          The population in 1755, amounted to 1347
                            1801,     .       1664
                            1811,     .       2118
                            1821,     .       2190
                            1831,     .       2642
    The country district has remained nearly stationary in its amount
of population, while the suburban part has more than doubled the
number of souls belonging to it. Thus distributed, the popula-
tion stands thus,
<TABLE>
           In the town,	   .        .       .      .     2458
                 suburbs and shore,      .        .          281
                 landward,         .        .                129
    The number of individuals or families engaged in trade are, ma-
nufacturers, 13; corn-merchants, 4; grocers and other retailers,
21 ; bakers, 9; butchers, 4; medical practitioners, 3; stationer, 1.
<TABLE>
      The number of families,           .         .         .     530
      Average number of children in each,       .         .         5
      Number of inhabited houses,     .       .         .         285
      Do. of blind, 0 ; of deaf and dumb, 2      .       .
    During the last three years there have been 9 illegitimate births
in the parish.

					3

