
                  674                         PERTHSHIRE.


             teen, of these stand in the cess-book at upwards of L. 100 Scots
             valued rent.  The principal heritors are, Sir John Muir Macken-
             zie, Bart. of Delvine; Lady Keith, or Countess Flahault of
             Meikleour; the Duke of Atholl ; Keay of Snaigow; Menzies of
             Culdares; Sir William Drummond Stewart, Bart. of Murthly;
             Kinloch of Gourdie ; Haggart of Glendelvine ; and Murray of
             Kincairney.  The whole ancient valued rent of the parish is
             L. 9369 Scots, being the highest in the county save Errol.  The
             valued rent of Delvine is L. 3144 Scots, being one-third of the
             whole.
                Parochial Registers.-The register of baptisms and marriages,
             and records of session, commence with the year 1671, and are
             continued without intermission till the present date, though some
             of the books are greatly worn and decayed.  The insertion of
             births appears to have been omitted till a recent period.  A re-
             gister of deaths has been twice attempted, but left off after a few
             years' trial, owing, no doubt, to the want of fees to the clerk, and
             there being no proper authority to enforce the registration, as in
             the case of baptismr and marriages.
               The ministers of this parish in succession were, Robert Gordon,
             admitted 12th March 1682; James Crockat, 16th December
             1688; James Hogg, 21st September 1721 ; James Bisset, 30th
             August 1753; William Innerarity, 11th December 1783; Alex-
             ander Wilson, the present incumbent, was ordained assistant and
             successor, 4th August 1835, and succeeded Mr. Innerarity 7th
             March 1837.
                Antiquities.- With regard to the antiquities of this parish, there
             are but few objects of that nature deserving notice, and of these
             little can be said with certainty. Of cairns, Druidical stones,
             Pictish forts, and Roman encampments, not a few traces are to
             be found, but their history is almost entirely lost, and the vulgar
             conjectures regarding them are too vague for being recorded.
             The only truly classical ground is that of Inchtuthil, which is
             allowed, by, the best antiquarians who have examined it, to have
             been the station in medio mentioned by Tacitus in his Life of
             Agricola, and to which the Roman general led his troops after the
             celebrated battle with Galgacus.  Inchtuthil, signifying " the
             hrland in the flooded stream," lies about two and a-half miles east
             of the church, on the north bank of the Tay.  It is a singular
	     pieces of flat oblong table-land, with a steep declvity on all sides.
	     On the north extremity of this table-land, stands Delvine House;



