
                         CURRIE.                         551

gether with house and garden allowances, to L.26 per annum;
while common agricultural day-labourers are paid at the rate of
10s. per week. Women who are fit for field work are hired at
10d. per day, and children at 8d., without victuals. The families
of many in different branches of trade are accommodated with
houses by the farmers, on the single condition of giving a sti-
pulated amount of labour in harvest; and during that sea-
son the employers give them maintenance also. There are no
handloom weavers, colliers, nor miners; but there are other arti-
sans of all sorts, whose earnings may vary from 8s. to 14s. per
week. About 150 persons are connected with the manufactories,
among whom are included a good many women, and children
under fourteen years of age, who are employed in picking rags,
finishing paper, &c., and earn from 3s. 6d. to 6s. per week.
The rent paid by labourers for a cottage, which has always a gar-
den attached to it, seldom exceeds L. 2; and this class of inhabi-
tants may be described generally as distinguished for their habits
of cleanliness. A few years ago an attempt was made, on the re-
commendation of the Highland Society, to introduce the system of
cottage and garden premiums;-without, however, being attended
with the same successful results it has produced in other and more
sequestered parts of the country. Bad passions were engendered
between neighbours,-an unwholesome jealousy and dissatisfaction
rankled in the minds of the unsuccessful competitors; and the
practice, after two years' experiment, was given up; nor, happily,
is there much cause to regret its discontinuance, as the people do
not require any foreign stimulus to maintain the observance of do-
mestic order and cleanliness. It may be mentioned, that a great
improvement has recently been introduced here, as elsewhere, into
the construction of cottages, which, instead of the wretched pig-
stye-like huts that have so long disgraced the character and de-
formed the appearance of the country,-being every way unfavour-
able both for domestic economy and morals,-are neat houses,
with slated roofs, and divided into two apartments, with other
appurtenances. The food of the peasantry consists of the various
preparations of oatmeal, potatoes, wheaten bread, tea and sugar.
   Manufactories.-The Water of Leith, being remarkable for its
rapid descent, is exceedingly favourable for the erection of water-
mills, and, although its cnurse does not exceed fourteen miles, it
boasts of an extraordinary number of this description of works.
There are three extensive paper manufactories, all at present in


