
                         PARISH OF CROSSMICHAEL.

                  PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCUDBRIGHT, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

                     THE REV. JOHN WHITSON, M.D., MINISTER.

                         I.--TOPOGRAHY NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, &c.--THE parish of Crossmichael is situated about the
middle of the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright. In old writings, it is
called Corsemichael. The ancient and modern appellation is
obviously derived from St Michael, the patron saint, to whom the
church was dedicated. No vestige, however, of any cross is to be
seen, and there is no allusion to it in any traditions that have been
handed down to us. St Michael seems, however, to have been
regarded as an individual of more than ordinary sanctity, as those
churches called Kirkmichael were obviously dedicated to him; and
one in the parish of Tongland, on the west side of the Dee, at a
small village called Balnacross, or the town of the cross, derived
its name from the same source.
	The church of Crossmichael was transferred to the Abbey of
Sweetheart in 1275 by Dervorgille, the wife of Allan and mother
of John Baliol, who succeeded to the Scottish throne as the de-
scendant of David of Huntingdon. Dervorgille survived her hus-
band, and founded Baliol College at Oxford, and monasteries at
New Abbey or Sweetheart, Wigton, Dumfries, and Dundee. Until
1587, this church remained with the monks of Sweetheart, after
which it was annexed to the Crown. In 1624, the estate belong-
ing to this abbey became the property of Sir Robert Spottiswoode,
who transferred his right to Charles 1. in 1633, when the see of
Edinburgh was about to be erected. When Prelacy was abolished
in 1689, the patronage of the church and parish fell to the Crown,
but was given to the Viscount of Kenmore, whose family had long
considered itself as having a legal right to it. The minister
of Crossmichael was made a member of the Chapter of Galloway
at the re-establishment of Episcopacy by James VI, and lands,
rated by the old extent at forty shillings, originally belonged to
him, of which he was deprived at the Reformation.
				    1


