
     of Dundee.

councils in their boroughs chuses a delegate, and the 5 dele-
gates elect their representative.

   Ecclesiastical State, etc.-It is impossible to ascertain, with
accuracy, the ecclesiastical state of the parish, previous to the
reformation.  The number of religious houses was certainly
greater, than has appeared in any published accounts of eccle-
siastical antiquities; but the ancient writings being in general
lost, and the buildings converted into private property, and
variously demolished and rebuilt, they are now incapable of
being traced.  It is probable, that the church dedicated to St.
Clement, converted into a Tolbooth, or town-house at the
reformation, and situated where the present town-house stands,
had been the parish church; and certainly, the area behind
it, now used for a meal-market, and the lanes, by which it is
surrounded, composed the common burying ground.  But,
since the reformation, the great one built by David Earl of
Huntingdon, (which, when entire, was one of the largest and
most magnificient in the kingdom,) has been the parish church.
Its form was that of a crucifix, with a very noble square tower,
or steeple, at the west end, through which was the great en-
try.  The height of the tower, which is still entire, is 156
feet; its area, within the walls, 27 feet, and without 40.
The length of the nave was 120 feet, its height 63, its
breadth 40, and the breadth of each of its ailes 30.  The
length of the choir is 95 feet, its height 54, its breadth
29, and the breadth of each of its ailes 14 1/2.  The length of the
cross part of the building, which had no ailes, is 174 feet,
and its breadth 44.  According to tradition, this church was
destroyed by Edward I.; and probably the nave was never
afterwards repaired.  What had been repaired was also again
destroyed in Edward VI's time, by the English, then in pos-
session of Broughty Castle; and the destruction, either at the
first or second time, appears to have been accomplished by


