
180                 KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

gaff, runs along the northern side of the parish. Flowing to the
eastward, it meets the Ken at right angles, and the united stream
thereafter takes the name of the Dee. This river flows to a
south, forming the eastern boundary of Balmaghie, and, passing
between the parish of Kelton on the east, and that of Tongland
on the west, it expands into an estuary below Kirkcudbright. It
is proper to remark, that, in its progress along the parish, the Dee
has for the most part the aspect of a lake. In some places it is
very deep, and its greatest breadth may be nearly a quarter of a mile.
From the nature of the soil through which it flows, its waters are
of a particularly dark colour.
	The fish which frequent the Dee are, trout, sea trout, salmon,
parr, pike, and perch. Trout do not abound, but of the few which
are to be met with, most are of the red or better sort. During
the season, the means employed by the tacksman of the fishery at
Tongland for taking the salmon are so effectual, that few or none
find their way to this portion of the river, with the exception of
such as pass during high floods, and in the interval between Sa-
turday and Monday, when the law requires the obstructions to be
removed. The fishery opens at the beginning of February, and
closds in September; after this the salmon ascend the river to
spawn, and in the spring months, retreat towards the sea. Here,
as elsewhere, numbers are annually destroyed in close time by the
illegal means usually resorted to for such a purpose.
	In the upper district granite abounds, but in the other parts of
the parish the prevailing rock is greywacke or whinstone. No
limestone is to be found; and all that is used for building and
agricultural purposes is brought from the shores of Cumberland.
	Zoology.--Considerable numbers of waterfowl frequent the
streams and lakes. In winter, wild ducks of various kinds, geese,
and, in hard season, flocks of swans are to be seen on the wing
and in the waters.
	In the part of the Dee bounding this parish, a shell-fish is found
which often contains a pearl. This fresh-water mussel has lately
been pronounced by a scientific gentleman to be a very scarce va-
riety of the Unio Roissyi of Michaud. The pearls have various
hues and considerable beauty.
	Wood.--Plantations thrive remarkably well, and were they of
more frequent occurrence, they would tend to increase the beauty
and promote the improvement of the district. In those of younger
growth, larch forms the staple; but in various parts of the parish,


