
780                          AYRSHIRE.

the United Secession. Dissent in Fenwick dates its origin from
1782, at which period an individual was intruded into the parish
in opposition to the repeated petitions and remonstrances of a
united population. The question of that individual's settlement
was long litigated in the ecclesiastical courts. His ordination and
induction, however, were at length ordered by the General As-
semblv. When the period for carrying  this order into effect ar-
rived, the Presbytery of Irvine, knowing well the opposition which
they were likely to encounter, proceeded to ordain the unacceptable.
minister, not in the parish in which he was to labour, but in the
usual place of meeting in the burgh of Irvine. The people of
Fenwick, however, were still anxious to remain within the pale of
the Established Church, and for this purpose they solicited the
sanction of the presbytery to the erection of a chapel of ease, where
they might enjoy the ministrations of a pastor selected by them
selves. But those who had been the instruments of intrud-
ing an unacceptable minister into the pulpit once filled by the il-
lustrious Guthrie, here not likely to lend a favourable ear to such
a petition. The prayer of the petition was accordingly refused,
and a very large dissent was the consequence. The few families,
and they were very few, who remained in communion with the Es-
tablisbed Church, became regular attendants in neighbouring pa-
rishes. The vast majority united, erected a place of worship in
connection with the class of seceders called Burghers. The dis-
sent thus begun, many circumstances combined to continue. The
incumbency of the intruded minister was a long one, extending to
forty-seven years. During his ministry, he was not successful in
recalling any of those whom his induction had driven from the
church of their fathers. Many families, however, who, during, his
incumbency, became resident in the parish, not being formerly
Dissenters, and not being influenced by those feelings to which
his induction gave birth, continued in communion with the church,
and became members of his congregation. In this way, a respec-
table congregation had been formed at the period of his death.
The settlement which followed was scarcely more favourable for
the interests of the Established Church. Dissent began afresh,
and proceeded to such an extent, that in 1836, when the present
incumbent was settled, he found only one-third of the population
belonging to the Establishment.
	Education.--The number of schools in the parish is five, of
which two are parochial and endowed; the others are on the
 				3


