
54                         SHETLAND.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Parochial Registers.-There are registers of births and mar-
riages, but not of deaths. These registers were very irregularly
kept till 1827; and the Dissenters do not register, except those
who have been married and baptised by the parochial minister.
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners are, Robert Bruce,
Esq. Simbister, and Miss Robina Hunter of Lunna. These pos-
sess nearly the whole parish.
   Mansion-House.-A splendid house and offices have been built
in Whalsay by Mr Bruce of Simbister. The building is of gra-
nite, and cost L. 20,000. The stone was imported across the
Sound of Whalsay.

                          <TABLE=III.-POPULATION>
              Amount of population in 1801,  -  1941
                                      1811,  -  1866
                                      1821,  -  2005
                                      1831,  -  2103

   The population of the three parishes is supposed to be at pre-
sent 2250.
   During the last three years, only one case of illegitimate birth
occurred.
   This parish contains a greater number of inhabitants, in pro-
portion to the rental land, than any other in Shetland, owing to
the exertions of the two principal heritors in making outsets, or
new settlements, on grounds, formerly uncultivated.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The extent of arable land in the parish is supposed to be about
1000 acres. All the rest is waste or in pasture. The whole
land is undivided, and common to the tenants of the two principal
proprietors. No wood.
   Rent.-The average rent of land per merk is L. 1. No progress
in the wretched agriculture of the parish, has been made during
the last fifty years. The people direct their sole attention to fish-
ing, and consider thei cultivation of the lands as only a secondary
object.
   Fisheries-The inhabitants adventure in what we call the great
fisheries, of ling, cod, auld tusk; but the principal part of their
subsistence arises from the small fishing of piltock and sillock,
which, except in very extraordinary years, they can pursue at no
expense, and with great advantage, all the year round.
   There are fourteen or sixteen herring boats belonging to Mr
Bruce, and about seven tn Mr Hunter. Mr Bruce's average


