
654			AYRSHIRE.

eenth century, that portion of it lying on the north and east
side of this stream was taken from Ochiltree, and annexed
quood sacra to Coylton. The district annexed was part of the
estate of Gadgirth, now in possession of three proprietors. The
value of the part transferred in the old valuation is L. 360, that
of the original parish, L. 2930, 16s. 2d. Scotch money.
	Eminent Men, &c.--A branch of the family of the Crawfords
of Camlarg and Drongan was the founder of an old family,
--the Crawfords of Drumsuy in Coylton. William, the first
of this name, is designed in a writ under the Great Seal in
1657, "W. Crawford of Drumsoy." David Crawford, the eighth
in descent, was, we learn, a man of distinguished literary acquire-
ments. Among other productions, he wrote a historical defence
of Queen Mary of Scotland; a work said to have been highly es-
teemed in his day by those who espoused the cause of this un-
happy lady. This Crawford was also historiographer for Scotland
to Queen Anne. He died in 1710, and about twenty years after-
wards, the barony of Drumsuy was sold, and has since passed
through, diffierent hands. It is now possessed by Lord Dudley
Coutts Stewart.
	John Black, LL. D., the learned author of the life of Tasso,
was minister of Coylton for fifteen years. He was a native of
Douglas in Lanarkshire, and received the elements of his educa-
tion in its parish-school. He was ordained in 1810, and died in
1825.
	The name of John Hamilton, Esq. of Sundrum, grandfather of
the present proprietor, still lives in this parish and county. He
possessed eminent talents, and was admired both as a public and
private character. He was for many years convener of Ayrshire,
and in this capacity so gained the respect of all ranks, that the
noblemen and gentlemen or the county ordered a portrait of him
to be suspended in the hall, where they met to transact business.
	Landed Proprietors.--There are nine landed proprietors: The
Most Noble the Marquis of Aisle; Lord Dudley Coutts Stewart of
Drumsuy; John Hamilton, Esq. of Sundrum; James Oswald
Esq. of Auchencruive; John Joseph Burnett, Esq. of Gadgirth;
Taylor Cathcart, Esq. of Pitcairley; John Bell, Esq. of Enter-
kine; John Smith, Esq. of Drongan; Andrew Campbell, Esq. of
Rankinston.
	The resident heritors are, John Hamilton, Esq.; John Joseph
Burnett, Esq.; and Andrew Campbell, Esq.


