
                            INVERARY.                         7

half from the burgh; the other, which is three miles distant, is
the most remarkable. The water rushes towards the precipice
through a narrow and broken aperture in the rock, then dashing
from ledge to ledge, sometimes in an unbroken, sometimes in an
interrupted course, down a height of about sixty feet, it collects
below into a circular basin, where it curls and eddies for some
time before it finds its way down the narrow and fringed opening
through which it is again hurried. In this pool, salmon and grilse
collect in numbers, and they may often be seen struggling in vain
to surmount the fall, lashing the stream with their whole might,
and gaining the first ledge only to be thrown back by the force of
the overwhelming mass of waters. Trees and shrubs of various
kinds and sizes surround and overhang both the fall and the basin
below; and a rustic bridge has been cast across the rocks imme-
diately above, which shows how art may contribute to enliven and
beautify the magnificence of nature. After passing the lower fall,
the character of the river changes, and it glides rapidly along ar-
tificial cascades, with wooded and verdant banks, through the po-
licies and past the castle of the Duke of Argyle. Two wooden
and three stone bridges are cast across the Aray. The smaller
streams are very abundant in this as in every mountainous coun-
try. The most considerable of these streams are, the Douglas,
the Kilblaan burn, and others in Glensbira, all of which are worthy
of being visited.
   Springs are numerous, pouring forth their waters perennially at
a thousand different places.  Several of these are slightly chaly-
beate, and considered salutary by many. Their temperature is
various.
   Geology.--The district generally is composed of mica-slate,
which is nearly intersected by porphyry, and throughout it are in-
terspersed roof-slate, limestone, chlorite rock, and greenstone,
with quartz, iron pyrites, common schorl, &c.  The mica-slate
towards the top of the mountains is harder and heavier, containing
the quartz in more abundance than in the valleys.  In the former
situations, accordingly, the rocks abound with garnet, especially
in Glenaray, and occasionally with felspar; while in the latter, as
in Glenshira, they exhibit more of the fine slaty structure bor-
dering on clay-slate, and are so soft and friable that, not only do
the little rills cut their way deep into the mountain, but the trail-
ing fibres of the Rhizomorphon penetrate with ease, and extend



