
                           KILSYTH.                             161

tion, * and a grant from the General Assembly's Church Extension
Committee. The population adjacent amounts to about 900. A new
school and masterd house have been erected at the same time.
A Missionary has been employed since Christmas 1837, who la-
bours during the week among the families of the district. The
new church is nearly three miles egst from the parish church of
Kilsytb, and nearly as far distant from any other place of worship.
Yet the population is not such as to afford any reasonable pros-
pect of a sufficient support to a minister. An endowment is, there-
fore, imperatively called for. +
   The manse was built in 1786, for Mr John Telfer, the minis-
ter. An addition was made to it, in an early part of Dr Rennie's
ministry, of one large room, besides other conveniences; and new
and excellent offices were added at a late; period (1816). Two
years ago, the heritors erected two rooms above the large room
referred to, put the whole in a pretty good state of repair, built a
handsome porch of freestone, so that it is now a respectable-look-
ing, and commodious dwelling, for a family, although the narrow-
ness of the original construction and the steepness of the staircase
could not be corrected. The glebe consists of about 10 acres of
the best light land in the parish. A great part of it is a very few
inches deep, upon a blue whinstone. + Till 1800, the glebe was
in parcels amounting together to 14 acres, but lying contigu-
ous. Excambion has improved the benefice. The only inconve-
nience is, that there is no perennial spring on the grebe. The
well, though good water, fails in a sultry season.
  The greater part of the teinds was exhausted at the last aug-
mentation in 1822, the stipend was raised to 17 chalders, half
meal, half barley, at the highest fiars, with L.15 communion ele-
ments, being about L.250 a year, at an average. Most of the
smaller heritors have surrendered their teinds; which frees them
of all trouble from any future augmentation.

<FOOTNOTE>Four subscribers of fifty guineas each to the new church of Banton were, Sir A.
Edmonstone, Bart.; W. A. Cadelt, Esq. of Banton; Daniel Lusk, Esq. of the pa-
per-mill, Townhead; and William Campbell, Esq. Glasgow.
          Since the above was written, Mr J. Lyon was ordained minister of Banton on the
18th February 1840.
          The late Sir Charles Edmonstone, Bart, presented an excellent bell from Lon-
don to the church of Kilsyth, which unfortunately was broken in the year 1823,
It is supposed, from the bellman having made are undue addition to the tongue,
with the ambitious design of outpealting the neighbouring bell of Kirkintillouch. The
new bell, the production of S. Miller and Co., Glasgow, is fine silver-toned one.
          The greater part of the glebe was lately lot at L.2. 15s per acre. The park to
the south of the manse is the best, and is still retained as passture by the minister.
STIRLING.                                               L


