
                           ALVA.                            183

the mouth of the Frith of Forth, the Bass, North-Berwick Law,
with the windings of the Forth, the coasts of Fife and East Lo-
thian, can easily be descried from the top of Woodhill, behind
the house of Alva.
   Proprietors of Alva.-The estate of Alva was anciently posses-
sed by the Stirlings of Calder in Clydesdale. From Nisbet's first vo-
lume of Heraldry, we learn that "Sir J. Menteth, son of Sir Wal-
ter Menteth, of Rusky, married Marion Stirling, daughter and
coheir to Sir John Stirling, of Calder in Clydesdale, and with
her he got ye lands of Kerse and Alveth (Alva), for which ye
family carried ye buckler for the name of Stirling, and flourish-
ed for many years."-Sir William Menteth or Menteath of Al-
va, married Helen Bruce, daughter to the laird of Airth, and his
son, Sir William Menteth, married Agnes Erskine, daughter to
Alexander Lord Erskine, whose successors afterwards, through
right of their mother, inherited the Earldom of Mar. The Coun-
tess of Mar and of Kelly is a descendant of the family of Menteth
of Rusky. By the intermarriage before alluded to, it is highly
probable the Alva property went to the Bruce, and afterwards
to the Erskine family. In A. D. 1620 it went to Sir Charles Ers-
kine, fifth son of John sixth Earl of Mar.  His great grandson, Sir
Henry Erskine of Alva, father to the present Earl of Rosslyn,
sold it in 1759 to his uncle, Lord Justice-Clerk, called Lord Tin-
wald, whose son, James Erskine, a Senator of the College of Jus-
tice, inherited it, with the title of Lord Alva. He was one of the
most energetic proprietors, with the exception of the Bruces, who
founded the present mansion and church. Lord Alva sold the
estate in 1775 to John Johnstone, Esq. son of Sir James John-
stone, Bart., of Westerhall, Dumfries-shire, (brother to Sir Wil-
liam Pulteney,) whose grandson is the present proprietor. Sir
John and Sir Charles Erskine, two ofthe Alva proprietors,were
both killed when abroad A. D. 1746. In the church-yard of Al-
va, there is a mausoleum built by the first proprietor of Alva, of
the Westerball family, similar to one which he had erected in
Dumfries-shire, to the memory of his father, Sir James Johnstone.
The ancestral vault in the church still belongs to the Erskine fa-
mily, together with several marble monuments. One to the Lord
Justice-Clerk is characterized by classic taste and purity of style.
   Antiquities.-Near to the church several of those large stones,
often found in Scotland, supposed to be the relics of Drudical days,
were seen to a late date, and in the neighbouring parish of Logie some


