
     Statistical Account

already mentioned in their voluntary contributions for support
of the poor, when the weekly collections in the church prove
insufficient.  Living upon the shore, many of the young men
betake themselves to a seafaring life; those who continue at
home, are farmers or labourers, with a few artizans, and are
tolerably industrious.  The farms are in general small, and
many of the farmers are, besides jobbers or dealers in cattle,
which they carry to the English market; they also breed and
rear many swine, disposing of the hams in England or Edin-
burgh, where they are much prized; thus trade is attended
with considerable profits.  The number of farmers may be
about 70, but among these are included sundry persons who
have small possessions of a few acres.  There are in the parish
3 blacksmiths, 6 joiners, 5 shoemakers, 2 cloggers, 12 wea-
vers, 6 tailors, 1 tinker, and about 75 day labourers; the
wages of those last are from 10 d. to 1 s. 2 d. per day, and
vary according to the length of the day.  The wages of men
servants who are lodged and maintained, are from 7 L. to 9 L.
yearly, of women 3 L. or 3 L. 10 s.  None of the natives of
this parish are seceders from the established church; but two
persons who lately settled here are antiburghers*.

   Fish, etc.-The fish upon the coast, are flounders of a large
size and good quality, herrings in the autumn, and cod and skate

<FOOTNOTE>

*The wood-lark and bulfinch, birds extremely rare in Scot-
land, are met with in the extensive wood of Comlongan: They are
both natives.  They make their nest among the long grass in the
wood, and are, of late, observed to have much encreased: There also
appeared in those woods, a bird of a new species, of the size of
thrush, the back of a light brown colour, the head light gray, and
the breast almost white, the wings inclining to black, having a re-
gular row of small white spots across the middle of each feather, the
bill very short, as thick as a mans finger next the head, and the tail
has strong short feathers.  This description agree much with the
size and figure of the Virginia nightingale or red bird, from
which, however, it differs materially in the colour, and the want
of the beautiful tust on the head.


