
226                       ARGYLESHIRE.

coe.  It is a happy mixture of the pastoral and agricultural cha-
racters, the flats along the sea shore affording convenient sites for
farm-houses and steadings, and producing excellent crops of pota-
toes, barley, and oats; while the section of the hill belonging to
each farm forms an excellent sheep-walk, and produces superior
specimens of those useful animals.  The soil of Appin is various.
Its general character along the sea shore is dry and gravelly, and
in these localities it readily receives the heat of the sun, and, con-
sequently, it vegetates quickly and ripens early.  Farther back, it
is, in many instances, deep and mixed with moss and clay, and, like
the soil of Lismore, is apt, about the end of spring and beginning
of summer, to become hard and crusty, so that the tenants are
frequently heard to complain that vegetation is retarded, not being
able to force its way through the incrusted surface.  The general
appearance of Appin is far from being tame, for nature has
distributed over the parish, with a bountiful hand, everything
that is calculated to form a truly Highland scenery.  In the
low parts of the country, there are fertile meadows and well-
cultivated fields, with many gentlemen's seats, embosomed in
woods and surrounded with verdant lawns, fronted by the sea,
studded with many islands, and backed by lofty mountains, which,
owing to their difference of altitude and endless variety of form,
separated by deep glens, and stripped with tumbling cataracts,
conspire to impart to the whole scene a character at once beau-
tiful and sublime.
   Mountains.-The mountains of Glencoe are the principal hills
in the parish, and are objects which, on account of their grandeur
and sublimity, arrest the attention of the stranger, and inspire him
with a degree of reverence mixed with awe.  In passing through
Glencoe, the traveller finds himself led imperceptibly into the
heart of a vast, capacious, and lengthened gully, not many scores,
of yards in breadth at the bottom, and flanked on either side by
bold, precipitous, and towering mountains, rising almost perpen-
dicularly, and to such a height as nearly to exclude the sun from
the valley, when at his highest elevation in June.  These moun-
tains sire of a peculiar appearance.  They seem to be formed of a
oompilation of huge rocks or mountains raised upon one another,
with the top of the lower and the base of the one above it not well
joined, which gives the upper ones the appearance of being in
danger of falling every moment, and of filling the chasm below
with their crumbling materials.  The higbest of these hills is


