
                         ST VIGEANS.                      497

ganic fossils have been found in these alluvial strata, exdepting
petrified reeds. In the quarries from which the pavement is taken,
which is a lower branch of the red sandstone, berry-like marks,
fossilized joints of reeds, and leaves of rushes or grass are occa-
sionally found deeply situated in the rock.
   Between the soil and the subsoil, on a great part of the western
triangle of the parish, there is often a cake of a substance like bog-
iron ore, called pan, evidently formed not from the iron in the
decay of the vegetation, but from the carbonaceous matter of the
roots through successive ages, combining with the oxide of iron by
which the red diluvial clay below is impregnated and coloured.
This cake is very pernicious to the fertility of the soil, retaining
the moisture in winter, and subjecting it to parching drought in
summer.
                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY
   Parochial Registers.-The oldest register in this parish com-
mences with the settlement of Mr Patrick Strachan in 1665, and
was kept by him for thirty years, recording collections and church
discipline, and texts of his sermons promiscuously. The baptisms
and marriages were recorded at the end of the volume in the same
manner. This volume is succeeded by in interval of thirty years
without any record.* Subsequent to 1727, a record was re-
gularly kept of all parochial matters, excepting funerals. For a
few years after 1727, the sacrament of the Lord's Supper was
not dispensed, under a superstitious notion, from the circum-
stance of the minister committing suicide, that the church was
destined to be engulphed in the surrounding hollow, if that ordi-
nance should be administered.
   Land-owners.-In the end of the fifteenth century, this whole
parish, with the exception of Inverpeffer, belonged to the abbey.
The valued rent of the parish is L.8307, 7s. 5d. Scots money;
and the chief proprietors are, John Hay, Esq. of Lethamgrange,
L.1085 Scots; Lord Panmure, non-resident, L.1200, 5s. 6d.;
Mrs Renny Strachan of Seaton, L. 953 8s. 1d.; James Mu-
die, Esq. of Pitmutes, non-resident, L. 864. There are be-
sides these, the following proprietors, with less extent of valued
rent, resident in their mansion-houses in the parish: Captain Ro-
bert Scott, Abbethune; David Scott, Esq. of Newton; John
Duncan, Esq. of Parkhill; David Louson, Esq. of Springfield;

<FOOTNOTE>Two volumes were said to have been burnt by the wife of a session-clerk for al-
leged ill treatment to her husband.


