
128                      ARGYLESHIRE.

which a few patches have been, cultivated, is improvable, and may
yet, with the other great mosses of the parish, should the resources
of the Highlands come into notice, attract a small share of the
enterprize and capital so lavishly expended on distant r colonies
and foreign lands.  The moss last mentioned, it will be noticed,
is situated similarly to that of Kintra, in so far as to lie betwixt
great lake and the sea, but with this difference, that it is sepa-
rated from both by low hills.  There are many other mosses of
considerable size in the parish.
   Caves.-On the north coast of Ardnamurchan there are several
caves, which are sometimes thought worthy of a visit; as also,
on the shores of Lochnanua, " the Loch of Caves," in Arasaig.
Three of these the writer has entered.  One about 300 feet long
or upwards, enters on the land side of a precipitous mass of rock,
on the farm of Glendrian, in Ardnamurchan, and so nearly ap-
proaches the sea on the other, that the rise and fall of the waves,
as they tumble and boil without, is heard distinctly at its inner
extremity, which is coated with spar.  It is generally extremely
narrow; the sides, which rise to a great height, are far inclined
from the perpendicular, and correspond with the dip of the mica
slate rocks, out of which it seems cleft.  Another, not far to the
eastward, much of the same description, terminates in a small
chamber about ten feet high, and about ten feet by four in length
and breadth, coated with white spar slightly tinged with brown.
The numerous projections on the sides and roof are translucent,
and appear, When lighted, somewhat of an amber colour.  The
sea enters at high water, and access is difficult.  On its first dis-
covery, not a great many years ago by some boys in pursuit of
goats, many stalactites, thick as a man's arm, and several feet
long, hung like icicles from, its roof and sides.  Unfortunately,
the exciseman of the district happened to be a man of taste, and,
impelled by that love so common to tourists, of appropriating
objects, the value of which, any where else but where they are
found, it is difficult to discover.  Accordingly, he broke and took
away all the stalactites.  Another cave, in Suerdale Charrach,
also on the north shores of the same district, no wise remarkable
in itself, was, in past times, visited by sick people for the recovery
of health.  A shadow  cavity, in the interior, contains about a
quart of water, which, though completely removed, soon forms
again in a manner suppose to be miraculous, by oozing through
the moist rock.  Of this the visitor drank, and left, as an offering,


