
                  EDDERTOUN.                               443

ing a candidate for the Ministry in the Church of Scotland, was
licensed by the Presbytery of Dornoch, within whose bounds he
was residing. The parish of Eddertoun becoming vacant about
this time, by the death of Mr Hector Fraser, his father's imme-
diate successor, on the 17th of May 1729, and the patron omitting
to present any person within the six months specified by law, the
"right of planting the said parish" fell into the presbyteries' hands
tanquamjure devoluto; and on the day appointed for moderating
in a call, it appeared that there were three candidates;  Mr Alex-
ander Rose, a licentiate of the presbytery of Aberdeen; Mr John
Sutherland; and Mr Robert Robertson, minister of Loth, in the
county of Sutherland,-a considerable'number of the heritors, el-
ders, and heads of families in the parish voting for each. After a
variety of procedure, unnecessary to be recited here, a Presbyterial
call was given to Mr Robertson, on the 16th April 1730.
   Though Mr Sutherland was not the successful candidate for
Eddertoun, yet his character as a preacher was so high, that in
a few months afterwards be received a call to another parish,
-Golspie' in Sutherlandshire,-and was ordained and admit-
ted there 30th April 1731. That parish was for some time
before the year 1688 a sanctuary, by means of the family of
Sutherland's steady adherence to the interests of religion, and re-
sidence in the parish, to sundry eminent individuals persecuted from
a neighbouring county, for their non-compliance with the imposi-
tions of the times. These refugees might with safety have returned
to their native county immediately after the Revolution, yet such
was their gratitude to the above-mentioned noble family, that they
chose rather to spend the remainder of their days in their respec-
tive callings, under the wings that covered them in their distress.
During the forty years' ministry of Mr Walter Dentine, * Mr Su-
therland's immediate predecessor, religion flourished in the pa-
rish. Mr Dentine had himself, previous to his settlement there,

<FOOTNOTES>When the "United Presbyteries of Ross and Southerland" were disjoined into
three presbyterim, a d erected Into a synod, by their own act, dated "At Tain, 11th
December 1706," Mr Walter Denune, as the oldest minister in the roll, preached
from the third verse of St Jude's Epistle, and was afterwards chosen moderator ofthe
newly erected synod, at its first meeting, on the I8th of March 1707. The synod
at that period consisted of the "Presbytery of Dornoch,"with three members the
"Presbytery of Tain," with four. and the - United Presbyteries of Chanry and
Dingwall." with three members; in all ten members, who were all ministers; the ro.
maining prisbytery being either vacant, or possessed by Episcopal incumbents. There
were also "corresponaents" at this synod from the " Presbytery of Forress and In-
verness," and from the "Presbytery of Elgin, Aberlour and Aberothy,"which in-
creased the number to fiflgen.-Synod-book of Ross and Sutherland, Vol. i.


