
                                 BLAIR-ATHOLL.                       563

ed, and hereby approve thereof, and ordain the same to be reported to the saids Lords
of his Majestie's Exchequer. Extracted by me,-(Signed,) THO. MURRAY, Cls. Reg.
                                                    Edinburgh, 9th July 1680.
     The Lords Commissioners having heard and considered the above written report,
doe ordain and appoint, that before Fascallie's signature, above-mentioned, be past in
Exchequer, the claus anent the forrestrie, therein contained, be deleit and expunged:
As also, that ther be an extract of this report transmitted to his Grace the Duke of
Lauderdale, whereby, for the future, when any such signatures, bearing forrestries,
sal be offered to his Majesty, for his royal hand, whereunto his Majesty may be gra-
ciously pleased to take notice thereof, and to signifie his pleasure to his Exchequer,
it being of a great concerne, both to his Majestie and his liedges.-(Signed), ROTERS,
Cancell, I. P. D.
     "Copie of a letter from the Lords Commissioners of Treasury and Exchequer, to
the Duke of Lauderdale, anent the priveledges of forrestries.-9th July 1680.
                                                           Edinburgh, 9th July 1680.
     "May it please your Grace.-In the last winter sessione, there was presented, to be
past in Exchequer, a signature under his Majestie's royal hand, in favours of one
Robertson of Fascallie, wherein was an action of a forrestrie; which being taken no-
tice of in Exchequer, and not knowing what the priveledge therof might import,
there was a stop put to the passing of that signature, until such time as the Lords
of the Sessione (to whom it was remitted) should give ther opinion in that matter;
which accordingly they gave in this day into the Exchequer. The extract whereof,
with what is resolved thereupon, they have appointed to be transmitted to your Grace,
that you may be pleased to acquaint his Majesty therewith; and, that his royal plea-
sure therin, both as to signatures of the same natur, already past his majestie's hand,
not yet expead in Exchequer, and such as shall happen to be offered hereafter, may,
with your conveniency, be signified unto tbem. May it please your Grace.
                                             Your Grace's most humble servant,
                                             (Signed,) ROTHES, Cancell, I. P. D.
     It is said that there are 7000 red-deer in the Atholl Forest, and
the number is not, over-rated, if the extent of ground, of which they
have the undisturbed possession, be any criterion. The roe-deer
also are numerous in the, different plantations of the country.
     The fox, the wild cat, the martin, the polecat, the weasel, and
the Alpine hare, are common. The rabbit, the squirrel, and the
rat have lately made their way into the country, and have increas-
ed so rapidly as to become troublesome and destructive.
     The eagle has his eyry in the mountains of the Atholl forest.
The kestrel builds his nest in Glentilt, and at the Falls of the
Bruar. Red and black game, the ptarmigan and the plover, and
Partridges are plentiful. The jay and the woodpecker are to be
met with in the plantations of Blair. The oyster-catcher (Hcema-
topus ostralequs) comes up the Garry towards the end of March,
and nestles upon its gravelly banks. The land-rail, the cuckoo, and
the swallow, the woodcock and the fieldfare, are our migratory
birds, and visit the country in their season.
     Botany.---In a tract of country so extensive as this parish, and
with such a variety of soil, and climate, and surface, the number
of indigenous plants may easily be conceived to be very great. Of
the rarer Alpine plants the botanist can scarcely meet with a
more productive field than Beinn-gblo itself. Upon its west side,


