
222			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated in the centre of
the parish, and is most conveniently placed. There are only four
farm, which are distant four miles from the church. The church
was built in 1790, and is in good repair. The sittings in the
church are 224 in number. About 20 of these sittings are given
free of expense to the villagers by Mr Maxwell. All the other sit-
tings are also free. The manse was built in 1804, and is a most
commodious and excellent house. It is kept in good repair; but
as it was buhlt and finished in the best manner at first; it has
required very little outlay since its erection. The offices are
good and commodious. The glebe consists of ten acres of good
land. The stipend is the minimum, as the lands were valued very
low, about the middle of the last century.
	There are only four families of Dissenters in the parish: they
attend the Secession meeting-house in the neighbouring parish
of Urr. All the other families are regular attendants on the pa-
rish church. The average number nf communicants is 180.
There is an annual collection for that excellent institution, the
Dumfries and Galloway Infirmary.
	Education.--There is one school in the parish, situated near
the church. The salary is the maximum, and L.4 are allowed
out of the salary to a small school at the lower end of the parish,
when a school is kept there, which has been the base for some
years past. The farmers built a small house at their own ex-
pense, and the teacher generally lodges alternately with his em-
ployers. The average number of pupils at the two schools is 90.
The Parochial teacher has the legal accommodation and an ex
cellent house.
	All the children upwards of six years of age can read and write,
and are well grounded in arithmetic.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number on the poor's
roll is 8. The collections in the church are about L.12 per an-
num. The session have L.181 in the bank, the amount of dona-
tions from different individuals at different periods. In order that
the poor migbt be more liberally provided for, the heritors have
lately voluntarily assessed themselves in different sums, according
to their respective valuations. Mr Maxwell, who has always paid
particular attention to the poor, has been in the habit of granting
L.10 annually for the relief of the labouring poor. Each pau-
per receives on an average L.1 per quarter; and their houses are
rent-free.


