
216                       WIGTONSHIRE.

going habits. The average number of communicants is about
400.
	There is, at present, no Society for religious purposes. A pa-
rochial Association is on the eve of being formed for promoting
the four schemes of the General Assembly. The average amount
of yearly collections for religious purposes is L.5.
	Education.--There are three schools regularly kept in the pa-
rish; two situated for the accommodation of the children at the
extremities; one on the parochial establishment in the centre of
the parish. English, writing, and arithmetic, are taught in all.
Geography and mathematics are also taught in the school, at the
north end of the parish; and these branches, with French and Latin,
are taught in the parochial school. The parochial teacher's salary is
L.25,13s.--with the legal accommodation of dwelling-house, school-
house, and garden. One of the other teachers receives L.4, be-
ing the interest of a sum bequeathed for the education of poor chil-
dren. The third teacher is entirely dependent on school fees.
The expense of education is 2s. per quarter for English reading
and writing, and 3s. for the higher branches. The children of
paupers are taught gratis. The average number attending the paro-
chial school is about 65; and 90 at the other two. There are no
parts of the parish so distant from the schools as to prevent attend-
ance; and the people are so alive to the benefits of education,
that there are none above six years of age who cannot read, or
above 15 who cannot also write. There are, indeed, four or five adult
individuals who cannot read, or who read but imperfectly; but these
are all from Ireland. No additional schools are required; but the
amount of fees, where this is the only remuneration, is quite too
small to secure the services of an efficient teacher. Great bene-
fits have undoubtedly resulted from the facilities of procuring
education.
	Literature.--A parochial library was instituted in 1836. It al-
ready contains upwards of 600 volumes in religion and general li-
terature.
	Poor, &c.--There is no legal assessment for the poor. They
are supported by church collections and other contributions; by the
interest on sums bequeathed fortheir behoof; but principally by the
alms of the charitable, which they are in the habit of collecting
quarterly. The average number of persons receiving parochial
aid, including eight who are relieved occasionally, is 57; and the
average yearly surn allotted to each is about L.1, 10s. The an-

