
			DUNDEE.                           43

upwards of 100 elders. This is no doubt an anomaly in paro-
chial legislation; but, though attempts have been made to obtain
a change of system, the majority have hitherto declared that, in
this particular, matters shall remain as they are.
   Until lately there were only four seceding congregations in Dun-
dee,-two belonging to the United Secession Church; one to the
Associate Synod of Original Burghers; and one to the Associate
Synod of Original Seceders. In consequence, however, of a division in
electing a minister to the chapel in School Wynd, a party fnrmerly be-
longing to its congregation are at present building a place of worship
in Tay Square. The number belonging to each of these chapels may
be from 700 to 1200. There is also a new and handsome chapel in
connection with the Congregational Union of Scotland, containing
about 1200; a small meeting of Scotch Independents; a Relief
chapel, attended by about 400; a Methodist chapel, with about 500;
an old Scotch Baptist meeting, attended by 300; two other Baptist
parties, averaging from 30 to 50 each; and a pretty large con-
gregation of Glassites, formed originally by Mr John Glass on his
being deposed from the charge of Tealing. The ministers of
these chapels (with the exception of those whose principles prevent
them receiving stipend) are paid by the seat rents, and contribu-
tions from their hearers.

   Dundee possesses two Episcopalian Chapels,--St Paul's, with
two clergymen, and from 400 to 500 hearers; and the New
Chapel, a secession from the former, with one clergyman and
about 100 hearers. There is a Roman Catholic chapel, with
a congregation of about 300, chiefly of the Irish population. The
bishop resides in Edinburgh.

There are about 10,000 communicants in the Established Church,
-a greater number fully than there are sittings in the churches
and chapels. Only a very few free seats are provided for the poor.

A great number of families are, no doubt, most regular, attentive, and
exemplary in waiting upon the public worship of God, and support-
ing every religious and benevolent institution; but at the same
time, from the nature of the population, it must be admitted, that
there are also many who, from their deficiencies in these respects,
scarcely entitle us now to the honourable name which the holy zeal
of the inhabitants procured for the town at the time of the Refor-
mation.

  Religious Societies.-About two years ago, a City Missionary So-
ciety was formed. L.160 has been raised during the last year, by


