
            738                       PERTHSHIRE.

            the father has been regularly succeeded by his eldest son, without
            any collateral descent; and of the fourteen, the first four heads
            of the family were Patrick and David alternately, and the re-
            maining, ten have been Patrick and William alternately.
               The late Honourable Sir Patrick Murray of Ochtertyre, Bart.,
            was born in the year 1771, was twice elected to represent the
            city of Edinburgh in Parliament; was appointed, in 1810, Se-
            cretary to the Board of Commissioners for the affairs of India;
            and, from 1820 to 1837, discharged the duties of a Baron of the
            Exchequer Court in Scotland.  While his talents and attainments
            enabled him to hold these public offices with advantage to the
            commnunity, and with honour to himself, it was especially in the
            character of a country gentleman that Sir P. Murray shone con-
            spicuous.  There his active and intelligent mind sought and found
            full scope for its exercise; and the judgment and taste with which
            he improved and adorned his own property-the attention which
            he bestowed on all the public interests of the neighbourhood-and
            the kindly and highly hnnourable feelings with which be dis-
            charged the public duties of his situation, will long perpetuate
            his name, and preserve the remembrance of his worth in the dis-
            trict in which be lived.  To him, chiefly, Perthshire is indebted
            for many of the splendid lines of road which now intersect and
            adorn its rugged and formerly inaccessible districts, and to his
            example must, in no small degree, be traced the rise of that spirit
            and taste with which the landed proprietors of the county have
            improved and embellished their domains.  He closed his highly
            honourable and useful life on Ist June 1837.
               The Right Honourable Sir George Murray, brother of Sir P. Mur-
            sign in 1788, rose rapidly, by his distinguished talents and bra-
            very, to the highest posts, and after having served in Europe,
            Africa, and America,-discharged various important diplomatic
            missions,-acted as Quartermaster-General to the English Army
            during the whole of the contact in the Peninsula and south of
            France, and been engaged in most of the eventful scenes and com-
            flicts of the last war, he obtained, at its close, the rank of Lieu-
            tenant-General in the Brhtish Army, and the order of a Knight
            of the Bath, in addition to many honours conferred upon him by
            foreign princes.   Sir G. Murray then proceeded as Governor-
            General to Canada, and returning to Europe in July, 1815, was
            appointed Chief of the, General Staff of the Allied Army Of Oc-
                                             4

