
40                            AYRSHIRE.

within a few years back, * and there is reason to believe that, with-
in little more than half a century ago, it formed the only road
that was used for communication betwixt Ayr, and Galloway, and
Dumfries-shire. Whether it was brought to Ayr, from its being
at that time a town, a sea-port, or a military station, appears
uncertain, though one or other of these may probably have
formed the motive. It is far from being likely that it was made
to run in this direction, either for shortness or convenience, since
both the nearest and most level line to the Clyde, after passing
Dalmellington, would have been by old Cumnock, Irvine, and
Largs.
	Battle-Fields.--On considering the above magnificent relic of Ro-
man greatness, and other Roman antiquities that have been found in
this parish, it appears evident that Ayr must have been a station
of considerable importance, while the Romans held possession of
the country. There are manifest indications that the whole of
the lower part along the sea coast, from river to river, had been
the scene of some great struggle in which the Romans and the
nathves of the island were combatants, and that probably in
more than one conflict. Throughout the whole of this space, Ro-
man and British places of sepulture are found, with Roman ar-
mour, swords, lances, daggers, and pieces of mail, and brazen
camp-vessels, intermixed with British urns of rude baked clay,
hatchet and arrow heads, and other implements of warfare used
by the Caledonians. One of the largest and most beautiful of
these urns was found some years ago, near the banks of the Doon,
among a collection of ancient bones,--

                    --"beneath the cairn
	   Where hunters found the murdered bairn."

We have seen a very antique Tuscan-shaped pitcher, in possession
of a gentleman in Ayr, that was found many years ago on the top
of the rock in the Townn head-quarry, thirty or forty feet under the
present surface of the ground, along with a kettle that has since
been lost. What is somewhat remarkable, the pitcher when found
was filled with sea shells, and has the appearance of having been
glazed, which has been thought by some to militate against its
claims to a Roman origin. We believe, however, it has been
pretty clearly ascertained that the Romans were well acquainted

<FOOTNOTE>Those who wish further information on the subject, may consult Chalmer's Ca-
ledonia, Vol. iii. Ayrshire.


