
                      SOUTH UIST.                       185

   mach complaints, enhanced no doubt by the general excessive
   use of tobacco, in every shape, when it can possibly be obtained.
   Notwithstanding this, there are many instances of longevity, be-
   tween 80 and 100 years.
      Hydrography.--There are not many good springs of water in
   this parish.  The water is generally soft, and partakes of the quali-
   ty of the lakes by which the springs are surrounded.  The water
   in the hilly parts is of a brown colour, being tinged by the moss
   through which it flows, but is found wholesome.  It is pro-
   per to observe here, that a chain, of lakes runs almost all the
   length, of the parish.  The largest, named Loch Bee, is about
   three miles in length, and a mile in breadth, being about two fa-
   thoms deep in the deepest parts.  The sea enters this lake in
   spring-tides, so that it not only abounds in fine trout, but also in
   flounder and mullet, a most delicious fish, called in Gaelic, Jasg
   drimionn, which is not found in any other part of the parish.  It
   is a sucking fish, with large scales, the stomach of which is like
   the gizzard of a common hen.  The lake next in size to Loch Bee
   is named Loch Druidibeg, situated a little to the north of Heackle.
   It is very little inferior to the other in size, and furnishes a copi-
   ous stream of water to the principal mill in the parish.  On this
   lake there are several small islets, on which there is plenty of gull
   goose, and duck eggs found in the months of May and June,
   every year.  These islets were, some years ago, much frequented
   by deer; but there is none now to be seen in the whole parish but
   one hind, the rest having disappeared, and found their way to
   North Uist.  Besides these two lakes, there is an immense num-
   ber of smaller lakes on the west side, and in the moor of the three-
   islands of which the parish is composed, especially the largest.
      There are only two streams in which salmon find their way from
   the lakes to the sea, and vice versa; but the fishing is inconsidera-
   ble.  The lakes in the moor abound in black trout of a watery,
   insipid taste; but in most of the lakes on the west side, surround-
   ed by arable land, and haveng, a sandy or muddy,bottom, the
   trout are of a delicious flavour, weighing between one and three
   pounds.
      Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks are of the, primitive
   class.  There are no ores, no marble, limestone, sandstone, or
   slate, (with the exception of some grey, coarse slate in small
   island on the east side called Staslay); but rocks of, consisting of
   gneiss, coarse granite, and hornblende rock.  Some mica-slate.
      INVERNESS.			   N


