
344		   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

have been executed and additions built at different periods. The
last repairs and additions were made in 1835. The manse is
now a handsome and substantial building, and is both comfortable
and commodious. And it is but justice to state, that the heritors
have been most liberal. The situation of the manse is much
admired. It stands on an eminence about 150 yards from the
sea, and commands a most extensive view. Although it is about
70 feet above the level of the sea, four churches, twelve parishes,
and the Isle of Man may be seen from the front door.
	Glebe.--The glebe contains nearly thirty acres. About the
half of it is arable, the other half is very rough, steep, and rocky,
and about seven acres of it are under wood. Some fields have
lately been cleared of stones, and new fences built, and some other
improvements made, which will soon render it more valuable. ln
the meantime it is worth L.20 per annum. As the glebe lies
along a flat shore, it is capable of being greatly extended by warp-
ing and embanking. There are at least forty acres that might be
reclaimed in this way.
	Stipend.--The stipend of this parish is sixteen chalders, half
meal, and half barley ;--a part of it has been commuted (into
money) to the amount of L.104, including, L. 8, 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements.
	Dissenters.--There is one place of worship in Creetown belong-
ing to the Seceders. It will hold about 300. It is reported that
the minister's stipend is about L. 80, and is paid by the congre-
gation.
	Divine service is in general well attended at both places of wor-
ship; and, in addition to the usual service during the day, there
is sermon regularly in the parish church on Sabbath evening, and
a lecture every Thursday evening at seven o'clock. Tracts are
distributed monthly; and Sabbath schools and prayer meetings in
connection with both congregations. The Lord's Supper is dis-
pensed twice a-year in each place of worship.* It is hoped by the
diligent and prayerful use of all these means much good may be,
done.
	There are 27 families belonging to the Seceders; 27 to the
Roman Catholics; 1 to the Episcopalians; 1 to the Cameroni-
ans; 340 to the Church of Scotland.+ The average number of

<FOOTNOTE>It is now dispensed thrice in the Seceders.
          +Dissent has r`ther increased since the unfortunate secession from the Church of
Scotland in May 1843. There are a few " Free Kirk' adherents in Creetown.


