
                         BOTHWELL.                             795

   The usual rotation of cropping when the last statistical report
was prepared, was, summer fallow, limed or dunged.  First year,
wheat; second, pease; third, oats sown with grass, cut one year
or two, and pastured as many, or instead of oats the third year,
barley, prepared with frequent ploughing and dunging, and laid
down with grass seeds.  At present there can scarcely be said to
be any regular rotation generally followed.  On a farm, say of
84 acres, the mode of cropping adopted is pretty much, as under
8 acres wheat; 2 potatoes; 10 pease and beans; 10 hay; 25
oats; 8 fallow; 21 pasture.
  There are in the parish 346 horses charged on the Statute Labour
Act, at 13s. 6d. per horse, assessed on land; 33 charged at
the same rate, not assessed on land, in all 379 horses, paying an
annual tax of L. 233, 13s. 10 1/2d.  The number of cows kept is
about 1000, and of the 12,044 arable acres English, upwards of two-
fifths are in pasture.  The number of pigs may amount to about
600.  The dairy cows are almost all of the Lanarkshire variety
of the Ayrshire breed ; a description of which is given in the account
of the parish of Hamilton.  The lower parts of the parish
are well enclosed.  The usual duration of leases is nineteen years.
The farm-houses, are, for the most part, neither so good nor comfortable
as they ought to be.  There are some, however, both commodious
and in good repair.
   In place of horses, the late Lord Douglas occasionally employed
oxen at Bothwell Castle, in agricultural labour.  By a careful
examination, and comparative estimate, made by Mr Creech, his
Lordship's late highly  intelligent manager, the following interesting
facts were ascertained:
   " An ox at the price of L. 7, 10s. is equally strong in draught
with a horse at L. 20, and equally fit for the plough, cart, or harrow.
  The ox requires one-fourth less fodder than the horse, and only
a little unthreshed oats, from an eighth to a sixth of what is requisite
to support the horse; and if 14lbs. of raw potatoes be given
to the ox in a day, he will require no oats, and will not consume
more than half the fodder eaten by the horse.  The ox may be
wrought from four to ten years of age, and still encrease in size, and
be capable of carrying more flesh when he is turned out to fatten,
whereas the horse in that time will lose much of his value.  The
ox may be turned to pasture in summer, as soon as he is taken
from the yoke, and will gather his own food without requiring any


