
288                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

coast district of the Mearns. During winter, flocks from the
mountains are pastured on the lowlands, at a fixed rent for the
season; and grass enclosurds are rented by the acre for summer
grazing of cattle.

        Husbandry.-The alternations of cropping usually adopted are
the fourth and fifth-shifts, according to the character of the soil,
and the command of manure. The proportion of land employ-
ed, about thirty years ago, in the cultivation of wheat, was very
nearly one-tenth part of the whole arable surface, and this pro-
portion amounted to about two-fifths of the entire surface sown
with wheat within the county. At present, about one sixtieth part
of the arable land in the parish is laid out in the production of this
kind of grain. Beans, pease, and barley also, enter less exten-
sively into the system of cropping than formerly, while the breadth
sown with potatoes is relatively greater than that in any parish in
the county. Flax is not now cultivated. Barley and oats are
sown in the proportion of about one acre of the former to three
of the latter. On some of the upland farms, no barley is sown
at all.
	Leases are, for the most part, held at a fixed rent in money,
and for a period of nineteen years. The farm-dwellings are sub-
stantial and comfortable, and the farm-offices usually slated, and
fitted up in a very superior manner.
	The lands have been, in most instances, subdivided with regu-
larity; but there are few enclosures, hedge-rows, or belts of wood,
excepthnf in the immediate vicinity of the principal mansion-
houses, and the richest tracts of land in the parish are destitute of
shelter and permanent fence of any description. In these respects,
and in the want of more capacious and comfortable cottages for
the farm-labourer, the chief obstacles to improvement appear to
be experienced. *

<FOOTNOTE>Among the names mentioned in connexion with the earlier agricultural im-
provements of the county are those of William Graham, Esq. of Morphy, in this pa-
rish; Sir Alexander Ramsay of Balmain, whose improvements were more or less ex-
tended over all the lands of which he was proprietor, including those of Snadon, in,
this parish, and Robert Scott, Esq. of Dunninald, whose improvements on the firm
of Milton, also in this parish, form, with a single exception, the earliest instance on
record of the introduction of the modern system of husbandry into the county. Mr
Scott became, in 1750, tenant of that farm, and of the lime-works on it, and from
that period carried an his improvements with so much vigour and success, that his
plans came to be generally adopted throughout the parish, and in the short space of
twenty years, the rent of land rose from 10s. and 15s. to L.1, 10s., and in some in-
stances to L.2 an acre. More recently, the state of the parish, as to agricultural im-
provement, ir described as having been such, that " though there are two or three per-



