
                              PAISLEY.                            207

monastery, with its extensive orchards and gardens, and a small
park for fallow-deer, were surrounded by a magnificent wall of cut
stone, upwards of a mile in circumference.  This wall was built in
the reign of James III. in 1485, by George Shaw, Abbot of Pais-
ley, as appears from the following inscription on the west wall of
the house, at the angle formed by Lawn Street and Incle Otmet.

            THEI CALLIT YE ABBOT GEORG OF SCHAWE,
            ABOUT YIS ARBAY GART MAK THIS WAW ;
            A THOUSANDE FOUR HUNDRETH ZHEYR,
            AUCHTY ANDE FYVE, THE DATE BUT VEIR:
            +            *     *                *

           THAT MADE THUS NOBIL FOUNDACIOUN.

   Spottiswood takes notice of another inscription.  "In one of
the corners of this curious wall, towards the outer side, there was
a niche, with a statue of the Virgin Mary, with this distich en-
graven under her feet.

          Hac ne vade via, nisi dixeris ave Maria,
          Sit semper sine vae, qui tibi dicit ave."/f++

The wall, indeed, seems to have been adorned at frequent in-
terval, with statues. ++
   At the Reformation, the rental of the Monastery of Paisley, as
reported to Government in January 1561-2, amounted to L. 2468
in money ; 72 chalders and 4 bolls of meal ;  40 chalders and 11
bolls of bear ; 42 chalders, 1 boll, 1 firlot, and 1 peck of oats; and
706 stones of cheese; and at that time not less than twenty-nine
parish churches belonged to this monastery. S  After the Refor-
mation, the abbacy was secularized by the Pope, in favour of Lord
Claud Hamilton, third son of the Duke of Chatelherault ; and

<FOOTNOTE>Historians have supplied the part of the inscription which is effaced, in conse-
quence of which, the whole is given as under:
     " John Murdo, sum tym callit was 1,
     And born in Parysse certainly,
     And had in keping all mason werk
     Of Santandrays, ye hye kirk
     Of Glasgu, Melros, and Paslay,
     Of Nyddsdall, and of Galway :
     I pray to God and Mary bath,
     And sweet St John kep this haly kirk fra skaith."
          Semple thinks the line " pray for his salvation" was obliterated between 1710 and
1735.
          See Renfrewshire Character and Scenery, published in 1824, p 35.
          Quod (monasterium) magnificentissimo muro, quadro penitus lapide pulcher-
rimis ac crebro, eminentibus statuis ultra mille passus undique cingebatur.  Lealaeus,
as quoted in notes to Reafrewshire Characters and Scenery.
          Chalmer's Caled.  Vol. iii p. 826.
          Long before this period, free use seems, at times, to have been made of the pro-
perty of ecclesiastics.  The following is an extract of a letter, "from Dr Magnus to
Cardinal Wolsey, dated at, Edinburgh, 22d December 1524,"-" The good Abbot of


