
                               PETTIE                           387

  It was on this occasion that Duncan Forbes Provost of Inverness,
the first of the Culloden family, went to London with a remon-
strance to the King against the oppressive proceedings of the Earl
of Moray: and it might have been, both on account of the annoy-
ance which they received from the Earl of Moray at this period,
and as an acknowledgement of what they owed to the friendship of
the provost and inhabitants of Inverness, that the Mackintoshes, in
1626, sold their estate of Culloden to Duncan Forbes. In the ge-
nealogy of the family of Forbes by M. Lumsden, (reprinted with
additions at Inverness in 1819, by the latd Major Duff of Muirtown,)
we are informed, that, when this purchase took place, the old "cas-
tle was built up but to the second story, and that this estate was
afterwards much enlarged bv the purchase of lands contiguous,
made from Lord Moray, Lord Lovat, the town of Inverness, Rose
of Altirlies, and Rose of Kilravock. * It is a curious fact, that it
was never known which half of Altirlies belonged to either proprie-
tor; and there is an elder in this parish, Mr David Fraser, late
of Breachnish, who recollects that his father, and all the tenants,
in paying their rent in kind, used to go with the one-half to Bal-
nain, and with the other to Culloden House.
   Next in importance, in territorial extent, to the property of
Culloden, was that of Flemington, at the period when the former
Statistical Account was written. In the notice of the seventh
laird of Kilravock, in the manuscript to which I have already re-
ferred, it is said, "this Hucheon was the king's tenant on the lands
of Flemington, Easter Brachlie and Hallhill, within the lord-
ship of Pettie." A gentleman possessed of intimate knowledge,
of the antiquities of the province of Moray, writes to me, "there
are symptoms of Flemish intercourse, and even of Flemish co-

<TABLE>

         James Cuthbert of Aldtirlies,	  .     .    L.846 0 0
         William Macintosh of Holme,	      .        142 6 8
         William Ros of Kilrack,     .          .      255 0 O
  Mr Macqueen conjectures the original to have been prepared early in the seven-
teenth century. It is probably the Macintoshes mentioned bore whom Lord Moray
dispossessed.

<FOOTNOTE>The first trace we can find of the title to one-half of Altirlies, Breaknish, and
fishings, is a charter under the Great Seal, dated 20th January, and sealed 8th Fe-
bruary 1688, in favour of George Cumming, merchant-burgess of Inverness, and
Robert Ross, name-son of the Provost of the burgh. On the death of James Cum-
ming, (son of George) the succession opened to James Hay Cumming. his son, who
on 1Oth September 1723, disponed the lands to Alexander Mackintosh of Termit. In
1723-25, he sold the lands and fishings for 7000 merks to John Forbes of Culloden,
elder brother of the Lord President. The lands of Cullernies, of which the Earl of
Moray is superior, came into the possession of the family of Culloden in 1730; and
about 1768, the other half of Altirlies, of which the superior is Fraser of Balnain,
was purchased by John Forbes of Culloden, great grandfather of the present proprie-
tor, Arthur Forbes, Esq.


