
                           LOGIE.                          431

The shortness of leases, too, is a great discouragement to en-
terprising farmers. For if a farm be in bad order when entered
to, or need much draining, or require to be inclosed, a period of
nineteen years, the almost universal term of leases, does not admit
of a sufficient return for much capital expended in such improve-
ments; and without these, the farm cannot be so productive as it
would otherwise be, so that short leases, and even those of nine-
teen years, must be unfavourable both to proprietors and tenants.
A lease of twenty-five or thirty years would certainly give greater
encouragement to enterprise and improvement.
  Live-Stock.-There are, on the different farms, 121 horses, 90
milk cows, 257 cattle from one to three years old, 114 pigs, 630
sheep. Many of the horses used in husbandry are reared upon
the farms. They are not remarkably large, but well-shaped, stout,
and active. A pair of work horses is required for every fifty acres.
Iron ploughs are almost universally used. But as our roads are ra-
ther hilly, there are few single horse carts. Cattle also are, in general,
reared upon the farms, at the rate of about fifteen per 200 acres.
A regular proportion of these is fattened in winter by turnip,
and then sold to the butcher at three years old. It may be more
profitable to feed and sell them so young, but their flesh cannot
be so good or nutritive as at a more mature aae. Some farmers
however, instead of rearing, buy in stock, and so either buy and
sell at all ages, or buy so as to feed at four or five years old. The
cattle reared are what is called the Fife breed, generally of a black
colour, well-shaped, sometimes of great size and weight. A cross
with the Teeswater breed has been tried, but it does not seem to
be much approved of. The cows are not first-rate milkers, but the
dairy is not much counted upon. The few sheep kept only on
three farms are of various breeds,-black faced, Highland, Cbe-
viot, and Leicester, and crosses.
  Farm-houses and steadings are tolerably good, though not, in
general, equal to the extent of the farms, and to the capital, indus-
try, and enterprise of the occupiers. The cottages are very poor
uncomfortable habitations, but what have been lately built are con-
siderably improved.
  Wages.-The rate of wages is for men about 9s. a week in sum-
mer, and 8s. a week in winter; for women, by whom much field
work is done, 4s. a week; for wrights, smiths, and masons from
12s. to 15s. a week.


