
                     AUCHTERMUCHTY.                      785

one of the best and most comfortable manses in the presbytery.
The church was built in 1780, but in 1838 the patron made an ad-
dition at his own individual expense (upwards of L.500) by which
nearly 400 additional sittings were added. The church now accom-
modates 900 sitters. It is well attended; the number of commu-
nicants is nearly 600. There are three meeting-houses in the pa-
rish besides, viz. two in connection with the United Secession
Church, and one belonging to the Relief. They may accommo-
date 1200 sitters, and are all well attended.
   Education.-There are six schools in the parish, of which five are
in tbe town of Auchtermuchty and one at Dunshelt. Three of them,
besides the parochial school, are partially endowed by public sub-
scription or private munificence. The parochial schoolmaster's sa-
lary is the maximum; the school fees on an average do not ex-
ceed L.20 per annum, and his other emoluments as session-clerk
and kirk treasurer are about L.12.
   Savings Bank.-There is a savings bank in the parish. It was
established upwards of twenty years ago, and has been eminently
successful. There are 490 depositors, and the sum lying at in-
terest on the 31st of December 1840, was L.3028, 9s. The
benefit of the bank is not confined to persons residing in the pa-
rish, but is extended to the surrounding district ; and, accordingly,
a majority of the depositors are from the parishes of Strathmiglo,
Falkland, Collessie, and the surrounding country. During the
year 1840 nearly L.300 was added to the stock.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at present
upon the poor's roll is 62, exclusive of occasional poor, as also
those on the list of the female society. The expenditure for the
year ending at the 1st of April 1841 was L.293, 15s. 6d. The
average aid given to each is about 6s. per month, but in some
cases much more-and few or none have below 4s. per, month. In
most cases, a house rent of L.1, 5s, is also allowed, and in few
parishes are the wants of the poor better attended tn than here.
The contributions for the support of the poor in this parish have
hitherto been made up of a voluntary assessment upon the land-
ward heritors, and the collections at the church doors, which
amount to about L.30 yearly; but since the burden of support-
ing the poor has become so heavy of late years upon the landed
heritors, several of whom have refused to pay their share of the
assessment, a legal assessment was imposed in September last upon
all heritable property in the parish.

   January 1843.
   FIFE.                              3D


