
                        KILSYTH.                              147

inch burns, which flow from the same fountain at Burnhead, on
West-side farm, to the south of the Corrie-hill.
   Springs.-There is no district, where there is a greater abund-
ance of springs of wholesome water. Wellshot, opposite Auchin-
volle, St Mirron's well, south of Woodend, and Kitty-fristy well,
on the hill-road to Stirling, known to all foot-passengers, are power-
ful springs, of most delicious water. The town is chiefly supplied
by conductors from the Barwood, south-east of the town. The mi
neral spring at Dovecot wood is now scarcely perceptible. There
is one in the glen near Garrel mill.
   Botany.-Our romantic glens of Garrel, Colzium, Old Place,
&c. have not, so far as I know, been minutely explored by the
professed botanist. The Camosie glens have been more fre-
quented, being nearer Glasgow, and more easy of access. The
sloe, hawthorn, hyacinth, wild rasp, the elder, the bramble, and
the hazel prevail. The scented woodruff is to be found in our
rocky glens. Much has been done, of late years, in the planting
of trees, which, with inclosures and neat farm-houses, has given
quite a new aspect to this parish.
  There are a few fine specimens of aged yew trees at Townhead,
near the loch, and a very few oaks of no great size. * The plan-
tations at Ruchhill in the East Barony, and in the West Barony
near Corrie, Lossit, Old Place, &c. are thriving and beautiful.
We cannot boast of fruit trees. It is the early and successful
cultivation of the most useful Solanum tuberosum (potato,) on
which the fame of this parish, in so far as botany is concerned, chief-
ly depends. "It not only gave birth to the gentleman who first
introduced the culture of potatoes into this country, but it was the
scene of his earliest experiments." The gentleman referred to
was Robert Graham, Esq. of Tamrawer, in the East Barony. It
was in the year 1739, that he commenced this work or utility.
Before the period, he and others had raised the potato in the
garden; but there was a prejudice against raising it in the field.
He planted half an acre of ground on the croft of Neifstone, to
the north of the town of Kilsyth, where he at that time resided
as factor on the estate of Kilsyth. This excited the attention of

<FOOTNOTE> What has been regarded as a great curiosity in natural history, may be here no-
ticed. An ivy of considerable size, growing without support of wall or wood extra-
neous to itself, doubling, over and over, with a large shrubby head waving in the
wind, and braving all weathers, stands near the front of the manse. The solution is,
that the offices stoodd there till 1816, on one end of which the ivy clung. The wall
being removed, the ivy supported itself, till las winter, or early in spring, when the
high winds were too powerful, and it is now no more.


