
                                    BENDOCHY.                      1183

       of the parish, grouse and blackcock.  In the hill of Persie, the
       Turdus torquatus, the mountain ouzel, builds.  The mountain
       ouzel, and the spotted flycatcher, I consider our ornithological ex-
       tremes, and the fact of their being found in the parish may indi-
       cate its variety of climate and altitude above the level of the sea,
       to the attentive student of ornithology.
         The fox, badger, otter, weasel, ermine, foumart, and squirrel
       are found in the parish, and rarely the Felis sylvestris, or wild cat.
       The mole is nearly extirpate,  but in its, place another " miner of
       the soil," the rabbit, has made its appearance, and is multiplying
       rapidly. The common hare abounds, and sometimes the Lepas
       variabilis, alpine hare, is to be met with in the Highland part of
       the parish.  The roe (Cervus capreolus) is frequent in the planta-
       tions on Persie hill where it breeds, and in the same neighbour-
       hood occasionally in the winter season, a red deer, (Cervus Ela-
       phus), that has wandered from the herds of Caenlochan.
         In the Isla and Ericht the Salmo Salar, the common salmon, is
       found in considerable abundance ; the Salmo Trutta and Eriox
       more sparingly.  New light has been lately shed on the natural
       history of the Salmonidae by the discoveries of Shaw and Young,
       and the ichthyologists will require to alter their terminology to
       meet the new facts that have been elicited.  The par, long of
       doubtful extraction, seems now, as the precursor of the samlet, to
       merit the protection of an act of Parliament.  The Salmo Trutta
       and the S. Eriox frequent our streams, but not in great numbers.
       The common trout, pike, perch, and eel are found in our rhvers, and
       very rarely the Petromyzon fluviatilis, the river lamprey, and
       Platessa flesus, or flounder.
         Botany.-I have examined with much care the phaenerogamous
       botany of this parish, and believe that the following catalogue con-
       tains almost every plant found in it of interest to the botanical col-
       lector. From its geological features, from its variety of climate and
       altitude above the level of the sea, the botanist will infer that its
       flora must necessarily be various, and extensive.  If he will add to
       it the adjoining parish of Coupar Angus, (in which five or six plants
       occur not found, in this parish,) he wilt have the botany of a sec-
       tion of country extending from the base of the Sidlawa, across
       the valley of Strathmore, and over the first tier of the Grampien
       range.  It may be considered important, as embrassing the vegeta-
       tion of a large central district in Strathmore, the botanical trea-
       sures of which have, as far as I know, never been recorded. In


