
304                     PORPARSHIRE.

bread, potatoes, and butcher-meat occasionally. On the whole,
they seem contented and happy with their lot.

           IV.-INDVSTRY.

  Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The number of acres in the
parish, either cultivated or occasionally in tillage, is 2850. The
land under wood may amount to about 900 acres, besides which
there are about 120 lying in a state of waste. The total number
of acres in the parish thus amounts to 3870.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is about L. 1,
3s. per acre. The average rent nf grazing per ox or cow is L. 1,
12s.; per ewe or full-grown sheep, 8s.
  Rate of Wages.-The yearly wages of farm-servants is from
L. 10 to L. 12, with their meal and milk. Daily wages, winter
and summer, about Is. 7d.
  Price of Raw Produce, &c.-The average price of wheat for the
last seven years has been L. 2, 16s. 6d.; of barley, L. 1, I Os., and
oats L. 1, 3s., all per imperial quarter; potatoes, per boll, (32
stones) 9s.; hay per stone, 6d.; butter per lb. 7 1/2d; cheese
per stone, 5s.; eggs per dozen, 5d.; mason work per rood, all
materials supplied, L. 1, 12s.; carpenter work per day, 2s. 3d.
  Live-Stock.-The common breed of cattle in this parish is the
black Angus-shire.  There are but few sheep, and these of the
common black-face, with a few of the Cheviot, Leicester, and
South Down breeds.
  Husbandry.-The general character of the husbandry in this
parish is now excellent,-the tenants being all bound to a rotation
to suit the quality of the land. All the waste land, in any respect
fit for tillage, is improved; and all the arable land is properly
drained, or in process of being drained, by sewers, not less than
five feet deep, and by open ditches of a proper depth, to take off
the water from the covered drains. There are about three or four
miles. of embankments on the Rivers Esk and Lemno, to prevent
them overflowhnf the adjacent grounds. The general duration of
leases is nineteen years, and this is supposed to be the most favour-
able term for the tenant. Farming, on the whole, is carried on in
the parish after the most approved plan. Since 1805, few parishes
have made a more visible improvement in husbandry than Oath-
law, and previous to this few were  more backward.
  Improvements.-Within the last thirty years, much waste land
has been reclaimed, and a great deal of draining has been execut-


