
    74                         PERTHSHIRE.

      Interment of the Dead.--The heathen made it unlawful to inter
   the dead within the precincts of their cities, that the sacred places
   there might not be defiled.  Accordingly, their usual practice
   was to inter in the suburbs, and on the sides of the highways.
   The early Christians acted in conformity with the established cus-
   tom.  But, before the end of the fourth century, they, influenced
   by feelings of piety, or rather of superstition, endeavoured to have
   their churches made receptacles for their dead, particularly for those
   of them who had been of distinguished Christian character.  This
   the Emperor Theodosius opposed, and published against it an or-
   dinance, declaring that every one found guilty of it should be sub-
   jected to a mulct, "tertia in futurum patrimonii parte mulctetur."
   But the notion, that the souls of the departed would be thereby
   benefited, became prevalent, and was in no small degree strength-
   ened by the introduction of the Popish doctrine of worshipping or
   paying homage to the dead and their relics.  Accordingly, in the
   thirteenth century, kirk burial was an object which the Roman
   Catholic population everywhere anxiously and devoutly sought
   after.  The state of the under ground in the old churches in this
   county, particularly in those in which the rites of the Catholic
   faith were observed, afford abundant proof how prevalent the su-
   perstitious practice was.
      In the under ground of St John's Church of Perth, the quanti-
   ty of skulls and other bones is throughout so great, that one might
   conclude it to have been the charnel-house of the city.  But soon
   after the Reformation in 1560, the gross superstition which occa-
   sioned and encouraged the practice began to subside ; and in
   Scotland measures were speedily adopted for its prevention.  In
   1588, the General Assembly issued a prohibition against its con-
   tinuance.  The matter was immediately taken up by the kirk-ses-
   sion of Perth, as the following will sbew:--"Decimo die mensis
   Januarii anno domini millesimo quingentesinio octuagesimo octavo :
   Whilk day the bailies of the burgh of Perth conveened, understand-
   ing that by an act of Parliament  * and General Assembly, it is or-
   dained that there shall be no persons buried in the kirks of this
   realm, nor the floors thereof be altered or broken to that effect,
   for sundry good causes and effects mentioned in the said act, which
   the bailies, council, and deacons of crafts, ministers, and elders
   foresaids being minded to cause to be observed, have, according
   thereto, ordained and ordains that the kirk floor of the burgh shall

   <FOOTNOTE>This act of Parliament I cannot discover.


