
               	     MEIGLE.                                    237

	      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.-Meigle is a market-town, but has now no regular
weekly market. Lately it has had a fortnight tryst for the sale of
cattle, which is well attended. It has also two fairs in the year,
for cattle and horses, and ordinary traffic, when a considerable mul-
titude assemble. The nearest market-town is Cupar Angus, five
miles distant, but Dundee (13 miles) is the principal market-town,
and port for shipping of grain. The quantity of grain and of po-
tatoes sold is not ascertained, but is very considerable.
   Means of Communication- Meigle has a post-office, and three
post-runners daily. There are about six miles of turnpike-road
in the parish. Every lawful day a coach runs to and from Edin-
burgh and Aberdeen, by Perth and Queensferry, and one from
Blairgowrie,-and one from Cupar Angus, to meet the rail-road
coach, to and from Dundee, at Newtyle, (two miles from Meigle)
three times a week.
   A very old bridge over the Dean connects Meigle with Airly,
in the county of Forfar. A well-built bridge has lately been erect-
ed by subscription over the Isla, connecting this parish with Alyth.
Bridges over the burn of Meigle, and over-drains, are kept in good
repair, as are the fences.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the church is convenient
for the people. Its distance from the extremities of the parish is
from two to three miles. The church is in pretty good repair. Two
bishops of Dunkeld, and two Presbyterian ministers of the seven-
teenth century, are buried in the north aisle. The church affords
accommodation for about 700 persons. Tenants, and householders
have seats free, but, owing to the great inequality of the popula-
tion on different properties, some seats are let.
   The manse was built in 1809-10. The glebe, exclusive of gar-
den, house stances and roads, is about 5 1/2 acres of good soil, and
worth L. 17 or L. 18 yearly. The stipend is 14 chalders meal
and barley, vicarage worth about L. 3, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements.
   There are no chapels of ease, or other places of worship in
the parish, except an Episcopalian chapel, whose minister is paid
by his people. He has two other chapels. There are 23 Epis-
copalians, and 38 Presbyterian Dissenters in the parish.
   Divine service in the parish church is generally well attended.
The average number of communicants is from 390 to 400. There is
no society for religious and charitable purposes, but charity inva-


