
376                       LANARKSHIRE.

Campbell, collector of his Majesty's customs at Port-Glasgow,
whose descendant, Mr Walter Campbell of Shawfield, sold it in
1788 to Mr Robert Houston Rae of Little Govan. It does not
appear that any of the proprietors took the title of Shawfield, but
the Hamiltons, Crawfords, and Campbells.
	Next to the town on the east, and along the side of the river,
is the estate of Farme. It is said to have been once the private
property of some of the Stuarts, Kings of Scotland. It after-
wards belonged to the family of Crawford, who naming it from
themselves called it Crawford Farme. It soon afterwards came
into the possession of Sir Walter Stewart of Minto, who dwelt in
the castle about the year 1645. He is reported to have been a
gentleman of extraordinary prudence and humanity, and during the
commotions of the times, to have obtained many favours for Ru-
therglen. The Flemings had it for some time in their possession,
and at length it came into the Hamilton family. It is now called
Farme, and was purchased by Mr Farie, father of Mr James Farie,
the present proprietor, from the Duke of Hamilton. On the estate,
and nearly in the middle of the beautiful lawn, the ancient castle,
now the family seat of Mr Farie, is situated. The period in which
it was built is unknown, but the thick walls, the narrow and irregu-
larly placed windows, the strong battlements, &c. are evidences
of its antiquity, and that it was erected as a place of strength.
Being kept in excellent repair, it is wholly habitable, and may
continue for ages to come, a beautiful pattern of the manner in
which the habitations of the powerful barons of Scotland were an-
ciently constructed. Mr Farie has built a suitable addition to the
castle; and, to prevent his laids from being injured by inundations,
has raised a bank at the river along his property.
	In May 1792, one of the principal rooms in the old castle was
repaired. The workmen having pulled down an old stucco ceiling,
discovered another of timber under it. On the beams, which had
been long covered up, several lines were written in old English
characters, in the style of precepts, one of which was, "Fair speech
in presence with good report in absence, and manners even to fel-
lowship obtains great reverence; written in the year 1325.
	Farther up the Clyde is Hamilton Farme, the property of Miss
Sommerville. Near to Hamilton Farme is Morrieston, the pro-
perty of Mr Joseph Bain; and Rosebank, the property of the heirs
of the late-Mr David Dale.
	In the higher parts of the parish are some considerable estates,


