
                                   AYR.                         35

thing now remains but its tower, to which the west end of it was
conjoined. Its from, however, may still be traced faintly by a
careful survey of the ground on which it stood. The tower ter-
minated at the top in two gables of a triangular form, as appears
from a map wit a figure of it, made in  the reign of William III.
In 1778, it was though proper to remove these gables, and to erect
a parapet in place of them, with turrets at each corner, to give it a
more modern apperance. This was done at the expense of St
John's Lodge of Free Masons in Ayr, and in this form it now stands.
The church of Ayr was originally a rectory of considerable im-
portance, a vey richly endowed. A Mr David Livingstone,
the rector of Ayr, was keeper of the Privy-Seal of Scotland under
King Jales HII. As early as the fourteenth century, a prebend
was founded in the cathedral church of St Mungo in Glasgow,
from the fruits of the rectory, after which the church continued to
be served by a vicar, and subsequently by a curate in 1449.
There where besides, however, officiating chaplains appointed and
paid by the town, who also seen to have performed the Catholic
service at Alloway. There were four principal altars in the church
of St John, dedicated to Holy Trinity, to the Holy Cross, to
the Holy Blood, and to the Virgin Mary, and other four were sub-
sequently added, dedicated to St Michael, St NIcholas, St Peter,
and St Ninian. One was in after-times upheld by the craftsmen
of Ayr, and dedicated to their patron saint. In 1560, the care
of the church and paris was transferred to the reformed clergy,
among the first of whom was the Rev. John Welsh, who was a
son-in-law of the celebrated Reformer Knox. During nearly
a century afterwards, this building continue to be used as the
only church of the parish, toward the latter part of which period it
was made a collegiate charge, and served by two ministers. This
was done by a provision of Queen Mary, in the shape of a dona-
tion of certain mills and other emoluments, for which the town has
compounded by a fixed annual stipend. In 1652, Oliver Crom-
well, finding the ground around the church a fit situation for a
fort, took possesion of it for that purpose, and converted the
church into an armoury. The exterior of it remained entire, long
after the building of the fort, and even after its demolition. The
present old church of Ayr was built to supply its place.
	Former Encroachment of the Sea--In the ruin of Robert the
Second, a calamity, which seem to threaten the ruin of the church
and part of the town, rendered the royal interference necessary, and


