
                                       GLENSHEIL.                        207

              The gross rental of the parish is L.2600.
              There are no manufactures of any kind, except those domestic
          ones above-mentioned.  There are no vessels of any burden belong-
          ing to the parish, but there is a frequent resort of vessels from the
          south, by which wool and herrings are exported, and smearing ma-
          terials, meal, salt, coala, iron groceries, and cloths are imported.
          The freight of wool to Liverpool is from 4d. to 6d. per 24 lbs.; of
          goods from tbense 3s. the barrel bulk.

                            V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
             Means of Communication.-The nearest market -town is Inver-
          ness, which is distant from the inhabited portion of the parish about
          60 miles.  With this town, there is a communication by means of
          a parliamentary road constructed in 1815, through the valley of
          Glensheil to Glenmoristone.  It runs for 18 miles through the
          parish, sending off a branch at Sheilhouse, where the river Sheil
          enters the sea, westward to Glenelg and Skye, and anotber north.
          ward to Kintail and Lochalsh.  At Sheilhouse, there is a sub-post-
          office connected with the post-office at Lochalsh, between which a
          foot post passes three times in the week.  No public carriage runs
          on this road, but there is a constant resort of carriers to Inverness.
          There are two inns, one at Sheilhouse, and the other at Cluonie,
          twelve miles distant to the south-east.  This road, for some years
          after its construction, formed the principal communication between
          Inverness and Skye; but its utility in this respect has been in a
          great measure superseded by the steam-vessels which now ply week-
          ly between that island and the Clyde.  There is no road in Letter-
          fearn, where one is much required.
             Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated near the
          eastern part of Letterfearn, and is distant about eight miles from
          the western extremity of the parish.  Its situation, though equally
          contiguous to both the densely inhabited parts of the parish, viz.
          the middle of Letterfearn and the sbores at the head of the loch,
          is not convenient for either, being about two miles and a-half dis.
          tant from the centre of each.  It was built in 1758, being the first
          church that was erected, in this parish, and is much decayed in the

          <FOOTNOTE>Both the roads here mentioned as leading from Sheilhouse to Skye are too steep
          for wbeel-carriages, each of them being carried over a bill about 1000 feet high. A road
          perfectly level might be constructed alone the shore of Letterfearn, to join the Kyle
          Akin road to Broadford, near the former village. The distance and expense of con-
          struction would, it is believed, be less than either of the present roads.  Or a road
          from Sheilhouse to Ob-Inag might communicate with the Lochalsh road at Totag
          ferry, which would be quite level, easy of construction, and save four miles of distance;
          at the same time that it would greatly accommodate the inhabitants of the parish.



