
     132                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

the roots of the sheaf which had been so cut; one layer of straw is
piled above another like slates on the roof of a house, from the
bottom to the top of the stack, which is in shape like a cone.  The
whole convex surface of the stack is tightly laced round, by heather
ropes, and made as tight as a bottle.  The residue of the roots is
for thatch.
   Though this method of husbandry common in the island may
appear absurd, laborious, and tedious to strangers, the climate and
necessity have hitherto obliged the people to adopt it.  If the na-
tives had the means to purchase proper implements of husbandry,
and were ordered by those in authority to pursue a different plan of
tillage, the island would have, in a few years, a very different as-
pect; and without doubt the climate would change to the better.
   A great deal has been done, during the last ten years, and much
more might still be done, in reclaiming waste land,-if there were
men of capital in the island.  There is a large field; and moss mixed
with shelly sand and sea-ware, would give a good crop, and be no
bad subject to work upon; for were the moss consumed till within
nine inches, and the clay subsoil properly mixed with it, in a few
years it would make good mould, if well manured.
   All the leases in the parish have nearly expired; but they will
be renewed.  The parish being entailed, leases cannot properly
be for more than nineteen years.
   All the farm-buildings require repairs, except Sandwich, Gress,
and Laxdale cottage.  The farm houses of Agnish Coll, Goat-hill,
Holm shades, and Tolsta, would require a considerable sum to
make them habitable and comfortable.  Some dikes lately built
are very good, and many others somewhat decayed.
   Four large fields close to Seaforth Lodge, and fronting Storno-
way, have been lately much improved by Mr S. Mackenzie.
   Quarries.-The best quarry in the parish is between Garrabost
and Port-na-guiran; but the greater part of the stone used in
building rubble work in Stornoway, is imported either from the
mainland or the parish of Lochs.  There is no freestone in the island.
   Fisheries.-The fishing of cod, ling and herrings, is the princi-
pal employment of the male population in the country: every farm
and hamlet have their boats, except a few on Melbost.  The sea-
son is divided between fishing, farming, and kelping; and most fa-
milies have a share of a boat and a lot of land.  One hundred and
twenty tons of cod and ling are annually caught and cured in the
parish, and shipped for Ireland and the Clyde, &c.  The average
price per ton for cod is L. 12, and for ling L. 15.  Herrings have
                                   3


