
     Pennycuick.
Brown of Newhall, at the extremity of the neighbouring pa-
rish of Linton*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antiquities, etc.-In former times there appears from the re-
mains of towers and mansions scattered up and down, to have
been many proprietors of consequence in this parish, whose history
is now lost.  On the S. side of the river, and beyond a considerable
glen opposite to Pennycuick House, are the remains of old Ravens-
nook, once the property of Oliver Sinclair, brother to the laird of
Roslin, who, being appointed commander in chief by King James
the V was defeated, and taken prisoner at the battle of Solway
Moss, in November 1542.  About a mile further up, on the N.
side of the river, but high above it, are the remains of a large
irregular building, (which appears to have been intended for de-
fence, and surrounded with a ditch), called Bruntstone Castle,
said to have bean inhabited by the predecessors of the Earls of
Dumfries.  It is certain, that, in the 16th century, it was in the
possession of a family of the name of Crichton; and according-
ly, in one place, is the date 1568, with corresponding initials,
but on the oldest part of the building are still to be seen the
Douglas arms.  Near to this was lately found an arrow-head
of flint, ragled on the edges and barbed, about 2 inches long
and one broad, which is now in the house of Pennycuick.  N.
W. from this house, there seems to have been a town in which
some persons of consequence resided, as likewise two others, viz.
Braidwood and Welshtown, in a western direction flom the last,
but of these no accounts have been obtained.  At the N. end of
the parish, up the water of Glencross, is a ruin, remarkable for
thick walls and small narrow windows, called Lodging Hirse,
said to have been a hunting seat of one of the James's.  About
half a mile further W. are the remains of another building,
commonly called the Houlets House, of which no certain ac-
count is to be found.  Two miles still farther W. on the N. side
of the hills, is another building, called Bavelaw, once applied
to the same use also by one of these kings, which is still entire
and was lately inhabited by the former proprietor Mr Scott, but
is now the property of David Johnston of Laithrisk.  South
from this, one of the Pentland hills takes the name of Spittal
on the N. of which, and at the side of the stream, are the ves-
tiges of the Old Spittal or Hospital House.  As the present
house is removed to the neighbourhood of the Linton and
Monk's Rigg Roads, the benighted traveller is still considered
as having a right to protection, and one of the out houses, with
some straw, is generally allotted for that purpose.  The last re-

     VOL. X. 3 H


