
			CARMLYIE.                           361

good morals or to virtuous independence of spirit. Christmas and
New-Year's days, old style, are still kept as holidays by the gene-
rality of the people, and convivial meetings are then held among
friends and neighbours. The young men sometimes amuse them-
selves with a wad or prize-shooting, on one or other of these days.
Sometimes raffles take place of small articles. A few fires are still
lighted on the Hallowe'en by the young people; and some of the
ancient spells are still practised at that time, not from any belief
in their potency, but merely for thd sake of amusement. The farm
festival of harvest-home, or maiden play, as it is called, is still ob-
served by some of the farmer at the close of their harvest labours.
	While the people of the more fertile and wealthy districts in the
neighbourhood, were advancing in the career of improvement every
way the inhabitants of Carmylie, in their habits and dresses, re-
mained, it should seem, like their soil, very much in the primitive
state, and were, in consequence, superciliously denominated by their
mord polished neighbours, "the bodies of Carmylie." Now, how-
ever, all such peculiarities have disappeared, and all have partaken of
the general improvement of the country. The hodden dresses of
home manufacture are now exchanged for English cloths and cot-
ton manufactures. A few blue bonnets of goodly extent among
the old men, and a few tartan and scarlet plaids among the old
women, are the only relics now to be seen of the holiday dresses
of the last generation.
	A considerable change has taken place in the ordinary food, as
well as in the clothing of all classes of the community. The use
of tea and of wheaten bread is now common. About sixty years
ago, there were, it is said, only two tea-kettles in the parish: now
there is not, perhaps, a single house in it without one. Within the
memory of some of the present generation, swine were kept only at
mills, and an antipathy to swine's flesh was common: now there is
scarcely a family without their pigs and bacon. Potatoes were
then but little cultivated, now they form a considerable part of the
maintenance, of the labouring classes. Their usual food for break-
fast is oatmeal porridge and milk; sometimes tea, with oat-cakes
and butter. Dinner frequently consists of pork and potatoes,
sometimes fish, or preparations of milk; and among the poorer clas-
ses, sometimes, potatoes chiefly. Tea in the afternoon is common,
and potatoes for supper; but little small beer is used--the common
beverage is water. The practice of tea drinking may refresh the
wearied labourer at the close of the day; but setting aside the ex-

be        is water.! , The pkwtice off; tea drinkine may refftth the
verage
'WeaTW laboum at the elose of the day; but settin      I aside the  ex-
9


