
             756                          PERTHSHIRE.

             as the scene of in interesting legend. *  The rest of this valley
             has a bleak and sterile aspect, having little arable land, and less
             plantation.  Its surface throughout is covered with marshy mea-
             dow soil, and chiefly adapted for pasture.  But cold and exposed
             though it be, still in summer it is not devoid of natural beauty.
             On the one hand, the neighbouring mountains, in some places
             rising rocky, lofty, and precipitous, and in others, diversified with
             dells, passes and ravines, give a sort of rude grandeur to the sur-
             roundhng scenery; while, on the other hand, the loch imparts a
             lively character to the bare and barreu tract by which it is encom-
             passed at their base.  There is now, at Amulree, a distance of
             little more than a mile from the east end of the lake, a new, hand-
             some, and commodious inn, much resorted to in summer and au-
             tumn by parties of pleasure from Crieff, Perth, and Dunkeld,
             partly on account of the salubrity of the climate, and partly to en-
             joy the fishing of Loch Fraochy.  The accommodations are ex-
             cellent, and such as suit every class of society from the bustling
             statesman down to the humble cottager.
                Loch Ceannard is situated in the hill of Grandtully, about two
             miles to the south of the ancient baronial residence of the Grand-
             tully family, and, but for the assistance of art, would have rather
             an uninteresting appearance.  It is nearly a mile in length, and
             about one-faurth of a mile in breadth, and is hemmed in upon all
             sides with bleak and barren mountains.  Towards the middle of
             the loch there is an islet supporting the ruins of an ancient shoot-
             ing-lodge, formerly overshadowed by a few, but now debaying
             willows.  It is all but surrounded with a belt of larch plantation,
             affording cover to numerous flocks of black game, and its north
             bank is beautified with a neat modern villa in the cottage style,
             altogether giving it a lively and cheerful aspect.  It is in the vi-
             cinity of several other minor lochs, all of which abound with
             excellent trout, pike, or perch, and which tend not a little to give
             this spot of retirement and seclusion an additional cliarm in the
             estimation of the enthusiastic sportsman.
                By far the most picturesque and interesting of the whole is

              <FOOTNOTE>The legend above alluded to is described in a beautiful poem entitled "Duan
             Fraolch," and published in "Gillies's Collection of Gaelic Songs." Its beauty at-
             tracted the notice of Mr Jerome Stone, a native of Fifeshire, but then schoolmaster
             of Dunkeld, by whom it was translated into English, and sent for publication to the
             editor of the Scots Magazine.
                See Gillie's Collection of Gaelic Poems,  published at Perth in 1786; and the
             Soots Magazine, Vol. xviii.  Edinburgh, 1756.


