
                         KILMUIR    EASTER.                       309

lage amounts to 200.  There are other two villages, Bartaraville
and Portlich.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office at Miln-
town, and the great county road runs through this village;
by which the royal' mail-coach travels daily north and south,
and another coach for the accommodation of passengers, dur-
ing the summer and harvest months, from Inverness to Tain.
The roads are excellent. A new road has been lately constructed
through the most high land part of the parish, which will prove a
great convenience to the people. There are several otber new
roads hn progress, so that the whole parish will soon be intersected
with excellent means of conveyance. There are two bridges, one
over the river of BaInagown, and the other at Pollo. They are
both in good condition. There is a harbour at Balintraid, which
affords accommodation for vessels from Leith and Aberdeen and
other ports; and which is very convenient for the people of this,
and of neighbouring parishes, by the facility with which it enables
tbem to procure coal, and various articles of merchandise. A
considerable quantity of grain from the district of Easter Ross,
and large quantities of fir wood for the coal-pits and railroads in
the south, are likewise annually exported from Balintraid pier.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The present church was built in 1798,
and contains 900 Sittings. It is situated in the south-east end of
the parish, and is distant about five miles from some of the inba-
bitants. There are from twenty to thirty free-sittings in it. It is at
present in a good state of repair. The manse was built about 100
years ago, since which time additions have been made to it, and
it has been frequently repaired. There are 6 acres of glebe,
valued at L. 12 per annum. The stipend is 87 bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck,
3 4/6 lippies oatmeal, 9 stones, Ross-sbire boll, and 68 bolls, 1 firlot,
1 peck, 1 2/5 lippy barley, 9 stones, Ross-shire boll, and L. 62, Os.
4 7/12 d. Sterling. The stipend awarded by the Court of Teinds was
15 chalders; but the teinds do not pay the stipend, nor the sum
for communion elements.
   There is no chapel of ease or Dissenting chapel in the parish,
the people being, with the exception of one or two individuals, all
members of the Established Church, which, in this parish is well
attended, and in general crowded. There is a catechist appointed
by the minister, with the consent of the congregation, and paid by
the people and minister. There are individuals from 350 families,
amounting to 800, who regularly attend the parish church.  The


