
78				ROSS AND CROMARTY.

alder, mountain-ash, willow, poplar and hazel.  There are still some
beautiful trees of oak, ash, birch, geen, bird-cherry, and mountain-
ash, with some small thriving plantations of fir, in the Little Strath,
about Dundonnell House and Mains; and a few old ash trees about
the village of Ullapool, and firs in the glen of Achall.  But with
these exceptions, and some few alders, growing at the sides of
rivers, in the glens, the parish is nearly denuded of wood.
   The soil and climate, however, are exceedingly favourable to the
growth of wood of all kinds which are common to this country; as
may be seen by passing through the glebe, where firs of different
kinds, and hard wood, and fruit-trees, planted by the present in-
cumbent, have succeeded beyond the most sanguine expectations.
Of fruits in particular, viz. apples, pears, plumbs, cherries, Spanish
filberts, walnuts, currants, gooseberries, of many different kinds, he
can shew samples which he has not seen exceeded in any part of
the country; all on standards, in the open air.  The culinary plants
committed to the soil produce the best returns.
				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Of the ancient history of this parish very little is known, there
being no printed or manuscript accounts of it in existence, so far as
the present writer is aware.  Yet there have been men of genius
and talents connected with it
   Eminent Men.-Norman McLeod, (alias Tormaid Ban) the au-
thor of the well known song of Caberfeidh, and of many other very
popular and highly poetical productions, was a native of this parish,
and father of the late minister of Rogart in Sutherland, and of
Professor McLeod, late Regent of the University of Glasgow.
   Murdoch McLeod, also (alias Murcha Mclain 'Ic Uilliam)
another poet of great merit, was a native of this parish.  He was bred
to the Episcopal church, but never took orders, nor obtained a set-
tlement.  He was nearly related to the best families in Coigach and
Assint, among whom he spent his time composing spiritual hymns,
which are yet remembered, and held in the highest estimation.  A
printed copy of them would be an inestimable present to the High-
lands.
   The Rev. James Robertson, from the district of Athole, who
was settled minister of Lochbroom, shortly before the Rebellion of
1745, was a man of uncommon strength of body, and firmness of
mind; eminently suited to the times in which he lived, and to the
state and character of the people among whom he was placed; and
highly deserving of being recorded in any annals of this parish


