
                         BEITH.                           587

William Mure of Caldwell, entered the army in early life as a
cornet in the Blues. He afterwards commanded a company in
the, 82d Foot,--was in it the American war under Lord Cornwallis,
--was wounded, and taken prisoner in 1780. After being ex-
changed, he was with Lord Cornwallis at the capitulation of the
British at Yorktown in October 1781 On his return to Scot-
land, he was appointed to the command of the West Lowland
Fencibles and Renfrewsbire Militia. For many years prior to his
death, which happened on February 1831, he was Vice-Lieutenant
of Renfrewshire, and was active and zealous in the discharge of
his public duties. His son, the present William Mure of Cald-
well, is well known as an eminent classical scholar. He has writ-
ten "Brief Remarks an the Chronology of the Egyptian Dynas-
ties," and "A Dissertation on the Calendar and Zodiac of An-
cient Egypt," works of erudition and research.
	Humphrey Fulton, who introduced to Paisley the silk manu-
factory, was a native of this parish. His ancestors were proprietors
of the lands of Midtown of Threepwood in 1634, at which place
he was born, 16th April 1713. He married Mary Cochran, a
native of the parish, and removed to Paisley. He introduced there
the manufacture of silk, and, in 1777, established a warehouse in
Beith, from which near 300 weavers were employed. This brought
for many years upwards of L. 100 per week to the Place, and
greatly increased its trade and population. Mr Fulton died in
1779; and the epitaph which was written at the time is a just, tri-
bute to his memory.
	The business was carried on for some years by his sons, Robert
and William, men of highly respectable character. Robert pur-
chased the estate of Hartfield, which is now inherited by his son
Colonel Robert Fulton, and William purchased the estate of Park
of Inchinnan, which has recently been sold. *
	Robert Shedden, of Gower Street, London Esq., was born in

<FOOTNOTE>In a more humble sphere was James M'Connell, drummer in Beith, the re-
doubted champion of orthodoxy, whom it would be unfair to omit in this report.
He was a native of Wigton, where he was born in I706. Having unlisted into the
43d Regiment of foot, he was for a considerable period on foreign service. On the
return of the regiment, the company to which he belonged was quartered in Beith,
where James married Jean Love, a native of the place. After obtaining his dis-
charged he returned to Beith and settled as a teacher. He was afterwards made con-
stable, sheriff-officer, and town drummer. Having a turn for potential divinlty, he
attacked Mr James Ferguson, minister of Kilwinning, as unsound in his divides,
and libelled him before the Presbytery of Irvine. The case remained in the Church
Courts for some years, and Mr Ferguson died before it was finally disposed of.  The
drummer published two pamphlets on this subjects, which are now become scarce.
They shew some talent, and much real in the cause


