
			ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.		      1061

of the parallel dikes which diverge from Knockice on the opposite
side of the Dee.
   Nearly a mile to the east of Newton, on the top of a ridge on
which are several small cairns, is one of great extent called Cairn-
more, which, in 1818, was partly opened for the purpose of ob-
taining stones for the erection of a house, when a number of bones
were found, and a small gold chain of four links, attached to a pin
of such size as might have been used in a brooch for fastening the
Celtic plaid. The bottom of the cairn was neatly paved, and about
one-tenth part of it only has been explored.
   On the summit of the hill of Mortlich, in this parish, has been
a pretty large enclosure, apparently an extensive encampment.
Now this is the only Mortlich or Murtlach in Marr; and Bu-
chanan writes (Lib. vi. cap. xlix.) that Malcolm II., after a hard-
contested action ad Murthilacum in Marria, and taking advantage
of a praesidium or old strength, fortified by a wall and ditch, gained
a signal victory over the Danes. The Peel Bog, about two miles east
from this Mortlich in Marr, most exactly corresponds with the de-
scription given by Buchanan of the presidium or old strength.
Some, however, think, that the enclosure on the top of Mortlich
may have been used for a more ignoble purpose than that of an
encampment of warriors, and that it was a fence, difficult of
access and easily guarded, for securing the cattle of the country
during the forty of any hostile clan or inroad of pillaging foes.
   In 1834, there was dug out of one of the cairns at Ferrar a sil-
ver coin, (hammer struck,) bearing on the obverse, within a double
tressure, or leaves of a rose, (except the the bust, which extends to
the legend,) the king's head in profile, with an open crown fleury,
before him the sceptre fleury, with the legend, DAVID DEI GRA
REX SCOTORVM. On the reverse, a cross potent extending to the
edge, with a spur-revel of five points in each quarter. In the inner
circle VILLA EDINBVRGH, (the place of coinage.) In the outer,
the legend, +DNS-PTECTOR-MS +LIBATOR MS, (being the con-
traction for Dominus Protector Meus et Liberator Meus.) It
bears no date, neither is the king's name designated by any num-
bers. It may, therefore, be presumed to have been of the reign
of David I.,* sixth son of Ceanmore, and who, in 1124, succeeded
his brother Edgar; but those acquainted with the history of


<FOOTNOTE> Since the above was sent to press, the writer has seen a copy of "Numismata
Scotiae,-"from which the coin would appear to have been of the reign of David II.,
and that the legend (being common) was not assumed in reference to the liberation of
that Sovereign.


