
     of Callander.

is not wedded to a theory, it is very improbable, that this
rock is the effect of fire; because the pebbles are unburnt,
and retain all their original varieties of colour; because, if
they had been picked up by lava in its progress, they could not
have been conveyed over such obstructions, as mountains and
lakes; because there are no craters in any mountains, in this
neighbourhood; because the stones in the hill, on the E. and
W., are of a different species; and because, if the rock in
question had been in fusion, the stream would have taken the
direction of the valley, which it has not done.
   All that is requisite farther to be mentioned under this article,
is, that this singular kind of cemented rock, together with the slate
and the lime stone, run in three parallel veins, at the distance of
a statute mile from each other, not only across this parish, but to
a great distance on both sides.  The stratum of slate reaches from
Luss to Dunkeld, making its appearance above ground at least in
8 different places; the lime-stone, from Buchanan to the pa-
rish of Comrie, and appearing in as many places; and the
plumb-pudding rock, from Gartmore to Grieff, and visible on
the surface almost the whole way.  There seems to run paral-
lel to these on the E., a chain of free-stone, from Gartur,
through Ruskie, Torry, and Drumvaich, to the vicinity of
Crieff.  It is probable that these parallel lines of rock may
extend much farther, and may be taken notice of by others,

<FOOTNOTE>

What a pity, that these ingenious men don't allow fire, earth, air and water,
to be the instruments used by a wife and great Artificer, who forms and executes
his own plans, and, by unerring and general laws, regulates all the phenomena
of nature.  Former theories paid some respect to their MAKER, and to his
word.  They endeavoured to accommodate their waking dreams to the standard
of truth.  But bolder spirits have now arisen, who usurp the reins of the uni-
verse, invent the baseless, fabric of cobweb theories, and expect to make the
fleething delutions of their fancy pass for the established laws of nature.


