
			KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                      29

	Established Church.--Three thousand one hundred persons pro-
fess to belong to the Established Church, which is generally well
attended. There are 850 communicants.
	Secession Church.--This place of worship is attended by 40
families, some of whom are from the neighbouring parishes. About
150 individuals belong to the United Secession Church in the pa-
rish of Kirkcudbright. The number of communicants is at pre-
sent from 90 to 100. Though in general Divine service is not nu-
merously attended, yet the chapel is sometimes respectably filled.
The stipend of the minister, which is somewhat variable, is raised
by the voluntary contributionr of the people, assisted occasionally
by donations from the Synod fund. Collections are sometimes
made for missionary and charitable purposes.
	Catholics.--The Catholics have an apartment which they oc-
cupy as a chapel. The Right Rev. Andrew Carruthers, who re-
sides generally in Edinburgh, is the Bishop.
	The families that attend this chapel are 51 in number: and the
number of persons who belong to the Catholic congregation of Kirk-
cudbright, according to a census just taken, is 314. Divine wor-
ship is said to be well attended; but the clergyman can only offi-
ciate on the first Sunday of every month. About 200 individuals
of this persuasion permanently reside in the parish.
	Society.--One Society has been established in aid of the India
Mission. It annually contributes about L. 20 to the general fund.
	Collections.--The poor are supported principally by collections
made in the church, the funds of the town and country poor being
kept separate. The church collections for the poor amount an-
nually to about L. 140, to which may be added L. 30 collected for
educational purposes.
	Manufactures.--Formerly, Kirkcudbright was celebrated for its
manufacture of gloves, and more recently, of boots and shoes.
One firm in the town, a few years ago, generally employed no
fewer than 24 men, and shoes were sent to a great distance.
There were, at one time, though on a small scale, manufactories
of soap, candles and leather; and kelp was also frequently made
upon the shores. On the ground occupied by the academy, once
stood a brewery; and a house yet remains that was built for a
snuff-mill.
	Navigation.--Twenty-six vessels belong to the port--tonnage,
922. In 1692, Kirkcudbright had only one boat of 8 tons bur-
den. In 1840, the Custom House port of Kirkcudbright, with its


