
                                FETTERESSO.                             245

    The climate must have been improved by the draining of land,
which has been carried to a great extent. It cannot be called
either decided dry or wet. Nor is it unhealthy. Even in the
most wet and mossy districts, many reach extreme old age. In no
quarter are there wanting persons of above eighty years, and there
are several cases of individuals above ninety.
    Hydrography.--Over the parish generally, there are abundant,
springs. From Ury to the east, some are strongly chalybeat.
Many years ago, a well of this quality on the lands of Arduthie,
no vestige of which now remains, was much frequented, the water
having been considered a valuable tonic.
    There was a kind of lake, called Loch Dews, or the Lily Loch,
near this well. It is understood to have been, in ancient times, of
considerable estent. But now very little vestige of it remains.
    The principal streams are the Carron and Cowie. The for-
mer divides the parish from Dunnottar for about five miles, en-
tering the sea at Stonehaven. The latter has a similar course
and termination. The burn of Muchalls arises at the western
boundary, and that of Elsick within it, both flowing direct to the
sea. The first two, though not large, are not inconsiderable
streams; and occasionally become much flooded, particularly the
Cowie, which, having its sources in the Grampians, and being join-
ed by many rivulets, has often occasioned damage to the property
on its banks. The Carron, too, in 1829 and 1836, inundated part
of the town of Stonehaven, to the depth of several feet. The
course of all these is from west to east, and nearly parallel to each
other.
    Geology and Mineralogy.--The prevailing rock on the coast is
gneiss. On the Cammachmore estate, there is a rock of porphyry,
consisting of fragments of white foliated--imbedded in red compact
felspar. A dike of this mineral traverses the sandstone, on the
north side of the bay of stonehaven. There are quarrie of it in the
parishes of Dunnottar and Arbuthnott. At a short distance south
of the harbour of Stranathro, there are two gneiss rocks, through
which the waves, by which they are washed at high tides, have ex-
cavated two magnificent arches, of about 80 feet high by fifty wide.
Near this spot there is a mass of sandstone. Its contact with the
gneiss is not visible, but the neigbbouring gneiss is intersected by
small veins of sandstone. This is the most northerly locality of
sandstone in the county of Kinecardine. On the farms of Mill of
Muchalls, a dike of red compact felspar traverses the gneiss. Its
direction is east and west; its thickness some hundred yards; and


