
                           KILTEARN.                           325

   black-faced are found to answer much better. On the low grounds,
   Cheviots are usually fed by gentlemen for their own tables 'or for
   the butcher. The common breeds of cattle are the Ross-shire
   atid Argyleshire. The former are now kept only by some of the
   poorer people, and are usually small in size and very. inferior.
   Ayrshire cattle were, for a, considerable time, kept by gentlemen
   for their own dairies; but. they were nowhere kept for the rearing
   of farm stock. Mr Sim, of Drummond, in this parish, was the
   first to introduce them on a large scale, and they were found to
   answer exceedingly well. This gentleman lately introduced some
   pure short horns, which, when their good qualities are become
   sufficiently known and duly appreciated, may be expected in time
   to be universally adopted through the country. Agriculturists
   are now generally beginning to see that it is more for their advan-
   tage to improve the quality, than to increase the number of their
   cattle.
     Husbandry.--The usual duration of leases is nineteen years.
   This period is considered quite long enough to afford the tenant the
   utmost security of reaping any profit which may arise from his out-
   lays. The system of agriculture which has been pursued for many
   years back is very superior. No pains or expense have been
   spared in doing all manner of justice to the soil; and the conse-
   quence is, that the crops raised are always equal, and often supe-
   rior to any in the country. The most common crops raised are,
   wheat, barley, oats, and some peas. Turnip husbandry has of late
   years received a great deal of attention; as the general adoption
   of bone manure enables farmers to sow a greater quantity, which
   are used in winter for feeding hogs or for fattening stock for the
   south country markets. Draining and inclosing have been carried
   on very extensively, and in some cases very judiciously. Large
   embankments were made, some years ago, at Newton and at Bal-
   cony, and a considerable tract of land, formerly quite unprofitable,
   was thus redeemed from the sea, and renderd fit for the purpose
   of agriculture. The principal improvements which have-been
   made, were usually at the expense, of the tenants, without the pros-
   pect of any remuneration from the proprietors.
      The late Mr Fraser, of Incbcoulter, a gentleman of areat taste,
   expended large sums in the improvement of his property. He
   divided it into moderately sized farms, well fenced and enclosed.
   On all these farms, he erected steadinlys which' are highly orna-
   mental to the country, and very convenient for the tenantry.


