
266                         BANFFSHIRE.

  Divine service at the Established Church is well attended. The
number of all ages belonging to the parish church is 1820.  Ave-
rage number of communicants, 700. The amount of extraordinary
collections, during the last five years, for charitable purposes, was
L.20, 10s. 101/2d. One of these collections is annually made in
behalf of the Aberdeen Infirmary.
  Education.-The number of schools in the parish is fourteen.
Six of these are endowed, and the other eight are supported by
fees.
  The master of the parochial school has a salary of L.32, Is. 6d.,
with the legal accommodation, and an annual sum from the Dick
Bequest of L.25. The branches of instruction are, reading, writ-
ing, arithmetic, English grammar, geography, Latin, and the ele-
ments of Greek when required. The fees charged for reading
English are 2s. per quarter; for arithmetic and writing, 2s. 6d.;
English grammar and geography, 3s. 6d.; for Greek or Latin, 5s.
Average number of scholars during the year, 80.  He is not ses-
sion-clerk, consequently he has no emoluments from that office.
Amount of school fees, L. 23, making in whole about L. 80 an-
nually. The school is ably taught.
  The Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge has en-
dowed two schools in this parish, one at Buckie, a most im-
portant station, and the other at the village of Couffurach,
in the immediate neighbourhood of the Enzie chapel.\f*    The
number of scholars, according to the last report, was 46. At
Couffurach, the master has a free dwelling-house and school-
room from His Grace the Duke of Richmond, and L.15 of sa-
lary from the society above-mentioned. He teaches only the
common branches of education. Number of scholars, 31.  An
efficient and active teacher is much -wanted at this station. There
is another school at Port-Gordon in this district. The Duke of
Richmond pays the teacher a salary of L.15, and allows him a free
house and school-room. This is also an important station, and
the school is most successfully conducted. The number attend-
ing is 90.

<FOOTNOTE>The school in Buckie has been withdrawn by the Society, on the ground, that
the school house has been allowed to fall into decay. This is deeply to be regretted,
because Buckie, from its great population, is one of the most important stations in
the north of Scotland. It is therefore to be hoped, that a commodious house will be
speedily provided by the proprietor, and that a zealous and efficient teacher will be
forthwith appointed.


