
478			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

During the harvest, which generally lasts five weeks, men receive
from L. 2 to L. 2, 2s., and women from L. 1, 8s. to L. 1, 10., and
3s. 6d. a-week during hay harvest. For all other kinds of work
during summer, such as hoeing turnips, 9d. a-day without food.
	Live Stock.--The common breeds of sheep in the parish are the
Cheviot and Black-faced. The practice of crossing the Cheviot
with the Leicester ram is now prevalent, and upon rich pastures
may be considered as more remunerating to the farmer than the
pure breed. However, this can never be advantageously carried
to any great extent, as it would tend soon to diminish the pure
breeds. The breeds of cattle are the Ayrshire and Galloway;
but Highland cattle are grazed to a much greater extent than
either. The usual mode of reclaiming waste land is by draining
where necessary; and on dry soils, ploughing during summer, lim-
ing, and in the course of another year, ploughing,--taking one white
crop, a crop of turnips planted with dung or bone manure, and
feeding it off with sheep,--another white crop, and the ground sow-
ed down for permanent pasture, with a sufficient quantity of rye-
grass and clover seeds. But a shorter, more simple, and less ex-
pensive process is,--two ploughings at those seasons of the year
when they can be accomplished with the least possible interference
with the other arrangements of the farmer,--lime during the spring
or summer,--and without a single white crop, at once to sow down
with rape, ryegrass, and clover, when in the course of two months
the land becomes ready for pasturage.--Leases are generally for
nineteen years. The farm-steadings in the parish were generally
erected within the last ten years, and are good and substantial. The
improvements in fences, planting, and breaking up of waste land
were carried on to a great extent from the year 1800 to 1812.
About that period, the greatest improvers in this parish were the
late Alexander Smith, Esq. of Landhall; the late James M'Turk,
Esq. of Stenhouse; and the late William Smith, Esq. of M'Ques-
tion. Now, the most liberal, encouragement to improvement is
given by His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch and Queensberry, as
also by John Walker, Esq. of Crawfordton, the principal non-re-
sident proprietors.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--Dumfries is the principal market-
town, and sixteen miles distant. There is only one village in
the parish. A daily post passes through it from Thornhill to
Moniaive. The roads in the parish, fifteen miles in length, are


