
		WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                       823

now than formerly; and withal, I must call them an honest people;
for a petty theft is scarcely ever heard of in the parish.
   Amusements.-Lamminigtoune, so long as it enjoyed a resident
proprietor, was famous for its races, which are even celebrated in
ancient ballad.  They were patronised by the " Laird," took place
in the level holms near the Castle, and are said to have been attend-
ed by the first gentry in the country.  Cock-fighting also was
long kept up here. *  But though horse-racing and cock-fighting
have long disappeared, the customs and amusements common to
the country people of Scotland are regularly kept up by the inha-
bitants of these ancient parishes.  Curling is the chief amusement
in a frosty winter; and a striking peculiarity to this and many of
the neighbouring parishes is, that females have their bonspiel or con-
test at curling as well as the males.  The wives are matched
against the unmarried women, and each party has a man in at-
tendance to lend an arm to such as may be afraid of slipping on the
ice at the time of delivering the curling-stone ! It is, very amusing
sometimes to witness the scientific skill and prowess displayed by
these female combatants.  In the spring and summer evenings, the
young men of the village frequently assemble on the old school-
green to try their skill at the exhilarating game of throwing quoits;
and a handsome silver medal (presented to the parish by Dugald
Campbell, Esq.) is annually played, for.  The curlers have also a
silver medal, purchased by subscription, and played for in like
manner. +
   The great proportion of the inhabitants in the country district
of the parish are exemplary in their attendance on religious ordi-
nances, as are also many of the families about the village; al-
though, I am sorry to have occasion to add, there are a few be-'
longing to the latter, who are shamefully negligent of that ex-
press command of our holy religion, " never to neglect the assem-

<FOOTNOTE>I have in my possession an old manuscript poem, called " Lammingtoune Cock-
fight, " written in 1701, " be john Welsh, make and composer of the same." It has
little merit, and is somewhat in the style of Colville's Scots Hudibras.
          At all these games the utmost decorum and good fellowship are strictly observed,
and any things like quarelling or angry disputes is seldom, if ever, heard of.  Matters
were less decorously carried on in, former times, as will appear from the following mi-
nute of the kirk-session of 28th January 1656: " The sessione considering ane supers-
stitious and abominable custome yt hes continued still in this paroche, That men and
women uses promiscuously to play at the foot-ball upon Fasting's even; and also consi-
dering what evill and sadde consequences hes followed years upon, viz. uncleannesse,
drunkennes, and fighting, they doe unanimously discharge and inhibite thes' old su-
perstitious and abominable practise.  And hereby macks and ordaines, that whatso-
ever persone or persones shall contravein this present acts, they shall be censured with
the censure of the kirk.  And the minister be desyred to publish y\prs present acte out
of pulpitt y\po next Lord's day, that none pretende ignorance.


