
     of Alford.

   Roads.-The roads in this county have been originally
formed, either by the statute labour, or by the military, under
the order of Government.  Of this last description, there are
two roads which cross each other, in this parish; the great
Northern road, which leads from Fettercairn, over, the Cairn
of Month to Huntly, and the road which goes from Aber-
deen to Corgarff, a military station on the sources of Don.
Both these roads, since their formation by the soldiery, have
been kept in repair by the statute labour of the several pa-
rishes through which they pass, as far as it would go, to
maintain them jointly with other, roads in the parishes.  The
statute labour has not been hitherto converted into money in
this country; and, of consequence, as in every other coun-
try where the statute labour is performed in work by the
country people, it is found inadequate to the support of the
roads, both public and parochial.  The last mentioned mili-
tary road, forms the communication between a very exten-
sive country and the city of Aberdeen, and has, of late, as
well as on several former occasions, become almost impassable.
In aid of the statute labour, the gentlemen whose estates ly
in this country, have twice made very liberal subscriptions
for it's repair; but in 1792, when it was again in a very bad
state, after mature consideration, its direction, for a considera-
ble way, was found to be highly improper; and it was a-
greed, that a new road, for nearly 9 miles in length, with
view to obviate the disadvantages of the old track, should be
undertaken.  L. 600. has been subscribed for this purpose,
and the work is considerably advanced.  When it is finished,
there is good reason to expect, that the improvement of this
country will go on with aditional briskness, as it will give us
an excellent communication with our chief market place,
and enable the farmer to bring home lime, coal, and the o-
ther necessary articles of country consumption, much more


