
     Statistical Account

sellors, and probably, the whole community; nor were they
discharged from its operation, till John Fothringham of Pow-.
rie became security for them to the value of 20,000 merks.
it was not till October 12, 1643, that there differences were
settled, by an agreement under the direction of Sir George
Halyburton of Fotherance, and Sir John Leslie of Newton,
Lords of Session.  Even after this agreement, many of the
acknowledged powers of the Constable were grievous and hu-
miliating to the inhabitants; and these powers were never fi-
nally abolished, till the general abolition of all hereditary ju-
risdictions.
   The constitution of government established in Dundee, or
what is called the Set of the Borough, though apparently re-.
publican, is a species of ol garchy, not materially differing
from those established, in general, over all the towns in Scot-
land.  The Town Council is composed of 20 persons, includ-
ing the magistrates, co. sisting of a provost, and four bailies.
The annual election of these magistrates, and also of the dean
of guild and treasurer, is on the Thursday immediately pre-
vious to Michaelmas.  But the council for the ensuing year
is chiefly chosen on the preceding Tuesday, and all the mea-
sures fixed, which are generally decisive in the election of the
officers just now mentioned.  The whole 20 counsellors as-
semble on that day, and chuse 8 new counsellors, of whom 5
must be taken from the Guildry, or body of free merchants,
and 3 from any separate three of the incorporated trades.  No
more new counsellors than 8 are necessary, because the 4
bailies must be members of the new council ex officio.  With
the addition of these 8 new members, they proceed to make
up leets, or lists, for the offices of provost, bailies, dean of
guild, and treasurer.  The leet for the provost is limited to
people, who, at any time formerly have been bailies; the
feet for bellies to former counsellors; that for the Dean
of Guild to present bailies; -and the leet for the trea-


