
384                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

the projectors, independently of the supervision of the clergy of
the Established Church, while others of the supporters of the
academy scheme are decidedly against the voluntary principle, and
there can be little doubt that these will form a large majority.
   It is not to be expected that an academy could supply the place
of a parish school, although it might with advantage be joined to
it, and, therefore, it may be anticipated, that, at no distant period,
the heritors and feuars will be able to carry into effect their deter-
mination to have a proper and suitable parish school, and at the
same time avoid the expense of a litigation to ascertain their legal
liabilities.
   At present the parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary
of L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d., and an allowance of L.13 for a dwelling-house
and garden, besides participating in the Dick bequest.
   Another school is taught in the town-house, in a room afforded
gratuitously by the feuars.  This school has been denominated
the Town's School.  The present teacher received his appointment
from the baron bailies and the feuar's managers; and he was ap-
pointed to teach seven poor children, for which he receives L.10 per
annum, in terms of a bequest by the late Mr William Rhind, baker.
   There is a Lancasterian school under the superintendence of
the clergyman of the Episcopal chapel, the master of which receives
a salary of L. 20 per annum, from funds mortified by the late Dr.
Anderson of St Christopbers.  There are besides, in the town, two
schools conducted by ladies, in which the higher branches of fe-
male education, such as Music, French, Drawing, &c. are taught
by experienced and well qualified instructors.
   Besides these, there are six other schools in the town, and two
in the country part of the parish, chiefly for the ordinary branches
of education, viz. reading, writing, and arithmetic.
   The branches taught in the parish school not only embrace
English from its lowest stages, Grammar, arithmetic, and Latin,
but also the various subdivisions of mathematics, geography, his-
tory, Greek, and French ; and this renders additional accommoda-
tion the more necessary, and which, it may be expected, will, ere
long, be obtained.
   At a former period, the schools in the town-house were con-
ducted so as to confine each to a particular, department, the pa-
rochial school-master taking the languages, and the other writing,
arithmetic, and mathematics.  This arrangement, it is believed,
was conducive to the interests of both, as well as to the abridge-
                             4


