
                 ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                 285

it by the fire, and grind it in the bottom of a common bottle.
The snuff thus prepared resembles what is called Lundifoot, and
is preferred by the natives in general, particularly by old men, to
regularly manufactured snuff.
   The women, for the most part, thrash the corn by a light flail
of peculiar but simple construction. The quantity of barley raised
is but very small, which the natives seldom reap with a sickle, but
when ripe they pull it from the roots, then equalize it, and tie it
up in small bunches. When it becomes seasoned, they cut off
the ears with a knife, and preserve the straw for thatching their
dwellings.
   Until within the last few years, no eggs were bought or sold in
the parish; but now the case is quite otherwise. There are several
females in the place, who daily go about for eggs, or are ready to
receive them when sent to their habitations. The price given is
3d. per dozen, which is generally paid by little articles of grocery
goods, with which the egg-wives are always supplied for the ac-
commodatation of their customers. Those who deal in this frangible
commodity, send the same in boxes by the steam-boat to the
Glasgow market.
   Kilmuir was formerly famous for its pipers: but they are now
extinct. The leading performers and teachers of this ancient and
martial music, were the MacArthurs. When the proprietors
resided in the parish, a free grant of the lands of Peingowen, a
hamlet in the place, was given to the MacArthurs, in the same
manner as Boreraig was given by the Macleods of Dunvegan, to
the MacCrimmons. Peingowen, like Boreraig, was a sort of mu-
sical college, to which pupils were sent by various chieftains, to
acquire a correct knowledge of pi•baireachd. A little green hill
in close vicinity to Piengowen, called Cnoc-ph...il, was the general
rendezvous of the MacArthurs and their pupils. To the top of
this eminence, they almost daily resorted, and practised their
tunes. The MacArthurs vied with the MacCrimmons of Dunve-
gan, the MacGregors of Fortingall, the Mackays of Gairloch,
the Rankins of Coll, and the MachIntyres of Rannoch, who were
all renowned performers in their day.
   Some years ago every funeral procession was attended by one
or more pipers, who always played a lament, or melancholy pio-
bairreachd, suitable for the occasion. The attendants silently
listened to the quivering notes of the bagpipe, as they rent tile
atmosphere, and re-echoed from the surrounding hills.  The in-


