
132                          SHETLAND.

snoods the hooks, and a third man guts and takes off the heads.
The other three andow or shought+ the boat.
   When the men come ashore in the afternoon of the following day,
with eight score of ling, they consider they have made a good haul.
This would average 16 cwt., for which they are allowed 5s. per
cwt. They seldom make more than two trips to the haaf in
the week; but when there is an appearance of fine weather,
after hauling their lines, they bait their hooks, and set a second
time.  When the fish are landed, the fishermen have no more
concern with them.  They are split, salted, and dried at their
landlord's expense.   As soon as the boat arrives at the beach, one
man goes to the lodge or hut, kindles a fire, and acts as cook
while the others land the fish, and see them weighed.
   There is only one proprietor in the parish, whose lands are let
on a fishing tenure.  His tenants man seven boats, and caught,
last year, about eight tons of dried ling, which sold for L. 18 Ster-
ling per ton.  The boat and materials are divided into six shares,
one of which the landlord, for the most part, holds, putting in a
feed man, to whom he gives two lispunds of meal, and L. 2 Ster-
ling.  The provisions which each fisherman takes with him for
the season, are two lispunds of meal, two ankers of potatoes, a
pork-ham, or a smoke-dried sheep, and an half lispund of dried
bear.  Of this, when knocked in a stone trough, which is carried
to the fishing station with their other necessaries, they make broth.
They have very little spirits either at sea or ashore, being preclud-
ed from the use of that article by the high duty to which it is liable.
Their usual drink is water, unless when they carry with them from
their houses on Monday morning, a small cask or jar with bland.
   Johnsmas (24th June, O. S.) is regarded by the fishermen as an
holiday. Again, before striking their tents at Lammas, and bidding
adieu to the busy, bustling, perilous occupations of the summer, the
fishermen who bave been accustomed to associate together during
the season, meet and take a parting cup, when the usual toast on
the occasion is, "Lord ! open the mouth of the grey fish, and
haud thy hand about the corn."  This meeting is known by the
name of the fishermen's foy. After this, having nothing more to
detain them, their huts are unroofed, bag and baggage are bundled
into the boat, and wafted on the wings of a favourable breeze,
they hasten to enjoy the smiles of their wives, and the innocent

<FOOTNOTE> "Snood," to wrap the toum round the hook, so that the fine may not be raveled.
  "Andow or shough," to row the boat stern foremost.


