
     Of Bellie.

the Bank of Bellie.  At the S. end of this charming
level stands Gordon castle.  It has a front of 568 feet.
I will not attempt to describe this most superb and ele-
gant structure.  It is well known to be one of the
noblest palaces in Britain, and attracts the notice of all
travellers, who never fail to return highly gratified*.
Here many a costly drain has been employed to form the
enchanting landscape it now exhibits.  There is an im-
mense extent of plantation, a large park of fallow deer;
and here we are charmed with all the melody of the
grove.  Here the woodcock visits us about the end of
October, the fieldfare in the winter, and the green plover
in the spring.  About a mile N. of Gordon castle, and 3
miles S. of the Frith, is the church of Bellie, upon the
old east bank of the Spey, soon to be translated to Focha-
bers, where a very commodious, elegant church is to be
built, which will be greatly ornamental to the place.
The old manse is in ruins, and the minister has got an
excellent house in the town of Fochabers+.
     VOL. XIV. L 1

<FOOTNOTE>

*The ancient residence here was called Bogra-gbdbu, or windy bog, there being
a very free circulation of air from the Frith and the W.; and the ferry-boat is
still the boat of Bog.  This habitation was long known all over the N., by
the name of The Bog, for an obvious reason.  Spalden, if I remember right,
seldom uses any other term for it.  The castle had doubtless been built here
with a view to strength, by ditches and inundation, when property was not
so effectually secured as in our happy days, by the regular execution of
wholesome and equitable laws.  I need not say how necessary it was in those
times to erect fortresses on rocks and in marshes.
+Fochabers is compounded of the two Gaelic words, Foich, a green plain,
properly a plain for rendezvous or weapon-shaw, which was often practised here,
and Aber, a bay or junction of two waters; the burn of Fochabers here u-
niting itself with the Spey.  Some years ago, Fochabers was removed south-
ward from the vicinity of Gordon Castle to a rising ground, near a mile dis-
tant, and built on a neat plan, with an extensive square in the centre.  It is a
burgh of barony, and has a baron bailie.  A physician resides among us.  We


