
                               FYVIE.                         341

able to read more or less perfectly, and almost all boys, and the
greater number of girls between the same age, have been taught,
or are now learning to write.  The fees at the parish school are
per quarter,-reading, 2s ; reading and writing, 2s. 6d.; elemen-
tary arithmetic, 3s.; higher branches of arithmetic, 5s.; Latin, 5s.;
course of kook-keeping, 10s. 6d.  In the unendowed schools they
are much about the same rates.
   There are five Sabbath schools, attended at present by about
250 children.  One of these, the most numerous, meets in the
parish church immediately after public worship; another in the
church of Millbrex in the same manner; the rest are spread over
different districts of the parish and generally under the superin-
tendence of the elder of the district where they are situated.  As
a stimulus to home instruction, and as initiating children in early
life to a careful perusal of the word of God, and reflection upon
its truths, and as leading them also to a more regular and atten-
tive waiting upon the public services of the sanctuary, I have seen
benefit from these schools.  They are farther important in bring-
ing the youth for a considerable period more directly under
the eye of the Church, and thereby forming a bond of mutual
interest between them and the pastor, which, in the intercourse of
the latter with them, when they have attained to a more full status
in society, will, I conceive, through the blessing of God, tend not
a little to render his labours effectual.  Measures are proposed to
be taken as soon as possible to get a school on the parochial foot-
ing in connection with the church of Millbrex.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-A Savings Bank has lately
been established with every prospect of success.  It is upon the
old principle of these banks, and under the patronage of the heri-
tors.  The Aberdeen Town and County Bank have also lately
opened an agency here, which will prove a great accommodation to
the parish and surrounding district.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There is a heavy poor's roll in this
parish,-the average number receiving supply being from 60 to 65.
More than three-fourths of these are females, most of them aged
or infirm, and a few widows of farm-servants, whose husdands died
young, leaving them with families wbolly unprovided for.  These
last receive a supply according to their necessities, till the young-
est of their children has attained the age of twelve years.  Few
occasional supplies are given from the poor's funds; nor are they
applied for except in peculiar cases of family distress, arising ge-


