
                            DENNY.                         125

black-ball excludes. The club dine together in October, annu-
ally; and the greatest harmony has existed among its members;
since its institution.
   The people generally enjoy in a good degree the comforts of
society, and are contented with their situation. Unprincipled * news-
papers, are the chief causes of any discontent that exists.  Their
general character, however, is good. They are rather what may
be called a church-going population. There are sometimes, but
not often, prosecutions for poaching. Smuggling is annihilated.
Would that drunkenness were so also !

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.--A practical and extensive agriculturist has favour-
ed the writer with the following statements. He computes the
whole number of acres within the parish at 7520.
 Of the above number there are either cultivated, or in occasional tillage, 6000
 Acres which have never been cultivated, and which remain constantly
      waste or in pasture,             -             -                      1139
 Acres which might, with a profitable application of capital, be added to
     the cultivated land of the parish, whether that land was afterwards
     to be kept in occasional tillage or in permanent pasture,        -      360
 There is no undivided common in the parish.
 Under wood, either natural or planted, there are             -              181
   The kind of wood planted is Scots fir, larch, spruce, ash, elm,
birch, oak, lime, and plane.  The natural wood is, oak and
birch, all kept properly thinned and in good order.  The time'
of felling the planted wood is generally in the months of February
and March; and the time of cutting the natural or copse-wood,
and all oak for peeling, is the month of May. The time for
thinning wood is in winter.
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land per acre, is
L. 1, 15s.  The average rent of grazing oxen and yeld cows per
annum, is L. 3 each; of milk cows, L. 4 each; of ewes or full-
grown sheep, 17s. each.
   Live-Stock.--No sheep are bred in the parish except pets, which
are mostly of the Leicester and Cheviot kind. Ewes are some-
times grazed in parks, which are of the black-faced breed. The
cattle are generally of the Ayrshire sort, and the breed very much
improved of late years, by giving premiums for the best bulls and
cows, &c. Horses are mostly of the Clydesdale description, and
the breed also much improved by premiums for the best stallions
and brood mares. The style of farming is also greatly improved

<FOOTNOTE>The public morals and peace are at this time both suffering from what is called
Chartism. The principles of Chartists, as exhibited here, are infidel and anarchical.
Few, happily, countenance them.-(1841.)


