
			 FORDOUN.                         77

extinct. Moles are kept under by one or two active and well-
employed mole-catchers.
	Owing to the smallness of the rivers, they are only frequented
by the trout usually found in similar streams. As mentioned
before, the trouts are of no great size, never exceeding a few inches
in length, and seldom a pound in weight. A stray salmon or sea-
trout is occasionally got in the Bervie; but trout is the general
pursuit of the angler.
         Botany. *--"Among the native vegetable productions, nothing has
been met with having great claim to notice, except Linncea bo-
realis, which was found in 1834 in this parish.+ This plant, in-
deed, was first discovered to be a native of Britain at Inglismaldie,
in a neigbbouring parish, and though the progress of observation
has proved it to be more common, particularly in the northern
counties, than was at one time supposed, botanists continue to attach
no slight interest to the two-flowered Linnaea. Most of the other
species are of the most ordinary description, so that none of them
deserve to be ranked among plants which are in any degree rare
or curious, except perhaps the few that follow: Cardamine impa-
tiens, narrow-leaved cardamine; Circea alpina, mountain enchant-
er's nightshade; Rubus chamaemorus, cloud-berry; Trientalis
Europea, European chick weed winter-green; Pyrola rotundi-
folia, round-leaved winter-green; Pyrola minor, lesser winter-
green; Arbutus uva-ursi, bear-berry; Vaccinium vitis-Idaa, cran-
berry; Hypericum pulchrum, small St John's wort; and Parnassia
palustris, grass of Parnassus. It ought, however, to be added, that
it is probable Fordoun possesses botanical treasures of greater value,
as the native plants of the parish have never, as far as is known,
been examined with adequate attention."
	Plantations.--There are no forests or indeed plantations ex-
ceeding the age of seventy years. The oldest plantations are per-
haps the wood of Drumsleed, and the remains of the Garret or
Garrold wood, on the north flank of Strathfinella hill, opposite
Drumtochty Castle. These consist chiefly of Scotch fir and larch,
Šwith a few deciduous trees where the soil is favourable. There is
some natural birch and oak coppice-wood behind Drumtochty Castle,
and in the ravines west of it; but, with these exceptions, the whole
plantations in the parish have been planted within the last sixty
years. A few old trees still exist in the old village or rather coun-

<FOOTNOTE>Notice on Botany by Dr Murray of Aberdee
          By Mr David Johnston, Student of Medicine.


