
     of Falkirk.

   Remarkable Events.-Margaret, commonly called by hi-
storians the Maiden of Norway, died at Orkney, on her
way to Britain, where she was to have been crowned suc-
cessor to her grandfather Alexander III. of Scotland.  Upon
her death there was much agitation in the kingdom, and
many competitors sprang up for the Crown.  But of all
those who laid in their claims, the rights of Robert Bruce
and John Balliol* appeared to be most worthy of investi-
gation and support.  On the side of one or other of these
opponents were the people of Scotland generally arranged.
As the contest was violent, and not likely to be brought to
a speedy issue, it was resolved to submit the whole busi-
ness to the decission of Edward I. of England.  He accept-
ed of the offer with much pleasure, and took that opportu-

<FOOTNOTE>

But if I fully understand the specification, Mr Fullarton's method must
be subject to several inconveniencies.  Either the furnace must be very
small, or it will be difficult to remove the regulus after it has remained
there till it be cold, and the work must suffer an interruption by waiting
to long before a new charge can be put in.  In order to obviate these
inconveniencies, it might be proper to draw off the metal in the fluid state,
and having cast it into pigs of the usual form, put them while hot into a
furnace, exposed to a well regulated heat, and suffered gradually to be-
come cool.
   A gentleman, who was taken by the French during the last American
war, buying escaped from prison, was travelling homeward, and on his
way, in passing through a valley among the Pyrenean mountains, came to
a small forge, where some men were making iron from the ore.  They
sisted it, and having mixed it with charcoal, put it by small quantities at
a time into a furnace.  Their let it remain till it was duly fused.  Then they
put a bar of iron among the metal, to which a knob, adhered, and when
it had acquired a proper consistency, they beat it with a hammers re-
peating the operation, till, in a short time, they had made a bar of consi-
derable length.  This method is recommended by its simplicity, and per-
haps it may suggest something for the improvement of making bar-iron
in this country.

*Formerly called Robert de Brus, and John de Balliol.

     VOL. XIX. N


