
                          STRICKATHROW.                     665

and might still be wrought to advantages, were proper means used
for draining off the water.
	The kind of stone which prevails through the rest of the parish
is a red sandstone, which stands the action of the weather very ill,
unless taken from a considerable depth below the bed of the rivers.
The angle of inclination of the strata is very irregular. In general
it dips towards the north; the declivity varying from 1 foot in 6
to 1 foot in 9.
	Botany, &c.--This parish affords small scope for the pur-
suits of the botanist, zoologist, and mineralogist. Among the
trees that thrive best the principal is the beech,--which is also
much used for ornamental fences. In some places the ash,
American spruce, and lime have attained a noble size. The
Cruik abounds in trout,--one species of which appears to be pe-
culiar to it. In size and appearance they very much resemble the
fry of the salmon; but in flavour they are far superior.

                         II.--CIVIL. HISTORY.
	This parish seems to have given birth to no character of distin-
guished genius or eminence, except the late celebrated Sir George
Rose, whose father, an Episcopal clergyman, long resided at
Woodside of Dunlappie.
	Antiquities.--On the farm of Ballownie, about 1100 yards west
from the church, were lately discovered in a mound, which
named, the Lousy-hillock, some relics of antiquity, which seem-
ed to indicate that it had been used as a place of sacrifice
by the Druids. The mound is about 40 yards in diameter,
and rises about 9 feet above the level of the adjacent field. Some
years ago, on removing the turf, it was found to be fenced with a
dike or rampart of loose stones, which, no dbubt, had been con-
tinued around the whole circle; but on the south and east sides
these have entirely disappeared; having, in all probability, been
taken away for useful purposes. On removing the rampart, the in-
terior of the mound was found to consist of good black mould, in-
terspersed with masses of a very dark unctuous-looking substance.
On penetrating a few yards farther, the workmen encountered a
large block of whinstone, 4 feet long, 2 1/2 feet broad, and 18 inches
thick. Underneath this was a flat slab, and below it, a grave or
box, 24 inches long, 13 inches wide, and 18 inches deep. It was
formed of square stones placed on edge, was filled with about half
a bushel of bones in a very broken and decomposed state; and


