
     Statistical Account

   Climate and Character.-As the soil of Buittle is in general
dry, as the air of it is good, and the tract of country it com-
prehends warm, good health and length of days are corre-
spondent to those aids of both.  "Medicina summa medica-
"mentis non uti."  With this most important maxim of phy-
sics the inhabitants of Buittle are well acquainted, without
consulting antiquity.  There is a surgeon about a mile from
the border of the parish, and an attorney at nearly the same
distance.  Either, or both of them, will come if sent for,
but this is as seldom as possible.  Indeed it is just rather than
complimentary, to say, that the morals of the inhabitants of
this parish, as seldom need the interference of law, as their
health does the aids of physic.-Religion is still reverenced,
and they esteem a Christian Church the best temple of reason.
To mention politics might be extraneous and petulant, rather
than serviceable to the work for which this article is design-
ed, were it not that it becomes every good citizen, at a time
like the present, to omit nothing that may any wise increase
public confidence, or allay capricious innovation.  Indepen-
dent in their sentiments, and in their circumstances, the peo-
ple of Buittle, (like many of the county to which they be-
long) seem neither so besotted as to imagine, that any human
form of government is without infirmity, nor so infatuated
as to believe, that every thing is wrong in our own, and that
reformation must be sought in anarchy.  The apostles of Mr
PAINE seemed at one time assiduous, and his works, (and
works of less merit too), were as common as the church ca-
techism.  They are now forgotten.  One idea has of late

<FOOTNOTE>

and the inner part resembling an agger of small stones; but the
walls of castles must have been proportionally more slender than
those of large towns.  In either case, however, the quantity of
wood in such buildings must have been very great, and suffi-
cient to vitrify many kinds of stone, if the wood was once fair-
ly set on fire.


