
		             GIRVAN.                           403

on this coast turned to more account, and, it is to be hoped, with
some prospect of final success.

      		      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Means of Communication.--Besides Girvan, which is a market
and a post-town, there is neither town nor village in the parish.
There is an easy communication, however, with every place of im-
portance in the neighbourhood, by means of excellent turnpike
roads. The Glasgow and Port-Patrick road runs along the west
side of the parish, and with but little deviation from the sea shore,
for nearly nine miles. There are also good inland roads, which
branch off in every direction, and render the communication as
convenient and easy as could reasonably be desired.
	Town of Girvan.--This town is a burgh of barony by charter
granted originally to Mr Thomas Boyd of Ballochtoul, and re-
newed by King William to Sir Archibald Muir of Thnrnton in
the year 1696. The powers granted by the original charter were
regularly handed down, but never acted on till the year 1785,
when Girvan actually assumed the form of a burgh of barony, and
still continues to enjoy the liberties and privileges belonging to
other burghs of the same name. It is beautifully situated on a
fine bay, and commands a magnificent view of the sea; of the
north coast of Ireland, of the rock of Ailsa, of the Mull and
promontory of Cantire; of the islands of Sanda, Arran, Plada,
Little Cumbrae; part of Bute, and the hills of Cowal. No situa-
tion in the Island can be more healthy; for though a great pro-
portion of the inhabitants be poor, crowded, ill-lodged, and by no
means attentive to cleanliness, yet infectious diseases are almost
unknown. Till very lately, the harbour was quite in a state of
nature, admitting at full tide, with from nine to eleven feet water in
the mouth of the river, only the smallest description of vessels; but a
quay has been built on a very limited scale, which has contributed
much to the facility of shipping coals and grain, and demonstrated
the possibility of making Girvan a very useful harbour at a mo-
derate expense. The principal proprietor is said to have the
improvement of the harbour at present in contemplation, the exe-
cution of which, on a somewhat liberal scale, together with a rail-
way to the neighbouring collieries, must of necessity be accom-
plished, before Girvan can enjoy the full benefit of its admirable
situation.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The Church of Girvan is situated, very
improperly, in the centre of the town, and quite close to the street


