
  		                 PARISH OF ABDIE.
			PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.
	        	THE REV. LAURENCE MILLER, MINISTER.

	        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY
	   Name.-THE name of this parish, Abdie or Ebtie, is supposed
	to be the Gaelic word abtaob signifying waterside. According
	to Sibbald, the ancient Dame of the parish was Lindores, which
	is still the name of the principal village in it, a place of great an-
	tiquity. At what time the parish got the name of Abdie is uncer-
	tain. But it has been so called for many centuries; and the church
	of Abdie was always reckoned one of those belonging to the abbey
	of Lindores, which is situated about two miles from the village on
	the south bank of the Tay.
	   Boundaries and Extent.-The parish was formerly of much
	greater extent than at present; for in the year 1633 the whole of
	Newburgh parish was disjoined from it. By this disjunction, and
	by the intersections of the neighbouring parishes, it has become
	very irregular in its figure, so that it is difficult to ascertain its ex-
	act dimensions. Perhaps if the scattered parts of it were united
	into one whole, it might form an area of about 6 miles in length,
	by 4 in breadth. It is bounded on the W. and N. W. by Aber-
	nethy and Newburgh; on the S. and S. W. by Auchtermuchty
	and Collessie; on the S. E. the E. N. E. by Monimail, Dunbog,
	and Flisk; and on the N. and E. by the Tay.
	   Geology and Mineralogy.-Limestone occurs on the farm of
	Parkhill; and several attempts have been made to apply it as ma-
	nure, but these have been abandoned, on account of the distance
	of coal, and the unfavourable dip of the stratum. This rock be-
	longs to the old red sandstone formation of Werner. There is
	also a quarry of red freestone, near the same place, which has been
	wrought at some former period. Dr Fleming, it is said, discover-
 	edsome fossil remains of plants in this district. There are several
	quarries of whinstone in the parish, used for building houses and

