
               ARDCLIATTAN.                                485

     inches.; cherry, 7 feet 12 inches; hawthorn (Lochnell) 6 feet;
     walnut, do. 4 feet 8 inches; Spanish chestnut ( Barcaldine) 7 feet
     2 inches; holly (Kennacraig) 5 feet 7 inches; yew (Blarcreen
     garden) 6 feet 9 inches; plane or sycamore (at Ardcbattan) 9
     feet 6 inches; cberrv (Glenure) 7 feet 2 inches; Carnock pear,
     5 feet 8 inches; green yar pear, 6 feet; tulip tree (Liriodendron
     tullipifera) 4 feet; a hawthorn with seven stems growing from one
     root, three of these stems measure 3 feet 9 inches; other three,
     6 feet 9 inches; and the last, 1 foot IO inches; in all, 17 feet IO
     inches.
        The yew tree appears to have of old grown here luxuriantly,-
     and in abundance. Glentire received its designation from the
     yews that adorned, and would still adorn, the sides of that valley,
     were it not stocked with sheep, which devour the young plants
     whenever they appear; and the yews of Easragain were considered,
     by Celtic warriors, superior to all othdr for their bows.*
        The garden at Barcaldine contains three acres within the walls,
     and about nine acres within the outer fence, containing orchard,
     shrubbery, and other pleasure ground. The figure is a square,
     with the south-east and southwest points cut off, forming six sides
     for the figure, but not in the proper hexagonal shape. The height
     of the walls is 13 feet 15 inches, 16 feet 3 inches, 18 feet 3 inches,
     and 20 feet. It contains five divisions of Scotch- acres, 30 feet
     each. I'hree of these are occupied bv vines and peaches, one
     is used as an orange house, and the other as a camellia house.
        There are 76 feet of glass besides for exotic plants, rearing of
     pine apples, and other ornamental tropical plants. The situation
     for a garden is first-rate, with terrace banks, fish-ponds, and ser-
     pentine walks, ornamented with the stately Pinus picea, and other
     flowering shrubs. It is supplied with a fine stream of water, fal-
     ling from a neighbouring mountain over precipices, and winding

        *This is proved by Gaelic verses, which are still fondly repeated by our old people,
     and which Dr Smith of Campbelton introduced into his Collection of Sean Ditna,
     with the following remark: " Every body knows the how to have been made of yew.
     Among the Highlanders of latter tiles, that which grew in the wood of Easragain,
     in Lorn, was esteemed the best. The feathers most in vogue for thL, arrows were
     furnished by, the eagles of Loch Treig, the wax for the string bX Baill-na-gail-bhinn,
     and the arrow heads by the Smiths of the race of Mae Pheidearain. This piece of in-
     struction, like all the other knowledge of the Highlanders, was couched in verse:
               "Boghs dh'inghar Easragain,
                Is ite'firein Locha Treig,
                Ceir bhuidhe Bhaile-na-gailbbinn,
                Sceann an cheard MaePbeiderain.


