
176                        FORFARSHIRE.

William. This family also has produced many individuals emi-
nent for their literature, their patriotism, and their loyalty; in par-
ticular David, born in 1560, and educated a physician, who travel,
led much in foreign parts, and became eminent in his profession.
He was some time confined in the Inquisition in Spain; but from
this he was at last liberated, on performing an extraordinary cure upon
the Inquisitor General, when given over by his physicians. He after-
wards returned to this country, and having acquired considerable
wealth by the most honourable means, he purchased lands, which
were confirmed to him by a charter from James VI. in 1616. He
was a gentleman of great genius and learning, and wrote several works
on physic. Dr Small, in his Statistical Account of Dundee, men-
tions him as physician to James VI., and as author of some poems
in the Latin language of great eloquence and beauty, and which
are to be found in the collection of the Poetae Scotigeni. There
is a portrait of this eminent person in the house of Logie, the re-
sidence of the family, The baronetcy of the family was forfeited
in 1746. John Kinloch, Esq. of Kilry, an officer in the Guards,
is the legal heir to this honour, as being the lineal descendant and
representative of James Kinloch, progenitor of the Kinlochs of
Kilry, who war recond son of James Kinloch of Aberbrothy, and
father of Sir David Kinloch, created a baronet by King James
VII., but whose family in that line has become extinct.
Land-owners.--The chief of these, with their valued rents, as
recorded in the valuation roll published by the Michaelmas Court
of the county, 1822, are the following.

<TABLE>
	Charles Lyell, Esq. of Kinnordy,             L. 3568  13  6
	John Kinloch, Esq. and feuars,                  1150   0  0
	G. L. Meason, Esq. of Lindertis,                1027   0  0
	The Hon. Colonel Ogilvy of Clova, and feuars,    533   6  8
	Francis Graham, Esq. of Morphic,                 426  13  4
	Miss H. Brown of Glasswell,                      390   0  0
	John Adamson, Esq. of Hillhead, and feuars,      380   0  0
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers are of a late date.
It appears that they were taken possession of in 1713, by the Rev.
James Rait, and were never afterwards recovered. The registers
of marriages, births, and deaths, which have been kept since 1713,
are as correct as most others, but far from being in a satisfactory
state.
	Antiquities--Rocking-stones.--Dr Smith, in his History of the
Druids says, that the Highlanders called the rocking-stones
"Clacha Breath," that is, the stones of judgment judgment; but Mr Hud-


