
     Statistical Account

to the turnpike; and as the whole of what has been projec-
ted is now carrying into execution, the communication from
the different parts of this parish, and indeed through the
whole Carse, with the neighbouring market towns and har-
bours, will be so easy to the farmer, as to account in a great
measure for the rise of the value of land in this part of the
country.  This should serve as an encouragement to coun-
try gentlemen to exert themselves in making good roads,
as the greatest improvement, and best laid out money they
can expend upon their estates; as it enables the farmer to
perform all his labour at much less expence, and of course
to pay a better rent without diminishing his profits*.  One
remark here is necessary, that in this parish, and indeed in
general through the Crase, care has been taken to apply the
statute labour of each farmer, as much as possible, to those
roads alone most useful to him.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is a well known fact that previous to the year 1790, a great part of
the interior of the Carse of Gowrie was perfectly inaccessible to carts for
almost half the year; so that they were obliged to deliver their produce on
horseback; and the very idea of bringing lime or dung from any distance
was scarce to be entertained, except under the most favourable circumstan-
ces.  Now there is not a farm in the Carse but what is accessible in every
point, and at all times, to carts loaded with 13 or 14 bolls of wheat, or 10
bolls of barley, or 4 1/2 bolls of lime shells, or 26 cubic feet of dung, at least,
and at a most trifling expence; for within the country, the turnpike toll is
but 9 d. for which a cart with two horses can deliver produce, or bring
lime, &c. from some one part or other, to almost any place in the Carse, to
the extent of three loads in summer, of the above amount, and two in winter,
per day:  For roads of communication they pay nothing.  Is it possible
then to point out the advantage of good roads to farmers in stronger terms?
and, Is there any one man of any description, who feels that advantage more?
Not one.  Nor is there an owner of any one article conveyed upon these
roads, so amply reimbursed as the Carse farmer is, for the tolls he pays upon
his lime and dung.  Indeed very little dung is brought from any distance to
Carse farm:; they in general are served within themselves.


