
<APPENDIX>

xci

this head there is no ground for complaint on the part of England, or for
apprehension on the part of Scotland.  Let the English pass a general bill
of inclosure, let them modify tithes, so as to prevent their being a bar to
improvement; let them restrain the poors rates within moderate bounds;
let them abolish any obnoxious remnants of the feudal system; let them
grant proper leases to their tenants, and let them demand an adequate in-
come from their estates, and the land of England will soon be as cheaply
taxed as that of Scotland.  It is owing to the circumstances above alluded
to, that the rents of Scotland have proportionably increased more, under all
the disadvantages of an inferior soil, of an inferior climate, of an inferior ca-
pital, and of inferior markets.  Give England the same legal advantages
which Scotland at present happily possesses, and its Agricultural prosperity
would increase, in such a ratio, that the Land Tax it is now subject to
would not be felt.
   It is proper here to observe, that in many instances the Clergy were re-
strained from giving any return of the Real Rent, from an apprehension of
giving offence to their parishioners.  Where that is the case, the real rent
is computed, according to the proportion of the real to the valued rent, in
those parishes where a return of both has been made, and consequently on
data, that cannot, on the whole, be materially erroneous*.
   Col. 8th. The next column relates to the Stipends of the Clergy.
Their income consists, 1. Of Money stipend.- 2. Of Grain, comprehending
various articles, as wheat, barley, bigg, or inferior barley, oats, and oat-
meal-And, 3. The value of a glebe, which is not, in all cases, of much use
to the incumbent; but instead of entering into all those articles separately,
it was thought more advisable to convert the whole into one sum, and to
state the Income of each Minister in cumulo.  To these ecclesiastical ex-
pences, there is to be added a sum for communion-elements, i. e., for pur-
chasing wine and bread when the Sacrament is celebrated, which sum, how-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The real rents of Scotland might be very nearly known, by exa-
mining the late processes for augmenting the livings of the Clergy, where
the rent of the parish is always mentioned, and from which few parishes
have been exempted.  About 40 years ago, the whole land rent of Scot-
land was only computed to amount of L. 600,000 per annum.  The increase
is greatly owing to the higher price of grain, of cattle, and other agricultu-
ral productions.  It remains to be ascertained, by computing the value of
money, in purchasing the necessaries of life, and the labour of man, at va-
rious periods, what the difference really is.


