
54                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

this spot.  The favourite view is from what is called "the green
point," which fronts the body of the water in its descent; it is a
thin rock projecting forward beyond the common bank, covered
with a green sward, almost always saturated by the spray which
ascends from the fall, and which, particularly when the wind blows
from the north, rises some hundred feet high.  The access to "the
green point" has now been rendered easy and safe by a footpath
made to it, within these few years, from the high road.
   Geology.-There is limestone of a good quality both in Bole-
skine and Abertarff; but it has never been wrought to any great ex-
tent; and now lime can be had at as cheap, if not a cheaper rate,
from Sunderland, through the Caledonian Canal, than perhaps the
native lime could be manufactured and sold at.  This at least is true as
regards Abertarff, because almost all the tillable lands are nearly on
a level with the canal.  But it is otherwise with Boleskine, where
the arable grounds, with the exception of the place of Foyers, is at
the distance of some miles up hill all the way, from the nearest
landing-place on the banks of Loch Ness,-which deters farmers
from using imported lime as a manure; whereas, were a person, of
no great capital, but judicious and experienced, to obtain a lease
of the lime rock, and to manufacture and sell it at the rate that
the English lime can be purchased at, this invaluable article of
manure would be brought within the reach of every farmer in the
parish, and the poorest would avail himself of it.  The soil would
thereby be enriched, the harvest would be earlier and more produc-
tive, and the climate, by means of additional planting, greatly me-
liorated.
   The whole of the Boleskine district may be said to be nearly one
continued rock of granite, both blue and red, but chiefly the former.
There is a well in Abertarff, slightly impregnated with iron-ore.
The soil, which is from six to ten or twelve inches deep, is not, on
the whole, bad; but is various, partaking of gravel, clay, till, loam,
and peat moss.  If left but a few years, it is commonly overrun with
heath.  There is abundance of peat moss over a bed of compact
gravel and'clay.
   Zoology.-At one period, the largest deer in Scotland were sup-
posed to be in this parish, and the hill called Monadhliath, was
their favourite haunt.  This hill is covered almost all over with a
species of fungus, or that apparently unproductive and useless plant
called gray moss, which is the natural provision of the deer, with-
out which they cannot thrive.  Clover is rich pasture for cattle; but


