
                            KIRKWALL AND ST OLA.                    7

   The sheep pastured on the commons, which are undivided, are
less numerous than formerly, but in their breed, as well as that of
cattle and horses, a gradual improvement is taking place.
   Prices of Produce, &c.-A horse, L. 12 to L. 16; a milch cow,
L. 5,to L. 6; a good sheep L. 1; a goose, 2s. to 2s. 6d.; poultry,
8d. each ; beef, 5d. to 6d. per lb.; oatmeal, 2s. to 2s. 6d. per
stone; potatoes, 2s. per barrel.
   Manufactures.-Since the demand for kelp has so greatly di-
minished, the only kind of industry in the parish, properly falling
under this denomination, is the plaiting of straw for hats and bon-
nets, which, more or less, occupies three-fourths of the female
population. This manufacture has been carried on for forty years,
and has proved a very seasonable source of emolument to the
poorer classes. The raw material is either Tuscan straw imported
from Leghorn, or rye-straw raised in Orkney, which is more
durable, and very little inferior in appearance. This kind of labour,
as at present conducted by the agents giving out the straw to the
women to be manufactured in their own dwellings, is not liable to
the objection of injuring the morals, as in the case of manufactures
which assemble multitudes of the young in one place. In this
manufacture, a woman earns from 3d. to 9d. per day, according to
her skill and diligence or the time which she devotes to the em-
ployment. There are two licensed distilleries in the parish, which
export a considerable quantity of whisky, besides what is sold in
the place.
   Navigation.-The town is provided with,a safe and commodious
harbour, constructed thirty years ago, and well frequented both
by coasting and other vessels, including some from Norway and
the Baltic.
   There are, at present, sixty-eight vessels which sail from this
port, as registered in the custom-house books ; but as fory-seven
of these belong to Stromness, and other harbours through the
islands, the number strictly belonging to the town of Kirkwall and
trading from it is twenty-one, the tonnage of which is 1593, and
the number of men and boys employed in them, 106.
Considerable quantities of grain, fish cured in the islands, cattle,
and other produce, are annually,exported, both coastwise and to
foreign ports

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-Kirkwall was formerly entitled to
only three mails per week; but about a year ago (1839), through


