
                           HERIOT.                                199

boundary, about a mile and a half below the church.  Gala water
renowned in song, rises in the north-east quarter of the parish,
through which it runs about two miles before its junction with the
Heriot.  The Heriot is subject to frequent floods, which come
down with amazing rapidity, overflowing the banks, and sometimes
doing considerable damage to property.  The highest flood in the
memory of the oldest inhabitants took place in August 1837.  On
that occasion, the Heriot suddenly rose with a rapidity and to a
height wholly unprecedented.  Dikes and walls of considerable
strength were either levelled or swept away by the torrent; and
the low ground presented the appearance of one great sheet of
water.
   Soil.-The soil on the banks of the water is of the finest descrip-
tion, and, were it not for the climate, would produce most abun-
dant crops, which, notwithstanding, occasionally occur in good
seasons.  There is little or no wheat grown, and barley is now
substituted instead of bear.
   Live-Stock.-This parish has been long famed for its breeding
of stock.  Most of the farmers feed off cattle of their own rearing.
They generally feed to between fifty and sixty stones.  The sheep
are numerous, and of fine quality.  They are almost wholly of
the black-faced kind.  Their lambs frequently bring the top prices.
The number kept in the parish for breeding is 7660 in all.
   Botany.-The hills afford an inviting field for the botanist.
Multitudes of the rarer species of plants are to be found distribut-
ed in every corner, and are well worthy a visit from those fond of
that delightful study in the summer months.  The months of
August and September seem the most favourable for botanizing.
There is a great want of plantations.  The larch and the beech
and the plane thrive best.  The oldest tree is a plane dear the
church called the Bell Tree, from the circumstance of the church
bell having been suspended upon it.  Its exact age cannot be as-
certained, but it is supposed to be nearly 250 years.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   In regard to the civil history of the parish there is an ancient ac-
count of it in manuscript, in the possession of A. Macdonald, Esq.
Register Office, to whose kindness I am indebted for its perusal.  It
was drawn up in 1627 by William Borthwick, Esq. of Hallheriot,
now Borthwickhall, and Mr Scott, elder, Heriot-town; and, after
a few observations om the church and living, gives a detailed account
of the valuation of each of the properties in the parish at that pe-


