
778			EDINBUROUSHIRE.

to the magistrates, the kirk-session, and the corporations. A small
part of the stipend of the second minister was paid by the city of
Edinburgh, in terms of the act granting two pennies on the pint
of ale. The residue is paid by the corporations of shipmasters,
traffickers, maltmen, and trades, most of whom received their seals
of cause "for the weal and uphold of the altar of St John and
chaplain of the same." The trades collected a part of their pro-
portion of the stipend from the meal-dealers, and the traffickers
used to levy a part of their proportion from all the inhabitants,
(the meal-dealers excepted,) who were not members of any cor-
poration. All of the corporations, except the barbers, have a right
to parts of the parish church of South Leith, which they let, and
the rents received are understood by them to be for payment of
the stipend. No part of the stipend is paid by the corporation of
barbers. The "corporations" appear, from an early period of the
church recerds have taken charge of the repairs and upholding
of the fabric. In times of Popery, each of the trades had their
altar and chaplain, whom they maintained out of their funds. The
property and management of the church is vested in the kirk-ses-
sion. In 1836, it was observed that the steeple was falling from its
perpendicular, and on inspection by competent architects, it was
found necessary to take it down. A thorough repair of the whole
church was also decided upon by the presbytery, which, however,
was delayed for some time, in consequence of a law plea with the
heritors, who objected to assess themselves for repairs on the plea
that the church and its maintenance belonged to the "incorpora-
tion." This plea, however, was not sustained. An assessment,
being the estimated amount of repairs, of L. 2870, on the land-
ward and burgh proprietors, was raised, and with this sum the
church has been completely repaired. The church is capable of
accommodating from 1300 to 1500 persons. The parish of South
Leith includes that portion of the burgh to the south of the river,
with part of Leith Walk and the village of Jock's Lodge.
   St John's Church was built as a chapel of ease in 1773, and in
1834 was erected into a quoad sacra parish. The population of
both parishes in 1841 amounted to 19,776.
   The stipend of the first charge consists of 250 cwts. of meal;
143 quarters 6 bushels barley; L. 33, 18s. 4d. money ; a glebe,
yielding L. 80, and L. 80 in lieu of manse. The stipend of the
second charge is L. 247 without glebe or manse.
   There is a charitable fund, of which the kirk-session has the


