
			SOUTH RONALDSAY AND BURRAY.                  193

	was formed in fresh water. I have also found wood lodged in the
	sandstone as it was laid on the beach, and reaching over different
	layers of the sand, and then covered over. The different depres-
	sions in Orkney astonish the attentive observer. They appear to
	have happened at vast distances of time from each other ; for
	that part which remained above the sea, till peat moss of considera-
	ble depth was formed, is now under the sea. The most striking
	instance is on the north side of Widewall bay, bounded by the
	lands of Hoxa.
	   The geologist who visits our island may attend to Otterswick
	bay in Sandy,-an island south of Shapinshay, and the bay of
	Skail, in the parish of Sandwick, in Pomona or Mainland. It is evi-
	dent, that the materials of which the whole Orkney islands consist
	and the base on which they rest, have sunk down very gradually.

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        	   The remains of Picts' houses are numerous and of great extent.
	Of late years, a few ancient coins have been found; but they do
	not throw light on the periods when these islands were invaded.
	The mounds called hill dikes have, in many cases, been entrench-
	wents thrown up by invaders. At the manse, there is an under-
	ground building 3 feet wide, 2 1/2 feet high, and 11 in length, neat-
	ly paved with water-worn stones from the beach, and covered with
	thin stones. This is supposed to have been a Pictish grave.
	   Some large standing stones, supposed to be Druidical monu-
	ments, still remain; one, about II feet high, stands near the manse,
	and deep in the earth.
	   There were nine places for Popish worship in the united pa-
	rrabes, with burying-ground at eight of them.

<TABLE=III.-Population>


	   Population in 1831, North parish,     	1628
			       South parish include      637  726 in South parish
			       Swona and the Skerries,        89
			       Burray, including Hunda,  357
							----
						Total,  2711
	   Within the last twenty-four years, 480 couples have been mar-
	ried, and not above five of these were independent of fishing.

				IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   Before the berring-fishing began, the people fished skrae or
	sillocks, podlies, and sold them by thousands,-taking other fish for
	their own families. Now, much of their time is employed in pre-
	paring for herring-fishing, and less is done in laying in store for
	their families. Bad weather prevents the boats from going to sea
	   ORKNEY.


