
586                            FIFESHIRE.

It was found that many of the monks, especially in the abbeys of
Melros, Newbattle, and Balmerino had not only portions and pen-
sions allowed them for their food and clothing, but that each monk
had also a garden appropriated to his own particular use and pleasure.
The visitor, therefore, in his visitation roll specified these things as
illicit indulgences, which be enjoined them forthwith to relinquish.
With this the monks did not comply, and after a convocation of
them had been held at Edinburgh, it was agreed that they might
retain their private gardens, provided no monk bad a larger one
han another, and that a common way was made through all the
gardens by opening a passage frnrn one to another, the produc-
tions of the whole being made a common stock, and applied to
the use of the convent. The garden ground of this monastery
seems to have been immediately around the building, as is still in-
dicated by the name, viz. the orchard and over-yards, by the rich-
ness of the soil, its black loamy character, and the abundance of
oyster shells contained in it, and must have comprised an extent
of many acres.
  The abbey was demolished by the Lords of the Congregation
on their way from St Andrews in 1558.* The last abbot was Sir
John Hay, probably of the family of Naughton. He was master
of requests in the reign of Queen Mary + in 1561.  After the Re-
formation, the abbey was erected into a temporal lordship, in fa-
your of Sir James Elphinston of Barnton, created Lord  Balmeri-
noch, 20th Februar 1604, whose rise to power, and subsequent
condemnation and disgrace, are matters of public history.
  The building is now a complete ruin, a small portion of the
walls and a few pillars being all that remains to indicate the an-
cient magnificence of the monastery. One arched room, indeed,
and a cell or dormitory, is still pretty entire; but to what part of the
erection these belonged, it is impossible to conjecture. The pil-
lars are clustered and the corbals, or capitals from which the arches
spring, and some of the key-stones, bear marks of thd elegance
with which they have been originally finished; on many of which
the likeness of fruit, flowers, and religious emblems, as well as
more grotesque figures, may still be traced. A drawing of the
building as it stands may be seen in Swan's Views in Fife, now
in the progress of publication.
  The old Castle of Naughton, already alluded to, is equally now

<FOOTNOTE>
   * Lesly, &c.           + Sibbald's Fife, Ed. 1803.


