
1118                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

the moderator of that comittye was forced to tell him, that they
had nothing to say to his lyfe, but that they founde him piouse,
learnd, and fully orthodoxe, and to disagree with them in nothing
but in poynt of churche governement; and earnestly beseeched
him he wold be pleased to tacke the Covenant, shewing him that
it was ther greefe if they wer necessitated for to putt him from his
statione upon his refusall."* He was deposed in 1641, and obliged
to leave his native country in 1644, when he took refuge in Hol-
land, and remained for two years, preaching frequently in the
churches, and employing himself in the publication of his father's
commentary, and his own greatest work, the "Instructiones His-
torico-Theologicae." In 1646, he obtained leave to return home,
after which he lived in retirement at Corse, and died there 29th
April 1648. He applied to the presbytery of Aberdeen, a short
time before his death, for permission to lay his remains beside
those of his wife and father, but this being refused, he was buried
in the church-yard of Leochel. The hardships which he under-
went from the Covenanters were not the only misfortunes which
fell to his lot. His lands of Corse were repeatedly plundered by
the Highland caterans, and in 1638, they carried off his own cou-
sin, threatening to put him to death unless ransomed at a heavy
sum, and also to take his own life if he complained against them
to king or council, or sought peace otherwise than by the payment
of black-mail. On the face of the Hill of Corse, nearly opposite
to the castle, there is still to be seen a small excavation, known as
"the Laird's hiding-hole or chawmer," where he is said to have
concealed himself on such occasions of danger. A collected edi-
tion of his works was published at Amsterdam in 2 vols. fo. 1703,
with a copious memoir by Dr Garden; and, in the words of Dr
Irving, "his learning was such as to obtain the warm approbation
of these eminent scholars, Vossius, Usher, Morhof, Ernesti, and
Cave; and to this it would be superfluous to add any other com-
mendation."+ It only remains to be stated, that "His Diary, or
as he himself entitles it, Spiritual Exercises," in his own hand-
writing, is still preserved at Fintray House. It extends from the
3d of February 1624 to the close of 1647. Its allusions to pub-
lic events are not very numerous; but it contains many interesting
particulars of private history, outlines of sermons, expositions of
passages of Scripture, meditations and prayers, all characteristic of
the varied learning and fervent piety of its author. It was included

<FOOTNOTE>* Gordon's Scots Affairs, Vol. iii. p. 233   + Ibid. Vol. iii. pp. 234, 235.

					   3


