
				KINNELL.		405

village of Friockheim do not suggest the idea of feuing, a mode of
improvement may be adopted similar to that in which the lands
adjacent to the muirside of Kinnell have been brought into culti-
vation since 1820. In the latter case, the moor was divided into
sections of about four acres. Thirty bolls of lime were furnished
by the proprietor for the improving of each acre of ground, with
the farther inducement of stone, wood, and lime for the erection
of houses, and a lease of nineteen years without any other rent
than the payment of a few cane hens. It was expected that this
mode of improving the moor, and increasing the population, would
furnish a good supply of hands for working the green crops of the
larger farmers. But the loom affords a more independent, though
not a healthier, occupation; and, if expectation has been disap-
pointed in the case of tenants, it is not more likely to be gratified
in the case of feuars, whose destination still more is naturally the
loom, and such professions as are carried on within doors. The
natural mode of supplying a sufficiency of labourers would be to
increase the population of the several farms, by the building of
additional cottages, and the employing of married servants to a
greater extent.
	The improving of the moor, in sections of about four acres each,
was effected not only by introducing new colonists, but by remov-
ing the greater part of the old pendiclers nearer to the scene of
improvement. And the whole of their old land having been laid
out in regular fields, according to a better system of husbandry,
the greater part of them was annexed to the farm of Bolsban. Con-
sequently their houses have been almost all rebuilt since 1820,
and are much more comfortable than those were which the pro-
gress of agricultural improvement required to be removed. And
as, with a greater population, they have less of the profits of agri-
culture, weaving is carried on among them to a much greater ex-
tent than before. Numerically, however, they have more acres
than formerly. For, instead of the 180 acres withdrawn from them,
270 acres of moor have been brought into cultivation by the united
labours of the old and new colonists; so that at present, the muir-
side lands extend to 450 acres under the occupancy of 80 families.
In 1820, the number of families was 53, and the old muirside
lands were estimated at L.6I5 of annual value.
	The ordinary duration of leases is nineteen years; and the ave-
rage rent of a Scotch acre of arable land is about L.1, 5s. Un-
der two leases, which commenced in 1768, and continue all the


