
                     PAISLEY.                               209

believe, which has escaped destruction, is to be seen in its place,
near the SeedHill Bridge.
   Chapels.-In former times, there were several Chapel within the
parish of Paisley.  In the town there stood one, of these, dedicat-
ed to St Rock.  The Stewarts had one at their manor-place of
Blackhall, on the south-east of the town.  Before the end of the
twelfth century, an hospital was founded for infirm men, by Ro-
bert Croc, one of the most considerable vassals of the first Stewart
already mentioned, as having settled at, and given the name to,
Croc's town, afterwards called Cruickston.  He not only endowed
this hospital, but also built a chapel, and endowed a chaplain to
perform divine service, for the infirm brothers of the hospital.  A
license was obtained by him and Henry Nes, both vassals of the
Stewarts, to have, within the walled courts of their habitations,
two oratories, or private chapels, for the celebration of divine ser-
vice, on condition, that all the oblations received in those chapels,
should be carried to the mother church of Paisley.  This hos-
pital seems to have stood on the left bank of the Levern water, be-
tween old Cruickston and Neilston. *
   Of the parochial church of Paisley, the monks enjoyed the
tithes and revenues.  Its tithes, according to the rental of the
monastery, were yearly, 5 ebalders, I firlot and 3 pecks of meal; 6
chalders, 9 bolls of bear; L. 10 for the tithes of the lands of
Whiteford and Ralston; and L. 26, 13s. 4d. for the tithes of the
town of Paisley : and, according to the same rental, the vicarage
revenues of the parish churches of Paisley and Lochwinnoch were
L.100 yearly. +
   After the Reformation these tithes and revenue, along with the
patronage of the parish, became the property of the commenda-
tors of Paisley, till 1587, when, as has been stated, the whole pro-
perty of this opulent monastery was granted to Lord Claud Ha-
milton, the then commendator, and his heirs.  The patronage of
the church has since belonged to the different proprietors of the
Lordship of Paisley, and is now in the hands of the Most Nob1e
the Marquis of Abereorn. ++
   Of those who held the chief place in the monastery, whether
as prior or abbot, or afterwards as commendator, Crawfurd has
furnished us with a list, which future writers have copied.  The

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers's Caled. Vol. iii. p. 828, 829, and 832.
          Ibid. P. 831, 832.
          Ibid. p. 832, and Statistical Account, Vol. vii. p. 94.


