
                        CRAWFORDJOHN.                       507

ash, plane, beech, lime, chestnut, and oak; some of the oldest be-
ing well grown, and of an excellent quality, About half an acre
around the manse was planted seventeen years ago; and besides
the above, there are silver fir, birch, elms, alder, poplars, and wil-
lows, which are thriving; but they grow very slowly. I observe also
two or three clumps lately planted, which, I presume, are intend-
ed to prove by experiment, what time trees will take to reach ma-
turity upon the poorest land, and in the most exposed situations.
I have no doubt of them becoming, in forty or fifty years, large
enough to afford agreeable shelter to linnets and hedge-sparrows.
	Rent of Land.--Small pieces of land are let as high, perhaps, as
L. 2 an acre. The average rent of the whole can be easily calcu-
lated from the statement that shall be given. Grazing a cow may
be estimated L. 3, and a sheep at 5s.
	Rate of Labour--The wages of good men-servants have, of late,
been about L. 12 a year, and of women, L. 6.; for mowing, the
rate is 2s. a day with meat, and for other work, ls. 6d.; wrights
and masons get 2s. a day with victuals; and slaters, 2s 6d.; shep-
herds have forty-eight or fifty sheep kept for them, which form part
of the farm-stock; and they are also provided with victuals. It is
customary to hire persons for harvest, who come and reside in the
house, and receive from L. l, 10s. to L. 2, 5s., according as the
duration of harvest labour is short or long.
	Live-Stock and Produce.-- All the sheep are black-faced, except
one flock of fifteen scores, which are a mixed breed of the Cheviot
and Leicester; the horses are of the Clydesdale breed; and the cattle
of the Ayrshire. Great attention is paid to all of them, and most
strenuous efforts are made to bring them to a state of the highest
improvement. Horses reared here have long been dispersed into
all parts of the country; and of late, cows of exquisite symmetry
and most attractive beauty have been produced in greater num-
bers, than could have been anticipated by those, who have heard
chiefly of our great elevation and unfavourable climate.
	Having received an account of the produce and stock of every
distinct farm, the following statement must make a near approxi-
mation to the truth.
	There are 114 horses employed for working or riding; 36 do.
young, but at least a year old; 666 milch cows; 403 young do.
at least a year old; 31 bulls; 153 pigs; 507. scores of sheep;
620 bolls of oats sown, which produce 30 imperial bushels each
boll; 36 do. bear; which produce 48 do.; 134 acres Scots of


