
			KILBRIDGE.                             25

the monastery was in ruins; but the consecrated ground on which
it stood was for many generation after him used as a burying-place
by the peolple of Arran. The cause of its abandonment was the
loss of a number of people who were accompanying a funeral to this
place. The boat which carried them was upset by one of those sud-
den and violent squalls of wind with which the bay of Lamlash is
in unsettled weather so often visited. The situation of this burying-
place was pointed out by a number of rude tombstones which lay
in heaps upon the ground; till two years ago, a modern utilitarian,
who had none of Dr Johnston's reverence for sacred place, cleared
the spot, and turned the bones and ashes of the dead to account,
by rearing from them a crop of onions and carrots. Beside the
religious house in the Holy Isle, there was, previous to the Refor-
mation, a small church or chapel at Kilmichael in Glencloy, the
foundations of which were raised only a few years ago. There
was also a church at South Sannox, dedicated to St Michael.
The only vestige of it now remaining is a rude image of its patron
saint, which has been preserved, by being built up in the wall of
the church-yard, which is still used as a burying-place.
         Modern buldings.--There are modern buildings in the pa-
rish that call for particular remark. The few genteel families in
the parish, and the more substantial farmers, occupy houses simi-
lar to those of the same class in other parts of the country. Dur-
ing the last few years, several neat slated cottages have been built
in different parts of the parish; more especially round the bay of
Brodick, for the accoommodation of summer visitors. The smaller
tenants live in house much superior in appearance and comfort
to those which they accupied twenty years ago. But many of
them are still very indifferent habitations; the majority of them
being built with dry stones, and thatched with straw or heather,
made secure againts storms with ropes of heather fastened by wood-
en pins.

<TABLE=POPULATION>

                      III.--POPULATION.

               The population in 1755 was 1369
                                 1793     2545
                                 1801     2189
                                 1821     2714
                                 1831     2656
                                 1835     2397

From this table it appears that, between 1755 and 1793, the popula-
lation of the parish had nearly doubled. The cause was a very injudi-
cious system which then prevailed, of allowing the tenants on every
farm to mutiply without check, the share of a farm occupied by


