
100                       BERWICKSHIRE.

tumn, as to mark a certain elevation over the whole country. The
density of this vapour may,imagined from the fact, that a per-
son descending from one of the neighbouring heights is seen from
above, as if stepping deeper and deeper into water. So correctly
is the surface line marked upon his person, and so complete is the
deception, that the spectator is not without some degree of anxiety
about his companion, whom he has seen walk over head into the
abyss. When such fogs are partial, there is sometimes the ap-
pearance of a lake, with one or more streams connected with it.
   Hydrography.-This inland parish abounds with perennial
springs, and there is one in the neighbourhood which may yet im-
part health, as a chalybeate to the inhabitants of more wealthy
districts. There are only two streams draining this district, the
Whitadder and Dye, which unite a little to the south-east of this
parish.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-There are no rocks of the primitive
class, although boulders of granite, sienite, and porphyry are wash-
ed down from rocks of conglomerate in the parishes of Stenton
and Whittinghani. The rocks of the transition class are grey-
wacke and greywacke-slate: and these rocks are the principal ones
in the parish. In Cranshaws-hill there is a very fine conglome-
rated rock, in which are disseminated particles of red iron-ore, from
the size of a pea to that of a walnut. The surface of this rock is
much broken by the action of the atmosphere and water. Near
to it is one of sandstone of the secondary formation, coloured by
grains of iron; this stone might, useful in buildings. The yel-
low ochre issuing from this bill is used by the people in painting the
walls of their houses, and completely answers the purpose.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-There are only three landed proprietors, Charles
Watson, Esq. of Saughton; the Honourable Charles Stuart; and
Duke of Roxburghe. The last (having but a small property in the
parish) bears a very trifling proportion of all public burdens.
   Parochial Register.-The parochial register begins with 1731.
It contains births, deaths, and marriages, and has been regularly
kept.
   Antiquities.-A sword had been found to the west of the Man-
Slaughter-Law a considerable time ago. Upon inquiry I find it was
converted into some other instrument at the parish smithy. To
the east of the field where it was discovered there is a burrow
which probably Covers more; and there are two similar collec-




