
8                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

flict, of which only these vestiges remain, seems to have taken
place in a remote  and misty period, ere the ingenuity of man
had taxed itself to record the ravages of his fiercer passions.
There was a second cairn on the moor, which, about thirty years
ago, was carried away for building by a farmer of the parish, and
there were found on its removal human bones of a gigantic size;
among the rest, a skull sufficiently capacious, according to the de-
scription of one of the labourers, to contain " two lippes of bear."
  Cromarty owed little to its Highland neighbourhood; the inhabi-
tants were lowland Scots ; and it seems to have constituted one of
the battlefields on which needy barbarism and the imperfectly
formed vanguard of a slowly advancing civilization contended for
the mastery.  Early in the reign of James IV. it was ravaged by a
combination of the nearer clans, and so complete was the spolia-
tion, that the entire property of the inhabitants, to their very
household furniture, was carried away.  Restitution was afterwards
enforced by the Lords of Council.  We find it decreed in the
Acta Dominorum Concilii for 1492, that Hucheon Rose of Kil-
ravock (the main projector of the enterprise) do restore, content,
and pay to Mr Alexander Urquhart, Sheriff of Cromarty, and his
tenants, the various items carried off by him and his accomplices,
viz. 600 cows, 100 horses, 1000 sheep, 400 goats, 200 swine, and
400 bolls of victual; but how immense an amount of suffering
must the foray have occasioned, from which nothing could be
subtracted by any after sentence of the law!
  Eminent Men.-Sir Thomas Urquhart, so famous for his Gene-
alogy and his Universal Lanquage, was a naive of Cromarty, and
during the reign of Charles I. proprietor of nearly the entire sbire.
He was born in 1613, and died on the continent after an eventful
life, spent in courts and camps, in prison and in exile, on the eve
of the Restoration.  Few of his works survive.  Nearly a hundred
manuscripts, the labours of his studious hours, were lost on the
disastrous field of Worcester, where he was taken prisoner by
the army of the Commonwealth.  Enough remain, however, to
show the extraordinary mind of the writer.  He was one of that
singular and highly curious class of geniuses, in whom rare and
uncommon talents seem to rest, not on their proper basis of prac-
tical good sense, but on a substratum of extravagance and absurdity.
A periodical critic of the present age describes him as " not only
one of the most curious and whimsical, but one of the most power-
ful also, of all the geniuses our part of the island has produced."


