
                            CAWDOR.                                21

   already referred to, called the Nairn, which falls into the sea abou
   two miles below the point at which it leaves -the parish. In passing
   through, it receives a tributary in the Burn of Cawdor, justly cele,
   brated for the great beauty and romantic scenery of its wooded
   banks, and on whose brink stands the old castle of the same name.
      The soil of the flat is generally an alluvial loam seldom of a
   very rich nature., lying upon rolled debris of sand, and gravel. The
   lower and nearer bills are composed of old red sandstone,,witb its
   associated coarse conglomerate. In the higher hills, howeveri to-
   wards the south and west, we find only gray gneiss, in many places
   much shattered and contorted by granite veins. The junction of
   the old red sandstone with the gneiss is beautifully displayed in
   the bed of the Burn of Cawdor, about half a mile above Achheem.
      Botany.-There is nothing peculiar in the Flora of this parish,
   if we except a very interesting addition, not only to it, but to the;
   Flora of Scotland, which was lately (24th August 1841) discover-
   ed in the wood of Cawdor, viz. Monotropa Hypopytis,-a plant
   rare in England, and, it is believed, never before found in Scotland.
   Among the other varieties of the Flora of the parish may be par-
   ticularized:-

   Festuca calawaria      Listera ovats              Lycepus Europeus
   Milium effusum         Goodyera repens            Rhinanthus major
   Convallaria majalis	  Asplinium viride           Herperis matronalis
   Pyrola wounds          Scolopendrium vulgare      Juncus balticus, &c.
   Stellaria nemorum      Lycopodium inundatum

      The soil and climate seem both peculiarly favourable to the
   growth of wood, the chief varieties of which make rapid progress,
   and, in many cases, attain a great size.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

      The parish is in the hands of two proprietors ; the Right Ho-
   nourable the Earl of Cawdor, and Sir John Rose of Hohne. Nei-
   tber is resident. The seat in Scotland of the family of Cawdor,
   long an influential one in this part of. the country is the old castle
   already alluded to, and which is one of the finest specimens, and
   in best preservation, of those ancient fortalices of the feudal barons,
   which still continue to frown over many of our plains. The li-
   cense to build it bears date 1393; but it ftppears not to have been
   completed for about half a century afterwards; and several large
   additions were made in succeeding times. It is in a state of good
   repair, and is occupied by the family of the Noble owner, during
   their occasional visits to their northern estates. A tradition,
   exists, that King Duncan of Scotland as murdered here by Mac-


