
<APPENDIX>

lviii

     No XXIII.  Circular Letter to the Principal and Professors of the Uni-
        versities of Edinburgh, St Andrews, and Aberdeen, dated 3d No-
        vember 1794.

     GENTLEMEN,

   I HAVE the honour of sending herewith, a copy of the very intelligent
and satisfactory Statistical Account, transmitted to me, of the Univer
sity of Glasgow; and it is my earnest wish, to be able to print, by way of
Appendix to the last volume of the Statistical Account of Scotland, similar
Accounts of all our Scotch Universities.  It must be attended with many
good consequences in general, to have, not only short histories of these Universi-
ties, and a view of their method of proceeding, in carrying onthe educa-
tion of youth; but also observations on the rules and practices, which have
been found, by experience, most beneficial for that essential purpose.  I am
persuaded, that I may safely rely upon your exertion, for procuring me
such an Account of a seminary, respecting which, from the celebrity it has
obtained, the public will naturally be anxious to have authentic informa-
tion.  The only particular, in addition to those mentioned in the Glasgow
Account, which I should be glad to have, is a state of the number of stu
dents who have attended the University since the commencement of the
present century; distinguishing, 1st, Each year; 2d, The country whence
they came, as Scotland, England, Ireland, America, or foreign countries;
and, 3d, The number who have attended the different classes respectively
This is to be added tot he Glasgow Account.  I have the honour to be,
with great regard and esteem, Gentlemen, your very obedient, and faithful
humble servant.

     JOHN SINCLAIR.

     EDINBURGH,
     Nov. 3 1794.

   N. B. It would be extremely desirable, to be favoured with your Ac
count as soon as it can be drawn up, as the last volumes of the Statistical
Account of Scotland are already in the press.

   BESIDES these, and the proceeding printed letters, many other applica-
tions were occasionally made to the Clergy, particularly when they attend-
ed the General assembly, which is annually held in the month of May, and


