
36                         ARC.YLESHIRE.

ways in summer, and the journev may be performed in less than
seven hours. The first, and a7t present the most regular and
speedy of these is by Locbgoil, the second by the Kyles of Bute,
the third by Cairndow and Loeblomond, and the fourth by Loch.
eck and Kilmun. The first and second of these continue through-
out the year. During the summer, there is also a daily coach to
Oban, and the means of posting are abundantly at command.
There are also daily posts to and from Inverary, south by
Cairndow, north by Cladich, and west bv Locligilphead.
There are no turnpike roads in this parish, or indeed in the
county. The highways were originally the military roads, and
these are now maint`ined and improved at the expense, partly of
the public, and partly of the county. The Commissioners of Sup-
ply for the county provide two-thirds of the money required for
these purposes, and the government one-third. In addition to the
third paid by government, the expense of superintendino, and in-
specting these roads is defrayed, and they are entrusted to com-
missioners appointed 11 for hhghland roads and bridges." The
length of the iniltary road thus maintained in this parish is ten
miles, and the ledgtil of another road, not military, and, therefore,
maintained altogether at the expense of the county, is eight rniles.
The Duke of Argyle has made and maintains many miles of road
also in all parts of the parish, the length of which, exclusive of
walks and paths, cannot be less than thirty-six miles.
The harbour is not suited for ships of heavy burden. Previous
to 1809 there was no pier worthy of the name; but it was then
enlarged and improved ; and in 1836, L. 1200 were expended in
extending it, forming a slip to suit every state of the tide, &C.;
L. 800 was supplied by the fishery board, and the remainder,
partly by the Duke of Argyle, and partly by the burgb.
Ecclesiastical State.-There is reason to believe that this pa-
rish was, in the days of Popery, provided with places of wor-
ship at Auchantiobairt, Kilbryde, Kilmilieu, Kilblaan, and Kil-
rnun ; ro that no person within the bounds was more than
two ml 'les from a church. Now there are two parish churches,
one for the Gaelic, and another for the English congregation in
the burgh, as the most central site for the population at large-
Thus, the churches are distant from the north and east end of the
parish above six miles, and from the southwest extremity dight
miles. Ort the north and east ends of the parish, not more than
five families are situated above five miles from church ; but on the


