
                    SPEYMOUTH.				   57

more, provided the fishing turned out well. They got L. 13, 3s. each.
Their wages this year are to depend on the quantity of fish caught.
Two kit boats are employed to carry out the fish to the- smacks in
the bay, and bring in the empty boxes, &c. These boats have a
crew of seven men each, whose wages are not less than L. 8, for the
period from Ist February to the end of October; but if the fishing
is good, they have the option of. being paid 2 1/4d. for each full box of
fish shipped from the tug-net, or shifted or exchanged from one
smack to another in the bay, and 1 1/4d. for each empty box taken
from the smack to the quarters. Salmon sells here from 1st Fe-
bruary, when the fishing commences, to 31st May, at Is. 6d. per
pound, and grilses at Is.; and from 1st June to 14th September,
when the fishing ends, salmon sells at Is., grilses above 5 lb. at 9d.,
and 6d. for those below that weight. These prices are charged
here even when salmon is selling in the London market under 6d.
per pound. The rent of this fishing is L. 8260.
   Timber Trade.-The timber trade of Garmouth is now far from
being what it once was. The forest of Glenniore was exhausted
upwards of twenty years ago, and all the natural timber brought
here since was from the forest of Abernethy, belonging to the Earl
of Seafield, the forest of Rothiemurchus, belonging to Sir John
Peter Grant of Rothiemurchus, and Glenfishie forest, belonging to
Mackintosh of Mackintosh. There are three agents for the sale of
this timber, and three individuals who deal in planted fir timber-
an article of comparatively recent introduction into the market in this
place. During part of the late war, when foreign timber was ex-
cluded from the British market, the quantity of natural fir timber
sold here exceeded L. 40,000 Sterling yearly; and even so recently
as l8l8 it amounted to about L.30,000. Since that period foreign
timber has been more generally used for extensive jobs, particularly
in England and the south of Scotland; and planted timber, though
far inferior in durability and quality to the natural grown fir, is
often preferred for inferior purposes, because of the difference in
theprice. At one period the price of the best fir timber, was as high
as 3s. 6d. per cubic foot - the same quality is now sold here at IS. 3d.
and Is. 4d.; logs and spars from 8 to 40 feet long, and from 7 to 18
inches diameter, are sold from 1s. to 1s. 4d. per solid foot, and small
logs and spars from Od. to 1s. per cubic foot. Sawn timber, viz.
scantling plank and deals vary from, Is. 6d. to 2s.  per cubic foot
the two last are generally sold by the 100 feet, superficial mea-


