
			      KIRRIEMUIR.                   167

not generally known, and not very common. The golden-crested
wren (M. regulus), the least of all European birds; Mr Kinloch
says it is tolerably plentiful in the forest moor and Logie and is
generally to be seen on the largest trees. The land-rail or corn-
crake (Rallus crex). The water-rail (R. aquaticus) is sometimes
to be seen in the marshes on the estates of Kinnordy and Logie.
The spotted rail (R. porzana) is very rarely seen. The king-fisher
(Alcedo ispida); Mr Kinloch has seen several at Logie, generally
in winter; but has never heard of their breeding there. The bit-
tern (Ardea stellaris); Mr Kinloch has heard of their frequenting
the marshes of Strathmore before they were drained; but they have
not been seen for many years.
	The woodcock (Scolopax rusticola) is common. The goodwit
(Limosa melanura), and the red-shank or pool-snipe (Totanus cali-
dris), have both been shot at Logie and Kinnordy. The water-
hen (Fulica chloropus) is to be found in all the marshes and
ditches with reeds in them; Mr Kinloch has seen the coot
(F. atra) in a marsh to the eastward of Logie. The wild swan
(Anas cygnus ferus); the wild goose (A. anser ferus); and the
white fronted goose (A. albifrons), all visit us in the course of their
migrations. The teal (A. crecca) and the wild duck (A. boschas),
are common in the Loch of Kinnordy. The spotted fly catcher(Mus-
cipula grisola) breeds at Logie, and is not generally known. I
need scarcely mention, that the different kinds of swallows, the
chimney-swallow, the window-swallow, the sand-martin, and the
swift, are common.
	The goatsucker (Caprimulgus Europaus) has been shot at
Logie and Kinnordy. The pheasant (Phasianus colchieus) is oc-
casionally to be seen. Black-cock ( Tetrao tetrix) is common in
Glenprosen and in the forest moor. The ptarmigan ( T. lagopus)
is common in Glenprosen. The red-grouse or muirfowl (T.
Scoticus) is nowhere more abundant than in Glenprosen. The
quail (Perdix coturnix) is an occasional visitant to the corn-fields
in Strathmore, and was killed at Logie in the winter of 1828.
	Quadrupeds.--The red deer or stag (Cervus elephas) may be
first mentioned. This species, though not so frequently as for-
merly, is still occasionally to be seen in Glenprosen. I have often
seen the roebuck (C. capreolus) in forest moer and in the woods
of Lindertis. The wild-cat (Eelir batus) is often seen in the
woods of Balnaboth. The weazel, (Mustela vulguris) is often met
with; but the stoat or ermine (M. erminea) is not so common. The


