
                PARISH OF CAMBUSNETHAN.

	  PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

         THE REV. ARCHIBALD LIVINGSTONE, MINISTER.

         I--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--CAMUS, in the Gaelic language, signifies a bay or curve.
There are two fine bendings of the river Clyde, from either of
which the name may have arisen; the one at Garrion, below the
junction of the Nethan and the Clyde; and the other at the old
church, which is said to have been dedicated to Saint Nethan,
whom Archbishop Usher styles, "Religiosissimus et Doctissimus
Nethan."
	Extent, Boundaries.--The parish is in shape somewhat like a
parallelogram, or rather like a sand-glass, and stretches from east
to west. Its length from the old kirk on the Clyde, at the west,
to Badallan beside Breich Water on the east, is nearly 12 miles.
The widest place at the west end, from Garrion on the south, to
Calder near Swinstie on the north, is 4 miles and 1 furlong; and
the widest place on the east, from Aughterhead on the south, to
Calder at Dykehead on the north, is nearly the same. In the
centre from Bogside on the south, to Bridgend on the north, it is
scarcely 2 miles.
	The parish is bounded by Shotts on the north; Whitburn and
West Calder, on the east; Carnwath, Carstairs, and Carluke, on the
south; and Dalserf, Hamilton, Dalzell, and Bothwell, on the west.
	Hydrography.--The South Calder rises in the moorland grounds
near Tarrymuck in Linlithgowshire, and, pursuing a westerly
course, forms the northern boundary between this parish and Shotts
for upwards of nine miles. In the eastern parts of its course, it
runs through an open exposed country; but for many miles be-
fore it falls into the Clyde, its banks are steep, richly covered with
wood highly romantic, and interspersed with many gentlemen's seats.
	Lingore Linn, Kitchen Linn, Darmead Linn, and Leadloch Burn,
which fall into Breich Water, are considerable streams at the east end
of the parish. Blindburn, Coalburn, and the stream which issues from
Redmyre Loch, fall into the Calder nearer its centre. Auch-


