
                     KENNETHMONT.                            585

was born at Leith-hall, August 9th 1763.  He died Governor of the
Leeward Islands in 1816.  His brother the late General Hay of Ran-
nes, erected a very handsome tablet, with a suitable inscription, to
his memory in the parish church.  Sir Andrew Leith Hay, present
proprietor of the estate of Leith-hall, besides some smaller
works, published some years ago a very interesting narrative, in
two volumes, of the Peninsular War, in which he had served.
He was, for several years, Member of Parliament for the Elgin
District of Burghs, and Clerk of the Ordnance.  Rear-Admiral
Sir James A. Gordon is also a native of this parish.
   Antiquities.-In regard to antiquities, there is little worthy of
remark.  King Kenneth's reputed grave-stone has been already
mentioned. the remains of the two Druidical temples are still to be seen
-one on the hill of Airdler, belonging to Sir Andrew leith Hay; the
other on the lands of Cults, the property of His Grace the Duke
of Richmond.  A bag of small silver coins, with Alexander I. engra-
ven on one side, was found some years ago in trenching the hill
called the Cockmuir, belonging to Mr Gordon of Wardhouse.
The coins might be about the value of 3d. Sterling each.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
           Amount of population in 1801,	784
                                   1811,	888
                                   1821,	974
                                   1831, 1131

  Number of families in 1831,   .     .     .                  227
                chiefly engaged in agriculture,	    .          110
                        in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  31

   Many of the inhabitants have attained to a great age.  In 1835, there
were fourteen persons in the parish between the age of eighty and
ninety in a population of little more than 1100.  On comparing
this number with that of those who had attained to a like age in
1792 (when the former Statistical Account was drawn up), it ap-
pears that now almost three arrive at the age of eighty and up-
wards, for one who then attained to such an age ; or if allowance
be made for the difference in number of the population at these
two periods, more than two for one; a circumstance which may be
accounted for, by the improvement in climate, in the dwellings of
the inhabitants, their mode of living, and general habits of tempe-
rance and cleanliness.
   Habits of the People.-The habits of the people are, in gene-
ral, quiet, temperate, and industrious.  Heinous crimes are un-
known among them, and, with the exception of some small of-
fences, the result generally of drunkenness, which is now fortu-


