
132			WIGTONSHIRE.

pigeons, jackdaws, &c. build their nests. There is no beach ex-
cept in four or five small bays, which are accessible from the land,
the hills sloping back from them. In one of these, which is very
rocky, and dangerous for shipwrecks, and is named Morroch Bay,
the southern boundary of the parish meets the sea: and the north-
ern boundary terminates in another, called Killantringan Bay,
which is sandy, and enclosed by beautiful and bold green hills.
The bay in which is the harbour of Portpatrick is nearly equally
distant from both of there. High cliffs approach close to it on
both sides, and, receding from the shore, are lost in steep hills of
earth. These, gradually approaching towards each other, enclose
the space on which the town is built, and length form the banks
of a small stream, along which the turnpike road leads by a mode-
rate ascent towards Stranraer. Along the line of this road the
newest street on extends for about 350 yards down to the harbour,
opening nearly on the centre of the basin, and passing on its right
the church, manse, and church-yard. Another street, nearly equal-
ly divided by the former, and built with a slight curve, looks on the
harbour. A few other small streets fill up the angles formed by
these. The whole appearnce of the place, when it is viewed from
the height on the south side, or from the sea, suggests the idea of
a town built in large quarry; a considerable space of ground on
the north side being occupied as a hewing field for the harbour
works, and at present covered with enormous blocks of stone.
About a quarter of a mile to the south of the harbour, and seen
from the projecting pier head, are the ruins of the old Castle of
Dunskeys, situated on the summit of the rocky steep, about 90 or
100 feet above the level of the sea. A deep chasm renders the
castle nearly inaccessible on the side nearest the harbour. On
the opposite side the rock is quite perpendicular, and overlooks a
small bay, called the Castle Bay. At the base of the rock on this
side, and directly under the castle, is a cave, accessible at half-tide,
the dark rugged entrance of which adds to the wildness of the im-
posing cliff crested by the ruins. About the same distance to
the north of the harbour, are two small bays separated by a small
promontory of table-land, and remarkable for the difference of
their strand: for though they are so close that it might be sup-
posed the tide would alternately wash the contents of the one into
the other, the one, nearest Portpatrick, called Portmurray, contains
only pure yellow sand, whence it is called also the Sandy Bay, or


