
     of Dornock.

all) are reared in the parish, principally of the Galloway breed,
being reckoned more easily fattened than any other.  There
are about 145 horses, mostly of the draught kind.  The sheep
do not exceed 160 in number; and little or no pains is taken
to improve the breed.  There are about 300 swine, fatted an-
nually.  They are mostly salted, made into hams, and sent
into England.  There are, one year with another, about 960
acres in tillage; of which, about 200 are sown with barley, 600
with oats, 40 with pease and beans, 20 with wheat, 20
with rye, 60 with potatoes, 20 with turnip, and a few with
lint.  The only manure made use of, besides the dung produ-
ced by the cattle on the different farms, is lime, there being
no marle.  Some trials of sleech from the shore, have been
made, but it did not seem to answer.  From an acre of barley,
there is generally reaped, about 40 Winchester bushels, of
oats 36, of wheat 30, of beans 20, of peas 15, of po-
tatoes 6 tun.  There are about 100 acres sown with artifi-
cial grasses, chiefly clover an rye grass.  About 790 acres in
pasture, and 1000 acres of common, some part of which,
however, is improved every year; so that, soon, there will be
no waste land in the parish, excepting about 100 acres of moss,
which must be reserved for fuel.  The expence of peat, in-
cluding casting, carrying out, winning and leading them
home, may be about 9d. per cart-load.  Such of the inhabi-
tants as are in better circumstances, usually purchase, every
season, some coals from Cumberland; for which, they pay at
the rate of 1s. 6d. per single cart load, besides a journey, go-
ing and coming of 36 miles, in addition to the great inconve-
nience, and risk of crossing the first at low water.  Some En-
glish coal is brought by water, which, with the duty, costs a-
bout 9s. per ton. while, in Cumberland, at the distance only of
two miles, they have the same coal, for about 3s. per ton.  It has
been long and earnestly wished, that this heavy and fatal ob-


