
462			AYRSHIRE.

the rock which is called the Little Nebbock. This would afford
great protection, and would render the harbour an excellent one.
It is the property of Robert Cuninghame, Esq. of Auchenharvie;
and we hope that the work which his enterprising ancestor, 150
years ago, began, and which his public-spirited father considera-
bly improved, he will have the honour ere long of bringing to a state
of comparative perfection; at once benefiting himself, and render-
ing an important service to the community.
   Fisheries.--Tbere is one boat employed in Saltcoats in supply-
ing the town and neighbourhood with white fish. Stake-nets for
salmon have been employed for some seasons, on the shore from
Saltcoats to Irvine Bar; but being much exposed, the nets suffer
so much from the storm, that the fishery cannot be carried on with
great advantage. But the fishery was most successfully carried on
the two last seasons, by means of bag-nets at the point of the quay.
   From six to eight vessels of from twenty to eighty tons, and em-
ploying about fifty hands, go yearly from Saltcoats to the herring-
fishery in the North Highlands. As they generally buy the fish
from those who have caught them, fewer hands are required. Be-
sides these larger vessels, a considerable number of wherries go from
Saltcoats to the herring fishery in Loch Fyne, the Sound of Kil-
brandon, &c. At times, the herrings visit our own neighbour-
hood; and it is a beautiful sight to see a large fleet of wherries as-
sembled in our fine bay. The herring-fishery has fallen greatly
off since the bounty was withheld.
   Saltcoats Brewery.--This was established about fifty-six years
ago, and it continues to furnish an abundant supply of ale, and
porter, and small beer. Besides carrying on the brewery, Mr
Watt is engaged to a considerable extent as a grain dealer.
   Stevenston Grain-Mill--This is an excellent mill, and of great
antiquity, as we find from the old charters we have had occasion
to peruse.
   Agriculture.--When the former Statistical Report was written in
1791, the uncultivated part of the parish was stated as amounting
to 1700 acres. Though no great effort has been made, cultiva-
tion, we are glad to find, has been creeping on with stealthy step.
Much that was then called moor on Sea-Bank grounds, has been
converted into beautiful parks; and much that had the same wild
name of moor on Ardeer estate is now adding richly to the rental;
so that we may at present state the uncultivated land, in round num-
bers, as amounting to 1200 acres. This, however, is a frightful


