
     Statistical Account

great body of the people is divided into two classes, tenants
and cottagers; ors, as the latter are called here, mailers.  The
former amount to 120, who rent from 5 L. to 20 L. a year.
Not above two or three pay 30 L.  The mailers are those
poor people who build huts on barren ground, and improve
spots around them, for which they pay nothing for a stipu-
lated number of years.  The proprietor frequently indulges
them with tools and seed for the first season.  After the first
period is expired, their crofts are rented at from 3 s. to 40 s.
a year.  Every year produces one or more of there new set-
tlers.  At present they consist of 248 families, of whom 148
have settled within the last 40 years.  From this increase of
the cottagers, and the great quantity of improved ground, an
increase of the population has undoubtedly taken place with-
in these 20 or 30 years; although these appears to be a de-
crease upon the whole since 1755, the return made to Dr
Webster at that period having been 2456.  This decrease
can only be accounted for, by the annual emigrations to the
south country in harvest, and by the great numbers enlisted
into the Highland regiments, at the commencement of the two
last wars.-The new settlers are not all natives of the parish.
Severals come down from the Hebrides, from the west coast,
and mid Highlands, when a revere season has destroyed their
cattle.  This is the reason, why the number below 10 years
of age is so high in proportion to the births.  All the trades-
men in the parish are included among the mailers.  They
consist of 20 weavers, 1 house-carpenter, 3 millers, 15 tay-
lors, 2 masons, 21 brogue or shoemakers.  All of them work
for the parishioners and immediate neighbourhood.  No ar-
ticle is manufactured for exportation.  These are also in-
cluded in the above number 82 widows, 40 of whom are on
the poor's roll.  But, though there last have separate huts,
they are not included in the above number of families.  One


