
                          BALMERINO                        591

garded as a river-fish., The seals and grampuses have remained
in undisturbed possession of the salt water fishing.
   In the year 1797, the stake-net was introduced in the Solway
Frith (where it is at present legal!) and in the Frith of Tay. This
engine was constructed by driving strong stakes in a row, from
the shore towards low water mark, and nearly at right angles to
the tide. On these stakes, were stretched nets with open meshes,
three inches from knot to knot, or twelve inches round. Thus a
wall of open netting was constructed sufficient to intercept the
large fish, but through which the water, and all small fishes, could
pass freely. In this wall of netting, were placed courts or labyrinths.
The salmon, influenced in their movements by the tide, met this
netted wall, and, seeking along for an opening through which to
pass, entered these courts, where they were detained and taken out
at low water. By means of these nets, great quantities of salmon,
of the first quality, were caught, and exported in boxes packed
with ice to the London market. The proprietors of e river
fisheries now got alarmed for their monopoly, and, taking advantage
of the antiquated statutes referred to above, some of them passed
by the Scottish legislature more than four hundred years ago, and
long before it was ever dreamt of that salmon-fishing could be
successfully carried on in the friths or seas, applied for an interdict,
and ultimately succeeded in prohibiting the use of such fixed ma-
chinery: the courts having held, that, as these statutes had never
been repealed, any infringement of their provisions must be held
illegal. The effect of this decision has been greatly to deteriorate
the estuary fishery; while the proprietors of the river fishings en-
joy a monopoly price in the market.
   In framing these regulations, the object of the Scottish Legis-
lature must have been to protect the public interests and prevent,
injury to the fishery generally; and this is the only ground upon
which they can yet be defended. Experience, however, has prov-
ed that this defence of them cannot be maintained. At the early
period when these regulations were framed, little was known re-
gardng the salmon; but from what is now known of its habits and,
history, it is perfectly well ascertained that while in the friths and
in the sea, (where alone stake-nets can be used,) none but fish in
the best condition are caught; in the rivers, salmon of inferior
quality, and often in a foul and unwholesome state, are taken;-
that is in the rivers, and in these alone, that any injury can be
done to the spawn, or salmon fry, by the heavy ground ropes which



