
                          NEWBURGH.                          69

of the horse are effaced by the injury of the weather. The third
compartment from the top contains two figures, the smaller of
which appears to be in the act of being overtaken or run down by
the larger. The lowest division seems to be a representation of
a boar hunt. No human figures are apparent, although traces of
dogs in pursuit are clearly discernible. The south and west faces
of the stone are so injured that no carving can now be seen on
them, though similar monuments are generally sculptured on all
sides. The northern side, represented by Fig. 2, exhibits remains
of two kinds of ornaments very common on such remnants of anti-
quity. The cross as it now stands is very little altered in its di-
mensions since 1723, as appears from a measurement of it which
was then taken and preserved in the Advocates' Library, viz. 11
feet 6 inches high; 2 feet 4 inches broad; 1 foot 2 inches thick
at the middle. It is firmly mortised into a square block of sand-
stone 5 feet 5 inches in length; 3 feet 6 inches broad; 2 feet thick,
and which rests on the surface of the ground. The weight of the
column with its pedestal may probably be about five tons. It con-
sists of white sandstone similar to Maeduff's Cross, the nearest lo-
cality of which is the Lomonds, about 8 miles south, with the hilly
ridge of the Ochils intervening.
   It is curious that this beautiftil and very remarkable monument
has escaped the notice of Sibbald and the other Fifeshire anti-
quaries. Nothing is known of its history. A group of five simi-
lar ones exists at Meigle, assigned to the age of King Arthur, a per-
son of more than apocryphal existence, but who is said to have
lived about the year 800. Four others of similar aspect are found
at Aberlemno, which, together with one at Pitmuis and another at
Moneekie, are said to commemorate the defeat of the Danes and
slaughter of Camus, their chief, in the eighth century. If this is
the purpose of the cross under consideration-to commemorate a
similar defeat at Luncarty, about the close of the tenth century,-
certainly no site could be more appropriate for it than the imme-
diate vicinity of the family mansion, where it now stands, of the
direct lineal descendants of the patriotic Hay and his stalwart sons,
who turned the tide of battle, and obtained in reward the hawk's
flight, being the property of Leys, which is still in their possession.
An obelisk of precisely the same characters has just been discover-

<FOOTNOTE>Buchanan informs us, that Kenneth commanded Hay to enter Perth in triumph,
with the yoke wherewith he fought, surrounded by the victorious army, where the
king raised him from the plebeian rank to that of the noble, with the gift of conside-
rable territory to support his dignity. From him spring illustrious Hays of Leys,
Errol, Kinnoul, Tweeddale, &c.


