
                        DUTHIL.-ROTHIEMURCHUS.                           139

       the top of one of the turrets of Loch-an-Eilean Castle, and supplies
       herself with food from the neighbouring, lakes and streams, while
       the cormorant, on the glassy surface of the lake, swims slowly along,
       watchful to pounce on the finny tribe beneath.
          Forests.- The greater part of the parish is covered with forest,
       calculated to extend over a surface of sixteen miles.  It is now
       about forty years since the proprietor procured an act of Parlia-
       ment to enable him to manufacture timber to an unlimited extent.
       During many years of that period, particularly during the late war,
       he derived an annual income varying from L. 10,000 to L.20,000.
       The result is, that only a few remnants of the ancient forest now ap-
       pear, though these cannot fail to impress the, mind of the beholder
       with a vivid picture of its former glory.  Not only the pine, but also
       the birch, grows luxuriantly in the parish.  The alder appears in
       great vigour by the banks of the various rivulets, and on the lower
       grounds different kinds of hard-wood, as oak, lime, beech, and
       ash of goodly dimensions, adorn the policies of  the demesne.
       Plantations of larch have been successfully tried in various parts
       of the property, which promise a rich return, and prove the soil
       to be well adapted for the growth of this ornamental and useful
       tree.  For the purpose of manufacturing a pGrtion of the timber
       into deals and staves, &e. both for foreign and domestic use, a
       handsome wooden building was erected several years ago, con-
       taining machinery capable of setting in motion ten circular saws,
       and an upright frame of eight plain saws.  When in full operation,
       it required a force of from ten io fifteen mew to work those, latid
       a boy to increase or diminish the volume of water deemed neces-
       sary for the operations.  When manufactured, the wood was floated
       down the Spey in large rafts, conducted by two men, to, the village
       of Garmouth, where a manager always resided to preside over the
       sales.

                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY
        History speaks not with certainty regarding the original pro-
       prietors of this district of country, but tradition and probability
       point to the Cumming race as lords of Badenoch, Rothiemurchus,
       and Strathspey. When that name  lorded it over the neighbour-
       ing lands, it is not probable that Rothiemurchus, centrically si-
       tuated as it, is, would have escaped this yoke.  After the times
       of Robert the Bruce, their  power was broken, and their influence
       and possession passed into other hands. The Shaws succeeded
       the Cummings in the possession of this property.  A feud ex-


