                             MINTO.                       357

subsidence must have taken place under very different circum-
stances appears on examining the strata, in which some layers con-
sist of comparatively small nodules, and pass gradually into a coarse
sandstone, which would appear to have settled from a fluid in a
state of rest, vhile in other instances the fragments are so large,
and heaped together in such disorder, as to indicate currents of
considerable force.  And that, further, there were successive pe-
riods at which the water was alternately at rest and in motion, may
be likewise inferred from the beds of sandstone and conglomerate
being piled several times one above the other.  That in this fluid
also, there must have been diffused a great quantity of iron in the
state of an oxide or peroxide, from whatever source it may have
been obtained, is evident from the deep red colour of all these
lower deposits.  In following the strata upwards, however, we find
that the supply of iron must subsequently have varied, as beds of
some thickness occur which are of a yellowish or even white colour,
among which are still interposed other layers of red sandstone.
With some local variations from the contiguity of the trap rocks,
the inclination of these strata is very small; their general dip is
towards the east or south-east, at an angle of three or four degress.
The light coloured stone has occasionally a greenish tinge on the
outer surface of the beds; in these cases, it also contains small
scales of mica, and specks of hron are sometimes found scattered
through the mass, which give it, when weathered, a dotted rusty
appearance.  Neither the red nor white varieties effervsce With
an acid, but veins of carbonate of lime are found on the exterior
of the layers.  It has not yet been ascertained that fossil remains
occur in any of these rocks.  The accounts sometimes given by
the workmen, refer, there is little doubt, to those dendritic ap-
pearances which are formed by the exposures of particles of iron,
and are merely superficial.
   Rising through these sedimentary rocks, or forming a nucleus,
on the sides of which they rest, there are two unstratified masses
of igneous origin, but which have assumed their present state
under different circumstances.  The one, devided in the middle,
forms the green hills of Minto, which have a smooth round out-
line, and are covered with grass to their summits, through in se-
veral places, on a level with the turf, the rocks is esposed.  It
consist of a greyish-coloured basis, in which are mixed different
fragments, some of them like small grains, others as large as a
nut; several are four or five inches in size, and a few as many feet.


