
           424                        PERTHSHIRE.

           This breadth, however, diminishes at Newmill on the south to a
           mile and a half; while at Safe-landing, towards the east, it does
           not exceed two furlongs; and at Stanley, it again opens out to a
           mile in breadth.   Its mean breadth is fully 3 miles, and its
           surface 30 square miles, or 19,200 imperial acres.  It is bound-
           ed on the north by the parish of Little Dunkeld; on the east, by
           the parish of Kinclaven and the river Tay; on the south, by the
           parishes of Redgorton and Moneydie; and on the west, by the
           brook Shochie, which separates it from Mtllion, a detached part
           of the parish of Redgorton.  But within these boundaries, insert-
           ed like a wedge, lies a portion of the parish of Methven, named
           Tullybeagles.  This district is fully 4 miles long, and at its
           thick end more than a mile and a half broad.
              General Aspect.-The surface within this outline, as viewed on
           the map of Perthshire, has some resemblance to a balloon, of
           which Stanley may be regarded as the attached car.  The north
           and north-west sides of the parish include a part of the lower range
           of the Grampian Mountains.  The most elevated points of this range
           within the parish are Birnam-hill, Craig-Obney, Craig- Gibbon,
           Tullybelton-hill, and Corrody-hill.  Birnam-bill, by trigonome-
           trical measurement, has been ascertained to be 1300 feet above
           the level of the sea; and the other hills are not much inferior in
           height.  Although at some points a bare steep rock is exhibited,
           those hills are not much broken into rugged and abrupt precipices,
           but have a gradually sloping acclivity.  As the parish thus extends
           from the banks of the river Tay to the summit of the mountains
           already described, and as it is traversed by sevdral streams which
           issue from them, it is scarcely necessary to add, that its general
           aspect is much diversified.  Except on the banks of the streams,
           very little of the arable land can be called level; on the contrary, it
           is distributed into sloping ridges and swelling knolls.  And hence
           many of names of the farms indicative of their elevated situation,
           begin or end with Ard, Drum, Hill, as Ardonechie, Drumquhar,
           Berry-hill.  The banks of the Tay, where that noble stream bounds
           the parish, are high, bold, and rocky.  Draining, planting, and the
           improved methods of cultivation have deprived the Stare Dam,
           where this parish joins that of Little Dunkeld on the road from
           Perth to Dunkeld, of its indescribable eeriness complained of by
           Morrison, as quoted by Sir Walter Scott in his "Fair Maid of
           Perth." The dam is now removed to a situation invisible from
           the road; and when the young wood has had ` few years more


