                                  MOFFAT.                 111

to use and maturity than the Huntingdon willow, though seldom
planted here.
    For the purposes of domestic economy and comfort, it were de-
sirable that fruit-trees, and willows and oziers for baskets, were
planted in the gardens of evey farmer and every cottager, and to
this it is hoped a liberal attention is now in the course of being
given.

                                   II.---CIVIL HISTORY.

   Historical Events.--With regard to historical events of an an-
cient date,-little of this nature has been handed down in such a
credible and interesting form as to warrant the insertion of it
here.  Margaret, daughter of Robert III. was Countes of Doug-
las, Countes of Galloway, and Lady of Annandale, and was inter-
red at Lincluden, near Dumfries; but still the traditions of Mof-
fat contain nothing of that distinguished lady.  It is known, how-
ever, with pride and satisfaction, that in 1333, during a period
fraught with ignominy and suffering to Scotland, Sir Archibald
Douglas, at the head of 1000 horse, came down by night to Mof-
fat, surprised Edward Baliol, defeated the forces he had with him,
and obliged him to make a precipitate retreat to the Solway, with the
loss of his brother, and of some English officers of distinction; and
that hardly any affair in the history of Scotland appears to have
been better conducted, as none was more acceptable to the nation.
   It may also be mentioned here, that a division of the Highland
army of Prince Charles Edward passed through Moffat on their
way into England; that on their route they had visited the last Duke
of Douglas in quest of arms; that his Grace treated them with
great forbearance, and even with kindness, offering some handsome
present to the officers, which, in such circumtances, they diclined
to accept; and that, unless it was, in taking such horses and neces-
saries as could not be dispensed with in their ill-advised and unfor-
tunate expedition, tradition here records nothing against them,--
not a single act of hostility or cruelty.
   Eminent Men and Families.--As far back as can be traced, the
Johnstones were in possession of the most extensive estates in the
upper district of Annandale; and of all the numerous families bear-
ing this ancient name, the Johnstones of Lochwood were acknow-
ledged as the chiefs.  This distiguished family maintained their
ground not only against foreign enemies from the borders of Eng-
land, but also against the Lords of Sanquhar, the family which



