
    THE MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITX NF ABERDEEN. *

   As soon as the Reformation had received a legal establishment
in Scotland, an attempt was made to improve the three Univer-
sities then existing in the country, and in the First Book of Dis-
cipline of 1560, many alterations in their government and teach-
ing were proposed, with a view to accommodate them to the
great change in religion which had taken place.  In a few years
afterwards, new charters or erections were given to these semi-
naries, and partially put in force; the University of Edinburgh was
founded ; and the city of Aberdeen, then ranking as the second
or third in respect of wealth and population in the kingdom, re-
ceived a similar establishment.  A grammar-school, which had
produced many eminent scholars, had existed in it for nearly
two centuries; and the magistrates and citizens appear to have
been exceedingly desirous of propagating the principles of the
reformed faith, in connection with the advancement of learning
and science.  In the principal Protestant family of the north of
Scotland, they were fortunate in finding a nobleman, who seconded
them warmly in this design, and became the founder of the fifth
and last University which has been established in the country.
   This eminent person was George Keith, the fifth Earl Maris-
chal, who succeeded to the large estates and influence of hhs
grandfather, William, in 1581.  His ancestor had been an emi-
nent promoter of the reformed cause from its commencement, and
paid great attention to the education of his grandson in the prin-
ciples which he had himself adopted.  After receiving the best
education Scotland afforded, the young nobleman spent nearly
seven years on the continent, during which be visited most of its
courts, and studied under eminent masters, particularly at Gene-
va, under the learned Beza.  He afterwards rose into great fa-
vour with James VI., and was sent to Denmark as ambassador
extraordinary, to arrange the King's marriage with the Princess
Anne.  Soon after his return, he received a commission of Lord-
lieutenancy over all the counties of the north of Scotland, with the
view of checking the Roman Catholic party opposed to the go-
vernment; a task which he accomplished without bloodshed. +

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Professor William Knight, LL. D.
          The following account of his character is from a short "Opinion of the present


