
276                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

was encamped at Drummore and Wallyford, only advanced on the
morning of the day preceding the fatal battle of Pinkie, from Fal-
side brae, and had not penetrated so far westward till the eve of
conflict.  Patten's words are curious, and are these: "Fro this
hil of Fauxside Bray descended m Lordes Grace, my Lord Lieu-
tenant, and another along before their cape, within les than ii.
flightshottes into a lane or strete of a xxx foot brode, fenced on
either side with a wall of turf an elle of height: whiche wey did
lead straigh northwarde, and nie to a church called Saint Mighels
of Undreske, stondinge upon a mean rising, hill somewhat higher
than the site of their campe."* He afterwards proceeds thus: "In
ye night of this dai, my Lords Grace appoited yt early in ye next
morning part of our ordinance should be planted in the lane I spake
of, under ye turf wall next to their campe; and sum also to be set
upo the hill nie to Undreske church."+ After reconnoitring on the
day preceding the battle, Patten expressly says after the first pas-
sage here quoted: "Thus this viewed, they toke their returne di-
rectly homeward to our tetes at whom in ye way ye Scottes did
often shoot." These tents were two miles to the east, on Falside
Brae.
   That the mounts in the church-yard, therefore, were not erected
by Oliver Cromwell is demonstrable; because they are set down
in Patten's Diary; and that they were not thrown up at that time
by the Duke Of Somerset, is equally evident, for he did not gain
possession of them till some time after the commencement of the
battle. "We cam on spedily," quoth Patten, "a both sydes,
neither as thento, ony whit (I dare saye) ware of other's entent:
but, ye Scots indede we a rounder pace: Betxent the ii. hillockes
betwixt us and the church, the moustred somewhat brim in our eyes,
at whome, as they stayed there a while, our gallery shot of, and
slew the Master of Greym with a five-and-twenty near by him."++
   We must therefore find a more ancient date for these mounds,
and somewhat incline to the belief of Lord Hailes that they were
Roman in their origin.  That bones have been found ten or eleven
feet below the surface is but an inconclusive argument against this
supposition; while, on the other hand, we have heard, that in the
course of sculpture vestiges of stone walls have been come upon,
by the edge of this rampart, which not improbably belong to the

<FOOTNOTE>Dalyell's Fragments.  Patten's Expedition of his Grace the Duke of Somerset,
p.48.
          Ibid, p. 52.                   Diary, P. 54-5.


