
   856                                    FIFESITIRE.

erected; that it was of a very splendid nature, and that, proba-
bly from its being beyond the skill of the artists of this country at
that period, it had been been executed in Paris, and conveyed
hitherto by the way of Bruges.
   What would have completed this body of evidence to us would
have been a plate with an actual inscription, signifying that this
was the tomb of Bruce ; but the probability is, that such a plate
made of brass, as was then common, with an inscription round the
edge, had been upon the monument, and carried off at the plun-
der of the abbey, or destroyed.*
   Fordun has preserved Bruce's epitaph, which it is likely was
inscribed upon the tomb, and which I have not seen before quoted.
It is this-
     " HIC JACET INVICTVs ROBERTUS, REX -BENEDICTUS,
     QUI SUA GESTA LEGIT, REPETIT QUOT BELLA PEREGIT,
     AD LZBERTATEM PERDUXIT, PER PROBITATEM,
     REGNUM SCOTORVM; NUXC VIVAT IN ARCE POLORUM."f
   King Robert Bruce's Sword and Helmet.-These interesting
relies are at Broomhall House, about three miles south from the
town. In the Scots Magazine for 1781, there is an engraving of
them, along with the following description :"They are of steel,
and they have acquired a clear blackish colour from age. The
sword is a two-banded one, and the handle is covered with black
leather. Both the sword and the helmet were presented by King
Robert's son, King David Bruce, to his cousin Sir Robert Bruce
of Clackmannan, and they have been preserved in Clackmannan
Castle by the descendants of this Sir Robert, with the greatest
veneration, till the present time. Though there be no written
documents to instruct the sword and helmet having been presented
to Sir Robert Bruce, yet the above account has the sanction of
the universal tradition of the family and of the country around."
   They are now in the possession of the Earl of Elgin and Kin-
cardine, having (along with the genealogical family tree, dated
1686, which contains a lengthened history of the descent of the
<Footnote>
* A well-executed and appropriate plate, bearing the appearances of antiquity, was
found at the grave, after the re-interment of Bruce, but it was satisfactorily ascertained
not to be ancient. It was the doing of a few individuals, as a jeu desprit, which would
have been harmless enough, had it been acknowledged shortly after producing its in-
tended effect.
    +  "Here lies the invincible Robert, blessed King,
       Let Wm who reads his exploits, repeat how many ware he carried on
       He led the kingdom of the Scots to freedom, by his uprightness,
       Now let him live in the citadel of the Heavens."-Scotichron. viii, 15.


