
74                     ARGYLESHIRE.

Melfort; and the Town-Council of Glasgow, to whom the Island
of Shuna was left by the late -- Yeates, Esq. for the behoof
of some charitable and literary institutions in that city.
   Mansion Houses, &c.-- Ardmaddy Castle is one of the seats of
the Marquis of BreadaIbane, where the family have been in the
habit of residing for some weeks, during the summer season, for
the last few years. It is situated on the mainland at the head of
a fine bay, and commands an extensive prospect of sea and land.
The castle, which is a very old building, stands on an eminence
of a conical shape, which has the appearance of an artificial mound.
It was the rdsidence of a family of the M'Dougalls, when that clan was
in possession of the greatest part of Lorn. It was occupied in the
time of persecution, during the reign of Charles II. and of his brother
James, by Lord Niel Campbell, a brother of the Earl of Argyle,
who was put to death in 1685. He made some additions to the
former building. His own initials and those of his Lady (Cathe-
rine Kerr,) are cut in a stone in one of the gables, N. C., C. K.,
1676. Lord Niel himself was also a sufferer in those times of
tyranny and blood. There is a small cave in the face of a rock,
at a short distance from Ardmaddy, where it is said he used to
conceal himself from his pursuers. In this castle, the late Mar-
quis of Breadalbane was born in 1762. It was then occupied by
his father Colin Campbell, Esq. of Carwhin, the presumptive
heir to the title and estates of the Breadalbane family, and whose
memory is still held in the greatest veneration throughout the
whole district of Nether Lorn. The only other mansion house
in the parish, is that built at Ardincaple, by the grandfather of the
present proprietor about fifty years ago. It is now occupied by
Dr Archibald Smith, who resided many years in Lima, and is
the author of the able and interesting work entitled ''Peru as
it is."
    Register.-- There is a volume of session records beginning
with the year,1753, and continued, thnugh not very regularly kept, till
1793. Owing to some cause not well explained, the following vo-
lume was lost or destroyed twenty years ago. The parish regis-
ter has been regularly kept since the induction of Mr Beith in
1826.
   Antiquities,-The only remains of antiquity in the parish are
the ruins of some old forts, so common in the Highlands. There
is one of these on the top of a hill in the Island of Luing. It is
of a circular form, built of dry stones, and was apparently a place


