
   			    GLASGOW.                          189

of one sitting to 2.75-100th persons, or 20,291 sitting less than
the amount required by law.
	On 1st July 1835, the House of Commons presented a humble
address to his Majesty, who has been graciously pleased to appoint a
commission "to inquire into the opportunities of religious worship
and means of religious instruction, and the pastoral superintendence
afforded to the people of Scotland, and law far these are of avail
for the religious and moral improvemwnt of the poor and of the
working classes, and with this view to obtained information respect-
ing their stated attendance at places of worship, and their actual
connectoin with any religious denomination, to inqure what funds
are now or may hereafter be a available fir the purpose of the Esta-
blished Church of Scotland, and to report from time to time, in
order that such remedies may be applaied to any existing evils as
Parliament may think fit."
	When the times occupied, and the expense incurried in preparing
for the church is considered, no one will presume to say the
aspirant for the holy ministry is actuated by mercenary motives; it
is, therefore, the duty of those who benefit by their labours to pro-
vide for their temporal wants in a suitable manner, so that their
spiritual instruction may be enable to devoted his whole energies to
the duties of his sacred office. As the living of two of the clergy-
men of this city arise frim teinds, the following account may not
be uninteresting;
	In the case of the ninister of Prestonkirk against the heritos
of the parish in 1808, the Lord President Hope, then Lord Jus-
tice-Clerk, in giving his opinion, said, "When we look back to the
history of past ages, we find that the tithes of Scotland were at no
time the proprerty of the heritory. From the very earliest period
which we can trace our history, the tithes were the property of the
state, reseved by the state, and by the state appropriated, or at
least applied, as a found for the purpose of maintaining the clergy.
Let us consider the situation of an heritor in the light of a pur-
chaser of land. Did any such pay one farthing as the price of the
tithes? Certainly not. They always are, and always have been,
deducted from the rental in calculating the price of the estate.
What is taken from the tithes for the maintenance of the clergy
is not, therefore, taken out of the pocket of the heritors; for, merely
as a proprietor of land, he can have no right to the tithes either
by purchases or inheritance. On the point of law, I never was
clearer or any question in mf life. In point of authority, I look


