
                           FEARN.                          315

suitable reward for his services. The Earl rather unseasonably.
declined, and history informs us that Crawford's defeat, and the
subsequent fall of his party, were chiefly attributable to Collessie's
desertion upon that account.
        Family of Deuchar.-Few families can establish such pretensions
to antiquity as belong to the Deuchars, late of that Ilk. It might be
almost regularly ascertained that the family inheritance had passed
through a succession of lineal heirs, without increase or diminution,
throughout a period of more than five hundred years. One of the
ancestors of this family fell at Harlaw, and, as a proof that he was
not untouched with the spirit which marked the character of that
bloody field, his sword was so firmly grasped in death, that it was
necessary to cut away the hand before it could be severed from
the sword. The sword, as a relique, is still in possession of the
representative of the family, but the patrimony was alienated about
eighteen years ago.
        Families of Gillies and Tytler.-As allied to the talented fami-
lies of the Gillies and Tytlers, we cannot allow our connection with tbe
learned world to be undervalued. The ancestor of the Gillies ap-
pears to have emerged into public life by the friendship of Mr Wemyss
of this parish, was domiciled two years in the parish, and afterwards
became minister of Careston. Of Mr Tytler's family, two inheri-
ted their father's taste for literary acquirements. Henry, the young-
est of these, was much distinguished for his classical knowledge,
and can be mentioned as the first of the Scottish school who ventu-
red to give to the public a metrical version of a Greek ode. It would
be difficult to name that branch of literature or science with which
James, the oldest, had not made himself acquainted. Of this, he
gave the most ample evidence in his diversified labours for the
second edition of the British Encyclopaedia. In that work, it is
believed that no hand was more largely engaged than his, and
that, too, in almost every department. From the self-denying
habits of the man, and many disastrous occurrences in his life his
talents were nearly unprofitable to himself, and he died an exile
in Massachussets.

                        III.-POPULATION.

	The parish, lying chiefly on the verge of the inland country, at a
great distance from any great market-town, and without an inter-
mediate village, the habits of the population may be regarded as com-
pletely rural. The only places of common resort are the parish church
and school. We have no tavern, no news-room, no lodge, no clubs.


