
			RUTHERGLEN.                           379

It recommends the suppression of impiety and vice, and authorizes
discipline--promises the support of the civil power--is willing to
put the benefices on a proper footing--to receive proposals from
the church--but reserves consideration of any alteration that may
be made. Among the evils to be removed by the kirk are witch-
craft, incest, murders, idle beggars, persons passing on pilgrimages
to chapels or wells, inquiring the names of certain crofts or pieces
of ground reported to be superstitiously consigned to the devil,
under the name of the Gudeman or Hyndeknyt.
	On 24th February 1590, the presbytery of Glasgow directed
the doctor of the school of Rutherglen to desist from reading
prayers, and they complained that those who provided wine for the
sacrament of the Lord's supper mixed it with water. The pres-
bytery exhorted the people not to drink the wine greedily but to
receive it with all sobriety, and to have the eyes of, their souls
lifted up to heaven, and not to drink the wine barbarously
	On 8th May 1593, the presbytery ordered their clerk to write
a letter to my Lord Paisley to repair the choir of Ruglen kirk; and
at the same time they prohibited the playing Of pipes on Sundays,
from sun rising to its going down, on pain of excommunication, and
forbade all pastimes on Sundays. This order to be read in all
the kirks, but especially in the kirk of Ruglen.
	On 20th May 1595, the presbytery sent three letters, viz. to
the Laird of Farme, the Laird of Lekprivick, and the bailies of
Rutherglen, to stay the profane plays introduced in Ruglen on the
Lord's day, as they fear the eternal God, and will be answerable
to his kirk. They also complained of the practice of drawing sal-
mon, and of the colliers in Ruglen settling their accounts on Sunday,
	On 20th March 1604, Sir Claud Hamilton of Shawfield "in-
terrupted the minister of Ruglen in time of sermon, after a bar-
barous and unchristian manner; and Andrew Pinkerton boasted
that he had put away four ministers from Ruglen, and he hoped
to put away Mr Hamilton also. He drew a whinger and held it
to the minister's breast, and David Spens said he would stick twa
ministers, and would not give a fig for excommunication."
	On 29th July 1607, the presbytery ordered the minister of
Ruglen to intimate from the pulpit on Sunday next, that the next
Wednesday is to be solemnly kept by every parishioner resorting
to the kirk, for praising of God's blessed name, for his Majesty's
preservation and deliverance from that treasonable attempt and
conspiracy against his Majesty's life at Porth, (the Gowrie con-


