
110                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

enterprising tenant of Finnich Drummond, John Buchanan, Esq. of
Ballat, brother of the above-mentioned gentleman, is carrying on
much of this work, assisted by his landlord, the Duke of Montrose.
James McNair, Esq., of Balvie, has most successfully brought into,
culture about 90 acres of black heathy ground. And now his farm
of Auchineck, which, nine years ago, was of dismal and forbidding
aspect, looks as smiling, and is as productive as any in the parish.
  Leases, Farm-houses, &c.-The duration of leases is generally
nineteen years. On the Duke of  Montrose's estate it is eighteen,
and for grass farms, nine. It would be a great benefit both to
landlord and tenant, if more attention vere paid, in the case of
renewing leases, to grant the renewal within three or four years of
the  expiry of them. This would prevent the farm being ex-
hausted, and, likewise, much anxiety of mind to the occupant in
the prospect of removal.
  The farm-houses and steadings on the larger farms are, in general,
good and commodious,-but, on the smaller, in many cases, both
are unworthy of the style of farming and of living of the present
day.
  Much attention is now paid to fencing with thorn-hedges. The
trim dressed hedges in the western districts are much admired.
In many places, however, the hedges have been planted too low;
the consequence is, that the thorns getting hold of the cold damp
subsoil, canker and die.
  The rental of the parish is about L.9000; the valued rent
L.5069, 10s.
  There are three corn-mills in the parish, and a mill at Gart-
ness for carding, spinning, dyeing, and weaving woollen goods,
which are chiefly used in the country.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Village-Markets-Means of Communication, &c.-Drymen,
the only village in the parish, contains a population of 404. With
the exception of the ordinary trades-people, the inhabitants are
chiefly employed in  ountry labour. There used to be a fair, al-
most every month held here: but of late years, in consequence
of the improved means of communication, and the increased faci-
lities of obtaining commodities from other quarters, they are redu-
ced to four; chiefly for the hiring of servants. The people of this
parish mostly avail themselves of the Glasgow markets, eighteen
miles distant. In the populous districts of the Leven, about seven
miles to the west of Drymen, and of Duntocher, about twelve


