
          374                         PERTHSHIRE.

           present no means of ascertaining exactly the depth or extent of
           the bed, though, judging by circumstances, both must be consi-
           derable.
               Dipping underneath this sandstone, but with what interposed
           strata has not yet been ascertained, lies at the distance of fully a
           mile and a half to the south-west, the sandstone which is found in
           Clashbennie quarry, on the property of John Lee Allen, Esq. of
           Errol.  This quarry was opened more than twenty years ago, and
           the excavation is now pretty extensive.  The strata have in some
           places been quarried to the depth of 25 or 30 feet.  The colour
           of the rock in the upper strata was of a dark red, while the tex-
           ture was coarse without being particularly hard.  The lower strata,
           however, have been of a bluish-red, or somewhat pinky colour,
           and of a very hard compact structure, from the great additional
           quantity of silicious matter which the rock contains.  Between the
           strata, is commonly found interposed a thin layer of red clay.  Their
           angle of inclination, as already mentioned, varies from 20&deg; to 25&deg;.
           No dike or fissure has yet been found crossing the strata, but on
           the south side of the quarry, as deep down as the working has yet
           been carried in that direction, several pieces of trap have been
           found, in contact with which the sandstone is considerably altered
           and indurated.  As there has been a fall of the superincumbent
           earth near that spot, the exact situation of the strata cannot at
           present be ascertained, but appearances would lead to the conclu-
           sion, that they are a good deal deranged from beneath, and pene-
           trated by a vein of trap.  All these characters seem to justify the
           opinion which has generally been entertained as to this quarry, that
           the strata belong to the old red sandstone formation.  In various
           places of this quarry, and occasionally, from the time when it was
           first opened, there have been found many fossil organic remains
           and impressions.  These, in general, have been of small sea-shells,
           and seldom very entire.  In many instances, the impressions seem-
           ed to be those of scales of a striated appearance, and shining with
           a glossy white enamel.  One or two impressions of small fish had
           also been met with, but no specimens of any great or general in-
           terest, till the summer of last year (1836,) when the workmen fell
           in with a portion of a stratum, about 20 feet down in the solid
           rock, which contained a distinct and nearly entire impression of a
           fish, 27 1/2 inches in length, and 13 inches in breath.  That
           impression, or rather model of the fish, was contained on the under
           side of the stratum, and, when lifted, left its  print, as it were on


