
                         NIGG.                                33

the year for 5s., though it can hardly be said that sheep are taken
in for grazing.
   Wages.-Ploughmen get each per annum a house; from 7 to
10 barrels of coals, (equal to from 10 to 15 imperial measure;) 6
bolls of oatmeal, (each 9 stones Dutch weight;) 5 bolls of potatoes
(each boll being in bulk equal to 2 quarters of wheat;) a Scotch pint
of skimmed milk, (equal to an English quart) every day of the sum-
mer and harvest; and from L. 6 to L. 7 of money.  A thrasher with
the flailgets, per boll of wheat, Is.; of barley, 10d.; and of oats, Od.
A day-labourer gets 1s. per diem:  Masons build for L.1, 6s. per
rood, the materials being provided.  Carpenters, smiths, tailors, shoe-
makers, &c. make the best bargain they can with their employers
and it is not believed that their average daily income can exceed 2s.
The most of them would be very glad to compound for 1s. 6d. if they
got constant employment.  The clothes used are generally bought
in shops. The old weavers have given up their trade.
 Live-Stoch.-There are few sheep in the parish, and these con-
sist of Southdown, Cheviot, and the small country kind.  In the
rocks of Castlecraig, there are upwards of 100 goats, feeding on
the herbs, which no other quadruped can approach.  There is lit-
tle attention paid to the rearing of black cattle.  In the end of har-
vest, the farmers buy young Highland stock to eat the straw in win-
ter and spring; and when summer arrives, they commonly sell them,
if they can procure remunerating prices.  Great milkers are not
to be found.  Fresh butter sells at 9d. per lb.; cheese at 6s. per
stone, and warm milk at 3d. per Scotch pint.  The parish was
noted (not many years since) for the abundance and excellence of
its barley.  Now, however, there is little barley raised.  It was no
uncommon thing for the barley to weigh 56 lb. the bushel, and
when distilled, to give 3 Scots gallons (24 English quarts,) per boll,
of good whisky.  Chevalier barley has been introduced within the
last twelve months, and promises to become a staple article, of pro-
duce.  Angus and potato oats are quite common, and the Hope-
toun oats are coming into fashion.  Wheat, however, is the far-
mer's main stay, and the quality of it is in general excellent, as its
quantity is great.  But it must be observed that, owing to the high
rents, the low price of wheat of late years, and the little demand
for other kinds of farm produce, the land has been too much
scourged by wheat crops.  A four-shift rotation is common, and even
a three-shift.  Beans are much attended to now by high and low.
  ROSS AND CROMARTY.


