
				BEITH.			        603

	The late Dr Patrick of Hazlehead left L. 20 to form a society
for procuring clothing to old men, in decayed circumstances, and
resident in the parish. A society has in consequence been re-
cently instituted for this benevolent purpose, and it is to be hoped
will meet with similar support.
	Public Libraries.--There is a subscription library in the town,
which contains 400 volumes, but it has not been well supported.
There are also two circulating libraries.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATION.
	Since the last Statistical Account was written, very considerable
improvements have taken place in this parish. The roads, both
turnpike and parochial, are in better order, though in this matter
there is certainly much room for farther improvement. The houses
of the wealthier inhabitants are, with few exceptions, more com-
modious and comfortable, but many of the weavers and labourers,
and even farmers, are meanly lodged. In the town, there are
many thriving respectable merchants and traders; and Beith is
distinguished above most places of the kind by the wealth of not a
few of its inhabitants. All sorts of cloths, groceries, and butcher-
meat can be got here as good as in Glasgow, and the number of
shops for retailing, these articles shews that the demand is great.
That the morals of the people are improved in proportion to their
means and opportunity, it would perhaps be hazardous to assert.
Certainly there is no longer that reckless daring of the law which
was characteristic of the place when it was a seat of smuggling;
yet offences are too frequent, which are generally the results of
excessive drinking,--a prevailing vice in this place as in most others
at the present day, and it is melancholy to see the idleness, pro-
fanity, and wretchedness to which it leads. Here the people have
many strong and encouraging proofs that industry and sobriety can
raise not only to independence, but to wealth, for here there are
men who began the world, after having got only the most ordinary
education, and without any earthly means to assist them, but their
own health and prudence, and who now are living with their fami-
lies in affluence, respected by all, and relieving the necessities of
many who commenced with equal means of success. There has
always been a due share of valour and patriotism in this place.
At the Revolution, a company of volunteers was raised in defense
of the King and constitution, and we have already noticed the com-
pany raised by Mr Wotherspoon in 1745. During the war with
Buonaparte, the Beith volunteers and local militia were always


