
                           EDINBURGH.                          727

Provost and Sheriff, as presidents; a board of ordinary directors,
secretary, treasurer, and trustees. The success which has crown-
ed the efforts of the managers has on the whole been most grati-
fying.
   The Asylum for the Blind.-This institution was first suggested
by Dr Blacklock and Mr David Miller, both sufferers from this af-
fliction; and in 1792, by the active exertions of Dr Johnston, mi-
nister of North Leith, Sir William Forbes, and others, subscrip-
tions were raised to the amount of L. 700, and a Society forthwith
formed. Next year a house was opened in Shakespeare Square, and
nine blind persons were admitted. By degrees the patronage to this
useful institution increased; and in 1806 a larger house was pur-
chased in Nicolson Street. In 1822, another house for the female
blind was also purchased in the same street, and both places fitted
up with every accommodation for the inmates, and opportunity
afforded for carrying on their labours. The two establishments
now contain from 90 to 100 inmates. Besides education and mo-
ral and religious culture, they are all taught to work; the males
are employed in making matresses and cushions of wool, hair,
straw, &c., and baskets, mats, hair gloves, cord, twine, &c., as
well as cloth-weaving. The females sew, knit, spin, &c. Besides
those who live in the institutions, opportunities of work and in-
struction are afforded to about as many more blind people out of
the house. Entertaining reading and instruction in useful science
are happily blended with their labours; and thus rescued from
the gloom of ignorance and inactivity, they are rendered intelli-
gent, active, and happy members of society. The institutions are
supported by voluntary contributions, and by the produce of the
sales of their own manufactures. Books with raised letters, and
maps and globes on a similar plan, are now in general use among
the inmates of this and similar institutions elsewhere.
   Deaf and Dumb Institution.-In 1764 a Mr Braidwood first
began to instruct the deaf and dumb in Edinburgh. At first he
had but a single pupil, but afterwards he collected a considerable
number, and taught them with success. The present institution,
situated to the north of the new town, was established in 1810.
The funds for the building, about L. 7000, were raised by public
donations, and the establishment is supported by annual subscrip-
tions and the sums paid for by the friends of those pupils who Can
afford it. The building, a plain but commodious one, with play-
ground annexed, is capable of containing about 100 pupils, with


