
	70                        ELGINSHIRE.

	prospect, was originally an outpost Of Castle Grant in Inverness-
	shire. From the various additions which this mansion has receiv-
	ed, it is now a large building, partly in the old manorial, and part-
	ly in the castellated style, still retaining in some of the cellars,
	small windows and gun ports, used for defence in former ages. In
	the entrance-hall are preserved some chairs from the ancient castle
	of Rothes, marked with an Earl's coronet, and supposed to be
       some centuries old.\f*
	   The house of Knockando was built in the year 1732, and is a
	plain edifice, consisting of a main building and a wing on each side.
	It is now occupied by three families; part is considerably dilapi-
	dated, but the whole is capable of repair. Knockando House is
	beautifully situated near the bank of the Spey, and surrounded by
	wood. The walk in this direction is exceedingly picturesque and
	beautiful.
              		"The bramble bends
  		        Beneath itsjetty load, the hazel hangs
 			With auburn branches dipping in the stream
          		That sweeps along."                   GRAHAME.
	The landscape stretches far and wide, presenting varied aspects
	of Highland scenery, hill and dale, wood and water, rock and glen,
	blending harmoniously together in the vicinity, whilst the lofty
	summits of Ben Avon and Cairngorum are blue in the distance.
	-In the midst of wild yet simple scenery,
 	 		"Far up the windings of the stream,,
			Where birken witch-knots oer the channel meet,"
	stands Glengunnery, or the cottage of the Clune. This dwelling,
	built of wood and thatched with heather, was erecte in the year
	1827 as a shooting lodge, by the late Charles Grant, Esq. of
	Wester Elchies. The cottage contains thirteen apartments of va-
	rious sizes; it was for some time inhabited by Ian Stewart, who
	during his residence fitted up the building in a style tastefully
	characteristic of the days of "auld lang syne." A young planta-
	tion is now rising around this romantic and sequestered spot, si-
	tuated on the bank of the Knockando burn.
	   The mansion house of Easter Elchies, which consists of three
	stories, was erected in the year 1700, by the father of the late
	Lord Elchies, Captain John Grant, who distinguished himself at
	the battle of Cromdale, and died in 1715. He was succeeded by

	<FOOTNOTE>At Wester Elchies are also to be seen several Sculptured stones, the remains of
	a Hindoo temple. They had lain for upwards of a hundred years in the neighbour-
	hood of Gour, the ancient Hindoo capital, and have lately sent sent to this country,
	by Mr Grant.


