
64                           BERWICKSHIRE.

being still dissatisfied with the distance, the heritors agreed to
make choice of a more central situation for a church, and, accord-
ingly, the minister was removed from Bassendean to Westruther
in 1649.
   The parish is of an irregular form, though it inclines to circular.
It is about 7 miles in length from north to south, and 5 at its
greatest breadth from west to east. It is bounded on the north
by Cranshaws; on the south by Legerwood and Gordon; on the
west by Lauder; and on the east by Longformacus and Greenlaw.
The north is considerably elevated above the rest of the parish,
the highest point being 1260 feet above the level of the sea.
   Topographical Appearances.-The whole of the northern quarter
presents the appearance of a continuous ridge of hills, whose bleak
and barren summits are destitute of every attraction, save that of
affording a wide prospect of the rich and beautiful scenery of Merse
and Tiviotdale. Descending from this northern boundary, it ap-
pears an extended valley, unbroken by the smallest eminence, and
intersected by varied spots of heath, pasture, and arable land; in
the centre it rises throughout the whole extent from west to east
to a considerable elevation, and again inclines to a gentle slope
at the southern extremity of Bassendean. There is no point with-
in the parish which commands an entire view of the whole, or from
which any thing more than a small detached portion can be seen
at once. But from the neighbouring heights of Lauder, or after
passing the moor of Greenlaw on the east, it appears to great
advantage, with its stripes of waving plantation stretching in
every direction, and comes on the traveller with an agreeable sur-
prise to find so rich and cultivated a spot, where he might little
expect it, skirting the cold and heath-clad brow of the Lammer-
moors.
   Meteorology.-The temperature of Westruther was considerably
colder than that of the lower parts of the county. But this has
been remedied in a great degree by the growth of wood, and espe-
cially by the extensive drains that have been cut in various parts
of the parish. The rains which the powerful attraction of the Lam-
mermoors brought down in the earlier part of the season, and the
frosts which were so common and so severe in autumn, made the
people in the low boggy parts of the parish, about thirty years ago,
lay their account with having their crop damaged every four or five
years. So much, however, has now been done by planting and drain-
ing to subdue the rigours of a capricious and ungenial climate, that
                                   3


