
8                            BUTESHIRE.

on the subject, it may here be stated in the words of Professor Jame-
son, that Arran (and it may be added, the parish of Kilbride in parti-
cular) " affords highly instructive examples of Neptunian and Plu-
tonian rocks of the primitive and transition classes, viz. clay-slate,
mica slate, greywacke, as Neptunian deposits; and granite, as a
Plutonian rock.  The junctions of the granite, of which there are
two formations, with each other, and with the Neptunian slates,
are most instructive; and annually attract to Arran, visitors from
all parts of Britain, and even from distant continental countries.
Reposing on these rocks is a deposit of the old red sandstone,
on which rests the coal formation; and a great conformable series
of strata of red sandstone, by some geologists referred to the so-
called new red sandstone.  These Neptunian secondary rocks are
traversed in all directions by Plutonian rocks of the porphyry and
trap series, affording an admirable study to the geologist interested
in the natural history of ignigenous formations." *
   The two granite formations appear towering above the rest of
the island, in Goatfell and the neighbouring high mountains. This
group is invested all round by the slate mountains, which form a
sort of elevated terrace projected from their sides ; and the strata
of which rest upon the granite at various angles of inclination.
The junction of the slate and granite is generally concealed by
the soil, the grass and loose stones; but it is distinctly seen on the
north side of Tornidneoin, near Lochranza, and one or two other
places.  The slate is covered by the sandstone and other secon-
dary strata, which at the north side of the island rest upon it at an
angle sometimes approaching very close to the perpendicular, but
towards the south subside into much lower elevations.  Scridan
forms a remarkable spot, as being a central point from which these
strata dip towards opposite quarters, taking corresponding ranges
south to Corrie, and north to the Cock. Of the veins of trap and
porphyry which traverse the secondary strata, specimens may be
seen along any part of the coast.  Two of the most interesting ap-
pear, one on the shore below Corrigills ; and the other on the
eastern shore of Lamlash.  At the former place are seen two
veins, one of trap, the other of porphyry, or porphyritic claystone,
ascending through the sandstone, in some places in immediate contact
with each other, and elsewhere with portions of the conglomerate of
red sandstone interposed. In the sandstone, fragments of trap of the
same character as the vein, are here and there imbedded ; while

<FOOTNOTE>
    * Vide Professor Jameson's Contributions to Murray's Encyclopedia of Geogra-
phy.


