
                  DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.               965

and gravel with which the whole valley of the Tay has become
loaded, and which are usually known as diluvial deposits, plainly
bespeaking the violent action of waters at a much higher level than
the waters of the Tay could ever have reached. Of these diluvial
deposits consist the most productive farm-lands. Although these
gravelly soils are in some parts too dry to be productive, especially
in dry seasons, yet nowhere can be seen finer pastures, or more
beautiftil woods, than throughout the whole length of Dunkeld and
Dowally; and in addition to the more usual varieties of timber
common to Great Britain, which are all found here in the greatest
luxuriance, the earliest and finest specimens of the larch which are
known in the kingdom are to be found around Dunkeld. The vast
scale on which this useful species was planted by the late John,
fourth Duke of Atholl, and the truly national object which his
Grace had in view in so doing, render the subject too important
to be passed over in silence, in taking a statistical survey of this
district.
   The only known indication of the more valuable mineral pro-
ductions around Dunkeld and within this district, is a small  vein
of copper ore in the eastern base of the mountain called Craig-y-
barns, but which has not been worked. The valuable slate quar-
ries a little lower down the Tay are in the neighbouring parishes
of Caputh on the north, and of Little Dunkeld on the south of
the Tay.
   Gold in grain has been occasionally found in a sand-bank about
three miles above Dunkeld, and fully twenty feet above the level
of the Tay. A few small trinkets were made of it, but the quan-
tity of gold was so small, and the expense of extracting so great,
that no attention is now paid to the discovery.
   Pearls, of a coarse kind, but occasionally of good form and co-
lour, are produced by the species of muscle common in the Tay.
About half a century ago, the collecting of the pearls was a trade.
A merchant in London who had contracted to receive all that was
collected became insolvent, which caused a loss to the inhabi-
tants who were engaged in the traffic. Since then, the people of
the place have ceased to collect them. Many of the pearls that
were collected brought high prices.
   Zoology.--Both Dunkeld and the parish of Dowally are very
rich in natural productions.
   Of the Carnivora, tbere is a considerable variety, although they
are not so numerous as they were some years ago, in consequence


