
10                               ORKNEY.

of worship, to be served by one of the colleague ministers. The Ex-
tension Committee granted L.200 towards its erection Four mana-
gers, of the chapel have since presented a petition, which lies on the
table of the Presbytery, praying them to divide the parish, uncolle-
giate the ministers, placing one of them in the chapel as minister of
one-half the parish, but reserving to him his civil rights and emo-
luments as a minister of the whole or quoad civilia parish. This,
in the circumstances of the parish, would be just to convert one.
of the charges into a sinecure, so far as preaching is concerned;
as it is certain, and the petitioners calculate upon it, that when
the comparison comes to be between the old and incommodious
cathedral, and a comfortable cbapel just next door, the whole
audience will evacuate the cathedral, while, by the proposal, one
of the ministers must still continue to officiate there. As the
principal heritors are perfectly willing that the worship should be
wholly transferred to the chapel, the proper course appears to be,
to obtain the Presbytery's sanction to its occupation as a preaching
station, in lieu of the cathedral; and this is the consummation
which has all along been desired by the whole community, except-
ing a few individuals.
   Education.-The antiquity of the principal educational esta-
blishment in the parish, called the grammar school, cannot be ac-
curately ascertained; but it cannot be much, if at all, short of 500
years old: for in,tbe fifteenth century, it is referred to in the town's
charter, as in existing establishment.  At that time, and long af-
ter, it was taught by an ecclesiastic, the prebend of St Peter, con-
nected with the cathedral; and even after the teacbers were lay-
men, we find by the records, that they drew and enjoyed the emo-
luments of that prebendary, (November 1652).  This goodly
endowment, however, was, amidst the troubles, of these times,
alienated from the schoolmaster, and became merged either in the
funds for paymentof the clergymen of the different parishes con-
nected with the prebendary, or in the revenues of the bishopric,
which passed into the possession of tbe Crown.  He, however,
retained, and his successors still retain, a payment of thirty meills
or bolls of malt,--the fruit of a voluntary contribution made by
the clergy and other gentlemen of Orkney A. D. 1649, amounting
to 2000 merks, which were mortified in ih, hands of Lord Mor-
ton, on condition ofsaid annual payment of malt, out of The feu-
duties on the sarldom, then held by the Earl of Morton, and now
by the Earl of Zetland. To this there was, twenty years ago,


