
                         CAMBUSNETHAN.                       615

ing in it. A new church was ordered to be built, capable of con-
taining 1000 sitters, the minister and the great body of the
rishioners expressing their wish that it should be built to accom-
modate the legal number of the population of the parish, which
contains 4000 inhabitants. The church, however, it was agreed,
should be built for only 800; the Church Extension Committee
promising to build a chapel between the parish church and the
manse, to contain an equal number. Although two years have
elapsed, neither church nor chapel has yet been begun; and the
condemned church has, with the sanction of the presbytery, been
again opened for public worship. *
	The church, after being seated in every corner, contained only
660 sitters. It was cold, damp, and uncomfortable. From these
and other circumstances, the people were forced to become Dis-
senters, and built a house for themselves at Wishaw Town, in con-
nexion with the Relief body.
	There, there is also a house in connexion with the Reformed
Presbyterian Church, or the Cameronians; and as this parish was
a very ancient seat of Secession, a house in connexion with the
Burghers, now with the United Associate Synod, was built near-
ly a century ago at Davies-dykes, which has of late been trans-
ferred to Bonkle, a small and romantic hamlet on the Allanton
estate.
	Modern Buildings.--The principal seats in this parish besides
Cambusnethan House, are those of Wishaw, Coltness, Allanton,
and Muirhouse. About twenty years ago, a very elegant struc-
ture was erected at Cambusnethan, under the inspection of that
celebrated architect, Mr Gillespie Graham, on the site of the for-
mer, which had been consumed by an accidental fire. This build-
ing is in the Gothic style of architecture, and is a very chaste and
perfect representation of a priory. It is placed in a most ro-
mantic situation, and is an object well fitted to attract the admi-
ration of every traveller.
	The present proprietor has added much to the beauty of the
place, and to the extent of the orchards. He has upwards of 25
acres planted with apple, pear, and plum trees of the best descripi-

<FOOTNOTE>It is but justice to the heritors to mention, that since I gave in my Statistical
Report in March List, a new parish church has been begun in June, very near the
site of the present one. This site has been selected with good taste, as it dry and
commanding, and not far from the centre of the population. The church is a neat,
plain structure, in the Gothic style, bulk of an excellent white freestone, which is
abundant in many parts of the parish.


