
	922                            FIFESHIRE.

	of a whitish colour, of a fine hard texture, and are from 500 to
	600 feet thick. There are three thin beds of coal, which are
	little sought after, of inferior quality, and do not pay the expense
	of working. They vary from a few inches to about a foot and a
	half in thickness. The limestone consists of two main beds about
	ten feet thick, is highly crystalline in its structure, and of various
	shades of grayish-whiwte. The blae, as it is termed by the work-
	men, is very hard, is blasted with gunpowder, and abounds, as well
	as the lime, in corals, madrepores, encrinites, and shells. The
	limestone has a slight inclination to the south-east, and dips under
	the western peak, which rises above it to the height of 500 feet.
	The peak consists of amygdaloidal greenstone, passing towards
	the summit into a grayish-black basalt; and underneath the lime-
	stone there is a dark crystalline greenstone, probably 100 feet
	thick, which splits up into tabular masses, and presents a bold
	mural cliff towards the northern face of the hill. The table-land
	which stretches to the East Lomond exhibits, in various places, the
	protrusion of the ignigenous rock through the sedimentary strata,
	which are, in consequence, a good deal altered and disturbed.
	The limestone passes round the cone of the hill at an elevation
	above the level of the sea of nearly 1200 feet. This is the high-
	est point where fossil organic remains appear in Fifeshire; there
	is no soil or covering upon the limestone in many places; and yet
	on the upper surface of a bed of blae, of a few inches thick, shells
	are found of forms the most perfect and beautiful, uninjured, and
	almost uninfluenced by their long exposure to atmospheric agen-
	cies.The limestone trains round the south-eastern acclivity, and,
	after several shifts, crops out near Leslie; whence we lose all
	trace of it, until it again emerges near the bottom of the valley at
	Fotbar.
	  Boulders of greenstone, granite, and gneiss, (and other primi-
	tive rocks,) are strewed over the high mainland, as well as sloping
	sides of the Lomond ridge. Some of them are of great dimen-
	sions, and upwards of twenty tons weight. The greenstone boul-
	ders are not much rounded, and have obviously not been trans-
	ported far from their parent mass.
	  A vein of galena occurs on the south side of the Easter Lomond.
	It was discovered and wrought about the ear 1783, and is de-
	scribed in the notices of the period as rich in silver ore. But it
	has little claim, we believe, to be regarded as argentiferous. Its
	line of bearing is nearly north-east by south-west. It intersects

                                         3


