
368                        INVERNESS-SHIRE.

except to obtain what is requisite for family use. There are
many thousand acres under wood, partly natural and partly
planted. Great attention is bestowed on the management of
trees; the are thinned annually, and most of the fir trees felled
are sold for railway sleepers; while the birch is manufactured
into staves for laarrcils.
  Rent of Land-The rent of arable ground varies with the quaIity
of the soil. A few lots are rented at L. 4, 10s. and L. 4
per acre ; many large farms at L. 2, L. 2, 5s. and L. 2, 1Os. ;
many others from L.1, 10s. to L.I. The average rent may be
stated at L.1 15s. per acre. The average rent of pasture is
reckoned at L.4 or L.4, 10s. for each ox or cow, including provender
for winter, Hill pasture, however, in summer, with provender
in winter, may be obtained for L.1, 10s. The average
rent paid for a ewe or full-grown sheep pastured for a year, is from
2s. 6d. to 3s
   Wages.- Farm-servants are usually hired for the year. If
married, they receive, together with a small dwelling-house,
from L. 12 to L. 15 a year; 6 barrels of coals ; 6 bolls of oatmeal;
and 6 bolls of potatoes. Some also receive pasture for
a cow. Unmarried farm-servants frequently, and female- servants
commonly, are boarded in their master's house, and receive only
money wages, the former from L. 8 to L. 1O, and the latter from
L.3 to L.4 per annum. Common labourers receive 1s. 6d. per
day in summer, and 1s. per day in winter without victuals. Masons
and carpenters 2s. 6d. per day. Cheviot wool sell sat 14s. per
stone, cross 12s.; cheese 6s., and butter . 18s. per stone; meal
from 17s. to 20s. per imperial boll; and potatoes from 7s. to 10s;
per boll of 4 barrels (each barrel containing 32 gallons.).
   Live-Stock.-Formerly, the sheep in the parish were the few
possessed by the,farmers for their own consumption; the rearing
for the use of others was little attended to; while now, the rich
pasture of our country is occupied by thousands of the different
breeds. The most common are the Cheviot and black-faced.
Much attention is bestowed upon the improvement of this stock.
   Husbandry.-Improvements in acgriculture have made rapid progress,
in this parish, of late years. The mode pursued is not inferior
to that in the most improved districts. Lime is generally
fixed . Bone dust has also been lately introduced, for raising turnips,
and with good effect. As the soil, in many places, is rather
wet, a great deal draining is required, which has only as yet been

