
                           KINNOULL.                           935

coming within its range.-these being often killed down, while, of
those occupying an elevation, higher by a few yards only, some are
to be foud, having acquired a prescriptive right to the name of
evergreens-others, again, almost refusing to be deciduous.
   Rivers, Salmon-Fishing, &c.-The Tay, forming the western
boundary of the parish, divides itself into two parts a little be-
low the church, forming a small island called Moncrieff island, one-
half of which is in this parish, and the other in that of Perth.
That branch of the river on the farther side of the island is the
course which larger vessels hold, in coming to Perth, while that on
this side is navigable by vessels of about 60 tons burden, and af-
fords a somewhat shorter passage, when, in spring tides, they seek
to make Kinnoull shore; and from which, within the last few years,
two vessels of that measurement have been launched.
   Of the many valuable salmon-fishings on the river, Kinnoull
has its share,--the stations or hawls belonging to it being rented
at about L. 1200 per annum.
   Hills.-,"There are two hills in this parish, Kinnoull-hill, and the
hill of Murray's-hall, which are rather different parts of the same
ridge of hills, at the distance of two miles from one another;
from which there is one of the most beautiful and extensive
prospects. The hill of Kinnoull is the most remarkable. Its
height above the level of the Tay is 632 feet.  On the south
it is exceedingly steep, consisting of ragged rock, and presents a
very striking and formidable appearance. It is covered with a
thriving plantation to the very summit. On the north side of the
hill there is a gradual ascent, through a serpenthne walk, by which
a carriage can easily go to the top. This is called Montague's
walk, from the late Duke of Montague, who was in Scotland when,
it was formed.
   "There is a steep and hollow descent betwixt two tops of the, hill,
which is called the Windy Gowle. Near to this place, in certain
positions, there is a remarkable echo, that repeats above nine
times; and on the face of the hill there is a cave in a steep part
of the rock, which, it is said, will contain about a dozen of men.
It is called the Dragon-hole. We are informed from the ancient
records of the kirk-session of Perth that, during the time of Po-
pery, a great number of people assembled here on the 1st of May
to celebrate superstitious games, which the Reformers prohibited
under severe censures and heavy penalties. There is a tradition


