
212                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

only drawback upon the beneficial influence of the savings' bank
here has been the low rate of interest allowed on deposits.  The
money is lodged in the Aberdeen Bank.  Many are slow to be-
lieve that the small amount of bank interest is overbalanced by
the security afforded for the principal ; and it is apprehended that
not a few who are in the habit of saying, are tempted by the pro-
spect of greater gains, to entrust their hard-won earnings to hands
from which they have but a slender chance of ever recovering
them.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 56; and the average sum allotted to
each is about L. 1, 8s. per annum.  The regular distributions are
made quarterly-but intermediate aid is advanced occasionally,
as cases of urgent necessity occur.  The annual amount of mo-
nies available for behoof of the poor of the parish is from church
collections, on an average L. 56, from hire of hearse and mort-
cloth belonging to the kirk-session, and from desh Money for pro-
clarnation of banns, L. 4 ; from interest of L. 800 of funds, L. 32 ;
and from donations from the heritors (Mr Ferguson, L. 5, and
Mr Cumine, L. 1,) L. 6.
   The Hon. Mrs Ferguson of Pitfour gives an annual donation
of blankets and flannels for the more destitute of the poor on Pit-
four property; and the family at Rattray are very attentive, by
domiciliary visits, and seasonable supplies of food and clothing
to that portion of the poor who are located on their lands in this
parish.
  A Lunatic Fund was lately established under the management
of the kirk-session, to which the heritors contributed last year
L.7, 16s.  There is only one lunatic deriving benefit from it,
who had obtained a legal claim upon the poor's funds in this pa-
rish by industrial residence.  He is kept in the asylum in Aber-
deen at an annual expense of L. 17, 18s. including maintenance
and clothing.  The fund is at present completely exhausted.
   It would be a great improvement on the present mode of admi-
nistering relief to the poor to convert the monies quarterly distri-
buted to each, either wholly or in part, at the discretion of the kirk-
sessions into meal.  This method would have been adopted before
now in this parish, but for the want of a girnal.  The session can-
not afford, in the present state of their funds, to build a house for
this purpose, and, unless the heritors should compliment them with


