
188			     FORFARSHIRE.

the meantime benefit from the bequest, they have agreed to pay
the parish schoolmaster for the education of twenty boys at the
same rate as for the boys who are educated on Henry's mortifica-
tion. They have also erected a female school for educating fifty
poor girls in such branches of education as are suitable to their
years and sex. Both of these plans are temporary, and may at any
time be altered or superseded.
	The parochial teacher's salary is L. 36, 7s. 2d. including
L. 2, 2s. 9 3/4d. in lieu of garden-ground; and the amount of school
fees received may be L. 100. The salary of the schoolmistress
on the Webster bequest is L. 40 per annum, including L. 5 for
rent of school-room and for coals.
	The parochial teacher has the legal accommodations. The
number of the young betwixt six and fifteen years of age who are
not receiving instruction in reading and writing is small. The
number of persons upwards of fifteen years of age who cannot read
or write is not one to a thousand. The people through the whole
parish are alive to the benefits of education; and there can be no
doubt that a visible change may be observed in the conduct and
morals of the people shnbe the facilities of education have been in-
creased.
	Libraries.--A subscription library was instituted in 1830.
There is also a library attached to the Sabbath schools, contain-
ing 800 volumes and tracts; and a circulating library. There is
a public reading-room, which is furnished with two London daily
papers, two Edinburgh papers, published twice a-week, and two
provincial papers. The people, in general, are attached to this
species of reading. About fifty years ago there was but one news-
paper, which served the whole parish. Now about 200 copies of
various newspapers come weekly through the post-office.
	Friendly Societies.--There are 11 or 12 friendly societies in
the parish, some of which are upwards of thirty years' standing. I
regret to say, that, as in other places, they have been constructed
on false calculations; and the time will come when they must
either die a natural death, or be dissolved. This has been the
fate of some of them already; and unless their articles be revised,
as those of the Gardeners' Society have lately been, that of others
will soon be the same.
	Savings Bank.--For three years the minister, in conjunction
with James Forrest, Esq. agent for the British Linen Company's
branch, superintended a saving bank; but, owing to the small rate


