
               		   PAISLEY.				157

been cut down by man, and in part having attained its natural period,
has yielded to the force of the strongest and most prevailing blast.
Branches of birch are also very abundant.  They retain their na-
tural colour, in general are spongy and flattened, but their cuticle
remains fresh, glistening, and apparently unaltered.
   To the north-east of Paisley, on the farm of Gallowhill, a
quarry has of late been wrought in an extensive bed of schistose
rock, lying almost horizontally about 3 feet below the surface.  Its
colour is dark grey, approaching to black.  Its texture is compact
and fine-grained, and it readily splits into layers, but is with diffi-
culty broken across.  Its fracture is splintery and rather conchoi-
dal.  It is composed of about 32 per cent.  of carbonate of lime;
47 of sand; 9 of alumina; and about the same proportion of car-
bonate of lime.  This rock abounds in beautiful specimens of many
genera and species of ferns, as also of shells, chiefly Terebra-
tuler, Nuculae, and Orthocerites. *  The layer of till immediately
above this rock for several inches closely resembles fuller's earth
   Manufacture of Minerals.-The coal in the estate of Hawk-
head has been wrought for upwards of 300 years, and that in
Househill estate for 38 years, and is nearly exhausted in both of
these properties; but in the estate of Nether Polloc, where the coal
has been recently opened up, there is still an extensive field un-
touched, with the accompanying strata of aluminous schistus and
limestone, all of which are extensively wrought by Messrs John
Wilson and Sons, who hold them in lease from Sir John Maxwell
of Nether Polloc.  Ironstone abounds at Hurlet, and the work-
ing of it has. recently been begun with activity by Messrs Wilsons,
who have now upwards of 100 miners and other workmen em-
ployed in this branch alone.  The manufacture of sulphate of iron
or copperas was introduced into Scotland by Messrs Nicolson and
Lightbody of Liverpool, who established their works at Hurlet in
the year 1753, having previously secured by contract a supply of
the pyrites and other material fit for their processes, found in work-
ing the coal, at 2 1/2d. per hutch of 2000 weight.  A similar establish-
ment for manufacturing copperas was begun at Nitshill in 1807,
where it is still carried on by Messrs Wilson and Sons, who also
in the year 1820, purchased the old Copperas works at Hurlet,
which were then converted into an extensive manufactory of alum
by Mr Wilson Junior, the managing partner of that company.

<FOOTNOTE>Two species found here, belonging to a rare genus, are described by Dr. Scouler
in Thomson's Records of General Science, Vol. l.


