
42                   KINROSS-SHIRE.

road by which Queen Mary fled from Lochleven Castle. In the
grounds of Blair-Adam are to be seen "the Keiry Crags," (a most
romantic spot,) mentioned in "THE ABBOT" as the houff of John
Auchtermuchty, the carrier.

                III.-POPULATION.
   In 1831 the number of inhabitants was 681, of whom 221 re-
sided, in villages and 460 in the country. In agricultural parishes
the numbers do not vary much. An act of Parliament is neces-
sary to regulate the parish registers, particularly with regard to the
births. Since the ground was enclosed there are fewer cottars,
and their houses, instead of being placed irregularly in the fields,
are built by the sides of the principal roads. There are five per-
sons in the parish who have been insane; one of them, a farm-
servant, was eleven years in that situation, and was supported by
the parish funds; he recovered without the use of any remedies,
and for more than thirteen years has maintained himself.
   Character of the People.-In general the people are of good
morals, quiet, decent, intelligent, and seem contented with their si-
tuation. Illegal distillation was attempted some years ago, but
was soon put down.
   Within the last two years, only 3 illegitimate children have
been born in the parish, the parents of one of which married be-
fore its birth.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-In the west end of the parish, the arable land
consists of clay ; farther east, very good soil upon whin rock not
basaltic; then a considerable tract of gravel and sand, and some
ground full of large whinstones, very productive when improved.
The south-east quarter of the parish consists mostly of stiff ground,
which requires draining. Going south toward the hill, the soil is
inferior, mixed with clay; above that, lies the freestone, generally
covered with poor soil, damp, and producing heather; on the
highest hills, the grass is of fine quality, and forms excellent sheep
pasture. There is some moss in the north and east part of the
parish; it is of good quality, and forms excellent soil when culti-
vated.
   The system of farming appears to be as good as the soil and
climate admit of. The common rotation of crops in the arable land
is that of four: 1. oats ; 2. drilled crops, potatoes, and turnips ;
3. barley, or sometimes oats, or wheat after potatoes; 4. rye-
grass, with the different kinds of clover. The first year's crop is


