
322                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

	In the parochial school at present, along with the more com-
mon branches of education, Latin, geography, and occasionally
Greek are taught. The teacher enjoys the maximum salary.
There are three unendowed schools, and during the winter season
there are upwards of 120 children receiving instruction in the pa-
rish. The amount of school-fees is low, the usual charges being
from 2s. to 6s. a quarter.
  Library.-A parochial library was established in 1838, and
consists chiefly of relifious books. There are at present 158
readers. A juvenile library in connection with the Sabbath school
has 60 readers.
  Savings Bank.-For many years, a Savings bank existed in the
parisH, and was of great benefit. In 1840 a branch of the Stone-
haven National Security Savings Bank was established in Bervie,
intended among others for the parishioners of Kinneff. The funds
of the latter institution are rapidly increasing.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are 30 permanent paupers
on the roll, receiving at an average L.2, 2s. 2d. a-year, and 3 oc-
casional paupers receiving about L.1, 1s. Its funds in 1840 were,
church collections, L.45, 8s. 9 3/4d.; interest of legacies, L.6, 9s.
6d.; mortcloth dues and voluntary contributions, L.10, 5s. In
1841, two bequests were received by the session, of L.100 each,
from the late Sir Joseph Straiton,-one for promoting education,
and another for encouraging industrious habits among the poor.
  Inns.-There are three inns or alehouses, and one holding a
license to sell beer. Though more numerous than is necessary,
no very perceptible evil effect has been produced by them on the
population, who are in general sober.
  Fuel.-Broom, peats, and whins are, to a limited extent, used
as fuel, but sea-borne coaI from Northumberland is by far more
generally emdloyed by all classes. From 4s. to 4s. 6d. per boll
is the usual price.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	Since the last Statistical Account was written, agriculture has
advanced generally in the parish, and especially on the property
of Barras. A very beneficial change also has been effected by the
suppression of smuggling. The nature of the coast, with its bays
and headlands, and its distance from any custom-house, rendered

<FOOTNOTE>the superior church judicators, "as being a case of great importance, both to us,
and many other parishes in the northern bounds, where schools may be kept vacant
on purpose that heritors may not be obliged to pay the salary."  March 15, 1719.



