
                            BUCHANAN.                             91

the greatest breadth is about 7 miles. It is 22 feet above the level
of the sea. Its outlet is the river Leven, which meets the tide-
way, after a course of three miles, about a mile above its junction
with the Clyde. As the Leven flows in a narrow channel, it is
insufficient for the rapid discharge of any sudden influx of water
into the lake. The level of the lake, therefore, varies with the
season; it is lowest, in the drought of summer; it rises when the
rains of autumn commence; and reaches its maximum in the month
of February. The difference between the summer and the winter
level is about seven feet. In winter, the lake overflows much va-
luable land at the mouth of the Endrick; and if the rainy season
sets in early and copiously, much damage is done to the natural
hay and corn crops. In 1782, the harvest was late and rainy, and
followed by an early and severe winter. The corn, before it was ripe,
was covered with water, and then with ice. The upper part of the
lake, from its great depth, never freezes; the lower part is occa-
sionially frozen. In 1814, the ice was so strong between the main-
land tnd Inchmurrin, as to admit travelling on foot. In 1740,
the lake was frozen from Buchanan to Luss, so as to carry both
men and cattle. It is understood that the surface of the lake is
gradually atid permanently rising. The cause is evidently the in-
creasing bar at its outlet. The chief tributary rivers are the End-
rick on the east, and the Fruin on the west, which flow into the
lower part of the lake, and deposit their alluvion near its mouth.
   Geology.--The mountains, like the rest of the Grampian range,
belong to the primary formation. Schistus is the chief mineral.
Roof-slate and lime, frequently occur; but neithier are used, nor
can be used, to any extent. The former is too heavy to pay for
land-carriage, now that the duty is taken off slate carried coast-
wise; the latter cannot be burned with advantage, on account of
the distance from coal.
  Zoology.--Wild animals abound, from the varied accommoda-
tion which the parish affords. Ptarmigan and white bares are
found on Benlomond. The mountain eagle is still seen occa-
sionally there. One was caught in a trap in 1836. Grouse is
common on the bleak upland moors; but it is remarked that this
species is giving Way to blaek game, which seem to multiply with
the increasing shelter of wood. Roes, for the same reason, are
now common. Pheasants were introduced the late Duke of
Montrose, and have spread throughout the whole extent of Strath
Endrick. Squirrels have recently come of their own accord. Hares


