
                           ELLON.                             913

in the same condition, which has been depastured only for two
years.  To the eye of a superficial observer, both crops may ap-
pear to be equally luxuriant and equally rich; but it will be found
on a more careful examination, that the ears of the crop raised on
the land which has been but two seasons in pasture, are, particu-
larly the lowest parts of them, much less perfectly filled than those
of the other, and hence that the former crop consists, in a much
larger proportion, of the light sort of grain usually denominated
shillocks.  This superior productiveness of land which has been
for a greater length of time depastured, is now in part at least ge-
nerally ascribed to the circumstance, that excrementitious matter
is thrown off from the roots of plants during the period in which
their seeds are advancing to maturity, and that such matter being
of a nature unfavourable to the future production of the same
species of plant, the length of time requisite for the resolution of
this matter into its constituent elements, must be allowed to
elapse before the same sort of crop can again be successfully cul-
tivated.  The theory on which this explanation proceeds is con-
firmed by the fact, that land which has been exhausted by succes-
sive crops, for example of oats, is still in a condition to yield a profit-
able return of pease,-the excrementitious matter of the oat either
serving as food for the latter species of crop, or at least subjecting it
to no deleterious influence.  Another reason, however, for the su-
perior productiveness of land which has been for several years de-
pastured, is to be found in the obvious circumstance, that on pas
ture lands, the soil is not exhausted by the production of seeds.
How materially the circumstance now mentioned affects the point
at issue, must be well known to every practical farmer, inasmuch
as the fact is confirmed by universal experience, that no crop what-
ever draws more from the soil, or leaves it consequently in a more
exhausted state than a crop of hay seed.  Indeed, of so exhausting a
character is a crop of this description, that the grass lands on which it
is raised lose considerably in their productive powers, notwithstand-
ing the compensation made to them by the resolution into its con-
stituent elements of such excrementitious matter of oat crops, &c.
as they might have previously contained.  The superior produc-
tiveness, therefore, as to crops of grain communicated to a field
through its having been kept for several years in a course of pas-
ture, is to be accounted for, it is believed, chiefly on the ground
that during this period of rest, while no seeds are produced by it,
    ABERDEEN.                                    3 M


