
154                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of aquatic plants, so indispensable to its formation, or in forward-
ing or retarding their decomposition. With the exception of the
alluvial deposits and moss, the soil is chiefly either of a light loam,
on a gravel or rock bottom, or a moorish soil, having a substratum
immediately under it, of a very retentive clay or till.
	Zoology.--There is no doubt that red-deer, and also roe or fo-
rest-deer, formerly abounded in this parish, as well as in the other
portions of the district of Annandale; the names of various farms
and lands, such as Raehills, Raeknows, &c. having a particular re-
ference to that circumstance. In the year 1780, about a dozen of
fallow-deer were, by then proprietor, the late James third Earl
of Hopetoun, brought from Hopetoun House in a carriage con-
structed for that purpose.  They were kept for a short time, in an
enclosure opposite Raehills, and regular tended; but their in-
stinctive love of liberty led them to break loose, and having got at
large among the extenssive plantations, they could never again be
collected and confined. The Earl then gave orders to his game-
keeper to employ a few expert marksmen, and endeavor to extir-
pate them. Permission, indeed, was given at the time to every
one who chose to destroy them; and it is reported that not less
than fifty were expected, was in some instances abused, and con-
sequently soon recalled. Having long roamed undisturbed among
the woods, they have now become exceedingly wild, and though
the proprietor occasionally kills them, they have increased to the
number, it is supposed, of upwards of 200. A few roe-deer have,
within these last three years, been discovered; and from the cir-
cumstance, that before that period, within the memory of our oldest
inhabitants, none had been seen, it is inferred, that they are not
the descendants of the ancient aborigines of the district, conceived
to be long since extinct, but that they have wandered from the up-
per ward of Lanarkshire, where they are pretty numerous, and found
a shelter in our woods, among thdir kindred tribe of fallow.--Goats,
which were numerous in vicinity of Raehills about a half a cen-
tury ago, and kept as our old inhabitants inform us, avowedly for
the destruction of adders, (at which, it is said, they have a great
antipathy,) have long been extirpated, in consequence of the havoc
which they committed, by barking and topping the young trees in the
plantations.--The fox, too, is not a stranger among us, but is often
seen wending his way "at peep of dawn" to Mollin Cleugh or
Kinnel Linns, after his midnight work of spoliation, among the
lambs od poultry.


