
                    CUMBERNAULD.                               139

May 1341, when they were safely landed at Inverbervie, a small
sea-port on the coast of Kincardineshire. It is probable that Sir
Malcolm remained in France during the stay of his King and
Queen : he returned home along with them, was raised to the peer-
age by David II. who created him Earl of Wigton, and gave him a
grant of lands in the same county. According to the English
historians, he was taken prisoner at the battle of Durham, 7th
October 1346; and it is said that David II, along with his favourite
and faithful servant, Malcolm Fleming, was, on the 2d January
1347, sent to the Tower of London, where he suffered a long and
dreary captivity; while others maintain that the Earl of Wigton
made good his retreat from the battle of Durham, and in proof
cite from the Calendar of Charters the following title: " De ca-
piendo Robertum Bertram, qui Malcomum Fleming, inimicum
Regis, evadere permisit." He is simply called Malcolm Fleming,
probably for this reason, that the English Government did not re-
cognize the right of the Scottish Kings to confer titles of honour.
Thomas Fleming, his grandson, by a deed of sale dated at Edinburgh,
8th February 1371, sold the Earldom of Wigton to Archibald, Earl
of Galloway, "pro un  certa et notabili summa pecuniae propter mag-
nas et graves discordias, et inimicas capitales, inter me et indigenas
majores comitatus praedicti exortas." This sale was confirmed by
King Robert II. 7th October 1372; and he resigned the Barony
of Leinzie, in Dumbartonshire, in favour of Malcolm Fleming of
Biggar, which was confirmed by Robert II., 20th September 1382.
Dying without issue, he was succeeded by his cousin, Sir Malcolm,
son of Sir Patrick Fleming of Biggar. Sir David Fleming, his
eldest son, distinguished himself at the battle of Otterburn, 1388,
was of the commission for a truce with England, 6th July 1405,
attended James the Prince of Scotland to the Bass, saw him safe
on board the ship that was to convey him to France, and as he
returned home on the 14th of the same month, was waylaid and
murdered by James Douglas of Balveny, afterwards seventh Earl
of Douglas, at Hermandstone, near Edinburgh, and was buried
at Holyroodhouse. Of Sir David, Wyntone says,
           "Schire David Fleming of Cumbernauld,
            Lord and Knyghte baeth stout and bauld,
            Trowit, loveit, well with the King,
            This like guid and gentle Knyghte,
            That was baith manful, lele, and wight." &c. &c.

  It is not quite ascertained at what time the Flemings of Cum-
bernauld were raised to the peerage. Robert Lord Fleming oc-


