
                            BOLTON.                          277

the power, between the conscientious and well-behaved, and those
who are otherwise?
   In some of the other parochial accounts, attention has been
earnestly called to the very inadequate accommodation provided in
the houses of the most numerous class of our population, which is
far from being propitious to their morals or their comfort. No-
thing, surely, but the awakening of attention to the subject, is ne-
cessary to bring about some amelioration. It cannot be doubted
that there are many who only require to have the matter brought
prominently under their notice, to induce them to abate this cry-
ing evil. If there should be others indifferent or hostile to any
alteration for the better, they might be influenced to change their
views, by the example of those who have the good of their fellow-
creatures more at heart.

<TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY.>
   Agriculture.
Number of Scottish acres under cultivation, rated at 30   ploughgates,  2101
                         in permanent pasture,                            55
                         under wood,                                     295
                                                              Total,    2451
   Rent of Land.-The average rent per acre is L. 1, 6s. 9 1/2d.,
the grain rents being calculated by the average of the medium
fiars of wheat for the seven years ending with 1834.
   The highest rent is seven bushels of wheat, and the lowest,
three bushels at the medium fiars, with a maximum of L. 3, 10s.
per imperial quarter, and no minimum. There might also be quot-
ed in one case, a maximum of L. 3, 4s. and a minimum of L. 2, 4s.
The total rent is L. 2888, 1s. 6d.; the valued rent, Scottish money,
L. 2437, 12s. 7d.
   Produce.-
Calculating the prices of grain of all kinds at the medium flares for the
average of the seven years ending with 1834, the produce is about L. 7709  15 0
Produce of green crops, hay and pasture, and of the cattle, horses, and
sheep fed on these, as nearly as can be estimated, about             2115   7 0
Produce from the thinning, &c. of the woods, about                    300   0 0
                                                                 Total,         L. 10,125   2 0
   It is unnecessary to notice the other particulars under this head,
as they differ in nothing from the statements in the accounts of
the neighbouring parishes already published.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no town or village in the parish. The

<FOOTNOTE>The produce from the green crops, hay, and pasture, is given in one sum, because
there crops are generally conserved on the farm, and the value of each separately can-
not be easily ascertains


