
1050                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

riers which had intersected  the present courses of the running
streams, extensive lakes must have existed. One striking place,
where such a barrier to the Tanner appears to have stood, is near
the influx of Aultroy, and another at Bridge of Ash. Before
these barriers yielded to the Tanner, the upper glen must have
formed the bed of a lake. The several heights at which the wa-
ter, after different disruptions, had stood, may be traced,--the
same, on a smaller scale, as the famed parallel roads in Glenroy.
The most considerable lakes still remaining, and those of Braerod-
dach and Auchlossen.  The extent of the former may be about
60 acres, and of the latter 300. The greater part of the latter,
however, is in the parish of Lumphanan, and, previously to its
outlet at Drumduan, in the parish of Aboyne, having about 150
years ago been deepened with the view of draining the whole lake,
must have been of more than double its present extent, and its
waters had then reached the strongly fortified mound of Peel Bog,
under whose fosse Macbeth received his death wound. * Within
the policies of Aboyne Castle, there is also a lake covering 32
acres, artificially formed, and interspersed with wooded islets.
From the higher grounds overlooking this lake, the view is exten-
sive and interesting.
	Numerous channels, in which it is evident the Dee has for-
merly run, many of them at a very considerable altitude above its
present bed, are distinctly visible; at which period, as already
noticed, lakes must have stood on some of the land basitis, now
filled with water borne debris, gradually excavated from the high-
er grounds by the descending river. The water power within the
parish, of which the only use now made is to drive a few mills for
country purposes, would be more than sufficient to supersede the
steam required for moving the machinery in all the public works
in and about Aberdeen ; and to render the power more available,
a railroad along the banks of the Dee could be formed more easi-
ly than in most localities, the gradient being only 420 feet on 31
miles, and it is thought no tunnelling would be required.
         Geology and Mineralogy.-The geognostic appearance of the
parish indicates little beyond the primitive formation of granite,
and of that little the student, without the sinking of shafts, may,
by examining the face of the mountains, easily inform himself.

<FOOTNOTE>Macbeth maintained himself for three years in this district after
the battle of Dunsinane, before he fell at the Peel Bog of Lumphanan.

					3


