
472                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

married Elizabeth, daughter of James Giffart of Sheriffhall, by
whom he had two sons, James and Henry.
   In 1452, during the commotions consequent upon the murder
of William, the sixth Earl of Douglas, in Stirling Castle, the lands
of all those whom the friends of Douglas suspected of being fa-
vourable to the King, were overrun and plundered. James, brother
of the deceased Earl, embraced this opportunity of revenging a
private grudge which he entertained against his kinsman, the Lord
of Dalkeith, who had formerly disapproved of their proceedings,
and who refused to join them on the present occasion.*  They
plundered and burned the town of Dalkeith, invested the castle,
and took an oath not to abandon the siege, till they had levelled
it with the ground. Their success, however, did not correspond
to their expectation. The castle, being a place of some strength
in those days, was so gallantly defended by Patrick Cockburn, the
governor, that the assailants, after sustaining great loss in wounded
and slain, were obliged to retire and vent their malice in the plun-
der and devastation of the surrounding neighbourhood.+  For
these excesses, James Earl of Douglas was attainted in 1455.
Among the various articles laid to his charge, one is as follows;-
"Pro arte et parte incendiorum burgi de Dalketh, et rapinarum
bonorum inhabitantium dictum burgum."+
   This Lord of Dalkeith having become deranged, his affairs were
placed in 1452, by royal charter, under the management of James
Giffart of Sheriffhall, his relative. He died about the year 1456.
   James Douglas, the fourth Lord of Dalkeith and first Earl of
Morton, was eldest son of the preceding Lord, and succeeded his
father. He was a person of great abilities, and in high favour with
King James II., (1436-7-1460.)  As the number of the nobi-
lity had been recently somewhat diminished by the attainder of
the Earl of Douglas and others of his faction, it pleased the King
to select James, fourth Lord of Dalkeith, as one of those on whom
the honour of nobilitv should be conferred. He was accordingly
created Earl of Morton on the 14th day of March 1457-8, deriv-
ing his title, not from the lands of Morton in Nithsdale, which

<FOOTNOTE> Hume of Godscroft, Vol. i. p. 291, (Glasgow, 1814;) also Drummond of Haw-
thornden's Hist. James II., p. 30, (Ed. 1711.)
     Buchanan's Hist, p. 213, A. Ed. (Edin. 1715.) Also Tytler's Hist. of Scot.
Vol. iv. p.107.
     Acts of Scot. Parliament, Vol. ii. p. 76. See Nisbet's Heraldry, p. 61.
     James Giffart of Sheriffhall was found guilty of treason, and, "forfaulted all his
lands, gudes, offices, and possessions to the Crown," Anno 1485. He kept corre-
spondence with the English, and entertained the English Poursuivant, called Blue
Mantle.-Acts of Scot. Parl., Vol, ii. p. 76. See Nisbet's Heraldry, p. 61.
 					3


