
770                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

rious objects embraced by a Presbyterial association, and last year
the contributions and extraordinary church collections for religious
and charitable purposes, amounted to L.22, besides L.48 of or-
dinary collections for the poor.
   Education.-There is in the parish one parochial school and
one unendowed, * the teacher of which latter depends entirely on
school fees for his payment.  The parochial schoolmaster has
the maximum of salary, with the legal allowance for a house and
garden, besides an annual payment from a munificent bequest
left by the late Mr Dick.
   The fees in the parochial school, upon an average, amount to
about L.30 per annum, and those in the unendowed school to
about L.15.
   There are two localities which are at a most inconvenient dis-
tance from any school, the district of Greens, containing a popu-
lation of upwards of 300, the greater number of whom are distant
about three miles from any school, and the lands of Balquholly,
containing a population of upwards of 100, who are distant from
four to five miles, and if schools were set down on both of these
districts, they would accommodate equal numbers from the ad-
joining parishes, both of New Deer and Fyvie.
   Besides the schools for ordinary education, there are four
Sabbath evening schools, which are attended by upwards of 220
young persons and children; and since the extensive introduction
of this important department of religious instruction, a change for
the better is visible in the conduct and morals of the young.
   There is a Sabbath school library, and also a subscription li-
brary, in the parish.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-Till within the last few years,
there was a Friendly Society in the parish, which had accumulated
a considerable amount of funds, but, as in many other institutions
of the kind throughout the country, the calculations had not been
made upon correct and sound principles, and, finding, the funds to
be fast diminishing, the society was lately dissolved, and the pro-
perty divided amongst the members.  This has been succeeded
by the establishment of a parish Savings' bank, which is likely to
prove very beneficial in its effects.  Although instituted only
6ve years ago, the sum deposited in it amounts to about L.2000,
and the depositors are all of the labouring classes.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons

<FOOTNOTE>There are, besides, a number of small schools taught by females.
                              4


