
				DUNSCORE.                        345

duration of leaes is generally fifteen years, and sometimes nineteen.
A gradual improvement has taken place in reference to farm-build-
ings. The old thatched houses have in a great measure disap-
peared. All the new houses are either slated or covered with thin
flags or slabs of the red freestone peculiar to the county. The
dwelling-houses are also enlarged in regard to accommodation, al-
though for the most part confined to one story, and the farm of-
fices are more extensive and commodious. The dry stone dike is
the most prevailing enclosure, and the farms in general are well
subdivided.
	Manufactures.--With the exception of country weaving, there is
no manufacture carried on in this parish. About five years ago, a
distillery was erected on a pretty extensive scale, and actively car-
ried on for two years, when the proprietor died and the concern was
given up, without any prospect of being renewed. It consumed for
the time a large quantity of grain, and in so far as it afforded a
ready and convenient market, would have proved a benefit to the
farmer, had it been continued. But being far removed from fuel,
and labouring under other disadvantages, it is doubtful whether it
might ultimately have proved a profitable concern.
	There was once an agricultural society in the parish, but it broke
up some years ago and no attempt has been made to revive it.
			  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market.-town, &c.--The nearest market-town to this parish is
Dumfries, which is about six miles from the lower end, and nine from
the village of Cottack, in the centre of the parish before-mention-
ed, in which is situated the church. The post,town of Minnyhive
indeed, is only seven miles distant from this village, but the usual
communication is through Dumfries, as being most convenient.
	Means of Communication.--The turnpike betwixt Dumfries and
Glasgow passes through the eastern part of Dunscore for three
miles, and sends off a branch from the lodge of Friars' Carqe, which
goes right up through the whole extent of the parish, and nearly
bisects it lengthways, passing the church, and leading out on the
west through the parish of Balmaclellan to New Galloway. There
is also another good road, which passes through four miles of this
parish, leading from Dumfries to Ayr by Minnyhive, along which a
stage-coach has lately commenced running, going to Ayr the one
day, and returning the next to Dumfries. All the roads are kept
in a good state of repair, and there are no tolls within the parish of
Dunscore, except one side bar as a check to the toll of Newbridge,
         DUMFRIES.


