
     of Dornoch.

   Heritors and Rent.-The best arable ground is let at 20 s.
per acre:  This is chiefly inclosed, or in the vicinity of the
burgh.  Inferior ground lets at from 8 s. to 12 s. and the
worst at 4 s. or even lower.  The real rent may amount in all
to about 1300 L. or 1400 L. Sterling.  The Countess of Suther-
land is the principal proprietor; besides whom there are four
heritors, exclusive of the proprietors of small crofts contigu-
ous to the burgh; of the last there are fix.  None of the first
class resides constantly, and but one has hitherto resided occa-
sionally in the parish; another has lately built, and is expected
to spend some portion of his time here.

   Population.-Although the registers have not been regular-
ly kept here, it is universally believed, that the population
has increased within the last 30 years very considerably, to
the extent, it is supposed, of at least 500.  This increase is
not to be ascribed to any addition from trade or manufactures;
for except two whisky distilleries, and some flax spun by the
women, no branch of trade whatever is cultivated here.  The
increased population can therefore only be accounted for from
these causes; that the women are prolific, and that by the

<FOOTNOTE>

spot, while every cottage was built of seal, and thatched with divot, he sarcas-
tically remarked, that "though Sutherland was not destitute of stone, or grass,
"the people chose to build their houses of the latter, and leave their cattle to
"feed on the former!" This was letting our management in a light abundantly
laughable; yet, the poor people are not so much to blame, as it was natural
for this facetious stranger to conceive.  They are, in general, very poor, and
have but small holdings.  They never experienced the advantage of substantial,
or the comfort of commodious dwellings; and did they set a due value on such,
they possess not the means of constructing them, and indeed have little en-
couragement for the undertaking.  Small tenants have no leases here; little im-
provement, therefore, of any kind, can be expected.  In justice to the proprietors,
however, it must be added, that it is not their practice to remove the tenants wantonly.


