
22                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

miles.  The island of Stroma, situated in the Pentland Frith, and
about a league distant from the mainland, belongs to the parish.
The word Stroma is supposed to be of Danish or Norwegian ori-
gin, and signifies the island in the current.  Stroma contains about
a square mile of surface; thus the whole extent of the parish may
be stated at about 50 square miles.
   Canisbay is remarkably level. The Ward or Watch hill is the
only eminenceof any moment in the parish.  Its height above
the level of the sea may be about 300 feet.
   The principal headlands are Grey-bead, Skirsa-head, St John's
or Mey-head, and Duncansbay-head.  The last mentioned head-
land, the Berubium of Ptolemy, from which the shore runs nearly
due west and due south, is decidedly the most beautiful promontory
in the north of Scotland.  It is about two miles in circumference,
and is indented by several large ravines or goes, as they are here
termed.  It contains one remarkable fissure dpen down to the level
of the sea, into which the tides ebb and flow through an opening at
the base of the intervening rock.    It has a natural bridge across
of about six yards wide, which is called by the inhabitants, the glupe.
In the west end of the island of Stroma there is a similar chasm
about thirty yards from the precipice.  The sea has access to
it also by an opening at the bottom; and the natives of the
island are in the habit of descending into the chasm, (a task which
is not extremely difficult to accomplish,) and of going out at the
entrance below, and of fishing from the rocks.
   The coast on the east side is bold and precipitous; on the
north it is more level, though in different places the rocks are of
considertble altitude.  Near Duncansbay Head are two insulated
rocks of an oval form, surrounded by the sea, called the Stacks of
Duncansbay.  They shoot up fantastically to a great height.  One
of them is considerably larger than the other: and when seen from
a little distance, they look like the huge spires of some old Gothic
edifice.  During the spring and summer months they form the
rendezvous of innumerable sea fowl; and on the top of the larger
stack the eagle has its eyrie.
   The only bays are, Freswick bay on the east; and Duncansbay
and Gills bays on the north.  Along Freswick bay, the beach is
composed principally of sand, a mixture of sandstone and shells.
The beach at Duncansbay is altogether of broken shells.  At
Gills, he beach consists of flat rocks interspersed with shingle.
Them ia, sandy beach at Huna, a mixture Of shells and sand-
stone, but scarcely any thing deserving the name of a bay.


