
     Statistical Account

inclosing, binding his tenants to have yearly a certain quan-
tity of their ground in turnip, so much in fallow, and so
much laid down in grass feeds.  These regulations were
highly proper and necessary some years ago, because people
are led in chains by habit; and it is by flow degrees, and
well digested plans, they are made to depart from established
customs:  But, now that the propriety of these regulations
are seen, it would be difficult to make the farmers have such
small quantities of turnip, &c. as it was necessary at first to
restrict them to.  Lord Fife has also converted the whole
customs and services (usually called bonnage) at a mode-
rate rate.  This is of the utmost importance to the te-
nants.  Not many years ago, many of them paid nearly one-
half of their rent in sowls, eggs, sheep, &c. delivered in kind,
and the labour of themselves, their servants, horses, in feed-
time and harvest, carriage of peats, and many other works in
the different seasons throughout the year, when called for; by
which means they were often obliged to plough, dung, and
harrow their landlord's ground, and lose the season for their,
own.  Planting is a mode of improvement in which no per-
son in this country has been more succesful than the Earl of
Fife.  His Lordship has planted not less than from 7000 to
8000 acres on his different estates, which he continues
yearly to increase; and at this moment the whole is in a very
thriving state.  An account of the various kinds of trees, and
the method taken to rear them, will be seen in Young's An-
nals of Agriculture, and the Minutes of the Society of Arts
and Commerce.  The most considerable plantation in this pa-
rish is what is called the Tore of Troup.  There are upwards
of 600 acres planted with trees of various kinds, in a thriving
state.  These were reared chiefly by the direction of the late
Mr Garden of Troup, and begun by his grandfather.  Mr
Garden, who is now succeeded by his brother Lord Garden-


