
     Statistical Account

to that, is a strong rich clay, extending a considerable way to-
wards the river Devon; then follows what is called haughing
ground, such as is usually found upon the banks of rivers;
the banks of Devon being generally overflowed twice or
thrice every year, great quantities of sand are left on the
ground as far as the inundation extends.  The soil at the bed
of the river appears to be in many places above 20 feet deep.
The grounds of this parish produce the usual crops of wheat,
barley, peas, beans, oats, clover, and potatoes.
   The whole arable grounds within the parish, have been
inclosed, several years ago, with ditches and hedges.  Those
fields, which lie immediately below the house of Alva, at
the bottom of the Wood-hill, and extending near to the banks
of Devon, were inclosed, and planted with rows of oaks,
ashes, and other forest trees, by the late Sir John Erskine,
about 70 years ago, and were probably among the first in-
closures in this part of the country.  These have been chiefly
in grass for a great many years, and are let annually to gra-
ziers, at the rate of from 25 to 30 shillings per acre.  The
general state of agriculture, in this, as well as in all the
neighbouring parishes, was very rude and wretched, till
within the last thirty years.  And although the soil must be
allowed to be equal at least, in quality, to that in the most
fertile parts of Scotland; yet truth requires us to acknowledge,
that those who were employed in cultivating it, were late in
arriving at any considerable improvements.  Wheat, justly
esteemed the most beneficial of all crops, was not cul-
tivated in this parish, till within the last fifteen years.
Clean summer fallow, and proper dressing with lime and dung,
were rarely, if ever attempted.  Good example has at last
opened mens eyes; and experience has demonstrated that the
soil, when properly cultivated, is capable of the highest im-
provement, and is fit for producing wheat, and all the strong-

     1


