
                       LARBERT.                              367

are covered with rows of houses, inhabited chiefly by workmen em-
ployed at the Carron Iron-works, such as moulders, furnace-men,
carters, &c. There are also a number of nailers in the parish not
connected with the Carron Iron-works.
Thus we see that the inhabitants of this part of the country, (and
the same may be said of all Scotland,) were in former times rather
poor, but some progress had even then been made in wealth, dur-
ing the last 370 years, viz. since the year 1390.
  At that time, the inhabitant of Scotland, even of the Lowlands,
was scarcely possessed of any of the conveniences which are pro-
duced by arts and industry, by means of which men in a more ci-
vilized state of society try to make life tolerable; be therefore, of
necessity, endured and tolerated life with the less complicated
means which were within his reach, and without the aid of any ma-
chines or artisans, but the very rudest. Cattle was the chief pro-
duce, and some barley and oats were grown. On the sea coast,
there were but a few sailors and trading vessels.
   Every manufactured article, such as leather, bridles, saddles,
and all iron instruments and geer, were imported ready made from
Flanders. They could scarcely make a horse shoe. Horses were

<FOOTNOTE>Perhaps also a little wheat. Grains of wheat reduced to a black charcoaly substance
were found about 1795, at the Roman station of Castlecary, on the vallurn of An-
toninus Pius, called Grame's dike. We may suppose that this Roman wheat grew
in Scotland. But the state of the country was so wild for a long time after the Ro-
mans left it, that I should have difficulty in supposing the existence ofa regular year-
ly succession of crops of wheat in Scotland since their time. It may be doubted
whether any of the wild inhabitants had sufficient leisure and industry for growing
wheat in the years 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, and intervening years. In these years
the succession of events always going on, was of such a nature as to bring about but
little progress in civilization. The Cultivation of a little barley and oats was probably
all that the inhabitants could effect, and these two kinds of grain, it may be supposed,
have been grown in Scotland from an early period, and without intermission. In the
Hebrides, the summer is short and not warm, and therefore unfavourable to the pro.
duction of grain. That species of barley called bear is the principal grain which is
grown, and that not in any considerable quantity. In 1837, some wheat grown
in Ulva, said to be the first wheat ever grown in the Hebrides. The year 1837 was
sunny and favourable to agriculture. Ulva, or the middle of Mull, is about the 56 1/2
degree of latitude. The most northern point of Europe at which grain is grown, is
5 or 6 degrees farther north, viz. in a valley in Norway, in latitude 62&deg;, where bar-
ley, oats, and even rye are grown. The summer beat at that place may perhaps be
as great as in Mull. The growth of barley is carried on in different climates and
over a very extensive portion of the surface of Europe and Africa. Barley was grown
by the ancient Egyptians, and bread made of coarsely ground barley, recognizable
by the unground grains, has been found in the catacombs at Thebes. We see thus
that barley is grown in Europe and Africa, from about the latitude of 22 to la-
titude 62 degrees, from about the tropic to within 5 degrees of the arctic circle, in a
range of 40 degree. of latitude.
   In old charters and conveyances of land in Scotland, breweries (brassaria) are
mentioned. I do not know whether it is ascertained, at what time the distillati6n 0
spirit from the fermented infusion of malted barley was introduced.


