
                         ST FERGUS.                              201

   Rent of Land.-The average rent of the whole arable land in
the parish is about L. 1, 2s. 7d. per Scotch acre, or 17s. 9 1/4d. per
imperial measure.

<TABLE>
     The valued rent of the parish in Scots money, is L. 3000
     The real rent in Sterling money, about     .     L. 5720

   In 1761, the yearly rent of the parish was L. 902, 4s. 4d. Ster-
ling.  In 1766, the whole parish was let for eleven years certain,
and a lifetime of the individual tacksmen, at the yearly gross rent
L.1418, 19s. 5d.  Soon after the expiry of the certain period
of tack covenanted upon, the liferenters began to drop off; and
when the farms which they had occupied were jarge, they were
subdivided, and the rents raised and apportioned among the sub-
tenants previously resident on the farms.  Others were allowed to
remain at the former rents, when the immediate heirs of the de-
ceased tacksmen succeeded; and where there were no heirs wish-
ing to succeed, the farms were allowed to go to, and remain in
grass, until almost the whole of the liferents expired, in order
to allow the proprietor the means of straighting the marches, and
making other necessary arrangements for an improved method
of tillage.  In 1803, * the whole parish was let at a gross rental
of L. 3000; and again, in 1822, on a nineteen years' lease now
current, at L. 5720.  It is worthy of being recorded, that the late
James Ferguson, Esq. M. P. made the valuations, and let the
lands at the three periods above-mentioned; and that the whole
rise of rent accrued to himself, and that within a period of less
than sixty years. +
   Husbandry.-It may be interesting to trace the progressive im-
provements made in the mode of cropping.  By the leases granted
in 1766, the tacksmen of the larger farms were bound to sow
yearly one acre with grass seeds ; half an acre with turnips ; and
to fallow another acre ; and to lay on at least thirty bolls of lime
(not shells) upon their land.  They were inhibited from taking
more than four white crops, besides green crop after the lime, be-
fore laying their fields down in grass.  By the leases of 1803 they
were restricted to the mode of cropping which then obtained in

<FOOTNOTE>With this lease the levelling system commenced, which operated one bad effect,
from which the land in this parish has not yet entirely recovered.  The best of the
soil, which, by the old method of tillage, had been carefully gathered to the top of
the ridges, then very high and ill-shapen, was by this process thrown into the former
furrows-and the crown of the aid ridges left thin and bare.  The crop produced on
these was very light, while that on the old furrows, being often too heavy, lodged
and rotted,  The crop, too, was unequally ripened-the ton of, the old ridge being
ready for the sickle-while the furrow was almost quite green.
          For these interesting details, the writer is indebted to James Mitchell, Req.
who was factor on the estate for many years.


