
182		                ARGYLESHIRE.

them, there is a very handsome cross still standing in perfect pre-
servation, while the remains of others, curiously carved, are laid
upon some of the adjoining graves.  They are formed of the same
kind of stone of which the Iona crosses are formed, and are said,
though perhaps on slender authority, to have been carried from
that famed island.
   The burying ground surrounds the ruins, and the day is not far
gone when the ancient chroniclers of the country, seated on the
mouldering slabs, narrated many very interesting legeds connect-
ed with this hallowed spot, where

			Now in peace the ashes mix
        		Of those who once were foes.

   The tomb of the renowned Machd-Mhic-Ian is still pointed out.
The death of this celebrated personage, more famed for personal
prowess than for more estimable qualities, is recorded in history as
having taken place in Morvern in 1625, in a skirmish with the Ca-
merons, to which clan, as the.  murderer of his uncle, John Og-Mac-
Ian, the betrothed husband of Lochiel's daughter, he had become
very obnoxious.  In the traditionary narrative of the event, it is
said that the Camerons and the followers of,Mac-Mhic-lan were
drawn out and about to engage.  One of the clan Cameron, not
the most powerful of them, observed Mae-Mhic-lan uplifting his
enormous helmet, upon which, drawing an arrow from his quiver,
he remarked to a clansman, "though mighty this will do for him."
"It is not," was the reply, "by the hand of the feeble that be wil
fall." The bow was instantly bent; the swift arrow winged its un-
erring course; and the hand of the warrior, which at that moment
was passing over his forehead, was pinioned to his skull.  He fell;
but, for a moment regaining his strength, he arose, and expressed a
desire, it is feared a treacherous one, to deliver his sword to Lochiel.
But the last spark of life was fast expiring.  He clenched the huge
weapon, and in the ire of death, transfixed it to the hilt in an oppo-
site bank and fell on it to rise no more.  On his tomb there is the fit-
ting representations of a mailed warrior, with a ponderous broadsword
and his bossy shield remains still in the possession of a gentleman
residing in the immediate neighbourbood of Leachd-nam-Saighid,
or the ledge of arrow, where the tragical event took place.
   Adjoining Mac-Mhic-Ian's tomb, there are several stone coffins,
to which thi MacInneses, as the descendants of the aborigines of the
country, still maintain their claim.  One of these is said to contain
the ashes of a Spanish lady of rank, of whom the, following account is


