
260                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

high water, and which, when viewed from the top of the adjoining
cliff, has a striking and awful appearance.  This colossal arch is
said by those who have seen both, to equal, if not surpass, the
celebrated Butlers of Buchan.  There are three bays or inlets of
the sea, namely, Aberdour, Pennan, and Nethermil.  The beach
at Aberdour consists of a vast accumulation of stones, wasbed
down the burn of Dour, and forced back by the raging of the sea
in a storm; and the beaches of Pennan and Nethermill are formed
of similar materials, carried down by the burns of the same name.
   Meteoroloqy.-There is no meteorological table kept in the parish,
but the climate is mild, and the temperature of the atmosphere
not very variable.  There being no high mountains in the district
of Buchan, it has been generally observed that less rain falls along
the coast, during the summer season, than in the interior of the
country, where there are extensive ranges of hills to attract the
clouds.
   There are no diseases peculiar to this parish, the district being
uncommonly healthy, the people living to a great age.  This is in
a great measure to be attributed to the pure air which they always
breathe, the atmosphere being constantly impregnated with saline
particles from the spray, which is raised by the sea dashing against
the precipitous rocks, which bound the coast, and also to the total
absence of Doctors.
   Hydrography.-There are mineral springs in almost every cor-
ner of the parish, but one more remarkable, and more frequented
than the rest, called Mess John's Well, issues from a rock, about
200 vards west of the burn of Aberdour.  It is a strong chaly-
beate, and famed for its medicinal qualities.  A small basin, in the
shape of a cup, for the reception Of the water, which trickles down
the rock, is said to have been cut by a John White, Laird of Ard-
lawhill, at the time that Presbytery and Prelacy contended for the
mastery.  Neither of the parties, during the heat of the contest,
had regular worship at the parish church, but John attended every
Sunday, prayed, sung, and read a chapter from the precentor's
desk, then prayed again, and concluded the service by singing
another psalm.  This he continued to do till Presbyterianism was
fairly established, and hence he was designated Mess John by the
people, and his well Mess John's Well.  Upon the farm of Kin-
beam, at the south-west extremity of the parish, there is a fresh
water loch, called the Loch of Monwig, situated in the midst of
An extensive deep moss.  It is 200 yards long and 22 broad, the


