
206                      PERTHSHIRE.

has shown, that, without very heavy manuring, there is no crop
that more speedily exhausts the land.  And there is little doubt,
that, in process of time, it must have proved utterly destructive to
all light soils lying beyond the reach of town manure, bad not the
introduction of bones come so opportunely to the aid of the far-
mer, and enabled him to apply the whole of his farm manure to
the potatoes.  The ordinary price of bone-dust in Perth is about
2s. per bushel, and about ten bushels are dmployed to the acre.
   Another decided improvement in husbandry consists in pastur-
ing grass land with sheep and cattle, instead of cutting it for hay;
but his is a practice, of course, which can only be followed with
advantage in those farms which are peculiarly adapted for stock.
   Cropping.-The system of cropping most commonly followed
is what is technically termed a four-course shift, viz. oats, green
crop, barley, and grass.  Most farmers, however, let their land lie
two years, and sometimes even more in grass.  There are no beans
grown in the parish, and very little wheat.  Lint, which at one
time was cultivated to a considerable extent, is now seldom sown,
owing to the almost entire discontinuance of the practice of do-
mestic spinning.
   Stock.-Cattle of all descriptions are reared in the parish, from
the bulky Teeswater to the diminutive west Highlander.  The
rate of grazing differs of course very materially, according to the
size and description of the animal.  The summer grazing of a
large full-sized beast when fattening for the butcher, may be rated
at L. 3 to L. 3, l0s.  The sheep are principally of the Leicester
breed, those at least which are fed upon the low grounds.  Besides
being peculiarly adapted to the nature of the pasture, they are
prized chiefly on account of their fattening so easily, being less
destructive to the fences than Highland sheep, and also on ac-
count of the superior value of their fleeces.  Large numbers of
wedder hogs of this descripthon are annually reared, and sent to
the Glasgow market from this parish, by Mr Richmond of Money-
die, one of the most extensive and enterprising agriculturists in
Perthshire, by whom this kind of stock was first introduced into
this part of the country, about forty-five years ago.  The grazing
of a full-grown sheep, including a few turnips in winter, may be
rated at from 5s. to 12s. according to circumstances.
   Produce.-The gross amount of raw produce, according to the
nearest approximation that can be formed, may be stated to be,


