
692                    LANARKSHIRE.

and conversed with some of the non-conforming clergy. *  It was
the cruel and tyrannical course adopted by the Court and the High
Commission in those days, that led the amiable and pious Bishop
Leighton + to declare, " that he could not concur in planting of
the Christian religion itself in such a manner, much less a form
of Government."
   Another dilapitated building, which was utterly devoid of in-
terest, except on account of some imaginary associations connect-
ed with it, stood till lately, on the west bank of the Kelvin, below
Partick.  It was said to be the ruins of a country residence which
belonged to the archbishop of Glasgow.  And the person who was
positively affirmed to have erected it was Archbishop Spotswood,
in 1611. ++  But it is now certain that the supposed " bishop's cas-
tle" belonged to George Hutcheson of Lambhill, the founder of
Hutcheson Hospital, and was built by him.  The contract for its
erection, which George Hutcheson, who was a notary in Glas-
gow, entered into with William Millar, mason in Kilwinning, is in
the possession of a descendant of the family of Hutcheson.  In
the said contract, with the proverbial caution of his country and
profession, the standard foot is declared to be "ye said George's
awn fute."  Were more proof wanted to show how little depend-
ence can be placed on local traditions of this kind, it might be
supplied by Hamilton of Wishaw, who says, S  " Above this where
Kelvin falls into Clyde, is the house of Pertique, a well built and
convenient house, well planted with barren timber, large gardens,
inclosed with stone walls, which formerly belonged to George
Hutcheson, founder of the Hospital Hutcheson in Glasgow, and
now to John Crawford on Mylntoun."  There can be no reason
to doubt, however, that before the Reformation the Bishop of
Glasgow had a mansion either on the site of the house in question,
or somewhere else in the vicinity of Partick.  In the Glasgow
chartulary there is an instrument which sets forth that certain dif-
ferences that had arisen between William, Bishop of Glasgow,
and his chapter, had been reffered for arbitration to the Bishop of
Dunkeld, Brechin, Orkney, and Galloway, and to the Abbot of

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow's Hist. Vol. ii pp. 227-324, Vol. iv. p. 141.
          Bishop Burnett, who was then a young man, was pressed to go into any of the
vacant churches that be liked.  But, says he, " though I was entirely Episcopal, yet
I would not engage with a body of men that seemed to have the principles and tem-
pers of inquisitors in them, and to have no regard to religion."  History of his own
Times, Vol. i. p. 279.
          Chalmer's Caledonia, Vol. iii. pp. 629, 699.
          Description of Sheriffdom of Lanark, p. 29.


