
34                         FIFESHIRE.

be effected improving the more retentive soils, by means of the
system of furrow or frequent drainage.
Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as

follows :
Grain, 9000 quarters,                                                   L. 13,500
Potatoes, turnips, &C. 6000 tons,                                            5000
Hay, 1.550 tons,                                                             3875
Dressed flax, 4 or 5 tons,                                                    150
Land in pasture, 9000 or 10,000 acres of various qualities and some wood
pasture, at L. 3 per cow or full-grown ox grazed, and 7s. per ewe or
full-grown sheep pastured,                                                   1800
Gardens,                                                                      120
Thinnings of plantations,                                                     300

                                                                         L.24,745

  Agricultural Society.-A society, formed with the view of giving
encouragement to the raising of live-stock and other agricultural
produce, holds its meetings in this parish. It is one of the oldest
associations for this purpose in the county. Its annual meeting,
known by the name of the Trafalgar show, is held on the 21 st of Oc-
tober, the anniversary of the great victory of Trafalgar. The system
of sweepstakes has lately been Fubstituted for the premiums for-
merly given by the society; and the competition excited, in improv-
ing the breed of stock, and introducing improved seeds, is consi-
derable. The Chiavalier barley and the Italian rye-grass were
lately brought into general notice in this district, by means of this
society. It is supported by the nelglibouring landed proprietors,
and a considerable body of the tenantry.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL EcoNomy.
   Means of Communication.-As the parish is situated upon the
road between Cupar and Auchtermuebty, our means of communica-
tion are easy and direct. There is a runner between these towns
every day, who leaves letters and parcels at Trafalgar inn, and at
the lodges of the mansions upon the road. No coach now passes
through the parish ; the nearest point at which a public conveyance
can be got is three miles distant from Collessie. We are six'miles
from the New Inn, where coaches to and from Edinburgh, Dundee,
and Aberdeen, pass three times a-day. The projected railway,
for connecting the Forth and Tay, will run through the centre of
the parish.' There are carriers almost every day to various parts
of the country, and one regularly twice a week between Cupar and
Auchtermuchty.
   State- The great majority of the people are mem-
bers of the Established Church. There is no dissenting meeting-


