
98                           BANFFSHIRE.

of Coldran. There is an eminence on a hill between Corncattarach
and Malsach hill, called Yaiken or Oaken Bank, said to have been
covered in ancient times with oak wood, and from which it is re-
ported that the cupples of the old church were taken.-The re-
mains of some oak trees are still to be seen in one of the mosses.
and also of fir-trees of considerable size.-The ashes of the Vis-
count of Aboyne and several of his followers, and of John Gor-
don, laird of Rothiemay, who were burned in the old tower of the
House of Frendraught, in the parish of Forgue, in 1630, (as related
by Spalding,) were buried in a vault in the church of Gartly, which
is still to be seen.  There is a tradition, which appears to be well-
founded, that that merry monarch, James I. of Scotland, who was
in the habit of visiting different parts of the kingdom in disguise,
in one of his rambles, spent a night at a place called " Muirellis."
The qudeman was so well pleased with the humour and jokes of the
royal incog. that he ordered the gudewife to kill "the hen nearest
the cock" for a repast to his pleasant companion.  The King,
on the other hand, was so much pleased with the kindness and hos-
pitality of his entertainer, that he obtained a grant from the Earl
of Huntly, that he and his descendants should occupy the pos-
session rent free, which it is said they did, for many generations.
There is also a tradition that an infant son of the Baron of Gart-
ly was drowned, on returning from being baptized at the chapel
of Brawlinknows, when the water of Bogie was flooded after a great
fall of rain; and the place where it was said the infant was drown-
ed, is still called " Lord John's Pot."

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

				III.-POPULATION

   The number of inhabitants in this parish, about fifty or sixty
years ago, was much greater than it is at present. It was
	            in 1755,    -      1328
                 1783,    -      2000
	               1793,    -      1800
At the census before last, ht fell to 979.  This decrease can only
be imputed to the principal tenants extending their farms and re-
moving their cottagers.  It has, however, since that time increas-
ed considerably, and is now 1136.  This increase has chiefly arisen
from the additional number of labourers lately employed at the slate
quarries, many of whom are married and have families.

The annual average of births for the last seven years is,  22
	           of marriages,                             10
Number of persons under 15 years of age,                  480
                  between 15 and 30,                      291
                          30 and 50,                      181
                          50 and 70,                      150
                           above 70,                       28


