
                          BOWDEN.                            45

about ten years ago.  It forms a part of the line of road which
runs from Kelso by St Boswell's Green to Selkirk, and affords
an easy and excellent communication betwixt these places,
through what were formerly the most unfrequented parts of this
parish.  All the others are parish roads, and are upheld solely
by the conversion of statute labour. The assessment, for this
purpose, was, for many years, at the rate of L. 3, and is now L. 2
in the hundred pounds Scots; but as there is an act of Parlia-
ment to empower the heritors to make the principal line turnpike,
the parish may be relieved from a great part of this burden.  There
are no toll-bars in the parish.
      Improvements Recommended. --Among the improvements in
agriculture, which might still be made to a large extent, and with
every prospect of the most advantageous result, we may mention
the under-draining of land.  This, however, would be best effect-
ed by a mutual understanding between landlord and tenant.  When
left to the tenant alone, it absorbs a larger portion of his capital
at the commencement of his lease, than can well be spared from
other improvements, and, that beinf the case, he is either obliged
to leave it, in a great measure, undone, or to do it superficially.
On the other hand, as it must be allowed, that under-draining is
the first improvement on wet-bottomed land, and is of permanent
advantage to property, it is surely the landlord's interest to give
liberal assistance.  *
      Marl abounds in the parish, and was about thirty years ago in
general use ; but, in consequence of its having been considered too
cold a substance for our climate and soil, and also of its having a
tendency to retard the ripening process of the crops, and to pro-
duce a coarse quality of grain, it has been almost laid aside for the
last twenty years.  Indeed, so decided is the preference that is now
given to lime over marl, that the former, not with standing the great
difficulty of procuring it, is used by some tenants who have the
latter in their immediate neighbourhood.  +

<FOOTNOTE>It may be here suggested, that that assistance might be given with the greatest
effect, by the landlord's being at the expense of cutting and opening all drains, tak-
ing care at the same time, to see that they were done in a proper manner; and as
stones are readily found all over the parish, the tenant, on his part, should agree to
furnish them, and complete a11 other parts of the work. As connected with this
subject it may be noticed, that proprietors and tenants occasionally Tabour under
difficulties for want of a law obliging neighbouring proprietors to join in draining
operations; as it sometimes happens that the only outlet to swamps is through neigh-
bouring lands, and the proprietors of such lands, from various causes, do not readily
concur in such measures, although they would often prove highly beneficial to all
parties.
     +This fact leads us to express our anxious desire, that the railroad which was



