
312                    BERWICKSHIRE.

bridges is undoubtedly the Pease Bridge, to which we have al-
ready more than once alluded, but which demands a more par-
ticular notice. It is situated about one mile and a-half eastward
from the village of Cock burns path, crossing a very deep and spa-
cious ravine, formed by a little rapid river called the Pease burn.
Its length is 300 feet, its breadth 16, and its height 127. It has
four arches, two of which rest on the banks of the chasm; a tall
slender pier rising from the middle of the glen supports the other
two. The view from the top of the bridge into the rocky yet
richly wooded glen beneath, well repays a very long and, fatig-
uing journey, but, to be properly impressed with the stupendous
height of this beautiful structure, it is proper that strangers should
descend the side of the glen to the bed of the stream, from which the
view is equally sublime and beautiful. The bridge was built by
Mr Henderson, and as a specimen of architecture has been long
admired. In addition to these lengthened notices we may be al-
lowed to mention, that in former times the Pease was considered
a pass of great importance, from the circumstance, that a very few
men were able to defend it against a multitude. Accordingly, it
was one of the channels of escape which the Scottish army block-
ed up against Oliver Cromwell in the year 1650, and that cele-
brated general describes it in his dispatch to the Parliament, after
the battle, as a place, "where one man to hinder is better than
twelve to make way."
   The other roads in, the parish require no particular notice.
They are generally kept in good repair, though, from the inequa-
lities of the ground, &c. this is not always very easy.
   Three coaches pass and repass daily, changing horses at the
inn of Cockburnspath. These are, the Mail, the Union, a four-
horse coach from Edinburgh to Newcastle, and a two-horse coach
from Edinburgh to Berwick.
   Harbours,&c.-At the Cove, distant about three-fourths of a mile
from the village of Cockburnspath, a small harbour was completed in
the month of October 1831. More than seventy years ago, a
similar attempt was made by Sir John Hall, Bart., of Dunglass,
who had actually proceeded a considerable way in the erection of
a pier, when a heavy sea from the north-east entirely destroyed
it. A similar fate be feel another attempt immediately before the
present pier was erected, which, in consequence, was built upon
another plan, and may now safely bid defiance to any sea. The
expense of this work, which was considerable, was defrayed partly
             		     3


