
696                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

high status as a publishing mart, yet it still continues to carry on
an extensive trade in printing and publishing. Besides the peri-
odicals, which issue from the house of the Messrs Blackwood,
works on general literature are published by them. A new and
extensive edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica has been pub-
lished by the Messrs Black. The editions of the works of Scott,
which have successively issued from the house of Cadell and Com-
pany, have also been numerous during the last four years, and few
works can rival the rich and chastely illustrated edition of the
novels which is now in progress.
   For school books and educational works, as well as for works
on general literature, few establishments in Britain are on a
larger scale than that of Messrs Oliver and Boyd, who are both
printers and publishers.
   Connected with the printing business in Edinburgh are several
stereotype founderies; as also founderies for the manufacture of
common letter-press types.
   Typography.-There are 56 printing establishments in Edin-
burgh, some of them on a large scale. The Messrs Chambers
have ten printing machines, and employ about 150 workmen.
The whole number of workmen employed in printing is upwards
of 1000, and in other operations connected with this trade about
500. There are 110 booksellers and stationers in Edinburgh,
49 of which are copartnery.
   Societies for encouragement of the Fine Arts.-Even in the ear-
lier and ruder periods of Scottish history, there were not wanting
indications of a taste among the better classes for the fine arts.
In the early part of the twelfth century, the taste for Gothic
architecture was at its height; and King Robert Bruce is said to
have fostered the fine arts by inviting foreign artists to take up
their residence in Scotland. James I., who possessed an elegant
taste and fine imagination, was not backward in encouraging this
taste among his subjects; and James V. had his apartments in
Stirling Castle curiously ornamented with carved work in wood,
which shewed no mean skill in the art. The earliest native ar-
tist of eminence was George Jameson, born at Aberdeen in 1586.
This painter, who has usually been called the Scottish Vandyke,
from his soft and delicate touch, and his fine colouring, was a pu-
pil of the famous Reubens at Antwerp; and on his return to his
native country, began to paint portraits in oil and historical land-
scape pictures. Charles I. sat to him for his portrait, as well as
many of the other great characters of the day. His picture of the


