
                                    DULL.                       757

     Loch Tummel.  It is mostly situated within the quoad sacra pa-
     rish of Foss, now disjoined from this the original parish, and is
     also connected with the parish of Blair-Athole.  It is about four
     miles in length, and one in breadth.  Its lower end is gradually
     filling up with the alluvial deposits of its parent stream; but ope-
     rations are in progress for clearing away the debris so accumulat-
     ing, whereby upwards of 200 acres of arable and meadow land will
     be very greatly improved.  It is much frequented in winter by
     great numbers and variety of water fowls, but chiefly swans, where-
     of there were at one time in the winter of 1840 thirty-six, and a
     flock of twelve remained for nearly three months.  Salmon occa-
     sionally get up into it; but the Fall at Fascally prevents them,
     excepting in certain states of the river.  It abounds, however,
     with trout and pike, some of the former weighing fourteen pounds,
     while those of the latter have been known to weigh upwards of
     thirty pounds.  Its shores throughout, beautifully diversified with
     woods and rocks, here presenting bold projecting promontories,
     and there long retiring bays, along with the noble outline of the
     surrounding rugged mountains, interspersed towards their base with
     patches of wild cultivation, form a picture of peculiar and surpassing
     beauty.  Towards the north-west end of the lake, there is an ar-
     tificial island covered with wood, where the ruins of a castle are
     still to be seen, and which is said to be one of the many fastnesses
     of Robertson of Struan, the chief of the "Clan Donnachie;" and
     upon either side there is a good road, from which the surrounding
     scenery is seen under entirely different but ever-beautiful aspects.
        Rivers.--The principal rivers connected with the parish are, the
     Tay, the Lyon, the Quaich, the Tummel, and the Garry, besides
     a great number of mountain-streams which cannot be particular-
     ized.  The Tay enters this parish two miles below Kenmore, and
     continues to meander along it for the space of ten miles, intersect-
     ing, it in some parts, and forming the boundary line betwixt it and
     some of the adjoining parishes in other places.  At some remote
     period, it had here altered its course in several places, ere it formed
     its present channel, and it still overflows its banks when flooded by
     westerly winds and rain, which is often the case, especially in win-
     ter.  Upon these occasions, a great part of the valley of Appin ac-
     tually becomes a lake, so that the thoroughfare at Taybridge is,
     perhaps, interrupted for several days together.  Generally speak-
     ing, however, it only averages from 250 to 300 feet in breadth,
     and from 2 to 14 feet in depth, and in this neighbourhood is in many


