
274                          RENFREWSHIRE.

the early stage of this wonderful trade, a greater number of cot-
ton mills than the opulent city of Glasgow.  Forty years ago,
or a little more, there were ten mills within the burgh, and New
Town of Paisley.  Of these four were turned into dwelling-houses;
one into a weaving (power-loom) factory; one was burned down;
and two were removed, and the machinery and materials sold by
public auction.  Most of these mills were on rather a small scale,
the largest of them (St Mirrens,) being, however, a respectable
establishment of 10,000 or 12,000 spindles.  There are at present
in the town two large factories, and one on a smaller scale.  In
the village of Elderslie, there is an extensive cotton mill ; and in
the town and neighbourhood of Johnston, there are eleven of va-
rious sizes.  With the exception of two, which are driven by water,
all of these are propelled by steam.  The power employed in them
all is estimated at that of 266 horses.  The total amount of spindles
is 90,000.  The capital employed in erecting and carrying them on
is estimated at L. 135,000; and the number of persons employed
at them all is about 2700.  The proprietors of these works have not
been backward in availing themselves of the several improvements
on the system which have been introduced since the days of Ark-
wright and Hargreaves; * and it is probable that the latest inven-
tion of all, that of the self-acting mule, will soon be generally adopt-
ed.  " The adoption of the self-acting mule will aid much in ena-
bling the spinners of Britain to maintain a successful competition
against the cheap Tabour of other countries, which have less capital
and fewer facilities for obtaining these improved machines, and less
skill in their management when obtained." +
   Besides the above, there is in the New Town of Paisley one
power-loom-factory, for cotton cloth used in printing.  An exten-
sive factory is about to be erected at Johnston, for weaving cloth
by machinery, which, it is expected, will give employment to 200
or 300 persons.
   Founderies.- The iron foundery establishment of Messrs William
Thomron and Co. has been for half a century in high repute, and

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Neil Snodgrass, of Johnston, was the inventor of the " cleaning machines;"
which was first used in the Johnston cotton mill belonging to Mr Houston.  It has
since received many improvements. and may now be considered " perfect."
          New Stat. Ac. of Glasgow, p. 145, Aug. 1835.  To this article we refer for
fuller details on the progress of improvement in the spinning of cotton, and particu-
larly to the circumstances which led to the union of the patents of Mr Smith of
Deanston, and Mr John Robertson, late foreman to Mr Orr of Crofthead, for the in-
vention and manufacture of the most improved species of self-acting mules.
                                             4


