
320                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

gow, which both enlivens the country, and affords great accommoda-
tion to the inhabitants of this district engaged in business,--as,
by means of it, they can have daily access to any part of the
kingdom. There is also a regular post daily from the south in
the morning, and from the west in the afternoon. The letter-car-
rier goes from Sanquhar, the post-town, to old Cumnock, every
morning; and leaves the letter-bag at Kirkconnel in passing;
and upon returning from Cumnock to Sanquhar he delivers his
letter-bag here, and takes the post-bag for the departure of the
post from Sanquhar to Dumfries. The present arrangement is
good; but, were a lail-coach to start from Dumfries via Thorn-
hill Sanqubar, Kirkconnel, New and Old Cumnocks, Ochiltree,
Ayr, and Kilmarnock, there is every reason to believe the contrac-
tors would be indemnified for their expense, and that district of
country would receive much benefit.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Of this parish His Grace the Duke of Buc-
cleuch and Queensberry is patron.* The stipend amounts to 15
chalders, at the county fiars' conversion, one-half meal and one-half
barley, together with L. 8, 6s.  8d. for communion elements. The
glebe is of considerable extent, but of very inferior soil in many
places; and part of it is liable to be flooded in winter, by the melt-
ing of snow from the overflowing of the Nith. There is abun-
dance of free teinds. +
	The only Dissenters in the parish from our national church are
Presbyterians under the different demoninations of Cameronians and
United Secession;--of the former, there are only two families, and

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers, in his Caledonia, states, that the church of Kirkconnel at one time be-
loniged to the abbot and monks of Holywood, who held the rectorial revenues to their
own use, and a vicarage was established for the service of the church. In Bagimont's
Roll, as it stood in the reign of James, the vicarage of Kirkconnel, in the deanery of
Nith, was taxed with L. 5, 6s, 8d. At the epoch of the Refomation, the rectnrial re-
venues of the church of Kirkconnel were held by Lord Crichton of Sanquhar for
the payment of the small sum L. 20 (Scots) yearly, to the abbots and monks of Ho-
lywood. Small, however, as this sum was, his Lordship withheld it for many years,
and they were unable to enforce payment. After the Reformation the patronage and
tithes of the church of Kirkconnel, with the other property of Holywood Abbey, were
vested in the King, by the  general annexation act, and granted to John Murray of
Lochmaben, Act Parl. iv. 575--665. In the reign of Charles II. the patronage of
Kirkconnel was transferred to the Duke of Queensberry, and, upon the death of the
last Duke William, came with a very princely property and title into the Noble family
of Buccleuch.
          It appears that Mr John Carmichael was ejected from his charge of this parish
in 1662, when Episcopacy was violently obtruded upon this kingdom. In the year
1681, Mr Samuel Moat, the Episcopal incumbent, was also obliged to leave his charge,
because he could not take the oath required by the Test Act. From that period, the
vacancy was protracted until the year 1732. The present church was built in the year
1729, and removed nearly two miles south from the site of the old church, being more
centrical and convenient for the parish. Mr Peter Rae, then minister of Kirkbride,
within the presbytery of Pont, was admitted minister of Kirkconnel, and the parish of
Kirkbride suppressed, and divided betwixt the parishes of Sanquhar and Durisdeer.


