
                           AUCHTERLESS.                       289

crofts varying from 5 to 30 acres, and partly by tradesmen of va-
rious descriptions.  None of them have any permanent feus.
   The average of births for the last seven years was 45; and
that of marriages, 11.  No register of deaths is kept. This pa-
rish has been famed for the longevity of several of its inhabitants.
A few instances of longevity may be noticed.  Peter Garden, a
farmer in this parish, died about sixty years ago, at the very ad-
vanced age of 132.  He retained his faculties to the last.  He
lived under ten sovereigns; Charles I.; Oliver Cromwell; Richard
Cromwell; Charles II.; James ll.; William and Mary; Anne;
George I., II., and III.  He was page to Ogilvie of Banff, before
that gentleman was raised to the peerage, and was one of the garrison
in the old castle of Towie Barclay, when Montrose defended it against
Argyle.  He recollected having been sent, when a boy, to the wood
to cut boughs for spears in the time of the civil wars.  In his latter
days he used to describe Montrose, "as a little black man, who
wore a ruff as the ladies do now-a-days."  He was married to his
second wife when 120 years old, she being eighty, and danced with
great glee on that occasion.  Margaret Leslie, who resided in the
Kirktown, died about the beginning of the present century, aged
112.  George Patterson, also in the Kirktown, died in the year 1808,
aged 107, and William Andrew, in Little Cushnie, died in 1817,
at the same age.
   There is only 1 blind person in the parish, and 3 insane.
   Number of illegitimate births in the course of the last three years,
11.
   Within the last forty years, the language usually spoken has
been gradually improving.  The habits of the people, are in gene-
ral cleanly.  The higher classes live well, using animal food.  The
common fare of the peasantry is meal, milk, and vegetables.  The
people are generally respectable as to intelligence, morality, and
their observance of religious duties.  Smuggling never prevailed
to any extent, and since the commencement of legal distilleries is
altogether unknown.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The parish contains about 16,000 acres, nearly
one-third of which remains uncultivated.  There are about 500
acres under wood, all planted, almost entirely with larches and
Scotch firs.  A great deal more might be profitably employed in
planting.  The greater part of the woods is young, partly well cared
for, and partly neglected.  It is difficult to ascertain the average


