
   24                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   house district, which extends from the mouth of the Spey to the
   Dornoch Frith on the east coast, and from Assynt Point to Ard-
   namurchan on the west. The tonnage of all the shipping belong-
   ing to the district is about 7200 tons, and the number of vessels
   150 : the port of Inverness possessing about one-half of the ves-
   sels and nearly two-thirds of the tonnage. The west coasts of
   Ross-shire and Inverness-shire, with the Isle of Skye, possess
   about 1000 additional tons of shipping, and about 36 vessels. In-
   verness has six vessels,of about 130 tons burthen, regularly trad-
   ing with London, of which one sails from and to London every
   eighth day: with Leith it has three traders, and with Aberdeen
   two.  Ship-building has recently been commenced here by one or
   two enterprising
    individuals with great spirit. A striking altera-
   tion has of late taken place in the trade in grain : within fifteen
   years, about 8000 to 10,000 bolls of oatmeal used to be imported
   to Inverness; while now, from 4000 to 5000 bolls of oats are ex-
   ported from its piers. From Easter Ross and the vicinity of In-
   verness and Beauly, from 30,000 to 40,000 quarters of wheat are
   annually shipped, and large quantities of grain are exported from
   Caithness. About 100 cargoes of mixed goods are delivered in
   the course of the year at the ports of the Moray Frith, lying be-
   tween Speymouth and the Dornoch Frith, from London, Leith,
   and Aberdeen. These supply the greater part of the counties to
   which the ports belong. The total coasting imports in this dis-
   trict are supposed to be about 60,000, and foreign imports about
   1000 tons, and the coasting exports to be about 70,000 tons, con-
   sisting of wood, wool, grain, and hemp cloth. The foreign an-
   nual imports into Inverness consist. of from 400 to 600 tons of
   hemp, and three or four cargoes of timber and Archangel tar.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Market-Town.-Inverness is the only market-town in the parish,
   and since the date of the last report, it has increased considerably
   in the style and number of its buildings, as well as of its popula-
   tion. Besides a more efficient system of police, and due attention
   to cleanliness,--during the year 1831, a great improvement in the
   paving of the streets was commenced. The whole have been
   causewayed anew with granite and hard sandstone, or quartz rock,
   from the banks of Loch Ness, and the side pavements laid with
   Caithness flag, while common sewers have been constructed under-
   neath the streets. These highly useful measures were effected by
   means of an assessment of 6d. per pound on rents,-the total ex-


