
			KILBIRNIE. 			    691

are frequently surcharged with vapour; and as the high lands of
this parish are among the first to arrest a portion of their mois-
ture, the consequent rains are frequent, and often heavy and con-
tinuous. There are no peculiar diseases incident to the locality;
the most prevalent are fevers, rheumatisms, and occasionally con-
sumptions, which can scarcely be attributed to the climate, inas-
much as the same diseases are to be met with all over Scotland.
This healthy character will not, however, we are assured, apply
to the population lately superinduced on that of the village, by
the establishment of two extensive manufactories. Among this
portion of the inhabitants, what with the high temperature of the
factory, enfeebled constitutions, and inattention to cleanliness,
there is almost ever less or more of typhus fever--an epidemic
that will never fail to scourge the lower classes of society, until
they acquire the good sense of preferring nutritious food to whisky,
and the comforts of cleanliness to dirty and improvident habits.
	Hydroqraphy.--There are numerous perennial springs of ex-
cellent water in this parish, but none have yet been discovered
possessing medicinal virtues; that, especially, of Birnie's well,
situated about a quarter of a mile north of the ruins of Kilbirnie
Place, to which it had been conducted by pipes, is alike remark-
able for its strength, and the superior quality of the water.
	Rivers.--The Garnock and the Maich, the latter forming the
northern boundary of the parish, are the only streams of any note.
The Garnock rises at the base of the hill of Staik, And traverses
the district in the direction of south-east. About a mile and a-half
from its source, it forms a wild and romantic waterfall, called the
Spout of Garnock, which, after heavy rains, presents an animated
spectacle, strongly in contrast with the immobility and stillness of
the surrounding scenery. Nearly three miles, farther down, it
winds in melancholy murmurings round two sides of the precipi-
tous knoll, on which are perched the tottering ruins of Glengar-
nock Castle. Descending thence for a short distance through a
wooded ravine, it hastens over a rocky channel, and after skirting
the village of Kilbirnie, quietly pours its accumulated waters
through a strath of much beauty, in the lower part of the parish.
It then pursues its devious course through the parishes of Dalry
and Kilwinning, and, after being considerably augmented by many
tributary streams, falls into the sea at Irvine. Like other moun-
tain rivers, a heavy fall of rain renders, in short time, the Gar-
nock an imppassable torrent, a little way from its source; while dur-


