
                        PARISH OF EYEMOUTH.

        PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                THE REV. JOHN TURNBULL, MINISTER.

		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, Name, &c.-THE parish of Eyemouth may be de-
scribed as nearly a square of one mile and a-half, each side, in ex-
tent. It lies on the eastern part of the sea coast of Berwickshire,
and is bounded on the north by the German Ocean; on the east
and south by the parish of Ayton; and on the west by that of
Coldingham. The derivation of its name is sufficiently obvious;
the town of Eyemouth, which contains the principal part of the
population of the parish, being situated at the mouth of the small
river called the Eye, which, rising at the Dodhill, in the parish of
Oldhamstocks, and flowing through those of Cockburnspath, Cold-
ingham, and Ayton, bounds the parish on the east side for about a
mile and a-half, and then empties itself into the sea, forming the
bay and harbour of Eyermouth.
   Topographical Appearances.-The coast-line, commencing at
the promontory called the Fort, which forms the northern boun-
dary of the bay of Eyemouth, and is the great bulwark of the town
mid harbour against the gales which blow from that quarter, is rocky
and precipitous throughout its entire extent, running at an average
height of eighty feet above the level of the sea, and exhibiting ap-
pearances which, to the geologist, are not devoid of interest. It
is intersected by several remarkable fissures, or gullies, and exhi-
bits strong symptoms of igneous agency. In one place it is per-
forated to a short extent by a cavern, which is tenanted by flocks
of rock-pigeons, and the roof of which is ornamented by elegant
specimens of the Asplenium marinum. The extent of coast is a
mile and a-half, and the beach is accessible only at three points,
-at the Crimels, at the bay of Killiedraught, and at Eyemouth.
At Crimels and Killiedraught, roads have been formed at con-
siderable expense, which are used for transporting to the adjoining
lands the sea-weed, or ware, which is cast ashore after stormy wea-
ther; but it is only at Eyemouth that the wall-like precipices, by


