
956	   		      PERTHSHIRE.

highest hills. This is, in fact, going rapidly forward at present on
the estate of Condie, under the direction of the present intelligent
proprietor. At this moment, he has growing, on the summit of
the highest hill in the parish, as beautiful a crop of turnip as is
to be seen in any part of Strathearn. Several years ago he in-
troduced wire fences into the hill part of his property, and has
already erected six or seven miles of these. He was the first to
introduce them in this part of the country, and his example is
now generally followed, not only here, but in many other parts
of Perthshire. A facility of enclosing has thus been obtained,
the want of which was the great drawback to systematic improve-
ment in the upper parts of this parish, as no stones are to be
found fitted for building dikes or walls. These wire-fences are
composed of oak, or larch, or ash posts, placed three and four
yards apart, with five horizontal wires, the whole costing about 6d.
per yard.
   A great portion of the lower part of the parish has been fur-
row-drained. These drains have been filled chiefly with broken
trap; but drain-tiles are now beginning to be introduced to a
considerable extent, particularly on the estate of Freeland.
   Fallows, except upon the stiffest clay, have been entirely given
up, to make way for the growth of potatoes for the London mar-
ket, which is largely supplied with these from this parish.
   A striking improvement has taken place in farm buildings of
every description, since the last Statistical Account was published.
At that period, almost the whole houses in the parish were thatched
with straw; but now, every new building is either covered with
reeds brought from the Carse of Gowrie, or with slates.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The stipend is 12 chalders, 2 bolls, 1 fir-
lot, 2 pecks, 1 3/5 lippy of grain, two-thirds of which are meal, and
one-third barley, and L.24 payable in money. This includes an
allowance of L.5 for communion elements,
   The glebe, including the stance of manse and offices, and the
garden, is about six acres. Its value is about L.12.
   There are about 180 Dissenters in the parish, chiefly belonging
to the United Secession body, who have a small church at the
Path of Condie.
   Schools.--There are two schools in the parish, viz. the parochial
school, in the village of Forgandenny, generally attended by about
70 scholars at an average, and another at the Path of Condie.


