
     Of Weem.

many years afterward, it was fully sufficient to contain all
the congregation that assembled to it; but since the know-
ledge and practice of true religion have been more widely
diffused, the church is by much too small for the congrega-
tion, especially in the summer months, when at least a fourth
of them are obliged to fit without, the windows being thrown
open, and a great many old and inform people obliged to re-
main at home, who cannot venture to fit in the open air.
Two-thirds at least of the congregation are from the parishes
of Dull, Logierait, and Fortingal, their own parish churches
being to too great a distance.  The manse was built ini 1744,
and had some reparations since, but is still the most inconve-
nient manse in this country.  The glebe is about 3 1/2 acres
arable, of a good light soil, and about an acre of pasture and
meadow, besides a garden 1/4 of an acre. The living, exclu-
sive of the glebe, was formerly 36 L. 3 s. 7 d.  Sterling in mo-
ney, and 32 bolls, Linlithgow measure, half oat meal, half
bear.  Last summer-session (1792) it was augmented to 64
bolls virtual, and 66 L, 3 s 7 d. money, including communion
elements*.-There is a school maintained by the heritors.

     S 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*It was usual for the ministers of Weem and Kenmore to officiate, the lat-
ter every 5th Sunday, and the former 4 times a-year, at Lawers, on the north
side of Loch Tay, where there is a pretty good chapel built by the Earls of
Breadalbane.  About 2 years ago, the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge, out of a fund bequeathed them by the late Lady Glenorchy, for the pur-
pose of encouraging religion and industry on the estate of Breadalbane, settled
a missionary minister, who officiates alternately at Lawers, on the north side,
and at Ardeopaig on the fourth side of Loch Tay.  The Society allow him 20 L.
a-year, and the Earl of Breadalbane as much, with a house and a piece of land
in name of a glebe.  This establishment precludes the necessity of the ministers
of Weem of Kenmore preaching at Lawers, and the minister of Killin from
preaching at Ardeonaig.  The ministers of Fortingal and Weem, Still officiate
in Glenlyon, the former once in 5 or 6 weeks, the laters 5 or 6 times a-years at


