

                                 BENDOCRY.                   1179

      them shot at, as they were feeding upon the tops of the turnips,
      and though some of them fell dead, others beside them kept their
      position unscared, so completely had the rigors of the season
      altered the nature of this shy and chary bird.  On the vegetable
      world, the effects of the cold were even more remarkable.  Lau-
      rels and bays, of twenty years' standing, were out to the ground.
      The Laurus nobilis, arbutus, and Laurestinus were killed.  The
      native holly and common wbin, in very many cases, were destroyed.
      There have been as severe winters which were followed by no such
      effects; nor is it to the intensity of the cold alone that the whole
      destruction is to be ascribed.  Up to the begifining of January,
      the weather had been unusually genial and warm.  On the 8th of
      January, a sudden and decisive change took place.  At that time,
      the trees were perhaps as far advanced as they generally are in
      March.  The sudden transition was fatal.  The violent expansion
      caused by the intense frost burst the tender vesicles containing the
      sap, and vegetable life was destroyed.  Plants in warm and shel-
      tered situations, being more forward, wdre injured most; and in
      more elevated and exposed localities, evergreens suffered less, not
      probably because the season there was less severe, but because,
      being later, they were better prepared for enduring it.  As a
      counterpart to the severe winter of 1838, and as by far the most
      remarkable season that has occurred since the last Statistical Ac-
      count was written, the extremely hot and dry season of 1826 may
      be mentioned.  That year, the harvest commenced on the 14th
      of July, and finished with the month.
        The antagonist winds are the west and east, and the lie of the
      trees seems to indicate that the former prevails. The east wind
      is generally accompanied with rain, except in the spring months.
      In the months of March and October, we have generally two or
      three days of a strong dry gale from the north.  In a wet har-
      vest, a breeze off Loch Brandy, (due north), goes through stack
      and stook, and cheers the farmer's heart.
        From the difference of elevation and geographical position, the
      climate, as might be expected, is various. The climate of the
      lower part of the parish where the manse is situated, is probably
      as good as any in Scotland.  The incessant rains which deluge
      the western shores of the island are tnknown here, while, on the
      other hand, the cold eastern winds are broken and modified by
      the intervening barrier of the Sidlaw hills.   The eastern haars, so
      annoying to the invalid, seldom penetrate into our Compamratively


