
                       KIRKCALDY.                          765

ment was not disturbed till the death of the incumbent in 1767.
From this date, the town has retained the whole of the second
minister's stipend, and the charge has remained vacant.  Among
the evils entailed by the sale of the town's lands, with a reservation
of all the public burdens, this suppression of a ministerial charge,
though by no means the smallest, is seldom heard of.  The pur-
chasers have gained by the bargain, the town-council have gained,
the church and the religious interests of the community have
chiefly suffered.
   Application was made to the presbytery in 1649, by the heri-
tors of this parish, requesting inquiry to be made as to the neces-
sity for erecting another church in the parish; the heritors expres-
sing, at the same time, their willingness to provide a church and
stipend for an additional minister, should the Presbytery think this
necessary.  Heritors and presbyteries appear to have understood
in these days the principles of church extension.  The Presbytery
recommended to the Commissioners of the Parliament for sur-
renders and tithes, " that, besydes the church Win the burgh of
Kirkcaldie, for ye present usuallie attendit be two ministers, a
church sould be erectit in ye landward for a distinct congregation."
The proposed disjunction took place in the following year, and
the present parish of Abbotsball, which contains almost the whole
of the landward part of the original parish of Kirkcaldy, was
erected.
   The Rev. Robert M'Indoe, a member of the original Burgher
Associate Synod, who had a congregation in this parish, lately re-
turned with many of his brethren to the communion of the Church
of Scotland.  A new church, containing 840 sittings, has been
erected forthis congregation, which cost L.2000.  It was opened
last year.  It is situated near the east end of the town, is called
the East Port Church, and has the eastern part of the burgh,
containing a population of 1977, assigned to it as a parish quoad
sacra.  The stipend is derived from seat-rents and collections,
and varies according to the number of members. The minister
has no bond for his stipend.
   Besides the two churches in connection with the Establishment,
there are four places of worship in the parish belonging to different
religious denominations, viz. United Secession, Episcopalians, In-
dependents, and Scottish Baptists.  A few Bereans and old In-
dependents regularly meet for worship, but neither of them has a
church.


