
                          DIRLETON.                       203
thin. Brudi V., son of Derili, granted the island of Lochleven
to St Serf and the Culdees residing there. *  (Hist Culd. 131.)
  The village of Gulane, two miles to the west of Dirleton, for-
merly gave its name to the parish. Its old name was Golyn, so
called from an adjoining piece of water, now drained; Golyn in the
British signifying a little lake.
  Extent and Boundaries.-This parish forms the most northern
part of the county. From east to west it is 51/2, miles in length;
its greatest breadth from north, to south is 41/2 miles. It is bound-
ed on the north by the Frith of Forth; on the south by the Pef-
fer, a rivulet which separates it from the parish of Athelstane-
ford; on the east by the parish of North, Berwick; and on the west
by that of Aberlady.
  Topographical Appearances.-Its shape is compact, nearly re-
sembling a tortoise with its head to the west. It is composed of
two parallel ridges, of gentle elevation, which run from east to
west, and trisect the arable land into nearly equal parts. Its ge-
neral appearance is flat, and rather uninteresting,-richness of soil
much more than picturesqueness of scenery being its characteristic
feature. So far back as the year 1627, we have in a Statistical
Account of the parish at that period, + the following testimony to
its fertility: "There is no occasion of lyining within the Lord-
schipp of Diriltotine, siclyke ther growes noe quheate in all the toun
of Gulane, Elbottle, and most pairt of the Colledge steid." But
though the general aspect of the parish be tame, it is greatly re-
lieved to the north by the Frith of Forth, with its many interesting
islands, and also by the village of Dirleton, which, for locality and

<FOOTNOTE>According to Wintoun there was another of the same name, called Nectan Der-
ly, who reigned in 716.
		    Sevyn hundyr wynter and sextine,
		    Quhen lychtare was the virgyne clene,
		    Pape of Rome than Gregore.
		    The second quham of yhe herd before,
		    And Anastas than Emproure,
		    The Fyrst yhere of hys honoure,
		    Nectan, Derly was then regnand,
		    Owre the Peyebtis in Scotland.
					  Wintoun's Cronykil, Vol, i. B v.
   + This document is one of those drawn up at thistime order of Government
to the rent Presbyteries of Scotland, forty-eight only of which are preserved in
the Register-Office. The Acount of this parish was kindly communicated to me by
A.M'Donald, Esq. Register-Office. Its commencement runs thus: "Estate of the
kirk and paroche of Dirletoun answerable unto the articles conteaned in the ordi-
nance of his Majesty's Commissioners, quhilk estate is given up by Maister Andro
Makghie Minr. &c." Its information is, however, confined to a statement of the rent
and teind of the land, or, in its own words, "for tryall of the worth and rent of everi
roume of the parochine in stocke and teind, we declair as followis."


