
618                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

Associate Synod, who attend a chapel on the immediate confines
of this parish, but situated in that of Leochel.  The original cause
of their separation, as stated in the former Statistical Account,
was their opposition to a new mode of singing introduced into the
parish church in 1760, which, however, has been long since adopt-
ed by themselves.
   The average number of communicants at the Established
Church is 350, and divine service is well attended.
   About twenty years ago, a decree of the Court of Teinds was
passed for the annexation of this parish and that of Keig; Govern-
ment having agreed, in consideration of the saving thus effected of
L.57, 17s. 3d., payable yearly to the ministers of the two parishes
under the small stipend act, to give about L.1200 towards the
erection of the bridge over the Don at Keig.  This arrangement,
though, for the sake of obtaining the bridge, it appears to have
been acquiesced in by all parties at the time, came afterwards to
be felt so highly unsatisfactory, that when, by the death of one of
the incumbents in 1832, the annexation actually took effect, sub-
scriptions to the amount of several hundred pounds were raised by
the heritors and the people of the two parishes; the claims of Go-
vernment, in so far as insisted on, were liquidated, a decree of dis-
junction was obtained, and the ministrations of religion replaced
in both parishes on their ancient footing.
   Education.-Besides the parochial school, there has lately been
opened, under the direction of the kirk-session, a school for girls,
which receives a small salary from the Society for Propagating
Christian Knowledge, and promises to be of great utility.  The
salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L.25, 13s. 4d., and the ave-
rage amount of school fees which he receives, does not much ex-
ceed L.12.  He is provided with a neat and commodious dwel-
ling-house and school-room, with a garden adjoining, and these,
with the allowance from the Dick bequest, constitute the whole
emoluments of the office.
  Library.-There is a subscription library in the parish, esta-
blished a few years ago.  It contains from 400 to 500 volumes, in
genral judiciously selected, which are much read and enjoyed
especially in the long evenings of winter.
  Poor.-There are at present 15 persons receing regular aid
from the poor's funds, at the rate of about L.1 10s. each per an-
num.  They are almost all old women, who are unable to earn
anything for their own subsistence, beyond the pittance that is to


