
540                         PERTHSHIRE.

   Lochgarry.-This lake is situated at the distance nearly seven
miles to the north-east of Loch Rannoch, extending, nearly due
north about 4 miles, to the confines of the parish. It is about half
a mile broad.
   Loch Laoidean lies about eight miles west from the head of Loch-
Rannoch, and is about 6 miles long, stretching westward towards
Argyleshire. Its breadth is about half a mile. It is a beautiful
sheet of water, with many little bosky creeks and promontories,
and studded with several finely wooded islands. Thdre is one
near the west end, called the Island of Yew, where the red-deer
often take shelter, and the noble eagle, undisturbed, builds her
nest, and rears her young. It readily freezes.
   Loch Lyon is situated at the bead of the glen of that name,
and extends upwards of three miles south-vdst. Its breadth is
not above half a mile. It is a beautiful and romantic little lake.
   All the lakes, both small and great, are well stored with trout,
with one exception, and that the only one requiring a particular
description. This is in a hollow on the top of Bein-a-gharlagan,
a detached mountain at the head of Rannoch. It is called Loch-
a-mhig‚,-Iiterally the whey lake, and is a real curiosity. It is nearly
three quarters of a mile round, and apparently very deep, and is
probably the crater of an ancient volcano; the mountain itself
is circular, presenting on the east side a front almost perpendicular,
for a space of nearly 1500 feet.
   Rivers.-The Tummel, in Gaelic Teth-thuil, signifying the hot
or boilingflood or river, bears a name not inapplicable to the stream
after it has passed the boundaries of this parish. This river, issuing
out of Loch Rannoch, is a deep smooth flowing water for several
miles until it leaves the confines of Rannoch, during which it is
called the "Water of Raunoch:" but leaving this district, it be-
comer quite impetuous, till it enters Foss, where it properly receives
its, general name,-Tummel.
   This river at one period flowed out of the lake at a considerable
distance south of its present channel. At that period, or probably
prior to it, the level ground on both sides of the river, if nnt wholly
inundated, was t least covered with water for several miles. That
the water had a higher elevation is also quite observable at the
head of the Loch, where the water-marks show that the lake has
receded some hundred yards.
   Gamhair, i. e.  Gaoir, signifying loud noise. The rapids and
cataracts of this river when swollen are distictly heard at the


