
			CULTER.					351

manse was built in 1774, and is still in a state of very good re-
pair. It has an orchard in front, and a steep hill covered with
wood to the top, behind, and is the very beau ideal of a quiet par-
sonage. The glebe consists of 8 or 8 1/2 acres of excellent land;
is well enclosed all around, and might be let for about L. 25. The
stipend is L. 208 in money, with twelve bolls, three firlots of oat-
meal, and the interest of L. 282, 12s. lodged in the Royal Bank
of Scotland. This latter sum is the half of the price obtained for
Kilbucho glebe when that parish was suppressed. By order of the
Court of Session it must lie in the bank till it can be invested in
land contiguous to the glebe of Culter. In the meantime the in-
terest forms an item in the living. The families presently in con-
nection with the Establishment are 100; the average number of com-
municants yearly is 290, and the average number of young persons
admitted to the communion for the first time is 12. The dissent-
ing families are 23, partly connected with the Relief, and partly
with the United Secession church. There is neither chapel nor
dissenting meeting-house of any kind. The Dissenters attend their
respective places of worship in Biggar, to which, indeed, a great
proportion of this parish are nearer than to their own parish church.
Collections have been made in the church from time to time, in
support of the Infirmary of Edinburgh, the Assembly's Schools,
Bible and Missionary Societies, and for other charitable and religious
purposes, the amount of which may be estimated at L. 5 yearly.
	Education.--The parochial school is the only one for general
education. On it, however, the Kilbucho part of the parish is no-
ways dependent. It has still a school of its own: for the legal man-
date that swept away the church spared the school.* In the school
of Culter are taught Greek, Latin, practical mathematics, and
geography, besides the more ordinary branches of education. The
teacher's salary is L. 34, 4s. with a small garden; and as the quar-
ter fees bring about L. 20, his income, exclusive of the dwelling-
house, is rather more than L. 54. No part of the parish is so dis-
tant as to prevent the attendance of the young, and there is not
an individual upwards of six or seven years of age who is unable
to read. It may also be mentioned, that a Sabbath school is con-
ducted by the writer of this article and the master, which is
attended by an average number of scholars of about thirty-five. Con-

<FOOTNOTE>At the election of the present schoolmaster of Kilbucho the minister of Brough-
ton objected to the vote of the minister of Culter. A long dispute ensued, but the
matter being ultimately referred to the arbitration of Sir James Montgomery, Bart.
he gave a decision in favour of the minister of Culter, awarding to each of the two
ministers an equal vote in the election of schoolmaster for Kilbucho.


