
		             KINNOULL.                         947

finement, and there is an air of quhet and of comfort which never
fails to strike the visitor as pervading the whole arrangements of
the institution. It was incorporated by Royal Charter in 1827,
and its management vested permanently in twenty-five directors,
viz. nine ex officio, four for life, and twelve elected annually. It
was opened on 28th June 1827, and at present contains 140 pa-
tients.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--Many years ago, the heritors of
this parish found it necessary to meet the wants of the poor
by annual voluntary contributions. Finding, however, the burden
becoming gradually heavier, in consequence of the great increase
in the population, a fund of about L.170 was uplifted and applied;
and, finally, in 1823, it became necessary to resort to the last and
least desirable expedient of a legal assessment. The evils arising
out of this system were soon felt and complained of, and almost
immediately after the present incumbent's induction, he was urged
by his parishioners to seek for a renewal of the previous system.
Some difficulty was experienced in the first attempts to accomplish
the object. The following pleas continued to be urged, however,
on tbe part of the kirk-session: 1st, That the heritors would have
for the present (1831) to contribute somewhat less than they had
been in use to pay for the preceding seven years;  2d, That the
expenre connected with collecting from upwards of 400 individuals
would be saved; 3d, That the plan proposed might operate, in
some degree, as a check upon what seems to have become the
necessary concomitants of stated assessments for the poor, viz. an
increase in their numbers and in their demands; and, 4th, That
it would at once remove that feeling of dissatisfaction and grudge,
and even of resistance, which had manifested itself, and lead to the
revival and enlargement of that true charity which gives not by
constraint, but willingly. Then, and not till then, was it held to
be likely that any successful appeal could be made to this Christ-
ian principle among the parishioners generally.
   The heritors soon thereafter agreed to make the experiment,
and the results have been such as to encourage its continuance up
to the present time,--for one and all of the anticipated conse-
quences have been the result, 1st, the hetitors themselves conti-
nue to pay somewhat less than before; 2d, the expense of collect-
ing, and of the legal proceedings occasionally required to enforce
payment, are saved to the parishioners generally,--the minister
and elders themselves undertaking the work of gathering in the


