
     Of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen.

   Sea Ware for Manure and Kelp.-Upon every part of
the coast, there are various kinds of sea-weeds, or sea-
ware, or wrack, as it is called, both for manure and
kelp, such as button wrack, lady wrack, black ware,
tangle, etc.  Every kind of sea-ware is used for manure,
and is found to answer the soil best, probably from the
great quantity of salt, sea-ware contains, and the cold na-
ture of the soil.  Sea-ware is the only manure that an-
swers mossy ground.  Indeed, for this it is excellent:  It
produces crops from the deepest moss.  Button wrack, 
and lady wrack, are best for kelp, and the only kinds

<FOOTNOTE>

the herring and white fishing.  Every kind of fishing must be partially
carried on by them; that is, they can only fish when not throng at their
farming.  But even this partial fishing, they are restrained from by the
salt laws; for it cannot be supposed, that a man will go 40 or 50 miles to
a customhouse for a few baskets of salt, and return again to the same cus-
tomhouse with the little fish he has cured, or perhaps with his little
salt, without any fish at all.  Country people also, never will go to a dis-
tant customhouse for salt, till the herring appear in the lochs, for fear, as
often happens, the fishing may fail; and that having no proper place to
keep the salt, it may, in different ways be embezzled, and they incur all
the penalties of the salt laws.  When the herring appear, the weather may
be bad, the distance to a customhouse great, the salt damaged in their open
boats, and the herring, in a great measure, disappear, or, at least, much
valuable time lost before they return home to the fishing.  There is a cus-
tomhouse in Tobermory in Mull; but the Oban customhouse is as near the
the parish of Ross.  The case is nothing better as to smuggled salt.  The
smugglers will at all times endeavour, by high prices, to indemnify them-
selves for the risk they run; and, in times of scarcity, their price are very
high.  The incumbent was told, that, in 1792, it was sold in some parts 
of the country at a guinea the barrel:  But, however low smuggled
salt may be in price, no fish cured with it can be sold in open mar-
ket.  If salt were duty free, all these grievances would be done away, and
farmers and cottagers would cure fish, not only for their own private use,
but also for sale.  The incumbent does not pretend to say, what would be
best for the herring busses.  In all, he says, he had only in view the coun-
try people.


