
     Statistical Account

   Formerly the rents of the parish were partly paid in kind*.
Those of the barony of Alloa are now wholly paid in money,
except a few kain, which are paid over and above the stipu-
lated rent.  The tenants likewise pay half of the cess, or
land tax.  Although the rents throughout the parish are con-
siderably raised, they are not thought to be over-rated; and
the prosperity of the industrious and intelligent tenants plainly
demonstrate it+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*When the tenants are poor, paying their rent in kind may be detrimental to
them:  for, in bad years, they find it difficult, if not impossible, to pay the sti-
pulated quantity of grain; and as the price of it, in those years, must of course
be high, the tenant incurs a heavy debt, which many abundant crops will not
enable him to get the better of.  There are, however, various opinions on this
point; many insisting, that, in long leases, it is the only equitable method; and,
in some parts of the country, the payment in kind is indispensible.
   +On letting the new tacks (or leases), there was a small farm, in the upper
barony of Alloa, possessed by a man, named DONALDSON, of whose ancestors
the following traditional tale is told:-"That King James V., when out a
hunting, being once benighted, and thrown out from his attendants, took shelter
in this poor cottage, where he was hospitably received and entertained; the
goodman (i.e. the farmer or landlord), calling to his wife to bring the hen that
sat nearest the cock, (which is always reckoned the best one), and make a sup-
per.  The King, delighted with the frank, hospitable manner of his landlords
desired, that the next time he was at Stirling, he would call at the castle, for the
Goodman of Ballinguiak*.  Donaldson did as he was desired, and was astonished
to find that the King had been his guest.  He was on this dignified with the name
of King of the Muirs; and this title has descended from father to son ever since."
This tradition made the proprietor 10th to turn out the tenant, especially as he
was desirous of trying the experiment, whether these kind of tenants could be
taught any thing of improved husbandry; but, to his great mortification, he
has found that the man, though only about 40 years of age, could not conquer
his bad habits, or profit in the least from the example of his diligent neigh-
hours.  There certainly must have been something peculiarly depressing in the

*BALLINGUIAK is a narrow path, leading down the north west side of the rock
at Stirling; and the King is said to have taken this title, when in disguise.


