
     of Cathart.

parts consist of deep rich loam, and the higher grounds are
clay, in many places thinly spread over a till bottom.
On the rising grounds, complaints are made, of the want of
springs, to supply the inhabitants with water.  The wells,
that are dug, never fail to become dry in summer.  This seems
to be owing to the peculiar construction of the hills above
mentioned, and to the clay soil, which retains the water on
the surface.  From the circumstance above stated, a great
inequality takes place, in the value of the lands.  The fields
in the lower parts of the parish, although adjacent to Glas-
gow, to which they send their produce, and thence receive
their manure at an easy rate, do not rent so high, as the
lands at a greater distance; and again, the farms in the up-
per part of the parish, having to struggle, both with the dis-
advantage of their greater distance from markets, and an
inferior soil, are, in comparison, rented very low.  While
some farms, are let as high, as L. 3 per acre, others, fall be-
low 7 s.  This inequality cannot altogether be ascribed,
to the difference of the soil; and, as there are two turnpike
roads, which are always kept in excellent repair, leading
through the parish, in convenient directions to Glasgow,
the distance from the market, in any part of it, cannot be
complained of.  It must be allowed, therefore, that the
grounds in the upper part of the parish, till of late, have
been much neglected.  As the gentleman, to whom the
greater part of them belong, has come to reside in the pa-
rish, he will naturally be led, to take such measures, as will
render them more valuable, both to himself and to the com-
munity.  The vicinity of such a rich an industrious city, as
Glasgow, should give a powerful spring to the exertions of
every landholder in its neighbourhood, who may be fully
assured, that the produce of their estates, however much in-
creased, either in quantity or quality, will immediately be
sold to the best advantage.  One gentleman in this parish, by


