
                      BORROWSTOWNNESS.                      139

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   It appears from the recollection of Sir R. Drummond of Meid-
hope, referred to by Sir R. Sibbald, that, about the year 1600,
there was but one house where Bo'ness and the other villages east-
ward to Carriden now stand. And about the year 1700, accord-
ing to Sir R. Sibbald's own observation, "from the Palace of
Kinneil, for some two miles eastward, are almost continued build-
ings upon the coast; and above it, upon the sloping ground from
the hills of Irongath, there are several seats of the gentry, and
several villages well peopled, because of the frequent coal pits all
over the ground."  To this period, therefore, we may refer the ori-
gin of Bo'ness and the neighbouring villages. And the great and
rapid change which took place between 1600 and 1700, may be
ascribed to the extensive trade with the low countries, which
sprung up during that interval. The merchandise brought from
Holland, Bremen, Hamburgh, Konigsberg, and Danizic, was land-
ed on the south shores of the Frith, and conveyed to Linlithgow,
Stirling, Glasgow, and all the west country. Blackness was the
only place on the south side of the Frith where ships could lie
safely; but causeways or gravelled roads are said to have been
made on the beech, by which carts might be brought alongside of
vessels at low water, for the purpose of landing or shipping goods.
The Ness, on which the town now stands, presented a situation
favourable for such operations; and, most probably, the compact
piece of causeway, which was discovered about twenty years ago,
at the depth of several feet below the sill of the dock-gate, was part
of the original landing-place at the Ness.
   The abundance of coal in the neighbourhood, as well as the
local convenience of the Ness, probably attracted shipping to it at
an early period; and the prosperous trade, which commenced in
the beginning of the seventeenth century, induced many rich mer-
chants, ship-owners, and others, to acquire property, * or to reside
here; so that the town and population rapidly increased.
   Town.-The town of Bo'ness is situated in the north-east cor-
ner of the parish, close to the harbour, and nearly on a level with
the sea. It is uncertain when it as erected into a burgh of re-

<FOOTNOTE>creeks of Limekilns and Inverkeithing. In 1794, 25 ships belonged to the town;
whereof 17 were brigantines, 11 of them engaged in the Baltic trade, and 6 under
contract to sail regularly once every 14 days, to and from London.
  Sir John Hamilton of Grange, and Sir John Hamilton of Beircrofts, had sa-
sines of various houses and tenements in Bo'ness, from the Marquis of Hamilton, in
1620 and 1623.


