			   CAMBUSLANG.                            421

ironstone above the coal,--and beneath, a little fire clay and about
6 feet of shale mixed with shivery thin laminae of freestone. Be-
neath this, are 24 feet of extremely hard freestone rock, and then
the 3 feet 6 inch coal. 62 feet of till or shale separate this thin seam
from the 5 feet coal, which lies on a bed of shale 20 feet thick.
Beneath this, at the depth of upwards of 189 feet, we have a bed
of hard compact limestone, usually called the Cambuslang marble,
from 6 to 18 inches thick, and beautifully variegated with bivalve
shells. This marble lies on 8 feet of shale, succeeded by about
3 feet of very hard white freestone, and 32 feet of shale or slate-
clay, mixed with ironstone. This brings us to the 6 feet coal,
which lies upon a stratum of shale, with freestone 47 feet thick.
The 3 feet coal is covered with about 8 inches of coarse ironstone,
and lies upon 10 feet of shale, with vegetable impressions. After
passing through 6 feet of freestone, we come to 14 feet of shale with
vegetable impressions, and, at the depth of about 320 feet, there
are two scams of ironstone 10 inches thick. These rest imme-
diately upon the 3 feet 6 inch coal, which is separated by 18 inches
of shale from the 1 foot 6 inch coal. Beneath this, to the depth
of upwards of 80 feet, thin seams of coal are penetrated by boring,
mixed with shale, freestone, and ironstone.
	This arrangement is by no means invariably the same, but is
only given to furnish a general idea of the order of succession in
which the metals lie. The thickness of the coals and of the free-
stone varies considerably, and the strata are frequently deranged
by troubles, or dikes, of which there are several which run in a
direction from east to west, and at pretty regular distances from
each other. In their general lie, the seams are usually nearly pa-
rallel to each other, although they always subtend a considerable
angle with regard to the surface of the earth, aud uniformly have
their dip or declinature towards the Clyde. At the river, they lie
many feet deep, but rise gradually till they crop out, or reach the
surface, within less than a mile and a half from it. In approach-
ing the Clyde, the dip is so much the less, and at a distance from
it, it is one in four or five. The pits in Cambuslang are all the
property of the Duke of Hamilton, but are rented by James Farie,
Esq. of Farme. Before 1787, they were kept clear of water by a
level, which conducted the accumulated water of the workings into
the Clyde. But as it was found impossible to work the coal be-
neath that level, a steam engine was erected in the above year,
and has ever since been used for the double purpose of drawing

	LANARK.                      E e


