
     of Wick.

of lives, even during the herring fishing season, which at this
place is in summer and the beginning of autumn.  The
coast being very open and dangerous, fishermen will not ven-
ture out in small boats but in very promising weather.  The
abolition of the duty on coals would be of great use by en-
couraging the resort of settlers to carry on both fisheries and
manufactures; and lastly, it would be of importance to have
a large supply of salt and casks laid up in storehouses*.

   It would also contribute to the success of the herring fi-
shery were proper regulations laid down for carrying it on.
Real fishermen, whose sole business and interest should be
to carry on all sorts of fishing, ought to be procured.  Al-
though this parish affords as good a fishing coast and as good
stations as could be wished, yet it is to be regretted that
there are hardly any real fishermen belonging to it, those
alone excepted who resort to Wick, from different parts of
the kingdom, during the season of herring fishing only.
Such, however, is the desire of gain that pervades all forts of
tradesmen here, that they betake themselves to the herring
fishing when they think it likely to turn to better account
than their own particular business.  Weavers, taylors, shoe-
makers, house and boat carpenters, blacksmiths, masons, etc.
in this and the neighbouring parishes, having made a little

<FOOTNOTE>

*This last is an object worthy the attention of the British
Fishing Society, as many thousand barrels might often be
caught in one night here; but, from its uncertainty, private ad-
venturers cannot afford to have by them so great a stock of salt
and casks, as would be necessary on such occasions; the conse-
quence is, that when the herrings run beyond expectation, the
private stocks are exhausted, the industry of the poor fisherman
cramped, and the fish allowed to lie on their hands, though per-
haps the merchants were bound by paction to receive them.
The best remedy would be to take off entirely the duty upon
salt, an impost in many respects impolitic and injudicious.


