
216			AYRSHIRE.

may be enumerated Bryum turbinaturn, B. ligulatum, B. hornum,
Jungermannia asplenoides, J. bidentata, Hookeria lucens.
	Plantations.--A great extent of land has been planted within
these forty years, principally by Colonel Blair of Blair. The trees
chiefly planted are the oak, ash, beech, elm, plane, chestnut,
horse-chestnut, willow, silver, and spruce firs, and larch. The
greater part of the Blair plantations have been formed on steep
rocky banks, which in their natural state were of little value.
Although the trees in these plantations have generally thriven ad-
mirably, those with a northern, show a decided superiority over
those with a southern exposure. The latter are more liable to be
affected by the droughts of summer, and are more apt to become
stinted in their growth; while the wood is less firm in its texture,
and not so durable as that which has a northern exposure. Ex-
tensive plantations have been formed on moss-land by J. Smith,
Esq. of Swinridgemuir, and A. Mitchell Esq. of Maulside; espe-
cially, the latter gentleman, who has, by judicious planting, great-
ly improved as well as beautified a portion of the parish, hitherto
very, bleak. The trees are healthy and thriving on this soil, and by
no means inferior to any plantation in the neighbourhood. Al-
though much has been effected in planting within these forty
years, much still remains to be done. This is particularly the case
in regard to the north and north-west sides of the parish.
	Large Trees.--In the vicinity of Blair House, there is growing
a fine Spanish chestnut tree, believed to be among the largest of
the kind in Scotland. It rises with a beautiful stem for upwards
of 20 feet. Its girth at the ground is 16 feet 6 inches. Three
feet above the ground it is 13 feet 3 inches, and diminishes little
to the first branch. It has a fine head of foliage; although having
formerly been nearly surrounded by other trees, its branches have
not had full liberty to expand. It is growing on a sloping bank,
having a north-west exposure. Its age is unknown. There are
also some large plane-trees; the largest measures in circumference
18 feet 1 inch; the first branch is 11 feet in girth. In the poli-
cies are many beautiful specimens of evergreens, probably not ex-
celled in Ayrshire. Many of the Portugal laurels exceed 30 feet
in height. There are also some remarkably beautiful rhododen-
drons, one of which covers a space of ground nearly 60 feet in cir-
cumference; and when in full flower nothing can exceed its
splendid appearance.


