
     Statistical Account

pigeons in the low grounds, with different kinds of hawks,
and a few eagles.  Upon the shore, sea-maws, with various
forts of ducks, and migratory birds:  woodcocks appear
early in winter, and disappear in spring; also swans on
the sea and lakes.  Those sowls, called widgeons, appear
early in spring, if the season is mild, and disappear a-
bout the middle or latter end of autumn, as the weather is
moderate, or otherwise.  There are some good black, cattle,
both in point of shape and size, which are reared from a few
stocks in this parish, and fetch at the rate of, from 7 L. to 9L
the cow and calf.  Young cattle sell in proportion.

   Population.-There are no records, by which the state of
this parish, with regard to population, can be traced very far
back; the general belief is, that it has decreased between 70
and 80 souls within these last 20 years*.-The increase how-
ever within these 40 years is considerable.  The present num-
ber of souls (all of whom reside in the country), is as follows:

<TABLE>

Males,                    760 
Females,                  777        Total,        1537
The number returned to Dr. Webster in 1755, was,   1150
                                  Increase,         387

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

* What has affected the population most, within that period, is, the laying out
some lands entirely in pasture; 2 or 3 farms being now thrown into the hands
of one grazier, which were formerly possessed, some by 4, and some by 8 tenants
each, but are now the residence only of a herd or two:  And at the end of the
leases, which are very short in this country, (being only from 5 to 7 years with
the lower order of tenants), such farms as are adapted to it are, almost always,
laid out in pasture.  This has not operated, however, so much against population
in general, as against a particular class of the inhabitants.  It reduces the number
of the tenants, but it adds to that of the cottagers, as they are often kept, upon
some of the farms, that are laid out in pasture.  But although this may in part make
up the deficiency in population, brought on by this mode of occupying lands;
yet, upon the whole, it is found, that there has been some decrease in the num-
ber of inhabitants since the commencement of it, or within these 20 years.


