
382   	              STIRLINGSHIRE.

that day, among whom were Charles II., his brother, James Duke
of York, Duke of Monmoutb, and several other persons of note.
This act of Mr Cargill's was never publicly approved of by Pres-
byterians.
   Dunipace.-Tbis beautiful estate was, in 1606, in the posses-
sion of Mr John Levingston, who was one of the jury appointed
to try six Presbyterian ministers at the instance of King James VI.
for meeting with some other ministers, and holding an Assem-
bly at Aberdeen, in the preceding July, without his Majesty's con-
sen, who was then exerting himself, by every means in his power,
to erect Episcopacy on the ruins of Presbytery. Six of the jury
voted, "not guilty," among whorm was the laird of Dunipace, who,
says Calderwood, not only absolved these ministers from being
guilty of treason, but maintained "they were honest ministers, faith-
ful servants of Jesus Christ, and good subjects of the King." This
independent manly conduct of the laird of Dunipace, King James
was weak enough to resent afterwards. This same gentleman, in
1621, as Member of Parliament for the shire of Stirling, voted
against the adoption of the "five articles of Perth." Dunipace
afterwards came into the possession of the Primroses, the last of
whom, Sir Archibald, having in 1745 joined the rebel army under
the Pretender, was taken prisoner and beheaded at Carlisle. Du-
nipace then fell into the hands of Government, from whom it was
afterwards purchased by the father of the present proprietor,
Thomas Spottiswoode, Esq. The mansion-house, which stands
within a few yards of the site of the old church, is of modern ar-
chitecture, and has an elegant appearance.
  Quarter-House, the residence of John Harvie Brown, Esq.
was, built by the late Alexander Brown, Esq. on a rising ground
to the eastward of the turnpike-read leading from Denny to Stir-
ling. It had, for a number of years, rather a bleakish Aspect; but
the clumps of trees intended to screen it from the north and west
winds now growing up, give it both an elegant and comfortable
appearance.
  Carbrook-House, the seat of John Campbell, Esq. is built in
a very romantic situation, within half a mile of Torwood Castle,
the woods around which adorn Mr. Campbell's house, in a very
picturesque manner.

  <FOOTNOTE>Since the a6ove was written, the following alterations in the state of property
have taken Place--James Jounston, Esq. of Alva, has sold Denovan to William For-
bes, Esq. of Callendar, by which purchase Mr Forbes is now the first heritor. The
-Dunipaie and Quarter estates are now conjoined by John Harvie Brown having


