
262                      ARGYLESHIRE.

Furlong, Esq. of Erines.  Three of these, viz. Alexander Camp-
bell, Esq. of Achindarroch, William A. Campbell, Esq. of Orm-
sary, and William Furlong, Esq. of Erines, are resident, and oc-
cupy plain substantial mansions.  The house of Achindarroch is
situated on the banks of the Crinan Canal ; the grounds about it
have been tastefully laid out by John MacNeill, Esq. of Oakfield,
the former proprietor ; and we bave no doubt the beauty of the
place will be greatly enhanced under the skilful management of
the present public spirited proprietor.  There are good substan-
tial mansions on the properties of Inverneill, Erines, Ormsary, and
Drimdrissaig.  Mr Campbell of Stonefield has built a large and
elegant house at Barmore in this parish.
   Parochial Registers.-Registers of births and marriages have
been kept in the parish since 1771 ; though entries appear to have
been correctly made, the book containing the registrations has
not been well taken care of, some of the leaves having been lost,
and the whole much sullied.  Since the appointment of the pre-
sent incumbent in 1806, every attention has been paid to them.
   Antiquities.-At one time, there were the remains of seven an-
cient chapels to be found in this parish; now there are but three
to be seen, one in Ellan-more-vic-O'Charmaig, one at Kilmory
Knap, and one at Cove.  The chapel in Ellanmore was built by
MacO'Charmaig, an ancient proprietor of this island ; it is arch-
ed over and covered with flags, and, notwithstanding its antiquity,
is in a wonderful state of preservation.  Within the chapel in a
recess in the wall, is a stone coffin, in which the remains of the
priests are said to have been deposited.  The figure of a naked
man is cut on the lid of the coffin ; the coffin, also, for ages, served
the saint as a treasury, and this, perhaps, might have been the
purpose for which it was at first intended.  Till of late, not a
stranger set foot on the island, who did not conciliate the favour
of the saint, by dropping a small coin into a chink between the lid
of the coffin and its side.  On an eminence not far off, is a pedestal,
with a cross and the figure of anaked man ; and near to the cross is
a cave, which, as tradition says, at one time produced wonderful
effects upon such as had the hardihood to enter it.  It seems now
to have lost its wonderful properties, as people seem to go into it,
without dreading any fatal consequences.  Saint Cormaig also
founded the church of Kilvie O'Charmaig, the mother church
of the two Knapdales; and after a life spent in acts of piety
and devotion, he was buried in his native island.  His tomb,


