
                          KIRKMICHAEL.                         299

is an extensive marl-bank close by the Avon, a little below Inch-
rory, in the southern extremity of the inhabited part of the parish,,
but it is not available for agricultural purposes, from the want of
a road to it.  If there  were any access to this marl-bank, it would
be of great value in the parish.
   There is a considerable portion of the arable soil alluvial, i. e.
on the haugbs of the Avon, and its tributary streams ; and the
greatest part of the remainder rests on lime-rock, and consists of
a rich loam.  The soil, on the whole, is productive, and wor-
thy of a better-climatd.
   Zoology.-The eagle is still found in the forest of Glenavon. It
builds its eyrie in some inaccessible rock, and continues from year
to year to hatch its young in the same spot. One of these noble
birds was killed some years ago, which measured upwards of six
feet from tip to tip of the wings. The following incident, illus-
trative of the habits of birds and beasts of prey, may not be un-.
worthy of notice. One of the keepers of the forest being one day
reclining on the side of a hill, observed an eagle hovering about
for its prey, and darting suddenly down, it caught hold of
a polecat, with which it rose up and flew away in the direc-
tion of an immense cliff on the opposite hill. It had not pro-
ceeded far, when he observed it abating its course, and descending
in a spiral direction, until it reached the ground. He was led from
curiosity to proceed towards the spot, which was about a mile dis-
tant from him, and there he found the eagle quite dead, with its
talons transfixed in the cat.  The cat was also dead, with its
teeth fixed in the eagle's gullet. Foxes were, some years ago, nu-
merous in the mountain ranges of the parish, and were very de-
structive to the flocks, but it is believed that they are now nearly
extirpated.  Otters, weasels, polecats, and rabbits, are found in
the parish. All sorts of game, such as grouse, hares, snipe, and
partridges, abound over the whole arish.  Ptarmigan, also, are
numerous on the Grampian hills. Exclusive of the immense forest
of Glenavon, (now being stocked with deer,) the shooting on the
Duke of Richmond's portion of the hills alone lets at about L.300
a-year.
   The domestic animals are all of the ordinary kind, but conside-

<FOOTNOTE>It is expected will pay well and give employment to a number of work people. Plum-
bago is also found in considerable quantity and of good' quality in the immediate
neighbourhood.


