
362		GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

first of these sections, and which may be designated the red sand-
stone district. The space occupied by the sandstone strata itself,
where it has been lifted to the surfaces is comparatively limited,
and the rock at its disruption is either generally covered with the
diluvium brought from a little distance, or its disintegration is so
complete as to offer no obstruction to cultivation. But, besides
that space itself, almost the whole adjacent lower grounds to the
north and eastward of the rock are covered with diluvium princi-
pally of the sandstone, its debris and rougher fragments having
been carried by the current of the superincumbent waters, and
spread over the less elevated portion of the original strata. And
to such a depth have there materials been accumulated, in varmus
situation that they actually constitute something like a new
formation. There are, however, parts of this section, and especi-
all near its western confines, where a considerable mixture of clay
is to be found in the ground, and which, consequently, confers a
different character on it, as well as a difference in its value and
the nature of its produce. The greater proportion, however, by
far of the surface of the parishes mentioned is composed of the
sand stone diluvium, mixed to a greater or less extent with the
other materials furnished by the disrupted, strata of secondary for-
mation, and which constitutes what is denominated a sandy loam,
a soil naturally fitted to become, what much of it actually, now is,
a tract of the most fertile land in, Scotland.
   Limestone is found near the eastern extremity of the district,
but confined to a comparatively limited spot, composed entirely of
the original strata. Trap rock is also found to a trifling extent,
but chiefly within the sea beach or near to it. Clay fit for tile-
making is apparently restricted to one spot on the sea coast, to the
west a little of Dunbar. There are no other minerals known to
exist in the district.
   The second section comprehends the parishes of Gifford and
Morham; and from theme, and from the Garleton-hills to the
westward, to the boundary of the county, the surface of much
of that district is tolerably level, the strata having been compara-
tively less disturbed and dislocated than some other parts of the
country. Throughout a considerable portion of it, the soil has con-
sequently been formed on beds of clay, and similar materials, more
nearly approaching to the original strata than the soil of the land
to the eastward. The action of the atmosphere, through the lapse


