
86                  CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

day level at 10 fathoms from the surface. Of the splitit coil very
little was wrought by this winning, the chief object being to work
the rough coal, it being of superior quality, and commanding a
ready sale,--and, in order to gain as large a breast of the rough coal
by this fitting, a cross cut mine was run from the splint coal at the
engine pit bottom, until it intersected the rouoh coal. This coal, by
this operation, was wrought westward as far as the. garden grounds
belonging to the feuars of the old town of Dollar, and eastward in-
to the Middleton coal-field. An attempt was made to work an addi-
tional breast of this coal, by means of under-dip working. to the nort li
of the engine-pit bottom, but a very limited area of coal was wrought
by this plan. After this, the engine was stopped in consequence
of a law-suit, afterwards noticed, and the coal is now all under water.
   It is now nine years since any of the Dollar coal was wrought.
   As the coals lying tinder the glebe lands, held in liferent by the
parish minister, could be wrought in connection with these mining
operations, part of the glebe coals were wrought long ago at a cer-
tain royalty for each ton, payable by the lessee of the Dollar col-
liery to the parish minister, as was common in Such cases. This
took place during the incumbency of the late Rev. John Watson ;
but, as matters did not go on comfortably. the lessee gave up the
working of this coal.
   Some considerable time after this, the whole of the coal in the
grebe was purchased by the late Crawfurd Tait of Harviestoun, Esq.
l'or the sum of L. 100 ; which sum is secured in perpetuity to the
minister of the parish and big successors, the interest of which sum
lie draws annually from the proprietor of the estate, such being,
the law of the church in such cases.
    The greater part of the lands in the parish, with the coals and
other minerals, belonged originally to the Duke of Argyle, and
his Grace not only gave off small areas of land in perpetual feu,
for payment of a feu-duty, but he also feued a great part of the Dol-
lar or Castle Campbell barony in large areas for villas. In the
greater part of these feus his Grace reserved the coal and the right
of working the same under the usual servitudes. All the other mine-
rals were the property of the feuar, In a few instances, the whole of
tile minerals, including the coals, were given alone, with the surface.
   In this reservation of the coal in these different feus, and the
servitude of using the surface in some instances without paying, any
damages, a very great difficulty has arisen in the course of work-
ing this coal-field as one continuous area of coal to which the su-
perior has right, and this difficulty has already led to years of most


