
                   PARISH OF KELSO.

    PRESBYTERY OF KELSO, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE.

         THE REV. J. M. MACCULLOCH, A. M. MINISTER.

                      ______________


           I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--KELSO, * formerly written Kellsowe, and at still more re-
mote periods, Calchow and Calkow, is supposed to owe its name
to the cliff on which part of the town stands.  The name Calkow is
composed of two words,--the Celtic calch or cealc, chalk, and the
Anglo-Saxon ho or how, a height: and as the cliff referred to con-
tains gypsum and other calcareous earths, the appellation Calk-
how (Scottice Cauk-heugh) is far from inappropriate.  The hard
and soft sounds of ch being interchangeable, the original pronun-
ciation Kalkow would readily slide into the softened Kalchow;
while the further transition of Kalchow into Kalshow, and thence
into Kelsow and Kelso is easily accounted for by the usus enunci-
andi of the Scottish border.  Up to this day, the illiterate part of
the rural population give soft ch its French sound, and pronounce
cheap, cheat, &c. as if the orthography was sheap, sheat.
  Topographical Features.--In shape, the parish is nearly trian-
gular; its greatest length is about 5 miles, its greatest breadth
about 3.  It is divided into two nearly equal parts by the River
Tweed, which intersects it in a north-easterly direction, for about
three miles: and as the parish stretches longitudinally in a direc-
tion at right angles to the river, so as to form a transverse section
of the vale of the Tweed, its topographical features necessarily em-
brace both dale and upland, and exhibit the varied character inse-
parable from the scenery of a wide and beautifully-diversified val-
ley.  In the northern division, the country gradually rises from the

<FOOTNOTE>Kelso is not the only name in the parish which exhibits traces of the successive
possession of this part of Scotland by the Britons and Saxons.  Tweed, the name of
the principal river, is the Cambro-British Twedd, the border of a country.  The old
Saxon Lleaw, or law, a hill, enters into the name of not less than five heights in the
parish, viz.  Brox-law, Galla-law, Sharpit-law, Spy-law, Soft-law. One place, Woo-den,
has the Saxon dean as its affix; another, Muse-rig has the Saxon rig.  There is no trace
of Scadinavian names; but the Norman will appears in Maxwell, which was origi-
nally written Maccusvill, and named from Maccus, the proprietor of the parish of
Maxwell, in the time of King David I.


