
     of Queensferry

sage.  The latter consisted of several persons, shipmasters and
others, who erected themselves into what is called a Boat
Club, built and kept in repair a sufficient number of boats
and yawls, and took leases from the proprietors of the water-
passage, by which they were entitled to ply on this ferry.
Such was the practice till the year 1784, when the proprie-
tors of the water-passage, refusing to grant leases to the own-
ers of boats and yawls, purchased the whole of them, and
have since let them yearly by roup.  By this change the
public have gained several advantages.  The boats and yawls
are kept in excellent repair, under the inspection of a judi-
cious person, appointed by the proprietors.  The rules and
regulations of the passage have been painted on boards, and
affixed at some proper place on the inns at both sides.  Two
gentlemen, one on this, the other on the north side, are in-
vested with powers to decide all matters in dispute; so that,
if the regulations are not observed, or more than the fares
demanded, the public have themselves only to blame.  It
has been much debated, whether or not the charter by which
the passage is held should not be taken away, indemnification
given to the proprietors, and the right to the passage said
open to every one who should chuse to ply upon it.  There
is not much difficulty, it is apprehended, in deciding the
question.  A passage so much frequented as this, must be
kept under strict regulations.  There are best made, and can
only be well observed, by making the right of the passage
private property, or by vesting is in some company.  Besides,
were the passage laid open to every needy adventurer, who
might find means to fit out a boat or yawl, the public would
have no security that such boats and yawls would be kept in
sufficient repair, or properly manned.  From motives of
profit, too, the owners of them might be tempted to risk a
passage, which, from the weather, might be dangerous, or
even sometimes fatal.


