
     Statistical Account

own expense.  Many of the landlords allow the incoming te-
nants a considerable deduction from the yearly rent, for buy-
ing lime for assisting them in their improvement*.

   Manufactures.-We have few manufactures in this parish,
owing to our distance from collieries.  But although our coals
are dearer, our grain is cheaper by 18 d. or 2 s. a boll, than
it is about Glasgow and Paisley.  Our supernumerary young
men go partly to England, and partly to Edinburgh, and o-
ther populous towns in Scotland, in quest of employment.
Very few of them relish either the sailor or soldier's way of
life.  Our young women are, for the most part, employed in
spinning, of which they make very small wages, not exceed-
ing 2 s. a-week.  It is said that sundry manufacturers in E-
dinburgh, and other places, have of late years sent them quan-
tities Of lint to spin here, which they return in yarn; and that
this employment increases every year.  Our handicraftsmen

<FOOTNOTE>

*The yearly gains or wages of a single bind in this parish, are 10 bolls oats,
2 bolls barley, 1 boll pease, a house and a small kail yard, a cow's meat, land
for sowing a sirlot of potatoes, the carriage of 3 or 4 carts coals, from 20 s. to
30 s. for sheep-money, their victuals while working at hay, or in harvest; his
wife reaps in harvest for the house, and the and her bairns, that can work, get
from 3 d. to 6 d. a-day, for weeding turnips and potatoes, and for gathering and
carrying off stones from the sown grass grounds.  The lotmen or threshers of corn,
get the 25th boll in name of wages; some farmers give them a bottle of small.
beer at a certain hour of the day, which is very necessary, and it enlivens them
much.  A ploughman or carter who lives in the farmer's house, gets from 6 l.
to 7 l. yearly: a day-labourer gets 10 d. in winter, and 1 s. the rest of the year,
winter being reckoned at 4 months: masons and wrights from 16 d. to 20 d. a-
day: the other tradesmen are commonly paid for piece work: a maid servant
gets from 3 l. to 4 l. a-year.  All there wages, except the hinds and herds, who
are paid in kind, have been raised one-third part, at least, within there last 40
years.  Even the hind's and herd's are increased, by the difference of their cow's
meat and the sowing of potatoes; some of them are allowed to sow a peck or a
half of lintfeed, and every faithful servant commonly gets some additional gra-
tifications from their masters and mistresses.


