
506                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and they are generally fattened and sold off before winter. Great
attention has of late years been paid to the breed of cattle in
Dalkeith Park. His Grace's stock of short-horns, as well as of
Leicester sheep, are now of great excellence, and may bear a com-
parison with that of any of the most celebrated breeders in the
kingdom.
   The general character of the soil may be described as clayey, the
subsoil rather close and retentive, interspersed or intersected, how-
ever, by thin seams of sand or gravel, while here and there through-
out the parish several fields of a light channelly, sandy nature are
to be found. Since the introduction of tile and furrow-draining,
a very marked improvement has taken place in the character and
appearance of the soil; while every encouragement has been af-
forded by the Noble proprietor, who has lately erected an ex-
tensive manufactory of the kind on his property, and by the
liberal, and well-devised arrangements of His Grace, these are
furnished to his tenantry free of cost, the whole expenses attend-
ant upon the process being also defrayed by the proprietor; while
the tenant drives the materials, and pays interest for the outlay
at the rate of five per cent. per annum. We would like to see
this system much more in fashion, few farmers of common ca-
pital being able or willing to engage in such an expensive and per-
manent operation, and one which ultimately tends so much to the
benefit of the proprietor, as well as to the general good of the
community. The cost of draining every furrow 16 feet apart, in
a proper and sufficient manner, may be estimated at L. 6, 10s.
per imperial acre. The mode of cropping customary in the parish
is the following:-On the lighter or more pliable soil, potatoes,
wheat, grass, and oats, being the four course system, varied occa-
sionally by turnips and barley; on the more stubborn and reten-
tive soils the six course rotation prevails, viz. open fallow, wheat,
grass, oats, beans, and wheat. In proportion as the draining sys-
tem,-the groundwork of all improvement in farming, has increas-
ed, that of plain following has decreased; and we could point out
a number of fields in the parish, which, a few years ago, in their
undrained state, were to be seen every fourth season pining un-
der this profitless system, now in their turn bearing "or rejoicing
under" luxuriant crops of potatoes-or, of Swedish turnips, with
a double return of wheat and other crops during the whole rota-
tion. To such an extent, indeed, has this improved system been


