
     Statistical Account

assume, from the skirts of the island, till towards the centre
where they may come near 400 feet above the level of the
sea; and, unless in 2 or 3 places, they are not much incum-
bered with rocks.  The prospect, from every point of view,
is delightful; particularly from the S., where the Little Cim-
braes, and the Point of Pencross, with their ancient castles,
bound it by sea.  The Frith, too, often displays the beau-
tiful scenery of the extensive navigation of the West; while
that noble beacon, Eilse, rises towards the horizon; and, to
the N., Gatefield, in Arran, seems to support the clouds on
its brow*.

   Climate and Diseases.-The island, being surrounded by the
sea, and there being little marshy ground, the air is pure and
salubrious.  Snow seldom lies long; and frost does not pene-
trate deep, unless in very severe winters.  Its effect upon the
vegetables in the gardens, is much less than on the adjoining
grounds.  The parish abounds with excellent spring wa-
ter.  There advantages, joined with temperance and industry,
contribute greatly to the health of the inhabitants.  As an
evidence of the goodness of the climate, there are at present
(May 1793), 35 people above 60 years of age in the island;
an uncommon number advanced in years, in so small a com-
munity.  There is no particular disease prevalent.  Fevers
rarely visit the island; and, when they do, seldom prove
fatal+.  Inoculation now prevails, which renders the small-pox
both much milder, and more frequent.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Unless the weather is particularly clear, a cloud generally hangs on the
top of Gatefield.

+In the year 1783, a great number of people were attacked by a nervous
fever; but it proved fatal in only one instance.  The small-pox frequently made
great depredations, when the infection was introduced but once in several years,
which indeed was the case about 40 years ago, in most places of Scotland.
They generally appeared in those days with pestilential malignity.


