
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

tract of country.  It is wrought in the Duke of Queensberry's
property.  There is a fire or steam engine lately erected on
a new construction, for draining the mines, the invention of
Mr. William Symington, a young man of great mechanical
powers.  For this engine, he has obtained a patent from go-
vernment.  This must be of singular advantage, as it will en-
able the manager of the coal works to carry on his operations
to a greater extent, and will furnish the community with the
best coals, which are found to lie deepest.  The strata in the
barony of Sanquhar are 6 miles in length, on each side of the
Nith, and on a medium half a mile of breadth.  The range of
the coal seam is about N. W. and S. E. bounded on each side
by the common blue rock of the country.  And when clear of
steps and dykes, which  frequently occur at 30 yards distance,
dips one foot in twelve, to the N. E. by N.  The whole of
the coalieries belong to his Grace the Duke of Queensberry,
excepting what are in the town commonly, and in some spots
of land belonging to a few small heritors in Sanquhar and its
vicinity.  There are about 40 people employed in the works,
and for any thing known to the contrary, they have been wrought
for centuries past, though not successfully as of late years.
The rent to his Grace does not exceed L. 50 per annum, but
is a considerable quantity of coals are used in his mines, and in o-
ther parts of his estate, the tacksman is bound to fell them at
2 s. 11 d. per ton, on the coal-hill.  There has not yet been
discovered more than two seams of workable coal, one a-
bout 4 feet thick, the other 3 feet 8 inches.  In some places
the last seam has been wrought it the depth of 23 fathoms
from the surface; in others, not more than 14 yards, as the
coal is thrown up by a large dyke, which ranges S. E.
and N. W. in some places 12, and in others 36 feet thick.
It stands nearly perpendicular has always a great quantity of
white spar in it; and lead or has been found in cutting

</UNREADABLE>


