
440                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

account of Kirknewton, drawn up by the then minister, the Rev.
Alexander Bryce, dated July 28, 1749; and one of East Calder,
prepared by a committee of the Presbytery of Linlithgow, dated
April 25, 1750.
   Eminent Men.-The Rev. Alexander Bryce was ordained mi-
nister of this parish in 1745, where he remained till his death in
1786. He was buried within the church, and east wall bears
a small tablet with this inscription, "Here lie the remains of the
Reverend Alexander Bryce, who was minister of this parish for
forty years, and one of the chaplains in ordinary to His Majesty.
He was a man of true piety, of great benevolence, and of general
science. He died in 1786, aged 73, universally regretted." Mr
Bryce was distinguished as a geometrician, and was the author of
several scientific papers published by the Royal Society of Lon-
don. He prepared "A Map of the North Coast of Britain, from
the Raw Stoir of Assynt to Wick in Caithness, with the Harbours
and Rocks, and an Account of the Tides in the Pentland Frith,"
which was afterwards published by the Philosophical, now the
Royal, Society in 1744, and is the most accurate, it is believed
that exists of that part of the island" (Chambers' Biography.)
Near to the tablet just referred to is another, placed there re-
cently, "Sacred to the Memory of Major-General Sir Alexander
Bryce, Inspector-General, of Fortifications, Son of the Rev. Mr
Bryce, an officer greatly distinguished in the service of his coun-
try. He died in London, 1832, and was buried in St John's
Wood chapel."
   To his twin-brother, James, a surgeon of eminence in Edinburgh,
belongs the merit of inventing a test by which it might be conclusive-
ly determined whether the cow-pox appearing after vaccination was
merely a cutaneous pustule caused by the injection of the virus,
or was the result of the system of the patient having been consti-
tutionally affected by the operation; and also a simple method of
preserving and propagating the virus itself in a warm climate,
which was then unknown.
   Dr Cullen the celebrated physician, was proprietor Of Ormis-
ton Hill in this parish. Here he delighted to relax from the la-
borious duties of his profession, and there are still remaining
abundant and interesting traces of his peculiar tastes, and of the
care bestowed by him on its embellishment. His remains lie in
the churchyard of Kirknewton.
   Robert Cullen, Esq., the son of the physician, a Senator of the
College of Justice, was also buried in Kirknewton churchyard; and


