
654                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

the smaller farmers.  The capital of the savings bank is now up-
wards of L.2000 Sterling.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number on the session's
roll varies according to circumstances  At present there are from
55 to 60 receiving aid from the funds regularly twice in the year,
On these occasions none get more than L.1, some 15s., and some
less, according to their circumstances.  But of the number before
stated, there are nine or ten, who, being confined either by sick-
ness or age, require more frequent relief; sometimes to the
amount of 1s. 3d., but not more than at the rate of 1s. 6d. per
week, except where a sick nurse is requisite.  It may, however,
be proper here to mention, that, in addition to the session's allow-
ance, the proprietors give private benefactions to the poor on their
own estates, such as meal or articles of clothing, just as may best
suit their condition.  The only mode of procuring a fund here for
the relief of the poor, is by collections in church, proclamation
dues, donations from the heritors and others, together with the in-
terest on funded money, amounting in whole to about L.90 a-year,
which, in general, covers all the disbursements.  The sense of the
degradation, implied in a dependence on parochial relief, is now
much impaired, although there are still some persons who feel a
great reluctance in making their case known, even when actually
in need of pecuniary aid.
   Fairs.-There are 3 fairs annually at Castletown of Braemar,
two of them principally for cattle, and the third for both sheep
and cattle.  There is one also at Clachnaturn in Crathie.
   Inns.-In the united parish, there are 3 public-houses or inns,
and their effects on the morals of the people are, in many in-
stances, very unfavourable.
   Fuel.-The description of fuel used here is principally turf and
peats, together with some birch and fir-wood.  But the use of coals
is becoming more general.  The boll of 40 stone, driven from Aber-
deen, costs here 10s. 6d.  About twenty years back, it cost double
that price.

   May 1842.


