
218                          FIFESHIRE.

extends 9 miles; its greatest breadth from north-west to south-east
is 5 miles. It is bounded by the bay of St Andrew, on the east;
the river Eden, on the south; by the parishes of Dairsie and logie,
on the west; by Forgan and Ferry-Port-on-Craig, on the north; and
is of a very irregular figure.
  Topographical Appearances.--The general aspect of the parish
is that of an extensive flat rather bare of wood, for many square
miles,--not exceeding 15 feet in elevation above the level of the
sea. As it verges westward, however, the ground rises gradually,
till it reaches the top of the range of hills which separates it from
Logie, when its elevation may be about 250 or 300 feet above the
level of the sea. These hills are a branch of the terminating range
of the Ochils, and are called Lucklaw, Airdit, and Craigfoodie. Of
these, the summit of Airdit only is in this parish; but the whole
range, of four miles extent, forms a beautiful boundary and a shelter
to the level ground on the south-east. The land is now well drain-
ed, both by deep and surface draining; and the lighter land, at the
east and north sides of the parish, is well enclosed for sheep hus-
bandry, which has prevailed of late to a considerable extent, and
is found a great improvement for such soils.
  The west division of the parish contains six farms. These are
on elevated ground, inclining with a gentle slope, and are composed
of soils consisting of clay, soft loam, and gravel. The soil in which
gravel abounds, notwithstanding-the thorough draining to which it
has been subjected, retains much of its former spongy and wet cha-
racter.
  The sea shore is flat and sandy. The tide retires from the shore
about half a-mile on ebbing. There is no alluvial soil deposited
by the Eden; but the sand banks are always on the increase. The
bar of sand at its mouth is dangerous for shipping; and, the noise
with which the motion of the tide over it, is frequently accompanied,
indicates a coming or retiring storm.
  Hydrography.--The river Eden, which forms the southern boun-
dary for four or five miles, is navigable as far as the Guard bridge.
Here is a small harbour, which, from its commodious situation, serves
as the emporium of this part of the country. At spring-tides, ves-
sels of considerable burden can make their way to it without diffi-
culty. At the Guard bridge, a few salmon, trouts are caught in au-
tumn. Near the mouth of the river, are mussel beds of considerable
value. These are let by the proprietors for a period of four or five
years, to a tenant who pays every attention to their cultivation and


