
                             DOLLAR.                            103

as a wizard, at the foot of Gloomhill, a little to the north-east of
Dollar, towards the close of the sixteenth century. The wooden
stake to which he was tied by the executioner, was still standing, fifty
years ago; but, being, completely rotten, one of the lairds of Hillfoot
on whose property it stood, removed it and put a stone in its place to
mark the site, which still remains. The principal antiquity in the
parish is the ruins of Castle Gloom or Castle Campbell. It is a
place obviously of great antiquity; but it is not known, when or by
whom the castle was first built. The thickness of the walls, and
the facilities which it possesses for annoying assailants and de-
fending those within, plainly show that it was intended for a place
of security in those times when Scottish barons were continually
at war with one another. It seems to have been built at different
times; or at least large additions have been made to the origin-
al structure. The latest built is obviously the southern part,
which is now in a state of perfect ruin;--but the keep, which ap-
pears to be the oldest part of the edifice, is still comparatively
in a state of good preservation. The outlines of the hall with its
lofty ceiling, and other rooms of the same magnitude, are still
easily traced, with the narrow openings for windows in walls of
enormous thickness, which must have given the rooms an air of
magnificence and of gloomy grandeur to their inmates, as well as
a feeling of great security. The steps of the spiral staircase,
which leads to the top, are a good deal wasted by time and the
weather; but they still afford a safe ascent, though steep and fa-
tiguing. The roof of the tower or keep is a square, or rather ob-
long, of considerable dimensions, covered with turf, where many a
fete champetre has been of late years held, and where dancing par-
ties have amused themselves in the moon-light. From the top of
the keep, the view to the south is extremely beautiful, including
the hills of Linlithgow and Stirlingshire, and Tinto, in Lanark-
shire, in the distance, with the quiet village of Dollar immediately
below, and its tiny stream, like a silver thread, winding its way to
the Devon. The view of the wooded banks on both sides of the
castle, is picturesque in the highest degree. There appears to
have been large vaults under the south part of the castle, for
stables, cellars, and other purposes. These vaults seem to have
run under ground for a considerable extent beyond the walls of
the castle; at least the reverberating sound which is heard on strik-
ing with the foot the green sward in front of the building, would
lead to this conclusion.


