
694                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

was formed and a piece of ground procured in front of Clermont
Crescent. This ground has been tastefully and appropriately laid
out with the necessary accommodation for birds and quadrupeds,
and an interesting collection is gradually being formed. The
gardens are upheld by the annual subscriptions of members and
the donations of the public.
   Literature.-Scotland holds a high place in the literature of
Europe. Edinburgh, as the capital, became in modern times the
centre of its literature, and the resort of its literary men. A galaxy
of these adorned the early part of last century, of whom it is only
necessary to mention a few of the most prominent names, such
as Hume, Robertson, Smith, Reid, Campbell, Kames, Blair;
while an equally brilliant circle adorned the close of the last
and the beginning of the present century, among whom were
conspicuous, Dugald Stewart, Mayfair, Mackenzie, Burns. The
periodical works of the Mirror and the Lounger, no mean suc-
cessors of the Spectator of Addison, had served not a little to
raise the fame of the Edinburgh press. An Encyclopaedia, on a
plan commensurate with that of the famous French periodical,
also at this time attracted much public attention; and by degrees
Edinburgh began to rival London as a literary and publishing mart.
In October 1802, the first number of the Edinburgh Review ap-
peared under the auspices of Jeffrey, Brougham, Horner, and
Sidney Smith. In a short time this periodical rose to be the first
of its class; and, in a few years, attained a circulation of upwards
of 10,000 copies-an extent of sale, till that time, almost unpre-
cedented in any work of literature. Next arose Sir Walter Scott;
who, for a succession of years, poured forth his stores of imagina-
tion and antiquarian lore, with a facility, rapidity, and success
which has had no parallel in ancient or modern times.
   The following works are at present periodically published in
Edinburgh:-The Edinburgh Review, quarterly. The Edin-
burgh Medical and Surgical Journal, commenced in 1805, pub-
lished quarterly. Blackwood's Magazine, begun in 1817, pub-
lished monthly. Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, quarterly; be-
gun in 1818. Presbyterian Review; quarterly. North British
Review, quarterly; begun in 1844. Tait's Magazine; monthly.
Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, and Prize Essays and Transac-
tions of the Highland Society.
   Newspapers.-The first Scottish newspaper was printed, it is be-
lieved, in Leith in 1651, and was called Mercurius Scuticus. It,
as well as several others that succeeded, were but short lived.


