
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

amounting to 2 L. 15 s. 6 d.  Sterling, mortified by George
Chaplin, Esq. a native of this country, and some time mer-
chant in Jamaica; also of the interest of 83 L. 6 s. Ster-
ling, at 4 1/2 per cent; also of the interest of 17 L. Sterling, of
some seat rents in the church, dues on mortcloths, proclama-
tions, collections, and presents, of which last 15 L. Sterling has
been given at 3 different times, within the last 3 years, by an
opulent farmer in the parish.  The whole sum arising annually
from the above articles, will amount to between 60 L. and 70 L.
Sterling; all which is generally distributed to the poor with-
in the year; and they receive their shares on the last Sabbath
of every month, from 2 s. to 4 s. according to their situations
and necessities.  The heritors contribute nothing to their sup-
port*.

</UNREADABLE>

   Curiosities, Antiquities, etc.-On the top of a mount of
much the same height with that on which the church is  situ-
ated, and about 180 yards directly east, there is heard a very
remarkable echo, proceeding from the E. end of the church.
It repeats very distinctly 6, and in a calm evening 8 syllables,

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*When the poor are entered upon the roll, they are supposed to have given
up their effects, in the event of their death, to the poor's fund; but these sel-
fall to the session, as there are generally claims offered by relations for at-
tendance, occasional supply, and the expense fo burial.  There are very few
begging poor in the parish.
   In the parish there are about 20 persons of the Church of England, 70 of the
Scotch Episcopal church, 30 Independents, 35 Methodists, 40 Seceders, 10 Bete-
rans.  The Established Church is generally well attended, and the parishioners
contribute liberally for the support of the poor, to the amount of between 10
and 13 s. every Sabbath during the summer.  The difference that prevails here,
and in Arbroath, in religious opinions, appears to have no disagreeble influence
on the minds and manners of the pepole.  However much they may differ in
their sentiments, they associate together, transact business, and meet in a social
and convivial manner, without an instance almost of any injury or personal a-
buse of one another.

</UNREADABLE>


