
                                INVERNESS.                         19

       tised, except among boys and apprentices on Christmas and New-
       year's day,-the sober realities and industrious habits of the present
       age having seemingly banished from the thoughts of the peasantry
       the pastimes of their forefathers.
         Pauperism has undoubtedly increased in the town of Inverness
       of late years; and a recent survey, occasioned by the distress
       arising from cholera, demonstrated that there are about 800 per-
       sons (many of them having families) in Inverness in extremely in-
       digent circumstances.
         The habits of the lower orders in regard to cleanliness and in-
       dustry are daily improving, as are also the comforts of their cot-
       tages and household furnishings.  On Sundays they all appear
       well dressed; in town, more tastefully, and, but for the present
       cheapness of manufactures, in some instances it might be thought
       rather expensively.  The upper classes enjoy all the comforts and
       elegancies of life as fully as their equals in any part of the king-
       dom to whose manners their own are now assimilated,-the purity
       and correctness of their language, in particular, having been re-
       marked since the residence of Cromwell's troops in Inverness, as
       superior, and but little affected by the common broad dialect of
       Scotland.
         Labourers and farm-servants generally live on potatoes with
       milk, oat and barley-meal prepared in various ways,-to which the
       wealthier tradesmen are enabled to add fish and butcher-meat.
       The general rate of ploughmen and farm-servants' wages is L. 8
       in money, and 6 bolls of meal, with liberty to plant as much ground
       with potatoes as they can manure; and, in common, female field
       work is reckoned about two-thirds of the value of a man's labour.
       Superior servants or grieves have higher wages, and perhaps grass
       and foddering for a cow, according to the extent of the farms under
       their charge.  All classes are increasing in knowledge and intelli-
       gence; and, while the upper are well educated,the inferior orders
       are pressing rapidly on them in all kinds of intellectual attainment;
       and although the increase of population in the town has here, as
       elsewhere, been accompanied with a corresponding increase of vice,
       yet the moral character of the parishioners generally, as compared
       with that of other places, is high,-their attendance on church
       being exemplary and regular.
         There are generally about six illegitimate births in the parish
       yearly.


