
1006			ABERDEENSHIRE,

north and south.  Previous to the introduction of the penny post-
age, the revenue of the post-office was about L. 450; since the re-
duction in the rate of postage, the amount may be L. 300 per an-
num. A well-conducted stage-coach from; Aberdeen to Banff
passes through Turriff in the forenoon, and returns in the after-
noon, every lawful day, and, besides carriers to these towns,
which leave and arrive with the utmost regularity, there is a steady
and convenient intercourse by carriers belonging to the adjoin-
ing places.
	Roads.--A turnpike road, as already noticed, passes through
the parish from one extremity to the other, but, as at the time of
its formation, road-making was not so well understood as now, and
as perhaps the best line was not chosen, this road, beneficial as it
is to the country, is in some places not easily kept in repair, and
yields but a poor return for the money invested in it. The roads,
not turnpike, are made and repaired by an assessment levied under
an Act of Parliament for converting the ancient statute labour
into Money. The amount to be raised is fixed, and the applica-
tion appointed by a general meeting of the trustees of the district,
held generally in the end of May. The assessment on lands in
this parish for a considerable number of years has been L. 103,
3s. 8 1/2d. being at the rate of L. 2 for L. 100 Scots of valued rent,
leviable from the heritors, who are entitled to relief from the te-
nants to the extent of three-fourths of the assessment. In the
town of Turriff, an assessment by the same authority is levied from
proprietors or occupiers of houses, persons keeping horses and la-
bourers, to the amount of about 1. 12 Sterling. The assessment
on the lands is generally ordered to be laid out at the sight of the
respective heritors or their agents, and that on the town by a com-
mittee appointed by the general meeting. The accounts of ex-
penditure are annually audited by the district trustees, at a meet-
ing for that purpose in the month of April.
	Bridges.---A bridge was erected in 1826 over the Doveron,
about a quarter of a mile below the town. It is a substantial piece
of mason-work, and opening up a communication with the county
of Banff, and with Portsoy, Cullen, &c. is of great utility to the
parish and public at large. The expense of this erection amount-
ed to upwards of L. 2500, and was defrayed partly by Subscription,
and partly by borrowing a certain sum of money, the interest of
which is paid by a fixed pontage. The bridge over the burn
of Turriff, and other smaller bridges, are kept in good condi-
tion.


