
68                      CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

try, and through Dollar, Glendevon, and Muckart, thence issuing
south into the vale, it takes a westerly course at the, Crook of De-
von, passes the church and manse of Fossaway, and, two or three
miles below, it  forms that wonderful group rocks, waterfalls,
&c. about the Rumbling Bridge and the Caldron Linn. Increasing in
size, as it flows westwards, from the contents of many tributary
streams, it was wont, in former. times, frequently to overflow its
banks, carrying along  with it hay, corn, &c. but htis is now, in
some measure, prevented bv embankments raised in places most
exposed to inundation. A little below the bridge, on the south
bank, it supplies the manufacturers at Devonside with water for
their steam-engines, and other purposes; and, winditng along the
north side of Glenfoot, it leaves Tillicoultry, passes through Alva
and part of Logie, and falls into the Forth near Carnbus, almost
due south from its source in the hills.
  Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks in this parish belong to
the trap, porphyry, and coal formations. Over these occur de-
posits of a diluvial and alluvial nature. The trap formation con-
sists of greenstone, amygdaloid, &c. and the porphyry of porphyry,
compact felspar, tufa, &c. The quarries in the Mill-glen have
been wrought for some time, and afford excellent whinstone or trap
for building and road-metal. There is abundance of sandstone
in the parish, of various colours,-reddish, straw-coloured, and
white, which greatly facilitates the increase of building, and is of
considerable value to the proprietors. The stone of which Harvies-
toun House is built, was found on the estate, and, about thirty-
five years ago, a large quantity of flagstone was wrought on Bal-
harty, on the southeast side of the parish. The hills of Tillicoul-
try are thought to contain various precious minerals, as iron, cop-
per, silver, lead, and cobalt. About a century ago, some of these
were wrought to a considerable extent, in the Mill-glen, above the
.village of Tillicoultry, and there are still remaining the ruins
of a large house, occupied by the miners, on the front of the hill,
west sideof the burn. About fifty men were employed for seve-
ral years, by a company in London ; and, although four different
kinds of copper were discovered, the, thickest vein of which was
about 18 inches, and the ore, when washed and dressed, was
worth  L.50 Sterling, per ton the works were abandoned as not de-
fraying the expense.
   The ironstone, however, has proved a. more lucrative concern.
It is found under the hills, as well as south from the Devon, and


