
458			AYRSHIRE.

Ardeer, in this parish, which had become his property, where he
died in 1722, being then the oldest minister of the church. He
was alive when Wodrow, the celebrated church historian, who was
married to his daughter, wrote; and he therefore says in his work,
"His own modesty, and my near relation to him, will not permit
me to say what I could, as to his personal and ministerial charac-
ter, piety, learning, and usefulness. His character, indeed, is so
savoury, and well-known in this church that I need say nothing
of it."
   Heritors.--The parish is divided among nine landowners, viz.
Alexander Hamilton, Esq. of Grange; Patrick Warner, Esq. of
Ardeer; Robert Cuninghame, Esq. of Auchenharvie; the Right
Honourable the Earl of Eglinton; Alexander Hamilton Hamilton
of Hullerhirst; Mrs Cuming of Logie; and John, Alexander, and
William Muir, Esq. of Hayocks. The greater part of these
have mansion-houses in the parish, and five of them are at present
resident.
   Registers.--None of our parish registers go further back than
1700, and many portions of them have been lost. The register of
marriages has been regularly kept from April 1701 till May 1717;
and from May 1737 till January 1746, and from January 1747 till
the present time, February 1837. The register of baptisms has been
regularly kept from July 1700 till November 1718; irregularly kept
from 1718 till 1737; and regularly from 1737 till near the end of the
century; but from that time to the present, it cannot be considered
as regularly kept, as the Dissenters do not record the names of
their children. A register of deaths has been kept from 1747 till
the present time; but for a considerable time, those only whose
friends have paid for the mortcloth have been recorded. We have
always, for the fourth of a century, marked the number of deaths
in the year. The average for the last seven years is high, being
77 4/7 in a population varying from 3540 to 3681. The cholera
year is included; and in several of the other years the mortality
was greater than usual. The average of four previous years, when
the population was very nearly the same as during the last seven
years, was 56 3/4. The great number of children in the parish, pro-
bably, raises the average of mortality above what might be expected
in this healthy climate. In visiting the parish in 1832, we marked
down in our book, the number of children that each couple had had.
In the village of Stevenston alone there were six who had had


