
                                EYEMOUTH.                        321

stratified or unstratified, whether they are trap or a variety of the
graywacke.
   The only other rock which we have to notice as occurring in the
parish is a remarkable mass of breccia, or coarse conglomerate
which must be referred to the old red sandstone formation. It
forms the beautiful projecting point known by the name of the Fort,
on the north-west side of the Bay of Eyemouth. The space which it
occupies is inconsiderable, being apparently little more than the
eighth part of a mile square, with an average thickness of about
fifty feet; but in point both of structure and situation it is highly
interesting. It rests immediately on the trap rocks already de-
scribed, the junction being well seen round nearly half a mile of
sea-coast. One-half rests on the trap-tuff, and the other on the
porphyry. Though somewhat rude and imperfect, a stratification
may, nevertheless, be traced, the strata being nearly horizontal.
As in other situations where the oldest member of this formation
is observed, it is here composed almost entirely of the detritus of
the rocks on which it rests, and of the -older rocks in the neigh-
bourhood, viz. greywacke, porphyry, &c. united generally by an
arenaceous cement. It is remarkable that, on both sides of the
high land terminating at St Abb's Head, we find, as we recede
from St Abb's, and very nearly at equal distances, the same great
succession of rock formations. What distinguishes the situation of
the old red sandstone in this parish from its corresponding situation
on the other side of the high land alluded to, is, that there it rests,
as we would expect, immediately on greywacke, while in this pa-
rish it rests upon trap. Whether this great mass of conglomerate
has been deposited subsequently or antecedently to the formation
of the trap, is a question which we leave to be settled by geolo-
gists; although we cannot help saying that the appearances ob-
servable incline us to the former supposition. This conglomerate
forms an excellent building stone in situations where it is exposed
to the action of sea water, for which purpose it has been exten-
sively employed in the construction of the breakwater, quays, &c.
of the harbour of Eyemouth. It can be quarried in masses of any
size.
   Zoology.-So far as we have been able to learn, there are no
animals either rare or peculiar to the parish. The otter is fre-
quently met with in the Eye, and the seal is occasionally seen in
the Bay of Eyemouth. Porpoises also are numerous off the coast
in the summer season. In 1817, a whale of a very large size was
observed floating a little way off this coast, and towed into the bay.

   BERWICK.                           X


