
                        WESTRUTHER.                             77

It may be said, however, with propriety and truth, that the people
in general are cleanly in their habits, and show a becoming neat-
ness in their dress. About fifty years ago, no man or woman wore
any clothes but what were made in their own family. Women's
gowns and petticoats were woollen stuffs of various colours and
men's clothes were spun by the women, and sent to the weaver and
dyer. But now there is scarcely any home manufacture,-even
blankets, which, till very lately, were made in each family being pur-
chased, and that, too, at a cheaper rate than they could be wrought
at home. The weavers, who were once numerous in the parish,
are reduced to a single individual; and he, an old man, who can now,
since the introduction of machinery, and the change in the market,
find no other occupation in his way than the manufacture of coarse
sheeting for sacks or other agricultural purposes.
   The food of the peasantry consists chiefly of the different pre-
parations of oat-meal; cakes are also very generally used of barley
meal, baked to a great thickness, and called fadges. Pork also
makes a constant item in their bill of fare. * Tea, now very ge-
nerally used, at least by women, was not introduced here till
the year 1800, oat-meal being then very high in price. In that
year. the harvest was late throughout the whole of Scotland,
and the crop in Westruther never thoroughly ripened, in conse-
quence of which there was a great dearth; meal sold at 8s. a stone;
rice and foreign corn were bought by the session at Berwick, and
sold out at a reduced price to those who were able to purchase it,
and the rest, who were on the poors' roll, were supplied with it out
of a fund belonging to the session, to be afterwards mentioned,
Previously to the introduction of potatoes, the people used to pro-
vide a sort of seasoning to their bread by laying up a stock of her-
rings. The time for doing this was Lammas, at which season they
were in the habit of going in bands to Dunbar, and, making the
purchase of as many of these fish as would serve their family dur-
ing winter. The introduction of potatoes made an important ad-
dition to the livelihood of the peasantry. These were a consider-
able time in the parish, however, before they were generally used.

<FOOTNOTE>Persons still living remember the time when in the farmers' houses there were
only one knife and fork, and the practice was for the master of the house to apportion
the share of butcher meat which each member of the family should receive, and,
retaining the knife and fork for his own use to leave the rest to eat their meat in the
primitive oriental manner. Several individuals also remember the time when there
were only three tea-kettles in the parish,-in Spottiswoode, Wedderlie, and the manse.
It is scarcely necessary to say, that the farmers of the present day enjoy, in a liberal
measure, the ordinary comforts and luxuries of life.


