
                                ABERLOUR.				113

    bottom of the vale, appertains to Aberlour, and contains several
    good fields, partly level and partly sloping Irom the foot of the hills.
      Climate.-The climate of the parish is, on the whole, temperature;
    along the river, it is warm,-so, much so, that there is frequently
    little appearance of snow here, when the surrounding
    country is covered with it. Those parts in the neighbourhood of
    Benrinnes and the Convals, and especially the district of Glenrinnes,
    suffer more from Alpine inclemency, than any other parts of
    the parish.
      In the commencement of winter, Benrinnes is usually covered
    with snow, or, as the country people say, "has on its night-cap,"
    long before any part of the surrounding country.
      The harvests in the neighbourhood of this and the adjoining
    hills, and in the district of Glenrinnes, are a few weeks later than
    in the vicinity of the Spey, partly owing to the traces of winter continuing
    longer, and partly to the great quantity of rain, which,
    from the proximity of the hills, falls there during summer.
      Although a few weeks of severe drought during summer have
    been supposed at the time to be injurious to the crops, yet for several                                                               F
    years prior to 1835, and, indeed, in general, there has nos
    been much occasion to complain of want of rain in any part of the
    parish.
      Hydrography.-Owing to the rapidity of the current, the Spey
    is little broader here than in Badenocb, fifty miles nearer its
    source, where the water flows move slowly.  The fields in the
    immediate vicinity frequently suffer a, little from overflowings
    of the river; and August 1829 witnessed the greatest and most
    destructive flood within the memory of any living inhabitant. In
    1768, the water is recorded to have risen eighteen feet perpendicular
    above its ordinary level, but this was exceeded in 1829 by about
    eighteen inches.  All the bolm land belonging to the parish was
    more or less injured, along with the crops that it bore at the time,-
    the soil of some fields being carried od to the extent of many acres
    bare to the channel, and others covered with sand and rough grave
    to the depth of several feet.  The, dry stone arches Which
    formed the eastern approach to the metal bridge of Craig Ellachie
    to be noticed hereafter,) were entirely swept away,leaving only
    a few yards of mason work to be 1L precarious support to that, end of
    the arch. A cottage, garden, and offices near the foot of the bridge
    were entirely carried off; and much damage warp done to furniture
      BANFF.                               H


