
         		WEST KILBRIDE.                      267

established here, one of which was instituted so early as 1796.
They are all supported by small entry monies and annual contri-
butions. The oldest affords aid to decayed and necessitous mem-
bers only; the other two give support, during inability to labour,
without reference to circumstances.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of regular
pensioners on the poor's fund for the last six years has been 14 1/2.
Average weekly allowance to each 1s. 7d.

<TABLE>
  In all for the year,                                                    L. 59  2 0
  Average incidental expenses in like manner,                                11 13 6
                                                                          L. 70 15 6
  Contra average income from the usual sources, for same period,             50 13 4
							     	  L. 20  2 2
This deficit of L. 20, 2s. 2d. for the current and preceding
year has been made up by assessment,--a mode to which heritors
every where show the greatest reluctance, whatever be the feelings
of the poor on the subject; and nothing but the utmost necessity
assuredly will ever force them to the adoption of such an alterna-
tive. Nevertheless, it must be remarked, assessment is the only
fair and equitable manner of proceeding in such a matter. As to
any argument about the feelings of people reduced to the neces-
sity of receiving charity, whether it shall thus be justly apportion-
ed, or fall exclusively, on the benevolent, such can only be viewed
as ingenious sophistry, altogether to evade the unwelcome burden.
The scources from which the ordinary funds arise here, are: col-
lections at church door; fees for proclamations of marriage and
use of mortcloths; rent of a house, and rent of some pews in the
church.
	Inns.--Of inns or houses for the sale of spirits, &c. there are
ten licensed within the parish, seemingly all conducted with order
and propriety; most of them, however, are but on a small scale, and
certainly but little necessary to any beneficial purpose.
	Fuel.--The ordinary fuel used here is coal, chiefly from Ste-
venston, distant about six miles, and a little from Dalry, still far-
ther off. Peats are used in the hilly parts.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	As regards agriculture, the system at present in use here seems
in most respects to be exceedingly well suited to the nature of
the locality; but that it is still susceptible of great improvement
admits not of a doubt. Draining requires to be carried incalcula-
bly farther; and, as before noticed, vast improvement might be ef-


