
               PARISH OF BOINDIE.
     PRESBYTERY OF FORDYCE, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.
          THE REV. A. ANDERSON, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THE ancient Dame of the parish was Inverboindie, i. e.
the mouth of the Boindie: the old church, now in ruins, being si-
tuated near the point at which the small stream of that name falls
into the sea. Boindie seems to be merely a diminutive from Boyn,
the name of a larger stream forming the western boundary of the
parish. The word Boyn, besides, anciently gave name to two feu-
dal territories, one named the thanedom, the other the forest of
Boyn. The thanedom included the chief part of this parish with
certain parts of Fordyce and Banff. The forest of Boyn lay both
to the east and west of the Forester's seat at Tarbriech, on the
shank of the Binnhill near Cullen, comprehending a large district
on the south and east of the parish of Fordyce, marching with the
thanedom, besides Blairmand in this parish. The burn of Boyn
thus appears, to bave traversed the centre of the district compre-
bended in the two holdings of the thanedom and the forest of
the Boyn. The word Bouin in Gaelic is understood to signify a
stream, and thus with aa, a ford, gives name to the parish of
Boyne, at which there is a stream and a ford. Probably our name
Boyn, which, in the reign of Robert Bruce, was spelt Bouyn, has
the same origin.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The figure of the parish is triangu-
lar. On the south-east it extends about 5 1/2 miles, and is bound-
ed by the parishes of Marnoch, Banff, and the sea; on the north,
from 2 to 3 miles, and is bounded by the sea; on the west, from
4 to 5 miles, and is bounded by the civil parish of Fordyce and
by Ordiquhill. The burn of Boindie forms the march towards the,
south and east, except in reference to the lands of Baldavie, which
cross the said water, southward;* the burn of Boyn, towards For-

<FOOTNOTE>The hills of Boindie are here supposed to be in Banff, which is doubtful.


