
		LIBBERTON AND QUOTHQUAN.                  45

bourers, per day, without victuals, 1s. 9d.; masons, 2s. 6d; wrights,
2s. 6d.; smith's work per lb. of iron, 6d. In the time of harvest,
labourers' wages with victuals, L.2; womens' 30s.
	Breeds of Live Stoch.--The common breed of cattle is the Ayr-
shire, and of sheep a cross between the Cheviot and Leicester.
Both are improved by the frequent introduction of new stock.
	Husbandry.--The general method of farming on dry lands is
in six divisions, by the following rotation of crops, viz 1. corn; 2. fal-
low or green crop; 3. corn; 4. hay; 5. pasture; 6. pasture. On
rich lands lying near the Clyde, four divisions are observed, viz.
1. corn; 2. green crop;, 3. corn: 4. hay.
	Every encouragement has been given by the proprietors to in-
dustrious tenants. In the southern and western parts of the pa-
rish, where enclosures can be considered advantageous, the whole
of the lands are enclosed, either by stone-dikes or hedges and
ditches. In other districts of the parish, there are no enclosures
of any description. A good deal of improvement has been effect-
ed in draining wet lands, but very little of any consequence in re-
claiming waste lands. On one estate about fifty acres have been
reclaimed within fifteen or twenty years.
	The duration of leases in the parish is nineteen years. In the
southern division the state of farm-buildings is considered supe-
rior to that of those on almost any estate in the neighbourhood of
equal extent. In the course of the last seven years the greater
part of the farm-steadings has been rebuilt substantially. The
others have been repaired, and by enlargements every suitable
accommodation has been given to the tenants. In the rest of the
parish, the farm-buildings are generally bad, and incommodious.
	The face of the country would still be much improved by en-
closures and belts of planting, judiciously made. A good deal
has been done in this respect of late years: and on the lands of
Cormiston, Shieldhill, Huntfield, and Whitecastle, more than
400 acres of larch, Scotch and spruce fir, intermixed with va-
rieties of hard wood, have been planted by their respective proprie-
tors. These plantations are at present in a thriving state, and are
already, or will, ere long, be a great ornament to the vicinity. On
the property of Huntfield alone, there are 250 imperial acres under
wood, the greater portion of which has been planted within the last
twenty years. A great part of Libberton moor, which is now a
barren waste, if sheltered, drained, and subdivided by belts of
planting, and let in smaIl pendicles to industrious cottagers at little


