
				NEW ABBEY.                   253

wald, who, instead of levying his rent in kind usually compounds
with the firhers for 2s. each, during the season. Salmon, her.
lings, and flounders, are the species commonly taken.

	Produce.--

<TABLE>
           Value of produce of grain without straw,  1.4845  0  0
			       potato and turnips,     2184  0  0
	                       hay,                     916  0  0
                               sheep,                   490  0  0
	                       cattle,                 2419  0  0
                               butter and cheese,       200  0  0

                                                  L.11,0540  0  0

	The revenue arising from young pigs and young horse sold out
of the parish cannot be ascertained, but Must be,inconsiderable.
	           V.-PARNCHIAL ECONOMYY.
	Harbours.--New Abbey Pow is navigable at spring-tides for
vessels of 60 or 70 tons to within a mile from the village. The
lime and, coals required by the parish Are generally discharged
in it. The harbour is in a very bad state. Were, it improved, it
would he more resorted to, and the inhabitants benefited.
	Market-Town.--Dumfries, distant seven miles, is the nearest
market-town, and supplies a ready demand for all, sorts of agricul.
tural produce.
	Villages.--About ten families reside at Drumburn, which, ex-
cept New Abbey, is the only place in the Parish that can be called
a village.
	Meansof Communication.--New Abbey has a daily post from
Dumfries, carriers twice a-week, and coaches to, and from Dum-
fries and Carsetborn every alternate week. There fire about two
miles of turnpike road passing through the north-west, end of the
parish, and on it two coaehes travel six days a-week to kirk-
cudbright. There are four miles of turnpike road in the south-
east side of the parish.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is conveniently situate for
the population which is, by far most numerous in the low end of
the,parish. It is distant from the south-east extremity, fully three
miles and about seven, miles from the north-west boundary. In-
cluding the galleries it affords, accommodation for about 470 sit-
ters, exclusive of the areas, Where the comlunin table is placed.
The manse was built in 1802. A kitchen was added about nine-
teen years ago. The repairs since have been very trifting. The
glebe consists of 10 1/2 acres, includingg garden and houses, and is
worth. L.20. The stipend is 16 chalders. half meal and half bar-


