
			  GLASGOW.                        105

other valuable minerals. Kilpatrick and Campsie hills abound
with a great variety of curious and valuable minerals, but as these
belong to neighbouring parishes, they are not noticed here.
	   II.--CIVIL AND ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY.
	The following facts, collected from the records of the town-
council, the Presbytery, and kirk-session of Glasgow, the Bishops'
Cartulary, and other authentic documents, by Dr Cleland, convey a
pretty accurate account of the state of society in Glasgow at the
periods referred to.
	See of Glasgow.--Although Glasgow was an early seat of the
Church, historians do not agree as to the time when the See was,
founded. That it is next to St Andrews in point of antiquity
is beyond all doubt. With regard to its founder, Kennet, in his
Parochial Antiquities, says, it was instituted by Kentigern or St
Mungo, in the year 560. * Dr Keelyn, speaking of the see of St
Asaph in Wales, observes, "that the see was founded by St Ken-
tigern, a Scot, in 583," and that "St Kentigern was then Bishop
of Glasgow." From these authorities, it may be inferred that St
Mungo founded the See of Glasgow, and became the first bishop,
and that when a cathedral of sufficient grandeur was finished, it
would be dedicated to St Mungo. Baldrade, St Mungo's disciple,
who founded a religious house at Inchinnan, is said to have suc-
ceeded him in the bishoprick. There is no record of the See for
more than 500 years after this period. This great blank cannot
be accounted for with any degree of certainty. Among other con-
jectures, it is said that the church was destroyed by the ravages
of the Danes, who murdered or drove off the religious who had
settled in Glasgow.
	In the year 1115, David, Prince of Cumberland refounded the
See, and having, in 1124, succeeded his brother Alexander 1. to
the throne of Scotland, he promoted his chaplain, John Achaius,
to the bishoprick in 1129. In 1133, the cathedral was solemnly
consecrated in presence of the King, who endowed it with the lands
of Partick. In 1165, Pope Alexander 111. issued a bull command-
ing the faithful to visit the cathedral of Glasgow. In 1176, Bishop
Joceline enlarged the cathedral, and rebuilt a part of it in a style

<FOOTNOTE>"The city and castle of Glasgow have long been the seat of the bishops and
archbishops of Glasgow. St Mungo, to whom the cathedral was dedicated, is esteem-
ed the first bishop of Glasgow. He was of great birth, great piety, and great learn-
ing. Much that is written of him depends upon the credit of the author. He lived
in the sixth century. There is a bull of erection and confirmation of the bishoprick
soon after the Pope's authority war owned in this kingdom."--Description of the She-
riffdom of Lanark, by William Hamilton of Wishow, compiled about the beginning of
the land century, and recently printed by the Maitland Club, pp. 4, 5.



