
132                           DUMBARTONSHIRE.


expedients for diminishing the opportunities of indulging in the use
of intoxicating liquors, cannot be too highly valued. From the evil,
likely to inundate some of the contiguous parishes, by the pro-
prietors encouraging rather than preventing the multiplication of
licenses, the people of this parish are comparatively secure.
    Fuel.--The ordinary fuel is coal in the southern part of the
parish; elsewhere peat is used to a considerable extent. The
coal is generally brought from Glasgow;--of peat, the summit of
the ridge affords an inexhaustible supply. Including carriage, the
coal in ordinary years costs 6d. per cwt.

	 	 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the date of the former Statistical Account, very consider-
able changes must have taken place in the parish, of which a few
examples may be given. Then, it seems there were 96 herring
fishermen, manning with hirelings, about 40 wherries, from which
one must conclude almost the whole effective male population
were occupied during the season in that precarious calling. The
farms, could not but be very imperfectly cultivated ; it is well known,
indeed, that they were generally in a very miserable condition, the
return of produce not averaging threefold. With few exceptions,
they merited the appellation of crofts rather than farms. * The cul-
tivation of the soil, the tillage of this peninsular ridge, must have
been of inferior importance in their eyes, to those labours in the
deep waters, for the proceeds of a summer fishing were sometimes
more than double the rental of the whole parish. Such a precari-
ous, although often lucrative vocation, was not favourable to the
promotion of regular habits, accompanied as it was with such prac-
tices as obtained here. The division of funds by each boat's crew,
was signalized by a gathering of all the neighbours, and this reci-


<FOOTNOTE>The average might now be stated at 7 or 8 seeds. On some farms L.30, some-
times L.40 Sterling have been realized from an acre of potatoes, for the growth of
which the soil generally seems peculiarly favourable. The great stimulus to agricul-
tural improvement in the parish, was given by the late Duke of Argyle, himself inte-
rested in rural pursuits, under the active agency of his factor, Mr R. Campbell, one of
the few first members of the Highland Society still surviving. He had powerful
prejudices to combat, but with energy and decision he prosecuted, what he deemed so
indispenable to their own improvements, and the farmers generally can now appre-
ciate the benefits resulting from having been so resisted and controlled in the
management of their own fields. His successor, Mr Lorne Campbell, the son or a
gentleman who occupied the same important office, nearly a century ago, most efficient-
ly sustains the same spirit of parochial improvement-giving free effect to the kindly
feeling so long hereditary in the family of Argyle to their tenantry: while he dis-
plays on the splendid fields of his own farm, unmatched for beauty of situation in the
country, those almost horticultural niceties of doing up which distinguish the most
noted, of the plains and vallies of the lowlands.
                                        6


