394                      ROSS AND CROMARTY.

to settle to every one's satisfaction-a point which they all acknow-
ledged they were unable to settle-and that is not to be wondered
at, for they knew that each party wished to be married first. How
then were we to get out of this second difficulty, became the ques-
tion. After a cool and deliberate, and I can assure the parties, an
impartial view of ther subject, I thought fit to propose, that the
party first contracted should be married first. The proposition
was at once agreed to unanimously. The friends of the parties to
be married went home perfectly satisfied with the arrangement.
The three parthes were married on the same day in succession.
But let it be remembered that special care was taken that no party
should meet any of the other parties either going to or returning
from the church. Why? Because it would be unlucky.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   There are in the parish, shoemakers, 26; masons, 9; boat-
carpenters, 4; wrights, 11; tailors, 14; sailors, 5; innkeepers, 5;
blacksmiths, 5; cartwright, 1; weavers, 6; wheelwrights, 2;
wool-carder, 1; pensioners, 5; diker, 1; gardeners, 3; saddler,
1; butcher, 1; merchants, 5; accoucheur, 1; sail-maker, 1; ba-
ker, 1; sawyers, 4; corn-dealer, 1; millers, 2; gamekeeper, 1;
fiddler, 1; piper, 1.
   Fisheries.- At one time there was only one fishing-boat in Avoch,
the crew of which resided in the country; now tbere are nine,
manned by 10 men each, regularly employed in haddock and whit-
ing fishing along the Sutherland and Caithness coasts. After sup-
plying their own families, and the families around Avoch, they take
the surplus to the Inverness market, a distance of about five miles.
About the middle of July, Avoch sends forth no less than thirty-
five boats for the herring-fishing at Caithness, (two went last year
to Aberdeen), for the space of six or eight weeks. Some years
have crowned our fishermen's perilous labours with great success
and prosperity;-some of them have returned to their homes with
L.20, others with L.30, others with L.40, and others with L.50
of clear gain. While other years again-such is the uncertainty
attendant upon all human undertakings-few if any of our fisher-
men are able to cover the necessary expenses. During this sea-
son the fishermen and their families have been exposed to no in-
cinsiderable hardships; for in consequences of the incessant tem-
pests, by which so many valuable lives and property on different
coasts of the empire have been lost, the fishermen were prevented
from going to the haddock and whiting-fishing for the space of
                          4


