
	252 			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	sometimes seen; but there is no instance known of their sting
	being deadly.  The natives, in general, entertain an idea that
	cattle are stung or bitten by the toad, and some, bv means of su-
	perstitious frets, pretend to effect a cure by certain charms, or by
	the repetition of some nonsensical rhyme. There seems to be no
	proper evidence that such swellings on cattle as are attributed to
	the poisonous bite of the toad are caused thereby, but may with
	greater propriety be laid to the charge of the serpent, which is
	well known to sting any animal which comes within its reach.
	Where cattle are stung by the serpent, the cure invariably resort-
	ed to is to wash the affected part of the suffering animal with wa-
	ter which had been poured over the preserved head of a serpent,
	and this process is considered an effectual remedy. Serpent's
	heads are, therefore, considered very valuable, and are preserved
	with every possible care, provided the sting is retained in them,
	in which the healing virtue is supposed to exist.
           Insects.-No species of rare or uncommon insects are known to
	exist in the parish. In warm summer evenings the midge or He-
	bridean musquito, and the gad-fly or gleig, prove very annoying
	to labourers and others, and particularly so before rain.  There
	are no bee-hives inthe place; but wild bees are some seasons nu-
	merous, and such as are generally seen are the Apis lapidaria and
	the A. muscorum.  The caterpillars, as in most places, prove very
	destructive to fruit-trees and bushes, as well as to garden vege-
	tables.  The most effectual remedy yet found to prevent their
	ravages, is to pick them carefully off all places where they appear.
	Grasshoppers are seldom seen; but butterflies, white, scarlet, and
	spotted, are quite common.
           Fishes.-The various sorts of sea-fish are abundant. There
	are, however, no regularly established fisheries. Every family
	supplies itself; but it is only in calm weather that the people can
	go in quest of it, as the sea which surrounds the parish is ex-
	posed to almost every wind. Among the different kinds and classes
	of the finny tribe which frequent the coast are, the cod, ling, her-
	riag, thornback, skate, turbot, mackerel,-horse-mackerel, whiting,
	eel broem, bake, sythe, cuddy, cole-fish, dog-fish, king-fish, pipe-
	fish, pollack or lytbe, grey and red gurnard, flounder, &c.
	   In the cetaceous order the spout or herring whale merits the
	first place.  Greenland whales are also seen at times, and of an
	immense size. The porpoise or sea-bog, and whales of small size,
	are frequently observed playing in the Minsh. Seals are nume-


