
     of Eddertown.

tion says, that a battle was sought here against the Danes*.
Near to this there is a large circle of earth, slat in the top,
and raised about 2 feet above the level of the ground around it.
In the centre of this circle, there is a large obelisk, above 10
feet high above the ground.  No tool seems to have been em-
ployed in forming it, though there are some rude figures still
discernible, the largest of a triangular form, with small circles
suspended from it.  Here the Prince of Denmark, who com-
manded his countrymen, is said to be interred.  The plain is
called Carriblair; and the village, immediately to the S. of
it, is to this day dalled Ballioch, or Physician's Town, where
it is said, the wounded were lodged and taken care of+.  There
is only one other piece of antiquity, that merits attention, which
is Dunaliskag, about 4 miles from the church, by the sea side.
It is one of these circular buildings, called by some cairns, by
others douns.  The stones are of a very large size, and laid
very regularly and close.  To the S. W. it is still about 12
feet high, and 7 where it is lowest++.  The entry is to the
E.; and the middle of the wall, which makes them circle, is

     VOL. XI. 3 N

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are evident marks, indeed, of a battle, and a very bloody one, as
there are still many heaps to be seen, under which the slain had been interred.
One of these, about 10 years ago, was levelled by the schoolmaster; and, when
trenching it, along with the ground around it, his spade struck against a coffin.
He soon found five of them, in which there were human skeletons perfectly en-
tire, excepting one that wanted the head.  The coffins were made of fir, and
in the highest preservation.  By the skeletons it would appear, that the size of
the bodies was about 5 feet 10 inches.

+Ossian mentions the battle of Carros in one of the detached pieces annexed
to Fingal, and where he himself commended, and worsted the Danes.  Perhaps
this may have been the scene of action, Carriblair, in Gaelic, signifying the battle
of Carros.

++In the memory of many still living, it was more than double its present


