
16	             LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

   Fair.-The annual fair in August is injurious to the morals of
those who only require excitement to indulge in intemperance, but
agreeable to other, whose families are happily assembled at that
time. A custom has been observed, from time immemorial, the
evening before the fair: the boys dress one of their number with
a covering of burs, from head to foot, adorning him with ribbons
and flowers, and conducting him, led by his companions, through
the town and neighbourhood. They receive small donations from
the inhabitants. The origin of this practice cannot be ascertained.
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.-There are 1 inn in the town, 8 alehouses,
and 4 shops where accommodation is provided for drinking.
The facilities enjoyed here for the use of ardent spirits have
been most prejudicial to the morals of the people. Accidents of
a most frightful character have occurred almost every year from
the immoderate use of spirits, and though there have been deaths
both by fire and water, the votaries of dissipation are neither im-
proved nor diminished in number. There are much poverty and
wretchedness originating from this cause; children are neglected
by their parents, and families are reduced to misery by the disso-
lute habits of those who ought to provide for them.
   Coals are brought by sea from Fife, and from Bo-ness, &c. by
carts. They are seldom furnished at a lower rate than 10s. per
ton, and sometimes a much higher price. When sold in small
quantities to the poor, the cost is much greater.
                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In the summer months this place is much resorted to by many
for sea-bathing and change of air. The accommodation is gra-
dually improving, and the delightful walks in the vicinity render it
particularly attractive. Since the date of the last Statistical Ac-
count, the appearance of the town is considerably improved; sever-
al new houses have been erected, and alterations made contribut-
ing, both to beauty and convenience. Shops of a more respectable
description have been established, and the demand from the
country increasing, enables the merchants to retail at prices very
similar to those in the Metropolis. The brewery long esta-
blished, here, has been discontinued. For two years a distillery
has been in operation here, under the firm of the Glenforth Dis-
tillery Company. It is on a small scale, making from 1700 to
2600 gallons weekly; but, being fitted up in the most approved
manner, and skillfully managed, it produces spirit, of the first qua-


