
                          ORWELL.                             67

books are given out to be read every Sabbath, before public wor-
ship, by one of the elders; and the poor are allowed to read the
books free of expense.  It is not confined to religious works, but
comprehends others of general information, such as narratives of
voyages, travels, &c.  There are also two other libraries ; the one
a subscription library, belonging to the United Secession, instituted
in 1833, to which each family using, it contributes 2s. annually;
the other, conducted on similar principles, is a congregational li-
brary, belonging to the Original Burghers.
   There are no institutions or societies in the parish ; but one gen -
tleman, it may be observed, has an extensive private collection of
dried plants, containing upwards of 20,000 species.
   Saving Bank.-There was formerly a Saving Bank in the coun-
ty, but, owing to the stopping of the Stirling Bank, in which much
of the money was deposited, the institution was broken up.  Dur-
ing last year, another, nearly on the Government plan, was set
agoing.  The head office is in Kinross, and there are also branches
in Milnathort and Cleish.  As, however, it has been a few months
only in existence, nothing can be stated as to its prospects of suc-
cess.
   Poor.-In the former Statistical Account it is said, " There
are few poor on the roll, as the other three places of worship sup-
port their own poor,"-a statement totally inapplicable to the pre-
sent day.  Formerly, the poor had a feeling of independence, de-
clining all assistance so long as they could earn a pittance by their
own exertions, and their relatives were desirous of aiding them ra-
ther than see their names on the poor's roll.  Not so now.  The
applications for assistance every year are becoming more and more
numerous, and nothing is heard but grumbling that they are not
getting so much as some of their acquaintances on the roll.  In-
deed, very near relatives, who, by law, might perhaps be compel-
led to assist, contribute nothing.  Formerly, the money, collected
at the church-door was sufficient not only to support all the poor,
but, by good management, a sum was amassed, which, about forty
years ago, was laid out in purchasing a piece of land.  Now, ow-
ing to the poor belonging to the Secession churches coming to the
Orwell kirk-session for relief, from the collections at the church-
door not proportionally increasing, many passing by without be-
stowing one farthing, alleging that the heritors, and not they, ought
to give,) and others contributing far below their means, there is
not a sufficiency of funds to support the poor, even with the rent


