
                           PITSLIGO.                           399

crofts and small farms, on which large families often resided, hav-
ing been thrown into more extensive ones.

<TABLE>
    Number of families in Pittulie,          -          -               41
                          Rosehearty, including the Seatown,    -      152
                          in country part of the push,         -       116
                                                                       ---
                             Total number of families in the parish,   309
    Number of souls in Rosehearty, including the Seatown,       -      600
                       Pittulie, about       -           -             200
                                                                       ---
                                                         Total,        800

            From census in 1831,    -        -         -     1439
            Deduct                                            800
                                                             ----
            Leaves number of souls in the country part,       639

   Rosehearty is a burgh of barony, created by Royal charter, of
date 13th July 1681; of which John Duff Dingwall, Esq. of Bruck-
law and Corsindae is superior.  It contains about 600 souls.
It has a weekly market on Saturday, with a regular post-office and
daily runner to Fraserburgh.  The revenue of its harbour amounts
to about L. 70 per annum.
   There is erecting at Sandhaven, the most easterly point of the
parish, by Sir John S. Forbes, Bart. of Pitaligo, and the Fishery
Board, a new fishing harbour, which, it is considered, will be of
great benefit to this coast.  The fishing village of Pittulie, on the
property of Sir John S. Forbes, Bart lies a quarter of a mile
north-west of Sandhaven.  It contains about 200 souls.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The agriculture of this parish stood long in a
backward state, compared with the husbandry of the south of Scot-
land; but since the conclusion of the American war in 1782, im-
provement has proceeded with singular rapidity; and while the
rent-rolls of proprietors have been much augmented, the circum-
stances of the tenantry have been ameliorated in a proportional
degree.  Almost the whole of this parish is enclosed by substantial
stone dikes, and there is ample material for enclosing the remainder,
which is progressing rapidly.
   The late Sir William Forbes, grandfather to the present Sir
John S. Forbes, set the first example in this respect not only by
enclosing many fields on his own estate at his own expense, but by
introducing a clause in the general articles of his estate.-" that
all his tenants should be entitled to payment of sixpence per ell
of stone dike as soon as an enclosure was completed, the remain-
der of the value to be paid at the expiry of the lease."  The con-


