
762                          LANARKSHIRE.

on the inhabitants, according to their supposed means and circum-
stances.  The assessment on heritors is at the rate of 7 1/2d. per
pound Scots.  The proportion laid on inhabitants is never all rea-
lized.  It would save much trouble in the collection, and have al-
together a good moral effect, if householders below a certain rank
and station were wholly exempted.  An indiscriminate assessment
of the labouring poor just tends to augment the poors' roll, by creat-
ing a desire to get back as soon as possible what has been, with
difficulty, and grudgingly paid.  The church collections (made
with the ladle) have amounted, for some years past, to from L. 30
to L. 36 per annum.  For the last year they have amounted to
about L. 40, shewing that the interests of the poor have not suf-
fered from the abstraction of what was formerly contributed by
the people of Larkhall and neighbourhood, now annexed to the
new parish, which has the disposal of its own collections.  From
the above sum must be deducted extra collections for religious
purposes and session payments of various kinds, amounting in all
to about L. 16 per annum, leaving what remains for distribution
among the occasional poor.  A very small sum is added to the
session funds from the hiring of mortcloths, now almost abolished
by the general use of pails.  There is generally a collection at
marriages for the benefit of the poor ; but the sums raised in this
way are expended by the minister among needful persons on the
spot, and not reported to the session.  This parish has been fa-
voured beyond most others around, in regard to donations and le-
gacies to the poor.  John Muir, Esq. some time merchant in Que-
bec, and who at the time of his death (1823) was tenant of Dal-
serf House, left by will L. 50, to be distributed by the kirk-session
among ten poor and industrious families, at the rate of L.15 each,
which was done accordingly.  A short time previous to the above
date, William Stewart, Esq. a native of the parish, and some time
merchant in Calcutta, bequeathed by will to the kirk-session, in
trust for the benefit of the poor, L. 500, (deducting legacy duty,
L. 450), directing the principal sum to be invested an heritable se-
curity, or in the public funds, and the interest to be distributed
on the first Monday of every year, among persons not entitled to
relief from the heritors.  A few years ago, Robert Hastie, Esq.
cousin of the above gentleman, and likewise some time merchant in
Calcutta, bequeathed, in more general terms, L. 100, (free of le-
gacy duty), to the kirk-session, of Dalserf, for the benefit of the
poor of the parish.  The interest arising from these bequests is


