
     of St Quivox.

This increase of inhabitants has been owing, 1st, to the ex-
tensive collieries which have been wrought on the Blackhouse
estate in this parish, and on the lands belonging to the com-
munity of Newton adjoining to it. 2d, Many farmers ad-
vanced in life, or unwilling to take their farms at a high ad-
ditional rent, find houses in Wallacetown, to which they car-
ried their capital, and became dealers in grain, meal, malt,
etc. 3d, Mechanics of all forts flocked into it, and feued
houses, or rented those that were built by others, with a
view to profit.  They are here exempted from the laws or
regulations of the incorporated trades in the adjoining royal
burgh of Ayr. 4th, A considerable number from Ireland
and the Weft Highlands settled here, as weavers, day-labour-
ers, etc. because they could get higher wages than at home.
It is a considerable disadvantage to this populous ann thriving
town, that there are no established magistrates residing in it;
an evil which is the less likely to be soon remedied, as the
present superior of Wallacetown resides at a distance, and has
little more connection with it than to uplift the feu-duties.
The attention and activity of the magistrates in Ayr and
Newton to preserve good order in their towns, often drives
disorderly people, and vagrants of different descriptions, in-
to Wallacetown.  By the activity of some of the principal
inhabitants, who, from regard to peace and good order, offi-
ciate as constables, this evil has been in some degree checked
and the managers of the collieries have much merit in their
attention to the morals of the people employed by them.
When it is considered, that the inhabitants are a mixture of
English, Irish, and Highlanders, with the original feuers, who
were natives of the county of Ayr, it will be found that there
is as much peace and decency of behaviour among them as
can well be expected.  They are 3 miles distant from the
parish church, in which they have no seats; but have good


