
                          OLD DEER.                           145

earth as they could lift, to form with the animal manure dropped
in winter, and peat-ashes, a compost for deepening and enriching
by turns the fields which were destined to constant aration.  This
plan of management served to impoverish one part of the farm,
while it benefited another, and was the cause of a distinction which
is still observable and spoken of, between infield and oufield, not-
withstanding a long-continued attempt to bring them nearer to a
state of dqtality by a different and improved system of husbandry.
   Botany.-The following is a list of a few plants culled by a
scientific friend, which be reckoned as being of the rarer species
in the district, viz.-

<TABLE>
Peplis portula          Listera cordata         Subularia aquatica
Parnassia palustris     Trientalis Europaea     Botrychium Lunaria
Menyanthes trifoliata   Veronica scutellata     Hipppuris vulgaris, &c.
Fumaria claviculata     Montia fontana

   It is not saying much to state, that there is more growing wood
in this parish, and much of it in a more thriving condition, than
is to be found in any other district of Buchan of an equal, or even
of a much greater extent.  The late James Ferguson, Esq. of
Pitfour was at great pains and cost in forming plantations: and
the present proprietor, while he attends carefully to thinning,
pruning, and nursing the woods that he found upon the estate,
has done a good deal to extend their limits.  It is to be regretted,
however, that much of his labour and money are lost, as the greater
number of the plants put into the ground are either totally de-
stroyed by deer, hares, and rabbits, or so much injured as to leave
little hope of their ever coming to be trees.  About 1100 acres
of the property in this parish are occupied by plantations.
   The father of the present proprietor of Aden was also at sin-
gular pains in raising forest trees, and ornarnenting his place or
manor.  When he succeeded to the property it was rather naked;
but he left on the portion of it immediately attached to the do-
main, a great many acres of thriving wood, not short of 300 acres,
I should suppose, in masses, clumps, belts, and hedge-rows.
   Mr Ferguson of Kenmundy is not much indebted to his, an-
cestors for the care they took to enrich and beautify the estate he
inherited in this way; but since he came to have the command of
it, he has himself planted fully 90 acres, a considerable part of
which, though young, bodes well.
   On the estate of Dens, belonging to the Rev. John Stuart Bur-
nett, an English clergyman, there is a plantation, embosoming or
skirting some corn fields, probably altogether 70 or 80 acres in


