
                         GLASSARY.                         697

bell, * admitted on the Ist day of December 1691, and died 28th
March 1722. Mr Robert Fullerton, admitted 5th of Jully 1727,
and died 20th July 1762. Mr Peter Campbell, admitted 26th
July 1764, and died day of February 1779. Mr Dugald
Campbell, admitted on the 28th September 1779, and died 5th
December 1826. Mr Dugald Campbell, the present incumbent,
who is now also patron of the parish, was admitted September 9,
1830.
  There is an Independent meeting-house in Lochgilphead of se-
veral years'standing. Another was erected by the new secession in
1843.  A minister of the Scotch Episcopal Church officiated
here for some time, but he left it at Whitsunday last.
   At present it is impossible to state with any accuracy the num-
bers who attend the various churches; but a vast majority of the
communicants belong to the Established Church, and in the re-
mote portions of the parish, it is understood that there are few
Dissenters, if any.
   Education.--The schools of this parish are not in a prosperous
condition.  The parochial salary is divided, and consequently there
is one teacher, who, though appointed to a school, can neither ob-
tain school room nor house at the station which was assigned to
him, and is living at Lochgilphead doing no parochial duty. There
are several private schools, none of which can be held as worthy
of much approvals, + and there are several stations to which teachers
might be profitably appointed. There is also a charity school.
 "We employ ++ a female teacher ourselves for a girls' school in
the village of Lochgilphead, where, besides reading, writing, &c.
they learn needle-work and the like. They used to be twenty-five,
but we are increasing the number. It has, I hope already done
good, more particularly as to work, and improvement in their man-
ner and habits."
  In the Camlodden district there is a school supported by the
General Assembly with a salary of L.25 per annum, exclusive of
the accommodations of house, garden, and a cow's grass, given by
Sir Archibald Campbell, Bart. the proprietor, and it is no more

  <FOOTNOTE>He was the author of several excellent works on doctrinal and practical theo-
logy.
            It is due to the proprietor of Lochgilphead, Alexander Campbell, Esq. of Ach-
andaroch, to say, that he has shown the most laudable earnestness for the advance-
ment of education, that he gives a school-house and school-room, rent free, to the
principal teacher, and that it is considered to be owing to the rejection of a most li-
beral proposal on his part by the villagers, that Lochgilphead is not provided with a
very qualified teacher.
            Communication by Sir John P. Orde, Bart.


