
     of Kintail.

   The cascade of Glommach lies in the heights of Glenelchaig
far from public view.  The fall of water is very considerable;
and rendered awful by the darkness of the surrounding hills and
woods.  The light which predominates at this place seldom ex-
ceeds twilight brightness*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Remains of Antiquities-The castle of Donan was built in the reign of
Alexander III of Scotland, to resist the depredations of the Danes.  It com-
manded a very extensive prospect; and is situated in the western extremity
of the parish.  It had the full command of Lochduich and Lochlong, so as
to secure the parish from annoyances by water.-Colin Fitz Gerald, from
whom is descended the present family of Seaforth, was made constable of
this castle, for the valour he displayed at the battle of Largs in 1263.-
Previous to Sheriff-muir this castle was taken from the King's troops by stra-
tagem.  A neighbouring tenant having applied to the governor for some
hands to cut down his corn, as he said he understood from the face of the
skies, and the croaking of ravens, that a heavy storm was impending, and
that nothing but a sudden separation of his crop from the ground could save
his family from starvation, the governor readily yielded to these pressing sol-
licitations.  But the soldiers, on their return, discovered the deception too
late; for the Kintail men by this time were reaping the spoils, and keep-
ing possession on of the castle.-At full sea, Donan is inclosed by water, and
formed into an island; but at ebb, is connected with the main land.  This
castle was demolished in the year 1719, after the battle of Glensheal, by a
ship of war.  Some of the bullets are still found in mossy ground at the dif-
tance of a mile above it; and are used by some of the oldest inhabitants as
weights to fell butter and cheese.-It appears that when the castle was en-
tire, it consisted of a tower and rampart; the fragments of the former, which
was built long before the rampart, measure 4 feet broad.  The only entire
and remaining part is the fountain, which is still inclosed by a wall of 15
feet high in an octagonal figure.  This draw-well was once drained at great
expence, with the prospect of finding treasure, which was found to consist on-
ly of some silver spoons and small fire arms: the water is full sweet and of
good quality.-The roof of the castle was lead.  The oldest inhabitant of
the parish remembers to have seen the Kintail men under arms, dancing on
the leaden roof, just as they were setting out for the battle of Sheriff-muir,
where this resolute band was cut to pieces.


