
608                  AYRSHIRE.

longed. There is no civil jurisdiction connected with it The
superiority of the greater part of it now belongs to the Duke of
Portland; and Mr Deans of Kirkstyle is superior of the remainder.
Since the passing of the Reform Act, it has been included in the
extended burgh of Kilmarnoch.
	Eminent Characters.--In connexion with this parish may be
mentioned, the famous Sir William Wallace, who resided here for
some time with his paternal uncle, proprietor of the lands of Ric-
carton. It is said that he fled hither after his slaughter of the
noted Cumberland chief, Selby, governor of Dundee. During
his stay here, (according to Blind Harry, who narrates the exploit,)
while fishing in the Irvine, he encountered five English soldiers,
three of whom he slew with his rod, when the other two fled. The
scene of this bloody affray is said to have been on the banks of the
stream immediately below the farm house of Maxholm, about
half a-mile west of the church, and long marked out by a thorn
bush, which, from that eircumstatice, was properly called. the
"bickering buss." This thorn has, of late years, been re-
moved by'some Gotbic hand. Others suppose the scene to
have been on the lands of Holms, on the opposite side of the
river; but of this the probability is very'small. The mansion-
house of Riccarton is now entirely destroyed. The farm-house
of Yardside stands on the same site. Some remains, however, of
the trees, which surrounded it, and especially a pear-tree, said to
have been planted by the hand of the hero himself, are still to be
seen; and, it is reported that the stone now set over the fire-place
of the manse kitchen, is the identical mantel-piece of the dining-
room of that once venerable mansion.
     SirJohn Cuninghame of Caprington, who was created a baro
-net by King Charles II., was a lawyer of great eminence in his
day. He was employed as counsel for his country. against the
Duke of Lauderdale's government in Scotland. Bishop Burnet,
in his Historv of his Times, speaks of him as being "not only learned
in the civil and canon law, and in all philosophical learning, but
as being universal in all learning; a great divine, and besides
had the most universal, and indeed the most deserved reputation
for integrity and virtue of any man, not only of his profession, but
of the whole nationa." Mr John Cuninghame, second son of the
above, was the first who read lectures on the Roman law in Scot-
land as well as on Scotch law; and the continued to do so till 1710,
when he died.


