
             		DUNOON AND KILMUN.                 629

to the stipend of about L.12 or L.14 annually.  The stipend of
the united parish consists of 258 bolls, 3 firlots, oat-meal, Linlith-
gow measure, and 2 bolls, 2 firlots bear, at the county fiars prices,
and L.31, 4s. 7 1/4d. vicarage dues, all payable in money. The
teinds are exhausted. The Duke of Argyle is patron. *
   Two chapels of ease, or preaching stations, have been recently
erected in the united parish, as already stated.  Probationers of
the church, acting as parochial missionaries, officiate at those sta-
tions; on alternate Sabbaths at Toward chapel, and each Sabbath
throughout the year at the Ardentinny chapel. The missionaries
are paid by annual collection, made on that behalf, at each of
the stations, and in each of the parish churches. The annual ex-
pense for thus supplying religious ordinances to a portion of the
population, otherwise almost in point of fact excluded from that
privilege, and from many others of the same kind, is L.90 with
certain allowances for travelling expenses.  The Sabbath collec-
tions at each of those chapels are appropriated to the use of the
parochial poor, and have formed a considerable source of that re-
venue since the commencement of those missions, averaging from
L.25 to L.31 annually, from both together, while it has not been
found, that the erection of those much-needed places of worship
has diminished, by any means, the ordinary Sabbath collections at
the parish churches.  It is but just to state, that the heritors more
immediately interested in those portions of the parochial territory
have manifested liberality in supporting these preaching stations.
   In addition to the two missionaries thus parochially employed,
the minister of the parish officiating alternate Sabbaths at Kilmun
and Dunoon during the summer and autumn half-year, and during
the winter and spring half-year, two Sabbaths at Dunoon, and
every third at Kilmun,-another missionary or assistant, hitherto
unordained, is employed, to alternate with the parish minister at
Dunoon and Kilmun, and to take the more active weekly superin-
tendence of the population of Kilmun parish.  He resides at Kil-
mun.  His salary is guaranteed by the parish minister to the
amount of L.70 per annum.  This salary is made up by voluntary
contributions from the parishioners, and many of our summer visi-
tors contributing liberally to this object, as to all other charitable

<FOOTNOTE>By act of the Scottish Parliament, passed 8th day of November 1641, a morti-
fication of 1200 merks by the King to the minister of Dunoon is ratified; but under
the burden of 200 merks Scots money, "to one schoolemaster who shall remane at
the said kirke of Donnone." The mortification is "out of the reddiest of the teindis,
laind duties, and vpr, rentis of the bishoprick of Argylo."


