
                          EDDERTOUN.                                     441

dom of Ross.  Malcolm of Galloway was appointed by the Earl
first,abbot of the new monastery, about the year 1230; and " by
him the affairs of the abbey were conducted with great piety and
judgment" until his death, which took place after an incumbency of
fifteen years; " he was reverenced as a saint" in the monastery, " on
account of his virtues."
  Malcolm of Nig succeeded as second Abbot of Fearn about the
year 1246.  In his time the devotions of the church meeting with
frequent interruption from the ferocity and savageness of the neighbouring
inhabitants, and the situation proving otherwise unsuitable
to the purpose, Ferquhard, Earl of Ross, with consent of the abbot
and brethren of the convent, transported the abbey, for the more
tranquillity, peace, and quiet thereof,". to a place about twelve,
miles southeast of the former situation, where it continued ever
after.  Its new site received the name of Fearn, or, as it was styled
in ancient charters, " Abbacia de Nova Farina," in allusion to the
place where it was originally situated. Its founder and benefactor,
the Earl of Ross, * granted many new privileges, and bestowed

<FOOTNOTE>Ferquhard, Earl of Ross, was interred within the new abbey ; and a stone effigy,
of a warrior, with his arms crossed on his breast, is still pointed out as his.  An unsuccessful
search was made for his remains 17th September 1819, but was given up,
after digging to the depth of eight feet.
  From its previous connection with this parish, a catalogue ofthe mitred dignitaries
who ruled the Abbey of Fearn, may not be unacceptable.  The following is therefore
given from the best authorities ;-
  1. Malcolm of Galloway, 1230.
  2. Malcolm of Nigg, 1246.
  3. Matth'us, or Macbab'us, who was Bishop of Ross 1272-1274. (Fordun.)
  4. Colin, " Colino Abbate de Nova Fernia," witness in 1298 to a charter.
(Deuchar.)
  5. Martin, a canon of Candida Casa or Whitehorn.
  6. John, also a canon of the Priory of Whitehorn in Galloway.
  7. Mark Ross, a knight.  Abbey-church rebuilt in his time, 1338
  8. Donald Piply, a canon of Fearn,-" Donaldus Abbas de Nova Farnia," is a
witness in 1350, to William Earl of Ross's entail of his earldom.
  9. Adam Monilaw, who died at Fearn in the year 1407.
  10. Thomas Cattanach, presented by the Prior of Whitchorn, who assumed that
privilege, but rejected by the convent of Fearn.
  11. Finlay Ferrier, " grandson to Sir William Ferrier, vicar of Tayn," died 1440.
  12. Finlay M' Fead, who was held in great respect, so much so that the king commanded
that he and his descendants should bear the name of Fearn as their family
surname which was accordingly done.  This abbot died 17th March 1485, having
enjoyed hi benefice forty-four years, and was interred in St Michael's aisle, where his
effigy in full pontificals, with the mitre on his head and crosier by his side, still exists
in tolerable preservation; and under it is the following inscription in Saxon characters
" Hic Jacet Finlaius M'Fead, Abbas de Fern. qui obiit anno MCCCCLXXXV."
 13. Thomas M'Culoch succeeded, and was unjustly deprived by Andrew Stewart,
Bishop of Caithness, after which he resided at Mid-Geanies, where he erected a chapel
for himself, until his death, which occurred in 1516.
 14. Andrew Stewart of the house of Innermeath, having acquired possession of
this abbacy, by a pretended bull from Rome, held it till his death, 17th January 1518
He was also Bishop of Caithness, 1490-1518 and Commendator of the wealthy Abbey
of Kelso. (Rymer, &c.)
   ROSS AND CROMARTY.


