
			    ASSYNT.                                109

	Carex filiformis                 Drosera rotundifolia
	-     limosa		         Sparstanium fluitans
        Utricularia minor                Cladium, Mariscus, in a swamp half-way
	-     intermedia.                  between Kylestrome and Badcall.
	Drosera Anglica, in profusion    Ligusticum Scoticum is abundant on the
	-     longifulia                   shores in some places.

			   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There are no printed or manuscript accounts of Assynt extant,
so far as the narrator knows. Various traditions, however, speak of
individuals, noted in their day, living in or connected with the
parish. Among these we may mention Neil Macleod, who resided
at Ardvrack Castle (now a ruin), built on the banks of Loch
Assynt, on a peninsula, situated within two miles of the eastern
extremity of the loch.
   It is said that the unfortunate Marquis of Montrose, who figured
so conspicuously as a Royalist in the civil war in the reign of
Charles I., after being defeated by General Strachan at Invercarron,
fled towards Assynt, and was betrayed by Macleod, in whom
he had reposed confidence.
   There are correct plans and maps of Assynt in the possession
of the noble proprietrix, and a recent map of the county, both mi-
nute and accurate, has been published.
   The Duebess-Countess of Sutherland is sole proprietrix of the
parish. It has been in the possession of her Grace's family since
the early part of the eighteenth century, when it was purchased
by the then Earl of Sutherland, grandfather of the present Countess.
In the former Statistical Account, published in 1794, is the
following narrative:- State of property, &c.-The property of
this parish has, perhaps, undergone as few changes as any. Tradition,
and even documents declare, that it was a forest of the ancient
Thanes of Sutherland. One of these prime Thanes gave it
in vassalage to ohe Mae-Kry-Cul, who in ancient times held the
coast of Coigach, that part of it presently (1793) called the village
of Ullapool. The noble Thane thus made Assynt over, as
Mac-Kry-Cul bad recovered a great quantity of cattle carried off
from the county of Sutherland by foreing invaders Scandinavians,
who burnt the great fir forests in this and the neighbouring coast.
  "Mac-Kry-Cul's family, by the fate of war in those days of old,
being reduced to one heir-female, she was given in miarriage to a
younger son of Macleod, Laird of Lewis, the Thane, of Sutherland
consenting thereto, and also making this parish over to the
new married couple with its superiority. The result of this marriage
was fourteen successive lairds of the name of Macleod.


