
524                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

ant differences between the old agriculture and the new, we have
already detailed.  The result of the new is, that, after supplying
an increased population, the parish can now export about double
the quantity of grain, and more than double the number of beasts,
and these of a greatly improved quality; at the same time it has
been enriched and highly ornamented, by extensive additional
plantation. *

<FOOTNOTE>November 1840.-The above account was written so far back as the year 1831;
all the materials for it having been collected in the summer of that year, excepting
the thermometrical tables, which are added now.  It is necessary to notice several
improvements which have been since adopted in the parish, and some others of a
more extended nature, by which it has been benefited.
   1. On the 3d December 1831, the Vale of Alford Agricultural Association was
instituted, through the influence of the Honourable the Master of Forbes, and has
since been liberally aided by him and the other land-owners of the Vale.  Many in-
habitants of this parish are members ; and it has greatly promoted a spirit of agri-
cultural improvement.
   2. The regulations of excise, complained of in the Account, as preventing the
inhabitants from making malt of their own bear, have been, through the exertions
of the Honourable Captain Gordon, M. P. for Aberdeenshire, much modified, and
deprived, in a great degree, of their objectionable character.
   3. The facility of transporting cattle by steam-ships has made many farmers de-
vote their attention to the feeding of beasts for the London market, which they find
much more profitable than rearing store beasts only.
   4. Bulls of the short-horned breed of England have been introduced, for crossing
the native breeds of cattle; by which animals are produced of quicker growth, larger
size, and much more profitable in every view than any before bred here.
   5. A Vale of Alford Saving's Bank was instituted in 1839, which is very popular
in this parish, and promises great benefit to the labouring population.
   6. A parish library was, in 1839, established by subscription, under very judicious
regulations.  It already possesses a good collection of the best English books, which
are much read.
   7. In 1836, a liberal subscription was raised by the heritors and inhabitants, to
build a school-room for a female school, and dwelling house for the mistress, both of
a accomodious with substantial kind.  The teaching in the scbool commenced in 1837,
and is continued with great success.  It has been endowed with a yearly salary to
the mistress by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.  This is our
greatest improvement.  The young girls of both rich and poor receive the proper
instruction in religion, literature, and the branches peculiar to their sex, while re-
sident at home, and under their parents' eye.
   It would be a breach of duty not to add that, in 1832, the heritors of the parish
rmade a judicious and handsome addition to the manse.  It is now a large and very
commodious house.  The heritors, also, some years ago, raised the schoolmaster's
salary to the legal maximum.

   November 1840.


