
          PARISH OF NEW OR EASTKILPATRICK.

 PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

     THE REV. ANDREW SYM, D. D. MINISTER.

       I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, &c.--THE two parishes of New or East, and Old or
West Kilpatrick, occupy a large portion of that district of Scot-
land formerly called Lennox or Levenach-tbe field of the Leven.
The etymology of Kilpatrick is plainly the Gaelic cil, a church
er religious house, prefixed to the name of the patron saint of
Ireland, to whom the church of Kilpatrick was originally dedicated.
The tradition which points out the tombstone of this saint in the
church-yard of Old Kilpatrick is rejected by antiquaries; but
there is good reason to believe that he was born in that parish,
near the Roman fort of Duntocher, which not improbably is the
Nemthor of the early legends of St Patrick.
  Extent and Boundaries.--The greatest length of New Kilpatrick
parish is 71/2 imperial miles; the mean length, 6 miles; the great-
est breadth is 51/2, and the mean breadth 31/2 miles; giving a su-
perficial extent of 21 square miles, or 13,440 imperial acres.
These measurements are taken from Wood's map of Dumbarton-
shire; but, according to the plans of the several estates, the ex
tent is only 12,049 imperial acres. It is bounded on the north,
by the parishes of Strathblane and Killearn; on the west, by Old
Kilpatrick; on the south, by Renfrew and Govan; and on the
east, by the Barony of Glasgow, Cadder, and Baldernock.
  Topographical Appearances.--The Kilpatrick hills or braes,
disjoined from the Campsie Fells by a gap of three or four miles
in width, making way for the Blane with its beautiful strath, and
for the black-watered Allander, lie partly in the parish. These
hills range from east to west, terminating abruptly. with Dum-
buck, near Dumbarton. Their greatest height is about 1200 feet
above the level of the sea; and from them the parish slopes on one
hand with a southern exposure towards the Clyde, and on another

<FOOTNOTE>Transactions of Society of Scottish Antiq-aries, Vol. ii. Part i. p. 213.


