
                ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                       335

longer in Uist, and again brought back to the district or Water-
nish, in this parish, where she ended her days.
   Her persecutors showed throughout the utmost anxiety to con-
ceal her place of residence, knowing well the vengeance that
would fall upon them if this were discovered.	They resolved,
that, if possible, even the grave should not bear witness against
them ; for after her death they filled a coffin with sods, and, with
much form, interred it in the church-yard of Duirinisb, having
invited many people to the funeral of the strange lady, while,
meantitne, her remains were secretly deposited in the church-yard
of Trumpan, at Waternhsh. There are few persons who have
had so many funerals as Lady Grange; and few, also, who have
bad more cause to long for a real one, for that place "where the
wicked cease to trouble, and the weary are at rest."
   On the recital of this story, it is impossible to avoid a feeling
of surprise, that such an outrageous act of injustice and oppres-
sion as that above detailed should have been allowed, and that
within less than a century back, to escape unpunished by the
Government of Great Britain.
   Antiquities.-First among the antiquities are to be noticed
Duns or forts, of which there is a large number throughout the
parish; no fewer than fifteen; all of them contiguous to the
sea, and evidently at one time of very great strength.  They are
generally of a circular shape, built of dry stone without lime or
mortar; frequently of such large blocks as would apparently re-
quire the aid of powerful mechanical engines to raise them to the
height at which they are found.  Some of these forts had a wind-
ing stair in the middle of the wall, ascending to tbe top of the
building, and secret cells near the base.  Others, again seem to
have contained no hiding-place, except recesses in the wall might
be called so.  The diameter of the largest which I have examined
is about 40 feet; the thickness of the wall 12 feet.  How these
buildings were roofed, it is not easy to understand; as it is gene-
rally asserted that no wood was used for the purpose.
   There are also several tumuli or barrows to be met with through-
out the parish, the two most remarkable of which are near the
head of Loch Carroy.  These, like the forts, are built on ele-
vated ground, but are merely piles of loose stones.  The two ad-
verted to are known by the name of the Barpunan.  None of
them has been opened up, but if opened up, they would, like
others, be probably found to contain, in vaulted chambers, urns,


