
	1218				PERTHSHIRE.

	of yearly wages, with bed and board.  Agricultural day-labourers,
	and those employed in other out-of-door work, have about Is. 6d
	per day ; but some less during the short days of winter. Women,
	when employed in agricultural labour, such as in planting pota-
	toes, hoeing potatoes and turnips, hay-making, and the like, have
	8d. per day, without victuals ;  At lifting potatoes, women earn
	Is. per day, without victuals; and children of eleven or twelve
	years of age, when employed in this sort of work, are paid at
	the same rate as women.  During harvest, reapers of all sexes
	and ages are paid according to the quantity of work done, viz.
	at the rate of 8d. per threave for oats and barley, and 4 1/2d. for
	wheat.  Journeymen masons, wrights, and blacksmiths, have 13s.
	a-week.  But most artisans here art masters and apprentices, the
	former being generally paid according to agreement with em-
	ployers.
	   There are at present 26 artisans in the parish, including
	apprentices.   The number of male agricultural labourers hired
	by the year (excluding farmers' sons, and also the small farmers
	who are usually labourers themselves,) is 45, of whom 26 are mar-
	ried.  There is evidently a preference shown by the farmers here
	to married over unmarried ploughmen; as there are always more
	of the former than of the latter; and, taking all their allowances
	into account, they are paid at a somewhat higher rate.   Perhaps
	they would have more of the married than they have, if they had
	houses to accommodate them; for thnugh there is abundance of
	houses on certain farms, yet there is a scarcity on others.
	   Live-Stock.--The horses at present used for agricultural pur-
	poses are not of so large size as they are in some other parts of
	the country, nor  as they were in this parish at a former period :
	but they are, for the most part, well-proportioned, vigorous, and
	spirited, and remarkably free from diseases.  The statement in the
	former Statistical Account that, in this parish, " horses are bought,
	few beeing reared," does not now, in  general, hold true; though it
	maybe still so on certain farms.
	   Great attention has not been paid  to the breeding of neat cattle.
	They are, generally speaking, of cross breeds; and often rather
	inferior beasts.  Cows kept for dairy porposes by some of the pro-
	prietors,  and also by, a few of the farmers, are of the Ayrshire
	breed-though, in most cases, perhaps, not quite pure.  Some of
	the proprietors choose, however, to keep cows of a larger size than
	these, though they may be deficient as milkers.  A few oxen of the


