
314                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

school, yet this is in general so far supplied by their proximity to
others without the bounds.  A respectable female or girls' school
for branches not exclusively elementary, would be an important
improvement.  The improved methods of education have been ge-
nerally introduced, and, whatever may be the result in point of
morals or otherwise, nothing can be more apparent than that the
youth of all classes now edjoy advantages and facilities for acquir-
ing information, intellectual and spiritual, far beyond what was
common in former times.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
actually on the roll does not exceed five or six, though as many
others, perhaps, as poor householders, are in the way of receiving
occasional supplies.  The maintaining of a lunatic, however, in
the asylum at Aberdeen, has of late been a considerable burden
upon the funds.  The ordinary mode of keeping up the fund is
by church collections, the average amount of which for the last
five years bas been about L.27; the rest is made up from cer-
tain sums lying at interest, and from church seats let by the ses-
sion, and, were it not for the heavy charge above-mentioned, would
be amply sufficient for maintaining the small number, both of the
ordinary and occasional poor.
   The reluctance to fall upon a parish fund is not, perhaps, what
it once was; yet, on the whole, that laudable spirit of independence
may not be said to be lost in this quarter; and it is certain, that,
looking back to former records, the number of poor receiving re-
lief bad been considerably greater, than now.
   Fair.-There is scarce any market or fair now held in the parish,
if we except one which has not hitherto gained much notice, on
the Saddlehill, in place of Sliach Market, formerly well known
and much frequented.  The new station not appearing to take
well with the country, one has been got up in Huntly at the same
time, to which the business formerly transacted at Sliach has been
for the most part transferred, and from the additional accommo-
dations and conveniences there and from the change, it is believed,
is not felt to be any grievance to the public.
   Inns.-The number of inns or other places for the sale of spi-
rituous liquors in the parish is unquestionably too great,-there
being no fewer than five.
   Fuel.-Fuel is not abundant in the parish.  There is a very small
extent of peat moss, and that mostly of an inferior description.
Neither isturf extensive.  The tenants, however, in Lessendrum


