
         ISLAND OF SKYE--KILMUIR.                                283

posed of at one time for L.16 Sterling and upwards, is now sold as
manure for the ground at nearly as many shillings! Within the
period of time mentioned, the prices of cattle have likewise been
fluctuating. During the peninsular war exorbitant prices were
asked and obtained, and the rents of land were inconsequence fixed
at a higher rate than formerly, which the tenants found it no difficult
matter at that time to pay. Then came the failure of the herring-
fisheries, as if to crown the misfortunes of the once prosperous
Hebridean. In this manner, within the compass of a few years,
the different sources from which the natives derived lucrative em-
Ployments almost entirely failed.
   Relics of ancient customs, &c.-At a remote period, before the
introduction of water-mills, the Muileann-br...dha or queen was in
constant use in the parish for grinding grain. The muileann-
br...dba consisted of two circular stones, about 26 inches diameter,
the lower one of which was generally fixed in a frame of wood,
raised breast-high. The upper stone was so fitted and balanced
as to revolve with ease on the lower one, when impelled with a
peg fastened in it to turn it round. It therefore resembled a wa-
ter- mill in miniature. Grinding with the muileann-br...dba was
always left to the females, two of whom were engaged at it at the
same time,--the one feeding it with grain, the other causing the
stone to revolve,--and both uniting in chaunting a mountain me-
lody, corresponding in time with the working of the machine.
There is only one muileann-bradha now in the whole parish, which,
though not required for use, seems to have been preserved as a relic
of olden times. In the Island of Harris querns are still quite com-
mon, and a great part of the grain raised there is ground by them.
This primitive kind of mill was at one period in general use over
all the Highlands of Scotland, and is still said to exist among the
northern nations of Europe, and in parts of Asia. Dr Clarke and
other travellers have seen querns in Palestine, and there is every
reason to suppose that they were early in use among the Jews. *
   An ancient custom prevailed among the Gael, from time imme-
morial, of parching corn. It was in existence in this parish, until very

<FOOTNOTE> Scottish legislators endeavoured at various periods to discourage the use of the
Muileann-bradha, but for what purpose is not exactly known. In the reign of Alex-
ander III. and in the year 1284, it was enacted, "That na man shall Presum to
grinde quheit, maisloch, or rye, with hand-mylnes, except he be compelled by storm,
and be in lack of mylnes quhilk should grinde the samen.  And in this case, if a man
grindes at hand-mylnes, he shall gif the threttein measure as multer; and if any man
controveins this our prohibition, he shall tyne his hand-mylnes perpetualle."


