
			  BANCHORY-TERNAN                         331

and, together with the sand, are sometimes, though rarely, depo-
sited in layers. Upon the surface, generally a vast number of
stones and boulders occur in all positions, and are especially re-
markable on breaking up and trenching new soil. They then
often appear covering the ground, as closely as if artificially packed
upon it, and are of all sizes, from a few pounds to several tons.
A large proportion of them, when examined, are found to consist
of fragments of sienite, porphyry, and gneiss, which are here
otherwise unknown; and of varieties of granite very different from
the subjacent rocks. They have their angles generally worn, as
if by attrition. It seems difficult to account for these and some
other alluvial appearances of the district, as well as for the names
given to some of the high grounds, (Inch-marlo, and Brath-inch,
or'Brathens), without stpposing that water had for a time filled
the greater part of the valley, and afterwards retired into the bed
of the present river.
	The soil having been formed chiefly by the decomposition of
granite rocks, and no loamy deposits having been made by the
streams of the district, is almost everywhere light, and not natu-
rally fertile. In most places it is not sufficiently retentive of mois-
ture; but in some a ferruginous indurated subsoil prevents both
the deflux of water, and the roots of plants and trees from finding
sufficient nourishment and depth. In some of the low grounds a
spongy moss, mixed with gravel, and bearing a coarse grass, pre-
sents a surface of little value, and difficult to improve, while an
inadequate drainage renders others swampy for a great part of the
year, or subjects them to frequent injuries from floods. No plants,
however, decidedly indicative of a very poor or very inferior soil
are observed to prevail. The whin and broom grow freely and in
nearly equal proportions on the uncultivated tracts; and the fern,
the wild-rose, the holly, and the birch are among the most promi-
nent indigenous productions. The remains of oak, pine, and ha-
zel, which are dug up in great abundance in most of the hallows,
attest, along with traditional history, that the surface was formerly
covered very extensively with nattr`l wood; and the facility with
which these and other trees grow, together with the thriving con-
dition of the present extensive plantations, show that  the soil is
remarkably adapted for rearing various kinds of valuable timber.
Even for purposes strictly agricultural its capabilities are consider-
rable, and hold out the prospect, that when its rescources shall be



