
304                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

luxuries are more widely diffused, and comforts unknown to our
forefathers are enjoyed by the humblest of the people. Habits of
intemperance, however, it is to be feared, have become more com-
mon, and form the chief barrier in the way of social improvement.
Wages have been greatly raised, but the style of living has be-
come more expensive; recklessness and improvidence are more
common characteristics of the labouring classes, and pauperism
has consequently been on the increase. The principal improve-
ment of which the system of agriculture seems susceptible is a
still farther extension of the system of tile-draining, by which the
inferior soils will be rendered more productive. Where the sup-
ply of coal is so abundant, the improvement of the harbour would
unquestionably increase trade and manufactures; and a more
complete education bestowed upon the children of the poor, would
produce a greater refinement of manners, conduct more strictly
moral, and habits of economy, sobriety, and industry.
   October 1839.


                     PARISH OF WEST CALDER.

       PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                         TWEEDDALE.

         THE REV. WILLIAM LEARMONTH, A.M. MINISTER.

                         ____________

          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY,
   Boundaries.-West Calder is bounded on the east by Mid-
Calder; on the south, by Linton and Dunsyre; on the west, by
Carnwath and Cambusnethan; and on the north, by Whitburn and
Livingstome, which last are separated from it by Briech Water,
a tributary of the Almond. The parish is about 10 miles long,
by 5 1/2 broad.
   Coal, &c.-The greater part of this parish probably stands on
rocks of the carboniferous system. Coal has been dug for in vari-
ous places, and a supply of a tolerably good kind has been got for
several years from Woodmuir, about three miles and a-half west
from the village. A Leven-seat, four miles west, and at Baad's
mill, one mile and a-half south-west, coal has been found, and the
working of it has been in progress at both these places. The sup-
ply has as yet been small and of inferior quality. Abundance of


