
                          ABERDEEN.                                  27

Church, two pieces of tapestry worked by Mr Jamieson's daughter,
Mary, representing Jephthah's Vow, and Susannah and the Elders.
   James Gregory, the inventor of the reflecting telescope, was
born in the neighbourhood of Aberdeen in 1638, and educated at
Marischal College.  He was afterwards Professor of Mathematics,
first at St Andrews and then at Edinburgh.
   Edward Raban is worthy of note, as having been the first printer
established at Aberdeen, where he settled in 1621.
   Mr Alexander Jaffray, the son of a citizen of Aberdeen, oc-
cupied the civic chair in the years 1641 and 1649,* and was
highly beneficial to the communhty, by the judgment and mo-
deration which he exhibited in the direction of the affairs of the
town in very difficult times, as well as by the zeal wbiel he dis-
played for the promotion and maintenance of the true religion,
though in his latter days he shewed a considerable want of steadi-
ness, and ultimately became an adherent of the Society of Friends.
   James Gibbs was born in Aberdeen in 1688, and studied ar-
chitecture in Italy, after which he settled in London, where he
acquired both reputation and fortune.  It is to his taste and talent
that the design of the Church of St Martin in the Fields is said
to be due; and he gave the plan also for the West Church in Aber-
deen.
   John Gregory was born in Aberdeen in 1724, and, having
studied medicine, became Professor, first in King's College and
afterwards in Edinburgh, where, on his death, he was succeeded
by his son, the late eminent Dr James Gregory, who also was born
in Aberdeen.
   John Ramage, who was a currier and leather-merchant in Aber-
deen, deserves notice here on account of his devotion to scien-
tific pursuits, and his great practical acquaintance with the con-
struction of reflecting telescopes; one of which, made by him, is
placed in the Royal Observatory, and, though- considerably infe-
rior in size, is said to be nearly equal in power to Herschel's 40
feet reflector.
   Connected with Aberdeen, we must mention Dr Robert Hamil-
ton, formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy, and afterwards
Mathematics, in Marischal College, the author of an Essay on the
National Debt, which has often been referred to as one of the
ablest and most perspicuous elucidations of the principles of the

<FOOTNOTE>Alexander Jaffray, who was Provost in 1636 and 1638, is generally supposed to
be the father of the other, who in 1636 was not more than twenty years of age.


