
                           DALRY.                     235

the great number of streams, bridges are numerous, and are gene-
rally in good condition, unless where the ledges have been wanton-
ly thrown down; a practice disgraceful, though not peculiar to this
parish.
  Ecclesiastical State.-There were originally two churches in the
parish. It appears from inscriptions on stones built into the pre-
sent church, that these were united, and a church erected in its
present site about the commencement of the seventeenth century.
The church is distant six miles from the northern, and three and
a-half from the eastern and southern boundaries of the parish; and
is as conveniently situated for the greater part of the population,
as the figure of the parish will admit. It is a plain edifice, and
was erected in 1771, and received extensive internal repair in 1821,
cast-iron pillars having been introduced to support the galleries
and roof in place of the former wooded ones. It cannot, however,
be pronounced in a sufficient condition, the walls being rent and
forced outwards, while the roof has bent inwards. It affords ac-
commodation for 870 persons, but, by placing pews along, and seats
across the passages, 60 additional sittings have been obtained.
Upwards of a third of the sittings belong to Colonel Blair of Blair,
though, what is peculiar, none of his tenants have any right to oc-
cupy them, owing to the refusal of their predecessors to aid in cart-
ing materials at their own expensse for the building of the church.
The seats are annually let by public roup to the highest bidder.
At the erection of the church, the proprietors of Pitcon and Kers-
land estates having agreed to give the materials of their aisles in
the old church to aid in the erection of the new one, were allow-
ed a proportionate number of sittings, amounting to about sixty each.
The proprietors or occupiers of the soil have no right, however, to
these sittings ; those of Kersland now belonging to the proprietor
of the feudal superiorities, while the Pitcon sittings have fallen
into the hands of heritors, who let them in behalf of the poor.
The ramainder of the sittings are occupied by the heritors and
their tenants, with the exception of the table or communion seats.
It was original intention that the table-seats should be free,
but the scarcity of accommodation has compelled the letting of
these also, and the proceeds are applied to the use of poor.
There are now no seats properly set apart for the accommodation
of the poor. The population having doubled since the erection of
the present church, the accommodation which it affords has be-
come utterly inadequate to meet the wants of the people. Every






