
                             CURRIE.                       555

tury, seems to have been paid by the Town-Council of Edinburgh
as the titulars; for in the document quoted above it is said, that
the minister "hes only four hundreth pundis payit to him be the
towne of Edinburgh, quha hes the pretendit right to the haill
fruittis, and rentis, and teindis of the said haill parochin, alsweill
personage as wiccarage thair of, and the said stipend payit to him
be thair thesaurer."
   The stipend of Currie, levied now from the parish lands, and
including communion elements, at present averages L. 300. The
glebe amounts to 8 acres, which, together with the house accom-
modation furnished to the minister, has been estimated by practi-
cal men at the annual rent of L. 40. The manse, in the year
1837, the year of the writer's appointment to the parish, and with-
out solicitation from him, underwent a thorough repair, and at
the same time was enlarged by an expensive and elegant addition.
   A place of worship in connection with the United Secession
Church, capable of holding about 500 persons, was erected at
Balerno in 1829. The emoluments arise from seat rents and col-
lections, and there is a very neat manse with garden attached to it.
   Education.-The present commodious as well as ornamental
school and schoolhouse were built in the year 1832.  The teacher,
Mr Robert Palmer, has the maximum salary. There are gene-
rally about 120 children attending his school, which having for
many years been in a state of great efficiency, has deservedly met
with corresponding support from the public. The branches taught
include, besides the common range of parochial education, Latin,
French, geography, and mathematics. The advantages of edu-
cation are very generally appreciated, and provision is made for
the education of those children whose parents are in such cir-
cumstances as make them unable to defray the expense of keeping
their children at school. From fourteen to fifteen children are
thus paid for by the heritors and kirk-session annually, at a charge,
including books, pens, ink, and paper, amounting to L. 12 or L. 13.
But the number of poor children, gratuitously educated, is some-
times much larger than this; and such is the well-known liberality
of the parish authorities, that if any pauper families remain un-
educated, the privation is entirely owing to their own negligence.
   There is a female school in the village of Currie, the object of
which is principally to teach sewing. A salary of L. 5, over and
above the school fees, is paid to the schoolmistress out of the pa-
rish funds, vhich, together with a free house and an allowance of


