
     Statistical Account

   Rent, etc.-From the above account of this parish, it may
be expected that the present real rent will be very consider-

<FOOTNOTE>

stone.  The whole building stands in the middle of eight acres
of ground, commonly called the Abbot's yard, or Precinct of
Crossneguill.  This belongs to the chapel royal, and is let in
tack to the family of Kilkerran.  It is subset to one of the te-
nants of the barony of Baltersan, the property of the family;
in the middle of which rich and extensive barony of land this
abbey stands.  The above Precinct has been walled in with a
very strong stone and lime wall, little of which is now remaining.
This ruin is preserved with great care and attention, the tenants
not being allowed to take down and use any stone from the ab-
bey itself.
   The next old building in the parish, is the house or castle of
Thomaston, about half a mile to the south-east of Cullean.  Tra-
dition tells us, that this was built by a nephew of Robert Bruce,
in the year 1335.  It has been exceedingly strong, and of very
considerable extent.  It was inhabited fifty years ago, and is
now become the property of the Earl of Cassillis.
   Of the modern buildings in this parish, the most remarkable
is Cullean castle, founded by David late Earl of Cassillis, in
the year 1777.  This noble edifice is situated upon a rock, pro-
jecting a little into the sea, of about 100 feet in height from the
surface of the water, and almost perpendicular.  The plan and
design were given by the late Mr Robert Adam; and such is the
style of the architecture, such the execution of the work, and
the beauty of the stone, that it impresses the mind with delight-
ful ideas of elegance, order, and magnificence, exceeding any
thing similar in the country.  At a proper distance from the
castle, stand the stables and farm-houses; planned by the same
architect, and executed upon the same large scale; all of which,
with the bridge of approach to the castle, cover four acres of
ground.  The castle commands, from the principal apartments,
a delightful prospect of the whole Frith of Clyde, with a full view
of the rok of Ailfa, set down in the middle, the vessels passing to
and from Clyde not far from its walls.  On the land side, and im-
mediately below the castle, are the gardens belonging to the
old house of Cullean, formed out of rock, at a great expence,
into three terraces; upon the walls of which are planted some of
the choicest fruit trees.  The remainder of the old gardens is
formed into pleasure ground and gravel walks, kept with great
care.  Round the castle, and the adjoining buildings, lies an
extensive policy of about 700 acres, interspersed with many


