
     Of Dysart.

being near each other, are wrought at the same time.  They
lie below the coal; and as they dip the same way, are wrought
to the W. of it, where they come nearer the surface:  24
men are employed in this work, who raise 2080 tons an-
nually.  A ton of stone yields about 1200 weight of iron.

   Population, &c.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the
number of souls in 1755, was 2367.  Little is known of the
ancient state of Dysart.  Trade is said to have flourished there
in the end of the 15th century; 50 sail, probably small ves-
sels then belonging to the town.  Many of the inhabitants,
particularly sailors, accompanied Lord Sinclair to the battle
of Flodden, who were mostly cut off.  This gave a great
shock to their trade*.  The shipping has increased consider-

     VOL. XII. 3 S

<FOOTNOTE>

the coal was set on fire by a lime kiln, which had been placed too near it.  It
did not burn violently:  but was not extinguished for some years.  In 1790, it
again took fire, from what cause is unknown.  It did not burn with fury; but
occasioned much smoke and bad air.  The colliers were prevented from work-
ing for some months.  It is now extinguished.  The means used, were to ex-
clude the air as much as possible, and to allow the water to rise by stopping the
engines.  Dysart coal has a strong heat:  but being slow in kindling, and hav-
ing much ashes, is not so pleasant for rooms as some lighter coals.  It dips to
the S. E. (most of the metals on the sea coast of this parish dip the same way)
1 fathom in 3 near the shore; but is slatter as it goes north.
*It was made a royal burgh in the beginning of the 16th century:but the
original charter, and old records are lost.  In 1546, it is mentioned as one of
the principal trading towns on the Fife coast.  In the beginning of the present
century, its trade was much decayed:  but from the number of well built houses
in it then, it had the appearance of having been in a flourishing state.  At that
time much salt was made there; and their trade consisted chiefly in experting
coal and salt to Holland.  At that time too, malting and brewing were carried
on to a great extent.  in 1756, foreign trade revived.  Severals commenced
wine merchants, and imported wine and spirits in their own vessels.  This trade,
supported partly by defrauding the revenue, is now happily done away.  Indi-
viduals might gain by it:  but the town was much hurt.  Its effects on the


