
     Of Kinghorn.

scanty supply is evidently inadequate to the exigencies of such
as are unable to work; the consequence of which is, that they
must either beg, or steal, or starve.  What others receive is
proportionally less; and thus, even the labour of such as could
do a little, were the deficiency of their earnings to be made up
to them by regular supplies, is lost to the community, from
their being forced by recessity to have recourse to begging;
after which, every idea of labour and industry is at an end*.

   Commerce and Manufactures.-The town of Kinghorn has
2 harbours; one at the botton of the town, which is called
the Kirk-harbour, from its vicinity to the church, which
stands upon a point of land close by it; and another called the
Petty-cur, at about half a mile's distance from the town to
the S.W.  The former of these is of very ancient date: How

<FOOTNOTE>

*And here, by the way, we cannot help observing, that legacies left for the
behoof of the poor, at least in parishes, where the law, with respect to the main-
tenance of the poor is not enforced, have a tendency to defeat the very end for
which they were bequeathed.  For that, trusting to these, the heritors of such
parishes, are apt to neglect what the law, what reason, what religion and hu-
manity so loudly call upon them for, viz. "to consider the cause of the poor."
We would not be understood, from what we have here said, either to condemn,
or discourage the donations of the charitable at the time of their death, to the
poor of parishes to which they may belong, or to which they may be attached;
only let them be left in such a way, as to be distributed immediately, and not be
hung up, so as to intercept that provision which the wisdom and benevolence of
our Legislature has made for them.  Having had occasion to mention legacies,
we may here observe, that the foresaid Mr. Henry bequeathed the sum of 300 L.
for the purpose of founding a bursary, to assist young men, in the profecution of
their studies, at the University of St. Andrew's.  The nominatin of the bursar
is vested in 3 bodies of men; the magistrates and town-council of Kinghorn,
the kirk-session of Kinghorn, and the presbytery of Kirkcaldy.  Each of these 3
bodies choose a delegate out of their own number; the delegates meet by ap-
pointment of the minister of Kinghorn, and, after having examined the qualifi-
cations of the candidates, proceed to the election.  The bursar enjoys his bene-
fice for 4 years.
 

