
			COLINTON.                       111

to the geologist a great variety of very interesting matter. Petrifac-
tions of wood and shells, impressions of leaves, and, in one instance,
the impression of a fish have been found in it. There are quar-
ries of good sandstone or freestone in the parish; in one of these-
Hailes quarry-masses of sandstone in spherical concretions, are
found imbedded in the clay which occurs between the freestone
strata. Curious impressions of plants are also occasionally no-
ticed in this quarry.  Neither coal nor lime are wrought in the
parish, though some people suppose that there are indications of
the presence of both.
  The more remarkable birds found here are, the kestril hawk,
which breeds in the rocks at Craig Lockhart, the brown owl, the
snowflake, brambling, Bohemian chatterer, long-tailed tir-mouse,
golden-crested wren, butcher-bird, ring-ousel, water-hen, and
king's-fisher.  Dr Walker, in his account of the parish, says that
this last bird remains only a few days in the parish; of late, how-
ever, it has remained for months, nay, it is even surmised that,
on one occasion, it remained over the summer, and had a nest near
Slateford. It has been much hunted of late years for the sake of
its plumage, and has, in consequence, become very rare.  It is
understood that the missel-thrush has here, as elsewhere, very
much usurped the place of the common thrush.
  Botony.-As the parish is greatly,diversified by hill, vale, and
stream, it is a rich treasure of botanical productions. Some plants,
both cryptogamous and phenogamous, are very rare.  It is unneces-
sary, however, to enter into an enumeration of these here, as a list of
all the plants within ten miles of Edinburgh has been long before the
public. It may be noticed, however, that a small yellow poppy,
perennial, made its appearance in the manse garden soon after the
present incumbent took possession, which is said to be found in
some of the plantings near Woodhall, but whose habitat is the
mountains of Wales.
  There are plantations around the houses of the heritors and
at Woodville; on the banks of the river belonging to Wood-
hall, Spylaw, Colinton House, Hailes, Redhall, and Craig
Lockhart; on: Craig Lockhart Hill, fir-hill, above Swanston,
(planted by Mr Trotter of Mortonhall in 1766) and on the lands
of Mr Trotter of Dreghorn. The plantations on this last-men-
tioned property, which are of considerable extent, and run far up
the White-hill, are the most recentt in the parish and are in a
thriving condition. It is remarked, however, that the soft
wood in these plantations flourishes well for a time, it soon begins


