
     Statistical Account

   Schools and Poor.-Besides the public school, there is also
an English school in the town; always two, and sometimes
three English schools in the country part of the parish; there
are also, at present, two Sunday schools in the town, which are
of great advantage to the young, and especially such of them
as are much employed throughout the week. The poor, on the
weekly roll, get, according to their circumstances, from 6 d.
to 2 s. per week. But besides those on the roll, there are
many occasional poor, who get from 2 s. 6 d. to 5 s. per quar-
ter. There is 110 L. Sterling mortified for their use. The
collections at the church, which have always been good, are
still increasing; and last year they amounted to near 35l.
The other casualities vary, but may, at an average, amount
to about 20 L. yearly. The heritors, have, for many years
past, assessed themselves in what was necessary to make up
the deficiency. In 1783, when the meal was not only dear
but scarce and bad, Lord Douglas ordered money to be given
to the minister to purchase good meal, to be distributed week-
ly to such as had, Lord Douglas ordered money to be given
to the minister to purchase good meal, to be distributed week-
ly to such as bad occation for it, at 1 s. per peck, and his Lord-

<FOOTNOTE>

Douglasiae, et Dom. Maria Kerr silia Comitis Lothiane conjuge primagenitur, Nat.
15 Oct. 1693, obiit 20 May 1694.-Maria Gordon silia Georgii primi Marchionia
de Huntly, quam Gulietmus primus Marchio de Douglas in uxorem secundo duxit, quaque
anno suae aetatis sexagefimo quarto salutis bumana, 1644, mortem obiit.-Hic situm est
corpus Gul. Marchionis Douglasiae en titulo primi, qui ex diversis et mutuis thalamis ab
Hamiltoniorum et Gordonierum gente suam progeniem continuatam Hamiltoniorum vero
instauratam reliquit. Obiit II. Cal. Mart. anno 1660, atat. vero 71 - Margaret. Ha-
miltoun Angusiae Comitissa obiit 38 anno etatis suae 11 Septembris 1623.-Anna
Stewarta duc : Lennoxiae et Ricbmondiae silia Archibaldo Angusiae Comiti per XVIII.
annos nupta, obiit XVI. die Augusti, ann. MDCXLVI. aet. XXXI.-D.O.M. Hic
positum est corpus Margareta silia primogenitae Gul. Marchionis de Douglas, relictis ex
matrimonio cum Margareta obiit, Imo, Jan. 1660. Katharino conjuga Domini de Tor-
phicben, item Joanna Gul. Alexandri Comite de Sterl. aetatis 49. The following is
the only inscription upon the last Marquis of Douglas:-I. M. D. AEtatis 54
Obiit 25 Febri. 1700.


