
                        HOUNAM.                          195

   The trees planted by the Messrs Douglas on their property of
Chester House have succeeded well, and are Dow arrived at con-
siderable maturity. More recent plantations of various sorts of fo-
rest trees and shrubbery have been executed on a considerable scale
in the neighbourhood of, and around the Duke of Roxburghe's villa
of Greenhill, which are in a thriving state; and new and ornament-
al plantations are rising on part of Mr Dickson's property, which
will tend much to beautify the scenery around the village. The
hedge-rows are usually interspersed with oak, ash, and elm. The
soil seems congenial to ash, elm, beech, Scotch and larch fir, plane-
trees, and various species of ornamental trees. Those that grow
spontaneously are the hazel, the birch, the alder, the oak, and the
mountain-ash.
                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-Of the early history of this parish little or
nothing is known. Situated on the frontier of Scotland, and bor-
dering for a number of miles on England, the parish and neigh-
bourhood, in former times, was undoubtedly a perpetual scene of
border warfare. The sites of several ancient forts are still dis-
cernible.
   Before the Reformation, the church was in the diocese of the
Bishop of Glasgow, and was conferred on the Abbey of Jedburgh
at the end of the twelfth century. (MS. Adv. Lib. Hounam, sh.)
Roxburgh, alias Teviotdale Di. Glasgow, Pr. Jedburgh, &c.)
When the Bishop of Glasgow and the Abbot settled their disputes
in 1220, (as noted by Chalmers, Cal. Vol. ii. p. 166,) it was agreed
that the whole tithes of corn within the parish of Hounam should
be appropriated to the use of the canons; the vicar receiving L. 10,
or the altarages, in his option. * The lands of Kirkrow, Kirk-
hope, and Steeple-side, are reported to have formed part of the pa-
trimony and spirituality of this church, during the reign of the Ro-
man Catholic religion. The Reformation restored the independence
of the parish. The patronage of the church belonged for a consi-
derable period to the lands of Kirkrow, but was lately sold separate
from these lands, and is now held by Sir George Warrender.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owner is the Duke of Roxburghe,
a minor. His property, including the farms of Hounam-mains,
Main-side, Greenhill, Bearhope, West Grange, Weary Streams,

<FOOTNOTE>"Chart. Glasgow: In this particular settlement there was a reservation to the
canons, (which shews the practice of the age,) that they should have in this parish an
acre of land, "ad reponendum bladum suum in loco competenti."


