
         		 PARISH OF FORFAR.

	   PREBSBYTERY OF FORFAR, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEANS.

	         THE REV.  W. CLUGSTON, A. M., MINISTER.

	          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name--The name of this parish in the deeds relative to the
patronage, is Forfar Restennet. In the " Estate and order of the
Presbyteries" in May 1586, as recorded in the Books of the Uni-
versal Kirk, Forfar and Restennet are inserted as separate pa-
rishes, and it seems, therefore to have been intended to constitute
them two distinct parishes,--an intention which was not followed
out; or Forfar Restennet may be a united parish, though no evi-
dence as to the period and circumstances of the annexation has
been discovered. No satisfactory account can be given of the ety-
mology of the name Forfar; but a conjecture to be afterwards
mentioned has been hazarded relative to the name Restennet.
	Extent, Boundaries.--The extent of the parish is about 6 miles
from north to south, and about 5 from east to west. The
parishes by which that of Forfar is bounded are, Rescobie on the
east and north; Dunnichen and, Inverarity on the south,; Kinnet-
tles on the south and west; Glammiss on the west; and Kirriemuir
on the west and north.
	The parish is situated on the south side of the valley of Strath-
more. A chain of lochs at one period extended through the val-
ley, aud three of them were within, the bounds of this parish, viz.
Forfar, Restennet, and Fithie. One of these lochs, viz, Restennet,
has been drained. By cutting a drain to the west, and conduct-
ing it, to the river Dean, which falls into the river Isla, the loch of
Forfar has been greatly reduced in its limits. This loch, though it
is contiguous to the town of Forfar, and at one period bounded it
on the west and north, is generally understood to be in the parish
of Glamiss. The loch, with the land acquired by draining, and
which has been brought under cultivation, is part of the estate of
the Earls of Strathmore.
	The parish includes the royal burgh of Forfar, and embraced a
considerable landward district. The form of the parish and its


