
587                             BALMERINO.

the shadow of a shade,"-all that remains of :it being a few
fragments of the lower parts of the side walls. This place is said
to have been built by Robertus de Lundon, a natural son of King
William. Soon after, Naughton was acquired by John de Haya,
the third son of William de Haya, tbe first of the family of Errol.*
The Hays are mentioned as Lairds of Naughton about King
Alexander Ill.'s reign. + In 1494, Sir Patrick Crichton got
the lands in marriage with Janet, the daughter and heiress of Sir
James de la Hay.+ From the Crichtons, Mr Peter Hay, a son of
the Laird of Megginsh purchased the lands in the beginning of the
seventeenth century. In the year 1737, the estate was brought to
ajudicial sale by tbe creditors of Robert Haya of Naughton, and pur-
chased by William Morison, Esq. the great grandfather of the
present proprietor, Mrs Bethune Morison.
   Here, according to Sibbald, there was an establishment of
Culdees in connection with that of St Andrews. Three churches
are particularly mentioned in "Extracts from the Large Regis.
ter:" one at Forteviot, one at Monechata, or Moonzie, and one at
Doldanha or Nauchton. These buildings, it appears, Were all of
wood; and, of course, conjecture as to the site of the erection here
would be vain. Monechata is supposed by Dr Jamieson, in his
history of the Culdees, to be Monikie in Forfarshire; but if Dol-
danha be an allowable transition. into Nauchton, there can be no
reasonabl objection upon this ground, to the change of Monechata,
into Moonzie, which, along with Forteviot, was ever afterwards at-
tached to the see of St Amdrews, when the Culdee establishments
gave way to the monastic institutions.
   There is a field in the parish called the Battle-law, where the
Scots, it is said, attacked the Danes after their retreat from Luncarty,
again defeated, and forced them to flee with precipitation, on
board their ships, then lying in the mouth of Tay. Near this
field, have been found stone-coffins, bones, and pieces of broken
swords. At the farm of Peashills, about a mile north-east of the
above-named field, were found some years ago two pieces of gold,
Of the value of L.14 Sterling. One piece was in the form of
a ball, and appeared to have been the knob usually attached to the
hilt of a sword; the other, which is in the possession of Mrs Mori-
son of Naugbton, has evidently been an ornament of some kind

<FOOTNOTE>
   * Wood's Peerage.
   + Sibbald Fife. 1803        + Writs of the filmiiy of Naughton.
     The author of "The first Blast of the Trumpet,"already frerred to.


