
904                        FFFESHIRE.

Scots (L.33, 6s. 8d. sterling), the money found in the poor's box
at the death of Mr Grame, the last Episcopal clergyman of Dun-
fermline, was, by the Justices of the Peace, Heritors, and Town-
Council, mortified in the hands of the Town-Council, for the use
of the poor.  The town, at the same time, came under an obli-
gation to pay the interest yearly-one half to the poor of the
burgh, and the other half to the poor in the landward part of the
parish.  On 19th April 1757, the town paid L.50 Scots, as in-
terest for five year, to a meeting of heritors and session, which
was forthwith ordered to be paid to the poor in the landward part
of the parish.  Whether, or how it has been subsequently applied,
I have not been able to ascertain.
   Jermin's Mortification.-Tbe donor and original amount of
this bequest seem at present equally unknown, but it is also in
the hands of the Town Council, and small payments have at dif-
ferent periods been made from it to the poor, as in 1829 of L.5,
in 1830 and 1832 of L.1, 14s., and in 1832 of 17s. 6d.  No
payments have been made since the trust commented in 1835.
   St Leonard's Hospital.-This is the most ancient charitable
institution now in the parish, but the exact date of it has not been
ascertained.  The object of it was the maintenance of eight
widows, each of whom was entitled to four bolls of meal, four bolls
of malt, eight loads of coal (now converted into 4d. per load),
eight lippies of fine wheat, eight lippies of groats (dressed oats),
and, according to one account, also fourteen loads of turf yearly,
with a chamber in the Hospital, and a small garden.  Some of
them had also at one time 2s. silver yearly to buy pins.  The pro-
vision for them is payable from the produce of sixty-four acres of
land, in the immediate vicinity of the place where the Hospital
once stood.  The average annual amount received by each of them,
for the last five years, has been L.8, 9s. 3d., with a small deduc-
tion for collecting and public assessments, and 1d. for pin money.
   Pitreavie's Hospital.-In the year 1675, Sir Henry Wardlaw
of Pitreavie, Baronet, " for implement and fulfilling of several
vows, promises, and engagements, made by him before God, after
great mercies received, and for certain other good causes, motives,
and considerations," instituted an hospital at the village of Mas-
terton, in the south-eastern part of the parish, a house of four
rooms, still remaining, in favour of four widows, " women of
honest fame, relicts of honest husbands, who live on the ground
of Pitreavie, or other ground belonging to him and his succes-

