
     No. 4.] The Statistical Account.

17 s. 6 d. This last kind is by many dealers preferred to the
white.  One guinea was given for the wool of Paston, lower
in the country on the English side, and the highest price
given for wool on the border; 19 s. was but rarely given its
1790, when wool sold rather higher than it has ever been
known to do.  Of said wool seven or eight fleeces go to the
stone; of white wool nine or ten; of the long wool near
the foot of the water Kale, 4 or 5 fleeces go to the stone,
and it sells at 16 s. per stone.  The farmers are under the ne-
cessity of going from home to seek a merchant for their com-
modities.  People of substance, most commonly from Eng-
land, travel the country at a stated season, for the purpose of
buying the wool, generally at the end of June or beginning
of July.  The price is usually paid when the wool is bought,
or on a near day.  The same mode takes place with regard
to the disposal of the sheep at a different season, which is
usually the end of harvest.  People from England, and the
low country of Scotland, buy the ewes and welders at this
time of the year, for feeding fat on turnip through the win-
ter.  The wedder sheep sell about 5 s higher each than ewes.
   It is generally supposed by the farmers in this district that
a manufactory established hi this part of Scotland would be
of considerable advantage to the country.  It is true there
is a carpet manufactory at Hawick, but that makes use only
of coarse wool, and is generally supplied with wool from the
west part of Scotland.  There is also a manufactory at Haw-
ick and Galashiels for cloth; but, though slourishing and
highly creditable to the undertakers, yet they are established
on a small scale, and at a distance from this part of the
country where the best wool abounds.  Kelso, or its neigh-
bourhood, one would imagine, should be a favourite spot for
that purpose.  The best wool would be at command, and
the carriage would be inconsiderable.  The advantages to

     E 2


