
                     KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                       1275

	on this kind of moss, which is kept dry by open ditches at regular
	distances,
	   Draining.-The proprietors and farmers of this parish have
	been peculiarly successful in adopting the most improved system
	of draining; but, as so much has been published of late respect-
	ing the construction of drains, in reference to their depth, distance,
	and the mode of filling them, it is deemed unnecessary to enter
	particularly into the subject here. It may be stated, however,
	that the utility of the frequent draining system was shown by Mr
	Ord, factor at Blair-Drummond, so early as 1826, in the north
	side of the cow park there, in which parallel drains were cut from
	top to bottom, at distances of fifteen feet, and filled with stones
	broken to a small size.
	   Partial draining was practised at a much earlier period, in the
	dryfield part of this parish than in the carse; but the system of
	deep ploughing and thorough draining, which Mr Smith of Dean-
	ston has done so much to introduce into general use, now prevails
	in both, and has been productive of the most beneficial results.
	That gentleman is so universally celebrated for his inventions in
	machinery, and improvements in agriculture, as to require no en-
	comium here.
	   Mr M'Ewan of Black-dub; in this parish, who is a very intel-
	ligent and enterprising farmer, invented his well known drain-
	plough, the utility of which is particularly described in the Third
	Report of Drummond's Agricultural Museum.  As a proof of its
	efficiency, it may be added, that he has opened drains by this
	plough in this parish to the extent of 448 acres, and about 100
	acres in the neighbourbood.
	   It is highly creditable to the tenants of this parish in general,
	that they have been most skilful persevering, and successful, not
	only in draining, but also in adopting all other modern agricultu-
	ral improvements.
	   In 1831, a tile work was erectedon the estate of Blair-Drum-
	mond, from which tiles are supplied gratis to the tenants of the
	carse lands, to the yearly value of about I. 400, and the tenants
	are allowed to divide them among themselves according to the
	size of their farms, the landlord reserving to himself the power of
	refusing them where the drains do not appear to be properly exe-
	cuted.
	   So sensible are the tenants of this advantage, that they vie with
	one another to meet the wishes of the landlord, by making their


