
114                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

scarcely less striking is the amount of production, and the increas-
ed rental. The rental, including the annual sale of wood, (L. 150,)
amounts to L. 3080, 4s. 2d.: in 1794, it is supposed to have been
L. 1700,-there being thus a difference of L. 1380, 4s. 2d. When
it is considered that prices are fully lower at present than they
were then, the whole of the increased rental and production must
be ascribed to improved cultivation.
   The only other point of comparison deserving to be noticed is
suggested by the great increase of the amount of money raised for
support of the poor. The number of paupers has increased in a
greater ratio than the population. The number on the roll in
1794 is stated to be only three; this, however, was the actual
number enrolled for that year, and said to be fewer than usual.
At present the number is fourteen, being nearly five to one. The
amount of assessment, collections, &c. taken together, give L. 18,
12s. expanded for the support of the poor at the former period.
Now, the whole, aggregate sum is L. 91, 6s. 4d. being nearly in
the same ratio. These, facts place in a striking point of view the
strong tendency to increase which pauperism manifests wherever
a legal assessment has been established. It would, however, be
unfair to suppress some mitigating circumstances which tend to
diminish the apparent difference between the former and present
state of our parochial funds. In 1831 and 1832, the general ave-
rage was greatly raised by an extraordinary expenditures occasioned
by the measures adopted to guard against the introduction of cho-
lera. The precautions for these two years incurred an expense of
not less than L. 60 for increased allowance, for food, fuel, and
clothing,-medicine, and Cleaning the village, and intercepting va-
grants. The increased funds, arising from collections, donations,
&c. have induced us to extend our aid beyond the range of actual
pauperism, by a supply of coals, and occasional small donations
to industrious families in distress, as well as to the enrolled poor.
And the great bulk of the session funds is expended in this way
annually.

   Revised November 1834.


