
     Statistical Account

ordained him without a call.  The principal occurrences during
his incumbency, are recorded by himself in his own narrative,
and by other contemporary writers; and it would be both un-
necessary, and improper for me to enumerate them.  At the
same time, I cannot altogether pass in silence, what has been
termed, the extraordinary work at Kilsyth, Cambuslang, and
some other parishes, in the year 1742; especially as there were
even then some who called themselves Christians, so blinded by
prejudice, or by party zeal, as to affirm that it was a work of
the Devil.  Had they been satisfied with reviling the honoured
instruments of that work, even though they did call them limbs
of Satan, or ambassadors of hell, I should have only pitied them,
and been willing to bury their railing in oblivion:  But they
were so destitute of that charity, "which thinketh no evil,
"which rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth;"
as to persist in ascribing to diabolical influence, the effects pro-
duced among the people.  I think myself therefore obliged to
make some remarks on their conduct.  And therefore I cannot
pass their conduct in silence.  If there are men of the present
time, who can view the subject in the same light, I reply to
both, in the spirit of meekness, "that a kingdom divided a-
gainst itself cannot stand;" and that if their representations

<FOOTNOTE>

ing his incumbency the church received considerable repairs The whole roof
was renewed, the north aisle and the vault or burying ground under it, was like-
wise repaired in the year 1697.  And the parish was assessed in the sum of
L. 1266: 13: 4 Scots for that purpose.  Mr Hay being considerably advanced
in years before he was admitted, soon became unable to officiate.  Insomuch,
that on the 1st of July 1710, he testified to the session his desire of having an
assistant And in the same day Mr James Stewart was elected by unanimous
consent of the minister, session, and congregation to be assistant, and that as
long as he was pleased to continue among them.  In that capacity he officiated
till the death of Mr Hay in July following.
   A considerable vacancy again ensued.  So that for nearly three years the
Presbytery regularly supplied the charge once in the fortnight.


