
446                       PERTHSHIRE.

ledge, including those of Latin, Greek, and French. There is a
school in the village of Bankfoot, called the " Subscription
School." Mr Wylie of Airlywight gave the ground on which it
is built, with a play-ground attached to it, and the feuars contribut-
ed the money by subscription for its erection.  By a legal disposi-
tion, the teacher, before his election by the subscribers, which is
annual, must have satisfied the presbytery of Dunkeld of the cor-
rectness of his moral and religious character, and of his ability to
teach the elementary branches of knowledge required. This school
has no endowment, but as it is numerously attended, the teacher
makes a tolerable livelihood. The other two schools are in situa-
tions of the parish too remote from the parochial or the Stanley
and Bankfoot schools to be benefited by them. One of them
is at Obney, and is unendowed, as is also the other, which is at
Tullybelton. Efforts are making at present to have a new school-
houre at Obney, and to have a school established at the Wester-
ton of Kinglands, on the General Assembly's Scheme-a place
where a school is much wanted, and by the erection of which that
at Tullybelton would be superseded. The people are abundant-
ly alive to the benefits resulting from educathnn; and all without
exception are taught the elementary branches of knowledge, and
many of them the higher departments of it. The only fault to be
found with parents in reference to the education of their children
is a capricious desire of novelty leading them perpetually to change
their teachers, till they are themselves taught by experience, that
the old were better than the new. From time to time adventurers
open schools both in Stanley and Bankfoot, and are supported for
a while, but both these teachers and their employers soon become
mutually tired of each other. There is a Sabbath school at Stan-
ley, attended by between three and four hundred of the young peo-
ple of that place. The minister has a Sabbath school in the
church of Auchtergaven, attended by from fifty to sixty young
people. And another Sabbath school is taught at Tullybeagles,
by Mr William Duff, a preacher, assisted by the schoolmasters
of Obney school. In all the schools in the parish the Scriptures
are regularly read, and the Shorter Catechism, with the Proofs,
taught. The situation of parochial scholl is somewhat out of
the way of the people, and it would be a great advantage were it
nearer the church. And  no greater blessing could be bestowed
upon the parish than a new school-house at Obney, and a school
                              4


