
708			AYRSHIRE.

ness, and as compact as the solid rock. A pedimented stone,
which belonged to a door or window of the building, but which is
now placed over an entrance to the adjoining garden, bears the
initials W. H. I. B. and the date, Anno 1669. The date re-
cords, doubtless, the period of some repairs, or perhaps the year
the estate was acquired by Hamilton of Ardoch, as there cannot
be a question of the existing fragment of masonry having formed
part of the "strong tower" noticed by Pont, and in which, a few
years previously to his visiting the district, had resided Barclay,
the unfortunate friend of Montgomery the poet, as had likewise,
probably, all his ancestral possessors of the barony of Ladyland.
In taking down this ancient strong house, there were found, in a ca-
vity in one of the walls, a little above the foundation, four small
urns, a painted drinking glass, and a large jaw bone, supposed to
have been that of an ox. The urns were neatly formed of com-
mon clay, three of which were filled with an unctuous kind of earth,
and one of them, besides the earth, contained the breast and side
bones of a chicken. Two of the urns had handles, and all of them
were tightly closed with shreds of trimming or woven cloth, the
most of which, on being taken out, crumbled into powder. Part
of these relics are preserved by Mrs Cochran of Ladyland, as is a
small coin found in the grounds adjoining the tower. The coin is
of some compound metal, and bears the legend FESTINA LENTE;
but the date and the impress on both sides appear to have been
effaced by long circulation.
	Modern Buildings.--In 1816, the late Mr Cochran built an
elegant and commodious house on his estate of Ladyland. It is
pleasantly situated on a gently elevated terrace or eminence, ly-
ing along the base of the high grounds in the north-east extremi-
ty of the parish, and commands an interesting prospect to the
south. The adjacent heights protect it from the north and east
winds, and some fine old ashes, elms, and planes, and thriving mo-
dern plantations, contribute much to shelter and beautify its en-
virons. The grounds and approaches have been designed with
much taste, and are kept in excellent order. Taken altogether,
this is among the most eligible residences of its class, in this sec-
tion of the country.
	There is no other modern building in the parish meriting, by
its architecture, especial notice. It may, however, be stated, that
in 1824 a commodious chapel was built by the congregation of the


