
            546                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

            sidered on the poor's list, and receive merely a temporary relief.
            A few families, for the last four years, have received as high as L.5
            each.  The funds to meet this expense are, collections in the
            church, L. 12; one-third of the interest of money, mortified by Mr
            James Graham, formerly mentioned, L. 4, 6s. 8d.  The rest is
            supplied by donations from the heritors and others. I believe it
            is real necessity that induces any to apply for relief. An idly-
            disposed character may occasionally be found.
               Inns, &c.--There is an inn in each part of the parish, with ac-
            commodation for travellers. Spirits and ale are also sold at a
            toll-bar. There is no drunkenness in the parish; and none can
            be said to frequent places, for the sake of strong drink. At the
            same time, spirits are drunk on occasions to a considerable extent.
               FueL.--Peat is used as fuel in this parish, except in a few fami-
            lies, which employ coal in their parlours. There are large fields
            of moss in the parish, sufficient for the supply of many future gene-
            rations. The providing peat occupies a great number of hands
            tluring a considerable part of the summer. It has frequently
            to be carried a distance of two and three miles. But as coals are
            very expensive,--Annan, from which they are chiefly brought, being
            sixteen and eighteen miles from the greater part of the parish,--it
            is considered a most fortunate circumstance that the other fuel is
            so abundant.
               March 1833.
                             MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
               It is hoped that the following observations, pointing out various
            evils which depress the tenantry and other classes, though of a
            general nature, will not be deemed foreign to the objects of this
            work.
               1. The state of the tenantry would be greatly improved by a dif-
            ferent mode of disposing of their surplus stock. The great pro-
            portion of their black-cattle and sheep, it is well known, goes to
            England. There is, however, no sound policy in the tenants them-
            selves proceeding with them to the south fairs, and in so far be-
            coming drovers: for not only are their farms thereby in danger
            of being neglected, and they themselves exposed to the risk of
            contracting unsteady and irregular habits, but there is, moreover,
            reason to apprehend, that they could not dispose of their stock to
            as good advantage as it would be disposed of by persons experien-
            ced in the trade. There appears, therefore, a propriety in dispos-
            ing of their surplus stock to merchants who present themselves.


