
                        RENFREW.                              21

cannot be fewer than 100 acres in small properties around the
burgh.  Upwards of seventy acres are on the south side, and di-
vided into twenty-two separate properties; the marches being de-
pendent on the turning of the furrow, year after year.  This mode
of cultivation is no doubt unfavourable to the amount of produce
and agricultural improvement; but is, on the other hand, highly
favourable to habits of industry, economy, and morality.  Fami-
lies possessing even single acres of land have, in consequence, a
certain standing in society, which they naturally seek to maintain.
They have labour to occupy their spare hours, and virtuous cares
giving a direction to their thoughts.  Hence they generally suc-
ceed in laying up some little stock beyond their daily earnings.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent over the whole parish is pro-
bably from L.2, 10s. to L.2, 15s. per acre.  On several estates, the
principle of a grain rent has been adopted; the price of a  given quan-
tity of wheat being usually the rent per acre; and this principle seems
to be approved of by the farmers.  To a disinterested observer it
seems preferable for both parties.  For, as the farmer cannot long
pay an old rent with falling markets, the proprietor must, in these
circumstances, suffer loss, be the conditions what they may; and
yet he can have no claim for an advance of money rents, however
much the markets may improve; while with a grain rent he has
the chance of profit as well as the risk of loss; and farming itself
is thus rid of half its cares.  At the same time, it would doubtless
be an improvement to include more than one staple commodity.
If, in such a district as this, the price of a boll of wheat, a boll of
oats, and a stone of butter, were substituted for their value in
money, the farmer would be but little dependent on the fluctuations
of the market.  The rent for grazing in this parish is not usual-
ly paid per head, but either per acre, or so much for an entire field;
the grass being chiefly around gentlemen's seats; and may be esti-
mated at an average of L.3, 10s. or L.4 per acre. *
   Rates of Wages.-The wages of steady and able labourers are
from 10s. to 12s. per week.  Men servants are hired for from L.7
to L.11 in the half-year, with bed and board; and female for
L.3 and upwards to L.5 and L.5, 10s.  The common wages for
journeymen masons are from 18s. to 20s. per week; for wrights
from 15s. to 18s.; and for smiths about 18s.

<FOOTNOTE>A large herd of cows feed on an extensive meadow, belonging to the corporation
as so much per head; but the rate is beneath the actual value, and may vary from
time to time: and besides, the privilege is confined to the burgesses.


