
                        NEWLANDS.                        141

    Rate of Wages.-The number of ploughmen may be 51, with
victuals in the house, or livery-meal and kitchen money yearly
as wages L. 11, 11s. each; women-servants all victualled in the
house, in summer, 91, L. 3, 15s. each; do. in winter, 68, L. 2;
day-labourers at 1s. 6d. per day, 35; boys, 50, L. 3 each yearly.
    Rent.-The whole rent of the parish, valuing what is farmed by
proprietors, is L. 6300. The valued rent, Scots money, L. 4020,
10s. 1d.
    Farm of Boreland.-As the improvements upon the farm of
Boreland, the property of William Aitchison, Esq. of Drummore,
in the vicinity of my manse, have, in various respects, given a sti-
mulus to improvement in this quarter, I judge it proper to give a
general account of them.
    The farm contains 372 acres, 30 acres of which Mr Aitchison,
who purchased it in 1806, devoted to stripes and clumps of planting
for shelter, and which is all in thriving condition.  The surface
on the north rises gradually from Longstruther burn into a long
ridge of no great elevation, the soil of which is in general a black
Moorish soil, so light as to blow with the wind when pulverized in-
to a tilth for turnip. This ridge declines into a plain, and then
rises into a similar ridge, but of greater acclivity, which gathers in
its middle to an emmence, crowned on its top with a small circu-
lar circumvallation, called Boreland Rings. This ridge descends
rather more precipitously into the narrow glen of Callends burn.
The soil of this plain ridge is a gravelly loam upon an open bot-
tom. The whole is easily accessible to the plough, and has been
all under plough culture, excepting some few spots converted into
water meadow.
    When purchased by Mr Aitchison it was in the possession of
a back-going tenant, the remainder of whose lease he bought up,
-the whole in the worst possible order.
    The first surface improvement it underwent was liming the whole
at the rate of 45 bolls of shells (or 18 one-horse cartfuls) per acre,
so soon as it could be overtaken by fallowing. This liming seem-
ed to have but little effect on the light soil of the northern ridge.
    Much draining was required; and the first operation of this
kind was performed upon a narrow stripe of land, consisting of 61
acres, lying along the end of the second mentioned ridge, from a
little above the bridge over Lyne at the manse, to Callends burn,
and bounded betwixt Lyne water and the road to Peebles. It was
a moss soil at the outburst of the springs from the ridge, in which


