
438                          AYRSHIRE.

lies from south-west to north-east, and the dip is to the south-west,
the same as the coal strata, betwixt the first and the second of
which it is found. It is in irregular layers or posts, varying from
6 inches to 6 feet in thickness. It requires to be bared, where it
is at present wrought, of about 25 feet of different kinds of soil,
viz. of about 4 feet of sand, 3 feet of loam, and the rest, down to
the rock, till, or clate-clay. The stone passes from the quarry to
Ardrossan by the railway, and is shipped at 10s. per ton of 16 cu-
bical feet. The average number of men employed in the quarry
is 35, and their average pay is 3s. per week.
	Parkend Quarry.--This quarry is of very superior Osmotid stone,
which is in much request for ovens, furnaces, &c. There is also
a bed of schist on the shore at Saltcoats, which stands the fire, and
is used for furnaces. It is full of organic remains.
	Hallerhirst Limestone quarry.--This is a quarry which has not
only been profitable to the public-spirited proprietor, but has
tended much to the improvement of the parish. As the lease of
it has expired, operations have been at a stand for some months,
but will recommence, I doubt not, ere long with fresh spirit. The
number of men employed in the quarry varies, but may average
throughout the year, 8 or upwards, at 12s. per week. The lime-
stone, when burned, is sold at the kiln at Is. 4d. per boll.
	There is abundance of limestone on the fine estate of Grange;
but at present, no more of it is quarried than is required for that
portion of the estate which is farmed by the proprietor.
        The limestone and the sandstone quarries, and the whole of
the coal-fields in the parish, are interesting in a scientific
point of view, from the numerous organic remains which they
contain. What changes must have taken place within the boun-
daries of this little parish! In the lower grounds we have a stra-
tum of firm rock, indicating, as we observed by the shells it con-
tains, that it was once the silt at the bottom of a fresh-water basic.
The sea shells, the remains of star-fish, &c. imbedded in the lime-
stone and schist, teach us, with equal certainty, that these rocks,
which now hold an elevated situation, were originally formed at the
bottom of the mighty deep.* In the sandstone quarry again, and
in the schist connected with the coal, we have beautiful impres-
sions of ferns, reeds, Stigmaria, Sigillaria, Lepidodendra, and other

<FOOTNOTE>The shells, &c. in the limestone and till connected with it are numerour, and va-
eious. The shells in the shale connected with the coal are chiefly of the genera, Unio,
Nucula, and Euomphalus.


