
   324                             BANFFSHIRE.


   industry, which, in the space of a few years, raised his country
   from a state of semi-barbarism to a degree of civilization, equal to
   that of the most improved districts of the south.  His Lordship
   completed an excellent education by foreign travel, which eminently
   qualified him for the distinguished part he was destined to
   act in the field of philanthropy.  In 1754, he was appointed one
   of the Commissioners of Customs in Scotland; and in 1765, was
   constituted one of the Lords of Police.  He was one of the trus-
   tees for the improvement of fisheries and manufactures, and for
   the management of the forfeited estates in Scotland ; and Attended
   to the business of these boards with the most exemplary zeal and
   assiduity.  Enthusiastic in his desire to benefit his native land,
   the prime object of his ambition, he conversed much with and
   greatly honoured men of letters and persons of ingenuity in every
   profession, always endeavouring to convert whatever knowledge be
   by such means acquired, to the improvement of his country.  In
   these truly patriotic pursuits, be succeeded to an extent altogether
   unparalleled in the annals of industrial improvements; and his
   name is still a household word over the north of Scotland, being
   regarded as that of a man who, in his day and generation, proved

   crop, as well as pther green crops, by degrees, into general practice. Although his
   Lordship well knew the baneful effects of exacting services from his tenants, he had
   them bound, in proportion to the size of their respective farms, to send their sons or
   servants, a certain number of days, to assist in the band-hoeing of his own turnips, for
   the express  purpose of teaching them to do this work, in a proper manner, on the
   other farms of his estate.  So averse were the men, at that time, to this kind of work,
   that they expected to get free from it, by giving the overseer cause to complain, that
   they were doing it in a slovenly manner. His Lordship,however,was not to be deceived
   or disappointed in his favourite scheme, and immediately directed, that, until
   they could do a sufficient day's work in a proper manner, they must make it up, by
   serving more days than was stipulated for.  By this means, it will easily be imagined,
   his Lordship gained his much wished for oject, and the business oi turnip-hoeing
   was, in a few years, very weU performed all ever his estate.
    "It is not to be expected, that any general improvement in the modes of agriculture
   can he introduced all at once, or that the inhabitants of a country will, on a sudden,
   give up their old habits and ways of thinking. - They must be induced to do so, either
   from the advantage which they are satisfied they will derive, in consequerme of making
   new arrangements with the proprietors, or from a conviction their own minds,
   that the experiments of their more adventurous neighbours. have proved successful
   and advantageous ; and, therefore, in this new state of things, it was no wonder, not-
   withstanding Lord Findlater's unwearied exertions, that many years elapsed, before
   fallow, sowing gross and turnip, and other green crops, came into general practice,
   even in that quarter of his estate, which may be said to have had the advantage of his
   personal superintendence. But the tenants being at last satisfied, that the improvements
   introduced by his Lordship were such as, if adopted by them, would promote
   their interest, they set about making experiments, which having, in ever instance,
   exceeded expectation, the spirit of improvement began to gain ground, and, as it natural
   consequence, his Lordship's example was followed by the other proprietors, and
   by many of the more intelligent farmers in other parts of the country. In a short period
   the system of agriculture, the circumstances of the tenants, and the general appearance
   of the country, became greatly changed. --Original Report of the Agriculture
   culture of Bansffshire, with some alterations.


