
     138               ROSS AND CROMARTY.

         There is only accommodation or legal seat-room for 800 persons,
     though two-thirds of the examinable people between Tolsta and
     Stornoway amount to 2000. In Stornoway and its immediate vi-
     cinity, there are 2000 examinable persons that could attend, if they
     had room in church. From the manse at Tong to Tolsta, as
     above-mentioned, there is a population of 1200; two-thirds of the
     examinable persons amount to 500 entitled to legal accommoda-
     tion in church,-but there is none for them. The minister used to
     preach, once a month at Back, a farm belonging to the district of
     Gress; but the preaching-house there was thrown down, rebuilt,
     and converted into a school-house, not capable of containing more
     than 200 persons crammed together. There can be no free sit-
     tings in a church, from which more than 2000 persons are exclud-
     ed for want of room.
         The present manse was built twenty-five years ago, during Mr
     M'Kenzie's incumbency; the office-houses, during the late Mr
     Simson Fraser's. The roof of the manse is in an insufficient state;
     and during a storm, walls and windows admit rain.
         The grebe is eight acres arable in extent, with a little rugged
     wet, deep, mossy moor. In the Statistical Account before me the
     glebe is valued at L. 5. The present glebe is an excambed one.
     The former grebe and manse were in Stornoway. That glebe is
     now feued and farmed;-bringing Mr S. MIKenzie annually an
     amount equal to the minister's stipend. The present glebe at Tong
     was designed on the 5th day of October 1759. By that designa-
     tion and excambion, the grass glebe alone should "support six cows
     coupled, and their followers till four years old, with four horses,"
     making at least thirty head of cattle and horses; but the glebe
     enjoyed by the present incumbent cannot support the one-half of
     that number.
         The amount of stipend paid by the proprietor is L. 99. The
     other sum is paid by the Barons of Exchequer, which brings the
     stipend to L.150 Sterling annually.
         There are no chapels of ease here. There is one Government
     church, built in the district of Ui, four miles from the parish church,
     at the extremity of the district, in the most inconvenient situation,
     for 800 out of a population of 1308. There are no missionaries,
     but one is very much required for the district of Gress. There is
     one catechist, employed by the Society for Propagating Christian
     Knowlege.-
         There are no dissente of any denomination. Many have at-


