
96                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

ing them a Gaelic termination and accent. These corrupters of
both languages, with more pride than good taste, now and then, in-
troduce words of bad English or of bad Scotch, which they have
learned from the Newhaven or Buckie fishermen, whom they meet
with on the coast of Caithness during the fishing season. The
Gaelic, however, is still spoken in as great purity by the inhabi-
tants in general, as it was forty years ago.
   The houses of the people in general, have but one outer door,
and as they and their cattle go in by that one eutrance,-the
bipeds to take posssession of one end of the house, and the quadru-
peds of the other,-it cannot be expected'tbat a habitation corn-
mon to man and beast can be particularly clean. Some of the
people, indeed, are now getting into the way of building byres for
their cattle, contiguous to their dwelling-houses; and it is acknow-
ledged, even by the most indolent, that a great improvement, is
thus effected.It is hoped that the practice may soon become
more general.When the young people go to kirk or market, few
appear more 11trig or clean;" and a stranger would hardly be per-
suaded that some of them lived in such miserable hovels. When
a girl dresses in her best attire, her very babiliments, in some in-
stances, would be sufficient to purchase a better dwelling-house
than that from which she has ust issued.
   The people are in general contented with their situation and
circumstances.If they have a lot of lands, grass for two or three'
kows, and fisbidgmaterials, they seldom have any further objects of
ambition. Owibgto the means of education not being commensu-
rate with the increase of pop -ulation, the intellectual character of
the people does not keep pace with their moral and religious cha-
racter. They are naturally a shrewd, sensible, steady sort of
people. With a few exceptions, they are of good moral character.
They seldom quarrel among each other; and when they have any
differences, these are generally settled by the proprietors or factors.
A law-suit is seldom heard of from this parish.
   When I advert to their religious character, I am constrained to
acknowledge my fear that their 'knowledge of the truths of our
holy religion is more of the head than the heart. The form of
godliness is not so much wanting as its power. I do not mean,
however, that in this respect the people of this parish are not on
a parity with those of the neighbourhood.
Smuggling was carried on to a great extent in this parish, some
years ago,'but is now very much on the decrease; indeed, while


