

                            NORTH UIST.                          175

      sand.  The process nature thus pointed out was remarked by some
      individuals of sagacity and observation, who persuaded a few to
      follow this guide.  In consequence, along some of the shores
      where the moss was washed by the sea, a certain quantity of sand
      was led to the moss in the immediate neighbourbood, which pro-
      duced crops in most instances sufficient to remunerate the trou-
      ble and expense; and which renders what was before of small
      value, of permanent benefit as pasture ground.  This improvement,
      by due encouragement, might be carried on to an immense extent
      by what we call draining and sanding moss. It is exceedingly.
      facilitated by the cross roads, which almost through every farm
      have of late years been made.
         Some of the tacksmen carry on a system of husbandry, in every
      department of farming and grazing, which cannot suffer by a com-
      parison with the best managed farms in the south of Scotland, though
      labouring under many local and other disadvantages.  Recovering
      lands from the sea by embankments has been carried on by various
      spirited individuals to a considerable extent, to the amount of about
      eighty-six Scotch acres; and lakes have been drained, principally by
      the same persons, to about the same quantity.  These improvements
      might be carried on extensively and advantageously in many parts
      of this parish.  Another improvement, which has been tried in
      other parts as well as in this quarter, is what is generally termed
      the planting of stones in the sea for the growth of sea-ware.
      A great and important improvement also has been for some years
      extensively carried on, in the suppression of the sand-drift; an
      evil formerly of great magnitude in these parts.  The suppression
      of sand-drift is effectually secured, by sloping the sand-banks, and
      covering them with sward from the neigbbourhood; they thus be-
      come firm, and produce grasses of the same kind as in the situ-
      ations whence they were taken.  Bent is also employed successfully
      for the same purpose.  Very near the sea shore, and on extensive
      san-flats, the planting of bent is the best method hitherto discover-
      ed for the suppression of sand-drift.
         Leases.-The tacksmen only have leases in this parish.  Their.
      duration varies from seven to fourteen years; a period greatly too
      short to remunerate for the necessary outlay in making permanent
      and substantial improvements. Nevertheless a number of the tacks-
      men on this property, have made most substantial and permanent im-
      provements, under the conviction, and in the unbounded confidence
      justly reposed in the justice and generosity in the Noble family of


