
890                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

forts and advantages of society.  They are very sober and atten-
tive to the ordinances of religion, and are possessed of many esti-
mable moral qualities.  Irregularities were common amongst them
at funerals some years ago; but the present incumbent drew tip a
set of regulations, in 1830, which was signed by the male heads
of families in the parish, and has been followed by the most bene-
ficial effects,-funerals being now conducted in the most regular
and solemn manner.

                          IV.-Industry.
   This parish contains of standard imperial acres as nearly as can
be ascertained,

<TABLE>
In Kincardineshire,	     1797      In Aberdeenshire,  5393  total, 7190
Under cultivation,    	      798		                3467	-    4265
Waste or continual pasture,   793		                 485	-    1278
Propor. of waste improvable,  300		                  80  	-     380
Under wood,	                  206		                1441    -    1647

   The kinds of trees most commonly planted are larch, Scotch
and spruce firs, beech, birch, oak, ash, and elm; and much more
attention is paid now than formerly to the pruning and thinning
of the plantations.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of land in the parish is 12s.
6d. per acre.  An ox or cow may be grazed in the Kincardineshire
district for L.2, and in the Aberdeenshire district for L.3.  A
full-grown sheep grazed throughout the year in the former district
may cost 2s. 6d., and in the latter, 7s.
   Breed of Live-stock.-It is stated in the last Statistical Account
of this parish, that it contained at that period "about 2000 sheep,
a great deal of the soil being fit only for sheep pasture;" but so
great are the recent improvements, that two or three English ewes
which are kept by some of the principal farmers, and a few High-
land wethers, which ire fattened in the parks of the resident pro-
prietors for their own table, are the only stock of this description
now kept in the parisb. *  The black-cattle are generally of the
Aberdeenshire polled breed, more or less pure, to the rearing, and
selecting of which much greater attention is now paid than former-
ly, so that the stock of several of the farmers is of a very superior
and valuable description.  A considerable number of pigs are fed
by the inhabitants, which are either killed for family use, or dis-
posed of to the pork-curers in Aberdeen.
   Husbundry.-Most of the farms are under a seven-shift rotation
ot cropping, viz. 1. grain; 2. grain ; 3. turnips and potatoes; 4.

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, the farm of Sunnyside, which is enclosed and nearly all
under cultivation, has been partially stocked for two years with 100 ewes; but that
change is so recent, that I am unable to say whether or not it has any advantages,
on such a farm, over a full stocking of black-cattle.


