
46                       BERWICKSHIRE.

of all kinds is often done by the piece. A tailor receives 1s. 6d.
a-day, without victuals.
   Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as
follows:
<TABLE>
         4800 bolls of corn, at 19s. per boll,	   .    L. 4560	 0  0
         Potatoes and turnips,   .   .   .    .   .        3600	 0  0
         Hay meadow and cultivated,	.    .    .            3000	 0  0
         Pasture,	.     .     .     .    .    .            2000    0  0

                                                      L. 13,160	 0  0

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-The town of Greenlaw is a burgh of barony,
the superior of which is the proprietor of the estate of Marchmont.
It was created the head burgh of the county in the year 1669,
and the public meetings of the freeholders are regularly held there.
It is long since any weekly market was held in the town of Green-
law. Regular markets for the hiring of single servants, and the
sale of cattle and sheep, have been lately established; and on the
first Thursday of May 1834 (being the first of the late established
markets) a good deal of business was done.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office in the town,
and the communication by the curricle mail is uncommonly rapid.
Letters from London reach us in about forty hours, and letters from
Edinburgh in three hours and a-half.
   There are about eighteen miles of roads in the parish, which are
kept in a good state of repair by the conversion money. A daily
coach to and from Dunse and Edinburgh passes through Greenlaw.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which is in the town of Green-
law, is conveniently situated, being nearly in the centre of the pa-
rish. It was lately repaired and painted, and although it is too
narrow considering the length of it, (which is the case with almost
all old churches,) yet it is upon the whole a very comfortable place
of worship.
   Broomfleld's Mortification.-In the south wall of the church
(outside) is a monumental slab put up by the kirk-session in the
year 1744, to the memory of Thomas Broomfield, a considerable
benefactor of the parish, who died in the year 1667. He left a
legacy of 2000 merks Scots to the kirk-session, a part of the inte-
rest of which is expended yearly, in terms of the deed of mortifica-
tion, in the education of poor children, and the remainder in sup-
plying the wants of the poor. It appears from an inscription upon
the church bell, that it was also a present from him; and it is said


