
           498                            PERTHSHIRE

           mary, and sometimes very arbitrary; and that there is reason to
           fear that the innocent occasionally suffered with the guilty. Crieff
           was in consequence regarded with no littld dread by till those who -
           had any,cause of apprehension, and especially by those lawless
           marauders who infested the country from the distant glens of the
           north.  The fate of those who were once arraigned and brought
           to trial was looked upon by thdhr companions as being already
           sealed; and such is the tendency-we should have said the folly
          -of humanity, that the ki?zdgailows of Crieff, as they were pleas-
           ed to term it, became a byword, at least, if not a jest, among
           those who deemed it very likely that it might put a period to their
           own existence.
              In the year 1665, the present tolbooth was erected in Crieff, for
           the accommodation of the Steward's Court, (which from this pe-
           riod ceased to be held in the open air,) and for the despatch of
           other public business.t It now contains a jail in the ground flat,
           where offenders are occasionally lodged for a night or so; a court                          a court-
           room,  where the justices hold a small-debt court, on the first
           Monday of every month; and another apartment above, where a pub-
           lic library is kept.  There is also a spire-attached to it, which con-
           tains the town clock, and a good bdll, of which tradition says that
           that which was rung at Scone when the Kings of Scotland
           were crowned.  If the tale be true, the bell iiiust have been recast;
           for it bears a Latin inscription, setting forth, thut it was gifted in the
           year 1725 by Jnhn Lord Drommond, uncle of James, the third Duke
           of Perth.  The bell was recast, perhaps we should have said re-recast,
           in the year 1821, at the expense of the inhabitants of Crieff.  The ori-
           ginal inscription was replaced, but an addition was made to it.  The
           motto to the Drummond arms is inserted between the old inscrip-

           <FOOTNOTE>Sir Walter Scott alludes to this celebrated gibbet in Vol. i of Waverley, p. 189,
           last edition, and he states in the notes, p. 199, that he is unable to inform his readers
           with certainty why it was called The Kind Gallows; though he seems to think that
           it may have been so designated from its "being a sort of native or kindred place of
           doom to those who suffered there, as in fulfillment of a natural destiny."                               of
                Originally the tolbooth contained several apartments, which have been convert-
           ed to other uses.  Some alteration have doubtless been made; but one part of what
           once belonged to the tolbooth is dwelling house; another is a shop, with one
           of the dungeons for a store cell`r; and a third is a coal cellar. This ast appears to
           have been the strongest in the whole building.  It is an arched dungeon of small di-
           mensions, which was secured by a strong iron door.  It contained the celebrated Crieff
           cage-a netted iron mafe, large enough to contain a man, and covered on the top with
           a lid of solid metal.  And sunk in the ground, under the spot where the cage stood,
           pot where the was what was called the black hole, into which atrocious and desperate offenders were
           sometimes throat; through it is believed that this dreaded place was tenanted only
           on were occassions.  The cage is remembered by several of the present inhabitants of
           Crieff, and the top, or at least a part of the top of it, is still in the store cel-
           lar already mentioned.



