
     of Lanark.

   Ancient families and great men.  The families of Lee
and Cleghorn are the most ancient in the parish.  Sir
William Lockhart of Lee, the great statesman and gene-
ral under the protector, and Charles II, and who was al-
so Lord Justice Clerk, was born in this parish, and h d
his first rudiments of education in Lanark school.  Dr
William Smellie author of the treatise on midwifery,
though born in the neighbouring parish of Lesmanago
was educated here.  The present Lord Justice clerk,
(Robert M'Queen of Braxfield,) so justly esteemed for
his abilities as a lawer and a judge, was born in the pa-
rish, and had his education at Lanark school.  The late
learned and ingenious general Roy, received also part
of his education here, and was born in the neigh-
bouring praith of Carluke.  William Lithgow the
noted traveller was born in the parish, died in it, and
is buried in the church yard of Lanark, though no
vestige of his tomb can now be traced.

     E

<FOOTNOTE>

Oat meal is for the most part 1 d. a peck higher than at Edinburgh.  Beef
and mutton sells from 3 d. 1/2 to 4 d. 1/2 the pound English; veal from 4 d. to
6 d. lamb 5 d. hens from 1 s. 3 d. to 1 s. 6 d. butter from 8 d. 1/2 to 10 d. and eggs
from 4 d. to 7 d the dozen.  There are few swine kept in the parish, although
very profitable; and are seldom seen in the markets.  Sweet milk is 2 d
a Scotch pint, and churned milk has been lately raised to 3/4 per pint.  No sal-
mon can get above the Stonebyres fall, and are seldom brought to market.
Trouts are to be had almost every day, and are pretty reasonable.  And ve-
getables are to be had at the gardens very reasonable.  The flour baked
here into bread comes all from Edinburgh or Glasgow, which greatly en-
hances the price of bread: About 30 years ago, potatoes were 2 d a peck,
egg 1 1/2 the dozen, and butter 3 1/2 the pound.
   The rate of labour is as follows.  Masons wages are from 20 d. to 2 s.
carpenters 1 s. 6 d. day labourers from 1 s. to 1 s. 2 d. Taylors 8 d. and their
diet, when in the employers house, a custom now almost discontinued: plow-
men get from 8 L. to 10 L. annually with maintainance, or L 14. 10, and a heo
house and garden without it.  Maid servants from 3 L. to 4 L. a year.


