
108                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

acres imperial, all arable, or capable of being made so, with the
exception of about 25 acres of precipitous banks on Tweed, and the
rivulets that run into it: and it is all occasionally, under the plough,
except St Boswell's Green, a divided common of about 40 acres,-
the lord of the manor retaining the right of holding a fair annually
over the whole of the common. The land under plantation ex-
tends to 175 acres.
The trees generally planted are the Scotch fir, larch, spruce,
and silver-fir: the hardwood, oak, ash, elm, birch, plane, and
horse-chestnut. As the plantations advance, the Scotch fir is first,
taken out, then the spruce, and lastly, the larch, to make room for
the hard-wood. On the Ellieston estate, where the greatest ex-
tent of plantation is found, the greater part of the Scotch firs have
been displaced, and the oaks, constituting a large proportion of
the hard-woods, being of seventy years growth, affords an abun-
dant supply of excellent timber, and of a size fit for any use to
which this species is usually applied.  On the estate of Camieston
also, there is a considerable extent of plantation, tied wood of ex-
cellent quality and considerable dimensions.  The wood oil that
part of the Maxton estate included in this parish, planted twenty-
two years ago, has made the most rapid progress, and forms the
chief ornament of the lower division of the parish around the church
and manse. It is a difficult matter to ascertain, with any degree
of accuracy, the annual amount of sales of wood, from the ever-
varying, state of supply and demand.  As nearly as can be ascer-
tained, the sales amount to L. 150 per annum.
    Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is L.1, 4s. 2d.
per imperial acre. The grazing of a full-grown cow or ox is L.3, 3s.
for the summer; and for winter keep on straw and turnips, L.2, 2s.
The general rate for a ewe or full-grown sheep grazed for the year,
is 14s.
     Husbandry.-The general system of husbandry pursued in the,
parish is the four shift. 1st, Fallow, turnips or potatoes; 2d, wheat,
barley, or oats; .3d, grass either cut for hay or pastured for one
year; 4th, generally oats. On the land of better quality near the
village, there is sometimes a deviation from this routine: and it is not
uncommon to take a crop of drilled beans or pease after the oats
and apply manure, followed by wheat or barley.  In some of the
leases lately entered into, the five-shift rotation is prescribed, re-
quiring two successive years In grass. This is certainly more fa-
vourable for the land, and perhaps little disadvantageous to the


