
                          INCHINNAN.                             125

partly by the consolidation of farms,-to which must be, added the
growth of the manufactures of Paisley, which seduced cottars from
country parishes adjacent.  The increase from 1791 to 1801,
arose in some degree from the impetus of the high prices of grain,
which prompted the farmer to subject his pastures more extensive-
ly to the plough, rendering more hands necessary; also from the
opening of quarries at Park, and extensive improvements on the
estate of Southbarr,-both which causes operated so as either to pro-
duce an influx of new labourers, or to detain those who, under
other circumstances, would have sought employment elsewhere.
The farther increase at 1811 depended on the introduction of
some families for the purpose of reclaiming some moss land on the
estate of Southbarr, but principally on the building of Inchinnan
bridge, which brought an influx of labourers.  Since that time the
population has varied from year to year; but the comparatively
high average still maintained is to be ascribed to the increased
demand for labour on the Clyde, in the quarries, and in the drain-
ing of land.  The numbers of males and females are nearly equal,
and there are no insane, fatuous, blind, or deaf and dumb persons
in the parish.  Instances of longevity occur, it is believed, with-
greater frequency than is common among a population so limited in
number.  A female died this season who had nearly completed
ninety-six years, and retained her faculties in wonderful preserva-
tion until a short time before her death.
   Character of the People, Customs, Habits, &c.-In their general
character the people are intelligent and well conducted, neighbourly
and kind, and exemplary in their attendance on divine ordinances.
There is scarcely a person who can be called a gross and habitual
drunkard; but abuses sometimes attend the celebration of new-year's-
day, and in consequence of the old habit of transacting business
over a glass, there is a great risk of habits of intemperance being
formed.
   Here, as elsewhere in Scotland, funerals were formerly, conduct-
ed at a great and even ruinous expense.-The company invited
was unnecessarily large, and observed little punctuality in assem-
bling.  It was not uncommon to have what was called a triple
service, which meant that three glasses, two of wine and one of
spirits, were offered successively to each person present.  Even
the double service is going into, desuetude, a single glass of wine
being, generally speaking, all that is now offered in the shape of
liquor.  After the last duties have been performed at the church-


