
                             PAISLEY.                           231

were his opinions, that, in conjunction with some clergymen of Pres-
byterian principles, he concurred in ordaining several ministers of
that communion, giving as his reason, that " he thought his old
age prolonged for little other purpose, but to do such good offices
for the propagation of the Gospel."  He died in 1632. *  On his
translation,
   Patrick Hamilton was appointed minister.  This appointment
seems to have been made in 1607.  He was previously minister of
Lochwinnoch.
   Robert Boyd of Trochrig, in the shire of Ayr, eldest son of
James, " Tulchan,"-Archbishop of Glasgow, was admitted mini-
ster of Paisley, on the 1st of January 1626.  Previous to this time,
he had been successively Principal of the Colleges of Edinburgh
and Glasgow, and was universally esteemed one of the most
learned, liberal, and pious men of his age.  His manse was the
" fore house of the abbey."  Wodrow relates, that, one Sunday
afternoon, the master of Paisley, brother to the Earl of Abercorn,
with some others, forcibly entered his house while he was preach-
ing, cast all his books on the ground, and afterwards locked the
door.  Complaint of the agression having been made to the se-
cret council, the Master of Paisley and the baillies were summon-
ed to appear before them.  But at the intercession of Boyd, and
on the Master expressing contrition for the wrong he had done, the
complaint was departed from, and Trochrig was ordered to be re-
possessed.  The baillies apparently yielded obedience to the com-
mand of the secret council, and	endeavoured to put Boyd in

<FOOTNOTE>In the year 1592, the country was much disturbed of the secret
workings of the Papists, and measures were adopted for the purpose of counteracting
them.  In each presbytery an individual was nominated to watch their proceedings,
to collect information from his brethren, and to correspond with a commietee, which
was to sit in Edinburgh for the common safety.  Andrew Knox was appointed the
corresponding member from the presbytery of Paisley, but deeds and not words were
fitted for the eager spirit of the future bishop.  Having received secret intelligence
that George Ker, * a Doctor of Laws, and brother of Lord Newbattle, was about to
proceed to Spain, with secret letters from the disaffected Lords, accompanied by a
number of students of the College of Glasgow, he proceeded to the Island of Cumbray,
and seized him.  On his person were found letters from certain priests in Scotland
and blanks subscribed by the Earls of Huntly, Angus, and Errol, with a commission
to one Crighten a Jesuit, to fill up the blanks, and address them to those for whom
they were intended.  These papers, with Ker's confession, disclosed the notable pro-
ject by which the King of Spain was to land 30.000 men on the west coast of Scot-
land, who in conjunction with the troops to be furnished by the three earls, were to
suppress the Protestant, and to procure the re-establishment, of the Roman Catholic
religion in Scotland.
   March information regarding him may be obtained in the earlier part of Vol. i. of
Dr Reid's valuable " History of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland," and in " Gre-
gory's Account of the Isles."
          Some accounts say erroneously, Barclay, Ladyland.
   RENFREW.                     Q


