
 				ABERNETHY			   841

the surrounding districts, the roe-deer, the fallow-deer, the
fox, hare, rabbit, and weasel.  The polecat is occasionally found
and there are the ordinary varieties of the rat, mouse, and
mole.
    As for the feathered tribes, there are the varieties of species
common to this and other parishes.  Vast numbers of water-fowl
are found around Mugdrum Island.  Among these, specimens
of the magnificent wild swan are sometimes observed.  Wild-
geese make their appearance in great flocks about the middle of
October, and continue, throughout the winter; while, all the year
round, there are found on the shores of the rivers the mire-duck
the sheldrakel -the tdal, the poker-duck, the coote, the water-
hen, and various tribes of divers, the red-shank, the curlew, the
green and yellow plover, the heron, and sometimes, though very
rarely, tile bittern.  The larger and lesser gull visit us in stormy
weather; while kittywakes, sea-swallows, and sea-pies, continue
with us through the summner.  Many other varieties of water-fowl
are occasionally found.                                       I
   The mammifera which frequent the waters of the river itself
are, the seal, the otter, the grampus, and ttie porpoise. The two
latter are rarely seen above Newburgh, and the otter seldom with-
out the mouth of the Earne.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  There are few parishes so rich in antiquities as Abernethy; and
the town, itself, though no longer occupying any prominent claims
to attention on other grounds, is to be traced to a very remote pe-
riod, and was much more populous and extensive than at present.
According to traditions which exist, and which are confirmed by
the discovery of ruins bf buildingt, it extendend a considerable, way
to the eastward of the present village.  We may here introduce a
curious passage, as given by Sir James Balfour from Campden
Manuscript Col. Stratherne.  "Or ever the river Earne bath
joined his waters with Tay in one streame, so that now Tay is
become more spatious, he looketh up a little space to Aberneth,
seated at the feete of the Ocellian mountains, anciently the royall
seat of the Picts, and weel peopled city, which, as we reade in
ane ancient fragment, Nectan, King of the Picts, gave unot God
and St. Bridget, until the day of doome, togidder with the bounds
thereof, which lay from stone in Abertrent, to a stone nigh Car-
pul, (supposed Carpow), and from thence as far as to Ethan," sup-
posed to be Hatton, the name of a farm-steading.


