
                        COLDSTREAM.                       213

any of the people deposit money in the bank at Dunse, which is
the nearest.
  A female Society was established some years ago for affording
relief to the sick, and to the poor during winter. It is liberally
supported, and has been productive of great benefit to the class of
the community in whose behalf it was founded. The annual amount
of contributions is upwards of L. 60, A Religious Society in con-
nection with the Established church has been lately formed. It
is well supported, and promises to be very beneficial in supplying
Bibles, &c to the poor. There are likewise two Societies con-
nected with the dissenting meeting-house, for religious and chari-
table purposes; of the success of which I have no means of furnish-
ing any accurate or satisfactory information.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-It is a peculiar feature in the his-
tory of our country, that the nearer we approach to England, we
invariably find the poor rates increase, and the people louder in
their demands for parochial relief; so that, while in some districts
of the Highlands it is reckoned almost a disgrace to receive assist-
ance from the parish, on the borders, the poor insist upon it as a
right, and never regard it as a degradation. Hence, in Coldstream,
the assessment for the poor is very heavy, amounting to nearly L. 700
a year, including incidental expenses. For the last seven years, the
average number on the poor's roll has been 109; but at present it
is rather decreasing, and there is reason to hope that, by a proper
system of management, a great diminution may take place, without
treating the paupers with less kindness, but by exercising 'proper
watchfulness, and endeavouring to prevent strangers who are likely
to become paupers from acquiring a settlement; for it is a remark-
able fact, that there are at present only thirty-eight of those who re-
ceive relief, natives of the parish, and sixteen were born in England,
The average weekly allowance may be stated at 1s. 6d. to each
person, and in very few cases does it exceed 2s. The whole sum
requisite for supporting the poor is raised by assessment in equal
proportions upon the landlord and tenant. The collections at the
church door average 12s. a-week, and are left by the heritors, under
the management of the kirk-session, who are thusenabled to-, relieve
many who are thrown into temporary difficulties. By this arrange.
ment the legal assessment is prevented from becoming higher. It
is to be regretted, that the same praiseworthy practice is not uni-
versally followed; for it is very short-sighted policy to insist upon
half of the church collections being applied to the relief of regu-
lar paupers, with the view of diminishing the assessment.


