
66                            ROXBURGHSHIRE.

Rate of Wages.--The rate of labour, winter and summer, for the
different kinds of farm-labourers and country artisans, is upon an
average, 10s. per week. Superior workmen in the carpenter line
receive 2s. 6d. per day,--in the smith line, 14s. per week. The
rate of masonry, the best work, and the standard thickness of two
feet, is L.6 per square rood.

Breeds of Stock.--The common breeds of sheep in the parish
are Leicester, Cheviot, half-bred and black-faced. The common
breeds of cattle are the Teeswater, Ayrshire, and Highland
kyloe, with a small admixture of other breeds which a farmer may
meet with, and be led to purchase at market.

The farm-buildings of the parish are generally spacious, com-
modious, and substantial. The inclosurers are, for the infield and
arable land, thorn quick hedges,--for the outfield and pastoral,
stone dikes.

Fisheries.---The fisheries of the Tweed, which ought to abound
in salmon, have dwindled down into nothing in this neighbourhood.
The few salmon which escape from the Berwick nettings are late
in the season before they arrive, when they have in a great mea-
sure lost their value, and the close-time has set in. At this, the
inhabitants on the banks of the Tweed and its tributaries feel much
aggrieved.  They complain that their fime rivers are made a mere
preserve for the Berwick fisheries; and they seem to have reason.

Procedure.--The procedure of this parish consists entirely of grain,
of stock, and of potatoes, turnips, and hay. The yearly value of
each of these separately cannot be procured; but the general value
of the raw produce yearly raised has been estimated at L.50,000,
being nearly 2 2/5 of the rental.

Manufactures.--The only great manufacturing establishments
in this parish are upon the Gala in Darling's-baugh, and Buckholm-
side; and, as they form a part of the commercial body of Gala-
shiels, being divided from it by nothing but the parochial boundary
line, which, crossing the Gala, and passing along the side of the
lead which drives the machinery, intersects, without disuniting that
village, a particular account of them more properly forms a part
of the statistics of Galashiels parish. As to the Melrose-land-
linens, a manufacture mentioned in the last Statistical as being so
much on the decline that apprehensions were beginning to be en-
tertained that the place would lose the name and business, the
business and its very name have indeed departed long ago,---the
bleachfield has become a grazing fields,--and the fathers and mothers
of the present race still speak with regret of the linen trade, and


